Collective Bargaining Agreement
Washington Public Employees Association
WPEA
^Est. 1956 | UFCW Local 365
The State of Washington
AND
Washington Public Employees
Association
Effective
July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2013
2012-2013
Washington Public Employees Association 2012-2013
Article	Title	Page
	Preamble	
Article 1	Recognition Clause	1
Article 2	Non-Discrimination	1
Article 3	Promotions and Vacancies	2
Article 4	Hiring and Appointments	3
4.1	Permanent Status	3
4.2	Internal Movement - Permanent Employees	3
4.3	Types of Appointment	3
4.4	Review Periods	7
4.5	Return-to-Work Initiative Program	9
Article 5	Performance Evaluation	9
5.1	Objective	9
5.2	Evaluation Process	9
Article 6	Hours of Work	10
6.1	Definitions	10
6.2	Determination	11
6.3	Overtime-Eligible Employees (Excluding Law Enforcement Employees)	11
6.4	Overtime-Eligible Law Enforcement Employee Work Schedules	12
6.5	Overtime-Eligible Unpaid Meal Periods	12
6.6	Overtime-Eligible Paid Meal Periods for Straight Shift Schedules	12
6.7	Overtime-Eligible Rest Periods	12
6.8	Positive Time Reporting - Overtime-Eligible Employees	13
6.9	Overtime-Exempt Employees	13
Article 7	Overtime	14
7.1	Definitions	14
7.2	Overtime-Eligibility and Compensation	14
7.3	General Provisions	15
7.4	Compensatory Time for Overtime-Eligible Employees	15
Page 1 of 8
Article	Title	Page
Article 8	Training	16
8.4	Master Agreement Training	17
8.5	New Employees	17
Article 9	Licensure and Certification	17
Article 10	Holidays	17
10.1	Holidays	17
10.2	Holiday Rules	18
10.3	Personal Holiday	19
Article 11	Vacation Leave	20
11.2	Vacation Leave Credits	20
11.3	Vacation Leave Accrual	20
11.4	Vacation Leave Accrual Rate Schedule	21
11.5	Vacation Scheduling	21
11.6	Family Care	22
11.7	Military Family Leave	22
11.8	Domestic Violence Leave	22
11.9	Vacation Leave Maximum	22
11.10	Separation	22
Article 12	Sick Leave	23
12.1	Sick Leave Accrual	23
12.2	Sick Leave Use	23
12.3	Use of Compensatory Time or Vacation Leave for Sick	24
Leave Purposes
12.4	Restoration of Vacation Leave	24
12.5	Sick Leave Reporting and Verification	24
12.6	Sick Leave Annual Cash Out	24
12.7	Sick Leave Separation Cash Out	24
12.8	Reemployment	25
Article 13	Shared Leave	25
13.1	Shared Leave	25
13.2	Shared Leave Receipt	26
13.3	Shared Leave Use	27
13.4	Leave Donation	28
13.5	Shared Leave Administration	29
Article 14	Uniformed Service Shared Leave Pool	30
14.1	Purpose	30
14.2	Definitions	30
14.3	Participation	30
Page 2 of 8
Article	Title	Page
14.4	Process	31
Article 15	Family and Medical Leave - Pregnancy	32
Disability Leave
15.11	Pregnancy Disability Leave	34
Article 16	Non-Operational Worksites/Inability to Report 35
to Work
Article 17	Miscellaneous Leave	36
17.	3	Leave for Life-Giving Procedures	36
17.	4	Jury Duty	36
17.	5	Respond to Subpoena	36
17.	6	Military Leave	37
17.	7	Bereavement Leave	37
17.	8	Employee Assistance Program	37
17.	9	Examinations/Interviews	37
17.1	0	Travel for Miscellaneous Leave	37
17.1	2	Personal Leave	38
Article 18	Leave Without Pay	39
18.3	Limitations	39
18.4	Returning Employee Rights	39
18.5	Educational Leave	40
18.6	Child and Elder Care Emergencies	40
18.7	Seasonal Career Employment	40
18.8	Governmental Service Leave	40
18.9	Volunteer Firefighting Leave	40
18.10	Military Family Leave	40
18.11	Domestic Violence Leave	40
Article 19	Safety & Health	41
Article 20	Wildfire Suppression and other Emergency Duty 42
20.	2	Fire Season Work Schedules	42
20.	4	Rotational Fire Duty Standby	42
20.	5	Agreement Applies to All Deployments	42
20.	6	Length of Deployment	42
20.	7	Normal Rest Periods	43
20.	8	Fit for Duty	43
20.	9	Fire Camp	43
20.1	0	Laundry Services	44
20.1	1	Return to Normal Duties	44
20.1	2	Meals	44
Page 3 of 8
Article	Title
20.1	3	Sleeping Bags	45
20.1	4	Inclement Weather Facilities	45
20.1	5	Shower Facilities	45
20.1	6	Work Capacity Testing	45
Article 21	Inmate Crew Supervision	45
Article 22	Uniforms, Tools and Equipment	46
22.1	Uniforms	46
22.2	Tools and Equipment	46
Article 23	Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace	46
23.2	Possession of Alcohol and Illegal Drugs	46
23.3	Prescription Medications	47
23.4	Drug and Alcohol Testing - Safety Sensitive Functions	47
23.5	Reasonable Suspicion Testing	47
23.6	Referral and Testing	47
23.7	Discipline	48
23.8	Training	48
Article 24	Use of Privately-Owned and State Vehicles	49
Article 25	Off-Duty Conduct	49
Article 26	Employee Activity and Privacy	49
26.4	Health Care Information	50
Article 27	Residency Requirement - WSP and LCB	51
27.1	Applicability	51
27.2	WSP and LCB Employees Subject to Emergency Callout	51
But no Assigned State Vehicle
27.3	WSP and LCB Employees	with Assigned Take Home	51
Vehicles
Article 28	Discipline	52
28.9	Removal of Documents	53
Article 29	Presumption of Resignation	54
29.1	Unauthorized Absence	54
29.2	Notice of Separation	54
29.3	Petition for Reinstatement	54
29.4	Grievability	54
Page 4 of 8
Article	Title	Page
Article 30	Grievance Procedure	54
30.1	Terms and Requirements	54
30.2	Filing and Processing	57
30.3	Election of Remedies	59
Article 31	Legal Defense	59
31.1	Employee Liability	59
31.2	Personal Property Reimbursement	59
Article 32	Personnel Files and other Employee	60
Information
Article 33	Fitness for Duty/Reasonable	61
Accommodation/Disability Separation
Article 34	Seniority	61
34.1	Definition	61
Article 35	Layoff and Recall	62
35.1	Definition	62
35.3	Notification to the Union	62
35.4	Basis for Layoff	62
35.5	Voluntary Layoff, Leave of Absence or Reduction in	63
Hours
35.6	Non-Permanent and Probationary Employees	63
35.7	Temporary Reduction of Work Hours or Layoff -	63
Employer Option
35.8	Layoff Units	64
35.9	Formal Options	64
35.10	Informal Options	64
35.11	Notification to Employees with Permanent Status	65
35.12	Salary	65
35.13	Transition Review Period	66
35.14	Recall	66
35.15	General Government Transition Pool Program	67
35.16	Project Employment	67
35.17	Seasonal Career Employment	67
Article 36	Management Rights	68
Article 37	Union-Management Communication Committee	69
37.1	Purpose	69
37.2	Committees	69
37.3	Participation	69
Page 5 of 8
Article	Title	Page
37.4	Scope of Authority	70
Article 38	Union Activities	70
38.1	Representation	70
38.2	Staff Representatives	70
38.3	Shop Stewards	70
38.4	Use of State Facilities, Resources and Equipment	71
38.5	Bulletin Boards	72
38.6	Distribution of Material	72
38.7	Time Off for Union Activities	73
38.8	2013-2015 Master Agreement Negotiations	73
Article 39	Union Security	74
39.1	Union Dues	74
39.2	Notification to Employees	74
39.3	Union Security	74
39.5	Dues Cancellation	75
39.6	Status Reports	75
39.7	Indemnification	76
Article 40	Classification	76
40.1	Classification Plan Revisions	76
40.2	Position Review	76
40.3	Effect of Reallocation	77
40.4	Salary Impact of Reallocation	77
Article 41	Compensation	78
41.1	Pay Range Assignments	78
41.2	“SP” Pay Range Assignments	79
41.3	“V” Pay Range Assignments	79
41.4	Pay for Performing the Duties of a Higher Classification	79
41.5	Establishing Salaries for New Employees and New	80
Classifications
41.6	Periodic Increases	80
41.7	Salary Increases to	Enhance Recruitment or Address	80
Retention
41.8	Salary Assignment	upon Promotion	81
41.9	Demotion	81
41.10	Transfer	81
41.11	Reassignment	81
41.12	Reversion	81
41.13	Elevation	82
41.14	Part-Time Employment	82
41.15	Callback	82
Page 6 of 8
Article	Title	Page
41.16	Shift Premium	83
41.17	Split Shift	84
41.18	Standby	84
41.19	Relocation Compensation	85
41.20	Salary Overpayment Recovery	85
41.21	Assignment Pay Provisions	86
41.22	Dependent Care Salary Reduction Plan	86
41.23	Pre-tax Health Care Premiums	86
41.24	Medical/Dental Expense Account	86
41.25	Voluntary Separation Incentives - Voluntary Retirement	87
Incentives
41.26	Fire Duty Compensation - Department of Natural	87
Resources
41.27	Sunday Sales - Liquor Control Board	88
41.28	Temporary Salary Reduction (TSR) Leave	88
Article 42	Health Care	89
Article 43	Aviation Insurance	89
Article 44	Voluntary Employee Benefits Association	89
(VEBA)
Article 45	Bargaining Units at Washington State Center	90
for Childhood Deafness and Hearing Loss (CDHL) and Washington State School for the
BLiND (WSSB)
Article 46	Strikes	91
Article 47	Entire Agreement	92
Article 48	Savings Clause	92
Article 49	Printing of Agreement	92
Article 50	Duration	93
Page 7 of 8
Appendices
Appendix A	A-1
Layoff Units
Appendix B	A-4
General Service Salary Schedule - Effective July 2009 through June 2011
Appendix C	A-12
“SP” Range Salary Schedule - Effective July 2009 through June 2011
Appendix D	A-14
General Service Salary Schedule - Effective July 2012 through June 2013
Appendix E	A-22
“SP” Range Salary Schedule - Effective July 2012 through June 2013
Appendix F	A-24
Assignment Pay
Appendix G	A-26
Special Pay Ranges and Notes
Appendix H	A-27
Bargaining Units Represented by the Washington Public Employees
Association
Appendix I	A-28
Health Care Benefits Amounts
Memoranda of Understanding
Memorandum	of Understanding	M-1
Retirement Protections for Three Percent (3%) Reduction - Dated September 1, 2011
Memorandum	of Understanding	M-2
One Year Agreement - Dated September 1, 2011
Memorandum	of Understanding	M-3
Salary Reduction Trigger - Dated September 1, 2011
Memorandum	of Understanding	M-4
Temporary Layoff and Forecast - Dated September 1, 2011
Page 8 of 8
Preamble
This Agreement is entered into by the State of Washington, referred to as the “Employer,” and the Washington Public Employees Association, Local 365, United Food and Commercial Workers, referred to as the “Union.”
It is the intent of the parties to establish employment relations based on mutual respect, provide fair treatment to all employees, promote efficient and cost-effective service delivery to the customers and citizens of the State of Washington, improve the performance results of state government, recognize the value of employees and the work they perform, specify wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment, and provide methods for prompt resolution of differences. The Preamble is not subject to the grievance procedure in Article 30.
Article 1
Recognition Clause
The Employer agrees to recognize the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent for all employees in the bargaining units as so certified by the Public Employment Relations Commission for the purpose of establishing wages, hours and conditions of employment.
If the Public Employment Relations Commission certifies the Union as the exclusive representative during the term of this Agreement for a bargaining unit in general government, the terms of this Agreement apply.
Article 2
Non-Discrimination
2.1	Under this Agreement, discrimination against employees on the basis of religion, age, gender, sex, marital status, race, color, creed, national origin, political affiliation, military status, status as an honorably discharged veteran, disabled veteran or Vietnam era veteran, sexual orientation, or the presence of any sensory, mental or physical disability, genetic information, or because of participation or lack of participation in Union activities is prohibited, and no unlawful harassment will be tolerated.
2.2	Employees who believe they have been the subjects of unlawful discrimination, harassment or hostile work environment are encouraged to discuss such issues with their supervisor, management staff, Human Resources Office or file a complaint in accordance with agency policy. In cases where an employee files both a grievance and an internal complaint regarding the same alleged discrimination, harassment or hostile work environment, the grievance will be suspended until the internal complaint process has been completed.
2.3	Both parties agree that nothing in this Agreement will prevent the implementation of an approved affirmative action plan.
2.4	Both parties agree that nothing in this Agreement will prevent an employee from filing a complaint with the Washington State Human Rights Commission, Office of Civil Rights, or the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission.
2.5	The Employer agrees to provide training and the Union agrees to support and encourage participation in training to positively accept the diversity that exists in the workplace and to understand as well as to prevent all forms of discrimination.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
1
Article 3
Promotions and Vacancies
3.1	The Employer will determine when a position will be filled, the type of appointment to be used when filling the position, and the skills and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the specific position within a job classification that is being filled. Only those candidates who have the position-specific skills and abilities required to perform the duties of the vacant position will be referred for further consideration by the employing agency.
3.2	An agency’s internal layoff list will consist of employees who have elected to place their name on the layoff list through Article 35, Layoff and Recall, of this Agreement and are confined to each individual agency.
3.3	The statewide layoff list will consist of employees who have elected to place their name on the statewide layoff list in accordance with WAC 357-46-080.
3.4	A promotional candidate is defined as an employee who has completed the probationary period within a permanent appointment and has attained permanent status within the agency.
3.5	A transfer candidate is defined as an employee in permanent status in the same classification as the vacancy within the agency.
3.6	A voluntary demotion candidate is defined as an employee in permanent status moving to a class in a lower salary range maximum within the agency.
3.7	When filling a vacant position with a permanent appointment, candidates will be certified for further consideration in the following manner:
A.	The most senior candidate on the agency’s internal layoff list with the required skills and abilities who has indicated an appropriate geographic availability will be appointed to the position.
B.	If there are no names on the internal layoff list, the agency will certify up to twenty (20) candidates for further consideration. Up to seventy-five percent (75%) of those candidates will be statewide layoff, agency promotional, internal transfers, and agency voluntary demotions. All candidates certified must have the position-specific skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position to be filled. If there is a tie for the last position on the certification for either promotional or other candidates, the agency may consider up to ten (10) additional tied candidates. The agency may supplement the certification with additional tied candidates and replace other candidates who waive consideration with like candidates from the original pool.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
2
C.	Employees in the General Government Transition Pool Program who have the skills and abilities to perform the duties of the vacant position may be considered along with all other candidates who have the skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position.
D.	If the certified candidate pool does not contain at least three (3) affirmative action candidates, the agency may add up to three (3) affirmative action candidates to the names certified for the position. When recruiting for multiple positions, the agency may add an additional five (5) agency candidates and five (5) other candidates to the certified list for each additional position.
Article 4
Hiring and Appointments
4.1	Permanent Status
An employee will attain permanent status in a job classification upon his or her successful completion of a probationary, trial service or transition review period.
4.2	Internal Movement - Permanent Employees
Prior to certifying candidates in accordance with Article 3.7, an Appointing Authority may grant an administrative transfer, voluntary demotion or elevation within an agency as long as the permanent employee has the skills and abilities required to perform the duties of the position. Employees desiring a transfer, voluntary demotion or elevation will initiate a request in writing and appointing authorities will consider these individuals for an opening. Candidates interviewed will be notified of the hiring decision.
4.3	Types of Appointment
A.	Non-Permanent
1.	The Employer may make non-permanent appointments to fill in for the absence of a permanent employee, during a workload peak, while recruitment is being conducted, or to reduce the possible effects of a layoff. Non-permanent appointments will not exceed twenty-four (24) months except when filling in for the absence of a permanent employee. A non-permanent appointee must have the skills and abilities required for the position.
2.	A permanent employee who accepts a non-permanent appointment within his or her agency will have the right to return to his or her position in the agency or to a position in the permanent classification he or she left at the completion of the non-permanent appointment; provided, that the employee has not left the original non-permanent appointment, unless the original Appointing Authority agrees otherwise. An employee with permanent status may accept a non-permanent appointment to another agency. At least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to accepting the
WPEA GG - 2012-13
3
appointment, the employee must notify his or her current Appointing Authority of the intent to accept a non-permanent appointment. Upon notification of the employee’s intent, the employee’s permanent agency will notify the employee, in writing, of any return rights to the agency and the duration of those return rights. At a minimum, the agency must provide the employee access to the agency’s internal layoff list.
3.	The Employer may convert a non-permanent appointment into a permanent appointment and the employee will serve a probationary or trial service period. The Employer must appoint an internal layoff candidate with the required skills and abilities who has indicated an appropriate geographic availability, if one exists, before converting an employee from a non-permanent appointment to a permanent appointment. Time spent in a non-permanent appointment may count towards the probationary or trial service period for the permanent position.
4.	The Employer may end a non-permanent appointment at any time by giving one (1) working day’s notice to the employee.
B.	On-Call Employment
The Employer may fill a position with an on-call appointment where the work is intermittent in nature, is sporadic and it does not fit a particular pattern. The Employer may end on-call employment at any time by giving notice to the employee.
C.	In-Training Appointment
1.	The Employer may designate specific positions, groups of positions, or all positions in a job classification or series as intraining. The Employer will determine and document the training program, including a description and length of the program. The in-training plan must include:
a.	The title of the goal class of the in-training plan.
b.	The duties and responsibilities of the goal class.
c.	The job classes that will be used to reach the goal class.
d.	The skills and abilities that must be acquired by the employee while in-training to the goal class.
The training plan may include any of the following components:
a.	On-the job training.
b.	Classroom or field instruction.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
4
c.	Courses conducted by an educational institution, vocational school, or professional training organization.
d.	Written, oral and/or practical examinations(s).
Unless other staffing methods have been exhausted, positions with primary responsibility for supervision will not be designated as intraining positions.
2.	A candidate who is initially hired into an in-training position must successfully complete the job requirements of the appointment. The Employer may separate from state service, any employee who has completed the probationary period for an in-training appointment but does not successfully complete the subsequent trial service period(s) required by the in-training program. Employees who are not successful may be separated at any time with one (1) working day’s notice from the Employer.
3.	An employee with permanent status who accepts an in-training appointment will serve a trial service period(s), depending on the requirements of the in-training program. The trial service period and in-training program will run concurrently. The Employer may revert an employee who does not successfully complete the trial service period(s) at any time with one (1) working day’s notice. The employee’s reversion right will be to the job classification that the employee held permanent status in prior to his or her intraining appointment, in accordance with Subsections 4.4 B of this Article.
4.	A trial service period may be required for each level of the intraining appointment, or the entire in-training appointment may be designated as the trial service period. The trial service period and in-training program will run concurrently. The Employer will determine the length of the trial service period(s) to be served by an employee in an in-training appointment; however, the cumulative total of the trial service periods for the entire intraining appointment will not exceed thirty-six (36) months.
5.	If a trial service period is required for each level of the in-training appointment, the employee will attain permanent status in each classification upon successful completion of the concurrent training program and trial service period at each level.
6.	If the entire in-training program—meaning all levels within the intraining appointment—is designated as a trial service period, the employee will attain permanent status in the goal classification
WPEA GG - 2012-13
5
upon successful completion of the training requirements and concurrent trial service period for the entire in-training program.
D.	Project Employment
1.	The Employer may appoint employees into project positions for which employment is contingent upon state, federal, local, grant, or other special funding of specific and of time-limited duration. The Employer will notify the employees, in writing, of the expected ending date of the project employment.
2.	Employees who have entered into project employment without previously attaining permanent status will serve a probationary period. Employees will gain permanent project status upon successful completion of their probationary period.
Employees with permanent project status will serve a trial service period when they:
a.	Promote to another job classification within the project; or
b.	Transfer or voluntarily demote within the project to another job classification in which they have not attained permanent status.
3.	The Employer may consider project employees with permanent project status for transfer, voluntary demotion, or promotion to non-project positions. Employees will serve a trial service period upon transfer, voluntary demotion, or promotion to a non-project position in a job classification that the employees have not previously attained permanent status in.
4.	When the Employer converts a project appointment into a permanent appointment, the employee will serve a probationary or trial service period.
5.	The layoff and recall rights of project employees will be in accordance with the provisions in Article 35, Layoff and Recall.
E.	Seasonal Career Employment
1.	The Employer may make seasonal career appointments that are cyclical in nature, recur at the same agency at approximately the same time each year, and are anticipated to last for a minimum of five (5) months but are less than twelve (12) months in duration during any consecutive twelve (12) month period.
2.	Upon completion of a six (6) or twelve (12) month probationary period (in accordance with Subsection 4.4 A below) completed in consecutive seasons at the same agency, employees in seasonal
WPEA GG - 2012-13
6
career employment will assume the rights of employees with permanent status.
3.	The layoff and recall rights of seasonal career employees will be in accordance with the provisions in Article 35, Layoff and Recall.
F.	The termination of a non-permanent or on-call appointment is not subject to the grievance procedure in Article 30.
4.4	Review Periods
A.	Probationary Period
1.	Except for those employees in an in-training appointment, every part-time and full-time employee, following his or her initial appointment to a permanent position, will serve a probationary period of six (6) months performing assigned duties; except that any class for which the probationary period was twelve (12) months on July 1, 2005, will continue to have a twelve (12) month probationary period. The Employer may extend the probationary period for an individual employee or for all employees in a classification, as long as the extension does not cause the total period to exceed twelve (12) months. The Employer agrees to notify the Union when it intends to extend the probationary period of an employee or for all employees in a classification beyond six (6) months.
2.	The Employer may separate a probationary employee at any time during the probationary period, and such separation will not be subject to the grievance procedure in Article 30. The Employer must give a minimum of one (1) calendar days written notice prior to the effective date of separation.
3.	The Employer will extend an employee’s probationary period, on a day-for-a-day basis, for any day(s) that the employee is on leave without pay or shared leave, except for leave taken for military service.
4.	An employee who transfers or is promoted prior to completing his or her initial probationary period will serve a new probationary period. The length of the new probationary period will be as in Subsection A.1, above, unless adjusted by the Appointing Authority for time already served in probationary status. In no case, however, will the total probationary period be less than six (6) consecutive months.
5.	If the Employer converts the status of a non-permanent appointment to a permanent appointment, the incumbent employee will serve a probationary period. However, the Appointing
WPEA GG - 2012-13
7
Authority may credit time worked in the non-permanent appointment toward completion of the probationary period as defined in Subsection A.1, above.
B.	Trial Service Period
1.	Except for those employees in an in-training appointment, all other employees with permanent status who are promoted, or who voluntarily accept a transfer or demotion into a job classification for which they have not previously attained permanent status, will serve a trial service period of six (6) months performing assigned duties. The Employer agrees to comply with the trial service period that the Office of the State Human Resources Director has designated for each classification. An employee moving to a different position within the same job classification that requires different job skills and abilities will serve a trial service period. The Employer may extend the trial service period for an individual employee or for all employees in the classification, as long as the extension does not cause the total period to exceed twelve (12) months, on a case-by-case basis. The Employer agrees to notify the Union when it intends to extend the trial service period of an employee beyond six (6) months.
2.	Any employee serving a trial service period will have his or her trial service period extended, on a day-for-a-day basis, for any day(s) that the employee is on leave without pay or shared leave, except for leave taken for military service.
3.	With prior written notice by the Employer, all employees failing a trial service period may be offered an opportunity to revert to a position in the same agency, that is:
a.	Vacant or filled by a probationary or non-permanent employee and is within the trial service employee’s previously held job classification; or
b.	Vacant or filled by a probationary or non-permanent employee at or below the employee’s previous salary range.
In either case, the employee being reverted must have the skills and abilities required for the vacant position.
4.	Any employee failing a trial service period who has no reversion options may request that his or her name be placed on the agency’s internal layoff list and into the General Government Transition Pool Program for positions in job classifications where he or she had previously attained permanent status.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
8
5.	The reversion of employees who are unsuccessful during their trial service period is not subject to the grievance procedure in Article 30.
4.5	Return-to-Work Initiative Program
Benefits under this program will be applied in accordance with WAC 357-19-505 through 535.
Article 5
Performance Evaluation
5.1	Objective
The performance evaluation process gives supervisors an opportunity to discuss performance goals with their employees and assess and review their performance with regard to those goals. Supervisors will support employees in their professional development, so that skills and abilities can be aligned with agency requirements. To recognize employee accomplishments, and to address performance issues in a timely manner, discussions between the supervisor and employee will occur during the evaluation period. Performance problems will be brought to the attention of the employee to give the employee the opportunity to receive any needed additional training and to correct the problem.
5.2	Evaluation Process
A.	Employee work performance will be evaluated prior to the completion of his or her probationary or trial service periods and at least annually thereafter as scheduled by each agency. Evaluations will be conducted in a private setting. Probationary or permanent employees whose work performance is determined to be unsatisfactory must be notified in writing of the deficiency(ies). Unless the deficiency(ies) is (are) substantial, the employee shall be given the opportunity to correct the deficiency(ies) and demonstrate satisfactory performance before it is documented in an evaluation.
B.	The performance evaluation process will include, but not be limited to, a written or electronic performance evaluation on the Employee Development and Performance Plan (EDPP) form or the Performance and Development Plan (PDP) form, the employee’s signature acknowledging receipt of the forms, and any comments by the employee. A copy of the performance evaluation will be provided to the employee at the time of the review. The original performance evaluation forms, including the employee’s comments, will be maintained in the employee’s personnel file. Employees will be given copies of their completed evaluation within a reasonable time.
C.	The performance evaluation procedure may be grieved; however, the content of the evaluation is not subject to the grievance procedure in Article 30.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
9
D.	The Employer will make information on the performance evaluation process readily available to employees and supervisors. An employee may request training in the EDPP or PDP process in accordance with Article 8.1.
5.3	For bargaining units at the Washington State Center for Childhood Deafness and
Hearing Loss and Washington School for the Blind evaluations shall be conducted at least bi-annually and normally completed no later than May 15.
Article 6
Hours of Work
6.1	Definitions
A.	Full-time Employees:
Employees who are scheduled to work forty (40) hours per workweek.
B.	Law Enforcement Employees:
Employees who work in positions that meet the law enforcement criteria of Section 7 (k) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).
C.	Part-time Employees:
Employees who are scheduled to work less than forty (40) hours per workweek.
D.	Overtime-Eligible Positions:
Employees who work in positions that are assigned duties and responsibilities that meet the criteria for overtime coverage under federal and state law.
E.	Overtime-Exempt Positions:
Employees who work in positions that are assigned duties and responsibilities that do not meet the criteria for overtime coverage under federal and state law.
F.	Shift Employees:
Overtime-eligible employees who work in positions that normally require shift coverage for more than one (1) workshift.
G.	Workday:
One (1) of seven (7) consecutive, twenty-four (24) hour periods in a workweek.
H.	Work Schedules:
Workweeks and work shifts of different numbers of hours may be established by the Employer in order to meet business and customer service needs, as long as the work schedules meet federal and state laws.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
10
I.
Work Shift:
The hours an employee is scheduled to work each workday in a workweek.
J. Workweek:
A regularly re-occurring period of one hundred and sixty-eight (168) hours consisting of seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods. Workweeks will normally begin at 12:00 a.m. on Sunday and end at 12:00 midnight the following Saturday, or as otherwise designated by the Appointing Authority. If there is a change in their workweek, employees will be given written notification by the Appointing Authority.
6.2	Determination
The Employer shall determine whether a position is overtime-eligible or overtime-exempt in accordance with federal and state law. With regard to law enforcement positions, the Employer shall determine if an overtime-eligible position has an extended work period.
6.3	Overtime-Eligible Employees (Excluding Law Enforcement Employees)
A.	Regular Work Schedules
The regular work schedule for overtime-eligible employees shall not be more than forty (40) hours in a workweek, with starting and ending times as determined by the requirements of the position and the Employer. An employee may request different starting and ending times. The Employer may adjust the regular work schedule with prior notice to the employee as defined in this Article.
B.	Alternate Work Schedules
Workweeks and work shifts of different numbers of hours may be established for overtime-eligible employees by the Employer in order to meet business and customer service needs, if the alternate work schedules meet the requirements of federal and state laws, and do not result in overtime. An employee may request different workweeks and work shifts.
C.	Schedule Changes
Employees’ workweeks and work schedules may be changed with prior notice from the Employer. Overtime-eligible employees shall receive five (5) calendar days’ written notice of a schedule change. The day notification is given is considered the first day of notice. Adjustments in the hours of work of daily work shifts during a workweek do not constitute a schedule change. The Employer may adjust an overtime-eligible employee’s daily start and/or end time(s) by two (2) hours.
D.	Emergency Schedule Changes
The Employer may adjust an overtime-eligible employee’s workweek and work schedule without prior notice in unexpected, serious situations.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
11
E.	Employee-Requested Schedule Changes
Overtime-eligible employees’ workweeks and work schedules may be changed at the employee’s request and with the Employer’s approval, provided the Employer’s business and customer service needs are met and no overtime expense is incurred.
6.4	Overtime-Eligible Law Enforcement Employee Work Schedules
The regular work schedule for full-time overtime-eligible law enforcement employees, not receiving assignment pay for an extended work period, shall not be more than one hundred and sixty hours (160) hours in a twenty-eight (28) day period. Work schedules may be changed in accordance with Subsection 6.3 C through E, above.
6.5	Overtime-Eligible Unpaid Meal Periods
The Employer and the Union agree to unpaid meal periods that vary from and supersede the unpaid meal period requirements of WAC 296-126-092. Unpaid meal periods for employees working more than five (5) consecutive hours, if entitled, will be a minimum of thirty (30) minutes and shall be scheduled as close to the middle of the work shift as possible. When an employee’s unpaid meal period is interrupted by work duties, the employee will be allowed to resume his or her unpaid meal period following the interruption to complete the unpaid meal period. In the event an employee is unable to complete the unpaid meal period due to operational necessity, the employee shall be entitled to compensation, which will be computed based on the actual number of minutes worked within the unpaid meal period. Meal periods may not be used for late arrival or early departure from work and meal and rest periods shall not be combined.
6.6	Overtime-Eligible Paid Meal Periods for Straight Shift Schedules
The Employer and the Union agree to paid meal periods that vary from and supersede the paid meal period requirements of WAC 296-126-092. Employees working straight shifts will not receive a scheduled meal period, but will be permitted to eat intermittently as time allows during their shifts while remaining on duty. Paid meal periods for employees on straight shifts do not require relief from duty.
6.7	Overtime-Eligible Rest Periods
The Employer and the Union agree to rest periods that vary from and supersede the rest periods required by WAC 296-126-092. Employees shall be allowed rest periods of fifteen (15) minutes for each one-half (1/2) shift of four (4) or more hours worked at or near the middle of each one-half (1/2) shift of four (4) or more hours. Rest periods do not require relief from duty. Where the nature of the work allows employees to take intermittent rest periods equivalent to fifteen (15) minutes for each one-half (1/2) shift, scheduled rest periods are not required. Rest periods may not be used for late arrival or early departure from work and rest and meal periods shall not be combined.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
12
6.8	Positive Time Reporting - Overtime-Eligible Employees
Overtime-eligible employees will accurately report time worked in accordance with a positive time reporting process as determined by each agency.
6.9	Overtime-Exempt Employees
Overtime-exempt employees are not covered by federal or state overtime laws. Compensation is based on the premise that overtime-exempt employees are expected to work as many hours as necessary to provide the public services for which they were hired. These employees are accountable for their work product and for meeting the objectives of the agency for which they work. The Employer’s policy for all overtime-exempt employees is as follows:
A.	The Employer determines the products, services and standards which must be met by overtime-exempt employees.
B.	Overtime-exempt employees are expected to work as many hours as
necessary to accomplish their assignments or fulfill their responsibilities and must respond to directions from management to complete work assignments by specific deadlines. Overtime-exempt employees may be required to work specific hours to provide services, when deemed necessary by the Employer.
C.	The salary paid to overtime-exempt employees is full compensation for all hours worked.
D.	Employees will consult with their supervisors to adjust their work hours to accommodate the appropriate balance between extended work time and offsetting time off. Where such flexibility does not occur or does not achieve the appropriate balance, and with Appointing Authority or designee approval, overtime-exempt employees are authorized to accrue exchange time for extraordinary or excessive hours worked. Exchange time may be accrued at straight time to a maximum of eighty (80) hours. Exchange time has no cash value and cannot be transferred between agencies.
E.	With Employer approval, alternate work schedules, including both flexible and compressed work schedules, may be established subject to business and customer service needs. Employees are responsible for keeping management apprised of their schedules and their whereabouts.
F.	Overtime-exempt employees whose employer requires him or her to work
on a holiday will receive exchange time at the rate of equal hours off for all hours worked on a holiday.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
13
Article 7 Overtime
7.1	Definitions
A.	Overtime:
Overtime is defined as time that an overtime-eligible employee:
1.	Works in excess of forty (40) hours per workweek (excluding law enforcement employees);
2.	Works in excess of their scheduled work shift and the employee is
a shift employee at Liquor Control Board, Security Staff.
3.	Works in excess of one hundred and sixty (160) hours in a twenty-
eight (28) day period and the employee is a law enforcement employee not receiving assignment pay for an extended work period; or
4.	Works while on fire duty as specifically defined in Article 41, Compensation.
B.	Overtime Rate:
In accordance with the applicable wage and hour laws, the overtime rate will be one and one-half (1-1/2) of an employee’s regular rate of pay. The regular rate of pay will not include any allowable exclusions.
C.	Work:
For overtime purposes, work is the time actually spent performing the duties assigned in addition to time during which an employee is excused from work for holidays, sick leave, vacations or compensatory time.
D.	Work does not include:
1.	Shared leave.
2.	Leave without pay.
3.	Additional compensation for time	worked on	a holiday.
4.	Time compensated as standby, call-back,	or any other penalty pay.
7.2	Overtime-Eligibility and Compensation
Employees are eligible for overtime compensation under the following circumstances:
A.	Overtime-eligible employees who have prior approval and work more than
forty (40) hours in a workweek shall be compensated at the overtime rate. An employee whose workweek is less than forty (40) hours will be paid at his or her regular rate of pay for all work performed up to forty (40) hours in a workweek and paid at the overtime rate for authorized work of more than forty (40) hours in a workweek.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
14
B.	Overtime-eligible law enforcement employees, not receiving assignment
pay for an extended work period, who have prior approval and work more than one hundred and sixty (160) hours in a twenty-eight (28) day period shall be compensated at the overtime rate.
7.3	General Provisions
A.	The Employer will determine whether work will be performed on regular work time or overtime, the number, the skills and abilities of the employees required to perform the work, and the duration of the work. The Employer will first attempt to meet its overtime requirements on a voluntary basis with qualified employees who are currently working. In the event there are not enough employees volunteering to work, the supervisor may require employees to work overtime.
B.	If an employee was not offered overtime for which he or she was qualified, the employee will be offered the next available overtime opportunity for which he or she is qualified. Under no circumstances shall an employee be compensated for overtime that was not worked. There will be no pyramiding of overtime.
7.4	Compensatory Time for Overtime-Eligible Employees
A.	Compensatory Time Eligibility
Compensatory time off may be earned in lieu of cash only when an agency and the employee agree. Compensatory time must be granted at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) hours of compensatory time for each hour of overtime worked.
B.	Maximum Compensatory Time
Employees may accumulate no more than two hundred forty (240) hours of compensatory time, or four hundred eighty (480) hours for law enforcement employees or employees engaged in public safety or emergency response activities.
C.	Compensatory Time Use
Employees must use compensatory time prior to using vacation leave, unless this would result in the loss of their vacation leave or the employee is using vacation leave for Domestic Violence Leave. Compensatory time must be used and scheduled in the same manner as vacation leave, as in Article 11, Vacation Leave. The employee may use compensatory time for leave as required by the Domestic Violence Leave Act, RCW 49.76. The Employer may schedule an employee to use his or her compensatory time with seven (7) calendar days’ notice.
D.	Compensatory Time Cash Out
All compensatory time must be used by June 30th of each year. If compensatory time balances are not scheduled to be used by the employee by April of each year, the supervisor shall contact the employee to review
WPEA GG - 2012-13
15
his or her schedule. The employee’s compensatory time balance will be cashed out every June 30th or when the employee:
1.	Leaves state service for any reason,
2.	Transfers to a position in his or her agency with different funding
sources, or
3.	Transfers to another state agency.
Article 8
Training
8.1	The Employer and the Union recognize the value and benefit of education and training designed to enhance employee development. The Employer will provide training in accordance with agency policies and available resources.
8.2	The agency training and development plan must state the Employer’s policies and objectives for employee training and development and such policies must address, at a minimum, the following:
A.	Identification of the person responsible for employee training and development;
B.	Criteria for employee eligibility;
C.	Criteria for determining employees’ work status while participating in training and development activities;
D.	Criteria for education leave;
E.	Tuition reimbursement or fee waiver policy;
F.	Mandated training in accordance with state and federal regulations;
G.	Entry-level management/supervisory training;
H.	Assessment of employee training and development needs;
I.	Evaluation of the training and development programs; and
J.	Assignments for career development in accordance with WAC 357-34050.
8.3	The Employer will provide appropriate training on supervision/inmate relations for employees whose duty involves interacting with incarcerated individuals.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
16
8.4	Master Agreement Training
A.	The Employer and the Union agree that training for managers, supervisors and shop stewards responsible for the day-to-day administration of this Agreement is important. The Union will provide training on this Agreement to shop stewards, and the Employer will provide training to managers and supervisors.
B.	The Union will present the training to union shop stewards within each bargaining unit. The training will last no longer than four (4) hours. The training will be considered time worked for those union shop stewards who attend the training during their scheduled work shift. Union shop stewards who attend the training during their non-work hours will not be compensated. The parties will agree on the date, time, number and names of the shop stewards attending each session. Travel time and expenses will not be paid by the Employer.
8.5	New Employees
When an agency hires a new employee, the Employer will provide each new employee with an orientation package provided by the Union.
Article 9
Licensure and Certification
9.1	The Employer and the Union recognize the necessity for bargaining unit employees to maintain appropriate licensure and/or certification to perform the duties of their assigned position.
9.2	Agencies will follow their policies and/or practices related to licensure and certification.
9.3	Employees will notify their Appointing Authority or designee if their work-related license and/or certification has expired, or has been restricted, revoked or suspended within twenty-four (24) hours of expiration, restriction, revocation or suspension, or prior to their next scheduled shift, whichever occurs first.
Article 10
Holidays
10.1	Holidays
The following days are legal holidays as designated by statute:
1.	The first day of January (New Year's Day)
2.	The third Monday of January (Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birthday)
3.	The third Monday of February (Presidents' Day)
WPEA GG - 2012-13
17
4.	The last Monday of May (Memorial Day)
5.	The fourth day of July (Independence Day)
6.	The first Monday in September (Labor Day)
7.	The eleventh day of November (Veterans’ Day)
8.	The fourth Thursday of November (Thanksgiving Day)
9.	The day immediately following Thanksgiving Day
10.	The twenty-fifth day of December (Christmas Day)
11.	Personal holiday as provided in Section 10.3 below
10.2	Holiday Rules
The following rules apply to the holidays listed:
A.	Employees will be paid at a straight time rate even though they do not work.
B.	If an employee works on a holiday, he or she will be paid for the actual hours worked at the straight time rate plus the overtime rate, as outlined in Article 7, Overtime.
C.	For full-time employees on a Monday through Friday work schedule:
1.	Whenever any holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be the holiday.
2.	Whenever any holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be the holiday.
D.	For full-time employees not on a Monday through Friday work schedule:
1.	When a holiday falls on the employee's scheduled work-day, that day will be considered the holiday.
2.	When a holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled day off, the agency will decide whether it will be observed on the employee’s work-day before or after the holiday.
E.	For employees working a night shift schedule which begins on one calendar day and ends on the next, the holiday shall be determined by the agency to commence either at the start of the scheduled night shift that begins on the calendar holiday, or at the start of the shift that precedes the calendar holiday.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
18
The decision will be the same for all employees in a facility unless there is agreement to do otherwise between the agency and one (1) or more affected employees, or with the Union, which will constitute agreement of the employees.
F.	Part-time employees who are employed before and after the holiday and
for a period of at least twelve (12) calendar days during the month (not including the holiday) will be compensated in cash for the holiday in an amount proportionate to the time in pay status during the month to that required for full-time employment.
G.	Full-time employees who are employed before and after the holiday and
are in pay status for a period of eighty (80) non-overtime or non-standby hours during the month, not counting the holiday, will receive compensation for the holiday.
10.3	Personal Holiday
A.	Each employee may select one (1) personal holiday each calendar year, under the following conditions:
1.	The employee has been or is scheduled to be continuously employed by the state for more than four (4) months.
2.	The employee has given not less than fourteen (14) calendar days’ notice to the supervisor; provided, however, the employee and the supervisor may agree upon an earlier date; and
3.	The number of employees selecting a particular day off allows an agency to continue its work efficiently and not incur overtime.
B.	Entitlement to the holiday will not lapse when denied under Subsection A.3, above.
C.	Full-time alternate work schedule employees shall receive regular pay for
each personal holiday.
D.	Part-time employees shall be entitled to the number of paid hours on a
personal holiday that their monthly schedule bears to a full time schedule.
E.	Part or all of a personal holiday may be donated to another employee for shared leave. That portion of a personal holiday that is accrued, donated as shared leave, and then returned during the same calendar year to the donating employee, may be taken by the donating employee.
F.	Part or all of a personal holiday may be used for:
1.	The care of family members as required by the Family Care Act, WAC 296-130;
WPEA GG - 2012-13
19
2.
Leave as required by the Family Military Leave Act, RCW 49.77 and in accordance with Article 18.10, or
3.	Leave as required by the Domestic Violence Leave Act, RCW 49.76.
10.4 Only Article 10.3, Personal Holiday, applies to the bargaining units at the Washington State School for the Blind and Washington State Center for Childhood Deafness and Hearing Loss.
Article 11
Vacation Leave
11.1	Employees will retain and carry forward any eligible and unused vacation leave that was accrued prior to the effective date of this Agreement.
11.2	Vacation Leave Credits
After six (6) months of continuous state employment, full-time and part-time employees will be credited with the vacation leave they accrued during the previous six (6) months, according to the rate schedule and accrual eligibility below. Thereafter, full-time and part-time employees will be credited with vacation leave accrued monthly, according to the rate schedule and vacation leave accrual below.
11.3	Vacation Leave Accrual
Full-time employees who have been in pay status for eighty (80) non-overtime hours in a calendar month will accrue vacation leave according to the rate schedule below in Section 11.4.
Vacation leave credit earned by part-time employees will be computed and accrued in an amount proportionate to the number of hours the part-time employee is in pay status during the month relative to that required for full-time employment.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
20
11.4 Vacation Leave Accrual Rate Schedule
Full Years of Service	Hours Per Year
During the first year of current continuous employment	Ninety-six (96)
During the second year of current continuous employment	One hundred four (104)
During the third and fourth years of current continuous employment	One hundred twelve (112)
During the fifth, sixth, and seventh years of total employment	One hundred twenty (120)
During the eighth, ninth, and tenth years of total employment	One hundred twenty-eight (128)
During the eleventh year of total employment	One hundred thirty-six (136)
During the twelfth year of total employment	One hundred forty-four (144)
During the thirteenth year of total employment	One hundred fifty-two (152)
During the fourteenth year of total employment	One hundred sixty (160)
During the fifteenth year of total employment	One hundred sixty-eight (168)
During the sixteenth year of total employment and thereafter	One hundred seventy-six (176)
11.5	Vacation Scheduling
A.	Vacation leave will be charged in one-tenth (1/10th) of an hour increments.
B.	Employees will request vacation leave in advance according to agency procedures. Where circumstances preclude advance requests, supervisors may approve vacation leave retrospectively on a case by case basis. When considering requests for vacation leave the employing agency shall give due regard to the needs of the employee but may require that leave be taken when it will least interfere with the work of the agency.
C.	Vacation leave for religious observances may be granted to the extent
agency or program requirements permit.
D.	Employees will not request or be authorized to take scheduled vacation leave if they do not have sufficient vacation leave credits to cover the absence.
E.	When two (2) or more employees request the same vacation days off at the same time and business needs preclude approval of both leave requests,
WPEA GG - 2012-13
21
seniority will prevail. The Employer will consider the required skills and abilities needed to meet business and customer service needs. Previously approved leave will not be cancelled in order to grant leave to a senior employee.
F.	For the Communications Officer 3 bargaining unit only, vacations may be bid on the basis of first choice and length of time in their current job classification, then second choice and length of time in their current job classification. Ties will be broken in accordance with Article 34. 1 (C).
11.6	Family Care
Employees may use vacation leave for care of family members as required by the Family Care Act, WAC 296-130.
11.7	Military Family Leave
Employees may use vacation leave as required by the Military Family Leave Act, RCW 49.77 and in accordance with Article 18.10.
11.8	Domestic Violence Leave
Employees may use vacation leave for leave as required by the Domestic Violence Leave Act, RCW 49.76.
11.9	Vacation Leave Maximum
Employees may accumulate maximum vacation balances not to exceed two hundred forty (240) hours. However, there are two (2) exceptions that allow vacation leave to accumulate above the maximum:
A.	If an employee’s request for vacation leave is denied by the Employer, and the employee is close to the vacation leave maximum, an employee’s vacation leave maximum will be extended for each month that the Employer must defer the employee’s request for vacation leave.
B.	An employee may also accumulate vacation leave days in excess of two hundred forty (240) hours as long as the employee uses the excess balance prior to his or her anniversary date. Any leave in excess of the maximum that is not deferred in advance of its accrual as described above, will be lost on the employee’s anniversary date.
11.10	Separation
Any employee who resigns with adequate notice, retires, is laid-off, or is terminated by the Employer, will be entitled to payment for vacation leave credits. In addition, the estate of a deceased employee will be entitled to payment for vacation leave credits.
11.11	This Article does not apply to the bargaining units at the Washington Center for Childhood Deafness and Hearing Loss and the Washington State School for the Blind.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
22
Article 12
Sick Leave
12.1	Sick Leave Accrual
A full-time employee will accrue eight (8) hours of sick leave after he or she has been in pay status for eighty (80) non-overtime hours in a calendar month.
Part-time employees will accrue sick leave in an amount proportionate to the number of hours the part-time employee is in pay status in the month.
12.2	Sick Leave Use
Sick leave will be charged in one-tenth (1/10th) of an hour increments and may be used for the following reasons:
A.	A personal illness, injury or medical disability that prevents the employee from performing his or her job, or personal medical or dental appointments.
B.	Care of family members as required by the Family Care Act, WAC 296130.
C.	Qualifying absences for Family and Medical Leave (Article 15).
D.	Exposure of the employee to contagious disease when attendance at work would jeopardize the health of others.
E.	Preventative health care of relatives or household members, up to one (1) day for each occurrence or as extended by the agency when an employee is required to be absent to provide care or transportation for a relative of the employee or the employee’s spouse, or state registered domestic partner as defined by RCW 26.60.020 and 26.60.030, or for a member of employee’s household obtaining preventative health care.
F.	Illness of a qualifying child.
G.	Illness of relatives or household members, up to five (5) days for each occurrence or as extended by the Employer. “Relatives” is defined as spouse or state registered domestic partner as defined by RCW 26.60.020 and 26.60.030, child, grandchild, grandparent or parent of the employee/employee’s spouse or registered domestic partner.
H.	Leave for Military Family Leave as required by RCW 49.77 and in accordance with Article 18.10.
I.	Leave for Domestic Violence Leave as required by RCW 49.76.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
23
12.3	Use of Compensatory Time or Vacation Leave for Sick Leave Purposes
The Employer will allow an employee to use compensatory time or vacation leave for sick leave purposes in the same manner as the use of accrued sick leave. An employee may be denied the ability to use compensatory time or vacation leave for sick leave purposes if the employee has documented attendance problems. All compensatory time or vacation leave requests for sick leave purposes will indicate that the compensatory time or vacation leave is being requested in lieu of sick leave.
12.4	Restoration of Vacation Leave
When a condition listed in Subsection 12.2 A, above, arises while the employee is on vacation leave, the employee will be granted accrued sick leave, in lieu of the approved vacation leave, provided that the employee requests such leave within fourteen (14) calendar days of his or her return to work. The equivalent amount of vacation leave will be restored.
12.5	Sick Leave Reporting and Verification
An employee must promptly notify his or her supervisor on the first day of sick leave and each day after, unless there is mutual agreement to do otherwise. Upon returning to work, the employee shall report the general reason or circumstance for the sick leave. A medical certificate may be required when there is cause to suspect sick leave abuse; to assist agencies in protecting the employee from returning to work too soon following an illness or injury; or to protect fellow employees or clients from contagious illness. A medical certificate must be required if the reason was personal illness and the absence continued for more than ten (10) continuous working days.
12.6	Sick Leave Annual Cash Out
Each January, employees are eligible to receive cash on a one (1) hour for four (4) hours basis for ninety-six (96) hours or less of their accrued sick leave, if:
A.	Their sick leave balance at the end of the previous calendar year exceeds four hundred and eighty (480) hours;
B.	The converted sick leave hours do not reduce their previous calendar year sick leave balance below four hundred and eighty (480) hours; and
C.	They notify their payroll office by January 31st that they would like to convert their sick leave hours earned during the previous calendar year, minus any sick leave hours used during the previous year, to cash.
All converted hours will be deducted from the employee’s sick leave balance.
12.7	Sick Leave Separation Cash Out
At the time of death, an eligible employee’s estate will receive compensation for his or her total sick leave balance on a one (1) hour for four (4) hours basis. At the time of retirement from state service, an eligible employee will receive
WPEA GG - 2012-13
24
compensation for his or her sick leave balance on a one (1) hour to four (4) basis, which will be forwarded to their Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Associations. For the purposes of this Section, retirement will not include “vested out of service” employees who leave funds on deposit with the retirement system.
12.8	Reemployment
Former state employees who are re-employed within five (5) years of leaving state service will be granted all unused sick leave credits they had at separation.
Article 13
Shared Leave
13.1	Shared Leave
The purpose of the state leave sharing program is to permit state employees to donate vacation leave, sick leave, or personal holidays to a fellow state employee who has been called to service in the uniformed services, who is responding to a state of emergency anywhere within the United States declared by the federal or any state government, or who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking, or who is suffering from or has a relative or household member suffering from an extraordinary or severe illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition, which has caused or is likely to cause the employee to take leave without pay or terminate his or her employment. For purposes of the Washington state leave sharing program, the following definitions apply:
A.	“Domestic violence” means physical harm, bodily injury, assault, or infliction of fear of imminent physical harm, bodily injury, or assault between family or household members as defined in RCW 26.50.010; sexual assault of one family or household member by another family or household member; or stalking as defined in RCW 9A.46.110 of one family or household member by another family or household member.
B.	"Employee" means any employee who is entitled to accrue sick leave or vacation leave and for whom accurate leave records are maintained.
C.	Employee’s "relative" normally shall be limited to the employee’s spouse, or state registered domestic partner as defined by RCW 26.60.020 and 26.60.030, child, stepchild, grandchild, grandparent, or parent.
D.	"Household members" is defined as persons who reside in the same home who have reciprocal duties to and/or do provide financial support for one another. This term shall include foster children and legal wards even if they do not live in the household. The term does not include persons sharing the same general house, when the living style is primarily that of a dormitory or commune.
E.	"Severe" or "extraordinary" condition is defined as serious or extreme and/or life threatening.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
25
F.	“Sexual assault” has the same meaning as in RCW 70.125.030.
G.	“Stalking” has the same meaning as in RCW 9A.46.110.
H.	"Service in the uniformed services" means the performance of duty on a voluntary or involuntary basis in a uniformed service under competent authority and includes active duty, active duty for training, initial active duty for training, inactive duty training, full-time national guard duty including state-ordered active duty, and a period for which a person is absent from a position of employment for the purpose of an examination to determine the fitness of the person to perform any such duty.
I.	"Uniformed services" means the armed forces, the army national guard, and the air national guard of any state, territory, commonwealth, possession, or district when engaged in active duty for training, inactive duty training, full-time national guard duty, state active duty, the commissioned corps of the public health service, the Coast Guard, and any other category of persons designated by the President of the United States in time of war or national emergency.
J.	“Victim” means a person that domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking has been committed against as defined in this Article.
13.2	Shared Leave Receipt
The Employer may permit an employee to receive shared leave if the employee meets the following criteria:
A.	The employee’s Agency Head determines that the employee meets the criteria described in this Section.
1.	The employee suffers from, or has a relative or household member suffering from, an illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition which is of an extraordinary or severe nature;
2.	The employee has been called to service in the uniformed services;
3.	The employee has the needed skills to assist in responding to an
emergency or its aftermath and volunteers his or her services to either a governmental agency or to a nonprofit organization engaged in humanitarian relief in the devastated area, and the governmental agency or nonprofit organization accepts the employee’s offer of volunteer services; or
4.	The employee is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
26
B.	The illness, injury, impairment, condition, call to service, emergency volunteer service or consequence of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking has caused, or is likely to cause, the employee to:
1.	Go on leave without pay status; or
2.	Terminate state employment.
C.	The employee has depleted or will shortly deplete his or her:
1.	Vacation leave, sick leave and personal holiday reserves if the employee qualifies on Subsection A.1 of this Section.
2.	Vacation leave and paid military leave allowed under RCW 38.40.060, if the employee qualifies under Subsection A.2 of this Section; or
3.	Vacation leave and personal holiday if the employee qualifies under Subsection A.3 or A.4.
D.	The employee’s absence and the use of shared leave are justified.
E.	The employee has abided by the Employer’s rules regarding:
1.	Sick leave use if the employee qualifies under Subsection A.1 and A.4 of this Section; or
2.	Vacation leave and military leave if the employee qualifies under Subsection A.2 of this Section.
F.	The employee has diligently pursued and been found to be ineligible for benefits under RCW 51.32 if the employee qualifies under Subsection A.1 of this Section.
13.3	Shared Leave Use
A.	The Employer will determine the amount of leave, if any, which an employee may receive. However, an employee will not receive more than five hundred and twenty-two (522) days of shared leave during total state employment, except that, the Employer may authorize leave in excess of five hundred twenty-two (522) days in extraordinary circumstances for an employee qualifying for the program because he or she is suffering from an illness, injury, impairment or physical or mental condition which is of an extraordinary or severe nature. A non-permanent employee who is eligible to use accrued leave or personal holiday may not use shared leave beyond the termination date specified in the non-permanent employee’s appointment letter.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
27
B.	The Employer will require the employee to submit, prior to approval or disapproval, a medical certificate from a licensed physician or health care practitioner verifying the employee’s required absence, the description of the medical problem, and the expected date of return-to-work status for shared leave under Subsection 13.2 A.1. The Employer will require the employee to submit, prior to approval or disapproval, a copy of the military orders verifying the employee’s required absence for shared leave under Subsection 13.2 A.2. The Employer will require the employee to submit prior to approval or disapproval, proof of acceptance of an employee’s offer to volunteer for either a governmental agency or a nonprofit organization during a declared state of emergency for shared leave under Subsection 13.2 A.3. The Employer will require the employee to submit, prior to approval or disapproval, verification of the employee’s status as a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking for shared leave under Subsection 13.2 A.4.
13.4	Leave Donation
An employee may donate vacation leave, sick leave, or personal holiday to another employee only under the following conditions:
A.	The Employer approves the employee’s request to donate a specified amount of vacation leave to an employee authorized to receive shared leave; and
1.	The full-time employee’s request to donate leave will not cause his or her vacation leave balance to fall below eighty (80) hours. For part-time employees, requirements for vacation leave balances will be prorated; and
2.	Employees may donate excess vacation leave that they would not be able to take due to an approaching anniversary date; except when the request for leave was denied and the leave was deferred.
B.	The Employer approves the employee’s request to donate a specified amount of sick leave to an employee authorized to receive shared leave. The employee’s request to donate leave will not cause his or her sick leave balance to fall below one hundred seventy-six (176) hours after the transfer.
C.	The Employer approves the employee’s request to donate all or part of his or her personal holiday to an employee authorized to receive shared leave.
1.	That portion of a personal holiday that is accrued, donated as shared leave, and then returned during the same calendar year to the donating employee, may be taken by the donating employee.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
28
2.
An employee will be allowed to split the personal holiday when donating a portion of the personal holiday to the shared leave program.
13.5	Shared Leave Administration
A.	The receiving employee shall be paid his or her regular rate of pay; therefore, one (1) hour of shared leave may cover more or less than one (1) hour of the recipient’s salary. The calculation of the recipient’s leave value shall be in accordance with Office of Financial Management policies, regulations and procedures. The dollar value of the leave is converted from the donor to the recipient. The leave received will be coded as shared leave and be maintained separately from all other leave balances.
B.	Any shared leave not used by the recipient during each incident/occurrence as determined by the agency director shall be returned to the donor(s). Before returning unused leave in connection with an illness or injury, the Employer will obtain a statement from the receiving employee’s doctor verifying the illness or injury is resolved. The shared leave remaining will be divided among the donors on a prorated basis based on the original donated value and returned at its original donor value and reinstated to each donor’s appropriate leave balance. The return shall be prorated back based on the donor’s original donation.
C.	All donated leave must be given voluntarily. No employee shall be coerced, threatened, intimidated, or financially induced into donating leave for purposes of this program.
D.	Agencies shall maintain records which contain sufficient information to provide for legislative review.
E.	An employee who uses leave that is transferred under this Section will not be required to repay the value of the leave that he or she used.
F.	Donated leave may be transferred from employees within the same agency, or with the approval of the heads or designees of both state agencies, higher education institutions, or school districts/education service districts, to an employee of another state agency, higher education institution, or school district/educational district.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
29
Article 14
Uniformed Service Shared Leave Pool
14.1	Purpose
The uniformed service shared leave pool allows state employees to donate leave to be used as shared leave to fellow state employees called to service in the uniformed services. Employee participation will be voluntary at all times. The Military Department, Department of Personnel and Office of Financial Management administer the pool.
14.2	Definitions
For purposes of this Article only, the following definitions apply:
A.	“Employee” means any employee who is entitled to accrue sick leave or vacation leave and for whom accurate leave records are maintained.
B.	“Military salary” includes base, specialty and other pay, but does not include allowances like the basic allowance for housing.
C.	“Monthly salary” includes monthly salary, special pay and shift differential, or the monthly equivalent for hourly employees. “Monthly salary” does not include overtime pay, callback pay, standby pay or performance bonuses.
D.	“Service in the uniformed services” means the performance of duty on a voluntary or involuntary basis in a uniformed service under competent authority and includes active duty, active duty for training, initial active duty for training, inactive duty training, full-time national guard duty including state-ordered active duty, and a period for which a person is absent from a position of employment for the purpose of an examination to determine the fitness of the person to perform any such duty.
E.	“Uniformed services” means the armed forces, the army national guard, and the air national guard of any state, territory, commonwealth, possession, or district when engaged in active duty for training, inactive duty for training, full-time national guard duty, or state active duty, the commissioned corps of the public health service, the coast guard and any other category of persons designated by the president of the United States in time of war or national emergency.
14.3	Participation
A.	An employee may be eligible to receive leave from the uniformed service shared leave pool under the following conditions:
1.	The employee is entitled to accrue vacation leave, sick leave, or a personal holiday.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
30
2.	The employee has been called to service in the uniformed services.
3.	The call to service has caused, or is likely to cause, the employee
to go on leave without pay status or terminate state employment.
4.	The employee’s absence and the use of shared leave are justified.
5.	The employee has depleted or will shortly deplete his or her vacation leave and paid military leave allowed under RCW 38.40.060.
6.	The employee has followed agency rules regarding military leave.
B.	An employee may donate vacation leave, sick leave, or all or part of a personal holiday to the uniformed service shared leave pool under the following conditions:
1.	The donating employee may donate any amount of vacation leave, provided the donation does not cause the employee’s vacation leave balance to fall below eighty (80) hours. For part-time employees, requirements for vacation leave balances will be prorated.
2.	The donating employee may donate any specified amount of sick leave, provided the donation does not cause the employee’s sick leave balance to fall below one hundred seventy-six (176) hours after the transfer.
3.	The donating employee may donate all or part of a personal holiday.
14.4	Process
A.	Employees requesting to donate to or receive leave from the uniformed service shared leave pool must follow their agency policies and procedures addressing uniformed service shared leave.
B.	Employees requesting to receive leave from the uniformed service shared
leave pool must also comply with Military Department procedures for requesting and receiving leave from the uniformed service shared leave pool. Employees requesting leave from the uniformed service shared leave pool should provide to their Agency Head or designee an earnings statement verifying military salary and orders of service, most current state leave and earnings statement, a completed uniformed service shared leave pool recipient request form, and notification of any change. The employee must also provide copies of earnings statements and orders of service when requested by the Military Department.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
31
C.	Shared leave may not be granted unless the pool has a sufficient balance to fund the requested leave for the expected term of service.
D.	Shared leave, in combination with military salary, will not exceed the level of the employee’s state monthly salary. Up to eight (8) hours per month of shared leave may be withdrawn and used to continue coverage under the Public Employees’ Benefit Board, regardless of the employee’s monthly salary and military salary.
E.	The receiving employee continues to be classified as a state employee and receives the same treatment in respect to salary, wages, and employee benefits as the employee would normally receive if using accrued vacation or sick leave.
F.	Agencies will investigate any alleged abuse of the uniformed service shared leave pool. If there is a finding of wrongdoing the employee may be required to repay all of the shared leave received from the pool.
14.5	This article is not subject to the grievance procedure.
Article 15
Family Medical Leave - Pregnancy Disability Leave
15.1
A.	Consistent with the federal Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) and any amendments thereto, and the Washington Family Leave Act of 2006, an employee who has worked for the state for at least twelve (12) months and for at least one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) hours during the twelve (12) months prior to the requested leave is entitled to up to twelve (12) workweeks of family medical leave in a twelve (12) month period for any combination of the following reasons 1-4:
1.	Parental leave for the birth and to care for a newborn child or placement for adoption or foster care of a child and to care for that child; or
2.	Personal medical leave due to the employee's own serious health condition that requires the employee's absence from work; or
3.	Family medical leave to care for a spouse, son, daughter, parent, or state registered domestic partner as defined by RCWs 26.60.020 and 26.60.030 who suffers from a serious health condition that requires on-site care or supervision by the employee. Because the FMLA does not recognize state registered domestic partners, an absence to care for an employee’s state registered domestic partner
WPEA GG - 2012-13
32
in accordance with the WFLA will not be counted towards the twelve (12) weeks of FMLA; and/or
4.	Family medical leave for a qualifying exigency when the employee’s spouse, child of any age, or parent is on active duty or call to active duty status of the Reserves or National Guard for deployment to a foreign country.
5.	Military Caregiver Leave will be provided to an eligible employee who is the spouse, child of any age, parent or next of kin of a covered service member to take up to twenty-six (26) workweeks of leave in a single twelve (12) month period to care for the covered service member or veteran who is suffering from a serious illness or injury incurred in the line of duty.
During the single twelve (12) month period during which Military Caregiver Leave is taken the employee may only take a combined total of twenty-six (26) weeks of leave for Military Caregiver.
B.	Entitlement to family medical leave for the care of a newborn child or newly adopted or foster child ends twelve (12) months from the date of birth or the placement of the foster or adopted child.
C.	The one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) hour eligibility requirement noted above does not count paid time off such as time used as vacation leave, sick leave, exchange time, personal holidays, compensatory time off, or shared leave.
15.	2 The family medical leave entitlement period will be a rolling twelve (12) month period measured forward from the date an employee begins family medical leave. Each time an employee takes family medical leave during the twelve (12) month period, the leave will be subtracted from the twelve (12) weeks of available leave.
15.	3 The Employer will continue the employee's benefits as defined by RCW 49.78.020(6) during the period of leave covered by family medical. The employee will be required to pay his or her share of health insurance, life insurance and disability insurance premiums.
15.	4 The Employer has the authority to designate absences that meet the criteria of the family medical leave. The use of any paid or unpaid leave for a family medical leave-qualifying event will run concurrently with, not in addition to, the use of the family medical leave for that event. Employees may choose to use appropriate paid leave or leave without pay for absences granted in accordance with the Washington Family Leave Act RCW 49.78. Leave for a work-related injury, covered by workers’ compensation or assault benefits, will also run concurrently with the family medical leave. Any employee choosing to substitute paid leave during a family medical leave qualifying event must follow the notice and
WPEA GG - 2012-13
33
certification requirements relating to family medical leave usage in addition to any notice and certification requirements relating to the paid leave.
15.	5 Parental leave shall be granted to the employee for the purpose of bonding with his or her natural newborn, adoptive or foster child. Parental leave may extend up to six months, including time covered by the family medical leave, during the first year after the child’s birth or placement. Leave beyond the period covered by the family medical leave may only be denied by the Employer due to operational necessity. Such denial may be grieved beginning at the Agency Head step of the grievance procedure in Article 30.
Parental leave may be a combination of the employee’s accrued vacation leave, sick leave, personal holiday, compensatory time, or leave without pay.
15.	6 The Employer may require certification from the employee’s, the family member's, or the covered service member’s health care provider for the purpose of qualifying for family medical leave.
15.	7 Leave for a family medical leave-qualifying event may be taken intermittently when certified as medically necessary. Employees must make reasonable efforts to schedule leave for planned medical treatment so as not to unduly disrupt the Employer’s operations. Leave due to qualifying exigencies may also be taken on an intermittent basis.
15.	8 Upon returning to work after the employee’s own family medical leave-qualifying illness, the employee may be required to provide a fitness for duty certificate from a health care provider.
15.	9 If the need is foreseeable, the employee shall provide the Employer with not less than thirty (30) days’ notice before the family medical leave is to begin. If the need for the leave is unforeseeable thirty (30) days in advance, then the employee shall provide such notice when feasible.
15.1	0 Following an absence granted for the situations in Subsection 15.1 A of this Article, the employee shall return to the same or equivalent position held prior to the absence as set forth in RCW 49.78.280.
15.1	1 Pregnancy Disability Leave
A.	Leave for pregnancy or childbirth related disabilities is in addition to any leave granted under the FMLA or Washington state family leave laws.
B.	Pregnancy disability leave will be granted for the period of time that an employee is sick or temporarily disabled because of pregnancy and/or childbirth. An employee must submit a written request for disability leave due to pregnancy and/or childbirth in accordance with agency policy. An employee may be required to submit medical certification or verification for the period of the disability. Such leave due to pregnancy and/or childbirth may be a combination of sick leave, vacation leave, personal
WPEA GG - 2012-13
34
holiday, compensatory time, exchange time and leave without pay. The combination and use of paid and unpaid leave will be the choice of the employee.
15.1	2 The parties recognize that the Department of Labor is working on further defining the recent amendments to FMLA. The Employer and employees will comply with existing and any newly developed federal FMLA regulations, interpretations and/or definitions.
Article 16
Non-Operational Worksites/Inability to Report to Work
16.1	If the Employer determines that a state office or work location is non-operational for reasons including, but not limited to, inclement weather, natural disasters and health or safety threats, the Employer may take the following actions:
A.	Non-emergency employees (as determined by an Agency Head or
designee) may be released with no loss of pay during any disruption of services.
B.	Non-emergency employees may be reassigned to similar positions at
locations within a reasonable driving distance from the non-operational location during any disruption of services.
16.2	Employees who work their normal hours during the disruption will not receive additional compensation.
16.3	If a work location remains fully operational but an employee is unable to report to work or remain at work due to inclement weather, natural disasters, or other reasons as determined by the Employer, the employee’s leave will be charged in the following order:
A.	Any earned compensatory time
B.	Any accrued vacation leave
C.	Up to three (3) days of accrued sick leave per calendar year
D.	Leave without pay
16.4	Tardiness due to an employee’s inability to report for scheduled work because of inclement weather, natural disasters, safety threats, or other reasons as determined by the Employer will be allowed up to one (1) hour of paid time at the beginning of the workday. Section 16.3 will apply to any additional late time.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
35
Article 17 Miscellaneous Leave
17.1	Leave with pay will be allowed during scheduled work time:
A.	For participating in life-giving procedures, subject to Section 17.3;
B.	When required to report for jury duty service, subject to Section 17.4;
C.	To appear in court or an administrative hearing, subject to Section 17.5;
D.	For twenty-one (21) days for active duty or active duty training, subject to
Section 17.6;
E.	For bereavement leave, subject to Section 17.7;
F.	To allow an employee to receive an assessment through the Employee Assistance Program, subject to Section 17.8;
G.	For examinations or interviews with a state employer during scheduled work hours subject to Section 17.9.
17.2	Subject to Employer approval, leave with pay may be allowed during scheduled work time for an employee to perform civil duties as a volunteer, including but not limited to fire fighting, search and rescue efforts or donating blood.
17.3	Leave for Life-Giving Procedures
Employees will receive paid leave, not to exceed five (5) working days in a two (2) year period, for participating in life-giving procedures, upon approval. “Lifegiving procedure” is defined as a medically supervised procedure involving the testing, sampling, or donation of blood, platelets, organs, fluids, tissues, and other human body components for the purposes of donation, without compensation, to a person or organization for medically necessary treatments. Employees will provide reasonable advance notice and written proof from an accredited medical institution, physician or other medical professional that the employee participated in a live-giving procedure. Agencies may take into account program and staffing replacement requirements in the scheduling of leave for life-giving procedures.
17.4	Jury Duty
The Employer may require documentation or verification of jury service. Employees are allowed to keep any compensation they receive for serving as a member of a jury in addition to their regular pay.
17.5	Respond to Subpoena
A subpoenaed employee will receive leave with pay, during scheduled work time, to appear in court or an administrative hearing to testify about a job-related matter unless he or she is a party in the matter or has an economic interest in the matter. The Employer may grant leave with pay during scheduled work time, when an
WPEA GG - 2012-13
36
employee is subpoenaed for other legal proceedings unrelated to the personal and financial matters of the employee. The employee will provide a copy of the subpoena to the Employer when requesting leave.
17.6	Military Leave
In addition to twenty-one (21) days of paid leave granted to employees for required military duty or to take part in training or drills including those in the National Guard or state active status, unpaid military leave will be granted in accordance with RCW 38.40.060 and applicable federal law. Employees on military leave will be reinstated as provided in RCW 73.16 and applicable federal law.
17.7	Bereavement Leave
A.	An employee is entitled to three (3) days of paid bereavement leave if his or her family member or household member dies. An employee may request less than three (3) days of bereavement leave.
B.	The Employer may require verification of the family member’s or household member’s death.
C.	In addition to paid bereavement leave, the Employer may approve an employee’s request to use compensatory time, sick leave, vacation leave, exchange time, his or her personal holiday or leave without pay for purposes of bereavement and in accordance with this Agreement.
For purposes of this sub-article a family member is defined as parent, stepparent, sister, brother, parent-in-law, spouse, grandparent, grandchild, child and step-child. A household member is defined as persons who reside in the same home who have reciprocal duties to and/or do provide financial support for one another. This term does not include persons sharing the same house when the living style is primarily that of a dormitory or commune.
17.8	Employee Assistance Program
When approved, employees will receive paid leave to receive an assessment through the Employee Assistance Program.
17.9	Examinations/Interviews
Employers may limit the number of occurrences or the total amount of paid leave that will be granted to an employee to participate in an interview or take an examination during scheduled work hours. Employers may deny an employee’s request to participate in an interview or take an examination during scheduled work hours based upon operational necessity.
17.10	Travel for Miscellaneous Leave
Employees shall not be eligible for per diem, travel time, and/or travel expenses under this Article, except as on a case-by-case basis the Appointing Authority may approve part or all expenses under this Article.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
37
17.11	Except as required in Subsection 17.12, employees will give reasonable advanced notice for miscellaneous leave request(s).
17.12	Personal Leave
A.	Employees in positions not requiring relief or backfill may choose one (1) workday as a personal leave day during the life of this Agreement if the employee has been continuously employed for more than six (6) months.
B.	The Employer will release the employee from work on the day selected for personal leave if:
1.	The employee has given at least fourteen (14) calendar days’ written notice to his or her supervisor. However, the supervisor has the discretion to allow a shorter notice period.
2.	The number of employees selecting a particular day off does not prevent the agency from providing continued public service.
C.	Personal leave may not be carried over from one fiscal year to the next.
D.	Part-time and on-call employees who are employed during the month in
which the personal leave day is taken will be compensated for the personal leave day in an amount proportionate to the time in pay status during the month to that required for full-time employment.
E.	Upon request, an employee will be approved to use part or all of his or her personal leave day for:
1.	The care for family members as required by the Family Care Act, WAC 296-130;
2.	Leave as required by the Military Family Leave Act, RCW 49.77
and in accordance with Article 18.10; or
3.	Leave as required by the Domestic Violence Leave Act, RCW 49.76.
F.	This provision will expire on June 30, 2013.
G.	Personal leave day does not apply to the bargaining units at the Washington State School for the Blind and the Center for Childhood Deafness and Hearing Loss.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
38
Article 18
Leave Without Pay
18.1	Leave without pay will be granted for the following reasons:
A.	Family medical leave (Article 15)
B.	Compensable work-related injury or illness leave
C.	Military leave
D.	Child and elder care emergencies
E.	Volunteer firefighting leave
F.	Military family leave
G.	Domestic violence leave
18.2	Leave without pay may be granted for the following reasons:
A.	Education leave
B.	U.S. Public Health Service and Peace Corps leave
C.	Governmental service	leave
D.	Conditions applicable	for leave with pay
E.	Seasonal career employment
F.	As otherwise provided for in this Agreement
18.3	Limitations
Leave without pay shall be limited to twelve (12) months or fewer in any consecutive five (5) year period, except for:
A.	Compensable work-related injury or illness
B.	Educational leave
C.	Governmental service leave
D.	Military leave
E.	Leave taken under the provisions of Article 15, Family Medical Leave
F.	Seasonal career employment leaves
G.	Volunteer firefighting leave
H.	Domestic violence leave
Any employee that is on leave without pay for twelve (12) months or more in any consecutive five (5) year period will be considered to have resigned his or her position as provided for in Article 29, Presumption of Resignation.
18.4	Returning Employee Rights
Employees returning from authorized leave without pay shall be employed in the same position or in another position in the same job classification and the same geographical area, as determined by the Employer, provided that such reemployment is not in conflict with other articles in this Agreement. The employee and the Employer may enter into a written agreement regarding return rights at the commencement of the leave.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
39
18.5	Educational Leave
Leave without pay may be granted for educational leave for the duration of actual attendance in an educational program.
18.6	Child and Elder Care Emergencies
Leave without pay shall be granted for child and elder care emergencies and is limited to a maximum of three (3) days per calendar year. Compensatory time or paid leave may also be used for child and elder care emergencies, subject to the limitations above.
18.7	Seasonal Career Employment
Leave without pay may be granted to seasonal career employees during their offseason.
18.8	Governmental Service Leave
Leave without pay may be granted for governmental service in the public interest, including but not limited to the U.S. Public Health Service or Peace Corps leave.
18.9	Volunteer Firefighting Leave
Leave without pay will be granted when an employee who is a volunteer firefighter is called to duty to respond to a fire, natural disaster or medical emergency.
18.10	Military Family Leave
Leave without pay will be granted to an employee whose spouse or state registered domestic partner as defined by RCWs 26.60.020 and 26.60.030 is on leave from deployment or before and up to deployment, during a period of military conflict. Use of leave without pay, compensatory time, vacation leave, sick leave and all or part of a personal holiday is limited to a combined maximum of fifteen (15) working days per deployment. Employees must provide the Employer with five (5) business days notice after receipt of official notice that the employee’s spouse or state registered domestic partner as defined by RCWs 26.60.020 and 26.60.030 will be on leave or of an impending call to active duty.
18.11	Domestic Violence Leave
Leave without pay, including intermittent leave, will be granted to an employee who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking. Family members of a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking will be granted leave without pay to help the victim obtain treatment or seek help. Family member for the purpose of domestic violence leave includes child, spouse, state registered domestic partner as defined by RCWs 26.60.020 and 26.60.030, parent, parent-inlaw, grandparent or a person the employee is dating. The Employer may require verification from the employee requesting leave in accordance with RCW 49.76.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
40
Article 19
Safety and Health
19.1	The Employer and the employee have a responsibility for workplace safety and health.
A.	The Employer will provide a work environment in accordance with safety standards established by the Washington Industrial Safety and Health Act (WISHA). Reference: http:/www.lni.wa.gov/safety. Safety committees will be established in accordance with Washington Administrative Code. The Safety Officer’s name and phone number will be posted on WISHA workplace posters.
B.	Employees will comply with all safety and health practices and standards established by WISHA and the Employer. The Employer’s standards will not be lower than those established by WISHA.
C.	The Union will work cooperatively with the Employer on safety and health-related matters and encourage employees to work in a safe manner.
D.	Grievances concerning safety conditions are permitted, but will be held in abeyance pending the outcome of any complaint filed with the Washington State Department of Labor and Industries.
19.2	The Employer will determine and provide the required safety devices, personal protective equipment and apparel, and ergonomic equipment that employees will wear and/or use.
A.	Employees shall wear or use Employer-provided safety equipment appropriate to the situation when working in an environment for which the safety equipment is required, and employees shall be furnished notice of such safety equipment requirements in writing.
B.	Each employee shall be responsible for the safe operation and for the preventative maintenance of all assigned equipment within the resources provided by the Employer.
C.	The Employer will provide employees with appropriate orientation and/or training to perform their jobs safely.
19.3	Smoking is prohibited within Employer facilities, buildings and vehicles.
19.4	If the Employer determines there is a valid threat, the Employer will follow its written emergency and/or evacuation procedures.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
41
Article 20
Wildfire Suppression and Other Emergency Duty
20.1	The provisions of this Article apply to all Department of Natural Resources (DNR) employees when performing wildfire suppression or other emergency duties under the incident command system.
20.2	Fire Season Work Schedules
While the state’s fire season is in effect, work schedules for wildfire suppression personnel may be assigned that are other than Monday through Friday and 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Fire season schedules shall provide for equitable rotation if requested by a majority of the affected employees.
20.3	For those employees whose permanent or temporary duty station is a correctional facility, DNR shall establish, by April 15 each year, a priority list for assigning overtime when assignments are not determined by closest forces. Employees may request to drop to the bottom of such priority list for a specified length of time with reasonable notice to their first-line management supervisor. The priority list shall be posted in a place visible to employees.
20.4	Rotational Fire Duty Standby
While the state’s fire season is in effect, separate rotational standby schedules may be established for incident command system positions of Division Supervisor, Task Force Leader, and Resource Boss. If established, the rotational schedules will be posted in region and division offices and updated weekly. Actual rotation will not begin or continue except as authorized by the Employer. The Employer will make pagers or similar communication devices available to employees if on rotational standby for deployment as a Division Supervisor, Task Force Leader, or Resource Boss.
20.5	Agreement Applies to all Deployments
A.	Wildfire suppression working conditions, as specified in this Agreement, are considered usual and customary in any wildfire suppression operation to which the Employer has deployed employees.
B.	On inter-agency fires, DNR shall designate a knowledgeable agency representative or contact to ensure compliance with provisions of this Agreement.
20.6	Length of Deployment
A.	The Employer retains sole authority to dispatch employees to fires even when dispatched to inter-agency fires.
B.	If not released from wildfire suppression duty by the tenth (10th) consecutive day following deployment away from their duty station, employees will be scheduled for rest and recuperation and unavailable for work assignments for twenty-four (24) hours. The rest and recuperation
WPEA GG - 2012-13
42
period is intended to occur no later than the fourteenth (14th) consecutive calendar day. Up to forty-eight (48) hours of travel to and up to fortyeight (48) hours of travel from the fire incident are excluded in calculating ten (10) consecutive days. During a rest and recuperation period, the employee will be paid eight (8) hours miscellaneous leave [ten (10) hours miscellaneous leave for an employee on a 4-10 schedule]. Rest and recuperation leave is paid at the employee’s straight time hourly rate.
C.	When a rest and recuperation period, as discussed above, does not occur because of scheduling considerations before release from fire suppression duty away from an employee’s duty station, the employee shall take rest and recuperation miscellaneous leave on the first calendar day after returning from fire duty to the employee’s regular duty station.
D.	Deployment beyond fourteen (14) consecutive days requires mutual agreement of the employee’s Region/Division Manager, the DNR Resource Protection Division Manager, and the employee. Approval to extend fire duty deployment beyond fourteen (14) consecutive calendar days shall include a provision for scheduling a rest and recuperation period if not already taken at the earliest opportunity consistent with safety and scheduling considerations.
20.7	Normal Rest Periods
When an employee is deployed under the incident command system to wildfire suppression duty, it is normally appropriate to grant a reasonable rest period after twelve (12) hours of fire line duty. Except when precluded by extraordinary circumstances, a rest period is eight (8) or more continuous duty/travel free hours.
20.8	Fit for Duty
As in all other instances, employees while deployed to wildfire suppression and/or other emergency duty under the incident command system are responsible within their means to be physically able to resume their duties at the start of each work shift.
20.9	Fire Camp
A.	DNR employees are not required to remain in wildfire base camp during
off duty hours.
B.	When a wildfire suppression base camp is established for overnight operation and one-way travel to the nearest community does not unreasonably exceed one (1) hour, the Employer will, except when precluded by extraordinary circumstances, provide for round trip transportation to the nearest community for employees who are off duty.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
43
20.10	Laundry Services
After five (5) consecutive calendar days away from their duty station, employees deployed to emergency duty under the incident command system shall be entitled to laundry services until released from emergency duty. If contracted laundry services are not provided, employees shall be reimbursed for laundry costs incurred pursuant to the Office of Financial Management, State Administrative and Accounting Manual, Subsection 10.60.10.
20.11	Return to Normal Duties
A.	Upon return to normal duties following release from extended emergency duty under the incident command system, the Employer will provide work for an employee during regular scheduled hours if there is work that the employee can perform safely and productively. If, in the immediate supervisor's judgment, there is not work that the employee can safely and productively perform, the immediate supervisor will direct the employee to go off duty and will notify the employee when scheduled to return to duty. If an employee is directed to rest at the duty station, the directed rest time at the duty station is duty time.
B.	If an employee returning from extended emergency duty under the incident command system is directed to go off duty or desires to go off duty, the employee may request to be allowed to delay the start of his or her normal schedule of regular hours and to make up regular shift hours during the remainder of the workday or during the remainder of the workweek without incurring overtime. The Employer will within reason approve such employee requests. The Union acknowledges there may be circumstances that preclude approving a request. When regular hours are made up during the remainder of the workday or during the remainder of the workweek, the regular hours are paid at the straight time rate. If an employee returning from extended emergency duty under the incident command system requests to use accrued vacation leave, the Employer will within reason approve the employee request.
20.12	Meals
A.	All employees involved in fire suppression efforts who are required to remain on duty beyond 7:00 p.m. are entitled to a nutritious meal and to an additional meal for every four (4) hours of continuous work thereafter, unless they are working at their normal worksite and an unpaid meal period is provided. Employees will not stop for a meal just to extend duty beyond 7:00 p.m.
B.	In emergency situations, on short notice, when an employee is required to report for duty for three (3) or more hours prior to their normal work shift, each employee is entitled to a nutritious meal.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
44
C.
Meal delivery requirements may be flexible to facilitate a hot or a better quality meal at a camp or restaurant (in lieu of a cold lunch) at the option of a majority of the employees involved.
20.13	Sleeping Bags
On a project fire, each employee who remains at the site shall be provided a sleeping bag and a sleeping pad of good quality.
20.14	Inclement Weather Facilities
On a project fire during inclement weather, reasonably warm and dry facilities will be provided as soon as possible for eating and sleeping.
20.15	Shower Facilities
On a project fire, shower facilities including soap shall be made available as soon as possible except when precluded by extraordinary circumstances.
20.16	Work Capacity Testing
The physical fitness levels for wildland fire assignments will be as designated in the National Interagency Incident Management System Wildland Fire Qualification System Guide published by the National Wildfire Coordinating Group (PMS 310-1).
For a wildland fire assignment not included in the National Interagency Incident Management System Wildland Fire Qualification System Guide, the Employer agrees to include the Union in a study of the tasks comprising the assignment and the appropriateness of a physical fitness level designation applying the definitions of arduous, moderate and light physical fitness levels provided in the National Interagency Incident Management System Wildland Fire Qualification System Guide.
Physical fitness levels of employees who are subject to being assigned wildland fire duties will be evaluated using the applicable Work Capacity Test, i.e. arduous, moderate or light, developed by the USDA Forest Service Missoula Technology and Development Center to evaluate a worker’s capacity to meet National Wildfire Coordinating Group physical fitness standards.
Article 21
Inmate Crew Supervision
21.1	Inmate crew size is normally ten (10) inmates. However, after investigation of circumstances brought to the attention of the Employer by an inmate crew supervisor, actions taken by the Employer to ensure the safety of the inmate crew supervisor and the inmate crew members may include adjustment of the crew size on a given day.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
45
21.2	Inmate crew supervisors are responsible for inmates at all times while inmates are under their supervision. Inmate crew supervisors are responsible to immediately report inmate incidents, including inmate flight. Inmate crew supervisors are not responsible for capturing inmates who flee. While in a camp, inmate crew supervisors are to be relieved of supervision of inmates during meal periods.
Article 22
Uniforms, Tools and Equipment
22.1	Uniforms
The Employer may require employees to wear uniforms. Where required, the Employer will determine and provide uniforms or equivalent clothing allowance.
22.2	Tools and Equipment
As established by current practices, the Employer may determine and provide necessary tools, tool allowance, equipment and foul weather gear. The Employer will repair or replace employer-provided tools and equipment if damaged or worn out beyond usefulness in the normal course of business. Employees will be responsible for reimbursing the Employer for any provided tool or equipment damaged or lost due to proven negligence by the employee.
Article 23
Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace
23.1	All employees must report to work in a condition fit to perform their assigned duties unimpaired by alcohol or drugs.
23.2	Possession of Alcohol and Illegal Drugs
A.	Employees may not use or possess alcohol in state vehicles, on agency premises, or other governmental or private worksites where employees are assigned to conduct official state business, except when:
1.	The premises are considered residences;
2.	The premises or state vehicles are used for the transportation, purchase, distribution and sale of alcohol pursuant to state law; or
3.	The use or possession is required pursuant to a lawful investigation.
B.	The unlawful use, possession, delivery, dispensation, distribution, manufacture or sale of drugs in state vehicles, on agency premises, or on official business is prohibited.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
46
23.3	Prescription Medications
Employees are responsible for consulting their physician and/or pharmacist as to any limitations on their ability to perform the duties of their position as a result of taking physician-prescribed drugs. Employees shall report any such limitations to their supervisor or other designated official before resuming their work duties.
23.4	Drug and Alcohol Testing - Safety Sensitive Functions
A.	Employees required to have a Commercial Driver’s License (CDL) or to be licensed by the United States Coast Guard are subject to, post-accident, random and reasonable suspicion testing in accordance with the U.S. Department of Transportation Rules (49 CFR 382 and 383), Coast Guard Regulations (46 CFR Part 16) or the Federal Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991. The testing shall be conducted in accordance with current agency policy.
B.	In addition, employees who perform safety-sensitive functions are subject to, post-accident, post-firearm shooting incidents, and reasonable suspicion testing. The testing shall be conducted in accordance with agency policy.
C.	Safety-sensitive includes positions where an employee is issued a firearm,
works with minors or offenders, operates motorized equipment or vehicle(s) used for State business or handles hazardous substances, sells alcohol, dispenses medication or transports clients, students, citizens, patients, residents or offenders.
23.5	Reasonable Suspicion Testing
Reasonable suspicion testing for alcohol or controlled substances may be directed by the Employer for any employee performing safety sensitive functions or any employee of the WSP and LCB when there is reason to suspect that alcohol or controlled substance usage may be adversely affecting the employee’s job performance or that the employee may present a danger to the physical safety of the employee or another. Specific objective grounds must be stated in writing that support the reasonable suspicion.
23.6	Referral and Testing
A.	Referral
Referral for testing will be made on the basis of specific objective grounds documented by a supervisor who has attended the training on detecting the signs/symptoms of being affected by controlled substances/alcohol and verified by another trained supervisor or manager.
B.	Testing
A refusal to test is considered the same as a positive test. The cost of testing, including the employee’s salary, will be paid by the Employer. When an employee is referred for testing, he or she will be removed immediately from duty and transported to the collection site.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
47
Testing will be conducted in such a way to ensure maximum accuracy and reliability by using the techniques, chain of custody procedures, equipment and laboratory facilities, which have been approved by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. All employees notified of a positive controlled substance or alcohol test result may request an independent test of their split sample at the employee’s expense. If the test result is negative, the Employer will reimburse the employee for the cost of the split sample test.
23.7	Discipline
An employee who is found to be impaired on the job due to the use of controlled substances or alcohol may be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with existing laws and regulations, but the results of such drug or alcohol test shall provide no independent basis for disciplinary action. The agency may use the results of a drug or alcohol test to require an employee to successfully complete a rehabilitation plan. The rehabilitation plan terms may require the employee to pass all subsequent drug or alcohol tests. In this situation, the results of a subsequent drug or alcohol test may be the basis for disciplinary action.
In the event an employee is found to have used controlled substances or alcohol, the agency shall inform the employee of available assistance through the Employee Assistance Program or other similar program.
23.8	Training
Training will be made available to all managers and supervisors. The training will include:
A.	The elements of the Employer’s Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace Program;
B.	The effects of drugs and alcohol in the workplace;
C.	Behavioral symptoms of being affected by controlled substances and/or alcohol;
D.	Rehabilitation services available; and
E.	Medical confidentiality and HIPPA regulations regarding prescription and over-the counter medications.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
48
Article 24
Use of Privately-Owned and State Vehicles
24.1	Employees are responsible for providing their own transportation between their home and duty station or field site. The employer shall make a good faith effort, subject to the agency’s operating, business and customer service needs, to meet the commute trip reduction goals identified in RCW 70-94 - Washington Clean Air Act and, where applicable, Executive Order 01-03.
24.2	The Employer may authorize an employee to take a state vehicle home, in accordance with Office of Financial Management regulations. Employees will comply with applicable Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regulations regarding the use of state vehicles.
24.3	Employees shall be notified upon hire of the necessity to use their privately-owned vehicle for state business, if such use is on a regular/frequent basis. The Employer agrees to compensate employees in accordance with agency policy/procedure and OFM regulations for the use of their privately-owned vehicle in the state’s interest.
Article 25
Off-Duty Conduct
25.1	The off-duty activities of an employee may not be grounds for disciplinary action unless said activities are a conflict of interest as set forth in RCW 42.52 or a nexus exists between the employee’s activities and employment. Employees shall report all arrests and any court-imposed sanctions or conditions that affect their ability to perform assigned duties to their Appointing Authority within twenty-four (24) hours or prior to their scheduled work shift, whichever occurs first.
25.2	Protected activities will not be grounds for discipline or retaliation.
Article 26
Employee Activity and Privacy
26.1	The Employer will take all reasonable efforts to maintain the confidentiality of personal information about an employee. Confidential information obtained by the Employer about an employee must not be improperly divulged.
26.2	The Employer will not release confidential personal and/or contact information in any files maintained for employees to third parties, to the extent that disclosure would violate an employee’s right to privacy, unless disclosure is at the request of the employee or compelled by law or court order.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
49
26.3	The Employer will promptly notify an employee when the Employer receives a request by a third party, other than law enforcement or court order, to release confidential, personal information about an employee or the Employer proposes to release such information on its own initiative. Notice will be provided to the employee sufficiently in advance of the release of any such information so that, if necessary, the employee may reasonably contest the release of the information.
26.4	Health Care Information
The Employer will not require employees to provide information about the health or medical condition of the employee or the employee’s family unless such information is specifically and directly related to the performance of duties within the scope of employment, fitness to hold the employee’s position or the providing of benefits requested by the employee. Health and medical information obtained by the Employer will be maintained in a separate, confidential file and access to this information by the Employer’s personnel will be limited to those persons with a legitimate business or legal need to know. Employees will not be requested to sign a general or unlimited waiver of medical confidentiality.
26.5	Employees may make de minimis personal use of the Employer’s telephones, computers, e-mail system, and facilities in a manner consistent with WAC 292.110.010. De minimis is defined as: there is little or no cost to the state; any use is brief in duration, and is infrequent and is the most effective use of time or resources; the use does not interfere with the performance of the officer’s or employee’s official duties; the use does not disrupt or distract from the conduct of state business due to volume or frequency; the use does not disrupt other state employees and does not obligate them to make a personal use of state resources; and the use does not compromise the security or integrity of state property, information, or software.
26.6	Employees may make and receive telephone calls on their personal cell phones, provided this activity does not unreasonably interfere with the performance, safety or productivity of the employee(s) or the agency.
26.7	Employees generally will not be subjected to video monitoring in the workplace without notice by the Employer. Where the Employer has reasonable grounds to believe that an employee is engaging in misconduct, the Employer may use video monitoring without prior notice as part of a specific investigation, provided:
A.	The Employer prepares a written investigation plan describing the reason, duration and scope of the investigation; and
B.	The video monitoring is narrowly tailored to meet the purpose of the investigation.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
50
Article 27
Residency Requirement - WSP and LCB
27.1	Applicability
This Article applies only to Washington State Patrol Bargaining Units and Liquor Control Board Liquor Enforcement Officers.
27.2	WSP and LCB Employees Subject to Emergency Callout But no Assigned State Vehicle
A.	Employees who because of the nature of their duties may be subject to emergency callout, will be allowed to live seventy-five (75) miles from their duty station;
B.	The Internet program Expedia.com (shortest route) will be the official measurement of the distance from the duty station to the employee’s residence. If Expedia.com does not recognize a street name or address, the employee will be responsible for finding the nearest address that Expedia.com does recognize and then driving the remaining distance with his or her supervisor to determine whether the residence is within the seventy-five (75) mile limitation;
C.	The mileage determination on Expedia.com will not contain water (ferry) miles, airline, straight line or any other method of mileage measurement other than all-season maintained streets recognized by Expedia.com. In the case of a new street, the employee will have to get a determination from his/her supervisor whether the street meets the definition of an all-season maintained street, road, highway, etc.; and
D.	This Section will not affect anyone who has been previously approved for a waiver of the mileage limitations; however, if an individual moves from his or her previously approved residence, the new residence location must comply with this Article.
27.3	WSP and LCB Employees with Assigned Take Home Vehicles
A.	WSP employees with assigned take-home vehicles shall live within forty-five (45) miles of their assigned district, division, or duty station. A WSP or LCB employee who resides out of state may not take an assigned takehome vehicle across the state line. Liquor Enforcement Officers shall live within forty-five (45) miles of their assigned duty station unless otherwise approved by the Chief of Enforcement or designee.
B.	The Internet program Expedia.com (fastest route) will be the official measurement of the distance from the division, district or assigned duty station, to the employee’s residence. If Expedia.com does not recognize a street name or address, the employee will be responsible for finding the nearest address that Expedia.com does recognize and then driving the
WPEA GG - 2012-13
51
remaining distance with his or her supervisor to determine whether the residence is within the mileage limitations.
C.	The mileage determination on Expedia.com will not contain water (ferry) miles, airline, straight line or any other method of mileage measurement other than all-season paved, maintained streets recognized by Expedia.com that are generally open, passable and available to be used by bargaining unit members to travel to and from their division, district or assigned duty station at the beginning and end of each shift for twelve (12) months each year. In the case of a new street, the employee will have to get a determination from his or her supervisor as to whether the street meets the definition of an all-season, maintained, paved street, road, highway, etc.; and
D.	Any employee who decides to take advantage of the terms of this Article
will be required to send an Interoffice Communication (IOC) through the chain-of-command, which must be approved by the Bureau Director/Assistant Chief, before moving. The IOC will provide notice of the intent to move to a residence under the terms of this Article, accompanied by a copy of the Expedia.com map showing that the new residence complies with the terms of this Article.
E.	This Section will not affect anyone who has been previously approved for a waiver of the mileage limitations; however, if an individual moves from his or her previously approved residence, the new residence location must comply with this Article.
27.4	WSP and LCB employees will have one hundred twenty (120) calendar days from the date of appointment to comply with these residency requirements.
Article 28
Discipline
28.1	The Employer will not discipline any permanent employee without just cause.
28.2	Discipline includes oral and written reprimands, reductions in pay, suspensions, demotions, and discharges. Oral reprimands will be identified as such.
28.3	When disciplining an employee, the Employer will make a reasonable effort to protect the privacy of the employee.
28.4	All agency policies regarding investigatory procedures related to alleged staff misconduct are superseded. The Employer has the authority to determine the method of conducting investigations.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
52
28.5	Upon request, an employee has the right to a union representative at an investigatory interview called by the Employer, if the employee reasonably believes discipline could result. The Employer will inform the employee of the purpose of the investigatory interview. An employee may also have a union representative at a pre-disciplinary meeting. Pre-disciplinary meetings will be offered prior to imposing reductions in pay, suspensions, demotions and discharges. Employees seeking representation are responsible for contacting their representative.
28.6	Prior to imposing discipline other than reprimands, the Employer will inform the employee in writing of the reasons for contemplating discipline and an explanation of the evidence. The Employer will provide the Union with a copy. The employee will be provided an opportunity to respond either at a meeting scheduled by the Employer, or in writing if the employee prefers. A pre-disciplinary meeting with the Employer will be considered time worked.
28.7	The Employer will provide an employee with fifteen (15) calendar days’ written notice prior to the effective date of a reduction in pay or demotion. An employee being suspended or dismissed must be notified in writing no later than one (1) day before the suspension or dismissal takes place.
28.8	The Employer has the authority to impose discipline, which is then subject to the grievance procedure set forth in Article 30. Oral reprimands, however, may be processed only through the Agency Head step of the grievance procedure.
28.9	Removal of Documents
A.	Written reprimands will be removed from an employee’s personnel file or WSP Office of Professional Standards file after three (3) years if:
1.	Circumstances do not warrant a longer retention period; and
2.	There has been no subsequent discipline; and
3.	The employee submits a written request for its removal.
B.	Records of disciplinary actions involving reductions-in-pay, suspensions,
or demotions, and written reprimands not removed after three (3) years will be removed after six (6) years if:
1.	Circumstances do not warrant a longer retention period; and
2.	There has been no subsequent discipline; and
3.	The employee submits a written request for its removal.
Nothing in this Section will prevent the Employer from agreeing to an earlier removal date, unless to do so would violate RCW 41.06.450.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
53
Article 29
Presumption of Resignation
29.1	Unauthorized Absence
When an employee has been absent without authorized leave and has failed to contact the Employer for a period of three (3) consecutive days, the employee is presumed to have resigned from his or her position. The Employer will make reasonable attempts to contact the employee to determine the cause of the absence, which may include contacting local law enforcement and requesting a welfare check. For employees not returning from scheduled vacations, the Employer will call the employee’s emergency contact number(s) to attempt to establish the employee’s whereabouts.
29.2	Notice of Separation
When an employee is presumed to have resigned from his or her position, the Employer will separate the employee by sending a separation notice to the employee by certified mail to the last known address of the employee. The Employer will provide a copy of the separation notice to the Union President through certified mail or personal service.
29.3	Petition for Reinstatement
An employee who has received a separation notice may petition the Employer in writing to consider reinstatement. The employee must provide proof that the absence was involuntary or unavoidable. The petition must be received by the Employer or postmarked within seven (7) calendar days after the separation notice was deposited in the United States mail. The Employer must respond in writing to an employee’s petition for reinstatement within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the employee’s petition.
29.4	Grievability
Denial of a petition for reinstatement is grievable. The grievance may not be based on information other than that shared with the Employer at the time of the petition for reinstatement and will only be processed through the Agency Head step of the grievance procedure.
Article 30
Grievance Procedure
30.1	Terms and Requirements
The Union and the Employer agree that it is in the best interest of all parties to resolve disputes at the earliest opportunity and at the lowest level. The Union and the Employer encourage problem resolution between employees and management and are committed to assisting in resolution of disputes as soon as possible. In the event a dispute is not resolved in an informal manner, this Article provides a formal process for problem resolution.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
54
A.	Grievance Definition
A grievance is an allegation by an employee or a group of employees that there has been a violation, misapplication, or misinterpretation of this Agreement, which occurred during the term of this Agreement. The term “grievant” as used in this Article includes the term “grievants.”
B.	Filing a Grievance
Grievances may be filed by the Union on behalf of an employee or on behalf of a group of employees. If the Union does so, it will set forth the name of the employee or the names of the group of employees.
C.	Computation of Time
The time limits in this Article must be strictly adhered to unless mutually modified in writing. Days are calendar days, and will be counted by excluding the first day and including the last day of timelines. When the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the last day will be the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or holiday. Transmittal of grievances, appeals and responses will be in writing. Transmittal of grievances, appeals, and responses may be filed by fax or email.
The original document filed electronically shall be mailed to the recipient on the same day the electronic copy is transmitted. In any case, filing by personal delivery to the recipient is acceptable.
D.	Failure to Meet Timelines
Failure by the Union to comply with the timelines will result in the automatic withdrawal of the grievance. Failure by the Employer to comply with the timelines will entitle the Union to move the grievance to the next step of the procedure.
E.	Contents
The written grievance must include the following information or it will not be processed:
1.	The nature of the grievance;
2.	The facts upon which it is based;
3.	The date upon which the incident occurred;
4.	The specific article and section of the Agreement violated;
5.	The specific remedy requested;
6.	The name of the grievant(s); and
7.	The name and signature of the Union representative.
F.	Modifications
No newly alleged violations may be made after the initial written grievance is filed, except by written mutual agreement.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
55
G.	Resolution
If the Employer provides the requested remedy or a mutually agreed-upon alternative, the grievance will be considered resolved and may not be moved to the next step.
H.	Withdrawal
A grievance may be withdrawn at any time.
I.	Resubmission
If resolved or withdrawn, a grievance cannot be resubmitted.
J.	Pay
Shop stewards will be provided a reasonable amount of time during their normal working hours to investigate and process grievances through the Agency Head level. Grievants and shop stewards will not lose pay for attending scheduled: (1) informal dispute resolution meetings; (2) grievance meetings; (3) alternative dispute resolution sessions; (4) and arbitration hearings held during their scheduled work time. Grievants will not be paid for informal dispute resolution meetings, grievance meetings, alternative dispute resolution sessions, and arbitration hearings held during their off-duty time.
K.	Group Grievances
No more than five (5) grievants will be permitted to attend a single grievance meeting.
L.	Consolidation
The Employer may consolidate grievances arising out of the same set of facts.
M.	Bypass
Any of the steps in this procedure may be bypassed with mutual written consent of the parties involved at the time the bypass is sought.
N.	Discipline
Disciplinary grievances will be initiated at the level at which the disputed action was taken.
O.	Grievance Files
Written grievances and responses will be maintained separately from the personnel files of the employees.
P.	Alternative Resolution Methods
Any time during the grievance process, by mutual consent, the parties may use alternative methods to resolve the dispute. If the parties agree to use alternative methods, the time frames in this Article are suspended. If the selected alternative method does not result in a resolution, the Union may return to the grievance process and the time frames resume.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
56
30.2	Filing and Processing
A.	Filing
A grievance must be filed within thirty (30) days of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance, or the date the grievant knew or could reasonably have known of the occurrence. This thirty (30) day period will be used to attempt to informally resolve the dispute.
B.	Processing
Step 1 - Responsible Supervisor or Designee: If the issue is not resolved informally, the Union may present a written grievance to the Human Resources Office, within the thirty (30) day period described above. The responsible supervisor, manager or designee will meet or confer by telephone with a union representative and the grievant within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the grievance, and will respond in writing to the Union within fifteen (15) days after the meeting or conference.
Step 2 - Appointing Authority or Designee: If the grievance is not resolved at Step 1, the Union may move it to the next step by filing it to the Human Resources Office, within fifteen (15) days of the grievant’s receipt of the Step 1 decision. The Appointing Authority or designee will meet or confer by telephone with a union representative and the grievant within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the appeal and will respond in writing to the Union within fifteen (15) days after the meeting or conference.
Step 3 - Agency Head or Designee: If the grievance is not resolved at Step 2, the Union may move it to the next step by filing it with the Agency Head, with a copy to the Human Resources Office, within fifteen (15) days of the Union’s receipt of the Step 2 decision. The Agency Head or designee will meet or confer by telephone with a union representative and the grievant within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the appeal, and will respond in writing to the Union within fifteen (15) days after the meeting or conference.
Step 4 - Pre-Arbitration Review Meetings: If the grievance is not resolved at Step 3, the Union may file a request for a pre-arbitration review meeting (with a copy of the grievance and all responses attached). It will be filed with the Director of the OFM Labor Relations Office (OFM/LRO) and the agency’s Human Resources Office within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the Step 3 decision. Within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of the request , the OFM/LRO will schedule a pre-arbitration review meeting with the OFM/LRO Director or designee, the agency’s Human Resources Office representative, and the Union’s representative to review and attempt to settle the dispute.
If the matter is not resolved in this pre-arbitration review, within fifteen (15) days of the meeting, the Union may file a demand to arbitrate the dispute with the American Arbitration Association (AAA).
WPEA GG - 2012-13
57
C.	Selecting an Arbitrator
The parties will select an arbitrator by mutual agreement or by alternately striking names supplied by the AAA, and will follow the Labor Arbitration Rules of the AAA unless they agree otherwise in writing.
D.	Authority of the Arbitrator
1.	The arbitrator will:
a.	Have no authority to add to, subtract from, or modify any of the provisions of this Agreement;
b.	Be limited in his or her decision to the grievance issue(s) set forth in the original written grievance unless the parties agree to modify it;
c.	Not make any decision that would result in the violation of this Agreement;
d.	Not make any award that provides an employee with compensation greater than would have resulted had there been no violation of this Agreement;
e.	Not have the authority to order the Employer to modify his or her staffing levels or to direct staff to work overtime.
2.	The arbitrator will hear arguments on and decide issues of arbitrability before the first day of arbitration at a time convenient for the parties, immediately prior to hearing the case on its merits, or as part of the entire hearing and decision-making process. If the issue of arbitrability is argued prior to the first day of arbitration, it may be argued in writing or by telephone, at the discretion of the arbitrator. Although the decision may be made orally, it will be put in writing and provided to the parties.
3.	The decision of the arbitrator will be final and binding upon the Union, the Employer and the grievant.
E.	Arbitration Costs
1.	The expenses and fees of the arbitrator, and the cost (if any) of the hearing room will be shared equally by the parties.
2.	If the arbitration hearing is postponed or canceled because of one party, that party will bear the cost of the postponement or cancellation. The costs of any mutually agreed upon postponements or cancellations will be shared equally by the parties.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
58
3.	If either party desires a record of the arbitration, a court reporter may be used. If that party purchases a transcript, a copy will be provided to the arbitrator, free of charge. If the other party desires a copy of the transcript, it will pay for one-half (1/2) of the costs of the fee for the court reporter, the original transcript and a copy.
4.	Each party is responsible for the costs of its attorneys, staff representatives, and all other costs related to the development and presentation of their case. When an employee is subpoenaed as a witness on behalf of the Union in an arbitration case, the employee may appear without loss of pay if he or she appears during his or her work time. Such subpoenaed witnesses will appear for only the time necessary to participate in the arbitration as required by the parties. Every effort shall be made to avoid the presentation of repetitive witnesses. The Union is responsible for paying any travel or per diem expenses for its witnesses, the grievant and the shop steward. Grievants and their witnesses will not be paid for preparation for arbitration hearings, but may use leave for such activities.
30.3	Election of Remedies
Arbitrating a claim under this Article constitutes a waiver of the right to pursue the same claim before the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Human Rights Commission, or in a judicial or other forum. Pursuit of a claim before the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Human Rights Commission, or in a judicial or other forum constitutes a waiver of the right to pursue the claim through arbitration under this Article.
Article 31
Legal Defense
31.1	Employee Liability
If bargaining unit employees become defendants in civil liability suits arising out of actions taken or not taken in the course of their employment for the State, they have the right to request representation and indemnification through their agency according to RCW 4.92.060 and .070.
31.2	Personal Property Reimbursement
Employees may seek reimbursement for personal property items damaged in the proper performance of their official duties, and the Employer will process requests in accordance with RCW 4.92.100.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
59
Article 32
Personnel Files and Other Employee Information
32.1	There will be one (1) official personnel file maintained for each employee by the Employer. The location of personnel files will be determined by the employing agency. All references to “supervisory file” in this Agreement refer to the file kept by the employee’s first-line supervisor.
32.2	An employee may examine his or her own personnel and supervisory files. Written authorization from the employee is required before any representative of the employee will be granted access to the personnel file. The employee and/or representative may not remove any contents; however, an employee may provide a written rebuttal to any information in the file that he or she considers objectionable. The Employer may charge a reasonable fee for copying any materials beyond the first copy requested by the employee or his or her representative.
32.3	A copy of any material to be placed in an employee’s personnel file that might lead to disciplinary action will be provided to the employee. An employee may have documents relevant to his or her work performance placed in his or her personnel file.
32.4	Adverse material or information related to alleged misconduct that is determined to be false, and all such information in situations where the employee has been fully exonerated of wrongdoing will be removed from the employee’s personnel file or supervisory file. The Employer may retain this information in a legal defense file and will only be used or released when required by regulatory agency (acting in their regulatory capacity), in the defense of an appeal or legal action, or otherwise required by law.
32.5	Medical files will be kept separate and confidential in accordance with state and federal law.
32.6	Immediate supervisors may keep a working file of documentation relevant to employee performance. The previous year’s job performance information will be removed from the supervisor’s working file following the completion of the annual performance evaluation, unless circumstances warrant otherwise. Supervisors who keep working files will ensure that they are maintained in a manner that preserves the confidentiality and security of the information consistent with Article 26.2.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
60
Article 33
Fitness for Duty/Reasonable Accommodation/ Disability Separation
The Employer will follow state and federal laws and the Washington Administrative Code with regard to reasonable accommodation and disability separation. The Employer will provide the Union with a copy of involuntary disability separation letters. The Employer will not disclose medical information to the union.
Article 34
Seniority
34.1	Definition
A.	Seniority for full-time employees shall be defined as the employee’s length of unbroken state service. Seniority for part-time or intermittent employees shall be based on actual hours worked. All time spent in leave without pay status shall be deducted from the calculation of seniority, except leave without pay of fifteen (15) consecutive calendar days or less will not affect an employee’s seniority. When an employee is on leave without pay for more than fifteen (15) consecutive calendar days, the employee’s seniority will not be affected when the leave without pay is taken for:
1.	Military leave,
2.	Workers’ compensation,
3.	Governmental service leave,
4.	Educational leave, contingent upon successful completion of the
coursework, and/or
5.	Reducing the effects of layoff.
Time spent on a temporary layoff or when an employees work hours are reduced in accordance with Section 35.6 of Article 35, Layoff and Recall, shall not be deducted from the calculation of seniority. Employees who are separated from state service due to layoff, and are reemployed within two (2) years of their separation date or within twenty-seven (27) months for the Peace Corps shall not be considered to have a break in service. For purposes of calculating actual hours worked for part-time or on-call employees, forty (40) hours will equal seven (7) days of seniority.
B.	For the purposes of layoffs, a maximum of five (5) years’ credit will be added to the seniority of permanent employees who are veterans or to their surviving spouse or state registered domestic partner, as provided for in RCW 41.06.133 (1) (m).
WPEA GG - 2012-13
61
C.	If two (2) or more employees have the same unbroken state service date, ties shall be broken in the following order:
1.	Longest continuous time in the bargaining unit;
2.	Longest continuous time within their current job classification;
3.	Longest continuous time with the agency; and
4.	By lot.
34.2	For the Communications Officer 3 (CO 3) Bargaining Unit only: For the purpose of vacation bids, seniority for CO 3s shall be defined in Article 11, Vacation Leave.
Article 35
Layoff and Recall
35.1	Definition
Layoff is an Employer-initiated action, taken in accordance with Section 35.4 below, that results in:
A.	Separation from service with the Employer,
B.	Employment in a class with a lower salary range,
C.	Reduction in the work year, or
D.	Reduction in the number of work hours.
35.2	The Employer shall determine the basis for, extent, effective date and the length of layoffs in accordance with the provisions of this Article. The Employer agrees to explore opportunities to avoid or minimize layoff, such as transfers, voluntary demotion, voluntary reduced work schedule, or voluntary leave without pay.
35.3	Notification to the Union
The Employer will notify the President of the Union of pending layoffs described in 35.4 A, B and C at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the effective date of the reduction in force. Upon request, the Employer will discuss impacts to the bargaining unit with the Union. The discussion will not serve to delay the onset of a layoff unless the Employer elects to do so.
35.4	Basis for Layoff
Layoffs may occur for any of the following reasons:
A.	Lack of funds
B.	Lack of work
C.	Good faith reorganization
D.	Ineligibility to	continue	in a position that was reallocated
E.	Termination of a project or end of season
WPEA GG - 2012-13
62
F.
Fewer positions available than the number of employees entitled to such positions either by statute or other provision.
35.5	Voluntary Layoff, Leave of Absence or Reduction in Hours
Appointing authorities may allow an employee to volunteer to be laid off, take an unpaid leave of absence or reduce his or her hours of work in order to reduce layoffs. If it is necessary to limit the number of employees in an agency on unpaid leave at the same time, the Appointing Authority shall determine who will be granted a leave of absence and/or reduction in hours based upon staffing needs. Employees who volunteer to be laid off may request to participate in the General Government Transition Pool Program and/or have their names placed on the internal layoff list for the job classifications in which they held permanent status regardless of a break in service.
35.6	Non-Permanent and Probationary Employees
Permanent status employees will be offered positions they have the skills and abilities to perform currently occupied by non-permanent and probationary status employees in the same classification in the layoff unit prior to being laid off.
35.7	Temporary Reduction of Work Hours or Layoff - Employer Option
A.	The Employer may temporarily reduce the work hours of an employee to no less than twenty (20) per week for no more than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days in a calendar year due to an unanticipated loss of funding, revenue shortfall, lack of work, shortage of material or equipment, or other unexpected or unusual reasons. Employees will normally receive notice of seven (7) calendar days of a temporary reduction of work hours.
B.	The Employer may temporarily layoff an employee for up to thirty (30) calendar days due to an unanticipated loss of funding, revenue shortfall, lack of work, shortage of material or equipment, or other unexpected or unusual reasons. Employees will normally receive notice of seven (7) calendar days of a temporary layoff. Employees may use accrued vacation leave or compensatory time during a period of temporary layoff unless the basis for the layoff includes loss of funding or revenue shortfall.
C.	An employee whose work hours are temporarily reduced or who is temporarily laid off shall not be entitled to:
1.	Be paid any leave balance,
2.	Bump to any other position, or
3.	Be placed on the internal layoff list.
D.	The Employer shall continue to provide benefits in accordance with Article 42, Health Care Benefit Amounts, and the employee will continue to accrue vacation leave and sick leave in accordance with this Agreement.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
63
35.8	Layoff Units
A.	A layoff unit is defined as the geographical entity or administrative/ organizational unit in each agency used for determining available options for employees who are being laid off.
B.	The layoff unit(s) for each agency covered by this Agreement are described in Appendix A.
35.9	Formal Options
A.	Employees with permanent status will be laid off in accordance with seniority, as defined in Article 34, Seniority, and the skills and abilities of the employee. Employees being laid off shall be provided the following options to comparable positions in descending order within the layoff unit:
1.	A funded vacant position for which the employee has the skills and abilities, within his or her current job classification.
2.	A funded filled position held by the least senior employee for which the employee has the skills and abilities, within his or her current job classification.
3.	A funded vacant or filled position held by the least senior employee for which the employee has the skills and abilities, at the same or lower salary range as his or her current permanent position, within a job classification in which the employee has held permanent status, or to a lower classification within his or her current job classification series for which the employee has the skills and abilities, even if the employee has not held permanent status in the lower job classification.
Options will be provided in descending order of salary range and one progressively lower level at a time. Vacant positions will be offered prior to filled positions. Part-time employees only have options to part-time positions. Full time employees only have options to full-time positions.
B.	Employees who are laid off may request to have their name placed on the layoff lists for the job classifications in which they have held permanent status.
35.10	Informal Options
Employees being laid off may be offered funded vacant positions within their layoff unit provided they meet the skills and abilities required of the position and it is at the same or lower salary range as the position in which the employee currently holds permanent status.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
64
35.11	Notification to Employees with Permanent Status
A.	Except for temporary reduction in work hours and temporary layoffs as provided in Section 35.6, employees with permanent status shall receive written notice at least fifteen (15) calendar days before the effective layoff date. The notice shall include the basis for the layoff and any options available to the employee. The Union shall be provided with a copy of the notice.
B.	Except for temporary reduction in work hours and temporary layoffs as provided in Section 35.6, if the Employer chooses to implement a layoff action without providing fifteen (15) calendar days notice, the employee shall be paid his or her salary for the days that he or she would have worked had full notice been given.
C.	Employees shall be provided seven (7) calendar days to accept or decline, in writing, any formal option provided to them, unless mutually agreed otherwise. This time period shall run concurrent with the fifteen (15) calendar days’ notice provided by the Employer to the employee.
D.	The day that notification is given constitutes the first day of notice.
35.12	Salary
Employees appointed to a position as a result of a layoff action shall have their salary determined as follows:
A.	Transfer or Bump
An employee who accepts a transfer or bumps to another position within his or her current job classification shall retain his or her current salary.
B.	Voluntary Demotion in Lieu of Layoff and Bump to a Lower Position An employee who bumps to another position with a lower salary range shall be paid an amount equal to his or her current salary provided it is within the salary range of the new position. In those cases where the employee’s current salary exceeds the maximum amount of the salary range for the new position, the employee shall be compensated at the maximum salary of the new salary range.
C.	Appointment from an Internal Layoff List
1.	Employees who are appointed from an internal layoff list to a position with the same salary range from which they were laid off shall be paid the amount in which they were compensated when laid off plus any general wage increases that occurred during the time they were laid off.
2.	Employees who are appointed from an internal layoff list to a position with a lower salary range than the position from which they were laid off shall be paid an amount equal to the salary they were receiving at the time they were laid off, provided it is within
WPEA GG - 2012-13
65
the salary range of the new position. In those cases where the employee’s prior salary exceeds the maximum amount of the salary range for the new position, the employee shall be compensated at the maximum salary of the new salary range.
35.13	Transition Review Period
A.	Employees appointed to a comparable position with the same job duties as the position the employee held permanent status in prior to layoff shall not be required to serve a transition review period. The Employer determines the comparability of the position. The Employer shall require an employee to complete a six (6) month transition review period when the employee accepts a layoff option to a job classification in which he or she has:
1.	Not held permanent status,
2.	Been appointed from the General Government Transition Pool Program, or
3.	Been appointed from an internal layoff list.
B.	The Employer may extend a transition review period as long as the extension does not cause the total period to exceed twelve (12) months. Employees will receive a permanent appointment to the position upon successful completion of the transition review period.
C.	The Employer may separate an employee or an employee may voluntarily separate during the transition review period. Upon separation, and at the employee’s request, the employee’s name shall be placed on or returned to the internal layoff list. The employee shall remain on the list until such time as his or her eligibility expires or he or she has been rehired.
35.14	Recall
A.	The Employer shall maintain an internal layoff list for each job classification. Employees who are laid off may have their name placed on the list for the job classification from which they were laid off or bumped. Additionally, employees may request to have their name placed on the internal layoff list for other job classifications in which they have held permanent status, at the same or lower salary range, regardless of a break in service. An employee will remain on internal layoff lists for two (2) years from the effective date of his or her layoff.
B.	When a vacancy occurs within an agency and when there are names on an internal layoff list, the Employer will consider all of the laid-off employees in accordance with Article 3, Promotions and Vacancies, who have the skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position to be filled. An employee who is offered a position and refuses the offer shall have his or her name removed from the list.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
66
35.15	General Government Transition Pool Program
Employees who are notified that they are at risk of being laid off or have been laid off may request their names be placed into the General Government Transition Pool Program administered by the Department of Personnel. When a vacancy occurs within an agency, the Employer will consider employees in the General Government Transition Pool Program along with all other candidates, all of whom must have the skills and abilities to perform the duties of a position being filled.
35.16	Project Employment
A.	Project employees have layoff rights within their project. Formal options will be determined using the procedure outlined in Section 35.9, above.
B.	Permanent status employees who left regular classified positions to accept project employment without a break in service have layoff rights to the internal layoff list within the agency in which they held permanent status to the job classification they held immediately prior to accepting project employment. If the prior employer has agreed to return the employee to a position in the previous classification, the employee must provide fourteen (14) calendar days notice to the prior employer of his or her intent to return to a permanent position, unless the employee and prior employer agree otherwise.
C.	Project employees who are separated from state service due to layoff and have not held permanent status in classified service may request their names be placed into the General Government Transition Pool Program. Upon layoff from the project, project employees who entered the project through the competitive process and remain in project status for two (2) years will be eligible to have their names placed on the internal layoff list for the classes in which permanent project status was attained. Bumping options will be limited to the project boundaries.
35.17	Seasonal Career Employment
A.	Seasonal career employees have seasonal layoff rights within their agency to other seasonal career positions within their layoff unit as provided in Subsection C below. Employees shall be given no less than fifteen (15) calendar days’ notice of a layoff. Layoff notices for DNR seasonal career fire employees will be given to employees at the beginning of each fire season. DNR may extend the fire season with one day’s notice due to uncertain weather or fire conditions.
B.	Formal options will be determined using the procedure outlined in Section 35.9 above, to other seasonal career positions. Employees separated due to layoffs shall be placed on a separate seasonal internal layoff list for the season in which they were laid off. Employees who have the skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position to be filled shall be recalled based on seniority for other seasonal career positions within the layoff unit.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
67
C.
The layoff units for seasonal employees are listed in Appendix A.
Article 36
Management Rights
36.1	The Employer retains all rights of management, which, in addition to all powers, duties and rights established by constitutional provision or statute, shall include but not be limited to, the right to:
A.	Determine the Employer’s functions, programs, organizational structure and use of technology;
B.	Determine the Employer’s budget and size of the agency’s workforce and the financial basis for layoffs;
C.	Direct and supervise employees;
D.	Take all necessary actions to carry out the mission of the state and its agencies during emergencies;
E.	Determine the Employer’s mission and strategic plans;
F.	Develop, enforce, modify or terminate any policy, procedure, manual or work method associated with the operations of the Employer;
G.	Determine or consolidate the location of operations, offices, work sites, including permanently or temporarily moving operations in whole or part to other locations;
H.	Establish or modify the workweek, daily work shift, hours of work and days off;
I.	Establish the method and means by which work performance standards are set, and the performance standards themselves, which include, but are not limited to, the priority, quality and quantity of work;
J.	Establish, allocate, reallocate or abolish positions, and determine the skills and abilities necessary to perform the duties of such positions;
K.	Select, hire, assign, reassign, evaluate, retain, promote, demote, transfer, and lay off employees;
L.	Determine, prioritize, modify and assign work to be performed;
M.	Determine the need for and the method of scheduling, assigning, authorizing and approving overtime;
WPEA GG - 2012-13
68
N.	Determine training needs, methods of training, employees to be trained, and training programs to be offered;
O.	Determine the reasons for and methods by which employees will be laid-off; and
P.	Suspend, demote, reduce pay, discharge, and/or take other disciplinary actions.
36.2	The Employer agrees that the exercise of the above rights shall be consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
Article 37
Labor - Management Communication Committee
37.1	Purpose
The Employer and the Union support the goal of a constructive and cooperative relationship. To promote and foster such a relationship the parties agree to establish a structure of joint labor-management communication committees, for the sharing of information and concerns.
37.2	Committees
Agency-wide Labor Management Communication Committee
Agency-wide committees shall consist of up to four (4) employer representatives and up to four (4) employee representatives. Additional paid staff of the Union may also attend. The Employer and the Union will be responsible for the selection of their own representatives. If agreed to by the parties, additional representatives may be added. Committee meetings will be conducted quarterly, unless agreed otherwise.
37.3	Participation
A.	The Union shall provide the Employer with the names of its committee members at least ten (10) calendar days in advance of the date of the meeting in order to facilitate the release of the employees.
B.	Employees attending committee meetings during their work time shall have no loss in pay. Attendance at meetings during employee’s non-work time will not be compensated for or considered as time worked. The Union is responsible for paying the travel costs and per diem expenses of employee representatives.
C.	Employee representatives will be granted reasonable time during their normal working hours, as determined by the Employer, to travel to and from agency-wide labor management communication committee meetings.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
69
37.4	Scope of Authority
Committee meetings established under this Article will be used for discussions only, and the committee shall have no authority to conduct any negotiations, bargain collectively or modify any provision of this Agreement. The committees’ activities and discussions shall not be subject to the grievance procedure in Article 30.
Article 38
Union Activities
38.1	Representation
Upon request, employees will have the right to representation at all levels on any matter adversely affecting their conditions of employment. The exercise of this right will not unreasonably delay or postpone a meeting. Except as otherwise specified in this Agreement, representation will not apply to discussions with an employee in the normal course of duty, such as giving instructions, assigning work, informal discussions, delivery of paperwork, staff or work unit meetings, or other routine communications with an employee.
38.2	Staff Representatives
A.	Within thirty (30) calendar days from the effective date of this Agreement, the Union will provide the Employer with a written list of staff representatives and the geographic jurisdictions they are responsible for. The Union will provide written notice to the Employer of any changes within thirty (30) calendar days of the changes.
B.	Staff representatives may have access to the Employer’s offices or facilities in accordance with agency policy to carry out representational activities. The representatives will notify local management prior to their arrival and will not interrupt the normal operations of the agency. In accordance with Section 38.4 below, staff representatives may also meet with bargaining unit employees in non-work areas during their meal periods, rest periods, and before and after their shifts.
38.3	Shop Stewards
A.	Within thirty (30) calendar days from the effective date of this Agreement, the Union will provide the Employer with a written list of current shop stewards and the office, facility or geographic jurisdiction within the bargaining unit for which they are responsible. The Union will maintain the list. The Employer will not recognize an employee as a shop steward if his or her name does not appear on the list.
B.	Shop stewards will be granted time during their normal working hours to investigate and process grievances in accordance with Article 30, Grievance Procedure. In addition, shop stewards will be provided reasonable time during their normal working hours to prepare for and attend meetings scheduled by management within the representatives’
WPEA GG - 2012-13
70
office, facility or geographic jurisdiction within the bargaining unit for the following representational activities:
1.	Investigatory interviews and pre-disciplinary meetings, in
accordance with Article 28, Discipline, and/or
2.	Labor Management Communication Committees and other
committee meetings if such committees have been established by this Agreement.
The shop stewards will obtain prior approval from his or her supervisor to prepare for and attend a meeting. Notification will include the approximate amount of time the representative expects the activity to take. Any agency business requiring the employee’s immediate attention will be completed prior to attending the meeting. Time spent preparing for and attending meetings during the shop steward’s non-work hours will not be considered as time worked. Shop stewards may not use state vehicles to travel to and from a work site in order to perform representational activities, unless authorized by the agency.
C.	If the amount of time a shop steward spends performing representational activities is unduly affecting his or her ability to accomplish assigned duties, the Employer will not continue to release the employee and the Union will be notified.
38.4	Use of State Facilities, Resources and Equipment
A.	Meeting Space and Facilities
The Employer’s offices and facilities may be used by the Union to hold meetings, subject to the agency’s policy, availability of the space and with prior authorization of the Employer.
B.	Supplies and Equipment
The Union and its membership will not use state-purchased supplies or equipment to conduct union business or representational activities. This does not preclude the use of the telephone for representational activities if there is no cost to the Employer, the call is brief in duration and it does not disrupt or distract from agency business.
C.	E-mail, Fax Machines, the Internet, and Intranets
The Union and its members will not use state-owned or operated e-mail, fax machines, the Internet, or intranets to communicate with one another. Employees may use state operated e-mail to request union representation. However, shop stewards may use state owned/operated equipment to communicate with the Union and/or the Employer for the exclusive purpose of administration of this Agreement. Such use will:
1.	Result in little or no cost to the Employer;
WPEA GG - 2012-13
71
2.	Be brief in duration and frequency;
3.	Not interfere with the performance of their official duties;
4.	Not distract from the conduct of state business;
5.	Not disrupt other state employees and will not obligate other employees to make a personal use of state resources; and
6.	Not compromise the security or integrity of state information or software.
The Union and its shop stewards will not use the above-referenced state equipment for Union organizing, internal Union business, advocating for or against the Union in an election or any other purpose prohibited by the Executive Ethics Board. Communication that occurs over state-owned equipment is the property of the Employer and may be subject to public disclosure.
38.5	Bulletin Boards
The Employer will maintain bulletin board(s) or space on existing bulletin boards currently provided to the Union for union communication. In bargaining units where no bulletin board or space on existing bulletin boards has been provided, the Employer will supply the Union with adequate bulletin board space in convenient places. Material posted on the bulletin board will be appropriate to the workplace, politically non-partisan, in compliance with state ethics laws, and identified as union literature. Union communications may not be posted in any other location in the agency. If requested by the Union, the Employer will identify an area(s) where Union-provided newsstand(s) can be located in each agency.
38.6	Distribution of Material
A Union-designated employee will have access once per month to his or her worksite for the purposes of distributing Union information to other bargaining unit employees provided:
A.	The employee is on break time or off duty;
B.	The distribution does not disrupt the Employer’s operation;
C.	The employee will provide reasonable advance notice to the Employer’s designated representative of his or her intent to distribute information.
D.	The distribution will normally occur via desk drops or mailboxes as determined by the Employer’s designated representative. In those cases where circumstances do not permit distribution by those methods, the employee will only distribute information by way of bulletin boards and/or newsstands.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
72
38.7	Time Off for Union Activities
A.	Union-designated employees may be allowed time off without pay to
attend union-sponsored meetings, training sessions, conferences, and conventions. The employee’s time off will not interfere with the operating needs of the agency as determined by management. If the absence is approved, the employees may use accumulated compensatory time, vacation leave, or personal holiday in accordance with Article 10, Holidays, instead of leave without pay. However, employees must use compensatory time prior to their use of vacation leave, unless the use would result in the loss of their vacation leave.
B.	The Union will give the Employer a written list of the names of the employees it is requesting attend the above-listed activities, at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the activity.
38.8	2013-2015 Master Agreement Negotiations
A.	Release Time
The Employer will approve paid release time for the first seven (7) days of formal negotiations for up to eleven (11) Union team members who are scheduled to work on the day negotiations are being conducted. For all remaining formal negotiation sessions, the Employer will approve compensatory time, vacation leave, exchange time or leave without pay. At the discretion of their supervisor an employee may be allowed to adjust his or her work hours for remaining formal negotiation sessions and for all travel to and from these sessions for Union team members provided the absence of the employee for negotiations does not create significant and unusual coverage issues. Travel time to and from formal negotiation days and caucus days will not be paid by the Employer. Per diem and travel expenses will be paid by WPEA for Union team members. No overtime, compensatory time or exchange time will be incurred as a result of negotiations and/or travel to and from negotiations.
B.	Confidentiality/Media Communication
Bargaining sessions will be closed to the press and the public unless agreed otherwise by the parties’ chief spokespersons. No proposals will be placed on the parties’ web sites. The parties are not precluded from generally communicating with their respective constituencies about the status of negotiations while they are taking place. There will be no public disclosure or public discussion of the issues being negotiated until resolution or impasse is reached on all issues submitted for negotiations.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
73
Article 39
Union Security
39.1	Union Dues
When an employee provides written authorization to the Employer, the Union has the right to have deducted from the employee’s salary an amount equal to the fees or dues required to be a member of the Union. The Employer will provide payments for all said deductions to the Union at the Union’s official headquarters each pay period.
39.2	Notification to Employees
The Employer will inform new, transferred, promoted, or demoted employees prior to appointment into positions included in the bargaining unit(s) of the Union’s exclusive recognition and the union security provision. The Employer will furnish the employees appointed into bargaining unit positions with a dues authorization form.
39.3	Union Security
All employees covered by this Agreement will, as a condition of employment either become members of the Union and pay membership dues or, as nonmembers, pay a fee as described in A, B, and C below, no later than the 30th day following the effective date of this Agreement or the beginning of their employment. If an employee fails to meet the conditions outlined below, the Union will notify the Employer and inform the employee that his or her employment may be terminated.
A.	Employees who choose not to become union members must pay to the Union, no later than the 30th day following the beginning of employment, an agency shop fee equal to the amount required to be a member in good standing of the Union.
B.	An employee who does not join the Union based on bona fide religious tenets, or teachings of a church or religious body of which they are members, shall make payments to the Union that are equal to its membership dues, less monthly union insurance premiums, if any. These payments will be used for purposes within the program of the Union that are in harmony with the employee’s conscience. Such employees will not be members of the Union, but are entitled to all of the representational rights of union members.
C.	The Union shall establish a procedure that any employee who makes a request may pay a representation fee equal to a pro rata share of collective bargaining expenses rather than the full membership fee.
D.	If an employee fails to meet the agency shop provision outlined above, the Union will notify the Employer and inform the employee that his or her employment may be terminated.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
74
39.4	The Employer agrees to deduct the membership dues, agency shop fee, nonassociation fee, or representation fee from the salary of employees who request such deduction in writing. Such request will be made on a Union payroll deduction authorization card.
39.5	Dues Cancellation
An employee may cancel his or her payroll deduction of dues by written notice to the Employer and the Union. The cancellation will become effective on the second payroll after receipt of the notice. However, the cancellation may cause the employee to be terminated, subject to 39.3, above.
39.6	Status Reports
A.	Each month, the Employer will provide the Union a report in an electronic format of the following data, if maintained by the Employer, for employees in the bargaining unit and those who enter or leave the bargaining unit or who start or stop deductions:
1.	Name
2.	Mailing address
3.	Personnel area code and title
4.	Organization code and title
5.	Job class code and job class title
6.	Personnel sub-area	code and title
7.	Employee group and work contract type
8.	Personnel number
9.	Position number
10.	Pay scale group
11.	Pay scale level
12.	Part-time percent
13.	Unbroken service date
14.	Special pay code
15.	Salary amount
16.	Effective date
17.	Action type
18.	Action type description
19.	Action reason
20.	Action reason description
21.	Deduction start date
22.	Deduction end date
23.	Deduction code
24.	Deduction amount
B.	Information provided pursuant to this Section will be maintained by the Union in confidence according to the law.
C.	The Union will indemnify the Employer for any violations of employee privacy committed by the Union pursuant to this Section.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
75
39.7	Indemnification
The Employer shall be held harmless by the Union and employees for compliance with this Article and any issues related to the deduction of dues and fees.
Article 40
Classification
40.1	Classification Plan Revisions
A.	The Employer will provide to the Union, in writing, any proposed changes to the classification plan including descriptions for newly created classifications and/or occupational categories, as determined by the Office of the State Human Resources Director. Upon request of the Union, the Employer will bargain the salary effect(s) of a change to an existing class or newly proposed classification.
B.	The Employer will allocate or reallocate positions, including newly created positions, to the appropriate classification within the classification plan. The Employer will notify the Union when a position is being reallocated to a job classification that is excluded from a bargaining unit covered by this agreement.
40.2	Position Review
Employee-Initiated Review
An individual employee who believes that the duties of his or her position have changed, or that his or her position is improperly classified, may request a review according to the following procedure:
A.	The employee will complete and sign the appropriate form.
B.	The employee will then send the completed form to the agency Human Resources Office. The agency Human Resources Office will review the completed form. A decision regarding appropriate classification will then be made by the agency within ninety (90) days from receipt of the request.
C.	In the event the employee disagrees with the reallocation decision of the agency, he or she may appeal the agency decision to the Office of the State Human Resources Director within thirty (30) calendar days of being provided the results of a position review or the notice of reallocation. The Office of the State Human Resources Director will then make a written determination, which will be provided to the employee.
D.	The Employer or employee may only appeal the determination of the Director of the Office of the State Human Resources Director to the Washington Personnel Resources Board, within thirty (30) calendar days of being provided the written decision of the Director of the Office of the State Human Resources Director. The board will render a decision that will be final and binding.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
76
E.	The effective date of a reallocation resulting from an employee’s request for a position review is the date the request was filed with the Human Resources Office.
40.3	Effect of Reallocation
A.	Reallocation to a Class with a Higher Salary Range Maximum
1.	If an employee has performed the higher-level duties for at least six (6) months and meets the skills and abilities required of the position, the employee will remain in the position and retain existing appointment status.
2.	If a reallocation is the result of a change in the duties of the position and the employee has not performed the higher-level duties for at least six (6) months, the Employer may promote the employee without competition as long as the employee meets the competencies and any other position requirements. The Employer must give the employee the opportunity to compete for the position. If the employee is not selected for the position, or does not have the required skills and abilities, the layoff procedure specified in Article 35, Layoff and Recall, applies. If the employee is appointed, he or she must serve a trial service period.
B.	Reallocation to a Class with an Equal Salary Range Maximum
If an employee meets the skills and abilities requirements of the position, the employee remains in the position and retains existing appointment status. If an employee does not meet the skills and abilities requirements of the position, the layoff procedure specified in Article 35 of this Agreement applies. The Employer may consider providing an in-training appointment in accordance with Article 4.3 C.
C.	Reallocation to a Class with a Lower Salary Range Maximum
If an employee meets the skills and abilities requirements of the position and chooses to remain in the reallocated position, the employee retains existing appointment status and has the right to be placed on the Employer’s internal layoff list for the classifications that the employee has occupied with permanent status prior to the reallocation.
40.4	Salary Impact of Reallocation
An employee whose position is reallocated will have his or her salary determined as follows:
A.	Reallocation to a Class with a Higher Salary Range Maximum
Upon appointment to the higher class, the employee’s base salary will be increased as follows:
1.	Employees promoted to a position in a class whose range is less than six (6) ranges higher than the range of the former class will be
WPEA GG - 2012-13
77
advanced to a step of the range for the new class, which is nearest to five percent (5%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
2.	Employees promoted to a position in a class whose range is six (6) or more ranges higher than the range of the former class will be advanced to a step of the range for the new class, which is nearest to ten percent (10%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
B.	Reallocation to a Class with an Equal Salary Range Maximum The employee retains his or her previous base salary.
C.	Reallocation to a Class with a Lower Salary Range Maximum
The employee will be paid an amount equal to his or her current salary, provided it is within the salary range of the new position. In those cases where the employee’s current salary exceeds the maximum amount of the salary range for the new position, the employee will continue to be compensated at the salary he or she was receiving prior to the reallocation downward, until such time as the employee vacates the position or his or her salary falls within the salary range.
Article 41
Compensation
41.1	Pay Range Assignments
A.	Effective July 1, 2012, each classification represented by the Union will continue to be assigned to the same salary range of the “General Service Salary Schedule Effective June 30, 2011 through June 30, 2012” that it was assigned on June 30, 2012. Effective July 1, 2012, each employee will continue to be assigned to the same range and step of the State Salary Schedule that he or she was assigned on June 30, 2012.
B.	Effective July 1, 2012, the “General Service Salary Schedule Effective June 30, 2011 through June 30, 2012” will continue to be reduced by three percent (3%), except for those steps within a salary range that the full-time equivalent monthly salary is less than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500). This salary grid will remain in effect until June 29, 2013 as shown in Appendix D. The three percent (3%) salary reduction will not apply to the compensation an employee receives for overtime, or for leave cashed out in accordance with Articles 7.4 D, 11.10, 12.6 and 12.7.
C.	Effective June 30, 2013, the “General Service Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2011” will be reinstated as shown in Appendix B.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
78
D.	In those cases where the employee’s current salary exceeds the maximum amount of the salary range for his or her current position, the three percent (3%) salary reduction will apply except for employees making less than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) a month full-time equivalent salary.
41.2	“SP” Pay Range Assignments
A.	Effective July 1, 2012, each classification represented by the Union will continue to be assigned to the same salary range of the “SP Range Salary Schedule - Effective June 30, 2011 through June 30, 2012” as it was assigned on June 30, 2012. Effective July 1, 2012, each employee will continue to be assigned to the same range and step of the “SP” Range Salary Schedule that he or she was assigned on June 30, 2012.
B.	Effective July 1, 2012, the “SP” Range Salary Schedule effective on June 30, 2011 through June 30, 2012 will continue to be reduced by three percent (3%) and will remain in effect until June 29, 2013 as shown in Appendix E. Effective June 30, 2013 the “SP Range Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2011 will be reinstated as shown in Appendix C. The three percent (3%) salary reduction will not apply to the compensation an employee receives for overtime, or for leave cashed out in accordance with Articles 7.4 D, 11.10, 12.6 and 12.7.
C.	In those cases where the employee’s current salary exceeds the maximum amount of the salary range for his or her current position, the three percent (3%) salary reduction will apply.
41.3	“V” Pay Range Assignments
Bargaining Units at the Center for Childhood Deafness and Hearing Loss and Washington State School for the Blind will receive any salary adjustments made to the professional salary schedule in accordance with RCW 72.40.028.
Substitute teacher pay rates will be the same rate as the Vancouver School District.
Certificated staff may have their salary paid over a twelve-month period. Staff hired after the first scheduled day of school will receive a prorated salary, based on number of working days.
41.4	Pay for Performing the Duties of a Higher Classification
A.	Employees who are temporarily assigned the full scope of duties and responsibilities for more than thirty (30) calendar days to a higher level classification whose range is less than six (6) ranges higher than the range of the former class will be notified in writing and will be advanced to a step of the range for the new class that is nearest to five percent (5%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
79
B.	Employees who are temporarily assigned the full scope of duties and responsibilities for more than thirty (30) calendar days to a higher level classification whose range is six (6) or more ranges higher than the range of the former class will be notified in writing and will be advanced to a step of the range for the new class that is nearest to ten percent (10%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
41.5	Establishing Salaries for New Employees and New Classifications
The Employer will assign newly hired employees to the appropriate range and step of the appropriate State Salary Schedule.
41.6	Periodic Increases
An employee’s periodic increment date will be set and remain the same for any period of continuous service in accordance with the following:
A.	All employees’ current periodic increment dates are retained.
B.	Employees who are hired on or after July 1, 2007, at the minimum step of their pay range will receive a two (2) step increase to base salary following completion of six (6) months of continuous service and the date they receive that increase will be the employee’s periodic increment date. Thereafter, employees will receive a two (2) step increase annually, on their periodic increment date, until they reach the top of the pay range.
C.	Employees who are hired on or after July 1, 2007, above the minimum step of the pay range will receive a two (2) step increase to base salary following completion of twelve (12) months of continuous service and the date they receive that increase will be the employee’s periodic increment date. Thereafter, employees will receive a two (2) step increase annually, on their periodic increment date, until they reach the top of the pay range.
D.	Employees who are appointed to another position with a different salary range maximum will retain their periodic increment date and will receive step increases in accordance with paragraphs A-C above.
E.	Seasonal career/cyclic employees periodic increment dates will be adjusted for time not worked.
F.	When a periodic increment date coincides with a promotional date, the periodic increment date will be applied first.
41.7	Salary Increases to Enhance Recruitment or Address Retention
The Employer may adjust an employee’s base salary within their salary range to address issues that are related to recruitment, retention, or other business-related reasons.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
80
41.8	Salary Assignment upon Promotion
A.	Employees promoted to a position in a class whose range is less than six (6) ranges higher than the range of the former class will be advanced to a step of the range for the new class that is nearest to five percent (5%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
B.	Employees promoted to a position in a class whose range is six (6) or more ranges higher than the range of the former class will be advanced to a step of the range for the new class that is nearest to ten percent (10%) higher than the amount of the pre-promotional step.
C.	Geographic Adjustments
The Appointing Authority may authorize more than the step increases specified in Subsections A and B, above, when an employee’s promotion requires a change of residence to another geographic area to be within a reasonable commuting distance of the new place of work. This increase is at the sole discretion of the Appointing Authority and is not subject to the grievance procedure as outlined in Article 30. Such an increase may not result in a salary greater than the range maximum.
41.9	Demotion
An employee who voluntarily demotes to another position with a lower salary range maximum will be placed in the new range at a salary equal to his or her previous base salary. If the previous base salary exceeds the new range, the employee’s base salary will be set equal to the new range maximum.
41.10	Transfer
A transfer is defined as an employee-initiated move of an employee from a position to another position within or between agencies in the same class or a different class with the same salary range maximum. Transferred employees will retain their current base salary.
41.11	Reassignment
Reassignment is defined as an agency-initiated move of an employee within the agency from one position to another in the same class or a different class with the same salary range maximum. Upon reassignment, an employee retains his or her current base salary.
41.12	Reversion
Reversion is defined as voluntary or involuntary movement of an employee during the trial service period to the class the employee most recently held permanent status in, to a class in the same or lower salary range, or separation placement onto the Employer’s internal layoff list. Upon reversion, the base salary the employee was receiving prior to promotion will be reinstated.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
81
41.13	Elevation
Elevation is defined as restoring an employee to the higher classification, with permanent status, which was held prior to being granted a demotion or to a class that is between the current class and the class from which the employee was demoted. Upon elevation, an employee’s salary will be determined in the same manner that is provided for promotion, 41.8, above.
41.14	Part-Time Employment
Monthly compensation for part-time employment will be prorated based on the ratio of hours worked to hours required for full-time employment. In the alternative, part-time employees may be paid the appropriate hourly rate for all hours worked.
41.15	Callback
A.	Work Preceding or Following a Scheduled Work Shift
Overtime-eligible employees will be notified prior to their scheduled quitting time either to return to work after departing the worksite or to change the starting time of their next scheduled work shift.
1.	Lack of such notice for such work will be considered callback and will result in a penalty of three (3) hours of pay at the basic salary in addition to all other compensation due. This penalty will apply to each call.
2.	The Employer may cancel a callback notification to work extra hours at any time, but cancellation will not waive the penalty cited in this Subsection.
3.	These provisions will not apply to the mid-shift interval in a split shift and an employee called back while in standby status.
B.	Work on Scheduled Days off or Holidays
The Employer may assign employees to work on a day off or holiday. Overtime-eligible employees will be notified of such assignments at least prior to the employees’ normal quitting times on their second workday preceding the day off or holiday (except Sunday when it is within the assigned work shift).
1.	If the Employer does not give such notice, affected employees will
receive a penalty payment of three (3) hours pay at the basic salary in addition to all other compensation due them.
2.	The Employer may cancel work assigned on a day off or holiday. However, if the Employer does not notify affected employees of such cancellation at least prior to their normal quitting times on their second work-day preceding the day off or holiday work assignment, affected employees will receive a penalty payment of three (3) hours pay at the basic salary.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
82
These provisions will apply to employees on paid leave status.
41.16	Shift Premium
A.	For purposes of this Section, the following definitions apply:
1.	Evening shift is a work shift of eight (8) or more hours which ends at or after 10:00 p.m.
2.	Night shift is a work shift of eight (8) or more hours which begins by 3:00 a.m.
B.	Effective July 1, 2008, a basic shift premium of sixty-five cents ($0.65) per hour will be paid to full-time employees under the following circumstances:
1.	Regularly scheduled evening and night shift employees are entitled to shift premium for all hours worked.
2.	Regularly scheduled day shift employees are not entitled to shift premium unless:
a.	The employee’s regular or temporary scheduled work shift includes hours after 6:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m. where no overtime, schedule change pay, or callback compensation is received. Shift premium is paid only for those hours actually worked after 6:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m.
b.	The employee is temporarily assigned a full evening or night shift where no overtime, schedule change pay, or callback compensation is received. Shift premium is paid only for all evening or night shift hours worked in this circumstance.
3.	Employees regularly scheduled to work at least one (1), but not all, evening and/or night shifts are entitled to shift premium for those shifts. Additionally, these employees are entitled to shift premium for all hours adjoining that evening or night shift which are worked.
C.	Part-time and on-call employees will be entitled to basic shift premium under the following circumstances:
1.	For all assigned hours of work after 6:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m.
2.	For assigned full evening or night shifts, as defined in Subsection B.2, above.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
83
D.	In cases where shift premium hours are regularly scheduled over a year, agencies may pay shift premium at a monthly rate that is equal for all months of the year. Monthly rates will be calculated by dividing twelve (12) into the amount of shift premium an employee would earn in a year if the hourly rules in Subsection B.2 were applied.
E.	When an employee is compensated for working overtime during hours for which shift premium is authorized in this Section, the overtime rate shall be calculated at the rate of one and one-half (12) times the regular rate and the shift premium combined.
F.	Employees eligible for shift premium for their regularly scheduled shifts will receive the same proportion of shift premium for respective periods of authorized paid leave and for holidays not worked which fall within their regularly scheduled shift.
41.17	Split Shift
When an employee’s assigned work shift is split with a minimum of four (4) intervening hours not worked, the employee will receive the premium rate set in the shift premium rate designated in Subsection 41.16 (B). The provisions of Subsections 41.16 D, E and F will apply to employees working split shifts.
41.18	Standby
A.	An overtime eligible employee is in standby status while waiting to be engaged to work by the Employer and both of the following conditions exist:
1.	The employee is required to be present at a specified location or is immediately available to be contacted. The location may be the employee's home or other specific location, but not a work site away from home. When the standby location is the employee's home, and the home is on the same state property where the employee works, the home is not considered a work site.
2.	The agency requires the employee to be prepared to report immediately for work if the need arises, although the need might not arise.
B.	Standby status will not be concurrent with work time.
C.	Employees reporting to work while in standby status are not entitled to callback compensation as provided in Article 41.15.
D.	When the nature of a work assignment confines an employee during off duty hours and that confinement is a normal condition of work in the employee's position, standby compensation is not required merely because the employee is confined.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
84
E.	Employees on standby status will be compensated at a rate of seven percent (7%) of their hourly base salary for time spent in standby status.
F.	Employees dispatched to emergency fire duty as defined by RCW 38.52.010 are not eligible for standby pay.
41.19	Relocation Compensation
A.	The Employer may authorize lump sum relocation compensation, within existing budgetary resources, under the following conditions:
1.	When it is reasonably necessary that a person make a domiciliary move in accepting a reassignment or appointment; or
2.	It is necessary to successfully recruit or retain a qualified candidate or employee who will have to make a domiciliary move in order to accept the position.
B.	If the employee receiving the relocation payment terminates or causes termination of his or her employment with the state within one (1) year of the date of employment, the state will be entitled to reimbursement for the moving costs that have been paid and may withhold such sum as necessary from any amounts due the employee. Termination as a result of layoff or disability separation will not require the employee to repay the relocation compensation.
41.20	Salary Overpayment Recovery
A.	When an agency has determined that an employee has been overpaid wages, the agency will provide written notice to the employee, which will include the following items:
1.	The amount of the overpayment,
2.	The basis for the claim, and
3.	The rights of the employee under the terms of this Agreement.
B.	Method of Payback
1.	The employee must choose one of the following options for paying back the overpayment:
a.	Voluntary wage deduction,
b.	Cash, or
c.	Check.
2.	The employee will repay the overpayment over a period of time equal to the number of pay periods during which the overpayment was made, unless a longer period is agreed to by the employee and the agency.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
85
3.	If the employee fails to choose one of the three options described above, within the timeframe specified in the agency’s written notice of overpayment, the agency will deduct the overpayment owed from the employee’s wages. This overpayment recovery shall take place over a period of time equal to the number of pay periods during which the overpayment was made.
C.	Appeal Rights
Any dispute concerning the occurrence or amount of the overpayment will be resolved through the grievance procedure in Article 30 of this Agreement.
Any overpayment amount still outstanding at separation of employment will be deducted from the employee’s final pay.
41.21	Assignment Pay Provisions
Assignment pay is a premium added to base salary and is intended to be used only as long as the skills, duties, or circumstances it is based on are in effect.
A.	The Employer may grant assignment pay to a position to recognize specialized skills, assigned duties, and/or unique circumstances that exceed the ordinary. The Employer determines which positions qualify for the premium.
B.	Classes approved for assignment pay have the letters “AP” appearing after their class title in the compensation plan.
41.22	Dependent Care Salary Reduction Plan
The Employer agrees to maintain the current dependent care salary reduction plan that allows eligible employees, covered by this Agreement, the option to participate in a dependent care reimbursement program for work-related dependent care expenses on a pretax basis as permitted by federal tax law or regulation.
41.23	Pre-tax Health Care Premiums
The Employer agrees to provide eligible employees with the option to pay for the employee portion of health premiums on a pretax basis as permitted by federal tax law or regulation.
41.24	Medical/Dental Expense Account
The Employer agrees to allow insurance eligible employees, covered by the Agreement, to participate in a medical and dental expense reimbursement program to cover co-payments, deductibles and other medical and dental expenses, if employees have such costs, or expenses for services not covered by health or dental insurance on a pretax basis as permitted by federal tax law or regulation.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
86
41.25	Voluntary Separation Incentives - Voluntary Retirement Incentives
Agencies will have the discretion to participate in a Voluntary Separation Incentive Program or a Voluntary Retirement Incentive Program, if such program is provided for in the 2011-2013 operating budget. Such participation must be in accordance with the program guidelines adopted by the Office of the State Human Resources Director and the Department of Retirement Systems, following consultation with the Office of Financial Management. Program incentives or offering of such incentives are not subject to the grievance procedure.
41.26	Fire Duty Compensation - Department of Natural Resources
A.	Compensation for Typical Fire Suppression Duties:
Department of Natural Resources (DNR) employees performing fire suppression duties or other emergency duties when they are working under the incident command system will be compensated as follows:
1.	While performing emergency work under the incident command system an employee’s work is not exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act. Emergency work performed under the incident command system will be compensated in compliance with federal law and the terms of this Article.
2.	For those hours worked under the incident command system, two dollars ($2.00)* is added to an employee’s regular rate in lieu of all other forms of additional compensation including, but not limited to call-back, standby, stand down, shift differential, split shift differential, assignment pay and schedule change, and pay for rest periods less than five (5) hours.
Employees will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2 ) times the sum of their regular hourly rate plus two dollars ($2.00)* for those hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a workweek as a result of wild fire suppression and/or other emergency duties performed under the incident command system. For purposes of this Subsection, the regular hourly rate does not include any allowable exclusion specified in Section 7.1.D of Article 7, Overtime.
*Note: If any other labor organization representing DNR employees negotiates the same practice but at an amount greater than two dollars ($2.00), then this amount will be increased to equal the greater amount.
B.	Compensation When Deployed to a Closed Satellite Camp:
A closed satellite camp means an employee is unable to leave at the end of a work shift. When deployed to a closed satellite camp, employees will be considered on twenty-four (24) hour duty. Pursuant to the Fair Labor
WPEA GG - 2012-13
87
Standards Act (FLSA), bona fide meal periods and a bona fide scheduled sleeping period of up to eight (8) hours are excluded from paid time.
When employees are deployed to a closed satellite camp the agency will provide specific items after a twenty-four (24) hour grace period, which commences when the incident command team initially deploys staff to the closed satellite camp. The provisions are a hot catered meal (hot can or Alaska fresh food box), adequate sleeping facilities (this means a sleeping bag and tent), and a sleep period of at least five (5) hours that is not interrupted to perform fire duties. Should the agency not provide these provisions in a closed satellite camp, the employee will be entitled to twenty-four (24) hour pay without excluding bona fide meal or sleep periods until the agency meets its obligation.
C.	Article 20, “Wild Fire Suppression and Other Emergency Duty”, sets forth additional provisions pertaining to fire duty.
41.27	Sunday Sales - Liquor Control Board
Store Managers who work or are assigned to work, during Sunday Sales and the Information Technology Specialists assigned to support liquor stores open for retail business on Sunday will be compensated as follows:
A.	Sunday Rate - Employees who are assigned to work on a Sunday, as a result of Sunday Sales will be paid at the rate of one and one-fourth (1-1/4) of an employee’s regular rate of pay for all hours worked.
B.	Special Assignment Pay - In support of Sunday Sales, employees assigned to work on a Sunday at a store will receive an additional one-fourth (1/4) pay for all hours worked.
41.28	Temporary Salary Reduction (TSR) Leave
In lieu of reducing the daily work hours of employees as a result of the three percent (3%) salary reduction, the Employer and the Union agree to establish Temporary Salary Reduction (TSR) leave.
A.	Employees will only accrue TSR leave during the period the three percent (3%) salary reduction is in effect. Only employees subject to the three percent (3%) salary reduction will qualify to earn TSR leave.
B.	Employees may be credited up to a maximum of 5.2 hours of TSR leave per month.
C.	Full-time employees who have been in pay status for eighty (80) non-
overtime hours in a calendar month will accrue 5.2 hours of temporary salary reduction leave per month. Part-time employees will accrue temporary salary reduction leave proportionate to the number of hours the part-time employee is in pay status during the month to that required for full-time employment.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
88
D.	TSR leave has no cash value and balances must be used by July 1, 2013; however, employees may carry forward up to sixteen (16) hours of TSR leave that must be used prior to September 1, 2013.
E.	TSR leave must be requested and scheduled in accordance with the vacation leave scheduling requirements of Article 11, Vacation Leave.
F.	TSR leave will be used prior to either vacation or sick leave unless by doing so the employee would exceed the vacation leave maximum in accordance with Article 11, Vacation Leave. An employee will not be required to use TSR leave prior to sick leave when he or she has submitted a written request for vacation leave and the leave request has been approved by his or her supervisor that ensures the use of TSR leave prior to the June 30, 2013 expiration, except as provided in H below.
G.	TSR leave may be used alone or in conjunction with other leave. TSR leave may not be donated as shared leave.
H.	This section will expire on June 30, 2013, except subsection D, which will expire on September 1, 2013.
Article 42
Health Care
Due to legislative amendments to RCW 41.80.020, the coalition agreement on health care benefits is a separate agreement and may not be included as part of the parties’ 20122013 master collective bargaining agreement. For ease of reference, the coalition health care agreement is reprinted at Appendix I.
Article 43
Aviation Insurance
The Employer agrees to provide insurance as authorized by statute or regulation for employees required to engage in aircraft flights as a condition of their employment in the same manner and amount provided to other employees of the agency.
Article 44
Voluntary Employee Benefits Association (VEBA)
44.1	The Employer will provide to eligible employees covered by this Agreement a medical expense plan as authorized by RCW 41.04.340. The medical expense plan must meet the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code.
44.2	As a condition of participation, the medical expense plan provided shall require that each covered eligible employee sign an agreement with the Employer. The agreement shall include the following provisions.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
89
A.	A provision to hold the Employer harmless should the United States government find that the Employer or the employee is indebted to the United States as a result of:
1.	The employee not paying income taxes due on the equivalent funds placed into the plan, or
2.	The Employer not withholding or deducting a tax, assessment, or other payment on funds placed into the plan as required by federal law.
B.	A provision to require each covered eligible employee to forfeit remuneration for accrued sick leave at retirement if the employee is covered by a medical expense plan and the employee refuses to sign the required agreement.
Article 45
Bargaining Units at
Washington State Center for Childhood Deafness and Hearing Loss (CDHL) and Washington State School for the Blind (WSSB)
45.1	No later than thirty (30) days prior to the end of each school year, the Superintendent will provide WPEA with a draft list of common school closures, beginning and ending dates of the school year, and winter and spring vacations. The Superintendent, or designee, and union representatives shall make an effort to coordinate other calendar issues to facilitate educationally and fiscally sound calendars. This process should be finalized no later than fifteen (15) days before the end of each school year. The calendar of teacher duty days will not be altered without prior notice and consultation with the Union, except in emergency situations. Outreach staff schedules will be developed by May 31st of each year of this Agreement for the ensuing school year. Schedules may be adjusted during the school year based upon district and/or operational needs.
The Union will be informed prior to May 31st of each year of this Agreement when any of the following changes occur in the school calendar:
1.	The beginning date of school changes by more than four (4) days.
2.	Any change in normal holiday times or days.
3.	A change in the total number of standard calendar workdays, except in emergency situations.
45.2	The calendar will reflect one (1) pre-service mandatory duty day for classroom setup scheduled in the week preceding the commencement of the academic year. CDHL will provide opportunities for extra pay for meetings, conferences and professional development activities, which will be held on Fridays from 2:00 p.m.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
90
to 4:00 p.m. The rate of pay for these duties will be the hourly extra pay rate set by the Vancouver School District in accordance with Article 41.3.
45.3	Teachers shall not be routinely required and scheduled to provide more than an average of three hundred fifteen (315) minutes of formal student contact instructional time per day, per week. Other mutually determined daily work scheduling shall be developed annually. A minimum of thirty (30) minutes dutyfree lunch period daily will be scheduled for each bargaining unit member. Reasonable teacher relief periods will be incorporated into each daily schedule.
45.4	With the supervisor’s prior approval, employees in the Bargaining Units at the CDHL and WSSB will earn exchange time for:
A.	Meetings outside the regular workday; and
B.	Activities or events outside the regular workday.
45.5	The previous year’s exchange time can be carried over to the current fiscal year but not to subsequent fiscal years.
45.6	The use of exchange time will be pre-approved by the supervisor who will consider date and time of use as it relates to:
A.	Student safety;
B.	Substitute availability; and
C.	Teacher absenteeism in the	program.
45.7	CDHL and WSSB on-campus teachers will be required to work on-site for no more than thirty-eight and one-half (38^) hours in a workweek. Outreach staff will continue to set their schedules in order to best meet the needs of the contracted district(s) and the contract requirements. Teachers (both on-campus and Outreach) will be afforded not less than four and one-half (4^) hours each week for prep time.
45.8	WSSB will make every reasonable effort to limit the caseload of Outreach staff to no more than thirty (30) students per staff.
45.9	Professional development and tuition reimbursement will be in accordance with agency policy.
Article 46
Strikes
Nothing in this Agreement permits or grants to any employee the right to strike or refuse to perform his or her official duties.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
91
Article 47
Entire Agreement
47.1	This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and any past practice or agreement between the parties, whether written or oral, is null and void, unless specifically preserved in this Agreement.
47.2	With regard to WAC 357, this Agreement preempts all subjects addressed, in whole or in part, by its provisions.
47.3	This Agreement supersedes specific provisions of agency policies with which it conflicts.
47.4	During the negotiations of the Agreement, each party had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or matter appropriate for collective bargaining. Therefore, each party voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right and will not be obligated to bargain collectively, during the term of this Agreement, EXCEPT if the Employer intends to make a change in a mandatory subject of bargaining that is not addressed in this Agreement, the Employer will notify the Union and, if requested, engage in collective bargaining.
47.5	The Employer will satisfy its collective bargaining obligation before changing a matter that is a mandatory subject. The Employer will notify the President of the Union of these changes and the Union may request discussions about and/or negotiations on the impact of these changes on employee's working conditions within the provided notice period. In the event the Union does not request discussions and/or negotiations within the notice period, the Employer may implement the changes without further discussions and/or negotiations.
Article 48
Savings Clause
48.1	If any court or board of competent jurisdiction finds any article, section or portion of this Agreement to be unlawful or invalid, the remainder of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. If such a finding is made, the parties agree to make themselves available to negotiate a substitute for the invalid article, section or portion.
Article 49
Printing of Agreement
Each party shall be responsible for the printing and distribution of this Agreement to their respective constituents. The Employer will post this Agreement on the appropriate web sites and provide a copy to the Union in electronic format.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
92
Article 50 Duration
50.1	All provisions of this Agreement will become effective July 1, 2012, and will remain in full force and effect through June 30, 2013.
50.2	Either party may request negotiations of a successor Agreement by notifying the other party in writing no sooner than January 1, 2012, and no later than January 31, 2012. Negotiations will begin at a time agreed upon by the parties.
50.3	The authority to negotiate supplemental agreements or Memoranda of Understanding rest within the Labor Relations Office of the Office of Financial Management (OFM). In the event the Labor Relations Office of OFM delegates the authority to negotiate supplemental agreements or Memoranda of Understanding to an agency during the term of this Agreement, the following will apply:
A.	All supplemental agreements or Memoranda of Understanding will be considered tentative agreements until approved by the Labor Relations Office of OFM; and
B.	No supplemental agreements or Memoranda of Understanding may be entered into which conflicts with this Agreement without the approval of the Labor Relations Office of OFM.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
93
Appendix A
Layoff Units
1.	Department of Agriculture
Each of the following constitutes a layoff unit.
A.	Food Safety Program
The Food Safety Program will constitute a separate layoff unit.
B.	Eastern Washington Pesticide Management
Eastern Washington Pesticide Management will constitute a separate layoff unit.
C.	Chemical & Hop Laboratory
The Chemical & Hop Laboratory will constitute a single layoff unit.
D.	Microbiology Laboratory
The Microbiology Laboratory will constitute a separate layoff unit.
If no option is available within the layoff unit, the unit expands to the agency statewide.
2.	Department of Licensing
The Dealer Investigator Bargaining Unit within the Department of Licensing is separated into three (3) units.
Northwest Layoff Unit
Dealer Services Investigator Bargaining Unit staff in King County and counties to the North.
Southwest Layoff Unit
Dealer Services Investigator Bargaining Unit staff in Pierce County and counties to the South.
Eastern Layoff Unit
Dealer Services Investigator Bargaining Unit staff in Eastern Washington counties.
3.	Department of Natural Resources
A.	For all employees except seasonal and project the layoff unit is:
1.	The region if the position is located in a region; or
2.	The Natural Resource Building (NRB) if the position is located in the
NRB.
If no option is available within the layoff unit, the unit expands to the agency statewide.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-1
B.	For seasonal employees, the layoff unit is:
1.	The district if the position is located in a district; or
2.	The region excluding district positions, if the position is located within the region but does not report to a district; or
3.	The NRB if the position is located in the NRB.
4.	Department of Revenue
Layoff units will be by order as follows:
A.	Geographic Regions
The geographic region in which the employee’s permanent workstation is located shall be considered the layoff unit. Geographic regions are as follows:
1.	Capitol Region
Thurston County.
2.	Puget Sound Region
King, Kitsap, Pierce, Snohomish, and Whatcom counties.
3.	Southwest/Peninsula Region
Clallam, Clark and Grays Harbor counties.
4.	Eastern Washington Region
Benton, Chelan, Spokane, and Yakima counties.
5.	Out-of-State Region
Out-of-State auditors residing out of state.
B.	Statewide
If no option is available within the geographic region layoff unit, the department statewide shall be considered the layoff unit.
5.	Liquor Control Board
The layoff unit shall first be within a forty (40) mile radius of an employee’s duty station. If no options are available the agency statewide shall be considered the layoff unit.
6.	Military Department
The agency is designated as the single layoff unit.
7.	School for the Blind
The agency is designated as the single layoff unit.
8.	Washington State Center for Childhood Deafness and Hearing Loss
The agency is designated as the single layoff unit.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-2
9.
Washington State Patrol
The layoff unit shall first be district wide in which the position is located, and if no options are available, then to the agency statewide.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-3
Appendix B
General Service Salary Schedule Effective July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2011
RANGE 14	STEP A 17664 1472 8.46 0.59	STEP B 18084 1507 8.66 0.61	STEP C 18504 1542 8.86 0.62	STEP D 18900 1575 9.05 0.63	STEP E 19356 1613 9.27 0.65	STEP F 19788 1649 9.48 0.66	STEP G 20244 1687 9.70 0.68	STEP H 20688 1724 9.91 0.69	STEP I 21156 1763 10.13 0.71	STEP J 21636 1803 10.36 0.73	STEP K 22152 1846 10.61 0.74	STEP L 22620 1885 10.83 0.76	Annual Monthly Hourly Standby
	18084	18504	18900	19356	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	Annual
15	1507	1542	1575	1613	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	Monthly
	8.66	8.86	9.05	9.27	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	Hourly
	0.61	0.62	0.63	0.65	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	Standby
	18504	18900	19356	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	Annual
16	1542	1575	1613	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	Monthly
	8.86	9.05	9.27	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	Hourly
	0.62	0.63	0.65	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	Standby
	18900	19356	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	Annual
17	1575	1613	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	Monthly
	9.05	9.27	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	Hourly
	0.63	0.65	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	Standby
	19356	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	Annual
18	1613	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	Monthly
	9.27	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	Hourly
	0.65	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	Standby
	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	Annual
19	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	Monthly
	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	Hourly
	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	Standby
	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	Annual
20	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	Monthly
	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	Hourly
	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	Standby
	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	Annual
21	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	Monthly
	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	Hourly
	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	Standby
	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	Annual
22	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	Monthly
	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	Hourly
	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	Standby
	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	Annual
23	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	Monthly
	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	Hourly
	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-4
RANGE	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	Annual
24	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	Monthly
	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	Hourly
	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	Standby
	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	Annual
25	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	Monthly
	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	Hourly
	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	Standby
	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	Annual
26	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	Monthly
	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	Hourly
	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	Standby
	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	Annual
27	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	Monthly
	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	Hourly
	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	Standby
	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	Annual
28	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	Monthly
	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	Hourly
	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	Standby
	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	Annual
29	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	Monthly
	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	Hourly
	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	Standby
	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	Annual
30	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	Monthly
	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	Hourly
	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	Standby
	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	Annual
31	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	Monthly
	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	Hourly
	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	Standby
	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	Annual
32	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	Monthly
	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	Hourly
	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	Standby
	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	Annual
33	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	Monthly
	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	Hourly
	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	Standby
	27804	28440	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	Annual
34	2317	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	Monthly
	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	Hourly
	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-5
RANGE	STEP A 28440	STEP B 29112	STEP C 29784	STEP D 30504	STEP E 31176	STEP F 31956	STEP G 32688	STEP H 33468	STEP I 34260	STEP J 35040	STEP K 35928	STEP L 36756	Annual
35	2370	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	Monthly
	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	Hourly
	0.95	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	Standby
	29112	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	Annual
36	2426	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	Monthly
	13.94	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	Hourly
	0.98	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	Standby
	29784	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	Annual
37	2482	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	Monthly
	14.26	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	Hourly
	1.00	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	Standby
	30504	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	Annual
38	2542	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	Monthly
	14.61	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	Hourly
	1.02	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	Standby
	31176	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	Annual
39	2598	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	Monthly
	14.93	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	Hourly
	1.05	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	Standby
	31956	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	Annual
40	2663	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	Monthly
	15.30	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	Hourly
	1.07	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	Standby
	32688	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	Annual
41	2724	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	Monthly
	15.66	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	Hourly
	1.10	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	Standby
	33468	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	Annual
42	2789	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	Monthly
	16.03	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	Hourly
	1.12	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	Standby
	34260	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	Annual
43	2855	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	Monthly
	16.41	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	Hourly
	1.15	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	Standby
	35040	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	Annual
44	2920	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	Monthly
	16.78	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	Hourly
	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	Standby
	35928	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	Annual
45	2994	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	Monthly
	17.21	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	Hourly
	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-6
RANGE	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	36756	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	Annual
46	3063	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	Monthly
	17.60	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	Hourly
	1.23	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	Standby
	37620	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	Annual
47	3135	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	Monthly
	18.02	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	Hourly
	1.26	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	Standby
	38556	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	Annual
48	3213	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	Monthly
	18.47	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	Hourly
	1.29	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	Standby
	39516	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	Annual
49	3293	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	Monthly
	18.93	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	Hourly
	1.33	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	Standby
	40524	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	Annual
50	3377	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	Monthly
	19.41	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	Hourly
	1.36	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	Standby
	41508	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	Annual
51	3459	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	Monthly
	19.88	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	Hourly
	1.39	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	Standby
	42588	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	Annual
52	3549	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	Monthly
	20.40	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	Hourly
	1.43	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	Standby
	43572	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	Annual
53	3631	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	Monthly
	20.87	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	Hourly
	1.46	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	Standby
	44712	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	Annual
54	3726	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	Monthly
	21.41	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	Hourly
	1.50	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	Standby
	45828	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	Annual
55	3819	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	Monthly
	21.95	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	Hourly
	1.54	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	Standby
	47016	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	Annual
56	3918	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	Monthly
	22.52	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	Hourly
	1.58	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-7
RANGE	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	48168	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	Annual
57	4014	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	Monthly
	23.07	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	Hourly
	1.61	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	Standby
	49368	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	Annual
58	4114	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	Monthly
	23.64	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	Hourly
	1.65	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	Standby
	50568	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	Annual
59	4214	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	Monthly
	24.22	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	Hourly
	1.70	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	Standby
	51864	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	Annual
60	4322	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	Monthly
	24.84	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	Hourly
	1.74	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	Standby
	53148	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	Annual
61	4429	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	Monthly
	25.45	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	Hourly
	1.78	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	Standby
	54504	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	Annual
62	4542	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	Monthly
	26.10	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	Hourly
	1.83	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	Standby
	55836	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	Annual
63	4653	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	Monthly
	26.74	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	Hourly
	1.87	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	Standby
	57240	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	Annual
64	4770	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	Monthly
	27.41	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	Hourly
	1.92	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	Standby
	58656	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	Annual
65	4888	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	Monthly
	28.09	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	Hourly
	1.97	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	Standby
	60120	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	Annual
66	5010	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	Monthly
	28.79	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	Hourly
	2.02	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	Standby
	61632	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	Annual
67	5136	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	Monthly
	29.52	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	Hourly
	2.07	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-8
RANGE	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	63192	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	Annual
68	5266	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	Monthly
	30.26	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	Hourly
	2.12	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	Standby
	64740	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	Annual
69	5395	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	Monthly
	31.01	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	Hourly
	2.17	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	Standby
	66420	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	Annual
70	5535	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	Monthly
	31.81	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	Hourly
	2.23	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	Standby
	68016	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	Annual
71	5668	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	Monthly
	32.57	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	Hourly
	2.28	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	Standby
	69756	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	Annual
72	5813	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	Monthly
	33.41	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	Hourly
	2.34	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	Standby
	71496	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	Annual
73	5958	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	Monthly
	34.24	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	Hourly
	2.40	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	Standby
	73260	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	Annual
74	6105	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	Monthly
	35.09	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	Hourly
	2.46	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	Standby
	75084	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	Annual
75	6257	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	Monthly
	35.96	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	Hourly
	2.52	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	Standby
	76992	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	Annual
76	6416	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	Monthly
	36.87	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	Hourly
	2.58	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	Standby
	78900	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	Annual
77	6575	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	Monthly
	37.79	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	Hourly
	2.65	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	Standby
	80892	82896	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	Annual
78	6741	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	Monthly
	38.74	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	Hourly
	2.71	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-9
RANGE	STEP A 82896	STEP B 84984	STEP C 87096	STEP D 89280	STEP E 91524	STEP F 93816	STEP G 96144	STEP H 98580	STEP I 101004	STEP J 103524	STEP K 106128	STEP L 108792	Annual
79	6908	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	Monthly
	39.70	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	Hourly
	2.78	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	Standby
	84984	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	Annual
80	7082	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	Monthly
	40.70	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	Hourly
	2.85	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	Standby
	87096	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	Annual
81	7258	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	Monthly
	41.71	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	Hourly
	2.92	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	Standby
	89280	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	Annual
82	7440	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	Monthly
	42.76	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	Hourly
	2.99	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	Standby
	91524	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	Annual
83	7627	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	Monthly
	43.83	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	Hourly
	3.07	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	Standby
	93816	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	Annual
84	7818	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	Monthly
	44.93	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	Hourly
	3.15	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	Standby
	96144	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	Annual
85	8012	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	Monthly
	46.05	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	Hourly
	3.22	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	Standby
	98580	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	Annual
86	8215	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	Monthly
	47.21	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	Hourly
	3.30	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	Standby
	101004	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	Annual
87	8417	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	Monthly
	48.37	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	Hourly
	3.39	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	Standby
	103524	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	Annual
88	8627	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	Monthly
	49.58	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	Hourly
	3.47	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	Standby
	106128	108792	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	Annual
89	8844	9066	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	Monthly
	50.83	52.10	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	Hourly
	3.56	3.65	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-10
RANGE 90	STEP A 108792 9066 52.10 3.65	STEP B 111468 9289 53.39 3.74	STEP C 114252 9521 54.72 3.83	STEP D 117132 9761 56.10 3.93	STEP E 120048 10004 57.49 4.02	STEP F 123036 10253 58.93 4.13	STEP G 126156 10513 60.42 4.23	STEP H 129252 10771 61.90 4.33	STEP I 132528 11044 63.47 4.44	STEP J 135864 11322 65.07 4.55	STEP K 139248 11604 66.69 4.67	STEP L 142752 11896 68.37 4.79	Annual Monthly Hourly Standby
	111468	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	Annual
91	9289	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	Monthly
	53.39	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	Hourly
	3.74	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	Standby
	114252	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	Annual
92	9521	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	Monthly
	54.72	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	Hourly
	3.83	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	Standby
	117132	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	Annual
93	9761	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	Monthly
	56.10	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	Hourly
	3.93	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	Standby
	120048	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	Annual
94	10004	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	Monthly
	57.49	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	Hourly
	4.02	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	Standby
	123036	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	161472	Annual
95	10253	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	13456	Monthly
	58.93	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	77.33	Hourly
	4.13	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	5.41	Standby
	126156	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	161472	165528	Annual
96	10513	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	13456	13794	Monthly
	60.42	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	77.33	79.28	Hourly
	4.23	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	5.41	5.55	Standby
	129252	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	161472	165528	169680	Annual
97	10771	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	13456	13794	14140	Monthly
	61.90	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	77.33	79.28	81.26	Hourly
	4.33	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	5.41	5.55	5.69	Standby
	132528	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	161472	165528	169680	173928	Annual
98	11044	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	13456	13794	14140	14494	Monthly
	63.47	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	77.33	79.28	81.26	83.30	Hourly
	4.44	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	5.41	5.55	5.69	5.83	Standby
	135864	139248	142752	146268	149952	153684	157572	161472	165528	169680	173928	178272	Annual
99	11322	11604	11896	12189	12496	12807	13131	13456	13794	14140	14494	14856	Monthly
	65.07	66.69	68.37	70.05	71.82	73.60	75.47	77.33	79.28	81.26	83.30	85.38	Hourly
	4.55	4.67	4.79	4.90	5.03	5.15	5.28	5.41	5.55	5.69	5.83	5.98	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-11
Appendix C
SP Range Salary Schedule for Represented Employees
Effective July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2011
SP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
RANGE	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	32592	33336	34116	34944	35736	36600	37452	38316	39228	40140	41136	42108	Annual
35SP	2716	2778	2843	2912	2978	3050	3121	3193	3269	3345	3428	3509	Monthly
	15.61	15.97	16.34	16.74	17.11	17.53	17.94	18.35	18.79	19.22	19.70	20.17	Hourly
	1.09	1.12	1.14	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.28	1.32	1.35	1.38	1.41	Standby
	33336	34116	34944	35736	36600	37452	38316	39228	40140	41136	42108	43116	Annual
36SP	2778	2843	2912	2978	3050	3121	3193	3269	3345	3428	3509	3593	Monthly
	15.97	16.34	16.74	17.11	17.53	17.94	18.35	18.79	19.22	19.70	20.17	20.65	Hourly
	1.12	1.14	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.28	1.32	1.35	1.38	1.41	1.45	Standby
	34116	34944	35736	36600	37452	38316	39228	40140	41136	42108	43116	44184	Annual
37SP	2843	2912	2978	3050	3121	3193	3269	3345	3428	3509	3593	3682	Monthly
	16.34	16.74	17.11	17.53	17.94	18.35	18.79	19.22	19.70	20.17	20.65	21.16	Hourly
	1.14	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.28	1.32	1.35	1.38	1.41	1.45	1.48	Standby
	34944	35736	36600	37452	38316	39228	40140	41136	42108	43116	44184	45276	Annual
38SP	2912	2978	3050	3121	3193	3269	3345	3428	3509	3593	3682	3773	Monthly
	16.74	17.11	17.53	17.94	18.35	18.79	19.22	19.70	20.17	20.65	21.16	21.68	Hourly
	1.17	1.20	1.23	1.26	1.28	1.32	1.35	1.38	1.41	1.45	1.48	1.52	Standby
	36600	37452	38316	39228	40140	41136	42108	43116	44184	45276	46416	47556	Annual
40SP	3050	3121	3193	3269	3345	3428	3509	3593	3682	3773	3868	3963	Monthly
	17.53	17.94	18.35	18.79	19.22	19.70	20.17	20.65	21.16	21.68	22.23	22.78	Hourly
	1.23	1.26	1.28	1.32	1.35	1.38	1.41	1.45	1.48	1.52	1.56	1.59	Standby
	37452	38316	39228	40140	41136	42108	43116	44184	45276	46416	47556	48768	Annual
41SP	3121	3193	3269	3345	3428	3509	3593	3682	3773	3868	3963	4064	Monthly
	17.94	18.35	18.79	19.22	19.70	20.17	20.65	21.16	21.68	22.23	22.78	23.36	Hourly
	1.26	1.28	1.32	1.35	1.38	1.41	1.45	1.48	1.52	1.56	1.59	1.64	Standby
	38316	39228	40140	41136	42108	43116	44184	45276	46416	47556	48768	49956	Annual
42SP	3193	3269	3345	3428	3509	3593	3682	3773	3868	3963	4064	4163	Monthly
	18.35	18.79	19.22	19.70	20.17	20.65	21.16	21.68	22.23	22.78	23.36	23.93	Hourly
	1.28	1.32	1.35	1.38	1.41	1.45	1.48	1.52	1.56	1.59	1.64	1.68	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-12
SP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
RANGE	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	41136	42108	43116	44184	45276	46416	47556	48768	49956	51228	52488	53820	Annual
45SP	3428	3509	3593	3682	3773	3868	3963	4064	4163	4269	4374	4485	Monthly
	19.70	20.17	20.65	21.16	21.68	22.23	22.78	23.36	23.93	24.53	25.14	25.78	Hourly
	1.38	1.41	1.45	1.48	1.52	1.56	1.59	1.64	1.68	1.72	1.76	1.80	Standby
	42108	43116	44184	45276	46416	47556	48768	49956	51228	52488	53820	55188	Annual
46SP	3509	3593	3682	3773	3868	3963	4064	4163	4269	4374	4485	4599	Monthly
	20.17	20.65	21.16	21.68	22.23	22.78	23.36	23.93	24.53	25.14	25.78	26.43	Hourly
	1.41	1.45	1.48	1.52	1.56	1.59	1.64	1.68	1.72	1.76	1.80	1.85	Standby
	44184	45276	46416	47556	48768	49956	51228	52488	53820	55188	56520	57924	Annual
48SP	3682	3773	3868	3963	4064	4163	4269	4374	4485	4599	4710	4827	Monthly
	21.16	21.68	22.23	22.78	23.36	23.93	24.53	25.14	25.78	26.43	27.07	27.74	Hourly
	1.48	1.52	1.56	1.59	1.64	1.68	1.72	1.76	1.80	1.85	1.89	1.94	Standby
	45276	46416	47556	48768	49956	51228	52488	53820	55188	56520	57924	59400	Annual
49SP	3773	3868	3963	4064	4163	4269	4374	4485	4599	4710	4827	4950	Monthly
	21.68	22.23	22.78	23.36	23.93	24.53	25.14	25.78	26.43	27.07	27.74	28.45	Hourly
	1.52	1.56	1.59	1.64	1.68	1.72	1.76	1.80	1.85	1.89	1.94	1.99	Standby
	46416	47556	48768	49956	51228	52488	53820	55188	56520	57924	59400	60876	Annual
50SP	3868	3963	4064	4163	4269	4374	4485	4599	4710	4827	4950	5073	Monthly
	22.23	22.78	23.36	23.93	24.53	25.14	25.78	26.43	27.07	27.74	28.45	29.16	Hourly
	1.56	1.59	1.64	1.68	1.72	1.76	1.80	1.85	1.89	1.94	1.99	2.04	Standby
	49956	51228	52488	53820	55188	56520	57924	59400	60876	62436	63972	65568	Annual
53SP	4163	4269	4374	4485	4599	4710	4827	4950	5073	5203	5331	5464	Monthly
	23.93	24.53	25.14	25.78	26.43	27.07	27.74	28.45	29.16	29.90	30.64	31.40	Hourly
	1.68	1.72	1.76	1.80	1.85	1.89	1.94	1.99	2.04	2.09	2.14	2.20	Standby
	55188	56520	57924	59400	60876	62436	63972	65568	67176	68880	70584	72348	Annual
57SP	4599	4710	4827	4950	5073	5203	5331	5464	5598	5740	5882	6029	Monthly
	26.43 1.85	27.07 1.89	27.74 1.94	28.45 1.99	29.16 2.04	29.90 2.09	30.64 2.14	31.40 2.20	32.17 2.25	32.99 2.31	33.80 2.37	34.65 2.43	Hourly Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-13
Appendix D
General Service Salary Schedule
Effective July 1, 2012 through June 29, 2013
Shaded portion no reduction; Unshaded reflects 3% reduction
RANGE	STEP A 18504	STEP B 18900	STEP C 19356	STEP D 19788	STEP E 20244	STEP F 20688	STEP G 21156	STEP H 21636	STEP I 22152	STEP J 22620	STEP K 23148	STEP L	
												23700	Annual
16	1542	1575	1613	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	Monthly
	8.86	9.05	9.27	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	Hourly
	0.62	0.63	0.65	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	Standby
	18900	19356	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	Annual
17	1575	1613	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	Monthly
	9.05	9.27	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	Hourly
	0.63	0.65	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	Standby
	19356	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	Annual
18	1613	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	Monthly
	9.27	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	Hourly
	0.65	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	Standby
	19788	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	Annual
19	1649	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	Monthly
	9.48	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	Hourly
	0.66	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	Standby
	20244	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	Annual
20	1687	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	Monthly
	9.70	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	Hourly
	0.68	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	Standby
	20688	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	Annual
21	1724	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	Monthly
	9.91	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	Hourly
	0.69	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	Standby
	21156	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	Annual
22	1763	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	Monthly
	10.13	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	Hourly
	0.71	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	Standby
	21636	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	Annual
23	1803	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	Monthly
	10.36	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	Hourly
	0.73	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	Standby
	22152	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	Annual
24	1846	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	Monthly
	10.61	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	Hourly
	0.74	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	Standby
	22620	23148	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	Annual
25	1885	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	Monthly
	10.83	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	Hourly
	0.76	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-14
RANGE	STEP A 23148	STEP B 23700	STEP C 24192	STEP D 24816	STEP E 25356	STEP F 25932	STEP G 26544	STEP H 27192	STEP I 27804	STEP J 28440	STEP K 29112	STEP L	
												29784	Annual
26	1929	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	Monthly
	11.09	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	Hourly
	0.78	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	Standby
	23700	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	29592	Annual
27	1975	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2466	Monthly
	11.35	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.17	Hourly
	0.79	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	0.99	Standby
	24192	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	29592	30240	Annual
28	2016	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2466	2520	Monthly
	11.59	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.17	14.48	Hourly
	0.81	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	0.99	1.01	Standby
	24816	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	29592	30240	30996	Annual
29	2068	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2466	2520	2583	Monthly
	11.89	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.17	14.48	14.84	Hourly
	0.83	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	0.99	1.01	1.04	Standby
	25356	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	29592	30240	30996	31704	Annual
30	2113	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2466	2520	2583	2642	Monthly
	12.14	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.17	14.48	14.84	15.18	Hourly
	0.85	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	0.99	1.01	1.04	1.06	Standby
	25932	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	29592	30240	30996	31704	32460	Annual
31	2161	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2466	2520	2583	2642	2705	Monthly
	12.42	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.17	14.48	14.84	15.18	15.55	Hourly
	0.87	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	0.99	1.01	1.04	1.06	1.09	Standby
	26544	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	29592	30240	30996	31704	32460	33228	Annual
32	2212	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2466	2520	2583	2642	2705	2769	Monthly
	12.71	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.17	14.48	14.84	15.18	15.55	15.91	Hourly
	0.89	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	0.99	1.01	1.04	1.06	1.09	1.11	Standby
	27192	27804	28440	29112	29784	29592	30240	30996	31704	32460	33228	33984	Annual
33	2266	2317	2370	2426	2482	2466	2520	2583	2642	2705	2769	2832	Monthly
	13.02	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.17	14.48	14.84	15.18	15.55	15.91	16.28	Hourly
	0.91	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	0.99	1.01	1.04	1.06	1.09	1.11	1.14	Standby
	27804	28440	29112	29784	29592	30240	30996	31704	32460	33228	33984	34848	Annual
34	2317	2370	2426	2482	2466	2520	2583	2642	2705	2769	2832	2904	Monthly
	13.32	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.17	14.48	14.84	15.18	15.55	15.91	16.28	16.69	Hourly
	0.93	0.95	0.98	1.00	0.99	1.01	1.04	1.06	1.09	1.11	1.14	1.17	Standby
	28440	29112	29784	29592	30240	30996	31704	32460	33228	33984	34848	35652	Annual
35	2370	2426	2482	2466	2520	2583	2642	2705	2769	2832	2904	2971	Monthly
	13.62	13.94	14.26	14.17	14.48	14.84	15.18	15.55	15.91	16.28	16.69	17.07	Hourly
	0.95	0.98	1.00	0.99	1.01	1.04	1.06	1.09	1.11	1.14	1.17	1.19	Standby
	29112	29784	29592	30240	30996	31704	32460	33228	33984	34848	35652	36492	Annual
36	2426	2482	2466	2520	2583	2642	2705	2769	2832	2904	2971	3041	Monthly
	13.94	14.26	14.17	14.48	14.84	15.18	15.55	15.91	16.28	16.69	17.07	17.48	Hourly
	0.98	1.00	0.99	1.01	1.04	1.06	1.09	1.11	1.14	1.17	1.19	1.22	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-15
RANGE	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	29784	29592	30240	30996	31704	32460	33228	33984	34848	35652	36492	37404	Annual
37	2482	2466	2520	2583	2642	2705	2769	2832	2904	2971	3041	3117	Monthly
	14.26	14.17	14.48	14.84	15.18	15.55	15.91	16.28	16.69	17.07	17.48	17.91	Hourly
	1.00	0.99	1.01	1.04	1.06	1.09	1.11	1.14	1.17	1.19	1.22	1.25	Standby
	29592	30240	30996	31704	32460	33228	33984	34848	35652	36492	37404	38328	Annual
38	2466	2520	2583	2642	2705	2769	2832	2904	2971	3041	3117	3194	Monthly
	14.17	14.48	14.84	15.18	15.55	15.91	16.28	16.69	17.07	17.48	17.91	18.36	Hourly
	0.99	1.01	1.04	1.06	1.09	1.11	1.14	1.17	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.29	Standby
	30240	30996	31704	32460	33228	33984	34848	35652	36492	37404	38328	39312	Annual
39	2520	2583	2642	2705	2769	2832	2904	2971	3041	3117	3194	3276	Monthly
	14.48	14.84	15.18	15.55	15.91	16.28	16.69	17.07	17.48	17.91	18.36	18.83	Hourly
	1.01	1.04	1.06	1.09	1.11	1.14	1.17	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.29	1.32	Standby
	30996	31704	32460	33228	33984	34848	35652	36492	37404	38328	39312	40260	Annual
40	2583	2642	2705	2769	2832	2904	2971	3041	3117	3194	3276	3355	Monthly
	14.84	15.18	15.55	15.91	16.28	16.69	17.07	17.48	17.91	18.36	18.83	19.28	Hourly
	1.04	1.06	1.09	1.11	1.14	1.17	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.29	1.32	1.35	Standby
	31704	32460	33228	33984	34848	35652	36492	37404	38328	39312	40260	41316	Annual
41	2642	2705	2769	2832	2904	2971	3041	3117	3194	3276	3355	3443	Monthly
	15.18	15.55	15.91	16.28	16.69	17.07	17.48	17.91	18.36	18.83	19.28	19.79	Hourly
	1.06	1.09	1.11	1.14	1.17	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.29	1.32	1.35	1.39	Standby
	32460	33228	33984	34848	35652	36492	37404	38328	39312	40260	41316	42264	Annual
42	2705	2769	2832	2904	2971	3041	3117	3194	3276	3355	3443	3522	Monthly
	15.55	15.91	16.28	16.69	17.07	17.48	17.91	18.36	18.83	19.28	19.79	20.24	Hourly
	1.09	1.11	1.14	1.17	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.29	1.32	1.35	1.39	1.42	Standby
	33228	33984	34848	35652	36492	37404	38328	39312	40260	41316	42264	43368	Annual
43	2769	2832	2904	2971	3041	3117	3194	3276	3355	3443	3522	3614	Monthly
	15.91	16.28	16.69	17.07	17.48	17.91	18.36	18.83	19.28	19.79	20.24	20.77	Hourly
	1.11	1.14	1.17	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.29	1.32	1.35	1.39	1.42	1.45	Standby
	33984	34848	35652	36492	37404	38328	39312	40260	41316	42264	43368	44448	Annual
44	2832	2904	2971	3041	3117	3194	3276	3355	3443	3522	3614	3704	Monthly
	16.28	16.69	17.07	17.48	17.91	18.36	18.83	19.28	19.79	20.24	20.77	21.29	Hourly
	1.14	1.17	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.29	1.32	1.35	1.39	1.42	1.45	1.49	Standby
	34848	35652	36492	37404	38328	39312	40260	41316	42264	43368	44448	45600	Annual
45	2904	2971	3041	3117	3194	3276	3355	3443	3522	3614	3704	3800	Monthly
	16.69	17.07	17.48	17.91	18.36	18.83	19.28	19.79	20.24	20.77	21.29	21.84	Hourly
	1.17	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.29	1.32	1.35	1.39	1.42	1.45	1.49	1.53	Standby
	35652	36492	37404	38328	39312	40260	41316	42264	43368	44448	45600	46728	Annual
46	2971	3041	3117	3194	3276	3355	3443	3522	3614	3704	3800	3894	Monthly
	17.07	17.48	17.91	18.36	18.83	19.28	19.79	20.24	20.77	21.29	21.84	22.38	Hourly
	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.29	1.32	1.35	1.39	1.42	1.45	1.49	1.53	1.57	Standby
	36492	37404	38328	39312	40260	41316	42264	43368	44448	45600	46728	47892	Annual
47	3041	3117	3194	3276	3355	3443	3522	3614	3704	3800	3894	3991	Monthly
	17.48	17.91	18.36	18.83	19.28	19.79	20.24	20.77	21.29	21.84	22.38	22.94	Hourly
	1.22	1.25	1.29	1.32	1.35	1.39	1.42	1.45	1.49	1.53	1.57	1.61	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-16
RANGE	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	37404	38328	39312	40260	41316	42264	43368	44448	45600	46728	47892	49056	Annual
48	3117	3194	3276	3355	3443	3522	3614	3704	3800	3894	3991	4088	Monthly
	17.91	18.36	18.83	19.28	19.79	20.24	20.77	21.29	21.84	22.38	22.94	23.49	Hourly
	1.25	1.29	1.32	1.35	1.39	1.42	1.45	1.49	1.53	1.57	1.61	1.64	Standby
	38328	39312	40260	41316	42264	43368	44448	45600	46728	47892	49056	50304	Annual
49	3194	3276	3355	3443	3522	3614	3704	3800	3894	3991	4088	4192	Monthly
	18.36	18.83	19.28	19.79	20.24	20.77	21.29	21.84	22.38	22.94	23.49	24.09	Hourly
	1.29	1.32	1.35	1.39	1.42	1.45	1.49	1.53	1.57	1.61	1.64	1.69	Standby
	39312	40260	41316	42264	43368	44448	45600	46728	47892	49056	50304	51552	Annual
50	3276	3355	3443	3522	3614	3704	3800	3894	3991	4088	4192	4296	Monthly
	18.83	19.28	19.79	20.24	20.77	21.29	21.84	22.38	22.94	23.49	24.09	24.69	Hourly
	1.32	1.35	1.39	1.42	1.45	1.49	1.53	1.57	1.61	1.64	1.69	1.73	Standby
	40260	41316	42264	43368	44448	45600	46728	47892	49056	50304	51552	52872	Annual
51	3355	3443	3522	3614	3704	3800	3894	3991	4088	4192	4296	4406	Monthly
	19.28	19.79	20.24	20.77	21.29	21.84	22.38	22.94	23.49	24.09	24.69	25.32	Hourly
	1.35	1.39	1.42	1.45	1.49	1.53	1.57	1.61	1.64	1.69	1.73	1.77	Standby
	41316	42264	43368	44448	45600	46728	47892	49056	50304	51552	52872	54156	Annual
52	3443	3522	3614	3704	3800	3894	3991	4088	4192	4296	4406	4513	Monthly
	19.79	20.24	20.77	21.29	21.84	22.38	22.94	23.49	24.09	24.69	25.32	25.94	Hourly
	1.39	1.42	1.45	1.49	1.53	1.57	1.61	1.64	1.69	1.73	1.77	1.82	Standby
	42264	43368	44448	45600	46728	47892	49056	50304	51552	52872	54156	55524	Annual
53	3522	3614	3704	3800	3894	3991	4088	4192	4296	4406	4513	4627	Monthly
	20.24	20.77	21.29	21.84	22.38	22.94	23.49	24.09	24.69	25.32	25.94	26.59	Hourly
	1.42	1.45	1.49	1.53	1.57	1.61	1.64	1.69	1.73	1.77	1.82	1.86	Standby
	43368	44448	45600	46728	47892	49056	50304	51552	52872	54156	55524	56892	Annual
54	3614	3704	3800	3894	3991	4088	4192	4296	4406	4513	4627	4741	Monthly
	20.77	21.29	21.84	22.38	22.94	23.49	24.09	24.69	25.32	25.94	26.59	27.25	Hourly
	1.45	1.49	1.53	1.57	1.61	1.64	1.69	1.73	1.77	1.82	1.86	1.91	Standby
	44448	45600	46728	47892	49056	50304	51552	52872	54156	55524	56892	58320	Annual
55	3704	3800	3894	3991	4088	4192	4296	4406	4513	4627	4741	4860	Monthly
	21.29	21.84	22.38	22.94	23.49	24.09	24.69	25.32	25.94	26.59	27.25	27.93	Hourly
	1.49	1.53	1.57	1.61	1.64	1.69	1.73	1.77	1.82	1.86	1.91	1.96	Standby
	45600	46728	47892	49056	50304	51552	52872	54156	55524	56892	58320	59784	Annual
56	3800	3894	3991	4088	4192	4296	4406	4513	4627	4741	4860	4982	Monthly
	21.84	22.38	22.94	23.49	24.09	24.69	25.32	25.94	26.59	27.25	27.93	28.63	Hourly
	1.53	1.57	1.61	1.64	1.69	1.73	1.77	1.82	1.86	1.91	1.96	2.00	Standby
	46728	47892	49056	50304	51552	52872	54156	55524	56892	58320	59784	61296	Annual
57	3894	3991	4088	4192	4296	4406	4513	4627	4741	4860	4982	5108	Monthly
	22.38	22.94	23.49	24.09	24.69	25.32	25.94	26.59	27.25	27.93	28.63	29.36	Hourly
	1.57	1.61	1.64	1.69	1.73	1.77	1.82	1.86	1.91	1.96	2.00	2.06	Standby
	47892	49056	50304	51552	52872	54156	55524	56892	58320	59784	61296	62796	Annual
58	3991	4088	4192	4296	4406	4513	4627	4741	4860	4982	5108	5233	Monthly
	22.94	23.49	24.09	24.69	25.32	25.94	26.59	27.25	27.93	28.63	29.36	30.07	Hourly
	1.61	1.64	1.69	1.73	1.77	1.82	1.86	1.91	1.96	2.00	2.06	2.10	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-17
RANGE	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	49056	50304	51552	52872	54156	55524	56892	58320	59784	61296	62796	64428	Annual
59	4088	4192	4296	4406	4513	4627	4741	4860	4982	5108	5233	5369	Monthly
	23.49	24.09	24.69	25.32	25.94	26.59	27.25	27.93	28.63	29.36	30.07	30.86	Hourly
	1.64	1.69	1.73	1.77	1.82	1.86	1.91	1.96	2.00	2.06	2.10	2.16	Standby
	50304	51552	52872	54156	55524	56892	58320	59784	61296	62796	64428	65976	Annual
60	4192	4296	4406	4513	4627	4741	4860	4982	5108	5233	5369	5498	Monthly
	24.09	24.69	25.32	25.94	26.59	27.25	27.93	28.63	29.36	30.07	30.86	31.60	Hourly
	1.69	1.73	1.77	1.82	1.86	1.91	1.96	2.00	2.06	2.10	2.16	2.21	Standby
	51552	52872	54156	55524	56892	58320	59784	61296	62796	64428	65976	67668	Annual
61	4296	4406	4513	4627	4741	4860	4982	5108	5233	5369	5498	5639	Monthly
	24.69	25.32	25.94	26.59	27.25	27.93	28.63	29.36	30.07	30.86	31.60	32.41	Hourly
	1.73	1.77	1.82	1.86	1.91	1.96	2.00	2.06	2.10	2.16	2.21	2.27	Standby
	52872	54156	55524	56892	58320	59784	61296	62796	64428	65976	67668	69348	Annual
62	4406	4513	4627	4741	4860	4982	5108	5233	5369	5498	5639	5779	Monthly
	25.32	25.94	26.59	27.25	27.93	28.63	29.36	30.07	30.86	31.60	32.41	33.21	Hourly
	1.77	1.82	1.86	1.91	1.96	2.00	2.06	2.10	2.16	2.21	2.27	2.32	Standby
	54156	55524	56892	58320	59784	61296	62796	64428	65976	67668	69348	71064	Annual
63	4513	4627	4741	4860	4982	5108	5233	5369	5498	5639	5779	5922	Monthly
	25.94	26.59	27.25	27.93	28.63	29.36	30.07	30.86	31.60	32.41	33.21	34.03	Hourly
	1.82	1.86	1.91	1.96	2.00	2.06	2.10	2.16	2.21	2.27	2.32	2.38	Standby
	55524	56892	58320	59784	61296	62796	64428	65976	67668	69348	71064	72828	Annual
64	4627	4741	4860	4982	5108	5233	5369	5498	5639	5779	5922	6069	Monthly
	26.59	27.25	27.93	28.63	29.36	30.07	30.86	31.60	32.41	33.21	34.03	34.88	Hourly
	1.86	1.91	1.96	2.00	2.06	2.10	2.16	2.21	2.27	2.32	2.38	2.44	Standby
	56892	58320	59784	61296	62796	64428	65976	67668	69348	71064	72828	74688	Annual
65	4741	4860	4982	5108	5233	5369	5498	5639	5779	5922	6069	6224	Monthly
	27.25	27.93	28.63	29.36	30.07	30.86	31.60	32.41	33.21	34.03	34.88	35.77	Hourly
	1.91	1.96	2.00	2.06	2.10	2.16	2.21	2.27	2.32	2.38	2.44	2.50	Standby
	58320	59784	61296	62796	64428	65976	67668	69348	71064	72828	74688	76536	Annual
66	4860	4982	5108	5233	5369	5498	5639	5779	5922	6069	6224	6378	Monthly
	27.93	28.63	29.36	30.07	30.86	31.60	32.41	33.21	34.03	34.88	35.77	36.66	Hourly
	1.96	2.00	2.06	2.10	2.16	2.21	2.27	2.32	2.38	2.44	2.50	2.57	Standby
	59784	61296	62796	64428	65976	67668	69348	71064	72828	74688	76536	78468	Annual
67	4982	5108	5233	5369	5498	5639	5779	5922	6069	6224	6378	6539	Monthly
	28.63	29.36	30.07	30.86	31.60	32.41	33.21	34.03	34.88	35.77	36.66	37.58	Hourly
	2.00	2.06	2.10	2.16	2.21	2.27	2.32	2.38	2.44	2.50	2.57	2.63	Standby
	61296	62796	64428	65976	67668	69348	71064	72828	74688	76536	78468	80412	Annual
68	5108	5233	5369	5498	5639	5779	5922	6069	6224	6378	6539	6701	Monthly
	29.36	30.07	30.86	31.60	32.41	33.21	34.03	34.88	35.77	36.66	37.58	38.51	Hourly
	2.06	2.10	2.16	2.21	2.27	2.32	2.38	2.44	2.50	2.57	2.63	2.70	Standby
	62796	64428	65976	67668	69348	71064	72828	74688	76536	78468	80412	82440	Annual
69	5233	5369	5498	5639	5779	5922	6069	6224	6378	6539	6701	6870	Monthly
	30.07	30.86	31.60	32.41	33.21	34.03	34.88	35.77	36.66	37.58	38.51	39.48	Hourly
	2.10	2.16	2.21	2.27	2.32	2.38	2.44	2.50	2.57	2.63	2.70	2.76	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-18
RANGE	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	64428	65976	67668	69348	71064	72828	74688	76536	78468	80412	82440	84480	Annual
70	5369	5498	5639	5779	5922	6069	6224	6378	6539	6701	6870	7040	Monthly
	30.86	31.60	32.41	33.21	34.03	34.88	35.77	36.66	37.58	38.51	39.48	40.46	Hourly
	2.16	2.21	2.27	2.32	2.38	2.44	2.50	2.57	2.63	2.70	2.76	2.83	Standby
	65976	67668	69348	71064	72828	74688	76536	78468	80412	82440	84480	86604	Annual
71	5498	5639	5779	5922	6069	6224	6378	6539	6701	6870	7040	7217	Monthly
	31.60	32.41	33.21	34.03	34.88	35.77	36.66	37.58	38.51	39.48	40.46	41.48	Hourly
	2.21	2.27	2.32	2.38	2.44	2.50	2.57	2.63	2.70	2.76	2.83	2.90	Standby
	67668	69348	71064	72828	74688	76536	78468	80412	82440	84480	86604	88776	Annual
72	5639	5779	5922	6069	6224	6378	6539	6701	6870	7040	7217	7398	Monthly
	32.41	33.21	34.03	34.88	35.77	36.66	37.58	38.51	39.48	40.46	41.48	42.52	Hourly
	2.27	2.32	2.38	2.44	2.50	2.57	2.63	2.70	2.76	2.83	2.90	2.98	Standby
	69348	71064	72828	74688	76536	78468	80412	82440	84480	86604	88776	90996	Annual
73	5779	5922	6069	6224	6378	6539	6701	6870	7040	7217	7398	7583	Monthly
	33.21	34.03	34.88	35.77	36.66	37.58	38.51	39.48	40.46	41.48	42.52	43.58	Hourly
	2.32	2.38	2.44	2.50	2.57	2.63	2.70	2.76	2.83	2.90	2.98	3.05	Standby
	71064	72828	74688	76536	78468	80412	82440	84480	86604	88776	90996	93264	Annual
74	5922	6069	6224	6378	6539	6701	6870	7040	7217	7398	7583	7772	Monthly
	34.03	34.88	35.77	36.66	37.58	38.51	39.48	40.46	41.48	42.52	43.58	44.67	Hourly
	2.38	2.44	2.50	2.57	2.63	2.70	2.76	2.83	2.90	2.98	3.05	3.13	Standby
	72828	74688	76536	78468	80412	82440	84480	86604	88776	90996	93264	95628	Annual
75	6069	6224	6378	6539	6701	6870	7040	7217	7398	7583	7772	7969	Monthly
	34.88	35.77	36.66	37.58	38.51	39.48	40.46	41.48	42.52	43.58	44.67	45.80	Hourly
	2.44	2.50	2.57	2.63	2.70	2.76	2.83	2.90	2.98	3.05	3.13	3.21	Standby
	74688	76536	78468	80412	82440	84480	86604	88776	90996	93264	95628	97968	Annual
76	6224	6378	6539	6701	6870	7040	7217	7398	7583	7772	7969	8164	Monthly
	35.77	36.66	37.58	38.51	39.48	40.46	41.48	42.52	43.58	44.67	45.80	46.92	Hourly
	2.50	2.57	2.63	2.70	2.76	2.83	2.90	2.98	3.05	3.13	3.21	3.28	Standby
	76536	78468	80412	82440	84480	86604	88776	90996	93264	95628	97968	100416	Annual
77	6378	6539	6701	6870	7040	7217	7398	7583	7772	7969	8164	8368	Monthly
	36.66	37.58	38.51	39.48	40.46	41.48	42.52	43.58	44.67	45.80	46.92	48.09	Hourly
	2.57	2.63	2.70	2.76	2.83	2.90	2.98	3.05	3.13	3.21	3.28	3.37	Standby
	78468	80412	82440	84480	86604	88776	90996	93264	95628	97968	100416	102948	Annual
78	6539	6701	6870	7040	7217	7398	7583	7772	7969	8164	8368	8579	Monthly
	37.58	38.51	39.48	40.46	41.48	42.52	43.58	44.67	45.80	46.92	48.09	49.30	Hourly
	2.63	2.70	2.76	2.83	2.90	2.98	3.05	3.13	3.21	3.28	3.37	3.45	Standby
	80412	82440	84480	86604	88776	90996	93264	95628	97968	100416	102948	105528	Annual
79	6701	6870	7040	7217	7398	7583	7772	7969	8164	8368	8579	8794	Monthly
	38.51	39.48	40.46	41.48	42.52	43.58	44.67	45.80	46.92	48.09	49.30	50.54	Hourly
	2.70	2.76	2.83	2.90	2.98	3.05	3.13	3.21	3.28	3.37	3.45	3.54	Standby
	82440	84480	86604	88776	90996	93264	95628	97968	100416	102948	105528	108120	Annual
80	6870	7040	7217	7398	7583	7772	7969	8164	8368	8579	8794	9010	Monthly
	39.48	40.46	41.48	42.52	43.58	44.67	45.80	46.92	48.09	49.30	50.54	51.78	Hourly
	2.76	2.83	2.90	2.98	3.05	3.13	3.21	3.28	3.37	3.45	3.54	3.62	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-19
RANGE	STEP A 84480	STEP B 86604	STEP C 88776	STEP D 90996	STEP E 93264	STEP F 95628	STEP G 97968	STEP H 100416	STEP I 102948	STEP J 105528	STEP K 108120	STEP L 110820	Annual
81	7040	7217	7398	7583	7772	7969	8164	8368	8579	8794	9010	9235	Monthly
	40.46	41.48	42.52	43.58	44.67	45.80	46.92	48.09	49.30	50.54	51.78	53.07	Hourly
	2.83	2.90	2.98	3.05	3.13	3.21	3.28	3.37	3.45	3.54	3.62	3.71	Standby
	86604	88776	90996	93264	95628	97968	100416	102948	105528	108120	110820	113616	Annual
82	7217	7398	7583	7772	7969	8164	8368	8579	8794	9010	9235	9468	Monthly
	41.48	42.52	43.58	44.67	45.80	46.92	48.09	49.30	50.54	51.78	53.07	54.41	Hourly
	2.90	2.98	3.05	3.13	3.21	3.28	3.37	3.45	3.54	3.62	3.71	3.81	Standby
	88776	90996	93264	95628	97968	100416	102948	105528	108120	110820	113616	116448	Annual
83	7398	7583	7772	7969	8164	8368	8579	8794	9010	9235	9468	9704	Monthly
	42.52	43.58	44.67	45.80	46.92	48.09	49.30	50.54	51.78	53.07	54.41	55.77	Hourly
	2.98	3.05	3.13	3.21	3.28	3.37	3.45	3.54	3.62	3.71	3.81	3.90	Standby
	90996	93264	95628	97968	100416	102948	105528	108120	110820	113616	116448	119340	Annual
84	7583	7772	7969	8164	8368	8579	8794	9010	9235	9468	9704	9945	Monthly
	43.58	44.67	45.80	46.92	48.09	49.30	50.54	51.78	53.07	54.41	55.77	57.16	Hourly
	3.05	3.13	3.21	3.28	3.37	3.45	3.54	3.62	3.71	3.81	3.90	4.00	Standby
	93264	95628	97968	100416	102948	105528	108120	110820	113616	116448	119340	122376	Annual
85	7772	7969	8164	8368	8579	8794	9010	9235	9468	9704	9945	10198	Monthly
	44.67	45.80	46.92	48.09	49.30	50.54	51.78	53.07	54.41	55.77	57.16	58.61	Hourly
	3.13	3.21	3.28	3.37	3.45	3.54	3.62	3.71	3.81	3.90	4.00	4.10	Standby
	95628	97968	100416	102948	105528	108120	110820	113616	116448	119340	122376	125376	Annual
86	7969	8164	8368	8579	8794	9010	9235	9468	9704	9945	10198	10448	Monthly
	45.80	46.92	48.09	49.30	50.54	51.78	53.07	54.41	55.77	57.16	58.61	60.05	Hourly
	3.21	3.28	3.37	3.45	3.54	3.62	3.71	3.81	3.90	4.00	4.10	4.20	Standby
	97968	100416	102948	105528	108120	110820	113616	116448	119340	122376	125376	128556	Annual
87	8164	8368	8579	8794	9010	9235	9468	9704	9945	10198	10448	10713	Monthly
	46.92	48.09	49.30	50.54	51.78	53.07	54.41	55.77	57.16	58.61	60.05	61.57	Hourly
	3.28	3.37	3.45	3.54	3.62	3.71	3.81	3.90	4.00	4.10	4.20	4.31	Standby
	100416	102948	105528	108120	110820	113616	116448	119340	122376	125376	128556	131784	Annual
88	8368	8579	8794	9010	9235	9468	9704	9945	10198	10448	10713	10982	Monthly
	48.09	49.30	50.54	51.78	53.07	54.41	55.77	57.16	58.61	60.05	61.57	63.11	Hourly
	3.37	3.45	3.54	3.62	3.71	3.81	3.90	4.00	4.10	4.20	4.31	4.42	Standby
	102948	105528	108120	110820	113616	116448	119340	122376	125376	128556	131784	135072	Annual
89	8579	8794	9010	9235	9468	9704	9945	10198	10448	10713	10982	11256	Monthly
	49.30	50.54	51.78	53.07	54.41	55.77	57.16	58.61	60.05	61.57	63.11	64.69	Hourly
	3.45	3.54	3.62	3.71	3.81	3.90	4.00	4.10	4.20	4.31	4.42	4.53	Standby
	105528	108120	110820	113616	116448	119340	122376	125376	128556	131784	135072	138468	Annual
90	8794	9010	9235	9468	9704	9945	10198	10448	10713	10982	11256	11539	Monthly
	50.54	51.78	53.07	54.41	55.77	57.16	58.61	60.05	61.57	63.11	64.69	66.32	Hourly
	3.54	3.62	3.71	3.81	3.90	4.00	4.10	4.20	4.31	4.42	4.53	4.64	Standby
	108120	110820	113616	116448	119340	122376	125376	128556	131784	135072	138468	141876	Annual
91	9010	9235	9468	9704	9945	10198	10448	10713	10982	11256	11539	11823	Monthly
	51.78	53.07	54.41	55.77	57.16	58.61	60.05	61.57	63.11	64.69	66.32	67.95	Hourly
	3.62	3.71	3.81	3.90	4.00	4.10	4.20	4.31	4.42	4.53	4.64	4.76	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-20
RANGE 92	STEP A 110820 9235 53.07 3.71	STEP B 113616 9468 54.41 3.81	STEP C 116448 9704 55.77 3.90	STEP D 119340 9945 57.16 4.00	STEP E 122376 10198 58.61 4.10	STEP F 125376 10448 60.05 4.20	STEP G 128556 10713 61.57 4.31	STEP H 131784 10982 63.11 4.42	STEP I 135072 11256 64.69 4.53	STEP J 138468 11539 66.32 4.64	STEP K 141876 11823 67.95 4.76	STEP L	
												145452 12121 69.66 4.88	Annual Monthly Hourly Standby
	113616	116448	119340	122376	125376	128556	131784	135072	138468	141876	145452	149076	Annual
93	9468	9704	9945	10198	10448	10713	10982	11256	11539	11823	12121	12423	Monthly
	54.41	55.77	57.16	58.61	60.05	61.57	63.11	64.69	66.32	67.95	69.66	71.40	Hourly
	3.81	3.90	4.00	4.10	4.20	4.31	4.42	4.53	4.64	4.76	4.88	5.00	Standby
	116448	119340	122376	125376	128556	131784	135072	138468	141876	145452	149076	152844	Annual
94	9704	9945	10198	10448	10713	10982	11256	11539	11823	12121	12423	12737	Monthly
	55.77	57.16	58.61	60.05	61.57	63.11	64.69	66.32	67.95	69.66	71.40	73.20	Hourly
	3.90	4.00	4.10	4.20	4.31	4.42	4.53	4.64	4.76	4.88	5.00	5.12	Standby
	119340	122376	125376	128556	131784	135072	138468	141876	145452	149076	152844	156624	Annual
95	9945	10198	10448	10713	10982	11256	11539	11823	12121	12423	12737	13052	Monthly
	57.16	58.61	60.05	61.57	63.11	64.69	66.32	67.95	69.66	71.40	73.20	75.01	Hourly
	4.00	4.10	4.20	4.31	4.42	4.53	4.64	4.76	4.88	5.00	5.12	5.25	Standby
	122376	125376	128556	131784	135072	138468	141876	145452	149076	152844	156624	160560	Annual
96	10198	10448	10713	10982	11256	11539	11823	12121	12423	12737	13052	13380	Monthly
	58.61	60.05	61.57	63.11	64.69	66.32	67.95	69.66	71.40	73.20	75.01	76.90	Hourly
	4.10	4.20	4.31	4.42	4.53	4.64	4.76	4.88	5.00	5.12	5.25	5.38	Standby
	125376	128556	131784	135072	138468	141876	145452	149076	152844	156624	160560	164592	Annual
97	10448	10713	10982	11256	11539	11823	12121	12423	12737	13052	13380	13716	Monthly
	60.05	61.57	63.11	64.69	66.32	67.95	69.66	71.40	73.20	75.01	76.90	78.83	Hourly
	4.20	4.31	4.42	4.53	4.64	4.76	4.88	5.00	5.12	5.25	5.38	5.52	Standby
	128556	131784	135072	138468	141876	145452	149076	152844	156624	160560	164592	168708	Annual
98	10713	10982	11256	11539	11823	12121	12423	12737	13052	13380	13716	14059	Monthly
	61.57	63.11	64.69	66.32	67.95	69.66	71.40	73.20	75.01	76.90	78.83	80.80	Hourly
	4.31	4.42	4.53	4.64	4.76	4.88	5.00	5.12	5.25	5.38	5.52	5.66	Standby
	131784	135072	138468	141876	145452	149076	152844	156624	160560	164592	168708	172920	Annual
99	10982	11256	11539	11823	12121	12423	12737	13052	13380	13716	14059	14410	Monthly
	63.11	64.69	66.32	67.95	69.66	71.40	73.20	75.01	76.90	78.83	80.80	82.82	Hourly
	4.42	4.53	4.64	4.76	4.88	5.00	5.12	5.25	5.38	5.52	5.66	5.80	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-21
Appendix E
SP Range Salary Schedule for Represented Employees Effective July 1, 2012 through June 29, 2013 Reflects 3% Reduction
SP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
RANGE	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	31620	32340	33096	33900	34668	35508	36324	37164	38052	38940	39900	40848	Annual
35SP	2635	2695	2758	2825	2889	2959	3027	3097	3171	3245	3325	3404	Monthly
	15.14	15.49	15.85	16.24	16.60	17.01	17.40	17.80	18.22	18.65	19.11	19.56	Hourly
	1.06	1.08	1.11	1.14	1.16	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.28	1.31	1.34	1.37	Standby
	32340	33096	33900	34668	35508	36324	37164	38052	38940	39900	40848	41820	Annual
36SP	2695	2758	2825	2889	2959	3027	3097	3171	3245	3325	3404	3485	Monthly
	15.49	15.85	16.24	16.60	17.01	17.40	17.80	18.22	18.65	19.11	19.56	20.03	Hourly
	1.08	1.11	1.14	1.16	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.28	1.31	1.34	1.37	1.40	Standby
	33096	33900	34668	35508	36324	37164	38052	38940	39900	40848	41820	42864	Annual
37SP	2758	2825	2889	2959	3027	3097	3171	3245	3325	3404	3485	3572	Monthly
	15.85	16.24	16.60	17.01	17.40	17.80	18.22	18.65	19.11	19.56	20.03	20.53	Hourly
	1.11	1.14	1.16	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.28	1.31	1.34	1.37	1.40	1.44	Standby
	33900	34668	35508	36324	37164	38052	38940	39900	40848	41820	42864	43920	Annual
38SP	2825	2889	2959	3027	3097	3171	3245	3325	3404	3485	3572	3660	Monthly
	16.24	16.60	17.01	17.40	17.80	18.22	18.65	19.11	19.56	20.03	20.53	21.03	Hourly
	1.14	1.16	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.28	1.31	1.34	1.37	1.40	1.44	1.47	Standby
	35508	36324	37164	38052	38940	39900	40848	41820	42864	43920	45024	46128	Annual
40SP	2959	3027	3097	3171	3245	3325	3404	3485	3572	3660	3752	3844	Monthly
	17.01	17.40	17.80	18.22	18.65	19.11	19.56	20.03	20.53	21.03	21.56	22.09	Hourly
	1.19	1.22	1.25	1.28	1.31	1.34	1.37	1.40	1.44	1.47	1.51	1.55	Standby
	36324	37164	38052	38940	39900	40848	41820	42864	43920	45024	46128	47304	Annual
41SP	3027	3097	3171	3245	3325	3404	3485	3572	3660	3752	3844	3942	Monthly
	17.40	17.80	18.22	18.65	19.11	19.56	20.03	20.53	21.03	21.56	22.09	22.66	Hourly
	1.22	1.25	1.28	1.31	1.34	1.37	1.40	1.44	1.47	1.51	1.55	1.59	Standby
	37164	38052	38940	39900	40848	41820	42864	43920	45024	46128	47304	48456	Annual
42SP	3097	3171	3245	3325	3404	3485	3572	3660	3752	3844	3942	4038	Monthly
	17.80	18.22	18.65	19.11	19.56	20.03	20.53	21.03	21.56	22.09	22.66	23.21	Hourly
	1.25	1.28	1.31	1.34	1.37	1.40	1.44	1.47	1.51	1.55	1.59	1.62	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-22
SP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
RANGE	A	B	C	D	E	F	G	H	I	J	K	L	
	39900	40848	41820	42864	43920	45024	46128	47304	48456	49692	50916	52200	Annual
45SP	3325	3404	3485	3572	3660	3752	3844	3942	4038	4141	4243	4350	Monthly
	19.11	19.56	20.03	20.53	21.03	21.56	22.09	22.66	23.21	23.80	24.39	25.00	Hourly
	1.34	1.37	1.40	1.44	1.47	1.51	1.55	1.59	1.62	1.67	1.71	1.75	Standby
	40848	41820	42864	43920	45024	46128	47304	48456	49692	50916	52200	53532	Annual
46SP	3404	3485	3572	3660	3752	3844	3942	4038	4141	4243	4350	4461	Monthly
	19.56	20.03	20.53	21.03	21.56	22.09	22.66	23.21	23.80	24.39	25.00	25.64	Hourly
	1.37	1.40	1.44	1.47	1.51	1.55	1.59	1.62	1.67	1.71	1.75	1.79	Standby
	42864	43920	45024	46128	47304	48456	49692	50916	52200	53532	54828	56184	Annual
48SP	3572	3660	3752	3844	3942	4038	4141	4243	4350	4461	4569	4682	Monthly
	20.53	21.03	21.56	22.09	22.66	23.21	23.80	24.39	25.00	25.64	26.26	26.91	Hourly
	1.44	1.47	1.51	1.55	1.59	1.62	1.67	1.71	1.75	1.79	1.84	1.88	Standby
	43920	45024	46128	47304	48456	49692	50916	52200	53532	54828	56184	57624	Annual
49SP	3660	3752	3844	3942	4038	4141	4243	4350	4461	4569	4682	4802	Monthly
	21.03	21.56	22.09	22.66	23.21	23.80	24.39	25.00	25.64	26.26	26.91	27.60	Hourly
	1.47	1.51	1.55	1.59	1.62	1.67	1.71	1.75	1.79	1.84	1.88	1.93	Standby
	45024	46128	47304	48456	49692	50916	52200	53532	54828	56184	57624	59052	Annual
50SP	3752	3844	3942	4038	4141	4243	4350	4461	4569	4682	4802	4921	Monthly
	21.56	22.09	22.66	23.21	23.80	24.39	25.00	25.64	26.26	26.91	27.60	28.28	Hourly
	1.51	1.55	1.59	1.62	1.67	1.71	1.75	1.79	1.84	1.88	1.93	1.98	Standby
	48456	49692	50916	52200	53532	54828	56184	57624	59052	60564	62052	63600	Annual
53SP	4038	4141	4243	4350	4461	4569	4682	4802	4921	5047	5171	5300	Monthly
	23.21	23.80	24.39	25.00	25.64	26.26	26.91	27.60	28.28	29.01	29.72	30.46	Hourly
	1.62	1.67	1.71	1.75	1.79	1.84	1.88	1.93	1.98	2.03	2.08	2.13	Standby
	53532	54828	56184	57624	59052	60564	62052	63600	65160	66816	68472	70176	Annual
57SP	4461	4569	4682	4802	4921	5047	5171	5300	5430	5568	5706	5848	Monthly
	25.64	26.26	26.91	27.60	28.28	29.01	29.72	30.46	31.21	32.00	32.79	33.61	Hourly
	1.79	1.84	1.88	1.93	1.98	2.03	2.08	2.13	2.18	2.24	2.30	2.35	Standby
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-23
Appendix F
Assignment Pay
Assignment Pay (AP) is granted in recognition of assigned duties, which exceed ordinary conditions. The "premium" is stated in ranges or a specific dollar amount. If stated in ranges, the number of ranges would be added to the base range of the class. The "reference number" indicates the specific conditions for which AP is to be paid.
Group A indicates those classes which have been granted assignment pay; Group B indicates those assigned duties granted AP which are not class specific; Group C applies only to Ref #29.
GROUP A			
Class Title	Class Code	Premium	Reference #
Comp. Oper. Analyst 2	481F	2 ranges	30
Heavy Equipment Operator	618J	4 ranges	12
Info Technology Technician 2	481B	2 ranges	30
Retail Manager 3	229C	2 ranges	15
Retail Manager 4	229D	2 ranges	15
Revenue Auditor 1	155A	4 ranges	10
Revenue Auditor 2	155B	4 ranges	10
Revenue Auditor 3	155C	See Reference	10, 30
Security Guard 2	385L	4 ranges	34
Security Guard 3	385M	4 ranges	34
Truck Driver 1	632I	4 ranges	12
Truck Driver 2	632J	4 ranges	12
Liquor Enforcement Officer 1	390F	See Reference	44
Liquor Enforcement Officer 2	390G	See Reference	44
Liquor Enforcement Officer 3	390H	See Reference	44
Liquor Enforcement Officer 4	390I	See Reference	44
GROUP B			
Class Title	Class Code	Premium	Reference #
Dual Language Requirement		2 ranges	18
SCUBA Diving Requirement		$7.50/hour	3
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-24
GROUP C ASSIGNMENT PAY REPORT
REFERENCE #3: For required SCUBA diving. Basic salary range plus $7.50 per diving hour to employees in any class (92900). (Eff. 7/69; Rev. 7/78)
REFERENCE #10: Basic salary range plus four ranges shall be paid to Department of Revenue employees in Revenue Auditor classifications which are permanently assigned to maintain an office at an out-of-state location or are on a one-year roving assignment out-of-state. (Eff. 7/69)
REFERENCE #12: Employees assigned to operate equipment above this level shall be compensated four ranges above their base rate, and shall be credited with a minimum of four hours at the higher rate on each day they operate the higher level equipment. (Eff. 6/84)
REFERENCE #15: Basic salary range plus two ranges for each full day an employee is formally assigned to train one or more Retail Managers from other stores. (Eff. 11/85)
REFERENCE #18: Employees in any position whose current, assigned job responsibilities include proficient use of written and oral English and proficiency in speaking and/or writing one or more foreign languages, American Sign Language, or Braille, provided that proficiency or formal training in such additional language is not required in the specifications for the job class. Basic salary plus two additional ranges. (Rev. 5/92)
REFERENCE #29: Upon review and approval from the Department of Personnel, up to four ranges payable to employees in any position located where the cost of living impacts the agency's ability to recruit and/or retain employees which would severely impair the effective operation of the agency. In extraordinary circumstances, where more than ten percent is required, a unique assignment pay range will be used. (Eff. 5/01)
REFERENCE #30: Basic salary range plus two ranges shall be paid to Department of Revenue employees permanently assigned to the Computer Assisted Audit Program Unit and are responsible for the retrieval and analysis of electronic data in addition to the development of statistical sampling plans and the evaluations of results. (Eff. 3/01)
REFERENCE #34: Basic salary range plus four ranges shall be paid to Washington Military Department employees that are qualified and required to carry a firearm while on duty. (Eff. 7/02)
REFERENCE #44: Within the Liquor Control Board, certified defensive tactics and firearms instructors will be compensated an additional $10.00 (ten dollars) per hour, over and above regular salary and benefits for every hour engaged in giving instruction to or receiving recertification training in defensive tactics or firearms.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-25
Appendix G
Special Pay Ranges and Notes
SPECIAL PAY RANGES
These ranges are used to equal or approximate prevailing rate practices found in private industry or other governmental units. An affected class is identified by a letter designation following the basic salary range number or by a letter designation preceding a number. In the latter case, a special salary schedule will be used for such classes.
“E” RANGE
This range is used for classes having a prevailing pay range, which is shorter than Washington’s standard range. An “E” range is a standard range with the first four (4) steps removed. The first step is the same as Step E of the standard range having the same range number. Periodic increases are made at the same intervals as through standard ranges.
“G” RANGE
This range is used for classes having a prevailing pay range which is shorter than Washington’s standard ranges. A “G” range is a standard range with the first six steps removed. Thus, the first step of such a range is the same as Step G of the standard range having the same range number. Periodic increases through the steps of this range are made at the same intervals as through standard ranges, i.e., a two-step increase after six (6) months at Step G and two annually thereafter up to the maximum step of the range.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-26
Appendix H
Bargaining Units Represented by the Washington Public Employees
Association
Agency	PERC Description	Decision No.
Agriculture	Non-Supervisory Microbiology Lab	9066
	Non-Supervisory Classified	9390
Blind, School for the	Non-Supervisory Teachers	9679
Deaf, School for the	Non-Supervisory Teachers	8391
Licensing	Non-Supervisory Vehicle Service Investigators	RU-550
Liquor Control Board	Non-Supervisory Office-Clerical	8744
	Non-Supervisory Warehouse and Crafts	9327
	Non-Supervisory Liquor License Specialists	8942
	Supervisors in Liquor Stores	RU-361
	Non-Supervisory Enforcement Officers	8360-A
	Supervisory Enforcement Officers	8360-A
Military	Non-Supervisory Trades	9640
Natural Resources	Non-Supervisory Classified	8310
	Supervisory Classified	8310
Revenue	Non-Supervisory Classified	RU-498
State Patrol	Non-Supervisory Electronic Services	8363
	Supervisors Technical Services	8288
	Supervisors Investigative Services	8666
	Non-Supervisory Field Staff at State Fire Marshall’s Office	8436
	Supervisory Communications	RU-388
	Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Officer 3	8568
	Non-Supervisory Information Technology Fleet Support Division	RU-569
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-27
Appendix I
Due to legislative amendments to RCW 41.80.020 and RCW 47.64.270, the coalition agreement on health care benefits is a separate agreement and is not included as part of the 2011-2013 master collective bargaining agreement. For ease of reference, the coalition health care agreement is reprinted below.
Health Benefits Agreement
By and Between
The State of Washington
AND
The Coalition of Unions1
Health Care Benefits Amounts
I.1	The Employer will contribute an amount equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the total weighted average of the projected health care premium for each bargaining unit employee eligible for insurance each month, as determined by the Public Employees Benefits Board annually for benefits in calendar year 2012 and calendar year 2013, respectively. The projected health care premium is the weighted average across all plans, across all tiers. The Uniform Medical Plan (deductible, out-of-pocket maximums and co-insurance) in effect for calendar year 2011 will be maintained for the 2011-2013 biennium.
I.2	The Employer will pay the entire premium costs for each bargaining unit employee for basic life, basic long-term disability and dental insurance coverage.
I.3	Wellness
To support the statewide goal for a healthy and productive workforce, employees are encouraged to participate in a Health Risk Assessment survey. Employees will be granted work time and may use a state computer to complete the survey.
1 The Coalition of Unions comprises all exclusive bargaining representatives subject to RCW 41.80 and RCW 47.64.
WPEA GG - 2012-13
A-28
Memorandum of Understanding
BETWEEN
THE STATE OF WASHINGTON
AND
WASHINGTON PUBLIC EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION
It is the State’s intention to apply the 3% across-the-board salary reduction to all general government employees including management staff, and all general government employees covered by RCW 41.80 (excluding Teachers at the Center for Childhood Deafness and Hearing Loss and at the School for the Blind and employees making less than $2500 a month full-time equivalent salary as of June 30, 2011). If subsequent to negotiations of the parties’ 2012-2013 collective bargaining agreement, the Employer agrees to or implements more favorable treatment regarding the across-the-board salary reductions, shift premium rates, callback, standby or enhanced leave accruals for general government employees whether management staff or employees covered by RCW 41.80, then the Employer will apply such treatment to employees covered by this agreement. Provided, that any agreement which provides for temporary layoff days instead of a salary reduction which involves rounding up the number of days for the 3% reduction language and rounding down the number of days for the 2% reduction language, shall not be regarded as a violation of this MOU. The parties will meet promptly upon request of the Union to negotiate the implementation of that more favorable treatment. Any change in the across-the-board salary reduction, shift premium rates, callback, standby or enhanced leave accruals is subject to legislative approval.
Dated September 1, 2011
/s/
9/1/11
/s/
9/1/11
For the Employer
Date
For the Union
Date
WPEA GG - 2012-13
M-1
Memorandum of Understanding
Between
The State of Washington
And
Washington Public Employees Association
One Year Agreement
The Employer and the Union agree that all articles, appendices and memorandums of understanding language will be modified, as a part of the roll up and proofing of the Agreement, to acknowledge that this is a one (1) year Agreement. All provisions of this Agreement, including memorandums of understanding, will become effective July 1, 2012 and will remain in full force and effect through June 30, 2013.
Dated 9/1/11
_________________/s/
For the Employer
_______________/s/
For the Union
WPEA GG - 2012-13
M-2
Memorandum of Understanding Between
The State of Washington
And
Washington Public Employees Association
The parties agree that if the November 2012 general fund revenue forecast projects an increase of 3% or greater in the 2011-2013 revenues ($33.583 billion or greater) than what was projected in the November 2010 general fund state forecast ($32.605 billion), the Governor will submit in her supplemental budget a request for funding to reduce the salary reduction for the period of January 1, 2013 through June 29, 2013 from 3% to 2%. If the legislature approves the funding request, Article 41, Compensation of the parties’ 2012-2013 collective bargaining agreement will be modified to reflect the change in salary reduction from 3% to 2% for the period of January 1, 2013 through June 29, 2013. In addition, Article 41, Compensation of the parties’ 2012-2013 collective bargaining agreement will be modified to reflect a change in Temporary Salary Reduction leave from 5.2 hours per month to 3.5 hour per month for the period of January 1, 2013 through June 29, 2013.
Dated September 1, 2011
/s/
9/1/11
/s/
9/1/11
For the Employer
Date
For the Union
Date
WPEA GG - 2012-13
M-3
Memorandum of Understanding Between the State of Washington
AND
The Washington Public Employees Association
1.	The parties agree that the temporary salary reduction agreement negotiated for the 20122013 agreement constitutes the full extent of temporary reduction of work hours or layoffs during the duration of this contract that resulted from the loss of funding and revenue shortfall forecasted in the November 2010 Economic Revenue Forecast for the ’11-’13 biennium. Article 34.6 A and B of the 2012-2013 agreement is superseded as it relates to revenue shortfall and loss of funding unless the provisions of 2 below are met.
2.	In the event an economic revenue forecast during the ’11-’13 biennium projects a significant loss of funding or revenue shortfall for the period of this contract and the Employer chooses to use temporary layoffs or reduction in work hours to make up the shortfall or loss of funding, the employer will negotiate the impacts and implementation of any said layoffs or reductions with the Union. Negotiations will include options to lessen any negative impacts on the employees. The parties will jointly develop mutual approaches to implementation that make such layoffs or reductions less onerous to employees and more fairly distributed.
Dated September 1, 2011
/s/
9/1/11
/s/
9/1/11
For the Employer
Date
For the Union
Date
WPEA GG - 2012-13
M-4
THE PARTIES, BY THEIR SIGNATURES BELOW, ACCEPT AND AGREE TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT.
Executed this 14th day of June, 2012.
For the Washington Public Employees Association:
/s/	/s/
Dave Schiel
President
For the State of Washington:
/s/
/s/
Christine O. Gregoire Governor
Rick Hall, Acting Assistant Director OFM Labor Relations Division
/s/
Ann G. Mitchell, Chief Negotiator OFM Labor Relations Division