AGREEMENT
Between the
TOWN OF GREENWICH, CONNECTICUT
-And-
CONNECTICUT LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL
On behalf of
CONNECTICUT PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYEES LOCAL 136, of
LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, AFL-CIO
JULY 1, 2013 - JUNE 30, 2016
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	SUBJECT	PAGE
1	RECOGNITION	1
2	NON-DISCRIMINATION	2
3	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	2
4	NOTICE	3
5	WAGES	4
6	COLLECTIVE BARGAINING	5
7	INDIVIDUAL GROUP PROVISIONS	5
8	HOURS AND WORK WEEK	6
9	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS	8
10	HOLIDAYS	9
11	SICK LEAVE	10
12	VACATION	11
13	PERSONAL LEAVE	12
14	INSURANCE	13
15	RETIREMENT	16
16	INJURY LEAVE	19
17	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE	20
18	FMLA AND ADA	20
19	HEALTH APPOINTMENTS AND EXAMINATIONS	20
20	TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCE	21
21	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	22
22	APPOINTMENTS	23
23	SENIORITY AND LAYOFFS	24
24	DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES	25
25	SAVINGS CLAUSE	25
26	OUTSIDE ACTIVITIES	26
27	DISCIPLINE OR DISCHARGE AND RESIGNATION	26
28	UNIFORMS	26
29	DURATION	27
30	DEFINITIONS	27
31	SUBSTANCE ABUSE TESTING	27
32	PERFORMANCE REVIEW	27
APPENDIX I	JOB CLASSIFICATION TABLE	29
APPENDIX II	SALARY SCHEDULE	33
APPENDIX III	NURSE CLASSIFICATION SALARY SCHEDULE	35
APPENDIX IV	ASSISTANT TOWN ATTORNEY CLASSIFICATION	
	SALARY SCHEDULE	40
APPENDIX V	INDIVIDUAL GROUP PROVISIONS	41
APPENDIX VI	AGENCY SHOP	42
APPENDIX VII	SALARY GRADE ALLOCATION PROCEDURE	43
APPENDIX VIII	EMPLOYEE USE OF TOWN OWNED VEHICLES	45
APPENDIX IX	NATHANIEL WITHERELL - TERMS AND CONDITIONS	46
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
i
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE APPENDIX X APPENDIX XI APPENDIX XII APPENDIX XIII APPENDIX XIV APPENDIX XV	SUBJECT	PAGE HD-HSA HEALTH BENEFITS SUMMARY	50 $10 POS HEALTH BENEFITS SUMMARY	53 HD-HSA $3,000/$4,000 HEALTH BENEFITS SUMMARY	55 PHARMACY BENEFITS SUMMARY	58 DENTAL BENEFITS SUMMARY	59 PARKS AND RECREATION WORKWEEK AGREEMENT	60
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
ii
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE TOWN OF GREENWICH and
CONNECTICUT LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL on behalf of
LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA
The TOWN OF GREENWICH ("Town") and the CONNECTICUT LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL on behalf of CONNECTICUT PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYEES LOCAL 136, of LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA AFL-CIO ("Union" or sometimes "LIUNA") agree as follows:
1.	RECOGNITION
A.	In accordance with the Connecticut Municipal Employees Relations Act, the Town recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative for all professional and management employees including engineers, attorneys, social workers, Public Health Laboratory Director, Director of Environmental Health, Librarians, and employees in the classifications set forth in Appendix I but excluding all elected officials, Town Administrator, Superintendent of Schools, Town Treasurer, department heads and their deputy or assistant department heads, reporting to the following appointing authorities: First Selectman and/or Board of Selectman, Board of Estimate and Taxation, Board of Education, Board of Health, Greenwich Library Board of Trustees, Perrot Library Board of Trustees, Planning and Zoning Commission, Inlands Wetlands and Watercourses Agency, Conservation Commission, The Nathaniel Witherell Board, Board of Social Services and the Retirement Board positions not included in Appendix I as of the date of this Agreement, and those representing the Employer in the collective bargaining process, i.e., Director of Labor Relations, Employee Benefits Administrator, Director of Management and Budget, and Executive Assistant to the Selectmen.
B.	The terms and provisions of this contract shall apply to the following categories of
employees:
1)	Full-time employee who is employed to work the standard workweek;
2)	Permanent, part-time employee who is hired for a period of no less than six (6) months and is regularly scheduled to work less than the standard workweek, but at least thirty-two (32) hours per bi-weekly payroll period and at the Greenwich and Perrot Libraries at least forty (40) hours per bi-weekly payroll period. Employees who during the life of the contract have their hours reduced to less than thirty-two (32) or for employees at the Greenwich and Perrot Libraries forty (40) hours per biweekly payroll period shall remain within the bargaining unit and be treated for benefit purposes as if they are working thirty-two (32) hours or for employees at the Greenwich and Perrot Libraries forty (40) per bi-weekly payroll period.
Probationary employees may be dismissed without recourse to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this Agreement during the probationary period. The six (6) month probationary period may be extended for one additional three (3) month period at
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
1
the written request of the department head provided the employee and the Union agree in writing to such extension.
C.	All permanent, full-time employees employed in a title specified in Appendix I shall
receive all benefits of this Agreement. All permanent, part-time employees employed in a title specified in Appendix I shall receive the benefits of Articles 5, 10, 11 and l2 as specified.
D.	When the Town intends to create a new position or a new classification and there is a
reasonable basis for believing that the Union may wish to review whether such position or classification belongs in the bargaining unit, the Town shall notify the Union of the proposed new position or classification. Upon request of the Union, the Town shall meet with the Union to discuss whether it belongs in the bargaining unit. The positions or classifications covered by this provision are those that meet the following criteria:
1)	The work is at the professional, supervisory or managerial level;
2)	The position or classification is of a nature comparable to others in the bargaining unit; and
3)	The proposed salary is not less than the lowest salary listed in the appropriate salary Appendix of this Agreement.
2.	NON-DISCRIMINATION
A.	No discrimination shall be practiced by the Town or the Union against any employee because of membership or non-membership in the Union, or by the Town or the Union against any member or officer because of participation or non-participation in legitimate activities of the Union.
B.	Neither the Town nor the Union shall unlawfully discriminate against any employee because of such employee's race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or age, or because s/he is handicapped or disabled; provided this provision shall not prohibit different treatment of employees based on legitimate factors requiring different treatment.
C.	The use of the masculine or feminine gender in this Agreement shall be construed as
including both genders and not a sex limitation unless the Agreement clearly requires a different construction.
3.	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
A.	The Town shall have all management rights not specifically restricted by this Agreement;
and the Town shall administer this Agreement and exercise its rights so as to be fair and impartial to all employees and so that the dignity of the individual shall at all times be protected.
B.	The Town has and will continue to retain, whether exercised or not, all of the rights,
powers, and authority heretofore had by it, except where such rights, powers, and authority are specifically relinquished, abridged, or limited by the provisions of this Agreement. The Town shall have the sole and unquestioned right, responsibility, and
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
2
prerogative of management of the affairs of the Town and direction of the working forces, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1)	To determine the care, maintenance, and operation of equipment and property used for and on behalf of the purposes of the Town.
(2)	To establish or continue policies, practices, and procedures for the conduct of Town business and, from time to time, to change or abolish such policies, practices, or procedures.
(3)	To discontinue processes or operations or to discontinue their performance by employees.
(4)	To select and to determine the number and types of employees required to
perform the Town's operations.
(5)	To determine the content of job classifications, subject to the Town’s obligation to negotiate secondary effects of new or changed job descriptions on terms and conditions of employment. The Town shall provide a copy of any revised job description to the employees in the classification and a copy to the Union.
C.	The above rights, responsibilities and prerogatives are inherent to the Town by virtue of statutory and charter provisions and are not subject to delegation in whole or in part.
4.	NOTICE
A.	The Town shall give each present employee in the bargaining unit, and each such new employee when hired, a copy of this Agreement. The Town shall make available copies of any other relevant documents for inspection.
B.	Employees shall have the right, to be exercised reasonably, to review any material in their
personnel files. Employees shall be notified of any material placed in or removed from their personnel files at the time such action is taken. If the Town shall fail to provide the notification herein required, such material shall not be used in any disciplinary, grievance, or arbitration proceeding involving the employee.
C.	The Union shall have the right to post notices and other communications on a bulletin
board provided by the Town in a reasonable location subject to the approval of the contents by the Town, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Officers and agents of the Union shall have the right of visitation of the Town's facilities for the purpose of adjusting grievances and administering the terms of this Agreement, as long as the visitation does not interfere unreasonably with Town business.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
3
5.	WAGES
A.	General Employees
1.	Employees, except for employees covered by paragraphs B and C of this Article 5 shall be paid in accordance with the salary schedules annexed hereto as Appendix II.
2.	The Town may, without further negotiations with the Union, offer hiring bonuses as a hiring incentive. One-half of the hiring bonus shall be paid within thirty (30) days of hire and one-half shall be paid within thirty (30) days of the employee completing his/her probationary period.
B.	Nathaniel Witherell Professional Employees
Employees in Nathaniel Witherell professional classifications shall be paid in accordance with the salary schedules annexed hereto as Appendices II and III and other compensation as set forth in the provisions contained in Appendix IX annexed to this Agreement.
C.	Assistant Town Attorneys
Employees in Assistant Town Attorney classifications shall be paid in accordance with the salary schedules annexed hereto as Appendix IV.
D.	On July 1 of each year, employees covered by paragraphs A and C of this Article who are not at the maximum step of their salary grade and have completed six (6) months of work from the date of hire, shall be advanced a step as provided on the applicable Salary Schedule Appendix annexed to this Agreement. Employees covered by paragraph B of this Article who are not at the maximum step of their salary grade shall be advanced a step as provided on the applicable Salary Schedule Appendix annexed to this Agreement. An employee shall not be eligible to advance to the succeeding step if the employee has received a job related formal written notice of discipline, that includes a penalty of a suspension, within the twelve-month period preceding the effective date of the step increase. In such event the employee shall next be eligible to advance to the succeeding step the following July 1. An employee may grieve the withholding of an increment directly to Step II of the grievance procedure.
E.	LIUNA recognizes the Town’s managerial right to establish new positions and to
reclassify existing positions subject to the duty to negotiate as to the salary grade placement. In order to provide for an effective method to satisfy this requirement, the parties have agreed to the procedure as set forth in Appendix VII annexed to this Agreement for newly created positions and reclassified positions to the bargaining unit.
F.	Permanent, part-time employees shall be paid a prorated salary based upon the appropriate
rate per year specified in applicable Salary Schedule Appendix annexed to this Agreement.
G.	All wage payments shall be made through direct deposit. Employees shall provide the information necessary to the Town to implement direct deposit of wage payments.
LIUNA2013 - 2016
4
Employees have the option to receive their pay advice either electronically or with a paper copy. Effective January 1, 2014 the pay advice shall be transmitted electronically to each employee.
6.	COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
A.	All collective bargaining with respect to hours, wages and other conditions of employment shall be conducted by authorized representatives of the Union and the Town.
B.	The members of the Union Negotiating Committee, but no more than six (6) persons,
shall be granted time off from duty with full pay for all meetings with the Town for the purpose of negotiating the terms of an agreement when such meetings take place at a time during which such members are scheduled to be on duty, as long as the time off does not interfere unreasonably with Town business in which case the meeting shall be promptly rescheduled.
C.	The members of the Union Grievance Committee, but not more than three (3) persons
(together with not more than five (5) other employees directly associated with the grievance, which five shall be entitled to take not more than one and one-half (1 1/2) hours per month non-cumulative under this section) shall be granted leave from duty with full pay for all reasonably necessary meetings concerning the processing of grievances with the Town when such meetings are held at a time when such members are scheduled to be on duty, as long as the time off does not interfere unreasonably with Town business in which case the meeting shall be promptly rescheduled.
D.	Each member of the bargaining unit who is a director of the Greenwich Municipal Employees Credit Union shall be granted leave from duty with full pay up to five (5) hours per month non-cumulative, for all necessary directors' meetings of the Credit Union when such meetings take place at a time during which such members are scheduled to be on duty; provided, however, that the aggregate number of directors so granted such leave (whether from the bargaining unit or otherwise) shall not exceed a total of twenty (20) hours per month.
E.	Designated Union representatives or officials shall be granted a total of twenty-five (25)
paid working days per year on an accumulative basis to attend Union conferences, conventions and meetings. The Union will provide the Town with reasonable advance notice of such leave.
7.	INDIVIDUAL GROUP PROVISIONS
The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be applicable to employees assigned to the Greenwich Library and the Perrot Library except as expressly modified in Appendix V and to employees assigned to Nathaniel Witherell except as expressly modified in Appendix IX.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
5
8.	HOURS AND WORK WEEK
A.	For each regular full-time employee, the standard workweek shall be thirty-five (35) hours, generally Monday through Friday, and the standard workday shall be seven (7) hours, except as otherwise provided in Appendices V (Library) and IX (Nathaniel Witherell), or as required for the fulfillment of job responsibilities. The Town and Local 136 recognize that an employee may be required to work hours beyond the standard workday or workweek to fulfill his or her managerial and/or professional job responsibilities. However in no event may a nonexempt employee work in excess of his or her standard workday or workweek without express prior authorization from the department head. A department head may modify the schedule of an employee for attendance at evening meetings, evening office hours and other routine business matters to remain within the standard workday or workweek of the employee. Routine Town Hall evening office hours shall be limited to one evening per week. Employees shall be afforded an opportunity for a minimum of eight (8) hours of rest prior to reporting to work.
B.	Except as otherwise provided in Appendices V (Library) and IX (Nathaniel Witherell) , a
nonexempt employee shall be compensated for work performed in excess of his or her standard workweek as follows: for hours worked in excess of 35 up to 40 hours at the straight time rate of pay and for hours in excess of 40 hours at the time and one half rate of pay. For purposes of calculating overtime at the time and one half rate of pay (hours worked over 40) preapproved paid vacation and preapproved personal leave shall be considered as time worked. All other paid or unpaid absences shall be considered as time not worked.
C.	1) An exempt employee shall be required to work reasonable hours in excess of the
standard workday and/or workweek necessary to fulfill his or her managerial and/or professional job responsibilities without additional compensation.
2)	Notwithstanding paragraph 1 above, an exempt employee who is expressly directed by his or her department head to work on a regularly scheduled day off after completing a minimum of thirty-five hours of work in that workweek or on a Town holiday set forth in Article 10 shall be compensated for time worked on such day at the straight time rate. A department head may request in advance that the Director of Human Resources authorize that compensation be paid to an exempt employee at the straight time rate for time worked during the standard workweek in excess of that contemplated in paragraph 1 in a circumstance when one or more of the following conditions apply:
a.	The department is experiencing an unusually large volume of work due to circumstances that are unforeseen and therefore could not be reasonably planned for by the department head.
b.	Modifying the exempt employee’s schedule as permitted pursuant to paragraph A of this Article is not an option due to the large volume of work or the work cannot be rescheduled or otherwise delayed.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
6
An exempt employee, with the prior approval of the department head, may request to receive compensatory time at the straight time rate in lieu of payment as compensation authorized pursuant to this paragraph.
D.	Except as otherwise provided in Appendix XV for certain employees assigned to the Department of Parks and Recreation, compensatory time must be taken within one hundred and twenty (120) days of being earned at times mutually agreed upon by the employee and the Department Head. Permission to take compensatory time will not be unreasonably withheld.
E.	In the event of an emergency operation, employees in the classifications listed below who
are required by their department head to participate in the emergency operation shall be compensated as follows: for work performed outside of the normal workday but during the regular workweek the straight time rate of pay for the first five (5) hours worked and the time and one-half rate of pay for each hour worked in excess of five (5) hours; for work performed on a scheduled day off, the time and one-half rate of pay for each hour worked; and for work performed on a Town holiday as set forth in Article 10 of this Agreement the double time rate of pay for each hour worked.
Employees in the following classifications are eligible for emergency operations compensation as set forth in this paragraph “E”:	Chief Engineer, Highway
Superintendent, Superintendent of Parks and Trees, Superintendent of Marine and Facility Operations, Superintendent of Building, Construction and Maintenance, Supervisor of Building Operations (BOE), Building Construction and Maintenance Supervisor (BOE), Highway Operations Manager, Highway Asset Engineer, Parks Operations Manager, Tree Operations Manager, Operations Manager - MFO, Maintenance Manager - Sewer, Superintendent of Waste Disposal, Highway Planning and Program Manager, Process Control Manager, Director of Environmental Services, Director of Family Health, Director of Special Clinical Health, Laboratory Director, Business Office Manager, Environmental Health Services Manager, Bacteriologist and Laboratory Technician.
For the purposes of this paragraph “E”, emergency operations is defined as operations necessitated by the effects of adverse weather conditions, including but not limited to: snow and ice storms, windstorms, and heavy rainstorm resulting in flooding.
F.	Information Technology Classifications - On-Call and Remote Connection Assignments
1)	An employee employed in an information technology classification assigned to the Greenwich Library or Town’s Information Technology Department and who is assigned to be on-call shall be paid twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each day assigned on-call. In the event the employee who is on-call is required to report to work from on-call, s/he shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours pay at time and one half for a nonexempt employee and at the straight time rate for an exempt employee. If such employee works in excess of three (3) hours, the employee shall be paid overtime for all hours worked at time and one half for a nonexempt employee and at the straight time rate for an exempt employee.
2)	A nonexempt employee employed in an information technology classification assigned to the Greenwich Library or the Town’s Information Technology Department who is
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
7
required to perform his or her job duties by remote connection into the Town’s information system during off duty hours and the performance of such job duties is in excess of fifteen (15) minutes shall be compensated pursuant to the overtime provisions of Article 8 (B) of the agreement.
3)	A nonexempt employee employed in an information technology classification assigned to the Town’s Information Technology Department when required to perform scheduled system maintenance on a Saturday and/or Sunday either by remote connection or by requiring the employee to report to work. In instances when a nonexempt employee performs system maintenance by remote connection s/he shall be compensated as provided in paragraph B above. In instances when a nonexempt employee is required to report to work s/he shall be compensated pursuant to the overtime provisions of Article 8 (B) of the agreement. In instances when an exempt employee is required to report to work s/he shall be compensated pursuant to the provisions of Article 8 (C) of the agreement.
G.	Department Heads may promulgate rules and procedures governing the authorization of work beyond the standard workweek, flexible scheduling and use of compensatory time consistent with the terms of this agreement. In no event may an employee work in excess of his or her regularly scheduled workweek without express authorization from their supervisor.
H.	Due to the varied responsibilities of Town agencies and departments during weather or other emergency situations, certain employees may be required to work as scheduled and others may be required not to report to work. Accordingly there is no expectation that employees will have their terms and conditions of employment administered on a uniform basis during such emergencies. There is also no expectation that appointing authorities will make uniform decisions as to the status of their agency or department during weather or other emergency situation. Generally employees who are directed not to report to work will not be required to use paid leave time and employees who are directed to report to work will be paid pursuant to the terms of the collective bargaining agreement. Employees employed by the Board of Education will continue to follow established practices when school is closed due to weather related or other emergency conditions. Employees employed at Nathaniel Witherell shall continue to follow established practices during weather or other emergency conditions in order to provide care on a continued twenty-four hour weekly basis. Employees employed at the Greenwich and Perrot Libraries shall continue to follow established practices.
9.	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
Any employee who, at the direction of the Town, is required to spend a majority of his/her working time for a day performing a responsibility of a classification in a higher pay grade shall be paid at the higher grade for the day. The employee's rate of pay for the work in the higher grade shall be the minimum of the higher grade or ten percent (10%) over his/her current rate whichever is higher, not to exceed the maximum rate for the classification in the higher pay grade. This provision shall not apply if the cause of such assignment is another employee's absence due to vacation, absence for up to five (5) days of sick leave, or for Union business. This provision does not apply to nurses who are covered by the Individual Group Provisions of Appendix IX. The Town shall provide notice to the Union of the bargaining unit employees who
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
8
are performing the responsibility of a classification in a higher pay grade when such temporary assignment exceeds one complete payroll period.
10.	HOLIDAYS
A.	Except as otherwise provided in Appendix IX, each employee shall receive the following twelve (12) paid holidays:
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King's Birthday
President’s Day
Good Friday
Memorial Day
July 4th
Labor Day
Columbus Day
Veteran's Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day after Thanksgiving
Christmas Day
B.	At the option of the Town, and upon not less than thirty (30) days notice to the Union,
either or both of the days on which Columbus Day and Veteran's Day are celebrated may be changed to another day or days. The Greenwich Board of Education, Resource Recovery Facility at Holly Hill and/or the Griffith E. Harris Golf Course may establish alternate holidays or provide floating holidays as an alternative to the holidays the following holidays: Good Friday, Columbus Day, Veteran’s Day and the Day after Thanksgiving provided that the total number of annual paid holidays is equal to the number of holidays set forth in paragraph A.
C.	When a holiday falls on a regular day off, for employees scheduled to work a five (5) day
operation, the holiday shall be celebrated on a regular workday to be scheduled by the department head, and for employees scheduled to work a seven (7) day operation, the holiday shall be celebrated on a regular work day to be selected by the employee with the approval of the department head and the workday selected need not be uniform.
D.	Permanent, part-time employees shall be entitled to the holidays specified in this Article and shall receive as holiday pay an amount prorated on the basis of the part of the standard work week which they are scheduled to work.
E.	An employee who is directed to report to work on a holiday specified in paragraph A of
this Article or an alternate holiday as provided in paragraph B shall be paid, in addition to the day’s pay for the holiday, the hourly straight time rate of pay each for each hour worked on the holiday. In order to qualify for compensation for working on a holiday, the employee must be directed in writing by his or her department head to report to work on the holiday to include the maximum number of hours the employee is authorized to work. An employee who is covered by the terms of Article 8 (E), shall, during an emergency operation, be compensated pursuant to the terms of such Article 8 (E) in lieu of this paragraph “E”.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
9
11.	SICK LEAVE
A.	1. An employee shall earn sick leave at the rate of one (1) day per month for each year of
continuous service through completion of the ninth (9th) year of service and two (2) days per month for each year of service commencing with the beginning of the tenth (10th) year of service except for employees hired on or after July 1, 2011 who shall earn one and one-half (1 ^) days per month commencing with the beginning of the tenth (10th) year of service. Sick leave may be accumulated to a maximum of one hundred and eighty (180) days.
2.	An employee who has accumulated 180 sick days as of June 30 and did not use all his/her earned sick leave during that fiscal year, will receive one (1) extra paid vacation day (1/2 or full day) in the following fiscal year for each four (4) unused sick days earned during that fiscal year above the 180 days.
3.	Part-time employees, except employees assigned to Nathaniel Witherell, shall earn six (6) pro rated sick days per year.
B.	At the time of retirement under the provisions of this Agreement, an employee shall be
paid at the rate of his/her last position with the Town for fifty percent (50%) of his/her accumulated sick leave, provided that in no instance shall s/he be paid for more than ninety (90) days sick leave. For the purposes of this section, "retirement" shall be defined in accordance with the Retirement System of the Town. Employees hired on or after September 23, 1997 shall not be entitled to the benefits provided by this paragraph. Such employees shall not receive any payment for unused accumulated sick leave at retirement.
C.	An employee with accrued sick leave credit, except as otherwise provided in section E
below, shall be allowed to utilize such sick leave for the following purposes:
1.	An employee who has contracted or incurred and is suffering from any non-service connected sickness or disability, including that resulting from pregnancy, which renders him/her unable to perform the duties of his/her position, shall be eligible to receive paid sick leave to the extent s/he have accrued sick leave credit.
It is the responsibility of the employee requesting sick leave to notify or cause notification to be made to his or her supervisor in advance of the start of the workday. Sick leave notification must be made for each workday that sick leave is requested except if waived by the supervisor, except in the case of an emergency.
2.	An employee shall be eligible to receive paid sick leave when there is an illness or disability involving a member of his/her immediate family, which requires the employee’s personal care and attendance, provided that requiring the employee to report to work would cause a serious hardship on the member of the immediate family suffering from the illness or disability or the member of the immediate family is a child.
For purposes of this section, immediate family is defined as spouse, child, stepchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, brother, sister, grandchild, parent-in-law, or any other
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
10
relation domiciled with the employee as a member of the employee's family or one who is listed as a dependent on the employee's most recent income tax return.
D.	Accumulated sick leave will remain to the credit of an employee for a period of twelve (12) months after leaving the service of the Town, and will be reinstated if s/he returns to service within that period of time, except in the case of job elimination as defined in Article 23 C, in which case it shall be twenty-four (24) months.
E.	In the event that an employee is entitled to sick leave pursuant to section C of this Article,
but does not have earned sick leave available, the employee may borrow from his/her accrued, unused vacation leave as of the time sick leave is taken. The vacation leave so used may subsequently be repaid by subsequent sick leave earned at the applicable rate.
F.	An employee taking sick leave shall inform his/her immediate superior, including the
reason thereof, and failure to do so within a reasonable time will be cause for denial of sick leave with pay for the period of absence.
G.	If the Town has reasonable grounds to believe sick leave is being abused, the Town may,
at its discretion, require an employee requesting sick leave, or leave without pay when sick leave is exhausted, to furnish a statement from his/her attending physician certifying that absence from work was necessary due to the employee contracting a non-service connected illness or disability which renders him/her unable to perform the duties of his/her position. The Town shall have the right to verify the authenticity of the physician statement, have the physician provide an expected return to work date and have the physician specify any restrictions on the employee’s employment duties due a medical condition. An employee may be disciplined for sick leave abuse or for failure to adhere to the requirements of this section.
12.	VACATION
A.	The Town shall grant vacation leave with pay to all full-time employees after employment for at least six (6) months. No vacation leave shall be granted during the first six (6) months of service. If an employee leaves the service of the Town, s/he or his/her estate shall be compensated at this regular rate for any portion of unused vacation leave to his/her credit at the time of separation. Credit for unused vacation leave shall be computed on a monthly basis at one and two-thirds (1.667) days per month, only for the purposes of this section A and for the purpose of computing the pro-rata vacation for the first (1st) year.
B.	Annual vacations with pay shall be as follows: (1) upon the request of an employee for a
prorated vacation after six (6) and before eleven (11) months of a continuous employment, one and two-thirds (1.667) days times the number of months worked to the commencement of the vacation; (2) twenty (20) working days after eleven (11) and before twenty-four (24) months of continuous employment unless a prorated vacation has been taken in which case only the balance of twenty (20) days remaining shall be allowed; and (3) commencement of third (3rd) year of continuous employment and thereafter, twenty (20) working days.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
11
C.	In computing vacation leave, no municipal holidays granted under Article 10 shall be
counted.
D.	The department head shall schedule the vacation period in accordance with the requirements of his/her department and the desires of the employees. In the case of a conflict as to scheduling, seniority shall govern the right of preference. The department head shall reschedule vacation periods only by mutual agreement with the employee, except in a bona fide emergency, in which event either party may obtain rescheduling.
E.	If an employee agrees to waive his/her rights to vacation during a particular year at the
request of the department head, the department head shall permit such employee to take part or all of the earned vacation leave during the following year without regard to any limitations regarding carryover of vacation days, vacation days to be taken at a consecutive interval, or total vacation days to be taken during any year. Any such permission shall be in writing and given to the Director of Human Resources and the employee at the time the determination to request the work is made. Employees shall also be entitled to carry forward unused vacation leave from one year to the next, but in no event may an employee carry forward more than twenty-five (25) working days of unused vacation leave. An employee shall not be entitled to take more than thirty-five (35) days during any year. Vacation days not used during any current year and not entitled to be carried forward to the next year shall be lost only at the end of the current year, and anticipated loss under this provision shall not entitle an employee to any special consideration in the scheduling of his/her vacation leave.
F.	After twenty-four (24) months of continuous employment, an employee shall be entitled
to anticipate earning and take his/her full vacation at any time during each year. The employee shall be paid at termination or retirement, in addition to any accrued unused vacation the employee had approval to carryover from the prior fiscal year, for accrued unused vacation that is earned at the rate of 1.667 days per month for each month worked in the fiscal year in which the employee terminates or retires. However, in the event the employee takes anticipated vacation that becomes excess over what the employee actually earned in the final fiscal year of employment, the employee shall have deducted from his or her final paycheck the value of the excess vacation taken but not earned.
G.	Permanent part-time employees shall be granted ten (10) working days of vacation with pay after completion of one (1) year of continuous service with the Town. The pay for such days shall be an amount prorated on the basis of that part of the standard work week which they are regularly scheduled to work.
13.	PERSONAL LEAVE
Employees shall be entitled to one (1) day of personal leave each year except as otherwise provided in Appendix IX. Employees shall request of the Department Head the use of this day in advance. Such approval shall not be unreasonably denied.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
12
14.	INSURANCE
A.	The Town retains the sole and exclusive right to select and/or change the
medical plan administrators. In the event the Town changes medical plan administrators and if there is a disagreement on the level of benefits, coverage or services provided with the new medical administrator(s), the Union may grieve such disagreement pursuant to Article 21 of the Agreement, except that the size and scope of the in-network providers shall not be arbitrable.
B.	All medical benefits that were in effect on June 30, 2013 shall continue to December 31, 2013 and such portions of the 2010 - 2013 collective bargaining agreement covering such medical benefits shall be incorporated into this agreement by reference.
C.	The Town shall provide for each full-time employee and his/her enrolled dependents the following medical insurance options:
1)	A high deductible medical plan providing for a $1,500/$3,000 deductible with prescription drug co-pays once the deductible is satisfied (Appendix X). Effective January 1, 2015 the deductible shall increase to $2,000/$4,000. The Town shall make an annual contribution in January of each year in the amount of $1,250 for a single plan and $2,500 for a couple or family plan. The Town contribution shall be prorated for enrollments that are effective other than on January 1. The Town shall contribute an amount equal to ninety percent (90%) of the premium or premium equivalent and the employee shall pay the balance by payroll deduction on a pre-tax basis (premium conversion option). Effective January 1, 2015 the Town shall contribute eighty-five percent (85%) the premium or premium equivalent and the employee shall pay the balance by payroll deduction on a pre-tax basis (premium conversion option). Effective January 1, 2016 the Town shall contribute eighty percent (80%) the premium or premium equivalent and the employee shall pay the balance by payroll deduction on a pre-tax basis (premium conversion option).
2)	A high-deductible medical plan providing for a $3,000/$6,000 deductible with prescription drug co-pays once the deductible is satisfied (Appendix XII). There shall be no Town contribution to the employee’s HSA for this medical plan option. The Town shall contribute an amount equal to ninety-five percent (95%) of the premium or premium equivalent and the employee shall pay the balance by payroll deduction on a pre-tax basis (premium conversion option). Effective January 1, 2015 the Town shall contribute ninety percent (90%) the premium or premium equivalent and the employee shall pay the balance by payroll deduction on a pre-tax basis (premium conversion option). Effective January 1, 2016 the Town shall contribute eighty-five percent (85%) the premium or premium equivalent and the employee shall pay the balance by payroll deduction on a pre-tax basis (premium conversion option).
3)	An employee who has Medicare Part A, Veterans Medical Insurance or Active Duty Insurance and is therefore not eligible for participation in a HD-HSA may, as an alternative one of the HD-HSA options, elect to participate in a $10 POS Alternative Plan with a national network (Appendix XI) which shall include a prescription drug
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
13
rider (Appendix XIII). Participation in the $10 Alternative Plan is limited to employees who receive Medicare Part A, Veterans Medical Insurance or Active Duty Insurance. An employee who elects to enroll in the $10 POS Alternative Plan will be required to provide proof of participation in Medicare Part A, Veterans Medical Insurance or Active Duty Insurance. Effective January 1, 2014 the Town shall contribute eight-nine percent (89%) toward the premium of the $10 POS Alternative Plan and Prescription Drug Rider. Effective January 1, 2015 the Town contribute shall be eighty-three percent (83%) and the employee shall pay the balance of the premium by payroll deduction on a pre-tax basis (premium conversion option). Effective January 1, 2016 the Town contribute shall be seventyseven percent (77%) and the employee shall pay the balance of the premium by payroll deduction on a pre-tax basis (premium conversion option).
4)	An employee who is enrolled in the Town’s medical insurance plan and participates in the mandatory elements of the Town sponsored “Risk Reduction Program” during calendar 2014 shall receive a 5% employee premium co-pay discount during calendar year 2015 for medical insurance. Effective January 1, 2015 an employee and spouse who are enrolled in the Town’s medical insurance plan and participates in the mandatory features of the Town sponsored “Risk Reduction Program” during calendar 2015 shall receive a 10% employee premium co-pay discount during calendar year 2016 for medical insurance. The 10% discount in the employee’s premium co-pay for medical insurance shall continue for each calendar year thereafter provided that both the employee and spouse participate in the “Risk Reduction Program” during the prior calendar year. For purposes of administering the “Risk Reduction Program” an employee who marries on or after September 1 shall not be required to have the spouse participate in the “Risk Reduction Program” during that calendar year to be eligible for the 10% employee premium co-pay discount in the subsequent calendar year. The following are the mandatory elements of the Town sponsored “Risk Reduction Program: i) complete the program’s Health Risk Questionnaire ii) submit to the program’s clinically-valid screening which includes a blood screening and iii) participate in the program’s group session at which a health education professional and/or a registered dietician will review the results of the screening. The screening for employees and spouses will be scheduled during Town business hours including evenings when necessary; and to further accommodate spouses and employees, the provider’s screening labs, which includes evening and Saturday hours, are available to employee’s and spouses for the mandatory screenings. The mandatory group session will be scheduled during Town business hours including evenings when necessary; and to further accommodate spouses and employees, reasonable arrangements will be made to schedule group sessions to accommodate spouses including Saturdays, off-site locations and on-line arrangements.
The Risk Reduction Program is designed to provide employees and their spouses with evidence-based health information and to educate them about their risks for preventable chronic illnesses. The Town’s risk reduction program administrator shall determine the required aspects of the screening based on best available scientific evidence. All aspects of the Risk Reduction Program are in compliance with HIPPA ensuring the employee and spouse’s confidentiality.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
14
D.	Dental coverage pursuant to the Town of Greenwich Dental Plan as annexed hereto as Appendix XIV shall be continued. The calendar year deductible shall be one hundred dollars ($100) per person and three hundred dollars ($300) per family. The employee shall pay eight (8%) percent of the cost of the premium or premium equivalent of such plan by payroll deduction on a pre-tax basis pursuant to Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code (premium conversion option). The employee shall pay ten (10%) of the cost of the premium or premium equivalent. Effective January 1, 2014 the maximum allowances for Type A - C benefits shall be increased to $2,500.
E.	A bargaining unit employee who is not participating in an HD-HSA medical plan shall be eligible to participate in the medical, child care and transportation provisions of the Town’s Flexible Spending Account Plan in accordance with the terms of that Plan. A bargaining unit employee who is participating in an HD-HSA medical plan shall be eligible to participate in the child care and transportation provisions of the Town’s Flexible Spending Account Plan in accordance with the terms of that Plan.
F.	A surviving spouse of an employee shall continue to be entitled to purchase health and medical insurance provided by this Article.
G.	1) Employees who retired prior to July 1, 1995 shall be allowed to continue to be enrolled in the Town's group hospital or the Town's group hospital, surgical-medical and major medical insurance plans.
2)	Employees hired prior to July 1, 1995 who retire on or after July 1, 1995 shall be allowed to continue enrollment in said plans only if they have ten (10) or more years of credited service in the Town retirement system as of the date of retirement.
3)	Employees hired on or after July 1, 1995 shall be allowed to continue enrollment in said plans only if they have twenty (20) or more years of credited service in the Town retirement system as of the date of retirement.
4)	For eligible individuals who retire during the term of this agreement and subsequently elect to so enroll, the Town shall pay up to a maximum of $760 annually for individual coverage and up to a maximum of $1,970 annually for family coverage toward the premium for the coverage in which the individual enrolls. For any period of time that the individual is eligible for coverage under some other group health insurance plan (e.g. as a dependent under a spouse's plan or another employer's plan as an employee or dependent) this provision shall not apply. This provision shall not apply to the Town's prescription drug rider.
5)	A retiree, who at the time of his/her retirement, elects to discontinue with the Town’s health insurance and has no alternative health insurance, shall be re-eligible to enroll in the Town medical and prescription drug plans upon future election on a one-time basis during the Town’s annual open enrollment period.
6)	Full-time employees hired on or after January 1, 1996 shall not be eligible for the benefits of paragraph B(4) of this Article but in lieu thereof, shall enroll and become a
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
15
participant of the Town sponsored Retiree Health Care Savings Plan. The Retiree Health Care Savings Plan shall require the following mandatory contributions: 1) the Town shall make a contribution of 0.5% of the employee’s base salary and 2) the employee shall make a pre taxed contribution of 0.5% of the employee’s base salary. In the event it is determined that the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) permits the Town to offer a one-time option to existing employees to enroll in the Town’s Retiree Health Savings Plan the Town will amend its plan to permit such election.
H.	The Town shall provide a group life insurance policy for full time active employees in an amount equal to 1.5 times the employee's annual salary computed to the nearest one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Such coverage shall also include an equal amount of accidental death and dismemberment coverage applicable only to active employees. Effective July 1, 2014 the group life insurance policy shall increase to an amount to 2 times the employee’s annual salary computed to the nearest one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
The employee may buy from the Town's insurer additional group life insurance at the actual prevailing rate charged the Town, provided the employee purchases an amount equal to the employee's annual salary computed to the nearest one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
I.	The Town shall provide Long Term Disability coverage to replace income lost due to total
disability for each eligible employee. The initial plan provision shall be identical to the coverage in force as of this date for MC-Range Management employees, i.e.,
Monthly Income Benefit	-	66 2/3% of basic
monthly earnings
Maximum Benefit	-	$5,000/month
Waiting Period	-	1st 90 days of disability
Basic monthly earnings excludes bonuses, overtime pay, shift differential and all other special payments.
15.	RETIREMENT
A.	A full-time eligible employee shall become a member of the Retirement System of the Town of Greenwich (Retirement System) in effect for general and library employees as established by Article 14 of the Town Charter, this Agreement and as administered by the plan document on file with the Retirement Board.
1.	Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, an employee hired or re-hired on or after November 1, 2008 shall be ineligible for Retirement System membership; provided, however, an individual who is re-employed on or after November 1, 2008, who was vested under the terms of the Retirement System in effect as of his or her prior termination from service date, will be eligible to resume participation in the Retirement System. The provisions of Article 14 of the Town Charter and paragraphs A of this Article shall not be applicable to employees who are ineligible to participate in the Retirement System. (Such employees who are full-time
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
16
regular employees may be eligible to participate in the Town’s Defined Contribution Retirement Plan as set forth in paragraph B of this Article.)
2.	A permanent employee with credited service in the Retirement System who leaves Town employment and is subsequently rehired, may be reinstated in the Retirement System with all prior credited service if the break in Town employment is not longer than the total prior service period of the employee with the Town up to the date of withdrawal of accumulated deductions and, upon the employee restoring to the Retirement System within six (6) months from the date of rehire the entire amount of accumulated deductions together with interest up to the date of restoration.
3.	The contribution for all employees shall be four percent (4%) of pensionable earnings deducted from the employee’s be-weekly paycheck on a pre-taxed basis. Effective July 1, 2003 all newly hired full-time employees shall be required, as a condition of employment to participate in the Retirement System and to make the applicable employee contributions for such participation.
4.	An employee shall vest after five (5) years of creditable service with the commencement of benefits deferred to the minimum eligibility requirement for the receipt of a retirement allowance. The amount of such deferred retirement allowance shall be based on the benefits in effect at the time the vested member terminates his/her employment. An employee who ceases employment with the Town and is vested in the Retirement System may withdraw his/her contributions and such withdrawal shall not in any way effect the employee’s vested rights under the plan.
5.	An employee shall be eligible for normal retirement upon the earlier of: (1) the sum of the employee’s age and the number of years of creditable service equals at least eighty (80); or (2) when the employee attains age sixty-five (65).
6.	The rate of benefit in the Retirement System upon retirement as defined in Section 179 of Article 14 of the Greenwich Municipal Code (Charter) shall be 2% for each year of creditable service (1/50).
7.	The Town will grant a beneficiary(s) benefit for vested (five years of creditable service) employees who die prior to qualifying for a Service or Disability Retirement. Their designated beneficiary(s) shall be eligible to receive a one hundred percent (100%) Joint and Survivor Benefit based upon the employee’s accrued benefit account calculated as if the employee had retired on the date of death.
8.	Each employee with an honorable discharge from prior active military service in a branch of the United States Armed Forces shall be given credit as creditable service for purposes of determining his/her retirement allowance for each year of military service that the employee makes an additional contribution to the Town. Said additional contribution for each year of military service for which the member wishes to buy credit shall be the product of the employee's existing rate of contribution as defined in paragraph 4 of this Article and the pensionable earnings received by the member over the twenty-six consecutive bi-weekly payroll periods immediately prior to the application for military buyback being submitted to the Retirement Board for
LIUNA2013 - 2016
17
approval. In no event may an employee buy credit for more than four years of service. The creditable service purchased pursuant to this paragraph shall not be applied to the five year (5) vesting requirement or to meet the minimum service requirement.
9.	The retirement allowance of an employee who retires shall be determined by the use of pensionable earnings including income an employee elects to defer to a 401-k (457, 403-b) plan. Pensionable earnings shall mean the annual earned compensation including deferred income, but excluding overtime and shift differential, if applicable, earned by a member during the highest 26 consecutive pay periods of pensionable earnings. The maximum retirement allowance of an employee at retirement shall be 66.667% of pensionable earnings.
10.	A retiring employee who elects Option 1, Straight Life Annuity with Cash Refund, shall not be required to reduce his/her pension benefit to ensure that his/her beneficiary receives the unamortized balance of his/her contributions, with interest, in the event of his/her death after retirement. All other options shall include a reduction from Option 1 and no balances shall be returned under these options.
11.	Effective July 1 of each year, retirees age 62 and older, who retired prior to July 1 of the previous calendar year, shall be eligible for a cost of living adjustment (COLA) in their retirement allowance. Subject to the conditions set forth below, the COLA shall be 100% of the annual increase in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers for the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, NY_NJ_CT_PA (CPI), not to exceed 3%, measured from May as reported in June of the previous calendar year through April as reported in May of the current calendar year. In no event shall a retiree’s annual retirement allowance exceed 150% of the allowance at which the employee retired. In the event the annual increase in the CPI is less than one percent (1%) no COLA shall be due. This paragraph “11” shall be applicable to employees who retired on or after July 1, 2009.
B.	Town of Greenwich Retirement Savings Plan: A full-time regular employee covered by this Agreement who is not eligible, pursuant to the terms of paragraph A (1) of this Article for membership in the Town’s Retirement System, shall become a participant in the Town of Greenwich Retirement Savings Plan (Savings Plan) as of his or her date of hire. Participation in the Savings Plan shall be mandatory for such eligible employees.
1.	Mandatory Contributions: - Immediately upon commencing participation in the Savings Plan, each participant shall contribute on a pre tax basis through payroll deduction, five percent (5%) of his or her pensionable earnings, as defined in section (A) (9) if this Article, and the Town shall contribute an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the participant’s pensionable earnings to the participant’s Savings Plan account.
2.	Vesting - Each Participant is always 100% vested in his or her employee contributions deposited in the employee’s account. Employer (Town) contributions shall be vested pursuant to the following schedule: 20% upon completion of 12 months of active full-time employment, 40% upon completion of 24 months of active full-time employment, 60% upon completion of 36 months of active full-time
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
18
employment, 80% upon completion of 48 months of active full-time employment and 100% upon completion of sixty (60) months of active full-time employment.
3.	Discretionary employee contributions - To the extent permitted by applicable law and regulations, each Participant shall be permitted to defer amounts (in addition to the mandatory 5% employee contribution described in paragraph 1 above) to the Savings Plan, on an after-tax basis, subject to Internal Revenue Code limitations.
4.	Other - The Town shall be responsible for establishing and administering the Savings Plan and may retain vendors, carriers, firms or agents for this purpose. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Town shall (a) determine investment alternatives that are available under the Savings Plan, and (b) amend the Savings Plan, from the time-to-time, in order to maintain its qualified status under the Internal Revenue Code. Each Participant shall direct the investment of his or her account.
D.	The Town shall continue the deferred compensation plans, which are available to employees via payroll deduction.
1.	During the month of January the Town shall match a full-time employee’s prior calendar year’s contributions to the deferred compensation account (401-k, 457 and 403-b) to a maximum of two thousand three hundred dollars ($2,300) and effective January 1, 2015 a maximum of two thousand four hundred dollars ($2,400) No new 403-b accounts will be opened for employees. Employees with existing 403-b accounts may continue to defer compensation to such accounts. All permanent fulltime employees will have the option to defer compensation to a 457 account and/or to a 401-k account. The Town match for employees who elect to contribute to both 401-k and 457 accounts shall first be made to the employee’s 401-k account prior to any match to the 457 account.
2.	Permanent part-time employees may elect to defer compensation to a 457 account.
E.	The Town shall provide each employee with on-line access to their retirement and deferred compensation contributions, balances and years of credited service.
16.	INJURY LEAVE
A.	Each employee who incurs an injury or illness which is covered under the Connecticut Workers' Compensation Act shall be entitled to injury leave pay equal to the difference between the compensation received pursuant to said Act and his/her normal base rate of pay for the number of days of necessary absences up to a maximum of one month following the date of injury. An employee may supplement his/her workers' compensation payments by using sick leave in no less than one half-day increment to maintain his/her salary at the same level prior to the injury.
B.	If it is necessary to continue leave beyond one (1) month, the employee shall be entitled
only to compensation as established by the Act.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
19
C	A complete report of each accident shall be made to the employee’s immediate supervisor
as soon as practical after it occurs. Each department head shall be responsible for the proper enforcement of this requirement.
D.	The salary benefits provided under this Article 16 shall be in lieu of and not in addition to the salary benefits provided by the Connecticut Workers' Compensation Act.
E.	The Town and the injured employee shall have all the rights and obligations set forth in
Section 31-293 of the Connecticut General Statutes, as amended, insofar as applicable.
F.	LIUNA agrees that the Town may, without further negotiation, implement a managed
medical care plan network for employees’ work related medical treatments. In the event the Town changes its workers’ compensation administrator/carrier any new medical care plan network shall be comparable to the prior medical care plan network.
17.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
A.	Employees are entitled to up to five (5) consecutive working days bereavement leave with pay in the event of the death of a member of the "immediate family" (as defined in Section 11C of this Agreement) and three (3) consecutive working days bereavement leave with pay in the event of the death of a brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, or daughter-inlaw for the purposes of attending the funeral and a period of bereavement. At the discretion of the department head where unusual circumstances and equity dictate, an employee shall be entitled to one (1) working day in the event of the death of any other person not described in this Section.
B.	Bereavement leave shall not be deducted from sick leave.
C.	The actual number of working days granted for this purpose shall be based on actual need.
18.	FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE ACT AND AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
The Town shall comply with the provisions of the federal Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and the federal Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) that are applicable to the Town pursuant to such federal statutes. An alleged violation of the FMLA, ADA or this Article shall not be subject to the terms of Article 21, paragraph A, Step 3 of the collective bargaining agreement.
19.	HEALTH APPOINTMENTS AND EXAMINATIONS
A.	Employees shall be entitled to reasonable time off with pay for necessary medical (excluding dental appointments), which cannot, with reasonable practicality, be scheduled outside of the normal workday. The granting of such time off shall, except in an emergency, be subject to the reasonable needs of the Town as determined by the department head. Such time off shall only be granted for a period of time commencing with the beginning of the employee’s workday or for a period of time at the end of the employee’s workday. A department head shall permit the employee time off during other hours during the workday, when the employee, due to medical necessity, cannot schedule
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
20
an appointment as provided above. For purposes of this Article, medical appointments are defined as pre-scheduled appointments with the employee’s physician not otherwise requiring the employee to be absent from work due to illness or disability.
B.	Effective with the beginning of the fiscal year following the employee completing twelve
consecutive months of full-time work, a full-time employee shall be eligible for a biennial reimbursement of the cost of prescription eyeglasses and contact lenses not to exceed three three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00). A request for reimbursement shall be submitted to the Department of Human Resources within sixty (60) days of the date of purchase on the appropriate form and shall include the original receipt of purchase. In the event multiple requests for reimbursement are made, the total of all such reimbursements shall not exceed three fifty hundred dollars ($350.00) in any biennial fiscal year period
20.	TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCE
A.	The Town shall reimburse each employee for use of his/her private vehicle on Town
business at the rate established by the Internal Revenue Service. Each January or within thirty (30) days following official promulgation of a change in the IRS rate, the reimbursement rate shall be prospectively adjusted accordingly. There shall be only one such adjustment annually. Each employee shall report this mileage on forms and in the manner determined by the department head.
B.	Transportation reimbursement covering the previous month will be paid on or about the
tenth (10th) of each month.
C.	An employee who is authorized by his or her department head to regularly and
customarily use their personal vehicle for Town business will be paid an annual amount of two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) in July for automobile expenses incurred during the prior fiscal year. The payment shall be prorated for an employee who becomes eligible for the reimbursement for a period of less than the entire the fiscal year. The term regularly and customarily shall mean (i) the employee is authorized to use his or her personal vehicle in performing essential duties of his or her position excluding non essential duties and travel to conferences and meetings and (ii) the extent of the use of the personal vehicle in performing these essential duties is on multiple occasions during each month of the year or pro rated year for partial payment eligibility.
D.	Any employee, who is involved in a motor vehicle accident causing damage to such vehicle while conducting Town business, may be eligible for reimbursement up to a maximum of the employee’s collision deductible but not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000) for repairs to the employee’s private vehicle not otherwise covered by the employee’s automobile insurance. To be eligible for reimbursement the employee’s supervisor or department head had reasonable knowledge that the employee was using his/her private vehicle to perform Town business and the employee must have been engaged in such Town business when the accident occurred. The employee shall be required to submit the receipt indicating the cost of the repairs, a description of the repairs that were completed along with a copy of the insurance policy indicating the amount of the employee’s insurance coverage.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
21
Notwithstanding the above, an employee shall not be eligible for reimbursement if the employee was cited and fined for a traffic infraction or violation, found at fault , or the employee did not otherwise meet the conditions set forth above for reimbursement.
The parties and employees shall be governed by the terms of Appendix VIII to this Agreement regarding the employee use of Town owned vehicles.
21.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	Any disagreement or dispute regarding the application, meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement shall be resolved pursuant to the following procedure:
Step 1: The Union shall present the grievance in writing within twenty (20) working days from the date the grievance occurred or when the Union should have reasonably known of the occurrence, to the department head or, if the grievance arises in the school system, to the Superintendent of Schools. Within ten (10) working days after receipt of the written grievance, the department head, Superintendent and/or his/her designee shall meet with representatives of the Union for the purpose of resolving the grievance. The department head or Superintendent designee shall provide a written answer regarding the grievance to the Union no later than twenty (20) working days after said meeting. In the cases of a suspension and/or discharge Step 1 may be waived and the grievance may be filed directly at Step 2. A grievance alleging a violation of Article 5, 14, 15, 16, 22, 23, or 24 may be filed with the Director of Labor Relations at Step I.
Step 2: If the grievance is not resolved at Step 1, or it is a Step 2 filing, the Union may, within ten (10) working days of the Step 1 response, or in the case of suspension and/or discharge within twenty (20) working days of the imposition of discipline, file the grievance with the First Selectman or designee. Within ten (10) working days of receipt of said grievance the First Selectman or his/her designee shall meet with representatives of the Union. Within twenty (20) working days of such meeting the First Selectman or his/her designee shall provide a written answer regarding the grievance to the Union.
Step 3: If the grievance is not resolved and if it involved an alleged violation by the Town of an express provision of this Agreement, the Union may, within ten (10) working days of receipt of the Step 2 response, file the grievance in writing, with a copy to the Town, with the American Arbitration Association or American Dispute Resolution Center for selection of an arbitrator. Said Arbitrator shall hear and act upon the grievance in accordance with American Arbitration Association or American Dispute Resolution Center’s rules and the terms of this Agreement. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon all parties.
B.	If the grievance is not filed at Step 1 within twenty (20) working days of the time the
grievant knew or should have reasonably known of the act, occurrence or event being grieved, the grievance shall be waived and there shall be no right to arbitration.
C.	The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from or modify any of the
provisions of this Agreement nor to imply any obligation on the Town or the Union which
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
22
is not specifically set forth in this Agreement. Awards may not be retroactive beyond thirty (30) days prior to the date the grievance was filed at Step 1.
D.	During the pendency of a grievance concerning separation from service or suspension, the employee shall be entitled to keep his/her insurance as set forth in Section 14A of this Agreement in effect by making payments to the Town of the total amount of the insurance premiums for his/her coverage, and if a final decision in favor of the employee is rendered, the Town shall reimburse the employee for the total amount of insurance premiums paid by the employee less the employee’s required premium contribution.
E	The cost of arbitration shall be borne equally by the parties, however, each party shall
bear the expenses of its own representatives and witnesses.
F.	Any time limit specified in this Article, except for the initial submission of the grievance
under Step 1 and/or Step 2 of the grievance procedure, may be extended by mutual written agreement of the Town and the Union.
G.	When the Town does not respond to a grievance within the time limits specified in the grievance procedure, the Union may proceed to the next Step of the grievance procedure. Such non-response on the part of the Town shall be construed as a rejection of the grievance by the Town.
H.	Nothing in this Article shall prohibit the parties from mutually arranging informal meetings at any Step of the grievance procedure in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
22.	APPOINTMENTS
A.	The Town shall fill any vacancy or new position in the bargaining unit which it determines to fill by first giving preference to a current employee of the bargaining unit if such employee is qualified to fill the position; provided, however, that the Town may fill any such vacancy or new position by hiring an applicant with significantly better qualifications who is not in the bargaining unit. A candidate shall be deemed to have significantly better qualifications if his/her overall examination score as posted on the Eligibility List is at least five points higher than the overall score of a bargaining unit employee.
B.	The Town may also fill any vacancy or new position in the bargaining unit, which it
determines to fill by a temporary appointment where there is no current employee of the unit who the Town determines is qualified to fill the position. Whenever practical, the Town shall make such a temporary appointment by the temporary transfer of a current employee of the unit who is already filling a position in the same classification in another Town department or, if there is no such person, then by the temporary promotion of a current employee of the bargaining unit.
C.	To meet the requirements of an emergency condition which threatens life, property, or the
general welfare of the Town, the Town may employ such persons as may be needed for the limited term of the emergency without regard to the regulations as to appointments in this Article.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
23
D.	The Town shall post all job openings and shall send a copy of the notice to the Union.
E.	The Town shall give the job description of any new classification to the Union as early as
practical before its release to the public.
F.	In the event job classification surveys are made by questionnaire each employee may
review his/her own questionnaire and the official comments made by the department head and the member of the survey team, and the Town shall send a copy of the final report to the Union.
G.	The Town shall not reduce the compensation of any employee by a change in the title or
description of the job classification of the employee without a substantial bona fide change in the duties or responsibilities of the employee.
H.	During the period of suspension of any employee, or during the pendency of grievance procedures concerning separation from service, or demotion, the Town may fill the vacancy created only by a temporary appointment.
I.	Qualifications of an employee to fill a position may be the subject of a grievance where
the determination of the Town is arbitrary, discriminatory or an abuse of discretion.
J.	Upon promotion to a classification in a higher pay grade, the employee shall be allocated
to a salary step in the higher pay grade that is at minimum one hundred ten percent (110%) of the current salary but in no event greater than the maximum for that grade. The employee, if not at the maximum salary of the grade, shall be eligible to receive an increment on July 1 following twelve months of work from the date of promotion and each July 1 thereafter.
An employee who is promoted shall serve a trial period of six (6) months in the new position classification. The employee may be returned to the former position title and salary rate at any time during the trial period. The return may be the subject of a grievance only where the Town’s decision is arbitrary, discriminatory or an abuse of discretion. The six (6) month trial period may be extended for one additional three (3) month period at the written request of the department head provided the employee and the Union agree in writing to such extension.
K.	Upon reasonable request the Town will furnish electronically to the Business Manager a list of bargaining unit employees to include title, department, salary and date of employment with the Town. Business Manager or his or her designee may be provided with a reasonable opportunity during working hours to meet with new hires for a reasonable period of time to discuss union membership during a time as to not interfere with business operations
23.	SENIORITY AND LAYOFFS
A.	An employee's seniority shall commence on the date s/he is first hired by the Town and shall be based on continuous service with the Town.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
24
B.	Seniority shall govern in layoffs and rehiring within a title. In the event any employee is
laid-off, s/he may exercise their seniority to bump into an equal or lower rated position within the department provided s/he has the ability to perform the duties of the position and provided their seniority is greater than any incumbent. Excluded from the foregoing shall be those employees in Group A. Group A employees may only bump into a lower rated position within the department provided s/he has the ability to perform the duties of the positions and provided their seniority is greater than any incumbent.
C.	An employee laid off because of elimination of position shall be entitled to return to the
employment of the Town in the position or any other similar position for which s/he is the best qualified applicant as soon as such position again becomes available within twenty-four (24) months of the layoff date; provided that such employee exercises this right within one (1) month of the position being available. The only obligation of the Town shall be to give to the Union and to mail to the employee at the last address supplied to the Town, a notice of the availability of the position from which the employee was laid off or similar position in the employee’s former department. An employee who declines a proper offer of recall hereunder shall be removed from the layoff list.
D.	Layoff shall be defined, for the purposes of this Article, as a termination of a full-time or permanent part-time employee resulting from the elimination of the employee’s position by the Town or being displaced by an employee whose position was eliminated. The Town shall notify LIUNA of any intended layoffs as soon as practicable prior to the notification to any affected employees. An employee subject to layoff, shall receive written notice of such layoff no less than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of such layoff or pay in lieu thereof.
24.	DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
The Town shall deduct from the bi-weekly wages of the employees regular Union dues for those employees who sign authorizations permitting such action, and an agency fee (not to exceed Union dues) for those employees who have not joined the Union by signing said authorization. The Town shall remit the amount deducted to the Union on a monthly basis along with a list of employees for whom such deductions were made. The agency fee is solely for the purpose of administering and negotiating the labor agreement and any individual paying said fee should have the right to object and the Union shall have the obligation to justify said fee pursuant to the procedures outlined in Appendix VI.
The Union shall indemnify and save the Town harmless against any and all claims, demands, damages, suits, or other forms of liability that may arise out of or by reason of action taken by the Town for the purposes of complying with any of the provisions of this section or in reliance on any certification, notice or authorization furnished under it provisions of this section.
25.	SAVINGS CLAUSE
All benefits and obligations not described in this Agreement or in any other documents referred to in this Agreement and which are now enjoyed by or required of the employees are specifically
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
25
included in this Agreement by reference just as though each such benefit and obligation was specifically set forth.
26.	OUTSIDE ACTIVITIES
Except for partisan political activities, each employee has a right to engage in outside activities of whatever sort of his/her choosing without interference of any kind from the Town so long as the activities are not in a capacity where the employee is representing the Town or so long as the activities do not interfere with the employee’s ability to perform the duties of his/her employment with the Town. In the event the employee, while performing their duties for the Town, is required to transact Town business with an individual or entity that such employee is engaged with in such outside activity, the employee shall be required to make a disclosure to their department head of such relationship prior to conducting such Town business. The department head shall determine the appropriateness of the employee in conducting such transaction, and if found to be inappropriate, shall assign another employee to such conduct such transaction.
27.	DISCIPLINE OR DISCHARGE AND RESIGNATION
A.	The Town shall not discipline or discharge an employee, except an employee who has less
than six months seniority, except for just cause. The Town shall provide any such employee to be disciplined or discharged with a written statement of the just cause. The Town shall send a copy of a notice of discipline and/or discharge to the Union Business Manager.
In the event an employee is laid off due to the elimination of a bargaining unit position, such employee shall be entitled to receive as severance pay, fifty percent (50%) of his/her accumulated sick leave subject to the maximum of ninety (90) days’ sick leave and other conditions set forth in Article 11 of this Agreement. Employees hired on or after September 23, 1997 shall not be entitled to benefits provided by this paragraph. Such employees shall not receive any payment for unused accumulated sick leave at retirement.
B.	Recognizing that no political test or qualification has been permitted or given
consideration in the past and to insure that none is permitted or given consideration in the future, no political test or qualification is to be permitted or given consideration in the discipline or discharge of an employee or in the addition or elimination of a position.
C.	Each employee shall give at least two (2) weeks written notice of resignation to his/her
department head.
28.	UNIFORMS
A.	The Town shall pay to any employee who is required to wear a uniform an annual
allowance of two hundred ten dollars ($210). There shall be no pro-ration of the annual allowance for part-time employees.
B.	The Town shall supply at no cost to the employee personal protective clothing and safety
equipment as required by Federal and/or State OSHA regulations. All items as provided herein, remain the property of the Town and are only to be used in accordance with
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
26
departmental work rules. Upon separation of service, all items must be returned to the Town prior to the issuance of the final paycheck.
29.	DURATION
A.	This Agreement, except for those provisions specifically stated to take effect as of another
date, shall take effect as of the date on which the Representative Town Meeting approves the resolution with respect to this Agreement, within fifteen (15) days after which the parties shall sign this Agreement. Any provisions of the Agreement which are retroactive, shall be retroactive for employees and retirees, but not for former employees who have been terminated or have resigned prior to the date on which the Agreement was signed by both parties.
B.	This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect to and including June 30, 2016. All
matters subject to collective bargaining between the parties have been covered, and this Agreement may not be reopened with respect to any subject matter except as expressly provided herein.
30.	DEFINITIONS
The “Union” in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean the Executive Committee of the Union acting through such officers, agents, or employees as it deems appropriate unless another interpretation is specifically made or unless required by law.
31.	SUBSTANCE ABUSE TESTING
The Town’s Drug and Alcohol Free Workplace Section 8.9 of the “Human Resources Policy Manual” dated September, 2012 or as thereafter amended, is made part of this Agreement and shall apply provided the employee is at risk of disciplinary or other adverse action or manifests performance problems. Such Policy shall not apply in the event an employee on a voluntary basis self refers.
32.	PERFORMANCE REVIEW
Employees are required to submit to and participate in performance reviews. The Town reserves the right to determine the methodology of the performance review process subject to the following conditions:
-	The performance review evaluation form used by the Town shall include a section for the employee to respond to the evaluation.
-	The performance review process shall include a meeting between the employee being evaluated and the supervisor performing the evaluation for the purpose of discussing the evaluation.
-	Employees shall be given a copy of performance review evaluation forms.
-	An unsatisfactory evaluation shall not result in the withholding of a salary increment the employee would otherwise be entitled to receive.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
27
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their hands
26^3
CONNECTICUT LABORERS DISTRICT COUNCIL, ON BEHALF OF CONNECTICUT PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYEES LOCAL 136 of LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA, AFL-CIO
Charles 1. LeConche, Business Manager Connecticut Laborers’ District Council
For the Town of Greenwich
William McCormick, Business Manager
28
L1UNA 2013-2016
APPENDIX 1
JOB CLASSIFICATION TABLE
Job Group A
Building Official
Chief Engineer
Director of Continuing Education and Adult Education
Director of Environmental Services
Director of Family Health
Highway Superintendent
Wastewater Division Manager
Superintendent, Bldg, Const & Maintenance Superintendent of Parks & Trees/Tree Warden Superintendent of Marine & Facility Operations
Superintendent of Recreation
Supervisor School Health Nurse
Job Group B
Assistant Assessor
Building Code Engineer
Deputy Building Official
Director Facility Operations, NW
Director School Safety Services
Food Services Director
GIS Coordinator
Library Manager
Senior Buyer/Warehouse Supervisor
Senior Civil Engineer
Technical Support Manager
Zoning Enforcement Officer
Job Group C
Accounts Payable Supervisor
Assistant Superintendent BCM
Assistant Tax Collector
Branch Librarian
Business Services Manager, Public Works
Civil Engineer II
Commercial/Real Estate Appraiser
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
29
Job Group C, continued
Community Development Administrator
Director of Admissions
Director of Special Clinical Services
Environmental Operations Manager
Golf Course Turf & Grounds Manager
Head of Youth Services - Librarian III - Perrot Library
Highway Operations Manager
Highway Planning and Program Manager HR Retirement Benefits Administrator Laboratory Director Librarian III
Maintenance Manager Sewer
MFO Operations Manager
Operations Manager - Boats & Harbors
Park Operations Manager
Payroll Systems Administrator
Process Control Manager
Public Relations Officer, Greenwich Library
Social Services Team Administrator
Superintendent of Fleet Operations
Environmental Health Supervisor
Tree Operations Manager
Turf Operations Manager
Job Group D
Administrative Services Center Supervisor*
Assistant to the Chief Accountant & Treasurer
Budget Supervisor (Library)
Business Services Administrator - NW
Civic Center Director
Civil Engineer I
Clinical Nurse Practitioner (P/T)
Design Planner*
Finance Supervisor BOE
GIS Programmer/Analyst
Occupational Therapist, BOE
Physical Therapist, BOE
Public Health Preparedness Administrator (P/T)
Senior Buyer
Senior Center Administrator
Senior Inlands Wetlands Analyst*
Senior Networking Specialist
Senior Planner
Social Services Provider III
Technical Program Administrator
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
30
Job Group D, continued
Therapeutic Recreation Administrator, NW
Volunteer Recruitment & Retention Coordinator
Workers’ Compensation Administrator
Job Group E
Admissions Manager
Bacteriologist
Budget and Systems Supervisor
Business Office Manager - Health
Buyer II
Buyer/Telecommunications Coordinator
Environmental Analyst*
Food Service Manager H.S.
Food Service Manager K-8
Highway Asset Manager
HR Systems Specialist
HR Systems Specialist BOE
Human Resource Analyst
Information System Analyst (BOE)*
Internal Auditor I
Laboratory Supervisor (Sewers)
Librarian II
Network Specialist*
Para-Legal*
Plan Examiner
Planner II
Program and Operations Supervisor (Lib)
Recreation Supervisor
Social Services Provider II
Social Services Provider II NW
Supervisor Building Operations HS
Youth Services Librarian II
Job Group F
Applications Coordinator*
Business Services Coordinator - NW
Buyer I
Conservation Assistant*
Financial Analyst I
Laboratory Technician*
Librarian I
PC Applications Support Specialist*
Planner I
Program and Operations Supervisor (DPW)
Sewage Plant Lab Technician*
Social Services Provider I
Social Services Provider I NW
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
31
Job Group F, continued
Student Data Systems Analyst*
Transportation Manager
Youth Services Librarian I
Web Specialist (Greenwich Library)*
Wetlands Compliance Officer*
Job Group G
Admissions Representative*
Assistant Wetland Compliance Officer*
Recreation Therapist
* non-exempt position
Note: Nursing Classifications - Appendix III
Assistant Town Attorney Classifications - Appendix IV
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
32
APPENDIX II
Effective July 1, 2013
Group	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9
A	$89,209	$92,064	$95,010	$98,050	$101,187	$104,425	$107,767	$111,216	$115,109
B	$80,068	$82,627	$85,275	$88,002	$90,819	$93,725	$96,724	$99,819	$103,313
C	$72,234	$74,545	$76,930	$79,392	$81,933	$84,555	$87,261	$90,053	$93,205
D	$66,012	$68,124	$70,304	$72,553	$74,875	$77,271	$79,744	$82,295	$85,176
E	$61,173	$63,130	$65,150	$67,234	$69,386	$71,606	$73,898	$76,262	$78,932
F	$57,024	$58,850	$60,733	$62,677	$64,682	$66,752	$68,888	$71,092	$73,580
G	$53,569	$55,282	$57,051	$58,877	$60,761	$62,706	$64,712	$66,783	$69,120
				Effective January		1, 2014			
Group	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9
A	$90,101	$92,984	$95,960	$99,031	$102,199	$105,469	$108,845	$112,328	$116,260
B	$80,869	$83,453	$86,127	$88,882	$91,727	$94,662	$97,692	$100,817	$104,346
C	$72,956	$75,290	$77,700	$80,186	$82,753	$85,400	$88,133	$90,954	$94,138
D	$66,672	$68,805	$71,007	$73,279	$75,624	$78,044	$80,541	$83,118	$86,028
E	$61,784	$63,761	$65,802	$67,906	$70,080	$72,322	$74,637	$77,025	$79,721
F	$57,594	$59,438	$61,340	$63,304	$65,329	$67,420	$69,577	$71,803	$74,316
G	$54,104	$55,835	$57,621	$59,466	$61,369	$63,333	$65,359	$67,451	$69,811
Effective July 1, 2014
Group	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9
A	$92,129	$95,076	$98,119	$101,259	$104,499	$107,842	$111,294	$114,855	$118,876
B	$82,688	$85,331	$88,065	$90,882	$93,791	$96,792	$99,890	$103,086	$106,694
C	$74,598	$76,984	$79,448	$81,990	$84,614	$87,322	$90,116	$93,000	$96,256
D	$68,172	$70,353	$72,604	$74,927	$77,325	$79,800	$82,353	$84,988	$87,964
E	$63,174	$65,195	$67,282	$69,434	$71,657	$73,949	$76,317	$78,758	$81,515
F	$58,890	$60,776	$62,721	$64,728	$66,798	$68,937	$71,142	$73,418	$75,988
G	$55,322	$57,091	$58,918	$60,803	$62,750	$64,758	$66,830	$68,968	$71,382
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
33
APPENDIX ll, continued
Effective July 1, 2015
Group	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9
A	$93,511	$96,502	$99,591	$102,778	$106,066	$109,460	$112,963	$116,578	$120,659
B	$83,929	$86,611	$89,386	$92,245	$95,198	$98,244	$101,388	$104,632	$108,294
C	$75,717	$78,139	$80,640	$83,220	$85,884	$88,632	$91,468	$94,395	$97,699
D	$69,195	$71,408	$73,694	$76,051	$78,485	$80,997	$83,588	$86,263	$89,283
E	$64,122	$66,173	$68,292	$70,476	$72,731	$75,058	$77,462	$79,940	$82,737
F	$59,773	$61,687	$63,661	$65,699	$67,800	$69,971	$72,209	$74,520	$77,128
G	$56,151	$57,948	$59,801	$61,716	$63,691	$65,730	$67,832	$70,003	$72,452
Effective January 1, 2016
Group	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9
A	$94,446	$97,467	$100,587	$103,806	$107,127	$110,554	$114,093	$117,744	$121,866
B	$84,768	$87,477	$90,280	$93,168	$96,150	$99,227	$102,402	$105,678	$109,377
C	$76,474	$78,920	$81,446	$84,052	$86,743	$89,518	$92,383	$95,339	$98,676
D	$69,887	$72,123	$74,430	$76,812	$79,270	$81,807	$84,424	$87,125	$90,176
E	$64,763	$66,835	$68,975	$71,181	$73,459	$75,809	$78,236	$80,739	$83,565
F	$60,371	$62,304	$64,298	$66,356	$68,478	$70,671	$72,932	$75,265	$77,899
G	$56,713	$58,527	$60,399	$62,333	$64,328	$66,387	$68,511	$70,703	$73,177
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
34
APPENDIX III
NURSE CLASSIFICATIONS
SALARY SCHEDULE
Classification	Regular Hours	Salary	Hourly		Other Compensation
Associate Director of Nursing	40+	Effective July 1, 2013 Hire Salary	$105,518	Salaried	
		Complete 18 months	$108,156		
		Complete 30 months	$110,860		
		Complete 42 months	$113,632		
		Effective Jan 1, 2014			
		Hire Salary	$106,573	Salaried	
		Complete 18 months	$109,237		
		Complete 30 months	$111,968		
		Complete 42 months Effective July 1, 2014	$114,768		Paid Overtime at time and one-half
		Hire Salary	$108,971	Salaried	for extra hours worked as a shift
		Complete 18 months Complete 30 months	$111,695 $114,487		supervisor at the shift supervisor rate of pay. No additional pay or compensation for work in excess of
		Complete 42 months	$117,350		45 hours as Director. Work over 45 hours as Director hour for hour of
		Effective July 1, 2015			compensatory time or flexible work
		Hire Salary	$110,606	Salaried	schedule.
		Complete 18 months	$113,371		
		Complete 30 months	$116,205		
		Complete 42 months	$119,111		
		Effective Jan 1, 2016			
		Hire Salary	$111,712	Salaried	
		Complete 18 months	$114,504		
		Complete 30 months	$117,367		
		Complete 42 months	$120,302		
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
35
APPENDIX III, continued
NURSE CLASSIFICATIONS
SALARY SCHEDULE
Assistant Director of Nursing	40	Effective July 1, 2013 Hire Salary	$92,873	$44.65	
		Complete 18 months	$95,194	$45.77	
		Complete 30 months	$97,574	$46.91	
		Complete 42 months	$100,014	$48.08	Paid overtime at time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of 40
		Effective Jan 1, 2014			
		Hire Salary	$93,802	$45.10	
		Complete 18 months	$96,146	$46.22	
		Complete 30 months	$98,550	$47.38	
		Complete 42 months	$101,014	$48.56	
		Effective July 1, 2014 Hire Salary	$95,912	$46.11	
		Complete 18 months	$98,309	$47.26	
		Complete 30 months	$100,767	$48.45	
		Complete 42 months	$103,287	$49.66	
		Effective July 1, 2015 Hire Salary	$97,351	$46.80	
		Complete 18 months	$99,784	$47.97	
		Complete 30 months	$102,279	$49.17	
		Complete 42 months	$104,836	$50.40	
		Effective Jan 1, 2016			
		Hire Salary	$98,325	$47.27	
		Complete 18 months	$100,782	$48.45	
		Complete 30 months	$103,301	$49.66	
		Complete 42 months	$105,884	$50.91	
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
36
APPENDIX III, continued
NURSE CLASSIFICATIONS
SALARY SCHEDULE
Patient Care Coordinator	40	Effective July 1, 2013		
Special Services R. N.		Hire Salary	$84,873	$40.80
M.D.S. Coordinator		Complete 18 months	$86,995	$41.82
		Complete 30 months	$89,170	$42.87
		Complete 42 months	$91,399	$43.94
		Effective Jan 1, 2014		
		Hire Salary	$85,722	$41.21
		Complete 18 months	$87,865	$42.24
		Complete 30 months	$90,062	$43.30
		Complete 42 months	$92,313	$44.38
		Effective July 1, 2014 Hire Salary	$87,651	$42.14
		Complete 18 months	$89,841	$43.19
		Complete 30 months	$92,088	$44.27
		Complete 42 months	$94,390	$45.38
		Effective July 1, 2015 Hire Salary	$88,965	$42.77
		Complete 18 months	$91,189	$43.84
		Complete 30 months	$93,470	$44.94
		Complete 42 months	$95,806	$46.06
		Effective Jan 1, 2016		
		Hire Salary	$89,855	$43.20
		Complete 18 months	$92,101	$44.28
		Complete 30 months	$94,404	$45.39
		Complete 42 months	$96,764	$46.52
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
37
APPENDIX III, continued
NURSE CLASSIFICATIONS
SALARY SCHEDULE
Staff Nurse R. N.	40 Effective July 1, 2013
Hire Salary	$80,381	$38.64
Complete 18 months	$82,391	$39.61
Complete 30 months	$84,450	$40.60
Complete 42 months	$86,561	$41.62
Effective Jan 1, 2014		
Hire Salary	$81,185	$39.03
Complete 18 months	$83,215	$40.01
Complete 30 months	$85,294	$41.01
Complete 42 months	$87,426	$42.03
Effective July 1, 2014		
Hire Salary	$83,012	$39.91
Complete 18 months	$85,087	$40.91
Complete 30 months	$87,213	$41.93
Complete 42 months	$89,393	$42.98
Effective July 1, 2015		
Hire Salary	$84,257	$40.51
Complete 18 months	$86,364	$41.52
Complete 30 months	$88,522	$42.56
Complete 42 months	$90,734	$43.62
Effective Jan 1, 2016		
Hire Salary	$85,099	$40.91
Complete 18 months	$87,227	$41.94
Complete 30 months	$89,407	$42.98
Complete 42 months	$91,641	$44.06
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
38
APPENDIX III, continued
NURSE CLASSIFICATIONS SALARY SCHEDULE
Notes:
1.	For employees employed prior to July 1, 2003 the references to the 18, 30 and 42 month wage rates are based from July 1, 2003, the date the salary schedule became effective. For employees hired on or promoted after July 1, 2003 the references to the 18, 30 and 42 month wage rates are based from the date of hire or promotion. Increments for employees hired on or after March 15, 2007 shall be at 24, 36 and 48 months.
2.	Town may continue the hiring bonus pursuant to Article 5 (A) (7).
3.	Salary Schedule - The Town may hire above the hire salary based on the experience and qualifications of the candidate. If a candidate is hired above the hire salary, the employee advances to the next step upon completing the number of months of work between the step at which hired and the succeeding step. Employees advance to the succeeding step upon completing the required number of months of work i.e. 18 (24), 30 (36) and 42 (48) months.
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
39
APPENDIX IV
ASSISTANT TOWN ATTORNEY CLASSIFICATIONS SALARY SCHEDULE
Effective July 1, 2013
Group	Step A	Step B	Step C	Step I	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9
III	$116,953	$123,318	$129,684	$136,050	$139,878	$143,708	$147,536	$151,366	$155,194	$159,023	$162,852	$166,682
II	n/a	n/a	n/a	$80,068	$82,871	$85,673	$88,475	$91,278	$94,080	$96,881	$99,684	$102,943
I	n/a	n/a	n/a	$72,234	$74,761	$77,290	$79,818	$82,347	$84,874	$87,403	$89,930	$92,870
					Effective January 1, 2014							
Group	Step A	Step B	Step C	Step I	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9
III	$118,122	$124,551	$130,981	$137,410	$141,277	$145,145	$149,011	$152,879	$156,746	$160,613	$164,481	$168,349
II	n/a	n/a	n/a	$80,869	$83,699	$86,530	$89,360	$92,190	$95,021	$97,850	$100,681	$103,972
I	n/a	n/a	n/a	$72,956	$75,509	$78,063	$80,616	$83,170	$85,723	$88,277	$90,829	$93,799
						Effective July 1, 2014						
Group	Step A	Step B	Step C	Step I	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9
III	$120,780	$127,354	$133,928	$140,502	$144,456	$148,410	$152,364	$156,319	$160,273	$164,227	$168,182	$172,136
II	n/a	n/a	n/a	$82,688	$85,583	$88,477	$91,371	$94,265	$97,159	$100,052	$102,946	$106,312
I	n/a	n/a	n/a	$74,598	$77,208	$79,819	$82,430	$85,042	$87,652	$90,263	$92,873	$95,909
Effective July 1, 2015
Group	Step A	Step B	Step C	Step I	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9
III	$122,591	$129,264	$135,937	$142,609	$146,622	$150,637	$154,650	$158,664	$162,677	$166,690	$170,704	$174,719
II	n/a	n/a	n/a	$83,929	$86,866	$89,804	$92,741	$95,679	$98,616	$101,553	$104,490	$107,906
I	n/a	n/a	n/a	$75,717	$78,366	$81,016	$83,667	$86,317	$88,966	$91,617	$94,266	$97,348
Effective January 1, 2016
Group	Step A	Step B	Step C	Step I	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9
III	$123,817	$130,557	$137,296	$144,035	$148,089	$152,143	$156,196	$160,251	$164,304	$168,357	$172,411	$176,466
II	n/a	n/a	n/a	$84,768	$87,735	$90,702	$93,669	$96,636	$99,602	$102,568	$105,535	$108,985
I	n/a	n/a	n/a	$76,474	$79,149	$81,826	$84,503	$87,180	$89,856	$92,533	$95,209	$98,321
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
40
APPENDIX V
GREENWICH AND PERROT LIBRARY PROVISIONS
A.	For each full-time librarian the standard workweek shall be thirty-five (35) hours, Monday through Saturday. All past practices providing for a workweek of less than thirty-five (35) hours per week shall be discontinued.
B.	All work performed on Sunday shall be compensated at one and one-half (1 1/2)
times the regular rate.
C.	All work performed on regularly scheduled holidays shall be compensated at two
and one-half (2 1/2) times the regular rate, which pay shall include holiday pay.
D.	For purposes of Article 23 Section B regarding layoff and rehiring, the two Town libraries shall be treated as a single department.
41
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
APPENDIX VI
Any person making service fee payments to the Union in lieu of dues under Agency Shop provisions in the Union's Collective Bargaining Agreement, shall have the right to object to the expenditure of his/her portion of any part of an agency shop fee deduction which represents the employee's pro rata share of causes of expenditures by the organization in aid of activities or causes of political or ideological nature only incidentally related to terms and conditions of employment.
Such objection should be made, if at all, by the objector individually notifying the SecretaryTreasurer of his/her objection by registered or certified mail during the period between September 1 and September 15 of each year.
The appropriate portion of service fees spent by the Union for such purposes should be determined annually at the end of the Union's Fiscal year. Rebate of a pro-rated portion, if any, of his/her service fees corresponding to such proportions shall thereafter be made to each individual who has timely filed a notice of objection, as provided above.
If an objector is dissatisfied with the proportional allocation that has been determined on the ground that it assertedly does not accurately reflect the expenditures of the Union in the defined area, an appeal may be taken by such person to the Union Executive Board within 30 days following receipt of notice of the pro-rata share expenditure by the organization in aid of activities or causes of a political or ideological nature only incidentally related to terms and conditions of employment. The Executive Board shall render a decision on such appeal within 30 days following the receipt.
42
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
APPENDIX VII
The collective bargaining agreement between the Town and LIUNA provides for a salary schedule to which all bargaining unit positions are allocated to one of seven (7) salary grades. It is recognized that the Town is required, under “MERA” to negotiate with the appropriate bargaining representative as to the allocation to salary grades of newly created positions recognized to the bargaining unit and the re-allocation to salary grades of existing positions recognized to the bargaining unit.
LIUNA recognizes the Town’s managerial right to establish new positions and to reclassify existing positions subject to the aforementioned duty to negotiate as to the salary grade placement.
In order to provide for an effective method to satisfy these requirements, the parties have agreed to follow the procedure as set forth below in determining the proper salary grade allocation for newly created positions and reclassified positions to the bargaining unit.
1.	The Department of Human Resources shall, prior to posting, forward a copy of a new or reclassified position job classification to Business Manager of Local 136 that shall include the proposed salary grade placement.
2.	The Business Manager shall notify, in writing, the Director of Human Resources within ten (10) business days from receipt of such job classification as to its position as to the proposed salary grade placement.
3.	In the event of a disagreement regarding the proposed salary grade placement the following procedure shall be followed in place of the Article 21 grievance procedure. The parties shall meet to discuss the issue of salary grade placement for such position within ten (10) business days from receipt of such notice. The Town agrees not to post for such position until the aforementioned meeting. In the event the salary grade placement is not resolved at this step in the procedure, the Town may post the position and proceed to fill the position
4.	Arbitration: Either the Town or the Union may proceed to arbitration as provided herein to resolve a dispute in the salary grade placement of a new position, an existing vacant position or reclassified position. The party requesting arbitration shall notify the other party in writing of its intent to arbitrate within five (5) business days from the date of the meeting held pursuant to paragraph 3 above. The parties may mutually agree to waive the five (5) day requirement. A notice to arbitrate shall be sent by the party seeking arbitration to the appropriate arbitrator with a copy to the other party. The notice to arbitrate shall include the title(s) in dispute. The arbitrator shall contact both parties to arrange for a mutually convenient date for the arbitration hearing. An arbitration hearing shall be scheduled by the arbitrator within twenty (20) business days from the date the notice to arbitrate is received by the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall be selected from the list of arbitrators agreed to by the parties. The arbitration hearing process shall be expedited. All evidence shall be produced at the scheduled arbitration hearing. Post hearing briefs will not be permitted but the parties may submit a post hearing written summation within three (3) business days from the date of
43
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
the arbitration hearing. The arbitrator shall render a decision within ten (10) business days of receiving all documents. The authority of the arbitrator is limited to selecting from either the Town’s or the Union’s last best offer. Neither party shall appeal the decision of the arbitrator to the courts. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties and effective the first payroll period following receipt of the decision by the Director of Human Resources.
The cost of the arbitration shall be split equally between the Town and the Union.
The arbitrators shall be selected from the list below and shall be selected in the order so listed. In the event the arbitrator is unable to agree to a hearing date within the twenty (20) business day requirement, the parties shall contact the next arbitrator on the list unless the parties mutually agree to extend the time limit to schedule the arbitration hearing.
Arbitrators:	1. Michael Wittenberg
44
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
APPENDIX VIII
EMPLOYEE USE OF TOWN OWNED VEHICLES
As a condition of employment, an employee is responsible for commutation to and from his or her work location without any additional compensation from the Town. Due to business necessity, the Town may from time to time provide a Town owned vehicle to an employee to enable the employee to more efficiently perform his or her job responsibilities. At times this may include the ability of the employee to use the Town owned vehicle to commute to and from work from his or her residence.
A.	An employee who is provided the use of a Town owned vehicle on or after the date of this Agreement, shall have no expectation that the use of such vehicle shall become a permanent arrangement, practice or otherwise a contractual obligation on the part of the Town to the employee and that the Town may unilaterally modify or discontinued the arrangement with reasonable written notice provided to the employee. In the event the Town determines to modify or discontinue the employee’s use of the Town owned vehicle, the employee shall not be entitled to any compensation for such modification and/or discontinuance and LIUNA expressly waives any right and relieves the Town of any obligation to negotiate the impact of the Town’s determination in this regard. The Town shall provide for mileage reimbursement as set forth in Town Policy for use of personal vehicle for town business. In the future, the Town may, from time to time, allow an employee to take home a Town-owned vehicle, in order for that employee to efficiently perform his or her duties.
B.	An employee, who is authorized by the Town to use a Town owned vehicle for commutation, to travel between work locations or for other Town business, shall be required to adhere to the Town’s policy No. 414.0 on operating Town vehicles as such policy may be adopted by the Town from time to time.
C.	The Town and LIUNA expressly acknowledge that this is the complete agreement on the subject of the use of Town owned vehicles and that any practice, written or oral understanding, or other agreements of any kind are superseded and replaced by the Terms of this Appendix XIII.
45
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
APPENDIX IX
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT FOR EMPLOYEES ASSIGNED TO NATHANIEL WITHERELL
Section 1:	The Town may subcontract rehabilitation services at Nathaniel Witherell that have
been performed by members of the bargaining unit in the classifications of Coordinator of Rehabilitation Services, Occupational Therapist and Physical Therapist. These classifications shall continue to be recognized to the bargaining unit.
Section 2:	Each full-time employee shall receive the following nine (9) paid holidays:
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King's Birthday
President’s Day
Memorial Day
July 4th
Labor Day Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving Christmas Day
An full-time or part-time nurse who works on any holiday specified in this Section 2 shall be paid at time and one-half and shall receive a regular work day off to be selected by the nurse with the approval of the department head.
An employee, other than a full-time nurse, who is directed to report to work on a holiday specified in this Section 2 shall be paid, in addition to the day’s pay for the holiday, the hourly straight time rate of pay each for each hour worked on the holiday.
A part-time employee shall be paid at the time and one-half rate of pay for work performed on a holiday specified in this Section. 2.
Section 3:	Employees assigned to Nathaniel Witherell shall be entitled to four (4) days of
personal leave each year on a pro rated basis.
Section 4:	Effective July 1, 2009 the terms of Article 14 shall be in effect for employees
assigned to Nathaniel Witherell.
Section 5:	Full-time employees shall not be eligible for the benefits of Article 14 paragraph
B(4) of this Agreement but in lieu thereof, shall enroll and become a participant of the Town sponsored Retiree Health Care Savings Plan. The Retiree Health Savings Plan shall require the following mandatory contributions: 1) the Town shall make a contribution of 0.5% of the employee’s base salary and 2) the employee shall make a pre taxed contribution of 0.5% of the employee’s base salary.
46
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
Section 6:	The Town shall pay to any employee who is required to wear a uniform an annual
allowance of two hundred fifty dollars ($250). There shall be no pro-ration of the annual allowance for part-time employees.
Section 7:	Nurses shall be paid pursuant to the nursing salary schedule annexed to the
Agreement as Appendix III. The Town retains the right to offer a hiring bonus in recruiting nurses with one-half of the bonus paid within thirty-days of hire and the remaining one-half paid upon the completion of the employee’s probationary period. A part time nurse who is scheduled to work 16 hours or more per week is included within the bargaining unit. A part time nurse who is scheduled to work less than 16 hours is not included within the bargaining unit. A part time nurse included within the bargaining unit shall be paid an hourly rate that is 120% of the established rate for their classification.
The Town may hire a nurse at the starting rate for the classification up to the range maximum depending upon experience and subject to the prior approval of the Director of Human Resources. Should the Town hire a nurse for a bargaining unit position at the maximum rate for the classification, and then any nurses in the bargaining unit at a step less than maximum shall thereupon be increased to the maximum step.
Section 8:	The standard workweek shall consist of seven (7) days for each regular full-time
nurse and may consist of the following:
-	Forty (40) hours consisting of eight (8) hour shifts on any five days during the workweek.
-	Forty (40) hours consisting of ten (10) hour shifts on any four days during the workweek.
-	Thirty-six (36) hours consisting of twelve (12) hour shifts on any three days in the workweek.
Upon mutual agreement between the individual nurse and the administration, the number of hours per shift may be flexible, not to exceed the standard workweek for that employee.
Non-nursing classifications may be regularly scheduled to work any five (5), seven (7) hour days, except Sunday in the workweek.
The Town shall determine the shifts to be worked as provided in this section and number of employees to be assigned to each shift. Each employee shall bid on shifts twice per year, in March for the six-month period April through September and in September for the six-month period October through March. An employee shall be assigned a shift based on the seniority of the employees bidding on the shift. In the event there is no employee biding on a shift the least senior employee shall be assigned to that shift. Each employee shall include with the shift bid his or her vacation request for that six-month period. Vacations shall be approved based
47
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
on the operational and staffing requirements of the department and the seniority of the employee.
All work schedules shall be determined and posted at least two (2) weeks in advance of the workday. Such determination shall also include notice of days off for the holidays to be worked, such days to be selected by the employee with the consent of the department head.
Section 9:	In lieu of that provided in Article 11 (Sick Leave) and Article 12 (Vacation) of the
Agreement nurses who are assigned to eight hour shifts shall receive 160 hours of annual vacation and 96/192 hours of annual sick leave. Nurses who are assigned to a ten-hour shift schedule shall receive 160 hours of annual vacation and 90/190 hours of annual sick leave. Nurses who are assigned to a twelve-hour shift schedule shall receive 144 hours of annual vacation and 84/168 hours of annual sick leave.
Section 10: All work performed in excess of standard workweek provided in Section 9 above in a seven (7) day period shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half. For purposes of calculating overtime at the time and one half rate of pay (hours worked over 40) preapproved paid vacation and preapproved personal leave shall be considered as time worked. All other paid or unpaid absences shall be considered as time not worked.
Section 11: A differential of one dollar and fifty-five cents ($1.55) shall be paid as a shift premium for day shifts, for all hours of work performed on weekends. The differential for evening weekend shifts shall be two dollars and fifteen cents ($2.15) per hour, and two dollars and seventy-five cents ($2.75) per hour for night weekend shifts. A weekend is defined as that period between 7:30 a.m. Saturday to 7:30 a.m. Monday. This differential shall not be included in the computation of the overtime rate but shall be paid in addition to the overtime rate.
Section 12: In addition to the differentials provided for in Section 11 above, a differential of one dollar and eighty cents ($1.80) shall be paid for all hours of work performed on the evening shift and two dollars and twenty-five cents ($2.25) per hour for all hours worked on the night shift. This differential shall not be included in the computation of the overtime or holiday rate but shall be paid in addition to the overtime rate.
Section 13:	A nurse who is assigned as a Supervising Nurse shall be paid additional compensation equal to the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per shift.
A nurse who is assigned to act as a Charge Nurse shall be paid additional compensation of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per each such shift worked.
A nurse assigned to perform two or more separate job functions as, for example, covering two floors or a floor and the nursing office an shall receive an additional twenty-five dollars ($25.00) shift differential.
48
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
A nurse in the classification of Patient Care Coordinator shall receive an additional annual stipend of one thousand eight hundred dollars ($1,800) to be payable in equal pay periods for the responsibility of twenty-four (24) hours on-call duties. The annual stipend shall be increased to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) effective July 1, 2014.
Section 14	Working During Vacations. A nurse, who agrees to work rather than to take a designated vacation, shall be paid at the regular straight time rate for the day plus pay for the earned vacation.
Section 15:	Part-time employees are not eligible to receive paid vacation, sick or personal leave.
Section 16:	The Town shall reimburse each nurse for the reasonable cost of tuition for educational courses taken within the local geographical area to update nursing skills and knowledge not to exceed thirty (30) classroom hours per nurse in any one-year.
Section 17:	LIUNA Local 136, at its own expense, shall have the right to conduct an independent financial audit of Nathaniel Witherell. To that end, the Town recognizes LIUNA’s right to reasonably review published financial reports, budgets and other published financial statements for Nathaniel Witherell and will provide reasonable access to such reports to auditors retained by LIUNA.
49
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
APPENDIX X
Town of Greenwich - High Deductible Health Plan
	Summary of High Deductible Health Plan
Cost shares	
	Integrated In-Network & Out-of-Network Deductible $1,500 Individual Deductible / $3,000 Family Deductible (Two or More) Effective Jan. 1, 2015 $2,000 Individual Deductible / $4,000 Family Deductible (Two or More) In-Network Benefits Plan pays 100% after deducible is met 100% Coverage for In-Network Preventive Services - No Deductible No Referrals Required Out-of-Network Benefits Plan pays 80% of Maximum Allowable Amount; after deductible is met After $1,500/$3,000 Deductible met Additional $1,500 Individual / $3,000 Family Coinsurance Maximum (Includes Rx) Eff Jan. 1, 2015 After $2,000/$4,000 Deductible met Additional $2,000 Individual / $4,000 Family Coinsurance Maximum (Includes Rx) Lifetime Maximum - Unlimited *Town of Greenwich will contribute $1,250/$2,500 towards deductibles **Deductibles and Co-Insurance are calculated on a calendar year ***Pre-Certs/Prior Authorizations Coordination is Member Responsibility
Prescription Drugs Retail or Mail Order Pharmacy	$10/$25/$40 Retail (30 day supply) $10/$50/$80 Mail Order (90 day supply) Copayments apply after deductible is met
	Only In-Network Coinsurance Levels Illustrated Below
Preventive Care	
Pediatric	100% Covered - No Deductible
Adult	100% Covered - No Deductible
Vision	100% Covered - No Deductible
Hearing	100% Covered - No Deductible (For Hearing Aids - See "Other Services" Category Below)
Gynecological	100% Covered - No Deductible Covered once every year
Mammography	100% Covered - No Deductible
50
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
Medical Services	
Medical Office Visit (Including Sick Visits to OB/GYN)	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Outpatient PT/OT/Chiro Speech Therapy	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Per Visit on all Outpatient Rehabilitation 50 combined visits Excess visits covered as Out of Network
Cardiac Rehabilitation	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Allergy Services	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Unlimited Injections
Diagnostic Lab & X-ray	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Inpatient Medical Services	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Surgery Fees	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Office Surgery	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Outpatient MH/SA	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Infertility	100% Coinsurance after Deductible No Age or Cycle Limits Prior Authorization is Required
Emergency Care	
Emergency Room	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Urgent Care Walk In Centers	100% Coinsurance after Deductible CT Network Only
Ambulance - Land or Air	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Inpatient Hospital	Note: All hospital admissions require pre-cert
General/Medical/ Surgical/Maternity (Semi-private)	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Ancillary Services Medication, supplies	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Psychiatric/ Alcohol Rehabilitation	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
51
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
	
Substance Abuse/ Detox	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Rehabilitative	100% Coinsurance after Deductible up to 100 days - Excess days covered as Out of Network
Skilled Nursing Facility	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Covered up to 120 days per calendar year
Hospice	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Outpatient Hospital	
Outpatient Surgery Facility Charges	100% Coinsurance after Deductible (Prior Authorization Required)
Diagnostic Lab & X-ray	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Pre-Admission Testing	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Other Services	
Durable Medical Equipment Including Prosthetics	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Home Health Care	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Infusion Therapy	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Unlimited Visits
Human Organ & Tissue Transplant	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Private Duty Nursing	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Up to a $100,000 maximum
Hearing Aids	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Children under Age 12 - maximum of $1,000 within 2 year period Age 12 & over - Not Covered
TMJ Procedures	Not Covered
Penalty for Failure to Pre-Cert Prior Authorized Covered Services	No Penalty for Hospitalization No for Physician Services
This Benefit Comparison does not constitute your health plan or insurance policy. It is only a general description of the plans. Please refer to your plan documents for exclusions and limitations under the plan.
52
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
APPENDIX XI
$10 POS - Alternative Plan
Benefits at a Glance
	In Network You pay:	Out-of-Network You pay:
Office Visit (OV) Copayment	$10 per visit	Deductible & Coinsurance
Specialist Visit (SV) Copayment	$10 per visit	Deductible & Coinsurance
Hospital (HSP) Copayment	No charge	Deductible & Coinsurance
Urgent Care (UR) Copayment - CT Network Only	$25 per visit	Not covered
Emergency Room (ER) Copayment - waived if admitted	$50 per visit	$50
Outpatient Surgery (OS) Copayment - Prior authorization required	No charge	Deductible & Coinsurance
Annual Deductible (individual/2-member family/3-member family)	Not applicable	$250/$500
Coinsurance		20% after deductible up to $1,250/$2,500
Max Annual Out of Pocket (individual/2-member family/3-member family)		
Lifetime Maximum	Unlimited	$1,000,000
PREVENTATIVE CARE
*Well child care Birth to 12 years All others	No Charge	Deductible & Coinsurance
Periodic, routine health examinations		
Routine eye exams - one exam per year as part of preventative visit $10 co-pay outside of preventative visit		
Routine OB/GYN visits - one exam per year		
*Mammography		
Hearing Screening - $10 co-pay outside of preventative visit		
MEDICAL CARE
Office Visits	$10 per visit	Deductible & Coinsurance
OB/GYN Care	$10 per visit	
Maternity Care - initial visit subject to copayment, no charge thereafter	$10 per visit	
Laboratory	No charge	
X-ray and Diagnostic Testing	No charge	
High-cost outpatient diagnostic - prior authorization required The following subject to copay: MRI, MRA, CAT, CTA, PET, SPECT scans	No charge	
Allergy Services Office visits/testing Injections - unlimited visits	$10 per visit No charge	
53
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
HOSPITAL CARE — Prior authorization Required
Semi-private room	No charge	Deductible & Coinsurance
Maternity and newborn care	No charge	
Skilled nursing facility - up to 90 days per calendar year	No charge	
Rehabilitative services - up to 60 days per person per calendar year	No charge	
Outpatient surgery - in a hospital or surgi-center	No charge	
EMERGENCY CARE
Urgent Care / Walk-in Centers - CT Network Only	$25 per visit	Not covered
Emergency Care - copayment waived if admitted	$50 per visit	$50 per visit
Ambulance - air subject to maximum per trip	No charge	No charge
OTHER HEALTH CARE
Outpatient Rehabilitative Services - Prior authorization required 30 visit maximum for PT, OT, and ST per year.	$10 per visit	Deductible & Coinsurance
Chiropratic Visits - Prior authorization required 30 visit maximum	No charge	
Prosthetic Devices - Unlimited coverage for specific items.	No charge	
Durable Medical Equipment - Unlimited coverage for specific items.	No charge	
Orthotics - covered up to $1,500 per calendar yr- foot orthotics not covered	50% copay	50% copay
Hearing Aids - Children under age 12 - maximum of $1,000 within 2 year period. Age 12 and over not covered.	No charge	Deductible & Coinsurance
Infertility Services - State Mandates, Subject to Age and cycle limits.	No charge	Deductible & Coinsurance
Home Health Care - 80 visits per calendar year	No charge	
Acupuncture - unlimited	$10 per visit	
MENTAL HEALTH/SUBSTANCE ABUSE CARE
Inpatient	No charge	Deductible & Coinsurance
Outpatient/office visits - Prior authorization after 12th visit.	$10 per visit	
PREVENTATIVE SCHEDULES
*Well Child Care (including immunizations >	7 exams 0 to 12 months >	6 exams 13 to 60 months ^	1 exam every year, ages 6 - 21	Adult Exams >	1	exam	every	4	years,	ages 22 -	29 >	1	exam	every	4	years,	ages 30 -	39 >	1	exam	every	4	years,	ages 40 -	49 >	1	exam	every	4	years,	ages 50+
*Mammography >	1 baseline screening, ages 35-39 >	1 screening per year, ages 40+ ^ Additional exams when medically necessary	Vision Exams: 1 exam every year (includes refraction)
	Hearing Exams: 1 exam every year
	OB/GYN Exams: 1 exam per calendar year
This Benefit Comparison does not constitute your health plan or insurance policy. It is only a general description of the plans. Please refer to your plan documents for exclusions and limitations under the plan.
54
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
APPENDIX XII
Town of Greenwich - $3000/$6000 High Deductible Health Plan
	Summary of High Deductible Health Plan
Cost shares	
	Integrated In-Network & Out-of-Network Deductible $3,000 Individual Deductible / $6,000 Family Deductible (Two or More) In-Network Benefits Plan pays 100% after deducible is met 100% Coverage for In-Network Preventive Services - No Deductible No Referrals Required Out-of-Network Benefits Plan pays 80% of Maximum Allowable Amount; after deductible is met After $3,000/$6,000 Deductible met Additional $3,000 Individual / $6,000 Family Coinsurance Maximum (Includes Rx) Lifetime Maximum - Unlimited *There is no Town of Greenwich contribution to the participant’s HSA. **Deductibles and Co-Insurance are calculated on a calendar year ***Pre-Certs/Prior Authorizations Coordination is Member Responsibility
Prescription Drugs Retail or Mail Order Pharmacy	$10/$25/$40 Retail (30 day supply) $10/$50/$80 Mail Order (90 day supply) Copayments apply after deductible is met
	Only In-Network Coinsurance Levels Illustrated Below
Preventive Care	
Pediatric	100% Covered - No Deductible
Adult	100% Covered - No Deductible
Vision	100% Covered - No Deductible
Hearing	100% Covered - No Deductible (For Hearing Aids - See "Other Services" Category Below)
Gynecological	100% Covered - No Deductible Covered once every year
Mammography	100% Covered - No Deductible
Medical Services	
55
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
Medical Office Visit (Including Sick Visits to OB/GYN)	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Outpatient PT/OT/Chiro Speech Therapy	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Per Visit on all Outpatient Rehabilitation 50 combined visits Excess visits covered as Out of Network
Cardiac Rehabilitation	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Allergy Services	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Unlimited Injections
Diagnostic Lab & X-ray	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Inpatient Medical Services	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Surgery Fees	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Office Surgery	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Outpatient MH/SA	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Infertility	100% Coinsurance after Deductible No Age or Cycle Limits Prior Authorization is Required
Emergency Care	
Emergency Room	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Urgent Care Walk In Centers	100% Coinsurance after Deductible CT Network Only
Ambulance - Land or Air	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Inpatient Hospital	Note: All hospital admissions require pre-cert
General/Medical/ Surgical/Maternity (Semi-private)	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Ancillary Services Medication, supplies	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Psychiatric/ Alcohol Rehabilitation	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Substance Abuse/ Detox	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Rehabilitative	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
56
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
	up to 100 days - Excess days covered as Out of Network
Skilled Nursing Facility	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Covered up to 120 days per calendar year
Hospice	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Outpatient Hospital	
Outpatient Surgery Facility Charges	100% Coinsurance after Deductible (Prior Authorization Required)
Diagnostic Lab & X-ray	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Pre-Admission Testing	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Other Services	
Durable Medical Equipment Including Prosthetics	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Home Health Care	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Infusion Therapy	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Unlimited Visits
Human Organ & Tissue Transplant	100% Coinsurance after Deductible
Private Duty Nursing	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Up to a $100,000 maximum
Hearing Aids	100% Coinsurance after Deductible Children under Age 12 - maximum of $1,000 within 2 year period Age 12 & over - Not Covered
TMJ Procedures	Not Covered
Penalty for Failure to Pre-Cert Prior Authorized Covered Services	No Penalty for Hospitalization No for Physician Services
This Benefit Comparison does not constitute your health plan or insurance policy. It is only a general description of the plans. Please refer to your plan documents for exclusions and limitations under the plan.
57
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
APPENDIX XIII
TOWN OF GREENWICH AND LIUNA
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS		
Prescription Coverage Retail Pharmacy	$ 10 Generic Drug Co-payment, $25 Preferred Brand Name Drug Co-payment $40 Co-payment for all other drugs per prescription Mandatory Mail Order for maintenance medications after 2 retail Unlimited Maximum per Member, per Calendar Year	Covered in Network Only
Mail Order Pharmacy	$20 Generic $50 Preferred Brand Name $80 all other drugs (up to a 90-Day Supply)	Covered in Network Only
58
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
APPENDIX XIV
DENTAL INSURANCE PLAN
Effective Date
Eligibility
Dental Benefits
Calendar year deductible, Per person
Per family unit
First day of the first month following date of employment
Active regular full-time employee
$100
$300
The deductible applies to these classes of service:
Class B Services - Basic
Class C Services - Major
Class D Services - Orthodontia
Dental Percentage Payable
Class A Service - Preventive
Class B Services - Basic
Class C Services - Major
Class D Services - Orthodontia
100%
80%
50%
50%
Maximum Benefit Amount
For other than Class D - Orthodontia:
Per person per calendar year
$2,000 Eff. January 1, 2014 $2,500
For Class D - Orthodontia:
Lifetime maximum per person (age 8 to 19 years old) $2,000 lifetime maximum.
Pre-Existing
None
59
LIUNA 2013 - 2016
APPENDIX XV
PARKS AND RECREATION WORKWEEK AGREEMENT
The Town and LIUNA acknowledge that the Article 8, paragraph D requirement that employees be required to use earned compensatory within 120 days from the date such compensatory is earned poses a hardship on maintaining and scheduling effective departmental operations for employees assigned to the Department of Parks and Recreation and have agreed to the following as it pertains to such employees.
1.	The Town and LIUNA Local 136 agree that compensatory time should only be
authorized after all reasonable attempts have been made between the employee and the supervisor to alter the employee’s weekly work schedule to remain within the work week as set forth in Article 8 (A) and (C) (1).
2.	The supervisor shall authorize the minimal number of employees and hours as is
necessary to accomplish the work when scheduling employees after business hours, weekends and on holidays.
3.	When required, the supervisor shall authorize compensatory time on an hour for
hour basis. An employee may accrue a maximum of one hundred five (105) hours of compensatory time at any point in time.
4.	It is the responsibility of the employee to make a request to use accrued
compensatory time to remain within the one hundred five (105) hour maximum accrual. Requests shall be made directly to the employee’s supervisor.
5.	At his discretion, the Director of Parks and Recreation may schedule an employee
off on a regular work day with such time to be charged against compensatory time in order to insure that an employee does not exceed the one hundred five (105) hour maximum accrual.
6.	Upon separation of service for any reason any accrued compensatory time
remaining to the employee shall be forfeited and there shall be no entitlement to payment for such accrued compensatory time.
7.	The Director of Parks and Recreation may make an exception to the maximum
compensatory time accrual due to unforeseen business necessity; for example, to provide coverage for another employee on long-term leave or due to emergency conditions.
8.	Employees whose classifications are included in Article 8, paragraph E
(Emergency Operations) shall continue to be covered by the terms of such paragraph.
60
LIUNA 2013 - 2016