
Cornell University ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see http://diqitalcommons.ilr cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: AM General Corporation and International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) Local Union #5 (1996)
K#: 4154
Employer Name: AM General Corporation
Location: IN Mishawaka
Union: International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW)
Local: 5
SIC: 3711
Sector: P
NAICS: 336112
Number of Workers: 950
Effective Date: 05/13/96
Expiration Date: 09/28/05
Number of Pages: 97
Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/

£&=• 939
AGREEMENT

between AM General Corporation and International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) and its Local Union #5 (AM General Unit)
Medium Tactical Trucks Re-rrianufacturing/Extended Service Program Plant (MTTR-ESP)
May 13,1996 -
As pan of this Agreement the Company and the Union desire to continue Aeir support of an Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. Both parties recognize that basic to this policy are employment practices whereby job applicants are treated without discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, age, national origin, religion or disability.
The Company and die Union jointly administer an Employee Assistance Program. For infbnnatKm contact your Coordinator, Union Representatives or the Health Administrator.
INDEX
ARTICLE
I
vn vm
DC X
XI
xn

SUBJECT Agrecauut Recognition Union Shop - Duet Deduction Management Rights Equal Employment Opportunity Repfescntaooo Grievance Procedure Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Arbitration Procedure Expedited Arbitration Procedure Discipline and Discharge Strikes, Work Steppage* and Lockouts Production Standard* Sonority
Acquiring Seniority Loss of Seniority puling of Vacancies Permanent Vacancies Transfer Rights Temporary Assignments Reductions in Force and Recall
Displacement* by Hununer-SPLO Employees Non-Tanpontry Reductions in Force Temporary Reduction m Force/Inverted Seniority Returning ftom Leave* Probationary Employees
Orientation Period Seniority Committee Transfers to Non-Bargaining Unit Positions bterplanr Provisions,- HUMMER/SPLO - MTTR/ESP Bidding, Layoff, Recall and Displacanent Rights of Hummer/SPLO andMTTR-ESP Employee* PAA Days Cash Out or Carry Over Plant to Plant Vacation Pay Cash Out or Cany Over Plant to Plant Bonus Pay Carry Over Plant to Plant
Leaves of Absence Personal Leave Union Leave Military Leave Disability Leave Family and Medical Leave Act School Leave Peace Corp* Leave
PAGE NO.
1 I
2 4
4
« «
9
10 ll
12 13
13 13
14 14
14
15 15
15
15 16
16
16
16
16
16
17
17 IS
19 19
19 19
19 20 20 20 20
21
Index -1
ARTICLE	SUBJECT	PAGE NO.
xm	Wage and Skill Based Classification System	21
	Utility Personnel Rates	21
	Caber Pofil Personnel Rates Group Le&eft*4nd Rates	21 21
	Pay Rates	22
	MTTR-ESP Employee Special Adjustments	23
-v	- •’ Labor Pool Provisions	23
4	<	Utility Personnel Provisions	24
ft	4 Paydays^-4 -	24
XIV	Cost of Living Allowance	24
XV	Hours of Work - Overtime	26
	Shift Pienuum	27
	TimeCards	28
XVI	Overtime Scheduling	28
	Overtime Charging	28
	Overtime Records	29
	Discipline and Overtime	29
	Shift Equalization	30
xvn	Break Time	30
xvm	Call Back Pay	30
XIX	Reporting Pay	31
XX	Vacations	31
XXI	Holiday Pay	32
xxn	Jury Duty Pay	33
xxm	Bereavement Leave	33
XXIV	Paid and Unpaid Excused Absence Allowances	34
XXV	Group Insurance .	35
	Not Subject to Grievance Procedure	35
	Joint Health Cate Committee	35
	Benefits Schedule	35
	Future New Hires	36
XXVI	401 (k) Plan	37
xxvn	Tuition Refund	38
xxvm	Performance of Bargaining Unit Work by	
	Non Bargaining Unit Personnel	39
XXIX	Safety and Health	39
XXX	Skilled Trades Employees	41
	Jouroeyperson Defined	41
	Skilled Trades Classification	41
	Seniority	41
	Reduction in Force	42
	Overtime	42
	Skilled Trades Transfers	42
	Skilled Trades Work Assignments	43
	Skilled Trades Issues	43
Index -2
ARTICLE SUBJECT	PAGE NO.
XXXI	Supplemental Unemployment Benefits	43
Continuation and Amendment of the Plan	43
Termination of the Plan	43
. Obligations During Term of Agreement	43
.	Effect of Termination of Agreement	44
Governmental Rulings	44
XXXII	Effect of Agreement and Termination	45
Exhibits	48
Exhibit A - Attendance Policy	49
Exhibit B - Temporary Contract Personnel	50
Exhibit C - Group Leader Duties
Letters of Understanding	51
ChristmasBcmts	51
MTTR-ESP Operations	52
Team Concept	53
Training Programs	54
Local Deliveries	55
Timekeeping/Pay-roB	56
Four Tar Hour Days Schedule	58
Employees Working During the Shutdown Period	59
Additional Holidays and Changed Holidays	60
Joint Health Care Committee	61
401 (K) Committee	62
Paycheck StubVSeverance Statements	63
Drug/Aicohoi Free Workplace Program	64
Modified Work Program	67
Ergonomics Program	68
Unauthorized Driving of Fork Lifts	79
Scheduling Therapy	71
Parking Lot Security	72
Outsourcing	73
Matching Hours of Contracted Stalled Trades Services	74
MTTR*ESP Performance Bonus	75
Mi^fr.'ESP Stabiliry Bonus	■	76
Early Retirement Window Optima	77
Index *3
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this 13th day of May, 1996, by and between AM GENERAL CORPORATION in St, Joseph County, Indiana and all inwnediate surrounding counties, (hereinafter referred tn as the "Company") and die INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (UAW) and its LOCAL UNION #5 (AM General Unit) thereinafter referred to as the "Union") on behalf of die employees in Ate collective bargaining unit set font in Article I of to Agreement hereby agree as follows:
This Collective Bargaining Agreement between die Company and die Union supercedes and replaces in its entirety the Extended Service Program (ESP) Cotieetive Bargaining Agreement and ail Agreements and iehers'of undsstanding associated therewith between the Company and die Union effective September 29,1993 through September 28,1998. None ofthe provisions of the superceded ESP Collective Bargaining Agrtementshallbe applicable after the effective date of to Agreement except as specifically provided in to Agreement This Agreement shall be effective May 13,1996 (except that wage increases are effective April 22,1996), and shall have a termination date of September 28,2003.
WITNESSETH: The parties hereto mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I RECOGNITION
1.	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of all hourly-rated employees ofthe Company in St Joseph County, Indiana, and all immediate surrounding counties for its “Medium Tactical Trucks Re-Manu&cturing/Extended Service Program Plant*’ ("MTTR-ESP” Plant), for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of to Agreement It is understood tot Bargaining Unit employees, as members of Amalgamated Local #5 UAW, may be elected as officers of that Local. The Union will notify the Con^rany in writing of the names of such employees and the effective dates of their assumption of office.
2.	For die purpose of this Agreement the term 'employee*' shall not include employees of contract service companies retained on a temporary basis, any plant protection employees of die Company and airy other employees who ere paid on a salary basis, and to Agreement shall not be applicable to such employees. Employees of contract service companies are to be utilized only while screening to hire regular employees. No contract service person will be retained far more ton thirty (30) days.
3.	The Union recognizes tot the primary objective of the Company in recognizing to Union as foe representative of the Company's houriy-reted employees of foe Company in St Joseph County, Indiana and aft surrounding counties, for purposes of collective bargaining, is to provide orderly collective bargaining relations between the Company and the Unit®, to secure prompt and fair disposition of grievances, and to prevent interruptions of work and interference with the efficient operation of the Company's business. It is to intern of to Company and to Union tot to
FILE COPY
J
procedures in this Agreement shall serve as a means of peacefid settlement of all disputes that may arise between them.
4.	This Agreement, including aity letters and memorandums, shall be binding upon the Company, its successors and assigns. In the event that the Company disposes of all or part of its operations covered by this Agreement, the parties agree as a condition of such disposition, the acquiring employer shall recognize the Union and accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement
Note: Also refer to the May 13, 1996 letters regarding MTTR-ESP Operations, Team Concept, Training Programs and Local Deliveries.
ARTICLE II
UNION SHOP - DUES DEDUCTION
1.	Employees covered by this Agreement at the time it becomes effective shall be required as a condition of continued employment to become members of the Union on or within tai (IQ) calendar days after die thirtiefo (30fli) calendar day following such effective date. Employees, hired after die effective date of this Agreement and covered by this Agreement, shall be required as a condition of continued employment to become members of the Union on or within ten (10) calendar days after the thirtieth (30) calendar day following die beginning of their employment This section is subject to compliance with applicable state law.
2.	The Company shall not retain in its employ in die Bargaining Unit any non-member employee who foils to apply for membership within the period specified above, or any employee who has been a member at any time during the term of this Agreement and who loses membership during the term thereof through resignation or expulsion for nonpayment of periodic dues, reinstatement fees and/or initiation fees uniformly required by the Union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.
3	The Company agrees to deduct the monthly dues of employees to this Agreement to the extent that such employees have executed the following assignment, authorization and direction:
AUTHORIZATION TO CHECK-OFF DUES
To: AM General Corporation Date__________________________________________________
I hereby assign to Local Union #5, International Union, United Automobile. Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) from any wages earned or to be earned by me, or from any regular benefits payable under its Supplemoital Unemployment Benefit Plan, as your employee (in my present or in any future employment by you), such sums as the Financial Officer of said Local Union #5 may certify as due and owing from me as membership dues, including an initiatian or reinstatement fee and monthly dues in such sum as may be established from tanreto-time as Union dues in accordance wife the constitution of the International Union, UAW. I authorize and direct you, or the Trustee of the Supplemaital Benefit Plan, as the case may be, Co deduct such amounts from my pay or from any regular benefits, and to remit same to Union at such times and in such manner as nufy be agreed upon between you and the Union at any time while this authorization is in effect
2
i
4.	This assignment, authorization and directian shall be irrevocable for the period of one (1) year from the date of delivery hereof to you, or until the termination of the collective agreement between the Company and the Union which is in force at foe time of delivery of this authorization, whichever occurs sooner, and I agree and direct that this assignment, authorization and direction shall be automatically renewed and shall be irrevocable for successive periods of one (1) year each or for foe period of each succeeding applicable collective agreement between foe Company and foe Union, whichever shall be shorter, unless written notice is given by me to foe Company and the Union, not more than twenty (20) days and not less than tffl (10) days, prior to foe expiratioi of each period of ate (1) year, or of each applicable collective agreement between foe Company and foe Union, whichever occurs sooner,
5	This authorization is made pursuant to foe provisions of Section 302 (c) of die Labor Management Relations Act of 1947 and otherwise.
6,	Deductions will be made only in accordance with foe provisions of said Authorization for Check-Off Dues, together with the provisions of this Article.
7.	A property executed Authorization for Check-Off Dues Form for each employee for whom Union membership dues are to be deducted shall be delivered to foe Company before any payroll deductions are made. Deductions of Union membership dues under Authorization for CheckOff Dues Fatma delivered to foe Company, on or before foe fifteenth (15 th) day of any payroll month, will be made beginning in foe following payroll calendar month.
8.	When a property executed Authorization For Check-Off Dues Form for an employee has been received by foe Company as is in effect, foe Union membership dues for any payroll calendar month shall be deducted from foe earnings in foe first (1st) pay period in foe succeeding month in which foe employee has sufficient net earnings, 40 hours pay due, (after all authorized and required deductions have been made from such earnings) to cover his Union membership dues.
9.	In cases where a deduction is made which duplicates a payment already made to foe Union by an employee or where a deduction is not in conformity with foe provisions of foe Union Constitution and By-Laws, refunds to foe employee will be made by foe Union.
10.	Deductions for any payroll calendar month shall be remitted to foe Financial SecretaryTreasurer of the Union no later than foe last Friday of the payroll month.
11.	The Company further agrees to deduct from the pay of an employee a voluntary contribution to foe UAW V-CAP Such employee will execute an "Authorization for Assignment and Check-Off of Contributions to UAW V-CAP" form and contributions will be made in one dollar increments based upon an employee's election. An employee may elect to participate in foe UAW V-CAP at any time during active employment status. Changes in foe amount of contribution or cancellation of foe contribution must be designated in writing Such changes or cancellations are perm’t’wd st )ssr mmiJar nay period before July 1 and January 1 of each year.
12.	The Company will advise foe Financial Secretary-Treasurer of foe Local Union in writing of receipt by the Company of any written notice from an employee revoking his assignment and authorization to deduct Union membership dues from his pay. Such written advice to foe Union shall identify foe employee and specify the date notice was received by foe Company.
13.	The Company shall not be liable to foe Union by reason of foe requirements of this Section for foe remittance or payment of any sum other than that euitsii luting actual deductions made from employee wages earned.
14.	Tlie Union shall indemnify foe Company and hold it harmless against any loss or claims for damages resulting from the payment to foe Union of any sums deducted under this Section and, in foe event any action or claim is commenced against die Company to recover from it any sums
3
I
deducted tmder this Section, the Union shall intervene and defend sudi action or claim and hold fee Company harmless, and indemnify fee Company against all costs of defense against such action or claim.
15.	The Union, at least annually, shall notify fee Company in writing as to the method for calculation of deduction from pay for sums property due and owing to fee Union undo* this Section.
ARTICLE RI
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The right to manage and operate the business of the Company, including, without limitation, the right to hire, promote, discharge, maintain order and efficiency, decide the number and location of facilities, fee machine tool equipment, the products to be manufactured, fee method of manufacture, schedules of production, the processes of manufacturing or assembling together wife all designs, engineering and fee control of raw material, semi-manufactured and finished pans, which may be incorporated into the products manufactured, shall be fee responsibility of die Management, subject only to tile specific provisions of this Agreement
ARTICLE IV
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
1.	As part of this Agreement, the Company and the Union desire to continue their support of the "Equal Employment Opportunity" Policy Both parties recognize that basic to this policy are employment practices whereby job applicants are treated without discrimination of any kind including, race, color, sex, age, national origin, religion, disability. Union membership or Union activity or lack thereof
2.	Neither fee Company nor the Union, in carrying out their obligations under tins Agreement, shall discriminate in any manner whatsoever against any employee because of race, color, sex, age, national origin, religion or disability.
3.	Wherever in this Agreement a pronoun is used, it shall refer equally where the reference is applicable, to both men and women, in both singular and fee plural. When such pronouns differ from those in standard use in related UAW or Company documents, fee intent of the existing language shall not be changed.
ARTICLE V REPRESENTATION
1.	The Union shall be represented as fallows:
(a)	By the Chairperson, Recording Secretary, Stalled Trades Committeeman and Off Shift Committeeman of fee AM General Unit of Local 5 and by full time Committecpersons who are employees at fee MTTR-ESP Plant as fallows:
Less titan four hundred (400)
bargaining unit employees	One(l)
at the MTTR-ESP Plant............................Committeeperson
4
I
Four hundred (400) or more
'	bargaining unit employees	Two (2)
at the MTTR-ESP Plant...........................  Commrtteepereons
and
(b)	By one (1) Steward on each shift in each area of representation having at least seventy five (75) employees, except that there may be a Steward elected in an area of representation having fewer than seventy five (75) employees or there miy be more than one (1) Steward in an area of representation where it is mutually agreed between the Company and die Bargaining Committee feat fee election of an additknal Steward would firrtber good relations between fee parties. No Steward will be recognized as such until fee Bargaining Committee notifies fee Human Resources Manager in writing of fee election or appointment of such Steward and his area of representation. Several areas may be combined for the purpose of Steward representation. The Bargaining Committee will designate fee areas of representation.
An employee shall not be eligible to serve as a member of fee Bargaining Committee unless he is an employee wife one (1) year of seniority or as a Steward unless he is an employee wife six (6) months seniority and is on a permanent job in feat arsa of representation. Where no employee has six (6) months seniority, it is agreed feat fee Bargaining Committee may designate a Steward. Stewards shall represent only employees working in their particular area of representation. The Bargaining Committee may designate alternates to act in the absence of fee regular Committeepersons and Stewards while such Stewards are absent from the facilities; these Steward alternates will be appointed fem those employees who are otherwise scheduled to work.
2.	Oue (1) Committeeperson, foe Chairman, fee Recording Secretary and the Steward miy be involved in fee Grievance Procedure at the Second Step level. The Skilled Trades Committeeperson and foe Off Shifts Committeeperson may be involved as needed. Other Committeepersons may be involved as mutually agreed in advance.
3.	One (1) Committeeperson, foe Chairperson, foe Recording Secretary and the International Union Representative may be involved in the Grievance Procedure at the Third Step level. The Skilled Trades Committeeperson and the Off Shifts Cotnmitteepeisan may be involved as needed. Other representatives (e g, Health and Safety Steward) may be involved as mutually agreed in advance.
4.	For purposes of collective bargaining for a new labor agreement, fee entire Bargaining Committee of t.on*1 5 AM General Unit will be involved.
5.	It is mutually agreed that foe prompt adjustment of grievances is desirable in foe interest of sound relations between the employees and foe Company. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 6 of this Article, a Steward will be permitted to leave the assigned work area during working hours, without loss of pay as hereinafter provided in this Article, for foe purpose of handling grievances in accordance with foe grievawe procedure provided in Article VI of foe Agreement, with fee understanding feat (i) foe time will be devoted to tire prompt handling of legitimate grievances and the privilege will not be abused and (ii) said Steward will continue to work on die job at all times, except when permitted to leave the work to handle grievances as hereinafter provided. It is tire intent of die parties that grievances be investigated as soon as possible and in no event is the Steward to be released to investigate later than two (2) hours after the request is made or one (1) hour before the
5
end of the shift, whichever comes first. If in the event that release of the Steward becomes a problem, the appropriate Employee Relations person will intervene to correct the problem.
6.	A Steward may leave the work area during working hours on the shift to handle a grievance or when presenting a grievance to the Manufacturing Coordinator. Subject to the provisions of this Article, the Company will pay a Steward only for such reasonable time as may actually be required to handle such grievance. A Steward, while handling grievances or meeting with Company representatives, will be paid only for those hours which would otherwise have been worked in the facility. It is the intent of the parties that the Stewards shall work at their regular job (so long as such weak is available), except when absent from fins job for the purpose of handling grievances. If absent from the job for the purpose of handling grievances immediately prior to the lunch period, they shall report to their Manufacturing Coordinator immediately after lunch and additional time to investigate such grievances will not be denied. A Steward may be in the facility other than during his own shift only when authorized by the Company. If in the evoit that release of die Steward becomes a problem, the appropriate Employee Relations person will intervene to correct the problem. At such time a Steward is retained for the purpose of discipline hours, he shall be compensated in accordance with Article XV of this Agreement
In the event that Stewards are spending an undue amount of working tune in handling grievances, die matter will be discussed with the Union and corrected.
7.	Upon entering a department other than his own area of representation m the course of handling a grievance, a Steward shall notify foe Manufacturing Coordinator of that department of his presence and purpose.
8.	Meetings of Stewards or other Union representatives may not be held on Company time and property without advance permission from foe Company/ The Company shall, however, afford each Steward one hour a month at the applicable rate of pay for foe purpose of holding a monthly group meeting. Such date to be determined by the Chairperson.
9.	Whenever ten percent (10%) or more of the employees in a Steward’s area of representation are scheduled to work in that area, foe Steward will be offered work, regardless of sonority, on a job which the Steward is able to perform and will be paid foe current rate of pay for such work. The Steward will not be part of the original assignment and will be assigned work which he/she is qualified to perform.
The Steward will be assigned to a job which is scheduled to run and which he/she is qualified to perform if such a job is available regardless of classification. If the Steward is not qualified to perform any of foe scheduled work, he*she will be assigned to other work which h&'she is able to perform and which was not otherwise scheduled.
If the employees are assigned to work in an area ofoer than their normal work area and shift, the Steward will not be assigned to represent such employees, but foe employees shall be represented by foe Steward assigned to the area in which they are working. In foe event there is no elected Steward in the area to which they are assigned, foe Bargaining Committee may appoint a temporary Steward or may designate an elected Steward to represent the employees so assigned.
The Bargaining Committee shall work on premium pay hours in the following manner If ten (10) or more employees are scheduled to work overtime, one (I) Committeeperson will be scheduled at foe MTTR-ESP Plant If fifty (50) or more employees work, two (2) Comntitteepersons will be scheduled at die MTTR-ESP Plant
6
I
The Chairperson and foe Recording Secretary of the AM Genera! Unit of Local 3 or two (2) designees, may be al the MTTR.-ESP Plant, if needed. If so, they will be compensated when the MTTR-ESP Plant is at normal production and the Mishawaka and SPLO Facilities are not operating.
The foregoing will not require that Union representatives be offered work or given overtime when employees they represent are not working overtime simply because the starting andfor quitiiitg time of foe regular shifts of such employees differ from the regular shift hours of their representative.
10.	Union represwtatives will notify ths Employee Relations Office when they leave foe facility to conduct Union Meetings or for personal reasons.
11.	The Bargaining Committeepetsan shall head foe Bargaining Unit-wide seniority list during foe period of time he is serving foe respective office to which he was elected. The Steward shall head the seniority list of his area of representation; except, once foe cut-off date has been established during a permanent lay-off and that date includes a Steward’s actual seniority, that Steward Shall be laid-off in accordance with the provisions in Article X A temporary Steward shall be appointed, if applicable, from foe remaining employees in foe area of representation for a thirty (30) day period If after this time die elected and laid-off Steward has not been recalled to his original area of representation, a permanent Steward election shall be held to replace him. A Steward shall retain his actual seniority for foe purpose of job selection within his area of representation.
12.	The Chairperson shall advise the Company in writing when changes occur wife foe Bargaining Committee, Stewards or other Union representatives.
13,	The Company will provide at least two (2) bulletin boards upon which foe Union will be permitted to post notices concerning Union business and activities. The quantity of bulletin boards may be expanded upon mutual agreement of foe parties and there will be agreement on foe placement No notice shall contain matters defamatory of foe Company, the Management, foe Union, any employee or other entity or person. Notices posted on the bulletin board must be approved by foe Human Resources Department prior to posting.
ARTICLE VI GRIEVANCE procedure
1.	It is mutually agreed that foe prompi adjustment of grievances is desirable in foe interest of sound relations between foe employees and foe Company. A grievance is defined as an employee complaint relative to foe Articles in this Agreement Grievances shall be settled through foe following Grievance Procedure:
2.	Grievance Steps
Step 1
Any employee and or Steward who believes he/she has a grievance shall first discuss it with his/her Supervisor and Steward, in an attempt to settle foe matter. The Supervisor will provide his/her answer by foe end of foe working shift (Working days are Monday through Friday when foe Plant is working - excluding holidays).
Any complaint not brought to foe attention of foe Company within three (3) working days of foe alleged violation or three (3) working days from foe time the viotarion could reasonably have been known to foe aggrieved, will not constitute a basis for a grievance.
7
Step!
If the complaint or grievance cannot be resolved through the above procedure, the grievance shall be reduced to writing, including but not limited to the contract provisions violated, on a form provided by the Company. It shall be dated and signed by the employee, Steward, and Supervisor dien filed within four (4) working days of die Supervisor’s answer at Step 1. A meeting will then be scheduled within ten (10) calendar days with one (1) Committeeperson, the Steward and the next level of management, who will attempt to resolve the grievance. The Skilled Trades Committeeperson and the Off Shifts Committeeperson maty be involved as needed. Other Comminecperscns may be involved as mutually agreed in advance. Plant Management win provide a written answer within four (4) working days of such meeting.
Step3
If foe grievance is not resolved at Step 2, it may be appealed io this next step. Such appeal wiH be in writing and within four (4) working days from foe Company’s answer at Step 2. Once a grievance has been appealed to Step 3, a meeting will be arranged within tai (10) calendar days between foe Plant Manager or foe designee, the Human Resources Manager, the Chairperson, foe Recording Secretary, one (I) Committeeperson and the International Union Representative who will attempt to resolve foe grievance. The Skilled Trades Committeeperson and foe Off Shifts Committeeperson may be involved as needed. Other Committeepersons may be involved as mutually agreed in advance.
Within ten (10) working days after the Step 3 meeting, die Company will send its written decision to foe Chairperson regarding foe grievances that were heard.
Any grievance not appealed from the decision at foe First, Second or Third Steps within foe allowed time to foe next step; will be considered settled on foe basis of foe last decision and shall not be Subject to further appeal or arbitration.
Arty grievance not answered within foe time limits provided herein may be appealed directly to the next higher step of foe grievance procedure. In addition, any delays in answering grievances within foe contractually required time periods, other than those which foe parties have mutually agreed to extend, shall be made known to foe appropriate Employee Relations person for investigation and correction.
ARBITRATION
(a)	If foe Union desires to submit a grievance to arbitration, it shall give foe company notice in writing to font effect within thirty (30) days after a decision has been given in foe Third Step of foe Grievance Procedure.
(b)	Fifteen (15) days after receipt of foe notice provided for in foe foregoing paragraph (a), foe parties shall jointly request foe American Arbitration Association to furnish both parties with a list of foe names of seven (7) persons. The names shall be selected by foe American Arbitration Association. Within five (5) days after receipt of such list, unless a later date is mutually agreed upon, the parties shaft meet to choose one arbitrator from such list by alternately striking a name therefrom. A coin toss will determine the first party to strike a name and foe process will continue until only one name remains. Either party shall have foe right to strike foe entire panel once. The parties may. by mutual agreement, select an available arbitrator when necessary in order to expedite the arbitration process.
a
(c)	It shall be die function ofthe Arbitrator, and he shall be empowered, except as his powers are limited herein, after due investigation, to make a decision in cases of alleged violations of die terms of this Agreement or published Company rules and regulations, and to make a decision upon any question involving die scope of his powers. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, he shall have no power or authority to rule on or to decide any matter which, under this Agreement, is the sole responsibility of the Management to decide. He shall have no power to add to or subtract from or to modify any terms of this Agreement He shall have no power to substitute his discretion for the Company’s discretion in cases where die Company is given discretion by this Agreement provided however, that the Company hereby authorizes the Arbitrator, in connection with the decision of any case involving disciplinary discharge, layoff; or other penalty for violation of any provision of the Agreement or of a published Company rule or regulation, to review and make a decision upon its exercise of discretion in die imposition of a penalty, either with respect to the kind or die degree thereof
(d)	Any dispute appealed to the Arbitrator on which he has no power or authority to rule, shall be referred to die parties.
(e)	The fees and approved expenses of the Arbitrator shall be paid by the party against whom die Arbitrator renders an adverse decision, and all other expenses shall be borne by the party incurring diem. The fees and approved expenses of the Arbitrator in a dispute referred back to die parties under Section 2(d) of this Article, shall be paid by the party against whom the Arbitrator renders an adverse decision.
(f)	No claim against the Company resulting from arbitration, including claims for back wages, by an employee covered by this Agreement, or by the Union, shall be valid for any period prior to thirty (30) calendar days before the date when the grievance was first filed in writing.
(g)	There shall be no appeal from a decision of tire Arbitrator. Each such decision shall be final and binding upon the Union and its members, the employee or employees involved and the Company.
3.	Expedited Arbitration Procedure
This procedure shall be implemented until due regard to the following guidelines:
(a)	Upon receipt of an appeal to arbitration, the parties will arbitrate subject to the limitations of this Expedited Arbitration Procedure and will appeal the grievance to a pre-selected Arbitrator under this Expedited Arbitration Procedure if there is mutual agreement to do so between the Corporate Labor Relations Manager and the International Union Representative.
(b)	The appeal must be made within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of foe arbitration appeal
(c)	Once the appealed grievance is in the Expedited Arbitration Procedure, the parties shall notify the appropriate designee “ne appeal snail include the dare, time and place for the haaritjg. Thereafter, said rules shall apply.
(d)	The hearing shall be conducted in accordance wife the following:
(1)	The hearing shall be informal.
(2)	No briefe shall be filed or transcripts made.
(3)	There shall be no forms) evidence rules.
(4)	Each party’s case shall be presented by a previously designated representative.
(5)	The Arbitrator shall have the obligation of assurance that all necessary facts and considerations are brought before him by foe representatives of the parties. In all respects, he shall assure that the hearing is a fair one.
9
(6)	If the Arbitrator or the parties conclude at die hearing that the issues involved are of such complexity or significance as to require further consideration by the parties, the case shall be referred to the regular arbitration procedures and rules.
(e)	The Arbitrator shall issue a decision no later than forty-eight (48) hours after the conclusion of the hearing (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays). His decision shaft be based on the record developed by the parties before and at the hearing and shall include a brief written explanation of die basis for his conclusion. The authority of foe Arbitrator shall be foe same as that provided for Arbitrators in this basic Labor Agreement
(f)	Any grievance appealed to this Expedited Arbitration must be confined to issues which do not involve novel problems and which have limited contractual significance or complexity.
(g)	Examples of foe type of issues which the parties may appeal to expedited arbitration include discipline (excluding discharge cases) and overtime cases. A discharge case may be processed under this Expedited Arbitration Procedure upon mutual agreement between the Corporate Labor Relations Manager and foe international Union Representative and at foe request of foe discharged employee.
(h)	Examples of foe type of issues which foe parties would not appeal to expedited arbitration include those with a far-reaching effect, those involving policy matters and those involving benefit plans.
(i)	The expenses and foe of foe Arbitrator shall be paid by foe party against whom foe Arbitrator renders an adverse decision.
4.	Al] time limits pertaining to Grievance Steps one (1), two (2) and three (3) may be extended upon mutual agreement by both parties.
5.	In ^plication of the grievance procedure as identified in this Article, foe Unital may, after mutual agreement of foe parties, have present any witnesses it deems necessary in order to resolve grievances.
ARTICLE VII
DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
The Company will not discharge or otherwise discipline any employee without just cause. No employee shall be disciplined until foe Union has been notified in writing as to the reason for the action being taken. When an employee has been disciplined by having been suspended or discharged, foe Union Representative and foe employee so disciplined shall meet with the Plant Manager or his designated representative before foe employee is required to leave die facility. The Union Representative^) may investigate foe particular circumstances which resulted in such emplcyee(s) being disciplined by discharge or suspension. The Union may take foe matter up as a written grievance to be filed at die Third (3rd) Step of foe grievance procedure within five (5) working days after receipt of the written notice of discipline, and die Company shall render a decision on foe grievance within twoity-fbur (24) hours of the grievance hearing. When foe employee remains in foe facility for purpose of a disciplinary hearing or related discussion with Supervision, he shaft be paid for time lost as a result of such hearing or discussion unless a suspension is invoked, in which case the lost time may be applied against such suspension. If the matter is not taken up as a written grievance prior to foe expiration of such five (5) day period, foe discipline becomes final. The time limitation period provided for in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement, where the nature of the grievance or other circumstances require additional time.
10
ARTICLE VIII
STRIKES, WORK STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS
I.	During the life of this Agreement, the Union will not cause or approve any action by its members to cause nor will any membe of the Union take part in any unauthorized strike ar stoppage of any of fee Company’s operations or picket any of fee Company’s facilities or premises or any slowdown, curtailment of work or interference with fee Company’s normal operations.
2.	The Company agrees feat there shall be no lockouts.
3.	The Company agrees feat neither fee Union, its officers, agents or members shall be liable for damages for unauthorized strikes, stoppages, slowdowns, curtailment of work or interference wife foe Company's normal operations, if the Union complies with all of the provisions of Section 4 of this Article.
4.	The Union agrees to take prompt and effective action in good faith to prevent and end arty unauthorized strikes, stoppages, slowdowns, curtailment of work or other interferences with the Company's normal operations in violation of Section 1 of this Article.
The Union’s obligations under this Article shall include compliance wife the following procedure. Upon foe occurrence of any such unauthorized strikes, stoppages, slowdowns, curtailment of work or other interferences with foe Company's normal operations, the Company will verbally ratify the Union and confirm such notice in writing, and the Union, immediately upon receipt of such verbal notice, will verbally authorize the Company to post the notice hereinafter set forth in this Article over the signature of an authorized Committeeperson of foe Union and will confirm such authorization in writing upon receipt of the written notice from the Company.
Dated
TO ALL MEMBERS OF LOCAL (AM GENERAL UNIT)
You are advised that the which took place today in
Departments)____________________________________________________________________ is
in violation of the UAW Constitution and is not authorized by this Local or sanctioned by fee International Union, and any other member participating in such violatian is hereby notified that he does not have the support of the Union. Those involved are hereby directed to cease immediately any action which adversely affects production and to return without delay to their respective jobs. Any grievance or grievances involved will be promptly processed through foe regular grievance procedure provision in foe Union Agreement
BARGAINING COMMITTEE
By: __________________________________________________
Authorized Signature
11
Reference to the unauthorized strike, work stoppage, slowdown, curtailment of work or interference with the Company’s normal operations, as the case may be, and the departments in which the action took place shall be made in the appropriate blanks.
5.	In the event of an unauthorized strike, stoppage, slowdown, curtailment of work or interference with the Company’s normal operations in violation of this Agreement, any employee who participates in, provokes, agitates, leads or induces others to take part in any such action shall be subject to discipline, up to and including discharge by the Company.
ARTICLE IX
PRODUCTION STANDARDS
Section 1,	The Company, consisting of Labor and Management, adheres to the principle of a fair day’s pay for afair day's work
The establishment and enforcement of production standards andtor work requirements is the responsibility of the Company. The Manufacturing Coordinator will advise the employee and the Steward involved when a standard is initially established or when h is being changed. Production standards shaQ.be fair and equitable and give due consideration to a normal operator working under normal conditions. The Company will provide notice to the Union of any anticipated substantial changes in production schedules. Such notice to be provided two (2) weeks in advance of the change or as soon thereafter as the Company has sufficient detail. Any production standaid and/or work requirement shall be fair and equitable, be based on sound work measurement principles and give due consideration to normal operators working under normal conditions, to fatigue and related factors and to quality of workmanship required.
When a timestudy is to be made for the purpose of establishing a new standard or revising an existing standard, die employee and the Steward will be notified prior to commencing the study and the Industrial Engineer will make the employee aware of his presence at the time the study is made. Timestudies for the'purpose of establishing a standard will be made only when rite regular employee is bn the job. -Itis further understood, it is the Industrial Engineering Department's sole responsibility to'make revisions to casting standards. No Manufacturing Coordinator or any other management personnel shall be authorized to make arbitrary changes or perform spot timestudies.
When a standard is not established and the employee is following die prescribed method and using the tools provided in the proper manner and performing at a normal pace, the employee will not be disciplined for failure to obtain the expected amount of production. Before imposing discipline for failure to follow prescribed method tn for failure to use the tools in a proper manner, the Manufacturing Coordinator will inform the employee and the Steward in what respect he failed to follow the method or property use the tools. In cases where sole issues arc poor work effort, the Union Timestudy Representative shall be allowed die option of reviewing die work effort before discipline is imposed.	'
Standard data identifying operations and rates shall be available in the department Timestudies will be retained in the Industrial Engineering Department but will be shown to the proper Union Representatives promptly when requested in accordance with the contract Whenever available, employees will be given a method write-up following their assignment to a new job. It is tiie responsibility of the Industrial Engineering Department to update job write-ups.
The Company agrees to recognize a maximum of three (3) timestudy representatives to be designated by die Chairperson of the Union. Such representatives will work at their regular jobs
. 12
unless excused to investigate matters related to work standards. Whenever a dispute arises regarding a production standard, the proper fonustudy representative will be released from his present job within a reasonable time, not to exceed twsity-four (24) hours. In the event the Chairperson or his designee is not available, die appropriate Bargaining Committeeperson may make such request through the Employee Relaticns/Safety Coordinator.
An International UAW Industrial Engineer may visit the AM General Facility at a mutually convenient lime to review and discuss matters of mutual interest Arty such arrangements will be coordinated by die appropriate International Representative and the Vice President of Human Resources.
Work assignments will be established on the basis of conditions that exist at the time they are placed in effect The Company will make every effort to maintain these conditions. When conditions do change whereby more or less worit is required because of die change, compensating adjustments in work assignments, manpower, spacing of units, line speed, or any combination thereof win be made
When a dispute arises regarding production standards established by die Company, the employee shall have the right to follow die grievance procedure, but there shall be no change in the standard until such grievance is finally determined, unless a change is made necessary because of a change m the production schedule.
Section 2.	The grievance procedure, as set forth in Article VL shall giply to production standard grievances, except in the event that the dispute cannot be resolved by the first (1st), second (2nd) or third (3 rd) steps of the Grievance Procedure, the dispute shall be referred to die International Union’s Tunestudy Specialist assigned to die International Union's Headquarters in Detroit, Michigan, and to the appropriate Company Chief Timestudy Engineer fir final determination.
No snployee, or group of employees, shall engage in any act or action prohibited by Article Vm herein until this procedure has been followed, and not then unless authorized by foe International Union and until five (3) days after foe Company has received notice foam foe International Union of such authorization.
ARTICLE X SENIORITY
A Seniority
1.	Seniority shall be determined by the employee's date of first employment (or reemployment following a break in seniority) at the MTTR-ESP Plant, except that employees entering into the MTTR-ESP Plant from other AMG Plants represented by Local 3, including the 2 1/2 Ton ESP Plant as of foe date of this Agreement, may cany their seniority into the MTTR-ESP Plant Ties in seniority will be broken by badge numbers.
-	2. Seniority is broken in the manner set forth below:
A)	an employee quits;
B)	anonpfoyeeisdischargedforjiistcause;
C)	if foe employee is absent from work for three (3) consecutive work days or if foe employee overstays a leave of absence unless there is a reasonable excuse;
13
D)	an employee fails to return to work from layoff within five (J) consecutive working days from the date the recall letter, sent by certified mail, was postmarked, unless there is a reasonable excuse;
E)	If a seniority employee is absent due Co an occupational or non-occupational physical disability or laid off for a continuous period equal to the seniority he acquired up to the time of such disability or Layoff or three (3) years, whichever is greater. If a saiiority employee is on sick leave and die Company establishes a cut-off date and the employee is below the cut-off date, he will be treated as though he is on lay-off status for purpose of this paragraph;
F)	an employee retires.
3.	Employees are required to furnish the Company with their most recent address and telephone number.
B.	Filling of Vacancies
1.	Permanent Vacancies
An open job within a SBC will first be posted within that SBC. All employees within the SBC may apply for transfer (in accordance with the Application for Transfer procedure) to the open job and will be awarded die opening based on qualifications and seniority.
The least senior qualified person within a SBC will be required to fill an open job within the SBC if it cannot be filled by posting.
A joint Labor-Management Committee will be established to determine if employees are qualified for advancement to the Advanced Level. The committee will be comprised of tite Skilled Trades Committeeperson and one (1) other Conunitteeperson and two (2) Management Representatives Employees will be advanced to the Advanced Skill Level when deemed qualified
If the Joint Committee cannot meet in a timely manner, the employee’s Advanced Skill Level pay will be retroactive back to the point of when he/she achieved full Advanced Skill Level abilities.
Transfer Rights
Employees who have one (1) year of seniority will be given an opportunity to transfer to SBC’s, other titan their own SBC, for other than temporary jobs, in the following manner
After all employees in a SBC have filled all open jobs in their SBC, remaining open jobs in the SBC will be posted plant wide. Such open jobs will be posted at the Entry Level
The Company will post each permanent vacancy for a twenty six (26) hour period.
The posting will indicate die SBC, drift, department, descriptive summary of the duties and the required qualifications. The employee must have an Application For Transfer on file no later than the end of the twenty six (26) hour period after each such vacancy is posted, to be eligible for such vacancy. The Application For Transfer should show, on its face, whether the employee has experience or qualifications for the SBC for which he is applying A copy of all job postings and a list of awarded jobs will be forwarded to die Bargaining Committee.
A permanent vacancy in an SBC, will be awarded to the employee with the greatest seniority who is at the Advanced Skill Level in the SBC from which such employee is transferring, provided the employee meets the requirements erf the posting.
14
If prior to five (5) days worked in tire new SBC, an employee elects to return to the SBC from which he/she transferred, any vacancy in the SBC from which he returns shall be posted plantwide. An employee who elects to return to a classification tinder die provisions of this paragraph may not apply for another position outside of his SBC for one (1) year.
In slotting an employee in the appropriate SBC Level, he/she will be credited wife that portion of hisAier work experience which enables him/her to meet the knowledge, skill and ability requirements in the SBC to which he/she transfers. Prior to achieving die Advanced Skill Level status in die SBC to which such employee transfers, die employee will be paid the equivalent hourly rate for the skill compensation level in which die employee qualifies upon transfer. Entry Level personnel may at times perform tasks which are normally performed at the Advanced Level.	-
2.	When the Company wants to assign employees to a job other than their regular job, the Company will ask from the top and force from the bottom, first within die SBC on die shift dien outside the SBC among qualified employees on the shift Such employees will be paid their current pay rate or the rate their skill level entitles them to on the SBC to which they are assigned, whichever is higher.
When it is necessary to move second (2nd) or third (3rd) shift personnel from their regular second (2nd) or third (3rd) shifts to the first (1st) shift for Company convenience on a temporary basis, the appropriate shift premium will be paid for up to two (2) weeks.
C.	Reductions in Force and Recall
DISPLACEMENTS BY HUMMER-SPLO EMPLOYEES
When an MTTR-ESP employee is displaced from a SBC by a hid off employee from foe HUMMER-SPLO facilities, the MTTR-ESP employee may only use his/her seniority to diqrlace foe least senior person in another SBC where be/she has achieved Advanced Skill Level status, provided that he/she can satisfactorily perform the work wife minima] (1/2 day or less) training required, except that an employee may use his/her seniority to displace foe least senior person in the General Labor SBC if no more than minimal (1/2 day or less) training is required.
NON-TEMPORARY REDUCTIONS IN FORCE
When it becomes necessary to reduce die workforce, in a non temporary situation, i.e. more than six (6) months, employees will be laid off or stepped back in reverse order of their seniority within each SBC Level beginning with foe lowest SBC Level, unless otherwise mutually agreed to by the parties.
An employee displaced from his/her SBC may use his/her seniority to displace foe least senior person in another SBC where he/she has achieved Advanced Skill Level status, provided foot he/she can satisfactorily perform foe work with minimal (V2 day or less) training required, except that an employee may use his/her seniority to displace foe least senior person in the General Labor SBC if no more than minimal (1/2 day or less) training is required
Recall to or step-up into foe SBC shall be made in foe reverse order so that the same experienced people shall return to jobs in die same positions relative to one another that existed prior to foe reductions. Employees will have right of first recall to four SBC, then to any other SBC in which they have achieved Advanced Skill Level status provided they can satisfactorily perform foe
15
work with no training required, except that employees may be recalled to die General Labor SBC if they can satisfactorily perform die work with minimal (1/2 day or less) training required.
If there are no employees qualified for recall to die General Labor SBC, the Company, will recall laid off employees to the General Labor SBC prior to hiring new employees.
TEMPORARY REDUCTION IN FORCETNVERTED SENIORITY
During temporary layoffs of up to six (6) months, employees can irrevocably choose to go on layoff by exercising their inverted seniority rights. When a temporary reduction in force occurs, employees can be offered an inverted seniority layoff by plant wide seniority within a SBC. Such employees will be replaced by junior employees in the SBC.
If it becomes known the l^off will exceed six (6) months, laid off employees will have the option to return to work or remain on layoff until such time they can be permanently recalled in accordance with this Article.
If no employee(s) or an insufficient number of employees volunteer for die Inverted Seniority Layoff, die SBC will be reduced by eliminating the employees) with foe least seniority in the SBC in the following manner
First-Entry Level
Second - Advanced Level
D.	Employees returning from leaves of absence who are no longer qualified to do the job they left, may displace die least senior person in die General Labor SBC or the least senior person in any other SBC where they have reached die Advanced Level and where they can satisfactorily perform the work with minimal (1/2 day or less) training.
E.	. Probationary Employees
New employees and those hired after a break in seniority will be regarded as probationwy employees for the first six (6) consecutive months of employment and will receive no seniority credit during such period. Probationary employees may be laid off or discharged as exclusively determined by management provided this will not be used for purposes of discrimination because of membership in die Union. Employees who complete their probationary period shall receive full seniority credit from the date of initial hiring or rehiring.
ORIENTATION PERIOD
The Union shall be afforded the opportunity to provide an orientation to probationary employees regarding proper Union matters. This period of orientation shall be provided within or following die Company period of orientation.
F.	The parties discussed and reviewed the procedures that have been agreed upon by foe Seniority Committee and have been used in daily operations within foe plant Any disputes arising from these procedures should be referred to die Seniority Committee for resolution. These procedures may be amended, deleted, changed, or modified as is needed by mutual agreement of die Seniority Committee.
G An employee transferred to a non-bargaining unit position, will be credited with foe seniority they had accrued at die time of foe transfer.
16
ARTICLE XI EVTERPLANT PROVISIONS HUMMERISPLO • MTTRIESP
Norwithstoiing the pnnriskns cf wy ofott Agreement between the Company and the Union to the centray, the movement of employees betweet die HUMMER-SPLO facilities and die MTTR-ESP Plant dull be governed by this Article and foe following provisions shall apply.
A. Subject to the provisions of Section F of this Article; employees at the Hummer-SPLO facilities with established seniority rights will be permitted to bid only on vacant positions in the HUMMER-SPLO Realities. Employees with established seniority rights at the MTTR-ESP Plant will be permitted to bid only on vacant positions in the MTTR-ESP Plant
B An employee covered by the HUMMER-SPLO Agreement prior to May 13, 1996 who is thereafter laid off can exercise die following options and die following provisions shall apply,
1.	Such an employee may elect to displace die least senior entry level employee in a SBC at die MTTR-ESP Plant, tf qualified, and if such employee's seniority is greater dun that of die least senior Entry Level employee in a SBC at the MTTR-ESP Plant In the event that such an employee is not entitled to displace in accordance with the foregoing sentence, then that employee may displace die employee with the least seniority in die General Labor SBC at die MTTR-ESP Plant if such employee's seniority is greater than that of die least senior Geieral Labor SBC employee at the MTTR-ESP Plant In the event that such an employee is not entitled to displace in accordance with the foregoing sentence, such an employee shall be laid off. HUMMER-SPLO employees who displace MTTR-ESP employees are then subject to die normal seniority provisions of the MTTR-ESP Plant Agreement
Laid off HUMMER-SPLO employees may elect to displace Temporary Contract Personnel at the MTTR-ESP Plant if they are qualified to perform the Temporary Personnel person's job assignment, subject to all other provisions of this Article.
2.	Such an employee m^y elect to be laid off and waive rights to exercise displacement rights at the MTTR-ESP Plant until; a) unemployment compensation and SUB are exhausted; or b) for an indefinite period. Such employees must provide a thirty (30) day notice to the Company of their desire to exercise displacement rights at foe MTTR-ESP Kant in connection with this option. Laid off HUMMER-SPLO employees who displace MTTR-ESP employees at the MTTR-ESP Plant would be subject to B. 1. above.
3.	Laid off HUMMER-SPLO employees who elect to displace employees at die MTTR-ESP Plant may not return to the HUMMER-SPLO Plant unless the Company recalls those employees.
4.	If a laid off HUMMER-SPLO employee elect) to immediately displace an employee at the MTTR-ESP Plant, the Company will be permitted to recall other laid off HUMMER-SPLO employees to the HUMMER-SPLO facilities for temporary situations in lieu of recalling employees from the MTTR-ESP Plant
5.	A HUMMER-SPLO employee who displaces an employee at foe MTTR-ESP Plant will cany his/her seniority date to the MTTR-ESP Plant, and that seniority date shall have Qtplicatian in connection with forme job movements st the MTTR-ESP Plant
17
C.	The aforementioned lay-off provisions will not apply to any employee hired into the HUMMER-SPLO facilities on or after May 13, 1996. Such employees will not be entitled to displace employees in the MTTR-ESP Plant. In the event of a layoff, however, said employees will receive preferential hiring rights over applicants for employment to open jobs at the MTTR-ESP Plant, based upon their seniority and qualifications for such open jobs and subject to recall to foe HUMMER-SPLO facilities by foe Company. Such HUMMER-SPLO employees may cany foeir seniority into foe MTTR-ESP Plant
D.	Employees of MTTR-ESP who have seniority at foe Hummer-SPLO facilities will be recalled
to HUMMER-SPLO when jobs become available. Such employees can choose to exercise foeir recall rights or stay at MTTR-ESP. If they choose to stay at MTTR-ESP they must stay for one (1) year following foe date they refuse recall. However, if they are subsequently laid off from MTTR-ESP, they may that exercise foeir seniority at HUMMER-SPLO.
E.	Current M.T1K-ESP employees who were hired prior to February 26, 1996 but who have never established seniority under foe HUMMER-SPLO Agreement and all employees hired into MTTR-ESP on or subsequent to February 26, 1996 shall not be entitled to displace employees at foe HUMMER-SPLO Plant In foe event of a layoff however, said employees will receive preferential hiring rights over applicants for employment to open jobs at foe HUMMER-SPLO facilities based upon foeir seniority and qualifications for such open jobs and subject to recall to Ml 1K-ESP by foe Company. Such MTTR-ESP employees may cany foeir seniority into foe HUMMER-SPLO facilities.
F.	1. Subject to foe provisions of Section F.2. herein, HUMMER-SPLO employees employed as of April 26,1996 will be given foe opportunity, during foe two time periods set forth below to apply.for open jobs at foe Ml tn-ESP plant
(a)	Immediately following May 12, 1996, said employees will be given a forty-five (43) calendar day period in which to apply for such open jobs; and
(b)	At a time to be mutually agreed to by foe parties following foe commencement of regular production on the Ml iK program, said employees will be given a forty-five (45) calendar day period in which to apply for such open jobs.
2.	Such HUMMER-SPLO employees will be awarded open jobs at foe MTTR-ESP Plant if qualified for the jobs in question and based upon foeir seniority at the HUMMER-SPLO facilities. Employees awarded such jobs must remain at foe MTTR-ESP Plant for one (1) year and thereafter may only return to foe HUMMER-SPLO facilities, if recalled.
G.	PAA Days • Cash Out or Carry Over Plant to Plant PAA Days can be cashed out or carried into either facility. Notwithstanding the foregoing, foe entitlement for employees who are recalled to foe HUMMER facility will not exceed forty (40) hours of Paid Absence Allowance in foe PAA year. If an employee chooses to cany his/her PAA Days into foe MTTR-ESP Plant, he/she can request that those days in excess of foe days allowed in foe MTTR-ESP Agreement be paid in a lump sum amount prior to commencing employment in foal facility. PAA Days cannot be duplicated between foe plants and only foe accrued portion of PAA Days are subject to lump sum payment treatment in accordance with foe foregoing sentence. The tump sum payment for excess PAA Days elected by an employee will not be eligible for immediate contribution into foe 401 (K) Plan upon commencement of employment in a different plant, but will be eligible for such contribution, at foe employee’s selection, at such time that a 401(K) contribution and Company match are scheduled by foe Payroll Department.
18
H Vacation Pay * Cash Out or Cany Over Plant to Plant Employees at the HUMMER-SPLO facilities will be "cashed out" on accumulated vacation pay when such employees are transferred or recalled into the MTTR-ESP facility. Any weeks of vacation not used will be earned to the MTTR-ESP facility and if the weeks used for vacation at the HUMMER-SPLO facilities are equal to or in excess of his/her vacation entitlement allowed under the MTTR-ESP agreement, the employee's vacation entitlement will have been satisfied. If upon transfer or recall to MTTR-ESP the employee has unused vacation time available that can be taken after transfer or recall to MTTR-ESP, such employee will be subject to Article XX of foe MTTR-ESP Agreement, but in no event will the employee be entitled to take any vacation beyond the unused vacation time available that the renployee carried over fietn HUMMER-SPLO for the remainder of the vacation year following the date of such transfer or recall to MTTR-ESP. MTTR-ESP employees recalled to the HUMMER-SPLO facilities will be "cashed out* on vacation pay according to the unused vacation weeks to which they are eotided under fee MTTR-ESP Agreement Employees recalled to Hummer-SPLO will cany their unused weeks of vacation to the HUMMER-SPLO facilities. Upon recall to the HUMMER-SPLO facilities, such employees will be subject to Article XIV, Section 10 of die HUMMER-SPLO Agreement Under no circumstances can weeks of vacation be duplicated between plants.
I Bonus Pay - Carry Over Plant to Plant Upon scheduled payment of bonuses, employees will be prorated the portion they earned tn either the MTTR-ESP or HUMMER-SPLO facilities. In no case will bonus payments be duplicated.
ARTICLE XH
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
1.	An employee with seniority may be granted a personal leave of absence for a period which may not exceed thirty (30) days per year upon written application of the employee and approval by the Human Resources Manager and the respective Plant Manager. In no event will a leave of absence be granted so an employee may pursue another gainfill occupation. Such leave of absence may, in extraordinary cases, be extended for up to six (6) months, upon investigation and approval by die appropriate Company representatives and the Union. When an employee’s request for personal leave has been denied die employee shall have die right to appeal such denial to toe Vice President of Human Resources who will render a decision in writing within twenty-four (24) hours. An employee returning from leave of absence diall return to his regular job if it is still in operation; if not, he may exercise his tights under Article X.
Employees returning to work after having been on leave of absence resulting from illness or injury, will be required to be cleared through toe Company Doctor only, if in the opinion of Management, die nature of die illness is such that a premature retum-to-work could result in Company liability, as a result of re-injury or accident as a result of the original disability. Such employee shall be paid at his/her prevailing wage rate for time lost if he/she is found to be fit for work.
2.	An employee elected or selected to perform Union duties, or an employee selected to work on approved employee activities who has the approval of the Union, will be granted a leave of absence only for the period during which such employee actually is occupying die job or office for which the leave was approved, provided that the number of such employees shall not exceed fifteen (15) at arty one time. In addition, an employee elected or appointed to public office will be granted a leave during die time which such employee is occupying the public office to which elected or
19
appointed. Seniority will accumulate during sudi leave and upon return from such leave, the employee shall report to the Personnel Office to be returned to said employee’s regular job if it is still in operation if he/she is still qualified to satisfactorily perform the work with a minimal amount of training. If not, he/she may exercise his/her rights under Article X.
3.	MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE An employee who is inducted into or enlists voluntarily in the Armed Service of the United States, in accordance with the provisions of tire Uniformed Services Employment and Re-Employment Rights Act, shall be granted a leave of absence and his seniority shall continue to accumulate during the initial period of induction or enlistment Upon termination of such period of induction or enlistment, in accordance with the provisions of said Act, he shall have such re-employment and other rights as may be provided for under applicable federal laws in effect at the tune.
4,	DISABILITY LEAVE, Employees who are placed by the Medical Director on a sick leave of absence due to an industrial accident or admitted occupational disease shall continue on such leave for such period of time, as in the opinion of the Medical Director, they are unable to work in the facility because of such disability and their seniority shall continue to accumulate during the period of such leave.
An employee returning from sick leave who has been released by his doctor without work restrictions, and has given the Company sufficient notice of his return, will not be delayed in excess of one (1) hour awaiting reassignment and will be paid his prevailing wage rate.
Employees reporting in advance of their release date shall be assigned to a job for the date of their release. Employees reporting to work on the day of such scheduled release will not be delayed awaiting reassignment—
If a dispute arises over the disallowance of a disability leave under this Section, .then a. mutually agreed upon disinterested physician will be empowered to decide if such disability leave should be granted or continued.
A period of three (3) years or the length of the employee’s seniority, whichever is greater, will be granted for disabilities due to illness or accident and provided medical evidence is furnished. Upon termination of disability, said employee shall return to his regular job; if it is still in operation; -and, if not, he/she may exercise his/her rights under Article X
The employee must notify the Company as soon as possible of such disability. In notifying the Company foe employee, or some member of his immediate family or die Union Representative, shall fill out on a form furnished by foe Company, an Application For Sick Leave; or, foe employee may send a telegram or a registered letter applying for sick leave.
5.	When an employee is sent home by foe Medical Department as a result of a job related illness or injury, such employee shall be paid at his prevailing wage rate for time worked and straight time for all hours scheduled for the balance of the day.
6.	FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT. The parties agree to comply with foe requirements of foe Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.
7.	SCHOOL LEAVE An employee with one (1) year or more seniority may be granted a leave of absence to attend school for a fixed period covering two (2) school years In no event shall the school leave be granted for a period in excess of twenty-four (24) calendar months. All school leaves must have a definite starting and expiration date, beginning with the starting date of die school year and ending with die last day of school. Short term returns to work during the period of such approved leave shall not be permitted. School is defined as a recognized high school technical school, college or university. An employee shall not accrue pension credits and shall retain, but cease to accumulate, seniority while on such leave.
20
The employee applying must comply with the following rules:
(a)	Submit proof of enrollment and the name of die school;
(b)	The nixnber of hours being carried and a receipt for paid tuition;
(c)	Maintain good standing in the Union in accordance with die provisions of Article n
of this Agreement.
■ 8. PEACE CORPS LEAVE. An employee who enlists in the Peace Corps shall be placed on leave for a period of not to exceed two (2) years from the date of his initial enlistment in the Peace Corps and shall continue to accumulate seniority during the period of such enlistment Upon termination of such period or enlistment, die employee shall be returned to his regular job if it is still in operation if he/she is still qualified to satisfactorily perform the work with a minimal amount of training. If not, placement will be made under Article X
ARTICLE Xin
WAGES AND SKILL BASED CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
A Wage and Skill Based Classification System
1)	It is understood that job scope and responsibilities for all employees will be described in a general manner to ensure coverage of the wide range of authority and diverse responsibilities for which employees will be compensated.
2)	While each employee will have a title and be assigned to a SBC, his/her responsibilities will routinely provide the opportunity for a variety of operational and maintenance wort.
J) Employees will perform simple preventive, routine and corrective maintenance on the equipment they customarily operate
4)	Employees will also be expected to maintain housekeeping in their areas.
5)	Each employee will be paid based upon his/her qualifications within his/her SBC irrespective of the actual work he/she may perform on any given day.
The Company maty create, change, combine, or abolish SBC’s at any tune and determine foe qualifications for such classifications, it is file intent of the Company that creating, changing, combining or abolishing SBC’s or changing qualifications for SBC’s shall be done for reasons which will improve efficiency, reduce cost, improve administration or other such good cause The Company will meet with the Union, in advance to discuss such actions.
T *1^? PocJ azuJ Utility will "sid cents ^$,50^ sbovj theif mtft
Employees assigned Group Leader status will be paid fifty cents ($.50) above their base rate. Group Leader duties have been agreed upon by the Parties. See Exhibit C.
Labor Pool, Utility personnel and Group Leaders must all be at foe Advanced Level of their permanent SBC.
An employee may receive no more than one (1) of the premiums for Labor Pool, Utility or Group Leader.
21 ... . -। 'j L :•
There are training steps, defined as Skill Compensation Levels within each classification. As of the effective date of this Agreement, the SBC’s and compensation levels are as follows:
REGULAR STRAIGHT TIME BASE HOURLY PAY RATES
Effective Aarti 22.19M						Effective September 22,2003				
	General Labor					General Labor				
SetdOdtY	Bmy Ltvtl	Advanced Level	Labar Pool	UtiBtv		Employee*! Seniority	Levri	Advanced L-vri	Uber PmI	IWtT
New Hire	$100	$ 940	$9-70	$ 9.20		New Hire	$ 940	$ 9,70	$1040	$1040
1 Year	940	9.70	1040	10.20		1 Yaar	9.70	10,20	10.70	1070
2Yctn	9.70	10.20	10.20	10.70		2 Yem	040	10.70	11.20	1110
SYean	1140	1120	12.10	12.KI		SVeui	2.20	1170	13.20	13.30
10 Yem	13.70	1440	14.70	14.70		10 Yem	440	14,70	1340	1340
15* Yun	1170	1640	16.70	IS, 70		tsty«n	640	10.70	1740	1740
Effective April 22,19M						Effective September 22.2M3				
Material Handiinc						Material Hand			<Dft	
Bmfloya*1* Serial [fr	Eatty Level	A0*BMt0	Labor Pod	UtOtty		EaiffcjjLi'i ScateriCr	Laid	1 Adwtnead f Level	Labor Ped	
New Hire	3 9.00	$ 9.20	S 9.70	3 9.70		New Kha	$ 940	1 $9.70	$1010	$1040
1 Year	9.20	9.70	1040	10.20		J Year	9.70	10.20	10.70	10.70
2 Yem	9,70	1040	10.70	10.70		2 Yean	10.20	F 10.70	1140	H40
S Yean	11.70	12.20	12,70	IX7O		5Yan	12.20	1	12.70	1340	1X20
10 Yem	13.70	14.20	14.70	14.70		It Yem	14.20.	14.70	15.20	1X20
>5+Yem	15.70	16.20	16-70	16.70		15* Yem	16.20	1	16.70	17.30	17.20
Effective Avril 22,19%				
Welder				
Enpl^ea** Setdorirr	Entry Level	Advanced Level	Labar M	IftiUtT
New Hire	$ 940	$9.70	$10.20	510.20
lYar	9.70	10.10	10.70	10,70
2 Yem	10.20	10,70	1140	H40
5 Yem	1240	1X70	1340	13.20
10 Yem	14,20	J4.70	1540	15.20
15* Yem	16,20	16.70	17.20	1720
Effective September 22, 2003				
Welder				
SiutmUj	Entry Level	Advanced Level	Uber Poof	IMOfr
Naw Hire	$ 9.70	$1040	$10,70	$10.70
1 Year	10.20	10.70	L14O	1140
2 Yean	10.70	1140	11.70	1L70
S Yean	12.70	1340	13.70	1X70
10 Yem	14.70	15.20	15.70	13/?D
IS* Yean	16.70	17.20	17.70	17.70
Effective April 22.19S6				
Paint Repair				
Etajfoyet’t SeuloiUj	Entry Level	Advanced Mvd	Labar Fael	iftam
New Hire	$ 9.20	$9.70	$1040	$1040
1 Year	9.70	1040	10.70	10.70
2 Yem	10.20	10.70	JJ40	1140
5 Yean	1240	1170	13.20	1340
10 Yem	14.20	14.70	15.20	1540
15* Yem	16.20	16.70	17.20	1740
Effective September 22,2003				
Paint Repair				
Eraptoy !<*> Senfortty	Entry Level	Advanced Level	Labar	OUT
New Hire	$ 9.70	$1040	$10.70	$10,70
lYear	1040	10.70	1140	1140
3 Yem	10.70	1140	21.70	11.70
SYem	1X70	D40	13.70	13.70
JO Yem	14.70	15.20	15.70	15.70
|$* Yean	16.70	1740	17.70	17.70
22
FILE £SPf
^l5 FILE MH
REGULAR STRAIGHT TIME BASE HOURLY PAY RATES (continued)
Effective April it, 1996				
Automotive Electrical Repair				
Ernftoy****	Entry L«vrf	Jk«yet	Labor M	ueatv
rftwKiw	3 7.70	51020	SI 0.70	310.70
IY-i	1M0	10.70	11,20	H40
2¥t»n	10,70	11.20	11.70	11.70
SYiirt	1170	13.20	12.70	1X70
10 Y«s»	14.70	1540	15.70	15.70
15^ Yean	14.70	1Z»	17,70	17.70
Effective September 22,2003				
Automotive Electrical Repair				
Ewp*oy*«’<	Eatfy Lavd	Atvwaft Lrral	UW M	mntv
N«wHln	31040	310,70	31140	31140
lYnr	10.70	1140	11.70	11.70
lYvtn	11.20	11.70	1X20	12.20
Jian	1340	13.70	1440	14.20
lOVWTV	1540	13.70	1340	J640
19* Yean	17.20	37.70	13.30	1320
Effective April 21 1996		
Skilled Trades		
totofc	BatrvLevd	AtvancaO Lc*d
	113.00	31150
jy™	15.50	16.00
5Y«an	30,50	21.00
Effective September 22,2003		
Skilled Trades		
Emptoy***i Seniority	MrvLwti	AtostoLml
NewHEra	313.50	JH.00
3 Yarn	uoo	1150
SYnn	31X0	2LH
The 1996 wages implemented under this Labor Agreement are implemented effective April 22,1996
Non-HUMMER MTTR-ESP employees who were employed at die ESP Plant prior to February 26,1996 will receive a fifty cent ($.50) wage increase on April 22,1996. As the base wage rates set forth in this Article become equal to these employees’ base wage rates, these employees will be paid foe base rate set forth in this Article.
All non-HUMMER MTTR-ESP employees who were employed at the ESP Plant on April 22, 1996, will receive an additional fifteen cent ($.15) wage increase effective April 22, 1996 to compensate for PAA dwrs. As the base wage rates set forth in this Article become equal to these employees' base wage rates, these employees will be paid the base rates set forth in this Article, LABORPOOL
A Labor Pool will be comprised of Advanced Level personnel from each SBC and will be required to satisfy the needs of the plant, such as, but not limited to: retrofits, vacations, leaves of absence, excessive absenteeism and to provide for quick release of personnel to Mishawaka-SPLO. Labor Pod personnel will be assigned temporary jobs and assignments will not exceed 180 days in duration. However, if no temporary jobs exist labor pool personnel will be placed wherever foeir skills can best be utilized.
Work Assignments
The Supervisor of the receiving department will be informed of foe start and end time of foe assignment If an employee completes an assignment early, foe person will report back to foe office for foe next assignment
ff it is determined by the Company that additional Labor Pod persons are needed on a permanent basis, those openings will be posted. If foe need is only to cover an influx of temporary jobs (60 days or less), foe jobs may be filled by people in between jobs or recalls from lay-off
23
I
If Labor Foot employees refuse an assigned job, they will be removed from the Labor Pool. If all available Utility employees in a SBC are being utilized, Labor Pool employees may be used on an availability basis to cover absentees as long as die assignment is made through die Labor Pool
Representation
A Union Steward will be elected for die Labor pool to handle issues which are Labor Pool related. Problems related to the job or department to which die Labor Pod person is assigned will be handled by die Steward within that area of representation.
Miscellaneous
Labor Pool employees will work any overtime which occurs on the job to which they are assigned Due to the experimental stage of the Labor Pool, these Labor Pod provisions may be changed by mutual consent
A Manpower Coradinator Gar die Labor Pod will be assigned through die regular transfer/bidding process with regard made to qualifications, skill, and seniority. Management will have die final determination in the selection process.
The posting will contain a description of die skills and general dudes of the Manpower Coordinator. —.............. * "	"
It will be the responsibility of Management to keep the Manpower Coordinator informed on schedule changes, build schedules, vacations, and any other type of information that will result in temporary assignments	.
UTILITY PERSONNEL
Utility personnel may also be utilized plantwide. Utility personnel will be chosen by seniority using the traditional method.
PAYDAYS
— Employees shall’ be paid by check each Friday during usual working hours. Second (2nd) shift employees shall receive their paychecks prior to the first break of their shifts each Thursday. Third (3rd) shift employees shall receive their paychecks prior to the first break of their shifts each Wednesday.
Note: Also refer to the May 13, 1996, letters regarding TimekeepingiPayroll, Paycheck Stubs/Severance Statements, Mi ik-ESP Performance Bonus and M riR-ESP Stability Bonus.
ARTICLE MV
COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE
The employees shall be covered by foe provision of Cost-Of-Livir® Allowance as follows:
A.	The Cost-Of-Living Allowance will be determined in accordance with changes in foe Consumer Price Index (CPIW), United States city average, published by foe Bureau of Labor Statistics, U. S. Department of Labor, 1967=100, as revised by foe Bureau in 1987 and hereinafter referred to as foe BLS Consumer Price Index.
24
During the period of this Agreement, amusements in the Cost-Of-Living Allowance dial! be made at the following limes:
Based on the Three-Month Average of BLS
Effective Dale of Adjustment	Consumer Price Index
First pay period beginning September 2,1996, May, June and July 1996 as compared to the three and at three month intervals to August 2005. month average for February, March and April
1996, and at three calendar month intervals to May, June and July 2005,
In determining the three (3) month average of foe indexes for a specific period, the computed average shall be rouided to the nearest one-tenth (0.1) index point
Reductions for diversions of not more than five cents ($.05) per hour shall be made from foe amount of foe Cost-of-Living Allowance adjustment from each of foe quarterly adjustments to be made commencing with foe first pay period beginning September 2, 1996, and each quarter thereafter, if necessary, until twenty cents ($.20) per hour has been diverted. Thereafter, there shall not be any farther diversion. The moneys so diverted shall be used for foe purpose of financing four (4) holidays.
B.	' Effective September 2, 1996, and for any period thereafter, foe Cost-Of-Living Allowance shall be adjusted by adjusting foe Cost-Of-Living Allowance cue cent ($.01) for each three-tenths (0.3) change in foe average index for foe appropriate three (3) month period. Quarterly adjustments shall be made up or down depending on the three (3) month average.
C	For employees of foe Company whose most recant hire date is before foe effective date of this
Agreement, foe Cost-Of-Living Allowance shall not be added to base or day rates for arty classification but shall be computed on the basis of foe hows worked times foe amount of Cost-Of-Living Allowance computed under this Agreement and shall be taken into account in computing overtime and holiday pay and vacation pay.
D.	For new hires employed by foe Company after foe effective date of this Agreement, foe Cost-Of-Living Allowance shall not be added to base or day rates for any classification, but shall be computed on foe basis of foe hours worked times foe amount of foe Cost-Of-Living Allowance computed under this Agreement and shall be taken into account in computing overtime and holiday pay and vacation pay.
Any allowances received from Cost-Of-Living Allowance adjustments shall not be added or rolled into foe base wage rates applicable to new hires employed after the effective date of this Agreement. A new employee's first Ccsr-vf-Living Allowance adjustment wui be on the uisi adjustment date following foe employee’s first three (3) full months of employment. Each employee hired after foe effective date of this Agreement shall begin enqiloyment with zero (O) Cost-Of-Living Allowance adjustment and hisfoer individual Cost-Of-Living Allowance adjustment will accumulate subsequent to his/her date of hire.
Reductions for diversions of not more than five cents ($.05) per hour from foe quarterly Cost-of-Living Allowance adjustments for employees hired after May 12, 1996 will be made as provided for in Paragraph A of this Article, but foe total amount of such reductions for diversions for said employees cannot exceed foe balance remaining to be diverted at foe time they are hired after the reductions for diversions have been made pursuant to Paragraph A of this Article.
25
E.	In the event the Bureau of Labor Statistics does not issue the BLS Consumer Price Index on
or before the beginning pay period referred to in Section A, any adjustments required will be made at the beginning of the first pay period after receipt of the BLS Consumer Price Index and no adjustments, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made due to any revision which later may be made in the published figures of the BLS Consumer Price Index for any month for which adjustment may take place
F.	Unless otherwise agreed upon between the parties, a continuance of the Cost-Of-Living Allowance shall be contingent upon continued availability of the official monthly BLS Consumer Price Index in the form agreed to at the time of this signing and calculated on the same basis as the index for April 1996.
ARTICLE XV
HOURS OF WORK - OVERTIME
For the purpose of computing overtime compensation under this Article:
(1)	An employee’s workweek shall consist of seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods beginning on Monday at the regularly scheduled starting' time of the shift to which the employee is assigned and ending one hundred and sixty-eight (16S) hours thereafter.
(2)	An employee's workday shall.be the twenty-four (24) hour period beginning at tiie regularly scheduled starting time of the shift to which he is assigned and ending twenty-four (24) hours thereafter.
(a)	Employees will be compensated as follows:
1,	Straight Time.
(a)	For the first eight (8) hours worked in any one (1) workday;
(b)	For the first forty (40) hours worked tn the employee’s workweek, less all time for which daily, Saturday, Sunday or holiday overtime has been earned;
(c)	For the first eight (8) hours worked on any shift which starts on the day before and continues into a specified holiday or Saturday.
2.	Time-and-a Half
(a)	For all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) workday,
(b)	For all time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in the employee's workweek, Jess all time for which daily, Saturday, Sunday or holiday overtime has been earned;
(c)	For all time worked on any shift which starts on Saturday;
3.	Double-time.
(a)	For all time worked on any shift which starts on Sunday;
(b)	For all time worked cm any shift that starts on any of the holidays as they appear in Article XXI of this Agreement;
(c)	For all time worked in excess of eight (8) hours cm any shift which starts ihe previous day and runs over into the Sunday or holiday;
(d)	Any double-back to first (1st) shift on Saturday by the second (2nd) shift employees and any double-back to second (2nd) shift on Friday by third (3rd) shift employees.
26
If more than one (1) of the provisions of this Agreement with regard to the payment of overtime shall be applicable to any time worked by an employee, he shall be paid for such lime at the highest overtime rate specified in any such applicable provisions, but he shall not be entitled to additional overtime compensation for such time under any other of such provisions.
Any time worked for which an employee shall be entitled to overtime compensation under any one (1) or more provisions <rf this Article shall be excluded in the computations of overtime for such employee under any other provision of this Article.
4.	Shift Premium.
(a)	A shift premium of forty cents ($.40) per hour will be paid to the
2nd and 3rd shifts. This shaft increase to fifty cents ($.50) at the beginning of the third (3rd) year of this Agreement and to sixty tents ($.60) at the beginning of the fifth (Sth) year of foe Agreement (b) (1) This shift premium per hour will be paid on aft holidays. PAA Days, bereavement, jury duty pay, vacation pay, Saturday and Sunday overtime and regular work time.
(2)	An employee who works overtime on second (2nd) or third (3rd) shift will be paid their per hour shift premium calculated on the overtime pay rates.
(c)	(I) An employee whose scheduled shift starts at or after 9:00 p.m., but before 5:00 a.m., shall be deemed to be working foe third (3rd) shift, not including prep time.
The third (3rd) shift work week shall be considered to start on Sunday night
(2)	An employee whose scheduled shift starts at or after 5:00 am., but before 12:00 noon, shall be deemed to be working the first (1st) shift.
(3)	An employee whose scheduled shift starts at or after 12:00 noon, but before 9:00 p.m., shall be deemed to be working the second (2nd) shift.
(d)	(1) An employee who works on foe first (1st) shift beyond foe regularly scheduled hours of such shift foal! be considered as working on the first (1st) shift and shall not be paid foe shift premium for the time worked by him beyond such hours.
(2)	An employee who works cm the second (2nd) or third (3rd) shift beyond the regularly scheduled hours of such shift shall be considered as working on that shift and shall be paid foe shift premium applicable to foeir shift.
(e)	When it is necessary to move second or third shift personnel from foeir regular second (2nd) or third (3rd) shifts to foe first (1st) shift for Company convenience on a temporary basis, foe appropriate drift premium will be paid for up to two (2) weeks.
27
1
5.	Registering Time.
Employees will register their time cards at the required times. If an employee fails to register his time card in or out, he must establish to the satisfaction of his Supervisor that he was at work during the period for which he claims pay before such payment will be . authorized.
The payment of wages, for hours worked as recorded on time clock cards, shall be computed in units of one-tenth (1/10) of an hour [six (6) minutes].
Note: Also refer to the May 13,1996 letter regarding four ten hour days schedules.
ARTICLE XVI
OVERTIME SCHEDULING
Section 1. (a) (1) It is foe objective of foe parties to assure that overtime be distributed within the various overtime groups and between foe appropriate groups on a fair and equitable basis.
(2) When, in foe judgment of Management it is necessary for an individual or overtime distribution group to work overtime, such overtime work shall be performed as scheduled and assigned in foe following manner
(b)	Scheduling of Mandatory Overtime. (1) The appropriate Steward shall be advised of foe overtime schedule and die appropriate Union Representative or seniority employee will be present when call-in’s and call-back’s are necessary. All calls will be recorded with time and phone number called.
(2)	Weekday overtime to be worked at the end of foe regular shift shall.be scheduled by. notifying employees before foe end of their regular shift on the day immediately preceding foe day of foe overtime assignment
(3)	When early start-up will be required, employees scheduled to rqport early will be notified prior to the end of the shift of the immediate preceding workday.
(4)	Weekend overtime shall be scheduled by notification by the end of the preceding Thursday shift, except that an employee who is absent on Thursday shall be notified on Friday.
(c)	Overtime Assignment (1) Overtime shall be performed by the regularly assigned employee.
(2)	Employees assigned to an overtime group who are low on overtime hours shall be required to work foe property scheduled overtime.
(3)	In die event foe Company fails to give proper notice of overtime, foe Company may assure that overtime shall be performed by making work available in the same overtime equalization group. When any overtime equalization group has been exhausted, foe Company may make the work available to the next like overtime equalization group with a view toward low overtime hours.
(d)	Overtime Charging, (1) An employee vfoo is assigned to a new overtime group shall be charged with the overtime hours of foe employee he replaced. If a new job is created, that
28
employee will assume high overtime hours for that group with the exception of those classified as Utility.
(2)	All overtime worked shall be charged to an individual on a paid-hours-worked basis, i.e., if work two (2) hours at time and one-half charge three (3) hours.
(3)	All overtime hours worked, refused or occurring while an employee is absent for any reason, including call-in or call-back hours refused, shall be charged
(4)	A Steward who works on overtime hours solely for the purpose of representation, as defined in Article V of the Agreement, will not be charged with such hours for the purpose of overtime equalization.
(3)	All mmdatoty overtime will be posted. In the event that a verbal notification must be made to meet the posting requirement, a Steward shall accompany the Supervisor which will be followed with foe appropriate posting.
(e)	Overtime Records. (I) Current records of overtime hours of employees will be maintained in an up-to-date manner by foe Group Leader or Supervisor. Such overtime hours, worked or charged, will be maintained on a daily basis and posted in foe department (2) An employee’s current telephone number will be noted on all Employee Action Forms. It will be foe responsibility of foe Group Leader or Supervisor to maintain a current list of telephone numbers for call-in and call-back purposes. It is further understood that it is foe employee's obligation to maintain their current residence telephone number on file with foe Personnel Department
(3)	In an effort to prevent misunderstandings or disputes concerning overtime, foe appropriate Steward will work closely with foe Supervisor in scheduling overtime and maintaining accurate and proper records. The Steward will accompany the Supervisor when overtime is being offered.
(4)	Hours will remain current except in cases where both parties mutually agree that reverting to zero (0) hours on record or rolling back of hours on record is mandatory. All decisions concerning recordkeeping shall be foe responsibility of foe Overtime Committee. Decisions to be made concerning zeroing out or rolling back of hours will be made by foe Overtime Committee.
(f)	Discipline and Overtime. The parties have agreed font disciplinary action would not be taken against an employee in foe event an employee, for personal reasons and not in concert with others, refused to work overtime:
(1)	In excess often (10) hours, Monday through Friday,
(2)	In excess of eight (8) horns on Saturday, or on Saturday after working foe last two (2) consecutive Saturdays, whether scheduled or voluntary;
(3)	On Sundays, holidays and when foe Saturday is immediately preceded or followed by a holiday.
All provisions of foe Agreement regarding overtime scheduling would remain in effect The parties have further agreed that in foe event it is necessary to schedule overtime in excess of foe above stated hours and enough volunteers cannot be obtained, foe qualified junior employee, will be assigned. In foe event of such assignment, foe contractually required notification period shall be applicable.
Overtime assignments which are refused, in accordance with foe terms of this Subsection (f), will nor disqualify the employee for holiday pay which he would otherwise be entitled to receive.
29
(g)	Shift Equalization Overtime will be equalized between shifts whenever possible. If a scheduling problem occurs between shifts, there will be a make up period. The spread will not exceed sixteen (16) hours between employees having fewest overtime hours on record and employees having highest overtime hours within a department, same classification and same job between the respective shifts. Intheeventthespreadexceedssixteen(16)hoursat foe end ofthe week, foe overtime will be made up on the weekend If die overtime cannot be made up on the weekend, die sixteen (16) hour limitation will be waived to the following week or weekend to correct the imbalance. If an employee's permanent job is eliminated or bumped and die employee leaves die department before die overtime infodance is corrected, such overtime will be paid automatically to low hour employees. This applies to all shifts.
(h)	Overtime Committee Both parties agree to establish an Overtime Committee. This Committee will function as a proactive means to prevent and control any overtime related misunderstandings or issues that may arise. Such Committee shall have the authority to investigate and resolve overtime grievances and coordinate overtime scheduling for assignments unique to die controls defined in Articles XV and XVL Any changes necessary shall be addressed to the Overtime Committee and mutually agreed upon by both parties.
ARTICLE XVII BREAK TIME
Employees will be allowed thirty (30) minutes per day for relief and personal time Employees will be allowed a thirty (30) minute unpaid lunch period.
Employees will be allowed a five (5) minute clean-up period at the end of their scheduled day’s work.
It is the obligation of each employee to be at his/her work station prepared to go to work at his/her shift starting time; employees in foe Paint/Repair, Welder and General Labor (media Hast only) SBC’s, will be allowed a six (6) minute preparation period at the start of foeir shift. Employees required to work past the end of the regularly scheduled shift will be allowed an additional four (4) minutes of relief time for each hour worked in excess of the regular shift.
When it becomes necessary to change foe scheduled lunch or break period, on an interim basis, for better utilization of equipment or facilities, the regularly scheduled break period will not be advanced or delayed by more than one half (1/2) hour; the regularly scheduled lunch period will not be advanced or delayed by more than one (1) hour. Employees who are required to work through their normal lunch and break periods will be compensated at one and one-half (!• 1/2) times their regular rate for such work.
Employees will not be allowed to leave foe facility other than lunch time or foe end of die shift unless they have a written pass signed by foeir immediate supervisor.
ARTICLE XVIII CALL BACK PAY
Any employee who is called back to work by the Company after he/she has completed his
scheduled work day and left the plant, will receive overtime pay for the number of hours worked or
30
four (4) hours pay at his regular straight time base hourly pay rate plus overtime, whichever is greater. This provision does not apply if the employee is prevented from working due to a labor dispute or a situation beyond the control of the Company, such as fire, explosion, severe weather, power failure and break downs.
ARTICLE XIX
REPORTING PAY
Any employee who reports for work at their scheduled time may be provided with at least four (4) hours work at his regular straight time base hourly pay rate. If foe employee is provided with less than four (4) hours of work and sent home, he shaD be paid for foe number of hours tMxfced or for four (4) hours at his tegular straight time base hourly pay rate, whichever is greater. This provision does not apply if foe employee:
A)	has been notified in advance not to report for work, or
B)	is prevented from working due to a labor dispute or a situation beyond the control of foe Company, such as fire, explosion, severe weather, power failure and breakdowns, or
C)	Refuses available work.
ARTICLE XX VACATIONS
A. The Company will grant vacations and vacation pay to the employees covered by this Agreement in accordance with the following provisions.
B Vacation pay shall be paid to all employees according to the following schedule: Yean of Service	Weeks of Vacation
I	1
3	2
10 or more	3
C.	Vacation pay shall be computed on the basis of forty (40) hours times the employee’s regular straight time hourly pay rate for each week of entitlement.
D,	The vacation year shall extend from January 1 nf each year to December 31, inclusive. To be eligible for a vacation in any calendar year during the term of this Agreement, the employee must not have been on layoff or leave from work for six (6) consecutive months or more tn the preceding calendar year. If an employee returns to work from a layoff or leave of six (6) months or more, hefehe will be ineligible for vacation time off until he/she has worked six (6) consecutive months.
E.	If the need should arise, the Company win post the vacation shutdown period no later than January 31 of each year. This shall then be considered the vacation time for all employees.
F.	If no vacation shutdown is scheduled, or if employees have vacation in excess of the shutdown period, each employee shall have an opportunity to select their vacation period(s) no later than the last day of February of each year, and the Company shall be bound by such
31
schedule, unless the Company informs employees that their vacation period(s) is canceled or changed no later than March 31 of each year.
G,	The Company shall determine the number of employees who may be absent from work for vacation within each week of the vacation year, by Skill Based Classification Level in accordance with the employee’s seniority.
H.	Vacation time must be taken during the vacation year or it will be forfeited, provided that pay in lieu of vacation time taken win be permitted in order to avoid a forfeiture.
I.	If for any reason an employee leaves the Company or is discharged from employment, he or she shall receive vacation pay for unused vacation earned in the vacation year prior to the date of separation from employment.
Note: Also refer to the May 13,1996, letter regarding Employees Working During the Shutdown Period.
ARTICLE XXI HOLIDAY FAY
(a.) The term “holiday," when used herein, sMU.be.limited to the following days; New Years Day, Dr. Martin Luther King Day, Good Friday, Monday after Easter, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve Day, Christmas Day, and December 31. The holiday pay provided for herein shall be paid for such holidays.
Twenty (20) cents win be diverted from COLA adjustments at the earliest possible time, but in increments of no more than five (5) cents per quarter. These diversions win finance four (4) of the holidays above.
(b)	A non-probationaiy employee who does not work on a holiday will be paid for eight (S) hours at his regular straight time hourly pay rate,
(c)	A non-probationary employee shall receive holiday pay as provided in Subsection (b) above if the employee is carried on the active payroll of the Company on the day on which the holiday occurs, provided the employee meets the following conditions:
(1)	The employee must not be serving a penalty for misconduct.
(2)	Employees must not be on an approved leave of absence, including sick leave and worker’s compensation, except that employees on a Worker's Compensation Disability leave, drawing benefits, will be eligible for holiday pay for any holidays which foil during his/her period of disability until the Worker's Compensation case is settled, and there shall be a pro-rata deduction from benefits (sickness and accident/personal illness only) for any such holidays paid.
(3)	The employee must not be on strike.
(4)	The employee must not be on layoff in excess of ten (10) days.
32
(5)	The employee must be st work on the day before and the day after the holiday unless he/she establishes a good cause for absence.
(d)	If a holiday occurs on a Sunday, said holiday will be observed on the following Monday; and, if a holiday occurs on a Saturday, the holiday will be observed on that Saturday unless the parties mutually agree to celebrate that holiday on the prior Friday.
Note: Also refer to the May 13, 1996, letter regarding Additional Holidays and Changed Holidays
„ FILE COPY
JURY DUTY PAY
A.	Any employee having more than one (I) year of service at the MTTR-ESP Plant, who is summoned or subpoenaed for jury duty, shall be eligible for jury duty pay for each day of jury duty performed, up to a maximum of thirty (30) days in any calendar year, provided the employee would have been scheduled to work for the Company on that day, and further provided that he presents proper evidence as to the jury duty performed.
B,	Employees eligible hereunder shall be paid the difference between the regular straight time base hourly pay rate times eight (8) hours and the jury duty pay per day.
C.	An employee who, without being summoned, volunteers for jury duty is not entitled to this benefit.
D.	If an employee is not required for jury service after bring summoned, for more than four (4) hours of the day, he/she will notify the Company and if requested, work such hours on his/her shift as he/she is not required to be in attendance at court.
ARTICLE XXIII BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
A Employees who have completed their probationary period will be given funeral leave up IV 4 uiflXuuwui C* three (3) con$ec>.it>w> scheduled work days, excluding Saturday, Sunday, and holidays, in the event of a death in the immediate family, provided that one (1) of the days is the day of the fimeral. Employees win be eligible to receive pay for time lost from their regularly scheduled days of work to a maximum of eight (ft) hours in a day, and up to a total of twenty-four (24) hours, at the employee's regular straight time base hourly pay rate, provided that they notify the Company of the death in the immediate family on the first day of fimeral leave. Payment under this Section will not be allowed for any non-woric day or while an employee is on paid leave (e.g. vacation). For the purposes of this Section, an employee’s immediate family includes the employee's spouse, child, step-child, brother, sister, parent, or parent-in-law.
B.	Subject to compliance with the provisions of Section A of this Article, an eligible employee wifi receive pay for eight (8) hours at his/her regular straight time base hourly pay rate for one (1) day only of absence because of the death of a grandparent or grandchild, provided
33
that the day of the faneral is a day on which the employee would have worked had it not been for the absence.
C.	Proof of death by written verification acceptable to the Company will be required, and if there is a question raised, the Company may also require the employee to famish proof of kinship satisfactory to tire Company.
D.	' Extension of bereavement leave may be granted at Management’s discretion, without pay.
ARTICLE XXIV
PAID AND UNPAID-EXCUSED ABSENCE ALLOWANCES 4	1	>
1.	The paid absence allowance year (PAA Year) shaD be the payroll year.
Paid absence allowance credit shall be earned as follows:
	AifiMWt of Paid and Unpaid Bicu«cd Abxact	
Yean of Service	AUownce Earned Duriag Each WeefeeTPaid Absence Allowance Year Bering Which Employee Bendend Service and Received Wages	Mxxiniam Paid Absence Allesrahce Days That Can Be Earned in a Paid Absence ABtrisance Year
Lees than)	0	0
1 but less than 2	0	0
2 tut less than 3	1/26x40 Hours	2
3 but les* than IS	1/26x40 Hours	3
Her More	1/26 x 40Hours	5
Unpaid Braised Days Ihas Can Be Used During a Payroll Year*
0 3
3 2 0
* Illness excluded with valid doctor's slip.
These paid and unpaid-excused days may be taken in four (4) hour increments. All such days must be pre-arranged and pre-approved.
2.	An employee who first attains two (2) years of seniority in a paid absence allowance year,
shall, as of such day, if he is otherwise eligible, receive paid absence allowance credit in accordance with die schedule above based on the number of weeks the employee has rendered service to die Company and for which the employee has received wages since fire preceding PAA Year.
3. Paid absence allowance shall be calculated on the basis ofthe employee’s regular straight time hourly pay rate, not including overtime, as of his last day worked
4. An employee with two (2) or more years of seniority and who has worked in thirteen (13) or more weeks since the preceding PAA Year, whose seniority is broken, who dies or who retires during the paid absence allowance year, shall be paid the unused portion, if any, for which he was eligible in such paid absence allowance year. Such payment shall be made at the time of termination, death or retirement
5.	If an employee with two (2) or mote years of seniority dies or retires during a paid absence
allowance year, but such employee has not rendered service for which he received wages in at least thirteen (13) weeks in such year, a paid absence allowance of 1726th of forty (40) hours for each such
34
week tn which be rendered service for which he received wages shall be paid st the tune of retirement or to the employee's beneficiary at the time of death.
6.	An employee who is eligible for paid absence allowance credit as defined in Paragraph 2 of this Article and who eaters the Armed Forces of die United States shall be paid the unused portion, if any, of paid absence allowance credit
7.	An employee who returns from the military service and who has two (2) or more years of seniority (or attains it during die paid absence allowance year in which he returns) and who has not worked in at least thirteen (13) weeks in die paid absence allowance year shall be paid 1/26th of forty (40) hours for each weekin which he worked in foe pud absence allowance year.
8.	An eligible employee who as of foe last pay period of foe paid absence allowance year has not used his entire paid absence allowance credit shall be paid foe unused portion of his paid absence allowance credit at his regular straight time hourly pay rate.
ARTICLE XXV GROUP INSURANCE
Eligible employees lured at the MTTR-ESP Plant on or after May 13, 1996, and foe employees who are working at the MTTR-ESP Plant prior to May 13,1996, will be covered by foe group insurance benefits in accordance with the specific provisions for each benefit as outlined in foe Exhibit in this Article.
NOT SUBJECT TO GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE, During foe term of fols Agreement, no difference or dispute arising hereunder shall be subject to the grievance procedure established in foe Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Company and the Union. Also, neither foe Company mr foe Uniart shall seek any change in, nor shall either be required to bargain for, any modification, aheraricn or amendment to this Plan except as mutually agreed to by foe Joint Health Care Committee.
JOINT HEALTH CARE COMMITTEE. A Joint Health Care Committee will meet on an ongoing basis to oversee foe functioning of health care services provided for under foe Labor Agreement Meetings will be conducted regularly for the purpose of resolving problems and overseeing performance of the program.
Note: Also refer to foe May 13,1996, letter regarding foe Joint Health Care Committee.
EXHIBIT
GROUP INSURANCE BENEFITS
1.	Effective May 13,1996, foe following group insurance benefits shall be applicable to employees of foe MTTR-ESP Plant whose initial hire date is subsequent to May 12,1996.
35
■ ■ ■ ■ Benefit	Brief Description	EligibHily and Writing Periods	Provisions upon Lay Off, Teratiiiatioa, Illness
Medical (indudes men tai health and substance abuse)	Partners Health Plan A-3	Same as current ESP Plan	Same as current ESP Plan except as in Paragraphs.
Dental	1. Deha Dental Plan for AM General Plan A	Same as current ESP Plan	Same as current ESP Plan except as in Paragraphs.
Vision	Same as current ESP Plan	Same as cunent ESP Plan	Same as current ESP Plan except as in Paragraph?.
Hearing	Same as current ESP Plan	Same as current ESP Plan	Same aS current ESP Plan except as tn Paragraphs,
Life Insurance	1996118,000 none for spouse 1997 $19,000 1998 $20,000 2001 $23,000 2003 $24,000	Same as current ESP Plan	Same as current ESP Plan except as in Paragraph?.
ADAD	1996 $18,000 none for spouse 1997 $19,000 1998 $20,000 2001 $23,000 2003 $24,000	Same as current ESP Plan	Same as current ESP Plan except as in Paragraph?.
S&A (Short Term Disability)	45% of base wage (excluding COLA and Shift Premium)	Same as current ESP Plan	Same as current ESP Plan except as tn Paragraphs.
Long Term Disability	40% of base wage (excluding COLA and Shift Premium)	Same as current ESP Plan	Same as current ESP Plan except as in Paragraph 3.
Prescription Drug	Partners Health Plan Prescription Drug	Same as current ESP Plan	Santo as curran ESP Plan except as in Paragraph?.
2.	Employees woridng at MTTR-ESP facility prior to the effective date of the MTTR-ESP Agreement and employees from the HUMMER or SPLO facilities that transfer or are recalled to the MTTR-ESP facility after the effective date of the MTTR-ESP Agreement wiD continue to be covered by the AM General/UAW Family Health Care Flan. Said employees will receive the same Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Sickness and Accident, and Long Tenn Disability benefits as set forth in Paragraph 1 of this Exhibit
3.	Employees hired on or after May 13.1996 who become disabled because of occupational or non-occitpationaJ disability, and their dependents will be covered by insurance benefits during their
36
disability for a continuous period of time equal to the seniority they had at die time of the disability or five (5) years whichever comes first
4.	In the event an employee is called to active duty for military service, the Company shall continue dependent insurance coverage for a period of up to six (6) months,
$. The Company may change insurance carriers and/or administrators for the group insurance benefits provided that foe benefits provided by any new carrier or administrator remain essentially the same as those set forth herein.
ARTICLE XXVI 401 (K) RETIREMENT PLAN
A.	The parties have agreed to continue foe existing 401(k) Retirement Plan for current ESP employees and, effective May 13,1996, make the 401 (k) Retirement Plan available to employees whose initial date of hire is on or after May 13, 1996, and who have completed their probationary period. The Company will be responsible for foe administration of foe 401 (k) Retirement Plan and shall establish such procedures as necessary.
B.	For purposes of this 401 (k) Plan, “wages” shall indude base pay, COLA and shift premium.
C.	An employee may elect to contribute into the 401 (k) Plan in accordance with foe following
schedule subject to maximums provided by law:
1.	I%to20%ofwageseaniedinapayperiod;
2.	l%te 100% ofany bonus payments;
3.	The value of any or all unused PAA days;
4.	l%to 100%ofanyvacationpay.
D.	Effective May 13, 1996, the Company will provide a matdung contribution for each employee who is (1) eligible to participate in foe 401 (k) Retirement Plan and (2) not covered by foe Pension Plan set forth in Article XV of foe HUMMER Agreement Matdung contributions will be made in accordance wife foe following schedule:
1.	The value of any Paid Absence Allowance (PAA) Days contributed by such employees will be matched by foe Company based on the schedule in Article XXIV “Paid and Unpaid Excused Absence Allowances’ as follows:
No. of Days	No. ofDays			No, of Days	
A variable	% of M st ch	Available	% of Match	Available	% of Match
5	100	3	100	2	IvC
4	75	2	75	1	75
1-3	50	1	50		
2,	In addition to the Company match set forth in foe preceding subsection, for each dollar of wages contributed by an employee in a pay period, foe Company will make a matching contribution equivalent to 50% of foe employee contribution up to a maximum of 3% of die employee's wages in a pay period. The employee may use the compensation set forth in Paragraph C. Subsections 2, 3 and 4 towards his/her three (3) percent of wages that will be matched by the Company pursuant to this Subsection.
E,	Investment options available under foe cunent 4010c) Plan wiU continue to be offered to covered employees.
37
F.	Loan provisions, in accordance with Federal Law, have been agreed to and tire procedure will be published separately to those requesting loan details.
G Credited pension service shall be provided to all HUMMER employees working at die MTTR-ESP Plant whose pension service has not broken, including Transition and Bridge Benefits, and shad be in accordance with Article XV of the HUMMER Agreement Such employees may elect to make contributions to the 40}(k) Plan provided by das Article on a voluntary basis, and die provisions of Section D of this Article shall not have application with respect to these voluntary employee contributions except that the Company will match the value cf allowable PAA Days contributed by such employees in accordance with die terms of this Article, Section D 1,
H. The Company will provide a notice in advance of the PAA/401(k) match in order to maximise the number of employees that can take advantage ofthe Company match.
Note: Also refer to the May 13,1996 letters regarding the 4Ol(k)Conunittee and Paycheck Stubs (for Annual Severance Statements).
ARTICLE XXVII TUTTION REFUND
Seniority employees actively at work may apply for and receive a refund of tuition for job-related courses completed in accordance with this Article, not to exceed $450.00 for foe calendar year ($900.00 for approved courses taken at an accredited college). Such courses must be taken at an approved institution on non-working hours. Arty refund made to an eligible employee will relate to foe calendar year of completion of foe approved course or courses. The following programs are considered job related and will be approved when foe needs cannot be met within foe Company. Specific courses which apply to foeir advancement or updating cf skills when appropriate will be excluded from foe dollar limitations.
(a)	Courses which will improve foe employee’s skill on his present job. This includes courses designed to update employees in foe technology of foeir trade or occupation, (b) Courses which relate to foe next job in foe logical development of an employee's career.
(c)	Courses which win prepare an employee for openings that are expected to occur in foe future.
(d)	Courses taken to complete foe requirements for a grammar school certificate or high School diploma.
(e)	Any literacy courses or courses in fundamental reading and mathematics. These include courses usually designed to teach sixth grade competency in reading, writing, and numerical skills,
(f)	Any required or pertinent elective courses taken in a degree-seeking program in a field related to foe employee's job or appropriate to his career in AM General Corporation.
38
ARTICLE XXVIIJ PERFORMANCE OF BARGAINING UNIT WORK BY NON-BARGAINING UNIT PERSONNEL
Direct representatives of the Company's Management, such ss Manufacturing Coordinators, Timekeepers, Administrative Employees and all other of die Company’s employees not covered by tike terms of this Agreement (except for hourly temporary contract personnel), shall not perform the workof an employee whois covered by the terms of this Agreement, except in case of an emergency (eg., apparent threatened danger to employees or to Company property), or for the purpose of instructing an employee tn the proper performance of his work or for the purpose of trying out a new tool, fixture, machine or operation. Violation of this Article win result in payment to tile aggrieved employee of two (2) hours pay or pay for tire actual time worked, whichever is greater, ft b not the intent of the Company that foe provisions of this Article be used to deprive any Bargaining Unit membets of foeir properly designated work by any other than recognized Bargaining Unit personnel.
ARTICLE XXIX
SAFETY AND HEALTH
A The Company hereby agrees to recognize one (1) Safety and Health Steward who shall be a member of foe Union, who shall be an employee of foe Company with at least one (1) year of seniority and who shall be appointed by the Bargaining Committee. The Union shall give the Employee Relations/Safety Manager prior notice of tike name of the Safety and Health Steward and shall confirm such notification in writing. The Safety and Health Steward shall work with the Employee Rdatioas/Safety Manager in assuring that reasonable provision is made for the safety and health of employees covered by the terms of this Agreement in foe Company's facilities and on foe Company's premises. After notifying his/her Supervisor, foe Safety and Health Steward will be released as soon as possible from his/her work without loss of pay during his/her regular working hours to investigate particular safety and health complaints, perform such other duties relative to safety and health in the facilities and on the premises as may occasionally be required, and to make prompt effective recommendations regarding bcnafide safety or health problems.
B. Any safety and health dispute that arises, will be brought to foe Safety and Health Steward and Supervisor/team Couiuinator for resolution. If the Supervisor, area Steward, and designated hourly Safety and Health Steward cannot correct die dispute within twenty-four (24) hours, the Safety and Health Steward will discuss and attempt to resolve or answer foe problem within twenty-four (24) hours of foe immediate action with the Employee Relation&Safety Manager, ff a safety and health dispute cannot be resolved in this step of the procedure, then the Safety and Health Steward will submit a formal grievance and appeal said dispute to the Third Step of the grievance procedure provided for tn Article VI of this Collective Bargaining Agreement and will receive an answer within twenty-four (24) hours.
C, A proactive Joint Safety and Health Committee shall consist of Union Committee Representatives, Plant Management, hourly employees from each shift and salaried employees. The joint committee will establish and monitor measurement systems that win analyze safety data, develop safety and health awareness programs, reduce on-the-job injuries, reduce unsafe working conditions, compare injury notes wife the indusuy average and past performance, etc. The joint
39
committee will meet weekly and will continue to schedule monthly plant inspection reviews. In addition, more Sequent inspections will be held if deemed necessary by the joint committee.
Physical conditions and abatement progress wdl be reviewed along with accident investigations, employee complaints, employee petsonai protection and loss prevention programming and other safety and health issues relevant to &cdity personnel.
- Accurate meeting minutes will be maintained and posted on the Health and Safety Bulletin Board.
D.	The Company -will make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of the employees and furnish, without cost, die necessary protective devices, such as boots, aprons, coveralls, raincoats, gloves, goggles, safety glasses (including prescription safety glasses), etc., that are deemed necessary to properly protect the employees from injury, sickness and causes thereof, providing the employee returns the worn out article to be replaced by new ones. Where personal protective equipment (Le., respirator, eye protection, etc.) is required, it must be utilized. All reusable protective clothing wiB be issued to individuals and signed out These pieces of clothing will be returned when the requirement is over or if they are damaged (for re-issue). If they are not returned, the employee will be charged for the item and that charge will be deducted from thar check. Proper heating and ventilation systems, including fans; will be installed and operated when mutually determined necessary by the Company Safety Coordinator and the Union Safety Steward.
E.	The Company will staff the major production shift with appropriate medical personnel When it is known that approximately 100 or more emptoyees are scheduled to weak overtime, the Company wtU make every reasonable attempt to schedule the medical personnel.
F.	The UAW’s Industrial Hygienist may visit the Company’s facilities at a mutually agreeable time for the purpose of making recommendations regarding any tests which may be appropriate to comply with foe spirit ofsafery and health provisions of this Agreement .
G.	If an employee’s job assignment is changed without advance notice in such a manner that he may be exposed to unusual conditions (i.e., worker who normally works inside is assigned to work outside), the Company will supply protective clothing.
H.	The Company performs periodic operations related to atmospheric monitoring as per a schedule authorized by the Employee Relations/Safety. Manager- Thepurpose of die monitoring program is to determine and measure potential atmospheric contaminant exposurethzt may result from specific and pre-identified operations. When an exposure to a documented hazardous chemical or agent has occurred, the Company will schedule appropriate testing to determine the effect of such exposure at the employee's request Subjective claims of excessive exposure to documented hazardous chemicals or agents will be evaluated jointly by the Union Safety Steward and foe Employee Relaricns/Safety Manager to determine exposure validity. Costs associated to related medical tests are the responsibility of the Company, Results of any such tests shall be furnished to an employee’s physician upon die written request of that physician with consent of the employee.
1	Any employee or group of employees who believe that they are being required to work under
conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy beyond foe normal hazards inherent in foe operation in question, shall have the right to; (a) follow foe procedure in Paragraph B above and shall receive preferred handling in such procedure and arbitration, and also shall be provided relief from the job or jobs without loss to their right to return to such job or jobs; and (b) ar the Company’s discretion, assignment to such other employment as may be available in the plant provided, however, that no employee, other than communicating the facts relating to foe safety of the job, shall take any steps to preveit another employee from working on foe job. Should either the Mznagemoit or foe arbitrator conclude that an unsafe condition within the meaning of this Section existed and should foe employee
40
not have been assigned to other available equal or higher-rated work, he/she shall be paid for die earnings he/she would have received	•
Note: Also refer to May 13,19% letters regarding die Drug/Alcohol Free Workplace Program, die Modified Work Program, die Ergonomics Program, Unauthorized Driving of Fork Lifts, Scheduling Therapy, and Parking Lot Security.
ARTICLE XXX SKILLED TRADES EMPLOYEES
Section 1. The designation " Joumeyperaon” as used in this Agreement shall mean any person: a) Who presently holds a Joumeyperson Classification in the Company’s Facilities (any person who presently holds a Joumeyperson Classification in the facilities shall be considered a contractual Joumeyperson for the purpose of this Agreement), b) Who has served a bmafide apprenticeship and presents a certificate which substantiates hisAier claims of having satisfactorily completed an apprenticeship program similar to that at AM General;
c)	Who has had eight (B) years'practical experience at the trade and can establish satisfactory proof thereof to the Company and the Union, by means of notarized affidavit, or presents a UAW Joumeyperson’s Card.
d)	Employees who are newly hired as Joumeypersons must file acceptable proof of Joumeyship as shown in Paragraph (b) or Paragraph (c) above within ten (10) days following the thirtieth (30th) day of employment; failure to provide such information will result in his/her being removed from the Skilled Trades Classification.
When additional Skilled Trades manpower is needed, the Company will hire qualified Joumeypetsons, if available, giving preference to those individuals who already possess a UAW Joumeyperson Card.
Section 2.	SKILLED TRADES CLASSIFICATION
The Skilled Trades Classification will be one multi-skilled classification that could consist of the following trades, to be populated with sufficient quantity of personnel as meets the plant’s demands:
Pipefitter • Joumeyperson
Machine Repair - Joumeyperson Electrician - Joumeyperson Layout Inspector Automotive Mechanic Industrial Truck Repair Tool and Die Maker
Carpenter
Inspector (Jig and Fixture Tool and Gauge)
Section 3.	SENIORITY
Seniority in the Skilled Trades Classification shall be the date of entry into Skilled Trades Only those Skilled Trades with HUMMER-SPLO seniority or Skilled Trades hired prior to May 13, 19%, will have recall rights to foe HUMMER-SPLO facilities.
91
I
Section 4.	REDUCTION IN FORCE
In the event of a reduction in force within the Skilled Trades Classification, employees win be laid off or displaced as follows:
a)	The first to be laid off will be probationary Joumeypersons.
b)	The next to be laid off will be “Joumeypersons" who have acquired seniority, the ■ least senior employee shall be laid off first
c)	Joumeypersons subject to layoff (as the result of (a) and (b) above) will exercise seniority in accordance with (1) or (2) below:
1)	Such employees who retain seniority “in the production uniC may exercise foeir displacement rights in accordance with Article X of this Agreement
2)	Laid off employees shall be recalled in order of seniority to foe Skilled Trades Classification.
Section 5.	a) It is foe Company’s intent and desire to provide as much employment as practical for its seniority employees. When it becomes necessary for foe Company to employ outside contractors on or off the premises to do Skilled Trades work, foe Company will notify the Skilled Trades Committeeperson forty-eight (48) hours before foe contractor commences work. The Company will meet with foe Union to furnish the complete costs, schedules and skills, upon request Section 6. OVERTIME
When it is necessary to work overtime:
a)	MTTR-ESP Skilled Trades overtime assignments may be made with respect to the primary, duties ofthe overtime assignment and foe appropriate classification will be assigned with respect to low overtime hours within the classification.
b)	Any assistance outside foe classification needed to support foe overtime assignment will be offered with respect to low overtime hours between ad MTTR-ESP. Skilled Trades.
c)	Ml 1K-ESP Skilled Trades overtime hours will be logged with regards to each trade as well as between all trades and tracked on a daily basis. However, foe overtime sheet will be adjusted on a weekly basis beginning cm Monday of each week.
d)	If overtime is needed on Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, such overtime will be offered
to foe employee or employees who have foe appropriate qualifications and have foe fewest overtime hours of record.
e)	Overtime hours within foe classification will be equalized in such a manner so that foe spread will not exceed twenty-four (24) hours between foe employee having the fewest overtime hours of record and the employee having foe highest overtime hours of record. Because of extenuating circumstances, when foe overtime hours spread is more than twenty-four (24) hours, the low overtime employee will be asked to work a sufficient quantity of overtime hours over foe upcoming three (3) month period to bring hitnfoer within foe twenty-four (24) hour overtime spread. This shall be done each quarter. January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1.
Section?. SKILLED TRADES TRANSFERS
AB open jobs in Skilled Trades other than temporary jobs shall be posted.
a)	Management retains the right to temporarily assign seniority employees from any particular shift to any other particular shift with regard to seniority.
b)	Employees with seniority shall be given foe right to exercise shift preference once per contract year.
Section 8, Work normally done by a particular Skilled Trades Classification will not be done by a Production Classification. Violation of this Section will result in payment of foe aggrieved employee
42
of two (2) hours pay or pay for actual time worked, uiuchever is greater, at the rate of pay at the time of the violation Psymoit for a violation of this Section will occur only when a representative of Management has specifically directed a production employee to perform Skilled Trades work or when the appropriate corrective action has not been taken by Management.
Section?. SKILLED TRADES WORK ASSIGNMENTS
. E$p Skilled Trades employees will work together as a group assisting each other with work assignments and wifi perform necessary jobs that may not be directly associated with their trade. Work assignments will be made with respect to safety, skills and ability. Skilled Trades employees may run the equipment they maintain for test purposes and must cross-train and gain die experience to be multi-skilled and multi-craft workers.
The Company will make available, as necessary, metric hand tools on a tool-loan basis for use by UAW Skilled Persons.
Section 10. SKILLED TRADES ISSUES
Skilled Trades and Management win continue to meet jointly to resolve issues that arise Section IL SKILLED TRADES WAGE RATES
See Article XHL
Note: Also refer to the May 13, 1996, letters regarding Outsourcing and Matching Hours of Contracted Skilled Trades Services.
ARTICLE XXXI SUPPLEMENTAL UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
SECTION 1. CONTINUATION AND AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN. (1) The Company shall continue to maintain the Stqrplemental Unemployment Benefit Han herein which was adopted as Exhibit D to the Collective Bargaining Agreement dated August 7, 1991 and as amended by Attachment E SUB Plan dated July 5,1994 as set forth in Exhibit A of this Article; further, said Plan shall be amended as of May 13,1996, so that, subject to foe provisions of this Article, it shall apply to the employees covered by fois Agreement and shall thereafter read as set forth in Exhibit D as amended of foe Agreement dated August 7, 1991, except as otherwise provided in and subject to terms of foe Plan.
(2) The Company shall maintain the Plan for foe duration of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, except as otherwise provided in and subject to terms of foe Plan.
SECTION 2- TERMINATION OF THE PLAN. Upon any termination of foe Plan, foe Plan shall terminate in ill respects except that foe assets then remaining in foe Fund shall be used to pay expenses of administration and to pay benefits to eligible employees for a period of one (1) year folkwing termination, if not sooner exhausted. The Plan provisions with respect to foe effect of a low CUCB on the payment of benefits shall not be applicnbte. At foe expiration of the one (1) year period, foe parties shall endeavor to negotiate a program for foe orderly dispositicai of any remaining assets of foe Fund for employee benefits not inconsistent with the purposes of foe Plan.
SECTION 3. OBLIGATIONS DURING TERM OF AGREEMENT During foe term of foe Collective Bargaining Agreement, neither foe Company nor the Union shall request any change in, deletion from, or addition to foe Plan or fois Agreement, or be required to bargain with respect to any provisions or interpretation of the Plan or this Agreement During such period no change in, deletion 43
from, or addition to, any provision or interpretation of the Plan or this Agreement, nor any dispute or difference arising pursuant to Section 5 of this Article shall be an objective o£ or a reason or cause for any action or failure to act, including, without limitation, any strike, slowdown, work stoppage, lockout, picketing or other exercise of economic force or threat thereof by the Union or the Company. SECTION 4. EFFECT OF TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT, Anything herein which might be construed to the contrary notwithstanding, it is understood that termination of die Collective Bargaining Agreement shall not have the effect of automatically terminating the Plan.
SECTION 5. GOVERNMENTAL RULINGS. (I) The amendments to the Plan, which are provided for in Section 1 of this Article and incorporated in Exhibit D heretofore mentioned in Section 1 of this Article, shall not be effective prior to receipt by the Company from the United States Internal Revenue Service and the United States Departmwt of Labor of rulings, satisfactory to the Company, holding that such amendments will not have any adverse effect upon the favorable rulings previously received by the Company that; (i) contributions to foe Fund established pursuant to foe Plan constitute a currently deductible expense under foe Internal Revenue Code, (ii) the fund qualifies for exemption-firm Federal Income Tax under Section 501 (c) of foe Internal Revenue Code, (iii) contribution by foe Company to any benefits paid out of the Fund are not treated as “wages** for foe purpose of foe Federal Unemployment Tax, foe Federal Insurance Contribution! Act Tax, or collection of Income Tax at Source on Wages under Subtitle C of the Internal Revenue Code (except as benefits Paid from foe Fund are treated as if they were “wages” solely for purpose of Federal Income Tax withholding as provided in the 1969 Tax Reform Act), and (iv) no pan of any such contribution is included for purposes of the Fair Labor Standards Act in the regular rate of any employee.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article or of the Plan, the Compaq, with foe consent of foe International Union, may during the tcrm of the Agreement make revisions in foe Plan not inconsistent with foe purposes, structure and basic provisions thereof which shall be necessary to obtain or maintain airy of foe rulings referred to in this Section 5 or in foe Plan. Arty such revisions shall adhere as closely as possible to foe language and foe intent of the Plan.
ARTICLE XXXI.
EXHIBIT A
During the 1994 negotiations, foe parties agreed to certain amendments and modifications to foe SUB Plan which had been effective August 12,1991.
The parties agreed the SUB Plan would continue in effect until December 31, 1994. On January 1, 1995, foe SUB Plan wall be amended as follows:
Employees, who are otherwise eligible for a SUB Benefit and who are continuing on lay-off or leave of absence which commenced prior to January 1, 1995, will be eligible for a weekly benefit of $50.00 and foeir credit units will be cancelled in accordance with the following table:
Yean of Seniority 1 but less than 5 5 but less than 10 10 but less than 15 15 but less than 20 20 or more	Credit Unit Cancellation 3.33 2.50 2,00 1.43 LOO
44
Effective January 1,1995, employees who are laid off thereafter, will be eligible for a lay-off benefit of $75.00 per week in accordance with the following table:
Years of Seniority	Maximum No. of Payments
1 but less than 10	10
10 but less than 15	15
■	. 15 but less than 20	20
20 or more	26
Seniority at the time of lay-off establishes the maximum number of payments entitlement
Restoration of benefit payments will occur in the event an employee is recalled from lay-off after January 1,1995, and works in accordance with die following table:
Weeks Worked to Restore
Years of Seniority	One Week Benefit Entitlement
1	but less than 10	5
10 but less than 15	4
1$ but less titan 20	3
20 or more	2
Eligibility for Regular Benefits under this Plan shall be in accordance with the 1991 SUB Plan, Article 1, Section 1.
Eligibility for an Automatic Short Week Benefit shall be in accordance with the 1991 SUB Plan, Article I, Section 2, to be paid at the 80% level.
For purposes of this amended SUB Plan, Article 1, Section 3, of the 1991 SUB Plan shall apply.
The parties have agreed to eliminate regular Company contributions.
I.	The accumulated SUB fund balance would be used to pay benefits first
2.	No minimum fond balance shall be required, but the Company must maintain contributions sufficient to pay all Regular Benefits and all Automatic Short Week Benefits (unreduced), due and payable
The parties will meet foUswir.g these negotiations to develop foe appropriate amended SUB Plan document.
ARTICLE XXXII
EFFECT OF AGREEMENT AND TERMINATION
In the event any Paragraph of this Agreement be declared unlawful or invalid, the remainder of foe Agreement shall remain in foil force and effect, and that portion declared invalid will be subject to renegotiation.
This Agreement shall become effective May 13, 1996, and shall remain in fill! force and effect until midnight on September 28, 2005, and thereafter until termfoated, modified or amended as herein provided.
45
Should either party desire to terminate, modify or amend this Agreement, that party shall give notice in writing to the other party at least sixty (60) days prior to September 28, 2005, or at least sixty (60) days prior to such Eater date, as said party desires to so terminate, modify or amend this Agreement
In witness whereof; the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed the date and year first above written.
46
tatematicnai Union, United Automobile,
Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW)
International Untou, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement
Workers of America (UAW) Local No. 5
47
EXHIBIT A ATTENDANCE POLICY
This policy will go mto effect January 1,1997. Until that time, the present policy will remain in effect
You and your skills are very important to your fellow workers and the Company. Absenteeism creates an additional burden on fellow workers, and incurs additional costs and problems in the operations of die business. As a consequence, it is vital that you not miss work unless his absolutely necessary for you to do so.
1.	ABSENCES AND TARDIES. Will be measured separately, however, incidents of tardies far discipline purposes will be administered under the same formula as established far absences.
2.	PROGRAM FORMULA A one hundred eighty (180) calendar day period far unexcused absences or tardies in increments of three (3) incidents will apply as the formula with the third (3rd) offense .within a one hundred eighty(180) calendar day period triggering die following progressive reprimands:.
1st Step:	Written Reprimand
2nd Step:	Written Reprimand
3rd Step:	Joint Counseling with Committeeperson and Superintendent
4th Step:	Joint Counseling with	Comnutteepersons	and Plant Manager/and or
Employee Relations. MEAP Referral
5th Step:	Discharge
3.	ADJUSTMENT. Each level in the reprimand progression will stay on file far eighteen (18) months.
4.	PAA DAYS. PAA Days must be used to cover absences, other than those covered by an approved doctor’s note, and will be excused unless the day triggers a reprimand, in which case it will be paid but not excused.
EXCUSED DAYS. Excused days must be used to cover absences, other than those covered by an approved doctor's note and will be excused unless die day triggers a reprimand, in which case it will not be excused. PAAZExcused days used to cover the day before or day offer a holiday must be prearranged and preapproved. Consideration will be given by seniority on a rotating basis and only when jobs can be covered by available utility or labor pool personnel
FOUR HOUR ABSENCES. PAA Days and Excused Days can be takm in four (4) hour increments, but must be prearranged and preapproved. Four (4) hour PAA time and excused time cannot be used to avoid reprimands for tardies and absences and can only be used for foe first four (4) hours or last four (4) hours of foe work day.
Following is the schedule of PAA Days and Excused Days:
Years of Service	Paid Absence Allowance	Excused/Unpaid
Less than 1	0	0
1 but less than 2	0	3
2 but less than 3	2	3
3 but less than 13	3	2
15 or more	5	
48
5.	ACCEPTANCE OF EXCUSES.
*	(4) Medical Excuse* Absences will be excused upon receipt of a doctor’s note as long
as die documentation contains die following information:
(1)	Thai employee was medically disabled to a degree that renders hinVher “unable to work."
(2)	Date(s) foe employee was seen and unable to work
(3)	Medical Diagnosis
(4)	Doctor’s signature
(b)	Chronic Offender with Doctor’s Excuses. Employees with three (3) doctor's
excuses within a ninety (90) day period will be referred to Employee Relations for joint counseling. Following the joint counseling, absences will not automatically be excused by the information required in 5 (a) above.
(c)	Excuses for Incarceration. Unless convicted, absence for incarceration will be excused upon receipt of proper documentation.
(d)	Unusual Hours and Continuous Overtime. Tardy excuse consideration will be provided to those affected by subject hours.
6.	EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM. Program related activities, including referrals and voluntary participation will be incorporated into the program regardless of the impending discipline situation.	'
7.	REPRIMANDS. Reprimands for unsatisfactory attendance or tardies will be imposed by the end of foe second (2nd) day foe employee is at work after foe absence or tardy which results in foe reprimand.
8.	All employees reporting for work three (3) hours after foe start of foe shift will be considered absent	.
9.	The Company reserves foe right to revise, or amend this policy.
EXHIBIT B
TEMPORARY CONTRACT PERSONNEL
During foe 1996 negotiations, foe parties discussed foe use of Temporary Personnel. The Company has stated foe need to retain such personnel through temporary employment agencies. The Company expressed to foe Union a need to be able to maintain * good work flow while recruiting new permanent employees. These Temporary Personnel are not to be used as a liquid workforce to preclude these employees from Union membership and foe Company shall not enqilcy these people for temporary or permanent replacement workers in the event a labor dispute arises between foe Union and foe Company. The Company has agreed to abide by this spirit and intent
1.	Temporary personnel are to be used only while foe Company is screening to hire new permanent employees.
2.	Temporary contract persortnd may not be utilized if any qualified regular employee is
on layoff.
3.	Temporary personnel truy work overtime only after all qualified regular employees on foe job assignment have been offered the overtime.
4.	The number of temporary personnel in foe plant may not exceed 10 percent of foe number of active MTTR-ESP employees at any one time.
49
5.	Temporary personnel will not be used to circumvent the Labor Agreement.
6.	Temporary personnel are subject to AMG screening procedures before being hired as regular employees.
7.	Should temporary personnel become regular employees, their time worked will be applied
to reduce their probationary period and their time required to become Union members.
!. Benefits will not be paid retroactively upon becoming a regular employee, but time worked by temporary personnel will be credited toward benefits paid after they become regular employees.
9.	Temporary personnel may not be used for time study purposes or to set production standards.
10.	The use of temporary personnel will not preclude posting and filling vacancies in SBC’s
11.	A temporary person may only be utilized by AMG during one (1) period of no more titan thirty (30) days each ninety (90) days,
12.	Tonporary personnel will perform Entry Level work and be compensated accordingly.
13,	Temporary personnel win be released by the Company when there are enough regular employees to folfill all needs on straight time.
.	14, There is no intern by the Company to undermine the Union by the use of temporary
personnel.
15.	AMG wilt not utilize any temporary personnel during the thirty (30) calendar days prior to the expiration of the Labor Agreement.
16.	Stalled Trades are exempt from these Temporary Contract Personnel provisions.
EXHIBIT C ESP GROUP LEADER JOB RESPONSIBILITIES
■	Instruct employees in safely rules and. regulations and follow up to insure compliance. Meet periodically with the Safety Coordinator and Safety Steward to help resolve safety issues.
•	Report attendance to Employee Relations. Not responsible for excusing or unexcusing employees who are absent or tardy.
■	Assist in scheduling and equalizing overtime with the Coordinator and appropriate Steward. Assist in maintaining overtime log and keep dual records with Managanent and Union.
•	Assist Coordinator scheduling work activities. Coordinate feedback betweoi departments and/or teams.
•	Perform vehicle tracking/in process and turn in production counts and review with Coordinator.
•	Helps facilitate team decisions. Does not make final decisions for teams, but gives necessary input in decision malting.
•	Coordinate loan indoan out of manpower with Team Resource Leaders to accommodate absenteeism.
■	Document downtime and report to Coordinator.
•	Coordinate team efforts tn meeting quality, productivity, and efficiency goals with Team Coordinators and Team Resource Leaders.
*	Must have one (1) year of seniority.
•	Rotation on a six (6) month basis. Longer periods if mutually agreed upon
SO
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms. Sheila Radloff
International Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincolnwsy East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: Christmas Bonus
Dear Ms. Radloffi
The parties have agreed to retain the $600 Christmas bonus. An employee who works during a calendar year vriU receive $11.53 per week for weeks worked.
Bonuses will be prerated, as in the past, based on the number of pay periods in which the employee worked, was on vacation or for weeks tost because of wort related plant injury or short term military leave in the prior fifty-two (52) week period. Ncn-worked vacation shutdown periods will be treated as weeks of vacation for foe purpose of all bonus related calculations.
Those retiring will be paid for weeks eligible until foe time of retirement
Weeks not credited are those not worked because of lay-off, personal sick leave, and personal and educational leave.
The bonus check will be paid in foe next to last pay period before toe Christmas Holiday.
Sincerely, AM Genera] Corporation J. A. Armour
President
JAA/kjk
cc; I Bryant
A. Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
L Varga
Confirmed.__________________ .
S. RadlofC Internationa] Representative, Region 3
51
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 15,1996
Ms Sheila Radios'
International Representative
UAW Region No, 3
192$ Lincolnway East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: MTTR-ESP Operanons
Dear Ms. Radioff:
During the 1996 MTTR-ESP Negotiations with UAW Local No. 5 (AM General Unit), the parties entered into an agreement in an effort to secure the Ml ik-ESP Contract by negotiating and agreeing to certain cost containment strategies. '
It has been agreed to by the parties that work other than MTTR-ESP work will not be placed in the Mi ik-ESP facility without the prior agreement of the parties. .
Sincerely,
AM General Corporation J. A Armour
President
JAA/kjk
cc: J. Bryant
A. Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
7, Varga
Confirmed:______________________________________________
S. Radioff, International Representative, Region 3
52
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms. Sheila Radtoff
IntemationaJ Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincolnway East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: Team Concept
Dear Ms Radio®
During die 1996 MTTR-ESP Plant Negotiations, the Parties agreed on the desirability of die Team Concept
It was agreed that both Parties are willing to discuss this subject at a propitious tune.
Sincerely,
AM Genera] Corporation
J. A Armour President
JAA/Igk	■
CC:	J. Bryant
A Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J.	Varga
Confirmed:_____________________________________________
S.	kadiott, Imematicnai Representative, Region 3
53
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13, 1996
Ms. Sheila Radloff
International Representative
UAW Region No 3
1928 Lincolnway East Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference Training Programs
DearMs. Radloffi
During the 1996 Contract Negotiatais, die parties discussed the need for certain training programs.
Although the parties agreed, in principle, that these programs were desirable, sufficient time was not available for the resolution of all details, such as length and nature of training, duration and seniority of employees availing themselves of such OJT, supplemented by such classroom instructions as may be necessary.
Therefore, the parties have agreed to the establishment of a Joint Training Committee to consist c£ such members as the Company and die Union deem necessary to establish worthwhile training programs, as indicated above. These programs will include computer and other training programs which have developed as the result of the advancement of technology. This computer training will include computer, assignments, statistical process control, and on the job training where appropriate as established by tire joint committee.
The joint committee shall have the foil authority to establish the necessary procedures and administrative guidance for such programs.
Sincerely,
AM Genera) Corporation J. A. Armour
President
JAAljk
cc: J. Bryant
AFritt
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J, Varga
Confirmed:______________________________________________
S. Radloff; hrtematkmal Representative, Region 3
54
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms. Sheila Radloff
International Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincolnway East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: Local Deliveries
DearMs. Radfofifi
AM General employees will be utilized to pick up and deliver miscellaneous materia! where AM General Corporation is responsible for die focal cartage from our vendors to the plant, or movement of material between AM General facilities within the local area. Where vendors are responsible for delivery, the Company has no control over delivery services.
Sincerely,
AM General Corporation J. A Armour President
JAA/lqk
cc:	J. Bryant
A Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J.	Varga
Confirmed: ___________________________________________
S Radfofifi International Representative, Region 3
55
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms. Sheila Radioff
Internationa] Representative
UAW Region No 3
1928 Lincolnway East Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: Timekeepingft’ayroll
Dear Ms. Radioff
During the 1996 Contract Negotiations, the matters of shortages and pay docking wore discussed. In an effort to resolve these matters, the following steps have been taken:
I)	Any employee ringing to the lime and attendance system will appear as having worked Discrepancies between the tune and attendance system and crew sheets must be resolved with the Stqtervisor and Timekeeper, except that it will be the responsibility of the employee to substantiate to his Supervisor his actual time worked if foe employee did not punch.
2)	Deduction for lateness will occur after an employee is seven (7) or more minutes late. Die Supervisor is responsible for maintaining foe attendance records and employees who are consistently late win be subject to foe Attendance Policy. The Supervisor has die right to excuse employees for lateness.
3)	If an error results in a shortage of eight (8) or more hours pay and such shortage is reported prior to 12:00 noon, atnake tg> check will be issued to the employee by foe end of foe shift on that day with foe exception of employees on an early shift, whereby shortage checks will be made available no later than 2:00 p.m. If the shortage is reported after 12:00 noon, foe make up check will be issued on foe following workday (Monday). Shortages of less than eight (8) hours win be made up on foe following workday (Monday).
56
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
4)	Shortages that are a result of the employee’s failure to punch will be made up on die following weeks check, if the employee has proved to foe satisfaction of the Supervisor he worked die hours in question.
5)	Second (2nd) and third (3rd) shift employee paychecks win be issued on the day preceding foe last regularly scheduled work day during a holiday week When a holiday falls on Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday, employees will receive their paychecks on Thursday. When a holiday falls on Thursday, checks will be issued on Tuesday. When a holiday fails on Friday, checks will be issued on Wednesday.
Sincerely, AM General Corporation J, A. Armour President
JAA/kjk
cc: J. Bryant
A Fritz C. Kaser D, Taber J. Varga
Confirmed:________________________________________________
S. RadlofE, International Representative, Region 3
57
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms. Sheila Radloff
International Representative
UAW Region No. 3 1928 Lincoln way East Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference Four Ten Hour Days Schedules
DearMs. Radloff
During the 1996 MTTR-ESP Plant Negotiations, the Parties agreed that they could meet during the term of the Agreement to discuss implementation of four tai hourdays schedules..
Implementation would not have to be on a Bargaining Unit wide basts.
Sincerely;. -
AM General Corporation
J. A. Armour President
JAAAjk
cc: J. Bryant
A Fritz C. Kaser D. Taber J. Varga
Confirmed:________________________________________________
S. Radloff International Representative, Region 3
58
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms Sheila Rarffoff International Representative UAW Region No. 3 1928 Linccdnway East Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference Employees Working During die Shutdown Period
Dear Ms. RadlofE
During die 1996 MTTR-ESP Negotiations, die Parties discussed die issue of employees working during the vacation shutdown and an understanding was reached on the following issues:
1)	If it is determined employees are needed to work during a vacation shutdown period, volunteers will be asked and will be offered work for the ante they are scheduled. If no work is available for the tune they were scheduled, such employees win be entitled to short work week benefits or leveling week benefits for the duration of the scheduled work penod, in accordance with the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit Plan.
2)	The Company will nut protest the filing of unemployment compensation benefit claims for employees who are not working during the vacation shutdown period as practiced in the past, however, such employees will not be eligible for Supplemental Unwiployment Benefits.
Sincerely*
AM General Corporation
J. A. Armour President
JAA/lgk
cc: J. Bryant
A. Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J.	Varga
Confirmed: _____________________________________________
S,	Radfofif International Representative, Region 3
59
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996	\
Ms. Sheila Radtoff	’v.
International Representative	ft
UAW Region No. 3	X, #
1928 Lincolnway East	*
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference Additional Holidays and Changed Holidays
Dear Ms. Radtoff:
During the 1996 MTTR-ESP Plant Negotiations,'the Parties agreed that additional holidays could be mutually agreed to during die term of the Agreement and could be financed with COLA diversions. The total number of holidays cannot exceed those in the Mishawaka-SPLO Agreement. There can be a year to year evaluation of this matter. Either Party must give the other Party at least one hundred and eighty (180) days notice prior to any desired additional holiday so as to allow ample time for discussions and planning.
With mutual agreement the parties may change toe date on which a holiday is to be celebrated The party desiring the change must give at least one hundred and eighty (180) days notice prior to the earlier of the normal date of the holiday or the desired re-scheduled date.
Sincerely, AM Genera) Corporation J. A. Armour-
President
JAA/kjk
cc: J. Bryant
A. Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J. Varga
Confirmed;______________________________________________
S. Radtoff International Representative, Region 3
60
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,19%
Ms. Sheila Radioff
International Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincoln way East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: Joint Health Care Committee
Dear Ms. Radioff
The Joint Health Care Committee will continue to jointly develop and manage an effective AM General health care system that serves fee best interests of fee Company and employees represented by UAW Local No. 5 (AM General Unit).
Efforts to accomplish fee goals of maintaining present levels of health care coverage, while eliminating waste in fee system and establishing an effective Wellness Program to improve fee health of our enfelcyees will be ongoing.
In line wife this approach, fee Joint Committee wife fee approval of fee International Union may, during fee term of fee Agreement, make changes to fee Plan feat are agreed would improve fee effectiveness of fee Health Care Plans.
Sincerely,
AM General Corporation J, A Armour
President
JAA/kjk
cc: J. Bryant
A Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J, Varga
Confirmed:_____________________________________________
S. Radioff International Representative, Region 3
61
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May B. 1996
Ms. Sheila Radloff
International Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincoln way East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: 40 l(k) Committee
DearMs. RadlofE
During the 1996 MTTR-ESP Plant Negotiations, the Parties agreed that a joint 401 (k) Committee would be formed at the Mi Ik-ESP Plant to educate, advise and assist employees in realizing the advantage of 401 (k) plans.
Two (2) full time Representatives from the Bargaining Committee of the Local 5 AM General Unit will join witf> Management on this committee.
Sincerely,
AM General Corporation
J. A. Armour President
JAAAjk
cc:	J. Bryant
A Fritz*
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J.	Varga
Confirmed:____________________________________________
S.	Radloff International Representative, Region 3
62
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May]?, 1996
Ms. Sheila Runoff
International Representative
UAW Region No 3
1928 Lincolnway East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: Paycheck Stubs/Severance Statements
Deal Ms. RadlofE
Paychecks will be enclosed in envelopes to insure confidentiality-
Annual Severance Statements issued to employees will be made available to the employees by the second (2nd) week ofMarch.
Sincerely, AM Gmeral Corporation 1 A. Armour
President
JAA/kjk
cc:	J. Bryant
A. Fritz
C. Kaser
D, Taber
J. Varga
Confirmed: _____________________________________________
S.	RadlofE International Representative, Region 3
63
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms. Sheila Radioff
International Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincolnway East
Mishawaka, IN 46)44
Reference: DragfAlcohol Free Workplace Program
Deas Ms. Radioff
In an effort to achieve the objective of establishing. and. maintaining a safe and productive work environment and a dntg/alcobol See workplace, the Company has developed a drug/alcobol testing program with the intent of hiring, recalling, or retaining only those people who do not use illegal drugs or other controlled substances unless properly prescribed for them by their physician. The drug/alcdhol testily program will be monitored by a joint Company/Union Committee to identify and address potential abuses and to develop procedural guidelines.
For the purpose of this program, the following definitions apply:
1)	“Illegal Drugs" arc all drugs foat are not legally obtainable; for example, marijuana, hashish, heroin, cocaine, crystal, PCP, LSD, designer drugs, and others.
2)	“Controlled Substances” are narcotics, the legal use of which requires a doctor’s prescription, such as Demerol, Codeine, and otters; such as barbiturates, tranquilizers such as Valium, Librium, and others, including stimulants and amphetamines.
3)	“Alcohol Abuse” is reporting to work under the influence of alcohol or the consumption of alcohol during the working hours which results in the impairment of performance or behavior.
The testing program will apply to the following individuals;
1)	All new hires and rehires will be tested as part of the Company’s pre-emplqymem review requironents.
2)	Recalled employees who have been laid-off for more than six (6) months.
3)	Individuals who demonstrate performance, attitude, or behavior problems indicative of drug/alcobol abuse and w ho appear to be in an unfit condition. This will constitute a “test for cause."
Testing of recalled employees:
1)	Recalled employees laid-cfffor more than six (6) months will be subject to the drug/aloobol testing procedure prior to returning to work from recall. A recalled employee testing positive
64
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
will not be considered for employment during the thirty (30) day period following the porittve drug/alcchol test During that time, he may seek assistance through foe Ccmpany/Union . Employee Assistance Program. Those employees with remaining enthtarm to group insurance coverage will have treatment expenses covered in accordance with the group plan.
2)	Followingthe thirty (30)dayperiod,suchrecalledemployees willbetestedagain.
3)	Recalled employees who successfully complete foe drug/alcoho! test following the thirty (30) day period who do not seek assistance through the Campany/Unioa Employee Assistance Program Or foil to complete or continue foe program will be subject to no more than four (4) unscheduled dntgfaJcotol tests for a one (1) year period from foe date ofthe second (2nd) test following foe thirty (30) day period.
4)	Any employee who tests positive a second (2nd) time will be terminated.
5)	Recalled employees who refuse to take a dnig/alcohd test or test positive a second (2nd) time will be terminated.
6)	Employees required by this tetter to take a drug/alcohol test and refuse or do not take it within the prescribed time limits, will be terminated.
Testing for cause:
1)	An employee who reports to work under foe influence of alcohol ordrugs or who appears to be in an unfit condition during working hours will be subject to testing based on observed behavior or performance.
2)	Where possible, Managonent will consult with the appropriate Union Representative or Steward.
3)	EisiprCyw* mkrt vffhe? tn te tftRctfitl will be tenniinted.
4)	Employees who test positive will be subject to discipline up to and including discharge. Referrals may be made to the EAP.
General testing guidelines;
1) New hires, rehires, recalls, and employees will be informed of foe requiremnis for a medical examination that includes a drugfafcohol test examination. Such individuals win sign an Autfiorijation and Release form granting foe Company consent to collect urine, blood, or hair sample to detect the presence of illc^l dnigs/alcohol and/or controlled substances.
65
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
Refusal to sign the Authorization and Release form will result in withdrawal of employment consideration.
.	2) New hires and rehires shall be randomly tested up to four (4) tunes during the first twelve (12) mouths of active employment.
3)	All individuals required to submit to a drug test and filling out an Authorization and Release form will list any medications and prescriptions taken within the last thirty (30) days on that form.
4)	The drugialcotol test will be done within twenty-four (24) hours of receipt of recall notice, or the same day as notified of a random test
5)	The medical facility will report positive test results of recalled employees-to Employee Relations who wifi personally discuss the lab tests with the individual and his Union Committee Representative
6)	Test results wifi be handled as private and confidential information and will not be communicated outside the Company, except as required by contract or law.
7)	All drugfaloohol tests will be performed by a NIDA certified testing facility.
8)	As testing technology changes, the Company may implement changed testing methods.
Nothing in this procedure constitutes any waiver of Management’s responsibility to maintain discipline or the right to invoke disciplinary action in the case of violations of the Company Rules of Conduct which may result fttm or be associated with the use of drugs or alcohol abuse. However, the Union may exercise its right to process grievances concerning such matters in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement
Sincerely,
AM Geieral Corporation
J. A. Armour
President
JAAAgk
cc:	J, Bryant
A. Eritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J.	Varga
Confirmed:______________________________________________
S.	Radlofi, International Representative, Region 3
66
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms. Sheila RadtafT
International Representative
UAW Region No 3
1928 Lincolnway East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: Modified Work Program
Dear Ms Radlofi:
During the 1996 MTTR-ESP Plant Negotiations, the Parties agreed that they wfll mutually endeavor to establish a Modified Work Program for those employees who have temporary medical work restrictions as a result of a worker’s compensation injury.
Sincerely, AM General Corporation J. A. Armour
President
JAA/kjk
cc: J. Bryant
A, Fritz
C Kaser
D. Taber
J, Varga
S RadlofL International Representative, Region 3

67
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,19%
Ms. Sheila Radio?
International Representative -
UAW Region No. 3 1928 Lincotnway East Mishawaka. IN 46544
Reference: Ergonomics Program
Dear Ms. Radio?
During the 19% Negotiations, the Union raised the need for a comprehensive ergonomics program. In the interest of this issue, members of the Company and the Union attended a presentation by the UAW International on die development of a joint ergonomics program. Consistent with this approach, the parties have agreed to establish a jointly developed ergonomics program. Initially, the Company and Union Bargaining Committees will interview and select external resources to support die design of such an effort. We have agreed that die members of die Bargaining Committees and others as agreed upon, including medical personnel, production, engineering, and skilled trades, will participate in an initial education and training program.
Within ninety days, the parties will select a pilot project and consider outside support from such organizations as the University of Michigan's School of Public Health and the UAW International’s Health and Safety Department, The parties 'will develop resources and provide education and oversight support through the joint health and safety committee and will monitor the outcomes and . results of die project It will be die intent of this pilot project to serve as a model to apply ergonomic principles to the work environment that can lead to reduced injuries, improved quality and greater ■ productivity. This will be accomplished by identifying and evaluating troubled jobs, analyzing job	.
injury activity through medical and worker compensation records and creating an emphasis on	I
training and education.
68
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
Our objective for this program is to protect the safety and health of our employees to the greatest extent possible and provide for an effective and efficient operation of die Company.
Sincerely, AM General Corporation J. A. Armour
President
JAA/lgk
cc: J. Bryant
A. Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
I Varga
Confirmed:____________________________________________
S. Radio® International Representative, Region 3
69
I
I
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms. Sheila Radloff
International Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincoinway East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: Unauthorized Driving of Fork Lifts
Dear Ms Radloff
Only authorized, trained, and licensed hourly employees will be allowed to drive or deliver material to its proper location. In addition, regardless of classification, no one is authorized to drive forklifts for personal transportation. Personal injury may result and the Company is exposed to monetary liability through the State Worker’s Compensation Law as well as possible negligence claims. This letter will serve as written notice. Arty infractions will be subject to die disciplinary procedure.
Sincerely,
AM General Corporation J. A. Armour President
JAA/kjk
cc:	J. Bryant
A Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J.	Varga
Confirmed:____________________________________________
S Radlof£ International Representative, Region 3
70
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms. Sheila Radioff
Intonations! Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincolnway East
Mishawaka, IN 46S44
Reference Scheduling Therapy
Dear Ms Radloffi
During the 1996 Negotiations, the parties discussed the inconvenience and disruption of an employee’s work schedule caused by doctor’s appointments and/or therapy sessions due to a work related illness or injury. It was agreed that employees who are required to seek treatment or therapy for a work related illness or injury outside of their scheduled shift of wort will be compensated for one (l)hour at their straight time rate of pay tor each appointment up to twelve (12) visits per ityuty.
It is further understood that it is the sole responsibility of the employee to schedule their treatment or therapy and in no case will the Company or any of its contracted agents or salaried personnel have any involvement whatsoever with foe scheduling of that treatment
If in die event the Company can show just cause to contact the nurse ot doctor concerning an employee's illness or injury, they first must notify foe respective committeeperson in advance.
Sincerely,
AM General Corporation J. A. Armour President
JAA/kjk
cc: J. Bryant
A. Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J.	Varga
Confirmed: _____________________________________________
S.	Radioff; International Representative, Region 3
71
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13.1996
Ms. Sheila Radloff
International Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincotoway East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference Parking Lot Security
Dear Ms. Radloffi
During the 1996 Contract Negotiations, the Union expressed concern for personal vehicle protection while parked in the Company lots. It is understood'that damage to employee vehicles while on Company property is not a liability of the Company. However, in an effort to improve protection of employee vehicles, security personnel win patrol subject parking lots on an appropriate basts when vehicles are present
Sincerely, AM General Coiporaiion J. A Armour
President
JAAlq’k
cc:	J. Biyant
A Fritz C. Kaser D. Taber I Varga
Confirmed: _______________________________________________
S. Radlofi, International Representative, Region 3
72
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms. Sheila Radloff
International Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincolnwsy East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: Outsourcing
Dear Ms. RadlofE
This will confirm our understandings reached during our 1996 MTTR-ESP Plant negotiations regarding outsourcing. As a general proposition, it is the Company’s intention to minimize outsourcing. When outsourcing is justified on a best value basis, fee Company will provide fee Union as much advance notice as is practical under fee circumstances of contemplated decisions to outsource work fest members of fee bargaining unit have performed. In addition, fee Company will provide the Union wife fee justification for the proposed outsourcing, and provide fee Union wife an opportunity to demonstrate feat members of the bargaining unit can perform foe work in question in such a fashion as to be competitive with the best value justification for the proposed outsourcing.
In those situations where special circumstances, such as inability to meet production requirements because of machine failure, or when full utilization of machinery and employees is insufficient to meet production requirements, the Company will notify the Union of any outsourcing promptly and will work wife the Union to develop a plan for reducing or eliminating the outsourcing, including, but not limited to, devising a plan for returning outsourced work to fee bargaining unit when foe special circumstances have ceased to exist
Sincerely, AM General Corporation J. A. Armour
President
JAA/Igk
cc: J, Bryant
A. Fritz
C Kaser
D. Taber
J. Varga
Confirmed: _
S. Radkri^ International Representative, Region 3
73
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms Sheila Radloff
International Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincoln way East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference Matching Hours of Contracted Skilled Trades Services
Dear Ms. Radios
During the 1996 MTTR-ESP Negotiations, the issue of contracting Skilled Trades services was discussed. It has been agreed that we will offer matching overtime for unscheduled work routinely performed by MTTR-ESP Skilled Trades personnel which, due to extenuating circumstances, could not have been performed by MTTR-ESP tradesmen. Such overtime will be offered on an hour for hour basis to equivalent qualified MTTR-ESP tradesmen.
However, emergency situations will arise which require services not routinely performed by MTTR-ESP Skilled Tradesmen. Overtime will not be offered to MI 1K-ESP Skilled Tradesmen for these infrequent occurrences.
Sincerely,
AM General Corporation J. A. Armour President
JAA/kjk
cc:	J. Bryant
A. Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J.	Varga
Confirmed: .__________________________________________
S.	Radloff International Representative, Region 3
14
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
May 13,1996
Ms. Sheila Radloff
Ihtsnational Representative
UAW Regton No 3
1928 Lincolnway East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: MTTR-ESP Performance Bonus
Dear Ms. Radloff
During fee 1996 MTTR-ESP Negotiations, fee subject of Performance Bonus was discussed. As was expressed. Management is strongly committed to providing additional earnings opportunities to employees through this concept
The Performance Bonus, in place at fee HUMMER-SPLO and ESP facilities, will remain in place with a joint LaborZManagement Committee establishing the goals and measuring performance against them to assure maximum pay-out opportunity for our employees. These goals may change subject to the governance of the joint committee.
Sincerely, AM General Corporation J. A, Armour
President
JAA/sjc
cc: J. Bryant
A. Fritz C. Kases D. Taber
J. Varga
Confirmed:
S. Radloff Intemationai Representative, Region 3
75
1
I
AM GENERAL CORPORATION
'	May 13, 1996
I Ms. Sheik Radioff
International Representative
UAW Region No. 3
1928 Lincoln way East
Mishawaka, IN 46544
Reference: MTTR-ESP Stability Bonus
Dear Ms. Radioff:
During the 1996 MTTR-ESP Negotiations, the subject of Stability Bonus was discussed.
The parties agree to adopt such a bonus when the MTTR program is staffed. It is advocated that a bonus be offered to personnel who remain in their position for an extended period (e.g. 2 years) and that said bonus be considerably less than the benefit of being upgraded to Advanced, Utility or Labor Pool increased remuneration.
Sincerely,
AM General Corporation
J. A. Armour President
JAA/sjc
cc:	I. Bryant
A Fritz
C.	Kaser
D.	Taber
J. Varga
Confirmed:_____________________________________________
S. Radioff Internationa] Representative, Region 3
76
EARLY RETIREMENT WINDOW OPTIONS
The following two (2) early retirement window options will be made available to eligible employees:
	(1) HttmffllWwOnt
Who b eligible’	Mist be age 58 or older on 1/V96 tnd eligible fix immediate retirement before 1/1/9®.
How many qualify?	93
Wtai te the benefit!	A choree between two options . « An unreduced immediate benefit phis two additional years of credited service. Example: Age 58 employee with 28 years win retire with 30 years at SI,600/ma. until age62 (28+2years x $30 supplemented two years eartytoJl.tS00) Aaerage62wta receive lifetime benefit of $900 per month (30 years x$30) Example: Age 61 employee with 15 years will retire with 17 years at $510/mo. (15 + 2 years x $30) - an additional lifetime benefit of $60 per mmfo. • An unreduced immediate benefit plus $500 additional benefit per month ratal aae 62. The additional $50Q/ino. benefit mH be available for a minimum of one (1) year even for those who rexh age 62 less than one (1) year from the date the bciefit starts. Example: Age 58 employee with 30 years will retire at $2,100/mo. tend age 62 (30 years x $30 supplemented to$l,600+$500permcnd>). After age 62 will receive $900 per month (30 years x $30). Example: Age 62 employee with 12 years will retire at $860fo» (12yearsx$30+ $500) Aftertwdve()2)months wiD receive a lifetime benefit of $360 per month, (12 years x $30)
When b sign up?	Must sign up between 6/1/96 and 11/3096.
When u retirement effective?	Must retire between 6/1/96 and 12/1/96.
77

WINDOW OPTIONS
EARLY REI
	fit Retirement Window Two
Who fa eligible?	Must be age 55 or older with 30 years of pension credit on or before 11/30/96 and not pan of Window One.
How marry qualify?	33
What is the benefit?	A choice between tw options. • An unreduced immecfiate benefit plus two additional years of credited senate Example: Age 56 employee with 30 years wall retire with 32 years at $I,600/mo. until age 62 (30t-2 years x $30 supplemented to $1,600). After age 62 will receive ttfetime benefit of i960 per month (32 years x $30). • An uireduced immediare boiefit plus an additkxial 1500/mo. until age 62. The additional $500tino. baiefit will be available for a minimum of one (1) year evert forthose who reach age 62 less than one (1) year from the date the benefit starts. Example: Age 56 employee with 30 years will retire at $2,100/mo. until age 62(30 years x $30 supplernsrted to $1,600 + $500) After age 62 will receive a lifetime benefit of $900/mo. (30 years x $30).
When is sign up?	Must sign up between 6/1/96 and 11/30/96.
When is retirement effective?	Must retire cn 12/1/96 only.
78
1996
(Holidays are underlined)
January S	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	1£	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
26	29	30	31
February 8	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	B	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	18	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	23	29
March 8	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	IB	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31
April 8	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2	3	4	£	6
7	£	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30
May S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	15
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	2Z	28	29	30	31
June S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	28	27	28	29
30 79
July S	M	T	W	T
12	3£
7	8	9	10	11
14	15	16	17	18
21	22	23	24	25
28	29	30	31
F 8 5	6
12 13 19 20 26 27
8
4
11 IB 25
S 1 8 15 22 29
August M	T	W	T	F
1	2
5	6	7	8	9
12	13	14	15	16
19	20	21	22	23
26	27	28	29	30
S 3 10 17 24 31
September
M	T	W	T	F	8
2	3	4	5	8	7
9	10	11	12	13	14
16	17	18	19	20	21
23	24	25	28	27	28
30
October 8	M	T	W	T	F	3
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	18	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
November 8	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2
3	4	5	6	7	6	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	££	2ft	30
December 8	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2	3	4	5	8	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	21	26	27	28
29	30	U
1997
(Holidays are Underlined)
	January	July
8 M T	W T F s	SMTWTFS
5	6	7	12 3 4 8 9 10 11	1	2	3	4	5 6	7	8	9	10 11	12
12 13 14	15 16 17 18	13 14 15 16 17 18 19
19 22 21	22 23 24 25	20 21 22 23 24 25 26
26 27 28 S M T	29 30 31 February W T F S	27 28 29 30 31 August SMTWTFS
2	3	4	1 5	6	7	8	1	2 3	4	5	6	7	8	9
9	10 11	12 13 14 15	10 11 12 13 14 15 16
16 17 18	19 20 21 22	17 18 19 20 21 22 23
23 24 25	26 27 28	24 25 26 27 28 29 30
S M T	March W T F S	31 September SMTWTFS
2	3	4	1 5	6	7	8	1	2	3	4	5	8 7	8	9	10	11	12	13
9	10 11	12 13 14 15	14 15 16 17 18 19 20
16 17 18	19 20 21 22	21 22 23 24 25 26 27
23 24 25 30 31 S M T	26	27 21 29 April W	T	F	S	28 29 30 October SMTWTFS
1 6	7	8	2	3	4	5 9	10 11	12	12	3	4 5	6	7	8	9	10 11
13 14 15	16 17 18 19	12	13	14	15 16 17 18
20 21 22	23 24 25 26	19 20 21 22 23 24 25
27 28 29 S M T	30 May W T F S	26 27 28 29 30 31 November SMTWTFS
4	5	6	1	2	3 7	8	9 10	1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8
11	12 13	14 15 18 17	9	10 11	12	13	14 15
18 19 20	21 22 23 24	16 17 18 19 20 21 22
25 g6 27	28 29 30 31	23 24 25 26 2Z	29
30 June	December
SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS
1234567	123456
8	9	10	11	12	13	14	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
29 30	28 29 30 &
80
1999
(Holiday* art Underlined)
January
3	M	T	W	T	F	8
12 3
4	5	B	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	U	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	2#	30	31
February
5	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
March
S	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31
July S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4
$	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	IB
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
28	27	28	29	30	31
August
S	M	T	W	T	F	8
1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30 31
September
S	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	6	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30
April
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	IQ	11
12	H	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30
May
8	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	2g	26	27	28	29	30
31
Jun*
S	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30
8t
October S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
November 8	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	26
29 30
December 8	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	&	26
27	28	29	30	11
1999
(Holidays are Underlined}
	January	July
s	M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
	1	2	12	3
3	4	5	8	7	8	9	1	5	6	7	8	9	10
10	11	12 13	14	15 16	11 12 13 14 15 16 17
17	18 19 20 21 22 23	18 19 20 21 22 23 24
24	25 26 27 28 29 30	25 26 27 28 29 30 31
31		
	February	August
S	M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
	1	2	3	4	5	8	1	2	3	4	5	6	7
7	8	9	10 11 12 13	8	9	10 It 12 13 14
14	15 16 17 18 19 20	15 16 17' 18 19 20 21
21	22 23 24 25 26 27	22 23 24 25 26 27 28
28		29 30 31
	March	September
S	M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
	1	2	3	4	5	6	12	3	4
7	8	9	10 11	12 13	5	£	7	8	9	10 11
14	IS 16 17 18 19 20	12 13 14 15 16 17 18
21	22 23 24 25 26 27	19 20 21 22 23 24 25
28	29 30 31	26 27 28 29 30
	April	October
S	M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
	1 I 3	1	2
4	J 6	7	8	9	10	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
11	12 13 14 15 16 17	10 11 12 13 14 15 16
18	19 20 21 22 23 24	17 18	19 20 21	22 23
25	26 27 28 29 30	24 25 26 27 28 29 30
		31
	May	November
S	M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
	1	1	2	3	4	5	6
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	7	8	9	10 11	12 13
9	10 11 12 13 14 15	14 15 16 17 18 19 20
18	17 18 19 20 21 22	21 22 23 24 26 2£ 27	।
23	24 25 26 27 28 29	28 29 30
30	31	
	June	December
S	M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
	1	2	3	4	5	12	3	4
8	7	8	9	10 11	12	5	6	7	8	9	10 11
13	14 15 18 17 18 19	12 13 14 15 16 17 18
20	21	22 23 24 25 26	19 20 21 22 23 24 25
27	28 29 30	26 27 28 29 30 £1
32
2000
(Holidays are Underlined)
January
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	JI	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31
February S	M	T	W	T	F	5
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	16	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	26	29
March $	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31
July S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1
2	3	$	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	20	27	28	29
30 31
Auguat $	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
September
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2
3	4	5	6	7	6	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	28	27	28	29	30

April
S	M	T	W	T	F	8
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	JI	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
May
8	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	a	30	31
June
8	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30
October
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29	30	31
November
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4
S	5	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	a	21	25
26	27	28	29	30
December
S	M	T	W	T	F	8
1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
83
2001
(Holidays are Underlined}
s	M 1	January			F 5	S 5	S 1	M 2	July	F 6	S 7
		T 2	W 3	T 4					T W T		
									3	4	5		
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	8	9	10 ii 12	13	14
14	15	16	17	18	19	20	15	18	17 18	19	20	21
21 2B	22 29	23 24 25 30 31 February			26	27	22 29	23 30	24 25 25 31 August	27	28
S	M	T	W	T 1	F 2	S 3	S	M	T W T 1	2	F 3	S 4
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	12	13	14 15 16	17	18
18 25	19 26	20 27	21 28 March	22	23	24	19 26	20 27	21 22 23 28 29 30 September	24 31	25
S	M	T	W	T 1	F 2	S 3	S	M	T W T	F	S 1
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	2	3	4	5	6	7	6
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	9	10	11 12 13	14	15
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	16	17	18 19	20	21	22
25	28	27	28 April	29	30	31	23 30	24	25 26 27 October	28	29
S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	T W T	F	S
1	2	3	4	5	6	7		1	2	3	4	5	6
8	9	10	11	12	11	14	7	8	9	10 11	12	13
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	14	15	16 17 18	19	20
22 29	23 30	24	25 May	26	27	28	21 28	22 29	23 24 25 30 31 November	26	27
S	M	T 1	W 2	T 3	F 4	5 5	S	M	T W T 1	F 2	8	I 3
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
13	14	15	15	17	18	19	11	12	13 14 15	16	17
20 27	21 21	22 29	23 30 June	24 31	25	26	18 25	19 25	20 21 22 27 28 29 December	22 30	24
S	M	T	W	T	F 1	S 2	S	M	T W T	F	S 1
3	4	5	6	7	5	9	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	9	10	11 12 13	14	15
17	18	19	20	21	22	23	15	17	18 19	20	21	22
24	25	28	27	28	29	30	23	24	26 26 27	28	29
30 11
84
2002
(Holidays are Underlined)
January
SMTWTFS 1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	31	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
February SMTWTFS 1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28
March
SMTWTFS 1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	28	29	30
31
April SMTWTFS 1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	IS	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30
May
S	M	T	W	T	F	S
12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	2Z	28	29	30	31
June
SMTWTFS 1 2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30 85
July SMTWTFS 1	2	3	15	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	1$	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31
August SMTWTFS 1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31
September SMTWTFS 1	J	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	2?	28
29 30
October SMTWTFS 1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
November SMTWTFS 1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	21	&	30
December SMTWTFS 1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	a	25	26	27	28
29	30	31
2003 (Holtdays are Underlined)
January	July
SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS
12	3	4	12	3j5
5	6	7	8	9	10 11	6	7	8	9	10 11 12
12	13 14	15 16 17 18	13	14 15	16	17 IB 19
19 20 21	22 23 24 25	20 21 22 23 24 25 26
26 27 28 29 30 31	27 28 29 30 31
February	August
SMTWTFS	S M T W T F S
1	1	2
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
9	10 11 12 13 14 15	10 11	12 13	14	15 18
16 17 18 19 20 21 22	17 18 19 20 21	22 23
23 24 25 26 27 28	24 25 26 27 28 29 30
	31
March	September
SMTWTFS	S M T W T F S
1	1	2	3	4	5	6
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	7	8	9	10 11	12 13
9	10 11 12 13 14 15	14 15 16 17 18 19 20
16 17 18 19 20 21 22	21 22 23 24 25 26 27
23 24 25 26 27 28 29	28 29 30
30 31	
April	October
SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS
1	2	3	4	5	12	3	4
6	7	8	9	10	11	12	5	6	7	8	9	10 11
13 14 15 16 17 18 19	12 13 14 15 16 17 IB
20 21 22 23 24 25 28	19 20 21 22 23 24 25
27 28 29 30	26 27 28 29 30 31
May	November
SMTWTFS	S M T W T F S
12	3	1
4	5	6	7	8	9 10	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
11	12 13 14 15 16 17	9	10	11	12 13	14 15
18 19 20 21 22 23 24	16 17 18 19 20 21 22
25 H 27 28 29 30 31	23 24 25 26 21 £B 29
	30
June	December
SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	1	2	3	4	5	8
8	9	10 11	12 13 14	7	8	9	10 11 12 13
15	16 17	18	19 20 21	14 15	15	17 18	19 20
22 23 24 25 26 27 28	21 22 23 24 IS 26 27
29 30	28 29 30 31
86
2004 (Holidaye are Underlined)
January	July
SMTWTFS	SMTWTFS
12	3	12	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	1	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
18	19	20	21	22	23	24	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30	31	25	26	27	28	29	30	31
		February							Auguct				
S	M	T	W	T	F	8	8	M	T	W	T	F	$
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	1	2	3	4	5	6	7
a	9	10	11	12	13	14	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29							29	30	31				
			March						September				
S	M	T	W	T	F	S	S	M	7	W	T	F	S
	1	2	3	4	5	6				1	2	3	4
7	8	9	10	11	12	13	5	i	7	B	9	10	11
14	15	16	17	15	19	20	12	13	14	15	16	17	16
21	22	23	24	25	26	27	19	20	21	22	23	24	25
28	29	30	31				26	27	28	29	30		
			April						October				
8	M	T	W	T	F	8	S	M	T	W	T	F	S
				1	2	3						1	2
4	5	6	7	8	1	10	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
11	12	13	14	15	16	17	10	11	12	13	14	15	16
18	10	20	21	22	23	24	17	18	19	20	21	22	23
25	26	27	28	29	30		24	25	26	27	28	29	30
			May				3 *		November				
S	M	T	W	T	F	$	s	M	T	W	T	F	S
						1		1	2	3	4	5	6
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
9	10	11	12	13	14	15	14	15	16	17	18	19	20
16	17	18	19	20	21	22	21	22	23	24	25	as	27
23	24	25	28	27	28	29	28	29	30				
30	M												
			June						December				
S	M	T	W	T	F	$	S	M	T	W	T	F	8
		1	2	3	4	5				1	2	3	4
8	7	8	9	10	11	12	5	6	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	18	19	12	13	14	15	16	17	18
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	19	20	21	22	23	2S	as
27	28	29	30				28	27	28	29	30	H	
87
2005
(Holidays are Underlined!
	January	July
S M	T W T F 5	3 M T W T F 8
	1	1	2
2	3	4	5	6	7	8	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
8	10	11	12 13 14	15	10 11 12 13 14 15 16
ia n	18 19 20 21 22	17 18 19 20 21 22 23
23 24	25 26 27 28 29	24 25 26 27	28 29 30
30 31		31
	February	August
S M	T W T F 8	S M T W T F S
	1	2	3	4	5	1	2	3	4	5	6
6	7	6	9	10 11 12	7	8	9	10	11	12	13
13 14	15 16 17	18 19	14 15 16 17 16 19 20
20 21	22 23 24 25 26	21 22 23 24 25 26 27
27 28		28 29 30 31
	March	September
S M	T W T F S	S M T W T F S
	1	2	3	4	5	1	2	3
6	7	8	9	10 11	12	4	5	8	7	8	9	10
13 14	15	16 17	18	19	It 12 13 14 15 16 17
20 21	22 23 24 25 26	18	19 20 21	22 23 24
27 28	29 30 31	25 26 27 28 29 30
	April	October
S M	T W T F S	S M T W T F S
	1	2	1
3	4	S 6	7	8	9	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
10 11	12 13 14 15 16	9	10 11 t2 13 14 15
17 16	19 20 21	22 23	16 17 18 19 20 21 22
24 25	26 27 28 29 30	23 24 25 26 27 28 29
		30 31
	May	November
S M	T W T F S	S M T W T F S
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	1	2	3	4	5
8	9	10 11	12 13 14	6	7	8	9	10 11 12
15	16	17 18	19 20 21	13 14 15 16 17 18 19
22 23	24 25 26 27 28	20 21 22 23 £4 2j 28
29 32	31	27 28 29 30 31
	June	December
8 M	T W T F S	S M T W T F S
	12	3	4	1	2	3
S 6	7 B 9	10 11	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
12 13	14 15 16 17 18	11 12 13 14 15 16 17
19 20	21 22 23 24 25	18 19 20 21	22 23 24
26 27	28 29 30	25 26 27 28 29 30 21
S«
NOTES
t9
I
I
I	■
I
NOTES
90
FORMH0MB M wvz»-:—:. — .. —
FROM	-
AM General Corporation
105 North Niles Avenue • Post Office Box 7025 South Bend, Indiana 46634-7025
i — ii	~"~j
TO Ils. Fehmida Fleemi U. S. Department of Labor 2 Massachusetts Avenue N. E., Room 4175 Washington, DC 20212