AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
SESSER-VALIER COMMUNITY UNIT SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 196
AND
THE LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA,
THE SOUTHERN AND CENTRAL ILLINOIS LABORERS' DISTRICT COUNCIL AND LABORERS’ LOCAL UNION 773
2015-2016
2016-2017
2017-2018
INDEX
Page
ARTICLE I	- RECOGNITION
A.	Preamble	1
B.	Recognition	1
C.	Gender Clause	1
ARTICLE II	- UNION RIGHTS
A.	Dues Deduction	2
B.	Union Officials	2
C.	Union Access	2
D.	Union Activity	2
E.	Leave Without Pay To Attend Union Meetings	2
F.	Union Use of School Facilities	3
G.	Fair Share	3
H.	Bulletin Boards	4
I.	Information	4
ARTICLE III	- SALARY AND BENEFITS
A.	Vacation	5
B.	Holidays	5
C.	IMRF	6
D.	Pay Period	6
E.	Insurance	7
i
Page
F.	Training	7
G.	Mileage	7
H.	Personnel File	7
I.	Right of Inspection	7
ARTICLE IV	- SENIORITY
A.	Seniority List - Support Staff	8
B.	Seniority List Exceptions - Support Staff	8
C.	Categories Of Positions - Support Staff	8
D.	Seniority Definition - Support Staff	8
E.	Seniority Breaks - Support Staff	9
F.	Seniority , Loss Of - Support Staff	9
G.	Seniority List Order - Support Staff	9
H.	Seniority Measure - Support Staff	9
I.	Seniority For Part-Time Employees - Support Staff	9
J.	Recall - Support Staff	10
K.	Vacancies - Defined	10
L.	Vacancies - Posting	10
M.	Probationary Period	10
ARTICLE V	- LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A.	Personal Leave	11
B.	Sick Leave	11
ii
Page
C.	Funeral Leave	11
D.	Leave of Absence Without Pay	11
E.	Jury Duty	12
ARTICLE VI	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	Grievance Definition	13
B.	Grievance Time Limits	13
C.	Grievance Procedure	13
1.	Step One	13
2.	Step Two	13
3.	Step Three	13
D.	Grievance Arbitration	14
E.	Grievance - Bypass	14
ARTICLE VII	- DISCIPLINE
A. Discipline & Discharge	15
ARTICLE VIII	- HOURS AND WORK
A.	Work Day (9 month employees)	16
B.	Work Schedules (9 month employees)	16
C.	Breaks and Lunch (9 month employees)	16
D.	Overtime (9 month employees)	16
E.	Extra-Curricular Activities (9 and 12 month employees)	17
iii
		Page
F.	Extra Duty Work (9 and 12 month employees)	17
G.	Work Week (12 month employees)	17
H.	Breaks and Lunch (12 month employees)	17
I.	Overtime (12 month employees)	17
J.	Substitute Head Cook	17
ARTICLE IX	- TERMS OF AGREEMENT	
A.	Savings	19
B.	Management Rights	19
C.	No Strike - No Lockout	20
D.	Term of Agreement	21
APPENDIX I		
A.	2015-2016 Salary Schedule	22
B.	2016-2017 Salary Schedule	23
C.	2017-2018 Salary Schedule	24
iv
ARTICLE I
PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT/RECOGNITION/GENDER CLAUSE
A.	Preamble
This Collective Bargaining Agreement is entered into by the Laborers’ International Union of North America, The Southern and Central Illinois Laborers’ District Council and Laborers’ Local Union 773, hereinafter referred to as the “Union” or “Local 773,” acting pursuant to the law as the exclusive bargaining agency for the employees covered by the Agreement, and the Board of Education of Sesser-Valier Community Unit School District No. 196, hereinafter referred to as the “Employer” or “District.”
B.	Recognition
The Board of Education of the Sesser-Valier Community Unit School District No. 196 recognizes the Laborers’ International Union of North America, hereinafter “Union,” as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for all regularly employed full-time and permanent part-time non-certified employees including the office manager and records custodian, elementary school office manager, secretaries, teacher aides, A.C.R./detention, head cook, cooks, janitors, nurse, and nurse's assistant, but excluding the secretary/bookkeeper/treasurer, the maintenance director and all supervisory, managerial, confidential, security, short-term and student employees as defined in the Act, all certified employees and all other employees who should be excluded as a matter of law.
C.	Gender Clause
The use of the masculine pronoun in this Agreement is understood to be for clerical convenience only, and it is further understood that the masculine pronoun includes the feminine pronoun as well.
-1-
ARTICLE II
UNION RIGHTS
A.	Dues Deduction
The Board shall deduct from the regular paycheck of each employee from whom it receives written authorization to do so, the required amount of Union dues. Within five (5) school days after the start of each school term, the Union shall furnish the Superintendent written authorization statements signed by employees from whom dues are to be deducted and the amount to be deducted. Dues shall be forwarded to the Union within ten (10) working days from the time of withholding.
B.	Union Officials
The Union shall provide written notice to the Employer within ten (10) working days following election or appointment of local Union representatives.
C.	Union Access
Union representatives shall have access to the premises of the Employer in order to help resolve a serious dispute or issue. In order to receive access, such representative must provide notice to the Employer and make necessary arrangements not to disrupt the work of employees. Permission must be given by the Employer prior to entering the work premises.
D.	Union Activity
The Union shall appoint a steward(s) who shall, in conjunction with the business manager, represent the exclusive bargaining representative on all matters involving the interpretation and enforcement of this agreement. Whenever possible, grievance and contract interpretation meetings shall be scheduled during non-work hours. The Employer shall not interfere with the Union’s representational rights when such meetings must be held during work hours. When the Employer requests such a meeting to be held during working hours, employees shall receive their regular pay.
E.	Leave Without Pay To Attend Union Meetings
Employees may request a leave of absence without pay to attend Union functions so long as the absence would not unreasonably interfere with the Employer’s operations. Such requests shall be made in writing at least ten (10)
-2-
working days prior to the requested leave of absence. No more than five (5) days of such leave per year District wide shall be approved.
F.	Union Use Of School Facilities
The Union, upon approval of the Superintendent, shall have the right to use school buildings for meetings at a time when school is not in session and provided that such meetings do not interfere with instructional and/or extracurricular programs. The Superintendent shall approve all meeting areas. Whenever special custodial service is required or other expenses incurred the Board may charge the Union a reasonable fee for these services.
G.	Fair Share
Each bargaining unit member, as a condition of his employment, on or before ninety (90) days from the commencement of duties or the effective date of this Agreement, whichever is later, shall join the Union or pay a fair share fee to the Union equivalent to the amount of dues uniformly required of members of the Union, including the local, state and national dues.
In the event that the bargaining unit member does not pay his fair share directly to the Union by a certain date as established by the Union, the Employer shall deduct the fair share fee from the wages of the nonmember. Such fee shall be paid to the Union by the Employer no later than ten (10) days following deduction.
In the event of any legal action against the Employer brought in a court or administrative agency because of its compliance with this Article, the Union agrees to defend such actions at its own expense and through its own counsel, provided:
1.	The Employer gives immediate notice of such action in writing to the Union, permits intervention as a party if it so desires; and
2.	The Employer gives full and complete cooperation to the Union and its counsel in securing and giving evidence, obtaining witnesses and making relevant information available at both trial and appellate levels.
The Union agrees that in any action so defended, it will indemnify and hold harmless the Employer from any liability for damages and costs imposed by a final judgment of a court or administrative agency as a direct consequence of the Employer’s compliance with this Article.
It is expressly understood that this save harmless provision will not apply to any claim, demand, suit or other form of liability which may arise as a result of any
-3-
type of willful misconduct by the Employer or the Employer’s imperfect execution of the obligations imposed upon it by this Article.
The obligation to pay a fair share fee will not apply to any employee who, on the basis of a bona fide religious tenet or teaching of a church or religious body of which such employee is a member objects to the payment of a fair share fee to the Union. Upon proper substantiation and collection of the entire fee, the Union will make payment on behalf of the employee to a mutually agreeable non religious charitable organization as per Union policy and the rules and regulators of the Illinois Educational Labor Relations Board.
H.	Bulletin Boards
The Employer shall make available space on bulletin boards for the posting of official Union notices of a nonpolitical, non-inflammatory nature.
I.	Information
The Union will be provided a copy of approved minutes of open session Board meetings. Such minutes shall be placed in the District mailbox of the Union steward within three (3) days of the approval of such minutes.
-4-
ARTICLE III
SALARY AND BENEFITS
A.	Vacation
Full-time, twelve (12) month per year employees shall be provided paid vacation by the Employer on the following schedule:
For employees hired after July 1, 2003:
After one (1) year of service:
After two (2) years of service:
After three (3) years of service:
After four (4) years of service:
After five (5) years of service:
After twelve (12) years of service:
After twenty (20) years of service:
For employees hired on or before July 1, 2003:
After one (1) year of service:
After five (5) years of service:
After twelve (12) years of service:
five (5) days of vacation six (6) days of vacation seven (7) days of vacation eight (8) days of vacation ten (10) days of vacation fifteen (15) days of vacation twenty (20) days of vacation
two (2) weeks of vacation three (3) weeks of vacation four (4) weeks of vacation
Vacation days must be requested (request shall be made to the Superintendent or the Building Principal) at least two (2) weeks in advance. No vacation shall be scheduled or taken without administrative approval in advance. The Employer shall encourage vacation scheduling in one (1) week increments and single day or two (2) day vacation day requests may be denied. If the Employer rejects a vacation request(s) because too many employees have requested vacation for a particular day(s), whenever possible, the Employer shall approve vacation for the more senior employee and reject the request of the less senior employee. No more than one custodian may take vacation time in any given week during the summer unless, at the sole and exclusive discretion of the Superintendent, an additional custodian’s vacation time is approved.
B.	Holidays
Full-time, twelve (12) month per year employees shall be provided paid holidays by the Employer on the following schedule:
July 4
Columbus Day
-5-
Thanksgiving Day
Day after Thanksgiving
Memorial Day
Labor Day
*Veteran’s Day
*Christmas Eve day
Christmas Day
*New Year’s Eve day
New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King Day
Casimir Pulaski’s Birthday
President’s Day
Good Friday
(* will be included as holidays when they fall on Monday through Friday)
An employee not required to work on a holiday shall receive his straight time earnings for the holiday. Holiday pay will count for the purposes of computing overtime.
If an employee is required to work on a holiday, the employee shall receive one and a half (1 %) times regular rate for a minimum of two (2) hours. Call in on a holiday shall be paid for a minimum of one (1) hour.
If a holiday falls on a Saturday or a Sunday, and the School Board determines to celebrate the holiday, the holiday shall be celebrated as the School Board shall determine. If school is held (students are scheduled to be in attendance) on a particular holiday provided for in the list above (the holiday is not celebrated or is waived) then the employees shall be required to work and shall not receive holiday pay.
C.	IMRF
The Board shall make IMRF contributions as may be required by law.
D.	Pay Period
Pay days shall be every two weeks. On or before July 7 each year, nine (9) month employees may elect to receive their pay over nine (9) or twelve (12) months. Twelve (12) month employees shall receive their pay over twelve (12) months.
In the event that district policy provides for 24 pay dates, members of this bargaining unit shall be paid on a schedule conforming to the district’s pay date
-6-
schedule (reducing the number of pay dates from 26 to 24) beginning whenever such pay date schedule goes into effect.
E.	Insurance
The Board shall pay Four Hundred and 00/100 Dollars ($400.00) per month toward the health and life insurance premium of each full-time employee during the term of this Agreement. A full-time employee for purposes of this clause shall be defined as one who is a member of the bargaining unit, and is assigned to work more than six hundred (600) hours in a straight-time regular work year and who works more than four (4) hours in a regular, straight-time work day.
F.	Training
If an employee is required by the Employer to attend a meeting or training session, the employee shall be paid his hourly rate while attending such meeting or training.
G.	Mileage
An employee shall be reimbursed at the rate of Thirty-Two Cents ($.32) per mile for mileage accumulated at the direction of the Employer in the conduct of District business.
H.	Personnel File
An official personnel file for each employee shall be maintained by the Employer at a central location. Each employee shall provide the Employer with his current telephone number and address.
I.	Right of Inspection
Employees shall have the right to review the contents of their official personnel files as provided in the Illinois Personnel Record Review Act, 820 ILCS 40/0.01, et seq.
-7-
ARTICLE IV
SENIORITY
A.	Seniority List - Support Staff
On or before February 1 of each year, in consultation with the Union, the Board shall develop a support staff seniority list. The list shall be categorized pursuant to the categories of positions set forth in Article IV, Section C, Categories of Positions - Support Staff. Each employee shall appear on each seniority list for each position to which the employee is currently assigned.
B.	Seniority List Exceptions - Support Staff
The Union shall have thirty (30) days from February 1 of each year to file exceptions to the seniority list. Exceptions shall be filed with the Superintendent of Schools.
C.	Categories Of Positions - Support Staff
For purposes of determining seniority among the support staff in the bargaining unit the following categories of positions shall exist within the meaning of School Code Section 10-23.5:
1.	Kitchen Personnel
2.	Custodian
3.	Certified teacher aide
4.	Non certified aide
5.	Secretary
6.	Nurse
7.	Nurse assistant
8.	ACR/detention
D.	Seniority Definition - Support Staff
Seniority shall be defined as the length of continuous service measured from the first day of employment in Sesser-Valier Community Unit School District No. 196. All seniority computations shall be calculated on the basis of total continuous service within each classification.
-8-
E.	Seniority Breaks - Support Staff
Seniority shall not accrue during any unpaid absence. Seniority shall accrue during any paid absence, including an absence paid by worker compensation.
F.	Seniority, Loss Of - Support Staff
All seniority shall be lost upon resignation, retirement, dismissal for cause or upon layoff when recall rights expire.
G.	Seniority List Order - Support Staff
The seniority list developed pursuant to the above shall list the employee with the greatest seniority in each category of position first, followed by the other employees in each category of position in order of seniority.
H.	Seniority Measure - Support Staff
For purposes of start of service, end of service or breaks in service, seniority shall be measured in terms of days of service; and in no case shall seniority be measured in terms of a unit of time smaller than a day. Overtime shall not be recognized for purposes of seniority computations. Fractions of years shall be measured by use of a denominator equal to the number of days in the routine regular work year for the particular category of position:
1.	Kitchen personnel	174
2.	Custodian	260
3.	Certified teacher aide	174
4.	Noncertified aide	174
5.	Driver	174
6.	Secretary	190
7.	Nurse	184
8.	Nurse Assistant	108
9.	ACR/detention	174
I.	Seniority For Part-Time Employees - Support Staff
Regularly employed part-time employees shall accrue fractional seniority. To calculate such seniority, the employee's routine regular work week, exclusive of overtime, shall be divided by the routine work week for that category of employee, and the resulting fractional seniority shall be credited. Routine regular work week shall mean the employee's mean work week July 1 to June 30, exclusive of overtime. Examples:
-9-
1.	An employee who routinely works thirty (30) hours per week in a job classification that has a regular forty hour work week, shall receive three-fourths (3/4) of a year's seniority for each year the employee is employed.
2.	An employee who routinely works eight (8) hour work days (in a position whose regular work day is eight (8) hours) but is only employed three (3) days per week shall receive three-fifths (3/5) of a year's seniority for each year the employee is employed.
J.	Recall - Support Staff
If the Board has any vacancies for the following school term or within one (1) calendar year from the beginning of the following school term, the positions thereby becoming available within a specific category of position shall be tendered to the employees so removed or dismissed from that category or position, so far as they are qualified to hold such positions on the date of recall.
K.	Vacancies - Defined
A vacancy shall be defined as a position the Board has determined to fill resulting from:
1.	resignation
2.	death
3.	retirement
4.	dismissal
5.	creation of a new position
L.	Vacancies - Posting
The Superintendent or designee shall have posted in the central office and in the office at each school building a notice of all vacancies as they occur or as they are anticipated.
M.	Probationary Period
An employee is a “probationary employee” during his first ninety (90) days of employment. No matter concerning the discipline, layoff or termination of a probationary employee shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedures. A probationary employee shall have no seniority until he has completed the probationary period. Upon completion of the probationary period, the employee will acquire seniority from his original date of hire.
-10-
ARTICLE V
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
A.	Personal Leave
Each full-time employee shall be entitled to up to three (3) personal leave days per school year. Part-time employees shall receive pro-rata personal leave. Unused personal leave may be accumulated up to a total of six (6) days, or may be accumulated as sick leave without limit.
B.	Sick Leave
Each employee shall be granted twelve (12) sick leave days per school term. Sick leave shall accumulate without limit. Part-time employees shall receive prorated sick leave.
Sick leave shall be interpreted to mean personal illness, injury, doctor appointment, quarantine at home or serious illness or death in the immediate family as defined in the School Code (105 ILCS 5/24-6).
Sick leave may be taken in one (1) hour increments and shall be paid at the employee’s regular hourly rate at the time of the absence.
C.	Funeral Leave
Funeral leave with full pay shall be provided in the event of a death in the family (as defined in the School Code sick leave provision) or in the case of a close personal friend. This leave shall be charged as sick leave or as personal leave at the discretion of the employee.
D.	Leave of Absence Without Pay
Leaves of absence without pay may be granted to employees who have rendered satisfactory service to the District and who desire to return to employment in a similar capacity at a time mutually consistent with the needs of the District as determined by the Board.
Each approved leave of absence shall be of the shortest possible duration required to meet the purpose for the leave consistent with a reasonable continuity of instruction for students. Leaves of absence without pay for not more than one (1) year may be granted to employees according to the following conditions:
-11-
Written requests for leaves of absence without pay shall be made at least three (3) months before the leave is desired, subject to approval by the Board. The Superintendent may waive the three (3) month notice provision for good cause shown.
Dates of departure and return must be acceptable to the administration and determined prior to initiating the request.
Leaves of less than one (1) month, if acceptable to and approved by the administration, will not require Board approval nor three (3) months' notice.
Leaves may be granted for:
military service;
maternity, child care or adoption; and other reasons acceptable to the Board.
Provided the insurance carrier permits, employees on such leave may continue insurance benefits if they reimburse the District for any prorata costs of benefits for which they apply.
E.	Jury Duty
Employees shall suffer no loss of pay when called for jury duty, provided the employee shall return pay received by the employee for jury duty to the District, except that the employee shall be entitled to retain jury duty expense reimbursements received by the employee.
-12-
ARTICLE VI
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	Grievance Definition
Any claim by the Union or an employee that there has been a violation, misinterpretation or misapplication of any of the terms of the Agreement shall be a grievance.
B.	Grievance Time Limits
All time limits herein shall consist of school days except that when a grievance is submitted fewer than ten (10) days before the last day of school, time limits shall consist of school business days so that the matter may be resolved as soon as possible after the close of the school term. Time limits may be extended only with the written consent of the Superintendent and the Union.
C.	Grievance Procedure
Step 1:	The Union or an employee and his principal should first attempt to
resolve a grievable problem through free and informal communications. When requested by either party the Union representative may intervene to assist in this resolution. However, should such informal processes fail to satisfy the supervisor and the employee, then a grievance may be processed as follows:
Step 2:	If the complaint is not resolved in the initial meeting, the Union or
the employee must present the problem in writing within twenty (20) days after the occurrence of the event giving rise to the grievance. This written complaint is to be presented to the Superintendent who will arrange a meeting within ten (10) days. The Union’s representative, the Superintendent or his designee, and the grievant shall be present for the meeting. The Superintendent shall provide the grievant with a written answer on the grievance within ten (10) days. Such answer shall include the reasons on which such answer is based.
Step 3:	If the problem is not resolved at Step 2, the employee or the Union
may request a meeting with the Board of Education to be convened within thirty (30) days of the request. The Union’s representative, the Superintendent or his designee and the grievant shall be present at the meeting. Within ten (10) days of the meeting, the
-13-
Board of Education shall provide a written response to the Union and the grievant, including the reasons for its decision.
D.	Grievance Arbitration
If either party (Union, Board) is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Step 3, or the Step 3 time limits expire without action, then either the Union or the Board may submit the grievance to binding arbitration under the rules of the American Arbitration Association which shall act as administrator of the proceedings. If neither party files a demand for arbitration within (30) days of the date for the Step 3 reply, then the grievances shall be deemed withdrawn.
The arbitrator, in his opinion, shall not amend, modify, nullify, ignore, or add to the provisions of this Agreement. His authority will be strictly limited to deciding only the issue or issues presented to him in writing by the School Board and the Union. However, it is mutually agreed that the arbitrator is empowered to include in his award such financial reimbursements as he judges to be proper. Each party shall bear the full cost for its side of the arbitration and will pay one-half (%) of the cost for the arbitrator.
E.	Grievance - Bypass
Provided both parties agree, Step 1 and/or Step 2 of the grievance procedure may be bypassed and the grievance brought directly to the next step. No disposition of any grievance shall be in conflict with any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement. By mutual agreement a grievance may be settled at any step without establishing precedent. A grievance arising under this contract may be processed through the grievance procedure until resolution even after expiration of the contract.
-14-
ARTICLE VII
DISCIPLINE
A. Discipline & Discharge
The Board acknowledges that under normal circumstances and in the case of remediable offenses discipline should be progressive. In the instance of serious or irremediable offenses progressive disciplinary steps may be skipped. Progressive disciplinary steps are:
1.	Oral warning
2.	Written warning
3.	Suspension without pay
4.	Discharge
During the probationary period an employee shall be subject to layoff, discipline or discharge at the sole discretion of the Employer, with no recourse being provided by this agreement.
-15-
ARTICLE VIII
HOURS AND WORK
A.	Work Day (9 month employees)
The normal work day for nine (9) month employees shall be not more than eight (8) hours per day. Nothing shall prevent the Employer from employing new or existing employees for less than eight hours per day or from employing employees part-time as to work day, work week, or work year.
B.	Work Schedules (9 month employees)
The Employer shall notify employees by August 15 of each year as to the tentative school calendar for the upcoming school year. Employees, including clerical employees, office managers, and other employees, shall be subject to the Employer’s flexible scheduling of work hours. For example, secretarial employees may be required to regularly work from 7:45 AM until 3:15 PM or from 7:30 AM until 3:00 PM (i.e. employees are not strictly limited to an 8:00 AM until 3:30 PM regular work schedule).
C.	Breaks and Lunch (9 month employees)
An employee shall be given a fifteen (15) minute paid break during each four (4) consecutive hours of employment during the same work day. An unpaid thirty (30) minute lunch break shall be provided to each employee who works at least six (6) hours in a work day at the approximate midpoint of his shift.
D.	Overtime (9 month employees)
Overtime shall be paid in a manner consistent with the Fair Labor Standards Act (FSLA) except that any paid time shall be treated as hours worked for purposes of computing the base forty (40) hour week. Overtime shall be rotated as equally as possible among those desiring to work overtime. If an employee is called back to work (has left work and is required to come back at a time other than his next shift) the employee shall be compensated at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times his regular rate for a minimum of two (2) hours.
-16-
E.	Extra-Curricular Activities (9 and 12 month employees)
The Employer will post a schedule of extra-curricular activities that states who is working and what hours they are scheduled to work in advance. An attempt will be made to provide the employee with adequate advance notice.
F.	Extra Duty Work (9 and 12 month employees)
Whenever any extra duty work is required during the year, the classification of employees covered by this Agreement who normally perform that work will be offered said work. This work will be rotated as equitably as possible among interested employees.
G.	Work Week (12 month employees)
A full time custodian’s normal work week shall be forty (40) hours per week, Monday through Friday. Nothing shall prevent the Employer from employing new or existing employees part-time as to work day, work week, or work year or from assigning employees to work schedules on weekends.
H.	Breaks and Lunch (12 month employees)
An employee shall be given a fifteen (15) minute paid break during each four (4) consecutive hours of employment during the same work day. An unpaid thirty (30) minute lunch break shall be provided to each employee who works at least six (6) hours in a work day at the approximate midpoint of his shift.
I.	Overtime (12 month employees)
Overtime shall be paid in a manner consistent with the Fair Labor Standards Act (FSLA) except that any paid time shall be treated as hours worked for purposes of computing the base 40 hour week. Overtime shall be rotated as equally as possible among those desiring to work overtime. If an employee is called back to work (has left work and is required to come back at a time other than his next shift) the employee shall be compensated at the rate of one and one-half (1 %) times his regular rate for a minimum of two (2) hours. Lock up pay shall be at a one (1) hour minimum.
J.	Substitute Head Cook
When the head cook position is filled by a substitute due to the absence of the head cook, the substitute who, whenever possible, shall be qualified kitchen personnel employed by the District, shall be paid at the head cook’s rate once the substitute serves for more than thirty (30) consecutive work days as a
-17-
substitute head cook and when that occurs, the increased pay rate shall be retroactive to the substitute’s first day of substitute service as head cook.
-18-
ARTICLE IX
TERMS OF AGREEMENT
A.	Savings
If any article or section of this Agreement or any addendum thereto shall be held invalid by operation of law or by a tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any article or section should be restrained by such tribunal, the remainder of the Agreement and addendum shall not be affected thereby.
B.	Management Rights
Except as expressly amended, changed or modified by a provision of this agreement, the Employer retains traditional and constitutional rights to operate the District. The District retains the respective rights as Employer as modified by the Illinois Educational Labor Relations Act.
1.	to plan, direct, control, and determine all operations and services;
2.	to supervise and direct employees;
3.	to establish the qualifications for employment and to employ employees;
4.	to establish reasonable work rules and work schedules and assign such;
5.	to hire, evaluate, promote, transfer, schedule, and assign employees in positions and to create, combine, modify, and eliminate positions;
6.	to suspend, demote, discharge, and take other disciplinary action against employees for just cause (justifiable reasons), with the exception of probationary employees, who may be discharged without reason;
7.	to establish reasonable work and productivity standards and, from time to time, amend such standards;
8.	to lay-off employees due to lack of work or funds or for other legitimate reasons;
9.	to assign overtime;
10.	to contract out for goods and services;
11.	to maintain efficiency of operations and services;
12.	to determine the methods, means, organization, and number of personnel by which such operations and services shall be provided;
13.	to maintain efficiency of the Employer’s operations;
14.	to take whatever action is necessary to comply with State and Federal law;
15.	to change or eliminate methods, equipment, and facilities for the improvement of operation;
16.	to determine the kinds and amounts of services to be performed as it pertains to operations and the number and kind of classifications to perform such services;
-19-
17.	to determine the methods, means, and personnel by which operations are to be conducted; and
18.	to take whatever action is necessary to carry out the functions of the offices in emergency situations.
C.	No Strike-No Lockout
No employee shall engage in any strike, sit-in, slow down, cessation, stoppage or interruption of work, boycott, sympathy strike or other interference with the operations of the Employer during the term of this Agreement. The Union, its officers, agents, representatives and members shall not in any way, directly or indirectly authorize, assist, encourage, participate in or sanction any strike, sympathy strike or other interference with the operations of the Employer or ratify, condone or lend support to any such conduct or action. The Employer agrees that it will not lock out employees during the term of this Agreement. Nothing contained herein shall preclude the Employer and the Union from obtaining judicial restraint and damages in the event of a violation of this Article.
-20-
D. Term of Agreement
This Agreement shall be effective July 1, 2015, and continue in effect until the end of the day on June 30, 2018.
This Agreement is signed this 11 th day of January , 2016.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF:
Laborers' Local 773	For the Board of Education
Sesser-Valier Community Unit
SchodTOistrict No. 196	>
By:_____________________________
Kevin L. Starr, Business Manager
By:
President
Southern and Central Illinois Laborers' District Council
ATTEST
int B. Taylor, Business Manager
cretary
-21-
APPENDIX I
SECTION A
2015-2016 SALARY SCHEDULE
	Hired On or After 1/1/2016	Hired After 7/1/2010 & Before 1/1/2016	Hired After 8/1/1994 & Before 6/30/2010	Hired Before 7/31/1994
				
	Hourly Rate	Hourly Rate	Hourly Rate	Hourly Rate
				
Non-Certified Aides	8.85			
				
Aides	9.00		13.28	13.84
				
Clerical	12.10	12.75		18.21
				
Custodial	13.60	14.25	17.37	
				
Kitchen Personnel	11.60	12.25	14.29	
				
Elementary Office Manager	13.00	13.65		
				
HS Office Manager & Records Custodian	13.00		16.20	
				
ACR/Detention	12.00		28.79	
				
Nurse	17.00		21.97	
				
Nurse Assistant	11.50		15.40	
				
Head Cook pay rate shall be $2.00 per hour more than pay cook would have received given appropriate placement as Kitchen Personnel on salary schedule.
-22-
APPENDIX I
SECTION B
2016-2017 SALARY SCHEDULE
	Hired On or After 1/1/2016	Hired After 7/1/2010 & Before 1/1/2016	Hired After 8/1/1994 & Before 6/30/2010	Hired Before 7/31/1994
				
	Hourly Rate	Hourly Rate	Hourly Rate	Hourly Rate
				
Non-Certified Aides	8.85			
				
Aides	9.00		13.53	14.09
				
Clerical	12.10	13.00		18.46
				
Custodial	13.60	14.50	17.62	
				
Kitchen Personnel	11.60	12.50	14.54	
				
Elementary Office Manager	13.00	13.90		
				
HS Office Manager & Records Custodian	13.00		16.45	
				
ACR/Detention	12.00		29.04	
				
Nurse	17.00		22.22	
				
Nurse Assistant	11.50		15.65	
				
Head Cook pay rate shall be $2.00 per hour more than pay cook would have received given appropriate placement as Kitchen Personnel on salary schedule.
-23-
APPENDIX I
SECTION C
2017-2018 SALARY SCHEDULE
	Hired On or After 1/1/2016	Hired After 7/1/2010 & Before 1/1/2016	Hired After 8/1/1994 & Before 6/30/2010	Hired Before 7/31/1994
				
	Hourly Rate	Hourly Rate	Hourly Rate	Hourly Rate
				
Non-Certified Aides	8.85			
				
Aides	9.00		13.78	14.34
				
Clerical	12.10	13.25		18.71
				
Custodial	13.60	14.75	17.87	
				
Kitchen Personnel	11.60	12.75	14.79	
				
Elementary Office Manager	13.00	14.15		
				
HS Office Manager & Records Custodian	13.00		16.70	
				
ACR/Detention	12.00		29.29	
				
Nurse	17.00		22.47	
				
Nurse Assistant	11.50		15.90	
				
Head Cook pay rate shall be $2.00 per hour more than pay cook would have received given appropriate placement as Kitchen Personnel on salary schedule.
-24-