AGREEMENT
Between
CITY OF BLOOMINGTON
BLOOMINGTON, ILLINOIS
and
LOCAL 362
LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION
SUPPORT STAFF
May 1, 2015 - April 30, 2017
AGREEMENT	1
ARTICLE 1	RECOGNITION	2
Section 1.1. Representation and Bargaining Unit.	2
ARTICLE 2	UNION SECURITY	2
Section 2.1.	Dues Check Off.	2
Section 2.2.	Fair Share.	3
Section 2.3.	Indemnification.	4
ARTICLE 3	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	4
Section 3.1.	Definition and Procedure.	4
Section 3.2.	Arbitration.	6
Section 3.3.	Authority of Arbitrator.	7
Section 3.4.	Expenses of Arbitration.	8
Section 3.5.	Time Limit for Filing.	8
ARTICLE 4	STEWARD CLAUSE	9
ARTICLE 5	NO STRIKE AND NO LOCKOUT	9
Section 5.1.	No Strike.	9
Section 5.2.	No Lockout.	10
ARTICLE 6	HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME	10
Section 6.1.	Normal Workweek.	10
Section 6.2.	Overtime.	11
Section 6.3.	Breaks.	12
Section 6.4.	Flex Time.	13
Section 6.5.	No Pyramiding.	13
ARTICLE 7	WAGES AND LONGEVITY	13
Section 7.1.	Wages.	13
Section 7.2.	CSO Shift Differential.	14
Section 7.3.	Longevity Pay.	14
Section 7.4.	Call-ins.	14
Section 7.5.	Working Out of Classification.	15
Section 7.6.	Out of Classification Pay.	15
Section 7.7.	CSO Court Time.	15
Section 7.8.	Flex Cash Participation.	16
Section 7.9.	Paycheck Distribution.	16
ARTICLE 8	HOLIDAYS	17
Section 8.1.	Number of Holidays.	17
Section 8.2.	Holiday on Scheduled Workday.	17
Section 8.3.	Eligibility for Holiday Pay.	17
ARTICLE 9	VACATION	18
Section 9.1.	Length of Vacation.	18
Section 9.2.	Scheduling.	18
Section 9.3.	Separation and Reinstatements.	19
ARTICLE 10	DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE	19
Section 10.1.	Reason for Disciplinary Action.	19
Section 10.2.	Grievances Involving an Employee's Discharge or
Disciplinary Suspension.	20
Section 10.3.	Remedial Authority of Arbitrator in Disciplinary
Cases.	20
Section 10.4.	Drug and Alcohol Testing Permitted.	20
Section 10.5.	Order to Submit to Testing.	21
Section 10.6.	Tests to be Conducted.	22
Section 10.7.	Right to Contest.	24
Section 10.8.	Discipline and Voluntary Requests for Assistance.
24
Section 10.9.	Removal of Adverse Material.	26
ARTICLE 11	LEAVES	26
Section 11.1.	Personal Convenience Leave.	26
Section 11.2.	Sick Leave.	27
Section 11.3.	Bereavement Leave.	29
Section 11.4.	Injury Leave.	30
Section 11.5.	Military Leave.	32
Section 11.6.	Jury Duty.	32
Section 11.7.	Leave Without Pay.	32
Section 11.8.	Leave of Absence to Accept Full-time Position with Union.	33
Section 11.9.	FMLA and ADA.	33
Section 11.10.	Wellness Day.	34
Section 11.11.	Court Days.	34
Section 11.12.	Restricted Duty Status.	35
ARTICLE 12	SENIORITY	36
Section 12.1.	Definition.	36
Section 12.2.	Seniority Principle.	37
Section 12.3.	Probationary Period.	37
Section 12.4.	Promotions and Vacancies.	38
Section 12.5.	Layoff and Recall Procedure.	40
Section 12.6.	Termination of Seniority.	40
ARTICLE 13	BENEFITS	41
Section 13.1.	Physical Fitness Incentive.	41
Section 13.2.	Group Insurance Plan.	41
Section 13.3.	Tuition Reimbursement.	44
Section 13.4.	LIUNA Pension.	45
Section 13.5	CSO Uniforms and Clothing.	46
ARTICLE 14	SUBCONTRACTING	46
ARTICLE 15	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	48
Section 15.1.	Management Rights.	48
Section 15.2.	Emergency Conditions.	48
ARTICLE 16	SAVINGS	49
ARTICLE 17	ENTIRE AGREEMENT	49
ARTICLE 18	TERM OF AGREEMENT	50
Appendix A	- LIUNA AGREEMENT	52
Appendix B	- Wage Table	56
AGREEMENT
This Agreement made and entered into this 1st day of May, 2015, by and between the CITY OF BLOOMINGTON, ILLINOIS (hereinafter referred to as the "City") and LOCAL 362, LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION (hereinafter referred to as the "Union"):
W I T N E S S E T H:
WHEREAS, it is the intent and purpose of this Agreement to promote and improve harmonious relations between the City and its employees; aid toward the economical and efficient operations; accomplish and maintain the highest quality of work performance; provide methods for a prompt and peaceful adjustment of grievances; insure against any interruption of work, slowdown, or other interference with work performance; strengthen good will, mutual respect, and cooperation; and set forth the agreement covering rates of pay, hours of work, and other conditions of employment where not otherwise mandated by statute, to be observed between the parties to this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the rights, obligations, and authority of the parties to this Agreement are governed by and subject to the Constitution and laws of the State of Illinois.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:
-1-
ARTICLE 1	RECOGNITION
Section 1.1. Representation and Bargaining Unit.
The City recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all full-time and part-time support staff, excluding supervisors, probationary employees, temporary employees and all other employees of the City.
ARTICLE 2	UNION SECURITY
Section 2.1.	Dues Check Off.
Upon receipt of a signed authorization in the form set forth herein, the City will deduct from the pay of an employee covered by this Agreement the monthly dues in the amount payable by him or her as certified by the Union to the City. Deductions shall be made from earnings payable on the first paycheck of each month beginning with the first month immediately following the date of receipt of such authorization. Such deduction shall be remitted to the Treasurer of the Union within fifteen (15) days after the deduction has been made. The authorization card shall be as follows:
AUTHORIZATION FOR PAYROLL DEDUCTION
TO: CITY OF BLOOMINGTON, ILLINOIS
-2-
I hereby request and authorize you to deduct from my earnings the monthly Union membership dues established by Laborers Local #362.
I authorize and direct you to deduct said membership dues from the first paycheck of each month after the date this assignment is delivered to you and to remit same to the Treasurer of Laborers Local #362.
This agreement, authorization, and direction shall become operative on the date it is delivered to you and may be revoked in writing within the last thirty (30) days of any contract year.
Date
Name
Section 2.2.	Fair Share.
Non-probationary employees who are covered by this Agreement who are not members of the Union shall be required to pay in lieu of dues, their proportionate fair share in accordance with P.A. 83-1012 of the costs of the collective bargaining process, contract administration and the pursuance of matters affecting wages, hours and conditions of employment. The fair share payment, as certified by the Union, shall be deducted by the City from the earnings of the nonmember employees and shall be remitted monthly to the Union at the address designated in writing to the City by the Union. The Union shall advise the City of any increase in
-3-
fair share fees in writing at least fifteen (15) days prior to its effective date. The amount constituting each nonmember employee's share shall not exceed dues uniformly required of Union members. Employees who are members of the Union who later become nonmembers of the Union shall also be subject to the terms of this provision.
The Union assures the City that any objections made to it regarding payment of employee's fair share will be handled in a manner which complies with relevant constitutional procedures set out in Hudson v. Chicago Teachers Union Local 1.
Section 2.3.	Indemnification.
The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders or judgments brought or issued against the City as a result of any action taken or not taken by the City under the provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE 3	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 3.1.	Definition and Procedure.
A grievance is a dispute or difference of opinion raised by one (1) or more employees against the City, involving the meaning, interpretation or application of the express provisions of this Agreement. Forms may be obtained at the Human Resources Department. A grievance shall be processed in the following manner:
-4-
STEP 1: Any employee who has a grievance shall submit it in writing to his or her supervisor, who is designated for this purpose by the City. The supervisor shall give his or her written answer within five (5) business days after such presentation.
STEP 2: If the grievance is not settled in Step 1 and the employee wishes to appeal the grievance to Step 2 of the Grievance Procedure, it shall be referred in writing to the Department Head within five (5) business days after the designated supervisor's answer in Step 1 and shall be signed by both the employee and the Union Steward. The Department Head, or his or her representative, shall discuss the grievance within five (5) business days with the Union Steward or the Union representative at a time mutually agreeable to the parties. The Department Head, or his or her representative, shall give the City's written answer to the Union within five (5) business days following their meeting.
STEP 3: If the grievance is not settled in Step 2 and the Union desires to appeal, it shall be referred by the Union in writing to the Human Resources Director within five (5) business days after the designated Department Head's answer in
-5-
Step 2. A meeting between the Human Resources Director, and/or his or her representative, and the Union Steward, Business Representative and/or grievant shall be held at a time mutually agreeable to the parties. If the grievance is settled as a result of such meeting, the settlement shall be reduced to writing and signed by the Human Resources Director, or his or her representative, and the Union. If no settlement is reached the Human Resources Director, or his or her representative, shall give the City's written answer to the Union within five (5) business days following the meeting.
Section 3.2.	Arbitration.
If the grievance is not settled in accordance with the foregoing procedure, the Union may refer the grievance to arbitration within seven (7) business days after receipt of the City's answer in Step 3. The parties shall attempt to agree upon an arbitrator within five (5) business days after receipt of notice of referral and in the event the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator within said five (5) day period, the parties shall immediately jointly request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to submit a panel of five (5) arbitrators. Both the City and the Union shall have the right to strike two (2) names from the panel. The party requesting arbitration shall strike the first two (2) names; the
-6-
other party shall then strike two (2) names. The remaining person shall be the arbitrator. Each party retains the right to reject one panel in its entirety and request that a new panel be submitted. The arbitrator shall be notified of his or her selection by a joint letter from the City and the Union requesting that he or she set a time and place, subject to the availability of the City and Union representatives. If either the City or the Union determines that time is of the essence in resolving the grievance, both parties shall agree on a deadline for hearing the matter and rendering a decision. If the arbitrator selected is unable to meet those deadlines, the parties shall contact the remaining arbitrators on the list, beginning with the last stricken until an arbitrator is found who can comply with the deadlines established.
Section 3.3.	Authority of Arbitrator.
The arbitrator shall have no right to amend, modify, nullify, ignore, add to, or subtract from the provisions of this Agreement. He or she shall consider and decide only the specific issue submitted to him or her in writing by the City and the Union and shall have no authority to make a decision on any other issue not so submitted to him or her. The arbitrator shall be without power to make decisions contrary to or inconsistent with or modifying or varying in any way the application of laws and rules and regulations having the force and effect of law. Unless otherwise jointly
-7-
instructed by the City and the Union, the arbitrator shall submit in writing his or her decision within thirty (30) days following the close of the hearing or the submission of briefs by the parties, whichever is later, unless the parties agree to an extension thereof. The decision shall be based solely upon his or her interpretation of the meaning or application of the express terms of this Agreement to the facts of the grievance presented. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties.
Section 3.4.	Expenses of Arbitration.
The fee and expenses of the arbitrator and the cost of a written transcript shall be divided equally between the City and the Union provided, however, that each party shall be responsible for compensating its own representatives and witnesses.
Section 3.5.	Time Limit for Filing.
No grievance shall be entertained or processed unless it is submitted within ten (10) business days after the occurrence of the event giving rise to the grievance or within ten (10) business days after the employee through the use of reasonable diligence should have obtained knowledge of the occurrence of the event giving rise to the grievance.
If a grievance is not presented within the time limits set forth above, it shall be considered "waived". If a grievance is not appealed to the next step within the specified time limit
-8-
or any agreed extension thereof, it shall be considered settled on the basis of the City's last answer. If the City does not answer a grievance or an appeal thereof within the specified time limit, the Union may elect to treat the grievance as denied at that Step and immediately appeal the grievance to the next Step. The time limit in each Step may be extended by mutual written agreement of the City and Union representatives involved in each Step. The term "business days" as used in this Article shall mean the days Monday through Friday inclusive except Holidays.
ARTICLE 4	STEWARD CLAUSE
The Business Manager may appoint one steward from within the bargaining unit membership, and immediately notify the employers representative of the selection, whose duty it will be to see to it that this contract is adhered to and that all work coming under the jurisdiction of the Union is performed by employees covered by this Agreement. The Steward will be permitted, with notification to their supervisor, reasonable time without loss of pay during working hours to process grievances.
ARTICLE 5	NO STRIKE AND NO LOCKOUT Section 5.1. No Strike.
Neither the Union nor any officers, agents, or employees will instigate, promote, sponsor, engage in, or condone any strike, sympathy strike, slowdown, concerted
-9-
stoppage of work, or any other intentional interruption of the operations of the City regardless of the reason for so doing. Any or all employees who violate any of the provisions of this Article may be discharged or otherwise disciplined by the City.
Section 5.2. No Lockout.
The City will not lockout any employee during the term of this Agreement as a result of a labor dispute with the Union.
ARTICLE 6 HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME Section 6.1. Normal Workweek.
The normal workweek shall consist of forty (40) hours of work. The normal workweek for employees hired prior to December 9, 1996 is 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.; 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; or 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (as designated by the Department Head) Monday through Friday. These hours can be changed through mutual agreement of the employee and the Department Head. The Department Head can occasionally require an employee to work different hours on a temporary basis upon reasonable notice to the employee.
CSO Shift Bid CSO’s will be able to bid shifts by seniority starting November 1st of each year, to go into effect January 1 through December 31 of the subsequent year. CSO seniority is defined as full-time continuous hire as a CSO in the Bloomington Police Department. A CSO shall
-10-
have 48 hours from time of notice to a bid a shift. The hours for the front desk personnel will be established annually prior to the bidding of the shifts on November 1st. The hours of the front desk personnel will be consistent with the Patrol shifts. Employees will work an eight (8) hour day with a paid thirty (30) minute meal break.
Section 6.2.	Overtime.
Employees shall be paid one and one-half (1%) times their regular straight time hourly rate of pay for all hours paid in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week; or in excess of five (5) consecutive days. Overtime shall be approved in advance by the employee's immediate supervisor. Overtime may be paid in compensatory time off as provided in the Fair Labor Standards Act. Compensatory time shall not be used except by mutual agreement of the employee and the Department Head.
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as a guarantee or commitment by the City to any employee of a minimum or maximum number of hours of work per day, per week or per year. Employees shall be required to work overtime in order to meet the requirements of the City.
Posted Overtime for CSO When it is known in advance there will be a need for overtime, it shall be posted. Any CSO who wishes to work the overtime posted shall place their name on the posted overtime sheet, if more than one
-11-
CSO signs up for the posted overtime seniority shall be the deciding factor. CSOs must sign up for no less than four (4) hour shifts. Any CSO who calls in sick on a their scheduled overtime assignment will not be able to sign up for overtime based on their seniority for a period of thirty (30) days. They will be required to sign up for overtime last on the seniority list. If no CSO has posted for overtime within forty-eight (48) hours of a scheduled vacancy, a CSO will be forced to work mandatory overtime.
Mandatory Overtime for CSO Posted overtime vacancies that are not signed will be filled by using reverse seniority on a rotating basis. Absences creating mandatory overtime may require a CSO to be held over for no more than four (4) hours or called in no more than four (4) hours early. CSOs may agree to work beyond the four (4) hour period.
Section 6.3.	Breaks.
(a)	Meal Breaks. Employees are allowed one (1) daily uninterrupted meal break of sixty (60) minutes. CSO’s will have a paid thirty (30) minute meal break. Employees who are not allowed to take their full sixty (60) minute meal break will receive overtime in accordance with Section 6.2 Overtime.
-12-
(b)	Work Breaks. Employees are allowed to take two (2) paid work breaks of fifteen (15) minutes during the duration of their day.
Section 6.4.	Flex Time.
The decision by a Department Head, or his or her representative, to permit or not permit a covered employee to work hours other than the employee's normally scheduled hours pursuant to a request made by that employee shall not be used as the basis for establishing a past practice in that department or any other department of the City. Nothing in this Section shall be interpreted as infringing on the rights established by Article 15 Management Rights of this Agreement.
Section 6.5.	No Pyramiding.
Compensation shall not be paid more than once for the same hours under any provision of this Article or Agreement.
ARTICLE 7	WAGES AND LONGEVITY
Section 7.1.	Wages.
(a)	Effective May 1, 2015, the straight time hourly wage rate for the employees will be increased by two and a quarter percent (2.25%) over the rate provided for under the previous contract. Said new wages are attached hereto as Appendix “B”.
-13-
(b)	Effective May 1, 2016 the straight time hourly wage rates for the employees will be increased by two and quarter percent (2.25%) over the rate provided for in the contract year immediately prior to said date. Said new wages are attached hereto as Appendix “B”.
Section 7.2.	CSO Shift Differential.
A shift differential of $1.00 per hour will be paid for hours worked before 6:00 a.m. and after 3:00 p.m. Swing shifts will receive a shift differential of $1.00 per hour for all hours worked.
Section 7.3.	Longevity Pay.
Employees shall be entitled to longevity at the following rates:
Years of Service	%
5	5%
10	7%
15	9%
20	11%
25	13%
30	15%
Longevity increases will be calculated as an increase on the employee's base wage, at the rate listed above, that will become effective on the employee's appropriate 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30 year anniversary date.
Section 7.4.	Call-ins.
An employee called back to work after going home shall receive two (2) hours of overtime pay even if he or she
-14-
works less than two (2) hours after having been called back. Employees who work in excess of two (2) hours shall receive overtime pay in the amount of hours actually worked.
Section 7.5.	Working Out of Classification.
Employees covered by this Agreement who work in a higher classification shall be paid the higher rate of pay when working eight (8) consecutive hours or more with the authorization of the Department Head or his or her representative. The preceding sentence shall apply whether the employee is required to work in a bargaining unit or a non-bargaining unit position.
Section 7.6.	Out of Classification Pay.
Employees who work out of classification or when promoted to a higher classification, shall receive a cent per hour increase on their current wage equal to the increments between classifications as set forth in Appendix “B” through Appendix “D” (depending on contract year) or between the classified grades.
Section 7.7.	CSO Court Time.
A CSO shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours of compensation at their appropriate overtime rate for appearances in court when such appearances occur outside of the CSO’s regular duty hours and such appearances are in the CSO’s official capacity as a City of Bloomington employee.
-15-
If, at the expiration of the two (2) hour period referred to in the previous paragraph, the CSO is still in court, the CSO shall receive overtime compensation for any additional time actually spent by the CSO in court. If the two (2) hour period falls within the CSO’s scheduled work day they will be compensated at the overtime rate from the time of the required court appearance up to their scheduled work day. Multiple court appearances within the same two (2) hour time frame are all considered part of the same two (2) hour period.
Section 7.8.	Flex Cash Participation.
Nothing contained in this Agreement is understood by the parties or is to be construed by anyone else to preclude any employee covered by the Agreement, from voluntarily reducing his or her pay as provided in the Agreement pursuant to a salary reduction agreement in order to participate in the City of Bloomington's Flex Cash Plan.
Section 7.9.	Paycheck Distribution.
For those employees who do not elect to have direct deposit, paychecks will be mailed on payday by the Finance Department. This Section will be implemented 30 days from when Classified employees and at least (3) three other bargaining units agree to direct deposit or checks being mailed.
-16-
ARTICLE 8	HOLIDAYS
Section 8.1.	Number of Holidays.
The following days are holidays:
New Year’s Day M. L. King's B'day Good Friday Memorial Day Fourth of July Labor Day
Veteran's Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day after Thanksgiving
Day before Christmas
Christmas Day
% Day New Year Eve
Section 8.2.	Holiday on Scheduled Workday.
Full-time employees required to work the above holidays will be paid one and one-half (1%) times their normal rate of pay, plus their regular eight (8) hours of pay for the holiday.
Section 8.3.	Eligibility for Holiday Pay.
In order to receive pay for an observed holiday, an employee must have worked his or her regularly scheduled hours on the last scheduled workday prior to the holiday and on the first scheduled workday immediately after the holiday, unless said employee is on a paid leave status on either or both of said days. CSOs who are scheduled on an above holiday who have an unscheduled absence will be ineligible for holiday pay.
-17-
ARTICLE 9	VACATION
Section 9.1. Length of Vacation.
Full-time employees who, based upon their anniversary date of hire, have worked for the City for a period of six (6) continuous months shall receive vacation as follows:
Years of	Length of
Continuous Service	Vacation
6 months but less than 1 year 1 week
1	year, but less than 2 years	1 week
2	years, but less than 8 years	2 weeks
8	years, but less than 15 years	3 weeks
15 years, but less than 20 years 4 weeks
20 years or more	5 weeks
Section 9.2.	Scheduling.
Vacations must be taken within the vacation year in which they are due, anniversary date to the next anniversary date. These vacations must be taken at the convenience of the department. Employees shall be allowed to carry over one-half (%) of his or her earned vacation to the following year. An employee's vacation will begin at the end of his or her last scheduled workday.
CSO vacation requests must be submitted no more than six (6) months and no less than twenty-four (24) hours in advance. The twenty-four (24) hour notice may be waived with supervisor approval.
-18-
Section 9.3.	Separation and Reinstatements.
Employees resigning voluntarily and who give reasonable notice of their intention to resign will receive any vacation credit earned as of the date of the resignation. Employees dismissed for incompetence or inefficiency will also receive all earned vacation. All earned vacation of employees who die in the service shall be paid to the spouse or estate of said individual.
ARTICLE 10 DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE Section 10.1. Reason for Disciplinary Action.
The parties recognize the principles of progressive and corrective discipline. In some instances, an incident may justify severe disciplinary action including termination, depending on the seriousness of the incident. A suspension will be upheld unless it is arbitrary, unreasonable, or unrelated to the needs of the service. A termination will be upheld if a substantial shortcoming of the employee is proved, which is defined as that which renders the employee's continuance in office in some way detrimental to the discipline and efficiency of the service and which the law and sound public policy recognize as just and sufficient cause for no longer holding the position. Employees shall have the right to request the presence of a Union Representative at the time that any discharge, disciplinary
-19-
suspension or other adverse action is to be taken against the employee.
Section 10.2.	Grievances Involving an Employee's Discharge or Disciplinary Suspension.
Grievances involving an employee's discharge or disciplinary suspension may be presented at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. The grievance procedure established in this Agreement shall be the exclusive procedure for contesting such discipline.
Section 10.3.	Remedial Authority of Arbitrator in Disciplinary Cases.
Should it be found that any employee has been unjustly disciplined or discharged, he or she shall be reinstated with seniority rights unimpaired and pay for time lost as determined by the arbitrator less any outside earnings since the disciplinary discharge. It is understood that the term "any outside earnings" shall not include such earnings as the employee was regularly earning from outside employment prior to the date of disciplinary action in question.
Section 10.4.	Drug and Alcohol Testing Permitted.
Where the City has reasonable suspicion to believe that an employee is then under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs during the course of the workday, the City shall have the right to require the employee to submit to alcohol or drug testing as set forth in this Agreement.
-20-
Post accident testing will be required when an employee is involved in an accident which results in a death or serious personal injury requiring immediate hospitalization or an accident which results in significant damage to government or private property.
An employee shall be considered under the influence of illegal drugs if a drug test discloses the presence of illegal drugs in the employee's blood or urine or evidence, based on analysis of the employee's blood or urine, that illegal drugs have been metabolized by the employee.
An employee shall be considered under the influence of alcohol if a test of the employee's breath or blood discloses a blood/alcohol content of .040 or more based upon the grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or 210 liters of breath.
Section 10.5.	Order to Submit to Testing.
At the time an employee is ordered to submit to testing authorized by this Agreement, the City shall notify the employee and Union Steward or Union Representative of the objective facts and reasonable inferences drawn from those facts which have formed the basis of the order to test. Refusal to submit to such testing may subject the employee to discipline, but the employee's taking of the test shall not be construed as a waiver of any objection or rights that the employee may have.
-21-
Section 10.6.	Tests to be Conducted.
In conducting the testing authorized by this Agreement, the City shall:
(a)	use only a clinical laboratory or hospital facility that is licensed pursuant to the Illinois Clinical Laboratory Act that has or is capable of being accredited by the National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA);
(b)	ensure that the laboratory or facility selected conforms to all NIDA standards;
(c)	establish a chain of custody procedure for both sample collection and testing that will ensure the integrity of the identity of each sample and test result. No employee covered by this Agreement shall be permitted at any time to become a part of such chain of custody;
(d)	collect a sufficient sample of the same bodily fluid or material from an employee to allow for initial screening, a confirmatory test and a sufficient amount to be reserved for later testing if requested by the employee;
(e)	collect samples in such a manner as to preserve the individual employee's right to privacy, ensure a high degree of security for the sample and its freedom from adulteration. Employees shall not be witnessed by anyone while submitting a sample, except in circumstances where the laboratory or facility does not have a "clean room" for submitting samples or where there is reasonable belief that the employee has attempted to compromise the accuracy of the testing procedure;
(f)	confirm any sample that tests positive in the initial screening for drugs by testing the second portion of the same sample by gas chromatography, plus mass spectrometry or an equivalent or better scientifically accurate
-22-
accepted method that provides quantitative data about the detected drug or drug metabolites;
(g)	provide the employee tested with an opportunity to have the additional sample tested by a clinical laboratory or hospital facility of the employee's own choosing, at the employee's own expense; provided the employee notifies the Human Resources Director or his or her designee within seventy-two (72) hours of receiving the results of the tests;
(h)	require that the laboratory or hospital facility report to the City that a blood or urine sample is positive only if both the initial screening and confirmation test are positive for a particular drug. The parties agree that should any information concerning such testing or the results thereof be obtained by the City inconsistent with the understandings expressed herein (e.g. billings for testing that reveal the nature or number of tests administered), the City will not use such information in any manner or forum adverse to the employee's interests;
(i)	require that with regard to alcohol testing, for the purpose of determining whether the employee is under the influence of alcohol, test results that show an alcohol concentration of .040 or more based upon the grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood be considered positive;
(j)	provide each employee tested with a copy of all information and reports received by the City in connection with the testing and the results;
(k)	ensure that no employee is the subject of any adverse employment action except emergency temporary reassignment with pay during the pendency of any testing procedure. Any such emergency reassignment shall be immediately discontinued in the event of a negative test result.
-23-
Section 10.7.	Right to Contest.
The employee shall have the right to file a grievance concerning any testing permitted by this Agreement, contesting the basis for the order to submit to the test, the administration of the tests, the significance and accuracy of the tests, the consequences of the testing or results of any other alleged violation of this Agreement. Such grievances shall be commenced at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. It is agreed that the parties in no way intend or have in any manner restricted, diminished or otherwise impaired any legal rights that employees may have with regard to such testing. Employees retain any such rights as may exist and may pursue the same in their own discretion, with or without the assistance of the Union.
Section 10.8.	Discipline and Voluntary Requests for Assistance.
In the first instance that an employee tests positive on both the initial and the confirmatory test for drugs or is found to be under the influence of alcohol, and all employees who, prior to any notification of drug or alcohol testing, voluntarily seek assistance with drug and/or alcohol related problems, shall not be subject to any disciplinary or other adverse employment action by the City. The foregoing is conditioned upon:
-24-
(a)	the employee agreeing to appropriate treatment as determined by the medical professional(s) involved;
(b)	the employee discontinues his or her use of illegal drugs or abuse of alcohol;
(c)	the employee completes the course of treatment prescribed, including an "aftercare" group for a period of up to twelve (12) months;
(d)	the employee agrees to submit to follow up testing during hours of work during the period of "aftercare".
Employees who do not agree to the foregoing, or who test positive a second or subsequent time for the presence of illegal drugs or alcohol during the hours of work shall be subject to discipline, up to and including discharge.
The foregoing shall not be construed as an obligation on the part of the City to retain an employee on active status throughout the period of rehabilitation if it is appropriately determined that the employee's current use of alcohol or drugs prevents such individual from performing the duties of an employee or whose continuance on active status would constitute a direct threat to the property or safety of others. Such employees shall be afforded the opportunity to use accumulated paid leave or take an unpaid leave of absence pending treatment.
-25-
Section 10.9.	Removal of Adverse Material.
After three (3) years have elapsed following a written statement or disciplinary action and the employee remains in continuous active service and has received performance evaluations of satisfactory or better the City will, upon the written request to the Department Head by the individual employee, remove all such documents from the employee's file. The documents will be placed in a file which is kept only for the purpose of retention of evidence in the event the City needs such records to defend itself. Such files shall be maintained by and access limited to the Legal Department staff for the purpose of defending for legal disputes.
ARTICLE 11 LEAVES
Section 11.1.	Personal Convenience Leave.
Each full-time employee shall be granted sixteen (16) hours Personal Convenience Leave each fiscal year (May 1 - April 30). Such Personal Convenience Leave may be taken in increments of one (1) hour at the convenience of the employee subject to the discretion of his or her supervisor. Personal Convenience Leave may not be accumulated from one fiscal year to another. CSOs will schedule Personal Convenience Leave time no more than sixty (60) days prior to the requested date, nor request time less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the requested date. The twenty-four hour notice may be waived with supervisor approval. Personal
-26-
Convenience Leave will not be paid out at time of separation for newly hired probationary employees.
Section 11.2.	Sick Leave.
Sick Leave Base and Accrual. Sick Leave may be used by an employee for his or her own injury or illness or for an injury or illness of the employee's spouse, child or dependent. Employees are eligible to use up to 40 hours of sick leave for the injury or illness of their parent or stepparent in a fiscal year.
All full-time employees shall have a base of sick leave as accumulated prior to the effective date of this Agreement. Employees shall accrue from their date of hire at a rate of eight (8) hours each month up to a maximum of 960 hours of sick leave. Employees hired prior to July 14, 2014 shall accrue from their date of hire at a rate of two and one-half (2%) days each month for his or her first nine (9) months of employment, after which it shall accrue at a rate of one (1) day each month up to a maximum of 960 hours of sick leave.
Employees hired prior to May 1, 2009 shall have 50% of their monthly unused accrued sick time above 960 hours paid into the Retirement Health Saving (RHS) account. Such contributions will be made on a monthly basis.
Sick Leave Buy Back. All employees hired prior to May 1,2009 who retire or leave the employment of the City under honorable circumstances, who have seventy-five (75) years
-27-
of combined service and age with a minimum of fifteen (15) years of continuous service (ex: 60 years old, 15 years of service or 50 years of age and 25 years of service) as a City employee, shall be paid at their final hourly rate for all accumulated unused sick leave. Such sick leave up to a maximum of 1440 hours including any supplemental sick leave, if applicable, will be paid into the employee’s Retirement Health Savings (RHS) account.
Absence of more than Three (3) Consecutive Days or For any absence of more than three (3) consecutive days, unless sick leave abuse is suspected as detailed below, Human Resources will require the employee to submit a statement from a medical professional stating that he or she has treated the employee for the illness or disability which kept the employee from duty and that the employee was unable to perform the duties of his or her employment within the whole period he or she was absent from duty. In the case of an illness or disability of an employee’s spouse, child or dependent which causes an absence by the employee of more than three (3) consecutive days, unless sick leave abuse is suspected as detailed below, Human Resources will require a statement from a medical professional stating that he or she has treated the employee’s spouse, child or dependent for the illness or disability which kept the employee from duty. CSO who is unable to report to work
-28-
because of illness must notify their supervisor based on established protocol at least one (1) hour prior to the beginning of their shift, with the exception of the first shift of the day will provide two (2) hours’ notice.
Sick Leave Abuse Employees who are suspected of abuse of sick leave may be required to provide verification for all sick leave absences and may be required as a condition of continued employment. If an employee is unable to provide verification of absences discipline may be imposed. Some examples of sick leave abuse include.
1.	a pattern of sick leave usage such as repeated use of sick leave in conjunction with regular days off, approved leave days or holidays without a physician’s statement.
2.	a pattern of sick leave usage such as repeated use of sick leave on a particular day of the week.
3.	repeated use of sick leave benefits as they are earned, without a physician’s statement.
4.	use of more sick leave than accrued in any twelve (12) month period, without a physician’s statement
5.	using sick leave and being seen engaged in activities which indicate ability to work.
Section 11.3.	Bereavement Leave.
Any eligible employee may be absent from work for a period of up to three (3) business days due to a death in the immediate family. Immediate family is defined as: mother,
-29-
father (which includes stepparents or legal guardians); mother-in-law; father-in-law; husband; wife; sister; brother, sister-in-law; brother-in-law; child; grandchild or grandparents (on both sides). Department Heads, after consultation with the Human Resources Department, may grant additional time in unusual circumstances.
The City of Bloomington will grant employees paid time off from work in the event of the death of someone close to them. The amount of time off will depend upon the circumstances and the personal needs of the employee and is at the discretion of the Department Head or his or her representative. Every reasonable effort should be made by the employee to keep his or her supervisor informed of their schedule and minimize the disruption to the department.
Section 11.4.	Injury Leave.
(a)	An employee's eligibility for payment of sixty-five (65) job injury days leave will be dependent upon a determination of the State Industrial Commission, or by the applicable court if an appeal is taken from the State Industrial Commission. An employee injured on the job shall be paid, during his or her time of temporary total disability in addition to temporary total disability benefits under the Worker's Compensation Act, an amount which when added to his or her temporary total disability check, equals the amount of his or her regular paycheck, less federal and state
-30-
withholding taxes. It is the intent of this paragraph that an injured employee be made whole and not suffer any loss in net pay as a result of the injury. Employees must have a doctor’s note indicating they are unable to work in order to be eligible for job injury leave.
(b)	Period Not Covered by Worker's Compensation. Charges shall be made against sick leave accrued for any waiting period not covered by Worker's Compensation.
(c)	Use of Sick Leave and Vacation. After the payment and use of sixty-five (65) job injury days, charges shall be made against sick leave accrued, if any; and the employee may elect to use his or her accumulated vacation after sick leave accrued is exhausted.
(d)	Contested Injuries. Charges may be made against sick leave accrued, if any, in any case the City is contesting that the injury occurred on the job. In the event that the State determines in favor of the employee, sick leave up to sixty-five (65) job injury days so charged shall be credited to the employee's sick leave accrued balance and all payments in excess of temporary total disability payments as provided above shall be allocated to injury leave. In the event eligibility for payment is denied by the Industrial Commission, the employee shall be eligible to utilize sick leave accrued, if any, retroactive to the date of his or her injury and vacation leave.
-31-
(e)	Reports and Releases. All employees who are injured on the job must file an injury report with the employee's supervisor the day of the accident. The City may require the injured employee to be seen by a licensed physician to determine eligibility for work.
Section 11.5.	Military Leave.
Military leave, including reinstatement, shall be granted in accordance with applicable law.
Section 11.6.	Jury Duty.
Any employee covered by this Agreement who is called for jury duty shall be excused from work for the days/hours on which he or she serves. He or she shall receive, for each day/hours of jury duty on which he or she otherwise would have worked, the difference between the normal daily rate of pay he or she would be entitled to during such period and the payment he or she receives for jury duty. The eligible employee will present proof of jury duty hours and of the amount of pay received thereof. If employees are released from jury duty prior to the end of their scheduled workday they shall contact their supervisor for reporting instructions.
Section 11.7.	Leave Without Pay.
Employees covered by this Agreement may request in writing a leave of absence from the City Manager. The City Manager may grant at his discretion a leave of absence to an employee who has been in the bargaining unit for not less
-32-
than one (1) year, for such a period as he sees fit, not to exceed one (1) year. Leaves of absence shall not be granted to employees to accept remunerative employment elsewhere unless with the express written permission of the City Manager.
(a)	During the employee's approved leave of absence, his or her position may be filled by a limited term appointment, temporary promotion, or temporary reassignment of an employee.
(b)	Once a leave of absence has been granted, the employee may not return to work until the leave of absence has expired. However, an employee may request to return to work prior to the expiration of the previously approved leave of absence. An early return to work will be at the discretion of the City. If the leave was for a medical condition a medical release must be provided to Human Resources.
Section 11.8.	Leave of Absence to Accept Full-time
Position with Union.
In the event an employee accepts full-time employment with the Union, he or she may apply for a leave of absence in accordance with Section 11.7. Leave Without Pay of this Agreement.
Section 11.9.	FMLA and ADA.
The City and the Union understand the responsibility of both parties to work within the requirements of FMLA and ADA and both parties agree to work together to comply with
-33-
both of the Acts. Effective January 1, 2015 qualifying FMLA events will run concurrent with sick leave, as permitted by FMLA. Employees will be responsible for obtaining the necessary paperwork.
Section 11.10.	Wellness Day.
In the spirit of promoting wellness, employees will be eligible for one (1) day of paid time off that can be earned per fiscal year (from May 1 - April 30). An employee earning a day may use it at anytime during the next fiscal year with approval of their Department Head. A Wellness Day cannot be rolled over into future years and must be used in a full day increment. In order to earn a Wellness Day an employee must accomplish the standards outlined in the Employee Handbook.
Section 11.11.	Court Days.
In recognition of the inconvenience endured by CSOs because of subpoenas, CSOs are granted sixteen (16) hours paid leave per fiscal year. Court Days may not be accumulated from one fiscal year to another. A CSO will schedule Court Days no more than sixty (60) days prior to the requested date, nor request time less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the requested date. The twenty-four (24) hour notice may be waived with supervisor approval. CSO’s hired after August 26, 2013 will be ineligible for Court Days.
-34-
Section 11.12.	Restricted Duty Status.
When, at any time during a period of paid sick or injury leave, the employee is released to perform restricted duty work by his physician or other competent recognized medical authority, the City may assign the employee to any restricted duty work available provided that:
(1)	every effort shall be made to provide such tasks within the bargaining unit;
(2)	lacking bargaining unit restricted duty work, the City may assign the employee to non-bargaining unit work for a period not to exceed five hundred twenty (520) hours worked at the employee's current rate of pay;
(3)	seniority shall continue to accrue during the period of such restricted duty;
(4)	any employee required to return to work under restricted duty and who is not allowed to complete the day for some physical reason shall be credited with actual performance hours and actual sick or job injury hours as the case may dictate;
(5)	bargaining unit employees on restricted duty working in their normal job classification shall be eligible for
-35-
overtime duties not specifically excluded by the doctor's conditions of restricted duty.
At the end of the five hundred twenty (520) hours worked (65 days), the restricted duty status shall be reviewed and the assignment may be renewed for one additional period of five hundred twenty (520) hours worked.
At any time during the period of restricted duty, should the employee be fully recovered and capable of performing his or her regular duties, the period of restricted duty shall cease. Employee hours may be required to be adjusted during the restricted duty assignment. Employees working first shift will not be required to work second or third shift.
Employees who are taking prescribed or over-the-counter medication that experience adverse side effects which interfere with the employee's ability to perform his or her normal duties may be temporarily reassigned with pay to other more suitable duties.
ARTICLE 12	SENIORITY
Section 12.1.	Definition.
For purposes of this Agreement, seniority shall accrue from the last date of full-time continuous hire of an employee in the bargaining unit. Employees who have worked parttime on a continuous basis shall receive credit for such parttime employment with the City using a presumption that the
-36-
employee worked twenty (20) hours per week when he or she worked on a part-time basis. The actual number of calendar days worked by the employee while in part-time status shall be calculated and divided by half to arrive at that employee's last date of "full-time" continuous hire for seniority purposes. Annually, the City will provide a list of employees, with their name, address, social security number and date of hire to the Treasurer for Union and LIUNA purposes. The City will notify the Union of any new members of the bargaining unit. Bargaining unit employees shall notify the City and Local 362 of any address changes.
New employees hired after May 1, 2009 will use their full-time date of hire for determining their longevity and leave accruals.
Section 12.2.	Seniority Principle.
In all cases of layoffs when working forces are being decreased, and recalls when working forces are increased, where employees are substantially equal in ability and qualifications, seniority shall be the determining factor.
Section 12.3.	Probationary Period.
Each employee shall be considered a probationary employee for his or her first six (6) months of continuous service with a one month mutual extension, after which his or her seniority shall date back to his or her continuous fulltime date of hire in the bargaining unit. There shall be no
-37-
seniority among probationary employees, and they may be laid off, discharged, or otherwise terminated at the sole discretion of the City. Any time loss in excess of ten (10) business days, for whatever reason, occurring during this probationary period will extend probation by an amount of time equal to the amount of time loss. An employee who is promoted or transferred to a different job within this unit shall not be considered a newly hired probationary employee.
Section 12.4.	Promotions and Vacancies.
Promotions to bargaining unit positions in the City shall be based on merit and fitness taking into consideration the appropriate emphasis on experience and, if necessary, the results of a written and/or oral examination.
All vacated or newly authorized bargaining unit positions shall be posted for five (5) business days at various locations including bulletin boards or electronically within departments. The job description for the position will be included in the posting. Any City employee seeking consideration for filling announced vacancies shall submit a bid sheet to the Human Resources Department along with any additional information (e.g., resumes, certificates, etc.) prior to the deadline. This Section shall not serve to limit the discretion or authority of the Human Resources Director to advertise job vacancies and receive outside applications.
-38-
To be eligible to bid, any full-time employee must have successfully completed the probationary period in the position currently occupied by the employee; part-time employees must satisfy the working requirements identified below.
All qualifications being equal, priority in selection will be based on the seniority principle as follows:
(1)	regular full-time employees in the bargaining unit having completed their probationary period;
(2)	part-time bargaining unit employees in the same job class and within the same department with a minimum aggregate of twelve months parttime service;
(3)	part-time bargaining unit employees in other job classes and departments having the requisite skills with a minimum aggregate of eighteen months part-time service.
When applying the seniority principle as set forth above, only the actual time an employee has worked continuously for the City as a full-time employee shall be used to calculate seniority.
An employee who is transferred or promoted to a position (whether or not supervisory) within the City shall have the privilege of returning to his or her former position or its equivalent without loss of seniority, provided he or she returns within the first sixty (60) calendar days following
-39-
such transfer or promotion. Management also has the right to send an employee back to his or her previous position at any time during the employee's six-month probationary period in the new position. An employee shall be restored to the same rate of pay for the position he or she returns to as the employee received for that position prior to the initial transfer or promotion. An employee shall not suffer any loss of seniority for returning to his or her position.
Section 12.5.	Layoff and Recall Procedure.
In the event of a reduction in the working force, employees shall be laid off in accordance with the seniority principle set forth in Section 12.2 Seniority Principle of this Agreement. In the event of an increase in the working force in a job classification following a reduction, employees will be recalled in the reverse order of their removal or displacement as the need for additional employees presents itself, provided they are qualified to perform the work available.
Section 12.6.	Termination of Seniority.
Seniority and the employment relationship shall be terminated when an employee:
(a)	quits; or
(b)	is discharged; or
(c)	is absent for three (3) consecutive days without notifying the City; or
-40-
(d)	is laid off from work for six (6) months plus one (1) additional month for each year of service up to a maximum of one (1) year. Seniority shall accumulate during such absence; or
(e)	is laid off and fails to report for work within three (3) day after having been recalled; however, in the event the employee appears before the expiration of three (3) days, the City may grant an extension of time to report if the employee has a justifiable reason for delay; or
(f)	does not report for work within forty-eight (48) hours after the termination of an authorized leave of absence. Service broken under this Section may be reestablished if the employee can show that extraordinary circumstances prevented his or her timely return.
ARTICLE 13	BENEFITS
Section 13.1.	Physical Fitness Incentive.
The City of Bloomington will pay upon receipt of membership verification one hundred and fifty dollars ($150) toward the annual dues at any physical fitness center designated by the City for any full-time or part-time employee covered by this Agreement.
Section 13.2.	Group Insurance Plan.
(a)	The City agrees to pay eighty percent (80%) of the full health insurance premium for employee coverage and seventy-three (73%) of the full health insurance premium for Employee +1 and Family for group health insurance under
-41-
the City of Bloomington Employee Health Care Plan for all benefited employees.
(Example of Family Coverage: Full family coverage premium X 73% equals City share; full family coverage premium X 27% equals employees share.)
(b)	The City agrees to pay fifty percent (50%) of the dental insurance premium for both employee and/or dependent coverage for group dental insurance under the City of Bloomington Dental Care Plan for all full-time employees.
(c)	In any year in which the total amount of medical/dental benefits paid is more than one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the average amount paid out over the past five (5) years, the City shall have the right to negotiate the type of benefits available under the City of Bloomington Employee Health/Dental Care plan.
(d)	No changes in the level of benefits shall be made except by mutual agreement of the parties unless triggered by the following paragraph.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article, the City may make such necessary changes as it reasonably believes are necessary to insurance benefit levels so such coverage will (1) comply with the Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) and any other federal or state health care laws; (2) avoid the imposition, directly or indirectly, of an excise tax for high-cost coverage (“Cadillac Tax”) under the ACA or any
-42-
similar state or federal legislation or regulation; or (3) ensure the City is not subject to any penalties or fees because employees are eligible to obtain insurance through a health insurance exchange in accordance with the ACA or any federal or state health care law(s). The City and the Union will meet during the term of this Agreement to propose changes and amendments to the City’s Group Health Insurance plans. If such changes are deemed necessary by the City, the City will provide the Union with written notice of such proposed changes and provide evidence supporting the need for the changes and an opportunity to discuss the changes with the City prior to their adoption. The City may not institute such changes for members of the bargaining unit unless such changes are instituted for all other City unrepresented employees.
If the City is required to pay an excise tax or penalty under the Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) or any similar state or federal legislation or regulation for any coverage options, then the employee’s monthly insurance contributions will be increased on a dollar-for-dollar basis to offset the amount of the tax/penalty paid by the City.
(e)	The City and the Union may meet during the term of this Agreement to propose changes and amendments to the City of Bloomington Employee Health/Dental Insurance Plans.
-43-
(f)	The Union will appoint an employee representative to the Health Insurance Committee.
(g)	The City agrees to provide $25,000 in group term life insurance for each full-time employees.
Section 13.3.	Tuition Reimbursement.
Employees may receive either full or partial tuition reimbursement provided the following conditions are met:
(a)	The City will reimburse an employee for part or all of the cost of tuition and any required books for a college degree under the following conditions:
(1)	the employee notifies the Department Head prior to registration of his or her intent to claim tuition reimbursement for the course;
(2)	the course is required or is part of a required sequence leading to an undergraduate degree in an appropriate field of study, or is determined by the Department Head in his or her discretion to be of benefit to the Department;
For purposes of this subsection, "part of a required sequence" refers to specific related courses which are required for completion of the curriculum in the employee's major field of study; including "core" or general electives required by the institution for the award of a Bachelor's degree unless it otherwise qualifies for reimbursement under this subsection;
-44-
(3)	Employees should request tuition reimbursement from their Department Head by August 1, in order to be eligible for funds for the following fiscal year. If tuition reimbursement funds are approved in the budget by Council written authorization from the Department Head shall be forwarded to Human Resources on a tuition reimbursement form.
(b)	At the end of any course eligible for tuition reimbursement under this Section, the City will reimburse the employee for tuition, fees, and required books according to the following schedule:
100% for a grade of A
100% for a grade of B
75% for a grade of C or Pass on Pass/Fail option 0% for a grade of D or lower
(c)	Any employee who leaves City service within one (1) year of receiving reimbursement will refund to the City the amount reimbursed. This sum may be withheld from the final paycheck.
Section 13.4.	LIUNA Pension.
Retroactive to May 1, 1999, the City will make a twelve cent ($.12) per hour per employee contribution to LIUNA Pension. Effective November 1, 2000, the employer contribution shall be increased an additional six cents ($.06) per hour per employee. The employer contribution shall be increased an additional six cents ($.06) per hour per employee beginning on November 1, 2001, November 1,
-45-
2002 and November 1, 2003 (the final employer contribution rate will thus be thirty-six cents ($.36) per hour on November 1, 2003). Any additional pension increases will be paid by the City in lieu of wages which would otherwise have been paid to employees. Employer contributions shall not be made for overtime hours. Such increases shall be shown as an employer contribution. Additional information is contained in Appendix A in regard to LIUNA Pension Contributions.
Section 13.5	CSO Uniforms and Clothing.
The City will furnish and maintain employees with five (5) long sleeve shirts and five (5) short sleeve shirts. Uniforms will be replaced on a worn out basis. CSO’s are required to wear uniforms while at work, except if in court.
ARTICLE 14	SUBCONTRACTING
It is the general policy of the City to continue to utilize its employees to perform work they are qualified to perform. However, the City reserves the right to contract out any work it deems necessary in the interest of efficiency, economy, improved work product or emergency. Except where an emergency exists, before the City changes its policy involving the overall subcontracting of work in a general area, where such policy change amounts to a loss of bargaining unit employees, other than through attrition, the City will notify the Union and offer the Union an opportunity
-46-
to discuss (not bargain) the desirability of contracting such work prior to making a decision. The City will provide no less than forty-five (45) calendar days’ written notice to the Union, except in emergency situations. At the Union’s request, the City will provide to the Union all reasonably available and substantially pertinent information in conformance with applicable law. At the Union’s request, the parties will meet for the purpose of reviewing the City’s contemplated actions and Union alternatives to the contemplated subcontract, but in no event will such obligation delay the City’s actions. If the City decides to subcontract the work, it will notify the Union of its decision.
When the subcontracting of such work performed by bargaining unit members will subject an employee to layoff, Sections 12.2. Seniority Principle and Section 12.5. Lay off and Recall Procedure will apply. If no opening or vacancy exists within the bargaining unit, the displaced employee will have the opportunity to apply for other vacancies within the City. The City shall have the right to implement its decision prior to the completion of impact or effects bargaining, as requested by the Union, to the extent the implementation of the decision does not prohibit meaningful bargaining over the impact or effect of the City’s decision.
-47-
ARTICLE 15	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 15.1.	Management Rights.
It is recognized that the City has and will continue to retain the rights and responsibilities to direct the affairs of the City in all of its various aspects. Among the rights retained by the City are the City's right to direct the working forces; to plan, direct, and control all the operations and services of the City; to determine the methods, means, organizations, and number of personnel by which such operations and services are to be conducted; to determine whether goods or services shall be made or purchased; to make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations; to change or eliminate existing methods, equipment, or facilities provided, however, that the exercise of any of the above rights shall not conflict with any of the express written provisions of this Agreement.
Section 15.2.	Emergency Conditions.
If in the sole discretion of the Mayor it is determined that extreme civil emergency conditions exist, including, but not limited to, riots, civil disorders, tornado conditions, floods, financial emergency, or other similar catastrophes, the provisions of this Agreement may be temporarily suspended by the Mayor or the City Council during the time of the declared emergency conditions; provided that wages shall
-48-
not be suspended nor shall this Section limit an employee's right to invoke the Grievance Procedure over the issue of pay.
ARTICLE 16	SAVINGS
If any provision of this Agreement is subsequently declared by the proper legislative or judicial authority to be unlawful, unenforceable, or not in accordance with applicable laws, all other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the duration of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17	ENTIRE AGREEMENT
This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties and concludes collective bargaining on any subject expressly covered by the terms of this Agreement except, however, the parties may mutually agree in writing to supplement and/or modify the terms of this Agreement during its term. The parties agreement to this provision shall not be construed as waiving any of their respective rights or obligations to negotiate as may be required by the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act as to:
(1)	the impact of the exercise of the City's management rights as set forth herein on any terms and conditions of employment unless expressly waived in the Agreement; or
(2)	as to any decision to change any terms or conditions of employment not expressly covered
-49-
by the terms of this Agreement that are mandatory subjects of bargaining.
ARTICLE 18	TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall be effective as of the 1st day of May, 2015, and shall remain in full force and effect until the 30th day of April, 2017. It shall be automatically renewed from month to month thereafter unless either party shall notify the other in writing at least ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary date that it desires to modify this Agreement. In the event that such notice is given, negotiations shall not begin later than sixty (60) days prior to the anniversary date. This Agreement shall remain in full force and be effective during the period of negotiations and until notice of termination of this Agreement is provided to the other party in the manner set forth in the following paragraph.
In the event that either party desires to terminate this Agreement, written notice must be given to the other party not less than ten (10) days prior to the desired termination date which shall not be before the anniversary date set forth in the preceding paragraph. IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have set their hands this 28th day of April , 2015.
-50-
LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 362 SUPPORT STAFF
___Cx/d	P____________
GREAT PLAINS LABORERS’ DISTRICT COUNCIL
-51-
Appendix A - LIUNA AGREEMENT
The City and Union agree to select the “Preferred Schedule” from the LIUNA funding rehabilitation plan. The selection of the Preferred Schedule will be retroactive to February 1, 2011.
1.	All contributions to the LIUNA pension will be funded as described in Section 13.4 LIUNA Pension of the Support Staff agreement. The City’s contributions to the fund shall not be increased beyond the amounts described in those sections of the agreements.
Increases in the pension costs will be paid in lieu of wages which would otherwise have been paid to the employees.
2.	Retroactive cost increases that are greater than the City’s contribution limit will be deducted from the employees’ paychecks.
3.	Upon ratification of this agreement by the City Council and the Union membership, the parties will execute the attached addendum to the collective bargaining agreements.
ADDENDUM TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Whereas the undersigned Union and Employer are parties to a collective bargaining agreement that provides for contributions to the Laborers' National (Industrial) Pension Fund; and
Whereas, the Pension Fund's Board of Trustees has adopted a Funding Rehabilitation Plan ("Plan"), dated July 26, 2010, to improve the Fund's funding status over a period
-52-
of years as required by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 ("PPA"); and
Whereas, a copy of the Plan has been provided to the Union and the Employer; and
Whereas, the Plan, in accordance with the PPA, requires that the signatories to every collective bargaining agreement providing for contributions to the Pension Fund adopt one of the Schedules included in the Plan; and
Whereas, the Union and the Employer have agreed to adopt the Plan's Preferred Schedule and wish to document that agreement;
It is hereby agreed by the undersigned Union and Employer as follows:
1.	This Addendum shall be considered as part of the collective bargaining agreement. The provisions of this Addendum supersede any inconsistent provision of the collective bargaining agreement, except that the City’s contribution rates shall be governed by Section 13.4 of the bargaining agreement.
2.	The current contribution rate to the Pension Fund of $ .36 per hour shall be increased by 10% to the rate of $ .40 per hour effective February 1, 2011. On each anniversary of that effective date for the term of the collective bargaining agreement, the contribution rate then in effect shall be increased by another 10% (rounded to the next highest penny). The City’s portion of this contribution rate shall be governed by Section 13.4 of the bargaining agreement.
3.	With regard to benefits under the Pension Fund, the Plan's Preferred Schedule provides that the Pension Fund's current plan of benefits for the group will remain unchanged with the following exceptions:
a)	Benefit accruals for periods after adoption of the Preferred Schedule will be based on the contribution rate in effect immediately before the Preferred
-53-
Schedule goes into effect for the group, not on the increased rates required by this Schedule.
b)	Effective April 30, 2010 and until the Rehabilitation Plan succeeds, the Pension Fund is not permitted by the PPA to pay any lump sum benefits or pay any other benefit in excess of the monthly amount that would be payable to the pensioner under a single life annuity. This means that the Fund must suspend its Partial Lump Sum option, Social Security Level Income option, and Widow/Widower Lump Sum option. Exceptions are made for a lump sum cash-out of a participant or beneficiary whose entire benefit entitlement has an actuarial value of $5,000 or less and for the Fund's' $5,000 death benefit.
c)	The Board of Trustees continues to have discretionary authority to amend the Rules &Regulations of the Pension Fund, including the Rehabilitation Plan, within the bounds of applicable law.
4.	The Plan as a whole is deemed to be a part of the Preferred Schedule.
5.	This Addendum shall be effective as of, February 1, 2011, which date is the same date on which the contribution rate increase under paragraph 2 is first effective.
To acknowledge their agreement to this Addendum, the Union and the Employer have caused their authorized representatives to place their signatures below:
-54-
-55-
Appendix B - Wage Table
Support Staff Wage Table
May 1, 2015
	Base	5 years	10 years	15 years	20 years	25 years	30 years
SUPP STAFF I	$ 11.26	$ 11.82	$ 12.05	$ 12.27	$ 12.50	$ 12.72	$ 12.94
SUPP STAFF II	$ 12.56	$ 13.19	$ 13.44	$ 13.69	$ 13.94	$ 14.20	$ 14.45
SUPP STAFF III	$ 14.10	$ 14.81	$ 15.08	$ 15.37	$ 15.65	$ 15.93	$ 16.22
SUPP STAFF IV	$ 15.93	$ 16.73	$ 17.05	$ 17.36	$ 17.67	$ 18.00	$ 18.32
SUPPSTAFF V	$ 17.47	$ 18.36	$ 18.69	$ 19.05	$ 19.41	$ 19.76	$ 20.09
Support Staff Wage Table
May 1, 2016
	Base	5 years	10 years	15 years	20 years	25 years	30 years
SUPP STAFF I	$ 11.51	$ 12.09	$ 12.32	$ 12.55	$ 12.78	$ 13.01	$ 13.23
SUPP STAFF II	$ 12.84	$ 13.49	$ 13.74	$ 14.00	$ 14.25	$ 14.52	$ 14.78
SUPP STAFF III	$ 14.42	$ 15.14	$ 15.42	$ 15.72	$ 16.00	$ 16.29	$ 16.59
SUPP STAFF IV	$ 16.29	$ 17.11	$ 17.43	$ 17.75	$ 18.07	$ 18.41	$ 18.73
SUPPSTAFF V	$ 17.86	$ 18.77	$ 19.11	$ 19.48	$ 19.85	$ 20.20	$ 20.54
-56-