COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ARGEEMENT
LABORERS LOCAL 397
GRANITE CITY / EDWARDSVILLE / HIGHLAND
GREATER MADISON COUNTY ILLINOIS
AUGUST 1, 2013 THROUGH JULY 31, 2016
SIBA
Laborers Local 397 SIBA Building / Heavy / Highway Agreement August 1, 2013 through July 31, 2016
INDEX
Article No. 1 : Strike Prevention	Page 2
Article No. 2 : Employer Rights	Page 2
Article No. 3 : Union Bargaining / Referral Rules	Page 2
Article No. 4 : Dispute Remedy	Page 5
Article No. 5 : Discharge Not For Cause	Page 6
Article No. 6 : Jurisdiction and Scope of Work	Page 6
Article No. 7 : Hourly Wages / Benefits	Page 13
Article No. 8 : Hours Worked	Page 15
Article No. 9 : Shift Work	Page 16
Article No. 10 : Tools	Page 17
Article No. 11: Foremen	Page 17
Article No. 12: Ice Water / Steward	Page 17
Article No. 13: Surety Bond	Page 18
Article No. 14: Sub-Contractor Clause	Page 18
Article No. 15: Lay-off / Discharge	Page 18
Article No. 16: 4 and 8	Page 18
Article No. 17: Monthly Harmony Meetings	Page 19
Article No. 18: Drug Testing	Page 19
Article No. 19: Signature Page
Page 20
PAGE 1 of 20
LABORERS NO, 397 EDWARDSVILLE / GRANITE CITY IL EXPIRES 7/31/16
This Memorandum of Agreement made and entered into by and between
________________________________________________________________________, here in after referred to as EMPLOYER, and LOCAL NO. 397 OF THE LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA OF GRANITE CITY, EDWARDSVILLE, HIGHLAND MADISON, NAMEOKI, MITCHELL, VENlCE, & GREATER MADISON COUNTY ILLINOIS, VICINITY and TOWNSHIPS, for Building/Heavy/Highway Construction work.
ARTICLE NO. 1
This Agreement is entered into to prevent strikes and lockouts and to facilitate peaceful adjustment of grievances and disputes between employer and employees, and to prevent waste and unnecessary and avoidable delays and expense, and for the further purpose of at all times securing for the employer sufficient skilled workmen, and so far as possible to be in accordance with the conditions herein set forth, and at the wages herein agreed upon, that stable conditions may prevail in Building/Heavy/Highway Construction, that building costs may be as low as possible, consistent with fair wages and conditions, and further establish the necessary procedure by which these ends may be accomplished.
ARTICLE NO. 2
Both parties to this agreement believe that a Uniform Agreement if adopted by all employers and all unions would still further the interests of the building industry and agree to use their best efforts to bring about such sections, and further believe that such Uniform Agreement should contain the following principles:
1.	The Employer shall have the right to determine the number of men required on any project.
2.	That there shall be no limitations to the amount of work a man shall perform during the working day.
3.	That there shall be no restrictions on the use of machinery, tools or appliances.
4.	That there shall be no restrictions of use on any raw or manufactured materials except those where labor trouble is involved.
Whereas, the party of the first part, the contractor, is engaged in all classes of construction work and employs considerable labor, both semi-skilled and skilled.
Whereas, the party of the second part, known as Local Union No. 397, of the LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION of NORTH AMERICA, has maintained certain wage scales.
ARTICLE NO. 3
3.1	The Employer recognizes the Union as the representative of all Laborers in its employ as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of Laborers for Building, Heavy
PAGE 2 of 20
and Highway Construction in its employ on all current projects and projects hereinafter undertaken within the territorial jurisdiction of this Union.
3.2	All present employees of the Contractors who are members of the Union on the date of the execution of this Agreement shall remain members of the Union during the term of this Agreement as a condition of continued employment subject to the provisions contained in Section 8(a)(3) and Section 8(b)(2) of the National Labor Relations Act as amended (1947). All other present employees shall, as a condition of employment, make application for and remain members of the Union within thirty (30) days following the effective date of this Agreement and shall maintain such membership during the term of this Agreement subject to the provisions contained in Section 8(a)(3) and Section 8(b)(2) of the NLRA as amended (1947). All new employees shall, as a condition of employment, apply for membership in the Union within thirty (30) days after hire or date of execution of this Agreement, whichever is later, and shall maintain membership in the Union thereafter subject to the provisions contained in Section 8(a)(3) and Section 8(b)(2) of the NLRA as amended (1947).
3.3	In order that the Employer shall have a competent working force and to promote efficiency and safety of operation, the Employer and the Union agree that:
(a)	The Union shall be the sole and exclusive source of referrals of applicants for employment.
(b)	The Local Union will maintain a referral list of registered applicants available for employment within the territorial jurisdiction of the Local Union.
(c)	Each applicant seeking referral shall fill out the Local Union’s “Application for Referral” setting forth the applicant’s work history, training, licenses, certifications, documentation, and other such information showing the applicant’s qualifications and skills. This application must be signed and dated by the applicant and shall be included in addition to the above name, telephone number and social security number. The Union shall not assume any responsibility for the correctness of the information the applicant presents in seeking referral, but in the event the applicant misrepresents such information, the applicant may be disqualified for referral. Failure to timely provide information and documentation may result in the applicant’s disqualification as to the work classifications listed in the applicant’s “Application for Referral”.
(d)	The Union shall establish a time, day, and place for registering for work in person, and this information shall be conspicuously posted in the Union office. An applicant’s registration with the Union shall be in effect for one business week, and the applicant must re-register in person each week.
(e)	The Employer shall request the Union to refer applicants as required, shall not solicit applicants directly, and shall not in any manner circumvent the Union in the recruitment of applicants for employment.
(f)	Applicants already employed in the industry within the geographic area covered by this contract shall be eligible for referral to another job provided that they appear personally for referral as required by this Article. No applicant shall be denied referral because they have been discharged or rejected by any other employer subject to this agreement.
(g)	The Employer in requesting referral of applicants shall specify to the Union such information as is deemed pertinent by the Employer in order to enable the Union to
make proper referral of applicants.
(h)	The Union shall refer to the Employer such applicants as are fit and competent to fulfill the requirements of the position to be filled, and who have the requisite experience and skills for fulfilling such position as specified by the Employer. Competency for a position shall be determined based on past experience in the work, required licenses, and other verified experience and skills germane to the position to be filled. These criteria shall be applied in an objective nondiscriminatory manner for all applicants.
(i)	Each working day, a daily referral list shall be prepared, showing the order in which applicants that day made personal application for referral.
PAGE 3 of 20
(j)	Referrals shall be made from those duly-registered applicants who are present at the Union hall at the time of referral.
(k)	In the event an applicant on the referral list refuses a referral for good cause, lacks required skills, or is otherwise not competent or fit to fulfill the position, the next available applicant on the referral list who is fit, competent and possesses the required skills shall be referred.
(1)	Apprentices shall be referred under a separate referral list, and shall be listed according to their apprenticeship year.
(m)The provisions of this Article shall be posted by the Employer at its premises where notices to employees and applicants are customarily posted and shall be posted by the Union at its offices where notices to applicants for referral are customarily posted.
(n)	The registration of and selection of applicants for referral shall not be based on or in any way affected by Union membership, by Union by-law’s, rules and regulations, constitutional provisions or any other aspect or obligation of Union membership; nor shall any supervisor in the employ of any Employer who holds Union membership be bound or in any way affected in the performance of his duty for the Employer by any obligation of Union membership, by-laws, rules and regulations, or constitution of the Union.
(o)	On any project where there is a question of transfer of Laborers, that question will be resolved by a job conference prior to commencement of a project. Notwithstanding any other Article or provision of this Agreement, it shall be permissible for the Employer and the Local Union to agree to movement of individual laborers from project to project within the jurisdiction of the Local Union. Provisions of this section shall be applied in a good faith manner by parties to this Agreement.
(p)	No Employer shall be permitted to transfer key employees from one Local Union’s geographical jurisdiction to another Local’s jurisdiction.
(q)	The Employer reserves and shall have the right to accept or reject, to employ or not to employ, any person furnished by the Union, or to discharge, for just cause any employee who has been accepted but who subsequently proves unsatisfactory to the Employer.
(r)	The Union shall maintain records of all job referrals which shall be available to applicants for review, upon reasonable request. However, the required application form filed by individual applicants shall be confidential. Such individual application forms shall be subject to review by an applicant for relevant information only if that applicant alleges that another applicant was improperly referred to a job vacancy based on alleged qualifications in preference to the applicant requesting the information.
(s)	There shall be no discrimination against any employee or applicant for reasons of age, race, sex, religion, national origin, color or status as a Vietnam-Era veteran.
3.4	An applicant for employment who is aggrieved by an action of the Union with respect to registration or referral under this provision or who is aggrieved by action of the Employer in connection with hire hereunder, may, within ten (10) days of the occurrence of the event which constitutes the basis for the grievance, file a written statement of the grievance with the Union
and the Employer. Upon such filing, the grievance shall be considered and disposition thereof
made within ten (10) days by a board consisting of a representative of the Union, a representative of the Employer, and an impartial chairman appointed jointly by the Employer and the Union. Such board shall consider the grievance and render a decision which shall be final and binding.
The board is authorized to issue procedure rules for the conduct of its business, but is not authorized to add to, subtract from, or modify any of the provisions relating to the referral arrangement. The cost of the third party shall be borne equally by all parties involved.
PAGE 4 of 20
3.5	This Article contains the entire understanding and agreement of the parties with respect to the referral of applicants, and any changes in this article by addition, deletion, amendment or modification must be reduced to writing and executed by both the Employer and the Union.
3.6	The Union shall indemnify and hold the Employer harmless against any and all claims, demands, suits, or liabilities that may arise solely out of the Union’s application of this section.
ARTICLE NO. 4
4.1	There shall be no stoppage of work on account of any differences which may occur between the Contractors and the Organization, including jurisdictional disputes.
4.2	The term Jurisdictional dispute shall mean any dispute, difference or disagreement involving the assignment of particular work to one class or craft of employees. This shall apply to all Employers and their Subcontractors.
4.3	Step 1: No later than two (2) days after the Employer is notified that a dispute exists, the Employer will meet with the Unions involved and attempt to resolve the dispute informally.
4.4	Step 2: In the event that there is no agreed resolution of dispute at Step 1, the Employer, within Two (2) days of the Step 1 meeting, shall assign the work as follows:
•	If the work is covered in an applicable agreement of record between the Local Unions involved, the assignment will be in accordance with such Agreement of Record.
•	In the event there is no applicable agreement of record, then the employer shall assign the work in accordance with Local Area Practice.
•	In the event that no Local Area Practice exists, the employer shall assign the work in accordance with Decisions of Record.
•	If none of the criteria listed in subparagraphs 1 - 3 are applicable, the employer may make the work assignment on the basis of Economy and Efficiency of operation, the well-being of the industry and the interests of the consumer.
•	Assignments of work shall be made only by the employer or his designated representative.
4.5	Step 3: If the dispute has not been resolved in accordance with the criteria established in Step 2, the Union may, within three (3) days of being notified of the work assignment, submit the dispute to Arbitration. An Arbitration hearing shall be held within seven (7) of the Union’s request for Arbitration. The parties have jointly designated the Federal Mediation and Conciliation service to arbitrate any dispute arising under this Article.
4.6	The Arbitrator has the Authority to render a final and binding decision in the case in deciding the dispute. The Arbitrator shall apply and follow the criteria set forth in Step 2, subparagraphs (1) through (4). The Arbitrator will issue a written decision within five (5) days from the date of the hearing explaining his/her findings regarding the applicability of the Step 2 work assignment criteria to the facts of the case.
4.7	If the Contractor refuses to adjust the dispute to comply with any decision, then the Contractor will be liable for back wages, fringe benefit contributions, and check-off of Union Dues commencing on the date of finality of the decision and continuing through the date of compliance.
PAGE 5 of 20
ARTICLE NO.5
5.1	For the purpose of Article No. 5, a grievance is defined as an employee discharged without cause.
5.2	A grievance shall be processed in the following manner,
•	Step 1 No later than two (2) days after the employee is terminated without cause, the Employer and the Union shall meet in an attempt to reach a settlement
•	Step 2 If the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved at Step 1, it must be submitted for mediation within five (5) business days. Both parties shall submit a written request to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) requesting the services of a mediator for grievance mediation. The grievance mediation shall be held at a time and place mutually agreeable to the parties and the mediator in an attempt to satisfactorily settle the grievance.
•	Proceedings before the mediator shall be informal, and he/she will have the right to meet jointly and/or separately with any person or persons at the grievance-mediation conference. The mediator shall assist the parties in an attempt to reach voluntary settlement. If the parties reach a settlement, the settlement shall be reduced to writing and signed by the parties.
•	The mediator shall act in a judicial, not legislative, capacity and shall have no right to amend, modify, nullify, ignore, add to nor subtract from the provisions of this Agreement. The mediator shall only consider and make decision with respect to the specific issue submitted to him/her.
•	The fees and expenses for the mediator’s services and a copy of the grievance hearing transcript for the mediator, if any, shall be borne equally by the Employer and the Union. Each party shall be responsible for compensating its’ own representatives and witnesses, and purchasing its own copy of the transcript.
5.3 The Employer agrees to the implementation and adoption of the LIUNA Code of Performance. All referral employees from the Union shall be full participants and abide by all rules, regulations and penalties as spelled out in the LIUNA Code of Performance. The goal of the Code of Performance is to ensure that the Union’s referred employees meet the highest standards of the industry.
ARTICLE NO. 6
6.1 The Union and the Employer agree that this contract shall cover the following jurisdiction of work and in addition, the Manual of Jurisdiction of October, 1961 and all future supplements adopted by the Laborers International Union of North America:
(a)	All laborers work, semi-skilled and skilled, in connection with the following: Tenders, hodcarriers and helpers for bricklayers, masons, plasterers, millwrights, carpenters, plumbers, steamfitters, operating engineers, cement finishers, civil engineers and other building construction crafts, where semi-skilled and skilled labor are connected therewith.
(b)	This contract shall apply to all semi-skilled and skilled labor pertaining to the construction of public roads, sewers, streets, sidewalks, bridges, oil and gas transportation lines and all connections and appurtenances thereto, on right-of-way and easement thereto, (except on sewer and pipe line work where an already approved contract now exists, which provides for a higher wage rate).
(c)	Streets, parking lots, sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be done under the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(d)	The Union shall control all Laborers' work that comes within its jurisdiction.
Page 6 of 20
(e)	The Contractors signatory to this agreement, or their supervision, shall not give or assign any portion of the work covered by the jurisdiction of Laborers' Local #397 to any other craft or organization.
(f)	The Employer shall assign the work to be performed in a manner that is not contrary to this agreement in accordance with established historical area practices of Laborers’ Local 397.
(g)	The removal for destruction of all asbestos by qualified Licensed Laborers from building, floors, machinery, or other structures (including mechanical systems). Erecting and dismantling of all sealed containment barriers prior to the encapsulation or removal operation. The hanging of all protective coverings for furniture, fixtures, etc. The cleanup and disposal of asbestos and other environmentally related material to be included. The set-up, operation and maintenance of any and all air-flow devices. (h) The handling and disposal of all hazardous and toxic materials (including but not limited to Hz Waste, Lead Abatement, Mold & Mildew, Toxic Spills, etc.) shall be performed exclusively by qualified licensed Laborers covered by this Agreement. Laborers shall perform all work in connection with mine, landfill reclamation, new landfill construction and expansion shall be under the sole jurisdiction of the Union party hereto.
(i)	All work pertaining to Asphalt shall come under the jurisdiction of the Laborers. This shall include the cooking, handling and preparation of Asphalt, tar, or other mastic type material. Laborers shall perform the following (but not limited to) all mixers, mixing plants, mixing of mastic materials, laying, raking or luting, cutting, patching, priming, cleaning, crack filling/sealing, any test drilling of all pavements. Setting of all asphalt curbs, parking blocks (regardless of material type) installation of embedded reflectors, and traffic protection shall be done exclusively by Laborers.
(j)	The handling, erection, cleaning, maintaining, loading, repair, and dismantling of all cement, concrete, rock, sand, gravel, asphalt, gunnite, sandblasting, or any other building material bins, mixers, skip boxes, hoppers, towers, portable or temporary, including batching plants for Concrete, Asphalt, and others materials, shall be the work of the Laborers. This to include all men necessary to operate said structure such as, pumper, lever men, weigh men, and the hooking and unhooking, flagging, signaling, or any other duties in the operation of said equipment. The placing of all divider boards and covers on batch trucks. The covering of all structures, material piles shall be the work of the Laborer.
(k)	The charging of all filters, tanks, boilers, drum, etc., with catalyst, the unloading, handling, and hoisting of filter rings, also the charging of all filter tanks or any other forms of filtering shall be the work of the Laborers.
(l)	The covering for weather protection of all tanks, buildings, furniture, fixtures, structures, accessories, vessels, machinery, equipment, material piles, etc., or similar items shall be the work of the Laborer. This includes complete or incomplete, permanent or temporary whether with tarpaulins, insulated batting, burlap, bisqueen, or similar materials is to include the installation, hanging, draping, placing, and securing of the same by any means such as tying', weighing, nailing', or wiring, the dismantling, moving, or storage of such covering or insulating material will be performed by the Laborers.
(m)	The cleaning of all buildings, structures, vessels, tanks, and similar items, whether by hand, power washing, or abrasive blasting shall be done by the Laborers. The washing of windows and cleaning of floor on new construction, alteration, remodeling, or renovation shall be included. The curing of all material, structures and buildings by artificial heat; and the manning and servicing of all equipment to perform this classification of work.
(n) Tending of all Carpenters. The driving of all grade stakes, building stakes, and concrete form stakes shall be performed by the Laborers. The removal of all false work, wrecking and removal of all walls, floors coverings regard less of type, partitions, doors, and doorways for alternation and/or remodeling work, removal of shelving, furniture, fixtures, chairs, and seating.
Page 7 of 20
This includes items to be scrapped or salvaged. The unloading and loading of all building and finish materials (including but not limited to wood and metal studs, drywall, ceiling tiles, flooring, windows, doors, etc.) to a general stock pile centrally located to the work being performed. All old or new furniture, appliances, partitions, table/countertops, seating, shelving, and fixtures, or similar items, whether assembled or disassembled shall be the work of the Laborers. This includes any fully or partially manufactured fixtures or similar items of any type. The contractor agrees that all material handling disputes will be settled by the language in the UNDERSTANDING OF AGREEMENT, ON HANDLING MATERIAL dated March 1965
(o)	The unloading, distribution, excavation, installation, laying, and joining of all telephone, electrical, fiber optic, communication, or any other type of conduit lines.
(p)	All concrete forms, regardless of type or whether they are to be used again, shall be stripped, removed, scrapped, salvaged, or wrecked by Laborers. Wrecking, stripping, dismantling shall include (but not be limited too) the removal of braces, shoring, wall ties, snap ties, cones, rods, column clamps, and any and all phases of
stripping or wrecking forms. Laborers shall remove all forms from concrete (weather by hand or power machinery) let down to the floor and/or moved back from the wall. The moving of all concrete forms to the next point of erection, or to the stockyard or scrap pile, shall be done by the Laborers. Rods, ties, cones, wire, and any other hardware, including scaffolding, scaffold boards, or work platforms, attached to the concrete forms in conjunction for the pouring of concrete into the forms, shall be removed as stripping proceeds. The cleaning and oiling of concrete forms shall be the work of the Laborers. The cleaning of lumber, including the pulling of nails and the unloading and distribution of lumber and wooden material shall be done by the
Laborer. This shall apply to all forms set by carpenters, finishers, or others, whether the forms are salvaged or scrapped. This also includes any forms constructed for pourable refractory material such as castable, aluminite, or any similar type materials. All concrete cleaning including but not limited to all lifting lugs, design stencils, design keyways, keyways, shall be the work of the Laborers.
(q)	All work necessary to properly service and tend the cement finisher, the driving of all stakes, the placing of all forms or screeds, including steel curb and gutter screeds to the point of installation. Any grades to be established during the operation of concrete pours shall be the work of the Laborer.
® The handling, pouring, placing, puddling, leveling off, blocking, "Bushing" striking off and vibrating of all concrete while concrete is being poured by any means necessary whether by hand or machinery. The signaling, handling, repairing, and operation of all concrete buckets and
buggies shall be done under the sole jurisdiction of the Laborers.
(s)Performance of all work necessary remedying defects in concrete caused by leakage, bulging, sagging or through difficulties of shifting forms. The hand mixing of all mortar and mortar materials for concrete finish and tending to cement finishers for all types of finishes.
(t)The placing and curing of all concrete by any mode, method, or means. The placing of all burlap, bisqueen, insulating blankets, or similar material used in the curing process. The installations of water lines for curing, cooling and also the installation, placing, maintaining of any type of artificially heated equipment to cure concrete shall be done in its entirety by the Laborers.
(u)The cleaning of concrete mixers, skips, hoppers and towers. The digging, unloading, loading and handling of lime and fire clay. The roughing of all concrete where spills are set and chipping tools are required in cleaning, whether mechanical or hand tools are used
(v) The application of any and all curing, hardeners, colors, sealing compound used on concrete
Shall be performed by the Laborer. The sawing of all expansion joints in concrete outside of a building or structure such as a roadway, parking lot, storage area, street, sidewalk, curb, gutter, Page 8 of 20
runway, or similar type area, and the caulking of the same shall be the work of the Laborers. This is understood to be whether the concrete is green or cured regardless of the type of saw used. The water proofing of any and all concrete, concrete footings, building/bridge or other foundations regardless of above or below ground.
(w)The hand mixing of all material used for repairs of defects in concrete finishes, and the tending and cleaning for all cement finishers tools necessary to the performance of their work. (x) Operating and maintenance of all concrete vibrators, handling and unloading all concrete materials and the aggregates of same, etc. The operation, handling, and repair of all concrete mixers, gunnite machines, concrete pumps, concrete saws, grout pumps, and their accessories shall be done by Laborers. The unloading, setting, lining, leveling, of all slab road forms and repairing of the same
(y) All Laborers working under the terms of this agreement may at the request of the Contractor work under the terms and conditions of the Laborers International “Concrete Specialist Agreement” covering all concrete work including finishing to be performed. (see wages)
(z) The cutting and burning of any/all scrap or already scrapped materials and the use of all types of welding equipment used to perform the work covered under the jurisdiction of this Agreement. This includes, but not limited to, oxy-acetylene, oxygen lance, Petro/Oxy-Gasoline torch, air-are, and similar types of equipment. All removal of debris, trash, rubbish, burning and disposing of all materials.
(aa) Demolition whether in whole or partially of all buildings, tanks, steel, concrete and other material structures, vessels, walls or any similar item(s) or material(s), shall be the work of the Laborer. Any such item aforementioned structure shall be removed in its entirety by the Laborers. No restriction as to location, weight, tools, or equipment used to remove and/or dispose of such item shall be placed upon the Laborers. The demolition, take-up, and reconditioning of old pipe shall also be included in the
jurisdiction of the Laborers work. This to include all water remove, sewer remove, petroleum, coal slurry, gas, or similar pipelines, whether mainline pipelines, distribution lines, or commercial, industrial, or residential pipelines.
(bb) The building, assembly, placing, dismantling, moving, and handling of all runways, chutes, lines, hoppers for concrete or rubbish, whether wood, metal, or plastic shall be the work of the Laborers.
(cc) All drilling, tending, setting, storage, detonation of all explosives regardless of type shall be the sole work of the Laborers.
(dd) All work on drilling, including wagon drills, dynamiting and blasting of any method. All Diamond Point Drilling, Star Drilling, whether run by hand, gas, hydraulics, mechanical, electrical, compressed air or any other device for precision or non-precision work shall be performed by the Laborer.
(ee) Laborers will do all work on drilling rigs such as pier foundation, vibrated stone pillars piling, core drilling, soil testing, and well drilling this to include wagon drills and any other type of drilling equipment whether powered by air, hydraulics, gas, or electricity.
(ff) The installation, fabrication, maintenance, and manning of all dewatering equipment, including pumps and well point systems (whether gas, diesel, electric, or air powered), men on foot valves and other power driven equipment in the operation of such machinery. The handling, placing, fabrication, including welding, fussing, and other means of joining pipe for discharge systems or suction lines of any kind pertaining to pumps, dewatering and/or dredging operations including marine and other river equipment shall come under the jurisdiction of the Laborers. There shall be a minimum of one Laborer present whenever dewatering system of any type is being operated. All pumps 3” or less regardless of type (diesel fuel, gasoline, electric, manual or other) shall be the exclusive work of the Laborers.
(gg) All revetment and river work, mattress head cable men, linemen, derrick boat and mattress Page 9 of 20
barge, deck hands, weavers, cable lacers, grade men and rip rappers, tenders and helpers for divers doing work under the jurisdiction of this Agreement Laborers shall be the deckhands on all floating rigs, work barges, work boats, safety boats, and dredges. The handling placing, anchoring, cleaning, tying of barges and other marine equipment on any work coming under the jurisdiction of this Agreement shall be the work of the Laborers. The handling of fuel to all of the aforementioned machinery, regardless of type of fuel, shall be by the deckhand. The raising of all levees, spotters on levees, dams, dikes, fire walls and flood control projects riprapping, in connection with the construction of all levees, dams, dikes, flood control projects, etc.
(hh) The use of building level, transit, laser beam, GPS, or other sighting, positioning device, or measuring device when used to establish line or grade. Grading all concrete floors, footings, sidewalks and yards, the handling of any and all runways and scaffolds for concrete. Any grades to be established during the operation of pouring the floor will be done in its entirety by Laborers. The use and operation of all equipment, including the televising and repairing for breaks, clogs, repairs, installations of plastic liners for all sewers and casings, whether manually or remotely.
(ii)	The unloading, distribution, installing of new, replacing of old, laying, joining, and pointing of all sanitary and storm sewer, trunk line, or building sewers whether concrete, plastic, clay, steel, ductile iron, or any other material shall be installed exclusively by the Laborers.
This shall be understood that all sewer lines 5 feet and beyond the outside of any building shall be installed under the jurisdiction and terms of this Agreement. Any & all building downspouts and gutter drains shall be installed exclusively by the Laborers including the final building connection jj) The shoring, bracing, cribbing, and sheeting of all sewer ditches, jacking pits/boring pits and manholes shall be installed by any means in its entirety by Laborers. Cribbing shall be done by Laborers working under the jurisdiction of this Agreement. Underpinning, shoring, blocking, raising, moving, and jacking of buildings, houses, bridges, tanks, vessels, and all other structures regardless of building materials, shall be the work of the Laborers.
(kk) All cleaning, sealing, wrapping, and doping of all types of piping. The doping and wrapping of pipe and the handling of all pipe skids. The application of all protective coverings by any means, including the brushing, rolling, spraying or by other application of protective material(s). (ll) The checking of all grades; the spotting, signaling and dumping of all truck loads; the taking of all tickets, the counting of loads whenever required. Grading for all concrete floors, footings, sidewalks and yards, the handling of any and all runways and scaffolds for concrete. Any grades to be established during the operation of pouring the floor will be done in its entirety by Laborers.
All clearing and site preparation, clearing of right of ways, removal of fences, digging, trimming, and grading of ditches, shall be the work of the Laborers.
(nn) The operation of all equipment and tools shall be performed exclusively by Laborers covered under this Agreement and such work shall be under the sole jurisdiction of the party hereto. This shall include but not be limited to: the manning of mechanical concrete & power buggies, all-terrain vehicles, conveyors, man lifts, trenchers, boring equipment, saws, vacuum excavators, handling of all hoses when vacuum trucks are used for any materials, conveyors, generator light plants, tillers, mowers, hydro seeder, sod-nailers, sod-nail launchers, straw blowers, snow blowers, sod cutters, aerators, detachers, any lawn and landscape maintenance equipment, augers, rollers, vibrators, compactors, floor sweepers, scrubbers, litter vacuums, brush chippers, stump cutters or similar items. The use of all surface preparation equipment such as shot blasters, scrubbers, grinders, planers, scalars, scarifies, and floor stripper no matter what type of material, concrete, asphalt, wood, vinyl, carpet, marble, ceramic, or etc. The operation of hoists, winches, by hand, electric, power, air, and hydraulic. This to include the setup, loading and unloading of such equipment, and fueling of the same. Any equipment used to move or stock any material on the site shall be performed by Laborers covered by this Agreement and such work shall be under the Union party hereto. This shall pertain to all tools or
Page 10 of 20 equipment regardless of whether ride-on, walk behind, remote controlled, motorized, and/or manual. Demolition of any structures, roadways, buildings, by any means or methods with no restrictions to the use of tools. The exclusive use of jackhammers, chipping guns, hell dogs, or any other electric, air driven, hydraulic tool for demolition shall be the exclusive jurisdiction of the Laborers.
The use of all jack hammers or paving breakers and all concrete removal. Where jack hammers are used, two (2) men are required for safety, and these two (2) men shall interchange and perform the cleanup work in connection with work of this kind. The operation of the Brokk 250, Case, John Deere or any other remote controlled breakers, or any other breaker that replaces traditional pavement breakers shall be performed by the Laborers. The operation of bobcats, forklifts and lulls.
(oo) Ground men on all cranes or other heavy equipment when clearing or when site preparation work is involved. The fueling, maintenance, set-up and cleaning of all equipment including all generators (gas or electric) for power tools, light trees, temporary lighting and/or air flow devices, operation of all concrete pumps and maintenance of same
(pp) All Laborers' work on all curb and gutter machines, the handling of all tools, working machinery, and appliances for any and all work covered by this Agreement.
(qq) The operation of all the concrete saws, concrete pump machines, mud jack, grout pumps and concrete curbing machine shall be performed exclusively by Laborers covered by this Agreement. The manning of all equipment used in injecting a grout slurry mix or any similar material used to correct defects in concrete or to stabilize slabs, structures or underground voids
(rr) The use of any vehicle, device, or mechanism which has been or will be invented or devised by any name, which performs work or functions which have been historically performed by Laborers shall be within the Laborers jurisdiction.
(ss) Laborers shall operate all walk behind laser screeds, power tampers, rollers, concrete saws, concrete buggies, breakers and other vibrating & digging equipment (walk behind, riders, and/or remote controlled types) etc.
(tt) The operation of the concrete saw, concrete pump machines, mud jack and concrete curbing machine shall be performed exclusively by Laborers covered by this Agreement. The manning of all equipment used in injecting a grout slurry mix or any similar material used to correct defects in concrete or to stabilize slabs, structures or underground voids.
(uu)_Placing, removing, servicing, fueling, maintenance and tending too of all barricades, flares, sign boards, signal lights, etc., for all site and road/highway/bridge traffic control. All emergency and surveillance maintenance work required shall be performed exclusively be the Laborers.
(vv) All grouting and dry packing whether tools are required or not shall be performed by the Laborers. (ww) All Gunnite work when the work to be performed is to be of a thickness of one
and one-half (11/2”) inches or greater. The handling and operation of all cement guns, the nozzle man, shot Crete, shot Crete nozzle, and machine operator and loaders to be a laborer.
(xx) Tending to all brick masons and plasterers shall be covered under the jurisdiction of this Agreement. All work classified as Brick mason tenders work (hodcarriers) shall be done under the wage rate as specified in this Agreement. All plaster, brick, and mason foremen and tenders shall receive (30) minutes starting time at the overtime hourly rate of pay.
The mixing, handling, conveying, placing, loading and unloading of all materials for building and other structures that pertain to brick, mason and plasters work. The building, handling, dismantling, and wrecking of all brick, mason, and plaster works. The wrecking of all scaffolds, runways, ramps, inclines, guard rails and other safety protection, the placing and removing of all ladders, and all weather protection. The curing, heating, carrying of water for all bricklayers, masons, plasters and tenders. The cleaning up of any and all debris. Tenders on all other work with building trades eras doing work that pertains to brick , mason, and plasters work,
Page 11 of 20
Tenders on cutting of all channels and other openings, cleaning, washing, scrubbing, pointing and all patch work. All working, non-working and general foremen on brick, mason, and plaster tender work defined herein. If any interpretation of discussion arises in reference to the rate of Brick and Masonry work on Blast Furnaces, Open Hearths, and all other brick and masonry work on building and other structures, the letter agreed to by the Southern Illinois Builders Association and Local No. 397 dated August 14, 1961 shall apply.
(yy) All work connected to landscape design and landscaping (but not limited to) grading, berm work, seeding, sodding, all planting of plants, trees, shrubs, installation of all irrigation systems, strawing, etc. The installation of all retaining walls, retaining wall panels regardless of material type or size. The
operation of all vehicles and/or equipment for the performance of all landscaping. The installation of any and all brick, brick pavers or substitute brick material, for landscaping designs, landscaping borders, roads, sidewalks, patios or other needs by hand or machine shall be the work of the Laborers. All work on athletic fields and running tracks.
(zz) The installation of all plastic, rubber, and plastic type liners, and the heating, gluing, joining by any means of joints in pits, landfills, dumps, caissons, under floors, slabs, open sheds, etc., and any environmentally mandated uses.
(aaa) All mixing and handling of mastic materials of any kind or description. The hoisting, heating and cooking of mastic materials and the preparations in their entirety for use on the job and installations of asphalt, tar, sulphur-seal, etc. The application of all mastic and crack filling to bridges, roads, highways, buildings, precast concrete, concrete sewers, precast building materials, culverts, piping, headwalls, and any other similar items or structures covered by this Agreement shall be done by Laborers.
(bbb) Laborers shall apply all waterproofing and insecticide materials to any surfaces by any method. This shall include but not be limited too, foundations, grounds, bridge decks, any type of masonry surface, etc.
(ccc) The unloading, loading, handling, and carrying to the place of installation of all rods, mesh, and materials used to reinforce concrete construction, and the hoisting of the same where done by hand or power shall be performed by the Laborers.
(ddd) The unloading, cutting, tying, of all steel, polymer, plastic, or other mesh and reinforcing rods for buildings, all streets, highways, driveways, roads, roadways, sidewalks, slopewalls, air field landing strips, storage and laydown areas, parking lots, or any other similar type areas will be the exclusive work of the Laborers. This includes but is not limited too: center steel, expansion joints, dowel rods, and center strips and any other reinforcing material to be placed inside of a concrete or refractory type material.
(eee) The cutting off' of all piling regardless the type of material. The cutting of piers, monumental works shall be the work of the Laborers. The cleaning of all piling, unloading and loading of all piling whether scrap or new.
(fff) The unloading, handling, cutting of all precast or prestressed concrete to a stockpile will be the work of the Laborer. All grouting, removing of line eyes, wires, etc., and patching of the same will be the work of the Laborer. When power equipment is used, the tying on of precast or prestressed concrete preparatory to final installation shall be done by the Laborer. The rigging, fitting, setting, aligning, plumbing, and staying into position of all precast or prestressed concrete shall be the work of the Laborers.
(ggg) The making by pouring of all fence posts, concrete pile, concrete vaults, tilt-up wall panels, septic tanks, manholes, beams, decking, roofing, or any other similar items or structures for precasting purposes shall be done by the Laborer.
(hhh) All clearing and site preparation, the unloading, distribution, laying, cutting, setting, placing, welding, installation of all steel casing, all concrete or precast pipe, corrugated casing, multiplate, precast concrete, plastic and metal pipe material used for manholes, junction boxes, culverts, drainage boxes, metering pits, shafts, subways, aqueducts, and drains regardless of whether above or below ground level,
Page 12 of 20
Building, footings, floors casings, tunnels, tunnel lining, water lines, sewers including the fusion, welding, cutting, bolting, slip joining and fabrication of the same.
(iii)	All work in connection with the laying, building, and installation of railroad equipment, switches and tracks. This includes all new and relocated railways and any other related track work that pertains to building, jacking, raising, installation of clips, ballast, construction, tunneling, mining, and the moving of machinery, buildings, or structures shall be the work of the Laborers.
(jjj) The laying of all temporary gas, oil, air, water, and other pipelines on all work covered under
the jurisdiction of this Agreement.
(kkk) The spotting, moving, raising, jacking, cribbing, blocking, and leveling of all temporary job trailers for offices, tool rooms, lunch rooms, change rooms, and other uses shall be the work of the laborer. This includes the disassembly and dismantling of said trailers.
(lll) All watchmen, multi-craft/safety watch, fire watch, water boys, janitors, tool room men, change and shower room attendant shall be Laborers. All watchmen shall be working watchmen
when employed. The need for hiring a watchman to secure the property shall be determined by
the employer at the Laborers Watchman rate of pay as covered by this agreement.
(mmm) The operation and control of waterblasters shall be the work of the Laborer. There shall be a minimum of two (2) men in the operation: one man stationed at the control valve during blasting operations for safety purposes, and the other doing the water blasting. They shall interchange position during the day.
(nnn) All labor work in, around and adjacent to buildings; all labor work in and around and in connection with the erection of all wooden bridges, scaffolds, and concrete towers; the drying of concrete by salamander or other artificial heat of any kind; the wrecking, demolition and
dismantling of all buildings and structures whether temporary or permanent. The wrecking and removal of all walls and partitions for alterations work; the removal of shelves, fences and plow holders; the scrapping of steel tanks and steel structures of all kinds where the material contained therein is not to be used again or is salvaged.
ARTICLE NO. 7 HOURLY WAGES
8/1/13	8/1/14	8/1/15
Laborers	$29.30	+ $1.30	+ $1.35
Cutting/Burning/Welding , Abatement Workers HZ Mat Workers, Mason Tender, Dynamite Helper/Lancing -- +$0.50
Dynamite Men -- $1.50
All Working Foreman -- $0.50 per-hour increase
All Non-Working	-- $1.00 per-hour increase
All General Foreman -- $1.50 per-hour increase
Pump and Watchman Rate $15.00 per-hour
Saturday, Sunday, Holidays and overtime for pump/watchman work shall be paid at the rate of time and one half (1.5).
When men are working on electrical submersible pumps, with a simple discharge system, when shift work is involved, the rate of pay for the first shift will be regular rate of pay, and be able to perform other duties relating to pump work. The second and/or third shift will be paid at the watchman rate. His duties will include taking care of the discharge lines and perform watchman duties.
In addition to the foregoing rates, effective 8/1/13 the Employer shall contribute $19.22per hour for regular hours worked; $28.12per hour for hours worked at the time and one-half rate; and $37.02per hour for hours worked at the double time rate. Such payments are due and payable to the Employer and Laborers Locals 100 & 397 Health and Welfare and Pension Funds.
Page 13 of 20
Each Contractor shall pay a sum equal to eighty cents ($.80) per hour for each hour worked for which wages are paid to the Contractors and Illinois Laborers Training Trust Fund. Such payments shall be made on the Health and Welfare and Pension Fund reporting forms.
The Employer shall withhold (with employee authorization) supplemental dues in the
amount of ($0.20) per hour & ($0.50) per hour Midwest Organizing for actual hours worked by each employee covered by this agreement in addition to the Union Dues withheld in paragraph 9 of this article of this current CBA. Such payments shall be made on the reporting forms provided by the LECET Fund and may be amended during the terms of this agreement with notice.
Effective August 1, 2013, in addition to the per hour wage rates, the Employer shall contribute per hour for each actual hour worked by each Employee covered by this Agreement ($.10) to the Southern Illinois Construction Advancement Foundation. Such payments shall be made on the reporting forms provided by the LECET Fund. The Employers signatory hereto agree to accept the terms of the trust agreement establishing the Southern Illinois Construction Advancement Foundation, its rules and regulations and the trustees now serving.
Primary purposes of the Foundation, as set forth in the trust agreement, shall include education, safety education, public relationships and market development and other educational and informational betterment of such Employees, and the common good of the construction industry.
The Union agrees that this is a commitment for the term of this contract. Upon expiration of this Agreement, a review of the purpose, policy and procedures shall be conducted. If the review indicates the fund has faithfully and effectively executed the purposes, policies and procedures the Union will renew its commitment.
The Employers signatory hereto agree to contribute fifty two cents ($.52) per hour for each actual hour worked by each Employee covered by this Agreement to the Southwestern Illinois Laborers District Council LECET Fund. Such payment shall be made on the reporting forms provided by the LECET Fund.
If requested by the Union the Employer will withhold Union Dues (at the rate established by the general Membership of Laborers Local397) from each Employee’s payroll check. Such	payments shall be remitted monthly on reporting forms (provided by the Union)
to Laborers Local 397’s Office.
Each Employer shall remit fringe benefit contributions to the fund depository and Union Dues to Local 397 on or before the 15TH day of each month for all contributions attributable to the prior calendar month. Failure to remit such contributions on a timely basis may allow the Union,
at its option, the right to resort to economic recourse, including the right to refuse Employees or withdraw Employees from the delinquent Employer, provided the Union has given the Employer a notice in writing five days in advance of taking such action. In the event the delinquent Employer is a subcontractor, such notice shall be served jointly on the general contractor and the subcontractor. The Employer shall be liable for any costs incurred in connection with the collection of delinquent fringe benefits.
Any part of the negotiated wage increases may be taken in fringe benefits (Welfare and/or Pension) provided the Local Union gives written notice to the Association and the District Council ninety (90) days in advance of such increase becoming due and payable.
The Employer shall carry Illinois Worker’s Compensation Insurance and pay all Local, Illinois State and Federal Taxes for each employee provided by the Union. The Contractor shall provide a Certificate of such coverage when requested by any party signatory hereto. Said Employer must also pay Illinois State Unemployment Compensation Insurance on all employees covered by this agreement regardless of the number of employees.
Page 14 of 20
The parties to this Agreement specifically agree that they shall implement a non-qualified defined contribution plan which such plan shall encompass current retirees only whose benefit payments have been reduced in the prior year by the Internal Revenue Code Section 415 consistent with the Revenue Ruling issued on November 21, 1997. In the event, however, that the Internal Revenue Code Section 415 is repealed, modified or otherwise rendered moot by legislative action, the preceding clause shall have neither force nor effect. Likewise, in the event
that legislation action repeals or modifies Section 415 in any respect rendering this clause moot, the remaining articles and section of the collective bargaining agreement between the parties shall be unaffected thereby and shall otherwise be in full force and effect.
It is agreed that in case any compressed air or tunnel work comes into the jurisdiction of Local No. 397, the Contractor agrees to negotiate the wage scale and conditions in accordance with the existing New York agreement covering such work.
Where Watchmen are required, they shall be members of the Laborers’ Organization. Any hours worked in excess of eight (8) per day, Monday through Friday and Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays shall be time and one-half. If Watchmen are required to work, they shall be paid the basic scale of wages. Watchmen, may, however, perform emergency work beyond the control of the Employer, at the Watchmen’s rate of pay.
When conditions require, the employer and the Union may revise this Article to meet the requirements of a particular project.
The parties to this Agreement hereby incorporate into this Agreement the National Apprenticeship Standards, including the Local Model Standards (hereinafter referred to as “Standards”) which have been developed by the Laborers-AGC Education and Training Fund for the Apprenticeable Occupation of Construction Craft Laborers, as registered and approved by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training of the U.S. Department of Labor, including any amendments or modifications heretofore made, or which may be made, during the life of this Agreement, and the Employer and the Union agree to be bound by the terms and provisions thereof.
The Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee (hereinafter referred to as “Committee”) referred to herein shall mean the Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee established under the aforementioned standards. The Apprenticeship program shall be administered by the Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee. The employer and the union agree to be bound by the decisions of the Joint Apprenticeship Training Committee.
The Apprentice rates as follows:
1st year 75% - full benefits/2nd year 85% - full benefits/3rd year 95%-full benefits
ARTICLE NO. 8
A maximum of eight (8) hours shall constitute a day’s work. The regular workday may be any eight (8) hour period between 6:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. The exact regular eight (8) hour day shall be agreed upon between the parties to this agreement. Lunch period shall be taken between the fourth (4th) and fifth (5th) hours of the workday for thirty (30) minutes. Any changes should be discussed at the pre-job conference. Any employee, who is required to work through his meal period, shall be allowed a thirty (30) minute uninterrupted period to eat his lunch, and he shall receive an additional thirty (30) minutes of pay at the overtime rate. If this is not feasible, an employee who is required to eat while working shall receive one (1) hour pay at the overtime rate to compensate for the loss of their uninterrupted lunch. When men work their regular eight (8) hour day and continue to work two (2) hours past their regular quitting time, they shall be allowed thirty (30) minutes to eat their meal at the overtime rate of pay and thirty (30) minutes to eat additional meals at every four (4) hour intervals thereafter at the applicable overtime rate of pay.
Page 15 of 20
All overtime work performed, Monday through Friday, shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half the regular rate. Work preformed on Saturday shall be paid at time and one-half the regular rate of pay. Double time shall be paid on all Sundays, holidays, which are New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, Veterans Day, Labor Day, and all other holidays that may be proclaimed because of World War II. When Holidays fall on Sunday, they shall be observed the following Monday, Holidays shall be observed as prescribed by Federal Law. When conditions require, the Employer and the Union may revise the
hours of work provision to meet the requirements of a particular project. Where the owner requires work to start outside of the normal work hours because of contractual requirement of business necessities, employees, who have not worked that day, shall receive premium pay of $2.00 per hour over and above the regular rate of pay in lieu of the overtime rate. This provision for $2.00 premium pay in lieu of the overtime rate shall only be applicable when it has been agreed upon by both parties to this agreement at a pre-bid or pre-job conference. After eight (8) hours of work at the premium rate these premiums shall be added to the regular rate to compute overtime pay.
ARTICLE NO. 9
When two or three shifts are worked, 7 1/2 hours work shall constitute a full shift, and employees shall be allowed thirty (30) minutes for lunch with pay.
When shift work is started, it shall begin on the first day of the week (Monday) the two-shift work shall be continuous for eighty (80) hours.
The three-shift work shall be continuous for one hundred and twenty (120) hours, There
shall be no deductions from the full weekly pay on shift work.
If shift work has started and shall be discontinued before the end of the week, the Employer shall have the choice of paying all men on the two or three shift work their full weekly pay at the regular rate of pay, or overtime for all shifts that have been actually worked, with all men to receive the same number of shifts.
There shall be no deductions for holidays not worked on shift work, and the rate of pay for holidays shall be double time, if they are worked.
The first shift shall start at 8:00a.m., Lunch hour at 12:00 noon
The second shift starts at 4:00 p.m. / $0.50 per-hour additional pay, Lunch hour 8:00 p.m.
The third shift starts at l2:00 a.m. / $0.75 per-hour additional pay, Lunch hour 4:00 a.m.
When two ten hours shifts are worked, the hours shall be (1st shift) 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p m and the (2nd shift) 6:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m. There shall be one, one-half (1/2) hour lunch period, with pay which shall be four hours after the shift starting time. The last two hours of each shift shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
When two (2) twelve (12) hour shifts are worked, the first eight (8) hours of each shift --shall be paid at the straight time rate and the remaining four (4) hours shall be paid at the overtime rate. Lunch shall be for thirty (30) minutes every four (4) hours with pay and all other provisions pertaining to shift work Article shall prevail.
When men work their regular eight hour shift and continue to work two (2) hours past their regular quitting time, they shall be allowed thirty (30) minutes to eat their lunch at the overtime rate of pay and thirty (30) minutes to eat their lunch at four (4) hour intervals thereafter at the applicable overtime rate of pay.
When men are working on shift work that requires constant attention, they shall eat their lunch close enough to their work so they can take care of an emergency.
When conditions require, the employer and the Union may revise the shift work provisions to meet the requirements of a particular project
Page 16 of 20
ARTICLE NO. 10
Laborers shall provide the following personal hand tools and clothing as a condition of employment, rubber boots for concrete pours and working in water, steel toed and/or metatarsal boots where required, hard hat, rain suit, wrecking bar, claw hammer, pliers, adjustable wrenches, ruler, tape measure. Personal tools damaged/destroyed while under the employ of the contractor shall be replaced at the Contractor’s expense. Tools will be replaced no later then the end of business the next day.
The employer shall be required to furnish all tools not listed above. On all cutting and welding equipment, jack hammers, drills, vibrators, dynamiting and blasting, and other hazardous machinery and equipment as a safety precaution, there shall be two (2) men.
The employer shall furnish a building to protect all from the elements of weather to eat and change clothes in. The contractor shall be required to provide all safety related items
ARTICLE NO. 11
Foremen shall be required to possess a minimum of 1 years membership in good standing in Local Union No. 397 as a condition of eligibility for appointment to such position. All foreman shall be approved by the Business Representative of the Union but the foreman shall be acceptable to the Contractor. All stewards shall be appointed by the Business Representative. The Business Manager may remove any Foreman/Steward as such, at any time. All men working under this agreement shall take their working instructions from their foreman. The men shall be furnished a building protected from all elements of the weather to change their clothes and eat their lunch. When three (3) or more laborers are employed, one (I) shall be a working foreman and when ten (10) laborers are employed, the working foreman shall become a non-working foreman. When two (2) or more foreman are employed on the same job and/or shift, one (I) shall be classified and paid (as described in Article No. 6 of this Agreement) as the General Foreman.
ARTICLE NO. 12
The Business Manager or Field Representative of Local 397 shall have the right to visit any and all job sites in the performance of their duties.
No employees will be compelled to work on any job where the Representative is denied the privilege of interviewing employees while at work. When steward on any job is discharged, the Representative must be notified at once. No job can be stopped without the consent of the Business Representative or the Executive Board.
No member of the Union shall be subjected to disciplinary action by the Employer adversely affecting his employment or job status by reason of his refusal to work with non-union personnel. The steward shall report any irregularities on the part of the Employer or employees to the Business Representative. The steward shall not be discharged for the fulfillment of his duties to the Union and no employees shall be disciplined, suspended or discharge without just cause.
It shall be the duty of the foreman or the steward to report personally to both the Union and Employer any accident or injury sustained by workmen which may occur on the job or in connection with the performance of his assigned duties, and where such injury does occur, the steward shall attend personally and see to it that the injured employee is immediately given proper medical care or
hospitalization and that the injured employee’s family is notified, without loss of time or pay to the steward for such service.
The Contractor shall furnish ice water in sanitary containers with sanitary drinking cups, or provide drinking water through sanitary drinking fountains. The water shall be available on the job not later than one (1) hour after starting time.
Page 17 of 20
No employee will be allowed to submit to a physical examination. The exception: Hazardous Waste, Asbestos, Lead and other environmental workers requiring physical examinations to perform this type of work shall be at the expense of the Employer with no loss of pay to the Employee.
There shall be no deductions from the employee’s pay when he is required to receive medical treatment during his working hours, and the Employer shall furnish his necessary transportation.
ARTICLE NO. 13
The Union may require one of the following:
•	$25,000 or more Surety Bond
•	Irrevocable letter of credit from a reputable local financial institution
•	Cashiers check in the amount not less than $5,000.00
to be posted by the Employer and/or Employer’s Subcontractors guaranteeing the payment of all wages and fringe benefits prior to the commencement of work.
ARTICLE NO. 14
This Agreement shall bind all sub-contractors on work being done at the site of construction. Any Employer who sublets any Laborers’ work on any project shall make this Agreement apart of the specifications when such work is sublet and will ascertain that this section is fully complied with and the Employer shall demand full compliance of historical area jurisdiction of Laborers Local 397.
ARTICLE NO. 15
When an employee is discharged or laid off he must be paid immediately. Payment shall be by check. Upon mutual agreement between the Employer and the Union, the use of electronic payroll deposits (i.e. direct deposit) may be utilized.
The Employer shall pay the employee once every week on Friday. No more than three (3) days wages shall be kept back on a week’s work, unless payroll is made up outside of Local397’s jurisdiction. The Employer shall pay all expense on cashing payroll checks.
When an Employer lays off an employee, he must be notified not later than the regular quitting time on the same day; otherwise, if employee is not instructed and shows up on the job, the Employer must pay him four (4) hours wages and transportation for showing on the job.
ARTICLE NO. 16
When employees start work at their regular starting time, they must be compensated (4) hours pay. Employees will not receive show-up time if work is not performed. If employees are requested to remain on the job, they shall be paid from the regular starting time and continue for not less than four (4) hours. When employees are instructed to report back to work after the first (4) hours they may do so, and
if they report to work they shall be paid not less than four (4) hours pay for the afternoon. Where any employees have been employed for the first four (4) hours, and Employer does not require their service for the remaining four (4) hours, the Employer must notify employees not later than four (4) after the start time. Failing to do so, the Employer shall pay employees four (4) hours wages, or otherwise allow the employee(s) to finish out the day.
No employee will be allowed to take out any tools before the regular starting time, and shall be allowed the necessary time to put their tools away and change their boots.
When conditions require, the Employer and the Union may revise this Article to meet the requirements of a particular project.
Page 18 of 20
ARTICLE NO. 17
The Employers and the Union agree that starting thirty (30) days after the execution of this agreement, they shall hold monthly meetings between representative of the Employers and the Union. These meetings shall be held for the purpose of furthering harmonious industrial relations.
ARTICLE NO. 18
Adherence to all Federal and State Safety Laws and the Employer’s Safety Policy, where not in conflict with such Federal and State Laws, shall be a condition of continued employment. It is not the intent of this provision to modify or change any other provision of this agreement.
Labor and management agree that it is in the best interest of all to promote an alcohol and drug-free working environment and pledge both to work within their own areas of influence and to cooperate to that end.
LABORERS POLICY STATEMENT
We are firmly committed to the safe and efficient construction and operation of all projects. The safety and health of project employees and the quality of construction are a paramount concern. The use, possession or distribution of drugs in the workplace is inconsistent
with the achievement of these objectives. Accordingly, the parties agree that in order to enhance the safety of the work place and to maintain a drug free work environment, individual employers may require employees to undergo drug screening by using the following procedures. This policy and following procedures are binding and are mutually agreed to by the parties to this Agreement.
Therefore: all contractors and laborers shall agree to the terms and conditions of the Southwestern Illinois District Council Drug Policy and the penalties established and set forth by the agreement as adopted August 1, 2006. This program is funded jointly by Employers and Employees.
A copy of the Drug Policy is available upon request.
ARTICLE NO. 19
Should any provision of this contract be in conflict with or violate any existing State or Federal Law, then such provision shall be re-negotiated by the parties for the purpose of legalizing and validating same without adversely affecting any employee benefit including wages, hours and working conditions. Pending such legalization all other provisions of this contract shall continue in full force and effect and be binding upon the parties. It is the intention of the parties to fully preserve the full force and effect under all provisions of this contract not contrary to law.
The Employer and the Union agree that starting thirty (30) days after the execution of this agreement, they shall hold monthly meetings between representatives of the Employer and the Union. These meetings shall be held for the purpose of furthering harmonious industrial relations and discussing construction industry problems.
Page 19 of 20
The parties further agree that one year after the effective date of this Agreement, upon sixty (60) days written notice by either party, the Agreement can be reopened for modification of working conditions only. Such modifications must be mutually agreed to, in writing, to become effective.
This agreement shall be effective on August 1, 2013 and shall remain in full force and effect through July 31, 2016 and shall automatically renew from year to year unless either party gives notice in writing to the other party sixty (60) days before the contract expiration date that it desires to terminate the agreement. Notice to modify the contract with respect to wages and hours given by either party shall not terminate the contract and shall not render the automatic renewal clause inoperative.
Local Union No. 397 of the LABORERS INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH
AMERICA of Granite City, Edwardsville, Highland, Madison, Venice, Nameoki, Mitchell, & Greater Madison County Illinois Vicinity and Townships.
EMPLOYER
Signature
Address
City / State / Zip
Telephone / Fax / Date
Laborers Local No. 397
Steven C. Tyler, Business Manager
518 Henry Street
Edwardsville Illinois 62025
Telephone (618) 656-4825 / (618) 876-4633
Fax: (618) 656-5084
PAGE 20 of 20