MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Between
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
and
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
ADMINISTRATIVE-PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATION
October 1,2015 - September 30, 2019
TABLE OF CONTENTS
	PURPOSE AND INTENT	3
ARTICLE 1	RECOGNITION	4
ARTICLE 2	MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS	5
ARTICLE 3	MANAGEMENT SECURITY	6
ARTICLE 4	AID TO OTHER LABOR UNIONS	7
ARTICLE 5	ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP	8
ARTICLE 6	ASSOCIATION RIGHTS	10
ARTICLE 7	EMPLOYMENT STATUS	13
ARTICLE 8	PROBATIONARY/TRIAL PERIOD	17
ARTICLE 9	SENIORITY	19
ARTICLE 10	SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES	20
ARTICLE 11	OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDERS	25
ARTICLE 12	PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS	26
ARTICLE 13	PROMOTION/DEMOTION	27
ARTICLE 14	FILLING VACANT POSITIONS	28
ARTICLE 15	CLASSIFICATION/RECLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS	29
ARTICLE 16	REDUCTION IN FORCE	30
ARTICLE 17	COMPENSATION PROGRAMS	43
ARTICLE 18	SPECIAL PROVISIONS	47
ARTICLE 19	LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH PAY	49
ARTICLE 20	LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY	50
ARTICLE 21	VACATION PAY	52
ARTICLE 22	PERSONAL LEAVE DAYS	54
ARTICLE 23	HOLIDAYS	55
ARTICLE 24	SICK LEAVE	56
ARTICLE 25	MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE	59
ARTICLE 26	MATERNITY LEAVE	60
ARTICLE 27	FLEXIBLE APPOINTMENTS	61
ARTICLE 28	LONGEVITY PAY	66
ARTICLE 29	JURY DUTY PAY	67
ARTICLE 30	MILITARY DUTY PAY	68
ARTICLE 31	BEREAVEMENT DAYS	69
ARTICLE 32	OVERVIEW	70
ARTICLE 33	RETIREE/OVER 65 LIFE PROGRAM	72
ARTICLE 34	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT PROGRAM	73
ARTICLE 35	DENTAL PLAN	74
ARTICLE 36	EMPLOYEE PAID LIFE PLAN	75
ARTICLE 37	EXTENDED DISABILITY LEAVE	76
ARTICLE 38	EXPANDED LIFE PLAN	77
ARTICLE 39	LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN	78
ARTICLE 40	TRAVEL ACCIDENT PROGRAM	79
ARTICLE 41	EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE	80
ARTICLE 42	COURSE FEE COURTESY PROGRAM	84
ARTICLE 43	RETIREMENT PLAN	87
ARTICLE 44	HEALTH CARE COVERAGE	89
ARTICLE 45	SAFETY	91
ARTICLE 46	SCOPE OF AGREEMENT	92
ARTICLE 47	AGREEMENT	93
	APPENDIX I	97
	ALPHABETICAL INDEX	115
PURPOSE AND INTENT
This Agreement entered into by the parties has as its purpose the promotion of harmonious relations between the Employer and the Administrative-Professional Association, the establishment of an equitable and peaceful procedure for the resolution of differences and the establishment of rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment.
The parties recognize that the interest of the Employer and job security of the Employees depend upon the Employer's success in establishing a proper service to the State.
To these ends, the Employer and the Administrative-Professional Association encourage to the fullest degree friendly and cooperative relations between the respective representatives at all levels and among all Employees. The parties are mutually committed to promoting respect, civility, teamwork and empowerment in the work place.
The Employer and the Association recognize the moral principles involved in the area of civil rights and affirmative action and reaffirm in this Agreement their commitment not to discriminate because of participation in or affiliation with any labor organizations, age, color, gender, gender identity, disability, height, marital status, familial status, national origin, creed, political persuasion, race, religion, sexual orientation, veteran status, or weight, except to the extent that such matters are, under law, allowable, bona fide job qualifications.
3
ARTICLE 1
RECOGNITION
-1	Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of Act 379 of the Public Acts
of 1965, as amended, the Employer does hereby recognize the Michigan State University Administrative-Professional Association as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for those Employees in the defined bargaining unit for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment.
-2	On August 2,	1985, the Michigan State University Administrative-Professional
Association was certified by the Michigan Employment Relations Commission in Case No. R85 H-207 as the representative for all regular full-time and regular part-time Administrative and Professional Employees serving in a non-supervisory capacity and located upon the main campus of Michigan State University, East Lansing and Lansing, Michigan. Excluded are: Executive, Supervisors and Confidential Employees.
4
ARTICLE 2
MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS
-	3	Except as provided in this Agreement, nothing contained in this Agreement shall be
deemed to limit the Employer in any way in the exercise of the regular and customary functions of management. Such regular and customary functions include, but are not limited to, the right to hire, promote, transfer and layoff because of lack of funds, lack of work and/or other cause; discipline, suspend and discharge for just cause; decide the work to be performed and the number and location of Employees and units; determine the methods, schedules and means of conducting activities; and promulgate policies, procedures, rules and regulations for the orderly and efficient operation of the University.
-	4	The Employer shall have the right to adopt reasonable rules and regulations not
inconsistent herewith. If after transmittal to the Association Chairperson of rules and regulations, and the Association has not processed a grievance alleging unreasonableness within 14 calendar days after receipt, the rules and regulations shall no longer be grievable. Thereafter, grievances related to rules and regulations shall be limited to their enforcement and penalties resulting therefrom.
By mutual agreement, parties may utilize the Special Conference mechanism relative to promulgation of rules and regulations. The fourteen (14) day requirement may be waived, by mutual agreement, until after the Special Conference is held.
-	5	The Association recognizes that the Employer has the right to make all determinations
with respect to bargaining unit work.
In the event the Employer determines that a modification of its operation(s), which results in the movement of work from the bargaining unit, makes it necessary to reduce its personnel complement, the Association Chairperson will be notified of its determination. At the Association's request, the parties will meet to discuss the reasons for the determination, and the Association may offer suggestions and make recommendations. Thereafter the Employer shall have the right to implement its decision.
5
ARTICLE 3
MANAGEMENT SECURITY
-	6	The parties of this Agreement mutually recognize that the services performed by
Employees covered by this Agreement are services essential to the efficient operation of the University. The Association, therefore, agrees that there shall be no interruption of these services, for any cause whatsoever.
-	7	The Association recognizes that strikes by public Employees are prohibited by Act 336,
Public Acts of 1947, as amended by Act 379, Public Acts of 1965 as amended, and agrees that it will comply with said Act.
-	8	The Association and its officials will not cause, support or condone, nor shall any
Employee or Employees take part in any action against or any interference with the operations of the University during the term of this Agreement.
6
ARTICLE 4
AID TO OTHER LABOR UNIONS
-9	The Employer will not aid, promote or finance any labor group or organization that
purports to engage in collective bargaining or make any agreement with any such group or organization for the purpose of undermining the Association.
-10 The Employer shall not enter into any other agreement with Employees in this bargaining unit, individually or collectively, that in any way conflict with the provisions hereof.
7
ARTICLE 5
ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP
I.	Dues/Service Fee
-11	Each Employee of the Bargaining Unit may voluntarily elect membership. Those who
voluntarily elect membership shall tender to the APA periodic and uniformly required Association dues as set forth in the Bylaws of the Michigan State University Administrative-Professional Association.
II.	Checkoff
-	12	The Employer, at the time of hire, rehire, reinstatement or transfer of an Employee into
the Bargaining Unit, shall apprise the prospective member of these provisions and shall present to her/him an Application for Membership and an Authorization for Checkoff of Dues, such forms to be provided by the Association.
-	13	If the Employee desires to join the APA, the Employee shall complete both the
Application for Membership and the Authorization card for Checkoff of Dues and return them to the Association office.
-	14 If the Employee desires to tender dues or fees directly to the Association, the Employee will so indicate on the Authorization for Checkoff of Dues form, which shall be transmitted to the Association on or before the 30th day of employment with dues or fees equivalent to 12 months' dues or fees. Adjustment of dues or fees shall be made at the end of 12 months from these receipts. Excess amounts then will be returned to the Employee within 10 days of demand and insufficient amounts will require payment within 10 days of notice. Each year will again require deposit of such a sum by the procedure indicated above.
-	15	During the life of this Agreement, the Employer agrees to deduct membership dues or
service fees levied in accordance with the Bylaws of the Association from the pay of each Employee who executes or has executed the authorization for Checkoff of Dues.
-	16	The initial deduction for any Employee shall not begin unless the authorization for
Checkoff of Dues and the certification of the APA's financial officer the amount of the periodic Association dues or service fees have been delivered to the Employer's Payroll Department at least 15 calendar days before the affected payday.
-	17	All monies deducted by the Employer shall be remitted to the APA's Financial Officer
once each month by the 20th calendar day of the month following the month in which deductions were made, together with a list of current Employees showing the amount of Association dues or service fees deducted from each Employee's pay.
8
-	18 In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment already made to APA by an Employee, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the Bylaws of the Association, refunds to the Employee shall be made by APA.
-	19	The Employer shall not be liable to APA by reason of paragraph 15 of this Agreement for
the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual deductions made from the pay earned by the Employee.
-	20	The Employer shall not, during the life of this Agreement, deduct dues or service fees
from Employees in this Bargaining Unit for any organization other than the Association without APA's written permission.
-	21	The APA shall protect and save harmless the Employer from any and all claims,
demands, suits, and other forms of liability by reason of action taken or not taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with this Agreement.
III.	Service Fees
-22	An Employee in the bargaining unit may voluntarily elect to pay to the Association a
Service Fee. The non-member may authorize payroll deduction for such fees in the same manner as provided for Association Dues.
Disputes Concerning Compliance
-23	The Association shall protect and save harmless the Employer from any and all claims,
demands, suits, and other forms of liability by reason of action taken or not taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with this Agreement.
IV.	Revocation Cards
-24 The Employer will notify the Association monthly of the names of Employees who leave or transfer out of the Bargaining Unit. The Employer shall continue to provide current bargaining unit information.
An Employee may revoke his/her authorization for payroll deduction of dues or service fees by submitting notice on the Authorization to Discontinue Dues or Service Fees form to the Employer’s Payroll Office and the Union Office via certified mail. Such forms shall be processed within thirty (30) days of receipt. Any changes to the form shall be subject to a Special Conference at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of implementation.
9
ARTICLE 6
ASSOCIATION RIGHTS
Association Rights
-	25	All Employees and members of the bargaining unit and the lawful representative of the
Association shall have the right to engage in any lawful concerted action or activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or for the mutual aid and protection of the Association and its members.
-	26	The Association shall be permitted to schedule meetings on University property so long
as such meetings are not disruptive of the duties of the Employees of the University or the efficient operation of the University.
-	27	The Association Chairperson shall have the right to enforce the provisions of this
Agreement.
-	28	There shall be no discrimination against any Employee because of his/her duties as an
Association official, representative or committee member.
Information Requests
-	29	The Employer shall make available to the Union upon reasonable request in writing, and
within reasonable time, available public statistical, financial, and personnel information and reports related to the operation of the University when such information is necessary in the representation of Employees or implementation of this Agreement, provided that nothing included herein is intended to require the Employer to present information in forms other than those determined by the Employer or required by law. When the Employer deems necessary, a reasonable charge may be assessed to the Union for such materials.
Release Time
-	30	For the purpose of release time, the number of APA Executive Board members may not
exceed fifteen (15). The total aggregate number of working hours of release time for these Employees shall not exceed forty-five (45) hours per month excluding time afforded Grievance Officers and the Association Chairperson. Additional release time for Union Officers may be approved by the Office of Employee Relations. The Office of Employee Relations must receive notice of individuals and release time to be used at least five (5) working days in advance when possible.
10
-	31 A. The Association Chairperson, and Vice-Chairperson/Designee shall each be authorized 100 percent release time to carry out the responsibilities of his/her office. Applicable salary and progression increases shall be provided during his/her term of office.
This provision provides 100% release time for the Association Chairperson, and release time equivalent to one full time position (100% FTE) to be shared between the Association Vice-Chairperson/designee(s). The distribution of the release time for Vice-Chairperson/Designee shall be in increments no less than 25% FTE and shall be declared once per contract year by notice to the Office of Employee Relations.
B.	When the Association Chairperson, and/or Vice-Chairperson/Designee relinquishes his/her office, he/she shall have the right to return to the same classification in his/her former unit that he/she held immediately prior to becoming Association Chairperson. If a position in the Association Chairperson’s classification no longer exists in his/her former unit, then he/she shall have full rights under Article 16.
For purposes of recall, when the Association Chairperson, and/or Vice-Chairperson/Designee relinquishes his/her office, he/she shall be deemed to have the greatest length of service and will be recalled to vacant positions first, provided he/she meets the minimum requirements and is capable of performing the duties of the position within a ninety (90) day evaluation period.
If the Association Chairperson, and/or Vice-Chairperson/Designee who relinquishes his/her office meets the minimum requirements for a vacant position and is denied the ninety (90) day evaluation period he/she shall receive written reasons why he/she was not selected for the evaluation period with a copy to the Chairperson of the Association.
C.	Designee may be any of the following positions: Executive Board Member,
Association Representative, or Committee Chair.
-	32 An Association representative shall be allowed time off his/her job without loss of pay up to eight (8) hours per week to investigate grievance(s) he/she is to discuss or has discussed with the Employer, after receiving permission from his/her supervisor to do so. Association Area Representatives will be allowed time off their jobs without loss of pay for Association training with the express approval of Employee Relations. The Association shall notify the Employer of the names of its Association representatives.
-	33 The Employer agrees that accredited representatives of the Association shall have reasonable access to the premises of the Employer during regular business hours to conduct Association business. Such representatives shall give advance notice of their presence to the supervisor concerned and such visits shall not be disruptive of the Employer's operation.
11
Bargaining Team
-	34	The bargaining team of the Association will include not more than seven (7) bargaining
unit members and two (2) alternate members employed by the University. It may also include not more than two (2) non-employed representatives of the Association. The Association will give to the Employer, in writing, the names of its Employee representatives on the bargaining team at least sixty (60) days before the expiration date of this Agreement.
-	35	Employee members of the bargaining team will be paid by the Employer for time spent
in negotiations with the Employer, but only for the straight time hours they would otherwise have worked on their regular work schedule. For the purpose of computing overtime, time spent in negotiations shall be considered as hours worked to the extent of the regular work schedule hours that the team member otherwise would have worked.
12
ARTICLE 7
EMPLOYMENT STATUS
-36	Employees have an employment status designated as regular, flexible, temporary, on-
call or off-date appointments. The number of hours regularly scheduled to be worked each week may range from full-time to part-time.
A.	Status of Employment
-	37	Regular: Employee works a continuing schedule of predetermined hours each week.
-	38	Flexible:
Type 1:	full-time active employment for 9, 10 or 11 months per year with a
prescheduled unpaid leave of absence with benefits ("flex-leave") during the remaining months.
Type 2:	75-89% scheduled time active employment over the entire calendar year
(30-35 hours per week) with part-time equivalent salary.
-	39	Temporary: Hired to work less than nine (9) months.
-	40	Off-Date:
1.	At the time of appointment to this position, an estimated ending or off-date is
given. This ending date is the latest date the Employee is intended to work. It may be extended by written mutual agreement. The Employee shall be provided a forty-five (45) day notice of non-renewal of an Off-date appointment.
2.	Off-date Employees hired for nine (9) months or more are designated "regular."
3.	Off-date Employees are not eligible for University layoff procedures.
4.	An Off-Date Employee with at least two (2) years of University service whose
appointment is not continued shall be permitted to apply as if an on-campus candidate for vacant positions under the provisions of Article 14, Filling Vacant Positions, for a period of two (2) years following the end of the Off-Date appointment.
5.	For twelve (12) months following termination, an Off-date Employee with at
least two (2) years of University service shall be interviewed for any position for which they apply and meet minimum qualifications.
13
B.
Hours of Employment
-	41 Full-time: Scheduled to work regularly 36-40 hours per week.
-	42 Three-quarter time: Scheduled to regularly work at least 26 hours but less than 36 hours per week. (Flex-Time: Type 2 if 30-35 hours per week)
-	43 One-half time: Scheduled to regularly work at least 20 hours but less than 26 hours per week.
-	44	Full-time Employees who are involuntarily reduced to eighty-nine percent (89%) time or
less shall have rights to vacant lateral or lower level positions. The employing unit will determine, by interview, if the Employee seeking bypass possesses the qualifications and ability to fill the vacant position.
C.	Proportional Benefits
-45	Provisions of this Agreement, unless specifically modified, shall be apportioned to
persons assigned less than full time in the following manner:
At least 26 hours but less than 36 hours	75%
At least 20 hours but less than 26 hours	50%
D.	Full-time Equivalent (FTE) Service Months
-46	1.	Full-time equivalent (FTE) service month is defined as the cumulative full-time
equivalent (FTE) months of service for University employment of 50.0% or greater. FTE service months will be used in determining eligibility for University benefits that require a service waiting period.
2.	FTE service months will be credited each month as follows:
a)	1.00 credit per month for full-time (90-100 percent) Employees
b)	.75 credit per month for 3/4 time (65-89.9 percent) Employees
c)	.50 credit per month for 1/2 time (50-64.9 percent) Employees
3.	For new hires, terminations, percent of employment changes, etc., FTE service
months will be credited based on an Employee's status as of the 15th of the month.
14
4.
5.
Employees on paid and unpaid leaves of absence or layoff will continue to accrue FTE service months for up to two (2) years of the leave based on their percent of employment immediately before the leave/layoff.
An official retiree requires a minimum of 15 or more years of service and at least age sixty-two (62) or twenty-five (25) years of service at any age. Employees meeting the minimum official retirement requirements and whose most recent hire date is prior to July 1, 2010, including those eligible under Article 9, Clause 55, will receive a University contribution toward health, prescription, and dental coverage. The level of University contribution will be determined by the Employee’s full-time equivalent (FTE) service months at retirement.
a)	If an Employee, whose most recent hire date is prior to July 1, 2010,
including those eligible under Article 9, Clause 55 retires with fifteen (15) or more years of service and is at least age sixty-two (62), the following FTE Service Months ranges will determine his/her health, prescription drug coverage and dental contribution level during retirement.
FTE SERVICE MONTHS
1/2 Contribution	3/4 Contribution	Full Contribution
(50% - 64.9%)	(65% - 89.9%)	(90% - 100%)
Service Months	90.00 - 116.99	117.00 - 161.99	162.00 - 999.99
b)	If an Employee, whose most recent hire date is prior to July 1, 2010,
including those eligible under Article 9, Clause 55 retires with twenty-five or more years of service at any age, the following FTE Service Months ranges will determine his/her health, prescription drug coverage and dental contribution level during retirement.
FTE SERVICE MONTHS
1/2 Contribution 3/4 Contribution Full Contribution
Service Months
(50% - 64.9%)
150.00 - 194.99
(65% - 89.9%)
195.00 - 269.99
(90% - 100%)
270.00 - 999.99
15
6.	University contribution criteria toward retiree health and dental:
University retiree contribution levels are based on the number of full time equivalent (FTE) service months at retirement.
Employees whose most recent hire date is prior to 7/1/02 including those eligible under Article 9, Clause 55	University contribution toward the premium will apply to the MSU Base health, prescription, and dental coverage for the retiree, spouse, and eligible dependents.
Employees whose most recent hire date is on or after 7/1/02 and prior to 7/1/10 including those eligible under Article 9, Clause 55	University contribution toward the premium will apply to the MSU Base health, prescription, and dental coverage for the retiree only. The retiree may elect to continue coverage for spouse and eligible dependents by paying the applicable premium.
Employees whose most recent hire date is on or after 7/1/10	The retiree may elect to continue coverage for the retiree, spouse, and eligible dependents by paying the applicable premium.
7.	Other Eligible Individual (OEI):
Continuation of health, prescription, and dental coverage in retirement, with MSU contribution, for an Other Eligible Individual and eligible dependents may occur if the Other Eligible Individual was officially registered on or before January 1, 2009 and the MSU Employee was retired or had met the minimum retirement eligibility criteria on or before January 1, 2009.
If either of the above conditions were not met as of January 1, 2009, the Other Eligible Individual is not eligible to receive the MSU contribution; however, the Other Eligible Individual is eligible to enroll and purchase a health/dental plan consistent with the plan the retiree is enrolled in.
8.	Retirees are required to enroll in both parts A and B of Medicare, and pay the
required premium when eligible. University coverage will become supplemental to Medicare.
16
ARTICLE 8
PROBATIONARY/TRIAL PERIOD
I.	Probationary Period
-	47	Employees shall serve a twelve (12) month probationary period beginning at the time of
hire as a new Employee with the University or upon initial entry into the Bargaining Unit from other University employment. The Unit Employer-Supervisor shall have the right to certify successful conclusion of the probationary period before the end of the twelve (12) months. The APA chairperson shall be notified upon early certification, except as provided in paragraph 107.
-	48	An interim written evaluation shall be prepared by the probationary Employee's
supervisor, summarizing overall job performance, which shall be reviewed with the Employee. For purposes of this paragraph, interim shall be defined as approximately one-half (1/2) of the probationary period. If a probationary Employee's performance is unsatisfactory, such fact shall be communicated to the Employee as soon as is practicable in order to give the Employee the opportunity, if possible, to improve her/his performance.
-	49	The Association shall represent probationary Employees for the purposes of collective
bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment; however, no matter concerning the discipline, layoff or termination of a probationary Employee shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedures.
II.	Trial Period
-	50 An Employee who changes position within the Bargaining Unit or who re-enters the bargaining unit from other University Employment shall serve up to a six (6) month trial period. The trial period may be extended by the Employer for up to an additional six (6) months upon providing the Employee written notice, which shall specify the reason for the extension, no less than five (5) calendar days before the completion of the original six (6) month trial period. The determination to extend the trial period shall not be grievable. The APA chairperson shall be notified upon early certification or extension.
-	51 In the event the trial period is unsatisfactory or the Employee does not wish to continue in the position, he/she shall be placed in his/her former position if it is available. An Employee’s former position shall be considered available if no candidate has been selected and the department still intends to fill the former position.
In the event the Employee’s former position is not available, every effort will be made to return the Employee to a former grade level and comparable classification, or, if no position is available, the Employee will be placed on layoff with full recall rights.
17
III.
Termination of Probationary/Trial Period
-	52 Following the giving of notice that a probationary or trial period is to be terminated early, any additional time served before actual severance may not be counted toward completion of the probationary or trial period.
18
ARTICLE 9
SENIORITY
-53 Seniority is defined as the length of continuous employment, except as provided in paragraph 54 below, starting with the original date of hire with the University. Periods of authorized leaves of absence do not cause loss of seniority.
-54 Seniority rights are relinquished by the Employee for the following reasons:
a.	Voluntary resignation
b.	Retirement
c.	Termination
d.	Failure to accept	recall from layoff, provided the position offered was at a
comparable compensation grade level to provide the Employee 80% or more of his/her salary earned at the time of layoff.
e.	Failure to return from leave of absence.
f.	Failure to be recalled from layoff based on the following:
University Seniority
Recall Rights
0 to 2 years
More than 2 years
Length of University Seniority
2 years
-55 Employees returning to employment with the University within twelve (12) months of termination from University employment shall receive credit for all past seniority upon successful completion of a six (6) month trial period. Such prior service credit shall be applied toward retirement.
Employees returning to University employment on or after July 1, 2010 but prior to October 1, 2015, will receive credit for past service after working five (5) additional years. These Employees shall be eligible for prior service credit or the additional retirement contribution, through a one-time irrevocable choice.
-56	Employees will receive service month credit for part-time service to qualify for
retirement benefits.
19
ARTICLE 10
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
I.	General Conditions
-	57	At any hearing, conference or meeting that may result in disciplinary action to an
Employee in the bargaining unit, the Employee may and is encouraged to request the presence of an Association representative. The employing department must, if requested by the Employee, allow sufficient time for the Employee to arrange to have Association representation.
-	58	The parties agree that any individual Employee at any time may present grievances to
the Employer and have the grievances adjusted, without intervention of the Association, if the adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of this Collective Bargaining Agreement now in effect, providing that the Association has been given the opportunity to be present at such adjustment.
-	59	Grievances may be handled by no more than three (3) Association representatives in the
processing or hearing of any grievance excluding the aggrieved Employee(s). Representatives of the Association engaged in processing or hearing any grievance during regular scheduled working hours shall be paid for such time lost at the regular rate of pay, but in no event will more than three (3) representatives of the Association be paid for participation in any one session.
-	60 The Association Grievance Officer may represent the Employee at all steps of the grievance procedure. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "Grievance Officer" or representative shall include not more than four (4) Assistant Grievance Officers to be designated by the Association and identified to the Employer. If the Association determines the need exists for additional Assistant Grievance Officers, the parties shall meet through a special conference to work to resolve the concerns raised by the Association.
-	61 The Association Grievance Officer shall be allowed time off without loss of pay, to investigate grievance(s) to be discussed or that have been discussed with the Employer upon having received permission from his/her supervisor to do so. The Association shall notify the Employer as to the names of its Grievance Officers.
-	62 An alternate Grievance Officer shall be designated by the Association to act when the Grievance Officer is unavailable.
-	63 The Grievance Officer shall continue on his/her assigned duty during the term of office.
20
Time Limits
-	64	When reference to calendar days is made in this Article, holidays shall not be
considered in these time periods. Time limits set forth in this grievance procedure shall be strictly adhered to unless such time shall be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
-	65	Steps of the grievance procedure may be waived in writing by mutual agreement of
both parties. The grievant may withdraw a grievance at any step of the procedure. Grievances so withdrawn shall not be reinstated.
-	66	If the Employer fails to schedule a meeting or answer the grievance within the
designated time limits, the grievance may be appealed to the next step of this grievance procedure within twenty-one (21) calendar days of the date of the expiration of the applicable time limit.
-	67	If a grievance is not appealed within ten (10) calendar days after receipt of the previous
step answer, the grievance shall be considered withdrawn on the basis of the Employer's last answer and not be subject to further review.
Computation of Back Wages
-	68	No claim for back wages shall exceed the amount the Employee would otherwise have
earned including offsets for unemployment compensation, Workers’ Compensation and any replacement wages earned.
II.	Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge
-	69	Normally, disciplinary action begins with a verbal warning for the first offense and
culminates with discharge only after repeated attempts to correct (the) Employee’s behavior have failed. Serious infractions may warrant immediate imposition of a written reprimand, suspension or discharge, as appropriate.
-	70 Any suspension or discharge of an Employee shall be in writing. In the event an Employee is disciplined by written reprimand or written suspension or discharged by written notification, copies shall be given to the Employee and mailed to the Association at the time it is given to the Employee and a copy placed in the Employee's official personnel folder. Such notice shall be specific and outline the reasons for the disciplinary action.
-	71 The affected Employee will be allowed to discuss his/her disciplinary action with an Association representative, and the Employer will make available an area where he/she may do so if he/she is required to leave the premises.
21
-	72 In imposing any discipline on a current charge, the Employer will not take into account any prior infractions that occurred more than eighteen (18) months previously if no further disciplinary action has been taken during that time.
-	73 Should the reprimand, suspension or discharge be considered without just cause, it shall be appealed as a grievance within twenty-one (21) calendar days after written notification of the discipline is received by the affected Employee. A grievance over a written letter of reprimand shall be submitted at Step 2 of the grievance procedure whereas a grievance over a suspension or discharge shall be submitted at Step 3. Failure to submit a written grievance within the time limits shall constitute a waiver of all claims concerning such disciplinary action or discharge.
III.	Grievance Definition and Procedure
-	74	The following grievance procedure is established for use by Administrative Professional
Employees and the Association who feel they have a grievance or complaint alleging a violation, misinterpretation, or a misapplication of this Agreement.
-	75	A grievance shall be defined as a written dispute concerning the interpretation,
application or alleged violation of any of the terms of this Agreement.
-	76	Any Employee having a dispute over the interpretation or application of the terms of
this Agreement shall present it to the Employer in a manner following.
-	77	A group grievance shall be only one in which the fact(s) in question and the provisions of
the Agreement alleged to be violated are the same as they relate to all Employees in the identified group. In the event that Employees have a group grievance, the Grievance Officer shall submit the grievance on behalf of all affected Employees. When the affected group is contained within one department, college or division, the grievance shall be initiated at Step 2 of the grievance procedure. Any other group grievance shall begin at Step 3.
-	78	At each step of the grievance procedure, the Employee may request the presence of the
Association Grievance Officer.
Oral Step
-	79 If an Employee believes he/she has a problem in connection with his/her employment, he/she shall discuss it with his/her immediate supervisor within fourteen (14) calendar days after its alleged occurrence or the date the Employee reasonably should have knowledge of its occurrence.
22
Step 1
-	80 If the problem is not resolved, the grievance must be reduced to writing and presented to the immediate supervisor within fourteen (14) calendar days after its alleged occurrence or the immediate supervisor's response, in order to be a proper matter for the grievance procedure. The grievance shall be dated and signed by the aggrieved Employee and the Grievance Officer, and shall set forth the fact including the dates and provisions of this Agreement that are alleged to have been violated and the remedy desired. The grievance shall not be considered submitted until the immediate supervisor receives the written grievance. The immediate supervisor will schedule a meeting with the grievant and the Grievance Officer, if requested by the Employee, within seven (7) calendar days from the day the written grievance was received. The immediate supervisor will then answer the grievance in writing within seven (7) calendar days from the meeting at which the grievance was discussed.
Step 2
-	81 Any appeal of a decision rendered by the immediate supervisor shall be presented in writing to the administrative head or designee within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the written decision of the immediate supervisor. The appeal shall state the reason(s) why the decision of the immediate supervisor was not satisfactory. The grievance shall not be considered appealed until the administrative head or designee receives it, dates it and returns a copy to the presenter, which shall be done upon presentment. The administrative head or designee shall schedule a meeting within seven (7) calendar days with the grievant, the Grievance Officer, if requested, and representatives designated by the Employer to discuss the grievance. The administrative head or designee shall then give a decision in writing to the presenter within seven (7) calendar days of the meeting.
Step 3
-	82 If the answer from the administrative head or designee is not satisfactory, the Association shall submit an appeal within seven (7) calendar days of the receipt of the Step 2 answer to the Director of Employee Relations or designee, indicating the reasons why the written answer of the administrative head or designee was unsatisfactory. The Office of Employee Relations will schedule a meeting between no more than three (3) representatives of the Association, excluding the grievant, and three (3) representatives of the Employer within seven (7) calendar days from the date the appeal is received to discuss the grievance. The Office of Employee Relations will then answer the grievance in writing within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the meeting at which the grievance was discussed.
Step 4
-	83 If the Office of Employee Relations' answer is unacceptable, settlement may be determined by a decision of an arbitrator selected by the parties. The Association will notify the Office of Employee Relations within twenty-one (21) calendar days after the receipt of the
23
Step 3 answer if the Association wishes to appeal the grievance to arbitration, indicating why the Office of Employee Relations' answer is not satisfactory. In the event the Association and the Office of Employee Relations do not agree on an arbitrator within seven (7) calendar days, the Association shall file the demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association (AAA) within seven (7) calendar days of failing to mutually agree on an arbitrator. The fees and approved expenses of an arbitrator will be paid for by the parties equally. The rules of the AAA shall apply to all arbitration hearings.
-	84	The arbitrator shall have no power to add to or subtract from or modify any of the terms
of this Agreement, nor shall he/she substitute his/her discretion for that of the Employer or the Association where such discretion has been retained by the Employer or the Association, nor shall he/she exercise any responsibility or function of the Employer or the Association.
-	85	The arbitrator shall have no authority to establish wage and salary scales, to change any
wage or salary rate, or to change classification descriptions except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.
-	86	Excluded from arbitration are disputes and unresolved grievances concerning merit
increase decisions and those matters provided for in provisions on Probationary Employees, Filling Vacant Positions and Classification/Reclassification of Positions.
Finality of Decisions
-	87	The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding upon the Association and its
members, the Employee or Employees involved, and the Employer. However, either party retains all legal rights to challenge arbitration decisions thereof where such action is beyond the power of the arbitrator or where the award was procured by fraud, misconduct or unlawful means.
IV.	Special Conferences
-	88	The Employer and the Association agree to meet and confer on matters of clarification
of the terms of this Agreement or other items as mutually agreed. Each party shall be represented by not more than four (4) persons at special conferences.
-	89	Employees released to attend the special conference may meet, if on the Employer's
property, at a place designated by the Employer for a period not to exceed one-half (1/2) hour immediately preceding the conference.
-	90	Employees released to attend special conferences will be paid by the Employer for time
spent in special conferences, but only for the straight time hours they would otherwise have worked on their regular work schedule.
24
ARTICLE 11
OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDERS
-	91 Each Employee shall have the right, upon request, to examine the content of her/his own Official Personnel Folder(s), the only exclusion being confidential pre-employment credentials of an evaluative nature.
-	92 The Employee shall make an appointment with the responsible managerial personnel to examine her/his Official Personnel Folder(s). Managerial personnel shall be present when the Employee examines her/his Official Personnel Folder(s), and the Employee may be accompanied by a representative of the Association if the Employee so desires. The Employee may designate in writing her/his desire to have a representative of the Association examine her/his file in her/his absence in a disciplinary matter, and the designated representative shall be allowed to examine the Official Personnel Folder(s).
-	93 No derogatory statement about an Employee of which the Employee would not normally have a copy or be aware, shall be filed in the Employee's Official Personnel Folder(s) unless the Employee is provided a dated copy. The Employee has the right to submit a statement(s) concerning negative evaluative reports for inclusion in the Official Personnel Folder(s). Brief statements may be submitted for inclusion in the Employee's Official Personnel Folder(s).
-	94 Upon an Employee's written request to MSU Human Resources any records of disciplinary action that occurred more than eighteen (18) months prior to the request shall be removed from the Official Personnel Folder(s) if the Employee's performance has been satisfactory within the past eighteen (18) months. This section may not be used to remove performance evaluations from the Official Personnel Folder(s).
-	95 Counseling memorandums shall be maintained at the department level.
25
ARTICLE 12
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
-96	To effectively review, monitor and recognize an Employee's performance, it is the policy
of the University to provide Performance Evaluations annually or more often if deemed appropriate by the supervisor. Performance Evaluations shall become part of the Employee's Official Personnel File. The Employee may place written comments regarding the performance evaluation in the Official Personnel File. Whenever an Employee receives an overall "Less Than Satisfactory" evaluation, the Employee shall be reevaluated within ninety (90) days. Before the reevaluation, the Employee may request and shall receive a conference with the evaluator in which such Employee may have APA representation.
26
ARTICLE 13
PROMOTION/DEMOTION
I.	Promotion
-97	A "promotion" is defined as the movement of an Employee to a higher grade level. An
Employee promoted one grade level shall receive a minimum salary increase of five (5) percent or be placed at the minimum rate for the new level, whichever is greater. An Employee promoted two or more grade levels shall receive a minimum salary increase of ten (10) percent or placed at the minimum rate for the new grade level, whichever is greater. The Employer is not prohibited from giving APA Employees salary increases that exceed these minimums.
II.	Demotion
-98	A "demotion" is defined as the movement of an Employee to a lower grade level other
than by reclassification or voluntary transfer. The pay rate of an Employee who is demoted will be reduced by five (5) percent if the grade level is lowered one grade level and ten (10) percent or more if the grade is lowered two or more grade levels. The Employer may make exceptions to this provision when deemed appropriate.
27
ARTICLE 14
FILLING VACANT POSITIONS
-	99	The recruitment of applicants and the filling of vacant positions is the responsibility of
the Employer. All candidates who possess the posted qualifications shall be considered to advance the concept of promotion from within the ranks of the University. MSU Human Resources will provide the employing department with a list of candidates. In any instance when bargaining unit candidates possess the posted qualifications, at least five (5) of said candidates, if available, shall be interviewed.
-	100 The responsibility for determining which candidates shall be interviewed will reside with the employing department. This determination will be based upon information obtained from the candidates' credentials. The department should take longevity of service into account when determining who will be interviewed, but ability to do the work shall be the prime factor for setting the interview list.
-	101 If any outside candidate is hired over an interviewed Employee or an interviewed Employee on layoff status, the Association shall be provided with a copy of the Position Vacancy Record, which will contain the reasons for selection and nonselection. This shall be done in a timely manner. If the procedures outlined above have been followed, the determination will not be grievable; however, the Association may request a Special Conference to discuss the issue.
-	102 Employees will be given reasonable time off from their jobs for the purpose of interviewing for another University position. Arrangements must be made in advance with their supervisor.
28
ARTICLE 15
CLASSIFICATION/RECLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS
-103 The Employer establishes and maintains a system for the evaluation and classification of all bargaining unit positions. The authority to classify new positions, reclassify existing positions and eliminate positions is vested in the MSU Human Resources.
-104 When a classification is established or modified, the grade level for the classification shall be fixed by the Employer and the Association shall be notified before implementation. The compensation level shall be in conformity with rates established for positions of similar responsibility. If there is a disagreement over the compensation assigned the position, a special conference may be scheduled with the Office of Employee Relations. If the disagreement is not resolved, the Association may file a demand for arbitration within fourteen (14) calendar days of the special conference. The Arbitrator shall be limited to determining the appropriateness of the compensation level assigned the position but shall be without power to assign a compensation level for the classification.
-	105 The unit administrator will normally initiate requests for position reclassification. However, requests may be initiated by the Association. Such requests shall be directed to the Assistant Vice President for Human Resources, whose decision on the request shall not be subject to review or grievance. If a request made under this paragraph is not approved, written reasons will be provided the Association.
-	106	The salary of an Employee whose position is reclassified to a higher grade level shall be
no less than the minimum salary of the higher grade level.
-	107	An Employee whose position is reclassified will not be required to serve either a
probationary period or a trial period.
29
ARTICLE 16
REDUCTION IN FORCE
-108 A.	The University endeavors to provide continuing employment for Employees.
However, reductions in work force may be necessary due to lack of funds, lack of work, and/or other cause. A reduction in force shall not be used for constructive discharge. Whenever practicable, the reductions should be made by restricting recruitment, transfers to vacant lateral or lower level positions where the Employee is capable of performing the work and/or normal attrition, but if deemed necessary by the University, layoffs will be utilized.
B.	While the Employee is on layoff, the Employer will make its normal contribution
toward the cost of the health care coverage premium for the month of separation due to layoff.
General Provisions:
-109	For purposes of layoff only, layoffs shall be within units identified below (see paragraph
116).
-110	Employees to be laid off shall be given at least 45 calendar days notice, not to be offset
by accrued vacation. A copy of the layoff notice will be sent to the Association Chairperson.
-111 Within a unit, probationary Employees will be separated before non-probationary Employees are laid off, where the non-probationary Employees are able to perform the work within a 90 day evaluation period.
A.	Where ability to perform the work remaining is equal, the Employer will follow
these priorities for reduction in force:
1.	Temporary before permanent.
2.	Employees with unsatisfactory records before Employees with satisfactory records. In the case of evaluations, an Employee shall not be considered unsatisfactory until the Employee's performance is determined to be unsatisfactory in two consecutive evaluations.
3.	Employees with short service before Employees with long service.
-112 Recall from Layoff. Recall is the reinstatement of a laid-off Employee to active status within the period as defined in the provision on seniority. In the event of recall, the Employee will retain the original service date and will receive FTE service credit for up to two (2) years for the period of layoff as specified in Article 7, paragraph 46, #4. Accrued sick leave will be
30
reinstated when the Employee returns to work. Copies of notices of recall shall be sent to the Association Chairperson.
-113	To be eligible for recall from layoff, the Employee must satisfy the following
requirements:
1.	Must be a regular Employee.
2.	Must have been scheduled to work half-time or more.
3.	Must have completed the probationary period.
-114 In the event that during a period of layoff there is a vacant position, the Employee with the greatest length of service will be recalled to vacant positions first, provided he/she meets the minimum requirements and is capable of performing the duties of the position within a ninety (90) day evaluation period.
An Employee who meets the minimum requirements for a vacant position and who is denied the ninety (90) day evaluation period shall receive written reasons documenting why the Employee was not selected for the evaluation period with a copy to the Chairperson of the Association. Upon request, the Employee shall have an opportunity to meet with a representative of MSU Human Resources to review and discuss the reasons for non-selection.
-115 An Employee on layoff status will lose all recall rights and be terminated upon the occurrence of any of the following:
1.	Unreasonable refusal to be available for an interview.
2.	Refusal to accept a position offered if the salary offered is equivalent to eighty
(80)	percent or more of the Employee's salary before layoff.
3.	Expiration of the recall eligibility period referred to in the provision on seniority.
-116 Units
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
Office of the President
Intercollegiate Athletics
Internal Audit
Office of Institutional Equity
MSU Police
University Physician
OFFICE OF THE PROVOST AND VICE PRESIDENT FOR ACADEMIC AFFAIRS
Office of the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs
Aerospace Studies
Art Museum
CAMP/HEP/TIES
31
Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute
Commencement and Special Events
Enterprise Information Stewardship
Faculty Grievance Office
Faculty and Organizational Development
Facilities Planning and Space Management
Honors College
Libraries
Military Science
MSU Global
MSU Health Team
Family and Community Medicine
Family Medicine
Health Information Technology
MSU Health Team
MSU Health Team-Special
Medicine
Neurology and Ophthalmology
Nursing
Obstetrics Gynecology and Reproductive Biology
Osteopathic Manipulative Medicine
Osteopathic Medical Specialties
Osteopathic Surgical Specialties
Pediatrics
Pediatrics and Human Development
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Psychiatry
Radiology
Radiology/Division of Sports Medicine
Surgery
Office of Admissions
Office of the Associate Provost for Academic Services
Office of the Associate Provost and Associate Vice President for Academic Human Resources
Office of the Associate Provost for Graduate Education and Dean of the Graduate School
Office of the Associate Provost for Human Health Affairs
Office of the Associate Provost for Undergraduate Education and Dean of Undergraduate Studies
Office of the Associate Provost for University Outreach and Engagement
Office of the Senior Associate Provost
Office of Financial Aid
Office of Planning and Budgets
Office of the Registrar
Office for Inclusion and Intercultural Initiatives
Olin Student Health Center
32
Ombudsperson
Performing Arts Facilities & Programs
Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities (RCPD)
Secretary for Academic Governance
Student Athlete Support Services
Talent Search/College Day
Teaching Assistant Program
Undergraduate University Division
University Archives & Historical Collections
Upward Bound
Virtual University Design and Technology
Women's Resource Center
WorkLife Office
OFFICE OF THE EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
Office of the Executive Vice President for Administrative Services
Human Resources
Land Management
Information Technology Services
Infrastructure, Planning and Facilities
OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR FINANCE
Office of the Vice President for Finance
Contract and Grant Administration
Controller’s Office
Investments and Financial Management
Risk Management and Insurance
University Services
VICE PRESIDENT FOR AUXILIARY ENTERPRISES
Vice President for Auxiliary Enterprises
Residential and Hospitality Services
RHS Information Services
RHS Planning and Projects Office
Culinary Services
Spartan Hospitality Group
Residence Education and Housing Service
OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR RESEARCH AND GRADUATE STUDIES
Vice President for Research and Graduate Studies
Senior Associate Vice President for Research
Animal Care Program
Bio/Computational Evolution in Action Consortium
Center for Statistical Training and Consulting
33
Environmental Health Safety
Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center
Institute for Cyber Enabled Research
MSU Bioeconomy Institute
MSU Innovation Center
MSU Press
MSU Technologies
Office of Regulatory Affairs
Office of Sponsored Programs
Research Integrity Office
Research Support and Development Services
Research Technology Support Facility
VICE PRESIDENT FOR STUDENT AFFAIRS AND SERVICES
Vice President for Student Affairs and Services Office
Career Services and Placement
Counseling Center
LBGT Resource Center
Office of Cultural and Academic Transition
Recreational Sports and Fitness Services
Service Learning and Civic Engagement
Student Life
ASMSU
Council of Graduate Students
WDBM Student Radio Station
MSU Neighborhood Engagement Centers
MSU Safe Place
Graduate Health and Wellness
MSU Testing Office
VICE PRESIDENT FOR UNIVERSITY RELATIONS
Administration and Planning
Big 10 network
Marketing Communications
Media Communications
Photography and Videography
VICE PRESIDENT FOR UNIVERSITY ADVANCEMENT
Office of Vice President for University Advancement
University Development
MSU Alumni Association
Advancement Marketing and Communications
Advancement Information Systems and Donor Strategy
34
COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES
Dean of the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources
Agriculture and Natural Resources Dean - Academic and Student Affairs
Agriculture and Natural Resources Communications
Agriculture and Natural Resources IT
Agricultural, Food and Resources Economics
Agricultural Technology Institute
Animal Science
Bailey Scholars Program
Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering
CANR Diversity and Pluralism Office
CANR External Relations
Center for Global Connections
Community Sustainability
Entomology
Fisheries and Wildlife
Food Science and Human Nutrition
Forestry
Horticulture
Institute for Food Law and Regulations
Land Management
AgBioResearch Director’s Office
MSU Extension (MSUE)
MSU Extension (MSUE) Agriculture/Agribusiness Institute
MSU Extension (MSUE) Business Office
MSU Extension (MSUE) Children & Youth Institute
MSU Extension (MSUE) Health & Nutrition Institute
MSU Extension (MSUE) Human Resources
MSU Extension (MSUE) Greening Michigan Institute
Native American Institute
Packaging
Planning, Design and Construction
Plant, Soil and Microbial Science
University Farms
Water Research Institute
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
Office of the Dean, Arts and Letters
African American and African Studies Program
Art, Art History and Design
Center for Integrative Studies in Arts and Humanities
Center for Language Teaching Advancement
English
English Language Center
35
Jewish Studies Program
Linguistics and Germanic, Slavic, Asian and African Languages
Philosophy
Religious Studies
Romance and Classical Studies
Theatre
The Writing Center
Writing, Rhetoric & American Culture
THE ELI BROAD COLLEGE OF BUSINESS AND THE ELI BROAD GRADUATE SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT
Office of the Dean, Broad College of Business
Accounting and Information Systems
Executive Development Programs
Finance
International Business Center
Lear Corporation Career Services Center
Management
Marketing
Supply Chain Management
MBA Programs
The School of Hospitality Business
COLLEGE OF COMMUNICATION ARTS AND SCIENCES
Office of the Dean, Communication Arts and Sciences
Advertising and Public Relations
Broadcasting Services
Communication
Communicative Sciences and Disorders
Journalism
Media and Information
FACILITY FOR RARE ISOTOPE BEAMS
Facility for Rare Isotope Beams (FRIB)
National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory
COLLEGE OF EDUCATION
Office of the Dean, Education
Center for the Study of Curriculum
Counseling, Educational Psychology and Special Education
CREATE for STEM Institute
Education Policy Center
Educational Administration
Institute for Research on Teaching and Learning
36
Kinesiology
Teacher Education
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Office of the Dean, Engineering
Biomedical Engineering
Chemical Engineering and Materials Science
Civil and Environmental Engineering
Composite Materials and Structures Center
Computer Science and Engineering
Computational Mathematics, Science and Engineering
Division of Engineering Computer Services
Division of Engineering Research
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
COLLEGE OF HUMAN MEDICINE
Office of the Dean, College of Human Medicine
Academic Affairs
Center for Ethics and Humanities in the Life Sciences
College of Human Medicine (CHM)-West Michigan
Emergency Medicine
Epidemiology
Family Medicine
Great Lakes Cancer Institute (GLCI)
Human Pathology
Institute for Health Care Studies (IHCS)
Medicine
Obstetrics, Gynecology & Reproductive Biology
Office of Medical Education Research & Development (OMERAD)
Pediatrics and Human Development
Physiology
Public Health
Research
Psychiatry
Surgery
Translational Science and Molecular Medicine (TSMM)
INTERNATIONAL/STUDIES AND PROGRAMS
Office of the Dean, International/Studies and Programs
African Studies Center
Asian Studies Center
Canadian Studies Center
Center for Advanced Studies of International Development
37
Center for European, Russian and Eurasian Studies
Center for Gender in Global Context
Center for Latin American and Caribbean Studies
Japan Center for Michigan Universities
Office for International Research Collaboration
Office for International Students and Scholars
Office of Study Abroad
Visiting International Professional Programs
JAMES MADISON COLLEGE
LYMAN BRIGGS COLLEGE
COLLEGE OF MUSIC
COLLEGE OF NATURAL SCIENCE
Office of the Dean, Natural Science
Abrams Planetarium
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology
Biology Science Program
Biomedical Laboratory Diagnostics
Biomolecular Science Gateway Program
Cell and Molecular Biology Program
Center for Advanced Microscopy
Center for Integrative Studies - General Science
Chemistry
Computational Mathematics, Science and Engineering
CREATE for STEM Institute
Drew Science Scholars Program
Ecology, Evolutionary Biology and Behavior Program
Genetics Program
Geological Sciences
Kellogg Biological Station
Mathematics
Microbiology and Molecular Genetics
MSU-DOE Plant Research Laboratory
Neuroscience Program
Physics and Astronomy
Physiology
Plant Biology
Program in Mathematics Education
Residential Initiative on the Study of the Environment (RISE Program)
Statistics and Probability
Integrative Biology
38
COLLEGE OF NURSING
COLLEGE OF OSTEOPATHIC MEDICINE
COM Office of the Dean
COM Academic Programs
COM Business Office
COM External Programs and Advancement
COM Research
COM Statewide Campus System
COM Student Services
Biochemistry and Molecular Biology - COM
Family and Community Medicine
Human Pathology, Division of COM
Institute for International Health - COM
Learning and Assessment Center - COM
Microbiology & Molecular Genetics - COM
Neurology and Ophthalmology - COM
Osteopathic Manipulative Medicine
Osteopathic Medical Specialties
Osteopathic Surgical Specialties
Pediatrics
Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation
Pharmacology & Toxicology - COM
Physiology - COM
Psychiatry - COM
Radiology - COM
Radiology/Division of Sports Medicine - COM
Research & Advanced Study Programs
SE Michigan Detroit Medical Center
SE Michigan Macomb University Center
RESIDENTIAL COLLEGE IN THE ARTS AND HUMANITIES
COLLEGE OF SOCIAL SCIENCE
Office of the Dean, College of Social Science
Anthropology
CASID - Center for Advanced Study of International Development
Center for Global Change and Earth Observations
Center for Integrative Studies
Criminal Justice
Economics
Environmental Science and Policy Program
Geography
39
Global Urban Studies Program
Human Development and Family Studies
Human Resources and Labor Relations
History
Institute for Public Policy and Social Research
Institute of Public Utilities
Julian Samora Research Institute
MATRIX - Center for Human Arts, Letters and Social Sciences Online
Planning, Design and Construction
Political Science
Psychology
Sociology
Social Work
COLLEGE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE
Office of the Dean, College of Veterinary Medicine
Center for Integrative Toxicology
Diagnostic Center for Population and Animal Health
Large Animal Clinical Sciences
Learning and Assessment Center CVM
Microbiology and Molecular Genetics CVM
Pathobiology and Diagnostic Investigation
Pharmacology and Toxicology CVM
Physiology CVM
Small Animal Clinical Sciences
Veterinary Medicine Auxiliary Programs
Veterinary Medical Center (formerly Veterinary Teaching Hospital)
Veterinary Technology Program
OFFICE OF FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT OFFICER
VICE PRESIDENT FOR GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
VICE PRESIDENT FOR LEGAL AFFAIRS AND GENERAL COUNSEL
-117	Layoff Transition Adjustment
An Employee shall be eligible for a Layoff Transition Adjustment if the affected Employee meets the following eligibility requirements:
1.	The Employee must have six (6) or more years of seniority at the time of layoff.
2.	The Employee must actually be laid off.
40
3.	The Employee must be willing to take a position paying at least 80 percent of
current salary.
4.	The Layoff Transition Adjustment is not payable until after the affected
Employee is on layoff for a minimum of 120 calendar days.
In the event the laid off Employee meets the criteria set forth above, the Employee may, at his/her option, elect to accept a Layoff Transition Adjustment based on the following schedule:
University Seniority	Transition Adjustment
6 years	4 weeks salary
7 years	5 weeks salary
8 years	6 weeks salary
9 years	7 weeks salary
10 years	8 weeks salary
11 years	9 weeks salary
12 years	10 weeks salary
13 years	11 weeks salary
14 years	12 weeks salary
15 years	13 weeks salary
16 years	14 weeks salary
17 years or more	15 weeks salary
An Employee who elects to receive the Layoff Transition Adjustment will no longer be eligible for recall. An Employee who may be eligible for University Retirement may elect the Layoff Transition Adjustment and still be eligible for all benefits afforded a retiree.
-118	Unused Sick Leave Credits
A laid off Employee whose recall rights have expired and who is not otherwise eligible for payout of accrued sick leave under paragraphs 194, 195, 196 and 197 of this agreement may receive partial payment for unused sick leave credits according to the schedule below:
University Seniority 2 years through 10 years
11 years through 15 years
16 years through 20 years
More than 20 years
Sick Leave Payout
Unused sick leave, not to exceed one-eighth (1/8) of up to 1200 hours
Unused sick leave, not to exceed one-fourth (1/4) of up to 1200 hours
Unused sick leave, not to exceed three-eighths (3/8) of up to 1200 hours
Unused sick leave, not to exceed one-half (1/2) of up to 1200 hours
41
-119 For purposes of Paragraph 118, “University Seniority” is that which existed as of the effective date of the layoff.
-120 An Employee who receives payment for unused sick leave under this section may also receive a Layoff Transition Adjustment, provided that eligibility requirements for that program have been met.
42
ARTICLE 17
COMPENSATION PROGRAMS
I.	General Increase
-121 Effective October 1, 2015, two and one-half percent (2.5%) general salary increase monies calculated from the September 30, 2015 total salary base will be made available for all Employees who received a satisfactory rating on the latest Employee evaluation. For purposes of this provision, an Employee shall not be considered unsatisfactory until the Employee’s performance “Does Not Meet” expectations in two consecutive evaluations. General salary increase monies will be allocated in the following manner:
Two and one-half (2.5%) percent will be made available for all eligible Employees, sixty percent (60%) of which will be allocated on the basis of merit consideration and forty percent (40%) of which will be allocated across-the-board.
-122 Effective October 1, 2016, one percent (1%) general salary increase monies will be calculated from the September 30, 2016 total salary base. The general salary increase percentage will be made available for all eligible Employees.
The salary increase will be made to all Employees who received a satisfactory rating on the latest Employee evaluation. For purposes of this provision, an Employee shall not be considered unsatisfactory until the Employee’s performance “Does Not Meet” expectations in two consecutive evaluations.
A.	If the general salary increase is one percent (1%) or less, it will be
allocated across-the-board and calculated on the September 30, 2016 Employee’s base wage.
B.	If the percent general salary increase is above one percent (1%), monies
will be allocated as follows: sixty percent (60%) of which will be allocated on the basis of merit consideration and forty percent (40%) of which will be allocated across-the-board.
-123 Effective October 1, 2017, general salary increase monies will be calculated from the September 30, 2017 total salary base. The general salary increase percentage will be made available for all eligible Employees.
The salary increase will be made to all Employees who received a satisfactory rating on the latest Employee evaluation. For purposes of this provision, an Employee shall not be
43
considered unsatisfactory until the Employee’s performance “Does Not Meet” expectations in two consecutive evaluations.
A.	If the general salary increase is one percent (1%) or less, it will be
allocated across-the-board and calculated on the September 30, 2017 Employee’s base wage.
B.	If the percent general salary increase is above one percent (1%), monies
will be allocated as follows: sixty percent (60%) of which will be allocated on the basis of merit consideration and forty percent (40%) of which will be allocated across-the-board.
-124 Effective October 1, 2018, general salary increase monies will be calculated from the September 30, 2018 total salary base. The general salary increase percentage will be made available for all eligible Employees.
The salary increase will be made to all Employees who received a satisfactory rating on the latest Employee evaluation. For purposes of this provision, an Employee shall not be considered unsatisfactory until the Employee’s performance “Does Not Meet” expectations in two consecutive evaluations.
A.	If the general salary increase is one percent (1%) or less, it will be
allocated across-the-board and calculated on the September 30, 2018 Employee’s base wage.
B.	If the percent general salary increase is above one percent (1%), monies
will be allocated as follows: sixty percent (60%) of which will be allocated on the basis of merit consideration and forty percent (40%) of which will be allocated across-the-board.
General Salary base wage increases for October 1, 2015, October 1, 2016, October 1, 2017 and October 1, 2018 shall be determined per the Wage and Health Care Memorandum of Understanding 2013-2017 between the University and the APA and the Coalition of Labor Organizations which is separately ratified and signed by the Association and the University.
-	125 All funds made available by the Employer for general increases shall be expended on salaries of Employees in the bargaining unit.
-	126 Special merit salary increases may be granted during the contract year with appropriate approvals.
44
II.
Salary Progression Program
-	127 Salary Progression increase consideration will be given to Employees who have completed at least one (1) year of service on the effective date of the increase, whose most recent Performance Development Plan is “Meets Expectations” or higher; and whose salary is less than one hundred twenty-five (125%) percent of the minimum hiring level.
-	128	Employees shall receive a progression increase upon completion of one year, for the
first year only.
-	129 Effective January 1, 2016, eligible Employees will receive progression increases in the amount of three (3%) percent up to the 125% level. Employees will not receive progression increases if they have received a “Does Not Meet” rating on their most recent Performance Development Plan.
-	130 Effective January 1, 2017, eligible Employees will receive progression increases in the amount of three (3%) percent up to the 125% level. Employees will not receive progression increases if they received a “Does Not Meet” rating on their most recent Performance Development Plan.
-	131 Effective January 1, 2018, eligible Employees will receive progression increases in the amount of three (3%) percent up to the 125% level. Employees will not receive progression increases if they received a “Does Not Meet” rating on their most recent Performance Development Plan.
-	132 Effective January 1, 2019, eligible Employees will receive progression increases in the amount of three (3%) percent up to the 125% level. Employees will not receive progression increases if they have received a “Does Not Meet” rating on their most recent Performance Development Plan.
III. Minimum Hiring Rates
-	133	The minimum hiring rate for grade levels may be increased by the Employer.
-	134	Effective October 1, 2015, the Minimum Hiring and Automatic Progression Levels will
increase by two and one-half percent (2.5%).
-	135	Effective October 1, 2016, the Minimum Hiring and Automatic Progression Levels will
increase by one percent (1%).
-	136	Effective October 1, 2017 and October 1, 2018, the Minimum Hiring and Automatic
Progression Levels will increase by the General Salary Base Wage Increase
45
IV.
Salary Schedules
-137	Effective October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016, the Minimum Hiring and
Automatic Progression Level rates are:
Grade Level	Minimum Level	Progression Level
8	$33,225	$41,532
9	$35,898	$44,873
10	$38,754	$48,443
11	$41,872	$52,341
12	$45,215	$56,519
13	$48,817	$61,022
14	$52,720	$65,900
15	$56,939	$71,174
16	$61,490	$76,863
17	$66,411	$83,014
2016, 2017, and 2018 minimum hiring and automatic progression level rates will be updated according to the Wage and Health Care Memorandum of Understanding 2013-2017 between the University and the APA and the Coalition of Labor Organizations which is separately ratified and signed by the Association and the University.
46
ARTICLE 18
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
Overtime
-	138 Bargaining Unit Employees in grade levels AP 08, 09, 10, and 11 will receive overtime payment at the rate of time and one-half for scheduled hours worked in excess of 40 in a work week. Compensatory time at the same rate may be used where mutually agreed to by the Employee and the Unit Administrator.
-	139 In health care delivery facilities where bi-weekly work schedules of eighty (80) hours are maintained, overtime pay or compensatory time off will be given for any scheduled hours worked in excess of eighty (80) hours in a bi-weekly period.
-	140 Holiday time is considered as time worked for the purpose of overtime computation. Overtime premium shall not be pyramided, compounded or paid twice for the same time worked.
-	141 Unit administrators or designees are responsible for the approval of overtime prior to the performance of overtime work. Approval means time worked as directed by the Employee's supervisor and does not include casual or unscheduled time spent at work beyond the normal work day or work week.
-	142 Employees at grade level AP 12 and above are not eligible for overtime pay. However, where unusual staffing and work requirements exist, the unit administrator may approve compensatory time off equal to the number of overtime hours worked.
Call-In Pay
-	143 An Employee in grade levels 8, 9, 10, and 11 reporting for emergency duty at the Employer’s request for work which she/he had not been notified of in advance and which is outside of and not continuous with her/his regular work period shall be guaranteed at least three (3) hours’ pay at the rate of time and one-half.
Standby Pay
-	144 Standby is a situation in which an off-duty bargaining unit Employee is officially advised and scheduled by her/his supervisor to be available to return to work during a specified period of time.
-	145 Employees in grade levels 8, 9, 10, and 11 who are assigned and scheduled to “standby” status shall be paid one (1) hour of pay at straight time or its equivalent in compensatory time (by mutual agreement) for every twenty-four (24) hour period that she/he is scheduled on
47
standby. Employees assigned to standby status are required to be available for duty by leaving word at their homes or with their supervisors where they can be reached by phone and to be in a position to report to work immediately when called. A standby assignment which results in a call to report to work is not eligible for call in pay. Upon reporting to work, Employees shall be paid for the actual time worked at the rate of time and one-half, or a minimum of two (2) hours, whichever is greater.
48
ARTICLE 19
LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH PAY
-146 The University grants eligible Employees leave of absence with pay in accordance with provisions as stated here. The types of leave of absence with pay are: bereavement leave, holidays, jury duty, military duty, personal leave, sick leave and vacation.
-147 While on leave of absence with pay, the Employee will retain all previously earned benefits, and will continue to accrue vacation and sick leave credits. Compensation will be at the Employee's base rate of pay as of the Employee's last day of active work. Benefit programs and University contributions to benefits programs will continue during leave of absence with pay. See sections on benefits for details on types of leaves.
49
ARTICLE 20
LEAVES OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
I.	Absences without Pay (10 Days or Less)
-148 Excused absences without pay less than 10 days may be granted by the immediate supervisor but shall not exceed ten (10) consecutive days unless approved as a leave of absence. Normally, excused absences without pay will not exceed ten (10) working days in each fiscal year.
-149 Excused absences without pay will not require the use of accrued paid time (i.e., personal leave or vacation), except for failure to report to work due to inclement weather.
II.	Absences Without Pay Including Layoff (Exceeding 10 Days)
-	150 All leaves of absence must be approved by the supervisor, the administrative head of the unit and MSU Human Resources. They may be taken for reasons as specified in paragraph 154.
-	151 During an unpaid leave of absence or layoff, an Employee will not accrue vacation or sick leave nor be eligible for any payments for time off work provided by this Agreement (except excused absences without pay).
-	152	Unless otherwise specifically provided for by this Agreement, seniority shall accumulate
during leaves of absence or extensions and layoffs.
-	153 The Employee must consult with the Benefits Office about maintaining status in Employee benefit programs during leaves of absence without pay subject to and consistent with these program conditions.
-	154	Eligible Employees with the approval of their supervisor(s) and MSU Human Resources
may be authorized to take unpaid leaves for up to two (2) years for the following:
A.	Sickness and disability.
B.	Settlement of an estate.
C.	Serious illness of a member of the Employee's family as defined under the
bereavement leave provisions of this Agreement.
D.	Child care when the Employee is the parent or designated guardian.
50
(1)	Parent or guardian must provide evidence that the child needs special care.
(2)	Evidence demonstrating that only the parent or guardian can deliver this special care.
(3)	Such special care would require absence from work.
E.	Employees who become parents of or who adopt a child shall be entitled to
parental or adoption leave of up to three (3) months to commence on or before the date of birth or the date of adoption as determined by the Employee.
F.	Governmental service if elected to a full-time term of office, and if holding an
elective office. Subsequent elections shall extend this leave.
G.	Educational leave after two (2) years of employment.
H.	To accompany spouse when spouse accepts University reassignment from MSU.
I.	Extended vacation after two (2) years of employment.
J.	Other reasons deemed appropriate by the Employer.
-155 During an involuntary leave of absence without pay, the Employee's position shall not be considered vacant and the Employee shall be entitled to return to the position if such return is within ninety (90) days of the commencement of the leave. An involuntary leave is defined as a leave required because of illness or incapacitation--medically certified. If the Employee is unable to return to her/his job within ninety (90) days, the Employee shall have bypass rights, in accordance with paragraph 114, to vacant lateral or lower level positions for a period of time not to exceed two (2) years from the original date of the involuntary leave.
-156 The Employer, at its option and without cost to the Employee, may require that a designated physician(s) examine the Employee before returning the Employee to active employment.
51
ARTICLE 21
VACATION PAY
-157 Accrued Vacation Leave Carryover
Service Months	Earning Rate	Annual Accrual	Maximum Accrual
Grade levels 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 & 15			
Completion of first 6 months of service	48 hours		
7th month through 60th month	8 hrs/month	96 hrs.	240 hrs.
61th month through 120th month	12 hrs/month	144 hrs.	240 hrs.
121st month	16 hrs/month	192 hrs.	240 hrs.
			
Grade Level 16			
Completion of first 6 months service	96 hrs.		
7th month	16 hrs/month	192 hrs.	240 hrs.
-158 Employees accrue vacation pay credits at the rate shown above for each completed month of service. Service includes work time and "Leave of Absence with Pay" time, but does not include:
1.	Leave of absence	without	pay.
2.	Regular Workers’	Compensation.
3.	Layoff.
4.	Disciplinary suspension.
Usage Requirements
-	159	An Employee may take vacation at any time during the year with permission of the
supervisor and in accordance with departmental requirements.
-	160	Vacation is to be taken and reported in full hour increments.
-	161	A maximum of eight (8) hours pay may be made for each day of vacation. This may vary
for persons on a flexible appointment.
-	162 Each hour paid to an Employee shall be paid at the base rate of pay, and shall not include shift premium or other premium payments.
52
-	163 University designated holidays falling within the Employee's vacation will not be charged to accrued vacation.
-	164 While on vacation, an Employee may not change usage for time taken for other forms of paid leave, except for a documented illness.
-	165 The Employee will normally use all vacation before commencing a leave of absence without pay, except for sickness or disability.
-	166 Vacation may be used to supplement Workers’ Compensation up to a maximum of eight (8) hours total pay for each day of absence.
-	167 Part-time Employees scheduled to work at least 26 hours per week but less than 36 shall be credited with 75% of the vacation accruals shown above for full-time Employees.
-	168	Part-time Employees scheduled to work at least 20 hours per week but less than 26 shall
be credited with 50% of the vacation accruals shown above for full-time Employees.
-	169	Part-time Employees will be paid only for the hours scheduled to work but not worked
because of the vacation.
-	170 Employees are expected and encouraged to take their annual vacation accrual each year. An Employee may continue to accrue vacation up to the Maximum Accrual shown under the Accrual Schedule section. Further accrual beyond this Maximum Accrual is not possible, and the Employee will receive no further vacation credit for months of service completed until the Employee reduces vacation credits.
-	171	An Employee will receive payment for unused vacation when terminating employment.
53
ARTICLE 22
PERSONAL LEAVE DAYS
-	172 The University grants eligible Employees paid time off in order to attend to personal matters. Employees on the payroll as of July 1, will be credited with 24 hours of personal leave for use during the fiscal year (July 1 - June 30). Employees who are hired, rehired, or change to regular status of half-time or more during the fiscal year will be credited with personal leave as follows:
1/2 TIME
ON THE PAYROLL	FULL-TIME
3/4 TIME
July 1 - December 31	24	18	12
January 1 - March 31	12	9	6
April 1 - May 31	6	4.5	3
June 1 - June 30	0	0	0
-	173 Begins on date of hire, rehire, or change to regular status of half-time or more. Personal leave days should be approved by the Employee's supervisor, in advance if possible. Personal leave is to be taken and reported in one hour increments. A maximum of eight (8) hours' pay may be made for each day of absence (may vary for persons on a flexible appointment). Each hour paid to an Employee shall be paid at the base rate of pay and shall not include shift premium or other premium payment. The Employee may use all personal leave days before commencing a leave of absence without pay. Personal leave days may be used to supplement Workers’ Compensation up to a maximum of eight (8) hours' total pay for each day of absence. Personal leave days may not be used to provide payment for absence due to disciplinary suspension.
-	174 Part-time Employees will be paid only for the hours scheduled to work but not worked because of the approved absence. Personal leave credits may not be carried forward to the next fiscal year. No payment for unused personal leave credits will be made when the Employee terminates.
54
ARTICLE 23
HOLIDAYS
-	175 The University grants eligible Employees paid holidays from work with no loss in pay. Regular staff working half-time or more and scheduled to work receive the following nine (9) days as holidays:
New Year's (2 days)
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving
Friday after Thanksgiving
Christmas (2 days)
-	176 Each year the University designates the dates on which the holidays are to be observed. The additional days at Christmas and New Year's are observed either before or after the legal holiday.
-	177 An Employee is eligible for the holiday pay at the date of hire, rehire or change to regular status of half time or more. The Employee must be on active status at the time the holiday occurs. The benefit is not payable to Employees who are on leave of absence without pay, regular Workers’ Compensation, layoff or disciplinary action. Holiday pay is not payable if the Employee has an unexcused absence on either the day before or the day after the holiday.
-	178 A maximum of eight (8) hours' pay may be received for each holiday. Each hour paid to an Employee shall be paid at the Employee's base rate of pay and shall not include any other premium payment.
-	179 When a holiday falls during an Employee's vacation or paid sick leave, the Employee will receive holiday pay and no charge will be made to accrued sick leave or vacation time. Parttime Employees will be paid only for the hours scheduled to work but not worked because of the holiday. When a holiday falls on an Employee's non-work day and no other day is designated by the University, an alternate day off will be given. Time and one-half is paid for those eligible to receive overtime for work performed on the observance date of the holiday and not on the calendar date of the holiday, if different. In addition, an alternate day off will be given.
55
ARTICLE 24
SICK LEAVE
-180 The University grants regular staff working half-time or more and temporary staff working half-time or more, paid time off due to illness. Employees accrue sick leave credits in accordance with the following requirements.
-181 Employees begin earning sick leave credits upon hire or rehire. Full-time Employees accrue sick leave at the rate of four (4) hours for each completed two (2) weeks of service (104 hours annually). Service includes work time and "Leave of Absence with Pay" time, but does not include:
1.	Leave of absence	without	pay.
2.	Regular Workers'	Compensation.
3.	Layoff.
4.	Disciplinary suspension.
-182 Sick leave is credited at the end of each month and may accumulate to a maximum of 1,400 hours.
-183 Sick leave with pay may be used for the following reasons:
1.	Personal illness or incapacity over which the Employee has no reasonable control
that prohibits the performance of the duties of the Employee's job.
2.	Absence from work because of exposure to contagious disease that, according to
public health standards, would constitute a danger to the health of others by the Employee's attendance at work.
3.	To complete appointments for medical or dental treatment when it is not
possible to arrange such appointments for non-duty hours.
4.	Twenty-four (24) hours of accrued sick leave per fiscal year may be used for
illness of a member of the immediate family as defined in paragraph 258 or a member of the household. An additional fifty-six (56) hours may be used for the care of dependent children, parents, spouse, or Other Eligible Individual who are ill. The total number of hours shall not exceed eighty (80).
5.	Illness or incapacity associated with pregnancy (see Maternity Leave section).
56
-	184 A physician's statement may be required before approval of payment of sick leave. Payment of sick leave is authorized in tenths of an hour. Reporting of cumulative sick leave usage is made in full hour increments.
-	185 A maximum of eight (8) hours pay may be made for each day of absence (may vary for persons on a flexible appointment). Each hour paid to an Employee shall be paid at the base rate of pay and shall not include shift premium or other premium payment.
Coordination With Other Types of Pay or Benefits
-	186 Employees must utilize any accrued sick leave credits and may thereafter use vacation and personal leave day credits before being placed on an unpaid leave of absence due to illness/disability.
-	187	The University, for cause, may direct an Employee to go on sick leave.
-	188	Employees may be required to obtain approval from the University Physician’s
recommended physician before returning to work.
In the event of a dispute involving an Employee’s ability to perform his/her job at the University, and when the Employee is not satisfied with the determination of the University’s recommended physician, he/she may submit a report from a medical doctor of his/her own choosing. If the dispute still exists, the University’s recommended physician and the Employee’s doctor shall agree upon a third medical doctor to submit a report to the Employer and the Employee, and the decision of such third party will be binding on both parties. The third opinion shall be within the constraints of state and federal law. Accrued sick leave may be used as appropriate. The Employee will be made whole if the results of the third medical examination conclude the Employee should not have been placed on leave.
-	189 Workers’ Compensation benefits will be supplemented by accrued sick leave credits as necessary to maintain the Employee's total income at an amount equivalent to eight (8) hours of pay at the base rate of pay for each day of absence.
-	190	University designated holidays falling within an Employee's paid sick leave will not be
charged to sick leave.
Full-time/Part-time Status Considerations:
-	191	Part-time Employees scheduled to work at least 26 hours per week but less than 36 shall
be credited with 75 percent of the sick leave accruals shown above for full-time Employees.
-	192	Part-time Employees scheduled to work at least 20 hours per week but less than 26 shall
be credited with 50 percent of the sick leave accruals shown above for full-time Employees.
57
-	193	Part-time Employees will be paid only for the hours scheduled to work but not worked
because of the sick leave.
Other Provisions
-	194	An Employee will not receive payment for unused sick leave when terminating, except
when retiring, as stated below.
-	195 Full-time Employees meeting the University's minimum retirement requirements shall be paid for 50% of unused sick leave, but not to exceed a maximum of 50% of up to 1,200 hours, as of the effective date of separation.
-	196 Full-time Employees who do not meet the University's minimum retirement requirements but have at least five (5) years, but less than 10 years of continuous service, and who have attained 65 years of age at the time of separation shall be paid 50% of unused sick leave as of the effective date of separation.
-	197 Full-time Employees who do not meet the University's minimum retirement requirements but have at least 10 years of continuous service and have attained 65 years of age at the time of separation, shall be paid 100% of unused sick leave as of the effective date of separation, not to exceed a maximum of 1,200 hours.
58
ARTICLE 25
MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE
-	198 Employees who are reinstated in accordance with the Universal Military Training Act, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations, will be granted leaves of absence for a period equal to their seniority, but not to exceed two (2) years (without pay), to attend school full time under applicable federal laws in effect on the date of this Agreement.
-	199 An Employee who fails to notify the Employer of his/her intent to return within thirty (30) calendar days of the expiration of a leave of absence in excess of one (1) year duration will be given written notice within twenty-one (21) calendar days prior to the expiration of said leave.
-	200 Upon application, a military leave of absence (without pay) will be granted to eligible Employees. This applies to Employees who are inducted through a selective service system of voluntary enlistment and to Employees called through membership in the National Guard, the United States Reserve Corps or other federal or state recognized military organization.
59
ARTICLE 26
MATERNITY LEAVE
-201 Initially, the Employee must submit a letter from a physician giving the projected delivery date. MSU Human Resources will not require further medical documentation covering absences for a pregnancy when they occur within a period of four weeks before the projected delivery date and eight weeks following the delivery date. Beyond these periods, a statement will be required from the Employee's physician stating the reasons for the requested leave extension. Leaves associated with pregnancy may be either with or without pay, depending on accumulated sick leave or vacation leave.
60
ARTICLE 27
FLEXIBLE APPOINTMENTS
-202 Flexible appointments are appointments of Administrative Professional staff providing between 75 and 95 percent time equivalent salary over a calendar year, with some fringe benefits equivalent to full-time appointments. A flexible appointment is a voluntary commitment by an Employee to a specific schedule of work. Flexible appointments may be in one of the following forms:
Type 1:	Full-time, active employment for 9, 10 or 11 months per year with a
prescheduled unpaid leave of absence with benefits ("flex-leave") during the remaining months.
Type 2:	75-89% scheduled time active employment over the entire calendar year
(30-35 hours per week) with a part-time equivalent salary.
-	203 As with any Administrative Professional position, job demands may require work outside and in addition to those of the regularly scheduled flexible schedule.
-	204 Where a Type 1 flexible appointment includes a leave with benefits, the Employee's position is held for his/her return at the end of the flex-leave, subject to the conditions specified in paragraph 230.
-	205 The objective of flex-year appointments is to achieve budget flexibility where departmental functions can be accomplished with 75 percent employment, through a combination of benefits and other incentives.
-	206 Departments identify positions for flexible appointments. Regular Employees and persons to be employed in those pre-identified positions may agree to be placed in flexible appointments. Employees desiring flexible appointments whose positions are necessarily full time may apply for transfers to flexible appointments, subject to relevant policies and negotiated agreements. When a department desires to change a position from full time to a flexible appointment and the incumbent does not volunteer for that status, reduction in force procedures may be initiated to achieve the reduction within the department. If a flexible appointment position is subsequently eliminated, reduction in force procedures will be initiated. Staff members with flexible appointments who later desire a change in appointment may apply for other positions as they become available.
General Provisions
A.	Flexible Positions
-	207 The department administrator shall identify the positions appropriate for flexible appointments and, if specific duties are to be eliminated, indicate in writing the duties of such
61
positions that are to be eliminated. This designation must be approved by MSU Human Resources, after receiving Employee input.
-	208 Once a position is officially designated as flexible, only flexible appointments are acceptable.
-	209 A flexible position shall maintain that designation until the department administrator acts to designate it otherwise by submitting the appropriate form for the approval of the MSU Human Resources.
B.	Flexible Appointments
-	210 A flexible appointment, either as an initial appointment or as a change of appointment, may be granted only with the agreement of a prospective or current staff member. Without agreement, a current staff member may be subject to the Reduction in Force policy.
-	211 A flexible appointment must be arranged in advance with an Employee, and approved by the departmental administrator and the MSU Human Resources.
-	212 All flexible appointments will annually provide a minimum of 1,560 hours of scheduled work (subject to necessary reductions in force).
-	213 A flexible appointee's FTE salary is the amount that would be paid if an entire year was worked in full time (e.g., $1,000/month x 12 months = $12,000). The base salary is the actual expected pay during the year. For example, if the FTE salary is $12,000, base salary at 75 percent would be:
Type 1: $1,000 x 9 months = $9,000; Type 2: $750 x 12 months = $9,000
-	214 Flexible appointees are regular AP Employees.
-	215 Leaves with benefits may be established for periods of one month or more, up to a maximum of three months (in increments of one month).
-	216 Leaves with benefits are only those that are prearranged as part of an approved flexible appointment.
-	217 No Unemployment Compensation is paid during a leave with benefits.1
-	218 If the flexible appointment converts to full-time status, the Employee will receive an appropriate salary adjustment.
1Inasmuch as appointees on flex-leave have neither been laid off nor terminated but are on a mutually agreed-upon leave of absence, they are ineligible for Unemployment Compensation. If Unemployment Compensation is sought by the Employee, the leave with benefits is voided and the Employee shall be placed on layoff status, without application of reduction in force provisions.
62
-	219 Employees volunteering for flex-leaves must sign the PAN form signifying their voluntary concurrence with their change in status. This action is subject to the review and approval of MSU Human Resources.
Fringe Benefits
-	220	A flexible appointee's benefit eligibility during active flexible status and unpaid flex-
leave is as follows:
-	221	Flexible appointees:
1.	Receive the University contribution toward health care.
2.	Have Long-Term Disability, Dental and Expanded Life Coverage.2
3.	May maintain group life and optional accident coverage. Prior to a flex-leave,
advance deductions for applicable Employee contributions for health, life and accident coverage are automatically taken to cover the flex-leave period. In the event that insufficient notice of flex-leave is received, the Benefits office will bill Employees for these amounts.
-	222 Educational Assistance is available, subject to all other eligibility requirements. However, Type 1 flexible appointees will be allowed to "bank" educational assistance for use during non-work flex-leave periods for up to five credits for each semester of employment, up to a maximum of 14 credits per year. Banking educational assistance will be available only to Employees on flex-leave. All other provisions of the educational assistance program must be satisfied. The application for banked educational assistance program must identify the Employee as a flex appointee.
-	223 Personal Leave Days will be credited on a proportionate basis, i.e., 3/4 time service (either Type 1 or 2 Flex) will receive up to 18 hours in credits each year according to the Personal Leave Days schedule.
-	224 Full service credit is given toward retirement, benefits eligibility waiting periods and vacation service months.
-	225 Paid leave accruals are proportionate and are accrued as follows:
Type 1:	During active, full-time service, the Employee accrues leave as a full-time
Employee. During a flex-leave, paid leave does not accrue and may not be utilized (it is frozen subject to relevant policies).
2Subject to all current eligibility requirements. Staff members otherwise eligible for Long-Term Disability continue their eligibility during the leave with benefits as well as during active employment; however, benefit payments do not begin during the leave with benefits. The base salary for the period of active employment before the flex-leave is used to determine benefits.
63
Type 2: During the entire calendar year, the Employee accrues leave at a proportionate rate (unless additional leaves without pay are taken or the Employee's status changes).
-	226	University Contribution to the MSU 403(b) Base Retirement Program and Social
Security.3
Type 1: During active full-time service, the Employee receives University contributions based on his/her full-time salary. No University contributions are made while the Employee is on a leave with benefits.
Type 2:	The Employee receives the University contributions during the entire year,
based on his/her part-time equivalent salary.
-	227 All salary-related benefits (paid leave, Employee-Paid Life, MSU 403(b) Base Retirement Program, Long Term Disability, Expanded Life Plan, Extended Disability, and longevity) are based upon the flexible appointee's base salary. The longevity cap will be that of full-time Employees.
Other Provisions
Probationary Periods
-	228	Flex-leaves may begin during a probationary period; however, the time spent on the
flex-leave will not count toward completion of the probationary period.
Other Employment
-	229	Staff members may work for other Employers while on flex-leave.
Return to Active Employment
-	230 Staff members returning from a flex-leave are assigned to their previously held positions, unless the circumstances of the University change to the extent that the position no longer exists. Those affected by a reduction in force while on flex-leave are eligible for the provisions of the reduction in force policy. Affected staff members will be given written notice as soon as practicable, but no less than that stipulated in the reduction in force policy.
Salary Payments
-	231	Flexible appointees receive their base salary during their period of active service and no
salary during flex-leave.
3Subject to all current eligibility requirements.
64
Hours Worked Records
-	232 Departments are responsible for maintaining records of hours worked for nonexempt Employees with flexible appointments.
-	233 A position held by an Employee that is changed to a flexible appointment, and some of whose duties are thereby eliminated, shall not be downgraded or eliminated as a direct result of the flexible appointment.
-	234 Disagreements in the interpretation or application of the flexible appointment policy shall be subject to the grievance procedure and immediately proceed to Step three.
-	235 At the time of presentation of a voluntary flexible appointment form to any Employee, the Employee shall be advised in writing:
1.	For a Type 1 flexible appointment, the length of time of the unpaid leave, and
the time or times when said leave must be taken.
2.	For a Type 2 flexible appointment, the schedule each week that the Employee
shall be required to work.
-236 In addition, each Employee shall receive at least 10 working days' written notice of the proposed flexible appointment before being required to respond. An affected Employee may consult with a representative of the Association before making a voluntary election to accept a flexible appointment.
65
ARTICLE 28
LONGEVITY PAY
-	237 A longevity pay plan to recognize long-term employment is provided after six (6) years of continuous service with the University to regular staff working half time or more.
-	238 The longevity year is the 12-month period beginning October 1 each year, and ending September 30. The last date of hire will be used as the longevity date. The Employee must be engaged in active employment for 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days) and be on the payroll as of October 1 of the longevity year. Six (6) years or more of continuous service as of October 1 of the longevity year is required for eligibility.
-	239 Eligible Employees who have periods of inactive service totaling 93 days or more during a longevity year will not receive a longevity payment that year and will have the longevity date adjusted for future years.
-	240	Military leave of absence will not adjust the longevity date.
-	241 Full-time Employees who terminate before October 1 who are 65 years of age and have five (5) or more years of full-time service, or who meet the minimum University retirement requirements will receive a prorated longevity payment.
-	242 Employees who are not on the active payroll because of layoff, but who otherwise meet the eligibility criteria will receive a longevity payment.
-	243 Employees who are on leave of absence on October 1, but otherwise meet the eligibility criteria will receive a longevity payment upon return to work. Payment is scheduled annually on the first working day of December and is computed as a percentage of the Employee's annual base rate of pay as of September 1 of the calendar year in which the longevity payment is made. Base rate of pay shall not include overtime or premium pay.
-	244 If an Employee is not on the payroll September 1, the rate to be used is the Employee's rate of pay upon his/her return. Longevity pay shall not exceed the longevity pay schedule.
Payment Schedule	
Years of Continuous Service	Annual Longevity Pay % of First $9,500 of Annual Wage
6 through 9 years	2%
10 through 13 years	3%
14 through 17 years	4%
18 through 21 years	5%
22 through 25 years	6%
26 or more years	8%
Three-quarter time Employees: % of first $7,125 of annual wage.
One-half time Employees: % of first $4,750 of annual wage.
66
ARTICLE 29
JURY DUTY PAY
-	245 The University recognizes the civic responsibility of Employees to serve on jury duty and makes provision for eligible Employees to perform such duty without loss of pay. Employees who are called to serve on jury will be compensated for the difference between pay received from the court and straight time base pay. Employees who are called to testify pursuant to court-issued subpoenas will receive jury duty pay in that event also.
-	246 Benefit begins on date of hire, rehire, or change to regular status of half-time or more. The Employee must notify supervision of the call to jury duty as soon as the information is known and must provide proof of the call to jury duty and proof of jury duty pay. The Employee is expected to report for regular University duty when temporarily excused from attendance at court. When called to testify, the Employee must provide proof of subpoena and proof of witness fee or proof that no witness fee was provided.
-	247 Employees serving on jury duty, who are absent from work for 80 continuous hours or less, will receive their regular pay and will not be required to submit proof of jury duty payment to the University. They must, however, still submit proof of jury duty service to their supervisor.
-	248 Employees serving on jury duty who are absent from work for more than 80 continuous hours will be required to submit proof of jury duty payment to their supervisor to facilitate the offset and adjustment of their regular, straight-time base pay by jury duty payments or witness fees received from the court.
-249 If the Employee is otherwise eligible for holiday pay, holiday pay may be made if jury duty is interrupted by a legal holiday recognized by the University.
-250	Part-time Employees will be paid the difference in pay only for the hours scheduled to
work but not worked because of jury duty.
67
ARTICLE 30
MILITARY DUTY PAY
-	251	The University recognizes the value of the military reserve and makes provision for
eligible Employees to attend short-term military duty without loss of pay.
-	252 The University will pay the difference between the Employee's military pay and base pay, if the Employee's military pay is less, for up to 15 calendar days when the Employee is ordered to active duty for training, and for up to 10 additional calendar days when the Employee is ordered to active duty for the purpose of handling civil disorders, per fiscal year.
-	253 Begins on date of hire, rehire, or change to regular status of half-time or more. The Employee must notify supervision of the call to military duty as soon as the information is known and must provide proof of the call to military duty and proof of military pay.
-	254	For each full work day of absence, the Employee will receive the difference in pay
between:
a.	Regular military pay less any amounts specifically received for meals, housing or
travel, and
b.	Eight (8) hours of regular pay at the base rate of pay, excluding shift premium or
other premium payment.
-255 An Employee may use accrued vacation time in addition to receiving military duty pay. Part-time Employees will be paid the difference in pay between the total military duty pay received and the Employee's base pay for the total hours scheduled to work but not worked because of the military duty, if the military duty pay is less.
68
ARTICLE 31
BEREAVEMENT DAYS
-256 The University grants eligible Employees paid time off to attend the funeral and/or make necessary arrangements when a death occurs in the Employee's immediate family.
-257 Regular staff working half time or more are eligible for bereavement leave upon the date of hire, rehire or change to regular status of half time or more.
-258 Up to three (3) bereavement days will be allowed in the case of death of the Employee's:
Spouse
Child
Brother
Sister
Parents
Other Eligible Individual
Grandparents Grandchild Half-Brother Half-Sister Step-Parents Grandparents-in-law
Father-in-law Mother-in-law Son-in-law Daughter-in-law Brother-in-law Sister-in-law
One (1) day will be allowed in the case of death of an Employee's, or an Employee's spouse's uncle, aunt, nephew or niece, or a member of the Employee's household.
Up to two (2) additional days of accrued vacation, personal leave or compensatory time may be used in the case of the death of a member of the Employee’s household. Should such leave be exhausted, unpaid leave may be used.
Additional time, if required, may be granted in accordance with other leave policies.
-	259 The supervisor may require proof of death and relationship to the deceased before approving payment. A maximum of eight (8) hours' pay may be made for each day of absence. Each hour paid to an Employee shall be paid at the Employee's straight time base rate of pay and shall not include shift premium or other premium payment. This benefit is payable only to active Employees whose absence from work is due to the death in the Employee's family and will not be paid in lieu of other types of paid leave.
-	260 Part-time Employees will be paid only for the hours scheduled to work but not worked because of the death.
-	261 Allowed bereavement days may be taken any time during the period including the day of death and the day following the funeral.
69
-	262 The supervisor may grant permission to a reasonable number of Employees to attend the funeral or serve as pallbearers for a deceased Employee or former Employee, without loss of pay.
70
ARTICLE 32
OVERVIEW
-263 This section presents a broad overview of the various benefit programs, education and retirement benefits available to Employees and eligible dependents. Each benefit plan is described briefly on the following pages. Complete information and descriptive details of benefits may be obtained from the Benefits Office or the referred division within MSU Human Resources. If there is any misunderstanding regarding any of the programs described below, the provisions of the Master Contracts on file will prevail.
-264 Wherever the term "full-time Employee" is used, this is understood to include those Employees on flexible appointments.
71
ARTICLE 33
RETIREE/OVER 65 LIFE PROGRAM
-265 The University provides a death benefit of $2,000 for regular full-time staff who were insured under the Employee-Paid life insurance program prior to July 1, 1976, and have maintained continuous coverage in that program.
-266 Eligible staff shall have a death benefit of $2,000 upon attainment of age 65 or at official University retirement, whichever occurs first. The University pays the cost of the benefit. Coverage is automatic once the participation requirements are met.
72
ARTICLE 34
ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT PROGRAM
-267 The University provides an optional accidental death and dismemberment program for regular full-time and part-time staff. The benefit is payable, in whole or in part, in the event of accidental death, dismemberment, or loss of sight. Benefit coverage may be selected in amounts from $10,000 to $250,000 depending on plan selected. Coverage may also be selected for eligible dependents in the following manner:
1.	Spouse coverage: 40% of Employee coverage (50% if, on the date of the
accident, the insured has no dependent children insured).
2.	Children coverage: 5% of Employee coverage (10% if, on the date of the
accident, the Employee has no spouse insured).
-268 The program is entirely funded from Employee premiums, and rates are subject to future group experience. Employees may enroll within 60 days of initial employment or during a scheduled open enrollment period.
73
ARTICLE 35
DENTAL PLAN
-	269 The University provides a dental plan for all regular full-time Employees, part-time Employees on a proportional basis (see Article 7, paragraph 45) and official Michigan State University retirees.
-	270 Dental coverage is provided for eligible Employees, retirees, survivors of retirees and eligible dependents. The plan pays 50% of usual and customary charges for most dental services as defined in the Master Policy. Employees must enroll within sixty (60) days of initial employment or during a scheduled open enrollment. Coverage terminates at the end of the month employment terminates unless the Employee is an official Michigan State University Retiree.
-	271 Benefit payments are limited each calendar year to $600 for each person. Orthodontic services are covered for persons under age 19 and are limited to a separate lifetime maximum of $600. Under the current provisions, the University pays the entire cost of the plan.
-	272 No application is necessary and coverage is automatic upon employment. Coverage terminates on the Employee's last day of employment unless the Employee is an official Michigan State University retiree. This benefit continues for Employees on layoff or on approved leave of absence.
-	273 Dependent coverage terminates as above. In addition, certain changes in dependent status will terminate coverage for dependents. No conversion is possible.
-	274 A Dental DMO option will be offered to Employees in the bargaining unit effective July 1, 1995. The premium cost of the Dental DMO shall not be greater than the cost of the traditional Delta Dental Plan premium. Coverage for the Dental DMO must be provided through one of their participating centers. Some benefits, such as diagnostic, preventive and minor restorations are provided at no cost, and other benefits are provided with a fixed dollar co-pay. Orthodontic services are covered for persons under age 19 and age 19 and over with a fixed dollar co-pay. Any adjustment to the Dental DMO option plan design shall be implemented only to the extent necessary to maintain the cost below the traditional dental plan.
-	275 The dental plan benefits will be provided consistent with the carriers’ conditions and procedures.
74
ARTICLE 36
EMPLOYEE PAID LIFE PLAN
-276 The University provides an optional Employee paid life plan for regular full-time and part-time Employees. The benefit is payable in the event of death, or for other reasons as defined in the Employee Paid Life Plan brochure.
-277 Eight plans of coverage are offered. Four of the plans provide "fixed" amounts of life coverage based upon flat monthly premiums. The other four options provide "salary indexed" life benefits, which are a multiple of annual salary. Contributions for the salary indexed options are a percent of salary. Benefits may also be selected for eligible dependents. The benefit is decreasing term with no cash or loan value. The program is entirely funded from Employee contributions, and rates are subject to future group experience. Employees may enroll within sixty (60) days of initial employment or during a scheduled open enrollment period.
75
ARTICLE 37
EXTENDED DISABILITY LEAVE
-	278 The University provides an interim income protection plan for regular full-time staff expected to receive Long-Term Disability benefits. The benefit provides full base wage/salary in cases expected to result in total disability, as defined in the Long Term Disability Master Contract, for a period of up to one hundred eighty (180) days from the Employee's last day of active work. The benefit commences upon the expiration of all accrued sick, vacation and personal leave.
-	279 Determination of whether a case is expected to result in total disability can sometimes be made by the University-designated physician based on information received from the Employee's physician and other medical reports. A lack of conclusive medical evidence may delay approval of the Extended Disability Leave benefit, until Long-Term Disability benefits are approved. If so, payments will be made on a retroactive basis. In these cases, it is necessary for the Employee to maintain benefit payments. Reimbursement will be made for University contribution amounts upon approval for Extended Disability Leave.
-	280 Employees expected to return to work within one hundred eighty (180) days will not qualify for this benefit. Authorization to pay Extended Disability Leave benefits will be made by the Benefits office. The University pays the cost of the benefit. No application is necessary for enrollment. Benefit becomes effective upon completion of sixty (60) continuous full-time equivalent service months. The benefit terminates on the last day of employment. Conversion of coverage is not possible.
-	281 After a final denial of the Long-Term Disability Benefit, an Employee shall enter into a repayment agreement with the University requiring the Employee to repay the University all Extended Disability Leave Benefits paid to the Employee.
76
ARTICLE 38
EXPANDED LIFE PLAN
-282 The University provides an Expanded Life Plan for regular full-time staff. The benefit is payable in the event of death. The benefit is an amount of coverage equal to the Employee's basic annual salary. The maximum benefit is $50,000. The University pays the entire cost of the coverage and no application is necessary. Coverage is automatic and effective the first day of employment.
77
ARTICLE 39
LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN
-	283 The University provides income protection through the Long Term Disability Plan for regular full-time staff.
-	284 The benefit is payable to Employees who become totally disabled as defined in the LTD Master Contract and are unable to work due to sickness or bodily injury. In addition, the University makes the regular contribution for health plan coverage and pays the complete cost for dental and the Employee-Paid Life Plan.
-	285 The University pays the entire cost of the LTD benefit. Coverage is automatic and becomes effective the first day of the month following or coinciding with completion of twelve (12) continuous full-time equivalent service months. Long-Term Disability coverage will terminate on the Employee's last day of active employment.
78
ARTICLE 40
TRAVEL ACCIDENT PROGRAM
-286 The University provides a life Travel Accident Program for full- and part-time staff. The benefit is payable in the event of accidental death, dismemberment or loss of sight while traveling on or off-campus on University business.
-287 The maximum benefit is $50,000. The University pays the entire cost of the benefit. Coverage is automatic upon employment and will terminate on the Employee's last day of active employment. No conversion is possible.
79
ARTICLE 41
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE
-288 The University provides assistance to enhance an Employee's educational and career development needs and goals for regular full-time and part-time staff.
-289 Tuition fees from MSU will be reimbursed for credit courses for up to fourteen (14) credits per MSU academic year upon successful completion of the course(s) as follows:
a.	For graduate credit courses taken through MSU, the tuition fee up to 70% of the
MSU lifelong learning tuition rate per credit taken, not to exceed 14 semester credits per academic year.
b.	For undergraduate credit courses taken through MSU, the tuition fee up to 40%
of the MSU lifelong learning tuition rate per credit taken, not to exceed 14 semester credits per academic year.
c.	Registration/matriculation fees, course fees, lab fees, books and other course
materials charged by MSU are the responsibility of the student.
d.	Tuition fees in excess of fourteen (14) credit hours per academic year are the
responsibility of the student.
-	290	A grade of 2.0 or better (or “CR” - Credit) is required for a credit course.
-	291	Reimbursement for tuition at other institutions shall not be covered.
-	292 If the Employee is covered by benefits such as scholarship or fellowship aid, government aid, GI benefits, or similar assistance, reimbursement will be made only for that portion of the tuition which exceeds the amount of those benefits.
Release Time
-	293 Release time may be granted for up to five (5) hours per week for those enrolled in Educational Assistance courses or approved Professional Development. Release time shall not be unreasonably denied. If release time is denied, upon request the reason will be provided in writing to the Employee.
80
Eligibility
-	294 The benefit becomes effective if the first day of class commences after the Employee has completed twelve (12) continuous full-time equivalent service months. The Employee must have permission of his/her supervisor and/or department/unit administrator.
-	295 The Employee must be admitted to the educational institution where the course work will be taken and must be employed full-time, part-time or on a flexible appointment when course work is completed to be eligible for reimbursement. Employees who are laid off after a course(s) has begun will be eligible for reimbursement upon its completion.
-	296 To receive waiver/reimbursement for MSU courses, the Employee shall submit the completed educational assistance form with departmental approval to MSU Human Resources thirty (30) days prior to the start of class. To receive reimbursement for non-MSU courses, the Employee shall submit the completed educational assistance form with departmental approval to MSU Human Resources thirty (30) days prior to the start of class and send evidence that he/she has successfully completed the course within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of such evidence.
Educational Assistance for Employees on Layoff
-	297 Employees on layoff, as defined in Article 16, Reduction in Force, shall be provided consideration for training programs offered through MSU Human Resources on a “space available” basis without cost to the Employee. The determination of “space available” shall be in the sole discretion of the Employer. The Foundations of Effective Leadership series, the Planning and Organizing for PALM Users programs, and other programs determined by the Employer to require high cost materials to be provided to participants shall be exempt from this provision.
Tuition Waiver
-	298 Bargaining unit members who are eligible for educational assistance shall be eligible for a tuition waiver program. This tuition waiver program will be applicable only to those MSU courses enrolled in through the University's standard registration procedure. As a condition of tuition waiver, an Employee must sign an agreement authorizing payroll deduction for the amount of tuition waived to be used in the event she/he does not successfully complete the course(s).
-	299 Employees interested in utilizing the tuition waiver program must submit their educational assistance application complete with departmental approval to MSU Human Resources thirty (30) days prior to the semester billing date set by the Fees and Scholarship Office. The application must be marked with a request for tuition waiver. Applications for Educational Assistance received after this deadline may result in late fees being assessed by
81
Enrollment Services according to MSU registration policies. Payment of late fees is the responsibility of the Employee.
-	300 If the above timelines are met and the educational assistance application is approved, MSU Human Resources will forward a list of Employees eligible for tuition waiver to the Fees and Scholarship Office and to the Association.
-	301 MSU Human Resources will supply the Fees and Scholarships Office with the total credits available for tuition waiver for each eligible Employee. In the event the approved course(s) is/are unavailable at the time of registration, other appropriate course(s) may be substituted and the application amended subject to the approval of the department administrator or designee and MSU Human Resources.
-	302	Tuition fees from MSU will be waived for credit courses for up to fourteen (14) credits
per MSU academic year upon successful completion of the course(s) as follows:
a.	For graduate credit courses taken through MSU, the tuition fee up to 70% of the
MSU lifelong learning tuition rate per credit taken.
b.	For undergraduate credit courses taken through MSU, the tuition fee up to 40%
of the MSU lifelong learning tuition rate per credit taken.
c.	Registration/matriculation fees, course fees, lab fees, books and other course
materials charged by MSU are the responsibility of the student.
d.	Tuition fees in excess of fourteen (14) credit hours per academic year are the
responsibility of the student.
-	303	A grade of 2.0 or better (or “CR” - Credit) is required for a credit course.
-	304 Employees who have had their tuition waived will authorize MSU Human Resources to verify completion of approved courses with Enrollment Services upon application for waiver. In cases where tuition waivers are withdrawn (e.g., terminated Employee, non-approved course, unsuccessful completion), the University will attempt to payroll deduct the waived tuition.
Professional Development Courses
-	305 Employees may apply for reimbursement and release time for job-related Professional Development courses which are offered through the University Outreach (e.g., lifelong education, continuing education and evening college), MSU computing and technology training programs, Davenport College, Lansing Community College, and high school adult education programs or other MSU Human Resources approved educational/training programs.
82
-	306 Employees may apply for reimbursement (without release time) for career-related Professional Development courses which are offered through the University Outreach (e.g., lifelong education, continuing education and evening college), MSU computing and technology training programs, Davenport College, Lansing Community College, and high school adult education programs or other MSU Human Resources approved educational/training programs. In such cases, MSU Human Resources shall have the sole right to determine career-relatedness.
-	307 If Professional Development courses only are being taken during an academic year, reimbursement will not exceed eight hundred ($800.00) dollars.
-	308 If Professional Development courses are being taken during the same academic year as a course per paragraph 289 above, the total reimbursement and/or waiver will not exceed 70% of the MSU lifelong learning tuition rate per credit for up to fourteen (14) credit hours.
-	309 Employees must document their successful completion of Professional Development courses by submitting either (1) a certificate from the course signed by the instructor, or (2) a form provided by MSU Human Resources signed by the instructor.
83
ARTICLE 42
COURSE FEE COURTESY PROGRAM
-310 It is understood by both parties to this agreement the Course Fee Courtesy Policy herein described shall be identical in all respects, except for the time period for eligibility as described in paragraph 312 below, to the Course Fee Courtesy Policy in effect for MSU faculty as approved by the MSU Board of Trustees.
-311 Any changes or improvements to the faculty program shall be paralleled at the same time in the Administrative Professional program.
-	312 Dependent children, spouses and qualified same-sex domestic partners of regular fulltime Employees who have been continuously employed by MSU for a period of sixty (60) fulltime equivalent service months or more and who are employed prior to the second week of a semester or summer session will be entitled to a course fee courtesy. The course fee courtesy consists of the credit of one-half of the applicable resident undergraduate course fees.
-	313 Dependent children shall be defined as (a) all legally dependent children of eligible staff; and (b) such children who have eligible staff as their legal guardians.
-	314 Spouse shall be defined as the legally recognized spouse of a staff member.
-	315 Course fees shall be defined as the amount associated with credit hour enrollment and shall not include the registration fee or such fees, taxes and charges as may be collected for third parties.
-	316 The course fee courtesy will be granted through the semester in which the 120th credit is attempted, provided the dependent child, spouse or qualified same-sex domestic partner is registered as a student in good academic standing at Michigan State University in a curriculum leading to the first baccalaureate degree or to a certificate in the Agricultural Technology program. For undergraduate students with transferable credits and Michigan State University credits attempted equals 120. The course fee courtesy is available only to students enrolled through the on-campus registration process.
-	317 The course fee courtesy for dependent children, spouse and qualified same-sex domestic partner will be discontinued at the conclusion of the semester or summer session at which the employment of the eligible staff member is terminated. If the dependent child, spouse or qualified same-sex domestic partner is enrolled at the time of the eligible staff member's retirement in accordance with Michigan State University retirement policy, commencement of University long-term disability, or death, the course fee courtesy will continue in accordance with the provision contained in paragraph 312 above.
84
-	318 If the dependent child, spouse or qualified same-sex domestic partner drops courses or withdraws from school during the refund period, any refund applicable to the course fee courtesy will revert to the University.
-	319 Dependent children, spouse and qualified same-sex domestic partner of eligible staff on approved leave of absence will be eligible for the course fee courtesy.
-	320 This program also covers the surviving dependent children, spouse and qualified samesex domestic partner of eligible staff and retirees.
-	321 Application may be made for the full academic year, beginning with Fall Semester.
-	322 Student eligibility is based on the following criteria:
1.	Student applicants must be admitted or readmitted to Michigan State University
in accordance with the normal requirements for admission or readmission.
2.	The student must be enrolled in Agricultural Technology or a degree-granting
program leading to a first baccalaureate degree (No Preference students are eligible).
3.	Credits attempted must total 120 or less. Credits attempted will be calculated by
adding to the student's total credits (which includes transfer credits, P grades and CR grades) the total of credits for repeated courses and/or for courses in which the student received Deferred, Incomplete, N, No Credit and 0.0.
-	323 As a scholarship award the Course Fee Courtesy will be considered in determining eligibility for additional financial assistance for those students who also apply for financial aid at Michigan State University. All eligible student applicants will receive the Course Fee Courtesy. However, if other forms of financial aid have been awarded to attend Michigan State University, the aid will be adjusted to reflect the Course Fee Courtesy. Depending on the types of awarded aid as well as when the Office of Financial Aids is informed of eligibility for the Course Fee Courtesy, the adjustment may be made to awarded grants, and loan or work eligibility according to the guidelines of the Office of Financial Aids, and the student shall be so informed.
-	324 Eligibility for other tuition-specific awards (such as the Michigan Competitive Scholarship, Kodak Scholarship or Engineering Cooperative Award) will reduce the Course Fee Courtesy award so that the awards in combination will not exceed assessed tuition.
-	325 Course fees covered through the Course Fee Courtesy Program will be limited to courses published in the Schedule of Courses and its supplements.
85
-	326 Request for application forms or questions regarding the Course Fee Courtesy Program should be directed to the Human Resources Benefits.
-	327 Any changes to the current practices shall be subject to negotiations.
Footnote: “Michigan State University discontinued benefits for MSU recognized same-sex domestic partners in order to comply with the Michigan Supreme Court’s ruling in National Pride at Work, Inc. v. Governor of Michigan, 481 Mich. 56 (2008). Accordingly, references to MSU recognized same-sex domestic partners in this policy have been rendered invalid.”
86
ARTICLE 43
RETIREMENT PLAN
-	328 The University provides a contributory 403(b) Base Retirement Program for regular staff working half time or more. It is part of the MSU 403(b) Retirement Plan, which is a defined contribution plan operated under section 403(b) of the internal revenue code. The benefit provides income during retirement and benefit payments in the event of death before retirement.
-	329	Employee contributions are 5% and University contributions are 10% of the Employee's
base salary or wage.
-	330 The University's contribution is made on a tax-deferred basis, i.e., the Employee does not report the University contribution as earned income when filing income tax returns for the calendar year. After retirement, the Employee does pay taxes on the amounts received.
-	331 An additional portion of the Employee's salary may be contributed by the Employee to the MSU 403(b) Supplemental Retirement Program and/or MSU 457(b) Deferred Compensation Plan, on a tax-deferred basis, through payroll deduction, subject to Internal Revenue Service limitations.
-	332 Administrative Professional Employees may optionally elect immediate participation in the MSU 403(b) Base Retirement Plan and/or MSU 457(b) Deferred Compensation Plan, upon employment, or may delay participation for up to twenty four (24) FTE service months from their appointment date or to the 35th birthday, whichever is later, at which time participation is required. Once required participation begins, the Employee must continue contributing to the MSU 403(b) Base Retirement Program while employed at the University.
Other Retirement Information
-	333	Additional MSU 403(b) Base Retirement Program contribution for Employees hired on or
after July 1, 2010.
1.	For regular Employees hired on or after July 1, 2010, the Employer will make
additional contributions to the MSU 403(b) Base Retirement Program as set forth below.
2.	Effective January 1, 2016, for benefits eligible Employees whose most recent hire
date is on or after July 1, 2010, the University will, upon hire, contribute one-half percent (0.5%) of the Employee’s retirement eligible earnings into a separate Employer contribution account within the existing MSU 403(B) retirement plan on a pay period basis.
87
After 120 Vacation Service Months, the University’s contribution increases to three-quarters of a percent (0.75%) of retirement eligible earnings.
A.	MSU’s contributions will be deposited into a default investment fund initially at an MSU-designated retirement vendor; the Employee can redirect to fund(s) of their choice by selecting from core options available in the 403(B) retirement plan including the brokerage accounts. Additional information on the default and options investments is available at:
http://www.hr.msu.edu/benefits/retirement/retirement enrollment guide.pdf
B.	The accumulated account balance will become 100% vested immediately.
3.	Other Provisions:
A.	Continuous service months are calculated as the period beginning
at the date of active employment. The Employee must be actively employed for each month.
B.	Periods of inactive service will adjust the calculation for reaching
the continuous service requirement.
88
ARTICLE 44
HEALTH CARE COVERAGE
-334 Health care programs for the life of this Agreement are subject to the 2014-2017 Memorandum of Understanding between Michigan State University and the MSU Coalition of Labor Organizations (MSU/Coalition Memorandum) separately ratified and signed by the Administrative Professional Association.
1.	Prescription Drug
A.	Prescription drug benefits shall be provided to Employees represented by
the Association, regardless of the University health plan in which they are enrolled, under a program administered by Caremark or other administrator(s) as may be agreed to.
B.	The prescription drug program implemented pursuant to the agreement
shall be as specified in the MSU/Coalition Memorandum.
C.	The appropriate premiums for the prescription drug program shall be
paid by the University for full-time Employees and proportionately for part-time Employees.
2.	Base and Optional Programs
A.	Subject to the MSU/Coalition Memorandum, the BCBS/PPO and
BCN/HMO shall continue to be offered to Employees. The University’s contribution toward the cost of either program shall be the amount of the program having the lower rates in each plan year. This will be known as the base plan. In each of the aforementioned plan years, the cost of the base plan shall be paid by the University for full-time Employees and proportionately for parttime Employees (in accordance with the conditions for part-time Employees set forth below). Employees electing to enroll under a plan other than the base plan will receive the applicable University single, two-person or family base plan contribution toward the optional plan cost, with the difference, if any, payable by the Employee through payroll deduction.
B.	Health Plan Contribution for Part-time Staff
(i.) Subject to the MSU/Coalition Memorandum, part-time staff will continue to receive a proportional University monthly contribution for health insurance based on the single, two-person or family premium for
89
the base plan, and the Employee will pay the remaining premium through payroll deduction.
(ii.) Employees who are employed by the University by 6/30/98, and who are or become part-time, will be eligible to apply for a special dispensation to the University part-time contribution, as defined in the MSU/Coalition Memorandum.
(iii.) To qualify and apply for the hardship University part-time contribution, part-time Employees are to submit justification satisfactory to the Benefits Office. An Employee who falsifies any information will be responsible for making the University whole for its health care expenditures on his/her behalf.
3.	Coverage for Married Couples and Other Eligible Individuals
A married couple or Other Eligible Individual must elect one of the options contained in the MSU/Coalition Memorandum.
The foregoing options remain subject to otherwise applicable conditions and limitations regarding eligibility and proportional benefits.
-335 The University reserves the right to change health plan administrators, other than health maintenance organizations, to provide health care coverage for Employees in the unit. Other managed care options may be added by the Employer in addition to the traditional and HMO options currently offered. However, benefit levels now in effect shall not be reduced but may be improved.
-336 A.	Employees should enroll within 60 days of employment or within 30 days of an
appointment to an eligible status or during annual open enrollment.
B.	Employees eligible for MSU health care coverage are eligible to waive the MSU
health care coverage each year during the annual health care plan open enrollment to be effective July 1 through June 30. Employees waiving coverage receive up to a $600.00 payment made in the month of July of the next plan year. Reenrollment into the MSU health plan will be allowed during the year if proof of involuntary loss of other health care coverage is provided within thirty-one (31) days of loss of coverage. The individual would no longer be eligible for the full lump-sum payment, but would be paid for the waived coverage on a pro-rata basis as provided for on the MSU health care waiver form.
90
ARTICLE 45
SAFETY
-337 The University and the Association shall cooperate for the purposes of eliminating accidents and health hazards. The University shall make reasonable provisions for the safety and health of its Employees during their hours of employment. The University, the Association and the Employees recognize their obligations and/or rights under existing federal and state laws with respect to safety and health matters.
91
ARTICLE 46
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
-338 The provisions contained herein constitute the entire Agreement between the parties.
92
ARTICLE 47
AGREEMENT
-339 THIS AGREEMENT entered into this tenth day of September 24, 2014, between the Board of Trustees of Michigan State University (hereinafter referred to as the "Employer") and the Michigan State University Administrative Professional Association, MEA/NEA (hereinafter referred to as the "APA" or "the Association").
-	340 Whenever the words "University" or “Employer” appear in this Agreement, they shall mean Michigan State University.
-	341 Whenever the words "APA" or "the Association" appear in this Agreement, it shall mean the Michigan State University Administrative Professional Association, MEA/NEA.
-	342 The Association will furnish the Office of Employee Relations with the names of its Executive Board members and such changes as may occur from time to time with such personnel. The Employer will in return, keep the APA advised as to its representatives.
-	343 No provision of this Agreement or any supplement thereto shall be waived or modified in any way unless such waiver or modification is agreed to in writing between the Employer and the APA.
-	344 Throughout this Agreement, any reference made to gender shall include male and female Employees even if indicated in the masculine form, unless specifically relating to either gender and not the other.
-	345 For the purpose of this Agreement, it is expressly understood and agreed by the parties hereto that introductory titles or headings preceding the Articles set forth herein shall not be held to in any way affect the substance, meaning or intent of any of the terms or provisions of said Article(s) contained in this Agreement.
-	346 If any provision of this Agreement, or any supplement thereto, is found invalid by operation of law or by any board of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any provision should permanently be restrained by any such court, the remainder of this Agreement, and any supplements thereto, shall remain in full force and effect, and the Employer and the Association, at the request of either party, shall enter into negotiations for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement for such provision or supplement.
93
TERMINATION AND MODIFICATION
-	347 This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until 11:59 p.m., September 30, 2019.
-	348 If either party desires to terminate this Agreement, it shall, sixty (60) days prior to the termination date, give written notice of termination. If neither party shall give notice of termination of this Agreement as provided in this paragraph or notice of amendment, as hereinafter provided, or if each party giving notice of termination withdraws the same prior to the termination date, this Agreement shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter subject to notice of termination by the other party on sixty (60) days written notice prior to the current year's termination date.
-	349 If either party desires to modify or change this Agreement, it shall, sixty (60) days prior to the termination date or any subsequent termination date, give written notice of amendment, in which event the notice of amendment shall set forth the nature of the amendment or amendments desired. If notice of amendment of this Agreement has been given in accordance with this paragraph, this Agreement may be terminated by either party on ten (10) days written notice of termination but not before the effective termination date of this Agreement. Any agreements that may be agreed upon shall become and be a part of this Agreement without modifying or changing any of the other terms of this Agreement.
-350 Notice of Termination and Modification. Notice shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by certified mail, addressed to the Association and if to the Employer, addressed to the Director of Employee Relations or to any such address as the Association or the Employer may make available to each other.
94
EFFECTIVE DATE
-351 This Agreement shall become effective October 1, 2015. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have set their hands this twenty-fourth day of September, 2015.
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATIVE PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATION/MEA, NEA Melissa Sortman, Co-Chief Spokesperson Uniserv Director, MSU APA/MEA/NEA Maurice Koffman, Co-Chief Spokesperson Chairperson, MSU APA/MEA/NEA Sue Brandt Bargaining Team Member Carol Graysmith Bargaining Team Member Martin McDonough Bargaining Team Member Erica Phillipich Bargaining Team Member Nicole Proctor Bargaining Team Member	MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Dr. Satish Udpa, Executive Vice President Administrative Services Sharon Butler, Assistant Vice President Human Resources James D. Nash, Director Office of Employee Relations Katheryn L. Elliott, Employee Relations Manager Office of Employee Relations Amy B. Holda, Employee Relations Manager Office of Employee Relations Michelle Rutkowski, Employee Relations Professional Office of Employee Relations Dresden Kalin, Chief of Staff ITS Services
95
Dennis Seybert
Bargaining Team Member
Adam Lawver, Assistant Manager Landscape Services
Jacob Lathrop, HR & Facilities Manager College of Education
Debby Mansel, HR Manager
College of Arts and Letters, Dean’s Office
96
APPENDIX I
On and after October 1, 2015 the following Classifications are represented by the Michigan State University Administrative Professional Association.
Classification	Level
A N R Publication and Events Manager	14
Academic HR Assistant Director	15
Academic HR Associate Director	16
Academic HR Records Coordinator	13
Academic Technology Coordinator	12
Accountant I	11
Accountant II	13
Accountant II/P	13
Accountant II/T	13
Administrative Assistant I	10
Administrative Assistant I/P	10
Administrative Assistant I/T	10
Administrative Assistant II	11
Administrative Assistant II/BW	11
Administrative Assistant III	13
Administrative Associate I	14
Administrative Associate II	15
Admissions Assistant Director	14
Admissions Counselor	12
Admissions Senior Counselor	13
Alumni and Donor Relations Coordinator	12
Alumni Programs Assistant Director	14
Animal Care Program Research Liaison	12
Architect Landscape I	10
Architect Landscape II	12
Architect Landscape III	14
Architect Landscape/Construction	15
Archival Assistant	11
Assistant Freedom of Information Officer	12
Assistant House Manager/Performing Arts	10
Associate House Manager/Performing Arts	12
Athletic Administrative Coordinator	12
Athletic Equipment Coordinator	10
Athletic Trainer I	12
Athletic Trainer II	13
Athletic Trainer III	14
Athletic Trainer/MSU Health Team	12
97
Auditor I	12
Auditor II	13
Auditor III	14
Auditor/Information Systems I	13
Automated Office Systems Coordinator	13
Banquet/Catering Manager	12
Biological Safety Officer	14
Botanical Technologist II	11
Broad Art Museum Program Manager	13
Broadcasting Services Program Manager	14
Brook Lodge Chief Engineer	12
Buyer	10
Campus Planner	16
CAO Asst Dir/Univ Data Resources Admin/T	16
Cardiovascular Technologist I	10
Care Manager I	12
Care Manager II	13
Career Information Coordinator	11
Career Services Assistant Director/Res	15
Career Services Coordinator	12
Caretaker	08
Catering and Sales Coordinator	12
Chemical Spectroscopist	10
Chief Information Security Officer	16
Child Care Coordinator	10
CHM Security Manager	12
Clinic Coordinator I	10
Clinic Coordinator II	11
Clinical	Research	Coordinator I	11
Clinical	Research	Coordinator II	12
Clinical	Research	Coordinator III	13
Clinical	Research	Coverage Analyst	13
Clinical	Research	Informatics Tech I	11
Clinical	Research	Informatics Tech II	12
Clinical	Research	Operations Admin	14
CLS Facilities Systems Coordinator	11
College Alumni Coordinator	12
College Records Officer	12
Communications Coordinator	10
Communications Manager I	12
Communications Manager I/T	12
Communications Manager II	14
Communications Manager II/T	14
Community Health Associate	12
98
Community Operations Coordinator I/RHS	10
Community Operations Coordinator II/RHS	11
Compliance Analyst I	12
Compliance Analyst II	13
Conference Coordinator/Kellogg Bio Sta	10
Consortium Coordinator I	13
Consortium Coordinator II	14
Construction Contract Administrator	14
Construction Safety Manager	13
Contract & Grant/Sponsored Pgms Ad III/P	13
Contract & Grant/Sponsored Pgms Ad III/T	13
Contract & Grant/Sponsored Pgms Adm II	12
Contract & Grant/Sponsored Pgms Adm III	13
Contract & Grant/Sponsored Pgms Admin I	11
Controller Assistant Manager/Analyst	12
Controller Assistant Mgr/Analyst/P	12
Controller Assistant Mgr/Analyst/T	12
Controller Sr Asst Manager/Analyst	13
Controller Sr Ast Mgr/Analyst/P	13
Controller Sr Ast Mgr/Analyst/T	13
Counselor	12
Crime Analyst	12
Culinary Coordinator	11
Culinary Services Sustainability Officer	12
Curator	12
Curator Assistant	11
Curriculum Assistant II	12
Cytogenetic Laboratory Technologist II	11
Data Resource Analyst	13
Data Resources Administrator	14
Data Resources Administrator	13
Data Security Analyst I	11
Data Security Analyst II	12
Data Security Officer	13
Database Analyst	13
Development Assistant	10
Development Officer I	12
Development Officer II	14
Development Officer III	15
Dining Service Culinary Coordinator	12
Disability Resource Coor for Employees	13
Dubai Clerical	10
Dubai Temporary	10
Editor II	11
99
Editor II/P	11
Editor III	13
Editor/Graphic Designer	12
Educational Program Coordinator II	12
EEG Technologist	10
EIS Data Resources Administrator	15
Electron Microscopist I	10
Electron Microscopist II	11
Electron Microscopist III	13
Emp Assistance Counselor	13
Employee Relations Manager	15
Engineer/Architect I	11
Engineer/Architect II	12
Engineer/Architect III	14
Engineer/Architect IV	15
Engineering Coordinator	12
Engineering/Physicist Accelerator I	10
Engineering/Physicist Accelerator II	12
Engineering/Physicist Accelerator III	14
Engineering/Physicist Accelerator IV	15
Enrollment Services Coordinator	12
Enrollment Svcs Scholarship Coor	11
Environmental Compliance Officer	14
Environmental Health/Safety Inspector	12
Environmental Safety Manager	16
Executive Assistant	12
Executive Secretary II	10
Executive Staff Assistant	11
Executive Staff Asst To The President	12
Exhibitions Manager	12
Facilities Coordinator	12
Facilities Planning Space Mgmt Asst Dir	14
Facility Conference/Event Coordinator	12
Faculty & Org Development Ast Director	14
Farm Assistant Manager	12
Farm Manager I	13
Farm Manager II	14
Field Career Services Coordinator	13
Financial Aid Assistant	10
Financial Aid Assistant Director	14
Financial Aid Officer I	10
Financial Aid Officer I	11
Financial Aid Officer II	12
Financial Aid Officer III	13
100
Financial Analyst I	11
Financial Analyst II	13
Food Services Research	Assistant	11
Football Operations Assistant	Director	12
FRIB Chief of Staff	16
FRIB Construction Safety Manager	13
FRIB Integration Engineer II	12
FRIB Integration Engineer III	14
FRIB Manufacturing Engineer	14
FRIB Material Handling Coordinator	12
FRIB Project	Controls Engineer	I	12
FRIB Project	Controls Engineer	II	14
FRIB Project	Controls Engineer	III	15
FRIB Project	Controls Scheduler	12
FRIB Project	Coordinator I	10
FRIB Project	Coordinator II	12
FRIB Quality	Engineer	12
FRIB Senior Quality Engineer	14
FRIB Sr Tech Contract Administrator	14
Genetic Laboratory Technologist	11
Genetics Counselor	13
Geological Preparator	11
Golf Course Assistant Manager	10
Governmental Affairs Assistant	14
Governmental Affairs Research/Comms Ofcr	16
Graphic Artist I	09
Graphic Artist II	11
Graphic Artist III	12
Greenhouse Coordinator	10
Greenhouse Manager I	11
Greenhouse Manager II	12
Hazardous Materials Professional	12
Hazardous Waste Coordinator	13
Hazardous Waste Coordinator	14
Health Care Coding Analyst	10
Health Care Compliance Analyst	11
Health Care Quality Project	Coor I	13
Health Physicist I	12
Health Physicist II	13
Horticulturist	12
Human	Research Liaison	12
Human	Resources	Analyst	12
Human	Resources	Analyst/P	12
Human	Resources	Analyst/T	12
101
Human Resources Development Coordinator	12
Human Resources Professional	11
Inclusion/Intercultural Initiative Coor	12
Industrial Hygienist I	12
Industrial Hygienist II	13
Info Management Developer/Analyst	13
Information Technologist I	12
Information Technologist I/P	12
Information Technologist I/T	12
Information Technologist II	13
Information Technologist II/P	13
Information Technologist II/T	13
Information Technologist III	14
Information Technologist III/P	14
Information Technologist III/T	14
Information Technologist IV	15
Information Technologist IV/P	15
Information Technology Professional	11
Information Technology Professional/P	11
Information Technology Professional/T	11
Informational And Statistical Analyst	11
Inst Anml Care & Use Committee Admin I	11
Institn'l Animal Care & Use Comm Admin I	11
Institutional Equity Coordinator I	12
Institutional Equity Coordinator II	13
Institutional Review Board Admin	12
Institutional Review Board Admin	I	11
Institutional Review Board Admin	II	12
Institutional Review Board Admin	II/P	12
Institutional Review Board Admin III	13
Instruc Equipment and Supplies Tech	I	10
Instruc Equipment and Supplies Tech	II	12
Instructional Laboratory Coordinator	12
Instructional Multimedia Producer/Dir	12
Intellectual Property Administrator	12
Intellectual Property Officer	13
Interior Designer I	11
Interior Designer II	12
Interior Designer III	13
International Credential Analyst I	12
International Credential Analyst II	13
International Student/Scholar Advisor	I	12
International Student/Scholar Advisor	II	13
Intramural Sports Assistant Director	14
102
Intramural Sports Coordinator	11
Kellogg Center Senior Sales Manager	13
Laboratory Technologist	10
Laboratory Technologist/Leader	11
Land Management Assistant Director	15
Land Management Associate Director	16
Language Learning Ctr Technology Coor	12
Library Assistant IV	11
Library Assistant V	13
Management Analyst	14
Management Analyst/T	14
Marketing & Sales Manager	14
Marketing and Sales Assistant	10
Marketing and Sales Coordinator	12
Master Scientific Glassblower	12
Meat Laboratory Assistant Manager	12
Medical Technologist I	10
Medical Technologist II	11
Menu Development Coordinator	12
Microcomputer Hardware/Software Coor	11
MSU Health Team Compliance Officer	14
MSU Police Project Coordinator	12
Multicultural Center Coordinator	12
Multicultural Development Coordinator	14
Multimedia Coordinator	12
Night Manager	11
Night Receptionist Program Coor	12
Nutritionist	12
Occupational Safety Compliance Officer	14
Occupational Therapist I	12
OPB Assistant Budget Officer	14
Operations and Safety Coordinator	12
Operations Coordinator	10
Optometrist	14
Parking Coordinator	11
Pesticide Coordinator	10
Pharmacist I	13
Physical Therapist I	12
Physicians Assistant	13
Planetarium Program Assistant	10
Planetarium Program Coordinator	13
Planned Giving Dev Officer II	14
Planner/Inspector/Analyst I	11
Planner/Inspector/Analyst II	13
103
Planner/Inspector/Analyst III	14
Preparator	11
Preservation & Research Education Mgr	12
Presidential Events Coordinator	13
Printing Technology Coordinator	13
Procurement Coor/Contract Admin II	13
Procurement Coor/Contract Admini I	11
Producer/Director of Photography	13
Producer/Host Radio I	12
Producer/Host Radio II	13
Producer/Host Talking Book	12
Production and Advertising Assistant	11
Production Manager	11
Programmer Analyst	11
Project/Event Coordinator	11
Psychologist I	14
Pub Rel Asst Dir/Sports Information	15
Publications Design Coordinator	13
Purchasing Agent	12
Purchasing Agent/P	12
Purchasing Agent/Supplier Diversity Coor	12
Purchasing Agent/T	12
Quality & Risk Management Administrator	14
Quality and Compliance Coordinator	12
Quality Management Coordinator	13
Radiation Safety Officer	14
Recording Production Technician II	12
Recruitment/Placement Asst Director	14
Regulatory Coordinator	10
Res Educ & Housing Services Outreach Ast	12
Res/Instruc Equipment Technologist I	10
Res/Instruc Equipment Technologist II	12
Research Administration Manager	14
Research Administrator I	11
Research Administrator II	12
Research Assistant I	11
Research Assistant II	12
Research Assistant III	13
Research Biocontainment Facility Engr	13
Research Integrity Coordinator	12
Research Quality Assurance Officer	13
Residential Life/Ast Director II	15
Respiratory Therapist/Pulm Func Tech	11
RHS Information Services Project Manager	13
104
RHS Planner/Inspector/Analyst/	13
RHS Strategic Initiatives Implementn Mgr	16
RHS Sustainability Officer	14
Risk Management & Insurance Coordinator	12
Risk Management & Insurance Coordinator	13
Risk Mgmt and Insurance Analyst	12
Safety and Security Service Coordinator	12
Safety Technologist	11
Scientific Instrument Facil Coordinator	13
Senior Communications Manager	15
Senior HR Professional I/P	13
Senior HR Professional I/T	13
Senior HR Professional II/T	14
Senior Human Resources Professional	I	13
Senior Human Resources Professional	II	14
Senior Photographer	12
Senior Purchasing Agent	14
Senior Purchasing Agent/P	14
Service Manager V/T	16
Sexual Assault Safety Program Coor	13
Shooting Range Events Ed/Safety Officer	12
Social Worker	12
Software Systems Engineer	14
Sous Chef	12
Space Management Coordinator	13
Speech Therapist I	12
Sports Facility Professional	10
Sports Operations Assistant	11
Sports Performance Professional	11
Staff Dentist	16
Staff Physician	16
Student Alumni Coordinator	12
Student Employment Coordinator	11
Student Life Assistant Director	14
Student Services Assistant I	10
Student Services Assistant II	12
Student Services Coordinator	14
Student-Athlete Coordinator	12
Study Abroad Program Administrator	13
Study Abroad Program Coordinator	12
Study Abroad Travel Security Admin	14
Supply Chain Analyst	I	10
Supply Chain Analyst	II	11
Supply Chain Analyst	III	12
105
Supported Programs Analyst	12
Systems Analyst I	12
Systems Analyst I/T	12
Systems Analyst II	13
Systems Analyst II/P	13
Systems Analyst III	14
Systems Designer	13
Systems Programmer I	11
Systems Programmer II	13
Systems Programmer III	14
Technical Buyer	12
Technical Services Assistant Engineer	12
Technical Writer	10
Telecomm Volunteer Program Coordinator	10
Telecommunications Operations Manager	13
Telemarketing Systems Coordinator	11
Television Assistant Program Manager	13
Television Producer/Director I	13
Television Producer/Director II	14
Ticket Office Assistant Manager	11
Ticket Office Associate Manager	12
Training Program Developer II	11
Training Program Developer III	12
Training Program Developer III/P	12
Unit Human Resources Administrator	12
Unit Human Resources Coordinator	10
Unit Information Systems Manager	14
Univ Housing Asc Director/T	17
Univ Research Coor Program Mgr	14
University Academic Event Coordinator	13
University Artist	13
University Copyright Officer	12
University Data Resource Assistant	12
University Data Resources Administrator	16
University Development Researcher I	10
University Development Researcher II	11
University Events Coordinator	13
University Housing Cable Channel Manager	13
University Licensing Assistant Manager	12
University Management Analyst	16
University Press Editor	11
University Relations Assistant Director	15
Van Andel Res Institute Safety Manager	14
Veterinarian/Clinical	15
106
Veterinary Laboratory Technologist II Videotape Producer/Director I Videotape Producer/Director II Visual Journalism Producer Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor I VP Finance & Operations Project Coor Waste Reduction Coordinator	10 11 12 11 12 12 12
107
MICHIGAN STATE
UNIVERSITY
Letter of Agreement
Between
Michigan State University, The Employer
And
Administrative Professional Association, The Association
Re: Health Related Emergency
Human
Resources
Employee Relations
Michigan State University Nisbet Building 1407 S. Harrison, Suite 240
East Lansing, MI 48823-5239
The following values and principles form the foundation for the assumptions and decisions involved in MSU’s health related emergency planning, and they will continue to guide the University and Administrative Professional Association through the management of an extended health related emergency:
•	Protection and preservation of life (human, animal and plant) and essential research.
•	Protection and preservation of the ability of the University to continue/resume its core missions.
•	Minimization to the disruption in people’s lives that occur with health related emergencies and treatment of students and Employees with concern for the impact such events have on individuals.
•	Open and sustained communication with the Association, students, Employees, other constituent audiences and the general public about the University’s responses to health related emergencies.
In the event of a declared national, State of Michigan or Michigan State University health related emergency, with notification to the Association, temporary layoffs of up to thirty (30) working days in a contract year may be scheduled without application of the layoff procedure of the Agreement.
A.	The Union and Employer shall meet in Special Conference as soon as possible, but no later than forty-eight (48) hours following the declaration of the emergency, and in subsequent meetings as needed, to discuss the impact such emergency may have on the bargaining unit.
B.	During such temporary layoffs Employees may use accrued vacation leave, personal leave and/or compensatory time to cover any or all of the period of temporary layoff.
C.	Other than the variances described above, all layoff provisions of Article 16 shall apply during and following such a declared health related emergency.
D.	This agreement shall not be used for constructive discharge.
517-353-5510
Fax: 517-353-3523
www.hr.msu.edu
For the Employer
For the Association
James D. Nash, Director
Office of Employee Relations
Maurice Koffman, Chairperson
Administrative Professional Association
Date ___________________________
Date _________________________________
MSU is an affirmative-action,
equal-opportunity employer.
108
Human
Resources
Employee Relations
Michigan State University
Nisbet Building
1407 S. Harrison, Suite 240 East Lansing, MI 48823-5239
517-353-5510
Fax: 517-353-3523 www.hr.msu.edu
MICHIGAN STATE
UNIVERSITY
Letter of Agreement
Between
Michigan State University, The Employer And
MSU Administrative Professional Association, The Association
Re: Merit Pay Guidelines
The parties agree that the following guidelines shall be followed when making merit increase allocation recommendations.
Merit increase allocation recommendations should be based on objective performance-related criteria as much as possible; however, subjective judgments will have to be made. Following are steps you may follow to enhance consistency.
Step One
Consider each Employee’s performance over the past year based on unit-designated criteria (made known to the Employee), including:
•	Results achieved.
•	Behaviors that relate to organizational success (e.g. teamwork, creativity, initiative,
innovation - see Performance Development Program form for others).
•	Overall productivity and work quality.
Your conclusions about performance should have previously been discussed with Employees through the appraisal process or thereafter. Summarizing key performance results may be useful in merit pay discussions with unit administrators and Employees.
Step Two
Where possible, group eligible staff into a few performance levels (e.g. exceptional, commendable, and competent) and construct a merit allocation guideline for the different performance levels. Merit allocation guidelines may be structured in a number of ways, including:
•	Using percentages.
•	Using flat dollar amounts.
•	Recognizing performance/achievements of work teams.
Step Three
Determine merit pay allocations. It is important to understand that, regardless of the approach used, actual allocations will not be based on a fixed formula, since numerous factors will affect merit allocations, including:
MSU is an affirmative-action,
equal-opportunity employer.
109
•	The spread of performance levels in a unit.
•	Whether some exceptional Employees substantially exceeded performance expectations.
•	The number of Employees in a unit.
The following should not be considered in determining merit pay:
•	Eligibility for APL increases.
•	Age, race, gender, handicap, etc.
Step Four
Communicate with Employees about the specific reasons for their merit allocations. Topics to discuss may include the performance criteria you used, key performance results, and any merit guidelines you used. This dialog should occur before distribution of the Salary Notification letter (and certainly before it is received in the Employee’s paycheck.)
Both the APA and the University place a high value on thorough communication about merit awards. The APA will monitor the merit program with regard to its effect on all members of the Association and will address questionable adjustments with Employee Relations.
Compliance with these guidelines shall be certified by the immediate supervisor and by anyone modifying the original recommendation on an individual Employee’s merit raise.
On an annual basis, by June 1, the University or the APA may initiate a joint review of the Merit Pay Guidelines. Changes to the Merit Pay Guidelines may be made with the mutual agreement of the parties, but in no circumstances may the changes be made later than August 1 of that year.
This Letter of Agreement shall expire on September 30, 2019.
For the Employer
James D. Nash, Director
Office of Employee Relations
For the Association
Maurice Koffman, Chairperson
Administrative Professional Association
Date
Date
110
MICHIGAN STATE
UNIVERSITY
Human
Resources
Employee Relations
Michigan State University
Nisbet Building
1407 S. Harrison, Suite 240 East Lansing, MI 48823-5239
517-353-5510
Fax: 517-353-3523 www.hr.msu.edu
Letter of Agreement
Between
Michigan State University, The Employer And
MSU Administrative Professional Association, The Association
RE: Voluntary Recognition
As a result of discussions between the parties the following is hereby agreed:
1.	Employees employed at the Detroit Center but not included within the APA bargaining unit shall be recognized as members of the bargaining unit.
2.	Employees employed at the Troy Management Center but not included within the APA bargaining unit shall be recognized as members of the bargaining unit.
3.	Employees employed at the Detroit Medical Center or the College of Osteopathic Medicine at Macomb Community College but not included within the APA bargaining unit shall be recognized as members of the bargaining unit.
4.	Employees employed at the College of Human Medicine (CHM) Headquarters in Grand Rapids, Michigan but not included within the APA bargaining unit shall be recognized as members of the bargaining unit.
5.	Where three (3) or more Employees are working in classifications represented by the APA who are employed by a department headquartered on the main campus of MSU but who are assigned to work in an otherwise recognized MSU facility shall be recognized as members of the bargaining unit.
6.	The parties agree that Employees working at non-campus based statewide locations, specifically the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, AgBioResearch, MSU Extension, Outreach and Engagement, Mentoring and Research, Kellogg Biological Station/Hidden Lake Gardens, Bioeconomy Institute (Holland Pfizer Facility), and Van Andel Institute are not included within the APA bargaining unit and that the APA will not seek recognition for said Employees.
For the Employer	For the Association
James D. Nash, Director
Office of Employee Relations
Date ___________________________
Maurice Koffman, Chairperson
Administrative Professional Association
Date __________________________________
MSU is an affirmative-action,
equal-opportunity employer.
111
MICHIGAN STATE
UNIVERSITY
Letter of Agreement Between
Michigan State University, The Employer and
Michigan State University Administrative Professional Association, The Association
Effective October 1, 2015 - December 31, 2015
For the implementation phase of Article 43, Paragraph 333: July 1, 2010 through December 31, 2015, these provisions shall be applied to the Employees’ benefits eligible date of hire and payment shall be made in a lump sum during the first calendar quarter of 2016. The amount shall be determined as a calculation based on the Employee’s retirement eligible earnings times one half percent (.5%) for the benefits eligible employment period. The Employer shall inform each affected Employee of the amount of the deposit.
Human Resources
FOR THE UNIVERSITY
FOR THE ASSOCIATION
Employee Relations
Michigan State University Nisbet Building 1407 S. Harrison, Suite 240 East Lansing, MI 48823-5239
517-353-5510 Fax: 517-353-3523 www.hr.msu.edu
James D. Nash, Director
Office of Employee Relations
Date: _____________________
Maurice Koffman, Chairperson
Administrative Professional Association
Date: __________________________
MSU is an affirmative-action,
equal-opportunity employer.
112
MICHIGAN STATE
UNIVERSITY
Letter of Agreement
Between
Michigan State University, The Employer and
Michigan State University Administrative Professional Association, The Association
Effective October 1, 2015 -December 31, 2015
Per Article 43, Retirement Plan:
-333 Additional MSU 403(b) Base Retirement Program contribution for Employees hired on or after July 1, 2010.
1.	For regular Employees hired on or after July 1, 2010, the Employer will make additional contributions to the MSU 403(b) Base Retirement Program as set forth below.
2.
Human Resources
Employee Relations
Michigan State University Nisbet Building
1407 S. Harrison, Suite 240
East Lansing, MI 48823-5239
517-353-5510
Fax: 517-353-3523 www.hr.msu.edu
3.
One-time lump sum contribution:
a.	At the completion of 60 (sixty) months of active regular continuous service, the Employer will contribute to the Employee’s 403(b) Base Retirement Program an amount equal to 2.5% of the Employee’s annual wage calculated as of June 30th prior to the contribution.
b.	Employees who terminate prior to completion of 60 (sixty) months of active regular continuous service shall not be eligible for the one-time lump sum contribution.
c.	The lump sum contribution shall be made the month following completion of the 60 (sixty) months of active regular continuous service months requirement.
d.	The lump sum payment shall be calculated based upon the annual employment status for those Employees working half (1/2) or three-quarter (3/4) time.
Yearly lump sum contribution:
a.	For the period of time commencing with the 61st active regular continuous service month and through the 120th active regular continuous service month the Employer will contribute to the 403(b) Base Retirement Program an amount equal to one-half percent (1/2%) of the Employee’s annual wage, calculated as of June 30th prior to the contribution, for each year of regular service. The lump sum contributions shall be made the month following completion of each year up to a maximum of five (5) yearly contributions.
MSU is an affirmative-action,
equal-opportunity employer.
113
b.	At the completion of 120 active regular continuous service months, lump sum payments shall be eliminated and the Employer contribution shall be governed by Paragraph four (4) below.
4.	Regular pay period contribution:
Upon reaching the 121st continuous service month, the Employer will contribute three quarters percent (3/4%) of the Employee’s per pay period salary to the MSU 403(b) Base Retirement Program.
5.	Other Provisions:
a.	Continuous service months are calculated as the period beginning at the date of active employment. The Employee must be actively employed for each month.
b.	Periods of inactive service will adjust the calculation for reaching the continuous service requirement.
FOR THE UNIVERSITY
FOR THE ASSOCIATION
James D. Nash, Director
Office of Employee Relations
Maurice Koffman, Chairperson
Administrative Professional Association
Date:
Date:
114
ALPHABETICAL INDEX
Article		Page
	ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY (10 DAYS OR LESS)	50
	ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY INCLUDING LAYOFF (EXCEEDING 10 DAYS)	50
34	ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT PROGRAM	73
	ACCRUED VACATION LEAVE CARRYOVER	52
47	AGREEMENT	93
4	AID TO OTHER LABOR UNIONS	7
	ALPHABETICAL INDEX	115
	APPENDIX I (CLASSIFICATIONS)	97
	ARBITRATION	23
	ARBITRATION/FINALITY OF DECISIONS	23
	ASSOCIATION CHAIRPERSON	10
5	ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP	8
6	ASSOCIATION RIGHTS	10
	AUTOMATIC PROGRESSION LEVEL	45
	BARGAINING TEAM	12
31	BEREAVEMENT DAYS	69
	CALL-IN PAY	47
	CHECK-OFF	8
15	CLASSIFICATION/RECLASSIFICATION OF POSITIONS	29
	CLASSIFICATION (LISTING)	97
17	COMPENSATION PROGRAMS	43
	COMPENSATORY TIME	47
	COMPUTATION OF BACK WAGES	21
42	COURSE FEE COURTESY PROGRAM	84
	DEMOTION	27
35	DENTAL PLAN	74
	DISPUTES CONCERNING COMPLIANCE	9
	DUES/REVOCATION CARDS	9
	DUES/SERVICE FEE	8
41	EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE	80
	EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE AGREEMENT	95
36	EMPLOYEE PAID LIFE PLAN	75
7	EMPLOYMENT STATUS	13
	EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS	10
38	EXPANDED LIFE PLAN	77
37	EXTENDED DISABILITY LEAVE	76
14	FILLING VACANT POSITIONS	28
27	FLEXIBLE APPOINTMENTS	61
	FLEXIBLE EMPLOYMENT STATUS	13
115
	FLEXIBLE POSITIONS	61
	FRINGE BENEFITS/FLEX APPOINTMENTS	63
	FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT (FTE) SERVICE MONTHS	14
	FULL-TIME HOURS	14
	FULL-TIME/PART-TIME STATUS CONSIDERATIONS	57
	GENERAL INCREASE	43
	GRIEVANCE DEFINITION AND PROCEDURE	22
	ORAL STEP	22
	STEP 1	23
	STEP 2	23
	STEP 3	23
	STEP 4	23
	TIME LIMITS	21
	GRIEVANCE OFFICER	10, 20
	HALF-TIME HOURS	13
44	HEALTH CARE COVERAGE	89
	HEALTH CARE CONTRIBUTIONS DURING RETIREMENT	15
	HEALTH CARE COVERAGE WAIVER	90
23	HOLIDAYS	5
	HOLIDAY PAY	55
	HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT	14
	HOURS WORKED RECORDS/FLEXIBLE APPOINTMENTS	65
	INTERIM EVALUATIONS	17
	INTERVIEWS - TIME OFF	28
29	JURY DUTY PAY	67
	LAYOFF TRANSITION ADJUSTMENT	40
19	LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH PAY	49
20	LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY	50
28	LONGEVITY PAY	66
39	LONG TERM DISABILITY PLAN	78
2	MANAGEMENT’S RIGHTS	5
3	MANAGEMENT SECURITY	6
26	MATERNITY LEAVE	60
	MERIT SALARY INCREASES	43
30	MILITARY DUTY PAY	68
25	MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE	59
	MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE (WITHOUT PAY)	59
	MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE/LONGEVITY PAY	66
	MINIMUM HIRING RATES	45
	NONDISCRIMINATION	3
	NOTICE OF TERMINATION OF MODIFICATION (OF AGREEMENT)	94
116
	OFF-DATE EMPLOYMENT STATUS	13
11	OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDERS	25
	ORAL STEP	22
	OVERTIME	47
32	OVERVIEW	71
	PARENTAL LEAVE	51
	PAYMENT SCHEDULE (LONGEVITY PAY)	66
12	PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS	26
22	PERSONAL LEAVE DAYS	54
	PERSONNEL FOLDER	25
	PROBATIONARY PERIOD(S)	17
8	PROBATIONARY/TRIAL PERIOD	17
	PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT COURSES	82
	PROMOTION	27
13	PROMOTION/DEMOTION	27
	PROPORTIONAL BENEFITS	14
	PURPOSE AND INTENT	3
	RECALL FROM LAYOFF	30
	RECALL RIGHTS	17, 30
1	RECOGNITION	4
16	REDUCTION IN FORCE	30
	REGULAR EMPLOYMENT STATUS	13
	RELEASE TIME/ASSOCIATION OFFICERS	10
	RELEASE TIME/EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE	80
	REPRIMAND, SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE	21
33	RETIREE/OVER 65 LIFE PROGRAM	72
43	RETIREMENT PLAN	87
	REVOCATION CARDS	9
45	SAFETY	91
	SALARY PAYMENTS/FLEXIBLE APPOINTEES	64
	SALARY PROGRESSION PROGRAM	45
	SALARY SCHEDULES	46
46	SCOPE OF AGREEMENT	92
9	SENIORITY	19
	SERVICE FEES	9
	SERVICE MONTHS	14
10	SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES	20
24	SICK LEAVE	56
	SICK LEAVE/COORDINATION WITH OTHER TYPES OF PAY OR BENEFITS	57
	SICK LEAVE PAYOUT	58
	SPECIAL CONFERENCES	24
117
18	SPECIAL PROVISIONS	47
	STANDBY PAY	47
	STATUS OF EMPLOYMENT	13
	STRIKES	6
	TABLE OF CONTENTS	
	TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT STATUS	13
	TERMINATION AND MODIFICATIONS (OF AGREEMENT)	94
	TERMINATION FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY	8
	TERMINATION OF LIMITATION	8
	TERMINATION OF PROBATIONARY/TRIAL PERIOD	18
	TERMS OF AGREEMENT	93
	THREE-QUARTER TIME HOURS	13
40	TRAVEL ACCIDENT PROGRAM	79
	TRIAL PERIOD	17
	TUITION WAIVER	81
	UNITS	31
	UNIVERSITY SENIORITY	19
	VACANT POSITIONS	28
	VACATION ACCRUAL	52
21	VACATION PAY	52
	VACATION USAGE REQUIREMENTS	52
	WAGE RATES	43-46
	WORKERS’ COMPENSATION	53-57
118