MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Between
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
and
Michigan State University Local Union No. 999, Skilled Trades
July 1,2014 - June 30, 2018
PREFACE
1	The Board of Trustees of Michigan State University and Michigan State University Skilled Trade Local No. 999 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employee’s Union (AFL-CIO) recognize their moral and legal responsibilities under federal, state, and local laws relating to fair employment practices.
2	The Employer and the Union shall adhere to the non-discrimination policies adopted by the Board of Trustees and to applicable federal, state, and local nondiscrimination laws and regulations.
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article Number	Paragraph Number	Article Title	Page
	1	Preface	2
		Table of Contents	3
			
	3	Agreement	6
1	4	Purpose and Intent	6
2	8	Rights of the Employer	6
3	9	Aid to Other Unions	7
			
		Union	
4	10	Recognition	7
5	11	Occupational Groups	7
6	13	Union Security, Dues and Service Charges	9
7	26	Orientation	11
8	27	Representation Districts	11
9	28	Stewards and Alternate Stewards	11
10	32	Union Bulletin Board	12
			
		Seniority	
11	34	Seniority Defined	13
12	36	Seniority	13
13	41	Seniority Lists	14
14	44	Loss of Seniority	14
15	46	Seniority of Stewards	15
16	47	Seniority of Officers	15
17	48	Shift Preference	15
			
		Grievance	
18	49	Grievance Procedure	15
19	52	Presenting a Grievance	16
20	63	Computation of Back Wages	18
21	64	Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge	19
22	68	Medical Dispute	19
			
		Layoffs	
23	69	Temporary Layoffs	20
24	71	Layoffs	21
25	77	Assignment of Skilled Trades Employees	22
26	80	Recall Procedure	22
27	83	Work Opportunity for Laid-Off Employees	23
			
		Leave of Absence	
28	86	Absences	23
			
			
3
Article Number	Paragraph Number	Article Title	Page
		Paid Leaves	
29	87	Holiday Provisions	24
30	95	Vacations	25
31	107	Personal Leave Hours	26
32	112	Sick Leave	27
33	125	Funeral Leave	28
34	129	Jury Duty	29
35	131	Paid Union Leave/Release Time	29
			
36	134	Unpaid Leaves	30
36	139	Personal Leave	30
36	140	Leave of Absence for Illness or Disability	31
36	142	Military Leave - Extended Service	31
36	143	Leave for Union Business	31
37	145	Military Leave - Short Tours of Duty	31
38	146	General Conditions	32
			
		Promotions, Transfers, Demotions	
39	149	Filling of Vacancies	32
40	161	T ransfers	34
			
		Compensation and Wages	
41	166	Classification and Wages	34
42	169	Wage Rate Increase Plan	35
43	174	Working Hours	36
44	188	Time-and-One-Half in Seven-Day Operations And in Other Specific Areas of Work	39
45	189	Equalization of Overtime Hours	39
46	210	Longevity Pay	42
			
		Benefit Programs	
47	218	Health Care Coverage	43
47	220	Dental	43
48	222	Disability Plans	44
49	230	Employee Paid Life Plan	45
50	231	Expanded Life Plan	45
51	234	Retirement Benefits	45
			
		Additional Articles	
52	253	Educational Assistance	50
53	271	Assignment of College of Agriculture and Natural Resources Employees	53
54	275	Supervision Working	53
55	277	Student Labor	54
56	279	Special Conferences	54
57	280	Safety Apparel	54
58	282	Physical Examinations	55
4
Article Number	Paragraph Number	Article Title	Page
59	283	Supplemental Agreements	55
60	284	Savings Clause	55
61	285	Contract Documents	55
62	286	Termination and Modification	56
63		Effective Date	57
		Appendix I - Schedule of Classifications and Grades	59
		Appendix II - Schedule of Classifications By Grades	61
		Appendix III - Wage Schedule July 1, 2014	64
		Appendix IV - Wage Schedule July 1, 2015 - June 30, 2018	65
		Appendix V - Definitions	66
		Letters of Agreement	69
		Index	73
5
AGREEMENT
3	This agreement entered into this First day of July, 2014, between the Board of Trustees of Michigan State University (hereinafter referred to as the “Employer”) and Michigan State University Skilled Trades Local Union No. 999, Council No. 25, American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”).
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE AND INTENT
4	The general purpose of this Agreement is to set forth terms and conditions of employment, and to promote orderly and peaceful labor relations for the mutual interest of the Employer, the Employees and the Union.
5	The parties recognize that the interest of the Employer and job security of the employees depend upon the Employer’s success in establishing a proper service to the State.
6	To these ends the Employer and the Union encourage to the fullest degree friendly and cooperative relations between the respective representatives at all levels and among all employees.
7	Accordingly, the officials representing the Employer and the Union will from time to time during the life of this Agreement, at the request of either and the mutual convenience of both, meet for the purpose of appraising the problems which have arisen in the application, administration and interpretation of this Agreement and which may be interfering with the attainment of their joint objective as set forth above. Such meetings shall not be for the purpose of conducting continuing collective bargaining negotiations, nor to in any way modify, add to, or detract from the provisions of this Agreement. This article is not a grievable item.
ARTICLE 2
RIGHTS OF THE EMPLOYER
8 The Employer reserves and retains, solely and exclusively, all rights to manage and direct its work forces, except as expressly abridged by the provisions of this Agreement, including by way of illustration but not limitation, the determination of policies, operations, assignments, schedules, discipline, and layoff, for the orderly and efficient operation of the University.
6
ARTICLE 3
AID TO OTHER UNIONS
9 The Employer will not aid, promote or finance any labor group or organization which purports to engage in collective bargaining or make any agreement with any such group or organization for the purpose of undermining the Union.
ARTICLE 4
RECOGNITION
10 Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of Act 379 of the Public Acts of 1965, as amended, the Employer does hereby recognize Michigan State University Skilled Trades, Local 999, Council 25, AFSCME, AFL-CIO as the exclusive representative for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for the term of this Agreement of all employees of the Employer in the classifications as set forth in Appendix I excluding temporary, executive, administrative, academic, students, supervisory, professional, technical and clerical personnel.
ARTICLE 5
OCCUPATIONAL GROUPS
11	Occupational Group I
Cabinetmaker I
Cabinetmaker II
Carpenter I
Carpenter II*
Electrician I
Electrician II
Glazier I
Glazier II*
High Voltage Electrician I
High Voltage Electrician I - Power Plant
High Voltage Electrician II
High Voltage Electrician II - Power Plant
Landscape Services Equipment Mechanic I
Landscape Services Equipment Mechanic II
Locksmith I
Locksmith II*
Mason I
Mason II*
Mechanic Absorption I
Mechanic Absorption II
Mechanic Auto I
Mechanic Auto II
7
Mechanic Blacksmith II
Mechanic Electronics I
Mechanic Electronics II
Mechanic Elevator I
Mechanic Elevator II
Mechanic Elevator III
Mechanic Heating Systems I
Mechanic Heating Systems II
Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC) I
Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC) II
Mechanic Maintenance I
Mechanic Maintenance II
Mechanic Metal Worker I
Mechanic Metal Worker II
Mechanic Refrigeration I
Mechanic Refrigeration II
Mechanic Telecommunication I
Mechanic Telecommunication II
Mechanic Water Treatment I
Mechanic Water Treatment II
Painter I
Painter II*
Pipefitter I
Pipefitter II
Plumber I
Plumber II
Power Plant Electrician
Preventive Maintenance Worker
Roofer I
Roofer II*
Skilled Trades Inspector
Trades Helper I
Trades Helper II
Upholsterer
Welder I
Welder II
12	Occupational Group II
Cyclotron Group Leader
Instrument Maker I
Instrument Maker II
Instrument Maker III
Phy/Astronomy Research Shop Sr. Des. Fab.
Research Shop Coordinator
Research Trades Assistant I
Research Trades Assistant II
*Employees hired on or after July 1, 2010 will not be eligible for these 915 Level II classifications Employees currently in the progression path shall proceed according to established procedures.
8
ARTICLE 6
UNION SECURITY, DUES AND SERVICE CHARGES
13 To the extent allowed by the laws of the State of Michigan, it is agreed that:
1.	Employees covered by this Agreement at the time it becomes effective and who are members of the Union at that time may voluntarily elect to continue membership in the Union.
2.	Employees covered by this Agreement who are not members of the Union at the time it becomes effective may voluntarily elect to become members of the Union.
3.	Employees hired, rehired, reinstated or transferred into the bargaining unit after the effective date of this Agreement and covered by this Agreement may voluntarily elect to become members of the Union.
4.	The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any and all claims, demands, suits, or any other action arising from this Article or from complying with this Article.
A.	Payment by Checkoff
14 The Employer will check off initiation fees and biweekly dues, or service charges, on the basis of individually signed voluntary checkoff authorization cards on forms that have been agreed to by the Employer and the Union. Employees shall tender the initiation fee uniformly required as a condition of acquiring membership in the Union and biweekly membership dues, or service charges, by signing the proper authorization for checkoff form. An employee may revoke his/her voluntary checkoff authorization at any time by submitting notice on an authorized form to the employer’s payroll office and Union via certified mail. Such forms shall be processed within thirty (30) days of receipt.
B.	Employer Responsibility for Deductions
15 The Employer shall have no responsibility for the collection of initiation fees and membership dues or service charges that are not in accordance with the Union Security Clause of the Agreement.
C.	Delivery of Executed Authorizations for Checkoff
16 A properly executed copy of the voluntary form authorizing checkoff by an employee for whom initiation fees and biweekly membership dues, or service charges, are to be deducted in accordance with the Union Security Clause of the Agreement shall be delivered to the Employer before any payroll deductions are made. Deductions shall be made thereafter only under a properly executed voluntary authorization for checkoff which is in effect. Any authorization for checkoff form, which is incomplete or in error will be returned to the Union Secretary-Treasurer by the Employer.
9
D.	When Deductions Begin
17 Deductions under all properly executed voluntary authorizations for checkoff shall become effective at the time such authorizations are tendered to the Employer and shall be deducted from the first (1st) pay of the month and biweekly thereafter.
E.	Refunds
18 In cases where a deduction is made that duplicates a payment that an employee already has made to the Union, or where a deduction is not in conformity with the provisions of the Union Constitution or By-Laws, refunds to the employee will be made by the Union.
F.	Remittance of Deductions to Secretary-Treasurer
19 Deductions for any calendar month shall be remitted to the designated SecretaryTreasurer as soon as possible after the first pay of that month. The Employer shall furnish the designated financial officer, monthly, with a list of those for whom the Union has submitted signed forms authorizing checkoff, but for whom no deductions have been made. The Union will notify the Office of Employee Relations, in writing, regarding changes in designated Secretary-Treasurer and financial officer.
G.	Termination of Checkoff
20 An employee shall cease to be subject to checkoff deductions within thirty (30) days of the date that he/she revokes his/her voluntary authorization as provided in this agreement. The Union will be notified by the Employer of the names of such employees following the end of each month in which the revocation or termination took place.
H.	Disputes Concerning Checkoff
21 Any dispute between the Union and the Employer which may arise as to whether or not an employee properly executed or properly revoked an authorization for checkoff, shall be a proper subject for a special conference. Until the matter is disposed of, no further deductions shall be made.
I.	Limit of Employer’s Liability
22 The Employer shall not be liable to the Union by reason of the requirements of this Agreement for the remittance or payment of any sum other than that constituting actual deductions made from wages earned by employees.
J.	List of Members Paying Dues or Service Charges Directly
23 The Employer will furnish the Union a report indicating changes to membership on a monthly basis.
10
K.	Disputes Concerning Membership
24	Any dispute arising as to an employee’s membership in the Union shall be reviewed by the designated representative of the Employer and a representative of the Union, and if not resolved, may be decided at Step III of the grievance procedure
25	The Union shall indemnify and save the Employer harmless from any liability resulting from any and all claims, demands, suits or any other action arising from compliance with this article, or in reliance on any list, notice, certification or authorization furnished under this article.
ARTICLE 7
ORIENTATION
26 In order that each new bargaining unit member may be made familiar with the bargaining agreement and their rights, on a one-time basis only, the Employer will permit an orientation. Within one month of the new employee’s hire date, a fifteen (15) minute period will be made available during union release time for the new employee and the President or Chief Steward. Such meeting shall be scheduled with the appropriate supervisor with forty-eight (48) hours notice.
ARTICLE 8
REPRESENTATION DISTRICTS
27 The number of representation districts within Infrastructure Planning and Facilities shall reflect the number of supervisors who directly supervise bargaining unit employees. Each representation district shall be composed of employees reporting to the same supervisor and there will be a steward for each district. Facility for Rare Isotope Beams/National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory (FRIB/NSCL) shall be defined as one (1) district represented by one (1) steward and one (1) alternate steward. All other bargaining unit members not included above, shall be representated by the Chief Steward or Alternate Chief Steward.
ARTICLE 9
STEWARDS AND ALTERNATE STEWARDS
28	In each district, employees in the district shall be represented by one District Steward or during his/her absence, an Alternate Steward, who shall be a regular employee and working in the district. The District Steward or Alternate Steward shall be notified in advance and in writing of scheduled overtime periods. Any concerns over the administration of this provision shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure. The parties shall use the Special Conference provision to resolve concerns relative to this provision. During scheduled overtime periods for more than one employee in a district, if the District Steward or Alternate Steward is not scheduled to work in accordance with the equalization of overtime provision
11
(Article 45) the District Steward or Alternate Steward shall appoint an employee scheduled to work as Acting Steward for that particular overtime period.
29	The District Stewards, during their working hours, without loss of time or pay shall, in their own district, in accordance with the terms of this section, investigate and present grievances to the Employer, upon having received permission from his/her Supervisor to do so. The Supervisor will normally grant permission and provide sufficient time to the District Stewards to leave their work for these purposes subject to necessary emergency exceptions. The privilege of District Stewards leaving their work during working hours without loss of time or pay is subject to the understanding the time will be devoted to the proper handling of grievances and will not be abused; and District Stewards will perform their regularly assigned work at all times, except when necessary to leave their work to handle grievances as provided herein. One (1) District Steward or one (1) Alternate Steward and one (1) executive board member will be excused with pay to attend one (1) regularly scheduled stewards or executive board meeting not to exceed two (2) hours per month. Any alleged abuse by either party will be a proper subject for a Special Conference.
30	A Chief Steward, or in his/her absence a designated Alternate Chief Steward, may investigate and discuss grievances with District Supervisors and/or District Stewards. The Chief Steward, or in his/her absence a designated Alternate Chief Steward, may leave his/her work during working hours without loss of pay based on the understanding that his/her Supervisor has granted him/her permission to leave his/her work, that the time will be devoted to the prompt handling of legitimate grievances, and that he/she will perform his/her regularly assigned work at all times except when necessary to leave his/her work to handle grievances as provided herein. Any alleged abuse by either party will be a proper subject for a Special Conference.
31	The Union will furnish the Office of Employee Relations with the names of its authorized representatives and members of its grievance committees, and such changes as may occur from time to time in such personnel, so that the Employer may at all times be advised as to the authority of the individual representatives of the Union with which it may be dealing. The Employer will, in return, keep the Union advised as to its representatives.
ARTICLE 10
UNION BULLETIN BOARD
32 The Employer will provide enclosed bulletin boards that may be locked in each district which may be used by the Union for posting notices of the following types:
1.	Notices of Union educational, recreational and social events.
2.	Notices of Union elections.
3.	Notices of results of Union elections.
4.	Notices of Union meetings.
5.	Notices of job openings.
12
33
The Union shall have the exclusive right to the use of its assigned bulletin boards. In the event a dispute arises concerning the appropriateness of material posted on the Union Bulletin Boards, the President of the local Union will be advised by the Office of Employee Relations of the nature of the dispute and the notices or bulletins in question will be removed from the bulletin boards until the dispute is resolved.
ARTICLE 11
SENIORITY DEFINED
34	Seniority shall be on a bargaining unit-wide basis in accordance with the employee’s last date of hire in Local 999 unless negotiated locally by occupational groups.
35	“Length of continuous service” means uninterrupted employment with the University, but includes layoffs and other periods of absence authorized by and consistent with this Agreement except as limited by the section designated as “Loss of Seniority,” Article 14 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 12
SENIORITY
A.	Probationary Employees
36	New employees hired in the unit shall be considered as probationary employees for the first 1040 hours and six months of work. When an employee finishes the probationary period, he/she shall be entered on the seniority list of the occupational group and shall rank for seniority from the date the probationary period began. There shall be no seniority among probationary employees.
37	The Union shall represent probationary employees for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment, except discharge or discipline for reasons other than Union activity.
B.	Part-time Employees
38	Employees regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) hours per week but less than twenty-six (26) hours per week shall be considered half-time (1/2) time employees; those regularly scheduled to work more than twenty-six (26) hours per week but less than thirty-six (36) hours per week shall be considered three-quarter (3/4) time employees; and those regularly scheduled to work thirty-six (36) hours per week to forty (40) hours per week shall be considered full-time employees.
39	Benefits to part-time employees - The following benefits shall be extended to parttime employees on a proportional basis: vacation time, holidays, personal leave, sick leave, longevity, funeral leave, health, dental, employee paid life, accidental death and dismemberment, and retirement contribution if the employee participates. (See definition of proportional benefits).
13
40
Seniority - Part-time employees shall retain seniority on the same basis as full-time employees. This seniority shall be exercised during periods of layoffs, recall, and for filling of vacancies.
ARTICLE 13
SENIORITY LISTS
41	The seniority lists on the date of this Agreement will show the names of all employees of the unit entitled to a ranking for seniority. Service records in effect at the date of this agreement shall be used by the parties hereto as the records of continuous service as of such date.
42	The Employer will keep the seniority lists up to date at all times, and whenever a Steward shall raise a question of seniority, shall make the seniority list available for his/her inspection for the purpose of settling the question. The Employer will, if requested by the Union, post corrected seniority lists every three (3) months.
43	Within thirty (30) days after the ratification of this Agreement and every three (3) months thereafter during the term of this Agreement, the Employer shall give to the Union the names of all Union members covered by the Agreement together with their addresses as they then appear on the records of the Employer. The Union shall receive and retain such information in confidence and shall disclose it only to those officials of the Union whose Union duties require them to have such information.
ARTICLE 14
LOSS OF SENIORITY
44	An employee shall lose his/her status as an employee and his/her seniority if:
1.	He/She resigns or quits.
2.	He/She is discharged or terminated (unless reversed through the grievance or arbitration procedures).
3.	He/She retires.
4.	He/She does not return to work from layoff within fourteen calendar days after having been notified to return by restricted certified or registered mail addressed to the employee at his/her last address filed with Human Resources except when failure to notify and work is due to circumstances beyond the control of the employee. An employee who changes address must notify the Employer of the change.
5.	He/She has been on layoff for a period of time equal to his/her unit seniority at the time of his/her layoff or two (2) years, whichever is lesser.
14
6.	He/She is absent from work, including the failure to return to work at the expiration of a leave of absence, vacation, or disciplinary layoff, for three (3) consecutive working days without notifying the Employer, except when the failure to notify and work is due to circumstances beyond the control of the employee.
45	A grievance involving compliance with this section shall begin at Step Three of the Grievance Procedure.
ARTICLE 15
SENIORITY OF STEWARDS
46 Notwithstanding their position on the seniority list, Stewards shall in the event of a layoff of any type be continued at work as long as there is work in their district which they can perform and shall be recalled to work in the event of a layoff to the first vacancy in their district which they can perform.
ARTICLE 16
SENIORITY OF OFFICERS
47 Notwithstanding their position on the seniority list, the President, Vice President, Financial Secretary, Recording Secretary and Chief Steward of the Union shall, in the event of a layoff only, be continued to work at all times when one or more districts or divisions or fractions thereof are at work, provided they can perform any of the work available.
ARTICLE 17
SHIFT PREFERENCE
48 Shift preference will be granted on the basis of seniority within the classification as openings occur. The transfer to the desired shift will be effected within two (2) weeks following the end of the current pay period within which a written request is made, provided the employee can do the work.
ARTICLE 18
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
A.	Time of Answers
49 The Employer will answer in writing any grievance presented to it in writing by the Union as indicated below, unless the time is extended by mutual agreement:
1.	By the District Supervisor within five (5) working days from the date of the meeting at which the grievance was discussed.
15
2.	By the Administrative Head of a unit or division within seven (7) working days from the date of the meeting at which the grievance was discussed.
3.	By the Director of Employee Relations or his/her designated representative within seven (7) working days from the date of the meeting at which the grievance was discussed.
4.	The grievance must be presented in writing by the Chief Steward to the Administrative Head of a unit or division within fifteen (15) working days after its occurrence, except as provided for in Paragraph 66, in order to be a proper matter for the grievance procedure.
5.	Meetings will be scheduled in a reasonable amount of time.
B.	Time of Appeals
50	Any grievance not appealed from an answer at Step II of the grievance procedure to Step III of the grievance procedure within seven (7) working days after such answer shall be considered settled on the basis of the last answer and not subject to further review.
51	A grievance may be withdrawn without prejudice, and, if so withdrawn, all financial liabilities shall be cancelled. If the grievance is reinstated, the financial liability shall date only from the date of reinstatement. If the grievance is not reinstated within three (3) months from the date of withdrawal, the grievance shall not be reinstated. Where one or more grievances involve a similar issue, those grievances may be held in abeyance without prejudice pending the disposition of the appeal of a representative case. In such event, the withdrawal without prejudice will not affect financial liability.
ARTICLE 19
PRESENTING A GRIEVANCE
52 Any employee having a grievance in connection with his/her employment shall present it to the Employer as follows:
A.	Oral Step
53	If an employee feels he/she has a grievance and wishes to enter it into the grievance procedure, he/she may discuss it with his/her Immediate Supervisor, or with his/her District Steward, who must then discuss it with the employee’s immediate Supervisor before the grievance is referred to the District Supervisor. The Chief Steward may be present at any step or steps of the Grievance Procedure as well as an additional representative of the Employer, and if the Employer requests that the aggrieved employee be present at any step or steps of the Grievance Procedure to participate in the discussion, he/she will be required to do so.
54	If the matter is thereby not resolved, the District Steward may discuss the grievance with the District Supervisor on his/her shift. In the absence of a District Supervisor
16
on his/her shift, the District Steward may refer the grievance to the appropriate day shift District Steward who may discuss the matter with the District Supervisor.
B.	Step I
55 If the grievance is not resolved, the District Steward may reduce the grievance to writing and submit it to the District Supervisor on his/her shift. The grievance shall be dated and signed by the aggrieved employee and his/her District Steward and shall set forth the facts, including dates, and provisions of the Agreement that are alleged to have been violated and the remedy desired. The grievance shall not be considered submitted until the District Supervisor receives the written grievance. A meeting will be arranged between the District Steward and the District Supervisor to discuss the grievance. The District Supervisor will then answer the grievance in writing.
C.	Step II
56 If the grievance is not resolved, the District Steward may refer the grievance to the Chief Steward who may submit it to the Administrative Head, or his/her designated representative of the unit or division, indicating the reasons why the written answer of the District Supervisor was unsatisfactory. The grievance shall not be considered submitted until the Administrative Head, or his/her designated representative, receives the written grievance. A meeting will be scheduled, within ten (10) working days from the date on which the written grievance was submitted, between the Chief Steward, District Steward and the representatives designated by the Employer to discuss the grievance. The Administrative Head, or his/her designated representative, will then answer the grievance in writing.
D.	Step III
57	If the Administrative Head’s answer is not satisfactory, the grievance may be referred to the Union President who may submit his/her appeal to the Employer’s designated representative indicating the reasons why the written answer of the Administrative Head was unsatisfactory. Within ten (10) working days after receipt of such appeal, a meeting between no more than three (3) representatives of the Union and three (3) representatives designated by the Employer will be scheduled to discuss the grievance.
58	The Union representatives may meet at a place designated by the Employer on the Employer’s property for at least one-half (1/2) hour immediately preceding a meeting with the representatives of the Employer for which a written request has been made.
59	The Union President or his/her representative shall be allowed time off his/her job without loss of pay to investigate a grievance he/she is to discuss or has discussed with the Employer, upon having received permission from his/her Supervisor to do so. The Supervisor will normally grant permission and provide sufficient time to the Union President or his/her representative to leave his/her work for these purposes subject to necessary emergency exceptions. The privilege of the Union President or his/her representative leaving his/her work during working hours without loss of time or pay is subject to the understanding that the time will be devoted to the proper handling of grievances and will not be abused; and the Union President or his/her
17
representative will perform his/her regularly assigned work at all times, except when necessary to leave his/her work to handle grievances as provided herein. The Union President or his/her representative shall schedule this time within the release time provided in Article 35 unless additional time is authorized by the Office of Employee Relations. Any alleged abuse by either party will be a proper subject for a Special Conference.
E.	Step IV
60	In the event the Office of Employee Relations’ answer is not satisfactory, settlement may be determined by decision of the Arbitrator selected by the parties. The Union President or the Employer shall within thirty (30) calendar days of the Step III answer notify the other party or his/her designated representative in writing that they wish to appeal the grievance to arbitration. In the event they cannot agree upon an Arbitrator within five (5) working days of the date of the appeal, the party appealing the grievance to arbitration shall within fifteen (15) working days thereafter file a Demand for Arbitration with the American Arbitration Association who shall select an Arbitrator and the Arbitrator shall establish a hearing date. In the event either party fails to appeal the grievance to arbitration within the specified time limit or the appealing party fails to file the Demand for Arbitration within the specified time limit, the grievance shall be considered settled based upon the last answer by the Employer’s designated representative. The fees and approved expenses of the Arbitrator will be paid by the parties equally. The rules of the American Arbitration Association shall apply to all Arbitration hearings.
61	Grievances within the meaning of the grievance procedure and this arbitration clause shall consist only of disputes about the interpretation or alleged violations of the Agreement. The Arbitrator shall have no power to add to, or subtract from, or modify any of the terms of this Agreement, nor shall he/she substitute his/her discretion for that of the Employer or the Union where such discretion has been retained by the Employer or the Union, nor shall he/she exercise any responsibility or function of the Employer or the Union.
62	Finality of Decisions: There shall be no appeal from the Arbitrator’s decision. Each such decision shall be final, and binding upon the Union and its members, the employee or employees involved, and the Employer. The Union will discourage any attempt of its members and will not encourage or cooperate with any of its members in any appeal to any Court or Labor Board from a decision of the Arbitrator.
ARTICLE 20
COMPUTATION OF BACK WAGES
63 No claim for back wages shall exceed the amount of wages the employee would otherwise have earned at his/her regular rate of pay.
18
ARTICLE 21
REPRIMAND, SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE
64 In the event of written reprimand, suspension or discharge the employee may request that the Steward of the District and/or the Chief Steward be present. The Employer will make available an area where the employee may discuss a suspension or discharge before he/she is required to leave the property of the Employer.
A.	Notice
65 The Employer agrees, upon the written reprimand, suspension or discharge of any employee, to notify promptly in writing the Steward in the district and a copy shall be mailed to the Union President. In the event that an employee is issued a verbal warning, there will be no “Notice of Non-Academic Disciplinary Action - Written Record of Verbal Warning” prepared.
B.	Appeal
66 Should the reprimanded, suspended, or discharged employee and the Steward consider the discipline to be excessive and without just cause, a grievance shall be submitted within five (5) regularly scheduled work days of the reprimand, suspension or discharge. A grievance over a reprimand shall be submitted by the Chief Steward to the Administrative Head (Step II), whereas a grievance over a suspension or discharge shall be submitted by the Union President to the Office of Employee Relations (Step III). The Office of Employee Relations will schedule a meeting with the Union within three (3) regularly scheduled working days from the receipt of the appeal and shall, within two (2) regularly scheduled working days after said meeting, provide the Union with a written answer to the appeal. Failure to submit a written grievance within the time limits shall constitute a waiver of all claims concerning such reprimand, suspension, or discharge.
C.	Use of Past Record
67 In imposing any discipline on a current charge, the Employer will not take into account any prior infractions of which the Employer had knowledge, that occurred more than two (2) years previously.
ARTICLE 22
MEDICAL DISPUTE
68 In the event of a dispute involving any employee’s ability to perform his/her job on his/her return to work at the University from a layoff or leave of absence of any kind, when the employee is not satisfied with the determination of the University’s physician, he/she may submit a report from a medical doctor of his/her own choosing and at his/her own expense. If the dispute still exists, at the request of the Union, within two (2) working days, the University’s physician and the employee’s physician shall agree upon a third medical doctor to submit a report to the Employer and the
19
employee, and the decision of such third party will be binding on both parties. The expense of the report of the third party shall be shared equally by the Employer and the employee. The prevailing determination will be effective at a date mutually agreed to by the Union and the University.
ARTICLE 23
TEMPORARY LAYOFFS
69	Due to vacation periods and conditions beyond the Employer’s control, adjustments of the work force can be made without application of the layoff procedure of this Agreement. If such temporary adjustment continues for more than ten (10) working days, the Union can request the Employer to adjust the working force according to the layoff provision of the Agreement and the Employer will do so within five (5) working days thereafter.
70	The following values and principles form the foundation for the assumptions and decisions involved in MSU’s health related emergency planning, and they will continue to guide the University and Union through the management of an extended health related emergency:
1.	Protection and preservation of life (human, animal and plant) and essential research.
2.	Protection and preservation of the ability of the University to continue/resume its core missions.
3.	Minimization to the disruption in people’s lives that occur with health related emergencies and treatment of students and employees with concern for the impact such events have on individuals.
4.	Open and sustained communication with the Union, students, employees, other constituent audiences and the general public about the University’s responses to health related emergencies.
In the event of declared national, State of Michigan or Michigan State University health related emergency, with notification to the Union, temporary layoffs up to thirty (30) working days in a contract year may be scheduled without application of the layoff procedure of the Agreement.
1.	The Union and Employer shall meet in Special Conference as soon as possible, but no later than forty-eight (48) hours following the declaration of the emergency, and in subsequent meetings as needed, to discuss the impact such emergency may have on the bargaining unit.
2.	During such temporary layoffs employees may use accrued vacation leave, personal leave and/or compensatory time to cover any or all of the period or temporary layoff.
20
3.	Other than the variances described above, all layoff provisions of Article 24 shall apply during and following such a declared health related emergency.
4.	This agreement shall not be used for constructive discharge.
ARTICLE 24
LAYOFFS
71	When there is a decrease in the work force, the following procedure shall be followed: temporary and probationary employees will be laid off within the affected classification, provided the seniority employees can do the available work.
72	Seniority employees will be laid off according to unit seniority, within the affected classification, provided the greater seniority employees are able to perform the available work. However, the Employer shall not be required to promote an employee at time of layoffs, unless he/she has previously performed the higher-rated job and is able to do the work.
73	A seniority employee laid off as provided for in Paragraph 72 may then bump a less senior employee in another classification in the same pay grade, within the same occupational group, provided he/she has the ability to perform the available work and so on to classifications in lower pay grades, providing he/she has the ability to perform the available work.
1.	Where there is a dispute over ability to do the work the employee shall, prior to the layoff date and with documentation of prior education and/or experience applicable to the position and satisfactory to the Employer, be given one trial period of up to 10 working days in which to demonstrate competency to fill that position.
2.	The phrase “Satisfactory to the Employer” shall mean the Employer may make an initial determination as to an employee’s prior education and/or experience being applicable to the available position. If a dispute exists over the Employer’s initial determination, the factual applicability of prior education and/or experience to the position shall be determined through the grievance procedure.
3.	A seniority employee who is given notice of layoff and after exhausting all available bump options within her/his occupational group without success, will be eligible to exercise the following option. The employee may bump a Grade Level 906 or below with less seniority in another occupational group if she/he possesses the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties performed by the employee subject to the bump. If the Employer determines that the employee does not possess the knowledge, skills and abilities to satisfactorily perform the duties of a Grade Level 906 or below, that determination will be grievable under Article 19 of the Agreement
74	Employees to be laid off for an indefinite period of time will have thirty (30) calendar days notice of layoff unless administratively impracticable, but will have at least fourteen (14) calendar days notice of layoff. The local Union Secretary and the
21
District Steward will receive a list from the Employer of the employees being laid off on the same date the notices are issued to the employees.
75	Unless otherwise specifically provided for by this Agreement, seniority shall accumulate during layoffs. Provided however, that during a layoff, an employee will not accrue vacation or sick leave nor be eligible for any payments for time off work provided by this Agreement, except as otherwise provided for by this Agreement.
76	In the event of a dispute over a senior employee’s ability to do the work as described in Paragraphs 71, 72, and 73, the Union may file a grievance at Step 2 of the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 25
ASSIGNMENT OF SKILLED TRADES EMPLOYEES
77	Employees covered by this Agreement may be assigned to other tasks during certain times without an increase or decrease in their regular rate of pay because of lack of available work in their specific classification. Should the need for a temporary reassignment arise, it will be handled in the following manner.
1.	The Employer will ask for volunteers from the affected classification who would be willing to be reassigned on a temporary basis.
2.	Should there be an insufficient number of volunteers, the requisite number of employees will be reassigned based on the least senior employees within the classification who can perform the work to be assigned.
3.	If there is a dispute as to whether the least senior employee can perform the work, the Union may call for a special conference which must be held before the employee is reassigned.
78	The Employer will make every effort to give reasonable notice to employees who are to be temporarily assigned.
79	It is understood that the above provision does not guarantee twelve months employment each year to any employee but is merely a sincere effort on the part of the Employer to utilize the talents and services of regular full-time employees during normally slow periods.
ARTICLE 26
RECALL PROCEDURE
80	When the working force is increased after a layoff, employees will be recalled according to unit seniority in the classification provided the greater seniority employees are able to perform the available work. However, the Employer shall not be required to promote an employee at time of recall unless he/she has previously performed the higher-rated job and is able to do the work.
22
81	Seniority of an employee who is reemployed from a seniority list in the same occupational group that he/she was laid off from shall have status restored as of the date he/she left the service of the Employer.
82	Notice of recall shall be sent to the employee at his/her last known address by registered or certified mail. A copy of the notice of recall will be mailed to the Union President and another copy will be placed in the Union’s mailbox at the Office of Employee Relations. If an employee fails to report for work within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of mailing the notice of recall, it shall be considered a voluntary termination.
ARTICLE 27
WORK OPPORTUNITY FOR LAID-OFF EMPLOYEES
83	The Employer will, in employing new people in any occupational group, give work opportunity bargaining unit-wide to employees with seniority who are at the time laid off and are not expected to be returned to work in their classification, and who can perform the work of the vacant position.
84	An employee with seniority who is laid off and given work in another occupational group will be given seniority in the new occupational group equivalent to that which he/she had accrued in the occupational group from which he/she was laid off.
85	The laid off employee shall retain seniority rights in his/her former occupational group until his/her accrued seniority in his/her new occupational group equals the seniority he/she had in his/her former occupational group at which time all of his/her seniority in his/her former occupational group shall be cancelled. If the employee exercises his/her seniority rights and returns to his/her former occupational group prior to the cancellation of seniority, he/she shall do so with all accumulated seniority.
ARTICLE 28
ABSENCES
86 An employee is expected not to be absent from work for any reason other than personal illness without making prior arrangements before the start of the shift with the supervisor. Unless such prior arrangements are made, notice must be given to the supervisor immediately of the reason for being absent. If the absence is to continue beyond the first day, the supervisor must be notified on a daily basis, unless otherwise arranged with and specifically approved by the supervisor. The employee is responsible to notify the supervisor in situations as described above. When notice is provided by someone other than the employee, the employee will be held accountable for the message and the receipt of the supervisor’s response. Each employee will be given a telephone number in order to notify their supervisor if they are going to be absent. If a dispute arises as to whether the employee contacted the supervisor, in the first dispute, the employee will be given the benefit of the doubt.
23
ARTICLE 29
HOLIDAY PROVISIONS
87 The paid holidays are designated as:
	2014/2015	2015/2016	2016/2017	2017/2018
Independence Day	7/4/2014	7/3/2015	7/4/2016	7/4/2017
Labor Day	9/1/2014	9/7/2015	9/5/2016	9/4/2017
Thanksgiving	11/27/2014	11/26/2015	11/24/2016	11/23/2017
Thanksgiving	11/28/2014	11/27/2015	11/25/2016	11/24/2017
Christmas	12/25/2014	12/24/2015	12/23/2016	12/25/2017
Christmas	12/26/2014	12/25/2015	12/26/2016	12/26/2017
New Year’s	1/1/2015	12/31/2015	12/30/2016	1/1/2018
New Year’s	1/2/2015	1/1/2016	1/2/2017	1/2/2018
Memorial Day	5/25/2015	5/30/2016	5/29/2017	5/28/2018
88	Whenever one of these holidays falls on a Saturday and the employee does not work on this day or on a scheduled day off in the employee’s work week and no other day is observed as a holiday by the Employer, the employee will receive an alternate day off with pay, the time to be arranged with his/her Supervisor. Whenever one of the above holidays falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the designated holiday, except for the day before or after Christmas and the day before or after New Year’s which shall be considered separately each year.
89	If an employee is absent on either his/her scheduled working day immediately preceding or his/her scheduled working day immediately following the holiday, he/she will not be paid for the holiday unless his/her absence is excused. However, if an employee is laid off for the period between the end of fall semester and the beginning of spring semester because of lack of work, he/she will receive the same holiday pay given to the rest of the employees.
90	If an employee terminates his/her employment, he/she will not receive pay for holidays occurring after the last day worked even though the holidays may fall within the period of his/her projected terminal vacation leave (except when an employee retires).
91	Employees who regularly work at least twenty (20) hours per week on a continuous basis will be entitled to holiday benefits proportionate to the time actually employed.
92	Employees who are required to work on any University designated holiday shall be paid at a rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times their regular rate of pay plus holiday pay. An employee shall not receive more than two and one-half (2 %) times his/her regular rate of pay for hours worked on a holiday.
93	An employee who is on vacation or sick leave with pay when a holiday occurs will be paid for the holiday and no charge will be made against accrued vacation or sick leave credits.
94	There will be no holiday pay when the employee is on a leave of absence without pay, on layoff, or on Regular Workers’ Compensation.
24
ARTICLE 30
VACATIONS
95 Vacations with pay shall be credited at the end of each month based on an employee’s length of continuous full-time employment as shown in the following plan: (For part-time employees see Article 12 B).
Service Months	Accrual	Annual Accrual	Maximum Accrual
Completion of 6 months	48 hrs.		
7th month through 60th month	8 hrs. per month	96 hrs.	120 hrs.
61st month through 120th month	12 hrs. per month	144 hrs.	180 hrs.
121st month	16 hrs. per month	180 hrs.	240 hrs.
96	Employees are expected to take their annual accrual each year. In no circumstances will the accrual exceed the amount shown in the schedule under Maximum Accrual.
97	Vacation will not accrue during an approved leave of absence without pay, while on regular Workers’ Compensation, during an extended military leave of absence, during a terminal vacation period preceding termination, in excess of the Maximum Accrual, or while on layoff.
98	An employee’s vacation pay will be based on his/her base rate of pay.
99	If a University designated holiday falls within an employee’s vacation, he/she will be paid for the holiday and will not be charged for the vacation. When an employee terminates, he/she shall be paid for any unused vacation but will not be paid for University designated holidays which may fall within the terminal vacation period.
100	An approved leave of absence for military service will not be counted as a break in the employee’s service record when determining his/her vacation allowance under the progressive vacation plan. All other leaves of absence will be considered a break in an employee’s service record in determining vacation allowances.
101	An employee may take his/her vacation at any time in the course of the year as long as it conforms with the requirements of his/her individual department and he/she has permission from his/her supervisor. A vacation should not be taken for less than one week at a time, but it is permissible for an employee to vary his/her schedule if it is approved by his/her Supervisor. An employee should consult with his/her Supervisor at an appropriate time each year concerning his/her vacation allowance and the time the employee wishes it to be scheduled. Supervisory approval should be sought a minimum of one (1) working day prior to the desired time off. In the event of illness in the immediate family, an employee may use accrued vacation time subject to other provisions of this article. Employee vacation time may be taken in one-half (1/2) hour increments.
102	Employees who regularly work at least twenty (20) hours per week on a continuous basis will be entitled to vacation benefits proportionate to the time actually employed.
25
103 In the event of a dispute regarding the choice of vacation time, whenever possible the seniority employee will be given his/her choice of vacation time.
104 The following schedule will be used when the hire date, or any changes such as a return from leave of absence, necessitates prorating the hourly accrual for any portion of a month.
A. Entering Date
Days of the month	7th mo. through 60th mo. (8 hrs/mo..)	61st mo. through 120th mo. (12 hrs/moj	121st mo. (16 hrs/mo.)
1st through 7th	8 hrs.	12 hrs.	16 hrs.
8th through 14th	6 hrs.	9 hrs.	11hrs. 15 min.
15th through 21st	4 hrs.	6 hrs.	7 hrs. 30 min.
22nd through end of mo.	2 hrs.	3 hrs.	3 hrs. 45 min.
B. Exiting Date
Days of the month	8 hrs. per mo.	12 hrs. per mo.	16hrs. per mo.
1st through 7th	2 hrs.	3 hrs.	3 hrs. 45 min.
8th through 14th	4 hrs.	6 hrs.	7 hrs. 30 min.
15th through 21st	6 hrs.	9 hrs.	11 hrs. 15 min.
22nd through end of mo.	8 hrs.	12 hrs.	16 hrs.
105 The Employer is responsible for keeping the records of each employee’s vacation account up to date. The employee shall have access to the number of vacation credits remaining in his/her account.
106 Vacation credits shall not be waived by an employee and additional pay received for working those days.
ARTICLE 31
PERSONAL LEAVE HOURS
107 Personal leave with pay is granted to regular employees with the approval of their supervisors for attending to personal matters. Leave is given during each fiscal year in accordance with the following schedule:
Employed	Hours
7/1 - 12/31	24
1/1 - 3/31	12
4/1 - 5/31	6
6/1 - 6/30	0
108 The personal leave hours credited to each employee shall be utilized and charged in increments of not less than one (1) full hour.
26
109	No carry-over of unused personal leave hours credit from one fiscal year to another
shall be allowed, nor any payoff upon termination of employment.
110	An employee terminating prior to January 1 shall only be eligible for one-half of the annual personal leave accrual, less personal leave time already used, to be adjusted on the employee’s final payroll check.
111	The employee shall obtain the approval of the supervisor for the use of personal leave. The request for use of personal leave should be made at least one working day prior to the day off.
ARTICLE 32
SICK LEAVE
112	Every regular full-time employee shall accumulate and be credited with 104 hours of
sick leave with pay per year, to be credited at the rate of four (4) hours each completed biweekly payroll period. Employees may use sick leave after they have completed their first month of service. Maximum accrual is 1400 hours.
113	Sick leave shall be available for use by employees for the following purposes:
1.	Acute personal illness or incapacity over which the employee has no reasonable control.
2.	Absence from work because of exposure to contagious disease which, according to public health standards, would constitute a danger to the health of others by the employee’s attendance at work.
3.	To complete appointments for medical and dental care to the extent of time required to complete such appointments when it is not possible to arrange such appointments for non-duty hours.
4.	Not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours sick leave per year for absence from work because of illness in the immediate family. Defined as: spouse, children, parents and anyone living within the household of the employee. An additional forty (40) hours may be used for the care of spouse, parents and dependent children. The total number of hours shall not exceed sixty-four (64).
114	All employees shall accumulate sick leave from the date they are hired.
115	A regular employee with ninety (90) days of continuous service who suffers injury compensable under the Workers’ Compensation Act shall continue to receive his/her regular rate of pay for time lost during the first seven (7) days not covered by the Workers’ Compensation Act, provided he/she follows the instructions of the physician designated by the University, and provided he/she returns to work not later than the time recommended by the physician designated by the University. In the event of dispute, the Medical Dispute clause of this Agreement shall apply as regards the settlement of such dispute. Following the first seven (7) days, such seniority employee shall be paid the difference between his/her regular wages and payment
27
received under provisions of the Act, to be deducted from accumulated sick leave until his/her sick leave is exhausted.
116	Employees who have exhausted their sick leave accrual and are still unable to return to work may use any unused vacation accrual.
117	Employees who are laid off shall have available any unused sick leave previously earned, effective at the time they are recalled.
118	Employees who leave to enter the Armed Forces of the United States under the provisions of a selective service act, who are members of the Armed Forces and are called to active duty, or who enlist in the Armed Forces during a declared national emergency shall, upon reemployment by the Employer, have available any unused sick leave previously earned, provided that such reemployment takes place within ninety (90) days after discharge or release from active duty in the Armed Forces.
119	An employee using sick leave during a period that includes a scheduled holiday will be paid his/her base pay for the holiday. He cannot be paid for both on the same day, nor will he be charged for a day of sick leave.
120	An employee who transfers from one unit to another shall transfer with him/her any unused sick leave accrual.
121	Employees who regularly work at least twenty (20) hours per week on a continuous basis will be entitled to sick leave benefits proportionate to the time actually employed. (See definition of proportional benefits).
122	Each District Supervisor shall be responsible for reviewing employee requests for sick leave and determining their validity, and may request a statement from the employee’s personal physician concerning his/her disability. Supervisors shall be given prompt notification from their employees of the necessity for taking sick leave. Employees who find they are going to be absent longer than they first anticipated should notify their Supervisor in accordance with the Absences clause of the Agreement (Article 28).
123	All payment for sick leave shall be made at the employee’s base rate of pay.
124	Accrued sick leave credits shall be used prior to receiving unpaid leave.
ARTICLE 33
FUNERAL LEAVE
125	If death occurs among members of a regular employee’s immediate family, the employee will be excused from work to attend the funeral and make other necessary arrangements without loss of pay from the day of death until the day after the funeral, but not more than a total of three (3) days. In the case of death of the employee’s or spouse’s uncle, aunt, nephew or niece, the employee will be excused from work without loss of pay for one (1) day (the day of the funeral) to attend the funeral.
28
126	Definition of Employee’s Immediate Family
The employee’s immediate family shall be interpreted as including: spouse, child, parent, sister, brother, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandparents, grandparent-in-law, grandchild, stepparents, half-brother, half-sister, stepbrother and stepsister.
127	Permission will be granted without loss of pay to a reasonable number of employees in the unit who wish to attend the funeral of a fellow employee or retiree, provided they return to work after the funeral. Employees who serve as pallbearers at a funeral of a fellow employee or retiree will be paid during the time they must be off the job.
128	Additional time, if required, may be granted in accordance with other leave policies.
ARTICLE 34
JURY DUTY
129	A regular employee who serves on Jury Duty or is required to testify pursuant to a court issued subpoena, except those subpoenas requiring testimony against the University, will be paid the difference between Jury Duty or witness fees and his/her base pay. An employee is expected to report for regular University duty when temporarily excused from attendance at court.
1.	Employees serving on jury duty, who are absent from work for eighty (80) continuous hours or less, will receive their regular pay and will not be required to submit proof of jury duty payment to the University. They must, however, still submit proof of jury duty service to their supervisor.
2.	Employees serving on jury duty who are absent from work for more than eighty (80) continuous hours will be required to submit proof of jury duty payment to their supervisor to facilitate the offset and adjustment of their regular, straighttime base pay by jury duty payments or witness fees received from the court.
130	An employee shall notify his/her supervisor of Jury Duty and subpoena dates as soon as they are known.
ARTICLE 35
PAID UNION LEAVE/RELEASE TIME
131	Leaves of absence with pay will be granted to those employees who are elected or selected by the Union to attend educational classes conducted by the Union. The number will not exceed eight (8) employees at any one time and the number of working hours will not exceed a total of one hundred thirty-six (136) hours in any one (1) calendar year. The Union agrees to give the Office of Employee Relations as much advance notice as possible concerning such leaves of absence.
29
132	The Employer agrees to allow the President of the Union to be excused from work for twenty (20) hours per week to conduct Union business. The twenty (20) hours release time each week shall not be reassigned for any period less than one (1) work week. The Secretary-Treasurer of the Union shall be released for up to eight (8) hours per week, to conduct Union business.
133	The Employer agrees to allow the Chief Steward of the Union excused time from work for one (1) hour per week, cumulative to a maximum of four (4) hours at any one time to post Union bulletin boards. It is understood that this time is in addition to the time granted in Article 9 to handle grievances. Prior arrangements must be made with the employee’s supervisor before leaving the job and such time will be spent on campus or in the East Lansing office.
ARTICLE 36
UNPAID LEAVES
134	Regular employees who have completed their probationary period are eligible for unpaid leave of absence. During a leave of absence without pay, an employee will not accrue vacation or sick leave nor be eligible for any payments for time off work provided by this Agreement.
135	Unless otherwise specifically provided for by this Agreement, seniority shall accumulate during a leave of absence, and its extensions.
136	The employees must check with Total Compensation and Wellness about maintaining the employee group benefits for which they are eligible and enrolled during leave of absence subject to and consistent with these plans. All leaves of absence must be approved by the Supervisor, Administrative Head of the department, and Human Resources.
137	The Employer at its option and without cost to the employee, may require that a physician or physicians of its choosing examine the employee before returning him/her to active employment.
138	An employee returning from a leave of absence will be placed in his/her former classification unless the Employer’s or the employee’s circumstances have so changed as to make it impossible or unreasonable to do so.
A.	Personal Leave
139 Leaves of absence without pay for up to three (3) months may be granted upon the request of the employee for such reasons as settlement of an estate, serious illness of a member of the employee’s family, child care, or an extended trip, but not for the purpose of obtaining employment elsewhere. Leaves of absence for like causes may be extended for additional three (3) month periods, but the total leave time shall not exceed one (1) year.
30
B.	Leave of Absence for Illness or Disability
140 If an employee has exhausted all paid sick leave and is still physically unable to perform his/her job, an illness or disability leave without pay for up to three (3) months may be granted. After the initial three (3) month period an extension of illness and disability leave without pay for up to a total of two (2) years may be granted.
141 When a leave of absence without pay is granted due to illness or disability which requires the services of a physician, then the employee must procure and have available for the MSU designated Health Facility a physician’s transcript relative to the case before the employee reports to the MSU designated Health Facility for the required physical examination.
C.	Military Leave - Extended Service
142 Upon application, a military leave of absence (without pay) will be granted to eligible employees. This applies to employees who are inducted through a selective service system or voluntary enlistment, or if the employee is called through membership in the National Guard or reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States. In order to be eligible to return to active employment, an employee returning from a military leave of absence must have an honorable discharge or certificate of honorable service and apply for reinstatement within the time period established under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA).
D.	Leave for Union Business
143	Members of the Union elected to local Union positions or selected by the Union to do work which takes them from their employment with the Employer shall at the written request of the Union receive temporary leaves of absence without pay for periods not to exceed two (2) years or the term of office, whichever may be shorter.
144	If the member’s position or work for which these leaves were granted is terminated for any reason, the Union shall within ten (10) calendar days notify the Employer in writing of the termination date. The member shall within the same ten (10) calendar day period advise the Employer in writing of his/her intent to return to the University and shall return to work within thirty (30) calendar days of the termination date or forfeit all rights of employment with the Employer.
ARTICLE 37
MILITARY LEAVE - Short Tours of Duty
145	Employees who belong to the National Guard, United States Reserve Corps, or other
Federal or State recognized military organizations, will be allowed up to fifteen (15) calendar days leave of absence when ordered to active duty for training. In the event these same employees are ordered to active duty by order of the President or Governor, they will be allowed a maximum of ten (10) calendar days leave of absence during a fiscal year. The Employer will pay the difference between the
31
employee’s military pay and base pay, if his/her military pay is less. If the employee takes military leave during his/her vacation, he/she will receive full pay.
ARTICLE 38
GENERAL CONDITONS
A. Leave of Absence with Pay
146	Leaves of absence with pay shall be granted for purposes as described in Articles 29 through 37.
147	An employee shall accrue sick leave credits and vacation credits during a leave of absence with pay, and University provided insurance benefits shall and employee optional benefits may continue for the duration of the leave.
148	All requests for leaves of absence shall be made with the employee’s immediate supervisor.
ARTICLE 39
FILLING OF VACANCIES
149	The Employer will fill vacancies on a seniority basis first within the occupational group with employees who posses the minimum qualifications for the classification under consideration. If there are no qualified bidders or no bidders from within the occupational group, the Employer will select the most senior applicant in the bargaining unit who possesses the minimum qualifications of the classification. An unsatisfactory MSU employment record may be a proper cause for denial of consideration for a vacancy.
150	Vacancies will be posted for a period of seven (7) calendar days on the MSU Human Resources website. All notices of vacancy will state the classification, rate of pay, starting time, shift, location, and minimum qualifications. A copy of the Vacancy Notice will be made available electronically to the Union. Employees must apply for vacancies by submitting the appropriate information requested to the Human Resources website at http://www.hr.msu.edu/hr by the closing date specified.
151	Postings shall remain posted online for seven (7) calendar days before the vacancy is filled. The Employer will notify the Union, in writing, of the name of the employee selected to fill a vacancy, stating his/her seniority date and title of the classification. Temporary transfers may be used, if necessary, during the posting period.
152	A vacancy may not be filled from a posting one hundred twenty (120) calendar days after the posting expiration date. The vacancy must be reposted if it is to be filled.
153	If it should become necessary in filling a vacancy to bypass an employee’s seniority, reasons for denial shall be given in writing to such employee with a copy to the Steward of the district.
32
154	An employee who is promoted, transferred or demoted must satisfactorily complete a trial period of 520 hours of work. Prior to the expiration of this period, either the Employer or the employee may declare the trial period unsatisfactory, and the employee shall return to his/her former position at his/her former pay rate, classification, and shift. If the Employer determines an employee is unsatisfactory in the new position, notice and reasons shall be submitted to the employee in writing by the Employer with a copy to the Union. The matter may then become a proper subject for the grievance procedure.
155	During the trial period, employees will receive the regular rate of the job they are performing.
156	An employee who bids on a vacancy that is posted under this section and is subsequently selected and placed in the vacancy shall remain assigned to it for three (3) months following the 520 hours of work trial period before becoming eligible to bid on another posted vacancy.
157	If an employee is temporarily assigned to a job with a higher maximum rate, and he/she is capable of doing the job, he/she shall receive an increase of ten (10) cents per hour, or the starting rate, whichever is greater, but in no event shall he/she be paid more than the maximum rate of the job to which he/she is temporarily assigned. If the temporary assignment in a higher classification is for three (3) hours or more, the employee will receive the increase in pay for eight (8) hours. An employee who is assigned on a temporary basis to a job in a lower pay grade shall have his/her hourly pay rate maintained. This section shall not be used to circumvent the posting requirement as stated in this article.
158	If an employee is temporarily assigned to work as a supervisor for eight (8) consecutive hours or more, he/she shall receive, in addition to his/her regular pay, one dollar ($1.00) per hour differential compensation. Such differential compensation will not increase the hourly base rate.
159	The procedures for filling vacancies may be bypassed for the following situations:
1.	Employees drawing Workers’ Compensation benefits for any position at their former or lower compensation grade levels, the duties of which they are able to perform, provided that during their absence they did not become subject to layoff.
2.	Former seniority employees who have filed for unemployment compensation.
160	The parties recognize the Employer’s commitment to and program for Affirmative Action. To that end the parties agree to cooperate to the extent possible for the achievement of the Affirmative Action objective. When it is necessary to fill vacancies for Affirmative Action purposes, such action must be proven under the provision of the Affirmative Action plan of the Employer. The University and the Union will meet to discuss any problems associated with the filling of vacancies for affirmative action purposes. Following discussion, the action may be permitted.
33
ARTICLE 40
TRANSFERS
161	Transfer of Employees: If an employee with seniority is transferred from one occupational group to another occupational group, he/she will be given seniority in the new occupational group equivalent to that which he/she had accrued in the occupational group from which he/she is transferred at which time all of his/her seniority in his/her former occupational group shall be cancelled.
162	Effective July 1, 1975, an employee who is thereinafter transferred to a position under the Employer, not included in Local 999, shall accumulate seniority for the first 180 days provided he/she returns to a Local 999 position during the said 180 day period. In the event the employee returns to a position in Local 999 after the initial 180 day period, his/her seniority shall have been frozen as of the date he/she transferred out of Local 999 and shall accumulate additional seniority beginning on the date he/she returns to a position in Local 999.
163	Employees transferring under the above circumstances, Transfers Paragraphs 161 and 162 shall retain all rights accrued for the purposes of any fringe benefits provided for in this Agreement.
164	If and when operations or divisions or fractions thereof are transferred from one location to another for a period of more than seven (7) calendar days, employees affected will be given the opportunity to transfer on the basis of seniority, desire and classification so long as the employee possesses the knowledge, skills, and ability to perform the work. Location exchange will be considered in such cases.
165	The Employer agrees that in any movement of work not covered above in Transfers Paragraphs 161, 162, and 164, he/she will discuss the movements with the Union in order to provide for the protection of the seniority of the employees involved.
ARTICLE 41
CLASSIFICATON AND WAGES
166	Wages shall be paid in accordance with the Wage Schedule as set forth in Appendixes III and IV. All listed classifications and corresponding wage rates shall remain in effect for the term of the Agreement unless the job content of any classification is changed.
167	The Employer retains the right to eliminate, change and establish classifications. In the event a new classification is established or an existing classification is changed, the Employer shall place it in an existing pay grade in the Wage Schedule or in a new pay grade, on the basis of the relative value of the elements of the new or changed classification in comparison with the elements of existing classification.
168	The following procedure will be used whenever a new or changed classification is placed in the Wage Schedule, as provided in Paragraph 167 of this Article.
34
1.	The Employer will provide the Union with a written copy of the new or changed classification which shall describe the job content sufficiently to identify the classification.
2.	Upon receipt of the Employer’s classification description, a reasonable number of representatives of the Union may meet with representatives of the Employer to discuss the new or changed classification and the placement in the Wage Schedule.
3.	If there is a disagreement with the placement in the Wage Schedule, a grievance concerning compliance with Paragraph 167 of this Article may be processed through the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure, provided it is submitted in writing at Step III of the Grievance Procedure within seven (7) working days after the Union is afforded the opportunity to discuss the matter with the Employer. If such a grievance is processed through Arbitration, the Arbitrator shall have no power or authority to revise the classification, but only to determine whether the proper placement has been made in the Wage Schedule in accordance with Paragraph 167 of this Article.
ARTICLE 42
WAGE RATE INCREASE PLAN
A.	Wage Rate
169 Effective July 1, 2014, the minimum and maximum of each grade level shall be adjusted as reflected in Appendix III. Each employee on the active payroll on that date shall have his/her base rate of pay increased by the appropriate amount as per the health care and wages agreement agreed to between the parties.
170 Effective July 1, 2015, the minimum and maximum of each grade level shall be adjusted based on the January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2017 Memorandum of Understanding as agreed to between the parties. Each employee on the active payroll on that date shall have his/her base rate of pay increased by the appropriate amount as per the health care and wages agreement agreed to between the parties. A copy of the new wages will be made available to the Union when known.
171 Effective July 1, 2016, the minimum and maximum of each grade level shall be adjusted based on the January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2017 Memorandum of Understanding as agreed to between the parties. Each employee on the active payroll on that date shall have his/her base rate of pay increased by the appropriate amount as per the health care and wages agreement agreed to between the parties. A copy of the new wages will be made available to the Union when known.
172 Effective July 1, 2017, the minimum and maximum of each grade level shall be adjusted based on the January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2017 Memorandum of Understanding as agreed to between the parties. Each employee on the active payroll on that date shall have his/her base rate of pay increased by the appropriate amount as per the health care and wages agreement agreed to between the parties. A copy of the new wages will be made available to the Union when known.
35
B.	Movement Within Grade Levels
173 Effective July 1, 1975, a review will be made of all employees, except Apprentices, represented by Local 999 whose wage rate is not at the maximum of their current grade level. If an employee meets the following qualifications:
1.	Has been in their present classification for two (2) years or more.
2.	Has at least a satisfactory rating on each of their last two (2) Employee Evaluation rating forms, that employee will receive an increase to bring their wage rate to the maximum of their current grade level.
During the term of this Agreement, an employee whose wage rate is not at the maximum of their current grade level and who does not meet the qualifications as listed above shall be:
1.	Reviewed on a semiannual basis and will be granted an increase based upon a satisfactory work record. Employees shall progress to the top of their current grade level at any time within a two (2) year period as provided above.
2.	Reviewed and upon meeting the qualifications as listed above, shall, effective the date of qualifications, receive an increase to bring their wage rate to the maximum of their current grade level.
A written record of the date and the outcome of the review will be made.
In no case will an increase exceed the maximum rate for the classification.
ARTICLE 43
WORKING HOURS
A.	Shift Differential
174 Employees who work on the second or third shift shall receive, in addition to their regular pay fifty (50) cents per hour additional compensation. Such differential is to be added to the total wages and does not increase the hourly rate and will be paid for all hours worked on a shift.
B.	Shift Hours
175 The first shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 5:00 a.m., but before 1:00 p.m. The second shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 1:00 p.m. but before 9:00 p.m. The third shift is any shift that regularly starts on or after 9:00 p.m. but before 5:00 a.m.
C.	Rest Periods
176 Employees may take a rest period of not more than fifteen (15) minutes for each halfday of work. Rest periods should be taken at a time and in a manner that does not
36
interfere with the efficiency of the work unit. The rest period is intended to be a recess to be preceded and followed by an extended work period; thus, it may not be used to cover an employee’s late arrival to work or early departure, nor may it be regarded as accumulative if not taken.
D.	Wash-Up Time
177 Employees will be given the necessary time prior to punching out, to wash up and change uniforms, if used.
E.	Call-In Pay
178 An employee reporting for emergency duty at the Employer’s request for work which he/she had not been notified of in advance and which is outside of and not continuous with his/her regular work period, shall be guaranteed at least three (3) hours pay and three (3) hours work at the rate of time-and one-half. An employee who reports for such emergency duty in Infrastructure Planning and Facilities which is of a minimum five (5) hours duration and which is continuous with his/her scheduled start time, shall receive a one (1) hour paid break prior to beginning scheduled work. An employee who reports for scheduled work and no work is available will receive three (3) hours pay at his/her regular straight time rate. Paragraph 178, Call-in Pay shall apply when an employee is contacted away from the workplace for unscheduled emergency duty. An employee contacted away from the work place and who begins work within three (3) hours of a regular shift starting time shall receive the full three hours call-in pay at time-and-one-half.
When an employee has arrived at the workplace for a regularly scheduled shift and is then assigned to begin work early, Paragraph 178 does not apply. If the employee assigned to begin work early also completes the regular schedule of work in accordance with Paragraph 184 or Paragraph 188, 1., then the employee will be paid for actual time worked before the start of the regular shift at time-and-one-half, or a one-half-hour minimum at time-and-one-half, whichever is greater.
F.	Call-In Duty Pay
179	General - Call-In Duty Pay compensates employees to be available to report to work
during their off duty hours.
Management has the exclusive right to identify when to offer Call-In Duty Pay and the trade(s) eligible to participate, on a case by case basis.
180	Definitions
1.	Call-In Duty is defined as being available for work during off-duty periods.
2.	Call-In Duty Pay is defined as one (1) hour of an employee’s straight time rate of pay per day that the employee is scheduled on call-in duty.
3.	A day is defined as the 24 hour period beginning at the start of the assignment.
37
181	Compensation
1.	Where a call-in duty assignment is for less than a full 24 hour period, the employee(s) working the assignment will receive one (1) hour of his/her straight time rate of pay.
2.	Call-In Duty Pay will not be considered either “time worked” or “time paid” for purposes of calculating overtime pay.
3.	Call-In Duty Pay is not subject to shift differential.
182	Expectations - Employees assigned to Call-In Duty will be issued a cell phone, or
other similar communication type of device. Such device must be carried on the person assigned or otherwise immediately available to the employee and maintained in good working order, fully charged and able to receive messages.
Employees designated for call-in duty must be available to come to work if needed. Available is defined as:
1.	Able to perform the full scope of duties if called;
2.	Able to report for duty within a maximum of 60 minutes from the time of the page or call;
3.	Not engaged in any activity (nor still under the effect of recently being engaged in any activity) that would limit their ability to report to or fully function at work, including but not limited to; consumption of alcohol or illegal drugs, being out of the area or failing to respond to a call or page;
4.	Available for calls outside the regularly scheduled working hours by designated communication device.
If a call-in duty employee is called and cannot be reached or does not report after a reasonable period of time (not to exceed sixty (60) minutes), the employee will forfeit the call-in assignment and call-in pay and is subject to discipline. Call-In Duty Pay for the day will also be forfeited.
183	Volunteering and Assignment - Individuals in the identified trade(s) may volunteer for
Call-In Duty Pay. In the event there are more volunteers than are necessary to fill the assignments, the assignments will be rotated on the basis of seniority provided that the employee possesses the knowledge, skills, and ability to perform the work.
Remaining volunteers will be placed on an alternate list and substituted as necessary by the employer.
Alternate volunteers will not be paid Call-In Duty Pay unless they are called upon to replace an employee.
In the event there are not enough volunteers to fill the necessary positions, the assignments will be rotated on the basis of inverse seniority so long as the employee possesses the knowledge, skills, and ability to perform the work. The assignment shall be for a period of one week commencing on Monday and ending on Sunday.
38
G.	Time-and One-Half
184	Time-and-one-half the regular rate of pay will be paid for all time worked in excess of
eight (8) hours in an employee’s workday. Time-and-one-half the regular rate of pay will be paid for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) hours in an employee’s workweek.
185	Scheduled work on Sunday (excluding trouble-truck) which falls outside of the
normal work schedule, shall be paid at time-and-one-half the regular rate of pay.
186	For the purpose of computing overtime pay all holiday hours paid will be considered time worked.
187	Overtime premium shall not be pyramided, compounded or paid twice for the same time worked.
ARTICLE 44
TIME-AND-ONE-HALF IN SEVEN-DAY OPERATIONS AND IN OTHER SPECIFIC AREAS OF WORK
188 The following provisions apply to seven-day operations and other specific areas of work within the work groups designated.
1.	Time-and-one-half the regular straight time rate will be paid to employees assigned to seven-day operations who work over forty (40) hours in a work week. It is further agreed that the above provision applies to the Swing Shift Maintenance Shop Trouble Trucks within Infrastructure Planning and Facilities.
ARTICLE 45
A.	EQUALIZATION OF OVERTIME HOURS
189	In Infrastructure Planning and Facilities Maintenance Services overtime equalization shall be by Shop or Crew. Up-to-date overtime lists showing the accumulated hours shall be posted in a prominent place in each shop once a month. An electronic copy of all lists shall be sent to the Union’s e-mail address at the same time.
190	Whenever the opportunity for scheduled overtime exists, the employee’s in the shop or crew with the least number of accrued hours having the classification and capable of performing the work will, except in necessary emergencies, be offered the opportunity first. The Union reserves the right to grieve what is considered an emergency. If the employee works the offered overtime s/he will be charged for the number of hours worked. If the employee refuses the overtime it will be offered to the next employee on the list, and s/he will be charged with turndown hours in the amount equal to the hours that were worked (2 hour minimum). This continues down the list until the number of employees required to perform the work has been met. If a Supervisor has exhausted the list or lists that they have control of, and there is still a need for employees to perform the work, they must offer the overtime to anyone
39
who has the classification needed and is capable of performing the work, regardless of the Shop or Crew list they may be on.
191	The parties recognize that in a Shop there can be Project Teams, Service Routes, and Crews. When these exist and there is scheduled overtime available, it shall be offered in the case of the Project Teams and Crews in the manner set forth in Paragraph 190. In the case of Service Routes it will be offered to the employee or employees assigned to the route first and then in the manner set forth in Paragraph 190.
192	On July 1 each year, the amount of overtime hours accrued by each employee on the OTE lists will be reduced to zero. The order of employees as they ended up on the June 30th OTE list will remain in that order for the start of the next accrual year.
193	New employees shall assume the highest number of overtime hours, plus one on the OTE list that they are assigned to. Employees that move to a different Shop or Crew shall have their existing hours carried with them to the new shop or crew OTE list.
194	The Employer will continue the practice of balancing the work between any multicraft shop or crew and Electrical, Mechanical, Plumbing and Structural shops.
195	Shops or Crews agree to provide a structured means to accomplish answering a callin situation to meet the needs of the University. This can be done by setting up an OTE list, a rotational or standby type arrangement, or some other means on an annual basis (July 1 to June 30 of the following year).
1.	Shops and Crews shall select or renew call-in method prior to July 1st of every year. The method chosen will be determined by a majority vote.
2.	Employees who are in any multi-craft shop or crew may volunteer to be included in the call-in method previously chosen by the shops with their respective classification.
3.	If the Employer or the Union disagrees with the proposed call-in method, a Special Conference will be held between the Employer and the Union to resolve the issue.
4.	If the issue is not resolved by July 1st of a given year or the parties cannot reach agreement, the method of equalizing overtime specified in Paragraph 190 shall be followed with all of those employees voting being placed on a call-in OTE list. If the issue is settled after July 1st, the agreement reached in the Special Conference shall take affect and continue for the remainder of the annual year; (July 1st to June 30th of the following year).
196	In the event of an emergency call-in, all employees called and all of those who reported will be charged a minimum of 3 hours. If a dispute arises over attempted calls, a phone log, written or electronic, shall be considered sufficient proof of the call unless produced phone records prove otherwise.
197	Employees responding in a call-in situation will be generally expected to report within one (1) hour or less, if possible.
40
198	Special event overtime will be offered to employees by the classification needed in a seniority rotational order. The employee must be able to perform the work. Any hours worked will be recorded on the OTE lists. The list shall not be reset at any time; it will retain its rotational order from year to year. New hires shall be placed at the bottom of the list on the day they are hired.
B.	Equalization of Overtime Hours - NSCL
199	Overtime hours shall be divided equally as practicable among employees qualified to perform the work. An up-to-date list showing overtime hours will be posted electronically every month.
200	Whenever overtime is required, the person with the least number of overtime hours capable of performing the work, will, except in necessary emergencies, be called first and so on down the list in an attempt to equalize the overtime hours. The Union reserves the right to grieve what is an emergency. Where significant efficiencies are a consideration, OT may be assigned to the person(s) currently working on it.
201	For the purpose of this clause, an employee who did not choose to work will be charged the highest number of overtime hours of the employees worked during that overtime period. In the event of an emergency call-in, all persons attempted to be contacted or who report to perform the work will be charged the time.
202	On July 1 each year, the amount of overtime hours credited to each employee will be reduced to zero. The order of individuals will remain unchanged.
203	New and transfer employees shall be given the same number of overtime hours as the employee with the highest number of hours on the overtime list, plus one hour.
C.	Equalization of Overtime Hours - Research Shops and Other Areas not otherwise covered in Article 45
204 Overtime hours shall be divided as equally as practicable among employees in the same classification in each unit. Up-to-date overtime lists showing the accumulated hours shall be posted in a prominent place in each unit once a month and made available to the Union upon request.
205 When overtime is required the employee with the least number of accumulated hours on the list and capable of performing the work will be asked first. If that employee turns down the overtime then the next person with the least number of hours will be asked and so on down the list in an attempt to equalize the overtime hours. In an emergency, this procedure may not be followed but the Union reserves the right to grieve what is an emergency.
206 For the purpose of this clause, any employee who did not choose to work or was not available for the overtime will be charged turndown hours equivalent to the hours of the employee who did work the overtime.
207 On July 1st of each year the accumulated overtime hours that each employee has on the overtime list shall be reduced to zero. The order in which each employee appears on the list should be based on the amount of overtime charged to each
41
employee during the previous year, starting with the employee with the least amount of overtime charged.
208 New or reclassified employees will be charged with the highest number of hours plus one on the overtime list that they are assigned to by their classification.
D.	30 Days Notice of Change
209 Upon providing 30 days notice to the Union, Research Shops and other areas not otherwise covered in Article 45 may substitute the following equalization of overtime procedures for Paragraphs 204 and 205, respectively:
1.	Overtime hours shall be divided as equally as practicable among the employees qualified to perform the work. An up-to-date list showing overtime hours will be posted electronically every month and made available to the Union upon request.
2.	Whenever overtime is required, the person with the least number of overtime hours capable of performing the work, will, except in necessary emergencies, be called first and so on down the list in an attempt to equalize the overtime hours. The Union reserves the right to grieve what is an emergency. Where significant efficiencies are a consideration, OT may be assigned to the person(s) currently working on it.
ARTICLE 46
LONGEVITY PAY
210	All regular employees of the Employer shall be entitled to receive longevity pay for length of continuous service with the Employer according to the following rules and schedule of payment.
211	LONGEVITY YEAR - The longevity year is defined as the twelve-month period beginning October 1 of each year and ending September 30. For longevity payment purposes only, a year of continuous full-time service is defined as any longevity year in which the employee is actively employed for at least 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days).
212	Longevity pay shall be computed as a percentage of the employee’s regular annual base wage. Base wage shall be that wage which an employee is being paid on September 1 of the calendar year in which the longevity payment is due. The annual base wage shall be equal to the employee’s hourly rate times 2080 hours as of September 1 of the calendar year. If an employee is not on the payroll at that time, the hourly rate to be used will be the hourly rate upon his/her return. Base wage shall not include overtime or premium pay.
213	INITIAL ELIGIBILITY - The last date of hire as a regular employee will be used as the normal longevity date. To qualify for the first longevity payment, an employee must have completed six (6) years of continuous service as of October 1 of any year. To qualify for initial eligibility, the employee must have been on active employment for at least 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days) for six (6) consecutive years and
42
an employee as of October 1 of that year to receive the longevity payment. Periods of active employment of less than 39 calendar weeks will be counted toward the employee’s years of continuous service.
214	CONTINUING ELIGIBILITY - After establishing initial eligibility, employees must be actively employed for 39 calendar weeks (273 calendar days) during the longevity year and an employee as of October 1 to receive the longevity payment on December 1. Periods of active employment of less than 39 calendar weeks, while not qualifying the employee for payment of longevity, shall be counted toward the employee’s years of continuous service.
215	Payments to employees who are eligible each October 1 will be paid on December 1. No longevity payment as shown in the schedule below shall be made for that portion of an employee’s regular wage which is in excess of $9,500.
216 All regular employees as of July 22, 1996 shall be “grandfathered” under the current Longevity Pay program. Employees who hire into the bargaining unit after July 22, 1996, will be, and shall remain, ineligible for the Longevity Pay program.
217 Longevity Pay Schedule
Continuous Service	Annual Percentage
6 or more and less than 10 years	2%
10 or more and less than 14 years	3%
14 or more and less than 18 years	4%
18 or more and less than 22 years	5%
22 or more and less than 26 years	6%
26 or more years	8%
ARTICLE 47
HEALTH CARE COVERAGE
218	Health care programs for the life of this agreement are subject to the 2014 Memorandum of Understanding between Michigan State University and the MSU Coalition of Labor Organizations (MSU/Coalition Memorandum) separately ratified and signed by AFSCME local 999.
219	Employees may enroll within sixty (60) days of employment or appointment to an eligible status or during an annual open enrollment. Enrollment information and forms are available through the Human Resources website.
220	Regular Local 999 employees will have a dental program.
221	A. Fees for the following services will be covered on usual, customary and reasonable basis with a 50% co-payment subject to a $600 annual maximum per individual. Services include basic diagnostic, preventative, emergency palliative, restorative, oral surgery, endodontics, periodontics, and prosthodontics. In addition orthodontics will be covered subject to a $600 lifetime maximum per individual. This program will be provided by an
43
insurance carrier selected by MSU. These benefits will be provided consistent with the carrier’s conditions and procedures.
B. Regular Local 999 employees will have the option to select a managed care dental plan effective July 1, 1995. The program will be provided by a carrier selected by MSU. These benefits will be provided consistent with the carrier’s conditions and procedures. Employees choosing this plan shall pay any premium cost greater than the premium cost of the plan described above.
ARTICLE 48
DISABILITY PLANS
A.	Extended Disability Plan
222 Eligibility - Regular full-time employees with at least sixty (60) continuous full-time equivalent service months are eligible for extended disability leave.
223 Usage - In cases which are expected to result in total disability, eligible employees will be granted extended disability leave with full pay and benefits for up to six (6) months from last day worked. This leave will include the aggregate of accumulated sick leave, vacation and personal leave to the extent these benefits are due the employee. This leave will be extended beyond six (6) months until all paid leave accruals have been exhausted. Employee agrees to repay the University all extended disability leave benefits paid, if Employee does not receive long-term disability benefits.
B.	Long-Term Disability Plan
224 A University-paid Long-Term Disability Plan will be granted to all regular full-time employees with at least twelve (12) continuous full-time equivalent (FTE) service months.
225 After a minimum one hundred eighty (180) day disability waiting period, the LTD Program provides for a continuation of the monthly wage equal to sixty (60) percent of the monthly base rate of pay, up to a maximum benefit of $15,000 (including any offsets, e.g. benefits from Social Security or Workers’ Compensation).
226 The LTD Program also pays the employee’s 5% contribution and the University’s 10% contribution to the TIAA-CREF Retirement Program or other retirement programs made available through the University.
227 The LTD Program includes a 3% cost of living rider and a $50 per month minimum benefit. Benefits are payable as provided below:
Disability Commences	Duration of Benefits
Less than 60	To age 65
60 but less than 65	4 % years
65 but less than 68 %	To age 70
Age 68 % or over	1 year
44
228 At the Employer’s expense, a disabled employee may continue to participate in the Employee Paid Life, dental and health care programs, if the employee is not on the active payroll.
229 For additional information, contact Total Compensation and Wellness.
ARTICLE 49
EMPLOYEE PAID LIFE PLAN
230 The University will make available to regular full-time and part-time employees an optional life plan. The plan is entirely funded from employee premiums and rates are subject to future group experience. The plan is decreasing term with no cash or loan value and coverage may be selected in optional amounts depending upon age and the plan selected.
ARTICLE 50
EXPANDED LIFE PLAN
231	The Employer will provide, at no employee cost, a fully paid life plan to all regular full-time employees at the time of hire.
232	This program will provide a life plan in the case of death of an eligible employee on active duty status (including unpaid leaves of absence of 180 days or less) in accordance with the provisions of the program administered by Total Compensation and Wellness.
233	The employee may designate a beneficiary if desired; if none is designated, the life insurance benefit payment will be made to the beneficiary under the Employee Paid Life Plan if enrolled; otherwise payment will be made in one sum to the survivors in the first surviving class of those that follow: Your a) spouse; b) children; c) parents; or d) brothers and sisters. If none, survivor’s payment will be made in one sum to your estate.
ARTICLE 51
RETIREMENT BENEFITS
A.	University Retirement
234 University Retirement Defined - University retirement shall be defined as 1) attainment of age 62 or older with 15 years of employment, or 2) at any age with 25 years of employment. Interruptions in employment of less than a one (1) year duration shall not constitute a break in service as it pertains to retirement.
45
	An employee returning after twelve (12) months of her/his termination from University employment shall, after five (5) additional years of employment, receive credit for all past seniority for the purpose of retirement only. With proper documentation, reemployed employees, after five (5) years of service, will be granted credit for all past seniority upon application to the Human Resources. Under no circumstances shall reemployed employees be eligible to receive the University contribution towards the group health and dental coverage in addition to the contributions to the separate employer contribution account described in Paragraph 236.
235	Effective 12/1/79, new retirees and covered spouses will remain eligible to maintain the prescription drug rider. Employees participating in group life insurance at the time of retirement and who were enrolled prior to 7-1-77 shall receive a $2,000 University paid life insurance benefit.
236	Employees hired prior to July 1, 2002 and meeting the minimum retirement requirements will remain eligible to maintain group health and dental coverage for the employee, spouse and dependents and receive the Employer proportional contribution toward the lowest cost MSU health care and dental plan. Employees hired prior to July 1, 2002 and meeting the minimum retirement requirements on or before January 1, 2009 and who identified another eligible individual prior to January 1, 2009, will be eligible to maintain group health and dental care for the other eligible individual and receive the employer's proportional contribution toward the lowest cost MSU health care and dental plan. Retiree health care and dental plan coverage for regular employees hired on or after July 1, 2002, but prior to July 1, 2010. 1.	Upon official retirement from MSU (age 62 with at least 15 years of service credit or 25 years of service credit at any age), an official retiree may then enroll (or continue enrollment) in the health care and dental plan coverage available to MSU retirees. MSU will contribute, only for the official MSU retiree, 100% of the University contribution (excluding any Medicare premiums) toward the lowest cost MSU health care and dental plan. Enrollment in MSU health care and dental plan coverage may be continued for any eligible spouse, other eligible individual and/or dependent(s) if the official MSU retiree pays the full applicable premium cost for the coverage. 2.	In the event of the death of an official MSU retiree, or an employee who meets the requirements to be an official MSU retiree, the surviving spouse, other eligible individual, and/or dependent(s), if any, may continue health care and dental plan coverage through MSU by paying the full applicable premium cost. a.	If there is no surviving spouse or other eligible individual, eligible dependents may elect COBRA continuation coverage, if applicable. b.	The surviving spouse or other eligible individual cannot subsequently add a new spouse or other eligible individual and/or dependent(s) to their MSU health care and dental plan coverage.
46
Employer contributions for retiree health and dental plan coverage are not provided for employees hired on or after July 1, 2010.
Upon official retirement from MSU (age 62 with at least 15 years of service credit or 25 years of service credit at any age), an official retiree hired on or after July 1, 2010 may then enroll (or continue enrollment) in the health care and dental plan coverage available to MSU retirees at the employee’s expense. Enrollment in MSU health care and dental plan coverage may be continued for any eligible spouse, other eligible individual and/or dependent(s) if the official MSU retiree pays the full applicable premium cost for the coverage.
Effective January 1, 2015, for benefits eligible employees hired on or after July 1, 2010 the University will, upon hire, contribute 0.5 % (one-half percent) of the employee’s retirement eligible earnings into a separate employer contribution account within the existing MSU 403(b) Retirement Plan on a pay period basis until one hundred twenty (120) vesting service months are reached; after one hundred twenty (120) vesting service months of service the University’s contribution increases to 0.75% (three-quarter percent) of retirement eligible earnings.
1.	MSU’s contributions will be deposited into a default investment fund initially at an MSU designated retirement vendor; the employee can redirect to fund(s) of their choice by selecting from core options available in the 403(b) Retirement Plan including the brokerage accounts. Additional information on the default and optional investments is available at http://www.hr.msu.edu/benefits/retirement/ Retirement_Enrollment_Guide.pdf.
2.	The accumulated account balance will become 100% vested immediately.
For the implementation phase, July 1, 2010 through January 1, 2015, these provisions shall be applied to the employees’ benefits eligible date of hire and payment shall be made in a lump sum during the first calendar quarter of 2015. The amount shall be determined as a calculation based upon the employee’s retirement eligible earnings times one half percent (.5%) for the benefits eligible employment period. The Employer shall inform each affected employee of the amount of the deposit.
237 An employee who retires under the definition in Paragraph 234 shall be paid for fifty (50) percent of his/her unused sick leave, but not to exceed a maximum of fifty (50) percent of one thousand two hundred (1200) hours, as of the effective date of separation.
238 An employee who does not meet the definition of University Retirement in Paragraph 234 but has at least five (5) years, but less than ten (10) years of continuous full-time service and has attained 65 years of age at the time of his/her separation shall be paid fifty (50) percent of his/her unused sick leave as of the effective date of
47
separation. An employee who does not meet the definition of University Retirement in Paragraph 234 but has at least ten (10) years of continuous full-time service and has attained 65 years of age at the time of his/her separation shall be paid one hundred (100) percent of his/her unused sick leave as of the effective date of separation but not to exceed a maximum of one hundred (100) days unless he/she has received a University contribution to TIAA-CREF or other retirement programs made available through the University in which case he/she shall be paid as in Paragraph 237.
239 Prorated longevity payments shall be made to those employees who retire under the definition of University Retirement in Paragraph 234 prior to October first of any year. This also applies to those employees not under the definition of University Retirement in Paragraph 234 but who are 65 years of age at the time of their separation. Such prorated payments as indicated above shall be based on the number of calendar months of full-time service credited to an employee from the preceding October first to the date of retirement or separation and shall be made as soon as practicable thereafter.
B.	Base Retirement
240 Michigan State University provides a base retirement program with the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA) and its companion organization, College Retirement Equities Fund (CREF), Fidelity Investments and the Vanguard Group or other retirement programs made available through the University and selected by the employee.
241 Eligibility and Participation - Regular full-time and part-time employees are eligible for participation in base retirement options through the University in accordance with the following policies:
1.	The program is optional to employees under age 35 or who are over age 62 at the time of employment.
2.	The program is required as a condition of employment for employees who have attained age 35.
3.	Once required participation commences, it is not possible to withdraw from the base retirement options while employed at the University.
242 Premium Contributions - The base retirement options made available through the University are financed by 5% reduction from employee base wage, overtime, and shift differential with the University contributing 10%.
243 It is further understood that the improved formula, contribution levels and method of benefit computation in addition to other provisions contained herein extend through the contract expiration date.
48
244 Complete details concerning the provisions of the University’s base retirement options are outlined in a brochure which may be obtained from Total Compensation and Wellness.
C.	University Noncontributory Retirement Plan UNCRP (For employees hired prior to January 1, 1973)
245 The following provisions apply to those employees who meet the retirement definition described in Section A.
246 Effective January 1, 1973 the UNCRP ceased to exist. However, to ensure that no employee lost credit for prior years of service, the following guidelines were established to provide that an employee will receive no less than what an improved UNCRP formula would give him/her upon retirement.
247 Those persons employed prior to January 1, 1973, who were 55 years of age or older and/or had 25 years of service on January 1, 1973 could elect to remain subject to the improved UNCRP formula described below.
248 The formula governing the UNCRP was improved by basing pensions on an amount equal to the highest three (3) year average earnings, multiplied by 2% for each year of service, with a $3600 ceiling.
249 For employees participating in TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs made available through the University with a University contribution, the improved UNCRP formula will be calculated for each employee at retirement and will become the minimum received by the employee.
250 The annuity value at the time of retirement of MSU’s contributions to TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs made available through the University will be compared to the pension amount as computed in Paragraph 248 above, and the employee will receive the larger of the two figures. Employee contributions to TIAA-CREF and/or other retirement programs made available through the University (retroactive to 1-1-73) will provide additional annuity income.
251	Those employees not participating in TIAA-CREF or other retirement programs made
available through the University will have their retirement figured solely on the improved UNCRP formula plus a 10% addition added to the base pension prior to actuarial reduction or the selection of a survivor option.
252 Employees who terminate without meeting the minimum requirements for retirement will receive an annuity income from the contributions made to the individual TIAA-CREF annuity contract or other retirement programs made available through the University consistent with provisions of other contracts.
49
ARTICLE 52
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE
A.	Qualifications
253 The University provides assistance to enhance an employee’s educational and career development needs and goals for regular full-time and part-time staff.
254 Tuition from an accredited educational institution will be reimbursed for up to fourteen (14) credits per MSU academic year upon successful completion of the course(s). A grade of 2.0 or better (or CR - credit) is required for a credit course.
255 Institutions under such government training programs as the G.I. Bill of Rights will also be accepted.
256 If the employee is covered by benefits such as scholarship or fellowship aid, government aid, GI benefits, or similar assistance, reimbursement will be made only for that portion of the tuition which exceeds the amount of those benefits.
B.	Release Time
257 When a course is not available during non-working hours, the employee may request release time with pay not to exceed five (5) hours per week to attend one course. The department administrator or designee shall determine whether unit functions will allow such release time to be granted. Such determination shall be within the sole discretion of the Employer.
C.	Eligibility
258 The benefits become effective if the first day of class commences after the employee has completed twelve (12) continuous full-time equivalent service months. The employee must have approval of his/her supervisor and/or department/unit administrator.
259 The employee must be admitted to the educational institution where the course work will be taken and must be employed full-time or part-time when course work is completed to be eligible for reimbursement. Employees who are laid off after a course(s) has begun will be eligible for reimbursement upon its completion.
D.	Tuition Reimbursement
260 To receive reimbursement for MSU courses, the employee shall submit the completed educational assistance form with departmental approval to Human Resource Development at least ten (10) days prior to the start of class. To receive reimbursement for non-MSU courses, the employee shall submit the completed educational assistance form with departmental approval to Human Resource Development at least ten (10) days prior to the start of class and send evidence that he/she has successfully completed the course within fifteen (15) days of the receipt of such evidence.
50
1.
Tuition reimbursement for MSU credit courses
a. The Employer shall pay for approved course(s) which are successfully completed on the following basis:
i.	For undergraduate credit courses taken through MSU, the tuition fee up to the MSU upper division undergraduate tuition rate per credit taken, not to exceed 14 semester credits per academic year.
ii.	For graduate credit courses taken through MSU, the tuition fee up to % of the MSU upper division undergraduate tuition rate per credit taken, not to exceed 14 semester credits per academic year.
iii.	Registration fees, course fees, lab fees, books and other course materials charged by MSU are the responsibility of the student.
2.	Tuition reimbursement for non-MSU credit courses
a. The Employer shall pay for approved course(s) which are successfully completed on the following basis:
i.	For credit courses taken through Michigan-based schools, the tuition fee up to % of the MSU uper division undergraduate tuition rate per credit taken, not to exceed 14 semester credits per academic year.
ii.	Registration/matriculation fees, course fees, lab fees, books and other couse materials charged by Non-MSU institutions are the responsibility of the student.
iii.	For credit courses taken through online only and non-Michigan based schools, the tuition fee shall not be covered.
E.	Tuition Waiver for MSU credit courses
261 Bargaining unit members who are eligible for educational assistance shall be eligible for a tuition waiver program. This tuition waiver program will be applicable only to those MSU courses enrolled in through the University’s standard registration procedure. As a condition of tuition waiver, an employee must sign an agreement authorizing payroll deduction for the amount of tuition waiver to be used in the event she/he does not successfully complete the course(s).
262 Employees interested in utilizing the tuition waiver program must submit their educational assistance application complete with departmental approval to Human Resource Development thirty (30) days prior to the semester billing date set by the Fees and Scholarship office. The application must be marked with a request for tuition waiver.
51
263 If the above timelines are met and the educational assistance application is approved, Human Resource Development will forward a list of employees eligible for tuition waiver to the Fees and Scholarship office and to the Union.
264 The tuition waiver is for up to fourteen (14) credit hours per academic year. Employees will be responsible for all charges in excess of:
1.	For undergraduate level courses: the matriculation fee and charges in excess of the MSU upper division undergraduate tuition rate.
2.	For graduate level courses: The matriculation fee and charges in excess of % the MSU upper division undergraduate tuition rate.
Human Resources will supply the Fees and Scholarships office with the total credits available for tuition waiver for each eligible employee. In the event the approved course(s) is/are unavailable at the time of registration, other appropriate course(s) may be substituted and the application amended subject to the approval of the department administrator or designee and Human Resources.
265 Employees who have had their tuition waived authorize Human Resources to verify successful completion of approved courses at the end of the semester. In cases where tuition waivers are withdrawn (e.g. terminated employee, non-approved course, unsuccessful completion), the University will attempt to payroll deduct the waiver tuition. If the University is unable to make collection through payroll deduction, the Union agrees to be responsible for the outstanding debt(s).
Under no circumstance shall the combination of tuition reimbursement or waiver exceed 14 semester credits per academic year.
F.	Non-credit Courses
266 Employees may apply for reimbursement and release time for job-related, non-credit courses which are offered through the University Outreach (e.g., Lifelong Education, Continuing Education and Evening College), MSU computing and technology training programs, Davenport College, Lansing Community College, high school adult education programs, Human Resource Development programs or other Human Resource Development approved educational/training programs.
267 If non-credit courses only are being taken during an academic year, reimbursement will not exceed eight hundred ($800.00) dollars.
268 If non-credit courses are being taken during the same academic year as a course per sections D and E above, the total reimbursement will not exceed the MSU rate per credit for fourteen (14) credit hours at the MSU upper division undergraduate tuition rate.
269 Employees must document their successful completion of non-credit courses by submitting either (1) a certificate from the course signed by the instructor, or (2) a form provided by Human Resources signed by the instructor.
52
G.
Course Fee Courtesy
270	Full-time employees with 60 full-time equivalent service months are eligible under the
course-fee courtesy policy as it is provided to the faculty of the University.
ARTICLE 53
ASSIGNMENT OF COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES EMPLOYEES
271	Time-and-one-half the regular straight-time rate will be paid to all employees in the
bargaining unit who work over eighty (80) hours in any pay period of two (2) calendar weeks in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources.
272	The Employer will provide jobs for students to the end that impecunious youngsters may secure an education. Many students are employed in order to receive practical training as a part of their education. Therefore, the Employer’s current policy with respect to the employment and assignment of students in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources will be continued.
273	The University’s current policy with respect to the employment and assignment of academic personnel, graduate students and students on research projects in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources may spend up to thirty (30) percent of their time performing work outside of their supervisory duties in work related to research and special assignments in the bargaining unit.
274	Additionally, it is understood that, in emergency situations when regular employees are not immediately available, supervisory employees in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources may be required to perform work within specific job classifications. The same thing is true when operational difficulties are encountered or in the testing of materials. Likewise, instruction or training of employees may well include demonstrating proper methods of accomplishing the tasks assigned and no dispute over the policy stated above shall be occasioned by such demonstration.
ARTICLE 54
SUPERVISION WORKING
275	It is the policy of the Employer that foremen and supervisory employees shall not perform work in any job classification of the bargaining unit; however, it is understood that occasionally management personnel are required to perform manual tasks and, in those situations, the Union agrees there is no violation of the policy herein stated.
276	Additionally, it is understood that, in emergency situations when regular employees are not immediately available, supervisory employees may be required to perform work within specific job classifications. The same thing is true when operational difficulties are encountered or in the testing of materials. Likewise, instruction or training of employees may well include demonstrating proper methods of
53
accomplishing the tasks assigned and no dispute over the policy stated above shall be occasioned by such demonstration.
ARTICLE 55
STUDENT LABOR
277 It is the policy of the Employer to provide jobs for students to assist them in obtaining an education. It is the intent of the Employer to use student employees to supplement the regular work force and not replace it.
278 The University agrees to provide at or about midpoint of each academic semester the following information concerning student employees:
1.	Name
2.	Administrative Unit
3.	Hours scheduled to work
ARTICLE 56
SPECIAL CONFERENCES
279 Special Conferences to discuss important matters (not current grievances) will be arranged by the local President and/or Chief Steward and the Employer or its designated representative upon request of either party. Such meetings shall be between no more than four (4) representatives of the Employer and no more than four (4) representatives of the Union, unless more are mutually agreed to. Arrangements for such Special Conferences shall be made in advance and an agenda of the matters to be taken up at the meeting shall be presented at the time the Conference is requested. Matters taken up in Special Conferences shall be confined to those included in the agenda. The members of the Union shall not lose time or pay for time spent in such Special Conferences. This meeting may be attended by a representative of Council 25.
ARTICLE 57
SAFETY APPAREL
280 Any employee’s safety apparel or apparatus required by University rules and/or applicable laws, will be paid for by the University.
281 The parties agree that employees shall obtain eye examinations and prescriptions at their own cost. The Employer through an approved vendor shall make available to such employees a pair of prescription safety glasses at no cost.
1.	Should an employee desire to utilize frames and lenses which cost more than the basic line of frames and lenses subsidized by the Employer, he/she may do so,
54
but the employee shall pay any additional costs over and above the basic line of approved frames and lenses.
2.	Employees can obtain replacement glasses with any prescription change and/or after two (2) years of normal use.
ARTICLE 58
PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
282 While on assignment if an employee believes he/she has been exposed to hazardous conditions and requests an examination, the University, upon responsible verification of the hazardous condition, shall arrange the proper examination. The employee shall notify his/her supervisor who shall process the request as soon as possible. All medical records on any examinations conducted shall be available to the employee upon request of the employee’s personal physician.
ARTICLE 59
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
283 All supplemental agreements shall be subject to the approval of the Employer and the Union. They shall be approved or rejected within a period of ten (10) days following the date they are filed by either party.
ARTICLE 60
SAVINGS CLAUSE
284 If during the life of this Agreement any of the provisions contained herein are held to be invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction or if compliance with or enforcement of any provisions should be restrained by such tribunal pending a final determination as to its validity, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby. In the event any provision herein contained is so rendered invalid, upon written request of either party hereto the Employer and the Union shall immediately enter into collective bargaining for the purpose of negotiating a mutually satisfactory replacement for such provision.
ARTICLE 61
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
285	The provisions herein contained constitute the entire Agreement between the parties.
55
ARTICLE 62
TERMINATION AND MODIFICATION
286 This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect from the date hereof until 11:59 p.m., June 30, 2018, and from year to year thereafter unless notice of termination or modification is given as provided in Paragraphs 287, 288, and 289 below.
287 If either party desires to terminate this Agreement, it shall, sixty (60) days prior to the termination date, give written notice of termination. If neither party shall give notice of termination of this Agreement as provided in this paragraph or notice of amendment, as hereinafter provided, or if each party giving a notice of termination withdraws the same prior to termination date, this Agreement shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter subject to notice of termination by either party on sixty (60) days written notice prior to the current year’s termination date.
288 If either party desires to modify or change this Agreement, it shall sixty (60) days prior to the termination date or any subsequent termination date, give written notice of amendment in which event the notice of amendment shall set forth the nature of the amendment or amendments desired. If notice of amendment of this Agreement has been given in accordance with this paragraph, this Agreement may be terminated by either party on ten (10) days written notice of termination but not before the effective termination date of this Agreement. Any amendments that may be agreed upon shall become and be a part of this Agreement without modifying or changing any of the other terms of this Agreement.
289 Notice of Termination Modification. Notice shall be in writing and shall be sufficient if sent by certified mail addressed to the Union, and if to the Employer, addressed to Director, Employee Relations, or to any such address as the Union or the Employer may make available to each other.
290 This Agreement shall be effective from and after July 1, 2014, until and including June 30, 2018, with respect to all provisions of this Agreement.
56
ARTICLE 63
EFFECTIVE DATE
This Agreement shall become effective as of July 1, 2014.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE SET THEIR HANDS
Date Signed June 24, 2014
EMPLOYER	LOCAL 999
Dr. Satish Udpa, Executive Vice President for Administrative Services	Charles Heckman, President Local 999
Sharon E. Butler, Assistant Vice President Human Resources	Dan Lundquist, Vice President Local 999
James D. Nash, Director Office of Employee Relations	Michelle Babcock, Chief Steward Local 999
Katheryn L. Elliott, Assistant Director Office of Employee Relations	Rob Wummel, Secretary-Treasurer Local 999
Amy B. Holda, Employee Relations Professional Office of Employee Relations	Jim Brownlee, Recording Secretary Local 999
Ken Crowell, Manager Infrastructure Planning and Facilities	Erik Buckley, Negotiator Local 999
Michelle Jacobs, Unit HR Administrator Infrastructure Planning and Facilities	Jack Turner, Negotiator Local 999
Rose McClurg, Human Resources Administrator Cyclotron/FRIB	Dan Hamilton, Staff Representative Michigan AFSCME, Council 25
57
John Nurenberg, Electrical Supervisor Infrastructure Planning and Facilities
John Reilly, Plumbing Supervisor Infrastructure Planning and Facilities
58
APPENDIX I LOCAL 999 AFSCME SCHEDULE OF SKILLED TRADES CLASSIFICATIONS AND GRADES
Classification	Grade
Cabinetmaker I	908
Cabinetmaker II	915
Carpenter I	908
Carpenter II*	915
Cyclotron Group Leader	918
Electrician I	908
Electrician II	916
Glazier I	908
Glazer II*	915
High Voltage Electrician I	917
High Voltage Electrician I - Power Plant	917
High Voltage Electrician II	918
High Voltage Electrician II - Power Plant	918
Instrument Maker I	909
Instrument Maker II	913
Instrument Maker III	916
Landscape Services Equipment Mechanic I	908
Landscape Services Equipment Mechanic II	915
Locksmith I	908
Locksmith II*	915
Mason I	908
Mason II*	915
Mechanic Auto I	908
Mechanic Auto II	915
Mechanic Absorption I	908
Mechanic Absorption II	916
Mechanic Blacksmith II	916
Mechanic Electronics I	908
Mechanic Electronics II	916
Mechanic Elevator I	908
Mechanic Elevator II	916
Mechanic Elevator III	918
Mechanic Heating Systems I	908
Mechanic Heating Systems II	916
Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC) I	908
Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC) II	916
Mechanic Maintenance I	908
Mechanic Maintenance II	916
Mechanic Metal Worker I	908
Mechanic Metal Worker II	915
Mechanic Refrigeration I	908
Mechanic Refrigeration II	916
Mechanic Telecommunication I	908
59
Mechanic Telecommunication II	915
Mechanic Water Treatment I	908
Mechanic Water Treatment II	916
Painter I	908
Painter II*	915
Phy/Astronomy Research Shop Sr Des FAB	918
Pipefitter I	908
Pipefitter II	916
Plumber I	908
Plumber II	916
Power Plant Electrician	916
Preventive Maintenance Worker	901
Research Shop Coordinator	917
Research Trades Assistant I	902
Research Trades Assistant II	906
Roofer I	908
Roofer II*	915
Skilled Trades Inspector	917
Trades Helper I	901
Trades Helper II	905
Upholsterer	908
Welder I	908
Welder II	916
*Employees hired on or after July 1, 2010 will not be eligible for these 915 Level II classifications.
Employees currently in the progression path shall proceed according to established procedures.
60
APPENDIX II LOCAL 999 AFSCME SCHEDULE OF SKILLED TRADES CLASSIFICATIONS BY GRADES
Effective 07/01/2014
Classification	Hourly Minimum	Range Maximum
Grade 900	19.39	23.63
		
Grade 901	18.87	20.98
Preventive Maintenance Worker Trades Helper I		
		
Grade 902	19.39	21.66
Research Trades Assistant I		
		
Grade 903	19.85	22.11
		
Grade 904	20.06	22.53
		
Grade 905	20.47	23.06
Trades Helper II		
		
Grade 906	21.47	23.63
Research Trades Assistant II		
		
Grade 907	22.24	24.55
		
Grade 908	23.04	25.38
Cabinetmaker I Carpenter I Electrician I Glazier I Landscape Services Equipment Mechanic I Locksmith I Mason I Mechanic Absorption I Mechanic Auto I Mechanic Electronics I Mechanic Elevator I Mechanic Heating Systems I Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC) I Mechanic Maintenance I Mechanic Metal Worker I Mechanic Refrigeration I Mechanic Telecommunication I Mechanic Water Treatment I Painter I Pipefitter I		
61
Classification	Hourly Minimum	Range Maximum
Plumber I Roofer I Upholsterer Welder I		
		
Grade 909	23.23	25.66
Instrument Maker I		
		
Grade 910	23.39	26.02
		
Grade 911	24.03	26.15
		
Grade 912	24.38	27.06
		
Grade 913	24.69	27.81
Instrument Maker II		
		
Grade 914	25.07	28.16
		
Grade 915	25.73	29.26
Cabinetmaker II Carpenter II* Glazier II* Landscape Services Equipment Mechanic II Locksmith II* Mason II* Mechanic Auto II Mechanic Metal Worker II Mechanic Telecommunication II Painter II* Roofer II*		
		
Grade 916	26.80	30.62
Electrician II Instrument Maker III Mechanic Absorption II Mechanic Blacksmith II Mechanic Electronics II Mechanic Elevator II Mechanic Heating Systems II Mechanic Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC) II Mechanic Maintenance II Mechanic Refrigeration II Mechanic Water Treatment II Pipefitter II Plumber II Power Plant Electrician Welder II		
62
Classification	Hourly Minimum	Range Maximum
		
Grade 917	27.82	31.95
High Voltage Electrician I High Voltage Electrician I - Power Plant Research Shop Coordinator Skilled Trades Inspector		
		
Grade 918	28.94	33.35
Cyclotron Group Leader High Voltage Electrician II High Voltage Electrician II - Power Plant Mechanic Elevator III Phy/Astronomy Research Shop Sr Des Fab		
*Employees hired on or after July 1, 2010 will not be eligible for these 915 Level II classifications.
Employees currently in the progression path shall proceed according to established procedures.
63
APPENDIX III WAGE SCHEDULE Local 999
Effective July 1, 2014
Leve_l	MINIMUM	MAXIMUM
		
900	$19.39	$23.63
901	$18.87	$20.98
902	$19.39	$21.66
903	$19.85	$22.11
904	$20.06	$22.53
905	$20.47	$23.06
906	$21.47	$23.63
907	$22.24	$24.55
908	$23.04	$25.38
909	$23.23	$25.66
910	$23.39	$26.02
911	$24.03	$26.15
912	$24.38	$27.06
913	$24.69	$27.81
914	$25.07	$28.16
915	$25.73	$29.26
916	$26.80	$30.62
917	$27.82	$31.95
918	$28.94	$33.35
64
APPENDIX IV
WAGE SCHEDULE
Local 999
Effective July 1, 2015 - June 30, 2018
The wage schedules for this Agreement will be prepared following the determination of the percent wage increases for each year, in conformance with the terms of the “Memorandum of Understanding between Michigan State University and the Coalition of Labor Organizations,” effective January 1, 2014, and ratified by the Union, a copy of which is attached hereto, until and including December 31, 2017.
65
APPENDIX V LOCAL 999 AFSCME DEFINITIONS
1.	Agreement - Whenever the word “Agreement” is used in this document, it shall be considered synonymous with the word “Contract.”
2.	Base Rate of Pay - Is the per hour rate of the employee not including shift differential or overtime computations.
3.	Crew - A group of employees that are assigned work of a similar nature on a regular basis appearing on the same overtime equalization list.
4.	Demotion - Demotion shall be considered the movement of an employee to a lower grade level.
5.	Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) Service Months
A.	Full-time equivalent (FTE) service months is defined as the cumulative full-time
equivalent (FTE) months of service for University employment of 50.0% or greater. FTE service months will be used in determining eligibility for University benefits which require a service waiting period.
B.	FTE service months will be credited each month as follows:
a)	1.00 credit per month for full-time (90% - 100%) employees
b)	.75 credit per month for % time (65% - 89.9%) employees
c)	.50 credit per month for % time (50% - 64.9%) employees
C.	For new hires, terminations, percent of employment changes, etc., FTE service months will be credited based on an employee’s status as of the 15th of the month.
D.	Employees on paid and unpaid leaves of absence or layoff will continue to accrue FTE service months based on their percent of employment immediately prior to the leave/layoff.
E.	Employees meeting the minimum retirement requirements will remain eligible to maintain group hospitalization and dental insurance and receive the Employer’s proportional contribution.
F.	If an employee retires with 15 years of service and at least age 62, use the following FTE Service Months ranges to determine their health and dental contribution during retirement.
YEARS MONTHS	FTE SERVICE MONTHS
		% time	% time	Full-time
		(50%-64.9%)	(65%-89.9%)	(90%-100%)
15	180	90.00-116.99	117.00-161.99	162.00-999.99
66
If an employee retires with 25 years of service at any age, use the following FTE Service Month ranges.
YEARS MONTHS	FTE SERVICE MONTHS
		% time	% time	Full-time
		(50%-64.9%)	(65%-89.9%)	(90%-100%)
25	300	150.00-194.99	195.00-269.99	270.00-999.99
6.	“Full” Workers’ Compensation - Is the payment of Workers’ Compensation including sick, vacation or personal leave accrual supplementation.
7.	He/She - Wherever personal pronouns are used in this Agreement, it shall be understood that the gender is neuter.
8.	Hours of Employment Status
A.	Full-time Employee - An employee who regularly works 36 hours to 40 hours per
week.
B.	Three-Quarter Time Employee - An employee who regularly works 26 hours but
less than 36 hours per week.
C.	Half-time Employee - An Employee who regularly works 20 hours but less than
26 hours per week.
9.	Lateral Transfer - A lateral transfer shall be considered the movement of an employee within the same grade level.
10.	Project Team - A group of employees from multiple classifications assigned to complete a specific job.
11.	Promotion - Promotion shall be considered the movement of an employee to a higher grade level.
12.	Proportional Benefits - Part-time benefits as identified in Paragraph 39 shall be apportioned to persons assigned less than full-time in the following manner:
26 hours but less than 36 hours 75%
20 hours but less than 26 hours 50%
Less than 20 hours.......no benefits
13.	Regular Employee - Describes an employee who is not designated as temporary and who works at least 20 scheduled hours a week.
14.	Regular Rate of Pay - Is the per hour rate of the employee including shift differential.
15.	“Regular” Workers’ Compensation - Is the payment of Workers’ Compensation with no
sick, vacation or personal leave accrual supplementation.
67
16.	Service Route - Buildings or equipment assigned to an employee(s) who perform routine service for them.
17.	Special Event - Those in which Infrastructure Planning and Facilities has been asked to provide employees for work or stand by duty at the event in which overtime will occur. Athletic events, Concerts, Graduation, Move In and Move Out in the Residence Halls are some examples. Other events will be mutually agreed upon.
18.	Temporary Employee - Any employee hired for nine (9) months or less, and given a date certain for termination at the time of employment.
19.	Union - Whenever the words Local 999 or Union appear in this Agreement, they shall mean MSU Skilled Trades, Local Union No. 999, AFSCME.
20.	University or Employer - Whenever the words University or Employer appear in this Agreement, they shall mean Michigan State University.
68
MICHIGAN STATE
UNIVERSITY
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY, THE EMPLOYER
AND
AFSCME LOCAL 999
THE UNION
At such time as binding legal precedent establishes that window periods are legal in the State of Michigan, the University will agree to reopen the contract to negotiate over that issue, with the expectation that the initial window period would provide an orderly transition.
FOR THE UNIVERSITY	FOR THE UNION
James D. Nash, Director
Office of Employee Relations
Date:_________________________________
Charles Heckman, President
AFSCME Local 999
Date:_____________________________
Human Resources
Employee Relations
Michigan State University Nisbet Building 1407 S. Harrison, Suite 240
East Lansing, MI 48823-5239
517-353-5510 Fax: 517-353-3523 www.hr.msu.edu
MSU is an affirmative action,
equal-opportunity employer.
69
Human
Resources
Employee Relations
Michigan State University
Nisbet Building
1407 S. Harrison, Suite 240
East Lansing, MI
48823-5239
517-353-5510
Fax: 517-353-3523 www.hr.msu.edu
MICHIGAN STATE
UNIVERSITY
April 11, 1983
Mr. Ronald Mateer
President, Local 999
Campus
Dear Mr. Mateer:
Recognizing the concern expressed by the membership of Local 999 AFSCME over the issue of the classification, Maintenance Mechanic, the University proposes that:
1.	The following classifications will be used in the operations of the Mechanical Shop as it is presently structured:
Plumber Mechanic	Refrigeration Mechanic
Metal Worker Mechanic	Maintenance Mechanic
HVAC Mechanic
2.	Those employees presently classified as Maintenance Mechanics shall, within thirty (30) calendar days from the effective date of this Agreement, have the option to be reclassified into another applicable classification or to remain as Maintenance Mechanic.
3.	No employee will be classified or reclassified as a Maintenance Mechanic without his written approval.
4.	If the Employer finds it necessary to relocate or transfer any portion of the mechanical systems operations into another area of Infrastructure Planning and Facilities, the Employer may do so without violating the intent of this letter nor will the Employer be required to change the employee’s existing classification when such a transfer is made.
The above is amended to the extent it has been modified by the Classification study recommendations which become effective on and after March 3, 1980.
Very truly yours,
James D. Nash, Director, Employee Relations
Charlie Heckman, President, AFSCME, Local 999, AFL-CIO	Date* *
James D. Nash, Director, Employee Relations	Date*
*Modified by signatories and date only
70
M-SU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer.
MICHIGAN STATE
UNIVERSITY
April 11, 1983
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
TO:	Ronald Mateer
President, AFSCME, Local 999, AFL-CIO
FROM:	Samuel A. Baker
Director, Employee Relations
SUBJECT:	Parking Fees
The University and AFSCME, Local 999, AFL-CIO, mutually agree to negotiate over the monetary effect of any increase in parking fees on employees represented by AFSCME, Local 999, AFL-CIO.
Agreed by:
Charlie Heckman
President, AFSCME, Local 999, AFL-CIO
James D. Nash
Director, Employee Relations
Human
Resources
Employee Relations
Michigan State University
Nisbet Building
1407 S. Harrison, Suite 240
East Lansing, MI
48823-5239
517-353-5510
Fax: 517-353-3523 www.hr.msu.edu
Date*
Date*
*Modified by date and signatories only
71
MSU is an affirmative-action,
equal-opportunity institution.
MICHIGAN STATE
UNIVERSITY
Letter of Agreement Between
Michigan State University And Local 999
Michigan AFSCME Council 25
In the event the University reactivates similar classification descriptions to those that were deleted from the collective bargaining agreement during the 2010 negotiations, the parties agree that those classifications shall be placed back in to the Local 999 bargaining unit and agreement. This agreement shall not prohibit either party from exercising any contractual or statutory rights.
FOR THE EMPLOYER
FOR THE UNION
James D. Nash, Director
Office of Employee Relations
Charlie Heckman, President
AFSCME Local 999
Date:_________________________________
Date:________________________________________
Human
Resources
Employee Relations
Michigan State University Nisbet Building
1407 S. Harrison, Suite 240 East Lansing, MI 48823-5239
517-353-5510 Fax: 517-353-3523 www.hr.msu.edu
72
MSI) is an affirmative action,
equal-opportunity employer.
INDEX
ARTICLE	ARTICLE NUMBER	PARAGRAPH NUMBER	PAGE
Absence before/after a Holiday	29	89	24
Absences	28	86	23
Address Change	14	44-4	14
Agreement (Def. Of)		App. V	66
Agreement		3	6
Aid to Other Unions	3	9	7
Appeal of Reprimand, Suspension, or Discharge	21	66	19
Appendix I-Classifications and Grades			59
Appendix II-Classifications by Grades			61
Appendix III-Wage Schedule July 1, 2014			64
Appendix IV-Wage Schedule July 1, 2015-June 30, 2018			65
Appendix V-Definitions			66
Assignment of College of Agriculture and Natural Resources Employees	53	271-274	53
Assignment of Skilled Trades Employees	25	77-79	22
Base Rate of Pay (Def. Of)		App. V	66
Bypass			
Notice of	39	153	32
Workers’ Compensation	39	159-1	33
Unemployment Compensation	39	159-2	33
Affirmative Action	39	160	33
Call-In Pay	43	178	37
Check Off Authorization Cards	6	14-17	9-10
Chief Steward Release Time	9, 35	30 & 33	12 & 30
Classifications and Grades		App. I	59
Classifications by Grades		App. II	61
Classification and Wages	41	166-168	34-35
Computation of Back Wages	20	63	73
Continuous Service (Def. Of)	11	35	13
Contract Documents	61	285	55
Contract Expiration	62	286	56
Crew (Def. Of)		App. V	66
Definitions		App. V	66
Demotion (Def. Of)		App. V	66
Disability Plans	48	222-229	44-45
Extended Disability Plan	48	222-223	44
Long-Term Disability Plan	48	224-228	44-45
Discharge	21	64-67	19
Dues	6	14	9
Educational Assistance	52	253-274	50-53
Effective Date	63		57
Employee Paid Life Plan	49	230	45
Equalization of Overtime Hours	45	189-209	39-42
Stewards	9	28-31	11-12
Executive Board Meetings	9	29	12
73
ARTICLE	ARTICLE NUMBER	PARAGRAPH NUMBER	PAGE
Expanded Life Plan	50	231-233	45
Failure to Return to Work	14	44-6	15
Filling of Vacancies	39	149-160	33-34
Finality of Decisions	19	62	18
Full-time Equivalent Service Months (Def. Of)		App. V	66
Full Workers’ Compensation (Def. Of)		App. V	67
Funeral Leave	33	125-128	28-29
Definition of Employee’s Immediate Family	33	126	29
General Conditions (Leaves)	38	146-148	32-33
Leaves with Pay	38	146-148	32-33
Leaves without Pay	36	134-144	30-31
Return to Active Employment	36	137-138	30
Grievance Procedure	18	49-51	15-16
Time of Answers	18	49	15-16
Time of Appeals	18	50-51	16
Grievance Procedure Steps	19	52-62	16-18
Group Life Plan - Employee Paid	49	230	45
He/She (Def. Of)		App. V	67
Health Care Coverage	47	218-221	43-44
Holiday Provisions	29	87-94	24
Hours of Employment Status (Def. Of)		App. V	67
Initiation Fees	6	13-25	9-11
Insurance			
Health Care Coverage	47	218-221	43-44
Dental	47	220-221	43-44
Disability	48	222-229	44-45
Employee Paid Life Plan	49	230	45
Expanded Life Plan	50	231-233	45
Retirement	51	234-252	45-49
Jury Duty	34	129-130	29
Lateral Transfer (Def. Of)		App. V	67
Lateral Transfers	40	161-165	34
Layoffs	24	71-76	21-22
Effect on Seniority	14	44	14
President and Chief Steward	16	47	15
Temporary	23	69-70	20-21
Recall	26	80-82	22-23
Work Opportunity	27	83-85	23
Use of Sick Leave	32	117	28
Leaves - General Conditions	38	146-148	32
Leave of Absence for Illness or Disability	36	140-141	31
Leave for Union Business	36	143-144	31
List of Stewards	9	31	12
Longevity Pay	46	210-217	42-43
Longevity Year	46	211	42
Initial Eligibility	46	213	42-43
Continuing Eligibility	46	214	43
74
ARTICLE	ARTICLE NUMBER	PARAGRAPH NUMBER	PAGE
Longevity Pay Schedule	46	217	43
Loss of Seniority	14	44-45	14-15
Medical Dispute	22	68	19-20
Membership Dues	6	13-25	9-11
Membership in the Union	6	13	9
Military Leave			
Extended Service	36	142	31
Short T ours of Duty	37	145	31-32
Notices			
Absences	28	86	23
Layoff	24	74	21-22
Recall	26	80-82	22-23
Reprimand, Suspension, or Discharge	21	64-67	19
Temporary Assignments	25	78	22
Occupational Groups	5	11	7-8
Orientation	7	26	11
Overtime			
Equalization	45	189-209	39-42
Stewards	9	28	11-12
Time-and-One Half	43	184-187	39
7-Day Operations and Other Specific Areas	44	188	39
Paid Union Leave/Release Time	35	131-133	29-30
Part-time Status			
Employees	12	38-40	13-14
Benefits	12 & 29	39 & 91	13-14 & 24
Seniority	12	40	14
Personal Leave	36	139	30
Personal Leave Hours	31	107-111	26-27
Physical Examinations	58	282	55
Posting of Job Vacancies	39	149-152	32
Preface		1-2	2
Presenting a Grievance	19	52-62	16-18
Oral Step	19	53-54	16-17
Step I - District Supervisor	19	55	17
Step II - Administrative Head	19	56	17
Step III - Employer’s Representative	19	57-59	17-18
Step IV - Arbitration	19	60-62	18
President Release Time	35	132	30
Probationary Employees	12	36-37	13
Probationary Period	12	36	13
Project Team (Def. Of)		App. V	67
Promotion (Def. Of)		App. V	67
Promotions (Filling of Vacancies)	39	149-160	32-33
Proportional Benefits (Def. Of)		App. V	67
Purpose and Intent	1	4-7	6
Recall Procedure	26	80-82	22-23
Recognition (Employees Covered)	4	10	7
75
ARTICLE	ARTICLE NUMBER	PARAGRAPH NUMBER	PAGE
Regular Employee (Def. Of)		App. V	67
Regular Rate of Pay (Def. Of)		App. V	67
Regular Workers’ Compensation (Def. Of)		App. V	67
Representation Districts	8	27	11
List of Representation Districts	8	27	11
Number of Stewards & Alternate Stewards	8 & 9	27-31	11-12
Reprimand, Suspension or Discharge	21	64-67	19
Rest Periods	43	176	36-37
Retirement Benefits	51	234-252	45-49
University Retirement	51	234-239	45-48
University Retirement Defined	51	234	45-46
Payment for Unused Sick Leave	51	237-238	47-48
Prorated Longevity Pay	51	239	48
Base Retirement Plan	51	240-244	48-49
Eligibility & Participation	51	241	48
Premium Contributions	51	242-244	48-49
Rights of the Employer	2	8	6
Safety Apparel	57	280-281	54-55
Savings Clause	60	284	55
Secretary-Treasurer Release Time	35	132	30
Seniority	12	36-40	13-14
Probationary Employees	12	36-37	13
Part-time Employees	12	38-40	13-14
Recall	26	79-81	23
Laid Off Employees	27	83-85	23
Seniority Defined	11	34-35	13
Seniority During/After Layoff	27	83-85	23
Seniority Lists	13	41-43	14
Seniority of Officers	16	47	15
Seniority of Stewards	15	46	15
Service Charges	6	14-15	9
Service Route (Def. Of)		App. V	68
Shift Differential	43	174	36
Shift Hours	43	175	36
Shift Preference	17	48	15
Sick Leave	32	112-124	27-28
Workers’ Compensation	32	115	27-28
Special Conferences	56	279	54
Special Event (Def. Of)		App. V	68
Stewards and Alternate Stewards	9	28-31	11-12
Stewards’ Meeting	9	29	12
Student Labor	55	277-278	54
Supervision Working	54	275-276	53-54
Supplemental Agreements	59	283	55
Supplemental Letters of Agreement			
Suspension	21	64-67	19
Table of Contents			3
76
ARTICLE	ARTICLE NUMBER	PARAGRAPH NUMBER	PAGE
Temporary Assignments	39	157	33
Notice of	25	78	22
Temporary Employee (Def. Of)		App. V	68
Temporary Layoffs	23	69-70	20-21
Termination and Modification	62	286-290	56
Termination of Checkoff	6	20	10
Time-and-One-Half in Seven Day Operations and in Other Specific Areas of Work	44	188	39
Transfers (Filling of Vacancies)	39	149-160	32-33
T ransfers (General)	40	161-165	34
Trial Period	39	154-156	33
Unemployment Compensation (Bypass)	39	159	33
Union (Def. Of)		App. V	68
Union Bulletin Board	10	32-33	12-13
Union Education Leave	6	13-25	9-11
Union Release Time	35	131	29
Union Security, Dues and Service Charges	6	13-25	9-11
University (Def. Of)		App. V	68
Unpaid Leaves	36	134-144	30-31
Use of Past Record	21	67	19
Vacations	30	95-106	25-26
Wage Rate Increase Plan	42	169-173	35-36
Wage Rate	42	169-172	35
Movement within Grade Levels	42	173	36
Wage Schedule July 1, 2014		App. III	64
Wage Schedule July 1, 2015-June 30, 2018		App. IV	65
Wash-up Time	43	177	37
Workers’ Compensation			
Holiday Provisions	29	94	24
Vacation Accrual	30	97	25
Sick Leave	32	115	27-28
Bypass	39	159	33
Long-Term Disability	48	225	44
Definitions		App. V	66
Work Opportunity for Laid Off Employees	27	83-85	23
Working Hours	43	174-187	36-39
Shift Differential	43	174	36
Shift Hours	43	175	36
Rest Periods	43	176	36-37
Wash-Up Time	43	177	37
Call-in Pay	43	178	37
Call-In Duty Pay	43	179-183	37-38
Time-and-One-Half	43	184-187	39
77