K840313
CALIFORNIA BARGAINING AGREEMENT
BETWEEN NORTH LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL CENTER AND
SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 721, CtW, CLC
March 1,2015 - February 28,2019
936342.1
AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made this first day of March, 2015, by and between Service Employees International Union Local 721, CtW, CLC ("Union") and the North Los Angeles County Regional Center, Inc. ("Employer").
ARTICLE 1.	Recognition
Pursuant to the Certification of Representation issued by the National Labor Relations Board, January 23, 1995, in Case No. 31-RC-7252, the Employer recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of the Employer's employees in the following bargaining unit:
INCLUDED: All professional employees, including but not limited to all Accountants; Autism Clinical Specialists; Autism Program Coordinators; Behavioral Consultants; Community Living Specialists; Community Services Specialists; Consumer Advocates; Resource Developer; CPP Specialists; Data Entry Operators; Family Advocates; Federal Revenues Specialists; File Clerks; Fiscal Analysts; Fiscal Assistant Il's; Fiscal Assistant Ill's; Fiscal Assistant IV's; Fiscal Monitors;; Intake Associates; Intake Specialists; Nursing Consultants; Office Aides; Office Assistant I's; Psychologist, PhD's; Publications Specialists; Receptionists; Revenue Coordinators; Risk Assessment Specialists; SANDIS/UFS Coordinators; Secretaries; Senior Secretaries; Service Coordinator Associates; Service Coordinators; Public Information and Training Specialists; Transfer Coordinators; and Vendor Coordinators employed by the Employer.
EXCLUDED: All managerial employees, confidential employees, independent contractors, guards and supervisors as defined in the Act.
ARTICLE 2.	Non-Discrimination
2.1	Neither the Employer nor the Union shall unlawfully discriminate against any employee on account of race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, age (over 40 years), sex, marital status, medical conditions, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation, or pregnancy, childbirth, or related conditions protected by law.
2.2	Neither the Employer, the Union, nor employees shall coerce, intimidate, or otherwise discriminate against any employee based upon the employee's actions in choosing to join or in refusing to join the Union, or the employee's union beliefs or activities or lack thereof.
2.3	The Employer is committed to providing a non-hostile work environment that is free of unlawful discrimination and unlawful harassment, including sexual harassment, including verbal, physical, and visual harassment, requests for sexual favors or creation of a hostile sexual environment by language, photographs, jokes or other actions.
936342.1	- 1 -
2.4	The Union and each respective employee desiring to bring a claim of discrimination must either bring that claim: (1) by arbitration under this Collective Bargaining Agreement, or (2) by the filing of a civil lawsuit in state or federal court, but not by both. The Union and each employee agree not to pursue the same claim of discrimination twice, i.e. not both by arbitration and by civil lawsuit. An employee who challenges a discharge claiming the lack of just cause, but not making any claim of discrimination, may later bring a lawsuit for discrimination.
2.5	If an employee observes behavior by another employee or a supervisor that involves excessive profanity or abusive behavior, the employee may report it to Human Resources, but such a matter may not be grieved.
ARTICLE 3.	Benefits Dependent Upon Continued State Funding
The Employer is obligated to fund the economic portions of this agreement only so long as it receives sufficient funding from the State of California to do so.
Should the State of California, through whatever means, reduce the amount of funds available to the Employer such that in the judgment of the Employer's Board of Trustees the Employer cannot fully fund the economic provisions of the Agreement, the Employer may, after giving written notice to the Union, make temporary modifications to the Agreement and the parties shall immediately thereafter meet and negotiate regarding permanent economic modifications to this Agreement. Should the Employer make temporary modifications under this Article, the provisions of Article 17— No Work Stoppages shall be suspended and of no effect unless and until an agreement regarding permanent modifications is reached.
ARTICLE 4.	Past Practice Not Binding
A.	No past practice or custom which develops or has developed shall prohibit either the Union or the Employer from enforcing all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, nor shall either party be stopped from altering any past practice to bring such practice into compliance with this Agreement.
B.	At such time as a policy or practice is reduced to a writing, a copy shall be given to the employee. Further, should the Employer establish written Performance Standards for employees, the Employer shall give employees notice of these standards at least five (5) working days before they are implemented.
ARTICLE 5.	Union Security
5.1	Union Membership
A.	Each employee covered by this Agreement hired before May 1, 1996, who is not a member of the Union on the effective date of the Agreement shall have the right to become a member and the right not to become a member of the Union; provided that all employees who are members at the effective
936342.1
-2-
date of this Agreement or who thereafter voluntarily choose to become a member must maintain that membership as a condition of employment, to the extent of paying the periodic dues and initiation fee uniformly required for membership, except as provided in Subsection C of this Section 5.1.
B.	Each employee covered by this Agreement hired after May 1, 1996, shall, within thirty one (31) days after such employees date of hire, become a member of this Union as a condition of continued employment to the extent of tendering the periodic dues and initiation fee uniformly required for membership, and shall remain a member as a condition of continued employment for the term of this Agreement, except as provided in Section C of this Section 5.1.
C.	During the following periods: (1) July 3 to July 10, 2015, and (2) July 3, to July 10, 2017, any employee required to remain a member of the Union under Subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 5.1 may opt out of paying any dues or fees and opt out of being a member by sending the Union a certified letter confirming the decision to opt out, with a copy to the Employer and any notice filed by certified mail sent or received during the seven (7) business day period will be valid.
D.	Membership in good standing in the Union shall consist of tendering the periodic dues and initiation fee uniformly required for membership.
5.2	Discharge For Violation of 5.1
The Employer shall, during the term of this Agreement, discharge any employee who fails to comply with 5.1 after being given fifteen (15) days notice by certified mail from the Union to the employee, with a copy to the Employer. Said notice shall specify the basis upon which such default is claimed by the Union.
5.3	Checkoff
The Employer shall, during the term of this Agreement, deduct from the pay of each Union member and promptly remit to the Union an amount equal to the employee's initiation fee and dues; provided, however, that the employee has given the Employer a written assignment authorizing such deduction and remittance on the authorization form developed and provided by the Union to the Employer.
5.4	Indemnification
The Union shall indemnify the Employer and hold it harmless against any and all suits, claims, demands, or other liabilities, including the Employer's reasonable attorney fees, that may arise out of or by reason of any action taken by the Employer for the purpose of complying with this Article.
936342.1
-3-
5.5	Notification
Within thirty (30) days after the execution date of this Agreement, the Employer shall provide the Union with a list of all employees who are subject to the provisions of this Agreement, giving the names, addresses, classifications, dates of hire, work location, anniversary dates and rates of pay.
On or before the fifteenth (15th) day of each month the Employer will forward to the Union the name, classification, date of hire, work location, and home address of any bargaining unit employee hired during the previous month and the name and termination date of any employee who resigned, retired, or was terminated during the previous month.
At the time of employment the Employer will make available a copy of this Agreement. When technologically feasible, the Employer may provide an on-line copy of this Agreement in place of paper copies.
5.6	Religious Exemption
An employee who is a member of and adheres to established and traditional tenets or teachings of a bona fide religion, body or sect which has historically held conscientious objections to joining or financially supporting labor organizations shall not be required to join the Union or financially support the Union as a condition of employment. In lieu of tendering to the Union an amount equal to the periodic dues and initiation fee uniformly required for membership, such an employee shall, within the time period set forth above in Section 5.1 of this Agreement, commence tendering such amount to one of the non-religious charitable funds listed below, as a condition of continued employment:
United Way
Red Cross
Disaster Relief Fund
NLACRC Help Fund
AIDS Project LA
United Negro College Fund MS Foundation
American Cancer Society
The Employer shall deduct such amounts and remit them to the charitable fund designated by such employee in the same manner as set forth above.
An employee who defaults under this section shall be subject to discharge in the same manner as set forth above in Section 5.2.
ARTICLE 6.	Management Rights
The Employer retains solely, and exclusively, all the rights, powers, and authority that it exercised or possessed prior to the execution of this Agreement, except as specifically abridged by an express provision of this Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, the rights, powers, and authority retained solely and exclusively by the Employer and not abridged by this Agreement include, but are not limited to, the following:
936342.1
-4-
A.	The determination or modification of the Employer's goals and objectives, including the determination or modification of the nature and scope of services to be provided, work to be performed, or the size, number, location and functions of the Employer's organizational units or other activities.
B.	The implementation of technological change, the specification, acquisition and use of equipment or other materials, including program materials.
C.	The right to establish and determine methods of operation and procedures, including the scheduling and changing of working hours, shifts and days off.
D.	The lay-off of employees.
E.	Direction of the workforce, including the right to determine job classifications, work standards, workloads, assignments, schedules of operation, to require overtime, and to assign work.
F.	The utilization and assignment of volunteers to assist the regular staff.
G.	The utilization, on a temporary basis, of substitutes for members of the regular staff during their absences. Such temporary personnel will not be considered members of the bargaining unit under this Agreement and are not eligible for any benefits.
H.	The contracting work for economic or operational reasons, including but not limited to the contracting with consultants and specialists, provided that the contracting of work done by bargaining unit employees is done only after holding a meet and confer session with the Union.
I.	The determination of employee qualifications.
J.	The right to select, hire, schedule, transfer, promote, demote, evaluate, discipline, suspend and terminate its employees, and maintain the discipline and efficiency of its employees.
K.	The right to determine and reward meritorious performance.
L.	The right to establish, adopt, change, combine, abolish and enforce reasonable personnel policies and rules and regulations pertaining to the safety, conduct and department of employees and penalties for violation thereof.
936342.1
-5-
M.	The right to manage, direct and maintain the efficiency of its business and personnel; and to manage and control its departments, buildings, facilities and operations.
N.	The right to establish, adopt, create, change, combine, or abolish jobs, job descriptions, committees, travel policies, and facilities, in whole or in part.
O.	The right to increase or decrease the work force and determine the job classifications and number of employees needed.
P.	The right to determine the location and relocation of facilities.
Q.	The right to modify or eliminate any past employment practices.
R.	The right to determine employee benefit and service providers after holding a meet and confer session with the Union.
S.	The right to assign cases to another Regional Center when the client resides outside the Employer's service area.
A.	Full Understanding
It is intended that this Agreement sets forth the full and entire Agreement of the parties regarding the matters set forth herein and all other topics subject to bargaining; and therefore, any other prior or existing agreements by the parties, whether formal or informal, written or unwritten, regarding such matters, are hereby superseded or terminated in their entirety.
B.	No Interim Bargaining
The Employer and the Union acknowledge that during negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make proposals with respect to all proper subjects of collective bargaining and that all said subjects had been discussed and negotiated upon and the agreements contained herein were made after the free exercise of such rights and opportunities. The Employer and the Union, therefore, for the term of this agreement, voluntarily and ungualifiedly waive the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter whether or not specifically addressed in this Agreement, even though such subject or matter may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either the Union, the Employer, or both, at the time of negotiating and executing this Agreement.
936342.1
-6-
ARTICLE 7.	Hiring and Selection
A.	Vacancies
Notice of all regular full-time and part-time vacancies shall be posted online for at least five (5) working days before an offer is made to an applicant, and the Employer shall send an email to all employees announcing the posting on the same day as the posting. Candidates must follow the instructions on the vacancy announcements, and apply by the posted closing dates. The Employer will consider all qualifications and attributes of the applicant, including but not limited to the actual knowledge and skill level required to perform the functions of the position.
B.	New Employees
New employees shall be compensated at the first step in their pay grades, unless the Employer determines that advanced or specialized education, level of experience, possession of highly developed technical skills, demonstrated achievements, or labor market competitiveness makes advanced placement necessary. Advance placement recommendations require approval of the Human Resources Director.
C.	Out of Classification Work
1.	The Employer may require a bargaining unit employee temporarily to assume the duties of a higher classification for five (5) working days or fewer without an increase in pay whenever necessary for vacation, sick leave, or leave of absence relief, or for emergency. An employee selected by the employer may choose not to accept such assignment; provided, however, that if no qualified employee accepts the assignment, the Employer may require the bargaining unit employee of the Employer's choice to assume such duties.
2.	If such relief duty is assigned an employee for a period in excess of five (5) working days, and if fifty percent (50 %) or more of the higher level duties are being performed as measured by the actual duties the incumbent employee performs and the content of any job description for that position, the Employer shall, starting with the first (1st) working day of such relief, pay the employee in an amount at least five percent (5 %) higher than the employee's normal rate of pay, such rate to be determined by the Employer in its sole discretion. The advance approval of the Executive Director or designee, through the Human Resources Director, is required for assignments in excess of five (5) working days where a pay increase is involved.
3.	Any employee accepting such relief duty in a supervisory or non-bargaining unit assignment shall remain within the bargaining
936342.1
-7-
unit. The duties of such a temporary supervisory assignment shall not include evaluating or disciplining employees within the bargaining unit; provided, however, that the temporary supervisor shall maintain appropriate documentation and communicate to management this information as it occurs.
4.	Such a temporary relief assignment to a higher classification shall not exceed 90 days in duration except when the relief involves replacing an employee who is on an approved leave of absence permissible under this Agreement required by law or deemed business essential
D.	Service Date
The employee's initial service date shall be the hire date in a regular part time or full time classification, including all CCSB service and all service with the other regional centers. The service date is used to determine NLACRC seniority, salary placement, and benefit accrual rates.
The Service Date will change by a month when an employee is on a leave of absence in which more than 50% of the month is unpaid, except for employees who are on a Workers Compensation leave.
The Service Date for benefit accrual purposes will not change when an employee is transferred or promoted to a new classification.
The seniority date in a classification, for purposes of a layoff under Article 20.1, will change when an employee is transferred or promoted to a new classification.
E.	Relatives
Relatives of current employees, or two employees in a romantic relationship, are eligible for employment as long as no potential for conflict of interest or conflict of supervision exists. Related employees, or employees in a romantic relationship; shall not directly provide supervision to each other. Relatives are defined as an employee's spouse, parents, children, siblings, in-laws, designated partner, and step-relatives. If two employees become related, or become involved in a romantic relationship; such employees may be subject to reassignment. If two employees become related, or become involved in a romantic relationship, such a decision will be made within 30 days of the event. If no comparable position is available, the two employees shall decide which employee shall be laid off under the layoff and recall provisions of this Agreement.
936342.1
-8-
F.	Lateral Transfers
A Lateral Transfer is a transfer to a position within the same salary grade. Current employees may request a lateral transfer to an open position. Transfer requests must be made in writing. Transfer candidates must have completed initial probation, and must meet the minimum qualifications for the position and demonstrated satisfactory performance in his/her position. Should the Employer deem the job performance not to be satisfactory, the Employer shall provide the employee with a writing that explains the reasons why the performance has not been satisfactory. If two or more employees request a transfer to the same position, the Employer may select the applicant most qualified to meet the needs of the Consumers; provided that if the qualifications are equal, the most senior employee shall be selected. The Employer may of course transfer employees to different positions or different offices as needed for business purposes as per Article 6 J.
G.	Promotion
A promotion is a transfer to a position with a higher salary grade. Current employees may request a promotion to an open position for which the employee meets the minimum qualifications and has demonstrated satisfactory performance in his/her current position. Should the Employer deem the job performance not to be satisfactory, the Employer shall provide the employee with a writing that explains the reasons why the performance has not been satisfactory. Promotion requests must be in writing. If two or more employees apply for a promotion, the Employer may select the applicant most qualified to meet the needs of the Consumers; provided that if the qualifications are equal, the most senior employee shall be selected.
H.	Re-Employment After Resignation
Employees applying for work in the same or similar classifications formerly occupied within one year of voluntary resignation shall be declared eligible to apply for employment without further testing. Those employees who have resigned and are outside of these parameters may be required to submit to testing. Those employees reemployed after resignation shall be granted service credit for prior NLACRC service for all purposes of seniority, salary placement, and benefit accrual rates.
ARTICLE 8.	Definition of Employees
A.	Full Time Employee
A full-time employee is defined as one who is regularly scheduled to work forty (40) hours per week.
936342.1
-9-
B.	Part-Time Employee
A part-time employee is defined as one who is regularly scheduled to work less than forty (40) hours per week.
C.	No Guaranteed Work Week
No employee shall be guaranteed any specific number of hours of work per week.
D.	Intermittent, Temporary, and Casual Employees
Intermittent, temporary, and casual employees are defined as those who work on a temporary and irregular basis. Employees in this category shall not be subject to the provisions of this Agreement, except if such an employee is held over more than ninety (90) days, unless replacing an employee who is on leave, the employee shall become a full-time or part-time employee and will complete the remainder of the Probationary Period. The Employer shall not utilize this section to avoid the posting requirement as defined elsewhere in this Agreement.
E.	Probationary Employees
1.	Length of Probationary Period
The probationary period for newly hired employees shall be one hundred eighty (180) calendar days, excluding any time on unpaid leave of any type. Employees who are promoted into a higher level classification shall also serve a probationary period of ninety (90) calendar days. The initial probationary period shall not be extended.
ARTICLE 9.	Personnel Files
9.1	Content and Inspection of Personnel Files
9.1.1	All official records of the employee's personnel history shall be maintained in the Human Resources Department. No disciplinary or performance documents shall be placed in the employee's official personnel file after the date of employment without a copy being given to the employee prior to being placed into the file. Materials used in any disciplinary action involving the employee or affecting the employee's employment status shall be placed in the employee's official Human Resources Personnel File.
9.1.2	Each employee has the right to inspect the employee's own official personnel file at reasonable intervals during normal business hours, accompanied by a Union representative, if the employee desires. A Human Resources representative shall be present during file inspection. If an employee believes that material has been placed into the employee's file
936342.1
-10-
without the employee receiving a copy, upon request, the employee shall be given a copy. All provisions of Article 9 are subject to the grievance procedure. Copies of materials and documents contained in the file shall be provided to the employee upon request.
9.1.3	Material relating to performance or discipline shall be signed by a person who has knowledge of the facts and a copy of such material shall be provided to the employee. The employee shall acknowledge receipt of a copy of such material by signing the actual copy to be filed with the understanding that such signature merely signifies reading the material and does not indicate agreement with its contents.
9.1.4	Employees have the right to answer any material filed and this answer shall be attached to the file copy. Such material shall not be used exclusive of this answer.
9.1.5	Material will be removed or otherwise deleted from an employee's personnel file if the employee and Employer agree that such material is incorrect or if such material is determined to be incorrect as a result of the grievance procedure.
9.1.6	Information of a positive nature received by the Employer pertaining to the performance of an employee shall be placed into the employee's personnel file at the employee's request. The employee shall be advised of any such material received.
9.1.7	No anonymous material may be included in the File of any employee.
9.2	Release of Confidential Information
Only the employee's name, dates of employment, and job title shall be released or verified to outside inquiries unless the employee files a written request for additional disclosure along with a waiver and release. All other personnel information is confidential, and may be released by a Human Resources representative upon written approval by the employee or upon a Court Order.
ARTICLE 10.	Advance Approval for Overtime
An employee may not work overtime without the advance approval of his or her immediate supervisor, unless circumstances beyond the employee's control require such overtime and the acquisition of advance approval is not possible. When such a circumstance requires unapproved overtime the employee shall, on the next in-office working day, inform his or her immediate supervisor in writing of:
1.	the amount of the overtime worked; and
2.	the nature of the circumstance beyond the employee's control.
936342.1
-11 -
ARTICLE 11.	Timekeeping
Employees shall maintain accurate records of time worked and record that time correctly on a daily basis or no later than the following office or telecommute day, on the Employer's electronic payroll system. Managers and approved designees shall be responsible for verifying the accuracy of employee time sheets. Non-approved employees shall not enter information on another employee's time sheet.
ARTICLE 12.	Notice of Absence
Employees shall notify their immediate supervisor, or their supervisor's designee, regarding any absence, exceptional tardiness, or sickness, within the first thirty minutes of the Employer's operating hours, absent emergency. If the Supervisor or designee is not available, such notice may be left on the Supervisor's voice mail. If the Supervisor's voice mail is full, such notice may be left on the designee's voice mail. If none of the options above are possible, such notice may be left with the switchboard operator. The Employer may ask for medical verification by a physician, physician's assistant, or nurse practitioner for an absence of four (4) consecutive workdays or more arising from illness or injury, and where appropriate, a release to return to work. An absent employee must meet this requirement to call in on each day of the absence unless the absence has been approved for a finite period.
ARTICLE 13.	On Call and Call-Back
13.1	On Call
The Employer shall select Service Coordinators from a voluntary pool on a rotating basis to provide on-call coverage with beeper duty. Should no volunteer be available the Employer shall select from a rotating pool of all Service Coordinators to provide on-call coverage with beeper duty. Only Service Coordinators who have passed the probationary period shall be eligible for such duty. The Employee shall receive weekly compensation of $200.00, or $250.00, if the week includes a holiday, for such duty.
13.2	Call-Back
The Employer may require that employees work beyond their normal schedules, or when necessary to provide emergency services, return to work after completion of their normal schedules. All extended schedules shall be compensated according to law and this Agreement. Employees called back for such duty shall receive compensation equivalent to a minimum of one (1) hour, or the actual time worked, whichever is greater, at the appropriate overtime rate, if applicable.
ARTICLE 14.	Rest and Meal Periods
Employees shall be be entitled to one (1) break of fifteen minutes in the morning and one such break in the afternoon; these breaks cannot be combined with each other or the meal period. Breaks shall be with pay and counted as time worked.
936342.1
-12-
Uninterrupted meal periods of one-half hour or one hour in duration shall not be counted as time worked, provided, however, that if a meal period is interrupted by calls to duty, the meal period shall be counted as time worked. An employee may, after supervisory approval, on a regularly scheduled basis take a one hour lunch period as long as the employee works the regularly scheduled number of work hours. An employee may not schedule the morning and afternoon breaks so as to immediately precede or succeed the employee's lunch period, start time or quit time.
ARTICLE 15.	Performance Evaluation
15.1	Evaluation of Probationary Employees
An employee serving a probationary period shall receive at least two performance evaluations, one at the end of three months and one at two weeks before the end of the one hundred and eighty (180) calendar day probationary period. Additional evaluations may be given at intervals determined by the Employer. Evaluations of probationary employees shall be conducted in the same manner as regular employees. A newly hired employee serving an initial probationary period may be discharged as set forth in Section 18.3.
15.2	Evaluation of Post-Probationary Employees
A.	The work performance of each post-probationary employee shall, to the extent possible, be evaluated by the immediate supervisor prior to the employee's anniversary/review date, in writing. The evaluation will include, but not be limited to, job knowledge, job performance, and interpersonal/professional relations. The employee shall have the opportunity to read and discuss the evaluation with the evaluator, and sign the report. Such signature does not necessarily imply or indicate agreement with the content of the evaluation. If the employee declines to sign the report, the supervisor shall so note on the Evaluation. The employee also has the right to submit a written response within 20 calendar days, which shall be attached to the performance appraisal form in the employee's personnel file. The report shall become a part of the employee's permanent personnel file.
B.	When an "improvement needed" rating is given on any post probationary employee's performance factor, the supervisor's comments accompanying that rating shall contain all of the following:
A clear statement of the nature of the improvement needed and the manner in which the employee is not meeting expectations, including, when appropriate, specific acts or omissions;
Specific recommendations for improvement and how improvement will be measured; and
936342.1
-13-
The steps to be followed in order to correct the deficiencies outlined, with special attention to any training needs.
C.	The evaluation shall be discussed with the employee by the supervisor and a copy will be provided to the employee containing the supervisor’s signature and date. If the supervisor changes the rating as a result of the conference, a new evaluation form may be obtained and the supervisor will provide the employee with a copy of the amended evaluation containing the supervisor’s signature and date. However, it is understood that the primary purpose of such evaluations is to be constructive and to help the employee achieve or maintain at least a satisfactory level of performance.
D.	It is also understood that evaluation of an employee's performance should be an ongoing process. While the Evaluation itself shall not be disciplinary, it is understood that warnings, concerns, or expectations identified in an Evaluation may be referred to in later discipline.
ARTICLE 16.	Grievance and Arbitration
16.1	Definition
A grievance shall be defined as any claim or dispute, including any claim or dispute related to discipline or discharge, by an employee, the Employer, or the Union concerning the interpretation, application, or alleged violation of specific provisions of this Agreement, including but not limited to the No Work Stoppages Section of this Agreement. All grievances shall be processed in accordance with the grievance procedure set forth in the Article.
16.2	Representation
An employee shall be entitled to the presence of a Union staff representative and/or a Union Steward at each step of the grievance procedure. An employee and one (1) Union Steward shall suffer no loss of pay for working time spent in attendance at the Stepl, Step 2, or Step 3 grievance meetings conducted pursuant to this Article. For payment in a Step 1 meeting the meeting must clearly be identified as a Step 1 meeting.
16.3	Informal Procedures
The parties shall attempt to resolve all disputes on an informal basis. If the parties are unable to resolve such dispute in the manner provided in this Section, the party making the claim shall, within the applicable time limits set forth below, serve a formal written grievance on the other party.
16.4	Contents of Formal Written Grievance
A formal written grievance shall contain a clear statement of the nature of the grievance, the date of the alleged occurrence giving rise to the grievance, the
936342.1
-14-
section(s) of the Agreement on which the grievance is based, the proposed remedy and the dated signature of the grievant(s) or the Union representative.
16.5	Time Limits and Grievance Steps
Should the party making the claim fail to file an appeal of a grievance or request arbitration within the specified time limits herein, the grievance shall automatically be resolved on the basis of the last response. Should the other party fail to schedule a meeting or fail to respond within the specified time limits herein, the grievance may be processed to the next step. Time limits set forth herein may be extended or waived only by mutual written agreement of the parties defined as email, memo, written correspondence, etc. Grievance steps may be waived only by mutual agreement of the parties.
16.6	Discipline
(a)	Step 1 - Any grievance, if not resolved by informal procedures, relating to any discipline, including verbal warning, written warning, suspension, or discharge, of an employee whose job classification is covered by this Agreement must be served in writing to the Employer's Executive Director within ten (10) working days of the employee's receipt of written notice of the disciplinary action.
(b)	Step 2 - The Employer's Executive Director or the Executive Director's designee, and the grieving employee and/or a representative of the Union shall meet within ten (10) working days of the service of said grievance for the purpose of discussing and if possible, settling said grievance. The Employer shall give the Employee and Union a written answer to the grievance within five (5) working days of the conclusion of such meeting.
(c)	Step 3 - If the grievance is not resolved at Step 2, then the Union may make a written request for arbitration. Such request shall be served on the other party within ten (10) working days of the conclusion of the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 of this section.
16.7	All Other Grievances
Step 1. All Union and employee grievances not subject to the section relating to discipline in this Article shall initially be taken up orally by the employee, with or without a representative of the Union, and the immediate supervisor in an attempt to settle the matter. The Union or grievant will clearly identify the discussion as an informal grievance meeting and identify the provision of the Agreement under discussion.
Step 2. If the grievance is not resolved informally at Step 1, then a formal written grievance shall be served on the Employer at the next administrative level within fifteen (15) working days of the date the violation occurred or the date it should have been discovered. A meeting shall be scheduled
936342.1
-15-
within five (5) working days of the receipt of said grievance for the purpose of discussing and, if possible, settling said grievance. The Employer's representative at this level shall give a written answer to the grievance to the other party within five (5) working days of the conclusion of such meeting.
Step 3. If the grievance is not resolved at Step 2, then the formal written grievance may be served on the Employer's Executive Director. Such grievance shall be submitted within five (5) working days of the conclusion of the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 above. A meeting shall be scheduled within ten (10) working days of the receipt of said grievance for the purpose of discussing and, if possible, settling said grievance. The Employer's Executive Director or the Executive Director's designee shall give a written answer to the grievance to the other party within ten (10) working days of the conclusion of such meeting.
Step 4. If the grievance is not resolved at step 3, then the Union may make a written request for arbitration. Such request shall be served on the other party within ten (10) working days of the conclusion of the procedure set forth in Step 3 of this Section.
16.8	Arbitration
The following procedure shall apply if a grievance is taken to arbitration:
A.	If the parties are unable to agree on an impartial arbitrator, they shall, within ten (10) working days of mailing the notice of intent to take the grievance to arbitration, jointly submit to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service a request for a list of seven (7) arbitrators.
B.	The parties shall communicate within five (5) working days after receipt of said list for the purpose of attempting to select one of the individuals named therein. If they are unable to do so, the parties shall each make alternative strikes from said list, after determining the first strike by lot, and the remaining name shall be that of the arbitrator.
C.	The determination of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties and on any affected employee covered by this Agreement. Said decision shall be issued in writing not more than thirty (30) days after the date of the arbitration or the filing of briefs, if any, whichever is later.
D.	The arbitrator shall have no authority to: (1) change, add to, subtract from, modify or amend any of the provisions of this Agreement; (2) to base any decision on any past practice or custom which is inconsistent with any provision of this Agreement; or (3) to render an
936342.1
-16-
award on any grievance occurring before the effective date, or after the termination date of this Agreement.
E.	All fees and expenses of arbitration including but not limited to the costs of the room and refreshments, the other party's actual attorney's fees to a maximum of $1,500 per arbitration, the losing parties own attorney's fees, and the arbitrator's fees, shall be born entirely by the losing party. If each party prevails to some extent, the arbitrator shall designate which party substantially prevails, and the other party shall bear entirely the above described arbitration expenses.
F.	If the parties fail, within 90 days from the date of the written request for arbitration, to schedule an arbitration for a future date, the Grievance shall be deemed abandoned and dismissed; provided however, that if the failure of the parties to schedule the arbitration is due to the failure of the Employer to participate in the scheduling process, the Grievance shall not be deemed abandoned and dismissed. If thereafter the Employer begins to participate, the parties again have 90 days within which to schedule the arbitration or the Grievance shall be deemed abandoned and dismissed.
ARTICLE 17.	No Work Stoppages
17.1	No Strikes
During the term of this Agreement, neither the Union nor its agents, nor any employees, individually or collectively, shall call, sanction or participate in any strike, work stoppage, sitdown, slowdown, or any refusal to enter the Employer's premises, or any other interference with any of the Employer's services or operations, or with the movement or transportation of persons or goods to or from the Employer's premises. Picketing on the Employer Premises or during the working time of the picketing employee shall also violate this Article.
The prohibitions of this Section shall apply whether or not (1) the dispute giving rise to the prohibited conduct is subject to any dispute resolution procedure provided under this Agreement, (ii) such conduct is in support of or in sympathy with a work stoppage conducted by the Union, any other labor organization, or any other group of employees; or (iii) such conduct is for any other reason, including but not limited to protest of an alleged violation of any state or federal law, political protest, civil rights protest, consumer protest, or environmental protest. If any conduct prohibited by this Section occurs, the Union shall immediately make every reasonable effort to terminate such conduct. If the Union makes such effort to terminate, and does not in any way encourage any of the activities prohibited by this Section, which were not instigated by the Union or its staff, the Union will not be liable for damages to the Employer caused by such activities.
936342.1
-17-
17.2	Discipline
Any employee who participates in any activity prohibited by Section 1 of this Article shall be subject to discharge or such lesser discipline as the Employer, in its sole discretion, shall determine without recourse to the grievance procedure; provided, however, that the employee shall have recourse to the grievance procedure as to the sole question of whether or not the employee participated in any of such prohibited activities. If such participation occurred, the discharge or discipline imposed by the Employer cannot be altered by the Arbitrator.
17.3	Remedies for Breach
The Employer and the Union shall be entitled to seek all appropriate remedies, including but not limited to injunctive relief and damages, if this No Work Stoppages provision is violated, without prior resort to any dispute resolution procedure provided under this Agreement, and whether or not the dispute giving rise to the conduct which violates such Section is subject to such procedures.
17.4	Lockouts
The Employer agrees that there shall be no lockouts during the term of the Agreement.
ARTICLE 18.	Discipline and Discharge
18.1	Post-Probationary Employees
A post-probationary employee shall be disciplined or discharged only for just cause. An employee covered by this section shall have the right to appeal any disciplinary action, including discharge, in accordance with the provisions of the grievance procedure set forth in this Agreement.
18.2	Representation
An employee who has been asked to participate in a disciplinary or investigatory interview which could lead to the discipline of said employee shall be entitled at the employee's request, to the presence of a Union staff representative or a Union Steward at such an interview. The employee and any representative who is also an employee shall suffer no loss of wages. Such interviews shall be scheduled during the employee's regularly scheduled work hours.
18.3	New Probationary Employees
A newly hired employee serving his or her initial probationary period may be discharged at the Employer's discretion and such discharge shall not be subject to the grievance procedure of this Agreement.
936342.1
-18-
18.4	Promotion/Probationary Employees
Any promoted employee serving his/her initial probationary period may be removed from the higher level position at the Employer's discretion, and such removal from the higher level position shall not be subject to the grievance procedure of this Agreement. In the event an employee is removed from the higher level position during the probationary period, the employee shall be returned to his/her former classification or a substantially comparable position.
18.5	Notice Regarding Performance
A.	Prior to discharge or suspension for poor work performance, the employer shall meet with the employee and provide the employee with a written warning regarding such performance and a reasonable opportunity to improve such performance. The length of the reasonable opportunity shall of course vary based on the nature of the poor work performance. For example, for some issues, such as tardiness, a reasonable opportunity would reguire the employee to demonstrate immediate improvement, while for some performance problems, like bringing a caseload current, a reasonable opportunity could involve a period of up to 90 days. The employer may immediately discharge an employee in case of performance, actions, or behavior that create a hazard to consumers, fellow employees, or other persons, or in case of dishonesty, gross misconduct, insubordination, theft, or criminal convictions relevant to the job.
B.	Written notice of discharge or suspension shall be provided to the employee.
ARTICLE 19.	Hours of Work
19.1	Normal Work Schedules
The normal work week for employees covered by this Agreement shall be a work week of 40 hours based on five (5) days of work at eight (8) hours per day, Monday through Friday. The Employer may reguire that employees work beyond their normal schedules, or, when necessary to provide emergency services, return to work after completion of their normal schedules; provided that any overtime shall be paid according to this Agreement. The employer retains the right to designate and change daily arrival and departure times.
19.2	Scheduling Options
A.	Employee reguests for alternative schedules will be evaluated based on the business needs of the organization, and will be considered by work unit, by NLACRC seniority, with consideration for special skills. Hours of work and individual schedules will continue to be set by the Employer.
936342.1
-19-
B.	Effective January 1, 2000, all employees will be offered the following scheduling options:
To work a five (5) day, eight (8) hour schedule (5/8).
To request a 9/80 schedule, consisting of alternating 4-day and 5-day weeks.
C.	Effective January 1, 2000, for positions where telecommute is authorized, employees will be offered the following scheduling options:
To work a five (5) day, eight (8) hour schedule (5/8) and request one (1) day of telecommute per week.
To request a 9/80 schedule, consisting of alternating 4-day and 5-day weeks and request one (1) day of telecommute per two week cycle, scheduled during the 5-day week.
19.3	Telecommuting
An employee in a position where telecommuting is authorized may, at any time following the completion of the probationary period, make an application to telecommute. The Employer shall, within ten (10) working days following the receipt of the completed application either, approve the telecommute, or provide the employee a written explanation why the telecommute was denied. This written explanation shall include recommendations for action to take that will qualify the employee for telecommute.
If the application is denied because the employee needs to acquire equipment to meet the telecommute policy, the employee may submit a subsequent request to telecommute at any time after acquiring the necessary equipment. If the application is denied due to performance reasons, or other business reasons, the employee may, after the passage of sixty (60) days, submit a subsequent request to telecommute. In each case, the Employer will again respond within ten (10) working days with either an approval or a written explanation why the telecommute was denied.
If for any reason, the Employer decides a telecommuting employee should not telecommute, the Employer shall provide the Employee with a written explanation for the reasons why, and suspend the telecommute until the reasons no longer exist.
The Employer decisions regarding telecommute are not subject to the grievance procedure; provided however that the employee may grieve the failure of the Employer to provide a written explanation as required above.
The Employer shall reimburse telecommuting employees for business calls made from home to the extent this cost exceeds the cost of their normal commute as
936342.1
-20-
calculated by the IRS rate per mile. Employees must be accessible and have a telephone number where they can be reached during their scheduled workday period.
An employee may not telecommute during either the four day week of a 9/80 schedule or during a week in which there is an Employer paid holiday.
19.3.1	Cell Phone
Other than for telecommuting, employees are not permitted to use a personal cell phone for business purposes except when outside the office, where there is no alternative, in one of the following specific circumstances:
(1)	in case of a work related emergency, or a situation where such use is necessary for the most efficient conduct of business;
(2)	if necessary to gain access for any out of the office meeting;
If an employee is so required to use the employee’s personal cell phone, the employee shall, on the next work day in the office, (1) advise his or her supervisor of the need to use the personal cell phone, and (2) submit to the supervisor the proper reimbursement form, identifying the calls necessary under (1) or (2) above.
The supervisor may either approve a reasonable reimbursement, the amount of which will be determined by Employer policy, or request that the employee provide proof of the use of the cell phone for a call, pictures or other purposes. If the supervisor requests proof, the employee shall provide proof no later than 30 days after receipt of the cell phone bill covering the time when the personal cell phone was used. Upon receipt of proof, the Employer shall make a reasonable reimbursement.
19.4	Start of Workday/Workweek
For payroll purposes, the workday commences at 12:01 a.m., and the workweek commences at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday; provided however that for the 9/80 schedule, the workweek shall be defined to commence after the first four (4) hours of work on the eight (8) hour Friday, or as required to split the two week schedule into two 40 hour weeks.
ARTICLE 20.	Layoff or Reduction in Force
20.1	Order of Layoff
Whenever layoffs in a particular classification are required, the order of layoff shall be by NLACRC seniority in that classification with the least senior employee laid off first provided however, that the Employer may layoff a more senior employee to
936342.1
-21 -
retain a less senior employee who possesses special bilingual skills or licensure where such is relevant to the duties of the classification.
Where two (2) or more workers subject to layoff have equal seniority, layoff shall be determined by lot.
20.2	Displacement Rights
A.	An employee who would otherwise be laid off under this section, but who has more NLACRC seniority, may elect to displace the least senior bargaining unit employee:
(i)	In a substantially similar classification; or
(ii)	in a lower classification previously held; or
(iii)	in a classification substantially similar to a lower classification previously held at the same location, or at a different location, provided that the employee meets the minimum requirements for the position and has the skill and ability to perform the job, unless the least senior employee possesses a special bilingual skill or licensure where such is relevant to the duties of the classification.
B.	If the displaced employee is unable to displace the senior employee, he or she may continue up the seniority list until he or she is able to displace a junior employee, subject to the requirements of paragraph (A) above.
C.	Any employee displaced in the foregoing bumping process may exercise the same bumping rights described above. If such an employee is unable to displace another employee as a result of the bumping process, he or she shall be placed on layoff status.
D.	In no event may an employee displace an employee in a higher paying classification.
20.3	Recall After Layoff
A.	Employees who are laid off shall be placed on a recall list for a period of twelve (12) months. If within the twelve (12) month period the Employer hires for a classification from which layoff occurred, the Employer shall recall employees who meet the minimum qualifications for the position in inverse order of layoff in that classification or a substantially similar classification. In the event an employee who possesses special bilingual skills or licensure vacates a position in a classification from which layoff occurred, the Employer may recall a less senior employee, before a more senior employee, if the less senior employee possesses special bilingual skills or licensure relevant to the duties of the classification.
936342.1
-22-
B.	If a laid off employee is recalled within twelve (12) months, the employee shall return with the same seniority, service credit and benefit accrual rate the employee had at the time of layoff. An employee returning to the same classification shall be paid at the step required by the employee's seniority and an employee recalled to a lower classification shall be paid at the step of the lower classification required by the employee's seniority. Accrued but unused vacation, compensatory time and fifty (50) percent of the employee accrued sick leave to a paid maximum of 80 (eighty) hours for full-time employees, pro-rated for part-time employees, shall be paid in full at the time of lay-off. The remainder of the employee's sabbatical time accrued but unused prior to the time of layoff shall be reinstated upon the employee's return to work.
C.	An employee on layoff who has been recalled to work must respond within seventy-two (72) hours of actual notification, either by actual receipt of an overnight certified letter or by direct conversation in person or on the telephone; provided however that in the absence of such actual notification; the recalled employee must respond within five (5) working days of the date the overnight certified letter is sent by the Employer. Employees accepting re-employment shall return to work within ten (10) working days of the date of acceptance.
D.	Employees who accept a position pursuant to 21.3 that is in a classification lower than their former classification shall retain their original twelve (12) months recall right to the classification from which they were laid off.
20.4	Notice of Layoff
Absent an emergency need to implement layoffs, the Employer shall provide employees with two (2) weeks notice of layoff. In the event less than two (2) weeks notice is provided, pay in lieu of notice shall be given. After determination by the Employer of the need to implement layoffs, the Union will be notified in writing.
ARTICLE 21.	Government Leaves
Government service leave may be used in minimum increments of one-half hour.
21.1	Jury Duty
Employees who have completed the probationary period and who are required to serve jury duty shall be paid their full salary, less court compensation, for a maximum of seven (7) work days of jury duty, provided that the employee's supervisor has received a copy of the jury summons before the leave is taken and further provided the employee shows proof of court attendance and the amount of pay received. When jury attendance is required for only a partial day and there is sufficient time to return to work, an employee on jury duty is required to return to the office.
936342.1
-23-
21.2	Military Leave
Employees will be granted absence without pay to perform military duties for the period of time in which re-employment is protected by law, and under the conditions set out in applicable laws.
21.3	Voting
Employees will be granted up to two (2) hours of time off with pay at the beginning or the end of their work hours if they can demonstrate that they cannot otherwise vote. The employee must receive approval in advance from the Human Resources Director or designee.
ARTICLE 22.	Leaves of Absence
22.1	Pregnancy Disability Leave
An employee, in accordance with California law, shall be entitled to a reasonable pregnancy disability leave up to a maximum of four (4) months to the extent the employee provides medical certification of the disability arising from pregnancy.
Time on pregnancy disability leave can be taken in addition to the twelve (12) weeks family leave benefit described in 22.2 if the employee gualifies for both leaves.
22.2	Family Leaves
A leave of absence, in accordance with the reguirements of the California and Federal Family leave laws, shall be provided to an employee in connection with: (a) the birth of a child of an employee; (b) the placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster care; (c) care of the employee's spouse, designated partner, child, or parent who has a serious health condition; or (d) because of a serious health condition that prevents the employee from performing the functions of his or her position.
Each employee is eligible for a maximum of twelve weeks of such leave per year, to the extent the employee meets the legal reguirements for such a leave, including the reguirement that the employee must have worked for the employer at least one year, and at least 1250 hours in the year preceding the leave reguest. In accordance with applicable law, during a leave under Section 22.2 the employee's health insurance benefits shall be continued for a maximum of twelve (12) weeks per year under the same conditions as if the employee were working.
22.3	Additional Leave of Absence
This unpaid leave, which may not exceed thirty (30) calendar days, is for personal necessity and can be taken once every three (3) calendar years. This leave cannot be combined or used to extend other leaves that are covered under this
936342.1
-24-
agreement. All benefit time must be exhausted in order to be eligible for this additional leave of absence, unless the leave is for purposes for which sick leave could not be used, in which case, sick leave need not be exhausted. During this leave, the employee is responsible for his/her portion of all heath and fringe benefit premiums for the entire period of absence. Approval for this leave of absence may be granted by the Executive Director or his/her designee in his/her sole discretion.
22.4	General Rules Governing Leaves
The rules governing leaves of absence are:
A.	Leaves under 22.2 (c) and (d) only may be taken in one block, or, to the extent required by law, broken up and used intermittently.
B.	All employees shall be eligible for medically necessary pregnancy disability leave in accordance with California law. For any other type of leave of absence, only employees who have completed initial employment probation shall be eligible to apply. Applications must be made in writing and filed with the employee's supervisor at least 30 days before the leave is to begin, unless the Employee learns of the need for the leave less than 30 days before the leave is to begin, in which case written application must be made upon learning of the need for the leave. If an employee is unable to give written notice, oral notice can be given pending receipt of medical certification requesting such a leave. Approval for leaves of absence may be granted by the Executive Director or his/her designee.
C.	Employees approved for leave of absence and who return to work within the appropriate maximum limit, shall have return rights as required by law, or for four (4) months, whichever is longer. The return rights program guarantees return to a comparable position at the same location and at the current salary for that position at the conclusion of the leave.
D.	Leaves of absence shall be granted without pay. Employees shall have the option to use, or the Employer may require the employee to use, their accumulated vacation, sick leave, compensatory time or personal holidays, unless prohibited by law.
E.	Employees on leave of absence shall accrue benefits during the period in which they receive payment of any accumulated benefits, such as vacation, sick leave, compensatory time or personal holidays. An employee, who is not receiving payment, either by choice or by having exhausted his/her accrued benefits, shall have the option to continue his/her discretionary benefits at his/her own expense. NLACRC will resume pro rata payments based on the hours worked, on the first of the month following the employee's
936342.1
-25-
return to work for at least twenty (20) hours per week. An employee who voluntarily discontinues payment of accumulated benefits shall not be able to recommence payment during the same leave of absence. Employees not receiving payment of accumulated benefits shall not accrue benefits.
F.	Any unpaid portion of a leave of absence shall have the effect of suspending the Service Date under Article 7 (D) for all months in which the employee is on leave for more than fifty (50) percent of the month, except employees who are on a Workers Compensation leave .
G.	Employees must return to work on the first working day following expiration of the leave, or be considered to have voluntarily resigned. Employees requesting an extension of leave must contact the Human Resources Director two weeks in advance of the expiration of the leave (or as long in advance as possible) to request the extension. An extension of a leave of absence shall be granted only upon approval by the employer. Employees returning from a medical leave or illness must present a medical release and statement of fitness for duty.
H.	The Employer shall abide by the minimum provisions of the California Family Rights Act as amended and reconciled with the Federal Family Leave Act of 1993. Employees should refer to the actual California Family Rights Act and the Federal Family Leave Act for additional rights and rules.
I.	If an employee has missed work for five (5) consecutive working days, that employee must, on the sixth (6th) working day, either return to work, or request for a leave of absence. If an employee fails timely to request the leave of absence or return to work, the Employer shall inform the employee in writing of the need to do so, and if the employee fails thereafter to either report to work or complete a request for a leave of absence in accordance with Article 22, within three (3) working days of receipt of the letter, the employee will be deemed to have resigned voluntarily.
ARTICLE 23.	Subcontracting
The Employer may engage in the contracting of work for economic or operational reasons, including but not limited to the contracting with consultants and specialists, provided that the contracting of work done by bargaining unit employees is done only after holding a meet and confer session with the Union.
936342.1
-26-
ARTICLE 24.	Judicial Proceedings
When an employee is requested to appear as a witness, by subpoena or as an expert witness, as a result of an issue arising from his/her job, the employee shall receive, for each day on which the employee would have worked, the difference between the employee's regular straight-time pay for that day and the amount of the employee's witness pay. The employee shall notify the Employer as soon as the employee is notified of such request or subpoena.
ARTICLE 25.	Job Descriptions
Each employee shall receive a copy of his or her job description. New or revised job descriptions shall be made available to the affected employees and to the Union within five (5) working days of implementation. When technologically feasible, on-line copies of job descriptions will be made available to employees in place of paper copies.
ARTICLE 26.	Illness and Injury Prevention
The Union and the Employer consider that injury and illness prevention shall be of primary importance in all phases of operation and administration.
The Employer shall make best efforts to provide for safe and healthy working conditions for employees.
The prevention of injuries and illness is an objective affecting all levels of the organization and its activities. It is, therefore, a basic requirement that each supervisor make the safety and health of employees an integral part of his/her regular management function. It is equally the duty of each employee to accept and follow established safety regulations and procedures.
Employees are expected to assist the Employer in injury and illness prevention activities. Unsafe conditions must be reported as soon as possible to the employee's immediate supervisor. Fellow employees that need help should be assisted.
Any injury that occurs on the job must be reported to the employee's supervisor and the Human Resources Director as soon as possible. Except in an emergency, no employee should leave work without reporting an injury that occurred.
ARTICLE 27.	Union Business
27.1	Access For Union Representatives
Upon twenty-four (24) hour notice (given on a work day) and subject to client care or department requirements a single duly authorized Union representative who is not an employee of the Employer shall have access, during business hours, to public areas within the Employer's facilities when such access is necessitated by matters concerning the administration of the Agreement. Such public areas may include, to the extent the areas are not being used, areas as designated by the
936342.1
-27-
Employer, including meeting rooms, interview rooms, or conference rooms. The Union shall provide notice to the Executive Director or his/her designee of the desire to visit and shall identify the office in which the visit is desired.
Such Union representatives shall not interfere with the Employer's operation, the work of employees, or the confidentiality of consumers.
If the representative wishes to meet with an employee, such meeting shall occur on the employee's lunch period or breaks. If a meeting during such times is impossible, subject to consumer needs and the needs of the department, an employee may go off the clock and meet with the Union representative for a reasonable period during which no pay will be received, but the employee may use vacation time. During the time periods the employee goes off the clock with no pay, he/she must notify and receive approval from his/her supervisor in advance via telephone or e-mail.
27.2	Union Stewards
The Union may notify the Employer of the designation of Union Stewards. The Union shall designate only the following stewards: three (3) for the Van Nuys office, two (2) for the Antelope Valley office, two (2) for the Santa Clarita office, and one (1) Chief Steward. Stewards and the employees they deal with may do Union business on an unpaid basis, subject to the needs of consumers and to the needs of the Steward’s and to the employee's respective departments. Union duties do not relieve Stewards or others of regular responsibilities and performance requirements. The Union shall notify the Employer of the name of the currently designated Union Stewards and any changes thereof. Any Union business shall be conducted by a Union Steward from the same office unless absolutely impossible. If that is absolutely impossible, and a Union Steward must travel to another office, such travel will not be paid. It is the obligation of the Union to ensure that each office has the maximum number of stewards.
27.3	Bulletin Boards
The Employer shall make available a single bulletin board in the Antelope Valley office, a single bulletin board in the Santa Clarita office, and two bulletin boards in the Van Nuys office, in non-public locations, to be used for official notices of Union business relating to North Los Angeles County Regional Center employees.
27.4	Copies Of Contracts
At the time of employment, the Employer shall make available a copy of this Agreement to each employee covered by this Agreement.
27.5	Union Leave
Based upon the needs of the Employer, the Employer may grant a leave of absence without pay for a maximum of ten (10) days per calendar year, to two (2)
936342.1
-28-
bargaining unit employees to attend Union conventions, meetings or other business, provided:
1.	Two weeks written notice is given to the Employer;
2.	The employee has completed the probationary period;
3.	The employee obtains the approval of his/her immediate supervisor, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
27.6	Union Meetings
The 1st floor meeting room at the main office of NLACRC may be scheduled for NLACRC union business meetings at lunchtime and after 5:00 p.m. on weekdays.
A.	Only NLACRC staff (who may invite union officials) may use NLACRC facilities. No other union groups will be authorized to meet at NLACRC events.
B.	Regular business events will take scheduling priority over union events.
C.	Meetings will be requested through the Executive Director's office by written e-mail from a Union officer to the Executive Assistant. Lunchtime meetings shall be limited to 45 minutes in length, and for each office a maximum of three (3) lunch time meetings may be held each year. Employees, including Union Stewards and Union Officers, will not be paid for time spent in excess of their regular lunch period when attending or traveling to and from such lunch meetings. No mileage will be paid for travel to such meetings.
D.	The Union will complete standard outside meeting request forms, will keep on file with the Executive Director a current certificate of any required insurance, will assume responsibility for the premises and equipment, and will leave the room in a clean and orderly condition.
27.7	Union Notices and No Use of NLACRC Equipment
Union notices or communications to employees may not be made via or with the use of NLACRC postage, e-mail, fax, copying machines, printers, employee mailboxes or other NLACRC equipment.
ARTICLE 28.	Overtime
A.	Computation
Overtime compensation under a flexible schedule or alternative work schedule shall be as defined by that schedule with the normal schedule at straight time. For a traditional five (5) day, forty (40) hour workweek,
936342.1
-29-
overtime shall be paid at time and one-half (1 1/2) the regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) in a workweek or eight (8) in a workday, with double time paid for all hours in excess of twelve (12) in a workday. For the purposes of computing overtime, only hours actually worked are considered.
The 9/80 schedule shall mean a schedule that includes one calendar week with five nine (9) hour days followed by a calendar week of three nine (9) hour days, one eight (8) hour day, and one day off. This regular schedule shall be at straight time. All hours in excess of the normally scheduled hours for each workday shall be paid at one and one-half times (11/z) the regular rate of pay and all hours in excess of 12 in a workday shall be paid at double (2) time the regular rate of pay.
The workweek for overtime purposes in a 9/80 schedule begins and ends after the first forty (40) hours of the two-week-period, such that each workweek contains 40 regular hours of work. For example, in the schedule noted above, the workweek would begin and end after the first four (4) hours of work on the fifth nine-hour day.
The 9/80 schedule described herein is consistent with the requirement that in any alternative schedule, the workweek for overtime purposes begins and ends after the first 40 hours of work in the first calendar week.
Week 1:
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday	9 hours 9 hours 9 hours 9 hours 4 hours [workweek ends and begins]; then 5 hours.
Week 2:
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday	9 hours 9 hours 9 hours 8 hours off
B.	Compensatory Time
The Employee shall determine whether or not overtime shall be paid out at the end of the pay period, or whether the employee shall be credited with Compensatory Time off at the rate set forth in 29.A. The employee must use the compensatory time off within the pay period in which it is earned, or within the fourth pay period following the pay period in which it is earned, or
936342.1
-30 -
the Employer may involuntarily schedule the employee off. If the Employer does not permit the time off to be taken within the required time, a cash payment shall be made in the next paycheck.
ARTICLE 29.	Vacation
29.1	Eligibility and Accrual
Employees regularly scheduled to work 20 or more hours per week earn vacation credit. New employees begin accruing vacation immediately, but may not use it until probation is completed. Vacation hours accrued during a month will be posted and available for use on the first day of the following month. Full-time employees earn vacation according to the following schedule:
Month of Service Hours Earned Maximum Accrual
0-48 months	10 per month	240 hours
49 months or more	13.33 per month	320 hours
Part-time employees earn a prorated number of hours based on the percentage of full-time schedule worked. Employees who work a partial month will earn prorated credit for that month. Vacation may be used in minimum amounts of 1/2 hour.
An employee who reaches the maximum accrual level shall accrue no further vacation until the accumulated vacation falls below the maximum accrual level. Employees are responsible for observing maximum accrual levels and scheduling vacation accordingly.
29.2	No On-call or O.D. Scheduling
Employees shall not be scheduled to be on-call or assigned as O.D. during a scheduled vacation leave.
29.3	Cash Out
The Employer may in its sole discretion offer to cash out an employee's accrued vacation that exceeds 40 hours. An employee may accept or reject the cash out offer.
29.4	Holiday During Vacation
If a paid holiday, as set forth in Article 33, occurs during an employee's vacation, that day shall not be charged as a vacation day, but as a paid holiday.
29.5	Scheduling
An employee must submit all vacation reguests to his or her immediate supervisor for prior approval. Reguests for vacation must be submitted at least two (2) weeks
936342.1
-31 -
prior to the requested beginning day of the vacation unless impossible to do so. The supervisor shall respond to such request within a reasonable period of time not to exceed five (5) working days after receipt. Vacation requests shall not be unreasonably denied. Subject to staffing requirements, first priority in granting vacation requests shall be given to the earliest date or dates. If, on the same date, more than one employee submits a vacation request for the same or overlapping dates and the supervisor or Director is not able to grant all such requests, seniority shall govern.
29.6	Payment Upon Termination or Resignation
An employee who is discharged or resigns shall be paid for all accumulated but unused vacation time up to the applicable maximum accumulation set forth in 29.1 of this Article, and as accrued through the last day of employment.
ARTICLE 30.	Sick Leave
30.1	Eligibility and Accrual
Full-time employees shall accumulate and be eligible to use sick leave with pay, from the date of hire, at the rate of eight (8) hours per month. Part-time employees accumulate a pro-rated number of hours per month worked, based on the number of hours they regularly work. An employee who works a partial month will accumulate partial benefits for that month. Sick leave may be used in minimum increments of % hour. Sick leave accrued during a month shall be posted and available for use on the first day of the following month.
30.2	Use of Sick Leave
Sick leave may be taken and deducted from an employee's sick leave accumulation when the employee is unable to perform his or her duties of employment because of illness, injury or an appointment with a physician, dentist or other approved health practitioner, or if it is necessary for the employee to be absent from work to arrange emergency care plans or otherwise act responsibly to the medical needs of immediate family members who depend on the employee. "Immediate family member" is defined as spouse, parent, child, designated partner, and any dependent family member who resides with the employee. The Regional Center shall have the right to reguire any employee to produce a physician's statement prior to return from sick leave verifying the ability to return to normal work duties, in cases in which the Employer has evidence causing it to guestion the employee's medical ability to return to work.
30.3	Holiday During Sick Leave
Holidays which fall during a period of sick leave shall be paid with available sick pay. A Paid Holiday will otherwise be paid only if the employee works both the workday before and the workday after the Holiday.
936342.1
-32-
30.4	Payment Upon Termination
Upon termination an employee shall receive payment for one-half (72) of his or her unused accumulated sick leave up to a maximum of 80 hours.
30.5	Integration of Benefits
Where an employee receives state disability insurance or workers compensation payments, the employee shall receive such portion of his or her available sick leave pay as shall aggregate to an amount equal to, but not exceeding, the employee's regular rate of pay. Sick leave pay shall be paid in the appropriate pay period based on the Employer's best estimate of the amount of State Disability or workers compensation insurance benefit due the employee
30.6	Wellness Pay
For any period of six (6) consecutive whole calendar months in which an employee does not have an unscheduled absence, the employee shall accrue an additional eight (8) hours of paid vacation time. The benefit will be prorated for part-time employees.
30.7	Sick Leave Conversion / Benefit Time
A.	Effective January 1, 2000, employees will have the opportunity to convert Sick Leave in excess of 80 hours to Benefit Time, at the rate of 2:1 (two (2) hours of Sick Leave becomes one (1) hour of Benefit Time). A maximum of 80 hours of Sick Leave may be converted per calendar year (January-December). Conversion opportunities will be offered two (2) times per year, in January and July.
B.	Benefit Time may be scheduled and used in the same manner as vacation, and is included in the computation of maximum vacation hours.
C.	Benefit Time is not eligible for sell-back and is not paid out at the time of termination.
30.8	CalPERS Sick Leave Conversion to Service Credit
As part of the Employer's retirement contract with CalPERS, the Employer participates in the CalPERS sick leave conversion benefit that allows the conversion of unused sick leave to service credit at retirement. Employees can contact CalPERS about the details of this conversion option.
ARTICLE 31.	Bereavement Leave
31.1	Regular Full-time and Part-time employees (including new employees under probation) are eligible for three (3) paid work days to attend to matters related to the death of the employee's, spouse, designated partner, child, step-child,
936342.1
-33-
step-parent, legal ward, brother, sister, mother, father, mother or father-in-law, or for a grandparent, or grandchild, or step-grandchild. The benefit will be pro-rated for part-time employees. In case of the death of a parent, sibling, or child living out-of-state, the employee shall have five (5) paid working-days benefit, provided that the employee provides written proof that the employee actually travelled to such state to attend to matters related to the death within ten (10) calendar days of the death .
31.2	Donation of Benefit Time
The Employer agrees to create in its sole discretion, no later than June of 2010, a pool into which employees may donate a limited amount of benefit time to be used, at the Employer's sole discretion, to assist employees who have a catastrophic illness and who have exhausted all benefit time.
ARTICLE 32.	Insurance Benefits
32.1	Eligibility
Programs shall apply to all regular, full-time employees, and to those part-time employees working a qualifying number of hours per week, as specified in the individual benefit descriptions. Benefits and benefit costs shall be pro-rated according to the employee's schedule (fifty percent schedule = fifty percent of normal agency contribution), except as otherwise stated below.
32.2	Health Insurance
Effective January 1, 2010, or when approved by CalPERS, whichever is later, the Employer agrees to contribute the following monthly amounts for full-time employees for purposes of health insurance, and to contribute pro rata amounts for part-time employees regularly scheduled to work 20 or more hours per week:
a.	Contribution amount will be equal to Blue Shield rate for employee only coverage.
b.	$477.04 for employee and one (1) dependent coverage.
c.	$581.74 for employee and two or more dependents.
Coverage is currently effective on the first day of the month after employment. The Employer retains the right to change insurance plans, or self-insure in its sole discretion, so long as the new plan provides the same (or a better) level of coverage. If the cost of health insurance exceeds the above-listed Employer contributions, the employee shall pay the difference.
An employee who can provide proof of coverage under another plan, may elect not to be covered by the Employer's health insurance. The employee shall receive
936342.1
-34-
$160 per month in lieu of such coverage. The $160 will be pro-rated for part-time employees.
32.3	Dental Insurance
The Employer shall provide the choice of two (2) dental insurance plans for employees regularly scheduled to work 20 hours or more a week, effective on the first day of the month following employment. The Employer shall be obligated to pay the actual cost of the premium for full-time employees and their dependents, and a pro-rated amount for part-time employees and their dependents. The Employer retains the right in its sole discretion to change insurance plans, or to self-insure, so long as the new plan(s) provides the same (or better) level of coverage.
32.4	Life Insurance
The Employer shall pay the full cost of group life insurance for employees working 20 or more hours a month, in the amount of twice the employee's annual salary, as of the first day of the month following thirty (30) days of employment. The Employer retains the right to change insurance plans, or to self-insure, in its sole discretion, provided that the benefits remain the same (or better).
32.5	Long Term Disability Insurance
The Employer shall pay the full cost of long term disability insurance for all employees regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) hours or more per week as of the first day of the month following employment. The Employer retains the right to change insurance plans, or to self-insure, in its sole discretion, provided that the benefits remain the same (or better).
32.6	PERS Retirement Plan
The Employer shall continue to provide employees working twenty (20) or more hours per week with membership in the State of California Public Employee's Retirement Plan (PERS). Employees will participate in the PERS Retirement Plan with the following retirement formulas:
•	Hired	or eligible on or before January 31,2008	2%	at	Age	55
•	Hired	or eligible on February 1,2008 through December	31,2012	2% at Age	60
•	Hired	or eligible on or after January 1,2013	2%	at	Age	62
Such enrollment shall be provided under the same terms and conditions as existed on the effective date of this Agreement, provided that the Employer may adopt a new vesting schedule for the retiree health benefit. This change to the retiree health benefit will be applicable only to employees hired on or after the effective date of the new vesting schedule.
936342.1
-35-
The Employer shall continue to contribute three and one-half percent (3.5%) toward the Employee Paid Member Contribution of the Normal Cost of PERS for employees hired or eligible prior to January 1, 2013.
Effective October 1,2014, employees hired or eligible on or after January 1,2013; shall per law contribute the full amount of the Employee Paid Member Contribution.
For all eligible employees, the Employer shall pay the full Employer contribution.
The Employer may change enrollment terms and conditions at any time as necessary to remain in compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to the PERS Retirement Plan, including but not limited to the Public Employee’s Pension Reform Act of 2013.
32.7	Accidental Death and Dismemberment
Regular employees working more than twenty (20) hours per week shall continue to be provided with fully Employer paid accidental and dismemberment insurance as of the first of the month following thirty (30) days of employment.
32.8	Deferred Compensation
The Employer shall continue to provide a deferred compensation program, in which employees may voluntarily participate, in order to establish their own retirement or tax sheltered programs. The program shall continue to offer a variety of investment options.
32.9	Vision Insurance
Effective December 1, 1999, the Employer shall pay the full cost of vision insurance for the Employee only, with the option for Employees to cover dependents at the rate set by the carrier.
ARTICLE 33.	Holidays
33.1	Holidays Observed
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King Jr. Day
President's Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Day
Holidays falling on a Saturday shall be observed on the previous Friday. Holidays falling on a Sunday shall be observed on the following Monday. Employees may take one work day off with pay on either the day before Christmas or the day before New Year's Day, pro-rated for part-timers.
936342.1
-36-
33.2	Personal Holidays
Regular Full-time and Part-time employees shall be given two (2) personal holidays per year, to be scheduled at the mutual convenience of the Employer and the employee. Employees are credited with two (2) personal holidays as of January 1 of each year. Holidays are one (1) work day for full-time staff, pro-rated for part-time staff. Personal holidays must be scheduled in whole day units. Personal holidays must be used by December 31 of the year in which they are earned as they cannot be carried over into the next year, and are not paid at termination. Newly hired employees employed prior to June 30 shall be eligible for one (1) holiday in the year of hire, taken after probation, and eligible for two per year thereafter. Employees hired after June 30 shall be eligible for two (2) holidays on January 1 of the following year.
33.3	Holiday Pay
Regular Full-time and Part-time employees are paid for recognized holidays in the following way:
Holidays Not Worked:	Full-time employees are paid for the day according to
the employee’s work schedule at the employee's straight-time rate. Part-time employees are paid at their straight-time rate based on their average day's schedule, and their hours adjusted for the week.
Holiday Worked:	Employees assigned to work will either be given a
substitute paid day off within two weeks and paid full holiday pay plus straight-time for hours worked on the holiday, or not given a substitute day off and paid full holiday pay plus time and one-half for hours worked on the holiday.
Holidays which fall during an employee's vacation shall be charged to the holiday. Employees must be on paid employment status on the day before and the day after a holiday and must either work or be on paid non-sick leave status either the day before or the day after the holiday to be eligible for holiday pay.
ARTICLE 34.	Compensation
34.1	Wages
A.	Salary Range Schedule
Effective July 1, 2015, Employees hired on or before June 30, 2015, shall be paid according to the salary range schedule attached as Appendix A. Effective July 1, 2015, employees hired on or after July 1, 2015, shall be paid accordingly to the salary range in Appendix B.
936342.1
-37-
B.	The parties agree if the Employer receives an increase in funding that is not attributable to growth, but increases the core staffing funding to an amount equal to or greater than the current salary schedule, either party may give thirty (30) days written notice to the other to reopen the agreement for the sole purpose of negotiation wages. The remainder of the agreement shall remain in effect.
C.	Lump Sum Payments
Effective March 1, 2015 eligible employees who have reached their anniversary date beginning October 1, 2014 through the effective date of this Agreement shall receive a transitional lump sum payment equal to three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) of their annual salary.
Eligible employees who have an anniversary date from the effective March 1, 2015 through September 30, 2015 shall receive, on their anniversary date; a transitional lump sum payment equal to three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) of their annual salary.
Beginning October 1, 2015, eligible employees who have reached their anniversary date through September 30, 2016 shall receive, on their anniversary date; a transitional lump sum payment equal to two and one-half percent (2.5%) of their annual salary.
The salary ranges for each year of the Agreement are set forth in Appendices A and B.
34.2	Step Increase
A newly hired employee shall, except as provided in 7(B) begin at Step I. An employee shall be advanced after accumulation of 12 months of service at the lower step and the recommendation of the supervisors, based upon satisfactory work performance. Absent a leave of absence or other break in service, the employee's hire date will be the employee's anniversary date. Step increases for employees shall become effective on the first day of the first payroll period that begins closest to the employee's anniversary date.
An employee whose step increase is denied or withheld because of unsatisfactory work performance may grieve such decision under the grievance procedure of this Agreement.
All employees are eligible for the step increase unless they are on a written Performance Warning at the time of the annual performance review on their anniversary date.
An employee who is ineligible for a step increase will receive that increase from the date of removal from the written Performance Warning, but will not receive a
936342.1
-38-
retroactive increase. Such payment delays will not change the date of the next annual review on the Anniversary Date.
Salary Schedules A and B reflect that effective July 1, 2015, three additional steps will be added to the top of all salary schedules at a rate of two and one-half percent (2.5%).
Step 8 shall be 2.5% higher than Step 7
Step 9 shall be 2.5% higher than Step 8
Step 10 shall be 2.5% higher than Step 9
34.3	Promotions and Transfer
Regular employees who are promoted to a higher paying classification shall be placed at the nearest pay step that provides at least a five percent (5%) increase. Such employees due for an annual salary increase within thirty (30) calendar days of promotion shall be placed on the next higher salary step above the step which provides at least a five percent (5%) increase.
34.4	Bilingual Skills
Employees in positions designated by the Employer as requiring the use of bilingual skills shall, upon the effective date of this Agreement, be compensated in an amount of $150.00 per month.
34.5	Pay Periods
Pay periods are semi-monthly. Pay earned from the first (1st) of the month to the fifteenth (15th) of the month shall be paid by the twenty second (22d) of the month. Pay earned from the sixteenth (16th) of the month to the last day of the month shall be paid by the seventh (7th) of the following month. When pay days fall on a weekend or holiday paychecks shall be issued the preceding workday.
34.6	Payment Upon Termination
The Employer at termination shall pay all unpaid wages, accrued but unused vacation and other benefits elsewhere required to be payable at termination. Checks for discharged employees shall be available upon discharge. Checks for employees who resign shall be paid within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt of notice of resignation, or at termination, whichever is later.
ARTICLE 35.	Sabbatical Leave
35.1	Formula
Each full-time and part-time employee, pro-rated for part-time, shall receive paid sabbatical leave on the following basis:
936342.1
-39-
Years of Service
Amount of Leave
10 years through 19 years
20 years through 24 years
25 years through 29 years
30 years through 34 years
35 years through 39 years
40 hours Total
80 hours Total
80 hours Total
80 hours Total
80 hours Total
35.2	Use of Leave
Sabbatical leave must be taken in one (1) block of time. It may not be broken up and used a day here and another day later. Sabbatical leave is not considered to be an accrued benefit and therefore cash-out will not be paid for unused leave upon termination. Sabbatical leave is not a yearly benefit and must be taken during the appropriate block of time that the employee is eligible to utilize the leave. An employee who fails to use sabbatical leave within the allotted period of years may not carry over the sabbatical time to the next sabbatical period. At least a one year hiatus must occur between sabbatical leaves.
ARTICLE 36.	New Classification
If the Employer establishes a new job classification within the bargaining unit during the term of this Agreement, the Employer shall also establish the rate of pay therefore. The Employer shall notify the Union within five (5) business days in writing of the establishment of any new job classification. If the Union is not satisfied with the rate of pay established by the Employer, it shall have the right within fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt of such notice of the new classification, to request bargaining, during the term of this Agreement, regarding such pay rate.
ARTICLE 37.	Education Leave
37.1	Use of Education Leave
An employee who has completed his or her probationary period under Article 16, of this Agreement may apply for 40 hours (professional) or 20 hours (nonprofessional) of education leave without loss of pay each fiscal year to attend job-related but non required conferences, courses, classes, institutes or workshops of an educational nature that will be beneficial to the employee's job at NLACRC, provided that:
A.	The employee makes the request to the immediate supervisor or the supervisor's designee in writing in advance, identifying and describing the content of the conference, course, class, institute or workshop that he or she wishes to attend and how it will be beneficial to the employee's job;
B.	Such attendance does not unreasonably interfere with staffing; and
936342.1
-40-
C.	The employee's immediate supervisor or the supervisor's designee determines that the employee's work performance in the employee's current position will be enhanced by such attendance.
37.2	Accrual of Benefits During Leave
An employee on education leave pursuant to this Article will continue to accrue vacation and sick leave benefits and seniority during the period of such leave, and the Employer shall continue to pay its portion of the premium for insurance and retirement benefits during the period of such leave. Employees who are on another type of leave absence are not eligible to use Education Leave during their leave of absence period.
37.3	Employer-Required Education Training
Conferences, courses, classes, institutes or workshops of an education nature which the Employer requires an employee to attend shall count as time worked. Upon receiving written documentation of expenses, attendance, and successful completion by the employee, the Employer shall reimburse such employee for reasonable pre-approved expenses necessarily incurred in attending such conferences, courses, classes, institutes and workshops. Such reimbursement shall include, where applicable, transportation per diem, fees and tuition.
ARTICLE 38.	Use Of Personal Motor Vehicle
38.1	Access to Motor Vehicle
Employees shall not use their personal motor vehicles for transporting clients.
38.2	Expense Reimbursement
An employee who uses a motor vehicle in the course of his or her duties for the Employer shall be reimbursed for the cost of any parking fee or toll, upon presentation of receipts.
38.3	Mileage Reimbursement
An employee who uses his or her personal motor vehicle in the course of his or her duties for the Employer shall receive mileage reimbursement as follows:
A.	If such employee is not requested by the Employer to utilize a rental car, the employee shall be reimbursed for mileage at the IRS rate used for all employees.
B.	Any employee who receives mileage reimbursement must maintain at least the minimal levels of automobile insurance required by the State of California and must provide a copy of such to the employer upon request. Any employee who receives mileage reimbursement
936342.1
-41 -
must maintain a valid California driver's license and provide a copy of such to the Employer upon request. If and when the Employer's insurer requires that the Employer participate in the DMV Pull program in order to maintain the Employer's coverage, then, subject to verification by the Union, the employees will sign any necessary documents and agree that the Employer will implement such a program.
ARTICLE 39.	Travel Expenses
Except as set forth in Article 38 (Use of Personal Motor Vehicles) and subject to the provisions of Article 37 (Education Leave), employees shall be reimbursed for all necessary job-related travel expenses. For purposes of this Article, travel expenses shall be defined as public transportation and a per diem allowance for meals, lodging and incidentals. Per diem is defined as the rate established by the IRS
ARTICLE 40	Workload Caseload Committee
The Employer and Union agree to form a Caseload and Workload Workgroup. This Workgroup will meet and examine the options and considerations for attempting to make caseloads and workloads more equal among bargaining unit employees with caseloads, and seek changes to policies that may unnecessarily exacerbate excessive workloads and caseloads. After an appropriate time, the Workgroup will issue a Report and Recommendations to the Executive Director. The Report will set forth the findings of the Workgroup. The Recommendations address how best to seek to make caseloads and workload more equal. The Executive Director will examine the Report and Recommendations. The Executive Director may adopt and implement those aspects of the Report and Recommendations that the Executive Director in his or her discretion deems appropriate to adopt and implement. Three months after receiving the Report and Recommendations, the Executive Director will write a written report of the recommendations to be adopted and will provide a summary of the recommendations that will not be adopted.
The Caseload and Workload Workgroup shall be composed of six (6) Directors and/or Supervisors selected by the Employer and six (6) bargaining unit employees. The Union shall select six (6) of the bargaining unit employees. The bargaining unit employees shall represent each caseload age group and each Employer office. The Executive Director shall appoint the Chair of the Workgroup. The Chair shall set the meeting schedules and oversee the location, direction and content of the meetings. The six (6) Union committee members shall meet the following criteria:
(1)	not exhibit poor job performance
(2)	Four (4) members shall be Service Coordinators, one (1) member an Intake employee, and one (1) member a Community Services employee
936342.1
-42-
(3)	At least one committee member shall be chosen from each of the three work locations
The Executive Director may veto the Unions’ selection to ensure the criteria in (1), (2), and (3) above are met. The Union will choose another Employee to replace the committee member.
Prior to April of 2015, the Workgroup may, if it chooses, prepare questions for a survey of employees and management on this subject. Any bargaining unit employee, any Management representative, the six (6) employee members of the Workgroup, and the six (6) management members of the Workgroup all may submit proposed questions for the survey. The final draft of the survey will be ratified by majority vote of the Workgroup.
Beginning in April of 2015, the Workgroup shall meet once a month, for two hours, during working hours, for at least three (3) months. At the end of three (3) months, the Workgroup shall assess whether it is ready to prepare the Report and Recommendations, or whether additional meetings are necessary. If additional meetings are deemed necessary, the Workgroup shall meet no more than three additional times, also once a month for two hours. At that time the Workgroup shall prepare its Report and Recommendations to the Executive Director. Employees will be paid for the two hours spent in such monthly meetings, but not for any other time spent on this project outside of the Workgroup’s monthly two hour meetings.
Once the Workgroup’s Report and Recommendations is issued, the Executive Director may, if he or she deems wise, direct the Workgroup to conduct additional meetings to examine specific caseload and workload issues.
ARTICLE 41.	Term
This Agreement shall become effective March 1, 2015, and shall continue through and including February 28, 2019, or until expiration of the Employer's principal operation agreement with the State of California, whichever is earlier. It shall automatically be renewed from year to year thereafter unless either party gives written notice of a desire to modify, amend or terminate it at least ninety (90), but not more than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to February 28, 2019, or any February 28 thereafter if it is automatically renewed, in which event this Agreement shall remain in effect during negotiations, and until ten (10) days' advance written notice by either party of its termination, but such notice may not be given sooner than ten (10) days before the expiration date.
Upon termination of this Agreement, whether by expiration of its term or otherwise, all rights and obligations of Employer, Union and employees under this agreement shall cease.
936342.1
-43-
ARTICLE 42.	Savings Clause
In the event that a provision of this Agreement is held to be unlawful by a court of final jurisdiction or is rendered unlawful by the State of California or federal statute, all other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. In the event that a provision of this Agreement becomes unlawful by such judicial or legislative action, the parties shall promptly enter into negotiation for the limited purpose of negotiating whether or not a replacement provision shall be added.
ARTICLE 43.	Notices
Notices by the Union to the Employer shall be mailed or delivered to the following address:
Executive Director
North Los Angeles County Regional Center
15400 Sherman Way, Suite 170
Van Nuys, California 91406
Notices by the Employer to the Union shall be mailed or delivered to the following address:
Local 721, SEIU, Ct.W., CLC 500 South Virgil Avenue Los Angeles, California 90020
NGELES COUNTY
By
Its
SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL
UNION, LOCAL 721, CtW, CLC
itzec
Ic/1^
NORTH LO REGIONA CENTER,
3/^7fa S’
936342.1
APPENDIX A
NORTH LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL CENTER SALARY SCHEDULE - SEIU 721 EMPLOYEES																	
EMPLOYEES HIRED ON OR AFTER JULY 1,2015																	
Grade	Job Title	Step A	Step B	Stepl	Step 1A	Step 2A	Step2A	Step 3	Step3A	Step 4	Step 4A	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9	Step 10
a	OFFICE AIDE	N/A	N/A	$1,430	$1,466	$1,502	$1,540	$1,577	$1,616	$1,656	$1,697	$1,739	$1,782	$1,827	$1,873	$1,920	$1,968
b	FILE CLERK	N/A	N/A	$1,600	$1,640	$1,680	$1,722	$1,764	$1,808	$1,852	$1,898	$1,945	$1,994	$2,044	$2,095	$2,147	$2,201
1	OFFICE ASSISTANT 1	N/A	N/A	$1,763	$1,807	$1,851	$1,897	$1,944	$1,993	$2,041	$2,092	$2,143	$2,197	$2,252	$2,308	$2,366	$2,425
2	RECEPTIONIST	N/A	N/A	$1,929	$1,977	$2,025	$2,076	$2,126	$2,179	$2,232	$2,288	$2,344	$2,403	$2,463	$2,525	$2,588	$2,653
3	FISCAL ASSISTANT II SECRETARY	N/A	N/A	$2,192	$2,247	$2,302	$2,360	$2,417	$2,477	$2,538	$2,601	$2,665	$2,732	$2,800	$2,870	$2,942	$3,016
4	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR FISCAL ASSISTANT III SENIOR SECRETARY TRANSFER COORDINATOR	N/A	N/A	$2,334	$2,392	$2,451	$2,512	$2,574	$2,638	$2,703	$2,771	$2,838	$2,909	$2,982	$3,057	$3,133	$3,211
5	REVENUE COORDINATOR	N/A	N/A	$2,450	$2,511	$2,573	$2,637	$2,702	$2,770	$2,837	$2,908	$2,979	$3,053	$3,129	$3,207	$3,287	$3,369
6	FISCAL ASSISTANT IV	N/A	N/A	$2,625	$2,691	$2,756	$2,825	$2,894	$2,966	$3,039	$3,115	$3,191	$3,271	$3,353	$3,437	$3,523	$3,611
7	INTAKE ASSOCIATE SERVICE COORD. ASSOC. VENDOR COORDINATOR	N/A	N/A	$2,689	$2,756	$2,823	$2,894	$2,964	$3,038	$3,112	$3,190	$3,268	$3,350	$3,434	$3,520	$3,608	$3,698
8	CONSUMER ADVOCATE FAMILY ADVOCATE	N/A	N/A	$2,842	$2,913	$2,984	$3,059	$3,133	$3,211	$3,290	$3,372	$3,455	$3,541	$3,630	$3,721	$3,814	$3,909
10	ACCOUNTANT AUTISM PROG. COORD. CONSUMERSERVCOORD FISCAL ANALYST FISCAL MONITOR	$3,272	$3,354	$3,436	$3,522	$3,608	$3,698	$3,788	$3,883	$3,977	$4,076	$4,176	$4,280	$4,387	$4,497	$4,609	$4,724
11	COMMUNITY LIVING SPEC. COMMUNITY OUTREACH SPEC. COMMUNITY SERV SPECIALIST CPP SPECIALIST FEDERAL REVENUES SPECIALIST INTAKE SPECIALIST PUBLIC INFO & TRAINING SPEC. RESOURCE DEVELOPER RISK ASSESSMENT	N/A	N/A	$3,621	$3,712	$3,802	$3,897	$3,992	$4,092	$4,192	$4,297	$4,402	$4,512	$4,625	$4,741	$4,860	$4,982
12	AUTISM PROG. CLINICAL SPEC. BEHAVIORAL CONSULTANT NURSING CONSULTANT	N/A	N/A	$4,751	$4,870	$4,989	$5,114	$5,238	$5,369	$5,500	$5,638	$5,775	$5,919	$6,067	$6,219	$6,374	$6,533
13	PSYCHOLOGIST	N/A	N/A	$5,927	$6,075	$6,223	$6,379	$6,534	$6,697	$6,861	$7,033	$7,204	$7,384	$7,569	$7,758	$7,952	$8,151
936342.1
-45-
NORTH LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL CENTER SALARY SCHEDULE - ANNUAL SEIU721 EMPLOYEES
EMPLOYEES HIRED ON OR AFTER JULY 1,2015																	
Grade	Job Title	Step A	Step B	Step 1	Step 1A	Step 2A	Step2A	Step 3	Step3A	Step 4	Step4A	Step5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9	Step 10
a	OFFICE AIDE	N/A	N/A	$1,430	$1,466	$1,502	$1,540	$1,577	$1,616	$1,656	$1,697	$1,739	$1,782	$1,827	$1,873	$1,920	$1,968
	0 Bilingual			$1,580	$1,616	$1,652	$1,690	$1,727	$1,766	$1,806	$1,847	$1,889	$1,932	$1,977	$2,023	$2,070	$2,118
	3 Hourly			$8.25	$8.46	$8.67	$8.88	$9.10	$9.32	$9.55	$9.79	$10.03	$10.28	$10.54	$10.81	$11.08	$11.35
	0 Hourly Bilingual			$9.12	$9.32	$9.53	$9.75	$9.96	$10.19	$10.42	$10.66	$10.90	$11.15	$11.41	$11.67	$11.94	$12.22
	0 Annual			$17,160	$17,592	$18,024	$18,480	$18,924	$19,392	$19,872	$20,364	$20,868	$21,384	$21,924	$22,476	$23,040	$23,616
	0 Annual Billingual			$18,960	$19,392	$19,824	$20,280	$20,724	$21,192	$21,672	$22,164	$22,668	$23,184	$23,724	$24,276	$24,840	$25,416
b	FILE CLERK	N/A	N/A	$1,600	$1,640	$1,680	$1,722	$1,764	$1,808	$1,852	$1,898	$1,945	$1,994	$2,044	$2,095	$2,147	$2,201
	3 Bilingual			$1,750	$1,790	$1,830	$1,872	$1,914	$1,958	$2,002	$2,048	$2,095	$2,144	$2,194	$2,245	$2,297	$2,351
	5 Hourly			$9.23	$9.46	$9.69	$9.93	$10.18	$10.43	$10.68	$10.95	$11.22	$11.50	$11.79	$12.09	$12.39	$12.70
	0 Hourly Bilingual			$10.10	$10.33	$10.56	$10.80	$11.04	$11.30	$11.55	$11.82	$12.09	$12.37	$12.66	$12.95	$13.25	$13.56
	0 Annual			$19,200	$19,680	$20,160	$20,664	$21,168	$21,696	$22,224	$22,776	$23,340	$23,928	$24,528	$25,140	$25,764	$26,412
	0 Annual Billingual			$21,000	$21,480	$21,960	$22,464	$22,968	$23,496	$24,024	$24,576	$25,140	$25,728	$26,328	$26,940	$27,564	$28,212
1	OFFICE ASSISTANT 1	N/A	N/A	$1,763	$1,807	$1,851	$1,897	$1,944	$1,993	$2,041	$2,092	$2,143	$2,197	$2,252	$2,308	$2,366	$2,425
	0 Bilingual			$1,913	$1,957	$2,001	$2,047	$2,094	$2,143	$2,191	$2,242	$2,293	$2,347	$2,402	$2,458	$2,516	$2,575
	3 Hourly			$10.17	$10.43	$10.68	$10.94	$11.22	$11.50	$11.78	$12.07	$12.36	$12.68	$12.99	$13.32	$13.65	$13.99
	0 Hourly Bilingual			$11.04	$11.29	$11.54	$11.81	$12.08	$12.36	$12.64	$12.93	$13.23	$13.54	$13.86	$14.18	$14.52	$14.86
	0 Annual			$21,156	$21,684	$22,212	$22,764	$23,328	$23,916	$24,492	$25,104	$25,716	$26,364	$27,024	$27,696	$28,392	$29,100
	0 Annual Billingual			$22,956	$23,484	$24,012	$24,564	$25,128	$25,716	$26,292	$26,904	$27,516	$28,164	$28,824	$29,496	$30,192	$30,900
2	RECEPTIONIST	N/A	N/A	$1,929	$1,977	$2,025	$2,076	$2,126	$2,179	$2,232	$2,288	$2,344	$2,403	$2,463	$2,525	$2,588	$2,653
	0 Bilingual			$2,079	$2,127	$2,175	$2,226	$2,276	$2,329	$2,382	$2,438	$2,494	$2,553	$2,613	$2,675	$2,738	$2,803
	0 Hourly			$11.13	$11.41	$11.68	$11.98	$12.27	$12.57	$12.88	$13.20	$13.52	$13.86	$14.21	$14.57	$14.93	$15.31
	3 Hourly Bilingual			$11.99	$12.27	$12.55	$12.84	$13.13	$13.44	$13.74	$14.07	$14.39	$14.73	$15.08	$15.43	$15.80	$16.17
	3 Annual			$23,148	$23,724	$24,300	$24,912	$25,512	$26,148	$26,784	$27,456	$28,128	$28,836	$29,556	$30,300	$31,056	$31,836
	0 Annual Billingual			$24,948	$25,524	$26,100	$26,712	$27,312	$27,948	$28,584	$29,256	$29,928	$30,636	$31,356	$32,100	$32,856	$33,636
3	FISCAL ASSISTANT II SECRETARY	N/A	N/A	$2,192	$2,247	$2,302	$2,360	$2,417	$2,477	$2,538	$2,601	$2,665	$2,732	$2,800	$2,870	$2,942	$3,016
	0 Bilingual			$2,342	$2,397	$2,452	$2,510	$2,567	$2,627	$2,688	$2,751	$2,815	$2,882	$2,950	$3,020	$3,092	$3,166
	0 Hourly			$12.65	$12.96	$13.28	$13.62	$13.94	$14.29	$14.64	$15.01	$15.38	$15.76	$16.15	$16.56	$16.97	$17.40
	0 Hourly Bilingual			$13.51	$13.83	$14.15	$14.48	$14.81	$15.16	$15.51	$15.87	$16.24	$16.63	$17.02	$17.42	$17.84	$18.27
	0 Annual			$26,304	$26,964	$27,624	$28,320	$29,004	$29,724	$30,456	$31,212	$31,980	$32,784	$33,600	$34,440	$35,304	$36,192
	0 Annual Billingual			$28,104	$28,764	$29,424	$30,120	$30,804	$31,524	$32,256	$33,012	$33,780	$34,584	$35,400	$36,240	$37,104	$37,992
4	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR FISCAL ASSISTANT III SENIOR SECRETARY TRANSFER COORDINATOR	N/A	N/A	$2,334	$2,392	$2,451	$2,512	$2,574	$2,638	$2,703	$2,771	$2,838	$2,909	$2,982	$3,057	$3,133	$3,211
	0 Bilingual			$2,484	$2,542	$2,601	$2,662	$2,724	$2,788	$2,853	$2,921	$2,988	$3,059	$3,132	$3,207	$3,283	$3,361
	0 Hourly			$13.47	$13.80	$14.14	$14.49	$14.85	$15.22	$15.59	$15.99	$16.37	$16.78	$17.20	$17.64	$18.08	$18.53
	0 Hourly Bilingual			$14.33	$14.67	$15.01	$15.36	$15.72	$16.08	$16.46	$16.85	$17.24	$17.65	$18.07	$18.50	$18.94	$19.39
	0 Annual			$28,008	$28,704	$29,412	$30,144	$30,888	$31,656	$32,436	$33,252	$34,056	$34,908	$35,784	$36,684	$37,596	$38,532
	0 Annual Billingual			$29,808	$30,504	$31,212	$31,944	$32,688	$33,456	$34,236	$35,052	$35,856	$36,708	$37,584	$38,484	$39,396	$40,332
5	REVENUE COORD.	N/A	N/A	$2,450	$2,511	$2,573	$2,637	$2,702	$2,770	$2,837	$2,908	$2,979	$3,053	$3,129	$3,207	$3,287	$3,369
	3 Bilingual			$2,600	$2,661	$2,723	$2,787	$2,852	$2,920	$2,987	$3,058	$3,129	$3,203	$3,279	$3,357	$3,437	$3,519
	3 Hourly			$14.13	$14.49	$14.84	$15.21	$15.59	$15.98	$16.37	$16.78	$17.19	$17.61	$18.05	$18.50	$18.96	$19.44
	□ Hourly Bilingual			$15.00	$15.35	$15.71	$16.08	$16.45	$16.85	$17.23	$17.64	$18.05	$18.48	$18.92	$19.37	$19.83	$20.30
	9 Annual			$29,400	$30,132	$30,876	$31,644	$32,424	$33,240	$34,044	$34,896	$35,748	$36,636	$37,548	$38,484	$39,444	$40,428
	0 Annual Billingual			$31,200	$31,932	$32,676	$33,444	$34,224	$35,040	$35,844	$36,696	$37,548	$38,436	$39,348	$40,284	$41,244	$42,228
936342.1
-46-
					NORTH LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL CENTER SALARY SCHEDULE - ANNUAL SEIU 721 EMPLOYEES												
					EMPLOYEES HIRED ON OR AFTER JULY 1,2015												
3rade	Job Title	Step A	Step B	Step 1	Step 1A	Step 2A	StepZA	Step 3	Step3A	Step 4	Step 4A	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9	Step 10
6	FISCAL ASSISTANT IV	N/A	N/A	$2,625	$2,691	$2,756	$2,825	$2,894	$2,966	$3,039	$3,115	$3,191	$3,271	$3,353	$3,437	$3,523	$3,611
	0 Bilingual			$2,775	$2,841	$2,906	$2,975	$3,044	$3,116	$3,189	$3,265	$3,341	$3,421	$3,503	$3,587	$3,673	$3,761
	3 Hourly			$15.14	$15.53	$15.90	$1630	$16.70	$17.11	$1753	$17.97	$18.41	$18.87	$19.34	$19.83	$20.33	$20.83
	0 Hourly Bilingual			$16.01	$16.39	$16.77	$17.16	$17.56	$17.98	$18.40	$18.84	$19.28	$19.74	$20.21	$20.69	$21.19	$21.70
	0 Annual			$31,500	$32,292	$33,072	$33,900	$34,728	$35,592	$36,468	$37,380	$38,292	$39,252	$40,236	$41,244	$42,276	$43,332
	0 Annual Billingual			$33,300	$34,092	$34,872	$35,700	$36,528	$37,392	$38,268	$39,180	$40,092	$41,052	$42,036	$43,044	$44,076	$45,132
7	INTAKE ASSOCIATE SERV. COORD. ASSOC. VENDOR COORD.	N/A	N/A	$2,689	$2,756	$2,823	$2,894	$2,964	$3,038	$3,112	$3,190	$3,268	$3,350	$3,434	$3,520	$3,608	$3,698
	0 Bilingual			$2,839	$2,906	$2,973	$3,044	$3,114	$3,188	$3,262	$3,340	$3,418	$3,500	$3,584	$3,670	$3,758	$3,848
	0 Hourly			$15.51	$15.90	$16.29	$16.70	$17.10	$17.53	$17.95	$18.40	$18.85	$19.33	$19.81	$20.31	$20.82	$21.34
	0 Hourly Bilingual			$16.38	$16.77	$17.15	$17.56	$17.97	$18.39	$18.82	$19.27	$19.72	$20.19	$20.68	$21.17	$21.68	$22.20
	3 Annual			$32,268	$33,072	$33,876	$34,728	$35,568	$36,456	$37,344	$38,280	$39,216	$40,200	$41,208	$42,240	$43,296	$44,376
	O Annual Blliingual			$34,068	$34,872	$35,676	$36,528	$37,368	$38,256	$39,144	$40,080	$41,016	$42,000	$43,008	$44,040	$45,096	$46,176
8	CONSUMER ADVOCATE FAMILY ADVOCATE	N/A	N/A	$2,842	$2,913	$2,984	$3,059	$3,133	$3,211	$3,290	$3,372	$3,455	$3,541	$3,630	$3,721	$3,814	$3,909
	O Bilingual			$2,992	$3,063	$3,134	$3,209	$3,283	$3,361	$3,440	$3,522	$3,605	$3,691	$3,780	$3,871	$3,964	$4,059
	5 Hourly			$16.40	$16.81	$17.22	$17.65	$18.08	$18.53	$18.98	$19.45	$19.93	$20.43	$20.94	$21.47	$22.00	$22.55
	O Hourly Bilingual			$17.26	$17.67	$18.08	$18.51	$18.94	$19.39	$19.85	$20.32	$20.80	$21.29	$21.81	$22.33	$22.87	$23.42
	0 Annual			$34,104	$34,956	$35,808	$36,708	$37,596	$38,532	$39,480	$40,464	$41,460	$42,492	$43,560	$44,652	$45,768	$46,908
	3 Annual Billingual			$35,904	$36,756	$37,608	$38,508	$39,396	$40,332	$41,280	$42,264	$43,260	$44,292	$45,360	$46,452	$47,568	$48,708
10	ACCOUNTANT AUTISM PROG. COORD. CONSUMER SERV. COORD. FISCAL ANALYST FISCAL MONITOR	$3,272	$3,354	$3,436	$3,522	$3,608	$3,698	$3,788	$3,883	$3,977	$4,076	$4,176	$4,280	$4,387	$4,497	$4,609	$4,724
	0 Bilingual	$3,422	$3,504	$3,586	$3,672	$3,758	$3,848	$3,938	$4,033	$4,127	$4,226	$4,326	$4,430	$4,537	$4,647	$4,759	$4,874
	0 Hourly	$18.88	$19.35	$19.82	$20.32	$20.82	$21.34	$21.85	$22.40	$22.94	$23.52	$24.09	$24.69	$25.31	$25.94	$26.59	$27.25
	0 Hourly Bilingual	$19.74	$20.22	$20.69	$21.19	$21.68	$22.20	$22.72	$23.27	$23.81	$24.38	$24.96	$2556	$26.18	$26.81	$27.46	$28.12
	O Annual	$39,264	$40,248	$41,232	$42,264	$43,296	$44,376	$45,456	$46,596	$47,724	$48,912	$50,112	$51,360	$52,644	$53,964	$55,308	$56,688
	0 Annual Billingual	$41,064	$42,048	$43,032	$44,064	$45,096	$46,176	$47,256	$48,396	$49,524	$50,712	$51,912	$53,160	$54,444	$55,764	$57,108	$58,488
11	COMMUNITY LIVING SPEC. COMMUNITY OUTREACH SPECIALIST COMMUNITYSERV. SPEC. CPP SPECIALIST FED REVENUES SPECIALIST INTAKE SPECIALIST PUBLIC INFO & TRAINING SPECIALIST RESOURCE DEVELOPER RISK ASSESSMENT SPEC.	N/A	N/A	$3,621	$3,712	$3,802	$3,897	$3,992	$4,092	$4,192	$4,297	$4,402	$4,512	$4,625	$4,741	$4,860	$4,982
	0 Bilingual			$3,771	$3,862	$3,952	$4,047	$4,142	$4,242	$4,342	$4,447	$4,552	$4,662	$4,775	$4,891	$5,010	$5,132
	3 Hourly			$20.89	$21.42	$21.94	$22.48	$23.03	$23.61	$24.19	$24.79	$25.40	$26.03	$26.68	$27.35	$28.04	$28.74
	3 Hourly Bilingual			$21.76	$22.28	$22.80	$23.35	$23.90	$24.47	$25.05	$25.66	$26.26	$26.90	$27.55	$28.22	$28.90	$29.61
	3 Annual			$43,452	$44,544	$45,624	$46,764	$47,904	$49,104	$50,304	$51,564	$52,824	$54,144	$55,500	$56,892	$58,320	$59,784
	3 Annual Billingual			$45,252	$46,344	$47,424	$48,564	$49,704	$50,904	$52,104	$53,364	$54,624	$55,944	$57,300	$58,692	$60,120	$61,584
12	AUTISM PROG CLIN. SPEC. BEHAVIOR CONSULTANT NURSING CONSULTANT	N/A	N/A	$4,751	$4,870	$4,989	$5,114	$5,238	$5,369	$5,500	$5,638	$5,775	$5,919	$6,067	$6,219	$6,374	$6,533
	3 Bilingual			$4,901	$5,020	$5,139	$5,264	$5,388	$5,519	$5,650	$5,788	$5,925	$6,069	$6,217	$6,369	$6,524	$6,683
	3 Hourly			$27.41	$28.10	$28.78	$29.50	$30.22	$30.98	$31.73	$32.53	$33.32	$34.15	$35.00	$35.88	$36.77	$37.69
	3 Hourly Bilingual			$28.28	$28.96	$29.65	$3037	$31.09	$31.84	$32.60	$3339	$34.18	$35.01	$35.87	$36.74	$37.64	$38.56
	3 Annual			$57,012	$58,440	$59,868	$61,368	$62,856	$64,428	$66,000	$67,656	$69,300	$71,028	$72,804	$74,628	$76,488	$78,396
	3 Annual Billingual			$58,812	$60,240	$61,668	$63,168	$64,656	$66,228	$67,800	$69,456	$71,100	$72,828	$74,604	$76,428	$78,288	$80,196
13	PSYCHOLOGIST	N/A	N/A	$5,927	$6,075	$6,223	$6,379	$6,534	$6,697	$6,861	$7,033	$7,204	$7,384	$7,569	$7,758	$7,952	$8,151
	3 Bilingual			$6,077	$6,225	$6,373	$6,529	$6,684	$6,847	$7,011	$7,183	$7,354	$7,534	$7,719	$7,908	$8,102	$8,301
	S Hourly			$34.19	$35.05	$35.90	$36.80	$37.70	$38.64	$39.58	$40.58	$41.56	$42.60	$43.67	$44.76	$45.88	$47.03
	3 Hourly Bilingual			$35.06	$35.91	$36.77	$37.67	$38.56	$3930	$40.45	$41.44	$42.43	$43.47	$44.53	$45.62	$46.74	$47.89
	3 Annual			$71,124	$72,900	$74,676	$76,548	$78,408	$80,364	$82,332	$84,396	$86,448	$88,608	$90,828	$93,096	$95,424	$97,812
	3 Annual Billingual			$72,924	$74,700	$76,476	$78,348	$80,208	$82,164	$84,132	$86,196	$88,248	$90,408	$92,628	$94,896	$97,224	$99,612
936342.1
47
APPENDIX B
NORTH LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL CENTER SALARY SCHEDULE - SEIU 721 EMPLOYEES												
EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 1,2015												
Grade	Job Title	Step A	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9	Step 10
a	OFFICE AIDE	N/A	$1,430	$1,502	$1,577	$1,656	$1,739	$1,782	$1,827	$1,873	$1,920	$1,968
b	FILE CLERK	N/A	$1,600	$1,680	$1,764	$1,852	$1,945	$1,994	$2,044	$2,095	$2,147	$2,201
1	OFFICE ASSISTANT!	N/A	$1,763	$1,851	$1,944	$2,041	$2,143	$2,197	$2,252	$2,308	$2,366	$2,425
2	RECEPTIONIST	N/A	$1,929	$2,025	$2,126	$2,232	$2,344	$2,403	$2,463	$2,525	$2,588	$2,653
3	FISCAL ASSISTANT II SECRETARY	N/A	$2,192	$2,302	$2,417	$2,538	$2,665	$2,732	$2,800	$2,870	$2,942	$3,016
4	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR FISCAL ASSISTANT III SENIOR SECRETARY TRANSFER COORDINATOR	N/A	$2,334	$2,451	$2,574	$2,703	$2,838	$2,909	$2,982	$3,057	$3,133	$3,211
S	REVENUE COORDINATOR	N/A	$2,450	$2,573	$2,702	$2,837	$2,979	$3,053	$3,129	$3,207	$3,287	$3,369
6	FISCAL ASSISTANT IV	N/A	$2,625	$2,756	$2,894	$3,039	$3,191	$3,271	$3,353	$3,437	$3,523	$3,611
7	INTAKE ASSOCIATE SERVICE COORD. ASSOC. VENDOR COORDINATOR	N/A	$2,689	$2,823	$2,964	$3,112	$3,268	$3,350	$3,434	$3,520	$3,608	$3,698
8	CONSUMER ADVOCATE FAMILY ADVOCATE	N/A	$2,842	$2,984	$3,133	$3,290	$3,455	$3,541	$3,630	$3,721	$3,814	$3,909
10	ACCOUNTANT AUTISM PROG. COORD. CONSUMERSERVCOORD FISCAL ANALYST FISCAL MONITOR	$3,272	$3,436	$3,608	$3,788	$3,977	$4,176	$4,280	$4,387	$4,497	$4,609	$4,724
11	COMMUNITY LIVING SPEC. COMMUNITY OUTREACH SPEC. COMMUNITY SERV SPECIALIST CPP SPECIALIST FEDERAL REVENUES SPECIALIST INTAKE SPECIALIST PUBLIC INFO & TRAINING SPEC. RESOURCE DEVELOPER RISK ASSESSMENT SPECIALIST	N/A	$3,621	$3,802	$3,992	$4,192	$4,402	$4,512	$4,625	$4,741	$4,860	$4,982
12	AUTISM PROG. CLINICAL SPEC. BEHAVIORAL CONSULTANT NURSING CONSULTANT	N/A	$4,751	$4,989	$5,238	$5,500	$5,775	$5,919	$6,067	$6,219	$6,374	$6,533
13	PSYCHOLOGIST	N/A	$5,927	$6,223	$6,534	$6,861	$7,204	$7,384	$7,569	$7,758	$7,952	$8,151
936342.1
-48-
			NORTH LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL CENTER SALARY SCHEDULE-ANNUAL SEIU721 EMPLOYEES									
				EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 1,2015								
Sradi	Job Title	Step A	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9	Step 10
a	OFFICE AIDE	N/A	$1,430	$1,502	$1,577	$1,656	$1,739	$1,782	$1,827	$1,873	$1,920	$1,968
	3 Bilingual		$1,580	$1,652	$1,727	$1,806	$1,889	$1,932	$1,977	$2,023	$2,070	$2,118
	0 Hourly		$8.25	$8.67	$9.10	$9.55	$10.03	$10.28	$10.54	$10.81	$11.08	$11.35
	3 Hourly Bilingual		$9.12	$953	$9.96	$10.42	$10.90	$11.15	$11.41	$11.67	$11.94	$12.22
	3 Annual		$17,160	$18,024	$18,924	$19,872	$20,868	$21,384	$21,924	$22,476	$23,040	$23,616
	3 Annual Billingual		$18,960	$19,824	$20,724	$21,672	$22,668	$23,184	$23,724	$24,276	$24,840	$25,416
b	FILE CLERK	N/A	$1,600	$1,680	$1,764	$1,852	$1,945	$1,994	$2,044	$2,095	$2,147	$2,201
	0 Bilingual		$1,750	$1,830	$1,914	$2,002	$2,095	$2,144	$2,194	$2,245	$2,297	$2,351
	0 Hourly		$9.23	$9.69	$10.18	$10.68	$11.22	$11.50	$11.79	$12.09	$12.39	$12.70
	0 Hourly Bilingual		$10.10	$1056	$11.04	$11.55	$12.09	$12.37	$12.66	$12.95	$13.25	$13.56
	3 Annual		$19,200	$20,160	$21,168	$22,224	$23,340	$23,928	$24,528	$25,140	$25,764	$26,412
	0 Annual Billingual		$21,000	$21,960	$22,968	$24,024	$25,140	$25,728	$26,328	$26,940	$27,564	$28,212
1	OFFICE ASSISTANT 1	N/A	$1,763	$1,851	$1,944	$2,041	$2,143	$2,197	$2,252	$2,308	$2,366	$2,425
	0 Bilingual		$1,913	$2,001	$2,094	$2,191	$2,293	$2,347	$2,402	$2,458	$2,516	$2,575
	0 Hourly		$10.17	$10.68	$11.22	$11.78	$12.36	$12.68	$12.99	$13.32	$13.65	$13.99
	3 Hourly Bilingual		$11.04	$11.54	$12.08	$12.64	$13.23	$13.54	$13.86	$14.18	$14.52	$14.86
	3 Annual		$21,156	$22,212	$23,328	$24,492	$25,716	$26,364	$27,024	$27,696	$28,392	$29,100
	3 Annual Billingual		$22,956	$24,012	$25,128	$26,292	$27,516	$28,164	$28,824	$29,496	$30,192	$30,900
2	RECEPTIONIST	N/A	$1,929	$2,025	$2,126	$2,232	$2,344	$2,403	$2,463	$2,525	$2,588	$2,653
	3 Bilingual		$2,079	$2,175	$2,276	$2,382	$2,494	$2,553	$2,613	$2,675	$2,738	$2,803
	0 Hourly		$11.13	$11.68	$12.27	$12.88	$13.52	$13.86	$14.21	$14.57	$14.93	$15.31
	0 Hourly Bilingual		$11.99	$12.55	$13.13	$13.74	$14.39	$14.73	$15.08	$15.43	$15.80	$16.17
	3 Annual		$23,148	$24,300	$25,512	$26,784	$28,128	$28,836	$29,556	$30,300	$31,056	$31,836
	3 Annual Billingual		$24,948	$26,100	$27,312	$28,584	$29,928	$30,636	$31,356	$32,100	$32,856	$33,636
3	FISCAL ASSISTANT II SECRETARY	N/A	$2,192	$2,302	$2,417	$2,538	$2,665	$2,732	$2,800	$2,870	$2,942	$3,016
	0 Bilingual		$2,342	$2,452	$2,567	$2,688	$2,815	$2,882	$2,950	$3,020	$3,092	$3,166
	0 Hourly		$12.65	$13.28	$13.94	$14.64	$15.38	$15.76	$16.15	$16.56	$16.97	$17.40
	0 Hourly Bilingual		$13.51	$14.15	$14.81	$15.51	$16.24	$16.63	$17.02	$17.42	$17.84	$18.27
	3 Annual		$26,304	$27,624	$29,004	$30,456	$31,980	$32,784	$33,600	$34,440	$35,304	$36,192
	3 Annual Billingual		$28,104	$29,424	$30,804	$32,256	$33,780	$34,584	$35,400	$36,240	$37,104	$37,992
4	DATA ENTRY OPERATOR FISCAL ASSISTANT III SENIOR SECRETARY TRANSFER COORDINATOR	N/A	$2,334	$2,451	$2,574	$2,703	$2,838	$2,909	$2,982	$3,057	$3,133	$3,211
	0 Bilingual		$2,484	$2,601	$2,724	$2,853	$2,988	$3,059	$3,132	$3,207	$3,283	$3,361
	3 Hourly		$13.47	$14.14	$14.85	$1559	$16.37	$16.78	$17.20	$17.64	$18.08	$18.53
	0 Hourly Bilingual		$14.33	$15.01	$15.72	$16.46	$17.24	$17.65	$18.07	$18.50	$18.94	$19.39
	0 Annual		$28,008	$29,412	$30,888	$32,436	$34,056	$34,908	$35,784	$36,684	$37,596	$38,532
	3 Annual Billingual		$29,808	$31,212	$32,688	$34,236	$35,856	$36,708	$37,584	$38,484	$39,396	$40,332
5	REVENUE COORD.	N/A	$2,450	$2,573	$2,702	$2,837	$2,979	$3,053	$3,129	$3,207	$3,287	$3,369
	3 Bilingual		$2,600	$2,723	$2,852	$2,987	$3,129	$3,203	$3,279	$3,357	$3,437	$3,519
	9 Hourly		$14.13	$14.84	$1559	$16.37	$17.19	$17.61	$18.05	$18.50	$18.96	$19.44
	3 Hourly Bilingual		$15.00	$15.71	$16.45	$17.23	$18.05	$18.48	$18.92	$19.37	$19.83	$20.30
	3 Annual		$29,400	$30,876	$32,424	$34,044	$35,748	$36,636	$37,548	$38,484	$39,444	$40,428
	3 Annual Billingual		$31,200	$32,676	$34,224	$35,844	$37,548	$38,436	$39,348	$40,284	$41,244	$42,228
936342.1
-49-
NORTH LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL CENTER SALARY SCHEDULE - ANNUAL SEIU 721 EMPLOYEES												
EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 1, 2015												
Srade	Job Title	Step A	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5	Step 6	Step 7	Step 8	Step 9	Step 10
6	FISCAL ASSISTANT IV	N/A	$2,625	$2,756	$2,894	$3,039	$3,191	$3,271	$3,353	$3,437	$3,523	$3,611
	O Bilingual		$2,775	$2,906	$3,044	$3,189	$3,341	$3,421	$3,503	$3,587	$3,673	$3,761
	5 Hourly		$15.14	$15.90	$16.70	$17.53	$18.41	$18.87	$19.34	$19.83	$20.33	$20.83
	O Hourly Bilingua 1		$16.01	$16.77	$17.56	$18.40	$19.28	$19.74	$20.21	$20.69	$21.19	$21.70
	O Annual		$31,500	$33,072	$34,728	$36,468	$38,292	$39,252	$40,236	$41,244	$42,276	$43,332
	9 Annual Billingua 1		$33,300	$34,872	$36,528	$38,268	$40,092	$41,052	$42,036	$43,044	$44,076	$45,132
7	INTAKE ASSOCIATE SERV. COORD. ASSOC. VENDOR COORD.	N/A	$2,689	$2,823	$2,964	$3,112	$3,268	$3,350	$3,434	$3,520	$3,608	$3,698
	O Bilingual		$2,839	$2,973	$3,114	$3,262	$3,418	$3,500	$3,584	$3,670	$3,758	$3,848
	O Hourly		$15.51	$16.29	$17.10	$17.95	$18.85	$19.33	$19.81	$20.31	$20.82	$21.34
	O Hourly Bilingual		$16.38	$17.15	$17.97	$18.82	$19.72	$20.19	$20.68	$21.17	$21.68	$22.20
	C Annual		$32,268	$33,876	$35,568	$37,344	$39,216	$40,200	$41,208	$42,240	$43,296	$44,376
	O Annual Billingual		$34,068	$35,676	$37,368	$39,144	$41,016	$42,000	$43,008	$44,040	$45,096	$46,176
8	CONSUMER ADVOCATE FAMILY ADVOCATE	N/A	$2,842	$2,984	$3,133	$3,290	$3,455	$3,541	$3,630	$3,721	$3,814	$3,909
	O Bilingual		$2,992	$3,134	$3,283	$3,440	$3,605	$3,691	$3,780	$3,871	$3,964	$4,059
	O Hourly		$16.40	$17.22	$18.08	$18.98	$19.93	$20.43	$20.94	$21.47	$22.00	$22.55
	O Hourly Bilingua 1		$17.26	$18.08	$18.94	$19.85	$20.80	$21.29	$21.81	$22.33	$22.87	$23.42
	O Annual		$34,104	$35,808	$37,596	$39,480	$41,460	$42,492	$43,560	$44,652	$45,768	$46,908
	O Annual Billingual		$35,904	$37,608	$39,396	$41,280	$43,260	$44,292	$45,360	$46,452	$47,568	$48,708
10	ACCOUNTANT AUTISM PROG. COORD. CONSUMER SERV. COORD. FISCAL ANALYST FISCAL MONITOR	$3,272	$3,436	$3,608	$3,788	$3,977	$4,176	$4,280	$4,387	$4,497	$4,609	$4,724
	O Bilingual	$3,422	$3,586	$3,758	$3,938	$4,127	$4,326	$4,430	$4,537	$4,647	$4,759	$4,874
	O Hourly	$18.88	$19.82	$20.82	$21.85	$22.94	$24.09	$24.69	$25.31	$25.94	$26.59	$27.25
	O Hourly Bilingual	$19.74	$20.69	$21.68	$22.72	$23.81	$24.96	$25.56	$26.18	$26.81	$27.46	$28.12
	O Annual	$39,264	$41,232	$43,296	$45,456	$47,724	$50,112	$51,360	$52,644	$53,964	$55,308	$56,688
	C Annual Billingual	$41,064	$43,032	$45,096	$47,256	$49,524	$51,912	$53,160	$54,444	$55,764	$57,108	$58,488
11	COMMUNITY LIVING SPEC. COMMUNITY OUTREACH SPECIALIST COMMUNITY SERV. SPEC. CPP SPECIALIST FED REVENUES SPECIALIST INTAKE SPECIALIST PUBLIC INFO & TRAINING SPECIALIST RESOURCE DEVELOPER RISK ASSESSMENT SPEC.	N/A	$3,621	$3,802	$3,992	$4,192	$4,402	$4,512	$4,625	$4,741	$4,860	$4,982
	O Bilingual		$3,771	$3,952	$4,142	$4,342	$4,552	$4,662	$4,775	$4,891	$5,010	$5,132
	5 Hourly		$20.89	$21.94	$23.03	$24.19	$25.40	$26.03	$26.68	$27.35	$28.04	$28.74
	□ Hourly Bilingual		$21.76	$22.80	$23.90	$25.05	$26.26	$26.90	$27.55	$28.22	$28.90	$29.61
	O Annual		$43,452	$45,624	$47,904	$50,304	$52,824	$54,144	$55,500	$56,892	$58,320	$59,784
	O Annual Billingual		$45,252	$47,424	$49,704	$52,104	$54,624	$55,944	$57,300	$58,692	$60,120	$61,584
12	AUTISM PROG CLIN. SPEC. BEHAVIOR CONSULTANT NURSING CONSULTANT	N/A	$4,751	$4,989	$5,238	$5,500	$5,775	$5,919	$6,067	$6,219	$6,374	$6,533
	O Bilingual		$4,901	$5,139	$5,388	$5,650	$5,925	$6,069	$6,217	$6,369	$6,524	$6,683
	O Hourly		$27.41	$28.78	$30.22	$31.73	$33.32	$34.15	$35.00	$35.88	$36.77	$37.69
	O Hourly Bilingual		$28.28	$29.65	$31.09	$32.60	$34.18	$35.01	$35.87	$36.74	$37.64	$38.56
	O Annual		$57,012	$59,868	$62,856	$66,000	$69,300	$71,028	$72,804	$74,628	$76,488	$78,396
	O Annual Billingual		$58,812	$61,668	$64,656	$67,800	$71,100	$72,828	$74,604	$76,428	$78,288	$80,196
13	PSYCHOLOGIST	N/A	$5,927	$6,223	$6,534	$6,861	$7,204	$7,384	$7,569	$7,758	$7,952	$8,151
	9 Bilingual		$6,077	$6,373	$6,684	$7,011	$7,354	$7,534	$7,719	$7,908	$8,102	$8,301
	3 Hourly		$34.19	$35.90	$37.70	$39.58	$41.56	$42.60	$43.67	$44.76	$45.88	$47.03
	3 Hourly Bilingual		$35.06	$36.77	$38.56	$40.45	$42.43	$43.47	$44.53	$45.62	$46.74	$47.89
	9 Annual		$71,124	$74,676	$78,408	$82,332	$86,448	$88,608	$90,828	$93,096	$95,424	$97,812
	O Annual Billingual		$72,924	$76,476	$80,208	$84,132	$88,248	$90,408	$92,628	$94,896	$97,224	$99,612
936342.1
50
APPENDIX C
NORTH LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL CENTER TRANSITIONAL LUMP SUM
SEIU EMPLOYEES
October 1, 2014 - September 30, 2016
Employees are eligible to receive the transitional lump sum if they were eligible to receive an one time only merit lump sum payment based on the previous SEIU - NLACRC Agreement dated October 1, 2009 - September 30, 2014 and the SEIU side letter agreement effective July 1, 2013,
Summary of Eligiblity:
Group A
-	Employees hired before July 1, 2013 and who have reached Step 5 as of June 30,2013 will be eligible to receive the transitional lump sum as follows:
October 1,2014 - September 30, 2015 Employees will receive a transitional lump sum of 3.2% of their annual salary upon their anniversary. (Employees who reached their anniversary between October 1,2014 and February 28, 2015 will receive the transitional lump sum upon ratification of the SEIU - NLACRC Agreement dated March 1, 2015 - February 28,2019J
October 1, 2015 * September 30, 2016 Employees willi receive a transitional lump sum of 2.5% of their annual salary upon their anniversary.
Group B
-	Employees hired before July 1,2013 and who were at Step A or 1-4 as of July 1, 2013 and who have reached Step 6 as of September 30, 2014 will be eligible to receive the transitional lump sum upon their anniversary from Step 7 to Step 8 as follows:
October 1, 2015 - September 30,2016 Employees will receive a transitional lump sum of 2.5% of their annual salary upon their anniversary.
Group C
-	Employees hired between July 1,2013 and June 30, 2015 and who have reached Step 6 as of September 30,2014 will be eligible to receive the transitional lump sum upon their anniversary from Step 7 to Step 8 as follows:
October 1, 2015 - September 30, 2016 Employees will receive a transitional lump sum of 2.5% of their annual salary upon their anniversary.
936342.1
-51 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ARTICLE 1.	RECOGNITION.....................................1
ARTICLE 2.	NON-DISCRIMINATION..............................1
ARTICLE 3.	BENEFITS DEPENDENT UPON CONTINUED STATE FUNDING...2
ARTICLE 4.	PAST PRACTICE NOT BINDING.......................2
ARTICLE 5.	UNION SECURITY..................................2
ARTICLE 6.	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS...............................4
ARTICLE 7.	HIRING AND SELECTION............................7
ARTICLE 8.	DEFINITION OF EMPLOYEES.........................9
ARTICLE 9.	PERSONNEL FILES................................10
ARTICLE 10.	ADVANCE APPROVAL FOR OVERTIME.................11
ARTICLE 11.	TIMEKEEPING...................................12
ARTICLE 12.	NOTICE OF ABSENCE.............................12
ARTICLE 13.	ON CALL AND CALL-BACK.........................12
ARTICLE 14.	REST AND MEAL PERIODS.........................12
ARTICLE 15.	PERFORMANCE EVALUATION........................13
ARTICLE 16.	GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION.....................14
ARTICLE 17.	NO WORK STOPPAGES.............................17
ARTICLE 18.	DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE......................18
ARTICLE 19.	HOURS OF WORK.................................19
ARTICLE 20.	LAYOFF OR REDUCTION IN FORCE..................21
ARTICLE 21.	GOVERNMENT LEAVES.............................23
ARTICLE 22.	LEAVES OF ABSENCE.............................24
ARTICLE 23.	SUBCONTRACTING................................26
ARTICLE 24.	JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS..........................27
ARTICLE 25.	JOB DESCRIPTIONS..............................27
ARTICLE 26.	ILLNESS AND INJURY PREVENTION.................27
ARTICLE 27.	UNION BUSINESS................................27
ARTICLE 28.	OVERTIME......................................29
ARTICLE 29.	VACATION......................................31
ARTICLE 30.	SICK LEAVE....................................32
ARTICLE 31.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.............................33
ARTICLE 32.	INSURANCE BENEFITS............................34
936342.1
- I -
ARTICLE 33.	HOLIDAYS.......................................36
ARTICLE 34.	COMPENSATION...................................37
ARTICLE 35.	SABBATICAL LEAVE...............................39
ARTICLE 36.	NEW CLASSIFICATION.............................40
ARTICLE 37.	EDUCATION LEAVE................................40
ARTICLE 38.	USE OF PERSONAL MOTOR VEHICLE..................41
ARTICLE 39.	TRAVEL EXPENSES................................42
ARTICLE 41.	TERM...........................................43
ARTICLE 42.	SAVINGS CLAUSE.................................44
ARTICLE 43.	NOTICES........................................44
APPENDIX A	45
APPENDIX B	48
APPENDIX C	51
936342.1
- II -
Agreement to Extend Collective Bargaining Agreement
Between North Los Angeles County Regional Center and SEIU Local 721
This Agreement will confirm that while the parties negotiate for a new collective bargaining agreement, SEIU Local 721 and North Los Angeles County Regional Center have agreed to extend indefinitely the collective bargaining agreement between them that expires on l-'ebruary 28, 2019; provided, however, that cither party may terminate the extended collective bargaining agreement at any time by giving ten (10) days written notice of termination to the other party.
1145896 i