COLLECTIVE BARGAINING
AGREEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court, Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments
AND
GENERAL TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL 231 [AFFILIATED WITH THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS]
JANUARY 1, 2020 - DECEMBER 31, 2021
NON-COMMISSIONED SUPPORT STAFF OF THE CITY OF FERNDALE POLICE DEPARTMENT, MUNICIPAL COURT, PROBATION, PUBLIC WORKS, PLANNING AND CITY CLERK'S DEPARTMENTS 1/1/2020-12/31/2021
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
ARTICLE 1	UNION RECOGNITION--------------------------------------- 2
ARTICLE 2	UNION-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS------------------------------ 3
ARTICLES	NEW HIRE NOTIFICATION----------------------------------- 3
ARTICLE 4	WORK SCHEDULE------------------------------------------- 4
ARTICLES	PAID HOLIDAYS------------------------------------------- 5
ARTICLES	VACATION SCHEDULE--------------------------------------- 5
ARTICLE?	SICK LEAVE PAY------------------------------------------ 6
ARTICLES	FAMILY LEAVE-------------------------------------------- 7
ARTICLES	JURY DUTY----------------------------------------------- 8
ARTICLE 10	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE--------------------------------------- 9
ARTICLE 11	LUNCH PERIODS/REST BREAKS------------------------------- 9
ARTICLE 12	LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE------------------------------ 9
ARTICLE 13	HEALTH AND WELFARE------------------------------------- 10
ARTICLE 14	SALARY SCHEDULE---------------------------------------- 11
ARTICLE 15	SENIORITY---------------------------------------------- 13
ARTICLE 16	PROBATION PERIOD--------------------------------------- 13
ARTICLE 17	PAY PERIODS-------------------------------------------- 13
ARTICLE 18	DISCIPLINE--------------------------------------------- 14
ARTICLE 19	INITIATION FEE AND DUES CHECKOFF----------------------- 15
ARTICLE 20	UNION ACTIVITY----------------------------------------- 16
ARTICLE 21	SEPARABILITY AND SAVINGS------------------------------- 16
ARTICLE 22	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION-------------------- 16
ARTICLE 23	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS-------------------------------------- 18
ARTICLE 24	SUBCONTRACTING----------------------------------------- 19
ARTICLE 25	TERMINATION CLAUSE------------------------------------- 19
ADDENDUM A	SALARARY SCHEDULE-------------------------------------- 20
ADDENDUMS	PROBATION OFFICER SCHEDULE----------------------------- 22
ADDENDUM C	RECLASSIFICATION PROCEDURE----------------------------- 23
GLOSSARY OF TERMS---------------------------------------------------- 25
WEINGARTEN RIGHTS---------------------------------------------------- 27
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 1
This Agreement is made and entered into by and between the City of Ferndale, Washington, hereinafter referred to as City, and General Teamsters Union Local 231, hereinafter referred to as Union.
The purpose of this Agreement is to achieve and maintain a harmonious relationship between the City and the Union, to provide for equitable and peaceful adjustment of differences which may arise, and to set forth the understanding reached between the parties with respect to wages, hours of work, benefits, and conditions of employment.
The parties to this Agreement share a common commitment to serve the citizens and businesses of the City of Ferndale to address the needs of the community, for the greater good.
The parties are committed to a collective bargaining relationship, which acknowledges the unique nature of public service both in terms of the demands placed upon employees, as well as budgetary restraints for public agencies. Both parties strive to identify equitable solutions within these constraints, and to seek meaningful, sustainable, and competitive compensation. Both parties also seek to honor the diversity of the City’s workers, both in terms of the various backgrounds they may bring to the job, but the needs of each employee, with respect to health, family, childcare, and/or post-career expectations.
Both parties seek to provide high quality working conditions, and to enhance an ongoing relationship of trust and respect.
This Agreement has been jointly created by representatives of the City and the Union through the use of the Interest Based Bargaining (IBB) process. We are committed to continued use of the IBB process in our work together, and to resolving conflict whenever possible through achievement of consensus upon acknowledgement of all parties’ interests. To that end, a Labor Management Committee is established through Article 12, for the purposes of maintaining and enhancing this relationship.
ARTICLE 1
UNION RECOGNITION
1.01 RECOGNITION CLAUSE: The City of Ferndale, Washington, recognizes the Union as sole and exclusive representative for the purposes of collective bargaining for all full-time and regular part-time non-commissioned support staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court, Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk’s Departments, excluding supervisors, confidential employees, temporary employees hired for not more than one hundred twenty (120) days and all other employees of the Employer.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 2
1.02 No employee shall be discharged or discriminated against for upholding Union principles and any employee working under instruction of the Union or who serves on a committee may do so without losing employee’s position and without being discriminated against for such activity.
1.03 The Union agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders and judgments brought and issued against the City as a result of any action taken or not taken by the City in regard to Union dues and/or initiation fees.
1.04 NON-DISCRIMINATION: Neither the City nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee covered by this Agreement in a manner which would violate any applicable laws because of race, creed, color, sexual orientation or gender identity, national origin, age, gender, marital status, mental, sensory or physical disability.
ARTICLE 2
UNION-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
2.0	1 All collective bargaining with respect to wages, hours and other working conditions of employment shall be conducted by authorized representatives of the Union and authorized representatives of the City.
2.0	2 NO STRIKE- NO LOCKOUT: Neither the Union nor its officers, agents, representatives or members shall instigate, promote, cause, engage in or authorize its members to instigate, promote, cause or engage in any strike, sympathy strike, shutdown, slowdown, picketing or any other concerted stoppage of work.
There shall be no lockout by the City during the term of this Agreement as a result of a labor dispute with the Union, unless there is a violation of the above provision.
ARTICLE 3
NEW HIRE NOTIFICATION
3.0	1 The City agrees to notify the Union of all new hires within seven (7) days of the hire date. Notification must list name, address, position, salary and hire date.
3.0	2 New Hire Orientation: The City will provide the Union thirty (30) minutes, during the employees’ regular working hours, for purposes of presenting information about the bargaining unit and union membership. The Union Shop Steward and Business Representative will be allowed to attend this new hire orientation. This shall generally occur within the first two (2) weeks of an employee’s date of hire but in no instance later than ninety (90) calendar days.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 3
ARTICLE 4 WORK SCHEDULE
4.01 The workweek for all employees shall commence at 12:01 a.m. on Monday and end at midnight the following Sunday. With the exception of the Probation Officer(s), (see Addendum B), the weekly work schedule shall be Monday through Friday, unless mutually agreed otherwise by the Union and the City. The weekly work schedule will consist of either four (4) ten (10) hour days or five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days. The four (4) ten (10) hour days may not necessarily be consecutive.
4.02 OVERTIME: Employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid one and one-half (1 %) times their regular straight time hourly rate of pay for all authorized hours of work in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week or eight (8) hours in a day. However, the City, by mutual agreement, may establish a "Flex-time" schedule to avoid the payment of overtime in excess of eight (8) hours in a day for employees that work five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days, and overtime in excess of ten (10) hours in a day for employees that work a four (4) ten (10) hour shift. The “flex-time” will be reflected by reducing the employee's hours on the day before, the day of or the day after the overtime to equal forty (40) hours in the workweek so long as the overtime does not exceed three (3) hours.
4.03 COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Compensatory time in lieu of overtime pay that is requested by the employee and granted by the City may be accrued up to a maximum of one hundred twenty (120) hours. Approval is required from the employee’s supervisor prior to accruing any compensatory time. Scheduling of any compensatory time off shall be at a time mutually agreeable to the employee and the City. Compensatory time shall accrue at the applicable overtime rate for each overtime hour worked.
4.04 Employees called back to work following completion of a shift or on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday shall be paid a guarantee of two (2) hours at the rate of time and one-half; all hours worked over two (2) shall be paid for at time and one-half.
4.05 NO PYRAMIDING: Compensation shall not be paid (or compensatory time taken) more than once for the same hours under any provisions of this Article or Agreement.
4.06 Due to a conflict in job duties and responsibilities, Police Support Staff employees and Probation Officer(s) will not perform the duties and functions of the Court Clerk or Assistant Court Clerk, of the City of Ferndale, in their absence.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 4
ARTICLE 5
PAID HOLIDAYS
5.01 The following days shall be considered as holidays:
January 1
M. L. King Day President's Day Friday before Easter Memorial Day
July Fourth Labor Day Veteran's Day Thanksgiving Day
Day after Thanksgiving Christmas Day Christmas Eve Personal Holiday Employees Birthday
5.02 All work performed on a holiday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half in addition to holiday pay.
5.03	(a) By mutual agreement between employee and supervisor, the employee
may select any day within the same calendar year of employee's birthday as the holiday.
(b)	The employee shall notify the Employer one week prior to taking employee's personal holiday. Selection shall be by mutual agreement.
(c)	When a holiday falls on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be the holiday. If a holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday preceding may be considered as the holiday.
ARTICLE 6 VACATION SCHEDULE
6.01 A schedule of paid vacations shall be on the following basis. Vacation time shall be accrued monthly and credited to the employee each pay period as follows:
(a)	During the first year of employment, ten (10) days of vacation with full pay, credited incrementally with each pay period.
(b)	Beginning with the fifth (5th) year of employment, fifteen (15) days of vacation with full pay, credited incrementally with each pay period.
(c)	Beginning with the tenth (10th) year of employment, twenty (20) days of vacation with full pay, credited incrementally with each pay period.
(d)	Beginning with the fifteenth (15th) year of employment, the employee shall have twenty-five (25) vacation days with full pay, credited incrementally with each pay period. An employee may elect to receive pay for up to 40 hours
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 5
of accumulated and unused vacation hours, which shall be deducted from the leave balance. The employee must inform the City of their intent to receive pay no later than December 1. Pay cannot be received prior to the employee’s anniversary date. If the employee chooses the option of twenty-five days of paid vacation time, the fifth week must be scheduled after all employees have scheduled their current year vacation time or at a time when no employees have chosen to schedule their current year vacation and shall comply with the carryover provision as outlined in 6.02. Once notified that an employee has chosen to receive pay for their vacation hours, the employee will be paid on the following pay period.
6.02 VACATION CARRYOVER: The maximum amount of vacation an employee may carryover into a new calendar year shall be one hundred (100) hours. When the carryover amount exceeds this limit such vacation shall be forfeited. Additional carryover may be authorized with supervisor approval upon demonstration that the surplus carryover will be utilized within the first quarter of the next year.
6.03 Pro-rated vacation shall be paid to employees who terminate their employment, or who are terminated, on the basis of their earned vacation from the employee's anniversary date to date of termination.
6.04 Employees who work less than full time shall be paid a pro-rated vacation based on actual hours worked.
6.05 Inclement Weather: In the event of inclement weather, employees sent home or told not to report to work as scheduled shall be compensated for their regular shift pay at straight-time pay. Employees unable to report to work due to inclement weather conditions may use accrued vacation leave or comp time to offset the loss of wages during this event if the Employer has not sent them home or directed that they are not to report to work.
ARTICLE 7 SICK LEAVE PAY
7.0	1 Employees covered by this Agreement shall receive sick leave pay as follows:
(a)	Sick leave shall build at the rate of one (1) hour for every forty (40) hours worked with a minimum of one (1) day per month, whichever is greater. The maximum number of hours that can be carried over from one (1) year to the next is one thousand eighty (1080).
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 6
(b)	Sick leave shall start with the first day of illness, accident, invasive medical treatment or hospitalization. The employee shall submit a doctor's certificate to establish bona fide illness, in accordance with State law, if required by the City
7.0	2 Employees who leave employment with the City to retire into PERS or PSERS shall be entitled to cash in the amount of 25% of their unused sick leave bank.
ARTICLE 8 FAMILY LEAVE
8.0	1 All employees who have worked for the employer for at least 1,250 hours in the last twelve months are entitled to twelve (12) workweeks of unpaid family leave every twelve (12) months to (1) care for the employee's newborn child or adopted child, or (2) care for a child under 18 years of age who is suffering from a serious health condition, or (3) care for the employee's parent or spouse who is suffering from a serious health condition, or (4) due to the employee’s own serious health condition. If both parents of the child are employed by Employer, they are together entitled to twelve (12) workweeks of unpaid leave in a twelve (12) month period. Parental leave taken for the care of a newborn or newly adopted child must be completed within twelve (12) months of the child's birth or placement for adoption. This policy will be administered in accordance with the Federal Family Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA). Employees, if sick leave eligible, shall be required to utilize all accrued sick leave, compensatory time and all but five (5) days accrued vacation before any non-paid time off shall be utilized. Employees, if not sick leave eligible, shall use all accrued compensatory time and all but five (5) days accrued vacation before any non-paid time off shall be utilized. All leave granted in accordance with state or federal laws, whether paid or unpaid, shall count against the twelve (12) week period and each shall run simultaneously. For record keeping purposes, eligibility for the twelve (12) week leave shall be calculated on a rolling basis measured by looking at the twelve (12) months prior to the date a specific leave is to begin.
The City may recapture any premiums paid for health care for the employee on leave who fails to return to work for reasons other than the serious health condition of the employee or an immediate family member as defined by the FMLA. During the time employees are on unpaid leave, they shall not be entitled to any benefits granted under the terms of this Agreement other than health care.
8.0	2 The City will comply with the Washington State Paid Family and Medical Leave (PFML) law (RCW 50A), which establishes a program administered through the Washington Employment Security Department (ESD) to provide paid leave benefits to eligible employees who need leave for certain family and medical reasons. The City will post required posters (once available from ESD) to educate employees about this new
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 7
state benefit and may adopt personnel policies to provide employees with guidance on PFML.
The PFML program is funded through premiums collected by ESD via payroll deductions and employer contributions. For the period ending December 31, 2020, premiums will total four-tenths of one percent (0.4%) of employees’ wages (unless otherwise adjusted by the State). Each year, consistent with the law, employees will pay through payroll deductions the full cost of the premiums associated with family leave benefits and forty-five percent (45%) of the cost of the premiums associated with the medical leave benefits, consistent with ROW 50A. 10.030. Should the State modify PFML premiums or the percentage of premiums subject to collection through payroll deductions during the term of this Agreement, the City will modify payroll practices to reflect such statutory changes. Employees can begin applying to ESD for leave and benefits as of January 1, 2020. ESD will make eligibility determinations. When applying to ESD, employees must also notify the City of the need for leave; employees should provide at least 30 days’ advance notice of foreseeable leave and for unforeseeable leave notice should be given as soon as practicable. Consistent with State law, PFML leave must run concurrently with FMLA if both are applicable.
If ESD approves a claim for benefits, benefit payments will be made by ESD directly to an eligible employee. Employees may not supplement the State PFML benefits with accrued or other paid leave from the City and will not be eligible for PFML benefits if receiving time loss benefits through the workers compensation system. When an employee is on leave and receiving PFML benefits from the State, the employee is deemed to be in unpaid status for purposes of City policies. Insurance coverage will be handled in the same manner as other unpaid leaves of absence, pursuant to City policy and subject to any FMLA requirements.
ARTICLE 9 JURY DUTY
9.01 Any employee covered by this Agreement who is called upon for jury service in any Municipal, County, State or Federal Court, shall advise the Employer upon receipt of such call and if taken from their work for such service, shall be reimbursed as provided herein for any loss of wages while actually performing such service provided they exhibit to the Employer their properly endorsed check and permit the Employer to copy the check or voucher they receive for such service. The amount the employee shall be reimbursed shall not exceed the employee's regular rate of pay.
Employees who are dismissed from jury service by twelve o'clock noon shall report to employee's supervisor available for duty as soon as practical following release from service.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 8
ARTICLE 10 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
10.01 If an employee covered by this Agreement suffers a death in the immediate family, such employee shall be allowed three (3) working days off without loss in pay. An additional two (2) days without loss in pay shall be allowed if such death necessitates travel outside of Washington State. Employees shall be allowed to use accrued leave if additional time off is needed.
10.02 Immediate family shall be defined as wife, husband, son, son-in-law, daughter, daughter-in-law, stepchildren, mother, father, step-mother, step-father, brother, sister, step-brother, step-sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandparents, grandchildren and step-grandchildren.
10.03 Up to three (3) days of accrued leave may be used to attend the funeral of a friend or family member that is not listed above.
ARTICLE 11 LUNCHPERIODS
11.0	1 Employees shall be allowed lunch periods of at least thirty (30) minutes but not more than one (1) hour. Modifications may be permitted on a case-by-case basis as flex time, provided that adequate coverage is preserved, that no diminishment in overall hours worked during a pay period occurs, and that the employee receives prior approval from their supervisor.
11.0	2 Rest breaks (coffee breaks) shall be allowed by the Employer approximately halfway through the first and second half of each shift. Not more than fifteen (15) minutes shall be allowed for each break on the job.
ARTICLE 12 LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
12.01 A Labor Management Committee (LMC) is hereby established composed of representatives from Teamsters Union Local 231 Clerical Unit, including a representative from each department (City Hall, Police Department and Courts), and from Management representing the City of Ferndale. The Union Business Agent, and a shop steward or a bargaining unit member from each applicable department shall be allowed to volunteer to be members of the LMC. The Labor Management Committee shall meet on a quarterly basis in March, June, September, and December of each year, unless the parties agree
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 9
that a meeting is not necessary for that quarter. The purpose of these meetings is for the parties to this Agreement to meet and discuss items of mutual interest and to establish a forum to facilitate resolution of issues and concerns as informally as possible. The Committee shall not have the power to change provisions of this Agreement, negotiate new Agreements or resolve grievances beyond what has been agreed to within this Agreement. Time spent in LMC meetings by Employee representatives, shall be paid, if said Employee is on duty, up to a maximum of three (3) hours per meeting.
ARTICLE 13
HEALTH AND WELFARE
13.01 MEDICAL, DENTAL AND VISION INSURANCE: The City agrees to pay the required monthly premiums, during the term of this Agreement, to the Association of Washington Cities to provide medical coverage, to the employees and their dependents, as outlined in 13.02, and to the Washington Teamster Welfare Trust to provide dental and vision coverage, to the employees and their dependents, as outlined in 13.03 and 13.04, for each employee covered under this Agreement who was compensated for eighty (80) hours or more in the previous month. Said payments are to be made by the tenth (1 Oth) day of each month.
13.01.1 Effective January 1, 2020: The employee medical premium co-pay shall be 5% of the medical plan they choose per month. Co-Pay amounts will be by payroll deduction using the City’s pre-tax IRS Section 125 plan if the Employee chooses this option.
13.02 MEDICAL COVERAGE: Effective January 1, 2020: AWC HealthFirst 250 Plan, the Kaiser Permanente $20 Co-pay Plan, or the Kaiser Permanente PPO Plan. The High Deductable Plan with a Health Savings Account will also be an option as previously practiced.
13.03 DENTAL COVERAGE:	TEAMSTERS PLAN A.
13.04 VISION COVERAGE:	TEAMSTERS EXTENDED PLAN.
13.05 TERMS OF INSURANCE POLICIES TO GOVERN: The extent of coverage under the insurance policies referred to above shall be governed by the terms and conditions set forth in said insurance contracts. Any question concerning coverage related to individual employee claims shall be resolved in accordance with the terms and conditions in said policy and the administrative review procedures provided therein and shall not be subject to the grievance procedure set forth in this Agreement.
13.06 Medical Opt-Out: Employees who have medical coverage through their spouse, may choose to discontinue their medical coverage with the City of Ferndale, with written
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 10
notice to the City, and receive a monthly cash benefit in the amount of 40% of the monthly medical premiums discontinued. The City will retain the balance of 60% of the monthly premium discontinued. The employee may re-enroll for medical coverage with a 30 day written notice to the City and forfeit their monthly cash reimbursement in the month(s) they receive medical coverage. Medical opt-out requests will be allowed on a first come/first serve basis by approval of the City so as not to jeopardize the participation requirements of the City’s insurance provider. The employee requesting to opt-out of medical coverage, provided by the City, agrees to indemnify and hold the City and the Union harmless against any and all claims, suits, orders and judgments brought and issued against the City or the Union in regards to the employee discontinuing their medical insurance coverage with the City. The employee will be required to show proof of spousal coverage.
13.07 For Employees selecting the Kaiser Permanente $20.00 Co-pay Plan or the Kaiser Permanente PPO plan, the employee shall receive forty percent (40%) of the difference between the cost for that plan and the cost of the Regence 250 plan, after deduction of the employee’s five percent (5%) premium cost share.
13.08 During the term of this Agreement the City agrees to discuss VEBA options.
ARTICLE 14 SALARY SCHEDULE
14.01 [SEE SALARY SCHEDULE ADDENDUM A]
14.01.1 Anniversary Dates: Employees hired on the 1st through 15th of a month will be assigned the first of that month as an anniversary date. Employees hired on the 16th through the end of a month will be assigned the 16th of that month as an anniversary date.
14.02 Longevity: Employees covered by this Article who start their sixth year of employment shall receive a monthly amount of forty dollars ($40.00) and thereafter ten dollars ($10.00) per month for each year of service. Employees who have reached their sixth year of employment prior to January 1, 2020 shall receive the additional ten dollars ($10.00) per month beginning on their anniversary date in 2020; the longevity stipend shall not be retroactive.
14.03 Clothing Allowance: Full-time and part-time employees that are required to wear a uniform shall be given an initial lump sum allowance of $500.00. Thereafter, an annual allowance in the amount of $500.00 shall be given to full-time employees required to wear a uniform and $250.00 shall be given to part-time employees required to wear a uniform. The “thereafter” annual allowance shall be issued by separate check with 50% of the allowance paid February 1st and 50% paid August 1st of each year.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 11
14.04 Replacement of clothing damaged or destroyed in the line of duty shall be paid for by the City. Line of duty to be determined by management subject to the dispute procedure outlined herein.
14.05 Advancement to the next step in a salary range shall occur on the first day of the month in which an employee's anniversary date falls.
14.05.1 Employees shall be placed in a pay range that is consistent with their duties, responsibilities and job content. Any deletions or changes that would significantly alter the classification, ranges or characteristics of the position shall be subject to negotiation. Disputes that may arise concerning the salary plan or the placement of employees in the salary plan may be submitted to the grievance procedure listed herein.
14.05.2 Employees who promote or are reclassified shall be placed in the step in their new pay range at or above their current salary. The date of promotion or reclassification shall become the employee's new anniversary date for the purpose of future step increases. [See Addendum C, Employee Reclassification Procedures],
14.05.3 An employee will be paid five percent (5%) above his/her current rate of pay when a manager assigns duties and responsibilities that are typical of a higher classification. When determining whether the employee is eligible for out of class pay, the manager shall first identify in writing the anticipated scope and duration of the out of class work. The manager shall only authorize out of class pay when it is determined that the tasks for which the employee will be responsible are substantive in nature and demonstrably outside of the normal course of work for the employee. Managers shall not authorize out of class pay only for incremental or periodic work such as responding to phone or email, filing or similar tasks.
14.06 Education Incentive: Employees shall receive a monthly educational incentive for a B.A. or B.S. degree from an accredited college or university in the amount of One hundred dollars ($100.00).
14.07 Communicable Disease Immunization: The City will provide, at the City's expense, for immunizations at the Whatcom County Health Department or another facility approved by the City. The immunizations will be encouraged of the employees but shall be voluntary.
14.08 Deferred Compensation: For any Employee that chooses to enroll in the State of Washington Deferred Compensation Program, upon ratification the City will contribute, on a matching basis, up to one hundred thirty-five dollars ($135.00) per month effective upon ratification. It is the employee’s responsibility to notify DRS of any change to their deferral amount. The City’s contribution will begin when the City received notification from DRS.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 12
ARTICLE 15 SENIORITY
15.01 In the event of reductions in force, employees will be laid off from the affected classification within the department in accordance with their seniority and the ability to perform the remaining work available in the department without further training (excluding a reasonable orientation period). Employees, if qualified, may use their seniority to "bump" a junior employee in the bargaining unit from another department provided the senior employee is compatible with the objectives and goals of that department. Employees on lay-off will be recalled in the reverse order of lay-off provided they meet the requirements outlined in this Section. Departments shall be defined as: Planning, Public Works, Court/Probation, Police Clerical and City Clerk's clerical. Whenever a lay off is anticipated, employees whose jobs may be affected will be notified of the situation and options available as soon as possible to allow time to make necessary arrangements.
15.02 When a job vacancy occurs in the bargaining unit a notice of such vacancy shall be emailed to all City Employees. Employees who desire consideration for such openings shall notify the City, in writing, during this six (6) working day period. The City will give just and due consideration to seniority in filling vacancies. When qualifications are relatively equal in the reasonable determination of the City, seniority shall prevail.
15.03 The City shall fill vacancies in an objective and reasonable manner and agrees not to pre-select employees. In order to determine qualifications, the City will establish the testing procedures which may include written, practical and/or oral examinations. All testing questions or tasks shall be taken from "core" duties of the position as described in the job description. All applicants will be given the same test.
ARTICLE 16 PROBATION PERIOD
16.01 New employees shall serve a probationary period of nine (9) months. Probationary employees may be disciplined or discharged without access to any appeal procedure established by this Agreement. The Employer shall have no responsibility to continue the employment of or to re-employ probationary employees.
ARTICLE 17 PAY PERIODS
17.01 Pay checks shall be issued on the 5th and 20th day of each month. Checks shall be available by noon on each assigned pay day.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 13
ARTICLE 18 DISCIPLINE
18.01 No post probationary employee shall be discharged or suspended except for just cause and the City agrees that an allegation of arbitrary or capricious application of its rules and regulations shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
18.02 The City agrees with the tenets of progressive and corrective discipline, where appropriate, and that any such action shall be in a timely fashion. Progressive discipline means that, with the exception of behavior or actions where immediate suspension and/or discharge may be warranted, as per Section 18.04, discipline shall follow a prescribed process that is intended to result in improvements or behavior change at each level. Failure to meet these expectations will result in the next level of discipline.
18.03 Discipline action is not primarily intended to be punitive but rather to maintain the efficiency of day-to-day operations and in keeping with sound principle of human relations in the City service. Disciplinary action by the Employer shall be for just cause and shall follow the steps listed below:
(a)	Oral Reprimand
(b)	Written Reprimand
(c)	Suspension
(d)	Discharge
18.04 No employee shall be discharged or suspended unless the steps as detailed in Section 18.03 have been followed. However, no oral or written reprimand shall remain in effect for a period of more than twenty-four (24) months. No warning notice shall be necessary if such causes for discharge or suspension are for serious violations of City work, behavior and performance standards. The following are examples of the types of behavior where immediate suspension and/or discharge may be warranted:
(a)	Being under the influence of alcohol or drinking alcoholic beverages on the job or at the work site.
(b)	Possession, use, sale, or being under the influence of marijuana and/or impairing controlled substance, including prescription medication, while on employer business.
(c)	Gross misconduct related to employment or illegal behavior which damages the City’s reputation or ability to provide services to the public.
(d)	Dishonesty or theft, including deliberate destruction, damage, or removal of the City’s or other’s property from the premises, or any job site.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 14
18.05 Suspension or discharge must be by proper written notice to the employee and the Union within ten (10) days, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, of when the employer first knew or reasonably should have known that the alleged behavior by the employee occurred.
18.06 Should an investigation reveal that the allegations against the employee are unfounded, the employee shall be reinstated and all record of the incident shall be removed from the employee’s personnel file.
18.07 Suspensions and/or discharges will be in written form. Notices of suspensions or discharges shall include a statement of the charges and the date on which time the action is to be effective.
18.08 Discharge shall be for just cause only. The statement of charges shall be served on the employee with a copy by registered mail to the Union. Upon receipt of the statement of charges, a grievance may be filed in accordance with Article 22. Prior to any hearing or arbitration process, a joint meeting may be held by agreement of the Employer and the Union in an effort to resolve the disputed discharge.
ARTICLE 19
INITIATION FEE AND DUES CHECKOFF
19.01 For employees who individually and voluntarily certify, in writing, that they authorize such deductions, Union initiation fees and dues shall be deducted by the Employer and remitted to the Secretary-Treasurer of Teamsters Union Local 231. Accompanying said monies shall be a list showing names and social security numbers of each employee and the actual amount to be credited to their account. The Union will promptly furnish the Employer written notification of an employee who revokes consent of the deduction of Union initiation fees and dues. Once notified the Employer will stop deducting initiation fees and dues.
19.02 The City shall deduct and transmit to D.R.I.V.E., IBT 25 Louisiana Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C., 20001 contributions to D.R.l.V.E. from the pay of each employee who voluntarily authorizes such contributions in writing signed by the employee on a form provided for that purpose by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (“IBT.”) The amount of such deductions, and the transmittal of such voluntary contribution(s), shall be as specified in such forms and in conformance with any applicable law. Such forms received by the City’s Finance Department by the tenth (10th) day of the month shall become effective on the first day of the following month. IBT shall be responsible for the processing and handling of enrollment, including submission of the enrollment forms to the City.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 15
19.03 The City shall remit to D.R.l.V.E. at the address above one (1) check covering all deductions made in the prior month no later than the fourteenth (14th) day of each month, together with a list of all employees for whom deductions were made and the amount of each deduction. Deductions shall not be made if there is an insufficient balance due to the employee after all other deductions authorized by the employee or required by law or the City have been satisfied.
19.04 An employee may withdraw from the D.R.l.V.E. program at any time by providing a notice of revocation in writing, signed by the employee, and delivered to D.R.l.V.E. and the City’s Finance Department. Such notices received by the City’s Finance Department by the tenth (10th) day of the month shall become effective on the first (1st) day of the following month.
19.05 IBT shall indemnify and hold the City harmless from any claims which may be made by employees arising out of or related to the application of this Article.
ARTICLE 20 UNIONACTIVITY
20.01 Uncompensated time off for Union activity may be requested. Such time off will be allowed so long as it does not unnecessarily disrupt the operation of the City, trigger overtime by staff and is subject to the approval of the Supervisor, Department Head and the City Administrator.
ARTICLE 21 SEPARABILITY AND SAVINGS
21.01 If any article or section of this Agreement should be held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, the balance of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. The article or section held invalid shall be modified as required by law or the tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or shall be renegotiated for the purpose of an adequate replacement.
ARTICLE 22 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND ARBITRATION
22.01 A "Grievance" is a difference that arises between the City and its employee or between the City and the Union as to the interpretation or application of the provisions of this agreement. It is the intent and purpose of the Union and the City to avoid and prevent grievances and misunderstandings. However, should such differences arise, an earnest effort shall be made to settle the difference as soon as practical between the aggrieved
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 16
employee and/or the Union at the lowest level in the following grievance procedure. Grievances shall be settled in the following manner:
STEP ONE: A grievance shall be first discussed by the employee with his immediate Supervisor with or without his Union Steward present, as desired by the employee, within ten (10) business days of the incident or of the employee knowing of the incident. The Supervisor shall give an answer to the grievance within ten (10) business days of the discussion.
STEP TWO: If the grievance is not settled in Step 1 and the Union wishes to appeal the grievance to Step 2, it shall be referred in writing to the City Manager within ten (10) business days after the Supervisor's answer. The written grievance shall contain: (1) Facts upon which the grievance is based, (2) Whenever possible, reference to the section or sections of the Agreement alleged to have been violated. (3) The remedy sought. The City Manager shall answer within ten (10) business days after receipt of the grievance.
STEP THREE: In the event the grievance is not resolved in Step 2, either party may, within fifteen (15) business days after the City Manager's response, give written notice of arbitration to the other party. Once the notice of arbitration is provided, the parties shall jointly request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to provide a list of seven arbitrators. The parties shall, at a mutually agreeable time, attempt to agree on an arbitrator from the list. If such efforts fail, the parties shall select an arbitrator by alternately striking one name from the list until only one name remains, said person being the arbitrator. The order of striking shall be by a coin toss. The arbitrator selected shall be jointly notified of his selection.
The arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, subtract from or modify any provisions of this agreement, his authority being limited to the question submitted. Each party shall bear the cost of preparing and presenting their case, and 50% of the arbitration fees and all other costs. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on the parties.
All grievances and replies shall be in writing and shall be decided within maximum periods stipulated, but excluding Saturdays, Sundays and all Holidays as business days. The Postmarked date shall be considered as the start date for the purpose of calculating time periods in this Article. No grievance shall advance to the next step until a good faith effort has been made to settle at the lower step unless mutually agreed by the Union and the City. In the event the parties do not comply with maximum time limits established, the party who has not followed the time limits shall forfeit the grievance and the grievance shall be deemed waived and the other party shall prevail. Grievances so forfeited shall not establish a precedent. The time limits may be extended by mutual agreement of the Union and the City.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk’s Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 17
ARTICLE 23 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
23.01 It is understood and agreed that the City possesses the sole right and authority to operate and direct the employees of the City and its various departments in all aspects, including but not limited to, all rights and authority exercised by the City prior to the execution of this Agreement, except as modified in this Agreement.
These rights include, but are not limited to:
(a)	The right to determine its mission, policies and to set forth all standards of service offered to the public;
(b)	To plan, direct, control and determine the operations or services to be conducted by employees of the City;
(c)	To determine the methods, means and number of personnel needed to carry out the department's mission;
(d)	To direct the working forces;
(e)	To hire and assign or to transfer employees within the City;
(f)	To promote, suspend, discipline or discharge for just cause;
(g)	To lay-off or relieve employees due to lack of work or funds or for other legitimate reasons;
(h)	To make, publish and enforce rules and	regulations;
(i)	To introduce new or improved methods,	equipment or facilities;
(j)	To contract out for goods and services;
(k)	To take any and all actions as may be necessary to carry	out the mission
of the City in situations of civil emergency as may be declared by the Mayor, City Manager; provided, that no right enumerated herein shall be exercised or enforced in a manner contrary to or inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 18
ARTICLE 24 SUBCONTRACTING
24.0	1 It is the general policy of the City to continue to utilize its employees to perform work they are qualified to perform. However, the City reserves the right to contract out any work it deems necessary in the interests of efficiency, economy, improved work product or emergency.
24.0	2 Except where an emergency situation (including natural and/or man-made disasters) exists, at least sixty (60) days before the City contracts out work in a general area, where such contracting out would result in the layoff of existing bargaining unit employees, the City will notify the Union and offer the Union an opportunity to meet and discuss the matter before the date any existing bargaining unit employee is laid off. Such discussion may include, among other items, the relative economic costs and the effect of such action upon bargaining unit employees who may be laid off as a result of such contracting.
ARTICLE 25
TERMINATION CLAUSE
25.01 This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from January 1, 2020, to and including December 31, 2021.
25.02 If either party desires to negotiate modifications, a written notice must be given to the other party at least sixty (60) days prior to January 1, 2022.
25.03 Revisions agreed upon shall be effective January 1 of the year request has been made for modifications to the Agreement. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, the parties shall be permitted all legal or economic recourse to support their request for revisions if the parties fail to agree thereon.
This Agreement is executed this____day of January 2020, by the duly authorized agents
and representatives of the parties hereto.
CITY OF FERNDAl/E
WASHINGTON
'egr Hansen ay or
Rich^Ewing
Secretary-T reasurer
TEAMSTERS UNION LOCAL NO. 231
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 19
ADDENDUM A
Effective January 1, 2020 all wages increase by 3.5%
Effective January 1, 2021 all wages increase by 3.25%
2020 Wage Grid-Effective 1/1/2020
Steps:	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8*
Grade								
18	$5,548	$5,714	$5,885	$6,062	$6,244	$6,431	$6,624	$6,723
17	$5,283	$5,442	$5,605	$5,773	$5,947	$6,125	$6,309	$6,403
16	$5,037	$5,188	$5,344	$5,504	$5,669	$5,839	$6,014	$6,104
15	$4,801	$4,945	$5,093	$5,246	$5,404	$5,566	$5,733	$5,819
14	$4,578	$4,716	$4,857	$5,003	$5,153	$5,307	$5,467	$5,549
13	$4,364	$4,495	$4,630	$4,769	$4,912	$5,059	$5,211	$5,289
12	$4,161	$4,286	$4,415	$4,547	$4,684	$4,824	$4,969	$5,044
11	$3,970	$4,089	$4,212	$4,338	$4,468	$4,602	$4,740	$4,811
10	$3,784	$3,897	$4,014	$4,134	$4,258	$4,386	$4,518	$4,586
9	$3,609	$3,717	$3,829	$3,944	$4,062	$4,184	$4,309	$4,374
8	$3,438	$3,541	$3,647	$3,757	$3,869	$3,986	$4,105	$4,167
2021 Wage Grid-Effective 1/1/2021
Steps:	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8*
Grade								
18	$5,728	$5,900	$6,077	$6,259	$6,447	$6,641	$6,840	$6,943
17	$5,455	$5,618	$5,787	$5,960	$6,139	$6,323	$6,513	$6,611
16	$5,201	$5,357	$5,517	$5,683	$5,853	$6,029	$6,210	$6,303
15	$4,957	$5,106	$5,259	$5,417	$5,579	$5,740	$5,919	$6,008
14	$4,727	$4,869	$5,015	$5,165	$5,320	$5,480	$5,644	$5,729
13	$4,506	$4,641	$4,780	$4,924	$5,071	$5,223	$5,380	$5,461
12	$4,296	$4,425	$4,558	$4,695	$4,835	$4,981	$5,130	$5,207
11	$4,099	$4,222	$4,349	$4,479	$4,613	$4,752	$4,894	$4,968
10	$3,907	$4,024	$4,145	$4,269	$4,397	$4,529	$4,665	$4,735
9	$3,726	$3,838	$3,953	$4,072	$4,194	$4,320	$4,449	$4,516
8	$3,550	$3,656	$3,766	$3,879	$3,995	$4,115	$4,239	$4,302
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 20
*The increase between step 7 and step 8 is 1.5%.
**No Current Employee will suffer a reduction in pay due to the ratification of this agreement. The minimum salary increase for all employees covered by this agreement on January 1,2020 will be 3.5% above their salary on December 31, 2019.
TITLE	GRADE
Probation Officer Court Services Manager Police Support Services Supervisor Deputy Treasurer/Billing Analyst Senior Accountant Administrative Assistant/Police Records Manager Public Works Program Specialist Planning and Engineering Support Specialist Permit Specialist II Executive Assistant Permit Specialist 1 Police Records Clerk Utility Billing Analyst Public Works Program Coordinator Court Clerk Police Support Specialist II	[Property/Evidence Manager] Deputy City Clerk Finance/Records Management Clerk Administrative Assistant/Public Works Utility Billing Clerk Accounting Clerk II Planning Coordinator Community Development/Public Works Clerk Police Support Services II Court Finance Clerk/City Cashier Police Support Specialist 1	[Support Services/Evidence Clerk] Planning and Building Clerk Police Support Services 1 City Hall Clerical Assistant City Hall Receptionist	Grade 18 Grade 15 Grade 14 Grade 14 Grade 14 Grade 13 Grade 13 Grade 13 Grade 13 Grade 12 Grade 12 Grade 12 Grade 12 Grade 12 Grade 12 Grade 12 Grade 11 Grade 10 Grade 10 Grade 10 Grade 10 Grade 10 Grade 10 Grade 10 Grade 9 Grade 9 Grade 9 Grade 9 Grade 8 Grade 8
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 21
ADDENDUM B
The Parties signed below agree to the following workweek and call-in language for the Probation Officer(s) of the City of Ferndale:
The normal workweek for the Probation Officer(s) shall consist of four (4) nine (9) hour days, Tuesday through Friday. By mutual agreement, "Flextime" may be used within a pay period to avoid working hours in excess of forty (40) in a week.
Overtime shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/4) times the regular rate of pay for hours worked in excess of ten (10) in one day or forty (40) in a workweek.
Probation Officer(s) called back to work following completion of a shift or on a Saturday, Sunday, holiday or scheduled day off shall be paid a guarantee of two (2) hours at the rate of time and one-half; all hours worked over two (2) shall be paid for at time and one-half.
The Probation Officer(s) shall be compensated at the regular rate of pay for any "job related" telephone calls received and answered during their "off duty" time, provided total hours worked during the workweek, including off duty telephone calls, do not exceed forty (40) hours. If total hours worked during the workweek, including off duty telephone calls, exceed forty (40) hours, those hours exceeding forty (40) shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
This Addendum "B" is entered into this_/ day of January 2020, and may be amended,
extended or terminated by mutual agreement of the parties signed below.
eamsters Union Local 231
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 22
ADDENDUM C
CITY OF FERNDALE
EMPLOYEE RECLASSIFICATION PROCEDURES
1.	All positions shall have an approved job description which shall include a description of the anticipated duties and responsibilities. The job description shall also include the anticipated skills, training, education, and experience required for each position.
2.	The City shall endeavor to provide all necessary training and education needed to enable the employee to meet the requirements of their job description.
3.	The City encourages all employees to gain additional skills, training and education that enables them to better complete their job requirements. Should the City and/or an employee desire to receive training or education that is not strictly within their job responsibilities but may benefit the City, such requests shall be considered.
4.	Whenever an employee feels that 50% or more of their daily job duties exceed the parameters outlined in their respective job description, they may petition the City for a job reclassification.
5.	Such petition shall be provided to the Department Head and shall include a copy of their existing job description, the new and/or expanded duties that have been performed, a description of how the expanded job responsibilities exceed their current job requirements, and a recap of the time over the last six months that the expanded job duties have been performed. In addition, the petition shall include a statement by the employee as to their desired reclassification title/range/step.
6.	Within 10 days following the submission of the reclassification petition to the Department Head, the employee and Department Head shall meet and discuss the petition, its accuracy, and the sufficiency of the required documentation.
7.	Within 10 days following the meeting between the employee and the Department Head, the Department Head shall submit the petition and the required documentation to the City Administrator, The submission of the petition to the City Administrator shall also include a statement by the Department Head as to whether they support the petition and whether the supporting documentation supports a reclassification.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 23
8.	The City shall make a formal decision on the reclassification petition within 30 days of submission to the City Administrator.
9.	Should the City agree to the reclassification, the new title/range/step shall commence on the next full pay period following the submission of a Job Action form. In addition, the reclassified position shall carry a nine (9) month probation period. During this time they may elect to return to their previous classification without loss of seniority, or the Employer may, after a fair and reasonable opportunity, determine that the employee is unable to perform the work required in the new classification, in which event the employee shall be returned to their former classification without loss of seniority. This right of return shall not apply to employees that are terminated from employment for just cause by the Employer.
10.	Should the City not agree to the reclassification, a conference meeting shall be held with the employee within 10 days of the City's denial of the reclassification. The purpose of this conference shall be to discuss if the reclassification petition could be so modified as to receive approval by the City. This conference meeting may include such City and employee representatives as each party may deem appropriate. Any reconsideration decision by the City shall be made within 10 days following the conference meeting.
11.	Should the City deny the reclassification petition following the conference meeting, the employee may subject the issue to the Grievance Procedures outlined in the union contract.
12.	The approval or denial of a reclassification request, or the rationale for such a decision including an attempt to equalise pay or maintain comparative pay for other employees, shall not be utilized/as grounds or precedent for any other reclassification request.	/
Citv of Femdale
Teamsters Union Local 231
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 24
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Within the context of this agreement, the following terms shall apply:
Emergency, or Emergency Situation shall mean an incident or incidents of variable duration, whether manmade, natural disaster, or other such similar event, which requires a substantive but temporary change in workforce necessary to prevent or mitigate major damage, destruction, or interruption of service. An emergency event may be caused by, but is not the same as, inclement weather.
Inclement Weather shall mean significant weather events, most commonly heavy snowfall, flooding, or major wind, that may interrupt power to City facilities, or which result in dangerous driving conditions such that the average driver may experience significant hardship in arriving to work on time, if at all.
Essential Personnel, during an Emergency or Emergency Situation, shall mean those City Staff whose primary duty in an Emergency or Emergency situation shall be in responding to the event. Those individuals determined to be Essential Personnel may vary depending upon the nature of the Emergency, and may evolve during an Emergency or Emergency Situation, as determined by the supervisor, department head, or Mayor/ City Administrator.
City shall mean the City of Ferndale, Washington.
Union shall mean the Clerical Unit of General Teamsters Union Local 231.
Management shall mean: Department Head, Human Resources Director/City Clerk, City Administrator/Mayor.
Labor Management Committee shall mean a group composed of Management and Union members and meets for the purpose of identifying improvements that may be made to this Agreement between scheduled negotiations.
Full-Time Employee shall mean one regularly scheduled to work a minimum of thirty-five (35) hours per week.
Permanent Part-Time Employee shall mean an employee who is regularly scheduled to work seventy-nine (79) hours or less per month, with no established end-date to the position.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 25
Separation-Eligible Employee shall mean an employee who has not accrued sufficient time in accordance with the Department of Retirement Services, or the PERS program, and is eligible for retirement.
Retirement-Eligible Employee shall mean an employee who has accrued sufficient time either in accordance with the Department of Retirement Services or the PERS.
Grievance is a difference that arises between the City and its employee or between the City and the Union as to the interpretation or application of the provisions of this agreement.
Complaint shall mean a written communication from one or more employees to management or a supervisor expressing dissatisfaction, grief, conflict or concern, generally concerning items that are not regulated by this Agreement.
Temporary Employee shall mean an employee who is hired for not more than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days. Such employee is excluded from the bargaining unit and the benefits set forth in this Agreement.
Flex Time shall mean the ability for employees to coordinate limited variability in work schedules to accommodate periodic scheduled absences, provided that adequate coverage of that employee’s duties is retained. Employees are authorized to coordinate additional work schedule variability with their supervisor so as to accommodate more frequent or repetitive modification to the standard schedule, provided that adequate coverage is ensured and that there is no reduction in the total required hours worked during a pay period.
Union Shop Steward shall mean a Teamster Bargaining Unit Member that the Union has appointed to act as Shop Steward to carry out duties as assigned by the Secretary-Treasurer of Teamsters Local 231.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 26
WEINGARTEN RIGHTS FOR BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES
* The Union recommends employees exercise their Weingarten rights as follows:
1.	If you are asked to attend a meeting with management which you believe may lead to discipline, ask to have a Union steward or business representative present. If possible, notify the Union steward or business representative of the meeting immediately. When in doubt, ask management whether or not anything said at the meeting could lead to disciplinary action.
2.	If you are unable to obtain representation before entering the meeting, you should:
(a)	Ask whether you are free to leave the room if you choose to do so;
(b)	Ask whether anything said at the interview could lead to disciplinary action or discharge;
(c)	If so, ask that (1) a Union steward or business representative be contacted and brought to the meeting place before any questioning occurs, and (2) you be permitted to speak to the Union steward or business representative in private prior to the questioning;
(d)	If a Union steward or business representative is unavailable, ask that the meeting be postponed until one can be present;
(e)	In the event the Employer nonetheless insists on proceeding with the meeting, ask that a fellow employee whom you trust be brought to the meeting to act as a witness.
IF THE EMPLOYER DENIES ANY OR ALL OF THE FOREGOING REQUESTS, THE UNION RECOMMENDS THAT YOU ATTEND THE MEETING BUT EXERCISE YOUR RIGHT TO REFUSE TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS THAT MAY LEAD TO DISCIPLINARY ACTION OR DISCHARGE.
* These recommendations do not apply when an employee faces possible criminal charges. Such employee(s) should obtain the advice of an attorney.
Non-Commissioned Support Staff of the City of Ferndale Police Department, Municipal Court,
Probation, Public Works, Planning and City Clerk's Departments Agreement.
1/1/20-12/31/21
Page 27