CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE
RICHMOND UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
AND THE
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES UNION, LOCAL 1
RICHMOND, CALIFORNIA EFFECTIVE JULY 1,1989-JUNE 30,1991
WEST CONTRA COSTA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT PERSONNEL SERVICES 1108 BISSELL AVENUE RICHMOND, CA 94801-3135
CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENT
RICHMOND UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
and
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES UNION, LOCAL.1.
(July 1,1989-June 30,1991) .
■	r-'V
1.	General Services, Maintenance, and Operations Unit
2.	Paraprofessional Unit
3.	Richmond Schools Police.Unit -
4.	Office and technical Services Unit -•
5.	Temporary and Substitute Employees.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article	Page
Agreement.........................................................1
Benefits^.....'.;............................................    32
Compensation.....................................................34
, Continuity of Service .....................................    45
Definitions.......................................................1
‘ Disciplinary Actions	.........;...................45
Distribution of Agreement........................................52
Evaluation...................................................    29
Expense Cairn................  .'................................43
Grievance Procedures............................................  9
. Layoff and Reemployment........................................48
. Leave of Absence .....................'........................17
' Maintenance of Benefits...............i----....-----------9
Management Rights .....;.......................................  44
Negotiation Procedures ...—  .............................4
Overtime and Compensation for Overtime ..........................40
Personnel Files ........I...;............„;....;i...............  6
Reassignment .;.;.......i.......,i...i.^.................._............  47
Reclassification .^..........................       4............51
Restriction of Contracting Out..........................................47
Safety ....................................................      30
Signatures to Agreement ...............................................  53
Staff Development .........................................      51
i
Article	Eagg
Supplement 1: General Services, Maintenance, and Operations Unit...............................  54
Supplement 2: Paraprofessional Unit ................  64
Supplement 3: Richmond Schools Police Unit..........71
Supplement 4: Office and Technical Services Unit....76
Supplement 5: Temporary and Substitute Employees...86
Transfer ...........................................26
Union Rights...........».........................    8
Union Recognition ............  ...................  1
Union Membership Checkoff and Dues Deduction........14
Working Hours, Rest Periods, Lunch Time, Absence from,Duty, Call-in Time ......:................15:
Salary Schedule, 1990-91 ....................       87
Exhibit A-l: Classified Salary Range and Step, Ranges 23-50,1989-90 .......................... 93
Exhibit A-2: Classified Salary Range and Step, Ranges 51-78,1989-90 .........................  95
Exhibit B-l : Classified Salary Range and Step, Ranges 23-50,1990-91 ........................   97
Exhibit B-2: Classified Salary Range and Step,
Ranges 51-78,1990-91.....................       99
Exhibit C: Sample Custodian Performance Record ....101
Exhibit D: Sample Employee Performance Recoid ..... 106
ii
ARTICLE 1
AGREEMENT
Section 1.	The Articles and provisions contained herein constitute a bilateral and binding agreement ("Agreement") by and between the Governing Board of the Richmond Unified School District ("Board") and Public Employees Union, Local No. 1, an employee organization.
Section 2.	This Agreement is entered into pursuant to Chapter 10.7, Division 4, of Title 1 of the Government Code ("Act").
Section 3.	This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from July 1,1989 through June 30,1991.
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
Richmond Unified School District (hereinafter referred to as the employer) recognizes the Public Employees' Union, Local No. 1 (hereinafter refened to as Local No. 1) as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees in classifications assigned to the following units:
1.	General Services, Maintenance and.Operations Unit
2.	Paraprbfessional Unit.
3.	Richmond Schools Police Unit.
4.	Office and Technical Services Unit.
■■ I	...	■
Temporary and Substitute Employees - refer to Supplement 5.
ARTICLES DEFINITIONS
r <: Section !. "Allocation" is the assignment of a single position to its ’ proper class in accordance with the duties performed and the authority and responsibility exercised.
Section 2.	"Anniversary Date" is the date on which the employee
1
started work.
Section 3.	"Bumping Right" is the right of an employee, under certain conditions, to displace an employee with less seniority in a class.
Section 4.	"Class" is a group of positions sufficiently similar in duties arid responsibilities that
1.	The same descriptive title properly may be used to designate each position allocated to the class.
2.	The same basic minimum qualifications may be required of all incumbents.
3.	The same selection devices may be used to screen qualified employees.
4.	The same salary rate or range can apply with equity under substantially the same working conditions.
Section 5.	"Class Description" means that each position in the classified service shall have a designated title, a regular minimum number of assigned hours per day, days per week, and months per year, a specific statementof the duties required to be performed by the employees in each such position, and the regular monthly salary ranges for each such position.
Section?. "Demotion" is the movement of an employee from one class to another class which has a lower maximum salary rate and which has less difficult duties and responsibilities.
Sections. "Fiscal Year and School Year" is July 1 through June 30. Section 9. "Health and Welfare Benefits" means any form of insurance or similar benefit programs, including, but not limited to, medical, hospitalization, surgical, prescription drug and dental.
Section 10.	"Incumbent" is an employee assigned to a position and who is currently serving in or on an authorized leave from the position.
Section 11.	"Industrial Acddent or Illness" is an injury or illness arising out of or in the course of employment with the District
Section 12.	"Involuntary Demotion" is a demotion without the employee's voluntary written consent
2
Section 13.	"Leave Policies" mean any policy concerning any form of employee leave including, but not limited to, sick leave, vacations, personal leave, industrial accident or illness leave, and holidays.
Section 14.	"Minimum Qualifications" are qualifications mandated for the position and which must be possessed by an employee before he/she can. be considered for employment in a specific class.
Section 15,	"Notice" whenever notice is required under this Agreement, and no form of notice is otherwise designated, notice to the District shall be by personal delivery to the Office of the Superintendent or written notice or first-class mail notice to the Office of the Superintendent; and notice to Local No. 1 shall be written notice personally delivered to, dr first-class mail notice direct to, 3065 Atlas Road, Suite 101, Richmond, California 94806.
Section 16,	'Termanent Employee" is an employee who has successfully completed his/her probationary period.
Section !?. "Probationary Employee" is an employee who has not yet completed his/her work test period of six (6) months' duration.
Section 18. "Promotion" is the movement of an employee from one class to another class which has.a higher maximum rate of pay. Section 19. "Reallocation" is movement of an entire class from , one salary range or rate to another salary range or rate.
Section 20.	"Reassignment", is defined as any change of work station or work location within a work site and/or any addition to, deletion of, or change in assigned duties, hours or working conditions.
Section 21.	"Regular" as used in the phrase, "regular classified employee" or any similar phrase, refers to a classified employee who has probationary or permanent status.
Section 22.	"Restricted Position" is a specially-funded position restricted to the employment of persons in low-income groups, from designated impoverished areas and other criteria which restricts the privilege of all citizens to compete for employment. After six (6) months of service, a restricted employee shall be
3
granted regular status.
Section 23.	“Salary Increment Date" is the date which determines when the employee advances to the next higher salary step in his/ her salary range.
Section 24.	“Salary Rate" is a specific amount of money paid for a specific period of service.
Section 25.	“Salary Schedule" isa series of salary steps and ranges which comprise the rates of pay for all classes.
Section 26.	"Salary Step" is one of the salary levels within the range of rates for a class..
Section 27.	“Seniority in Class" shall be defined as date of hire in that class.
Section 28.	"Short-Term Employee" is a person hired for a specific temporary project of limited duration and paid for less than sixty (60) percent -156 days - of a school year.
Section 29.	"Substitute Employee" is an employee occupying a permanent position during the absence of die incumbent and paid for less than seventy-five (75) percent of a school year.
Section 30.	"Termination" is the separation of an employee from the service of the District
Section 31.	"Transfer" is the movement of an employee from one position to another in the same class but in a different department of school.	"	■
Section 32.	"Voluntary Demotion" is a demotion agreed to in writing by the employee arid the District.
ARTICLE*
NEGOTIATION PROCEDURES
Section !. General: The District-will negotiate with Local No. 1 only bn those matters defined; in Section 35432 of Article 4, Chapter 10.7, Division 4, Title 1of the Government Code as being within the scope of representation/ The'scope of representation . shall be limited to matters relating to wages, hours of employment arid other terms and conditions of employment. "Terms and
4
■ conditions of employment'' mean health and welfare benefits as < ' defined by Section 53200, leave and transfer policies, reassign-! • 'ment,'safety conditions of employment, class size; procedures to be used for the evaluation of employees, organizational security pursuant to Section 3546, and procedures for processing grievances pursuant to Sections 3548,5,3548.6,3548.7,3548.8. Negotiated items shall not be renegotiated during the term of an Agreement. The final decision in all matters under negotiation shall rest with the Board of Education, as specified in Section3549 of the Act Section 2. Notification and Public Notice: If either party desires to alter or amend this Agreement, it shall, not less than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the termination date set forth, under the Duration Article, provide written notice and a proposal to the other party of said desire and the nature of the amendments, and cause the public notice provisions of law to be fulfilled.
Section 3.	Commencement of Negotiations: Within ten (10) days of satisfaction of the public notice requirement, and not later than thirty (30) days following submission of the proposal, negotiations shall commence at a mutually acceptable time and place for the purpose of negotiating an Agreement
Section4.	Impasse: If notice has been given in accordance with the preceding sections and the parties have not been able to agree upon terms.of a new Agreement within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement, either party may institute impasse procedures in accordance with the rules of the Public Employment Relations Board. Once the impasse procedures have been invoked, the current Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until the conclusion of the impasse process.
Section 5.	Release Time for Negotiations: Local No. 1 shall have the right to designate twelve (12) employees, who shall be given reasonable release time, to participate in negotiations. Substitutes shall be provided by the District when necessary.
Section 6.	Ratification of Additions or Changes: Any additionsor changes in this Agreement shall not be effective unless reduced to ■ '' writing and properly ratified and signed by both parties.
5
Section 7.	Statutory Changes: '
1.	Mandated modifications, revisions, additions or deletions of contract provisions herein which are brought about by the amendment, addition or deletion of statutory guarantees now provided in California or federal law shall be reflected in this Agreement
2.	Such shall obligate the parties within twenty (20) days of the effective date of the change to negotiate concerning such provisions within this Agreiement
Section 8.	Savings Clause:
1.	If any provisions of this Agreement should be held invalid by operation of law or by the final judgment of any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby.
2.	This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties and concludes meet and negotiation on any subject; whether included in this Agreement or not except as noted above, for the term of this Agreement
. ARTICLED.
PERSONNEL FILES
Section 1. Access to Personnel Files—Education Code Section 44031: Materials in personnel files of employees which may serve as a basis for affecting the status of their employment are to be made available for.the inspection of the employee involved. Such material is hot to include ratings, reports, or records which: ,
1.	were obtained prior to the employment of the person involved; .	.
2.	were prepared by identifiable examination board members;
3.	were obtained in connection with a promotional examination.
Eveiy employee shall have the right to inspect such materials on request, provided that the request is made at a time when such
6
person is not actually required to render services to the District • Information of a derogatory nature, except material mentioned in
, । •	Section 12, above, shall not be entered or filed unless and until the
employee is given notice and ah opportunity to review and comment thereon. An employee shall have the right to enter, and have attached to any derogatory statement, his/her own comments thereon. Such review shall take place during normal business hours, and the employee shall be released from duty for this purpose without salary deduction.
Section .X Maintenance of Files: The personnel file of each employee shall be maintained at the District's central administration office. No adverse action of any kind shall be taken against an employee based upon materials which are not in the personnel file. Further, no adverse action shall be based upon materials which are j contained in the personnel file unless the materials had been
placed in the file at the time of the incident giving rise to such materials^
Section 3. Examination of Files: An employee or his/her Local No. 1 representative shall have the.right at any reasonable time to examine and/or obtain copies of any material from the employee's j	personnel file with the exception of material that includes ratings,
reports, dr records which were obtained prior to the employment of the employee involved.
!	Section 4, All personnel files shall be kept in confidence and shall
be available for inspection only to other employees of the District. when actually necessary in the proper administration of the Dis-
! triCt's affairs or the supervision of the employee. The date of inspection along with the signature of the person(s) inspecting shall be entered in the file.
Section 5.	All derogatory material placed in an employee's file shall be signed and dated by the draftor and the employee on the day on which it was reviewed. Any written materials placed in a
! personnel file shall indicate the date received in the Distrirt Personnel Office.
Section 6.	All derogatory materials other than employee evaluations shall be removed from the employee's personnel file and destroyed after remaining in the file for a period of two (2) years.
7
Section ?. In no case shall unsubstantiated derogatory material be placed in the personnel file.
ARTICLE 6 UNION RIGHTS
Section 1.	Local Nk . 1 and its members shall have the right to make use of school buildings and facilities at all reasonable hours. Additional costs beyond normal operating expenses shall be borne by Local No. 1.
Section 2.	Local No. 1 shall have reasonable access to the school mail system, subject to reasonable regulation, in order to facilitate the conduct of its business. Local No. 1 may use employee mailboxes for communication to classified employees.
Section 3.	Local No. 1 shall have the right to post notices of activities and matters of Local No. 1 concern on Local No. 1 bulletin board-space, an adequate amount of which shall be provided in each school building in areas frequented by classified employees.
Section <, Local No. 1 shall have tire right of access at reasonable times to areas in which employees work.
Section 5.	The Board shall grant a paid leave to the President of Local No. 1 during his/her term in office according to a schedule submitted by the President prior to the beginning of each school year. Local No. 1 shall reimburse the District for all costs.
Section 6.	Names, addresses, and telephone numbers , of all employees in the General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit, the Paraprofessional Unit; Richmond Unified Schools Police Department, iand the Office/Technical Unit shall be provided without cost to Local No. 1 twice each school year.
Section 7.	Seniority Roster: The employer shall maintain and make available an updated seniority roster indicating employees' class seniority and hire date seniority.
Section 8.	All employees represented by Local No. 1 shall be included in the Richmond Unified School District Directory and shall receive a copy of the Directory each year commencing with 1984-85.
8
- Section 9. Office and Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4.
ARTICLE 7
MAINTENANCE OF BENEFITS
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, the employer shall not unilaterally reduce or eliminate any employee benefit which is subject to the scope of provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 8
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1.	General: It is the policy of the District and Local No. 1 to develop and practice reasonable and effective means of resolving difficulties which may arise among employees, to reduce potential problems, and to establish channels of communication.
The grieyant may elect in writing to represent himself/herself rather than have Local No; 1 provide representation. If the grievant elects to represent himself/herself at this step, or at any later step,Local No. 1 shall be relieved of any further obligation of representation and shall be relieved of any obligation to share in any further expense of the grievance procedure including the costs of arbitration.
Section 2.	Definition: A grievance is a claim by one (1) or more of the members of the unit of Local No. 1 that there has been a violation or misapplication of the Agreement which has adversely affected the member or members of the unit or Local No. 1.
Section 3.	Procedure:
1.	Step One: An aggrieved employee may present directly or through his/her Shop Steward, his/her grievance to his/her immediate Supervisor. The grievance shall be submitted orally. (If circumstances indicate such, the grievance may be submitted in writing and must be responded to in writing within three (3) working days.) If the grievance is not satisfactorily adjusted informally,
9
the grievance may proceed to Step Two.
2.	Step Two: If the grievance is not settled at Step One, within five (5) working days following the meeting or the written response, the aggrieved employee or his/her representative may submit the grievance m writing to the employee's Department Head. Upon receipt of a written grievance presented in accordance with this procedure, the Department Head shall meet with the aggrieved employee and his/her representative within five (5) working days. The Department Head may have such additional persons present as he/she deems necessary. If the grievance is not settled within three (3) working days thereafter, the written grievance may be referred to the employee's Division Head along with the Department Head's written response and a copy to the aggrieved employee.
Office and Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4.
3.	Step Three: Upon receipt of a written grievance presented in accordance with this procedure, the Division Head shall arrange a meeting with the aggrieved employee, the employee's representative, and other personnel deemed necessary within five (5) working days. If the grievance is not settled, written response will be provided within five (5) working days following such meeting. The aggrieved employee or his/her representative may appeal to Step Four.
Office and Technical ServicesUnit—refer to Supplement 4.
4.	Step Four: If the grievance is not resolved at Step Three, the employee or his/her representative may pursue it further by submitting it to the Superintendent of Schools, in writing, within ten (10) working days. The Superintendent, if not out of the District shall render a decision, in writing within ten (10) working days. Should the Superintendent be out of the District, the ten (10) day period shall commence on the first day of the Superintendent's return.
5.	Step Five: ■ If the grievance has not been resolved at Step
10
Four, the employee or his/her representative may submit the grievance, in writing, within ten (10) working days, to the Governing Board, through the Superintendent of Schools, requesting a hearing for further consideration. Local No. 1 may elect to waive Step Five and proceed to Step Six.
6.	Step Six: Arbitration
a.	If the aggrieved is not satisfied with the decision of Step Five the grievant may request Local No. 1 to appeal the decision to an arbitrator.
b.	If Local No. 1 decides to appeal the grievance, notification of such must be sent to the Superintendent within ten (10) days.
c.	The Local No. 1 representative and the Superintendent or designee shall meet within five (5) days to select an arbitrator.
d.	If agreement is not reached within five (5) days, either party may request the State Conciliation Service to submit a list of five (5) arbitrators qualified to hear the dispute. The parties shall select one (1) individual from the list supplied by the alternate strike method. The parties agree to immediately notify the arbitrator to schedule a hearing.
7.	Arbitration Hearing .
a.	. The arbitrator shall convene a hearing as soon as possible, no later than twenty (20) days after his/her selection, to consider evidence and arguments.
b.	The conduct of the hearing shall be at the discretion of the arbitrator who shall be guided by commonly-accepted rulesof procedure for holding arbitration hearings.
c.	The arbitrator shall forward his/her decision to both parties not later than ten (10) days after the hearing is concluded.
d.	The award of the arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
11
e.	Local No. 1 and the District shall share the cost of the arbitrator equally. All other costs shall be paid by the party incurring them.
f.	The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from, disregard, alter, or modify any of the terms of this Agreement.
Section 4,	Miscellaneous Provisions:
1.	No employee shall at any state of the grievance procedure be required to meet with any administrator without organizational representation, nor shall any administrator or supervisor be required to meet with the employee without benefit of counsel or representation.
2.	If the grievance arises from die action of authority higher than the Division Head, Department Head, or Principal of a school. Local No. 1 may present such a grievance at the appropriate step of the grievance procedure.
3.	Failure at any step of this procedure to communicate the decision on a grievance within the specified time limits shall permit, lodging an appeal at the next step of the procedure within the time allotted, had the decision been given. Failure to appeal a decision within the specified time limits shall be deemed an acceptance of the decision.
4.	The time limits specified in tjus procedure may be extended, in any specific instance, by mutual agreement in writing.
5.	Group Grievances: If the grievance involves employees with different immediate supervisors, the grievance may be filed at the appropriate step of the grievance procedure.
6.	Policy Grievance: A policy grievance is any alleged violation of the written policies, rules or regulations of the Board of Education, or any alleged violation of standard District practice. A policy grievance may be submitted by Local No. 1 at the appropriate step, generally Step Four. However, in a policy grievance file decision of the Board of Education at Step Five is final on all parties. It
12
is the intention of Local No. 1 not to utilize this policy grievance as a means to expand the scope of representation as defined in the Act.
7.	Employee-Processed Grievance: An employee covered by this Agreement may present a grievance directly and have such grievance adjusted without intervention of Local No. 1 as long as the adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement. Local No. 1 shall be provided copies of any grievance filed by employees directly and any responses by the District. Prior to any resolution of any grievance, Local No. 1 shall be provided with a copy of the proposed resolution for review. Local No. 1 shall be given an opportunity to file a written response to the proposed resolution. Any disagreement concerning whether the settlement is inconsistent with the terms of this agreement shall be subject to the grievance procedure.
8.	Grievance Witnesses: The District shall make available. for testimony in connection with the grievance procedure any District employees whose appearance is requested by the grievant or Local No. 1. Any employee witnesses required to appear in connection with this article shall suffer no loss of pay.
9.	Grievance Processing During Regular Working Hours: The grievant and the Local No. 1 Shop Steward shall be entitled to process a grievance during normal working hours with no loss of pay or benefits.
10.	Separate Grievance File: All materials concerning an employee's grievance shall be kept in a file separate from the employee's personnel file, which file shall be available for inspection only by the employee, theLocalNo. 1 Shop Steward, and those management, supervisory, and confidential employees directly involved in the grievance procedure.
11.	Hierarchy: The supervisory administrative hierarchy described in the evaluation process shall be the same hierarchy for employees in General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit.
13
ARTICLE 9
UNION MEMBERSHIP CHECKOFF AND DUES DEDUCTION
Section 1.	Local No. 1 shall have the sole and exclusive right to have membership dues, initiation, and/or assessment fees voted by its membership deducted for employees in the bargaining unit by the employer. The employer shall, upon appropriate written authorization from any employee in the bargaining unit, deduct and make appropriate remittances for insurance premiums, credit union payments, savings bonds or other plans or programs jointly approved by Local No. 1 and the employer. The employer shall initiate payment to the designated payee within ten (10) days of the deduction of all sums so deducted.
Section 2,	Maintenance of Membership: Employees who are members of Local No. 1 and have authorized, or who may authorize in the future, deductions of their Local No. 1 dues, initiation and/or assessment fees, shall have such dues and fees deducted for the remainder of this Agreement.
Section 3.	Agency Shop: Employees who are not members of Local No. 1 shall have a service fee, equivalent to dues, deducted from their salary commencing with the paycheck for the first full calendar month following the approval of this Agreement by the District. Such deduction shall continue, as a condition of employment, for the duration of this Agreement
Section 4.	Remittance of Dues: The amounts deducted pursuant to Sections 1,2, and 3, above, shall be remitted promptly to Local No. 1 with an alphabetical list Of the employees from whom deducted.
Section 5.	Any employee, who is a member of a religious body whose traditional tenets or teachings include objections to joining or financially supporting employee organizations shall not be required to join or financially support Local No. 1 as a condition of employment; except that such employee shall pay in lieu of a service fee sums equal to such service fee to one (1) of the following non-religious, nori-labor organizations and charitable funds exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of Table 26 of the
14
Internal Revenue Code:
1.	American Red Cross
2.	American Heart Association
3.	United Way
ARTICLE 10
WORKING HOURS, REST PERIODS, LUNCH TIME, ABSENCE FROM DUTY,
CALL-IN TIME
Section 1.	Working Hours: General Services, Maintenance, and Operations Unit—refer to Supplement 1.
Paraprofessional Unit—refer to Supplement 2.
Richmond Schools Police Department—refer to Supplement 3.
Office and Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4.
Section 2.	Rest Periods: All bargaining unit employees shall be granted rest periods which, insofar as practical, shall be in the middle of each work period, at the rate of fifteen (15) minutes per three and three-quarters (3-3/4) hours worked or major fraction thereof. (Exception: Paraprofessional Unit, Group Aide, Children's Centers—refer to Supplement 2.) Specified periods may be designated only when the operations of the District require someone to be present at the employee's work site at all times.' Such times shall be mutually agreed upon between employees and their supervisors. Rest periods are part of the regular workday and shall be compensated at the regular rate of pay for the employee. Section 3. Lunch Time: All classified employees shall have uninterrupted lunch time. The actual time assigned shall be according to the schedule for their particular department and for the convenience of the District but to the extent possible around the usual lunch time of a shift. The length of time for such lunch period shall be for not less than one-half (1 /2) hour and shall be scheduled for full-time employees at or about the midpoint of each workshift An employee required to work during his/her lunch period shall receive either compensatory time off or pay at the rate
15
of time and one-half (1-1/2) for all time worked during the normal lunch period. (Exception: Head Custodian 1, Castro-refer to Supplement 1.) (Exception: Richmond Schools Police Department—refer to Supplement 3.)
1.	Office & Technical Service Unit—refer to Supplement 4. Section 4, Absence from Duty: Classified employees are not to be absent from duty, except as otherwise provided, without permission of an Assistant Superintendent, Principal, or Department Head. All absences must be reported by the Department Head on proper fonns and forwarded to the Payroll Office.
1.	Paraprofessional Unit—refer to Supplement 2.
Section 5.	Call-InTime: Any employee called into work on a day when the employee is not scheduled to work shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours of pay at the appropriate rate of pay under this Agreement Right of Refusal: Any employee shall have the right to reject any offer or request for call-in time.
Section 6.	Split ShiftDifferential: Employees working a split shift shall receive twenty-one ($21.00) dollars per month additional compensation.
1.	Paraprofessional Unit—refer to Supplement 2.
Section 7.	Night Shift ^Differential: Richmond Schools Police Department—refer to Supplement 3.
Sections. Monthly Meetings: Richmond Schools Police Department—refer to Supplement 3.
Sectioti 9. Extra Hours, Substitute Work: Employees in the bargaining unit represented by Local No. 1 shall be offered first opportunity to work extra hours, or perform substitute work for which they are qualified and available under the following conditions:
1.	If the anticipated absence is thirty (30) calendar days or more,
2.	restricted to the same work site,
3.	restricted to positions that increased in work hours,
4.	most eligible senior person is given the opportunity,
16
5.	limited to positions of four (4) hours/day or more, 6. work is in same classification.
Section 10. Paraprofessional Unit—refer to Supplement 2.
ARTICLE 11
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 1.	Bereavement Leave: Employees shall be granted a leave with full pay in the event of the death of any member of the employee's immediate family. The leave shall be for a period of three (3) working days. The "immediate family" is defined as husband, wife, mother, fattier, sister, brother, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandfather, grandmother, great-grandparent, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchild, foster parent, stepparent; stepson, stepdaughter, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or any relative of either spouse living in the immediate household of the employee. "Immediate household" means where the employee lives and customarily spends the night. Up to five (5) working days absence is allowed if out-of-state travel or travel in excess of four-hundred (400) miles one (1) way is required on account of the death of any members of the immediate family.
Section 2.	Health Leave: A health leave, may be granted a classified employee who has completed one (1) full year of service with the District. When the employee is able to return to work, the employee shall submit a written statement from a licensed physician verifying that the employee is able to do his/her regular work. This statement must be submitted to the Personnel Office at least two (2) weeks prior to termination of leave. A person on health leave will be returned to his/her position provided the length of absence does not exceed one (1) year. If, at the conclusion of health leave, the employee is still unable to assume the duties of his/her position, the employee shall be placed on a reemployment list for a period of thirty-nine (39) months.
Section 3.	Holidays: All classified employees shall be allowed holidays as set forth in the California Education Code and in the approved calendar for the school year. In no case shall an employee have fewer than sixteen (16) paid holidays. These
17
include:
Independence Day
Labor Day
Veteran's Day
Thanksgiving Day
DayAfte. Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Eve Day
Christmas Day
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
Washington's Birthday
Spring Vacation Day
Memorial Day
Placement of President's Day and three (3) Floating Holidays shall be negotiated with Local No. 1 and such other holidays as may be declared by the Governing Board, the President, or the Governor. When a holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding workday not a holiday shall be deemed to be that holiday; When a holiday falls on Sunday, the following workday not a holiday shall be deemed to be that holiday. Regular employees of the District who are not normally assigned to duty during die school holidays of December 24; December 25, and January 1 shall be paid for these three (3) holidays provided they were in a paid status during any portion of the workday of their normal assignment immediately preceding or succeeding the holiday period.
Section 4,	Jury Duty or Witness Leave: All classified employees subpoenaed to appear as jurors or as witnesses in cases other than those of a personal nature, shall be allowed full salaries less juror fees received in excess of expenses. In such cases where the fees exceed the salary that would have been earned by the employee, the employee shall turn the fees check into the Payroll Office.
Section 5.	Maternity and Child Care Leave:
1.	Maternity Leave: The length of absence due to pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, and recovery therefrom,
18
I .
including the date on which the leave shall commence ii : l . and the date on which the employee shall resume duties, 1	।	shall be determined by the employee and employee's
physician. The physician's signature verifying commencement and cessation of disability will be required on a District form.
The employee shall have the right to utilize sick leave and difference pay benefit for absences necessitated by pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, and recovery therefrom.
।	District-approved health plan benefits shall continue
only through the period of paid status.
2.	Child Care Leave: Upon request, the Board shall provide a male or female classified employee who is a natural or adopting parent an unpaid leave of absence without fringe benefits for the purpose of rearing his/ her infant. Such leave shall remain in effect at least until the end of the semester following the birth of the child and no longer than file end of the second semester l	following the birth of the child. A classified employee
shall notify the Board that he/she intends to take such leaves at least four (4) weeks prior to the anticipated date
I	on which the leave is to commence.
3.	Paternity Leave: One (1) day with pay.
4.	Adoption: Any adoptive parent shall be entitled to one '	(1) day's leave with pay and in addition, may utilize
personal necessity leave upon request
5.	A parent shall not have to be married in order to qualify ■	for the benefits provided in this section.
. 6. The District shall not discriminate against an employee because of pregnancy .
Section 6.	Military Leave (Military and Veterans' Code 389-395): • In all matters of military leave, the Military and Veterans' Code will be followed.
Section 7,	Personal Leave: After three (3) full years of service, an employee who finds it necessary to secure an’extended period of
19
time off for personal reasons without pay must apply to the Assistant Superintendent, Personnel, on the form prepared for that purpose. If the employee secures approval of the Assistant Superintendent, Personnel, such time off can be arranged. The employee's return to work shall be to the same classification and to the same position he/she held when the employee requested the time off unless otherwise previously agreed in writing.
A classified employee may absent himself/herself from duty on personal reasons not to exceed five (5) days in any school year without seeking authorization, but the employee shall notify his/ her Department Head or Supervisor at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance or at the end of the previous workday of such absence unless an emergency can be established. Absence for personal reasons shall be taken by the employee at full salary deduction. Personal Leave may be taken only for urgent personal reasons, and may not be taken for vacation purposes or for employment elsewhere. It may be used for court cases, extra bereavement leaves and personal business.
Section 8.	Personal Necessity Leave: Absence for personal necessity is defined as “absence which through pressure of circumstances is logically urgent or unavoidable/' Written substantiating evidence in the’ form of court summons, court clerk's certificate, doctor's certificate, or employee's affidavit must be submitted to the Assistant Superintendent, Personnel, in all cases of personal necessity leave; Such absence, unless properly substantiated, will result in full salary deduction. Except as noted below, the employee shall notify his/her Principal or Supervisor in advance of the absence. A maximum of six (6) days of accumulated sickness or injury leave in any school year may be used by tire employee, at his/her election, in cases of personal necessity. In the event an employee is without accumulated sick leave, the District shall deduct from the employee's salary the cost of providing a substitute. The employee shall not be required to secure advance permission for leave taken for any of the following reasons:
1.	Death of serious illness of a member of his/her immediate family.
2.	Accident involving; the employee's person or property
20
or the person or property of his/her immediate family.
’ '3: In certain emergencies, when it is not possible to complete the appropriate leave request in advance, a form must be completed upon return to duty verifying the cause of absence.
Section 9.	Sick Leave: Absence due to personal illness, excluding pregnancy, shall be allowed up to fifteen (15) working days per fiscal year, July 1 through June 30, and shall be accumulative from year to year without limitation. Absence of less than one (1) full day shall be charged to the nearest quarter hour of absence. Personal illness of more than five (5) consecutive working days duration shall be verified by a statement froma licensedphysidan, advising that the person is physically able to do his/her regular work. The physician's statement shall verify the illness from the first day of absence, to the date of return to work. In cases of excessive absence or when abuse of sick leave is evident, following previous counsel with the employee, the school administration may request in writing that the employee furnish a physician's statement to verify any future absence of less than five (5) working days.
When all available paid leaves are exhausted, the employee is placed on "Difference Leave." An employee on "Difference Leave" is paid the difference between his/her salary and that paid his/her substitute. This is paid for a maximum period of five (5) months. The five (5) month period is calculated from the first days of sick leave. When difference leave is exhausted, the employee with three (3) years of service shall be allowed health leave; an employee with less than three (3) years of service is placed on a reemployment list fora period ofthirty-nine (39) months. At any time during the prescribed thirty-nine (39) months, if the employee is able to assume the duties of his/her position, the employee shall be reemployed in the first vacancy in the classification of his/her previous assignment. His/her reemployment will take preference over all other applicants except those laid-off for lack of work or funds, in which case he/she shall be ranked according to his/her proper seniority. Upon resumption of his/her duties, the break in sendee will be disregarded and the employee shall be fully restored as a permanent employee. During the first six (6)
21
months of employment, one and one-quarter (1-1/4) days of paid sick leave per calendar.month shall be granted as earned at the end of each month. Employees who work less than full-time or less than a twelve (12) month calendar year, shall be credited with sick leave on a pro-rata basis at the rate of one and one-quarter (1-1/4) days per month.
Isolation and Quarantine: No salary or sick leave deduction is made for absence due to contagious disease from which isolation or quarantine is usually mandated, and which may be presumed to have been contracted during the performance of school duties with other persons having the contagious disease, for the normal period of isolation dr quarantine.
1.	State Disability Insurance: Eligible employees who are enrolled in the California State Disability Insurance Program shall be entitled to integrate SDI benefits with their accrued sick leave at the employee's option. The sick leave used shall be computed on a weekly basis and shall be equal to the number of hours necessary to compensate for regular wages less SDI benefits.
Disability checks received from SDI must be endorsed by the employee to the District while he/she is receiving pay. Normal authorized deductions, including retirement contributions, will be deducted from the warrant in accordance with the law.
SDI regulations shall apply to the integration program. In accordance with state law, no employee shall be required to use vacation in conjunction with receiving SDI benefits. Employees must notify the District of their desire to integrate their sick leave with SDI benefits. SDI forms shall be made available by the District at each work location.
2.	Sick Leave Incentive:. Those employees who do not utilize any sick leaveduring the fiscal year, July 1 to June 30, shall receive an allocation of two (2) additional sick leave days for that year.
Section 10.	Vacation Leave: Vacations for the most part are to be taken during Christmas, Easter, or summer vacations. All custo
22
dial requests for vacation during this period shall be granted. Other vacation requests shall be received at least thirty (30) workdays before the vacation is to begin. Employees shall be notified of administrative approval or disapproval within ten (10) workdays from the date of submission of the request. Vacations of five (5) consecutive days or less may be arranged by mutual consent of the employee and the Department Head. The District shall not unreasonably deny any employee's request for vaca tion leave. If there is conflict with the request of the employees for vacation leave, the District shall grant the requested vacation-to the most senior employee in each classification at the work site. Children's Center group aides shall.not begranted simultaneous vacation periods if each center group aid staff is tobe reduced by more than sixty (60) percent.
Regular classified employees shall be entitled to vacationwith .. pay as follows:
1.	For the first thirty-six (36) complete monthsof service, 5/ 6 of a day per month (2 weeks annually).
2.	Beginning with the thirty-seven th (37th) month through the tenth (10th) year, 1-1/4 days per month (3 weeks annually).	>
3.	Beginning with the eleventh (11th) year on, 1-2/3 days per month (4 weeks annually). .
Earned vacation shall not become a vested right until completion of the initial six (6) months of employment Vacation days may be accumulated to a maximum of double the annual entitlement consistent with the substantiated work needs of the District and the approval of the Department Head. A maximum of forty (40) days vacation may be taken in one (1) year. Exceptions must have the approval of the Division Assistant Superintendent Ten (10) month employees, except as indicated above are required to take their vacation during the Christmas vacation and Easter vacation. Upon separation from the service, the employee shall be entitled to lump-sum compensation for all earned and unused vacation, except that employees who have not completed six (6) months of employment in regular status shall not be entitled to such compensation. A classified employee who becomes ill or
suffers an accident during his/her vacation and who can support this fact through a physician's statement, can charge such illness or accident to sick leave time and have his/her vacation extended to a later period.
1. Office and Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4. Section 11. Worker's Compensation Leave: Classified employees who are absent fro. a duty because of injury or illness that has been determined to be job-incurred and who qualify under provisions of Worker's Compensation Insurance shall be allowed a maximum leave of sixty (60) working days at full salary in any one (1) fiscal year for the same accident Employees in this category may request extension of Worker's Compensation Leave. Such cases will be referred to the District physician for evaluation. Classified employees who are absent from duty because of a physical assault which occurred as a result of the performance of their duties shall be allowed, upon proper medical substantiation, industrial accident and illness leave for up to one-hundred (100) days.
Disability checks received from Worker's Compensation must be endorsed by the employee to the District while he/she is receiving full pay. Normal authorized deductions, including retirement contributions, will be deducted from the warrant. The industrial accident or illness leave is to be used in lieu of normal sick leave benefits. When entitlement to industrial accident or illness leave under this section is exhausted, entitlement to other sick leave, vacation or other paid leave may be used. If, however, an employee is still receiving temporary disability payments under the Worker's Compensation laws of this state at the time of the exhaustion of benefits under this section, he/she shall be entitled to use only so much of his/her accumulated and available normal sick leave and vacation leave, which, when added to the Worker's Compensation award, provides for a day's pay at the regular rate of pay. Employees whohaye exhausted their Worker's Compensation Leave shall be entitled to use any available sick leave, compensatory time off, vacation time, or other available leave provided by law or by action of the Governing Board.
The Governing Board reserves, the right to grant to any employee additional leaive of absence for on-the-job injury or illness,
24
subject to the following provision:
1.	It must be apparent that the employee will not be medically able to return to work after a vailable leaves are exhausted.
2.	The employee must request additional leave in writing.
3.	The Board in considering such requests shall give due consideration to the employee's length of service and past work performance.
4.	Any additional leave granted by the Governing Board shall take effect on the first day following exhaustion of all other available leaves of absence.
The period of absence as provided above shall not be considered a break in service. During periods of leave, the employee shall-have the absolute right to return to his/her position when abletodoso.
When all available leaves of absence are exhausted, the employee will be placed on a reemployment list for a period of thirty-nine (39) months. During this time and when able to return to work, he/she has the right to the first vacancy in his/her classification. During absence because of on-the-job injury or accident; the employee must reside in California unless the Governing Board grants him/her permission to leave the state.
Section 12.	Union Leave: Elected or appointed officers or delegates of Local No. 1 may be permitted to be absent from duty at no salary deduction for purposes of representing their organization at regional, state, and national meetings. A total of thirty (30) days per school year shall be allocated to Local No. 1 for this purpose. The District shall pay the cost of substitutes replacing employees on such leave.
Section 13.	Family Illness Leave: Two (2) days per year paid leave shall be provided for the employee's absence due to illness or injury of any members of the immediate family.
Section 14.	Education Leave: Members who request an unpaid educational leave may be granted such request upon proper notification.
Section 15.	Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
25
ARTICLE 12 TRANSFER
Office and Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4.
Section 1.	Types of Transfer: The four (4) types of transfers recognized are: vol intary, involuntary, administrative, and medical.
Section 2.	Voluntary Transfer:
1.	All vacancies shall be posted on appropriate bulletin boards for seven (7) calendar days so that present District employees may request transfer.
Office and Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4.
2.	After vacancies are posted, District employees shall have one (1) week from date of posting to apply for transfer to posted vacancies.
a. In addition to the above procedures, employees in the Custodial Department classifications and Teacher Aide, Special Education may designate in writing in October of each year on an agreed-upon form, those sites to which they may be interested in transferring in the event of a vacancy. The District shall process those requests along with any other transfer request applications in the event of a vacancy at the site indicated.
. 3. Any employee going, on leave during the period of posting can request a copy of the notice by providing the Personnel Department with a self-addressed stamped envelope.
4.	An employee on leave shall have the right to have his/ her Shop Steward file for the transfer on his/her behalf.
5.	District employees worldng in the same classification will be considered first for the vacancy. Only transfer requests from employees meeting all requirements will be considered for. any vacancy. The Division Head, Department Head, or Principal shall interview the employee(s) whid has/have requested transfer.
26
If more than one (1) employee wishes to be transferred to a particular vacancy, factors to be considered are ’ related experience, job performance, education, and length of ■ service. However, primary consideration shall be given to seniority.
The seniority shall be based on date of hire.
6.	The decision regarding the transfer of unit personnel is solely the responsibility of the District except as provided in this Article. Every reasonable effort will be made to acknowledge all transfer requests.
7.	Group Aides-refer to Supplement 2.
8.	Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
Section 3.	Involuntary Transfer:
1.	When involuntary transfer is necessary because of lack of funds, lack of work, or abolishment of a position because of lack of need, volunteers shall be considered for transfer first
2.	If there are no volunteers, the.transfer shall be based on seniority within the classification. When applicable and if there are no volunteers, the transfer shall be based on District seniority at the work site..
3.	No employee shall be. assigned to work in a work location other than the employee's normal work site for a period in excess of (5) working days without the written consent of the employee.
4.	Any employee who has consented to remain at a work site other than the employee's normal work site for a period in excess of five (5) working days may at any time request in writing to be returned to the regular work site. This request shall be granted within ten (10) working days after receipt by the District of the written request. Payment for mileage in accordance with Article 18, Section 1 of this Agreement will be made to employees working at a site other than his/her normal site for the difference in miles traveled between his/her regular site arid ternpbrary work site, if additional travel is required.
27
5.	In accordance with the transfer and seniority provisions of this Agreement, Local No. 1 and the District shall develop a special procedure to be implemented in the event of school closures, which shall be agreed to prior to the implementation of any school closure.
Section 4.	Administrative Transfer.
1.	Emergency situations can occur involving the health and welfare of students or employees; If the employee's presence presents a clear and present danger to the life, safety, or health of any student or employee, the District may immediately effect a transfer of said employee.
2.	The Division Head, Department Head, or Principal requesting the transfer of a classified employee shall submit the form "Administrator Request for Transfer of Classified Personnel." Intent to request transfer must be discussed with the employee concerned. It may, at the employee's option, include his/her representative. A written confirmation of the discussion shall be given to the employee before the request is submitted. This procedure must be followed before the form is sent to the Assistant Superintendent, Personnel.
Sections. Medical Transfer: The District shall give alternate work when temporary work for which that employee is qualified and able to perform is available to an employee who has become medically unable to satisfactorily perform his/her regular job class duties.
Section 6; Summer School Bidding: Any bidding for summer school assignments must be posted and completed by no later than the week prior to the last week of school, and in no case later than five (5) work days prior to the last day of school.
Special Education Division—refer to Supplement 2.
28
ARTICLE 13 EVALUATION
Section!. Goal: The basic goal of the employee evaluation process is to help each employee perform his/her present job more effectively to themutual benefit of the individual and the District.
Section 2.	Objectives:
1.	To provide a means of evaluating each employee's performance in the specific context of his/her job.
2.	To determine individual needs for improvement and development.
3.	To secure continuing communication of individual development.
"	4. To provide a basis for giving recognition for praiseworthy service.
Section 3,	Procedure:
1.	The immediate Supervisor, the Department Head, and the Division Head have the major responsibility for the evaluation of classified personnel under their supervision.
2.	General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit— refer to Supplement 1.
Paraprofessional Unit—refer to Supplement 2.
Richmond Schools Police Unit—refer to Supplement 3.
Temporary arid Substitute Employees—refer to Supplement 5. .
3.	The Assistant Superintendent, Personnel has the responsibility of compiling information for the Superintendent from the evaluations made by all administrators.
4.	Probationary employees shall be formally evaluated at • least twice during the probationary period and more frequently if deemed advisable.
5.	Permanent employees having less than five (5) years of service shall be formally evaluated at least once annu
29
ally, and may be evaluated more frequently for good cause, upon proper notification. Permanent employees having more than five (5) years of service may be formally evaluated upon proper notice.
6.	Evaluation Forms: All formal evaluations shall be filed in the employee's file in the Personnel Office, and are available for the employee's inspection by appointment. A copy Oi the completed evaluation forms shall be given to the employee. The evaluation forms shall be those shown in Exhibit B, Exhibit C, and Exhibit D.
7.	No evaluation of any employee shall be placed in any personnel file without an opportunity for discussion between the employee and the evaluator(s). No evaluation shall be made based upon hearsay statements but shall only be based upon the direct observation and knowledge of the evaluatorfs). Any negative evaluation shall include specific recommendations for improvements and provisions for assisting the employee in implementing any recommendations made. The employee shall ha ve the right to review and respond to any derogatory evaluation.
ARTICLE 14
SAFETY
Section 1; District Compliance: The District shall conform to and comply with all health, safety, and sanitation requirements imposed by state or federal law or regulations adopted under state or federal law.
Section 2,	Safety Committee: General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit—refer to Supplement 1.
Paraprofessional Unit—refer to Supplement 2.
Richmond Schools Police Unit—refer to Supplement 3.
Office and Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4.
Section 3,	Procedures:
1.	The Safety Committee shall meet regularly every other month.’"
30
2.	Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson to consider an acute safety problem.
3.	The Safety Committee shall designate one (1) District* member and one (1 ) Local No. 1 member to investigate a safety problem.
4.	The Safety Committee shall report its findings and recommendations to the Supervisor of Safety.
Section 4.	Release Time: The bargaining unit members of the committee shall be allowed reasonable release time to carry out their obligations under Sections 1 and 2 of this Article.
Section 5.	No Discrimination: No employee shall be in any way discriminated against as a result of reporting any condition believed to be a violation of Section 1 of this Article.
Section 6.	Insurance Provisions and Personal Safety:
1.	Classified employees may use reasonable force in the performance of their duties when such force is required to defend themselves or insure the safety of other employees or students.
2.	When a student with known serious behavior problems or violence-related potential or whose parent or guardian has similar potential is assigned to a classroom or site, the paraprofessional unit member in the classroom, the elementary school secretary and the school police officer shall be notified in accordance with the agreed upon procedure between the District; Local No. 1, and UTR.
3.	Classified employees shall immediately report cases of assault suffered by them in connection with their employment to their prindpal or other immediate supervisor. Such notification shall be immediately forwarded to the Superintendent who shall comply with any reasonable request from the employee for information in the possession of the Superintendent relating to the incident or the persons involved.
4.	Because of the inability of the District to secure primary liability insurance to cover incidents arising from acci
31
dents involving an employee's personal automobile in the scope of employment, the refusal to transport students in such a manner shall not constitute cause for adverse action against the employee. In the event an employee does transport students in his/her personal automobile and a daim of liability is filed, the insurance coverage shall provide secondary coverage up to the limits enumerated in Education Code Section 35208.
5.	Paraprofessional Unit—refer to Supplement 2.
6.	Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
Section 7.	Safety Equipment: Richmond Schools Police Unit-refer to Supplement 3.
Section 8.	Gun Shoot: Richmond Schools Police Unit-refer to Supplement 3.
Section 9,	The District.shall conduct safety and in-service programs for all unit members on a regular basis.
ARTICLE 15
BENEFITS
Section 1.	The District shall provide all eligible employees and their dependents with a fully paid Health Maintenance Organization (HMO)heal th plan. Employees may choose from among a list of such plans mutually agreed upon by Local No. 1 and the District.
1.	Employees who certify coverageby another group health plan or spouses of RUSD employees covered by a District health plan may waive their health plan. In such cases the District shall contribute fifty ($50.00) dollars per month to a Tax-Sheltered Annuity Plan offered by the Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC).
Section 2.	The District also shall offer the newly-designed Blue Cross Health Plan. Employees who choose this plan shall pay, via payroll deduction, sixty-five ($65.00) dollars per month towards their premium cost. The District shall pay the balance of the
32
premium for eligible employees and their dependents.
; Section 3. The above plans shall include prescription drug cover-■ age with a deductible amount of one ($1.00) dollar or less.
Section 4.	The District shall provide all eligible employees and their dependents with either toedental insurance plan currently offered by California Dental Service or at the option of the employee, the prepaid dental plan offered by Safeguard.
Section 5.	The. District shall provide the Vision Service Plan, Option B, with a ten ($10.00) dollars deductible, to all eligible employees who choose an HMO health plan. This plan shall also provide dependent coverage.
Section 6.	Continuation—Retirement: Employees in the bargaining unit who retire and who subsequently become eligible for and successfully enroll in federal medical or dental insurance programs available to persons receiving OASHDI benefits, may be converted by the employer to supplemental coordination of bene? fit programs so long as the overall coverage for the retired employee of the bargaining unit is not less than he/she would receive under the active employee;program.
1.	Employees retiring after August 1, 1986, who choose Blue Cross as their retiree health plan will be required to pay a monthly amount equal to one-half (1/2) of the difference between the appropriate 1985-86 Kaiser(s) and Blue Cross 365 premium, not to exceed sixty-five ($65.00) per month.
Section 7.	Maintenance of Benefits: The employer shall maintain these benefits as prescribed above in this Article for the duration of this contract
Section 8.	Employees who work less than one-half (1 /2) time and who are not eligible for District-paid benefits shall have the option to enroll ini health plans at their own expense at toe group rate, subject to carrier's eligibility, following the procedure developed by the District and Local Nd. 1.
Section 9.	Richmond Schools Police Unit-refer to Supplement 3.
Section 10.	The District shall be responsible for making appropriate deductions for all employees in units who have selected State
33
Disability Insurance coverage and shall be responsible for notifying the state to properly insure such employees in the event of failure to make required deductions;
Section 11.	Early Retirement Incentive: Any unit members with service and age addirig up to seventy-two (72) years,or more, and who would be eligible for retirement with District-paid health benefits within three (3) years of date of application may elect to retire with District-paid benefits. Notification of this option must be provided to the District by no later than June 30, 1991. The provision shall be effective for the duration of this contract and shall only be continued by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE 16
COMPENSATION
Section 1.	Appointments: The Superintendent may appoint, in accordance with the Rules and Regulations, any person to a position in any class contained in the Salary Schedule. Such appointment, normally, shall be made at the first step in the salary range. Whenever, there exists recruiting difficulties or an eligible with outstanding qualifications, the Superintendent may appoint a person to a specific step within the applicable salary range. In such case all incumbent employees in the department and class are to be paid at the same step or higher than the step paid the new employee, The salary so designated is thereby fixed as the salary for such employees) for such positions.
Section 2.	Salary Advancement: An employee occupying a regular full-time or part-time position will advance to the next higher step on the appropriate salary range following satisfactory completion of six (6) months of service in the class. The employee's salary increment date will t>e established for future step adjustments at this time. Such salary increment date will be established on tite first day of the month if the first increment due date falls during the first to the fifteenth day of the month; or, the first day of the following month if the first increment due date falls during the sixteenth to the end of the month. Following the initial step advancement, succeeding adjustments will be granted annually
34
on the employee's established salary increment date.
Section 3.	Promotion—Effect upon RateofCompensation: An ■
<. employee promoted to a higher classification shall advance to the : nearest step in the new salary range providing such advance is at least five (5) percent higher than his/her previous salary. However, no employee can advance higher than the maximum step in the new salary range.
1.	District vacancies'shall be filled in the following order: Voluntary Transfer, Rehire, Promotional, Temporary and Substitute List, Open. Candidate certification process for promotions shall be:
a.	AD positions shall be posted in accordance with Article 12, Section 2.
b.	Candidates shall submit written applications.
c.	The Classified Personnel Office shall, on the basis of the written application, determine if each candidate appears to meet the minimum requirements, as established in the job announcement.
d.	Candidates meeting minimum requirements shaD be invited to take a written or performance test and/or an oral interview.
e.	Tests and qualifying scores shaD be developed by the Classified Personnel office and shall be related to the actual requirements of the job as specified in the job description; Upon request, employees shall be provided with test score results, and specific areas in which they did not meet the requirements.
f.	TheUnion shall be notified inadvance of testing dates and may appointone (1) representative to serve as an observer at any one (1) test.
g.	Voting members of a candidate certification team shall include equal number of management appoints ees and union appointees. It shaD be chaired by a representative of the Classified Personnel Office. A majority vote of the team is required to qualify a candidate.
35
Candidates certified as qualified for the promotional position shall be placed on a list in order of seniority. The Superintendent may select any of,the top three (3) applicants to fill, the vacancy. Seniority within job family shall be deemed greater than District seniority. The eligibility list shall be valid for one (1) year from date established. No outside applicant may be selected over a certified, qualified employee. Employees successfully completing a training program shall be automatically promoted to positions in the journey level classification irrespective of the conditions of this Article.
h.	Temporary and Substitute Employees—refer to Supplement 5.
Section 4.	Demotion—Effect Upon Rate of Compensation: The rate of compensation to be paid in cases of demotion, discipline, or for incompetence, shall be determined by the Superintendent, based upon recommendations of the Division Head and the Assistant Superintendent, Personnel. Compensation shall be wittun the salary range limits of the classification to which the employee was demoted. In cases of demotion/voluntary and in lieu of layoff, the employee shall receive the salary in the lower classification nearest to his/her present salary.
1.	Employees who are disabled due to on-the-job disability which is verified by -the District physician and who accept a position in a classification with a lower salary range shall be"Y" rated.
Section 5,	Effects of Certain Miscellaneous Actions Upon Salaries: Any employee occupying a position which is reallocated to a dass, the maximum for which is less than the incumbent's present salary or occupying a position in a class for which the salary rate or range is reduced, shall continue to receive his/her present salary. Such salary shall be known as a "Y" rate. When an employee on a "Y" rate vacates his/her position, subsequent appointments to that position shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the rules and the salary plan.
Section 6.	Longevity: In addition to salaries set forth in the salary
36
■ schedule, longevity allowances shall be added.to monthly salaries as follows:	<
•	. ■ l . : .-After ten (10) years of service (beginning with the year '■ -
eleven) $50.00 per month through the fifteenth (15th) year of service.
2.	After fifteen (15) years of service (beginning with the year sixteen) $60.00 per month through the twentieth (20th) year of service.
3.	After twenty (20) years of, service (beginning with the year twenty-one) $80.00 per month through the twentyfifth (25th) year of service.
4.	After twenty-five (25) years of service (beginning with the year twenty-six) $95.00 per month maximum.
Effective July 1,1990, the longevity allowances shall be increased to the following:
1.	After five (5) years of service, (beginning with the sixth year) $40.00 per month.
2.	After ten (10) years of service (beginning with the year eleven) $140.00 per month through the fifteenth year.
3.	After fifteen (15) years of service (beginning with the year sixteen) $150.00 month through the twentieth year of service.
4.	After twenty (20) years of service (beginning with the year twenty-one) $170.00,per month through the twentyfifth year of service.
5.	After twenty-five (25) years of service (beginning with the year twenty-six) $185.00 per month.
6.	For employees working more than four (4) hours per day and for employees working on a ten (10) month year, longevity shall be based upon the school year.
7.. Employees earn longevity by working or while covered by paid leave of absence.
' Section 7, Temporary Work in Higher Classification: The Division Head must obtain official approval through the Assistant Superintendent; Personnel, when the Division Head1 intends to
37
have a subordinate employee work temporarily in a higher-paid classification. The Division .'Head,must insure that the employee who is to temporarily relieve in a higher-paid classification in the same crew or similar.work unit must assume all or substantially all of the duties and responsibilities of the higher-paid classification before the Division Head attempts to obtain approval for such appointment.
Ari employee who serves as a substitute for an employee in a higher classification or an employee who is appointed ito a Division Head, Department Head, or similar administrative position under the circuhnstances mentioned below, shall be paid the appropriate rate for the higher classification beginriing with the second day of such service with retroactive pay to the first day of service. Whenever, a supervisor or lead worker is absent for more than one (1) day, the most qualified volunteer from the unit shall be appointed the temporary out-of-dass position on the second day of such absence and paid in accordance with this Article.
If a vacancy occurs in a Division Head, Department Head, or similar administrative position and in the absence of an appropriate employment list, the Superintendent may appoint a person meeting the minimum qualifications for the class, as determined by the Assistant Superintendent, Personnel to a position in such a class in an acting capacity; such appoiritment to be designated "acting" followed by the appropriate class title.
Food Service employees-refer to Supplement 1.
Paraprofessional Unit employees-refer to Supplement 2.
Section 8.	Salary Adjustments:
1.	Effective July 1, 1989, the salary schedule shall be increased by seyen (7) percent.
2.	Effective July 1,1990, the salary schedule shall be increased by seven (7) percent.
3.	The following economic adjustments are to be implemented on July 1,1990:
Gardening Tree Topper Leadworker (New Position) Range 64
Irrigation Technician, Range 65 to 66
38
Senior Irrigation Technician, Range 67 to 68
>	Office Machine Repairworker, Range 60 to 63
Furniture'Driver Repairworker, Range 61 to 63
Furniture Driver Repairworker Leadworker (New Position) Range 65
Central Kitchen employee will receive 5% differential Food Service Aide, Range 27 to 29
Cook-Manager 1 /School Lunch, Range 47 to 48
Cafeteria Leadworker, Range 42 to 43
Account Clerk 1, Range 44 to 45
Account Clerk (Secondary School Cashier), Range 46 (with classification title change)
Typist Clerk 2, Range 43 to 44	■' ■:	'
Attendance Clerk, Range 44 to 45
Chief Attendance Technidan, Range 55 to 56
Textbook Qefk, Range 45 (with dassification title change)
Operations Secretary, Range 54 to 57
Secondary Site Supervisor, Range 31 to 33
Instructional Assistant, Special Education, Range 42 to 43
SpedalEducation Assistant, Range 48 to 49
Senior Budget Control Clerk, (Range 52 to 55)
Senior Account Clerk, Range 49 to 50
Budget Control Clerk, Range 49 to 50
Senior Account Clerk,Spedal Projects, Lead Worker, Range 51 to 52
Section 9.	Certification and License Differential: The District shall . pay. a five (5) percent differential to all employees who are required by the District, to have and maintain a spedal license or certification in addition to any spedfied in their job descriptions.
Section 10.	In the event of salary computation errors, the District shall make' any payment owned to the employee within three (3)
39
days of notification of the error. In no event shall the District make deduction to an employee's salary due to District error in computation without proper advance written notice to the employee and an opportunity to select increment repayment deductions.
Section 11.	Paraprofessional Unit employees—refer to Supplement 2.
ARTICLE 17
OVERTIME AND COMPENSATION FOR OVERTIME
Section 1.	General Provisions: Overtime is defined to include any time required to be worked by an employee in excess of his/her established work week or workday. Employees whose established working hours are thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours per week, seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day shall be eligible for overtime for time worked in excess of thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours in a calendar week or in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day. The foregoing provisions are not intended to apply to properly designated part-time positions with an assigned workday of less than seven and one-half (7-1 /2) hours and a work week of less than thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours even though all such positions constitute all of die positions within a class.
1.	All hours worked beyond the work week of five (5) consecutive days shall be compensated at the overtime rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) commencing on the sixth (6th) consecutive day of work.
2.	All hours worked on the seventh (7th) consecutive day of work up to seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours shall be compensated at double the regular rate of pay.
3.	All hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours on the sixth (6) and seventh (7) consecutive day shall be compensated at two and one-half (2-1 /2) times the regular rate of pay.
4.	All hours worked on holidays designated by this Agree
40
ment shall be compensated at two and one-half (2-1 /2) times the regular rate of pay.
Section 2.	Rate of Compensation for Overtime Worked: All compensable overtime shall be paid at the rate designated above. Exceptions must be mutually agreed to. When compensatory time off is authorized in lieu of cash compensation, such compensatory time off shall be granted within twelve (12) months following the month in which the overtime was worked and without impairing the services rendered by the District. If the compensatory time has not been taken within twelve (12) months of the date on which it was earned, and mutual agreement not reached to extend the period, the District shall pay the employee in cash for all such time at the appropriate overtime rate based on the employee's current rate of pay.
Section 3.	Accumulation of Overtime: Food Service employees in secondary schools and Central Kitchen-refer to Supplement 1.
Section 4.	Factors Which Govern Compensation for Overtime Worked: Each employee who has earned overtime compensation shall have the right to request either payment or compensatory time-off. The Division Head shall approve the employee's choice provided that the needs of the Division and of the District service, adjudged by the Division Head, permit. The detailed methods of compensating for overtime may vary from division to division, and each Division Head shall give due consideration to divisional needs and precedents. All overtime compensation shall be paid in accordance with the contract and in compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Section 5.	Effect of Termination Upon Overtime: Each employee who resigns or is otherwise terminated shall be entitled to compensations for his/her accumulated overtime of record.
Section 6.	Procedure Governing Overtime Work: All overtime work shall be subject to prior approval by an immediate supervisor or any duly authorized representative of the District.
Section 7.	Certain Exceptions and Exclusions: The following shall apply for the employees designated:
1.	Each District employee who works as a substitute, shortterm, part-time, or intermittent appointment shall be
41
excluded from the provisions of these Sections 1 through 6, until the total hours worked by such employee in a calendar week exceeds the established work week for full-time regular employees.
2.	The work week shall consist of not more than five (5) consecutive working days for any employee having an average, workday of three and three-quarters (3-3/4) hours or more during the work week. Such an employee shall be compensated for any work required to be performed on the sixth (6) or seventh (7) day following the commencement of the work week at the rate equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay of the employee designated and authorized to perform the work. An employee having an average workday of less than three and three-quarters (3-3/4) hours during a work week shall, for any work required to be performed on the seventh (7) day following the commencement of his/her work week, be compensated for at a rate equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay of the employee designated and authorized to perform the work.
3.	Part-time, positions with an assigned workday of less than seven and one-half (7-1 /2) hours and work week of less than thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours shall be eligible for overtime for time worked in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day or in excess of thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours per week.
Section 8.	Overtime-Equal Distribution: Overtime shall be distributed and rotated as equally as is practical among employees in the bargaining unit within each department and at each work site according to seniority and meeting the requirements for the assignment The senior employee may refuse the assignment without waiving his rotation rights.
Section 9,	Call-Back Time: Any employee called back to work after completion of his/her regular assignment shall be compensated for at least four (4) hours of work at the overtime fate, irrespective of the actual time less than that required to be worked.
42
Section 10; Right of Refusal: Any employee shall have the right to reject any offer dr request forovertime, call-back, dr call-in time.
Section 11.	Food Service Employees—refer to Supplement 1.
Section 12.	Richmond Schools Police Unit—refer to Supplement 3.
ARTICLE 18
EXPENSE CLAIM
Section L Mileage: Any employee in the bargaining unit required to use his/her vehicle oh District business shall be reimbursed at the rate of twenty-one (21) Cents per mile dr at a rate greater if accorded to any other employee group, for all miles driven oh behalf of the District. The mileage computation shall include mileage necessary to return to the employee's normal job site after completion of District business. This amount shall be payable in a separate waitant drawn against District funds within thirty (30) working days of submission of the claim by the employee in the bargaining unit;
Section 2. Miscellaneous: Any employee authorized to attend an activity away froth his/her normal assignment shall submit an expense claim oh the form provided by the District for all necessary expenses.
Sectidh 3. Damages to Personal Effects:
1.	General Provisions: The Governing Board of the District will provide for the payment of the costs of replacing dr repairing the jdb^required personal effects of ah employee which are damaged in line of duty without fault of the employee. Such items are eyeglasses, hearing aids; dentures; watches; jewelry or articles of clothing. if.the items are damaged beyond repair; the actual value of siichitems shall be paid. The value of such items shall be determined as of the time of the damage thereto.
Restrictions: it is hot the intention of this section to replace personal effects which are worn out through ordinary wear arid tear. The Governing Board will be • responsible for repair of replacement costs to a maxi
43
mum amount of four hundred ($400.00) dollars for any one (1) incident.
2.	The Governing: Board shall reimburse employees for vandalism, damage to their autos occurring during duty time pursuant to the following guidelines: Reimbursable damage is limited to damaged glass and/or that which would affect the mechanical operation or proper movement of the auto and which could reasonably be assumed to have occurred while the vehicle was parked. There shall be a four hundred ($400.00) dollar limit per automobile damage incident
3.	Substantiation: Employees shall substantiate any claim for repair or replacement with evidence clearly indicate ing that damage was caused by circumstances beyond the control of the employee. Receipts for payment of repair or replacement costs will be required. Request for substantiation by the District shall not be unreasonable and shall be submitted on agreed upon forms.
Section 4.	Uniforms: Richmond Schools Police Unit—refer to Supplement 3.
Section 5.	Tools: General Service, Maintenance and Operations Unit-refer to Supplement 1.
ARTICLE 19 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Recognizing that the Board of Education is the elected body charged with conducting the affairs of the District, all rights which ordinarily vest in and have been exercised by the District shall continue to vest exclusively in and be exercised by the District unless otherwise agreed to. Such rights shall include, by way of example but not limitation, the right to:
1.	Manage and control the District, its facilities and operations as well as to direct the working forces and affairs of the District.
2.	Within existing law, direct the working forces, including
44
the right to select, hire; layoff, promote; discipline, sus-■.	pend, dismiss, transfer, assign work or extra duties, and
determine the size of the work force within existing law and the constraints of this Agreement.
3.	Determine the services, supplies, and equipment necessary to conduct the operation of the District and to determine the methods, schedules, and standards of operation essential to all District programs.
4.	Adopt arid enforce District rules and regulations.
ARTICLE 20
CONTINUITY OF SERVICE
Employeesof tire District shall not take partin any strike, work stoppage; or activity during duty hours which would interfere with the normal operation of the District.
All parties signatory to this Agreement agree that neither the officers of Richmond Schools bargaining unit of Local No. 1 nor employees will collectively, concertedly, or individually induce, engage; dr participate directly or indirectly in any strike, picketing, slowdown, stoppage; or other curtailment or interference with the employer's operation, or interfere or cause interference With the flow of material or persons in or out of the premises or property.
All parties to ariy Agreement will comply with all Articles of the Agreeiheht and perform all agreed-upon duties regardless of any agreement or disagreeihent with any other District employee. It is expressly understood that the provisions of this Article do not apply to those matters subject to the reoperier provisions of this Agreeiheht.
ARTICLE 21
DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Section 1,	General Provisions: A permanent classified employee may be suspended, demoted; or dismissed by the Governing Board for cause;
45
Section 2,	When emergency conditions do not exist, disciplinary steps to be used by administrators shall be as follows:
1.	Verbal reprimand.
2.	Written reprimand.
3.	Suspension.
4.	Demotie i.
5.	Dismissal.
In all cases the action taken by the District shall be invoked at a level commensurate with the offense.
Sections. Causes: The causes which shall be deemed sufficient for suspension, demotion, or dismissal of permanent classified employees are the following:
1.	Absence without leave.
2.	Conviction of any criminal act involving moral turpitude.
3.	Disorderly or immoral conduct.
4.	Incompetency or inefficiency.
5.	Insubordination.
6.	Use of alcoholic beverages or narcotics while on duty.
7.	Neglect of duty.
8.	Negligent or willful damage to District, property, or waste of District supplies or equipment.
9.	Willful violation of any of the Governing Board's regulations regarding duties, conduct, or performance of a classified employee.
10.	Material and intentional misrepresentation dr concealment of any fact in connection with obtaining employment.
11.	Misappropriation of District funds or property.
12.	Failure of employees who drive a vehicle in the regular course of their employment to maintain a good business driving record.
46
ARTICLE 22
\ RESTRICTION OF CONTRACTING OUT
During the life of this Agreement, the employer agrees that it will not contract out work which has been customarily and routinely performed by employees in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement unless specifically required by the Education Code and/or the work contracted out is in excess of that which could be reasonably performed by regular school employees.
ARTICLE 23 REASSIGNMENT
Section 1.	General-Definition: Reassignment shall be defined as any change of work station or work location within.a work site and/or any addition to, deletion of or change in assigned duties, hours, or working conditions;
On occasion the operation of the District may require flexibility in assignment. It is agreed that this flexibility in assignment and reassignment shall not be used in' a manner that will cause the employees to unreasonably speed up their work process or increase production beyond the present standard, or in order to circumvent the granting of overtime.
It is agreed that any addition to, deletion of, or change in assigned duties, hours or working conditions shall be accompanied by a comparable addition to, deletion of, of change in assigned du ties, hours dr working cbhditions.
Section 2.	Building Maintenance, Custodial and Landscape-refer to Supplement 1;
Sections, Food Service—refer to Supplement 1.
Section 4,	Gardening—refer to Supplement 1.
Sections.	Paraprofessional—refer to Supplement 2.
47
ARTICLE 24
LAYOFF AND REEMPLOYMENT
Section 1.	Reason for Layoff: Layoffs shall occur due to lack of work or lack of funds.
Section 2.	Forms of Layoff: Layoffs may take one (1) or more of the following fdnrs:
1.	An involuntary reduction in the number of days worked in a year;
2.	An involuntary reduction in the number of hours worked in a day;
3.	An involuntary reduction in classification through bumping by senior employees;
4.	An involuntary reduction in salary or other compensa-tion to avoid layoff;
5.	Acceptance of bumping to a lower classification to avoid layoff is at the option of the employees affected.
Section3.	Notice of Layoff: Unit members affected by layoff shall be given no less than thirty (30) calendar days written notice of such action.
Office arid Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4. Section 4. Order of Layoff: Layoffs shall be based upon seniority within a class and higher classes within the District
1.	In determining order of layoff in a lateral class (where an employee moves or has moved from one (1) class to another class at the same salary range) the original diass, prior to lateral movement, shall be considered a lower class for purposes of seniority within class.
2.	Members with the least seniority within the class, plus higher classes, shall be laid-off first.
3.	Effective July 1,1987, seniority shall be based on the hire date in a permanent paid status in a class plus higher classes, as of the date of layoff.
48
Section s.	Bumping Rights:
1.	A member laid-off from his/her.present class may bump into the next lower class in which the employee has previously served.
2.	The accumulated service in the higher class plus the service of seniority in the present class shall determine the seniority within the class.
3.	The employee may continue to bump into successive lower classes in which he/she has served to avoid layoff.
4.	A member may elect to be laid-off in lieu of bumping. Accepting such a layoff does not affect the employee's reemployment rights under this Agreement.
5.	When an employee was initially employed in an identifiable entry-level position within an existing specific family grouping of classifications, that employee shall retain seniority for that entry-level position even though the position has been reclassified and/or the title changed, provided the employee meets minimum qualifications required for the entry-level position.
Section 6.	Equal Seniority: Where two (2) or more employees subject to layoff have equal class seniority,’ layoff shall be made on the basis of the last continuous hire date seniority.
Section 7.	Reemployment Rights: Members laid-off are eligible for reemployment in reverse order of layoff for a period of thirty-nine (39) months and shall be mandatorily reemployed in preference to theDistrict accepting new applicants within the class from which the layoff occurred.
Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
Section 8,	Special Reemployment Rights:
1.	Upon any vacancy occurring within a class within the District within the classified service, the District shall:
a.	First, offer reemployment to laid-off employees in order of highest seniority within the class in which the vacancy occurs and they possess vested job rights.
b.	Such.employees shall be notified by. first-class mail at the last know address of record. The employee shall,
49
if notified by mail, have three (3) workdays from proof of service but in no case more than seven (7) workdays from date of postmark to notify the District of acceptance. Failure to respond/accept shall be considered a waiver of the right to the vacancy.
c.	Second, where ho employee in a layoff status has vested or prior rights in a vacancy, or, where those having such rightsrefuse or fail to exercise them, the District shall offer reemployment to unit members in order of District seniority in any position within any class which is vacant within the units where the employee possesses the minimum qualifications for such vacant positions as delineated in the current Rules and Regulations of the District
(1)	Such employee shall be notified by first class mail, at the last known address of record, of the opening.
The employee shall, within seven (7) calendar days from date of postmark, notify and make application to the District to fill such vacancy.
(2)	Failure to make application within the time limits shall be considered a waiver of the right to vacancy.
d.	Such reemployed members returning to the District in a class not previously occupied by them shall serve a regular probationary period in such classification and shall be placed on "Step 1" of the new class salary rate for the probationary period.
2.	All terms and conditions contained within this Article shall apply to all members in job classifications represented by Local No. 1.
3.	Office and Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4.
Section 9,
1.	Any employee who is improperly laid-off shall be reemployed-immediately upon discovery of the error and
50
shall be reimbursed for all loss of salary.
■ -2.- Any permanent or probationary employee who is laid-- off and is subsequently reemployed shall retain that seniority earned prior to the effective date of the layoff.
3.	No seniority shall be earned during periods Of separation from employment in the District, except during authorized military leave.
ARTICLE 25 RECLASSIFICATION
Section 1, Reclassification means the upgrading of a position-tea higher classification as a result of a gradual increase of the duties being performed by the incumbent Jn such position.
1.	When an employee has reason to believe that duties and responsibilities are being performed outside of the employee's job description, so as to justify a reclassification, the employee should submit that evidence in writing to the Assistant Superintendent of Personnel through his/her Department Head. The Assistant Superintendent of Personnel shall conduct a desk audit on the position seeking to be reclassified and make an appropriate recommendation to the Superintendent.
ARTICLE 26
STAFF DEVELOPMENT
The District and the Union agree that it is to the mutual benefit of employees and the District for employees to participate in staff development activities.
Employees shall be released, with authorization from the Personnel Office, to attend District-sponsored in-service and staff .. development activities. Such authorization shall not be unreasonably denied.
Paraprofessional Unit—refer to Supplement 2
51
ARTICLE 27
DISTRIBUTION OF AGREEMENT
Following ratification of this Agreement by both parties herein, said parties shall share equally the cost of preparing and distributing a sufficient number of copies to;all members of the bargaining unit and designated management personnel.
52
ARTICLE 28 SIGNATURES TO AGREEMENT
Signed and entered into this third day of October, 1989.
RICHMQNP UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SyPEOfTE^ENT QF SCHOOLS:
Walter L. Marks
PUBLIC HdPLQYEE’S yNIQN LQGAL NO. 1:
Sandra Falk
Major Dixon Adeline Calhoun Rudy Oonzales Loretta Banducd
John Scruggs, Eleanor Abel Ejonna gutler George Busby
Larry Davis James Emerson
Toni E tchison Gloria Jackson
Bruce Leslie Samee Rashid Jessie Thepudele
SUPPLEMENT 1
GENERAL SERVICES, MAINTENANCE AND OPERATIONS UNIT
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
1. The District recognizes Local No. 1 as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for employees in the following classifications:
Administrative Aide
Assistant Auto Mechanic
Auto Mechanic
Building Maintenance Worker
Carpenter
Carpenter/Cabinet Maker Trainee
Cashier, School Lunch
Computer Operator
Computer Operator Trainee
Concrete Mason
Cook, Children's Center
Cook/Manager 1, School Lunch
Custodian	,
Custodian—Castro .
Data Entry Coordinator
Delivery Worker
Driver Helper
Electrician
Electrician Assistant
Electrician Trainee
. Electronic Repairworker , Equipment Control Clerk
54
Equipment Control Technician
Equipment Mechanic
Field Maintenance Groundskeeper
Field Maintenance Groundskeeper—Leadworker
Film Checker and Shelver
Food Service Aide
Food Service Clerk /Aide.	-
Food Production Leadworker
Food Service Operations Assistant
Furniture Driver Repairworker
Furniture Driver Repairworker-Leadworker
Furniture Repairworker
Furniture Repairworker Assistent ’
Furniture Repairworker Trainee	*■
Gardener	5	‘
Gardener Leadworker
Gardener Operator ’
Gardener Operator Leadworker
Gardener Tree Topper ‘‘	' '
Gardener Tree Topper—Leadworker
General Mechanic Trainee1 ' • ■ V
Glazier	‘	7
Glazier Assistant	> •	* ’ -
Glazier Trainee
Groundsworker
Head Custodian 1, Elementary	'
Head Custodian 1, Castro
Heating and Ventilating Assistant	'
Heating and Ventilating Trainee
Heating and Ventilaiting .Mechanic
Housekeeper, Children's Center
55
Irrigation Equipment Technician
Key punch Opera tor	v
Locksmith
Locksmith Assistant
Locksmith Trainee
Office Machines Repairwprker
Offset Press Operator Painter
Painter Leadworker
Painter Spray Specialist
Plumber
Plumber Assistant
Plumtjer Trainee Roofer
Roofer Assistant
Roofer Trainee
Schocd Bus DriYer/gustoidian
gchool Crossing Guard
Sghpol Lunch Worker 1
School Lunch Worker 2
*	"**	'* ■:> n'" ♦ 7:‘i "»»
Senior Computer Operator
Senior Irrigation Equipment Technician
Senior Key Punch Operator
Senior Locksmith
Senior Office Machines Repairworker
Senior Offset Press Operator
Senior Warehouseworker
Shade Worker
. Sheet Metal Worker Stock Cerk Custodian
Stock Clerk Driver
56
Stock Clerk Driver/Custodian Stores Warehouse Driver Telephone Operator/Receptionist Tool Room and Stock Clerk Utility Worker
Utility Worker 1 Warehouseworker 1 Warehouseworker 2 Welder
ARTICLE 10
WORKING HOURS, REST PERIODS, LUNCH TIME, ABSENCE FROM DUTY, CALL-IN TIME
Section 1. Working Hours:
1.	The standard work week for employees in the General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit shall consist of not more than thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours, seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day, Monday. through Friday.
2.	Working hours for employees in the classification of custodian shall consist of nof less than twenty (20) hours per week, four (4) hours per day.
3.	Working hours on all of die above shall be set according to the needs of the particular job, and assignment.
Sections. Lunch Time: Head Custodian 1, Elementary and Head Custodian 1, Castro shall have lunch time of thirty (30) minutes included in working time of seven and one-half (71/2) hours per day. However, his/her lunch time can be interrupted to perform an essential task(s) for the principal.
57
ARTICLE 13
' • EVALUATION
Section 3, Procedure
2.	Custodians:
a.	The immediate supervisor for night custodian in the junior and senior high schools shall be the Assistant Custodian Supervisor. He/she shall notify the custodian to be evaluated at least five (5) working days prior to the evaluation meeting. Such meeting shall be arranged on District time and the place and time of such meeting shall be included in the prior notice to each custodian. The immediate supervisor of night custodians in the secondary schools shall involve the Custodial Supervisor in the evaluation meeting and may request the Department Head to assist them in this evaluation of the night custodian. In any case, the evaluation shall be approved by signature by the Department Head and then forwarded for final approval; by the Division Head who shall also indicate his approval by signature as well on the evaluation form.
A copy of the evaluation shall be sent to the Principal of the school where the night custodian works with a specific space labeled "Principal's Comment." The purpose of this is to enable the Principal to list any comments that he/she deems to be appropriate especially in regard to such custodian's relationship as reported in writing to the Principal with both classified and certificated staff, with students and with the public? The comments from the Principal shall be made before the Division Head gives final approval by signature. Such comments by the Principal shall be made’ available to the employee prior to final ap-proval. This same procedure shall be used for night custodians in elementary schools except that night custodians in elementary schools shall be evaluated
58
by the Principal with input from the day elementary head custodian.
The immediate Supervisor of the elementary head custodian shall be the elementary Principal at that school and the Principal shall include the Department Head in the evaluation meeting of the elementary head custodian. The evaluation shall then be signed by both the Principal and the Department Head and forwarded for final approval by signature of the Division Head.
The immediate supervisor for custodians who work on the day shift in junior and senior high schools shall be either the Custodial Supervisor, Junior High School or Custodial Supervisor, Senior High School. The same procedure shall take place in evaluating day custodians in secondary schools as spelled out above for evaluation of the night, custodians at secondary schools.
b.	Gardening Employees: The immediate supervisor for evaluation purposes for the gardening classified personnel shall be the Gardener Supervisor and theevalu-ation process in this sub-section shall be the same as listed above for the night custodians.
c.	Maintenance Employees: The immediate supervisor for the maintenance personnel shall be the immediate foreman and the evaluation process shall be the same as listed above for the night custodian.
d.	Food Service Employees: The immediate supervisor for all food service classified employees shall be the Cafeteria Manager and the evaluation process for food service classified personnel shall be as listed above for elementary head custodians.
59
ARTICLE 14
SAFETY '
Section 2. Safety Committee: A safety committee shall be formed composed of two (2) members appointed by the District and five (5) members appointed by Local No. 1 to represent the General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit, one (1) of whom shall represent the maintenance employees, one (1) to represent the gardener employees, one (1) to represent the day custodians, one (1) to represent the night custodians, and one (1) to represent the Food Service workers.
1. The Maintenance Department shall implement safety
meetings.
ARTICLE 16 COMPENSATION
Section 7. Temporary Work in Higher Classifications: A unit employee in the Food Service Department who serves as a substitute for an employee in a higher classification shall be paid the appropriate rate for such higher classification beginning with the first (1) day of such service. Food Service employees hired after October 1,1979, shall qualify for the higher rate of compensation effective the first. (1) day after completion of five (5) days of training in the higher classification.
ARTICLE 17
OVERTIME AND COMPENSATION FOR OVERTIME
Sections. Accumulation of Overtime—Food Service Employees in Secondary Schools and Central Kitchen: Food Service employees in the secondary schools and in the Central Kitchen who require a few minutes beyond their regularly scheduled hours of work to complete their assignments shall log this time. When one (1) hour of overtime has been accumulated, the employee shall be paid for
60
that hour at the overtime rate of time and one-half (1-1/2).
Sectionll. Overtimeshaili, wherever possible, be performed by unit members in the classification in which the work is normally performed. Food Service employees shall be provided the opportunity to work overtime, wherever possible, on the basis of seniority before the work is offered to temporary or substitute employees.
ARTICLE 18 TOOLS
Section 1.	Tools. The District will provide for replacement of broken or worn-out tools in the Maintenance Department upon proper verification. An inventory list of such shall be submitted to the supervisor annually.
Section 2.	The District will provide rain gear for the general classifications of Gardener, Groundskeeper, Building Maintenance Worker and Warehouse Worker.
S ection 3.Effective 1 uly 1.1990. the District shall provide laundry service for Vehicle Garage employees clothing due to contact with brake shoe asbestos exposure.
ARTICLE 23 REASSIGNMENT
Section 2,	Building Maintenance. Custodial and Landscaping Reassignment:
1.	The staffing model for building maintenance, custodial and landscaping shall not be reduced except by attrition. At the beginning of each school year, the District shall post the specific assignmentsof each position at the work site. Prime consideration shall be given to seniority at the time of reassignment, and deviation therefrom shall be substantiated by management.
2.	The Union and the District agree that on occasion at the secondary level there will be unusual or spedal circumstances that require the temporary reassignment of employ-
61
— ees within a work site. • If the employee is required to . ...work outside, of his/her assigned work site for one (1).
hour or. more, or three (3) conseeutivie days, the employee shall receive additional compensation at the overtime rate, for hours worked on the third (3rd) day, to complete his/her normal duties.
3.	In the elementary schools and children's centers a minimum Of h zO (2) hours overtime shall be allowed wherein a substitute custodian is not obtainable to cover an absence. For custodians during summer vacation, the employee's assignment shall be considered to be the worksite.
Section 3.	Food Service, Reassignment
1.	The assignments in the Food Service Department at each work site shall encompass all of the designated tasks of the employees in that classification at the work site.
2.	The District may rotate the assignments of employees within their classifications for the purpose of allowing the employees the opportunity to train in all aspects of their jobs;
3.	The hours allocated for each position in the Food Service Department shall be directly related to participation.
SectioriX Gardening, Reassignment
1.	Assignment of employees in the gardening section shall encompass.all of the designated tasks of the employees in that classification at the' work site.
2.	If it becomes necessary to reassign an employee to another crew, the employee who has been reassigned to another crew for a period irf excess of five (5) working days may at any time request in writing to be returned to the regular crew. The request shall be granted within ten (10) working days after receipt by the District.
:	3. If at any tinie during theyear a vacancyoccurs in a crew, the most senior employee who requests the assignment shall be given prime consideration for the appointment. Deviation therefrom shall be substantiated by rhanage-ment.
62
Side Letter of Agreement
Local No. 1 and the District agree to continue negotiations (to be concluded by no later than January 1, 1990) regarding the implementation of AHERA and the asbestos abatement program.
It is agreed that the following issues will be included in the negotiations:
1.	Designation and method of designating "Inspectors."
2.	Designation and method of designating "Site Personnel."
3.	Safety and health-related issues affectingemployees represented by Local No. 1.
4.	Any applicable compensation for additional duties or required certificates.
63
SUPPLEMENT 2 PARAPROFESSIONAL UNIT
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
2.	The Disbict recognizes Local No. 1 as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for employees in the following classifications:
Administrative Aide, Property Control
Assistant, Truancy Prevention
Audiometrist
Braillist
Classified Spiecialist
Coordinator of Parental Activities
Counseling Paraprofessional
Counselor Aide
Counselor Aide-Bilingual
Group Aide, Children's Centers
Head Occupational Therapist
Instructional Aide
Instructional Aide—Hearing Impaired
Instructional Aide—Visually Impaired
Instructional Assistant
Instructional Assistant-Bilingual
Instructional Assistant—Special Education
Interpreter for the Deaf
Job Developer
Library Aide
Library Assistant
Library Resource Specialist
64
Occupational Therapist
Parent Liaison Worker
Preschool Community Worker
Reading Aide
Receptionist, Children's Centers
School Community Worker
School Community Worker—Bilingual
School Crossing Guard
School Health Aide
Secondary Bilingual Aide
Secondary Site Supervisor
Security Guard/Group Aide
Special Education Assistant
Special Education Employment Specialist
Student Control Assistant
Student Supervisor
Teacher Aide—Bilingual
Technical Assistant-Visual Impaired
Transportation Scheduler/Health Department Secretary
Tutors: Lower-Division Tutor
Upper-Division Tutor
Graduate Tutor
Tutor, ESL
65
ARTICLE 10
- WORKING HOURS/REST PERIODS, ’ - ’ LUNCH TIME ABSENCE FROM DUTY,
CALL-IN TIME (
Section 1.	Working Hours
1.	The standard work week for employees in the Paraprofessional Unit shall consist of not more than thirty-seven and one-half (37-1 /2) hours, seven and one-half (7-1 /2) hours, per day, Monday through Friday. Working hours shall be set according to the needs of the particular job assignment.
2.	Working hours for employees in the classification of Group Aide, Children's Centers shall consist of not less than twenty (20) hours per week, four (4) hours per day.
3.	When a substitute Group Aide is assigned in a classroom with a permanent Group Aide for more than one (1) day, the permanent Group Aide shall have the option to choose between the two (2) work shifts in that same classroom for the duration of the substitute assignment For planned absences, the option shall begin on the first day.
4.	Effective semester II, 1989-90, the standard work day for all Instructional Assistants, Special Education assigned toNSH classes shall be no less than six (6) hours per day. The Union and the District shall negotiate a special bid procedure to be completed and implemented no later than January 15,1990.
Section 2.	Rest Periods: Full-time employees in the classification of Group Aide, Children's Centers shall be granted one (1) rest period of thirty (30) minutes which, insofar as practicable, shall be in the middle of each workday. For those full-time Group Aides, Children's Centers who.work continuously for three (3) hours or more without a rest period, an additional rest period of ten (10) minutes shall be granted. This rest period shall be, insofar as practicable, in the middle of the work period of three (3) hours or
66
more.
Section 4. Absence.from Duty
1. The Children's Center employees who are absent shall notify the Head Teacher by 1:00 p.m. the day prior to returning to work.
Section 6. Split Shift Differentia]
1.	Group Aides Split Shifts
a.	The District agrees that the current number of split shifts shall not be increased and that existing split shifts shall not be lengthened.
b.	The District agrees to the establishment of a Shift Scheduling group aides from Local 1 and Children's Center teachers from the United Teachers of Richmond to be provided release time in order to revise work schedules under the following guidelines:
(1)	There shall be no increase in the number of split shifts nor in the length of split shifts;
(2)	No individual work day shall be greater than nine (9) hours total report time;
(3)	Equity between group aides and teachers in split shift assignments shall be maintained.
Section 10, Group Aides and Substitutes
1.	Group aides shall have input in the selection of substitute teachers assigned to the room in which the group aide works.
2.	Long-Term Absence, Group Aides: When a group aide shall be absent for a period of fifteen (15) work days or more, the most senior volunteer at that site shall be allowed to select that assignment and.shift.
67
ARTICLE 12 TRANSFER
Section 2. Voluntary- Transfer	“■
7. Children's Centers group aides shall follow a separate procedure for voluntary transfer which shall consist of two (2) days of bidding in seniority order, beginning with the highest senior. Meetings shall be scheduled with written individual notices sent to each aide a mini-
mum of seven (7) work days in advance, stating the date and tune of the . meeting and including a copy of an accurate seniority list. The notice shall include the place, date and time of the meeting, a statement for the purpose of the meeting, and a statement that the group aide may indicate in writing to the,head teacher his/her requests prior to tire meeting, or may designate in writing another group aide to act as a proxy in making selections that have been indicated in writing.
Section 6. Special Education Division: Any bidding for assignment changes due to program changes, site changes, etc., must be posted and completed by no later than the week prior to the last week of school, and in no case later than five (5) work days prior to the last day of school.
ARTICLE 13 EVALUATION
Sections. Procedure
2.	The Principal in all schools of the District, including the Head Teacher in the Children's Centers, shall be responsible for the supervision of all Paraprofessional employees in this bargaining unit. The immediate supervisor for evaluation purposes of Paraprofessional employees in a
. < < school shall be the School Principal of designated representative. The immediate supervisor for evaluation purposes of Paraprofessional employees in the Children's Centers shall be the Head Teacher. The evaluator
68
shall notify the Paraprofessional employee five (5) working days prior to the evaluation meeting and shall include in such notice the time and place of such meeting which shall occur on District time. Once the Principal or . the Head Teacher has completed the evaluation of the Paraprofessional employee, the evaluation shall be forwarded to the Department Head/Division Head for his/her signature of approval.
a. Children's Centers Employees: The immediate supervisor for all classified personnel in this unit who work in the Children's Centers: shall be the Head Teacher and the evaluation process shall be tire same as listed for elementary head custodians in Supplement 1.
ARTICLE 14 SAFETY
Section 2. Safety Committee: A safety committee shall be formed composed of two (2) members appointed by the District and three (3) members appointed by Local No. 1 to represent the Paraprofessional Unit, one (1) of whom shall represent the Group Aides, one (1) to represent the Teacher Aides, and one (1) to represent the other Paraprofessional members in the unit. .
Sections. Insurance Provisions and Personal Safety
4. Any Paraprofessional who works in any situation in which a student has been placed due to behavior or violence-related incidents involving the student or parent shall be informed of the violence potential of that student and/or the parentis),
ARTICLE 16 COMPENSATION
Section 7. Temporary Work in Higher Classification. When a special education assistant, range forty-nine (49) or instructional aide, special education, range forty-three (43) with a differential is
69
absent from the classroom, the assistant in the same classroom '-'Vr1.:.- shallhave first option to work in such classification and be paidthe .
: -higher salary with.any substitute employee then hired to replace the assistant with either lower pay or fewer hours.
Section 11. Compensation. The District shall pay a stipend to those paraprofessional unit members in the spedal education division who voluntarily drive a District vehicle to transport students as part of their duties. The stipend shall be twelve ($12.00) dollars per day for each day such driving is performed.
ARTICLE 23 REASSIGNMENT
Section 5. Reassignment, Paraprofessional Unit
1,	Furthermore, the District will make every reasonable effort to provide substitutes in cases of absence within the Group Aide and Receptionist classifications.
2.	It may become necessary to reassign an employee within a work site. Except for Christmas, Easter, and summer vacations, the employee who has been reassigned for a period in excess of five (5) working days may at any time thereafter request in writing to be returned to his/her regular assignment The request will be granted within ten(10) working days after receipt by the District
ARTICLE 26
TASK FORCE COMMITTEE
The District and Local No. 1 agree to establish a joint task force composed of three (3) representatives from the District and three (3) from Local No. 1. The District representatives shall include the . , . Assistant Superintendent (Pupil Personnel), one (1) representative from Classified Personnel,.and one (1) other designated by the District. The Union committee members shall consist of one (1) Local No. 1staff member, the President of the Paraprofessional Unit, and one (1) other designated by the Union.
70
The purpose of the committee shall be to address the following issues affecting Special Education paraprofessiorial Unit members:
1.	Training and staff development
2.	Job duties
3.	Safety
SUPPLEMENT 3
RICHMOND SCHOOLS POLICE UNIT
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
3. The District recognizes Local No. 1 as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for employees in the classification of Police Officer.
ARTICLE 10
WORKING HOURS, REST PERIODS, LUNCH TIME, ABSENCE FROM DUTY, CALL-IN TIME
Section 1, Working Hours: Police Officers shall work a thirtyseven and one-half (37-1/2) hour week. The working day shall consist of seven and one-half (7-1 /2) hours total time. Duty hours shall be determined by the Police Chief. Work schedules for Police Officers shall be posted two (2) months in advance.
Shift Assignments. The District has agreed.to the following:
1.	That it is reasonable that each officer may request and may be allowed to arrange one (1) swap with another officer in a given week arid, further, that if a request for a second (2nd) swap was submitted, that the swap may be granted if an emergency-type situation existed.
2.	That it would be possible for a Police Officer to request, with reasons stated, and may be allowed to swap with
71
' another Police Officer for a-full-rotation (three months) ; .; •: t «r- period. That is to say that an officer working swing shifts '* >. v •.-> would be able to swap, with an officer working,graveyard shift for the entire three (3) month period.
3.	That in the cases of swapping that the officers making the swap would not be entitled to overtime as provided in the contractual agreement if in fact an officer worked in a sixth (6th) and seventh (7th) consecutive day, the reasoning being that the officer's sixth (6th) and seventh (7th) days were actually being performed on another officer's schedule.
4.	That cases wherein a request is denied, there shall be given pertinent supporting written reasons for the denial.
Section 3. Lunch Time: Thirty (30) minutes of the workday is normally allowed for a meal.
Section 7. Night Shift Differential: Employees working a night shift shall receive twenty-one ($21.00) dollars per month additional.
Police Officers shall be entitled to payment of the full twenty-one ($21.00) dollars per month provided they are assigned to the night shift for five (5) days per month. Effective July 1,1990, night shift differential shall be forty-two ($42.00) dollars per month.
Section s. Monthly Meetings: Regular monthly meetings shall be scheduled for all Police Officers. Attendance at meetings shall be mandatory. Compensation shall be paid at the appropriate rate as follows:
1.	Police Officers coming off the day shift and Police Officers going on the swing shift shall be paid overtime for only that time which exceeds their normal workday.
2.	Police Officers coming off graveyard shift and Police Officersbn day off shall be paid four (4) hours of overtime as required by Call-Back Time or Call-In Time.
i 3.. Monthly meetings shall include updates.on changes in laws, police techniques and procedures, and related officer training as necessary.
72
ARTICLE 13 EVALUATION
Section 3. Procedure
2.	Richmond Schools Police
a.	Patrol Police Officers: The, immediate supervisor for. evaluation purposes of Patrol Police Officers shall be the Police Sergeant. The Police Sergeant shall notify the Police Officer five (5) working days prior to the evaluating meeting and shall include in such notice the time and place of such meeting which shall occur on District time. The Police Sergeant may request the Department Head to assist him in his evaluation of the Police Officer. In any case the evaluation shall be approved by signature of the Department Head.
b.	Police Officers Assigned to a School: The immediate supervisor for evaluation purposes of Police Officers assigned to a school shall be the school principal or designated representative. The evaluator shall notify the Police Officer five (5) working days prior to the evaluation meeting: and shall include in such notice the time and place of such meeting which shall occur on District time. The evaluator may request the Department Head to assist him/her in the evaluation of the Police Officer. The evaluation is then forwarded for final approval to the Division Head, who shall also indicate his/her approval by signature as well as on the evaluation form.
ARTICLE 14 SAFETY
Sections. Safety Committee: A safety committee shall be formed consisting of two (2) members appointed by the District and two (2) members appointed by Local No. 1 to represent the Richmond Schools Police Department Unit, one (1) to represent Police Officers Assigned to Patrol, and one (1) to represent Police Officers
73
Assigned to a School.
Section^. Safety Equipment: AHPolice Officers shall be provided '<•: protective vests and Kell lights; The District will provide all police..
officers with new protective vests. The District also will provide all police officers with rain gear.
Sections. Gun Shoot: The District shall set up a schedule allowing Police Officers accessto at least one (1) day and one (1) night shoot per year on District time.
ARTICLE 15 BENEFITS
Section 9. Effective January 1,1984, the District will provide each Police Officer a Long-Term Disability (LTD) Insurance Policy designated by Local No. 1.
ARTICLE 17 overtime and compensation for overtime
Section 12, Overtime payments shall be paid in accordance with all sections of this. Agreement including tire following: All hours worked beyond five (5) conseartive days shall be compensated at the appropriate overtime rate.
ARTICLE 1-g EXPENSE CLAIMS
Section 4, Uniforms: Newly-rappointed Police 'Officers shall be furnished a regulation uniform. Uniform clothing allowance shall be twentyffiye ($25.00) dollars per month for each Police Officer. Effective July 1,1990,tiniform allowance shall be sixfy-five ($65.00) dollars per month.
74.
Side Letter
The District and the Union agree that within one (1) month of the appointment of the new Captain of Police Services, but in no case later than December 15,1989, a meeting will be held to discuss matters of concern to Local No. 1 members in the School Police Unit Participants at the meeting will be Captain of Police Services (or Superintendent's designee); Director of Classified Personnel, Director of Contract Management, Local No. 1 staff, and two (2) representatives of the bargaining unit. The purpose of the meeting will be to arrive at mutually satisfactory resolutions to the following issues:
1.	Training and safety programs for officers;
2.	Schedule and content of monthly meetings;
3.	Gun shoots, CPR training, POST, Safety vests, Red Cross training and certification and radio frequency requirements.
75
SUPPLEMENT 4 l;;^>OFFICEANBTECiNBCALSERV8CESrUNIT ■ '■■■’ - ■	-• ■ ■-.■	.v- ■> <•' : ' .	- •. ■■ • •
Letter of Agreement
The District- agrees to place a Clerk Typist I at all those Elementary School® where the enrollment level is at five-hundred (500) students or more; The increased staffing shall be posted and implemented immediately upon ratification of this agreement in accordance with current contract provisions. The Clerk Typist I positions vyill be staffed in all applicable schools at a minimum of three and one-half (3-1 /2) hours per day per position.
Side Letter
A committee will be established within one (1) month of the ratification of this contract with representation from the Coalition and from the District for the purpose of developing solutions for the problems of supervision of pupils that are suspended from their classrooms and sent to the school office. ....... - - - - - r	...
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
4.	The District recognizes Local No. 1 as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for employees in the following classifications:
Account Clerk 1
Account Clerk 2
Accounting Technician
Administrative Assistant-rFood Service
American Indian Educational Specialist
Assistant Buyer
Assistant Buyer,
Textbooks and Publications
76
Attendance Clerk
Bindery Services Clerk
Budget Control Clerk
Buyer
Buyer, Textbooks and Periodicals Chief Attendance Technician Community Resource Assistant Computer Operator Construction Accounts Secretary Data Control Technician
Data Entry Specialist
Data Processing Clerk Documentation Clerk Employee Benefits Clerk Employee Benefits Technician Food Service Account Clerk Food Service Clerk
Food Service Secretary
Forms and Graphics Specialist General Clerk
Instructional Materials Specialist Instructional Materials Technician Knolls Center Secretary Library Assistant, Secondary
Management Information System Technician Operations Secretary .
Payroll Assistant
Payroll Clerk 1 Personnel Clerk
Personnel/Credential Technician Personnel/Payroll Records Clerk
77
PersonnelTechnician
Personnel Technician 2
Preschool Clerk 1
Preschool Diagnostic Center Secretary
Preschool Secretary
Programr. er
Programmer, Analyst
Record Clerk
Resource Center Specialist
Resource Office; Specialist
School Secretary 1
Secretary, Administrative Services
Secretary, Construction Accounts
Senior Account Clerk
Senior Account Clerk
-Food Service
Senior Account Clerk, Special Projects
Senior Accounting Technician
Senior Budget Control Technician
Senior Buyer
Senior Payroll Clerk
Senior Programmer Analyst
Senior Staff Secretary
Special Projects
Assessment Specialist
Special Projects Education Assistant
Special Service Secretary
Staff Secretary	’ -
Staff Secretary, Data Processing
Stenographer Clerk 1
78
Stenographer Clerk 2
Teacher Substitute Clerk
Transportation Scheduler/Secretary
Twilight Clerk
Typist Clerk 1
Typist Clerk 1—Bilingual
Typist Clerk 2
Typist Clerk 2—Bilingual
Typist Clerk 3
Word Processing Specialist
Work Experience Office Secretary
ARTICLE 6
• UNION RIGHTS -
Section 9. The District shall make available to the Union notification of all additions and/or terminations of classified personnel immediately following an executive session of the Board of Education.
ARTICLE.10
WORKING HOURS, REST PERIODS, LUNCH TIME, ABSENCE FROM DUTY,
CALL-IN TIME
Section !. Working Hours: The standard work week for employees in the Office and Technical Services Unit shall consist of not more than thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours, seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day, Monday through Friday. Working hours shall be set according to the needs of the particular job and assignment.
AH bargaining unit employees referred to as "ten-month" employees will be guaranteed a minimum of ten (10) months and
79
eight (8) days, with the exception that School Secretary 1 shall be guaranteed a minimum of ten (10) months and ten (10) days, workingtime. Anyreductionindaysorhourscanonlybedonefor - - - lack of work or lack of funds and in accordance with layoff procedures.
Summer School Assignments: All summer work shall be considered regular employment and shall be in-accordance with Education Code, Section 45102. All summer school assignments shall be posted and bids completed by no later than May 1.
Section 3. Lunch Time
1. Any School Secretary who is interrupted during his/her lunch period shall receive compensation at the rate of time and one-half for the entire lunch period.
ARTICLE 11
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section?. Sick Leave: Absence due to personal illness, excluding pregnancy, shall be allowed up to fifteen (15) working days per fiscal year, July 1 through June 30; and shall be accumulative from year to year without limitation. Absence of less than one (1) full day shall be charged to the nearest quarter hour of absence. Personal illness of more than five (5) working days duration shall be verified by a statement from a licensed physician, advising that the person is physically able to do his/her regular work. The physician's statement shall verify the illness from the first (1) day of absence to the date of return to work. In cases of excessive absence or when abuse of sick leave is evident, following previous counsel with the employee, the school administration may request in writing that the employee furnish a physidan's statement to verify any future absence of less than five (5) working days for the remainder of the school year.
....... ..When all available paid leaves are exhausted, theemployeeis placedon "Difference Leave." An employee on leave is paid the difference between his/her salary and that paid his/her substitute. This is paid for a maximum period of five (5) months. The five (5) month period is calculated from the sixteenth (16th) day of
80
sick leave or last day of available sick leave, whichever comes first. When difference leave is exhausted, the employee with one (1) year of service shall be allowed health leave;; an employee with less than one (1) year of service is placed on a reemployment list for a period of thirty-nine (39) months. If at any time during the prescribed thirty-nine (39) months the employee is able to assume the duties of his/her position, die employee shall be reemployed in the first vacancy in the classification of his/her previous assignment. His/her reemployment will take preference over all other applicants except those laid-off for lack of work or funds, in which case he/she shall be ranked according to his/her proper seniority. Upon resumption of his/her duties, the break in service will be disregarded and the employee shall be fully restored as a permanent employee.
During the first six (6) months of employment, one and one-quarter (1-1 /4) days of paid sick leave per calendar month shall be granted as earned at the end of each month. Employees who work less than full-time or less than a twelve (12) month calendar year shall be credited with sick leave Oh a prorata basis at the rate of one and one-quarter (1-1/4) days per month. If an employee whose regular full-time assignment is in a school where he/she is in regular contact with students contracts a communicable disease and it can be proved that the disease is attributable to employment, the employee shall not.be charged sick leave for his/her necessary absence. In such cases, the employee shall file for worker's compensation, and said compensation shall be deducted from monies earned.
Section 10. Vacation Leave
1. Vacations for the most part are to be taken during Christmas, Easter or summer vacations and scheduled so as not to disrupt completing the work of the District. The District shall grant the requested vacation to the most senior employee in each classification at the worksite if there is conflict with,the request of the employees for vacation leave in light of the needs of the District. Seniority shall be based on date of hire. The District shall take under consideration any employee's request for vacation leave other than during Christmas, Easter or sum-
81
-	■ < mer vacations (when Schoolis not in session) according
• > -to the special considerations vandrreasons,for.the,em-, .. ’	. ' .ployee making .such a request as to why such employee.. . .
wishes the District to make an exception for them in regard to when vacation leave should be granted. Requests for vacation must be approved in advance. Vacation requests shall not be unreasonably denied. Once an employee's vacation is approved, it shall not be canceled except by agreement of the employee unless the District can demonstrate an emergency need. Regular classified employees shall be entitled to vacation with pay as follows:
a.	For the first thirty-six (36)complete months of service--5/6 of a day, per month (2 weeks annually).
b.	Beginning with the thirty-seventh (37th) month through the tenth year—1-1 /4 days per month (3 weeks annually).
c.	Beginning with the eleventh (11) year on, 1-2/3 days per month (4 weeks annually).
Earned vacation shall not become a vested right until completion of tire initial six (6) months of employment Vacation days may. be accumulated to a maximum of double the annual entitlement with the approval of the Department Head. A maximum of forty (40).days vacation may be taken in one (1) year. Exceptions must haye the approval of the Division Assistant Superintendent Ten (10) month employees are required to take their vacation during.Christmas vacation and Easter vacation. Upon separation from the service, the employee shall be entitled to lump-sum compensation for all earned and unused vacation, except that employees who have not completed six (6) months of employment in regular status shall not be entitled to such compensation. A classified employee who becomes ill or suffers an accident during his/her vacation and.who can support this fact through a physi-, dan's statement, can charge such illness or accident to sick leave time and have his/her vacation extended to a later period.
Pay for vacation days for all bargaining unit employees shall be the same as that which the employee would have received had he/she been in a working states.
82
Vacation Pay Upon Termination: When an employee in the bargaining unit is terminated for any reason, he/she shall be entitled to all vacation pay earned and accumulated up to and including the effective date of termination. If, because of emergency needs, a bargaining unit employee is denied an approved scheduled vacation, he/she shall be compensated at the rate of double time and one-half (2-1/2) for all hours worked during the scheduled vacation period. In such a case, the employee shall suffer no reduction in the paid vacation days due him/her.
If, because of emergency needs, a bargainingunit employee is not permitted to take all or any part of his/her approved scheduled vacation, the amount not taken shall, at the option of the employee, be rescheduled or accumulated for use in the following year.
Holidays: When a holiday falls during the scheduled vacation of any bargaining unit employee, such employee shall be granted an additional day's vacation and pay for each holiday falling within that period.
Interruption of Vacation: An employee in the bargaining unit shall be permitted to interrupt or terminate vacation leave in order to begin another type of paid leave provided by this Agreement without a return to active service, provided the employee supplies notice and supporting information regarding the basis for such interruption or termination.
Section 14, Break in Service: There shall be no break in service for an employee on a paid or impaid leave of absence.
ARTICLE 12
TRANSFER
At the same time any position is posted, the District shall mail one (1) copy of the posted vacancy to the Union.
Section 2. Voluntary Transfer
1. All vacancies shall be posted on appropriate bulletin board s for not less than five (5) working days so that present District employees may request transfers. In calculating the number of days for which a position for transfer must be posted, the first (1st) working day after which school sites
83
may reasonably be expected to receive the notice shall be • day one (1).	....... '
-' 8-. ' Whenever a position is vacant, permanent employees in
that same salary range shall be considered for transfer On
the same basis as Section 2.5 above. Whenever a position
eligible for transfer under this section includes a require
ment for a skill not required of the classification from
whicli the employee seeks to move, the employee shall be required to pass the qualifying examination.
ARTICLE 14 . SAFETY
Section 2. Safety Committee: A Safety Committee shall be formed composed of two (2) members appointed by the District and two (2) members appointed by Local No. 1 to represent the Office and Technical Unit.
Section 6. Insurance Provisions and Personal Safety
5.	Office and Technical Services Unit
a.	The Board shall within twenty (20) days of the con-
summation of this Agreement enter into an Agreement with a qualified insurer. Such Agreement shall provide that an employee who, in the course of duty, is prosecuted for an alleged act for which the employee is held liable, shall be entitled without restriction to all reasonable expenses incurred in connection with defending against stich prosecution including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees for litigation and appeal, court costs; costs for obtaining witnesses, payments for transcripts, monies expended for subpoenas, depositions, interrogatories, and reasonable expenses in investigations made to prepare such defense. The Board shall pay the premium for such insurance policy .	f
b.	The Board shall within ten (10) daysof the consummationof this Agreement enter into an Agreement with a qualified insurer. Such Agreement shall provide
84
each employee acting within the scope of his/her employment with $5,500,OCX) worth of coverage against personal liability for damage or death of a person, injury to a person, or damage or less of property. Such insurance policy shall also cover all reasonable expenses incurred by the employee in connection with his/her defense, including all expenses which are relevant to defense of a civil suit enumerated in Section 6.5a above.
ARTICLE 24
LAYOFF AND REEMPLOYMENT
Section 3. Procedure for Office and Technical Services Unit:
1.	After the Board has determined that there is a lack of work or a lack of funds and has made the decision to layoff employees, the District will issue notices of layoff to the employees affected.
2.	Employees to be laid-off shall be notified by certified/ registered mail sent to the most recent address provided to the District by the employee.
3.	The notice shall be deposited in the US. mail no less than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the effective date of the layoff. Copies of notices shall be sent to the Union.
4.	The notice shall contain the effective day of layoff, displacement rights, if any, and reemployment rights.
5.	The notice shall also contain a statement that the employee may be eligible for unemployment insurance.
Section 7. An employee given notice of reemployment need not accept the reemployment to maintain die employee's eligibility on the reemployment list. However, failure to respond within the time specified or a refusal to accept four (4) offers of employment shall cause the individual's name to be permanently removed from the reemployment list.
85
SUPPLEMENT 5
; TEMPORARY AND SU.BSJIT.UTE ’ . ’
- EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
Effective October 17,1983, all temporary and substitute employees working in classifications represented by Local No. 1 in the General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit, die Para-professional Unit, the Richmond Schools Police Unit and the Office and Technical Services Unit shall be designated as included within the appropriate respective bargaining unit for purposes of representation in accordance with die applicable law.
ARTICLE 13
EVALUATION
During the initial six (6) . months of employment with the District; substitute arid short-term employees shall be evaluated at least twice in accordance with the provisions of this contract (Evaluation Form, Exhibit E)
ARTICLE 16 .
COMPENSATION
Section s. Promotion—Effect Upon Rate of Coritpensation
1. Filling of District Vacancies
h. Temporary and substitute employees in each bargaining unit represented by Local No. 1 shall be eligible to participate iri bidding for job vacancies in the order specified iri Article 16 and seniority shall be based on hours of service to the District
86
RICHMOND UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL SALARY SCHEDULE 1990-91
TITLE -----------------------------------------------------------
Account Clerk 1 .............................................45
Account Clerk 2 ............................................ 47
Accounting Technician........................................62
Administrative Aide/Property Control ........................60
Administrative Assistant-Food Service........................63
American Indian Education Specialist ........................62
Assistant Auto Mechanic..................................... 62
Assistant Buyer............................  ............... 48
Assistant Buyer/Textbooks and Publications ..................47
Attendance Clerk ............................................45
Audiometrist.................................................50
Auto Mechanic ............................................   66
Auto Mechanic Assistant/Trainee Program..................... 61
Auto Mechanic Trainee .......................................56
B
Braillist..................................................  42
Bindery Services Clerk.......................................50
Building Maintenance Worker..................................56
Buyer ......................................................    56
c
Cafeteria Lead Worker.......................................   43
Career Development Work Experience Office Secretary..........54
Carpenter....................................................  66
Carpenter/Cabinet Maker Trainee.............................    56
Cashier, School Lunch............;r...l.................     35
Chief Attendance Technician ...'...........................     56
Children's Center Secretary..................................52
Communications System Operator Receptionist..................49
Community Resource Assistant ..............................     43
Computer Operator.......................................    .55
Computer Operator Trainee ..................................   49
Concrete Mason .............................................    66
Construction Accounts Secretary .............................  60
87
- - ■ Gook/Manager1> School Lunch.........................................   48’
. . - , .... . Coordinator of Parent Activities   ...56,
• ... •> ;Counseling.Raraprofessional-...................v......,...54n Counselor Aides ......;......i....i...................................       54(
Counselor'Aide Bilingual :.....;.....................    ,.........55
Custodian ..................................................      48:
CustbdiamGastro’..............................................    49>
Data Control-Technician1..................,...................    59’
Data-Entry Coordinator:...........................;.............  59‘
Data’Processing Clerk...........................................  39'
Delivery Worker. ...:.    ..............,,  ....................: 54’
DbcurrientationiClerkt.........................................    39
Hectriician\.........i...........................        1......	66
Electrician* Assistant.........................................    61
Eleetiician'Traihee'...........................................    56
ElectronicsRepairworker...........................   ;.i.;.........66
Einplbyee’fenefitsTechnician:................................      52
Equipment ControlClerk ...........................................48.
EquipmentGontrolTechnician.......................................  56
Equipment Mechanic..............................................  66.
FieldMaintenance Groundskeeper ....................................57
Field Maintenance Groundskeeper, Leadworker........-.............  63
Film Checker and Shelver..........................................33;
Food! Production Leadworker.........;......................        42
Food Service Account Clerk 2......................;..........  ....50
Food Service Administrative Specialist...............    ,.........59
Food Service Aide.................................:......   1...29
Food Service Aide/Clerk  ..................................I.....:.3O
Food Service Operation Assistant ...........;........1.............53
Food Service Secretary ........................................    55
Forms and Graphics Specialist ...1..........................  .....53
Furniture Driver Repairworker	...'......z..;..;.:..: 63' ’
Furniture Driver‘Repairworker, Leadworker	65
FurnitureRepair Trainee ..‘.1...................   ..'.....'.-.'...Sb'	‘
Furniture Repairworker ............................................66
88
G
Gardener .................................................
Gardener Leadworker ......................................
Gardener Operator.........................................
Gardenre Operator Leadworker*.............................
Gardener Tree Topper .....................................
Gardener Tree Topper Leadworker...........................
General Clerk ............................................
General Mechanic Trainee..................................
Glazier...................................................
Glazier Assistant -.......................................
Glazier Trainee ..........................................
Groundskeeper...........-.................................
H
Head Custodian 1 (Elementary) ............................
Head Custodian 1, Castro .................................
Heating and Ventilating Assistant.........................
Heating and Ventilating Mechanic .........................
I
Instructional Aide .......................................
Instructional Aide-Bilingual..............................
Instructional Assistant ..................................
Instructional Assistant-Bilingual ................   ....
Instructional Assistant Special Education...............
Instructional Assistant Special Education-Bilingual.......
Instructional Assistant Special Education, Hearing Impaired I ..49
Instructional Assistant Special Education, Hearing Impaired II..51
Instructional Assistant Special Education Visually Impaired.....51
Instructional Material Specialist............................   55
Instructioanl Material Technician ............................  60
Interpreter for the Deaf.....................................   55
Irrigation Equipment Technician................................66’
K
Key Punch Operator........................................... ..50
Knolls Center Secretary ........................................52
L
Library Aide ...................................................39
Library Assistant.............................................. 54
ui £ w	a* yi ui jxuio\^uiujQ\a\CT\^a\ui
89
Library Assistant, Secondary ..........................................   50
• Locksmith;................................................................ 66
-Locksnuth Assistant ......;..........<.;.r61 r
Locksmi th Trainee    ................................ .................  56
M’ Management Information System Technician................................. 53
O
Occupational Therapist.................................................... 69
Office Machines Repairworker.......................................        63
Offset Press Operator ...................................................  49
OperationsSecretary	   .....57
P
Painter.......................................................        .....66
Painter Leadworker..................................................    ;..68
Painter Assistant ............................................................. 61
Painter Trainee .........................................................  56.
Parent Liaison Worker....................................................    53
Payroll Billings; Clerk 	..............................................53
PayroUCl^ .„lLl...L'...„...L...„.„.;.!.J;v, ^..t....L........................49
Payroll Technical Assistant.....................................  ;........51
Payroll Technician ........................................................; 57
Personnel Clerk	 .45
Personnel Clerk-Substitute Placement   .....50
Personnel/PayroU Records Clerk ..........................................  51
Personnel Credential Technician .....v.....................................60
Pe^nndTeduud^	   <57.
Plumber ...................................................................66
Plumber Assistant	    61
Humber Trainee ......................................................................56
Perschool Clerk ...........................................................39
Preschool Community Worker.................................................52
Preschool Diagnostic Center Staff Secretary ...............................52
Programmer-----------------------................----------------------------,...63
Programmer Analyst....................................................     70
R
Reading Aide.............................................................  39
Receptionist, Children's Center ......................................     51
Resource Office Specialist.......,..........,.................    .........52
90
Roofer .....................................................66
Roofer Assistant............................................61
Roofer Trainee.....................................•........56
s
School Bus Driver/Custodian.................................48
School Community Worker.....................................52
School Community Worker Bilingual...........................53
School Crossing Guard.......................................26
School Health Aide..........................................39
School Lunch Worker 1 ......................................33
School Lunch Worker 2 ......................................39
School Police Officer................  i....................62
School Secretary 1..........................................52
Secondary School Cashier ...................................46
Secondary Site Supervisor...................................33
Secretary Administrative Service........................... 60
Secretary Secondary Curriculum..............................55
Security Guard/Group Aide.................................. 48
Senior Account Clerk....................................... 50
Senior Account Clerk-Food Service...........................51
Senior Account Clerk-Special Programs.......................52
Senior Budget Control Clerk.................................55
Senior Buyer............................................    61
Senior Computer Operator ...................................61
Senior Irrigation Equipment Technician......................68
Senior Office Machines Repairworker ....................... 67
Senior Offset Press Operator................................51
SeniorPayroll Clerk.....................................    51
Senior Programmer Analyst ................................  72
Senior Receptionist, Children's Center .....................53
Senior Warehouseworker..................................    65
Shade Worker................................................66
Sheet Metal Worker .........................................66
Special Education Assistant................................ 49
Special Education Employment Specialist.................... 64
Spedal Services Secretary...................................52
Staff Secretary.............................................55
Staff Secretary Data Processing.............................55
Stenographer Clerk 1 .......................................42
Stenographer Clerk 2........................................46
Stock Clerk/Custodian.......................................52
91
Stock Clerk Driver ....................................      59
Stores Warehouse Driver ......................................
Student Control Assistant......................................
Student Enrollment Options Secretary..........................
Student Supervisor ..........................    .............
Special Ed. Career Develpmnt. Work Experience Office Secretary ....
T
Teacher Substitute Clerk......................................
Teacher Assistant/Visually Impaired ..........................
Textbook Clerk................................................
Textbooks and Publications Buyer..............................
Tool Room and Stock Clerk ....................................
Transportation Specialist.....................................
Twilight Clerk ...............................................
Typist Clerk 1................................................
Typist Clerk 1-Bilingual .....................................
Typist Clerk 2................................................
Typist Clerk 2-Bilingual ..........................  .........
Typist Clerk 3................................................
Typist Clerk 3-Bilingual .....................................
U
Utility Worker.......................................... ■■...
Utility Worker 1*............................    .............
w Warehouseworker 1 ............................................
Warehouseworker 2 .............................................
Welder  ......................................................
Word Processng and PC System Operator ........................
Work Experience Secretary...............................  ■...
WKS
‘Plus 5% License Differential.
92
Effective July 1,1989
Schedule 5
EXHIBIT A-1
Richmond Unified School District Classified Salary Range and Step, 1989-90
RANGE	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
23	11,796 / 983	12,300/1025	12,780/1065	13,272/1106	13;824/1152
24	12,036/1003	12,540/1045	12,996/1083	13,512/1126	14,100/1175
25	12,300/1025	12,780/1065	13,272/1106	13,824/1152	14,388/1199
26	12,5407 1045	12,996/1083	13,512/1126	14,100/1175	14,688/1224
27	12,780/1065	13,272/1106	13,824/1152	14,388/1199	14,964/1247
28	12,996/1083	13,512/1126	14,100 /1175	14,688/1224	15,288/1274
29	13,272/1106	13,824/1152	14,388/1199	14,964/1247	15,624/1302
30	13,512/ 1126	14,100/1175	14,688/1224	15,288 /1274	15,936/1328
31	13,824/1152	14,388/1199	14,964/1247	15,624/1302	16,296/1358
32	14,100/1175	14,688/1224	15,288/1274	15,936/1328	16,608/1384
33	14,388/1199	14,964/1247	15,624/1302	16,296/1358	16,992/1416
34	14,688/1224	15,288/1274	15,936/1328	16,608/1384	17,316/1443
35	14,964/1247	15,624/1302	16,296/1358	16,992/1416	17,712/1476
36	15,288/1274	15,936/1328	16,608/1384	17,316/1443	18,060/1505
37	15,624/1302	16,296/1358	16,992/1416	17,712/1476	18,504/1542
EXH IB ST A"1 (continued)
38	15,936/1328	16,608/1384	17,316/1443	18,060/1505	18,852/1571
39	16,2967 1358	16,992/1416	17,712/1476	18,504/1542	19 260/1605
40	16,608/1384	17,316/1443	18,060/1505	18,852/1571	19,608/1634
41	16,992/1416	17,712/1476	18,504/1542	19,260/1605	20,076/1673
42	17,316/1443	18,060/1505	18,852/1571	19,608/1634	20,496/1708
43	17,7127.1476	18,504/1542	19,260/1605	20,076 /1673	20,976/1748
44	18,0607 1505	18,852/1571 ’	19,608/1634	20,496/1708	21,408/1784
45	18,504 / 1542	19,260 /1605	20,076/1673	20,976/1748	21,912/1826
46	18,852/1571	19;608/1634	20,496/1708	21,408/1784	22,344/1862
47	19,260/1605	20,076 /1673	20,976/1748	21,912/1826	22,896/1908
48	19,608 /1634	20,496/1708	21,408/1784	22,344/1862	23,352/1946
49	20,076/1673	20,976/1748	21,912/1826	22,896/1908	23,904/1992
50 •	20,496 / 1708	' 21,408 /1784	22,344/1862	23,3527 1946	24,408/2034
Effective July 1,1989
Schedule 5
EXHIBIT A-2
Richmond Unified School District Classified Salary Range and Step, 1989 90
RANGE	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
51	20,976/1748	21,192/1826	22,896/1908	23,904/1992	24,960 / 2080
52	21,408/1784	22,344/1862	23,342/1946	24,408 / 2034	25,488/2124
53	21,912/1826	22,896/1908	23,904/1992	24,9607 2080	26,100 / 2175
54	22,344/1862	23,352/1946 .	24,408 / 2034	25,488/2124	26,676 / 2223
55	22,896/1908	23,904/1992	24,960 / 2080	26,100/2175	27,288 / 2274
56	23,352/1946	24,408 / 2034	25,488 / 2124	26,676 / 2223	27,816 / 2318
57	23,904 /1992	24,960/2080	26,100/2175	27,288/ 2274	28,512/2376
58	24,408 / 2034	25,488 / 2124	26,676 / 2223	27,816/2318	29,100 / 2425
59	24,960 / 2080	26,100 / 2175	27,288 / 2274	28,512 / 2376	29,832/2486
60	25,488/2124	26,676/2223	27,816 / 2318	29,1007 2425	30,456/2538
61	26,100/2175	27,288/2274	28,512/2376	29,832 / 2486	31,188 / 2599
62	26,676 / 2223	27,816 / 2318	29,100/2425	30,456 / 2538	31,860 / 2655
63	27,288 / 2274	28,512/2376	29,832 / 2486	31,188 / 2599	32,640/2720
64	27,816 / 2318	29,100 / 2425	30,456 / 2538	31,860/2655	33,312 / 2776
65	28,512/2376	29,832 / 2486	31,188 / 2599	32,640/2720	34,128 / 2844
EXHIBIT A-2 (continued)
66	29,100 / 2425	30,456 / 2538	31,860 / 2655	33,312/2776	34,848'2904
67	29,832 / 2486	31,188 / 2599	32,640/2720	34,128 / 2844	35,724 / 2977
68	30,456 / 2538	31,860/2655	33,312 / 2776	34,848/2904	36,480/3040
69	31,188 / 2599	32,640/2720	34,128 / 2844	35,724/2977	37,392/3116
70	31,860/2655	33,312 / 2776	34,848/2904	36,480/3040	38,196/3183
71	32,640 / 2720	34,128 / 2844	35,724 / 2977	37,392/3116	39,120/3260
72	33,312/2776	34,848/2904	36,480 / 3040	38,196/3183	39,984/3332
73	34,128 / 2844	35,724 / 2977	37,392/3116	39,120 / 3260	41,004/3417
74	34,848 / 2904	36,480/ 3040	38,196 / 3183	39,984/3332	. 41,820/3485
75	35,724 / 2977	37,392/3116	39,120/3260	41,004/3417	42,888/3574
76	36,480/3040	38,196 / 3183	39,984/3332	41,820 / 3485	43,836/3653
77	37,392/3116	39,120 / 3260	41,004/3417	42,888/3574	44,928/3744
78	38,196/3183	39,984 / 3332	41,820/3485	43,836/3653	45,852/3821
Effective July 1,1990 Schedule 5
EXHIBIT B-1 Richmond Unified School District Classified Salary Range and Step, 1990-91
RANGE	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEPS	STEP 4	STEP 5
23	12,624 /1052	13,16471097	13,680/1140	14,196/1183	14,796/1233
24	12,876/1073	13,416 /1118	13,908/1159	14,460/1205	15,084/1257
25	13,164/1097	13,6807 1140	14,196/1183	14,796/1233	15,396/1283
26.	13,4167 1118	13,90871159	14,460/1205 ,	15,08471257	15,720/1310
27	13,680/1140	14,196/1183	14,796/1233	15,396/1283	16,008/1334
28	13,908/1159	14,460/1205	15,084/1257	15,720/1310	16,3567 1363
29	14,196/1183	14,79671233	15,396/1283	16,008/1334	16,716/1393
30	14,460/1205	15,084/1257	15,720/1310	16,356/1363	17,052/1421
31	14,796/1233	15,396/1283	16,008/1334	16,716/1393	17,436/1453
32	15,084/1257	15,720/1310	16,356/1363	17,052/1421	17,772/1481
33	15,396/1283	16,008/1334	16,716/1393	17,436/1453	18,180/1515
34	15,720/1310	16,356/1363	17,052/1421	17,772/1481	18,528/1544
35	16,008/1334	16,7167 1393	17,436/1453	18,180/1515	18,948/1579
36	16,356/1363	17,052/1421	17,772/1481	18,528/1544	19,320/1610
37	16,716/1393	17,436/1453	18,180/1515	18,948/1579	19,800/1650
EXHIBIT. B=1 (continued)
38	17,052/1421	17,772/1481	18,528/1544	19,320/1610	20,172/1681
39	17,436/1453	18,180/1515	18,9487 1579	19,800/1650	20/04/1717
40	17,772/1481	18,528/ 1544	19,320 /1610	20,172/1681	20,976/1748
41	18,180/1515	18,948/1579 '	19,800/1650	20,604/1717	21,480/1790
42	18,528/1544	19,320/1610	20,17271681	20,976/1748	21,936/1828
43	18,948/1579	19,800/1650	20,604/1717 ’	21,480/1790	22,440/1870
44	19,320/1610	20,172/1681 '	20,976/1748	21,936/1828	22,908/1909
45	19,8007 1650	20,604/1717	21,480/1790 .	22,440/1870	23,448/1954
46 '	20,17271681	20,976/1748	21,936/1828	; 22,908/1909	23,904 / 1992
47	20,604/1717	21,480/1790 •	22,440/1870	23,448/1954	24,504 / 2042
48	20,976/1748	21.936/1828	22.908/1909	23.904 /1992	24,984 / 2082
49	21,480/1790	22,440/1870	23,448/1954	24,504 / 2042	25,572/2131
50	21,936/1828	22,908/1909 .	. 23,904/1992	.24,984/2082	26,112/2176
Effective July 1,1990 Schedule 5
EXHIBIT B-2 Richmond Unified Schoo! District Classified Salary Range and Step, 1990 91
RANGE	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5
51	22,440/1870	23,448/1954	24,504 / 2042	25,572 / 2131	26,712 / 2226
52	22,908/1909	23,904/1992	24,984 / 2082	26,112/2176	27,276/2273
53	23,448/1954	24,504 1 2042	25;572/2131	26712/2226	27,924/2327
54	23,904/1992	24,984 / 2082	26,112/2176	27,276 / 2273	28,548 / 2379
55	24,504 / 2042	25,572 / 2131	26,712 / 2226	27,924/2327	29,196 / 2433
56	24,984 / 2082	' 26,112/2176	27,276/2273	28,548 / 2379	29,760 / 2480
57	25,572 / 2131	26,712/ 2226	27,924/2327	29,196 / 2433	30,504 1 2542
58	26,112/2176	27,276/2273	28,548 / 2379	29,760 / 2480	31,140 / 2595
59	26,712/2226	27,924/2327	29,196 / 2433	30,504 / 2542	31,920 / 2660
60	27,276/2273	28,548 / 2379	29,760 / 2480	31,140/2595	32,592/2716
61	27,924 / 2327	29,196 / 2433	30,504 / 2542	31,920 / 2660	33,372/2781
62	28,548 / 2379	29,760 / 2480	31,140/2595	32,592/2716	34,092 / 2841
63	29,196 / 2433	30,504 / 2542	31,920 / 2660	33,372 / 2781	34,920 / 2910
64	29,760 / 2480	31,140 / 2595	32,592/2716	34,092 / 2841	35,640/2970
65	30,504 / 2542	31,920 / 2660	33,372/2781	34,920/2910	36,516 / 3043
EXHiBiT B-2 (continued)
100
66	31,140 / 2595	32,592/2716	34,092/2841	35,640/2970	37,284 / 3107
67	31,920 / 2660	33,372/2781	34,920 / 2910	36,516/3043	38,220 / 3185
68	32,592/2716	34,092 / 2841	35,640 / 2970	37,284 / 3107 ,	39,u36/3253
69	33,372 / 2781	34,920 / 2910	36,516 / 3043.	■ 38,220/3185	40,008/3334
70	34,092/2841	35,640/2970	37,284/3107	39,036/3253	40,872/3406
71	34,920 / 2910	36,516 / 3043	38,220 / 3185	40,008/3334	41,856/3488
72	35,640/2970	37,284 / 3107	39,036 / 3253	40,872/3406	42,780 / 3565
73	36,516 / 3043 '	38,220 / 3185	40,008/3334	41,856/3488	43,872/3656
74	37,284 / 3107	39,036/3253	40,872/3406	42,780/3565	44,748/3729
75	38,220/3185	40,008/3334 .	41,856/3488	43,872/3656	45,888/3824
76	. 39,036/3253	40,872 / 3406	42,780 / 3565	44,748 / 3729	46,908 / 3909
.77	40,008/3334	41,856 / 3488	43,872/3656	45,888/3824	48,072/4006
78	40,872 / 3406	42,780 / 3565	44,748 / 3729	46,908/3909	49,056/4088
EXHIBIT C
s
CUSTODIAN PERFORMANCE RECORD DEPARTMENT COPY	DATE SENT:	 DATE DUE:						
□	2-month probationary □	5-month probationary (fill out No. 5 on back of form) FINAL □	Annual □	Special	Ferm 203 a Para. (Rw.)		NAME		JOB TITLE	
		DEPARTMENT			
		ANNIVERSARY DATE		DUE DATE	
MARK (X) IN THE APPROPRIATE BOX BELOW.	'Unsatisfactory mark (X) requires statement(s) of explanation in Remarks column.					
1. KNOWLEDGE OF WORK: Knowledge and understanding of all phases of this job and closely related matters.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Needs frequent Instructions, even on routine jobs.		□ SATISFACTORY Has a good working knowledge of job.		□ OUTSTANDING Has a thorough knowledge of job.
	REMARKS:				
2. INITIATIVE AND APPLICATION: Resourcefulness, independent thinking, attention, and application to his/her work.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Wastes time. Needs close supervision.		□ SATISFACTORY Steady and willing worker. Requires little direction.		□ OUTSTANDING Industrious. Highly resourceful and self-reliant.
	REMARKS:				
Exhibit C (continued from previous page)
102
3. QUALITY OF WORK: The accuracy andthoroughness with which work meets recognized stahdardsof performance.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Below standard. Errors repeated. Needs frequent checking.	□ SATISFACTORY Meets accepted standards' regularly. Needs little checking.	□ OUTSTANDING MilntainS'highquality.
	REMARKS;		
4. QUANTITY OF WORK: Volume of work based upon recognized standards of performance.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Consistently low-and behind schedule.	□ SATISFACTORY Steady producer. Regularly meets recognized-standards.	□ C J [STANDING ' High output.
	REMARKS:		
5. RELATIONS WITH OTHER WORKERS: Disposition, tact, courtesy, enthusiasm and sincerity as they affect fellow workers and others.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Hinders other employees' work.	□ SATISFACTORY Makes a satisfactory. Impression.	□ OUTSTANDING Creates very favorable ’ impression.
	REMARKS:		
6. DEPENDABILITY: Compliance with instructions and regulations; reliability under varylng.conditions.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Frequently undependable.	□ SATISFACTORY Dependable under normal circumstances;	□ OUTSTANDING Thoroughly reliable on assignments.
	REMARKS:		
Exhibit C (continued from previous page)
7. ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY:	□ UNSATISFACTORY4 High absenteeism. Often late for work.	□ SATISFACTORY Infrequently late/absent for work.	□ OUTSTANDING Rarely late/absent for work.
Promptness/regularlty reporting lor work	REMARKS:		
If present Job required leadership, or if you have had an opportunity to observe evidence of leadership on the job, appraise leadership characteristics below;otherwlsedisregardthlsfactor. __________________________________________________________________________________________________________
8. LEADERSHIP	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Unable to get satisfactory outpulfrom subordinates.	□ SATISFACTORY Good on regular assignments. Has respect of group.	□ OUTSTANDING - Outstanding leader. Obtains high morale and output.
Ability to lead and train others andtogetresultsthrough teamwork.	REMARKS:		
CONTINUE ON REVERSE SIDE
Exhibit C (continued frompreviouspage)
1.	OVERALL RATING:	'
VNSATtSFACTQBY SATISfACTfiBY	SUlSlAMa
2.	SIGNATURE(S) OF SUPERVISOR(S) PREPARING EVALUATION: ---------—-----------------—-------------------' • --
3,	REVIEWED WITH EMPLOYEE ON 	BY  .....................................    /
AND DISCUSSED SPECIFICSUGGESTIONS FOR'HIS/'HER DEVELOPMENT OR IMPROVEMENT ASiNOTED BELOW:	:■. C
104
4.	EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION:! HAVE REVIEWED THIS REPORT. IN SIGNINGIT, IDO NOT NECESSARILYAGREE WITH THE EVALUATION. IUNDERSTAND THAT IFI DESIRE,HHAVETHE RIGHTOF ADDING ANY COMMENTSW THESPACE BELOWl(USE ADDITIONAL SHEETS IF NEEDED. ) ■ "	-	:
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE■	DATE	.
5.	APPROVED: ____________________ -	■	DATE
■ ' " r	(department head)
Exhibit C (continued from previous page)
6.	THE SIGNED COPIES OF THIS EVALUATION WILL BE FORWARDED TO THE PRINCIPAL FOR HIS/HER COMMENTS TO BE ADDED IN THIS SECTION:
PRINCIPAL'S COMMENTS----------———---------------------— --------------------------------r--------------------.-----
SIGNATURE OF PRINCIPAL	 DATE
7.	EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION: I HAVE REVIEWED THE PRINCIPAL'S COMMENTS, IN SIGNING IT. I DO NOT NECESSARILY AGREE WITH THE EVALUATION. I UNDERSTAND THAT IF I DESIRE, I HAVE THE PRIVILEGE OF ADDING ANY COMMENTS IN THE SPACE BELOW: (USE ADDITIONAL SHEETS IF NEEDED.)
105
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE________________ - -_______________________________DATE
8.	FINAL APPROVAL:	_____________i_______________ DATE 
(division head)
FOR PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES ONLY
:9. RECOMMENDATION IN VIEW OF THIS APPRAISAL: ........
.(THE FOLLOWING IS TO BE FILLED OUT ONLY UPON MAKING THE FINAL RATING SHEET [5 MONTH] ON THE PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE.)
□	I RECOMMEND THAT.THIS EMPLOYEE BE PLACED ON PERMANENT STATUS.
□	I RECOMMEND THAT THIS EMPLOYEE BE REJECTED DURING THE PROBATIONARY PERIOD, EFFECTIVE' /	'■■> THE LAST DAY WORKED.
(division head)
EXHIBIT D
EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE RECORD DEPARTMENT COPY	DATE SENT:	 DATE DUE:
Q 2-month probationary. [Z] 5-month probationary (fill out No. 5 on ' back of form) FINAL ' □ Annual ’	' EZ] Spacial	Fam 2O3:a Pan. (Rev.)	NAME' '	JOB TITLE
	DEPARTMENT	
	ANNIVERSARY DATE	DUE DATE
MARK (X) IN THE APPROPRIATE BOX BELOW.	'Unsatisfactory mark (X) requires statement(s) of explanation In Remarks column.
1. KNOWLEDGE OF WORK: Knowledge and understanding of all phases of this job and closely related matters.	□ UNSATISFACTORY^ Needsfrequentlnstructlons, even on routine jobs.	□ SATISFACTORY . Has a good working knowledge of job.	□ OUTSTANDING Has a thorough knowledge of job.
	REMARKS:		
2 INmATIVE AND APPLICATION: Resourcefulness, independent thinking, attention, and application to his work.'	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Wastes time. Needs close supervision.	□ SATISFACTORY Steady and willing worker. Requires little direction.	□ OUTSTANDING Industrious. Highly resourceful and self-reliant
	REMARKS:		
106
Exhibit D (continued from previous page)
3. QUALITY OF WORK: The accuracy and thoroughness with which work meets recognized standards of performance.	□ UNSATISFACTORY’ Below standard. Errors repeated. Needs frequent checking.	□ SATISFACTORY Meets accepted standards regularly. Needs little checking.	□ OUTSTANDING Maintains high quality.
	REMARKS:		
4. QUANTITY OF WORK: u	Volume of work based upon 5	recognized standards of '.performance.'	□ .UNSATISFACTORY’ Consistently low and behind schedule.	□ SATISFACTORY - Steady producer. Regularly meets recognized standards.	□ OUTSTANDING High output
	. REMARKS:		
5. RELATIONS WITH OTHER WORKERS: Disposition, tact, courtesy, enthusiasm and sincerity as they affect fellow workers and others.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Hinders other employees' • wotk.. .	□ SATISFACTORY Makes a satisfactory impression.	□ OUTSTANDING Creates very favorable Impression.
	REMARKS: •		
6. DEPENDABILITY: Compliance with Instructions and regulations; reliability under varying conditions.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Frequently undependable.	□ SATISFACTORY Dependable under normal circumstances.	□ OUTSTANDING Thoroughly reliable on assignments.
	REMARKS:		
Exhibit D (continued from previous page)
7. ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY: ■;< .	□ UNSATISFACTORY* . High absenteeism. Often fateforwork. \	□ SATISFACTORY Infrequently late/absent forwork.	□ OUTSTANDING Rarely late/absent /. forwork.
Promptness/reguiarity reporting for work.	REMARKS:		
if present job required leadership, or If you have had ah opportunity to observe evidence of leadership on the job, appraise leadership characteristics g below; otherwise disregard, this factor. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
8. Leadership Ability tbiead and train others and to get results through teamWbrit	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Unable to get satisfactory output from suboordinates.	□ SATISFACTORY Good on regular assignments. Has respect of group.	□ OUTSTANDING Outstanding leader. Obtains high morale and output
	REMARKS:		
CONTINUE ON REVERSE SIDE
Exhibit D (continued from previous page)
109
FOR PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES ONLY
5.	RECOMMENDATION IN VIEW OF THIS APPRAISAL:
(THE FOLLOWING IS TO BE FILLED OUT ONLY UPON MAKING THE FINAL RATING SHEET (5 MONTH] ON THE PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE.)
□	I RECOMMEND THAT THIS EMPLOYEE BE PLACED ON PERMANENT STATUS.
□	I RECOMMEND THAT THIS EMPLOYEE BE REJECTED DURING THE PROBATIONARY PERIOD, EFFECTIVE ., THE LAST DAY WORKED.
(DATE)
. SIGNED:________________________________________________
(division head / department head)
Exhibit D (continued from previous page)
1. OVERALL RATING:
UNSATISFACTORY
SATISFACTORY
OUTSTANDING '
2.	SIGNATURE(S)'OF SUPERVISOR(S) PREPARING EVALUATION:
3.	REVIEWED WITH EMPLOYEE ON
BY
AND DISCUSSED-SPECIFIC SUGGESTIONS FORiHER/IHISjDEVELOPMENT'ORHMPROVEMENTASNOTED BELOW:
4.	iEMPLOYEE':CERTIEICATION:il!HAVE:REVlEWED THIS<REP0BT. HN.SIGNINGilT.HDOiNOTNECESSARILYAGREE.WITH,THE EVAkUATK^. lUNDERSTAND'THAT/IF^DESIRE.ifHAVETHEiRIGHTOFADDINGANYCOMMENTSINTHESPACEBELOW-fUSEADDITIONALSHEETSIF NEEDED:)	.	'	. '
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
‘DATE
■ - ’.W
NOTES
111
NOTES
112
CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENT
Between The RICHMOND UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT And The PUBLIC EMPLOYEES UNION, LOCAL SO. 1
The following modifications, revisions, additions and deletions of provisions, having been duly negotiated by both parties, shall be made to the previous agreement and shall be attached thereto as the full and complete replacement contractual agreement. ' .
Article 1,	Aqreateit^^
Section 3. ThC Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from July 1, 1991 through June 30, 1993. I
Section 4. Na later than April 1, 1992, the District and the Union shall reopen negotiations for salify increases, site based decision making and health benefits.
Article 11,	Leaves
Section 7. Delete from prior agreement: "After three (3) full years of service..." and replace-with "After becoming a permanent‘employee, an employee who finds it necessary to secure..."	• .
Section 9.2. Sick Leave Incentive: Those employees who utilize four days or less sick leave during the fiscal year, July 1 to June 30, shall receive an allocation of one (1) vacation day accrual.	‘
Section 11. Workers' Compensation (add): The employee shall’have the righty upon request, to be immediately provided a copy of the worker's compensation claim 'form document if any written statement made by the supervisor/manager in any manner refutes the employee's claim or statement.
Article 15, Benefits
Section 1.	The District shall provide all eligible enployees and their dependents with a fully paid Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) health plan. Employees may choose from among a list of such plans mutually agreed upon by- Local No.l and the District.
1.	Enployees who certify coverage by another group health plan or spouses-of . RUSD employees covered by a District health plan may waive their health plan. Effective October 1, 1991, in such cases the .-District shall contribute seventy-five ($75.00) dollars, per month to a Tax-Sheltered Annuity Plan offered by the Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC).
Section 2.	The District shall provide all eligible enployees and their dependents with either the dental insurance plan currently offered by Delta Dental Service, or at the option of the employee, the prepaid dental plan offered by Safeguard.
‘Section 3. The District shall provide, the" Vision;Service Plan, Option B,.with "a ten ($10.00) dollar deductible, to all, eligible employees' who choose an-HMO ■ health plan.. This plan shall also provide dependent coverage. ' ■
Section 4.	Continuation - Retirement: Employees in the bargaining, unit who retire and who subsequently become^ eligible for and successfully, enroll in federal medical or dental insurance programs available to persons .receiving OflSHDI benefits, may be converted.by the-employer to supplemental coordination of benefit, programs so long as the overall coverage for the retired employee of the bargaining unit is not less than he/she would receive under the active employee, program. Benefits currently?provided to retired employees shall.be continued.
Section 5.	Maintenance of Benefits: The employer shall maintain these benefits as prescribed above in this?Article for the duration of this contract/ unless amended through the "Reopeners" provision.
Section 6.	(former section 8)
Section .7. (former section 9)
Section 8. (former section 10)	,	.
Delete: former section 11
Side letter: The District and the Union: agree to continue studying cost containment measures for retiree health.benefit programs.
Article 16.-to«»nnatian
Section 6,. Longevity (to follow, current, text): It is agreed that effective July 1; 1992 ah employee must be in paid status five days'in a.-work’ month’ in order to be eligible for-Longevity pay."
Section s. Effective.July 1, l|jjpe salary schedule, shall be reduced.-by nine (9) per cent".	1991 „
Article 18. fanmiwe ,ClalB
Section 1. Mileage "... shall be .reimbursed-at the; per mile rate-allowed by’the
IRS.'-’	" -	■ -
SUPPLffifflT.l
Article. 23. Raaggimwnnt
1. - The staffing model" for building maintenance workers, custodial, "landscaping/ arid, the maintenance department shall not be "reduced except by attrition. "
Article, a
The District agrees that, it will" cooperate with Local #l -in.:reestablishing.good morale;in the. Maintenance! arid.iterations^area. ‘
JHERA AfiBRMtKWT'
AGREEMENT BETWEEN1 RUSD AND PEU, LOCAL #1 ASBESTOS SURVEILLANCE/INSPECTION TEAM SELECTION'AND PAY FOR- SERVICES
A.	Volunteers from the General Services', Maintenance, and Operations bargaining unit, in the RUSD Maintenance and Operations Department will be considered for the asbestos surveillance/inspection team. Twelve volunteers who qualify (see below) shall be appointed to the team.
1.	Elementary Head Custodians have the first option to perform the asbestos surveillance (six-month) at their ..own school; if the Elementary Head Custodian declines, surveillance of elementary schools will be completed by a designated surveillance/inspection team member.
2.	Surveillance/inspections of secondary and npn-schqol RUSD sites and other sites in which RUSD instructs students will be completed by surveillance/inspection team members. Assignment to surveillance/inspection duties by team members will be made in seniority order and in rotation so that all team members will receive substantially equal assignments. Note: Asbestos inspections occi>r at 3 year intervals .and are distinguishable from asbestos surveillance b]l requiring.a higher degree of training and involving more intensive'inspection duties.
B.	Surveillance/inspection team members must have completed the asbestos training prescribed by AHERA law and must meet the following standards:
1.	Must be able to read and comprehend the instructions for the inspections.
2.	Must be able to write legibly so that ' the inspection documents can be easily read.
3.	Must be able to interpret school plans so that they can identify asbestos sites.
4.	Must be able to differentiate between friable and lion-friable asbestos.
5.	Must be physically able to climb 'stairs and ladders, crawl under floors and walk-entire building areas.
’C- Volunteers will be interviewed and tested by the District in seniority order. \ Those twelve volunteers who meet the’above standards will be chosen for the y surveillance/inspection team.	•
D.	Employees-will perform surveillance/inspections in overtime hours not to exceed four hours a day or 10 hours per week.
E.	Remuneration for team-members will be' at their regular overtime rate plus a 10% differential for hours worked performing duties referenced herein.
SUPPLEMENT 2, PARAPROFESSIOHAL
• ■’	i
Article 10, Hours
Instructional Assistants, Special Education: It is agreed that those Instructional Assistants, Special Education, currently working six hours shall be reduced to five hours, and that those Instructional Assistants, Special Education, in Range 49 and 43 positions currently assigned over six hours per day shall be reduced arid maintained at six hours.
It is agreed that in the classification of Instructional Assistant, Special Education, assigned to the RSP program at the. elementary level, the District may reduce the current assignment of positions as they become vacant from the current staffing level to 3.5 hours per day, through attrition only.
SUPPLfflEBT 4, OFFICE/TECHKCAL SERVICES UHT
Side letter: The Union and the District agree to form a joint coonittee by January 1, 1992 to study the feasibility of flexible schedules where it would not interfere with the operations of the District for positions in the Unit.
Article 28; Signatures To AgrtaMent
RICHMMD (MIFIKD SCHOOL DISTBICT SPI-APPOiRTED AEKDdSTRATCB
Dr; Fred Stewart
PUBLIC fflPLOYEES UHCffl, LOCAL BO. 1
Sandra Falk '
Major Dixon
Adeline Calhoun Rudy Gonzalez Toni Etchison John Scruggs Donna Butler George Busby Larry Davis James Emerson Bruce Leslie Jessie Theoudele