2016-2019
AGREEMENT
By and Between
the
CITY OF TACOMA
and
LOCAL NO. 483
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
CLERICAL UNIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
2016-2019
LOCAL 483 INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS CLERICAL UNIT
Page
PREAMBLE.........................................................3
ARTICLE 1	- TERM OF AGREEMENT................................... 3
ARTICLE 2	- UNION RECOGNITION....................................3
ARTICLE 3	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS....................................5
ARTICLE 4	- STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS.................................6
ARTICLE 5	-SHOP STEWARDS.........................................6
ARTICLE 6	- LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE...........................6
ARTICLE 7	- NON-DISCRIMINATION...................................7
ARTICLE 8-DISCIPLINE.............................................7
ARTICLE 9	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE..................................9
ARTICLE 10	- SENIORITY AND VACANCIES............................10
ARTICLE 11	- SELECTION OF PERSONNEL.............................11
ARTICLE 12-SAFETY...............................................11
ARTICLE 13	- WORK RULES.........................................11
ARTICLE 14-	BENEFITS............................................14
ARTICLE 15	- WAGE SCALES........................................14
ARTICLE 16-OUTSOURCING..........................................15
ARTICLE 17-SAVINGS CLAUSE.......................................15
APPENDIX A	17
APPENDIX B	18
INDEX LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING..................................26
Page 2
2016-2019
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT Between CITY OF TACOMA and LOCAL 483 INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS CLERICAL UNIT
PREAMBLE
For the purpose of maintaining cordial relations between the City of Tacoma, hereinafter designated as the "City" and the party of the first part, and the Local 483, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers hereinafter designated as the "Union" and the party of the second part, the parties hereto do hereby enter into, establish and agree to the following conditions of employment.
The City and the Union have a common and sympathetic interest in municipal services. Therefore, a working system and harmonious relations are essential to the relationship between the City, the Union, and the public. All will benefit by continuous peace and by adjusting any differences by rational common sense methods. Progress in industry demands a mutuality of confidence between the City and the Union. To these ends this Agreement is made.
The City shall not be required to take any action under this Agreement which is in violation of federal, or state law, or the ordinances of the City of Tacoma.
The Union agrees that its members, who are employees of the City, will individually and collectively perform efficient work and service, and that they will avoid and discourage waste of materials, time, and manpower, and that they will use their influence and the best efforts to protect the property of the City and its interests and to prevent loss of tools, and materials and that they will cooperate with the City in promoting and advancing the welfare of the City and the service at all times.
ARTICLE 1	- TERM OF AGREEMENT
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from January 1,2016, to and including December 31, 2019, provided that, if either party desires to terminate the Agreement on the anniversary date of December 31, 2019, written notice of such intent must be given to the other party one hundred and twenty (120) days in advance of that date, and provided further that this Agreement shall be subject to such change and modification during its term as may be mutually agreed by the parties hereto.
ARTICLE 2	- UNION RECOGNITION
Section 2.1 The Union shall be the exclusive bargaining agent in all matters of wages, hours, and employment conditions in the application of the Agreement to employees in those classifications now listed and later added to the classifications set forth herein. Should existing
Page 3
classifications be reclassified without the addition of significant new or different duties, the Union shall continue to be recognized for those classifications. Should new classifications in the City classified service be created, the City shall recognize the Union for those classifications, if such classifications perform a substantial portion of work presently performed by classifications listed in this Agreement. However, if another bargaining representative requests recognition for such a new classification, recognition procedures set forth in Chapter 41.56 RCW shall apply.
Section 2.2 It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the employer, covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union (or who, in lieu thereof, pay each month a service charge equivalent to regular union dues to the Union as a contribution towards the administration of the Agreement) on the effective date of this Agreement shall remain members or shall continue to pay said service charge. It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this Agreement and hired on or after its execution date shall, on the thirtieth (30th) day following the beginning of such employment, become and remain members in the Union, or in lieu thereof pay an amount equal to the regular initiation fee and each month a service charge equivalent to regular union dues to the Union as a contribution towards the administration of this Agreement. Provided: Objections to joining the Union which are based on either bona fide religious tenets or teachings of a church or religious body of which such employee is a member will be observed. Any such employee shall pay an amount of money equivalent to regular union dues and initiation fees to a non-religious charity or to another charitable organization mutually agreed upon by the employee affected and the bargaining representative to which such employee would otherwise pay the dues and initiation fees. Such payments shall be made to a charity having offices in Pierce County and the payment shall be made to said office. The employee shall furnish written proof to the Union that such payment has been made. If the employee and the bargaining representative do not reach agreement on such matter, the Public Employment Relations Commission shall designate the charitable organization.
Section 2,3 The Union agrees that membership in the union will not be denied or terminated for any reason other than the failure of an employee covered by this Agreement to tender the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the union.
Section 2.4 - Dues The City agrees to deduct from the paycheck of each employee who has so authorized it, the regular initiation fees and regular monthly dues uniformly required of members of the Union or in lieu thereof the monthly service charge. The City shall not be required to make any deductions from employee's paycheck except as authorized by the employee or by law. The amounts deducted shall be transmitted monthly to the Union on behalf of the employees involved. Authorization by the employee shall be on a form approved by the parties hereto and may be revoked by the employee upon request and the Union so notified. The performance of this function is recognized as a service to the Union by the City. There shall be no retroactive deduction of union dues.
Section 2.5 The Union agrees that the City shall not terminate the employment of any employee under the union security clause provision of the Agreement until written notification is received from the Union that an employee has failed to pay the required dues or service charge, or provide proof of an alternative payment based on religious tenets as provided hereinabove. The parties also agree that, when an employee fails to fulfill the above obligation, the Union shall provide the employee and the City with thirty (30) days' notification of the Union's intent to issue discharge action and during this period the employee may make restitution in the amount which is overdue.
Page 4
Section 2.6 The Union further agrees that in the event that the City undertakes to terminate an employee's tenure pursuant to this Article, the Union will indemnify and hold the City harmless should such employee file a claim for position and be successful in prosecuting the same and thus obtain a judgment for past due wages and agree to pay said judgment or claim together with all costs assessed therein, including attorney fees, if any. The Union's obligation to indemnify and hold the City harmless, as described above, would be limited and restricted only to the situation where the employee's successful claim for position is due to the Union's illegal request to the City for termination of said employee's tenure.
Section 2.7 - Leave for Business Manager The Director of Public Utilities, or City Manager, will approve granting of leave of absence without pay for the period covered by this Agreement without loss of Civil Service status and/or without loss of continued accrual of seniority, and aggregate City service or tenure status for all purposes, to no more than two (2) employees of the City who are members of the Union, and whom the Union may desire to have act as its business manager to be locally engaged in the business of the Union.
Section 2.8 The City will furnish the Union a copy of the pay status of Local 483 members at such time as the Information Systems runs such tabulation. It is understood that this tabulation will be used by the Union for the sole purpose of compiling the Union dues formula, and that the Union will not divulge any information from the subject tabulation to any other person or agency.
Section 2.9 - Business Representative Visit The Business Manager or Business Representative of the Union may, after notifying the City official in charge, visit the work location of the employees covered by this Agreement for the purpose of investigating conditions on the job. There shall not be any interference with the duties of employees or the operations of the City.
Section 2.10- Bargaining Unit Jurisdiction The members covered by this agreement shall not be required to perform more than incidental work which properly comes under the jurisdiction of another bargaining unit and/or classification, unless properly compensated for such temporary work assignment.
ARTICLE 3	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union recognizes the prerogative of the City to operate and manage its affairs in all respects in accordance with its lawful mandate, and the powers or authority which the City has not specifically abridged, delegated, or modified by this Agreement are retained by the City.
The direction of its working force is vested exclusively in the City. This shall include, but not be limited to the right to: (a) direct employees; (b) hire, promote, transfer, assign, and retain employee; (c) suspend, demote, discharge, or take other legitimate disciplinary action against employees; (d) relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons; (e) maintain the efficiency of the operation entrusted to the City; (f) determine the methods, means, and personnel by which such operations are to be conducted; and (g) take any actions necessary in conditions of emergency, regardless of prior commitments, to carry out the mission of the agency; provided, however, that items (a) through (g) shall not be in conflict with City ordinances, personnel rules or this labor agreement.
Page 5
ARTICLE 4	- STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
It is recognized that the City is engaged in a public service requiring continuous operation, and it is agreed that recognition of such obligation of continuous service during the term of this Agreement is imposed upon both the City and the Union.
The Union will not authorize a strike, work stoppage, or slowdown; and the City will not engage in a lockout during the term of this Agreement. The Union will take every reasonable means within its powers to induce employees engaged in strike, work stoppage, or slowdown, in violation of this Agreement, to return to work; but the Union, its officers, representatives, or affiliates shall not be held responsible for any strike, work stoppage, or slowdown which the Union, its officers, representatives, or affiliates have expressly forbidden or declared in violation hereof. Every attempt shall be made to settle all disputes or controversies arising under this Agreement under the grievance procedure and/or arbitration procedures provided for herein.
ARTICLE 5	-SHOP STEWARDS
Section 5.1 - Shop Stewards The Union shall have the right to appoint shop stewards.
The City Human Resources Department and the department where the Steward works shall be furnished with the names of stewards so appointed.
Stewards shall be permitted to devote reasonable periods of time during normal working hours, without loss of pay, for the investigation, presentation and settlement of employee grievances, subject to the following conditions:
1.	Such time shall be with the approval of the steward’s immediate supervisor and such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The steward shall give the supervisor an estimate of the time needed. If the time needed would require extended time away from work time then it may be more appropriate for a paid union official to be involved in the investigation.
2.	Shop Steward shall be permitted to be present at meetings where disciplinary action may occur and a member has requested a Shop Steward’s presence. If a shop steward is not available, the Union and Management will work cooperatively to ensure representation is provided.
The Shop Steward, on entering a work location, shall inform the supervisor of his/her desire to talk to employee(s)/member(s) in matters relating to this Agreement. Permission to meet with the Shop Steward will be granted promptly to the employee(s)/member(s) involved unless such absence would cause an undue interruption of work. If the employee(s)/member(s) cannot be made available, the Shop Steward shall be immediately informed when the employee(s) will be made available.
ARTICLE 6	- LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
A Labor-Management Committee shall be established to discuss issues of mutual concern.
Section 6.1	The committee shall be composed of an equal number of representatives (four each) from the City and the Union. The City Manager and the Director of Public Utilities or their
Page 6
designees and the Business Manager shall appoint their respective members. Each party shall notify the other party of their representatives.
Section 6.2	The Labor/Management Committee shall be advisory in nature. It is formed to foster a relationship of mutual respect, open communications, responsible issue resolution and to discuss items of mutual concern.
Section 6.3	The Labor/Management Committee shall establish its own rules of procedures and shall meet quarterly or as required. Chair shall rotate with the union chairing the quarterly committee meetings during the first and third quarters and management chairing the second and fourth quarters. Additional meetings may be scheduled by mutual consent. Any meetings may be canceled by mutual consent. Whenever possible, the Chair shall distribute the agenda one week prior to the meeting. Items submitted by either party shall constitute the agenda.
ARTICLE 7	- NON-DISCRIMINATION
Section 7.1 Pursuant to RCW 41.56 there shall be no discrimination against union membership, union officers, or union activity.
Section 7.2 Neither the City nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee covered by this agreement in a manner which would violate any applicable laws because of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation or disability that does not prevent proper performance of the job. Union and Management shall work cooperatively to assure the achievement of equal employment opportunity.
Section 7.3 There shall be no sexual harassment and/or other illegal harassment as provided in Personnel Management Policy 130 Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy Personnel Management Policy 135 Workplace Violence Prevention Program Policy, and State and Federal Law.
Section 7.4 If an otherwise reasonable accommodation is requested, pursuant to the Americans With Disabilities Act and/or the Washington Law Against Discrimination which would result in or require a violation of any provision of this contract, or recognized work rule adopted by the parties pursuant to this contract, the City may propose a written amendment and the Union agrees to consider the proposal and respond in writing, either agreeing to the same, proposing a modification which would make the amendment acceptable, or explaining why the modification cannot be made.
ARTICLE 8-DISCIPLINE
Section 8,1 Employees may be disciplined or discharged for just cause and with due process, in conformance with Sections 1.24.930, .940, .950, .951,and .955 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. The discipline will be based on the severity of the offense and prior record of discipline.
Section 8,2 The employee shall be entitled to have a Union representative present at any meeting that the Employer holds with the employee to discuss potential disciplinary action or when disciplinary action is issued.
Page 7
Section 8.3 At the request of the employee or the Union, the Employer shall hold a pre-disciplinary hearing as soon as reasonably possible after the employee was notified in writing of the specific alleged violation that may result in a suspension, demotion, or termination. At this hearing, the employee will be given an opportunity to present his/her side of the issue.
Section 8,4 The Employer shall make a copy of all documents in its possession and relevant to the alleged violation available to the employee and the Union representative five (5) days prior to the hearing if possible. Where this is not possible, the Employer and the Union will reach a mutual agreement on the continuance of the hearing or other remedy fair to both parties.
Section 8.5 The Employer may place an employee on paid administrative leave pending a pre-disciplinary hearing , when deemed appropriate, pending a final decision as to the appropriate discipline after receiving the recommendation from the pre-disciplinary hearing.
Section 8.6 The employee and the employee's Union representative, shall have the right to inspect the contents of the personnel file maintained by the Employer as well as any files which were used as part of the disciplinary process.
Section 8.7 No disciplinary document may be placed in the personnel file without the employee having first been notified of said document and given a copy. The notification requirement shall be satisfied if the document is mailed to the employee’s last known address. The employee shall be required to sign a written reprimand or other disciplinary action acknowledging that they have read the contents of the document. An employee who disagrees with the content of any letter of reprimand added to the personnel file shall have the opportunity to place a rebuttal statement in the personnel file, which shall be signed by the employee. An employee who waives this right shall acknowledge such in writing. Letters of reprimand and written and oral warnings- may be grieved only through Step 4 of the grievance process. However, at Step 4, these lower levels of discipline will be forwarded to the Human Resources Director, or their designee, in lieu of the City Manager/Utilities Director.
Section 8,8 A suspension, a dismissal or a disciplinary reduction in rank or pay may be processed under the grievance procedure of the agreement or submitted to Civil Service Board, if it falls under Civil Service Board jurisdiction. Should the employee elect to use the Civil Service Board procedure to appeal a disciplinary action, the employee irrevocably waives the right to appeal through the grievance procedure. Similarly, should the employee elect to use the grievance process, the employee irrevocably waives the right to appeal through the Civil Service Board procedure.
Section 8.9 The Employer and the Union recognize the intent of a “letter of reprimand” is for the purpose of modifying inappropriate behavior. Said actions shall state, in writing to the employee and the Union, the reason(s) for such action. The Employer agrees that all disciplinary actions and letters of reprimand are considered grieved if used to support a suspension, discharge, or demotion and will be subject to “Just Cause.”
Section 8,10 The Employer recognizes the right of an employee to Union representation during the investigative phase of corrective action and the Employer shall make a good faith effort to inform the employee of this right and shall, upon request by the employee, provide Union representation; however the Employer’s effort shall not be considered a required step and shall not be subject to the grievance process. An employee who waives this right shall acknowledge such in writing.
Page 8
Section 8,11 All letters of reprimand, suspensions and/or discharges must be issued within sixty (60) calendar days of the incident or within sixty (60) days of when the employer had knowledge of an incident. The Union will be notified of an ongoing investigation which is anticipated to exceed this time frame. All timeframes can be extended upon mutual agreement by the parties. In addition, if an employee is on an authorized leave of absence or on FMLA leave, the timeframe will be extended thirty (30) calendar days after their return to work.
ARTICLE 9	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 9.1	A Grievance must be submitted to the Department in writing within thirty (30) calendar days of the alleged violation.
Section 9.2	It is the goal of both the Union and the City to settle problems at the lowest possible level in a cooperative and objective manner. To this end, every effort will be made by both parties to resolve problems at the lowest level. Both parties shall work cooperatively to identify the appropriate party to respond to a grievance. Initially, the employee shall discuss the incident with the shop steward. Further contacts shall follow this procedure:
Step 1 The employee, or employee and/or shop steward (or Union Representative), shall meet with the immediate supervisor (written communication not required). Such meeting shall take place as soon as possible, but in no case longer than ten (10) working days of notification of the incident which gives rise to the grievance.
The immediate supervisor shall advise the shop steward of the proposed resolution within five (5) working days of this meeting.
Step 2 If the incident cannot be resolved at the first step, it shall be reduced to writing specifying the section or sections of the contract violated, relevant facts, and the proposed remedy and shall be presented to the section manager, with copies to the Union and Human Resources Department within ten (10) working days of the decision rendered at Step 1. To be valid, the grievance must be submitted in writing within thirty (30) calendar days of the alleged violation by the grieving party. This step shall not preclude contacts at lower levels, if this may expedite the resolution process.
The appropriate manager shall, within ten (10) working days render a decision in writing to the employee and Union.
Step 3 If the employee is not satisfied with the Step 2 response, then within ten (10) working days of receipt of the appropriate section manager's answer, the grievance shall be forwarded to the Department/Division Head.
The Department/Division Head shall, within ten (10) working days render a decision in writing to the employee and Union.
Step 4 If the employee is not satisfied with the response, then within ten (10) working days of receipt of the Department/Division Head's answer, the employee (or designated
Page 9
representative) will forward the grievance to the Utilities Director/City Manager for possible resolution.
The Utilities Director/City Manager (after consultation with the Department/Division Head, the Human Resources Director, and the Union Business Manager) shall submit his/her answer in writing within ten (10) working days after personal receipt of the grievance.
Step 5 Grievances not resolved under the above steps may be referred to arbitration by either party to this Agreement. Either party may give notice of intention to arbitrate within fifteen (15) working days following completion of the steps listed in the aforementioned sections. A list of five (5) arbitrators shall be requested from the Public Employment Relations Commission, both parties shall meet and each shall strike a name until one (1) arbitrator is selected. The decision by the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties. Each party shall bear the expense of its own representation, and all other agreed to expenses incident to the arbitration shall be divided equally. The arbitrator shall have no power to render a decision that will add to, subtract from, or alter, change or modify this Agreement; and the arbitrator's power shall be limited to an interpretation or application of this Agreement and application of appropriate remedies.
Section 9.3	The time limitations in this Article may be adjusted by mutual agreement, in writing between the Union and the Department/Division. Failure by the non-grieving party to comply with any of the time limitations as provided in this Article shall constitute a right of the grieving party to proceed to the next step without waiting.
Failure of the grieving party to comply with the forgoing time limitations shall constitute resolution of the grievance.
ARTICLE 10	- SENIORITY AND VACANCIES
Section 10.1 Seniority is defined as the length of continuous service by an employee for the City of Tacoma. The length of continuous service by classification by Department/Divisions held shall establish seniority for temporary upgrades.
Section 10.2 An upgrade is defined as the filling of a temporary vacancy within the bargaining unit that is in the next higher classification in the class series that receives a higher rate of pay. An employee upgraded by his/her supervisor shall be paid for the time worked in the higher class. An employee may be given a temporary appointment to a higher classification when he/she is assigned the duties of such classification.
Section 10.3 In the filling of temporary vacancies, the City need not upgrade an employee who, in the employer's opinion, does not possess the knowledge, skill, ability, or adaptability for the job. Neither is the employer required to upgrade employees assigned to other sections, divisions, or departments.
Section 10.4 Vacancies of five (5) working days or less, and in instances of emergency and illness, may be filled to meet the City's immediate needs.
Page 10
Section 10.5 In the event the department fills a vacancy that exceeds five (5) working days, such vacancy shall be filled from a layoff register or the existing Civil Service eligible list, providing the temporarily upgraded employee is in the same section, division or department. If no eligible list exists, such vacancy shall be filled on a seniority basis in accordance with the provisions in Section 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3.
Section 10.6 The above provisions shall govern when not inconsistent with the Personnel Rules contained in Chapter 1.24 of the Official Code of the City of Tacoma.
ARTICLE 11	- SELECTION OF PERSONNEL
Section 11.1 In selecting personnel for regular positions, the Department will abide by the rules and regulations set forth in Chapters 1.12 and 1.24 of the Official Code of the City of Tacoma.
Section 11.2 - Vacancy Announcements A standing transfer list will be established for all classifications represented by this Collective Bargaining Agreement. Transfer lists shall run concurrent with established civil service eligibility lists. Employees shall remain on the transfer list until such time as the eligibility list expires, the employee accepts transfer, or they request that their name be removed from the list.
ARTICLE 12-SAFETY
All state and local laws governing the health and safety of employees shall be observed. Safety rules as promulgated by the Department of Labor and Industries of the State of Washington, and as amended from time to time, are hereby adopted and incorporated as a part of this Agreement as if fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE 13-WORK RULES
Section 13,1 - Working Rules Working rules, as agreed upon between the City and the Union, shall be established governing working conditions and requirements of each classification consistent with the provisions of existing personnel and compensation rules and regulations contained in Chapter 1.24 and Chapter 1.12 of the Official Code of the City of Tacoma.
Employees working for the City of Tacoma have various working conditions including: the wages, hours, and working conditions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, Personnel Rules City of Tacoma, Personnel Management Policies of the City, Compensation Plan City of Tacoma, The Administrative Policies and Procedures of the Department of Public Utilities, Administrative Policies for General Government, Code of Ethics and the Tacoma Joint Labor Committee Agreement with the City.
Section 13.2-	Meal Periods An employee may be assigned to a thirty (30) or sixty (60) minute meal period which will be provided not less than three (3) nor more than five (5) hours after beginning work.
Section 13.3-	Rest Periods The standard City rest period shall be fifteen (15) minutes in length. Two rest periods shall be allowed per day for full-time employees and one (1) per day
Page 11
for part-time employees who work six (6) hours or less per day. One shall be scheduled in the mid-morning and one in the mid-afternoon.
Section 13.4-	Meal Allowance
A.	An employee working non-scheduled overtime at least two (2) hours before or beyond his/her regular shift and at six (6) hour intervals thereafter shall be eligible for a meal allowance of $15.00 per meal. All meal allowances shall be paid through the City’s payroll process.
B.	Employees will not be eligible for a meal allowance when working scheduled overtime unless the number of overtime hours worked exceeds the regularly scheduled total daily hours of work by two hours.
C.	Non-scheduled overtime is defined as overtime performed with less than twenty-four (24) hours advance notification.
Section 13.5-	Shifts & Scheduled Work Assiqnments/Hours)
A.	A work schedule is the number of scheduled days an employee works in either a work week or over two work weeks, e.g., five (5) consecutive days, four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days, or eighty (80) hours worked in nine (9) shifts. A shift is the number of hours an employee works on a given work day. All shifts exclude a thirty (30) or sixty (60) minute meal period.
B.	The normal work week for full-time employees will consist of five (5) consecutive eight (8) hour days normally Monday through Friday between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. When business necessity, as determined by management, requires, the hours shall be adjusted to fall between six (6) a.m. and six (6) p.m.
C.	Alternate work schedules may be agreed to by the employee and the appropriate supervisor/manager. Alternate work schedules may consist of four (4) consecutive ten (10) hour days, or eighty (80) hours worked in nine (9) days. Absent continued mutual agreement between the employee and his/her immediate supervisor to continue an alternate work schedule, then the work schedule shall revert to the normal work week. Implementation of alternative work schedules shall comply with the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Changes to current work schedules, shift changes and/or job assignments shall have two (2) week’s advance notice unless an emergency requires otherwise.
D.	An employee may request an adjustment to a particular day’s regularly scheduled shift including splitting the shift. When an adjustment is granted, the Employer shall not incur overtime liability until the number of hours worked on this adjusted shift exceeds the number of hours worked in the employee’s regularly scheduled shift. Any adjustment to a shift shall be made up within the same work week the adjustment was granted.
E.	Compensatory time in lieu of cash payment for overtime worked may be authorized and/or used in accordance with the Tacoma Municipal Code 1.12.080. Compensatory time may only be earned with prior approval from the Department Director/TPU Division Head or their designee. All accruals of compensatory time
Page 12
shall be in compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act or qualify for its exemptions. Any unused compensatory time will be paid out at the end of the year in which it is earned.
Section 13.6 - Pursuant to PMP 325, Telecommuting Guidelines, upon request from the employee, with permission of the supervisor, subject to the approval of the Department Head or their designee, employees may be authorized to telecommute.
Section 13.7 - Overtime
A.	An employee required to perform work outside his/her regularly scheduled shifts, on the sixth day or holidays as set forth in Appendix B shall be compensated at one and one-half times (1-1/2) the straight time hourly rate and two (2) times the straight time hourly rate for all work performed on the seventh day. An employee called to perform overtime work shall be paid from the time he/she reports to work headquarters or at the job site, as the case may be.
B.	A minimum of two (2) hours overtime pay shall be allowed for work outside the employee's regular shift unless the employee reports to work less than two (2) hours before the beginning of their regular shift or continues after their regular shift, unless a temporary shift adjustment (Section 13.5.D) has been requested by the employee and approved by the supervisor.
C.	At the employee’s request and with Department/Division Head or their designee’s approval, compensatory time may be substituted for cash payment at the appropriate overtime rate. All use of compensatory time shall be in compliance with the City Compensation Plan, Section 13.5 (E) above and Fair Labor Standards Act or qualify for its exemptions. Any unused compensatory time will be paid out at the end of the year in which it is earned, commencing December 31, 2016.
D.	When working on an assigned job that runs into overtime immediately preceding or following the regular workday, the employee working on that task will be given first choice to complete that task during overtime. On jobs not finished by an individual on Friday night, the same individual shall be used if requested to work on that particular assignment on the immediate weekend.
If the overtime assignment requires additional employees to complete and/or is not considered a continuation of a task or assignment, management will assign overtime based on seniority as long as the employee is qualified.
Section 13,8 - Time Card Upgrades Time card upgrades will be approved when incumbents are assigned greater responsibilities than encompassed in their current classification.
Section 13,9 - Job Sharing Employees requesting to job share will be required to sign a job share agreement. Employees requesting to job share recognize that, unlike a part-time position, they may be required to fill in for the job share partner during absences.
Section 13.10 - Letters of Understanding Only those letters of understanding signed by the Union Business Manager or authorized representative, Human Resources Director and the City
Page 13
Manager and/or the Director of Utilities and appropriate and necessary Department or Division head(s), shall be considered in force and subject to the provisions of the agreement.
ARTICLE 14-BENEFITS
The parties are participants in a Joint Labor Agreement, through which they have determined the amount of and basic rules regarding vacation leave, holidays, sick leave, personal time off and other benefits. Provisions of the Joint Labor Agreement governing these benefits are attached in Appendix B which shall independently expire on 12/31/2016 or with the expiration of the Joint Labor Agreement, whichever comes first. Appendix B shall be automatically updated and replaced in its entirety with any changes to the provisions of the Joint Labor Agreement during the term of this Agreement as long as both parties remain signatories to the Joint Labor Agreement. Should a party choose not to sign on to a future Joint Labor Agreement the provisions in Appendix B shall be “status quo” for the year following the expiration of the 20142016 Joint Labor Agreement.
Items covered by Appendix B may be grieved through this Collective Bargaining Agreement, except those items challenging the interpretation or application of the Joint Labor Agreement provisions which may be grieved only through the grievance procedure included in the Joint Labor Agreement.
Section 14.1 - Personal Time Off. Employees may enroll in the Personal Time Off (PTO) program on a voluntary basis during the City’s PTO open enrollment period. Personal Time Off (PTO) with pay shall be as provided for in Section 1.12.248 of the Tacoma Municipal Code.
Section 14.2- Police Clerical Mandatory Holidays. A total of three (3) mandatory holidays must be taken, they are: Independence Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. All other City-recognized holidays shall be scheduled as may be mutually agreeable between the employee and supervisor. Holidays not used by the end of the calendar year are lost.
ARTICLE 15-WAGE SCALES
Section 15.1 All work performed shall be compensated for as provided in Chapter 1.12 of the Official Code of the City of Tacoma. Employees may request to have the Union present to advise on an overpayment of compensation. The Union will receive notification on all overcompensation instances.
Section 15.2 The wage scales found in Appendix A shall prevail for employees employed in the listed classifications in the Clerical Unit.
Section 15.3 Step Increase Withholding - Per TMC 1.12.030, step increases may be withheld by the City for unsatisfactory service. Following the withholding of a step increase the City will identify a date on which the employee will be reviewed for step increase consideration. Withholding of a step increase shall not affect the employee’s step anniversary date.
Page 14
ARTICLE 16-OUTSOURCING
The City shall retain all rights, power and authority it had prior to entering into the Agreement, including, but not limited to, the sole right to manage its operations and direct the workforce which specifically includes the right to determine whether and to what extent any work shall be performed by permanent employees. A minimum of ninety (90) days prior to outsourcing of bargaining unit work which results in a reduction of the workforce, the City will notify the Union in writing. Upon written request by the Union, the City will bargain the impacts of such changes of bargaining unit work pursuant to the requirements of RCW 41.56.
ARTICLE 17-SAVINGS CLAUSE
Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions thereof, and the remaining parts or portions remain in full force and effect.
Page 15
EXECUTED THIS
DAY OF l/l
L, 2016.
City of Tacoma
City Manager
Local 483, IBEW, Clerical Unit
usiness Manager
* ,

Director of Utilities
esources Dire
man
Approved as to form:
Attest:
ity Clerk
Page 16
APPENDIX A
Local 483, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Clerical Unit
Effective January 1, 2016, the 2015 classification rates of pay will be increased by 1.1%.
Any employee, covered by this unit, who is in an active status as of the date of Union ratification of this Agreement shall receive a lump sum amount of $900.00 in addition to the 2016 wage increase.
Code	Classification	Step 1	Step 2	Step 3	Step 4	Step 5
05080	Accountant	28.11	29.51	30.99	32.53	34.16
05140	Accountant, Senior	32.32	33.93	35.64	37.42	39.29
07370	Administrative Assistant	22.75	23.89	25.08	26.34	27.66
05470	Retirement Specialist	22.75	23.89	25.08	26.34	27.66
05040	Financial Assistant	22.75	23.89	25.08	26.34	27.66
00060	Office Assistant	19.79	20.78	21.82	22.91	24.05
Effective January 1,	2017, the classification	rates of	pay will be	increased by	2.0%.
Effective January 1,2018, the classification	rates of	pay will be	increased by	2.0%.
Effective January 1,	2019, the classification	rates of	pay will be	increased by	2.0%.
For any year of this contract (2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019) where an employee’s base wage remains redlined after the classification rate increase, the employee shall receive a one-time lump sum payment in the amount of $500.00.
Longevity Pay
All of the above classifications shall receive longevity pay as per Ordinance 20938 as follows:
1% of base pay with aggregate service 5 through 9 years of service.
2% of base pay with aggregate service 10 through 14 years of service.
3% of base pay with aggregate service 15 through 19 years of service.
4% of base pay with aggregate service 20 or more years of service.
Page 17
APPENDIX B
LOCAL 483, IBEW, Clerical Unit
This Appendix expires independently from the Collective Bargaining Agreement to which it is attached. The following text is contained in the Joint Labor Agreement for the period 2015-2016:
3.4 Payroll Deduction.
3.4.1	Union Dues. As evidence of its recognition of employee membership in unions and organizations affiliated with the Joint Labor Committee and other bona fide unions and employees organizations and professional societies, the City of Tacoma agrees that upon written authority given to it by any member of the Union or other representative organization, it will deduct from the wages payable by the employer to such member, in the manner provided by law, such amounts as such member shall authorize, as dues to the organization, and transmit such dues to the organization. The City shall be given one full pay period advance notice of all dues changes. There shall be no retroactive deduction of dues.
3.4.2	Voluntary Contribution to Labor Funds, Committees or Subsidiary Organizations. The City will deduct from the pay of each employee, each month, the amount the employee wishes to voluntarily contribute to a fund, committee or subsidiary organization maintained or established by a labor organization; provided that the employee has submitted a written original authorization form signed by the employee to the City’s Payroll Department, and further provided that a minimum of twenty-five (25) employees have authorized a contribution to the same fund, committee or organization. The first deduction will take effect at the end of the month following the City’s receipt of sufficient authorization forms. The deduction will occur once per month on the second pay period of the month.
ARTICLE 6 - ENUMERATION OF BENEFITS
6.1	Domestic Partners. The City will amend its personnel rules and medical plan documents to incorporate “domestic partners” and make available to domestic partners benefits, including insurance, paid leave and statutory Family and Medical Leave, on the same basis that those benefits are provided to employee spouses. To receive domestic partner benefits, the domestic partnership must be verified by affidavit with the City according to its policies and practices.
6.2	Medical Insurance. The City of Tacoma and the Joint Labor Committee have negotiated and put in effect medical insurance programs which will continue in effect for the duration of this Agreement. During the term of this Agreement, the City will provide medical insurance to employees and their eligible dependents through the plans described in Appendix A.
6.2.1	City Payment of Claims/Premiums. Except as provided below, the City will pay the claims or premiums (according to the plan selected by the employee) associated with the medical insurance selected by the employee and eligible dependents from the City’s Health Care Trust. The City will not use reserve
Page 18
funds for purposes other than paying costs associated with the maintenance and administration of its health insurance plans without the express negotiation and consent of the Joint Labor Committee.
6.2.2	Employee Contributions to Premiums. Employees selecting employee-only coverage will contribute $40 per month towards the premium costs of medical insurance. Employees insuring dependents will contribute $80 per month towards the premium costs of medical insurance.
6.2.3	Wellness Credit. Employees participating in wellness will receive a $20 per month credit toward their premium contribution for medical insurance coverage under Regence Plan 1 or Group Health Plan 1, or a $40 per month credit toward their premium contribution for coverage under Regence Plan 2 or Group Health Plan 2 (the High Deductible Plan options available in 2016).
6.2.4	Contributions to HSA Accounts. Employees who select Regence Plan 2 or Group Health Plan 2 (the High Deductible Plan options available in 2016) will receive the following annual contributions to a health savings account.
Contributions will be deposited on a monthly basis. Employees may contribute to their own accounts up to the maximum dollar value permitted by applicable law.
a.	Employees Who Participate in Wellness - $1250 per year for employees selecting employee-only coverage; $2500 per year for employees insuring one or more dependents.
b.	Employees Who Do Not Participate in Wellness - $500 per year for employees selecting employee-only coverage; $1000 per year for employees insuring one or more dependents.
6.2.5	Dual Coverage. No City employee or eligible dependent may be insured under more than one City medical insurance plan. Employees whose spouses/domestic partners/children up to age 26 are eligible for medical insurance benefits through the City will share the costs of insurance as follows:
a.	Employees Choosing the Same Plan - One spouse/domestic partner will be placed on the other’s medical insurance, and the primary spouse/domestic partner will pay the appropriate premium cost for family coverage.
b.	Employees Choosing Different Plans - If spouses/domestic partners elect coverage under different plans, they may not provide coverage to their spouse/domestic partner on their medical insurance plan. Each employee will pay the appropriate cost share (individual or family) depending on whether they include children on their plan.
c.	Children up to Age 26 - Benefit-eligible employees whose parents are City employees must elect coverage in their name (paying the applicable premium contribution) or coverage as a dependent on their parent’s plan (with no premium contribution), but may not receive coverage under two medical insurance plans.
Page 19
6.3	Dental and Vision Insurance. The City will provide dental and vision insurance to employees and eligible dependents according to the terms of its insurance plans. The City will not make changes to its dental or vision insurance plans during the term of this Agreement without first bargaining with the Joint Labor Committee. The City will pay the full premium cost for dental and vision insurance for employees and eligible dependents.
6.4	Vacations shall be as provided in Section 1.12.220 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. This section provides in part for the following:
6.4.1	Full-time employees shall accrue vacation leave hours for each biweekly pay period pursuant to the following schedule:
Completed Years of Aggregate Service	Accrued Hours per Pay Period	Hours of Vacation Leave
Completion of years 0, 1, 2, 3	3.69	96
Completion of years 4, 5, 6, 7	4.60	120
Completion of years 8,9,10,11,12,13	5.22	136
Completion of years 14, 15, 16, 17, 18	6.14	160
Completion of 19 years	6.45	168
Completion of 20 years	6.76	176
Completion of 21 years	7.07	184
Completion of 22 years	7.38	192
Completion of 23 years	7.69	200
Completion of 24 years	8.00	208
Completion of 25 years	8.31	216
Completion of 26 years	8.62	224
Completion of 27 years	8.93	232
Completion of 28 years or more	9.24	240
Employees vacation accrual rates shall be established as of January 1 of each calendar year and shall be based on the rate applicable to the number of years of aggregate service the employee will complete within that calendar year.
6.4.2	Part time employees will accrue vacation on a pro-rated basis according to the percentage their FTE bears to full-time
6.4.3	Employees accrue vacation in each pay period in which they are in a paid status. An eligible employee shall accrue vacation based on the above schedule beginning from the date of their appointment.
6.4.4	Vacation accrual balances shall not exceed an amount equal to two (2) years' accrual at the employee’s then-current accrual rate
6.4.5	Vacation leave may not be taken without the prior approval of the appointing authority and may not be taken in the pay period in which it was earned. Vacation leave shall be scheduled so as to meet the operating requirements of the City and, as far as practicable, the preferences of the employees. Authorized vacation time may be used in increments of one tenth (1/10) of an hour.
Page 20
6.4.6	For the purposes of this Section, permanent employees of the Municipal Belt Line Railway who are assigned to the extra board will be considered as full-time employees.
6.5	Sick allowance with pay shall be as provided in Section 1.12.230 - 1.12.232 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. This section provides in part the following:
6.5.1	Each regularly employed full-time employee shall accrue sick leave at the rate of 3.69 hours for each biweekly pay period in which he or she has been in a paid status. There is no limit to the number of sick leave days an employee may accrue. Part-time employees shall accrue sick leave on a prorated basis according to the percentage their FTE bears to full-time.
6.5.2	An employee separated from service due to death or retirement for disability or length of service is compensated to the extent of twenty five percent (25%) of his/her sick leave accruals. An employee separated in good standing from service for any other reason who has a minimum often (10) days accrual, is compensated to the extent often percent (10%) of his/her sick leave accruals, up to a maximum accrual of one hundred twenty (120) days.
6.5.3	Permissible uses of sick leave are described in Tacoma Municipal Code Sections 1.12.230- 1.12.232.
6.6	Personal Time Off shall be as provided in Section 1.12.248 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. This section provides in part for the following:
6.6.1	Employees enrolled in the Personal Time Off (PTO) Plan shall accrue PTO hours for each bi-weekly pay period pursuant to the following schedule. Employees receive PTO in lieu of vacation and sick leave
Completed Years of Aggregate Service	Hours per Year	Hours per Pay Period
Completion of years 0, 1, 2, 3	144	5.54
Completion of years 4, 5, 6, 7	168	6.46
Completion of years 8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13	184	7.08
Completion of years 14, 15, 16, 17, 18	208	8.00
Completion 19 years	216	8.31
Completion of 20 years	224	8.62
Completion of 21 years	232	8.92
Completion of 22 years	240	9.23
Completion of 23 years	248	9.54
Completion of 24 years	256	9.85
Completion of 25 years	264	10.15
Completion of 26 years	272	10.46
Completion of 27 years	280	10.77
Completion of 28 years or more	288	11.08
Page 21
6.6.2	Employees shall accrue PTO on a prorated basis according to the percentage their FTE bears to full-time. Employees’ PTO accrual rates shall be established as of January 1 of each calendar year and shall be based on the rate applicable to the number of years of aggregate service the employee will complete within that calendar year. An employee may accrue a maximum of 960 hours of PTO.
6.7	On-the-job injury shall be as provided in Section 1.12.090 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. That section provides in part:
6.7.1	In the case of a disability covered by State Industrial Insurance or Worker Compensation, the first three (3) calendar days shall be paid at the regular normal pay and charged to earned leave, in the event the time loss is less than fifteen (15) calendar days.
6.7.2	For one-hundred-twenty (120) working days, the City will pay a supplement payment such that State payment plus City supplement equals eighty five percent (85%) of regular normal pay.
6.7.3	Pursuant to Ordinance 27753, adopted November 18, 2008, after the payment and use of the one hundred twenty (120) working days, the employee may request to use accumulated sick leave and/or planned time off (PTO) balances to supplement the time loss pay such that the combination of the supplement and the time loss pay equals eighty five percent (85%) of the employee’s normal wage (the employee’s rate at the time of injury plus any longevity pay to which the employee is eligible). If the employee elects to use paid sick leave and/or PTO the election will continue until such balances are exhausted or until the employee returns to work. Hours deductions from the employee’s PTO or sick leave balances shall be determined by dividing the supplement by the employee’s regular hourly wage. Example: Assume a supplement amount of $596 dollars is necessary to bring the total to 85%. If the employee’s regular wage is assumed to be $23.84, the deduction from sick leave and/or PTO would be $596/$23.84=25 hours.
6.7.4	Any employee who becomes disabled prior to completing thirty (30) working days' employment with the City, shall receive the compensation disability allowance for a maximum of thirty (30) working days.
6.7.5	The above does not apply to Police and Fire commissioned hired prior to October 1, 1977, however, such employees shall have on-the-job injury claims charged against their sick leave accruals in the same manner as other employees of the City.
6.7.6	For the purposes of this Section, regular normal pay shall be that rate of the classification in which he/she was working in on the date of injury.
6.8	Group Life Insurance shall be as provided in Section 1.12.096 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. The City will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiums for those employees electing to participate. The amount of insurance an employee may purchase is based on his/her annual salary rounded to the next highest $1,000 of coverage.
Page 22
6.9	Longevity pay may be provided to employees of member unions pursuant to the terms of Ordinance 20938, which reads in part as follows:
6.9.1	Regular, probationary, and appointive employees who through union agreement have elected the option of longevity pay shall receive additional compensation based on a percentage of their base rate of pay received for the class in which they are currently being paid. No application of rate may be used in computing longevity pay.
6.9.2	Eligible employees shall receive longevity pay in accordance with the following
schedule:
From 5 through 9 years aggregate service From 10 through 14 years aggregate service From 15 through 19 years aggregate service 20 years or more aggregate service
1 % per month 2% per month 3% per month 4% per month
6.9.3	Eligibility for longevity pay shall be determined by the length of aggregate City service and will be paid to an employee at the first of the calendar year in which any of the above stipulated periods of aggregate service will be completed.
6.10	Holidays shall be as provided in Section 1.12.200 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. This section provides in part that the following and such other days as the City Council, by resolution, may fix, are holidays for all regularly employed full-time employees of the City and shall be granted to employees or days off in lieu thereof.
New Year's Day (January 1)
Martin Luther King Day (third Monday in January) Presidents' Day (third Monday in February) Memorial Day (last Monday in May) Fourth of July
Labor Day (first Monday in September)
Veterans' Day (November 11)
Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November) The day immediately following Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day (December 25)
6.10.1	A full-time employee shall receive eight (8) hours of holiday pay for each holiday listed above, provided he/she is in a paid status on both the entire regularly scheduled workday immediately preceding the holiday and the entire regularly scheduled workday following the holiday.
6.10.2	In addition to the days listed above, eligible employees shall receive two (2) additional eight (8) hour paid floating holidays per calendar year for which time off shall be mandatory. Floating holidays may not be carried over from one calendar year to the next, and may not be converted to cash in any circumstances. To be eligible for these floating holidays, employees must have been or scheduled to be continuously employed by the City for four (4) months as a full-time or part-time regular, probationary, or appointive employee during the calendar year of entitlement. An employee hired into a part time status shall receive holiday pay on a prorated basis on the hours that he/she is hired to work.
Page 23
6.10.3	Full time employees working alternate schedules who are normally scheduled to work more than eight (8) hours on a day observed as a holiday may use vacation leave, personal time off, compensatory time, or leave without pay at the employee’s option to make up the difference between the employee’s normally scheduled shift and the eight (8) hours of holiday pay.
6.10.4	Unpaid Holidays. Employees will be granted two (2) unpaid holidays per calendar year for a reason of faith or conscience or an organized activity conducted under the auspices of a religious denomination, church, or religious organization. The employee will select the days on which to take the unpaid holiday(s) after consultation with his or her supervisor as provided by City policy. To the extent reasonably possible, employees should submit leave requests with at least thirty (30) calendar days’ notice. Employees may elect to use accrued vacation leave, PTO, compensatory time or floating holidays to remain in paid status on a requested holiday to the extent that such leave is available on the requested date under applicable policies, procedures and/or collective bargaining agreements governing the use of paid leave. An unpaid holiday requested pursuant to City policy will not be denied unless the employee’s absence would impose an undue hardship on the City, as defined by applicable rule or regulation.
6.11	The City shall contribute up to $3.00 per month for long term disability coverage for all permanent non-commissioned City employees.
6.12	The City will maintain an Internal Revenue Service Code Section 125 flexible benefits plan. The City shall pay the monthly per participant administrative fee. Employees cannot utilize this plan for Long Term Disability premium payments. Employees who participate in the City medical plan will be eligible to participate in the Section 125 flexible benefits plan. The maximum annual allowable employee contribution for medical reimbursement shall be based on IRS regulations. At the end of each year any unspent monies in employee flexible benefits accounts will revert to the Labor/Management Health Care Trust Account.
6.13	Wellness
6.13.1	Wellness Committee. The parties will maintain a Labor Management Health Care Committee (aka Wellness Committee) during the term of the Agreement to discuss and address issues regarding the City’s insurance programs and wellness program. The Wellness Committee will be comprised of four (4) City and four (4) Labor representatives. The Committee will:
a.	Develop monthly or bimonthly newsletters to help educate and encourage the City employees.
b.	Develop communication plan for rolling out the wellness assessment tool.
c.	Review all Health Trust Fund/Flex Account balances monthly.
d.	Review experience reports monthly.
Page 24
e.	Develop and mutually execute an education and outreach program addressing the costs/benefits of a HDHP/HSA.
6.13.2	Wellness Funds. The City will budget $441,000 during 2015 and $431,000 during 2016 to support the development and maintenance of an effective Citywide Wellness Program. The City will fund these amounts using the Health Care Flex Account. Expenditures of such funds will be reviewed and approved by the Wellness Committee.
6.13.3	Participation. To receive the benefits associated with participating during each year of the Agreement, employees must do the following:
a)	2015 Incentive - Complete the initial Health Risk Assessment by January 31,2015, and commit to completing one (1) wellness “journey” by June 30, 2015. The Wellness Committee will determine the participation criteria for employees newly hired on or after January 1, 2015.
b)	2016 Incentive - Complete the annual Health Risk Assessment by September 30, 2015 and a total of two (2) wellness “journeys” by September 30, 2015.
Page 25
INDEX LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
1. PAF Schedules
Dated 8/25/2014
Page 26
8-21-14
Letter of Understanding By and Between City of Tacoma and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 483 Clerical Unit
Subject: Public Assembly Facilities Schedules
The City of Tacoma and IBEW Local 483 Clerical Unit, hereby enter Into this Letter of Understanding which shall be attached to the collective bargaining agreement and Incorporated as though fully set forth.
The Parties agree to the following:
In general, the work schedule for positions In classifications covered by this agreement, assigned to the Public Assembly Facilities (PAF) Department, will be between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.; however, the following shall also apply and, where In conflict, supersedes Article 13:
1.	Based on operational need, PAF management may adjust an employee’s regular work schedule, with two weeks’ notice to the employee, to Include evenings, nights, and/or weekends.
2.	The temporarily adjusted shift will be considered the regular shift.
3.	Employees will be scheduled for two consecutive days off. The days off may be consecutive within a workweek or consecutive but wrap between two workweeks.
4.	An employee may request an adjustment to shift, subject to supervisory approval. Such adjustment to shift for regular hours would not qualify for overtime.
5.	Time and a half overtime will be paid for all hours worked In excess of forty (40) hours in a defined workweek, and for hours worked more than one (1) hour before or beyond the regular shift. Hours worked more than one (1) hour before or beyond the regular shift count as daily overtime, but not pyramid to count towards overtime beyond forty (40) hours In a workweek. The City agrees not to cancel shifts arbitrarily to avoid overtime.
6.	In the event the regular work schedule Is adjusted with less than two weeks' notice to the employee, the first shift worked of the adjusted schedule will be paid at the time and a half overtime rate, provided that PAF management may change reporting hours of one (1) hour or less without penalty as provided in Item 4 of this Letter of Understanding above
7.	Work performed on the 6th day, or Saturday equivalent, will be paid at time and the one half (1 ■ 1 Z2x) rate. Work performed on the 7th day, or Sunday equivalent, will be paid at the double time (2x) rate.
8.	This Letter of Understanding may be opened by either party with sixty days’ notice to the other party. Cancellation of this LOU will be by mutual agreement.
Agreed to this 25 day of	, 2014.
For IBEW, Local 483
Alice A. Phillips ‘bfvrfm Business Manager
Approved as to form:
Cheryl Corner, Deputy City Attorney
Page 27