AGREEMENT BETWEEN
I
i jl
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
AND THE
NEVADA CLASSIFIED SCHOOL EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION
CHAPTER 2
2000 - 2003
SUPERVISORY AND NON-SUPERVISORY UNITS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Number
ARTICLE 1	Agreement	1
ARTICLE 2	Preamble	1
ARTICLES	Definitions	1
ARTICLE 4	Recognition And Description Of Bargaining Units	3
4.1	Recognition	3
4.1.4 Absence For Negotiations	3
4.2	Classified Employee Units	3
4.3	New/Deleted Classifications	4
ARTICLE 5	Non-Discrimination	4
ARTICLE 6	No Strike Agreement	4
ARTICLE 7	Grievance And Complaint Procedure	5
7.1	Grievance Procedures	5
7.1.1	Definitions	5
7.1.2	Purposes	5
7.1.3	Time Limits	5
7.1.4	Level One - Supervisor	5
7.1.5	Level Two - Department Head	6
7.1.6	Level Three - Superintendent Of Schools	6
7.1.7	Level Four - Arbitration	7
7.1.8	Grievance Forms	8
7.2	Rights Of Employees To Participation	8
7.3	Miscellaneous	8
7.4	Complaint Procedure	9
7.4.1	Purposes	9
7.4.2	Time Limits	9
7.4.3	Level One - Supervisor	10
7.4.4	Level Two - Department Head	10
7.4.5	Level Three - Superintendent Of Schools	10
7.4.6	Level Four - Board Of Trustees	10
7.4.7	Complaint Forms	10
ARTICLE 8	Discipline: Probationary/Post Probationary Employees 11
8.1	Probationary Employees	11
8.2	Disciplinary Actions	11
8.3	Progressive Discipline	11
8.3.3	Step I	11
8.3.4	Step II	12
8.3.5	Step III	12
8.3.6	Step IV	12
8.4	Appeals	13
8.5	Absence Without Authorization	13
ARTICLE 9	Sick Leave And Other Leaves	13
9.1	Sick Leave	13
9.1.1	General Provisions	13
9.1.2	Accrual and Accumulation	14
9.2	Leave For Surgery And Medical Appointments	15
9.3	Bereavement Leave	15
9.4	Family Illness	15
9.5	Use Of Sick Leave To Supplement S.I.I.S Benefits	15
9.6	Child-Rearing Leave	16
9.7	Personal Leave	17
9.8	Jury Duty	17
9.9	Military Leave	17
9.10	School Business Leave	17
9.11	Associatipn.Leave	17
9.12	Leave Of Absence Without Pay	18
9.13	Leave Of Absence For Voting	18
9.14	Sick Leave Bank	. .	19
9.15	Association Visits	21
ARTICLE 10	Vacations And Holidays	21
10.1	Vacation Leave: General Provisions	21
10.2	Vacation Leave: Accrual And Accumulation	21
10.2.3	Accrual Rates	22
10.2.4	Vacation Leave	23
10.2.5	Vacation Accrual	23.
10.3	Scheduled Holidays	23
ARTICLE 11	Wages And Insurance	24
11.1	Wage Schedules	24
11.2	Salary Advancement	24
11.3	Longevity Bonus	24
11.4	Overtime And Compensatory Time	25
11.5	Holiday Pay	26
11.6	Call Back Pay	26
11.7	Report To Work Pay	26
11.8	Temporary Assignment Pay	27
1,1.	9	Mileage Allowance	27
11.10	Group Insurance	27
11.11	Tool Allowance	28
11.12	Early Separation Incentive Plan (ESIP)	28
ARTICLE 12	Transfers/Promotions	29
12.1	Transfer/Promotiori Process	29
12.2	Americans With Disabilities Act Transfer	30
ARTICLE 13	Transportation Route Selection	30
13.1	Route Selection	30
13.2	Minimum Route Time	31
ARTICLE 14	Reduction In Force	31
14.1	Seniority Dates And Qualifications	31
ARTICLE 15	Dues Deduction	34
15.1	Authorizations - Procedures	34
15.2	Indemnity	34
ARTICLE 16	Safety	34
ARTICLE 17	Periods For Meals And Rest	35
ARTICLE 18	Administration Of Agreement	35
ARTICLE 19	Employee Protection	36
ARTICLE 20 General Savings Clause		36
ARTICLE 21 Term Of Agreement		36
21.1	Length Of Agreement	36
21.2	Negotiability	36
21.3	Wage Changes	37
21.4	Ratification	38
APPENDIX A	Supervisory Bargaining Unit Non-Supervisory Bargaining Unit	
APPENDIX B	Occupational Series	
APPENDIX C	Classified Salary Schedules	
APPENDIX D	Classified Grievance and Complaint Forms	
APPENDIX E	Memorandum Of Understandings	
ARTICLE 1
AGREEMENT
1.1	This agreement is entered into at Rend, Nevada, this first day of July 1, 2000 between the Board of
Trustees of the Washoe County School District (hereinafter referred to as the Board) and the Nevada Classified School Employees Association, Chapter 2 (hereinafter referred to as the Association).
ARTICLE 2
PREAMBLE
2.1	WHEREAS, The parties recognize that the Board of Trustees is charged by law with the duty and
responsibility of operating a public school system; AND WHEREAS, wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment of classified school employees are matters of mutual concern to the Board of Trustees and the Association.
2.2	THEREFORE, it is the intent and purpose of this Agreement to assure sound and mutual beneficial
economic and employment relations between the parties hereto; to attempt to provide an orderly and peaceful means of conducting negotiations and resolving any misunderstandings or grievances; and to set forth here in article form the agreements between the parties covering wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 288.
ARTICLE 3
DEFINITIONS
3.1	DEFINITION OF TERMS
3.1.1	The term "NRS 288" as used in this Agreement shall refer to Chapter 288 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes, also known as the Local Government Employee-Management Relations Act.
3.1.2	The term "employee," as used in this Agreement, means a classified employee
holding a position listed under the Full Schedule Classes and Separate Schedule Classes on the Classified Salary Schedule. ■ Individuals holding positions listed under the Nbn-Scheduled Classes are not considered an “employee” as used in this Agreement.
Employees are covered by this Agreement unless otherwise noted in the Agreement.
The change listed under 3.1.2 will go into effect July 1, 2001, and will not be retroactive.
1
3.1.3
3.1.4
3.1.5
3.1.6
3.1.7
3.1.8
3.1.9
3.1.2.1	A probationary employee is an employee who has not completed his/her initial nine (9) month probationary period and any extensions thereof; or an existing employee who has promoted or transferred to a position for which s/he has not previously completed his/her six (6) month probationary period and any extension thereof.
3.1.2.2	A post probationary employee is an employee who has completed his/her initial nine (9) month probationary period and any extensions thereof; or an existing employee who has promoted or transferred to a position and who has successfully completed his/her six (6) month probationary period and any extensions thereof.
3.1.2.3	A temporary employee is an employee who is hired on a temporary basis, for completion of a special project or task, an emergency, or for abnormal work loads. Temporary employees are not included in the bargaining unit.
3.1.2.4	If a temporary position exceeds six (6) months, the position will no longer be considered temporary and will be covered by the Agreement except as noted below. The employee’s probationary period will begin from the date the position is no longer temporary. If at any time the District determines the position is no longer needed, the employee may be terminated from the District and Article 7, 8, and 14 shall .not apply.
3.1.2.5	If it is determined the position should be made regular, the position
will be advertised as per Article 12 Transfers/Promotions.
The term "School Trustees" as used in this Agreement shall mean the Trustees of the Washoe County School District.
The term "Association" as used in this Agreement shall mean the Nevada Classified Employees Association, Chapter 2.
The term "District" as used in this Agreement shall mean the Washoe County School District.
The term "Superintendent" as used in this Agreement shall mean the Superintendent of Schools of the Washoe County School District or his/her designated representative.
The term "School Trustee" and "Association" shall include authorized officers, representatives, and agents.
The term "days" as used-in.this Agreement shall mean working days, not calendar days.
The term "year" as used in this Agreement shall mean fiscal year (July 1 through June 30), not calendar year (January 1 through December 31).
2
ARTICLE 4
RECOGNITION AND DESCRIPTION OF BARGAINING UNITS
4.1
4.2
RECOGNITION
4.1.1	In accordance with the provisions of Chapter 288 of the Nevada Revised Statutes,
the Washoe County School District Classified Employees Association has submitted to the Board of Trustees of the Washoe County School District, (1) a copy of its constitution and by-laws; (2). a. roster of its officers and representatives; (3) a pledge in writing not to strike against/the- local- government employer under any circumstances; and (4) a verified; membership list showing that it represents a majority of the employees eligible in the described bargaining units.
4.1.2	. Therefore pursuant to and for the purposes of Chapter 288 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes, the Board of Trustees recognizes the Association as the exclusive bargaining agent to negotiate wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment for the classified employees bargaining units.
4.1.3	This article shall become effective July 1, 2000, and shall continue and remain in full
force and effect thereafter up to and including the thirty (30) days of June, 2003, unless recognition is withdrawn as provided for in NRS 288.160; and shall be automatically renewed and continued in effect from year to year thereafter unless notice is given by the District not less than ninety (90) days prior to the date of the expiration of this Agreement.
4.1.4	ABSENCE FOR NEGOTIATIONS
4.1.4.1	Negotiation conferences or meetings between the parties shall
normally be held at reasonable times during the regular business day.
4.1.4.2	The Association's negotiating team shall be released from duties to
attend negotiating meetings with the District. Such released time for the Association's team shall be charged to Association Leave. Such absences must be arranged with reasonable prior written notification.
CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEE UNITS
4.2.1	The Supervisory bargaining unit shall be composed of all employees in positions
listed in Appendix A, Page A1.
4.2.2	The Non-Supervisory bargaining unit shall be composed of all employees in
positions listed in Appendix A, pages A2 and A3.
4.2.3	Employees in the following confidential positions shall be excluded from the unit.
Confidential positions as defined by NRS 288.170, 6 ("As used in this section, 'confidential employee' means an employee who is involved in the decisions of management affecting collective bargaining") and include the following positions in the:
3
(a)	Personnel Division (all positions)
(b)	Superintendent's Office (excluding the PBX Operator/Receptionist)
(c)	Payroll Department (all positions)
4.2.4	Temporary employees are not covered by this Agreement.
4.3	NEW/DELETED CLASSIFICATIONS
4.3.1	The District, shall consult with the Association as to the appropriateness of inclusion
in one (1) of the bargaining units of any new classification(s) added to the classified salary schedule during the term of this Agreement in accordance with NRS 288.170.
4.3.2	When the District removes a position from the bargaining unit, the District will notify
the Association prior to the removal.
ARTICLE 5
NON-DISCRIMINATION
5.1	The parties hereto agree not to discriminate against any employee on the basis of Association
membership or non-membership and agree further that the provisions of this Article are applicable to all employees covered by this Agreement.
ARTICLE 6
NO STRIKE AGREEMENT
6.1	The Association recognizes the public policy as expressed in NRS 288.230 in which the Nevada
Legislature declared:
6.1.1	That the services provided by the School District as an employer are of such nature
that they are not and cannot be duplicated from other sources and are essential to the health, safety and welfare of the people;
6.1.2	That the continuity of such services is likewise essential, and their disruption
incompatible with the responsibility to the people; and
6.1.3	It is the public policy, of .the State of Nevada that a strike against the School District
as a local government employer is illegal.
6.2	The Association agrees to act and conduct its affairs in accordance with this policy. The
Association, its officers and agents agree, further that they shall not support any strike against the Washoe County School District nor shall they engage in or support any action to impair the rendering of such, essential services by the District.
4
ARTICLE 7
GRIEVANCE AND COMPLAINT PROCEDURE
7.1	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
7.1.1	Definitions
7.1.1.1	. A "grievance" is a Complaint by an employee, group of employees, or the Association based upon an alleged violation, misinterpretation, or-inequitable application of a Specific provision of this Agreement.
7.1.1.2	An "aggrieved person" is an employee, a group of employees, or the Association, asserting a grievance.
7.1.1.3	A "party in interest" is any person or persons who might be required to take action, or against whom action might be taken in order to resolve the problem.
7.1.1.4	The term "days" when used in this Article shall, except where
otherwise indicated, mean working days rather than calendar days.
7.1.2	Purposes
7.1.2.1	The purpose of this procedure is to secure, at the lowest possible administrative level, equitable solutions to the problems which may from time to time arise.
7.1.2.2	Both parties agree that these proceedings shall be kept as confidential as may be appropriate at any level of the procedure.
7.1.3	Time Limits
7.1.3.1	Since it is important that grievances be processed as rapidly as possible, the number of days indicated at each level should be considered as a maximum, and every effort should be made to expedite the process.
7.1.3.2	If an employee, group of employees, or the Association does not file a grievance in writing as provided herein within fifteen (15) days after the employee, group of employees, or Association knew of or should have known of the act or condition on which the grievance is based, then the grievance shall be waived.
5
7.1.4	Level One - Supervisor
7.1.4.1	Informal Level
7.1.4.1.1	If an employee feels that he/she has a grievance, he/she shall first discuss the matter informally with his/her immediate supervisor. If the grievance is not resolved at this level, the employee shall discuss the matter informally with the administrative supervisor to whom he/she is directly responsible and may request the presence of the Association’s Representative.
7.1.4.2	Formal Level
7.1.4.2.1	If an aggrieved person is not satisfied with the
disposition of his/her problem through informal procedures, he/she shall, ten (10) days after notice to his/her administrative supervisor, submit his/her claim as a formal grievance in writing to the Association's Grievance Representative and the Classified Human Resources Coordinator, who will forward a copy of the grievance to the administrative supervisor.
7.1.4.2.2	The supervisor shall within fifteen (15) days render
his/her decision and the reasons therefore in writing oh the prescribed form to the Association.
7.1.5	Level Two- Department Head
7.1.5.1	If the aggrieved is not satisfied with the disposition of his/her.
grievance at Level One, or if no decision has been rendered within fifteen (15) days after presentation of the grievance in writing to his/her supervisor, he/she shall file the written grievance with the Classified Human Resources Coordinator, who will forward a copy of the grievance to the appropriate Department Head.
7.1.5.2	The Department Head shall within ten (10) days render his/her decision and the reasons therefore in writing on the grievance form to the Association.
7.1.6	Level Three - Superintendent of Schools
7.1.6.1	If the. aggrieved is not satisfied with the disposition of his/her
grievance at'Level Two, or if ho decision has been rendered within ten (10) days after presentation of- the grievance in writing to the Department Head, he/she shall file the written grievance with the Classified Human Resources Coordinator. Such filing shall occur
. within five (5) days after receipt of the decision at Level Two.
7.1.7
7.1.6.2	The Superintendent of Schools shall act for the administration at Level Three of the grievance procedure. Within fifteen (15) days after receipt of. the written appeal for a hearing, the Superintendent shall meet with the aggrieved person for the purpose of resolving the grievance. When requested by either party, a full transcript of this hearing shall be kept. The cost of such transcript shall be equally shared by both parties. The Superintendent shall within fifteen (15) days of the- hearing, render his/her decision and the reasons therefore in writing to the Association.
7.1.6.3	Notification of Level Three grievance hearings shall be mailed to the grievant at least five (5) days prior to the hearing.
Level Four - Arbitration
7.1.7.1	If the aggrieved, is not satisfied with the disposition of the grievance at Level Three, the Association may, within fifteen (15) days of the Superintendent's, decision, notify the Glassified Human Resources Coordinator in writing that it Wishes to take the grievance to binding arbitration.
7.1.7.2	Within . ten (10) days after written notice of submission to arbitration, the Superintendent and the Association shall agree upon a mutually acceptable arbitrator who is experienced, impartial, disinterested, and of recognized competence. If the parties are unable to agree upon an arbitrator, a request for a list of arbitrators shall be made to the American Arbitration Association.
7.1.7.3	The arbitrator's recommendation shall be submitted in writing to the aggrieved, the Superintendent, and the Association only, and shall set forth his/her findings of facts, reasons, and recommendations on the specific issue(s) submitted. The arbitrator's recommendations shall-be, binding and shall be consistent with the law and with the terms of this Agreement.
7.1.7.4	The costs of’the services of the arbitrator shall be shared equally by the Association and the District. Each party agrees to bear its own costs, fees and expenses in the preparation, presentation and participation in the case before the arbitrator. If a district employee is called as a witness during normal working hours, the party calling such witness shall pay for any time lost from district employment by such witness unless he/she elects to use accrued vacation leave.
7.1.7.5	In the event the award would cost the district in excess of 1/4 (one-quarter) cent of the tax rate for any one specific grievance, or 1/2 (one-half) cent of the tax rate in the aggregate (more than one grievance) during the term of the Agreement, then the Board of Trustees shall have final authority.
7
At the next meeting of the School Trustees, the decision of the arbitrator and any other information shall be presented to the School Trustees for consideration and both parties shall have the opportunity to present their positions before the School Trustees takeTinal action pn the grievance.
7.1.7.6	In cases involving discharge, in the event an, arbitrator cannot be
mutually agreed upon, the parties agree to utilize and be bound by the rules for expedited arbitration of the American Arbitration Association, except and provided however each party reserves the right to reject the arbitrator designated by the American Arbitration Association, which upon the exercise of that right by either party, the parties agree to obtain a list from the American Arbitration Association of five (5) arbitrators participating in expedited arbitration’s from which an arbitrator will be chosen by alternately striking names. The Association shall strike the first name.
7.1.8 Grievance Forms (See Appendix D)
The grievance .forms contained in Appendix D are included for the sole purpose of making employees aware of the forms that must be used in filing a grievance. Grievance forms may be modified by the District at any time, with or without notice. Appendix D is not in any way subject.to the grievance procedure.
7.2	RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES TO PARTICIPATION
7.2.1	No reprisals of any kind shall be taken by either party against any party in interest,
any school representative or any other participation in the grievance procedure by reason of such participation.
7.2.2	Any party in interest may be represented at any level of the formal grievance procedure by a person of his/her choosing.
7.3	MISCELLANEOUS
7.3.1	If in the judgment of the Association, a grievance affects a group or class of
employees, the Association shall submit such grievance in writing to the ■ Superintendent 'directly and the processing of such’ grievance shall begin at Level Three.
7.3.2	Decisions, rendered at all levels of the formal grievance procedure shall be in writing
oh or attached to the appropriate form, and shall set forth the decisions and reasons therefore.
7.3.3	All -documents, communications and records dealing with the processing of grievances shall be filed separately from the personnel files of the participants.
7.3.4	Forms for filing and processing grievances and other necessary documents shall be
jointly prepared by the parties and distributed by the Association. If the forms are not available at the time, a grievance may be presented in letter form.
7.3.5	A grievance may be withdrawn at any level by the aggrieved without prejudice.
8
7.3.6	The remedy available for any alleged breach of this Agreement or any alleged violation of rights hereunder granted, shall be pursuant to the foregoing grievance procedure, provided however, that nothing contained herein shall deprive any party of any legal right.
7.3.7	In the event there is a question as to whether a specific grievance is arbitrable, such a threshold issue shall be considered first in the arbitration hearing and no evidence shall be given as to the merits of the grievance. If the arbitrator finds the issue is not arbitrable, no further consideration of the grievance shall be allowed. If the arbitrator finds ■ the issue arbitrable, he/she shall proceed to hear the grievance. If the arbitrator is unable to make such a determination at that time, then he/she may proceed to hear the grievance even though no decision will be rendered on the grievance if he/she subsequently determines the issue is non- arbitrable.
7.3.8	Any and all time limitations as set forth in this section may be extended by agreement of the parties.
7.3.9	A "continuing grievance" is a grievance based on an act or condition which actively reoccurs on a periodic basis. For example, the District underpays an employee by $10 on each paycheck. A grievance based upon this act by the School District would be a continuing grievance. . If an employee or group of employees does not file a grievance or a continuing grievance in writing as provided herein within ten (10) days after the employee or group of employees knew of or should have known of the act or condition on which it is based, then the grievance or continuing grievance shall be considered as waived. Arbitration awards that involve retroactivity shall not be made retroactive more than ten (TO) days prior to the date of filing of the grievance or continuing grievance.
7.4	COMPLAINT PROCEDURE
7.4.1	Purposes 7.4.1.1	The parties agree that any dispute arising under the application and/or administration of such policies or regulations relating to subject matter not covered by the provisions of the Agreement shall be processed .in accordance with the following. The Complainant at any step shall have the right to have a person of his/her own choosing present.
7.4.2	Time Limits 7.4.2.1	If an employee does not file a complaint in writing as provided herein within three (3) months after the employee knew of or should have known of the act or condition on which the complaint is based, then the complaint shall be waived. However, the District will adhere to the procedure with the exception of the Board of Trustees Level (see . 7.4.6.2).
9
7.4.3
7.4.4
7.4.5
7.4.6
7.4.7
Level One - Supervisor
7.4.3.1	All requests and problems of classified employees should be taken up in the first instance with, the supervisor/administrator. Every reasonable effort will be made to resolve any complaint by a classified employee through meeting with the appropriate supervisor/administrator.
Level Two - Department Head
7.4.4.1	In case a satisfactory solution is not reached, a classified employee shall notify the appropriate administrative supervisor and may file a formal complaint on the appropriate form. The complaint must be signed by the complainant(s) and distributed to the Association and Classified Human Resources Coordinator, who will forward copies of the complaint to the Supervisor and Department Head. The complaint shall state the nature of the complaint including the specific policy, regulation or other appropriate procedure, practice or subject which is the basis for the complaint.
7.4.4.2	The appropriate Department Head shall establish a meeting to occur within eight (8) days of receipt of the request. In the event a written proposed resolution to the complaint is presented, the complainant has five (5) days to respond or the complaint is settled at this level.
Level Three - Superintendent of Schools
7.4.5.1	If a satisfactory resolution is not reached at this level, the
complainant may notify the Classified Human Resources Coordinator that he/she wishes to discuss the complaint with the Superintendent and a meeting shall be established within ten (10) days of receipt, in writing, of the notice.
Level Four - Board of Trustees
7.4.6.1	In the event the complaint is not resolved within ten (10) days after the meeting, the complainant may notify the Superintendent in writing that he/she wishes to take the complaint to the School Trustees.
7.4.6.2	The School Trustees shall then, at the next regular meeting, request the parties to appear at a hearing. All material and evidence shall them be presented to the School Trustees for their examination. The decision of the School Trustees shall be made by the next regular meeting after examination of the facts. The decision of the School Trustees shall be final.
Complaint Forms (See Appendix D)
The complaint forms contained in Appendix D are included for the sole purpose of making employees aware of the forms that must be used in filing a complaint. Complaint forms may be modified at any time by the District, with or without notice. Appendix D is not in any way subject to the grievance procedure.
TO
ARTICLE 8
DISCIPLINE: PROBATIONARY/POST PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
8.1	PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
8.1.1	The nine (9) month or six (6) month probationary period of an employee may be
extended by the Superintendent or his/her designee. When the District extends the probationary period of an employee, the employee will be notified of the reason.
8.2	DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
8.2.1	The District shall not suspend without pay, demote or discharge a post-probationary
employee as a disciplinary action without just cause.
8.3	PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE
The District and Association agree that progressive discipline is a constructive and advantageous method of dealing with problems involving employee performance and misconduct. Constructive in that it assists the District in rectifying unsatisfactory performance and misconduct of an employee by providing information as to the manner with which the problem can and must be corrected. Furthermore, it serves to provide fair notice to the employee that failure to rectify unsatisfactory performance and misconduct will result in further disciplinary action.
Progressive discipline is advantageous in that it demonstrates the District's commitment in attempting to rectify an employee's unsatisfactory performance and misconduct. When such is accomplished, both the District and employee benefit.
8.3.1	For post-probationary employees, including six (6) month probationary employees,
the District agrees to adhere to the principles of progressive discipline in matters which require disciplinary action. Such actions may include verbal warnings, written warnings and reprimands, suspension with or without pay, and demotion and termination.
8.3.2	When an employee is performing unsatisfactorily and/or are engaging in
misconduct, the supervisor shall meet with the employee to discuss the unsatisfactory performance/misconduct and performance/behavior expectations. When it is required, fact finding will be conducted before discipline is administered to an employee.
8.3.3	Step I (Written Warning)
A.	The supervisor shall meet with the employee to discuss the unsatisfactory performance and/or misconduct and the warning notice.
B.	An Association representative may be present.
C.	The warning notice is to be given to the employee by the supervisor and the employee may respond in writing to the warning and have the response attached.
D.	The warning notice and the written response by the employee, if any, will not be placed in the employee's personnel file.
11
E.	This is an informal warning.
F.	An employee issued a warning notice who does not receive a subsequent warning notice for the same or related matter within a 24-month period, shall not have the warning, notice referenced in future disciplinary proceedings.
8.3.4
8.3.5
Step II (Written Reprimand)
A.	The supervisor shall meet with the employee to discuss the unsatisfactory performance and/or misconduct and the reprimand form.
B.	An Association representative may be present.
C.	A copy of the reprimand form will be placed in the employee's personnel file.
D.	The employee may respond in writing to the reprimand form and have the response placed in his/her personnel file.
E.	A reprimand form issued to an employee who has met the expected standards, and who has received no subsequent reprimand(s) for the same or related matter shall, upon request of the employee, be removed from the employee's personnel file anytime after thirty-six (36) months have elapsed from the original date of issue.
Step III (Suspension/Demotion)
A.	The supervisor shall meet with the employee to discuss the unsatisfactory performance and/or misconduct and the suspension/demotion.
B.	The employee shall be notified that he/she has the right to have an Association . representative present at the meeting.
C.	A copy of the suspension/demotion letter and the discipline recommendation form will be placed in the employee's personnel file.
D.	The employee may respond in writing to the suspension/ demotion letter and have the response placed.in his/her personnel file.
8.3.6
Step IV (Termination)
A.	A pre-termination hearing will be held with the employee to discuss the unsatisfactory performance and/or misconduct.
B.	The employee shall be notified that he/she has the right to have an Association representative present at the hearing. The employee may also use other types of representation at this level, provided at least three (3) days notice is given to the-District.
C.	A final meeting may be held with the employee to deliver the termination letter and to inform the employee of the decision to terminate.
12
8.4	APPEALS
8.4.1	Post-probationary employees who are suspended without pay, who are demoted or
discharged as a disciplinary measure may appeal such action through the grievance procedure (see Article 7).
8.4.2	Probationary employees who are serving their initial nine (9) month probationary
period may not appeal disciplinary actions through the grievance procedure (see Article 7).
8.4.3	In the event the appeal reaches arbitration, the sole issue upon which the arbitrator
is to render an opinion shall be whether or not there was just cause for the District to take the specific disciplinary action which was taken.
8.5	ABSENCE WITHOUT AUTHORIZATION
8.5.1	Any absence without authorization shall be grounds for disciplinary action. Any unauthorized absence for three (3) consecutive work days shall constitute an abandonment of position and may be treated by the District as a resignation and the provisions of Articles 7 and 8 shall not apply.
8.5.2	Prior to noticing the employee of his/her separation under this section, the District
will, with the exception of the initial nine (9) month probationary period employees, send a certified letter to the employee at his/her address of record advising of the District's intent to separate them unless they contact the District within six (6) calendar days from the date the letter was mailed. In the event the employee does contact the appropriate administrator within the six (6) days, the District may still proceed with discipline, however, the action shall be subject to Articles 7 and 8 for post-probationary employees, as defined above.
ARTICLE 9
SICK LEAVE AND OTHER LEAVES
9.1	SICK LEAVE
9.1.1	General Provisions
9.1.1.1	Employees regularly scheduled to work at least five (5) hours per day or twenty-five (25) hours per week are eligible for leaves in this Article.
9.1.1.2	Sick leave is to be used only if the employee is unable to perform
his/her duties. In instances where an administrator is concerned that inappropriate use of sick leave has occurred, verification of the employee's illness or disability, may be required in order to charge the absence to sick leave.
13
In the event of accident, injury, disability, or safety concerns verification of the employee’s fitness to return to work may be required by the District. The District may require an independent medical examination of the employee at the District’s expense, with a physician selected by the District. The results of such examination are to be forwarded to the District.
9.1.1.3	Sick leave must be earned before it can be accrued and used. To
be earned for any biweekly pay period, the employee must be in pay status (meaning on-the-job, and/or on paid vacation leave, sick leave, holiday leave, etc.).
9.1.2	Accrual and Accumulation
9.1.2.1	Employees will accrue sick leave at the rate of .058 hour of sick
leave for each hour in pay status.
Examples:
A twelve (12) month employee paid over twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods would accrue .058 per hour x 26 pay periods for approximately 15 days sick leave.
A ten (10) month employee paid over twenty-two (22) biweekly pay periods would accrue .058 per hour x 22 pay periods for approximately 12.76 days sick leave.
9.1.2.2	Employees who work less than eight (8) hours per day shall accrue sick leave on a proportional basis (viz., a food service employee who works a six-and-one-half-hour (6-1/2) day would earn .58 days of sick leave per biweekly pay period - each sick leave day being six-and-one-half (6-1/2) hours).
9.1.2.3	Unlimited days of sick leave may be accumulated.
9.1.3	Upon separation, employees with at least ten (10) years of service in Washoe
County- shall be entitled to-payment for accumulated sick leave in accordance with Washoe County School District Regulation 4242.1. For purposes of this section, years of service, shall include years of service in a non-bargaining unit classified position. Regulation 4242.1 shall not be incprporated into this Agreement by references and thus shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
9.1.3.1	For purpose of this article, “separated” shall mean retired, resigned or deceased.
9.1.3.2	Total monies available for this compensation shall be determined by a tax rate limitation of 0.0001 of the District’s ad valorem tax base.
9.1.3.3	The rate of pay shall be as follows: 25% of the days of accumulated sick leave, to a maximum of 190 days, times the employee’s daily rate of pay at the end of the previous fiscal year.
14
9.1.3.4	Checks for said unused sick leave will be distributed to the
employee within 90 days after the close of the fiscal year in which the employee separates. Checks for said unused sick leave for the estate of deceased employees will be distributed to the estate as soon as possible after the employee’s death.
9.1.3.5	Employees may purchase PERS Service Credit with this benefit.
9.2	LEAVE FOR SURGERY AND MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS
9.2.1	Use of accrued sick leave shall be allowed ■ for surgery and/or medical
appointments. An administrator/supervisor may require advance approval and/or a medical note from a physician.
Employees will make a reasonable effort to schedule medical appointments outside of their regularly scheduled workday. If this is not possible, employees will make a reasonable effort to schedule medical appointments at a time that will be least disruptive to the work location.
9.3	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
9.3.1	Employees will be granted one (.1) or more leaves of absence per year for
bereavement of the immediate family. Not more than ten (10) consecutive days per occasion shall be allowed and leave will be deducted from sick leave. Immediate family shall mean: Mother, father, husband, wife, children, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, foster parents, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, step parents, half brother, half sister, grandchildren, grandparents, aunts and uncles, and any person living in the immediate household of the employee. Request for extension of this leave shall be directed to the Superintendent.
9.4	FAMILY ILLNESS
9.4.1	Employees will be granted a leave of absence with pay, to be deducted from sick
leave, for not more than ten, (10) days per year when unavoidably absent because of a serious accident or illness within the immediate family. Immediate family shall mean: Mother, father, husband, wife, children, sister, brother, mother-in-law, father-in-law, foster parents, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, step parents, half brother, half sister, grandchildren, grandparents, aunts, uncles, and any person living in the immediate household of the employee. Request for extension of this leave should be directed to the Superintendent. Verification of the illness from the attending physician may be required.
9.5	USE OF SICK LEAVE TO SUPPLEMENT S.I.I.S. BENEFITS
9.5.1	Employees may use accrued sick leave to supplement S.I.I.S. benefits provided,
however, the sick leave payments shall not exceed the difference between the employee's salary and the S.I.I.S. benefits. If sick leave is used to supplement S.I.I.S. benefits, one-third (1/3) day of sick leave will be deducted from the employee's sick leave accrual.
15
9.6
CHILD-REARING LEAVE
9.6.1	Upon written verification from her physician that she is unable to perform her duties
due to disabilities caused by or attributed to by pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, or recovery therefrom, an employee may have the option of charging such period of disability to her accrued sick leave.
9.6.2	An employee may be granted a child-rearing leave without pay not to exceed twelve (12) calendar months upon written application to the Board of Trustees submitted at least one (1) month prior to the commencement of the requested leave. Such request must be accompanied by a birth certificate, if appropriate.
9.6.3	Such leave may be requested at any time during the pregnancy or within four (4)
months after the birth of the child.
9.6.4	No benefits shall accrue to the employee while on a child- rearing leave, except that
the employee shall be credited with one (1) year of service for salary advancement if he/she worked the major portion of the school year at the time such leave commenced. Upon return, the employee shall be credited with any accumulated unused sick leave.
9.6.5	In the event the female employee is on a child-rearing leave and becomes unable to
perform her duties due to such disabilities caused by or attributed to childbirth as verified in writing by her physician, she may have the option of charging such period of time to her accrued sick leave. Upon termination of such disability, the employee may continue her child-rearing leave.
9.6.6	Upon written application to the Board of Trustees, showing unusual and extenuating
circumstances necessitating extended child-rearing leave, the Board of Trustees, at its discretion, may extend ..the. leave for an additional period up to twelve (12) calendar months.
9.6.7	Adoption Leave shall be granted to an employee who has been employed in the District for twenty-seven ;(27) working months. The District shall be notified by the employee of the pending adoption as soon as the employee has applied for adoption. A leave shall commence no later than nine (9) months after the placement of the child in the home.
9.6.8	Three (3) months prior to the expiration of a child-rearing/ adoption leave, the employee shall, notify the District whether he/she plans to return to work.
9.6.9	Upon return, the employee shall be paid at the salary step on the salary schedule
immediately higher than the step applicable at the beginning of such leave, provided that the employee worked the major portion of the school year at the time the leave commenced. Upon return, the employee shall be credited with the unused sick leave accumulated at the time the leave of absence commenced.
16
9.7	PERSONAL LEAVE
9.7.1	Upon five (5) days advance notification to the. supervisor, one (1) day of personal
leave shall'be granted each year. In case of personal emergency,'notice should be given, as early as possible. This day is to be deducted from accumulated sick leave, provided the personal business indicated cannot be taken care of outside the scheduled work day. The personal business must be such that it will not reflect
. adversely on the District. The reason for personal leave need only be discussed in general terms as it relates to the above two requirements.
9.7.2	' Employees who have completed three (3) years of service will have two (2) days of personal leave under the same conditions as above.
9.7.3	Upon reasonable prior notification in writing to the supervisor, an employee shall be
granted one (1) day of personal leave per year without pay. Such authorization shall also be in writing..
9.7.4	District staffing needs as well as emergency situations may require denial of
persohaljeave requests and/or rescheduling of approved personal leave dates. An example of an emergency is any situation that might threaten the life, safety, or health of employees, students, or the public, or that might cause damage to any District facility.
9.8	JURY DUTY
9.8.1	All employees who are required to report for jury duty shall not have loss in pay due
to such service. However, any jury pay received by the employee shall be remitted to the Business and Finance Department. An employee who reports for such service and is excused there from shall immediately contact the supervisor and report for work, if requested.
9.9	MILITARY LEAVE
9.9.1	Employees who must serve under orders in military programs shall have no loss of
salary from the School District for required participation in such programs for up to fifteen (15) days per year. *
9.10	SCHOOL BUSINESS LEAVE
9.10.1 Any employee requested or required to participate in a District sponsored activity or meeting which occurs during his/her work hours shall do so without loss of pay, unless the request clearly indicates participation is voluntary and no reimbursement will occur.
9.11 ASSOCIATION LEAVE
9.11.1	Upon reasonable prior notification in writing to the appropriate supervisor and administrator (to be forwarded to Human Resources), the President of the Association or the President's designee shall be granted up to thirty (30) days leave with pay to be used for Association business. The thirty (30) days shall be distributed among the separate bargaining units as the Association desires. Such leave may accumulate up to forty (40) days in any given year. An additional two (2) days may be used by the President or a designee with pay, however, the Association shall reimburse the District at the President's or designee's hourly rate for such time. Such leave may be taken in hourly increments.
17
9.12
9.13
9.11.2	The Association President may have a one-half year or a one (1) full year leave of ' absence with pay. In the event the President takes a one-half or one (1) full year leave with pay, the Association shall reimburse the District for all of the President’s compensation and benefit costs, including.’salary, PERS, Medicare, unemployment, medical insurance, etc. The Association shall notify the District sixty (60) days prior ■ to thei commencement of. the leave. Upon completion of the leave, the District will make every effort to return the President to the position and location he/she formerly held.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
9.12.1	Classified employees may request in writing a leave of absence without pay for a specific period of time. Such leaves must be approved by the employee’s principal or the administrator in charge of the Division in’which the employee works. In the event a request is denied the principal/administrator in writing will notify the employee as to the reason for denial. The employee is to follow the supervisory chain of command, up to and including the Superintendent. If the employee is not satisfied with the resolution, the employee may follow the complaint procedure. Employees with less than six (6) months of service may not be granted a leave of absence without pay in excess of one (1) calendar month.'
Employees with more than six (6) months, but less than twelve (12) months of service, may not be granted a leave of absence without pay in excess of three (3) calendar months.
Employees with twelve (12) months or more of service may be granted a leave of absence without pay not to exceed twelve (12) calendar months. Any leave of absence of one (1) month, or more shall not be counted towards the completion of any required probationary period.
Failure to return to work following a leave of absence shall be grounds for termination.
An unauthorized absence for three (3) consecutive work days following a leave of absence shall constitute a voluntary "quit" (resignation).
9.12.2	Employees regularly scheduled to work at least four (4) hours per day and twenty (20) hours per week may, with the supervisor’s approval, be eligible for leaves as outlined in 9.12.1.
i*	■
9.12.3	If an employee accepts a position resulting from the current incumbent taking a leave of absence; and the employee accepting the position does not receive a leave of absence from his/her position, and if the current incumbent returns to his/her previous position, the employee filling the position shall separate from the District and will have no rights under Article 14, Reduction In Force.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR VOTING
9.13.1 Absence with pay may be granted by the appointing authority to allow employees time off to vote, pursuant to the provisions of NRS 293.463.
18
9.14
SICK LEAVE BANK
9.14.1	The sick leave bank is provided to assist classified employees who are unable to perform the duties of their position because of catastrophic or life threatening illness,, or accident and which will require a lengthy convalescence, providing days are available in the sick leave bank.
9.14.2	In order for an employee to be eligible to participate in the sick leave bank, the employee must have been employed by Washoe County School District for a minimum of one (1) year of continuous service. •
9.14.3	Employees interested in participating in. the sick leave bank shall complete and submit a Sick Leave Bank Participation/ Authorization form to the Sick Leave Bank Committee of the Nevada Classified School Employees Association (NCSEA).
9.14.3.1	Sick Leave Bank Participation/Authorization forms will only be accepted during the open enrollment period of October 1 through October 31.
9.14.3.2	Sick Leave Bank Participation/Authorization forms are available upon request from the Human Resources office or the NCSEA office.
9.14.4	Employees who enroll in the sick leave bank shall donate and have deducted from their own sick leave account one (1) day for the operation of the sick leave bank.
9.14.5	Employees participating in the sick leave bank shall continue their participation from year to year unless they notify the Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee in writing ' during the open enrollment period of their intent to withdraw.
9.14.5.1	An employee who withdraws from the sick leave bank may not be reimbursed for sick leave days already contributed.
9.14.6	Employees who retire from the District may donate to the sick leave bank a maximum of one (1) unused sick leave day from their personal sick leave account. This donation is in addition to any other days contributed during the year.
9.14.7	If at any time during a fiscal year, the total number of hours in the sick leave bank is less than 480 hours, the Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee will inform Human Resources and all sick leave bank participants that one (1) sick leave day will be deducted from their personal sick leave for operation of the sick leave bank. If an employee is unable to donate a sick leave day because the employee does not have a day to donate, the employee will have a day deducted as soon as a sick leave day is accumulated.
9.14.7.1	The circumstances that lead to this contribution shall constitute a waiver of the one day limit specified in 9.14.4.
9.14.8	The total number of hours that may be utilized from the sick leave bank in one year is 3,500.
9.14.9	Hours not used will be carried over to the next year.
19
9.14.10	Only employees who have contributed to the sick leave bank are eligible to receive • assistance from the sick leave bank.
9.14.11	Employees must exhaust all available appropriate leaves and compensatory time (if any) before they can become eligible to receive assistance from the bank.
9.14.12	Employees who enroll in the sick leave bank in October are not eligible for assistance from the bank until January 2. Employees who wish to apply for assistance from the1 sick leave bank shall complete and submit a Sick Leave Bank Assistance Application to the Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee. Sick Leave Bank Assistance Applications are available upon request from the Human Resources office Or the NCSEA office.
9.14.12.1	The Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee shall review the employee's sick leave bank application and sick leave account and usage.
9.14.1’2.2 Employees who participate in the sick leave bank shall allow the Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee to review their sick leave account and usage.
9.14.13	The Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee shall forward its decision to the Human Resources office. Responsibility for determining who shall receive assistance from the bank rests exclusively with the NCSEA's Classified Sick Leave Bank Committee. The NCSEA holds the District harmless in the event of any action by an employee relative to use of the bank. The decision of the Committee is final and is not subject to review/, complaint, or grievance.
9.14.14	An employee approved for assistance from the sick leave bank may be granted a maximum of sixty (60) days of sick leave per year.
9.14.15	An employee who receives sick leave from the sick leave bank is entitled to payment for that leave at a rate no greater than his/her current hourly rate of pay.
■r , ■
9.14.16	Any sick leave which an employee receives from the sick leave bank, which was not used at the time the catastrophic illness or accident ceased to exist or upon resignation or termination of the employment of the employee, shall be returned to the sick leave bank.
Sick Leave Bank days shall not be used for elective surgery.
9.14.17	An employee receiving assistance-from the sick leave bank shall not accrue leave days.
9.14.18	If an employee is approved to receive assistance and the employee is receiving some form" of compensation -because of an industrial injury, each sick leave day granted will only equal-the amount of compensation needed to offset the total amount of the employee's daily rate of pay.
9.14.19	Except for 9,14.2, the term "year" for purposes of this procedure shall be the time period of October 1 through September 30.
20
9.14.20	Employees enrolled in the sick leave bank, who transfer into a position which does not receive sick leave, will no longer be eligible for the sick leave bank and will have all sick leave days donated returned to the employee. If the employee previously received assistance from the sick leave bank, no sick leave days will be returned to the employee.
9.15 ASSOCIATION VISITS
An Association Representative may meet with an employee. The conduct of such business shall be such as not to interfere with the performance of'the employee’s duties. The Association Representative will .notify the appropriate site-level administrator and will inform the site-level administrator oh his/her arrival in the building in order to facilitate the purpose of the visit.
ARTICLE 10
VACATIONS AND HOLIDAYS
10.1	VACATION LEAVE: General Provisions
10.1.1	Employees regularly scheduled to work at least'five (5) hours per day or twenty-five (25) hours per week are eligible for vacation.
10.1.2	For vacation leave to be earned, the employee must be in a pay status (meaning on-the-job, and/or on vacation leave, paid sick leave, holiday leave, etc.).
10.1.3	Vacation leave must be earned before it can be accrued and used.
10.1.4	Employees who work less than eight (8) hours per day shall accrue vacation leave
on a proportional basis.
10.1.5	Reasonable consideration will be given to an employee's request for specified vacation dates. Requests for vacation time shall be approved by the employee's supervisor.
10.1.6	District staffing needs as well as emergency situations may require denial of vacation requests and/or rescheduling of approved vacation dates.
10.1.7	Employee vacation requests will be submitted to the employee's supervisor with as much prior notice as reasonably possible.
10.2	VACATION LEAVE: Accrual and Accumulation
10.2.1	Employees shall not have a vacation leave balance of more than the maximum amount of vacation leave days they can accrue over a two (2) year period. For example, if an employee accrues 20 days of vacation leave per year, the maximum amount of vacation leave days the employee is allowed to accumulate is 40.
Other than as specified in 10.2.2, employees are not allowed to accrue vacation leave days beyond the two (2) year maximum. In the event an employee's vacation leave balance exceeds the two (2) year maximum, the days accumulated above the two (2) year maximum will be eliminated from the employee’s vacation leave balance.
21
Employees who have exceeded the two (2) year maximum vacation accrual as of the ratification of this Agreement, shall have until June 30, 2003, to reduce their vacation accrual to the maximum amount allowable under this Article. Employees who do not comply with this Article after June 30, 2003, shall have all vacation days that exceed the maximum amount eliminated from their vacation balance.
10.2.2	In unusual circumstances, earned vacation leave may be accumulated beyond the two (2) year maximum, provided the employee was unable to take vacation leave due to workload. In order to exceed the vacation leave maximum on accumulation, the employee must have requested vacation leave in sufficient time so that had the request been approved, his/her accumulated vacation leave would not have exceeded the two (2) year maximum.
10.2.3	Accrual Rates:
10.2.3.1	During the first three (3) years of service ... .039 per hour.
10.2.3.2	During the fourth (4th) through tenth (10th) years of service ... .058 per hour.
10.2.3.3	During the eleventh (11th) through fifteenth (15th) years of service ... .070 per hour.
10.2.3.4	During the sixteenth (16th) year and thereafter of service ... .077 per hour. Examples: A twelve (12) month employee working eight (8) hours per day and paid over twenty-six (26) biweekly pay periods would accrue in their first three (3) years, .039 per hour x 26 pay periods for approximately ten (10) days per year. A ten (10) month employee working eight (8) hours per day and paid over twenty-two (22) biweekly pay periods would accrue in their first three (3) years, .039 per hour x 22 pay periods for approximately 8.58 days per year.
10.2.3.5	Examples Of Approximate Vacation Accruals (12 Month Employee). Length of Service	Vacation Days . Accrued 0 - 3 years	=	10	days 4-10 years	=	15	days 11-15 years	=	18	days 16+years	=	20	days
22
10.2.4	Vacation Leave:
10.2.4.1	Employees who work less than 12 months will be encouraged to
take vacation when school is not in session. Employees working less than 12 months are eligible to utilize vacation leave during break periods. For example: vacation leave may be utilized during off-track, summer, Christmas, New Year, or Easter Breaks. The vacation time must be utilized immediately following the completion of an employee’s work schedule.
10.2.5 Vacation Accrual:
10.2.5.1	Only years of service in a position which accrued vacation leave
will be credited towards the accrual rate as defined in 10.2.3 of this article.
10.3
SCHEDULED HOLIDAYS
10.3.1	Employees regularly scheduled to work at least five (5) hours per day or twenty-five (25) hours per week are eligible for the following scheduled holidays (pursuant to NRS 236):
Holiday
1.	New Year's Day
2.	Martin Luther King's Birthday
3.	Washington's Birthday
4.	Memorial Day
5.	Independence Day
6.	Labor Day
7.	Nevada Day
8.	Veterans Day
9.	Thanksgiving Day
10.	Family Day
11.	Christmas Day
Dav/Date
January 1
3rd Monday in January
3rd Monday in Feb. Last Monday in May
July 4
1 st Monday in Sept. Last Friday in October November 11
4th Thursday in November 4th Friday in November December 25
In order for an employee to receive pay for a holiday, an employee must be in a paid status, for any portion of the day, the day preceding or following the holiday (unless the day following the holiday is the first scheduled day to return to work, or the day preceding the holiday is the last scheduled day of work).
10.3.2	Effective July 1, 1998, classified employees eligible for holiday pay who work at a school which implements a year-round calendar, will be eligible for holiday pay under the following conditions:
10.3.2.1	Employees will be eligible for holiday pay for holidays that they would have received compensation for had the school continued utilizing a traditional calendar.
10.3.2.2	Employees who voluntarily transfer to any other location will no longer be eligible for this section.
10.3.2.3	Employees who transfer to a school with a year-round calendar after the date the school began operating on a year-round calendar, will not be eligible for this section.
23
10.3.2.4	Article 10.3.2 will expire effective June 30, 2002, and will be open for negotiations for the 2002-2003 school year.
Examples: (1) A Library Assistant, scheduled to begin work for the school year on the day following Labor Day would not be paid for Labor Day; (2) an employee whose last scheduled day of work precedes Memorial Day would not be paid for Memorial Day.
ARTICLE 11
WAGES AND INSURANCE
11.1	WAGE SCHEDULES
11.1.1	Pay ranges for Supervisory and Non-Supervisory employees are included in the salary schedule(s) in Appendix C.
11.2	SALARY ADVANCEMENT
11.2.1	Classified employees hired prior to January 1 of any year will be eligible for a step increment on July 1. Those employees hired after January 1 of any year will be eligible for a step increment on July 1 of the following year.
11.2.2	If an employee is not recommended for a salary advance (step increase) within a pay range, such recommendation must be submitted in writing by June 1 to the Human Resources office with a copy to the employee. Such recommendation to defer the step increase must be supported by a statement describing the performance deficiencies. Within ten (10) days after notification the employee may request a review before his/her supervisor, the department head or his/her designee and an Association Representative to discuss the reason(s) for denial.
11.2.3	If an employee believes the recommended deferment of a step increase is unwarranted, he/she may seek a resolution of such action under Article 7.
11.2.4	Should the District have the need to hire a new employee at a step higher than Step 1 of the Classified Salary Schedule the following will occur prior to the employee being hired:
11.2.4.1 The District and the Association President, or his/her designee, shall meet within five (5) days to discuss the rationale for the placement and any concerns the Association may have with the placement. The District will consider the concerns of the Association and will notify the Association of its decision.
11.3	LONGEVITY BONUS
11.3.1	Effective July 1, 1990, employees who have completed twelve (12), thirteen (13), or fourteen (14) years of continuous service shall receive a longevity bonus of $400 each year. Such bonus will be paid on the pay warrant following their anniversary date.
24
11.3.2	Employees who have completed fifteen (15), sixteen (16), or seventeen (17) years of continuous service before July 1, 1988, shall receive a longevity bonus of $700 each year. Such bonus will be paid on the pay warrant for the first pay period in July.
11.3.3	Effective July 1, 1988, employees who have completed fifteen (15), sixteen (16), or seventeen (17) years of continuous service shall receive a longevity bonus of $700 each year. . Such bonus will be paid, on the pay warrant following their anniversary date.
11.3.4	Employees who have completed eighteen (18) years or more of continuous service before July 1, 1989, shall receive a longevity bonus of $800 each year. Such bonus will be paid on the pay warrant for the first pay period in July.
11.3.5	Effective July 1, 1989, employees who have completed eighteen (18) years or more of continuous service shall receive a longevity bonus of $800 each year. Such bonus will be paid on the pay warrant following their anniversary date.
11.3.6	Longevity Scheduled (Based on Years Completed)
Length of Service	Bonus Account
12-14 years	$400
. 15-1,7 years	$700
18+ years	$800
11.3.7	Eligible employees who retire prior to their anniversary date shall have the amount of longevity bonus due pro-rated.
11.4	OVERTIME AND COMPENSATORY TIME
11.4.1 Unit members who qualify for holidays shall have those days count as days “worked" for purposes of computing overtime. Unit members who qualify for sick leave shall have those days count as days “worked” for purposes of computing overtime.
• ci
11.4.2	Overtime is defined as work in excess of the employee's regular scheduled work day and work week. Work week is defined as any seven (7) consecutive day period commencing Saturday and ending the following Friday.
11.4.3	All overtime and Compensatory Time Off (CTO) in lieu of paid overtime must be authorized in advance by the appropriate administrator.
11.4.3.1	An administrator will consider the desires of the employee in determining whether to award pay for overtime or CTO.
11.4.3.2	If accrued CTO cannot be granted during the three (3) month period immediately following the overtime performance, upon request by the employee, the earned CTO shall be paid. After four (4) months, the earned CTO must be paid. Compensation shall be paid for such credited time at the employee's straight time hourly rate in effect at the time the CTO is paid.
25
11.4.3.3	Employees are eligible to utilize CTO during break periods. For example, CTO may be utilized during off track, summer, Christmas, New Year or Easter breaks. The CTO must be utilized immediately following the completion of an employees work schedule.
11.4.4	All time worked in excess of a regular work day or regular work week (except as provided in 11.4.5) will be paid at the straight time hourly rate or credited as CTO on an hour-for-hour basis.
11.4.5	* All time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week will be paid at the rate
of time-and-one-half (1-1/2) or credited as CTO on a one-and-one-half (1-1/2) hours off for each hour worked in excess of forty (40) hours.
11.4.6	An employee who performs two (2) or more different kinds of work, for which different straight time hourly rates are established, will be paid during the overtime hours at a rate not less than one and one-half times the straight time hourly rate established for the type of work s/he is performing during such overtime hours.
11.4.7	Overtime and compensatory time will be processed in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).
11.4.8	With the approval of an administrator, and in accordance with 29 USC, Section 2(b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, an employee may elect to work in either a 1040 or a 2080 plan formed pursuant to this statute. Said employee will be entitled to overtime as set forth in the above section, depending on the plan adopted and as amended from time to time. An employee may elect to forego working on any of the above-referenced plans upon notification in writing to his or her supervisor.
11.5	HOLIDAY PAY
11.5.1	An employee who is required to work on a regularly scheduled holiday shall be paid for the holiday plus time-and-one-half (1-1/2) for the hours worked on that day.
11.6	CALL BACK PAY
11.6.1	Any employee who is called back to work after completion of his/her regular shift with less than twelve (12) hours notice shall be paid from the time the employee arrives at the work location until the. employee has completed his/her task. The employee shall also receive call back-pay of three (3) additional hours. Call back pay shall be paid at straight time.
11.6.2	If an employee is called back to work because of inefficiency or error in the performance of his/her responsibilities, appropriate discipline will be taken which may include not being paid the call back pay.
11.7	REPORT TO WORK PAY
11.7.1	Should the employee be required to report to work and no work can be provided, then the employee shall be paid as provided for under NRS 391.180(7), if applicable, or for two (2) hours of work beyond the time actually worked, if any, if NRS 391.180(7) is not applicable.
26
For example, Mrs. A reports to work Monday morning, works two (2) hours and extensive storm damage forces closure of the building. Mrs. A receives pay for actual time worked plus two (2) hours. However, under no circumstances shall any employee be given report pay that exceeds his/her regular scheduled workday.
11.8	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT PAY
11.8.1	Employees may be temporarily assigned to fill a position, at a higher job classification. If such assignment exceeds three (3) consecutive working days duration, and if the employee is to continue in the temporary assignment without a break, he/she shall then be reclassified to the higher classification for the balance of such temporary assignment.
11.9	MILEAGE ALLOWANCE
11.9.1	In the event an employee covered hereunder is required to use his/her private transportation for school district business, the employee will be reimbursed at the fate set by the Internal Revenue Service', to be adjusted effective July 1 of each year. Mileage will be calculated and paid for travel between work locations but shall not be paid for travel between the home or point of origin and the work location; or from the work location to the home of point of origin.
11.10 GROUP INSURANCE
11.10.1	Employees regularly scheduled to work at least'five-and-one-half (5-1/2) hours per day or twenty-seven-and-one-half (27-1/2) hours per week are eligible for group insurance. In accordance with District policy, employees will' begin receiving group insurance 90 days after the first day of employment in a position that is eligible for group insurance.
11.10.2	Insurance premium payments by the District per month per employee for the fiscal 2000-0T, 2001-02, and 2002-03, school years shall not exceed the following:
July 1,2000-December, 31,2001	District Contribution
Medical Dental Life Vision	$123.01 Biweekly $ 16.26 Biweekly $ 4.25 Biweekly $ 5.57 Biweekly $149.09 Total
January 1,2002-June 30, 2003	District Contribution
Medical Dental Life Vision	$140.88 Biweekly $ 15.44 Biweekly $ 6.92 Biweekly $ 5.57 Biweekly $168.81 Total
The District shall consult with the Association regarding benefits to be included in the insurance program.
27
Effective July 1, 2000, eligible employees working a less than 12-month schedule will be eligible for 12-months of District paid medical insurance coverage as outlined in 11.10.2, Eligible employees working in less than 12-month positions during a particular school year, and who are not scheduled to return the following school year, will have their medical insurance coverage terminated the date their position ends.
Relative to the implementation of this article, the following will apply for the 2000-01 school year:
Eligible employees working a less than 12-month schedule who are scheduled to return to work in the 2000-01 school year, will be eligible for medical insurance effective July 1, 2000. Eligible employees in less than 12-month positions during the 1999-2000 school year and whose positions are not scheduled to continue for the 2000-01 school year, will not be eligible for medical coverage beyond the day their position ends.
Eligible employees in.positions which are funded from any source other than the general fund, with the exception of Nutrition Services, are not eligible for medical insurance until the first day they report to work in the 2000-01 school year.
11.10.3	The District agrees to continue the current retiree subsidy program for those classified employees who retired prior to the 1994-95 school year: Beginning with the 1994-95 school year; the District agrees to provide a retiree insurance subsidy program for classified employees who retire.from the District after ten (10) or more years of service. Employees hired beginning July 1, 1999, will not be eligible for the retiree subsidy. Subject to the above provisions, individuals hired by the District into positions not covered by this Agreement (classified positions scheduled to work less than four (4) hours per day), prior to July 1, 1999, and who are subsequently hired without a break in service into a position covered by this Agreement, shall be eligible for the retiree subsidy.. The current matrix will apply. The cost of such a subsidy shall not exceed .0000389 of the assessed valuation.
11.11 TOOL ALLOWANCE
11.11.1 All employees inthe Mechanic I, Assistant Mechanic, and Garage Service Attendant classifications who are required to provide their own tools will be provided a tool allowance of $100. This allowance will be paid in July of each year and will be used for the upkeep and replacement of tools. Employees must have been employed for at least nine (9) months in order to be eligible for the allowance.
11.12 EARLY SEPARATION INCENTIVE PLAN (ESIP)
11.12.1	The District will provide an Early Separation Incentive Plan (ESIP) within the following limitations:
28
Employees wishing to participate in ESIP must: 1) have completed 15 years of service with the Washoe County School District as of August 31 of the year in which they participate; 2) have less than 30 years of credited service with PERS as of August 31 of the year in which they participate; (3 submit a completed ESIP application by the announced deadline; and 4) separate from the District’s employ no later than August 31 of the year in which they participate. Upon approval by the Board of Trustees, the amount of the approved incentive will be paid to the employee as a monthly stipend of no more than $200 from the ESIP Trust Fund until the dollar amount of the approved incentive is exhausted.
11.12.2	Classified employees will be eligible for an incentive of thirty (30%) percent of their current salary. Classified employees approved for participation will be granted an incentive not to exceed thirty (30%) percent df the highest annual salary on the Teachers Salary Schedule.
11.12.3	The total amount to be funded for incentives in any given year shall be $48,000. If the cost of. the incentive (if approved) exceeds the amount in the appropriate fund, those with the most years of service with the school district shall be recommended first.
11.12.4	Should the employee become deceased prior to receiving the total ESIP entitlement, the balance shall be paid to the designated employee’s beneficiary or the employee’s estate.
11.12.5	All other matters related to this program will be governed by Administrative Regulation 4236 which shall not be incorporated into this Agreement by reference and thus not be subject to the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 12
TRANSFER/PROMOTIONS
12.1 TRANSFER/PROMOTION PROCESS
12.1.1	When a new or existing classified position scheduled to work more than 4.2 hours per day becomes vacant, Human Resources will first open the position to Washoe County School District employees only, provided the position has not been filled with a directed transfer, if the District fills a position with a directed transfer, the District will notify the Association prior to the directed transfer. Positions listed in 1.3, 4, and 5, of the Washoe County School District Human Resources office Classified Transfer/ Promotion Procedure will be filled as outlined in that procedure.
12.1.1.1	Employees being promoted will be placed at the range and step that permits an increase of no less than 4%.
12.1.1.2	Employees transferring to a position within the same salary range will remain at their same range and step.
12.1.1.3	- Employees transferring to a position in a lower salary range will be placed on the step closest to their currently hourly rate of pay, not to exceed the maximum step of the new range.
29
12.1.1.4	An employee transferring to a position in a different classification, or being promoted, will be placed in a six (6) month probationary period.
12.1.1.5	In consultation with the supervisor, employees may be allowed a reasonable amount of time off with pay for District interviews.
12.2 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT TRANSFER
12.2.1	In the case of a classified employee approved for a reasonable accommodation under the Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA), the District may transfer the classified employee into a new or existing position without opening the position to current classified employees. The District will consult with the Association prior to transferring a classified employee under this Section.
ARTICLE 13
TRANSPORTATION ROUTE SELECTION
13.1	ROUTE SELECTION
13.1.1	The purpose of this Article is to provide an equitable approach for assigning “open” routes to bus drivers.
13.1.2	All bids will be awarded by seniority. If a route is bid on and accepted, the driver will be required to remain oh the route for at least sixty (60) working days. If the Department’s administration determines that the driver cannot perform satisfactorily on the route, s/he will be placed on another route until s/he can successfully bid an “open” route. No driver will be allowed to bid bn routes while on suspension.
13.1.3	During the school year, routes will be posted three (3) school days before being assigned. No “open” routes will be put up for bid after March 15th of each school year, except for year-round routes and summer work.
i 3.1.3.1	. Drivers wishing to retain their route from one school year to the next
must sign up for their route during the July sign-up period.
13.1.4	Drivers may bid on multiple routes by indicating their order of preference. Drivers must include their seniority date on the bid slip. No changes will be made to assignments after the bidding is closed.
13.1.5	If the schedule for a school changes (e.g. from traditional to year round), the driver has the option of retaining the route or bidding on another “open" route.
13.1.6	If a route is dissolved, the driver will be assigned a route until an “open” route becomes available for bid. If a route is reduced in the assigned daily time by more than one-half (1/2) hour a day, the driver may bid on an “open” route even if the 60 working day requirement has not been met. Assigned daily hours for any route are approximate and are subject to change at any time. Bidding on to or off of “standby” positions is hot subject to the 60 working day rule.
30
13.1.7	Drivers on an approved leave will have their routes held for a maximum of three (3) months. Upon approval, the leave may be extended and the route held for the driver for an additional three (3) months.
13.1.8	Drivers who are off work because of an on the job injury will have their routes held for one (1) year. Drivers may not return to the route until a “natural break” (e.g. after summer, winter, or spring breaks) occurs.
13.1.9	All summer work for the Transportation Department will be put up for bid. Bus washing will be a summer and track break activity and will be put up for bid for all drivers and pupil transportation assistants.
13.1.10	It is understood that the Department’s administration may, for reasonable cause, withhold a route from bid, or not award a bid based on seniority due to concerns with employee performance. If. a route is withheld and a driver requests to be informed of the reasons, the driver will be notified of the reasons in writing.
13.2	MINIMUM ROUTE TIME
13.2.1	Bus Drivers and Bus Drivers - Special Education who are regularly scheduled to work-five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours, per day or more will receive at least five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours of pay for each regularly scheduled day the Driver actually works. A driver will not receive this minimum five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours of pay on days his/her regularly scheduled route is less than five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours.
13.2.2	To qualify for this benefit a Driver must make every reasonable effort to work at least five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hours by bidding on available routes and accepting routes assigned by the Transportation Department. Employees may be required to clean buses and perform other related duties in order to receive at least five-and-one-half (5 1/2) hoursof work. If a Driver does not make a reasonable effort to work at least five-andronerhalf (5 1/2) hours as delineated above, the Driver will not be eligible for this benefit on that day.
13.2.3	Where the provisions of Section 11.7 Report To Work Pay apply, Section 13.2 will be waived.
ARTICLE 14
REDUCTION IN FORCE
14.1	SENIORITY DATES AND QUALIFICATIONS
14.1.1 Employees who work 4.2 hours per day or less or twenty one (21) hours per week or less are not covered by this article.
Teacher Aides are excluded from this article.
This article shall only apply to Teacher Assistants when a system-wide reduction in Teacher Assistants occurs.
31
14.1.2
14.1.3
14.1.4
14.1.5
14.1.6
14.1.7
14.1.8
14.1.9
The Association will be informed in writing of any pending reduction in force prior to the official notification of employees affected thereby, at the earliest date release of said information is authorized. The District will provide the Association with a written seniority list of the affected classificatidn/department. The Association and the District shall meet to discuss the reasons for the reduction in force; the number and types of positions affected, and the approximate date the reductions will take place. The Association has five (5) days to make its views and recommendations known (in writing) to the Classified Human Resources Coordinator, concerning the implementation of such reduction in force. However, the District may proceed with the reduction in force at anytime after meeting with the Association.
In the event the District; determines that the classified employee staff must be reduced, the seniority date with Washoe County School District shall determine the order in which members of the two classified bargaining units shall be reduced, provided however, that no employee shall be replaced by another employee not qualified (in the District’s opinion) for such classification nor shall one employee replace another if the latter employee is at a higher salary range. An employee will first bump within his/her current classification, if possible, and then within his/her occupational series, if possible. If this is not possible, an employee in one occupational series may bump an employee in another occupational series if the employee is qualified (in the District’s opinion) and has more WCSD experience in the specific position than the employee being bumped. Occupational series are defined in Appendix B.
Seniority or "seniority date" shall mean the most recent date of employment with the Washoe County School District.
In the event two (2) or more employees have the same seniority date, then seniority shall be determined by a lottery in which employees having the same seniority date shall draw lots in accordance with a procedure agreed upon by the Association and the District.
Any resignation or termination of employment shall constitute a "break" in seniority. For the purpose of staff reduction, seniority, date shall mean the first working day subsequent to the most recent break in service, if any.
All other conditions being equal, the seniority date shall prevail as the determining factor for purposes of a reduction in force and first right to rehire. An employee's seniority date..for reduction in force and bumping purposes shall encompass all periods of service from the employee's last continuous employment date. Periods of separation may not be bridged to extend such service unless the separation is a result of a reduction in force in which bridging will be authorized if the employee is re-employed in his/her occupational series within the period of his/her reduction in force eligibility..
Leaves of absence shall not change the employee's seniority date.
The procedure for reducing positions shall be as follows:
14.1.9.1 The employee occupying the position being reduced shall bump the employee with the least District seniority. For example, if a school secretary position were being eliminated, the employee in this position would fill the school secretary position occupied by the employee with the least District seniority.
32
14.1.9.2
14.1.9.3
If a position in a specific office of a department were being eliminated and there were more than one position in the same classification in the office, the employee in the office with the least District seniority shall bump the employee with the least seniority in the District.
If an employee’s position were being reduced, the employee shall
bump the employee with the least District seniority who works the same or closest (based on a comparison of the annual salary and medical premiums of the employee and the annual salary and medical insurance premiums if s/he were to bump into another position) to the same number of hours per day and months per year. This shall be determined based on comparing the annual salary of the employee with what the annual salary of the employee will be if s/he were to bump another employee. This process would continue until the least senior employee's position is reduced.
14.1.10
14.1.11
14.1.12
14.1.13
Whenever it is necessary for the District to implement a reduction in force due to
lack of work or lack of funds pursuant to NRS 288.150, existing vacancies will be utilized to the maximum extent possible to place employees in continuing positions who otherwise would be terminated from the District. All layoffs be carried out in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The following options will be considered prior to implementing a reduction in force:
14.1.10.1 Transferring employees whose positions are being eliminated
into positions that are available at the time of the reduction based on retirements, resignations, leaves of absences, and new positions. The decision to utilize these options will be at the discretion of the District.
All employees terminated by a reduction in force, if eligible, shall be placed on a Re-
employment Priority List for all positions in their occupational series for which they are qualified and available and which positions are not a higher level than previously held. All such employees must be given preference for rehiring in permanent positions for which they are qualified. Employees on the Re-employment Priority List will be notified of openings in order of highest District seniority. Names shall remain on the Re-employment Priority List for eighteen (18) months. In order for an employee’s name to remain on the list, s/he must notify the District of his/her interest in remaining on the list, in writing, every six (6) months. However, refusal of a comparable position may result in removal from the Re-employment Priority List.
Employees who are re-hired with the District from the Re-employment Priority List
will retain the vacation accrual rates and the amount of accrued sick leave they had when they were reduced.
New employees filling positions with any temporary funding source, such as one-
year-only (or any other specified period of time) positions, grant funded positions, bond funded positions, will not be eligible for this article until after five (5) years of service with the District in the position. District employees transferring into such positions will be eligible for this article.
33
ARTICLE 15
DUES DEDUCTION
15.1	AUTHORIZATIONS - PROCEDURES
15.1.1	Upon appropriate written authorization from the employee, the District shall make biweekly Association dues deductions from the salary of the employee and make appropriate remittance to the Association.
15.1.2	No later than August 15 of each year, the Association will provide the District with a
list of those employees who have voluntarily authorized the District to deduct Association dues and the amount to be withheld for each employee. The Association will notify the District monthly in writing of any changes in said list. Changes in the amount to be withheld must be submitted in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the date the change is to be effective. Any employee desiring to have the District discontinue deductions he/she has previously authorized must notify the District in writing during July for that school year's dues.
15.1.3	Upon termination of an employee, the current month's dues will be deducted from the final check.
15.1.4	The District agrees not to honor any check off authorizations or dues deduction authorizations executed by any employee in the bargaining unit in favor of any other labor organization representing employees for purposes of negotiations for wages, hours and working conditions, and other fringe benefits for its members.
15.1.5	The employee's earnings must be sufficient after other required deductions are made to cover the amount of the Association dues. In the case of an employee who is in non-pay status during part of the pay period and whose wages are not sufficient to cover the full withholding, no Association dues deductions shall be made. In this connection, all.other required deductions have priority over Association dues.
15.2	INDEMNITY
15.2.	1 The Association agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold the District harmless against any and all'claims or suits that may arise out of or by reasons of action taken by the District in reliance upon any authorization cards submitted by the Association to the District.
15.2.	2 The Association agrees to refund to the District any excess amounts paid to it in error on account of the payroll deduction provision upon presentation of proper evidence of error or mistake.
ARTICLE 16
SAFETY
16.1	The District agrees to make reasonable efforts to continue providing safety equipment which, in the opinion of the District, is necessary to protect employees from injury in accordance with the practice now prevailing in the District. .
34
16.2
16.3
16.4
17.1
17.2
17.3
18.1
The District further agrees to continue to maintain safe and healthful working conditions in accordance with applicable Nevada Revised Statutes and Federal Laws.
Except-for employees that have been properly trained, employees shall not be required to search rooms, lockers, or other areas of a school facility for possible hazardous material.
When a supervisor must meet with an employee to discuss a serious safety issue, the employee is required to immediately meet and cooperate with the supervisor, even if an Association Representative is not available.
ARTICLE 17
PERIODS FOR MEALS AND REST
An employee regularly scheduled to work seven (7) continuous hours br more shall, be provided an uninterrupted non-paiid meal period of at least one-half (1/2) hour The meal period should, in so far as practicable, be in the middle of the scheduled work period. Employees who currently work without an uninterrupted non-paid meal period shall continue to do so for the balance of the 1991-92 school year unless a change is approved by the appropriate administrator. With the concurrence of the supervisor, an employee may elect to forego his/her meal period.
An employee regularly scheduled to work seven (7) continuous hours or more shall be provided two (2) uninterrupted paid rest.periods of at.least ten (10) minutes. An employee regularly scheduled to work four (4), five (5), or six (6) continuous hours shall be provided one (1) uninterrupted paid rest period of at least fifteen (15) minutes. With the approval of the appropriate administrator, an employee may take informal rest periods in lieu of the formal uninterrupted rest period(s).
The time lunch and rest periods are scheduled will be determined by the supervisor, after consultation with the employee.
ARTICLE 18
ADMINISTRATION OF AGREEMENT
Those schools with a plan for shared decision making, which has been approved by the Washoe County School District Board of Trustees as per Administrative Regulation 6000, may apply for variance of the negotiated agreement. The request for variance must be submitted and approved by both the Superintendent and the NCSEA Board of Directors. Requests for variances must be submitted by May 1 preceding the school year in which the requested variance will take effect. All requests for variance must state the specific article of the agreement and explain what the school is considering that might violate this provision of the agreement. The request must also state the period of time for which the variance is needed. A variance may be granted for no more than one (1) year at a time. Schools wishing to renew the variance must reapply by May 1.
In order for a school to be considered for a variance, there must be certification that a majority of the school’s classified staff has approved the variance request. Such certification must be gathered through a secret ballot process conducted jointly by the Association building representatives and school administration.
This Article will not circumvent the grievance/complaint procedure.
35
ARTICLE 19
EMPLOYEE PROTECTION
19.1	The School Trustees shall provide for the legal defense of an employee in accordance with NRS 391.271.
19.2	Employees shall immediately report cases of assault either suffered t>y them or for which they may be responsible and which occurred in connection with their employment.
19.3	An employee, while acting within the course of his/her duties as such, may use such force as is reasonable and necessary to protect himself/herself or others or property; or to quell a disturbance threatening physical injury; or to obtain possession of weapons or other dangerous objects upon the person of or within the control of the pupil.
ARTICLE 20
GENERAL SAVINGS CLAUSE
20.1	In the event that any provisions of the Agreement, or any application thereof, is held contrary to law by a court of competent jurisdiction and said decisions become final, then such provision or application will not be deemed valid and subsistent except to the extent permitted by law. However, all other provisions or applications will continue in full force and effect. The parties will meet not later than twenty (20) days after any such holding becomes final for the purpose of re-negotiating or considering the provision(s) affected.
ARTICLE 21
TERM OF AGREEMENT
21.1	LENGTH OF AGREEMENT
21.1.1	This Agreement shall be effective as of the first day of July, 2000, and shall remain in effect until the 30th day of June, 2003, and shall continue from year to year
•	thereafter unless either of the signatories hereto shall give written notice to the other
as required by 'Nevada Revised Statutes, of a desire to change wages, hours and conditions of employment hereof.
212 NEGOTIABILITY
•	21.2.1 The parties also agree that any subjects where negotiability may be challenged that are ultimately determined to be mandatory topics for negotiation, may be reopened after either party has exhausted all avenues of judicial review, provided however, that written notification of intent to reopen is given prior to February. 15 for any proposed changes to be effective on July 1.
36
21.3 WAGE CHANGES
21.3.1	2000r2001: The bonus signed by the Governor will be distributed to all employees
who are employed as of June 30, 2001. The bonus was calculated at three (3) percent of 2O0O-2OO1, earnings .that were subject to PERS contributions.
2001-2002: Effective January 1, 2002, the District’s contribution-will increase to $168.81 per bi-weekly pay period per employee.
No change to the salary schedule for 2001-2002.
2002-2003: Effective. July 1, 2002, the District will add .5% to the salary schedule. The District will guarantee to apply to the salary schedule, for application to every employee, an increase equal to the amount provided by the State.
No change to the health insurance contribution.
The contract will be closed, with no re-openers for 2001-2002, and 2002-2003.
The parties agree that, upon receipt of the audited financial report for fiscal year 2000-2001, if unreserved and undesignated fund balance exists in the District’s General Fund, the balance, after the agreed upon reductions (still to be negotiated), would be available for a bonus, subject to negotiations by all bargaining units.
Prior to July 1, 2002, the Association may request to meet with the District to determine if some portion of the salary increase will be used to offset the cost of potential increases in the health insurance plan.
With the exception of retirees, only employees on the payroll on the date of ratification of the Agreement will be eligible for retroactive pay.
37
21.4
RATIFICATION
Ratified :by the:
Washoe County School District (WCSD) Board of Trustees on:
October 9, 2001
Ratified by the:
Nevada Classified School Employees Association (NCSEA) Washoe Chapter #2 on:
September 12, 2001
On Behalf of the WCSD:
;i om biauss, uiassmeo uooramaior Human Resources
On Behalf of the NCSEA:
Anne Woodring, NCSEA
iDate
38
APPENDIX A
APPENDIX A
SUPERVISORY BARGAINING UNIT1
Assistant Head Custodian I	Transportation Site Supervisor
Assistant Head Custodian II	Transportation Training	Supervisor
Carpenter Shop Supervisor	Upholsterer
Computer Operator II	Warehouse Supervisor
Computer Operations Supervisor	Warehouse Worker/Driver II
Computer T eohnology T raining, Supervisor Custodial Coordinator	.
Custodial Training Coordinator
Electrician II
Environmental Assessment Technician II
Equipment Shop Supervisor
Groundskeeper II
Groundskeeper Supervisor
Head Custodian I
Head Custodian II
Head Custodian III
HVAC Shop Supervisor
Lead Electronic Technician
Lead Nutrition Service, Worker
Mail Clerk II
Mechanic II
Mechanic Shop Supervisor
Mentor Program Coordinator
Network Support Supervisor
Nutrition Services Appliance Technician II
Nutrition Services Appliance Technician Supervisor
Nutrition Services Assistant Manger II
Nutrition Services Assistant Supervisor
Nutrition Services Banquet Manager
Nutrition Services Center Kitchen Manager
Nutrition Services Center Production Facilities Supervisor
Nutrition Services Field Supervisor
Nutrition Services Manager I
Nutrition Services Manager II
Nutrition Services Supervisor
Offset Machine Operator II
Painter II
Paint Shop Supervisor
Personnel Technician
Plumber II
Preventive Maintenance & Assessment Supervisor
Print Shop Supervisor
Remodel Supervisor
Risk Management Technician
Systems Analyst
1 Certain conditions/restrictions apply to all classes affecting whether or not a particular class or position is in a bargaining unit and whether a particular class or position is covered by all Articles of this Agreement. See Article 4.
Appendix A1
APPENDIX A
NON-SUPERVISORY BARGAINING UNIT1
Account Clerk I
Account Clerk II
Account Clerk Trainee
Accountability Technician
Account Technician
Administrative Investigator
Administrative Secretary I
Administrative Secretary II
Administrative Secretary III
Assistant Carpenter
Assistant Mechanic
Assistant Upholsterer
Attendance Officer
Audio Visual Media Technician
Audio Visual Technician
Audit Clerk
Bindery Machine Operator
Building Inspector
Bus Driver
Bus Driver - Instructor/Evaluator
Bus Driver - Special Education
Buyer I
Buyer II
Campus Supervisor
Carpenter
Case Manager
Central Services. Liaison
Central Substitute Dispatcher
Clerk
Clinical Aide
Clinical Assistant
COBOL/SQL Developer
Computer Assistant
Computer Fiber Optic Support Technician
Computer Operator I
Computer Operator Testing/Evaluation
Computer Support Specialist
Computer Support Technician I Computer Support Technician II Computer'Support Technician III Computer Technology Trainer Custodian
Data Analyst-Bi-Tech
Data Analyst-SASIxp
Dining Room Chef/Manager
Dispatch Technician I
Dispatch Technician II
Dispatch Technician Assistant
Drafting Technician
Early Childhood Specialist (COW) Electrician I
Electronic Systems Technician
Electronic Technician, Audio Visual
Electronic Technician, Photocopiers
Electronic Technician, Video Systems
Electronic Technician, Word Processors/Typewriters
Energy Systems Analyst
Environmental Assessment Technician I
Equipment Operator -
Equipment Services Technician
Family Advocate I
Family Advocate II
Fuel Island Attendant
Garage Service Attendant
Groundskeeper I
Help Desk/Support Technician
Home Educator Advocate/Title l/Even Start
Human Resource Technician
HVAC Systems Control Technician
Internet Services Technician
Irrigation Systems Maintainer
Job Developer/Coach (Special Education)
Library Assistant I
Library Assistant II
Library Associate I
Library Associate II
Locksmith
Mail Clerk I
Maintenance Technician I
Maintenance Technician II
Mechanic I.
Mechanical Technician
Musical Instrument Technician
Network Analyst-LAN
Network Analyst-WAN
Nutrition Service Appliance Technician I
Nutrition Service Computer Technician
Nutrition Service Computer Technology Trainer
Nutrition Service Dishwasher (Biweekly)
Nutrition Service Elementary Manager (Biweekly)
Nutrition Service Elementary Manager (Hourly) Nutrition-Service Inventory Control Technician Nutrition Service Worker I
Occupational Therapy Technician, Special Education
Offset Machine Operator I
Offset Machine Operator Trainee
Painter I
Parent Involvement Facilitator-Title I
Plumber I
Preventive Maintenance Technician
Program Services Technician I
Program Services Technician II
Property Control Technician
Pupil Transportation Assistant
1 Certain conditions/restrictions apply to all classes affecting whether or not a particular class or position is in bargaining unit and whether a particular class or position is covered by all Articles of this Agreement. See Article 4.
Appendix A2
APPENDIX A
NON-SUPERVISORY BARGAINING UNIT1
Records & Documents Technician
Regulated Systems Specialist
Roofing Technician
School Bookkeeper
School Police Dispatch Technician I
School Registrar
School Secretary
Secretary I
Secretary II.
Senior Clerk
Senior Film Library Clerk
Senior School Secretary
Senior School Secretary-Magnet HS
Senior Systems Analyst
Small Engine Mechanic
Software Support Specialist - Bitech
Software Support Specialist - SASIxp
Special Program Coordinator
Special Projects Coordinator
Special Projects Coordinator - STOP
Specialized Health Care Technician
Speech Pathologist Technician
Storekeeper I
Storekeeper II
Student Accounting Assistant - Student Attendance CRT
Student Records Secretary
Switchboard Operator/Receptionist
Systems Applications Programmer
Teacher Aide
Teacher Aide/Hearing Impaired
Teacher Aide/Special Education
Teacher Assistant
Teacher Assistant-SMPC
Telecommunications Support Specialist
Translation Specialist/ESL
Transportation Instructor/Evaluator
Transportation Safety Coordinator
Tutorial Aide-Title IX
Typesetter/Graphic Artist
Visual Basic/SQL Developer
Warehouse Worker/Driver I
Warehouse Worker/Mail Clerk
Welder
Wellness Coordinator
1 Certain conditions/restrictions apply to all classes affecting whether or not a particular class or position is in a bargaining unit and whether a particular class or position is covered by all Articles of this Agreement. See Article 4.
Appendix A3
APPENDIX B
APPENDIX B
Series Group
Accounting
Audio Visual-Film. Library
Building/Boiler
Maintenance
Carpentry
Clerical-Secretarial
Custodial
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
Classification	Pay Range
Account Technician .	22
Account Clerk II	20
Account Clerk I	19
Audit Clerk	19
Account Clerk Trainee	15
Audio Visual Media Technician	23
HVAC Shop Supervisor	28
Preventive Maintenance Leader	27
HVAC Systems Control Technician	26
Mechanical Technician	26
Environmental Assessment Technician II	25
Roofing Technician	24
Environmental Assessment Technician I	22
Maintenance Technician II	22
Preventive Maintenance Technician	21
Maintenance Technician I	20
Carpenter Shop Supervisor	28
Carpenter	25
Assistant Carpenter	19
Administrative Secretary 111	23
Student.Accounting Assistant - Student Attendance CRT22
Administrative Secretary II	21
Administrative Secretary I	20
School Bookkeeper	20
School’Registrar	20
Secretary 11	18
Student Records Secretary	18
Secretary I	17
Switchboard Operator/Receptionist	17
Senior Clerk	16
Senior Film Library Clerk	16
Clerk	14
Custodial Coordinator	'	25
Head Custodian III	22
Assistant Head Custodian II	21
Head Custodibn II	21
Assistant Head Custodian I	20
Head Custodian I	20
Custodian	15
Appendix B1
APPENDIX B
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
Series Group
Pay Range
Classification
Information Systems	COBOL/SQL Developer	35
	Senior Systems Analyst	35
	Visual Basic/SQL Developer	35
	Internet Services Technician	33
	Systems Analyst	33
	Computer Operations Supervisor	30
	Network Analyst-LAN	30
	Network Arialyst-WAN	30
	Systems Applications Programmer	30
	Computer Support Technician III	28
	Computer Fiber Optic Support Technician	26
	Computer Support Technician II	26
	Data Analyst-Bitech	26
	Data Analyst-SASIxp	26
	Computer Support Technician 1	24
	Computer T echnology Trainer	24
	Software Support Specialist-Bitech	24
	Software Support SpeciaiisTSASIxp	24
	Telecommunications Support Specialist	24
	Computer Operator: Testing/Evaluation	22
	Computer Support Specialist	22
	Help Desk/Support Technician	22
	Computer Operator II	21
	Computer Operator 1	19
Electronic	Equipment Shop Supervisor	29
	Electrician II	26
	Electronic Systems Technician	26
	Lead Electronic Technician	26
	Electronic Technician-Audio Visual	25
	Electronic Technician-Photocopiers	25
	Electronic Technician-Video Systems	25
	Electronic Technician-Word Processors/Typewriters	25
	Musical Instrument Technician	25
	Electrician 1	22
	Equipment Service Technician	18:
Groundskeeping	Groundskeeper Supervisor	28
	Equipment Operator	20
	Welder	20
	Groundskeeper II •	19
	Irrigation Systems Maintainer	19
	Small Engine Mechanic	19
	Groundskeeper 1	18
Mechanical	Mechanic Shop Supervisor	30
	Mechanic II	27
	Mechanic 1	25
	Assistant Mechanic	20
	Garage Service Attendant	17
	Fuel Island Attendant	15
	■ .Appendix .	B2
APPENDIX B
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
Series Group	Classification	Pay Range
Nutrition Services	NS Center Production Facilities Supervisor	28
	Nutrition Services Supervisor	25
	Nutrition Services Inventory Control Technician	24
	Nutrition Services Assistant Supervisor	21
	Nutrition Services Center Kitchen Manager	19
	Nutrition Services Field Supervisor	19
	Nutrition Services Banquet Manager	18
	Nutrition Services Manager II	18
	Nutrition Services Manager 1	16
	Dining Room Chef/Manag'er	14
	Lead Nutrition Services Worker	14
	Nutrition Services Assistant Manager II	14
	Nutrition-Services Computer Technology Trainer	13
	Nutrition Services Elementary Manager (Biweekly)	13
	Nutrition Services Elementary Manager (Hourly)	13
	Nutrition Services Dishwasher (Biweekly)	12
	Nutrition Services Worker 1	12
Painting	Painter II	25
	Painter 1	21
Plumbing	Plumber II	26
	Plumber 1	22
Printing	Print Shop Supervisor	29
	Offset Machine Operator II	21
	Typesetter/Graphic Artist	20
	Offset Machine Operator 1	18
	Offset Machine Operator Trainee	15
	Bindery Machine Operator	13
School Secretaries •	Senior School Secretary	22
	Senior School Secretary - Magnet HS	21
	School Secretary	21
Storekeeping	Storekeeper II	20
	Storekeeper 1	18
Transportation-	Bus Driver/lnstructor-Evaluator	BD/IE
Bus Drivers	Bus Driver/Special Education	BD/SE
	Bus Driver	BD
Transportation	Transportation Site Supervisor	26
	Transportation Safety Coordinator	23
	Transportation Training Supervisor	23
	Dispatch Technician II	21
	Dispatch Technician 1	20
	Transportation Instructor/Evaluator	20
	Dispatch Technician Assistant	18
	Pupil Transportation Assistant	10
Appendix B3
APPENDIX B
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
Series Group	. Classification	• Pay Range
Warehouse	Warehouse Supervisor	24
	Warehouse Worker/Driver II	20
	Warehouse Worker/Driver 1	18
	Warehouse Worker/Mail Clerk	16
Appendix B4
APPENDIX B
OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
Series Group
Single Classifications
Classification :	Pay Range
Drafting Technician	28
Energy Systems Analyst	28
Regulated Systems Specialist	28
Wellness Coordinator	27
Building Inspector	26
Nutrition. Service Computer Technician	26
Personnel Technician.	26
Risk Management Technician	26
Buyer II	25
Nutrition Serv. Appliance Technician II	25
Special Program Coordinator	25
Upholsterer. ■	25
Drafting Technician T.	24
Adm inistrative’ Investigator	23
Central Services Liaison	23
Special Projects Coordinator-STOP	23
Buyer 1	22
Central Substitute Dispatcher	22
Nutrition Services Appliance Technician 1	22
Program Services Technician II	22
Property Control Technician	22
Audio Visual Technician	21
Case Manager	21
Human Resource Technician	21
Library Associate II	21
Locksmith	21
Mentor Program Coordinator	21
Records & Documents Technician	21
Special Projects Coordinator	21
Accountability Technician	20
Program Services Technician 1	20
School Police Dispatch Technician 1	20
Assistant Upholsterer	19
Attendance Officer	19
Library Associate 1	19
Specialized Health Care Technician	19
Translation Specialist/ESL	19
Library Assistant II	18
Mail Clerk II	18
Campus Supervisor	17
Family Advocate I'	17
Mail Clerk 1	17
Parent Involvement Facilitator-Title 1	17
Library Assistant 1	16
Clinical Aide	15
Teacher Aide/Hearing Impaired	15
Teacher Aide/Special Education	11
Pupil Transportation Assistant	10
Teacher Aide	10
Appendix B5
APPENDIX B
Series Group
Single Classifications
Classification.
Special5 Assistant-SMPC Teacher Assistant Computer'Assistant' Clinical! Assistant
Pay Range
Appendix B6
APPENDIX C
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE "A" 2001-2002 EMPLOYER PAID RETIREMENT
1. Full Schedule Classes
19	Account Clerk I
20	Account Clerk II
15 Account Clerk Trainee
22 Account Technician
20 Accountability Technician
23 Administrative Investigator
20	Administrative Secretary I
21	Administrative Secretary II
23 Administrative Secretary III
19	Assistant Carpenter
20	Assistant Head Custodian I
21	Assistant Head Custodian II
20 Assistant Mechanic
22 Assistant Site Coordinator (2 Is')
19 Assistant Upholsterer
19 Attendance Officer
23 Audio Visual Media Technician
21 Audio Visual Technician
19 Audit Clerk
13 Bindery Machine Operator
26 Building Inspector
22 Buyer I
25 Buyer II
17 Campus Supervisor
25 Carpenter
28 Carpenter Shop Supervisor
21 Case Manager (Family Focus)
23 Central Services Liaison
22 Central Substitute Dispatcher
22 Cert Occup Therapy Asst/SpEd
14	Clerk
15	Clinical Aide
35 COBOL/SQL Developer
26 Computer Fiber Optic Supp Tech
30 Computer Operations Supervisor
22 Comp Oper Testing/Evaluation
19 Computer Operator I
21	Computer Operator II
22	Computer Support Specialist
24 Computer Support Technician I
26 Computer Support Technician II
28 Computer Support Technician III
24 Computer Technology Trainer
32 Comp Tech Training Supervisor
25 Custodial Coordinator
24 Custodial Training Coordinator
15 Custodian
26 Data Analyst - BI-TECH
26 Data Analyst- SASI-xp
26 Data Analyst - SNAP
14	Dining Room Chef/Manager
20	Dispatch Technician I
21	Dispatch Technician II
18 Dispatch Technician Assistant
28 Drafting Technician
21	Early Childhood Specialist (COW)
22	Electrician I
26 Electrician II
26 Electronic Systems Technician
25 Electronic Technician-Audio Visual
25 Elec Technician-Photocopiers
25 Elec Tech-Video Systems
25 Elec Tech-Word Processor/Typewrite
28 Energy Systems Analyst
22 Environmental Assessment Tech I
25 Environmental Assessment Tech II
20 Equipment Operator
18 Equipment Service Technician
29 Equipment Shop Supervisor
17 Family Advocate 1
21 Family Advocate II
15	Fuel Island Attendant
17	Garage Service Attendant
18	Groundskeeper I
19	Groundskeeper II-
28 Groundskeeper Supervisor
20	Head Custodian 1
21	Head Custodian IF
22	Head Custodian III •
22 Help Desk/Siippbrt Technician
18 Home Educator Advocate-Title I
21 Human Resource Technician
28 HVAC Shop Supervisor
26 HVAC Systems^ Controls Tech
33 Internet Services Technician
19 Irrigation Systems Maintainer
19 Job Developer/CoacH'
26 Lead Electronic Technician
14 Lead Nutrition Service Worker
16 Library Assistant I
18	Library Assistant II
19	Library Associate I
21 Library Associate 11
21 Locksmith
17	Mail Clerk 1
18	Mail Clerk II
20 Maintenance Technician I
22 Maintenance Technician II
25 Mechanic I
27 Mechanic II
30 Mechanic Shop Supervisor
26 Mechanical Technician
21 Mentor Program Coordinator
25 Musical Instrument Technician
30 Network Analyst-LAN
30 Network Analyst-WAN
35 Network Support Supervisor
22 NS,Applicance Technician I
25 NS Applicance Technician II
27 NS Applicance Tech Supervisor
14 NS Assistant Manager II
21 NS Assistant Supervisor
18	NS Banquet Manager
19	NS Kitchen Manager
26 NS Computer Technician
13 NS Computer Technology Trainer
12 NS Dishwasher (Bi-Weekly)
13 NS Elem Manager (Bi-Weekly)
13 NS Elem Manager (Hourly)
19 NS Field Supervisor
24 NS Inventory Control Technician
16 NS Manager I
18 NS Manager II
28 NS Prod Facilities Supervisor
25 NS Supervisor
12 NS Worker I
18 Offset Machine Operator I
21 Offset Machine Operator II
15 Offset Machine Operator Trainee
21 Painter I
25 Painter II
28 Paint Shop Supervisor
17 Parent Involvement Facilitator-Title I
26 Personnel Technician
22 Plumber 1
26	Plumber II
Effective July 1, 2001
27	Preventive Main & Assess Supervisor
21 Preventive Maintenance Technician
29 Print Shop Supervisor
22 Program Facilitator
20 Program Services Technician I
22 Program Services Technician II
22 Property Control Technician
10 Pupil Transportation Assistant
21 Records & Documents Technician
28 Regulated Systems Specialist
22 Remodel Shop Technician
28 Remodel Supervisor
26 Risk Management Technician
24 Roofing Technician
20 School Bookkeeper
20 School Police Dispatch Tech I
20 School Registrar
21 School Secretary
17 Secretary I
18 Secretary II
16 Senior Clerk
16 Senior Film Library Clerk
22 Senior School Secretary
21 Senior School Secretary-Magnet HS
35 Senior Systems Analyst ■
23 Site Coordinator (2 Is'Century)
19 Small Engine Mechanic
24 Software Support Specialist-BI-TECH
24	Software Support Specialist-SASI-xp
25	Special Program Coordinator
21	Special Projects Coordinator
23 Special Projects Coordinator/STOP
19 Specialized Health Care Technician
25 Speech Pathologist Technician
18 Storekeeper!
20 Storekeeper II
22 Student Accounting Assistant -Student Attendance CRT
18 Student Records Secretary
17 Switchboard Operator/Receptionist
33 Systems Analyst
30 Systems Applications Programmer
10	Teacher Aide
11	Teacher Aide/Special Education
15 Teacher Aide/Hearing Impaired
24 Telecommunications Support Spec
19	Translation Specialist
20	Transportation Instnictor/Evaluator
23 Transportation Safety Supervisor
26 Transportation Site Supervisor
23 Transportation Training Supervisor
20 Typesetter/Graphic Artist
25 Upholsterer
35 Visual Basic/SQL Developer
24 Warehouse Supervisor
18 Warehouse Worker/Driver 1
20 Warehouse Worker/Driver II
16 Warehouse Worker/Mail Clerk
20 Welder
27 Wellness Coordinator
Appendix Cl
10/01
c:docs.clsscha.mi
APPENDIX C
Separate Schedule Classes
Special Assistant-Severely
Mentally & Physically Challenged
Teacher Assistant
Computer Assistant
Clinical Assistant
See Separate Schedule Classes
See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes
Bus Driver
Bus Driver/lnstructor-Evaluator
Bus Driver/Special Education
See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes
Non-Scheduled Classes
Classification
Hourly Rate
Student Worker
Work Study Student
5.26
5.09
SCHEDULE NOTES
I.	Full Schedule Classes
Employees in these classifications will have, in addition to their annual wages, 18.75% of the annual wages paid by the Washoe County School District to the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) for retireme benefits. Other benefits are described in the Negotiated Agreement between the Nevada Classified School Employees Association and the District.
II.	Separate Schedule Classes
Employees in these classifications have the same retirement contributions made as employees in the Full Schedule Classes.
III.	Non-Scheduled Classes
Employees in these classifications with a regular workweek which averages 20 hours or more will have, in addition to their salary, 18.75% of the salary paid by the Washoe County School District to the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) for retirement benefits.
Schedule “A”
07/01
Appendix C2
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - A
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
07/01	6.28	439.60	952.47	11,429.60	.502.40	1,088.53	13,062.40
07/02	6.42	449.40	973.70	11,684-40	513.60	1,112.80	13,353.60
07/03	6.59	461.30	999.48	11,993.80	527.20	1,142.27	13,707.20
07/04	6.77	473.90	1,026.78	12,321.40	541.60	1,173.47	14,081.60
07/05.	6.91	483.70	1,048.02	12,576.20	552.80	1,197.73	14,372.80
07/06	7.10	497.00	1,076.83	12,922.00	. 568.00	1,230.67	14,768.00
. 07/07	7.30	511.00	1,107.17	13,286.00	584.00	1,265.33.	15,184.00
07/08	7.48	523.60	1,134.47	13,613.60	598.40	1,296.53	15,558.40
07/09	7.63	534.10	. 1,157.22	13,886.60	610.40	1,322.53	15,870.40
07/10	7.80	546.00	1,183.00	14,196.00	.624.00	1,352.00	16,224.00
							
08/01	6.59	461.30	99.9.48	11,993.80	527.20	1,142.27	13,707.20
08/02	6.77	473.90	1,026.78	12,321.40	541.60	1,173.47	14,081.60
08/03	6.91	483.70	1,048.02	12,576.20	552.80	1,197.73	14,372.80
08/04	7.10	497.00	1,076.83	12,922.00	568.00	1,230.67	14,768.00
08/05	7.30	511.00	1,107.17	13,286.00	584.00	1,265.33	15,184.00
08/06	7.48	523.60	1,134.47	13,613.60	598.40	1,296.53	15,558.40
08/07	7.63	534.10	1,157.22	13,886.60	610.40	1,322.53	15,870.40
08/08	7.80	546.00	1,183.00	14,196.00	624.00	1,352.00	16,224.00
08/09	8.06	564.20	1,222.43	14,669.20	644.80	1,397.07	16,764.80
08/10	8.26	578.20	1,252.77	15,033.20	660.80	1,431.73	17,180.80
							
09/01	6.91	483.70	1,048.02	12,576.20	552.80	1,197.73	14,372.80
09/02	7.10	497.00	1,076.83	12,922.00	568.00	1,230.67	14,768.00
09/03	7.30	511.00	1,107.17	13,286.00	584.00	1,265.33	15,184.00
09/04	7.48	523.60	1,134.47	13,613.60	598.40	1,296.53	- 15,558.40
09/05	7.63	534.10	1,157.22	13,886.60	610.40	1,322.53	15,870.40
09/06	7.80	546.00	1,183.00	14,196.00	624.00	1,352.00	16,224.00
09/07	8.06	564.20	1,222.43	14,669.20	644.80	1,397.07	16,764.80
09/08	8.26	578.20	1,252.77	15,033.20	660.80	1,431.73	17,180.80
09/09	8.48	593.60	1,286.13	15,433.60	678.40	1,469.87	17,638.40
09/10	8.65	605.50	1,311.92	15,743.00	692.00	1,499.33	17,992.00
							
10/01	7.30	511.00	1,107.17	13,286.00	584.00	1,265.33	15,184.00
10/02	7.48	523.60	1,134.47	13,613.60	598.40	1,296.53	15,558.40
10/03	7.63	534.10	1,157.22	13,886.60	610.40	1,322.53	15,870.40
10/04	7.80	546.00	1,183.00	14,196.00	624.00	1,352.00	16,224.00
10/05	8.06	564.20	1,222.43	14,669.20	644.80	1,397.07	16,764.80
10/06	8.26	578.20	1,252.77	15,033.20	660.80	1,431.73	17,180.80
10/07	8.48	593.60	1,286.13	15,433.60	678.40	1,469.87	17,638.40
10/08	8.65	605.50	1,311.92	15,743.00	692.00	1,499.33	17,992.00
10/09	8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
10/10	9.11	637.70	1,381.68	16,580.20	728.80	1,579.07	18,948.80
0%
2000-01; 2001-02
07/01/01
1
Appendix C3
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - A
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR BAN	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR BAN	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
11/01	7.63	534.10	1,157.22	13,886.60	610.40	1,322.53	15,870.40
11/02	7.80	546.00	1,183.00	14,196.00	624.00	1,352.00	16,224.00
11/03	8.06	564.20	1,222.43	14,669.20	644.80	1,397.07	16,764.80
11/04	8.26	578.20	1,252.77	15,033.20	660.80	1,431.73	17,180.80
11/05	8.48	593.60	1,286.13	15,433.60	678.40	1,469.87	17,638.40
11/06	8.65	605.50	1,311.92	15,743.00	692.00	1,499.33	17,992.00
11/07	8.88	. 621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
11/08	9.11	637.70	1,381.68	16,580.20	728.80	1,579.07	18,948.80
11/09	9.33	653.10	1,415.05	16,980.60	746.40	1,617.20	19,406.40
11/10	9.55	668.50	1,448.42	17,381.00	764.00	1,655.33	19,864.00
							
12/01	8.06	564.20	1,222.43	14,669.20	644.80	1,397.07	16,764.80
12/02	8.26	578.20	1,252.77	15,033.20	660.80	1,431.73	17,180.80
12/03	8.48	593.60	1,286.13	15,433.60	678.40	1,469.87	17,638.40
12/04	8.65	605.50	1,311.92	15,743.00	692.00	1,499.33	17,992.00
12/05	8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
12/06	9.11	637.70	1,381.68	16,580.20	728.80	1,579.07	18,948.80
12/07	9.33	’ 653.10	1,415.05	16,980.60	746.40	1,617.20	19,406.40
12/08	9.55	668.50	1,448.42	17,381.00	. 764.00	1,655.33	19,864.00
12/09	9.84	688.80	1,492.40	17,908.80	787.20	1,705.60	20,467.20
12/10	10.01	700.70	1,518.18	18,218.20	800.80	1,735.07	20,820.80
							
13701	8.48	593.60	1,286.13	15,433.60	678.40	1,469.87	17,638.40
13/02	8.65	605'50	1,311.92	15,743.00	692.00	1,499.33	17,992.00
13/03	8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
13/04	' 9.11	637.70	1,381.68	16,580.20	728.80	1,579.07	18,948.80
13/05	9.33	653.10	' 1,415.05	16,980.60	746.40	1,617.20	19,406.40
13/06	9.55	668.50	1,448.42	17,381.00	764.00	1,655.33	19,864.00
13/07	9.84	688.80	1,492.40	17,908.80	787.20	1,705.60	20,467.20
13/08	10.01	700.70	1,518.18	18,218.20	800.80	1,735.07:	20,820.80
13/09	10.28	719.60	1,559.13	18,709.60	822.40	1,781.87	21,382,40
13/10	10.60	742.00	1,607.67	19,292.00	848.00	1,837.33	22,048.00
							
14/01	" 8,88	' 621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1'539.20	18,470.40
14/02	9.1:1	637,70	1,381.68	16,580.20	728.80	1,579.07	18,948.80
14/03	9.33	653.10	1,415.05	' 16,980.60	746.40	1,617,20	19,406.40
14/04	9.55	668.50	1,448.42	17,381.00	764.00	1,655.33	19,864.00
14/05	9.84	688.80	1,492.40	17,908.80	787.20	1,705,60	20,467.20
14/06	10.01	700.70	1,518.18	18,218.20	800.80	1,735.07	20,820.80
14/07	10.28	719.60	1,559.13	18,709.60	822.40	1,781.87	21,382.40
14/08	10.60	742.00	1,607.67	19,292.00	848.00	1,837.33	22,048.00
14/09	10.81	756.70	1,639.52	19,674.20	864.80	■ 1,873.73	22,484,80
14/10	11.08	775.60	1,680.47	20,165.60	886.40	1,920.53	23,046.40
o%
2000-01; 2001-02
' 07/01/01
Appendix C4
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
Classified salary schedule - a
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
15/01	9.33	653.10	1,415.05	16,980.60	746.40	1,617.20	19,406.40
15/02	9.55	668.50	1,448.42	17,381.00	764.00	1,655.33	19,864.00
15/03	9.84	688.80	1,492.40	17,908.80	787.20	1,705.60	20,467.20
15/04	10.01	700.70	1,518.18	18,218.20	800.80	1,735.07	20,820.80
15/05	10.28	719.60	1,559.13	18,709.60	822.40	1,781.87	21,382.40
15/06 .	10.60	742.00	1,607.67	19,292.00	848.00	1,837.33	22,048.00
15/07	10.81	756.70	1,639.52	19,674.20	864.80	1,873.73	22,484.80
15/08	11.08	775.60	. 1,680.47	20,165.60	886.40	1,920.53	23,046.40
15/09	11.40	798.00	1,729.00.	20,748.00	912.00	1,976.00	23,712.00
15/10	11.63	814.10.	1,763.88	21,166.60	930.40	2,015.87	24,190.40
							
16/01	9.84	688.80	1,492.40	17,908.80	787.20	1,705.60	20,467.20
16/02	10.01	700.70	1,518.18	18,218.20.	800.80	1,735.07	20,820.80
16/03	10.28	719.60	1,559.13	18,709.60	822.40	1,781.87	21,382.40
16/04	10.60	742.00	1,607.67	19,292.00	848.00	1,837.33	22,048.00
16/05	10.81	756.70	1,639.52	19,674.20	864.80	1,873.73	22,484.80
16/06	11.08	775.60	. 1,680.47	20,165.60	886.40	1,920.53	23,046.40
16/07	11.40	798.00	1,729.00	20,748.00	912.00	1,976.00	23,712.00
16/08	11.63	814.10	1,763.88	21,166.60	930.40	2,015.87	24,190.40
16/09	11.92	834.40	1,807.87	21,694.40	953.60	2,066.13	24,793.60
16/10	1,2.25	857.50	1,857.92	22,295.00	980.00	2,123.33	25,480.00
							
17/01	10.28	719.60	1,559.13	18,709.60	822.40	1,781.87	21,382.40
17/02	10.60	742.00	1,607.67	19,292.00	848.00	1,837.33	22,048.00
17/03	10.81	756.70	1,639.52	19,674.20	864.80	1,873.73	22,484.80
17/04	11.08	775.60	1,680.47	20,165.60	886.40	1,920.53	23,046.40
17/05	11.40	798.00	1,729.00	20,748.00	912.00	1,976.00	23,712.00
17/06	11.63	814.10	1,763.88	21,166.60	930.40	2,015.87	24,190.40
17/07	11.92	834.40	1,807.87	21,694.40	953.60	2,066.13	24,793.60
17/08	12.25	857.50	1,857.92	22,295.00	980.00	2,123.33	25,480.00
17/09	12.53	877.10	1,900.38	22,804.60	1,002.40	2,171.87	26,062.40
17/10	12.87	900.90	1,951.95	23,423.40	1,029.60	2,230.80	26,769,60
							
18/01	10.81	756.70	1,639.52	19,674.20	864.80	1,873.73	22,484.80
18/02	11.08	775.60	1,680.47	20,165.60	886.40	1,920.53	23,046.40
18/03	11.40	798.00	1,729.00	20,748.00	912.00	1,976.00	23,712.00
18/04	11.63	814.10	1,763.88	21,166.60	930.40	2,015.87	24,190.40
18/05	11.92	834.40	1,807.87	21,694.40	953.60	2,066.13	24,793.60
18/06	12.25	857.50	1,857.92	22,295.00	980.00	2,123.33	25,480.00
18/07	12.53	877.10	1,900.38	22,804.60	1,002.40	2,171.87	26,062.40
18/08	12.87	900.90	1,951.95	23,423.40	1,029.60	2,230.80	26,769.60
18/09	13.19	923.30	2,000.48	24,005.80	1,055.20	2,286.27	27,435.20
18/10	13.50	945.00	2,047.50	24,570.00	1,080.00	2,340.00	28,080.00
o%
2000-01; 2001-02
3
07/01/01
Appendix C5
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - A
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
19/01	11.40	798.00	1,729.00	20,748.00	912.00	1,976.00	23,712.00
19/02	11.63	814.10	1,763.88	21,166.60	930.40	2,015.87	24,190.40
19/03	11.92	834.40	1,807.87	21,694.40	953.60	2,066.13	24,793.60
19/04	12.25	857.50	1,857.92	22,295.00	980.00	2,123.33	25,480.00
19/05	12.53	877.10	1,900.38	22,804.60	1,002,40	2,171.87	26,062.40
19/06	12.87	900.90	1,951.95	23,423.40	1,029.60	2,230.80	26,769.60
19/07	13.19	923.30	2,000.48	24,005.80	1,055.20	2,286.27	27,435.20
19/08	13.50	945.00	2,047.50	24,570,00	1,080.00	2,340.00	28,080.00
19/09	13.85	969.50	2,100.58	25,207.00	1,108.00	2,400.67	28,808.00
19/10	14.19	993.30	2,152.15	25,825.80	1,135.20	2,459.60	29,515.20
							
20/01	11.92	834.40	1,807.87	21,694.40	953.60	2,066.13	24,793.60
20/02	12.25	857.50	1,857.92	22,295.00	980.00	2,123.33	25,480.00
20/03	12.53	877.10	1,900.38	22,804.60	1,002.40	2,171.87	26,062.40
20/04	12.87	900.90	1,951.95	23,423.40	1,029.60	2,230.80	26,769.60
20/05	13.19	923.30	2,000.48	24,005.80	1,055.20	2,286.27	27,435.20
20/06	13.50	945.00	2,047.50	24,570.00	1,080.00	2,340.00	28,080.00
20/07	13.85	969.50	2,100.58	25,207.00	1,108.00	2,400.67	28,808.00
20/08	14.19	993.30	2,152.15	25,825.80	1,135.20	2,459.60	29,515.20
20/09	14.57	1,019.90	2,209.78	26,517.40	1,165.60	2,525.47	30,305.60
20/1.0	14.92	1,044.40	2,262.87	27,154.40	1,193.60	2,586.13	31,033.60
							
21701	12.53	877.10	1,900.38	22,804.60	1,002.40	2,171.87	26,062.40
21/02	12.87	900.90	1,951.95	23,423.40	1,029.60	2,230.80	26,769.60
21/03	13.19	923.30	2,000.48	24,005.80	1,055.20	2,286.27	27,435.20
21/04	13.50	945.00	2,047,50	24,570,00	1,080.00	2,340.00	28,080.00
21/05	13.85	969.50	2,100.58	25,207.00	1,108.00	2,400.67	28,808.00
21/06	14.19	993.30	2,152.15	25,825.80	1,135.20	2,459.60	29,515.20
21/07	14.57'	1,019.90	2,209.78	26,517.40	1,165.60	2,525.47	30,305.60
21/08	14.92	1,044.40	2,262.87	27,154.40	1,193.60	2,586.13	31,033.60
21/09	15.29	1,070.30	2,318.98	27,827.80	1,223.20	2,650.27	31,803.20
21/10	' 15,66	1,096.20	2,375.10	28,501.20	1,252.80	2,714.40	32,572.80
			■				
22/01	. 13.19	923.30	2,000,48	24,005.80	1,055.20	2,286.27	27,435.20
22/02	13.50	945.00	2,047.50	24,570.00	1,080.00	2,340.00	28,080.00
22/03	13.85	969.50	2,100.58	25,207.00	1,108.00	2,400.67	28,808.00
22/04	14.19	993.30	2,152.15	25,825.80	1,135.20	2,459.60	• 29,515.20
22/05	14.57	1,019.90	2,209.78	26,517.40	1,165.60	2,525.47	30,305.60
22/06	14.92	1,044.40	2,262.87	27,154.40	1,193.60	2,586.13	31,033.60
22/07	15.29	1,070.30	2,318.98	27,827.80	1,223.20	2,650.27	31,803.20
22/08	15.66	1,096.20	2,375.10	28,501.20	1,252.80	2,714.40	32,572.80
22/09	16.09	1,126.30	2,440.32	29,283.80	1,287.20	2,788.93	33,467.20
22/10	16,43	1,150.10	2,491.88	29,902.60	1,314.40	2,847.87	. 34,174.40
o%
2000-01; 2001-02
07/01/01
4
Appendix C6
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - A
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
23/01	13.85	9.69.50	2,100.58	25,207.00	1,108.00	2,400.67	28,808.00
23/02	14.19	993.30	2,152.15	25,825.80	1,135.20	2,459.60	29,515.20
23/03	14.57	1,019.90	2,209.78	.26,517.40	1,165.60	2,525.47	30,305.60
23/04	14.92	1,044.40	2,262.87	27,154.40.	1,193.60	2,586.13	31,033.60
23/05	15.29	1,070,30	2,318.98	27,827.80	. .1,223.20	2,650.27	31,803.20
23/06	15.66	1,096.20	2,375.10	28,501.20	1,252.80	2,714.40	32,572.80
23/07	16.09	1,126.30	2,440.32	. 29,283,80	1,287.20	2,788.93	33,467.20
23/08	16.43	1,150.10	2,491.88.	29,902.60	1,314.40	. 2,847.87	34,174.40
23/09.	16.87	1,180.90	2,558.62	.. 30,703,40	1,349.60	2,924,13	35,089.60
23/10	17.30	1,211.00	2,623.83	31,486,00	1,384.00	2,998.67	35,984.00
							
24/01	14.57	1,019.90	2,209.78	26,517.40	1,165.60	2,525.47	30,305.60
24/02	14.92	1,044.40	2,262.87	27,154.40	1,193.60	2,586.13	31,033.60
24/03	15.29	1,070.30	2,318.98	27,827.80	1,223.20	2,650.27	31,803.20
24/04	15.66	1,096.20	2,375.10	28,501.20	1,252.80	2,714.40	32,572.80
24/05	16.09	1,126.30	2,440.32	29,283.80	1,287.20	2,788.93	33,467.20
24/06	16.43	1,150.10	2,491.88	29,902.60	1,314.40	2,847.87	34,174.40
24/07	16.87	1,180.90	2,558.62	30,703.40	1,349.60	2,924.13	35,089.60
24/08	17.30	1,211.00	2,623-83	31,486.00	1,384.00	2,998.67	35,984.00
24/09	17.71	1,239.70	2,686.02	32,232.20	1,416.80	3,069.73	36,836.80
24/10	18.12	1,268.40	2,748.20	32,978.40	1,449.60	3,140.80	37,689.60
							
25/01	15.29	1,070.30	2,318.98	27,827.80	1,223.20	2,650.27	31,803.20
25/02	15.66	1,096.20	2,375.10	28,501.20	1,252.80	2,714.40	32,572.80
25/03	16.09	1,126.30	2,440.32	29,283.80	1,287.20	2,788.93	33,467.20
25/04	16.43	1,150.10	2,491.88	29,902.60	1,314.40	2,847.87	34,174.40
25/05	16.87	1,180.90	2,558.62	30,703.40	1,349.60	2,924.13	35,089.60
25/06	17.30	1,211.00	2,623.83	31,486.00	1,384.00	2,998.67	35,984.00
25/07	17.71	1,239.70	2,686.02	32,232.20	1,416.80	3,069.73	36,836.80
25/08	18.12	1,268.40	2,748.20	32,978.40	1,449.60	3,140.80	37,689.60
25/09	18.59	1,301.30	2,819.48	33,833.80	1,487.20	3,222.27	38,667.20
25/10	19.09	1,336.30	2,895.32	34,743.80	1,527.20	3,308.93	39,707.20
							
26/01	16.09	1,126.30	2,440.32	29,283.80	1,287.20	2,788.93	33,467.20
26/02	16.43	1,150.10	2,491.88	29,902.60	1,314.40	2,847.87	34,174.40
26/03	16.87	1,180.90	2,558.62	30,703.40	1,349.60	2,924.13	35,089.60
26/04	17.30	1,211.00	2,623.83	31,486.00	1,384.00	2,998.67	35,984.00
26/05	17.71	1,239.70	2,686.02	32,232.20	1,416.80	3,069.73	36,836.80
26/06	18.12	1,268.40	2,748.20	32,978.40	1,449.60	3,140.80	37,689.60
26/07	18.59	1,301.30	2,819.48	33,833.80	1,487.20	3,222.27	38,667.20
26/08	19.09	1,336.30	2,895.32	34,743.80	1,527.20	3,308.93	39,707,20
26/09	19.56	1,369.20	2,966.60	35,599.20	1,564.80	3,390.40	40,684.80
26/10	20.04	1,402.80	3,039.40	36,472.80	1,603.20	3,473.60	41,683.20
o%
2000-01; 2001-02
5
07/01/01
Appendix C7
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - A
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
27/01	16.87	1,180.90	2,558.62	30,703.40	1,349.60	2,924.13	35,089.60
27/02	17.30	1,211.00	2,623.83	31,486.00	1,384.00	2,998.67	35,984.00
27/03	17.71	. 1,239.70	2,686.02	32,232.20	1,416.80	3,069.73	36,836.80
27/04	18.12	1,268.40	2,748.20	32,978.40	1,449.60	3,140.80	37,689.60
27/05	18.59	1,301.30	2,819.48	33,833.80	1,487.20	3,222.27	38,667.20
27/06	19.09	1,336.30	2,895.32	34,743.80	1,527.20	3,308.93	39,707.20
27/07	19.56	1,369.20	2,966.60	35,599.20	1,564.80	3,390.40	40,684.80
27/08	20.04	1,402.80	3,039.40	36,472.80	1,603.20	3,473.60	41,683.20
27/09	20.53	1,437.10	3,113.72	37,364.60	1,642.40	3,558.53	42,702.40
27/10	21.03	1,472.10	3,189.55	38,274.60	1,682.40	3,645.20	43,742.40
							
28/01	17.71	1,239.70	2,686.02	32,232.20	1,416.80	3,069.73	36,836.80
28/02	18.12	1,268.40	2,748.20	32,978.40	1,449.60	3,140.80	37,689.60
28/03	18.59	1,301.30	2,819.48	33,833.80	1,487.20	3,222.27	38,667.20
28/04	19.09	1,336.30	2,895.32	34,743.80	1,527.20	3,308.93	39,707.20
28/05	1.9.56	1,369.20	2,966.60	35,599.20	1,564.80	3,390.40	40,684.80
28/06	20.04	1,402.80	3,039.40	36,472.80	1,603.20	3,473.60	41,683.20
28/07	20.53	1,437.10	3,113.72	37,364.60	1,642.40	3,558.53	42,702.40
28/08	21.03	1,472.10	3,189.55	38,274.60	1,682.40	3,645.20	43,742.40
28/09	21.60	1,512.00	3,276.00	39,312.00	1,728.00	3,744.00	44,928.00
28/10	22.11	1,547.70	3,353.35	40,240.20	1,768.80	3,832.40	45,988.80
							
29/01	18.59	1,301.30	■ 2,819.48	33,833.80	1,487.20	3,222.27	38,667.20
29/02	19=09	1,336.30	2,895.32	34,743.80	1,527.20	3,308.93	39,707.20
29/03	19.56	1,369.20.	2,966.60	35,599.20	1,564.80	3,390.40	40,684.80
29/04	20.04	1,402.80	3,039.40	36,472.80	1,603.20	3,473.60	41,683.20
.29/05	20.53	1,437.10	3,113.72	37,364.60	1,642.40	3,558.53	42,702.40
29/06	21.03	1,472.10	3,189.55	38,274.60	1,682.40	3,645.20	43,742.40
29/07	21.60	1,512.00	3,276.00	39,312.00	•	1,728.00	3,744.00	44,928.00
29/08	22.11	1,547.70	3,353.35	40,240.20	1,768.80	3,832.40	45,988.80
29/09	22.69	1,588.30	3,441.32	41,295.80	1,815.20	3,932.93	47,195.20
29/1.0	23.23	1,626.10	3,523.22	42,278.60	1,858.40	4,026.53	48,318.40
							
30/01	19.56	1,369.20	2,966.60	35,599.20	1,564.80	3,390.40	40,684.80
30/02	20.04	1,402.80	3,039.40	36,472.80	1,603.20	3,473.60	41,683.20
30/03	20.53	1,437.10	3,113.72	37,364.60	1,642.40	3,558.53	42,702.40
30/04	21.03	1,472.10	3,189.55	' 38,274.60	1,682.40	3,645.20	43,742.40
30/05	21.60	1,512.00	3,276.00	39,312.00	1,728.00	3,744.00	44,928.00
30/06	22.11	1,547.70	3,353.35	40,240.20	1,768.80	3,832.40	45,988.80
30/07	22.69	1,588.30	3,441.32	41,295.80	1,815.20	3,932.93	47,195.20
30/08	23.23	1,626.10	3,523.22	42,278.60	1,858.40	4,026.53	48,318.40
30/09	23.82	1,667.40	3,612.70	43,352.40	1,905.60	4,128.80	49,545.60
30/10	24.43	1,710.10	3,705.22	44,462.60	1,954.40	4,234.53	50,814.40
o%
2000-01:2001-02
6
07/01/01
Appendix C8
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - A
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
31/01	20.53	1,437.10	3,113,72	37,364.60	1,642.40	3,558.53	42,702.40
31/02	21.03	1,472.10	3,189.55	38,274.60	1,682.40	3,645.20	43,742.40
31/03	21.60	1,512.00	. 3,276.00	39,312.00	1,728.00	3,744.00	44,928.00
31/04	22.11	1,547.70	3,353.35	40,240.20.	1,768.80	3,832.40	45,988.80
31/05	22.69	1,588.30	3,441.32	41,295.80	1,815.20	3,932.93	47,195.20
31/06	23.23	1,626.10	3,523.22	42,278.60	. 1,858.40	4,026.53	48,318.40
31/07	23.82	1,667.40	3,612.70	43,352.40	.1,905.60	4,128.80	49,545.60
31/08	24.43	1,710.10	3,705.22	44,462.60	1,954.40	4,234.53	50,814.40
31/09	25.05	1,753.50	3,799.25	45,591.00	2,004.00	4,342.00	52,104.00
31/10	25.68	1,797.60	3,894.80	46,737.60	2,054.40	' 4,451.20	53,414.40
							
32/01	21.60	1,512.00	3,276.00	39,312.00	1,728.00	3,744.00	44,928.00
32/02	22.11	1,547.70	3,353.35	40,240.20	1,768.80	3,832.40	45,988.80
32/03	22.69	1,588.30	3,441.32	41,295.80	1,815.20	3,932.93	47,195.20
32/04	23.23	1,626.10	3,523.22	42,278.60	1,858.40	4,026.53	48,318.40
32/05	23.82	1,667.40	3,612.70	43,352.40	1,905.60	4,128.80	49,545.60
32/06	24.43	1,710.10	3,705.22	44,462.60	1,954.40	4,234.53	50,814.40
32/07	25.05	1,753.50	3,799.25	45,591.00	2,004.00	4,342.00	52,104.00
32/08	25.68	1,797.60	3,894.80	46,737.60	2,054.40	4,451.20	53,414.40
32/09	26.33	1,843.10	3,993.38	47,920.60	2,106.40	4,563.87	54,766.40
32/10	26.98	1,888.60	4,091.97	49,103.60	2,158.40	4,676.53	56,118.40
							
33/01	22.69	1,588.30	3,441.32	41,295.80	1,815.20	3,932.93	47,195.20
33/02	23.23	1,626.10	3,523.22	42,278.60	1,858.40	4,026.53	48,318.40
33/03	23.82	1,667.40	3,612.70	43,352.40	1,905.60	4,128.80	49,545.60
33/04	24.43	1,710.10	3,705.22	44,462.60	1,954.40	4,234.53	50,814.40
33/05	25.05	1,753.50	3,799.25	45,591.00	2,004.00	4,342.00	52,104.00
33/06	25.68	1,797.60	3,894.80	46,737.60	2,054.40	4,451.20	53,414.40
33/07	26.33	1,843.10	3,993.38	47,920.60	2,106.40	4,563.87	54,766.40
33/08 '	26.98	1,888.60	4,091.97	49,103.60	2,158.40	4,676.53	56,118.40
33/09	27.67	1,936.90	4,196.62	50,359.40	2,213.60	4,796.13	57,553.60
33/10	28.34	1,983.80	4,298.23	51,578.80	2,267.20	4,912.27	58,947.20
							
34/01	23.82	1,667.40	3,612.70	43,352.40	1,905.60	4,128.80	49,545.60
34/02	24.43	1,710.10	3,705.22	44,462.60	1,954.40	4,234.53	50,814.40
34/03	25.05	1,753.50	3,799.25	45,591.00	2,004.00	4,342.00	52,104.00
34/04	25.68	1,797.60	3,894.80	46,737.60	2,054.40	4,451.20	53,414.40
34/05	26.33	1,843.10	3,993.38	47,920.60	2,106.40	4,563.87	54,766.40
34/06	26.98	1,888.60	4,091.97	49,103.60	2,158.40	4,676.53	56,118.40
34/07	27.67	1,936.90	4,196.62	50,359.40	2,213.60	4,796.1.3	57,553.60
34/08	28.34	1,983.80	4,298.23	51,578.80	2,267.20	4,912.27	58,947.20
34/09	29.05	2,033.50	4,405.92	52,871.00	2,324.00	5,035.33	60,424.00
34/10	29.76	2,083.20	4,513.60	54,163.20	2,380.80	5,158.40	.61,900.80
07/01/01
0%
2000-01:2001-02
7
Appendix C9
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - A
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
35/01	25.05	1,753.50	3,799.25	45,591.00	2,004,00	4,342.00	52,104.00
35/02	25.68	1,797.60	3,894.80	46,737.60	2,054.40	4,451.20	53,414.40
35/03	26.33	' 1,843.10	3,993.38	47,920.60	2,106.40	4,563.87	54,766.40
35/04	26.98	1,888.60	4,091.97	49,103.60	2,158.40	4,676.53	56,118.40
35/05	27.67	1,936.90	4,196.62	50,359.40	2,213.60	4,796.13	57,553,60
35/06	28.34	1,983.80	4,298.23	51,578.80	2,267.20	4,912.27	58,947.20
35/07	29.05	2,033.50	4,405.92	52,871.00	2,324,00	5,035.33	60,424,00
35/08	29.76	2,083.20	4,513.60	54,163.20	2,380.80	5,158.40	61,900.80
35/09	30.52	2,136.40	4,628.87	55,546.40	2,441.60	5,290.13	63,481.60
35/10	31.26	2,188.20	4,741.10	56,893.20	2,500.80	5,418.40	65,020.80
o%
2000-01; 2001-02
8
07/01/01
Appendix CIO
APPENDIX C
SEPARATE SCHEDULE CLASSES
SALARY SCHEDULE A
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Special Assistant -	SA	$10.95	$766.50
Severely Mentally &	SB	11.19	783.30
Physically Challenged	SC	11.48	803.60
	SD	11.82	827.40
	SE	12.14	849.80
	SF	12.44	870.80
	SG	12.76	893.20
	SH	13.08	915.60
	SI	13.40	938.00
	SJ.	13.72	960:40
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Teacher Assistant	SA	$10:41	$728.70
	SB	10.66	746.20
	SC	■ 10.95	766.50
	SD	11.19	783.30
	SE	11.48	803.60
	SF	11.82	827.40
	SG	12.14	849.80
	SH	12.44	870.80
	SI	12.76	893.20
	SJ	13.08	915.60
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Computer Assistant	SA	$10.41	$728.70
	SB	10.66	746.20
	SC	10.95	766.50
	SD	11.19	783.30
	SE	11.48	803.60
	- SF	11.82	827.40
	SG	12.14	849.80
	SH	12.44	870.80
	SI	12.76	893.20
	SJ	13.08	915.60
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Clinical Assistant	SA	$10.41	$728.70
	SB	10.66	746.20
	SC	10.95	766.50
	SD	11.19	783.30
	SE	11.48	803.60
	SF	11.82	827.40
	SG	12.14	849.80
	SH	12.44	870.80
Appendix C11
APPENDIX C
SEPARATE SCHEDULE CLASSES
SALARY SCHEDULE A
	Range	Step	Hourly
Bus Driver	BD	BA	$9.89
	BD	BB	10.18
	BD	BC	10.49
	BD	BD	10.74
	BD	BE	11.01
	BD	BF	11.29
	BD	BG	11.55
	BD	BH	11.87
	BD	Bl	12.14
	BD	BJ	12.45
Bus Driver/Special Education	BD/SE	BA	10.49
	BD/SE	BB	10.74
	BD/SE	BC	11.01
	BD/SE	BD	11.29
	BD/SE	BE	11.55
	BD/SE	BF	11.87
	BD/SE	BG	12.14
	BD/SE	BH	12.45
	BD/SE	Bl	12.77
	BD/SE	BJ	13.06
Bus Driver/lnstructor-Evaluator	BD/IE	BA	11.01
	BD/IE	BB	11.29
	BD/IE	BC	11.55
	BD/IE	BD	11.87
	BD/IE	BE	12.14
	BD/IE	BF	12.45
	BD/IE	BG	12.77
	BD/IE	BH	13.06
	BD/IE	Bl	13.61
	BD/IE	BJ	1372
Appendix C12
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE "B" 2001-2002 EMPLOYER/EMPLOYEE PAID RETIREMENT
1. Full Schedule Classes
19	Account Clerk 1
20	Account Clerk II
15 Account Clerk Trainee
22 Account Technician
20 Accountability Technician
23 Administrative Investigator
20	Administrative Secretary I
21	Administrative Secretary II
23 Administrative Secretary Ill
19	Assistant Carpenter
20	Assistant Head Custodian I
21	Assistant Head Custodian II
20	Assistant Mechanic
22	Assistant Site Coordinator (21s')
19 Assistant Upholsterer
19 Attendance Officer
23 Audio Visual Media Technician
21 Audio Visual Technician
19 Audit Clerk
13 Bindery Machine Operator
26 Building Inspector
22 Buyer 1
25 Buyer II
17 Campus Supervisor
25 Carpenter
28 Carpenter Shop Supervisor
21 Case Manager (Family Focus)
23 Central Sendees Liaison
22 Central Substitute Dispatcher
22 Cert Occup Therapy Asst/SpEd
14	Clerk
15	Clinical Aide
35 COBOL/SQL Developer
26 Computer Fiber Optic Supp Tech
30 Computer Operations Supervisor
22 Comp Oper Testing/Evaluation
19 Computer Operator 1
21	Computer Operator II
22	Computer Support Specialist
24 Computer Support Technician I
26 Computer Support Technician II
28 Computer Support Technician III
24 Computer Technology Trainer
32 Comp Tech Training Supervisor
25 Custodial Coordinator
24 Custodial Training Coordinator
15 Custodian
26 Data Analyst -BI-TECH
26 Data Analyst - SASI-xp
26 Data Analyst - SNAP
14 Dining Room Chef/Manager
20	Dispatch Technician 1
21	Dispatch Technician II
18 Dispatch Technician Assistant
28 Drafting Technician
21	Early Childhood Specialist (COW)
22	Electrician 1
26 Electrician II
26 Electronic Systems Technician
25 Electronic Technician-Audio Visual
25 Elec Technician-Photocopiers
25 Elec Tech-Video Systems
25 Elec Tech-Word Processor/Typewrite
28 Energy Systems Analyst
22 Environmental Assessment Tech 1
25 Environmental Assessment Tech II
20 Equipment Operator
IS Equipment Service Technician
29 Equipment Shop Supervisor
17 Family Advocate I
21 Family Advocate II
15	Fuel Island Attendant
17	Garage Service Attendant
18	Groundskeeper I
19	Groundskeeper II
28 Groundskeeper Supervisor
20	Head Custodian 1
21	Head Custodian II
22	Head Custodian III
22	Help Desk/Support Technician
18 Home Educator Advocate-Title I
21 Human Resource Technician
28 HVAC Shop Supervisor
26 HV AC Systems Controls Tech
33 Internet Services Technician
19 Irrigation Systems Maintainer
19 Job Developer/Coach
26 Lead Electronic Technician
14	Lead Nutrition Service Worker
16	Library Assistant I
18	Library Assistant ll
19	Library Associate I
21 Library Associate II
21 Locksmith
17	Mail Clerk 1
18	Mail Clerk II
20 Maintenance Technician I
22 Maintenance Technician 11
25 Mechanic I
27 Mechanic II
30 Mechanic Shop Supervisor
26 Mechanical Technician
21 Mentor Program Coordinator
25 Musical Instrument Technician
30 Network Analyst-LAN
30. Network Analyst-WAN
35 Network Support Supervisor
22 NS Applicance Technician I
25 NS Applicance Technician II
27 NS Applicance Tech Supervisor
14 NS Assistant Manager II
21 NS Assistant Supervisor
18	NS Banquet Manager
19	NS Kitchen Manager
26 NS Computer Technician
13 NS Computer Technology Trainer
12 NS Dishwasher (Bi-Weekly)
13 NS Elem Manager (Bi-Weekly)
13 NS Elem Manager (Hourly)
19 NS Field Supervisor
24 NS Inventory Control Technician
16 NS Manager I
18 NS Manager II
28 NS Prod Facilities Supervisor
25 NS Supervisor
12 NS Worker 1
18 Offset Machine Operator I
21 Offset Machine Operator II
15 Offset Machine Operator Trainee
21	Painter I
25	Painter II
28	Paint Shop Supervisor
17 Parent Involvement Facilitator-Title I
26 Personnel Technician
22	Plumber I
26	Plumber II
Effective July 1, 2001
27	Preventive Main & Assess Supervisor
21 Preventive Maintenance Technician
29 Print Shop Supervisor
22 Program Facilitator
20 Program Services Technician I
22 Program Services Technician II
22 Property Control Technician
10 Pupil Transportation Assistant
21 Records & Documents Technician
28 Regulated Systems Specialist
22 Remodel Shop Technician
28 Remodel Supervisor
26 Risk Management Technician
24 Roofing Technician
20 School Bookkeeper
20 School Police Dispatch l ech I
20	School Registrar
21	School Secretary
17 Secretary 1
18 Secretary II
16 Senior Clerk
16 Senior Film Library Clerk
22 Senior School Secretary
21 Senior School Secretary-Magnet HS
35 Senior Systems Analyst
23 Site Coordinator (21s1 Century)
19 Small Engine Mechanic
24 Software Support Specialist-BI-TECH
24	Software Support Specialist-SASI-xp
25	Special Program Coordinator
21 Special Projects Coordinator
23 Special Projects Coordinator/STOP
19 Specialized Health Care Technician
25 Speech Pathologist Technician
18 Storekeeper I
20 Storekeeper II
22 Student Accounting Assistant -Student Attendance CRT
18 Student Records Secretary
17 Switchboard Operator/Rcceptionist
33 Systems Analyst
30 Systems Applications Programmer
10	Teacher Aide
11	Teacher Aide/Special Education
15 Teacher Aide/Hearing Impaired
24 Telecommunications Support Spec
19	Translation Specialist
20	Transportation Instnictor/Evaluator
23 Transportation Safety Supervisor
26 Transportation Site Supervisor
23 Transportation Training Supervisor
20 Typesetter/Graphic Artist
25 Upholsterer
35 Visual Basic/SQL Developer
24 Warehouse Supervisor
18 Warehouse Worker/Driver I
20 Warehouse Worker/Driver II
16 Warehouse Worker/Mail Clerk
20 Welder
27 Wellness Coordinator
Appendix C13
10/01
c:docs.clsscha.mj
APPENDIX C
II.	Separate Schedule Classes
Special Assistant-Severely Mentally & Physically Challenged
Teacher Assistant
Computer Assistant Clinical Assistant.
Bus Driver
Bus Driyer/lnstructor-Evaluator
Bus Driver/Special Education
III.	Non-Scheduled Classes
Classification
AVID Tutor Student Worker Work Study Student
See Separate Schedule Classes
See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes
See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes See Separate Schedule Classes
Hourly Rate
$7.00
5.92
5.51
SCHEDULE NOTES
I.	Full Schedule Classes
Employees in these classifications will have, in addition to their annual wages, approximately 9.75% of the annual wages paid by the Washoe County School District to the Public Employees Retirement System (PERL for retirement benefits. The employee, in turn, has approximately 9.75% of his/her salary withheld.
II.	Separate Schedule Classes
Employees in these classifications have the same retirement contributions made as employees in the Full Schedule Classes.
III.	Non-Scheduled Classes
Employees in these classifications with a regular workweek which averages 20 hours or more will have, in addition to their salary, approximately 9.75% of the salary paid by the Washoe County School District to-the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) for retirement benefits. The employee, in turn, has approximately 9.75% of his/her salary withheld.'
Schedule “B”
07/01
Appendix C14
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - B
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
07/01	6.91	483.70	1,048.02	12,576.20	552.80	1,197.73	14,372.80
07/02	7.07	494.90	1,072.28	12,867.40	565.60	1,225.47	14,705.60
07/03	7.25	507.50	1,099.58	13,195,00	580.00	1,256.67	15,080.00
07/04	7.48	523.60	1,134.47	13,613.60	598.40	1,296.53	15,558.40
07/05	7.62	533.40	1,155.70	13,868.40	609.60	1,320.80	15,849.60
07/06	7.82	547.40	1,186.03	14,232.40	625.60	1,355.47	16,265.60
07/07	8.02	561.40	1,216.37	14,596.40	641.60	1,390.13	16,681.60
07/08	8.23	576.10	1,248.22	14,978.60	658.40	1,426.53	17,118.40
07/09	8.39	587.30	1,272.48	15,269.80.	671.20	1,454.27	17,451.20
07/10	. 8.59	601.30	1,302.82	15,633.80	687.20	1,488.93	17,867.20
							
08/01	7.25	507.50	1,099.58	13,195.00	580.00	1,256.67	15,080.00
08/02	7.48	523.60	1,134.47	13,613.60	598.40	1,296.53	15,558.40
08/03	7.62	533.40	1,155.70	13,868.40	609.60	1,320.80	15,849.60
08/04	7.82	547.40	1,186.03	14,232.40	625.60	1,355.47	16,265.60
08/05	8.02	561.40	1,216.37	14,596.40	641.60	1,390.13	16,681.60
08/06	8.23	576.10	1,248.22	14,978.60.	658.40	1,426.53	17,118.40
08/07	8.39	587.30	1,272.48	15,269.80	671.20	1,454.27	17,451.20
08/08	8.59	601.30	1,302.82	15,633;80	687.20	1,488.93	17,867.20
08/09	8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
08/10	9.08	635.60	1,377.13	16,525.60	726.40	1,573.87	18,886.40
							
09/01	7.62	533.40.	1,155.70'	13,868.40	609.60	1,320.80	15,849.60
09/02	7.82	547.40	1,186.03	14,232.40	625.60	1,355.47	16,265.60,
09/03	8.02	561.40	1,216.37	14,596.40	641.60	1,390.13	16,681.60
09/04	8.23	576.10	1,248.22	14,978.60	658.40	1,426.53	17,118.40
09/05	8.39	587.30	1,272.48	15'269.80	671.20	1,454.27	17,451.20
09/06	8.59	601.30	1,302.82	15,633.80	687.20	1,488.93	17,867.20
09/07	8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	. 1,539.20	18,470.40
09/08	9.08	635.60	1,377.13	16,525.60	726.40	1,573.87	18,886.40
09/09	9.32	652.40	1,413.53	16,962.40	745.60	1,615.47	19,385.60
09/10	9.54	667.80	1,446.90	17,362.80	763.20	1,653.60	19,843.20
							
10/01	8.02	561.40	1,216.37	14,596.40	641.60	1,390.13	16,681.60
10/02	8.23d	576.10	1,248.22	14,978.60	658.40	1,426.53	17,118.40
10/03	8.39	587.30	1,272.48	15,269.80	671.20	1,454.27	17,451.20
10/04	8.59	601.30	1,302.82	15,633.80	687.20	1,488.93	17,867.20
10/05	8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
10/06	9.08	635.60	1,377.13	16,525.60	726.40	1,573.87	18,886.40
10/07	9.32	652.40	1,413.53	16,962.40	745.60	1,615.47	19,385.60
10/08	9.54	667.80	1,446.90	17,362.80	763.20	1,653.60	19,843.20
' 10/09	9.75	682.50	1,478.75	17,745.00	780.00	1,690.00	20,280.00
10/10	10.01	700.70	1,518.18	18,218.20	800.80	1,735.07	20,820.80
07/01/01
o%
2000-01; 2001-02
1
Aooendix C15
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - B
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
11/01	8.39	587.30	1,272.48	15,269.80	671.20	1,454.27	17,451.20
11/02	8.59	601.30	1,302.82	15,633.80	687.20	1,488.93	17,867.20
11/03	8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
11/04	9.08	635.60	1,377.13	16,525.60	726.40	1,573.87	18,886.40
11/05	9.32	652.40	1,413.53	16,962.40	745-60	1,615.47	19,385.60
11/06	9.54	667.80	1,446.90	17,362.80	763.20	1,653.60	19,843.20
11/07	9.75	682.50	1,478.75	17,745.00	780.00	1,690.00	20,280.00
11/08	10.01	700.70	1,518.18	18,218’20	800.80	1,735.07	20,820.80
11/09	10.27	718.90	1,557.62	18,691.40	821.60	1,780.13	21,361.60
11/10	10.51	735.70	1,594.02	19,128.20	840.80	1,821.73	21,860.80
							
12/01	8.88	621.60	1,346.80	16,161.60	710.40	1,539.20	18,470.40
12/02	9.08	635.60	1,377.13	16,525.60	726.40	1,573.87	18,886.40
12/03	9.32	652.40	1,413.53	16,962.40	745.60	1,615.47	19,385.60
12/04	9.54	667.80	1,446.90	17,362.80	763.20	1,653.60	19,843.20
12/05	9.75	682.50	1,478.75	17,745.00	780.00	1,690.00	20,280.00
12/06	10.01	700.70	1,518.18	18,218.20	800.80	1,735.07	20,820.80
12/07	10.27	718.90	1,557.62	18,691.40	821.60	1,780.13	21,361.60
12/08	10.51	735.70	1,594.02	19,128.20	840.80	1,821.73	21,860.80
12/09	10.79	755.30	1,636.48	19,637.80	863.20	1,870.27	22,443.20
12/10	11.02	771.40	1,671.37	20,056.40	881.60	1,910.13	22,921.60
							
13/01	9.32	652.40	1,413.53	16,962.40	745.60	1,615.47	19,385.60
13/02	9.54	667.80	1,446.90	17,362.80	763.20	1,653.60	19,843.20
13/03	9.75	682.50	1,478.75	17,745.00	780.00	1,690.00.	20,280.00.
13/04	10.01	700.70	1,518.18	18,218.20	800.80	1,735.07	20,820.80
13/05	10.27	718.90	1,557.62	18,691.40	821.60	1,780.13	21,361.60
13/06	10.51	735.70	1,594.02	19,128.20	840.80	1,821.73	21,860.80
13/07	10.79	755.30	1,636,48	19,637.80	863.20	1,870.27	22,443.20
13/08	11.02	771.40	1,671.37	20,056.40	881.60	1,910.13	22,921.60
13/09	11.31	791.70	1,715.35	20,584.20	904.80	1,960.40	23,524.80
13/10	11.65.	815.50	1,766.92	21,203.00	932.00	2,019-33	24,232.00
							
14/01	9.75	682.50	1,478.75	■ 17,745.00	780.00	1,690.00	20,280.00
14/02	10.01	700.70	1,518.18	18,218.20	800.80	1,735.07	20,820.80
14/03	10.27	718.90	1,557,62	18,691.40	821.60	1,780.13	21,361.60
14/04	10.51.	73570	1,594.02	19,128.20	840.80	1,821.73	21,860.80
14/05	10.79	■ 755.30	1,636.48	19,637.80	863.20	1,870.27	22,443.20
14/06	11.02	771.40	1,671.37	20,056.40	881.60	1,910.13	22,921.60
14/07	11.31	791.70	1,715.35	20,584.20	904.80	1,960.40	23,524.80
14/08	11.65	815.50	1,766.92	21,203.00	932.00	2,019.33	24,232.00
14/09	11.90	833.00	1,804.83	21,658.00	952.00	2,062.67	24,752.00
14/10	12.19	853.30	1,848.82	22,185.80	975.20	2,112.93	25,355.20
0%
2000-01; 2001-02
2
07/01/01
Appendix C16
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - B
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
15/01	10.27	718.90	1,557,62	18,691.40	821.60	1,780.13	21,361.60
15/02	10.51	735.70	1,594.02	19,128.20	840,80	1,821.73	21,860.80
15/03	10.79	755.30	1,636,48	19,637.80	863,20	1,870.27	22,443.20
15/04	11.02	771.40	1,671.37	20,056.40	881,60	1,910.13	22,921.60
15/05	11.31	791.70	1,715.35	20,584.20	904-80	1,960.40	, 23,524,80
15/06	11.65	815.50	1,766.92	21,203.00	932.00	2,019.33	24,232.00
15/07	11.90	833.00	1,804.83	21,658.00	952.00.	2,062.67	24,752.00
15/08	12.19	853.30	1,848.82	22,185.80	97.5.20	2,112.93	25,355.20
15/09	12.52	876.40	1,898.87	. . 22,786,40	'• . 1,001.60	2,170.13.	26,041.60
15/10	12.79	895.30	1,939.82	23,277.80	1,023.20	2,216.93	26,603.20
							
16/01	10.79	755.30	1,636.48	19,637.80	863.20	1,870.27	22,443.20
16/02	11.02	771.40	1,671.37	20,056.40	881.60	1,910.13	22,921.60
16/03	11.31	791.70	1,715.35	20,584.20	904.80	1,960.40	23,524.80
16/04	11.65	815.50 ■	1,766:92	, 21,203.00	932.00	2,019.33	24,232.00
16/05	11.90	833.00	1,804.83	. 21,658.00	952.00	2,062.67	24,752.00
16/06	12.19	853.30	1,848.82	22,185,80	975.20	2,112.93	25,355.20
16/07	12.52	876.40	1,898.87	. 22,786.40	1,001.60	2,170.13	26,041 -60
16/08	12.79,	895.30	1,939.82	23,277.80	1,023.20	2,216.93	26,603.20
16/09	13.13	919.10	1,991,38	23,896.60	1,050.40	2,275.87	27,310.40
16/10	13.47	942.90	2,042.95	24,515.40	1,077.60	2,334.80	28,017.60
							
17/01	11.31	791,70	1,715.35	.20,584.20.	904.80	1,960,40	23,524.80
17/02	11.65	815.50	1,766.92	21,203.00	932.00	2,019.33	24,232.00
17/03	11.90	833.00	1,804.83	21,658.00	952.00.	2,062.67	24,752.00
17/04	12.19	853.30	1,848.82	22,185.80	975.20	2,112.93	25,355.20
17/05	12.52	876.40	1,898.87	22,786.40	1,001.60	2,170.13	26,041.60
17/06	12.79,	895.30	1,939.82	23,277.80	1,023.20	2,216.93	26,603.20
17/07	13.13	919.10	1,991.38	23,896.60	1,050.40	2,275.87	27,310.40
17/08	13.47	942.90	2,042.95	. 24,515.40	1,077.60	2,334.80	28,017.60
17/09	13.82	967.40	. 2,096.03	25,152.40	• 1,105.60	2,395.47	28,745.60
17/10	.14.18	992.60	2,150.63	25,807.60	1,134.40	2,457.87	29,494.40
							
18/01	11.90	833.00	1,804.83	21,658.00	952.00	2,062.67	24,752.00
18/02	12.19	853.30	1,848.82	. 22; 185.80	975.20	2,112.93	25,355.20
18/03	12.52	876.40	1,898.87	22,786.40	1,001.60	2,170.13	26,041.60
18/04	12.79	895.30	1,939.82	23,277.80	1,023.20	2,216.93	26,603.20
18/05	13.13	919.10	1,991.38	23,896.60	1,050.40	2,275:87	- 27,310.40
18/06	13.47	942.90	. 2,042.95	24,515.40	. 1,077.60	2,334.80	28,017.60
18/07	13.82	967.40	2,096.03	/ 25,152.40	1,105.60	2,395.47	28,745.60
18/08	14.18	992.60	2,150.63	25,807.60	1,134.40	2,457.87	29,494.40
.18/09	14.50	1,015.00	2,199.17	26,390.00	1,160.00	2,513.33	30,160.00
| 18/10	14.84	1,038.80	2,250.73	27,008.80	1,187.20	2,572.27	30,867.20
0%
2000-01; 2001-02
07/01701
Appendix C17
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - B
INDEX .	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
19/01	12.52	876.40	1,898.87	22,786.40	1,001.60	2,170.13	26,041.60
19/02	12.79	895.30	1,939,82.	23,277.80	1,023.20	2,216:93	26,603.20
19/03 '•	13.13	919.10	1,991.38	23,896.60	1,050.40	2,275.87	27,310.40
19/04	13-47	942.90	2,042.95	24,515.40	■ 1,077.60	. 2,334.80	28,017.60
19/05	13.82	967.40	2,096.03	25,152.40	1,105-60	2,395.47	28,745.60
19/06	14.18	992.60	2,150,63	25,807.60	1,134,40	2,457.87	29,494.40
19/07	14.50	1,015.00	2,199,17	26,390.00	1,160.00	2,513.33	30,160.00
19/08	14.84	1,038.80	2,250.73	27,008.80	1,187.20	2,572.27	30,867.20
19/09	15.24	1,066.80	2,311,40	27,736.80	1,219.20	2,641.60	31,699.20
19/1,0	15'59	1,091,30	2,364.48	28,373.80	1,247.20	2,702.27	32,427.20
							
20/01	‘ 13.13	919.10	1,991.38	23,896.60	1,050.40	2,275.87	27,310.40
20/02	13.47	942.90	2,042.95	24,515.40	1,077.60	2,334.80	28,017.60
20/03	13.82	967,40	2,096.03	25,152.40	1,105.60	2,395.47	28,745.60
20/04 -	14.18	992.60	2,150.63	25,807.60	1,134.40	2,457.87	29,494.40
20/05	14.50	1,015.00	2,199.17	: 26,390.00	1,160.00	2,513.33	30,160.00
20/06	14.84	1,038.80	2,250.73	27,008.80	1,187.20	2,572.27	30,867.20
20/07	■	15.24	1,066.80	2,311.40	27,736.80	1,219.20	2,641.60	31,699.20
20/08	15.59	1,091.30	2,364.48	28,373.80	1,247.20	2,702.27	32,427.20
20/09	16.02	1,121.40	2,429.70	29,156.40	1,281.60	2,776.80	33,321.60
20/1;0	16:40	1,148.00	2,487.33	29,848.00	1,312.00	2,842.67	34,112.00
							
21/01	13.82	967.40	2,096,03	25,152.40	1,105.60	2,395.47	28,745.60
21/02	14.18	992.60	2,150.63	25,807.60	1,134.40	2,457.87	29,494.40
21/03	14.50	1,015.00	2,199.17	26,390.00	1,160.00	2,513.33	30,160.00
21/04	14.84	1,038.80	2,250.73..	27,008.80.	1,187.20	2,572.27	30,867.20
21/05	15.24	. 1,066.80	2,311.40	27,736.80	1,219.20	2,641.60	31,699.20
21/06	1.5,59	1,091.30	2,364.48	28,373.80	1,247.20	2,702.27	32,427.20
21/07	16.02	1,121.40	2,429.70	. 29,156.40	1,281.60	2,776.80	33,321.60
21/08	1.6.40	1,148.00	2,487.33	’ 29,848.00	1,312.00	2,842.67	34,112.00
21/09	16.81	1,176.70	2,549.52	30,594.20	1,344.80	2,913.73	34,964.80
21/10	’ 17.21	1,204.70	2,610.18	3.1,322.20	1,376.80	2,983.07	35,796.80
							
22/01	. 14.50	1,015.00	2,199.17	26,390.00	;	1,160.00	2,513.33	30,160.00
22/02	14.84	1,038.80	2,25073	. 27,008.80	. 1,187.20	2,572.27	30,867.20
22/03	15.24	'. 1,066,80	2,311.40	- 27,736.80	1,219.20	2,641.60	31,699.20
22/04	15.59	1,091.30	2,364.48	28,373.80	1,247.20	2,702.27	32,427.20
22/05	. 16 02	1,121.40	2,429.70 ‘	29,156.40	1,281.60	2,776.80	33,321.60
22/06	16.40	1,148.00	2,487.33	29,848.00	1,312.00	2,842:67	34,112.00
22/07	16,81	1,176.70	2,549.52	30,594.20	' 1,344.80	2,913.73	34,964.80
22/08	17.21	1,204.70	2,610,18	31,322.20	1,376.80	2,983.07	35,796.80
22/09	' 17.69	1,238.30	2,682.98	32,195.80	1,415.20	3,066.27	36,795.20
22/10	18.08	1,265.60	2,742.13	32,905.60	1,446.40	3,133.87	37,606.40
0%
2000-01; 2001-02
07/01/01
Appendix C18
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - B
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
23/01	15.24	1,066.80	2,311.40	27,736.80	1,219.20	2,641.60	31,699.20
23/02	15.59	1,091.30	2,364.48	. 28,373.80	1,247.20	2,702.27	32,427.20
23/03	16.02	1,121.40	2,429.70	29,156.40	1,281.60	2,776.80	33,321.60
23/04	16.40	1,148.00	2,487.33	29,848.00	1.31200	2,842.67	34,112.00
23/05	16.81	1,176.70	2,549.52	30,594.20	1,344;80	2,913.73	34,964.80
23/06	17.21	1,204.70	. 2,610.18	31,322.20	1,376.80	2,98307	. 35,796.80
23/07	17.69	' .. 1,238.30	2,682.98.	32,195.80	. 1,415.20	3,066.27	36,795.20
23/08	18.08'	1,265.60	2,742.13	. 32,905.60	. i ,446.40	3,133.87	, 37,606.40
23/09	18.55	1,298.50	. 2,813.42	33,761.00	. 1,484.00	3,215.33	38,584.00
23/10	19.04	1,332.80	2,887.73	34,652,80	1,523.20	3,300.27	39,603.20
							
24/01	16.02	1,121.40	2,429.70	29,156.40	1,281.60	2,776.80	33,321.60
24/02	16.40	. 1,148.00	2,487.33	29,848.00.	1,312.00	2,842,67	34,112.00
24/03	16.81	1,176.70	2,549.52	30,594.20	1,344.80	2,913,73	: 34,964.80
24/04	17.21	.1,204.70	2,610.18	31,322.20	1,376.80	2,983.07	35,796.80
24/05	17.69	1,238.30	2,682.98	32,195.80	‘ , 1,415.20	3,066.27	36,795.20.
24/06	18.08	1,265.60	2,742.13	32,905.60	1,446.40-	3,133.87	37,606.40
24/07	18.55	1,298.50	2,813.42	33,761.00	1,484.00	3,215.33	38,584.00
24/08	19.04	1,332.80.	2,887.73	34,652.80	1,523.20	3,300.27	39,603.20
24/09	19.50	1,365.00	.2,957.50	35,490.00	1,560.00	3,380.00	40,560.00
24/10	19.94	1,395.80	3,024.23	36,290.80	1,595.20	3,456.27	41,475.20
							
25/01	16.81	1,176.70	2,549.52	30,594.20	1,344.80	2,913.73	34,964.80
25/02	17.21	1,204.70	2,610.18	31,322.20	1,376.80	2,983.07	35,796.80
25/03	17.69	1,238.30	, 2,682.98	32,195.80	1,415.20	3,066.27	36,795.20
25/04	18.08	1,265.60	2,742.13;	32,905.60	1,446.40	3,133.87	37,606.40
25/05	18.55	1,298.50	2,813.42	33,761.00	1,484.00	3215.33	38,584.00
25/06	19.04	1,332.80	2,887.73	34,652.80	1,523.20	3,300.27	39,603.20
25/07	19.50	1,365.00	2,957.50	35,490.00	1,560.00	3,380.00	40,560.00
25/08	19.94	1,395.80	3,024.23	36,290.80	.1,595.20	3,456.27	41,475.20
25/09	20.45	1,431.50	3,101.58	37,219.00	1,636.00	3,544.67	42,536.00
25/10	21.01	1,470.70	3,186.52	38,238.20	1,680.80	3,641.73	43,700.80
							
26/01	17.69	1,238.30	2,682.98	32,195.80	1,415.20	3,066.27	36,795.20
26/02	18.08	1,265.60	2,742.13	; 32,905.60	1,446.40	3,133.87	37,606.40
26/03	18.55	1,298.50	2,813.42	33,761.00	1,484.00	3,215.33	38,584.00
26/04	19.04	1,332.80	2,887.73	34,652.80	1,523.20	3,300.27	39,603.20
26/05	19.50	1,365.00	2,957.50	35,490.00	1,560.00	. 3,380.00	40,560.00
26/06	19.94	1,395.80	3,024.23	36,290.80	1,595.20	3,456.27	41,475.20
26/07	20.45	1,431.50	3,101.58	37,219.00	1,636.00	3,544,67	42,536.00
26/08	21.01	1,470.70	3,186.52	38,238.20	1,680.80	3,641.73	43,700.80
26/09	21.55	1,508.50	3,268.42	39,221.00	1,724.00	3,735.33	44,824.00
26/10	22.07	1,544.90	3,347.28	40,167.40	1,765.60	3,825.47	45,905.60.
5
0%
2000-01; 2001-02
07/01/01
Appendix C19

WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - B
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
27/01	18.55	1,298.50	2,813.42	33,761.00	1,484.00	3,215.33	38,584.00
27/02	19.04	1,332.80	2,887.73	34,652.80	1,523.20	3,300.27	39,603.20
27/03	19.50	1,365.00	2,957.50	35,490.00	1,560.00	3,380.00	40,560.00
27/04	19.94	1,395.80	3,024.23	36,290.80	1,595.20	3,456.27	41,475.20
27/05	20.45	1,431.50	•3,101.58	. 37,219.00	1,636.00	3,544.67	42,536.00
27/06	21.01	1,470.70	3,186.52	38,238.20	1,680.80	3,641.73	■ 43,700.80
27/07	21.55	1,508.50	3,268.42	39,221.00	1,724.00	3,735.33	44,824.00
27/08	22.07	1,544.90	3,347.28	40,167.40	1,765.60	3,825.47	45,905.60
27/09	22.60	1,582.00	3,427.67	41,132.00	1,808.00	3,917.33	47,008.00
27/10	23.15	1,620.50	3,511.08	42,133.00	1,852.00	4,012.67	48,152.00
							
28/01	’ 19.50	1,365.00	2,957.50	35,490.00	1,560.00	3,380.00	40,560.00
28/02	19.94	1,395.80	3,024.23.	36,290.80	1,595.20	3,456.27	41,475.20
28/03	20.45	1,431.50	3,101.58	37,219.00	1,636.00	3,544.67	42,536.00
28/04	21.01	1,470.70	3,186.52	38,238.20	1,680.80	3,641.73	43,700.80
28/05	21.55	1,508.50	3,268.42	39,221.00	1,724.00	3,735.33	44,824.00
28/06	22.07	1,544.90	3,347.28	40,167.40	1,765.60	3,825.47	45,905.60
28/07	22.60	1,582.00	3,427.67	41,132.00	1,808.00	3,917-33	47,008.00
28/08	23.15	1,620.50	3,511.08	42,133.00	1,852.00	4,012.67	48,152.00
28/09	23.75	1,662.50	3,602.08	43,225.00	1,900-00	4,116.67	49,400.00
28/10	24.33	1,703.10	3,690.05	44,280.60	1,946.40	4;217.20	50,606.40
							
29/01	20.45	1,431.50	3,101.58	37,219.00	1,636.00	3,544.67	42,536.00
29/02	21.01	1,470.70	3,186.52	38,238.20	1,680.80	3,641.73	43,700.80
29/03	21.55	1,508.50	3,268.42	39,221.00	1,724.00	3,735.33	44,824.00
29/04	22.07	. 1,544.90	3,347.28	40,167.40	1,765.60	3,825.47	45,905.60
29/05	22.60	1,582.00	3,427.67	’ 41,132.00	1,808.00	3,917.33	47,008.00
29/06	23.15	1,620.50	3,511.08	42,133.00	1,852.00	4,012.67	48,152.00
29/07	23.75	1,662.50	3,602.08	43,225-00	1,900.00	4,116.67	49,400.00
29/08 ’	24.33	1,703.10	3,690.05-	44,280.60	1,946.40	4,217.20	50,606.40
29/09	24.97	1,747.90	3,787.12	45,445.40	1,997.60	4,328.13	51,937.60
29/10	25.55	1,788.50	3,875.08	46,501.00	2,044.00	4,428.67	53,144.00
		>			1		
30/01	21.55	1,508'50	3,268.42	39,221.00	1,724.00	3,735.33	44,824.00
30/02	22.07	1,544.90	• 3,347.28	40,167.40	1,765.60	3,825.47	45,905.60
30/03	22;60	1,582,00	3,427.67	41,132.00	1,808.00	3,917.33	47,008.00
30/04	23.15	1,620.50	3,511.08.	42,133.00	1,852.00	4,012.67	48,152.00
30/05	23.75	1,662.50	3,602.08	43,225.00	1,900.00	4,116.67	49,400.00
30/06	24.33	1,703.10	3,690.05	44,280.60	1,946.40	. 4,217.20	50,606.40
30/07	24.97	1,747.90	3,787.12	. 45,445.40	1,997.60	4,328.13	51,937.60
30/08	25.55	1,788.50	3,875.08	46,501.00	2,044.00	4,428.67	53,144.00
30/09	26.19	1,833.30	3,972.15	47,665.80	2,095.20	4,539.60	54,475.20
30/10	26.89	1,882.30	4,078.32	48,939.80	2,151.20	4,660.93	55,931.20
0%
2000-01; 2001-02
07/01/01
Appendix C20
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - B
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
31/01	22.60	1,582.00	3,427,67.	-. 41,132.00	1,808.00	3,917.33	47,008.00
31/02	23.15	1,620.50	3,511.08	42,133.00	1,852.00	4,012.67	48,152.00
31/03	23.75	1,662.50	, 3,602.08	43,225,00	1,900.00	4,116.67	49,400.00
31/04	24.33	1,703.10	3,690.05	44,280.60	1,946.40	4,217.20	50,606.40
31/05	.24:97	1,747.90	3,787.12	45,445.40	1,997.60	4,328.13.	51,937.60
31/06	25.55	1,788.50	3,875.08	46,501.00	2,044.00	4,428.67	53,144.00
31/07	26.19	1,833.30	3,972.15	47,665.80	2,095.20	4,539,60	54,475.20
31/08	26.89.	. 1,882.30	. 4,078.32	48,939.80	2,151.20	4,660-93	55,931.20
31/09	27.56	1,929.20	4,179.93	50,159.20	2,204.80.	. 4,777.07	57,324.80 ‘
31/10	28.26	1,978.20	4,286.10	51,433.20	2,260.80	4,898.40	58,780.80
							
32/01	23.75	1,662.50	3,602.08	43,225.00	1,900.00	4,116,67	49,400.00
32/02	24.33	1,703.10	3,690.05	44,280.60	1,946.40	4,217.20	50,606.40
32/03	24.97	1,747.90	3,787.12	45,445.40	1,997.60	4,328,13	51,937.60
32/04	25.55	1,788.50	3,875.08	46,501.00	2,044.00	4,428.67	53,144.00
32/05	26.19	1,833.30	3,972.15	,47,665.80	2,095.20	4,539.60	54,475.20
32/06	26.89	1,882.30	4,078,32	48,939,80	■ 2,151.20	4,660.93	55,931.20
32/07	27.56	1,929.20	4,179.93	50,159.20	2,204.80	4,777.07	57,324.80
32/08	28.26	1,978.20	4,286.10	51,433.20	2,260.80	4,898.40	58,780.80
32/09	28.96	2,027.20	4,392.27	52,707.20	2,316.80	•5,019,73	60,236.80
32/10	29.71	2,079.70	4,506.02	' 54,072.20	2,376.80	5,149.73	61,796.80
							
33/01	24.97	1,747.90	3,787.12	45,445.40	1,997.60	4,328.13	51,937.60
33/02	25.55.	1,788.50	3,875.08	46,501.00	2,044.00	4,428.67	53,144.00
33/03	26.19	1,833.30	3,972.15	. 47,665.80	2,095.20	4,539.60	54,475.20
33/04	26.89	1,882.30	4,078.32	48,939.80	2,151.20	4,660.93	55,931.20-
33/05	27.56	1,929.20	4,179.93	-50,159.20	2,204.80	4,777.07	57,324.80
33/06	28.26	1,978.20	4,286.10	51,433.20	2,260.80	4,898.40	58,780.80
33/07	28.96	2,027.20	4,392.27	52,707.20	2,316.80	5,019.73	60,236.80
33/08	29.7.1	2,079.70	4,506.02	54,072.20	2,376.80	5,149.73	61,796.80
33/09	30.45	2,131.50	4,618.25	55,419.00	2,436,00	5,278.00	63,336.00
33/10	31.24	2,186.80	4,738.07	56,856.80	2,499.20	5,414.93	64,979.20
							
34/01	26.19	1,833.30	3,972.15	47,665.80	2,095.20	. 4,539.60	54,475.20
34/02	26.89	1,882.30	4,078.32	48,939.80	2,151.20	4,660.93	55,931.20
34/03	27.56	1,929.20	4,179.93	50,159.20	:	2,204.80	4,777.07	57,324.80
34/04	28.26	1,978.20	4,286.10	51,433.20	2,260.80	4,898.40	58,780.80
34/05	28.96	2,027.20	4,392.27	52,707.20	2,316.80	5,019.73	60,236.80
34/06	29.71	2,079.70	4,506.02	54,072.20	2,376.80	5,149.73	61,796.80
34/07	30.45	2,131.50	4,618.25	55,419.00	2,436.00	5,278.00	63,336.00
34/08	31.24	2,186.80	4,738.07	56,856.80	. 2,499.20	5,414.93	64,979.20
34/09	32.03	2,242.10	4,857.88	58,294.60	2,562.40	5,551.87	66,622.40
34/10	32.84	2,298.80	4,980.73	59,768.80	2,627.20	5,692.27	68,307.20
0%
2000-01; 2001-02
07/01/01
Appendix C21
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE - B
INDEX	HOURLY	70 HR B/W	70 HR MON	70 HR ANN	80 HR B/W	80 HR MON	80 HR ANN
							
35/01	27.56	1,929.20	4,179.93	50,159.20	2,204.80	4,777.07	57,324.80
35/02	28.26	1,978.20	4,286.10	51,433.20	2,260.80	4,898.40	58,780.80
35/03	28.96	2,027.20	4,392.27	52,707.20	2,316.80	5,019.73	60,236.80
35/04	29.71	2,079.70	4,506.02	54,072.20	2,376.80	5,149.73	61,796.80
35/05	30.45	2,131.50	4,618.25	55,419.00	2,436.00	5,278.00	63,336.00
35/06	31.24	2,186.80	4,738.07	56,856.80	2,499.20	5,414:93	64,979.20
35/07	32.03	2,242.10	4,857.88	58,294.60	2,562.40	5,551.87	66,622.40
35/08	32.84	2,298.80	4,980.73	59,768.80	2,627.20	5,692.27	68,307.20
35/09	33.65	2,355.50	5,103,58	61,243.00	2,692.00	5,832.67	69,992.00
35/10	34.51	2,415.70	5,234.02	62,808.20	2,760.80	5,981.73	71,780.80
0%
2000-01; 2001-02
8
07/01/01
Appendix C22
APPENDIX C
SEPARATE SCHEDULE CLASSES SALARY SCHEDULE "B"
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Special Assistant -	SA	$12.08	$845.60
Severely Mentally &	SB	12.36	865.20
Physically Challenged	SC	12.66	886.20
	SD	13.02	911.40
	.SE	13.32	932.40
	SF	13.65	955.50
	SG	14.01	980.70
	SH	14.36	1,005.20
	SI	14.72	1,030.40
	SJ	15.10	1,057.00
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Teacher Assistant	SA	$11.45	$801.50
	SB	11.73	821.10
	SC	12.08	845.60
	SD	12.36	865.20
	SE	12.66	886.20
	SF	13.02	911.40
	SG	13.32	932.40
	SH	13.65	955.50
	SI	14.01	980.70
	SJ	14.36	1,005.20
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Computer Assistant	SA	$11.45	$801.50 .
	SB	11.73	821.10
	SC	12.08	845.60
	SD	12.36	865.20
	SE	12.66	886.20
	SF	13.02	911.40
	SG	13.32	932.40
	SH	13.65	955.50
	SI	14.01	980.70
	SJ	14.36	1,005.20
	Step	Hourly	BiWeekly (70 Hrs)
Clinical Assistant	SA	$11.45	$801.50
	SB	11.73	821.10
	SC	12.08	845.60
	SD	12.36	865.20
	SE	12.66	886.20
	SF	13.02	911.40
	SG	13.32	932.40
	SH	13.65	955.50
Appendix C23
APPENDIX C
SEPARATE SCHEDULE CLASSES SALARY SCHEDULE "B"
	Range	Step	Hourly
Bus Driver	BD		$10.86
•	BD	BB	11.17
	BD	BC	11.54
	BD	BD	11.83
	BD	BE	12.13
	BD	BF	12.44
	BD	BG	12.73
	BD	BH	13.06
	BD	Bl	13.32
	BD	BJ	13.70
Bus Driver/Special Education	BD/SE	BA	11.54
	BD/SE	BB	11.83
	BD/SE	BC	12.13
	BD/SE	BD	12.44
	BD/SE	BE	12.73
	BD/SE	BF	13.06
	BD/SE	BG	13.32
	BD/SE	BH	13.70
	BD/SE	Bb	14.04
	BD/SE	BJ	14.36
Bus Driver/lnstructor-Evaluator	BD/IE	BA	12.13
	BD/IE	BB	12.44
	BD/IE	BC	12.73
	BD/IE	' BD	13.06
	BD/IE	BE	13.32
	BD/IE	BF	13.70
	BD/IE	BG	14.04
	BD/IE	BH	14.36
	BD/IE	Bl	14.69
	BD/IE	BJ	15.12
Appendix C24
APPENDIX D
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT
Personnel Division
CLASSIFIED GRIEVANCE FORM
Name (Please Print)
Grievant’s Signataure
Date Filed
School Location
Position
On Behalfof the Assn.	Date Received
TIME LIMIT
MONTH/DAY/YEAR
On what date did you become aware of the act or condition on which this grievance is based?
LEVEL ONE: SUPERVISOR
On what date(s) did you meet and discuss this grievance with your administrative supervisor? This is considered the Informal Level of the grievance procedure and must be adhered to prior to filling a grievance at the Formal Level on this form.
On what date did you notice your administrative supervisor you were going to file a grievance?
a.	Grievant’s Statement
On page 3 or on an attached page, state the nature of the grievance including the alleged violation, misinterpretation, or inequitable application of a specific provision of this Agreement (the specific Article of the Agreement must be listed). 
b.	Administrative Supervisor Decision
Date grievance received:	■	' 
Date decision rendered (must be within fifteen (15) working days after meeting). 
c.	Grievant’s Response
Please sign and date below if Level One decision is acceptable.
Signature
-1-
Appendix D
LEVEL TWO: DEPARTMENT HEAD	MONTH/DAY/YEAR
a.	Grievant’s Appeal
 Please initial here and forward to the Classified Coordinator if you wish to appeal to the Superintendent Level . Attach written response; if desired. Please enter the date this appeal is provided to the Human Resources Department:	__________________
Signature
b.	Department Head Decision
Date grievance received:
Date decision rendered (must be within ten (10) working days after meeting):
c.	Grievant’s Response
Please sign and date below if Level Two decision is acceptable.
Signature
LEVEL THREE: SUPERINTENDENT/DESIGNEE
a.	Grievant’s Appeal
■; Please initial here and forward to the Classified Coordinator if you wish to appeal to the Superintendent Level. Your appeal MUST be filed within five (5) working days after receipt of the decision. Attach written response, if desired. Please enter the date this appeal is provided to the Human Resources Department:
Signature
-2-
b.	Superintendent/Designee’s Decision	MONTH/DAY/YEAR
Date grievance received:	'
Date decision rendered (must be within fifteen (15) working days after the hearing date): 
c.	Grievant’s Response
Please sign and date below if Level Three decision is acceptable.
Signature
LEVEL FOUR: ARBITRATION
a. Grievant’s/Association’s Appeal
 Please initial here and forward to the Classified Coordinator if you wish to appeal to an Arbitrator. Your appeal MUST be filed within fifteen (15) working days after receipt of the decision. Attach written response, if desired. Your appeal will be scheduled with an Arbitrator. Please enter the date this appeal is provided to Human Resources:
Signature
Signature of Associate Representative
TEXT:
-3-
-4-
cdocs.grevfm.mj 12/00
WASHOE COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT Personnel Division
CLASSIFIED COMPLAINT FORM
Name (Please Print)	Complainant’s Signataure	Date Filed
School Location	. Position
On Behalf of the Assn. Date Received
TIME LIMIT
MONTH/DAY7YEAR
On what date did yOu become aw are of the act or condition on which this complaint is based?
LEVEL ONE: SUPERVISOR
On what date(s) did you meet and discuss this complaint with your supervisor/administrator?
On what date did you notice your supervisor/administrator you were going to file a complaint?
LEVEL TWO: DEPARTMENT HEAD
a. Complainant’s Statement
On page 3 or an attached page, state the nature of the complaint including any policy, regulation, procedure, or practice which is the subj ect of the complaint. Also state the relief you are seeking.
I). Department Head Decision
Date complaint received:.
Date decision rendered (recommended decision be rendered within ten (10) days after meeting).
Appendix D
c. Complainant’s Response
MONTH/DAY/YEAR
Please sign and,date below if Level Two decision is acceptable.
Signature
LEVEL THREE: SUPERINTENDENT/DESIGNEE
a.	Complainant’s Appeal
■ Please initial here and forward to the Classified Coordinator if you wish to appeal to the Superintendent Level. Your appeal MUST be filed within five (5) working days after receipt of the decision. Attach written response, if desired. Please enter the date this appeal is provided to the Human Resources Department:
Signature
b.	Superintendent/Designee’s Decision
Date complaint received:
Date decision rendered (must be within ten (10) working days after the hearing date):
c.	Complainant’s Response
Please sign and date if Level Three decision is acceptable.
Signature
-2-
LEVEL FOUR: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
a. Complainant’s/Association’s Appeal
 Please initial here and forward to the Classified Coordinator if you wish to appeal to the Board of Trustees. Your appeal will be scheduled with the Board of Trustees at the next regular meeting.. Attach written reponse, if desired. Please enter the date this appeal is provided to the Human Resources Department:
Signature
MONTH/DAY/YEAR
Date
Signature of Association Representative	'	Date
TEXT:
-3-
TEXT(Continued)
07/00 C:docs.grevfm
-4-
APPENDIX E
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
WORK HOURS FOR INSURANCE
Employees who were hired prior to June 30, 1999, and are scheduled to work less than twenty-seven and one-half (27 1/2) hours per week and who receive group insurance shall continue to receive insurance benefits.
If, after July 1, 2000, those employees transfer to a different position which requires the employee to work at least twenty-seven and one-half (27 16) hours per week in order to be eligible for insurance benefits, they will be required to work at least twenty-seven and one-half (27 16) hours per week to continue to be eligible for insurance benefits.
Employees hired July 1,2000, or later, must work at least twenty-seven and one-half (27 1/2) hours per week to be eligible for group insurance.
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
PURCHASE OF UNUSED SICK LEAVE
The parties agree and support changes to the appropriate sections of the Negotiated Agreement (Article 9) and Administrative Regulation 4242.1 to reflect that any qualified employee who notices prior to June 30th that s/he will either separate or retire shall be eligible to receive the benefit of the District purchasing PERS credit with the proceeds of the district’s program for compensation for accumulated sick leave. Payment will be in compliance with the law for the purchase of service credit and with the Agreement for payment for unused sick leave.
Any qualified employee who notices subsequent to June 30*h shall be entitled to the benefit of compensation for accumulated sick leave in the next calendar year.
Appendix E