CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE
WEST CONTRA COSTA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
AND THE
PUBLIC EMPLOYEES UNION, LOCAL 1

RICHMOND, CALIFORNIA EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 1994 - JUNE 30, 1996
| f <5t)
Patty De Leon
Senior Administrative Secretary
Personnel Services
1108 Bissell Avenue Richmond, CA 94801 -3135
Tel: (510) 234-3825 ext. 2121
Fax: (510) 236-0171
WEST CONTRA COSTA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article	Page
Agreements.............................................. .	1
Benefits................................................. 41
Compensation ...........................................  43
Continuity of Service.................................... 58
Definitions ...........................................    1
Disciplinary Actions................................  ....	59
Distribution of Agreement.................................68
Evaluation................................................37
Expense Claim ..........................................  56
Grievance Procedures ...................................  10
Harassment............................................... 66
Layoff and Reemployment................................  .	61
Leave of Absence........................................  20
Maintenance of Benefits ..................................10
Management Rights.......... ............................. 57
Negotiation Procedures . ...............................   5
Non-Discrimination......................................  67
Overtime and Compensation for Overtime................... 52
Personnel Files ............................................ . 7
Reassignment ............................................ 61
Reclassification ....................................... .	66
Restriction of Contracting Out........................... 60
Safety ...................................................38
i.
Article	Page
Signatures to Agreement...................................69
Site Based Decision Making................................67
Staff Development........................................ 66
Supplement 1: General Services, Maintenance, and
Operations Unit ...................................    70
Supplement 2: Paraprofessional Unit ...........?	Z'. ......... 84
Supplement 3: West Contra Costa Schools Police Unit ...... 94
Supplement 4: Office and Technical Services Unit ........100
Supplement 5: Temporary and Substitute Employees.........112
Transfer ................................................ 33
Union Recognition .........................................1
Union Rights...............................................9
Union Membership Checkoff and Dues Deduction .............16
Working Hours, Rest Periods, Lunch Time, Absence ■ from Duty, Call-in Time	. .............................17
Salary Schedule, 1995-96 ..............................  113
Exhibit A-l: Classified Salary Range and Step, Ranges 23-50, 1995-96 .................................... 121
Exhibit A-2: Classified Salary Range and Step, Ranges 51-78, 1995-96 .................................... 123
Exhibit A-3: Classified Salary Range and Step, Ranges 79-85, 1995-96 ..............................   .	. 125
Exhibit B: Sample Employee Performance Record............126
Exhibit C: Sample Custodian Performance Record ..........131
ii
ARTICLE 1 AGREEMENT
Section 1.	The Articles and provisions contained herein constitute a bilateral and binding agreement ("Agreement'') by and between the Governing Board of the West Contra Costa Unified School District ("Board") and Public Employees Union, Local No. 1, an employee organization.
Section 2.	This Agreement is entered into pursuant to Chapter 10.7, Division 4, of Title 1 of the Government Code ("Act").
Section 3.	This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from July 1, 1994 through June 30, 1996,
ARTICLE 2 UNION RECOGNITION
West Contra Costa Unified School District (hereinafter referred to as the employer) recognizes the Public Employees’ Union, Local No. 1 (hereinafter referred to as Local No. 1) as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees in classifications assigned to the following units:
1.	General Services, Maintenance and Operations
Unit.
2.	Paraprofessional Unit.
3.	West Contra Costa Schools Police-Unit..
4.	Office and Technical Services Unit.
Temporary and Substitute Employees - refer to . Supplement 5.
ARTICLE 3 DEFINITIONS
Section 1-	Allocation" is the assignment of a single position to its proper class in accordance with the duties performed and the authority and responsibility exercised.
1
Section 2.	"Anniversary Date" is the date on which the employee started work.
Section 3.	"Bumping Right" is the right of an employee, under certain'conditions, to displace an employee with less seniority, in a class. ■ ■ ■	■ . .	>	,
Section 4.	"Class" is a group of positions sufficiently similar in duties and responsibilities that: ■ • - *. • • • > ■
!>' The same descriptive title properly may be used to designate each position allocated to the class.
2.	The same- basic minimum qualifications may be' required of all incumbents.
3.	The same selection devices may be used to screen qualified employees. ' ;v
,4.. J The same salary rate or range can apply with ' ' ■ . * . equity under substantially the same working ’■ :	• conditions.'	:
Section 5.	"Class -Description"- means; that each position in the classified service shall have a designated title, a regular minimum number-of assigned hours periday, days per week, and months per year, a specific statement of the duties required to be performed by the employees in each such position, and the regular monthly salary ranges for each such position;
Section 7.	"Demotion" is the movement of an employee from one (1) class to another class which has a lower maximum salary rate and which has less difficult duties and responsibilities-
Section 8.	"Fiscal Year and School Year" is July 1 through June 30.	. ' U : ■
Section 9.	"Health and Welfare Benefits" means any form of insurance or similar benefit programs, including, but not limited to, medical, hospitalization, surgical, prescription drug and dental.
2
Section 10.	"Incumbent" is an employee assigned to a position and who is currently serving in or on an authorized leave.from- . the position.
Section 11.	"Industrial Accident or Illness" is an injury or illness arising out of or in the course of employment with the District.
Section 12.	"Involuntary Demotion" is a demotion without the employee’s voluntary written consent.
Section 13.	"Leave Policies" mean any policy concerning any form of employee leave including, but not limited to, sick leave, vacations, personal leave, industrial accident or illness leave, and holidays.	-
Section 14.	"Minimum Qualifications" are qualifications , mandated for the position and which must be possessed by an employee before he/she can be considered for employment in a specific class. ?	,
Section 15.	"Notice" whenever notice is required under this Agreement, and no form of notice is otherwise designated, notice to the District shall be by personal delivery to the Office of the Superintendent or written notice or first-class mail notice to the Office of the Superintendent; and notice ,to Local No. 1 shall be written notice personally delivered to, or first-class mail notice direct to, 3065 Richmond Parkway, Suite 101, Richmond, California 94806.	.
Section 16.	"Permanent Employee" is an employee who has successfully completed his/her probationary period;
Section 17.	"Probationary Employee" is an employee who has not yet completed his/her work test period of six (6) months’ duration.
Section 18.	"Promotion" is the movement of an employee from one class to another class which has a higher maximum rate of pay.
3
Section 19.	"Reallocation" is movement of an entire class from one (1) salary range or rate to another salary range or rate.
Section 20.	"Reassignment" is defined as any change of work station or work location within a work site and/or any addition to, deletion of, or change in assigned duties, hours or working conditions.
Section 21.	"Regular" as used in the phrase "regular classified employee" or any similar phrase, refers to a classified employee who has probationary or permanent status.
Section 22.	"Restricted Position" is a specially-funded position restricted to the employment of persons in low-income groups, from designated impoverished areas and other criteria which restricts the privilege of all citizens to compete for employment. After six (6) months of service, a restricted employee shall be granted regular status.
Section 23.	"Salary Increment Date" is the date which determines when the employee advances to the next higher salary step in his/her salary range.
Section 24.	"Salary Rate" is a specific amount of money paid for a specific period of service.
Section 25.	"Salary Schedule" is a series of salary steps and ranges which comprise the rates of pay for all classes.
Section 26.	"Salary Step" is one of the salary levels within the range of rates for a class.
Section 27.	"Seniority in Class" shall be defined as date of hire in that class.
Section 28.	"Short-Term Employee" is a person hired for a specific temporary project of limited duration and paid for less than sixty (60) percent - 156 days - of a school year.
4
Section 29.	"Substitute Employee" is an employee occupying a permanent position during the absence of the incumbent and; paid for less than severity-five (75) percent of a school year. ■ ’ .
Section 30.	"Termination" is the separation of an employee from the service of the District:
Section 31.	"Transfer" is the movement of an employee from one position to another in the same class but in a different r department or school.
Section 32.	"Voluntary Demotion" is a demotion agreed, to in writing by the employee and the District.
ARTICLE 4 NEGOTIATION PROCEDURES ■'
Section 1.	General: The District will negotiate with Local No. 1 only on those matters defined in Section 3543.2 of Article .4, Chapter 10.7, Division 4, Title 1 of the Government Code as being within the scope of representation. The scope of representation shall be 'limited to matters relating to wages, hours of- -employment and other terms and conditions of employment: "Terms and conditions of employment" mean health and welfare benefits as defined by Section 53200, leave and transfer policies, reassignment, safety conditions of employment, class size, procedures to be used for the evaluation of employees, organizational security pursuant to Section 3546, and procedures-for processing grievances pursuant to Sections 3548.5, 3548.6, 3548.7, 3548.8. Negotiated items shall not be renegotiated during the term of an Agreement. The final decision in all matters under negotiation shall rest with the Board of Education, as specified in Section 3549 of the Act.
Section 2.	Notification and Public Notice: If either party desires to alter or amend this Agreement, it shall,- not less than one hundred and twenty (120) days prior to the termination date set forth under the Duration Article; provide written notice and a
5
proposal to the other party of said desire and the nature of the amendments, and cause the public notice provisions of law to be fulfilled.
Section 3.	Commencement of Negotiations: Within ten (10) days of satisfaction of the public notice requirement, and not later than thirty (30) days following submission of the proposal, negotiations shall commence at a mutually acceptable time and place for. the purpose of negotiating an Agreement.
Section 4.	Impasse: If notice has been given in accordance with the preceding sections and the parties have not been able to agree upon terms of a new Agreement within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of this Agreement, either party may institute impasse procedures in accordance with the rules of the Public Employment Relations Board. Once the impasse procedures have been invoked, the current Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until the conclusion of the impasse process.
Section 5.	Release Time for Negotiations: Local No. 1 shall have the right to designate twelve (12) employees, who shall be given reasonable release time, to participate in negotiations.
Substitutes shall be provided by the District when necessary.
Section 6.	Ratification of Additions or Changes: Any additions or changes in this Agreement shall not be effective unless reduced to writing and properly ratified and signed by both parties.
Section 7.	Statutory Changes:
1.	Mandated modifications, revisions, additions or deletions of contract provisions herein which are brought about by the amendment, addition or deletion of statutory guarantees now provided in California or federal law shall be reflected in this Agreement.
2.	Such shall obligate the parties within twenty (20) days of the effective date of the change to
negotiate concerning such provisions within this ’ Agreement.
Section 8.. Savings Clause:
. 1.	If.any provisions of this Agreement should be held
invalid by operation of law or by the final judgment of any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be , affected thereby.
2. This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties and concludes meet and negotiation on any subject, whether included in
. this Agreement or not except as noted above, for the term of this Agreement.
ARTICLES PERSONNEL FILES
Section 1.	Access to Personnel Files-Education Code Section 44031: Materials in personnel files of employees which may serve as a basis for affecting the status of their employment are to be made available for the inspection of the employee involved. Such material is not to include ratings, reports, or records which:
1.	were obtained prior to the employment of the person involved;
2.	were prepared by identifiable examination board members;
3.	were obtained in connection with a promotional examination.
Every employee shall have the right to inspect such materials on request, provided that the request is made at a time when such person is not actually required to render services to
7
the District. Information of a derogatory nature, except material mentioned in Section 1.2, above, shall not be entered or filed unless and until the employee is given notice and an opportunity to review and comment thereon. An employee shall have the right to enter, and have attached to any derogatory statement, his/her own comments thereon. Such review shall take place during normal business hours, and the employee shall be released from duty for this purpose without salary deduction.
Section 2.	Maintenance of Files: The personnel file of each employee shall be maintained at the District’s central administration office. No adverse action of any kind shall be taken against an employee based upon materials which are not in the personnel file. Further, ho adverse action shall be based upon materials which are contained in the personnel file unless the materials had been placed in the file at the time of the incident giving rise to such materials. .
Section 3.	Examination of Files: An employee or his/her Local No. 1 representative shall have the right at any reasonable time to examine and/or obtain copies of any material from the employee’s personnel file with the exception of material that includes ratings, reports,.or records which were obtained prior to the employment of the employee involved.
Section 4.	All personnel files shall be kept in confidence and shall be available for inspection only to other employees of the District when actually necessary in the proper administration of the District’s affairs or the supervision of the employee. The date of inspection along with the signature of the person(s) inspecting — shall be entered in the file.
Section 5.	All derogatory material placed in an employee’s file shall be signed and dated by the draftor and the employee on the day on which it was reviewed. Any written materials placed in a personnel file shall indicate the date received in the District Personnel Office.
8
Section 6.	All derogatory materials other than employee evaluations shall be removed from the employee’s personnel file and destroyed after remaining in the file for a period of two (2) years.
Section 7.	In no case shall unsubstantiated derogatory material be placed in the personnel file.
ARTICLE 6 UNION RIGHTS
Section 1.	Local No. 1 and its members shall have the right to make use of school buildings and facilities at all reasonable hours. Additional costs beyond normal operating expenses shall be borne by Local No. 1.
Section 2.	Local No. 1 shall have reasonable access to the school mail system, subject to reasonable regulation, in order to facilitate the conduct of its business. Local No. 1 may use employee mailboxes for communication to classified employees.
Section 3.	Local No. 1 shall have the right to post notices of activities and matters of Local No. 1 concern on Local No. 1 bulletin board space, an adequate amount of which shall be provided in each school building in areas frequented by classified employees.
Section 4.	Local No. 1 shall have the right of access at reasonable times to areas in which employees work.
Section 5.	The Board shall grant a. paid leave to the President of Local No. 1 during his/her term in office according to a schedule submitted by the President prior to the beginning of each school year. Local No. 1 shall reimburse the District for all costs.
Section 6.	Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all employees in the General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit, the Paraprofessional Unit, West Contra Costa Unified
9
Schools Police Department, and the Office/Technical Unit shall.be provided without cost to Local No. 1 twice each school year.
Section 7.	Seniority Roster: The employer shall maintain and make available an updated seniority roster indicating employees’ class seniority and hire date seniority.
Section 8.	All employees represented by Local No. 1 shall be included in the West Contra Costa Unified School District Directory and shall receive.a copy of the Directory each year commencing with 1984-85.
Section 9; Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
ARTICLE 7 MAINTENANCE OF BENEFITS
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, the employer shall not unilaterally reduce or eliminate any employee benefit which is subject to the scope of provisions of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 8 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1.	General: It is the policy of the District and Local No. 1 to develop and practice reasonable and effective means of resolving difficulties which may arise among employees, to reduce potential problems, and to establish channels of communication.
The grievant may elect in writing to represent himselfTherself rather than have Local No. 1 provide representation. If the grievant elects to represent, himselfTherself at this step, or at any later step, Local No. 1 shall be relieved of any further obligation of representation and shall be relieved of any obligation to share in any further expense of the grievance procedure including the costs of arbitration.
10
Section 2.	Definition: A grievance is a claim by one or more of the members of the .unit of Local No. 1 that there has been a violation or misapplication of the Agreement which has adversely affected the member or members of the unit or Local No. 1. A grievance must be submitted within sixty (60) work days of when the employee knew or should have known of the violation or misapplication of the Agreement.
Section 3.	Procedure:
1.	Step One: An aggrieved employee may present directly or through his/her Shop Steward, his/her grievance to his/her immediate Supervisor. The grievance shall be submitted orally. (If
. circumstances indicate such, the grievance may be submitted in writing and must be responded to in writing within three (3) working days.) If the grievance is not satisfactorily adjusted informally, the grievance may proceed to Step Two.
2.	Step Two: If the grievance is not settled at Step One, within five (5). working days following the meeting or the written response, the aggrieved employee or his/her representative may submit the grievance in writing to the employee’s Department Head. Upon receipt of a written grievance presented in accordance with this procedure, the Department Head shall meet with the aggrieved
- .employee and his/her representative within five (5) working days. The Department Head may have such additional persons present as he/she deems necessary. If the grievance is not settled within three (3) working days thereafter, the written grievance may be referred to the employee’s Division Head along with the Department Head’s written response and a copy to the aggrieved employee.
Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
11
3.	Step Three: Upon nTeipt of a written fnnwv presented in accordnnre with »hi« pr«ir»-dt>r»- thr Division Head shall arrange a niceting with the aggrieved employee, the employee's representative, and other personnel deemed necessary within five (5) working days.- If the grievance is not settled, written response will be provided within five (5) working days following such meeting. The aggrieved employee or his/her representative may appeal to Step Four.
Office and Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4.
4.	Step Four: If the grievance is not resolved at Step Three, the employee or his/her representative may pursue it further by submitting it to the Superintendent of Schools, in writing, within ten (10) working days. The Superintendent, if not out of the District, shall render a decision, in writing within ten (10) working days. Should the Superintendent be out of the District, the ten (10) day period shall commence on the first day of the Superintendent’s return.
5.	Step Five: If the grievance has not been resolved at Step Four; the employee or his/her representative may submit the grievance, in writing, within ten (10) working days, to the Governing Board, through the Superintendent of Schools, requesting a hearing for further consideration.' Local No. 1. may elect to waive Step Five and proceed to Step Six.
6.	Step Six: Arbitration
a.	If the aggrieved is not satisfied with the decision of Step Five the grievant may request Local No. 1 to appeal the decision to an arbitrator.
12
b.	If Local No. 1 decides to appeal the grievance, notification of such must :be sent to the Superintendent within ten (10) days.
c.	The’ Local No. 1 representative and the Superintendent or designee shall meet within five (5) days to select an arbitrator.
d.	If agreement is not reached within five (5) days, either party may request the State Conciliation Service to submit a list of five (5) arbitrators qualified to hear the dispute. The parties shall select one (1) individual from the list supplied by the alternate strike method. The parties agree to immediately notify the arbitrator to schedule a hearing.
7.	Arbitration Hearing
a.	The arbitrator shall convene a hearing as soon as possible, no later than twenty (20) days after his/her selection, to consider evidence and arguments.
b.	The conduct of the hearing shall be at the discretion of the arbitrator who shall be guided by commonly-accepted rules of procedure for holding arbitration hearings.
c.	The arbitrator shall forward his/her decision to both parties not later than ten (10) days^after the hearing is concluded.
d.	The award of the arbitrator shall be binding on both parties.
e.	Local No. 1 and the District shall share the cost of the arbitrator equally. All other costs shall be paid by the party incurring
13
them.
f.	The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from, disregard, alter, or
.. .	modify any of the terms of this agreement.
Section 4.	Miscellaneous Provisions:
1.	No employee shall at any state of the grievance procedure be required to meet with any administrator without organizational representation, nor shall any administrator or supervisor be required to meet with the employee without benefit of counsel or representation.
2.	If the grievance arises from the action of authority higher than the Division Head, Department Head, or Principal of a school, Local No. 1 may present such a grievance at the appropriate step of the grievance procedure.
3.	Failure at any step of this procedure to communicate the decision on a grievance within the specified time limits shall permit lodging an appeal at the next step of the procedure within the time allotted, had the decision been given. Failure to appeal a decision within the specified time limits shall be deemed an acceptance of the decision.
4.	The time limits specified in this procedure may be extended, in any specific instance, by mutual agreement in writing.
5.	Group Grievances: If the grievance involves employees with different immediate, supervisors, the grievance may be filed at the appropriate step of the grievance procedure.
14
6.	Policy Grievance: A policy grievance is any alleged violation of the written policies, rules or regulations of the Board of Education, or any alleged violation of standard District practice. A policy grievance may be submitted by Local No. 1 at the appropriate step, generally Step Four. However, .in a policy grievance the decision of the Board of Education at Step Five is final on all parties. It is the intention of Local No. 1 not to utilize this policy grievance as a means to expand the scope of representation as defined in the Act.
7.	Employee-Processed Grievance: An employee covered by this Agreement may present a grievance directly and have such grievance adjusted without intervention of Local No. 1 as long as the adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement. Local No. 1 shall be provided copies of any grievance filed by employees directly and. any responses by the District. Prior to any resolution of any grievance, Local No. 1 shall be provided with a copy of the proposed resolution for review. Local No. 1 shall be given an opportunity to file a written response to-the proposed resolution. Any disagreement concerning whether the settlement is inconsistent with the terms of this agreement shall be subject'to the grievance procedure.
8.	Grievance Witnesses: The District shall make available for testimony in connection with the grievance procedure any District employees, whose appearance is requested by the grievant or Local No. 1. Any employee witnesses required to appear in connection with this article shall suffer no loss of pay.
9.	Grievance Processing During Regular Working Hours: The grievant and the Local No. 1 Shop Steward shall be entitled to process a grievance
15
during normal working hours with no loss of pay or benefits.
10.	Separate Grievance File: All materials concerning an employee’s grievance shall be kept in a file separate from the employee’s personnel file, which file shall be available: for inspection only by the employee, the Local No. 1 Shop Steward, and those management, supervisory, and confidential employees directly involved in the grievance procedure.
• 11. Hierarchy: The supervisory administrative hierarchy described in the evaluation process shall be the same hierarchy for employees in General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit.
ARTICLE 9 UNION MEMBERSHIP CHECKOFF AND DUES DEDUCTION
Section 1.	Local No. 1 shall have the sole and exclusive right to have membership dues, initiation, and/or assessment fees voted by its membership deducted for employees in the bargaining unit by the employer. The employer shall, upon appropriate written authorization from any employee in the bargaining unit, deduct and make appropriate remittances for insurance premiums, credit union payments, savings bonds or other plans or programs jointly approved by Local No. 1 and the employer. The employer shall ______________initiate payment to the designated payee within ten (10) days of the deduction of all sums so deducted.
Section 2.	Maintenance of Membership: Employees who are members of Local No. 1 and have authorized, or who may authorize in the future, deductions of their Local No. 1 dues, initiation and/or assessment fees, shall have such dues and fees deducted for the remainder of this Agreement.
16
Section 3.	Agency Shop: Employees who are not members, of Local No. 1 shall have a service fee, equivalent to dues, deducted from their salary commencing with the paycheck for the first full calendar month following the approval of this Agreement by the District. Such deduction shall continue, as a condition of employment; for the duration of this Agreement.
Section 4.	Remittance of Dues: The amounts deducted pursuant to Sections 1, 2, and 3, above, shall be remitted promptly to Local No. 1 with an alphabetical list of the employees from whom deducted.
Section 5.	Any employee who is a member of a religious body whose traditional tenets or teachings include objections to joining or financially supporting employee organizations shall not be required to join or financially support Local No. 1 as a condition of employment; except that such employee shall pay in lieu of a service fee sums equal to such service fee to one of the following non-religibus, non-labor organizations and charitable funds exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of Table 26 of the Internal Revenue Code:
1.	American Red Cross
2.	American Heart Association
3.	United Way
ARTICLE 10 WORKING HOURS, REST PERIODS, LUNCH TIME, ABSENCE FROM DUTY, CALL-IN TIME
Section 1.	Working Hours: General Services, Maintenance, and Operations Unit--refer to Supplement 1.
Paraprofessional Unit-refer to Supplement 2.
West Contra Costa Schools Police Department-refer to Supplement 3.
17
Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
Section 2.	Rest Periods: All bargaining unit employees shall be grahted rest periods which, insofar as practical, shall be in the middle of each work period,-at the rate of fifteen (15) minutes per three and three-quarters (3-3/4) hours worked or major fraction thereof. (Exception: Paraprofessional Unit, Group Aide, Children’s Centers-refer to Supplement 2.) Specified periods may be designated only when the operations of the District require someone to be present at the employee’s work site at all times. Such times shall be mutually-agreed upon between employees and their supervisors. Rest periods are part of the regular workday and shall be compensated at the regular rate of pay for the . . employee. .
Section 3.	Lunch Time: All classified employees shall have uninterrupted lunch time. The actual time assigned shall be according to.the schedule for their particular department and for the convenience of the District but to the extent possible around the lisual lunch time of a shift. The length of time for such lunch period shall be for not less than one-half (1/2) hour and shall be scheduled for full-time employees at or about the midpoint of each workshift. An employee required to work during his/her lunch period shall receive either compensatory time off or pay at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) for all time worked during the normal lunch period. (Exception: Head Custodian 1, Castro-refer to Supplement 1.) (Exception: West Contra Costa Schools Police Department—refer to Supplement 3.)
__	1. Office & Technical Service Unit—refer to Supplement 4.
Section 4.	Absence from Duty:' Classified employees are not to be absent from duty, except as otherwise provided, without permission of an Assistant Superintendent, Principal, or Department Head. All absences must be reported by the Department Head on proper forms and forwarded to the Payroll Office.
1.	Paraprofessional Unit-refer to Supplement 2.
18
Section 5.	Call-In Time: Any employee called into work on a ‘ day when the employee is not scheduled to work shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours of pay at the appropriate rate of pay under this Agreement. Right of Refusal: Any employee shall have the right to reject any offer or request for call-in time.
Section 6.	Split Shift Differential: Employees working a split shift shall receive twenty-one ($21.00) dollars per month additional compensation.
1.	Paraprofessional Unit-refer to Supplement 2.
Section 7.	Night Shift Differential: West Contra Costa Schools Police Department-refer to Supplement 3.
Section 8.	Monthly Meetings: West Contra Costa Schools Police Department—refer to Supplement 3.	. ,
Section 9.	Extra Hours, Substitute Work: Employees in the bargaining unit represented by Local No. 1 shall be offered first opportunity to work extra hours, or perform substitute work for which they are qualified and "available under the following conditions:
1.	If the anticipated absence is thirty (30) calendar days or more,
2.	•. restricted to the same work site, .
3.	restricted to positions that increased in work hours,
4.	most eligible senior person is given the opportunity,	■	...
5.	limited to positions of four (4) hours/day or more,
6.	work is in same classification.
19
Section 10.	Paraprofessional Unit-refer to Supplement 2.
ARTICLE 11 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section !. Bereavement Leave: Employees shall be granted a leave with full pay in the event of the death of any member of the employee’s immediate family. The leave shall be for a period of five (5) working days. The "immediate family" is defined as husband, wife, mother, father, sister, brother, son, daughter, mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandfather, grandmother, great-grandparent, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandchild, foster parent, stepparent, stepson, stepdaughter, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, or any relative of either spouse living in the immediate household of the employee. "Immediate household" means where the employee lives and customarily spends the night. Up to seven (7) working days absence is allowed if out-of-state travel or travel in excess of four-hundred (400) miles one (1) way is required on account of the death of any members of the immediate family.
Section 2.	Health Leave: A health leave may be granted a classified employee who has completed one (1) full year of service with the District. When the employee is able to return to work, the employee shall submit a written statement from a licensed physician verifying that the employee is able to do his/her regular work. This statement must be submitted to the Personnel Office at. least two (2) weeks prior to termination of leave. A person on health leave will be returned to his/her position provided the length of absence does not exceed one (1) year. If, at the --------------conclusion of health leave, the employee is still unable to assume the duties of his/her position, the employee shall be placed on a reemployment list for a period of thirty-nine (39) months.
Section 3.	Holidays: All classified employees shall be allowed holidays as set forth-in the California Education Code and in the approved calendar for the school year. In no case shall an employee have fewer than sixteen (16) paid holidays. These include:
20
Independence Day
Labor Day
Veteran’s Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day After Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Eve Day
Christmas Day
New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
Washington’s Birthday
Spring Vacation Day
Memorial Day
Placement of President’s Day and three (3) Floating Holidays shall be negotiated with Local No. 1 and such other holidays as may. be declared by the Governing Board, the President, or the Governor. When a holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding workday not a holiday shall.be deemed to be that holiday. When a holiday falls on Sunday, the following workday not a holiday shall be deemed to be that holiday. Regular employees of the District who are not normally assigned to duty during the school holidays of December 24, December 25, and January 1 shall be paid for these three (3) holidays provided they were in a paid status during any portion of the workday of their normal assignment immediately preceding or succeeding the hullday period
Section 4	Jury Duty or Witness lx.*ave All classified employees
21
subpoenaed to appear as jurors or as witnesses in cases other than those of a personal nature, shall be allowed full salaries less juror fees received in excess of expenses. In such cases where the fees exceed the salary that would have been earned by the employee, the employee shall turn the fees check into the Payroll Office.
Section 5.	Maternity and Child Care Leave:
1.	Maternity Leave: The length of absence due to pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, and recovery therefrom, including the date on which the leave shall commence and the date on which the employee shall resume duties, shall be determined by the employee and employee’s physician. The physician’s, signature verifying commencement and cessation of disability will be required on a District form.
The employee shall have the right to utilize sick leave and difference pay benefit for absences necessitated by pregnancy, miscarriage, childbirth, and recovery therefrom.
District-approved health plan benefits shall continue only through the period of paid status.
2.	Child Care Leave:’ Upon request, the Board shall provide a male or female classified employee who -	is a natural or adopting parent an unpaid leave of
absence without fringe benefits for the purpose of rearing his/her infant. Such leave shall remain in effect at least until the end of the semester following the birth of the child and no longer than the end of the second semester following the birth of the child. A classified employee shall notify the Board that he/she intends to take such leaves at least four (4) weeks prior to the anticipated date on which the leave is to commence.
22
3.	Paternity Leave: One (1) day with pay.
4.	Adoption: Any adoptive parent shall be entitled to one (1) day’s leave with pay and in addition, may utilize personal necessity leave upon request.
5.	A parent shall not have to be married in order to qualify for the benefits provided in this section.
6.	The District shall not discriminate against an employee because of pregnancy.
Section 6.	Military Leave (Military, and Veterans’ Code 389-395): In all matters of military leave, the Military and Veterans’ Code will be followed.
Section 7.	Personal Leave: After, becoming a permanent employee, an employee who finds it necessary to secure an extended period of time off for personal reasons without pay must apply to the Executive Director, Personnel, on the form prepared for that purpose. If the employee secures approval of the Executive Director, Personnel, such time off can be arranged. The employee’s return to work shall be to the same classification and to the same position he/she held when the employee requested the time off unless otherwise previously agreed in writing.
A classified employee may absent himselffherself from duty on personal reasons not to exceed five (5) days in any school year without seeking authorization, but the employee shall notify his/her Department Head or Supervisor at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance or at the end of the previous workday of such absence unless an emergency can be established. Absence for personal reasons shall be taken by the employee at full salary deduction. Personal Leave may be taken only for urgent personal reasons, and may not be taken for vacation purposes or for employment elsewhere. It may be used for court cases, extra bereavement leaves and personal biisiness.
Section 8.	Personal Necessity Leave: Absence for personal
23
necessity is defined as "absence which through pressure of circumstances is logically urgent or unavoidable." Written substantiating evidence in the form of court summons, court clerk’s certificate, doctor’s certificate, or employee’s affidavit must be submitted to the Executive Director, Personnel, in all cases of personal necessity leave. Such absence, unless properly substantiated, will result in full salary deduction. Except as noted below, the employee shall notify his/her Principal or Supervisor in advance of the absence. A maximum of seven (7) days of accumulated sickness or injury leave in any school year may be used by the employee, at his/her election, in cases of personal necessity. In the event an employee is without accumulated sick leave, the District shall deduct from the employee’s salary the cost of providing a substitute. The employee shall not be required to secure advance permission for leave taken for any of the following reasons:
1.	Death or serious illness of a member of his/her immediate family.
2.	Accident involving the employee’s person or property or the person or property of his/her immediate family.
3.	In certain emergencies, when it is not possible to complete the appropriate leave request in advance, a form must be completed upon return to duty verifying the cause of absence.
Section 9.	Sick Leave: Absence due to personal illness, excluding pregnancy, shall be allowed up to fifteen (15) working days per fiscal year, July 1 through June 30, and shall be accumulative from year to year without limitation. Absence of less than one (1) full day shall be charged to the nearest quarter hour of absence. Personal illness of more than five (5) consecutive working days duration shall be verified by a statement from a licensed physician, advising that the person is physically able to do his/her regular work. The physician’s statement shall verify the illness from the first day of absence to the date of return to
24
work. In cases of excessive absence or when abuse of sick leave is evident, following previous counsel with the employee, the school administration may request in writing that the employee furnish a physician’s statement to verify any future absence of less than1 five (5) working days.
When all available paid leaves are exhausted, the employee is placed on "Difference Leave." An employee on "Difference Leave" is paid the difference between his/her salary and that paid his/her substitute. This is paid for a maximum period of five (5) months. The five (5) month period is calculated from the first days of sick leave. When difference leave is exhausted, the employee with three (3) years of service shall be allowed health leave; an employee with less than three (3) years of service is placed on a reemployment list for a period of thirty-nine (39) months. At-any time during the prescribed thirty-nine (39) months, if the employee is able to assume the duties of his/her position, the employee shall be reemployed in the first vacancy in the classification of his/her previous assignment. His/her reemployment will take preference over all other applicants except those laid-off for lack of work of funds, in which case ■ he/she shall be ranked according to his/her proper seniority. Upon resumption of his/her duties, the break in service will be disregarded and the employee shall be fully restored as a permanent employee. During the first six (6) months of employment, one and one-quarter (1-1/4) days of paid sick leave per calendar month shall be granted as earned at the end of each month. Employees who work less than full-time dr less than a twelve (12) month calendar year, shall be credited with sick leave on a pro-rata basis at the rate of one and one-quarter (1-1/4) days per month.
•a'
Isolation and Quarantine: No salary of sick leave deduction is made for absence due to contagious disease from which isolation or quarantine is usually mandated, and which may be presumed to have been contracted during the performance of school duties with other persons having the contagious disease, for the normal period of isolation or quarantine.
25
1.	State-Disability Insurance: Eligible employees who are enrolled in the California State Disability Insurance Program shall be entitled to integrate SDI .benefits with their accrued sick leave at the employee’s option. The sick leave used shall be computed on a weekly basis and shall be equal to the number of hours necessary to compensate for regular wages less SDI benefits.
■	* ■.	■ • .
Disability checks received from SDI must be .. endorsed by the employee to the District while he/she is receiving pay. Normal authorized , deductions, including, retirement contributions, will be deducted from the warrant in accordance with the law.
\	... SI)I regulations shall apply to the integration
program. In accordance with state law, no .	. employee shall be required to use vacation in
conjunction with receiving SDI benefits. Em-
. 1 . . ployees must notify the District of their desire to . r . integrate their sick leave with SDI benefits. SDI . forms shall be made, available by the District at each work location..
2.	, Sick Leave Incentive: Those employees who utilize four, days or less sick leave during the fiscal year, July 1 to June 30, shall receive an allocation of .one (1) vacation day accrual.
Section 10. Vacation Leave: Vacations for the most part are to be taken during Christmas, Easter, or summer vacations. All custodial requests for vacation during this period shall be granted. Other vacation requests shall be received at least thirty (30) workdays before the vacation is to begin. Employees shall be notified of administrative approval or disapproval within ten (10) workdays from the date of submission of the request. Vacations of five (5) consecutive days or less ,may be arranged by mutual consent of the employee and the department head. The District
26
— shall not unreasonably deny any employee’s request for- vacation '■v’t. leave."" If’th'ere is- conflict with'the request of the ‘employees for •: '■ .
‘ vacation leave, the District shall grant the requested vacation to "tfiemosf senior employee in each classification at-the- work site.
Children’s: Center group aides shall not be granted simultaneous vacation periods if each center group aid staff is to be reduced by more than sixty (60) percent.
Regular classified employees shall be entitled to vacation with pay as follows:
1.	For the first thirty-six (36) complete months of service, 5/6 of a day per month (2 weeks annually).
2.	Beginning with the thirty-seventh (37th) month through the tenth (10th) year, 1-1/4 days per month (3 weeks annually).
3.	. Beginning with the eleventh (11th) year on, 1-2/3
days per month (4 weeks annually).
Earned vacation shall riot become a vested right until completion of the initial six (6) months of employment. Vacation days may be accumulated to a maximum of double the annual entitlement consistent with-the substantiated work needs of the District and the approval of the Department Head. A maximum of forty (40) days vacation may be taken in one (1) year. Exceptions must have the approval of the Division Assistant Superintendent. Ten (10) month employees, except as indicated above are required to take their vacation during the Christmas vacation and Easter vacation. Upon separation from the service^ the employee shall be entitled to lump-sum compensation for all earned and unused vacation, except that eiriployees who have not completed six (6) rnonths of employment in regular status shall not be entitled to such compensation. A classified employee who becomes ill or suffers an accident during his/her vacation and who can support this fact through a physician’s statement, can charge such illness or accident to sick leave tiirie and have his/her vacation extended to a later period.
27
1. Office and Technical Services Unit--refer to Supplement 4.
Section 11. Worker’s Compensation Leave: Classified employees whb are absent from duty because of injury or illness that has been determined to be job-incurred and who qualify under provisions of Worker’s Compensation Insurance shall be allowed a maximum leave of sixty (60) working days at full salary in any one (1) fiscal year for the same accident. Employees in this category may request extension of Worker’s Compensation Leave. Such cases will be referred to the District physician for evaluation. Classified employees who are absent from duty because of a physical assault which occurred as a result of the performance of their duties shall be allowed, upon proper medical substantiation, industrial accident and illness leave for up to one-hundred (100) days.
The employee shall have the right, upon request, to be immediately provided a copy of the worker’s compensation claim form document if any written statement made by the supervisor/manager in any manner refutes the employee’s claim of statement.
Disability checks received from Worker’s Compensation must be endorsed by the employee to the District while he/she is receiving full pay. Normal authorized deductions, including retirement contributions, will be deducted from the warrant. The industrial accident or illness leave is to be used in lieu of normal sick leave benefits. When entitlement to industrial accident or illness leave under this section is exhausted, entitlement to other sick leave, vacation or other paid leave may be used. If, however, an employee is still receiving temporary disability payments under the Worker’s Compensation laws of this state at the time of the exhaustion of benefits under this section, he/she shall be entitled to use only so much of his/her accumulated and available nprmal sick leave and vacation leave, which, when added to the Worker’s Compensation award, provides for a day’s pay at the regular rate of pay. Employees who have exhausted their Worker’s Compensation Leave shall be entitled to use any
28
available sick leave, compensatory time off, vacation time, or ... other available leave provided, by law or by action of the • •	-
Governing Board.
The Governing Board reserves the right to grant to any employee additional leave of absence for on-the-job injury or illness, subject to the following provision:
1.	It must be apparent that the employee will not be medically able to return to work after available leaves are exhausted.
2.	The employee must request additional leave in writing.	• :	-
3.	The Board in considering such requests shall give due consideration to the employee’s length of service and past work performance: '
4.	Any additional leave granted by the Governing Board shall take "effect oh the first day following exhaustion of all otlier available leaves of absence.
The period of absence’ as provided above shall not be considered a break in service. During periods of leave, the employee shall have the absolute right to return to his/her position when able to do so.
When all available leaves of absence are exhausted, the employee will be placed on a reemployment list for a period of thirty-nine (39) months. During this time and when able to return to work, he/she has the right to the first vacancy in his/her classification^ During absence because of on-the-job injury or accident, the employee must reside in California unless the Governing Board grants him/her permission to leave the state.
•1	.	• •
Section 12.	Union Leave: Elected or appointed officers or delegates of Local No. 1 may be permitted to be absent from duty at no salary deduction for purposes of representing their
29
organization at regional, state, and national meetings. A total of thirty (30) days per school year shall be allocated to Local No. 1 for this purpose. The District shall pay the cost of substitutes replacing employees on such leave.
Section 13.	Family Illness Leave-. Two (2) days per year paid leave shall be provided for the employee’s absence due to illness or injury of any members of the immediate family.
Section 14.	Education Leave: Members who request an unpaid educational leave may be granted such request upon proper notification.
Section 15.	Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
Section 16.	Family Leave: The District shall provide leave of absence to unit members as required by the State and Family Leave Acts and as indicated below:
1.	Eligible employees shall be defined as within the act, with the exception that any employee who works at least half time, and who has been employed at least two (2) years, shall also be determined an "eligible employee" for the purposes of family leave to care for a family member with a serious illness or injury and shall be provided the benefits as set forth in number 5 herein.
2.	Employees shall be entitled to utilize, up to twelve work weeks of family leave in a twelve month
>	period, either in consecutive or intermittent days
off. The twelve month period shall be calculated from the first day of the family care leave for this purpose.
3.	Family care leave may be used for any of the following reasons: Birth of the employee’s child, and in order to care for the child; because of the
30
placement of a child with the employee for foster’ care or in connection with the employee’s adoption ' of the child; in order to care for the employee’s child, parent or: spouse with a serious health condition; because of the employee’s own serious health condition which makes the employee unable
• to perform the functions of his/her job, except for leave taken for disability on account of pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions.
4.	Definitions: Child means a biological, adopted or foster child, a stepchild,, legal ward, or a child of a person standing in loco parentis as long as the child is under 18 years of age or an adult dependent child.
. Parent means a biological, foster or adoptive parent, a stepparent, a legal guardian, or another person who stood in loco parentis to the employee when the employee was a child;
Serious health condition means an illness, injury impairment or physical or mental conditions that involves either (1) Inpatient care in a hospital, hospice or residential health care facility, or (2) continuing treatment or continuing supervision by a health care provider.
Instructional employee means an employee whose principal function is to teach, and for purposes of duration of leave shall not include special
' •. education assistants and signers for the hearing impaired.
5.	Continuation of Benefits:
a. During the period of family care leave, the employee shall continue to be entitled to participate in the district-paid medical,
31
b.
.dental-and vision plan ||<mrv«T it i« under?«t<x»d that .if an «-mpl<>\»*' do»-« n<>t normally receive, health benefit* the
.District is not required to provide them during the family care leave.
During the period .of family care leave, the employee shall continue to be entitled to participate in life, disability and accident insurance plans, pension and retirement plans, supplemental unemployment benefit plans and/or any other employee welfare benefit plan to the same extent and under the same conditions as apply to an unpaid leave taken for any other purpose. In the absence of these conditions, the employee shall continue to be entitled to participate in these plans set forth in (b) and the district may, at its discretion, require the employee to pay the premium for periods not covered by accrued leave.
Maintenance of Status: The employee shall retain his/her employee status with the district during the leave period, and the leave shall not constitute a break in service for purposes of longevity or seniority under any employee benefit plan or collective bargaining agreement. For purposes of layoff, recall, promotion, job assignment and seniority-related benefits such as vacation, the employee returning from family care, leave shall return with no less seniority than he/she had when the leave began.
6.	An employee may use vacation in the case of personal illness or injury but shall not be required to use such leave.
32
•7.<‘ Reinstatement from leave: An employee shall be •	reinstated in the same position and assignment
he/she was assigned prior to the Family Care '	Leave. If such same assignment does not exist,
the employee will be assigned the same position/hours in accordance with applicable sections of this contractual agreement.
ARTICLE 12 TRANSFER
Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
Section 1.	Types of Transfer:. The four (4) types of transfers recognized are: voluntary, involuntary, administrative, and medical.
Section 2.	Voluntary Transfer:
1.	All vacancies shall' be posted on appropriate bulletin boards for seven (7) calendar days sb that present District employees may request transfer." •
Office and Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4.
2.	After vacancies are posted, District employees shall have one (1) week from date of posting to apply for transfer to posted vacancies.
a. In addition to the above procedures, employees in the Custodial Department classifications and Teacher’Aide, Special Education may designate in writing in October of each year on an agreed-upon form, those sites to which they may be interested in transferring in the event of a vacancy. The District shall process those requests along with any other transfer
33
request applications in the event of a vacancy at the site indicated.
3.	Any employee going on leave during the period of . posting can request a copy of the notice by providing the Personnel Department with a self-addressed stamped envelope.'
4.	An employee on leave shall have the right to have his/her Shop Steward file for the transfer on his/her behalf.
5.	District employees working in the same classification will be considered first for the vacancy. Only transfer requests from employees meeting all requirements will be considered for any vacancy. The Division Head, Department Head, or Principal shall interview the employee(s) who has/have requested transfer.
If more than one (1) employee wishes to be transferred to a particular vacancy, factors to be considered are related experience, job performance, education, and length of service. However, primary consideration shall be given to seniority. The seniority shall be based on date of hire.
6.	The decision regarding the transfer of unit personnel is solely the responsibility of the District except as provided in this Article. Every reasonable effort will be made to acknowledge all transfer requests.
7.	Group Aides—refer to Supplement 2.
8.	Office and Technical Services Unit—refer to Supplement 4.
34
Section 3.	Involuntary Transfer:
1.	When involuntary transfer is necessary because of lack of funds, lack of work, or. abolishment of a position because of lack of need, volunteers shall be considered for transfer first,
2.	If there are no volunteers, the transfer shall be based on seniority within the classification. When applicable and if there are no volunteers, the transfer shall be based on District seniority at the work site. ■
3.	No employee shall be assigned to work in a work location other than the employee’s normal work site for a period in excess of-(5) working days without the written consent of the employee.
4.	Any employee who has consented to remain at a work.site other than the employee’s normal work site for a period in excess of five (5) working days may at any time request in writing to. be returned to the regular work site. This request, shall be granted within ten, (10) working days after receipt by the District of the written request. Payment for mileage in accordance with Article 18, Section 1 of this Agreement will be made to employees working at a site other than his/her normal site for the difference in miles traveled between his/her regular site and temporary work site, if.additional travel is required.	• ;
5.	In accordance with the transfer and seniority provisions of this Agreement, Local No. 1 and the District shall develop a special procedure to be implemented in the event of school closures, which shall be agreed to prior to the implementation of any school closure.
35
Section 4.	Administrative Transfer:
1.	Emergency situations can occur involving the health and welfare of students or employees. If the employee’s presence presents a clear and present danger to the life, safety, or health of any student or employee, the District may immediately effect a transfer of said employee.
2.	The Division Head, Department Head, or Principal requesting the transfer of a classified employee shall submit the form "Administrator Request for Transfer of Classified Personnel." Intent to request transfer must be discussed with the employee concerned. It may, at the employee’s option, include his/her representative. A written confirmation of the discussion shall be given to the employee before the request is submitted. This procedure must be followed before the form is sent to the Executive Director, Personnel.
Section 5.	Medical Transfer: The District shall give alternate work when, temporary work for which that employee is qualified and able to perform is available to an employee who has become medically unable to satisfactorily perform his/her regular job class duties.
Section 6.	Summer School Bidding: Any bidding for summer school assignments must be posted and completed by no later than the week prior to the last week of school, and in no case later than five (5) work days prior to the last day of school.
Special Education Division-refer to Supplement 2.
36
ARTICLE 13 EVALUATION
Section 1. Goal: The basic goal of the employee evaluation process is to help each employee perform his/her present job more effectively to the mutual benefit of the individual and the District.
Section.2. Objectives:
1.	To provide a means of evaluating each employee’s performance in the specific context of his/her job.
.2.	- To determine individual needs for improvement
and development.	- • . , ■
3.	To secure continuing communication of individual development.
4.	To provide a basis for giving recognition for praiseworthy service.
Section 3. Procedure:
1.	The immediate Supervisor, the Department Head, and the Division Head have the major responsibility for the evaluation of. classified personnel under their supervision.
2.	General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit-refer to Supplement 1.
Paraprofessional Unit-refer to Supplement 2. , West Contra Costa Schools Police Unit-refer to Supplement 3. Temporary and Substitute Employees-refer to Supplement 5.
3.	The Executive Director, Personnel has the responsibility of compiling information for the Superintendent from the evaluations made by. all administrators.
37
■	4. Probationary employees shall be formally
•	:	evaluated at least twice dyring the probationary
period and more frequently if deemed advisable.
5.	Permanent employees having less than five (5) years of service shall, be formally evaluated at least once annually, and may be evaluated more frequently for good cause upon proper notification. Permanent employees having more than five (5) years of service may be formally evaluated upon ' < proper notice.
6.	Evaluation Forms: All formal evaluations shall be filed in the employee’s file in the Personnel Office, and are available for the employee’s inspection by appointment. A copy of the completed evaluation forms shall be given to the employee. The evaluation forms shall be those shown in Exhibit B, Exhibit C, and Exhibit D.
7.	No evaluation of any employee shall be placed in any personnel file without an opportunity for discussion between the employee and the evaluator(s). No evaluation shall be made based upon hearsay statements but shall only be based upon the direct observation and knowledge of the evaluator(s). Any negative evaluation shall include specific recommendations for improvements and provisions for assisting the employee in implementing any recommendations made. The employee shall have the right to review and respond to any derogatory evaluation.
ARTICLE 14 SAFETY
Section 1.	District' Compliance: The District shall conform to - and comply with all health, safety, and sanitation requirements
38
imposed by state or federal law or regulations adopted under state or federal law.
Section 2.	Safety Committee: General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit-refer to Supplement 1.
Paraprofessiorial Unit-refer to Supplement 2.
West Contra Costa Schools Police Unit-refer to Supplement 3.
Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
Section 3.	Procedures:
1.	The Safety Committee shall meet regularly every other month.
2.	Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson to consider an acute safety problem.
3.	The Safety Committee shall designate one (1) District member and one (1) Local No. 1 member to investigate a safety problem.
4.	The Safety Committee shall report its findings and recommendations to the Supervisor of Safety.
Section 4.	Release Time: The bargaining unit members of the committee shall be allowed reasonable release time to carry out their obligations under Sections 1 and 2 of this Article.
Section 5.	No Discrimination: No employee shall be in any way discriminated against as a result of reporting any condition believed to be a:violation of Section 1 of this Article.
Section 6.	Insurance Provisions and Personal Safety:
1.	Classified employees may use reasonable force in the performance of their duties when, such force is required to defend themselves or insure the safety of other employees or students.
39
;'2: > - ; I-Whfen*a-.student with known serious behavior. .
■ \ . problems or violence-related potential or whose . .
’ parent or guardian has similar potential is assigned to a classroom or site, the paraprofessional unit member in the classroom, the elementary school secretary and the school police officer shall be notified in accordance with the agreed upon procedure between the District, Local No. 1, and UTR.
3.	Classified employees shall immediately report cases of assault suffered by them in connection with their employment to their principal or other immediate supervisor. Such notification shall be immediately forwarded to the Superintendent who shall comply with any reasonable request from the employee for information in the possession of the Superintendent relating to the incident or the persons involved.
4.	Because of the inability of the District to secure primary liability insurance to cover incidents arising from accidents involving an employee’s personal automobile in the scope of employment, the refusal to transport students in such a manner shall not constitute cause for adverse action against the employee. In the event an employee does transport students in his/her personal automobile and a claim of liability is filed, the insurance coverage shall provide secondary coverage up to the limits enumerated in Education Code Section 35208.
5.	Paraprofessional Unit-refer to Supplement 2.
6.	Office and Technical Services Unit--refer to Supplement 4.
40
Section 7:	-Safety Equipment: West Contra Costa Schools Police Unit-refer to Supplement 3.
Section 8.	Gun Shoot: West Contra Costa Schools Police Unit-refer to Supplement 3.
Section 9.	The District shall conduct safety and in-service programs for all unit members on a regular basis.
Section 10.	The Board shall, provide, with Union input, .that adequate procedures are in place at each school site to deaT with : earthquakes, fires, chemical spills, weapon-related emergencies,s community unrest, school crisis and trauma and other 'related ' ' emergencies. Employees shall be inserviced on' these procedures’ ’ annually during District time.	,
, The District shall work with school sites and communities to secure needed supplies.
Section 11.	Outside Visitors: It is mutually agreed that it is the best interest of the safety of employees and the students to"'? '' * develop procedures at school sites for checking in of outside visitors.
It is agreed that representatives of Local One and UTR will meet with the” District to develop such procedures arid that < Local One School Secretaries will he provided a representative to meet to provide input on this issue.
ARTICLE 15 4	BENEFITS
Section 1.	The District shall provide all eligible employees and their dependents, with a fully paid Health Maintenance, Organization/H MO) health plan. Employees may choose from among a ln>t of such plana mutually agreed upon by Local No. 1 and 1 holru t
41
1.	Employees who certify coverage by another group health plan or spouses of WCCUSD employees covered by a District health plan may waive their health plan. Effective October 1, 1991, in such cases the District shall contribute seventy-five ($7.5.00) dollars per month to a Tax-Sheltered Annuity Plan offered by the Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC).
Section 2.	The District shall provide all eligible employees and their dependents with either the dental insurance plan currently offered by Delta Dental Service, or at the option of the employee, the prepaid dental plan offered by Safeguard.
Section 3.	The District shall provide the Vision Service Plan, Option B, with a ten ($10.00) dollar deductible, to all eligible employees who choose an HMO health plan. This plan shall also provide dependent coverage.
Section 4.	Continuation—Retirement: Employees in the bargaining unit who retire and who. subsequently become eligible for and successfully enroll in federal medical or dental insurance programs available to persons receiving OASHDI benefits, may be converted by the employer to supplemental coordination of benefit programs so long as the overall coverage for the retired employee of the bargaining unit is hot less than he/she would receive under the active employee program. Benefits currently provided to retired employees shall be continued.
Section 5.	Maintenance of Benefits: The employer shall maintain these benefits as prescribed above in this Article for the duration of this contract, unless amended through the "Reopeners" provision.
Section 6.	Employees who work less than one-half (1/2) time and who are not eligible for District-paid benefits shall have the option to enroll in health plans at their own expense at the group rate, subject to carrier’s eligibility, following the procedure developed by the District and Local No. 1.
42
Section 7.	West, Contra Costa Schools Police Unit-refer to . Supplements.
Section 8.-	- The District shall be responsible for making. ■	. ,
appropriate deductions for air employees ini units who have selected State Disability Insurance coverage and shall be respons-■ ible for notifying the state to properly insure such employees; in the event of failure, to make required deductions.
Side Letter of Agreement
The District and the Union agree to continue studying cost , containment measures for retiree health benefit programs. '
Side Letter of Agreement
Health Benefits: It is agreed that the tissue of reviewing the feasibility of a self-insured dental program shall be referred to the joint Labdr/Management Health Benefits Study committee.
ARTICLE 16 COMPENSATION
Section 1, Appointments: The Superintendent may appoint, in accordance? with the Rules and Regulations, any person to a position in any class contained .in, the: Salary Schedule. Such appointment, normally, shall be made at the first step in the salary range. Whenever, there exists recruiting difficulties or ah eligible with outstanding qualifications, the Superintendent may appoint a person to a specific step within the applicable salary range. In such case air incumbent employees in the department and class are tb be paid at the same step or higher than the step paid the new employee. The’salary so designated is thereby fixed as the salary for such employee(s) for such positions.
1	• , ' ,. .	i	_ .	, J/;, .
Section 2.	Salary Advancement: An employee occupying a regular full-time or part-time position will advance to the next higher step on the appropriate salary range following satisfactory
43
completion of six (6) months of service in the class. The employee’s salary increment date will be established for' future step adjustments at this time. Such’salary increment date will be established on the first day of the month if the first increment due. iiate falls during the first to the-fifteenth day of the month; or, the first day of the following month if the first increment due date falls during the sixteenth to the end of the month. Following the initial step advancement, succeeding adjustments will be granted annually on the employee’s established salary increment date.
Section 3.	Promotion—Effect upon Rate of Compensation: An employee promoted to a higher classification shall advance to the nearest step in the new salary range providing such advance is at least five (5) percent higher than his/her previous salary. However, no employee can advance higher than the maximum step in the new salary range.
1.	District vacancies shall be filled in the following order: Voluntary Transfer, Rehire, Promotional, Temporary and Substitute List, Open. Candidate certification process for promotions shall be:
a.	All positions shall be posted in accordance with Article 12, Section 2.
b.	Candidates shall submit written applications.
c.	The Classified Personnel Office shall, on the basis of the written application, determine if each candidate appears to meet the minimum requirements, as established in the job announcement.
d.	Candidates meeting minimum requirements shall be invited to take a written or performance test and/or an oral interview.
44
e.	Tests and qualifying, scores shall be developed by the Classified Personnel office and shall be related to the actual requirements of the job as specified in the job description. Upon request, employees shall be provided with test score results, and specific areas in which they did .not meet the requirements.
f.	The Union shall be notified in advance of testing dates and may appoint one (1) representative to serve as an observer at any one (1) test.
g.	Voting members of a candidate certification team shall include equal number of management appointees and union appointees. It shall be chaired by a representative of the Classified Personnel Office. A.majority vote of the team is required to qualify a candidate.
Candidates certified as qualified for the promotional position shall be placed on a list in order of seniority. The Superintendent may select any of the top. three (3) applicants to fill the vacancy. Seniority within job family shall be deemed greater than District seniority. The eligibility list shall be valid for one (l) year from date established. No outside applicant may be selected over a certified, qualified employee. Employees -successfully completing a training program shall be automatically promoted to
' positions in the journey level classification . irrespective of the conditions of this Article.
45
h.	Temporary and Substitute Employees— refer to Supplement 5..
Section 4.	Demotion—Effect Upon Rate of Compensation: The rate of conipensation to be paid in cases of demotion, discipline, or for incompetence, shall be determined by the Superintendent, based upon recommendations of the Division Head and the Executive Director, Personnel. Compensation shall be within the salary range limits of the classification to which the employee was demoted. In cases of demotion, voluntary and in lieu of layoff, the employee shall receive the salary in the lower classification nearest to his/her present salary.
1.	Employees who are disabled due to on-the-job disability which is verified by the District physician and who accept a-position in a classification with a lower salary range shall be "Y" rated.
Section 5.	Effects of Certain Miscellaneous Actions Upon Salaries: Any employee occupying a position which is reallocated to a class, the maximum for which is less than the incumbent’s present salary dr occupying a position in a class for which the salary rate or range is reduced, shall continue to receive his/her present salary. Such salary shall be known as a "Y' rate. When an employed on a "Y" rate vacates his/her position, subsequent appointments to that position shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the rules and the salary plan.
Section 6.	Longevity: It is agreed that effective July 1, 1992 an employee must be in paid status five days in a work month in order to be eligible for longevity pay. In addition to salaries set forth in the salary schedule, longevity allowances shall be added to monthly salaries as follows:
1.	After ten (10) years of service (beginning with the year eleven) $50.00 per month through the fifteenth (15th) year of service.
46
2.....After fifteen (15) years of service (beginning with" ..... the-year sixteen) $60.00 per month through the twentieth (20th) year of service.
3.	After twenty (20) years of service (beginning with the year twenty-one) $80.00 per month.through the twenty-fifth (25th) year of-service.
4.	After twenty-five (25) years of service (beginning with the year twenty-six) $95.00 per. month maximum.
Effective July 1, 1990, the longevity-allowances shall be increased to the following:
1.	After five (5) years of service, (beginning with the sixth year) $40.00 per month.	.	. •
2.	' After ten (10) years of service (beginning with the
year eleven) $140.00 per month through the fifteenth year.
3.	After fifteen (15) years of service (beginning with the year sixteen) $150.00 month through the twentieth year of service.
4.	After twenty (20) years of service (beginning with the year twenty-one) $170.00 per month through the twenty-fifth year of service.
5.	■ After twenty-five (25) years of service (beginning with the year twenty-six) $185.00 per month.
6.	For employees working more than four (4) hours per day and for employees working on a ten (10) month year, longevity shall be based upon, the school year.
7.	Employees earn longevity by working or while covered by paid leave of absence.
47
Section 7.	Temporary Work in Higher Classification: The Division Head must obtain official approval through the Executive Director, Personnel, when the Division Head intends to have a subordinate employee work temporarily in a higher-paid classification. The Division Head must insure that the employee who is to temporarily relieve, in a higher-paid classification in the same crew or . similar work unit must assume all or substantially all of the duties and responsibilities of the higher-paid classification before the Division Head attempts to obtain approval for such appointment.
An employee who serves as a substitute for an employee in a higher classification or an employee who is appointed to a Division Head, Department Head, or similar administrative position under the circumstances mentioned
... below, shall be paid the appropriate rate for the higher classification beginning with the second day of such service with retroactive pay to the first day of service. Whenever a supervisor or lead worker is absent for more than one (1) day, the most qualified volunteer from the unit shall be appointed the temporary out-of-class position on the second day of such absence and paid in accordance with this Article.
If a vacancy occurs in a Division Head, Department Head, ; or similar administrative position and in the absence of an appropriate employment list, the Superintendent may appoint a person meeting the minimum qualifications for the class, as ' determined by the Executive Director, Personnel to a position in such a class in an acting capacity, such appointment to be designated "acting" followed by the appropriate class title.
Food Service employees—refer to Supplement 1. Paraprofessional Unit employees-refer to Supplement 2.
Section 8.	Salary Adjustments:
1.	The District recognizes that Local One bargaining unit members accepted nine (9) percent salary reduction in the 1991-92 fiscal year due to the
48
District’s fiscal crisis. In recognition, the District agrees to accept as a status quo obligation, the following formula, until such time as the salary reduction has been eliminated.
a.	The District shall identify any net change between fiscal years in unrestricted General Fund ongoing revenue from the following-revenue sources:
(1)	Revenue Limit Income;
(2)	. Mandated Cost Reimbursement
Funding;
(3)	Lottery Revenue;
(4)	Rents and Lease Income;	and
(5)	Interest Income.
V
b.	The District shall identify (and provide verification) of any cost increases between fiscal years for the following expenditure areas:
(1)	Expenditure increases required due to federal or state law or regulation;
(2)	Expenditure increases required as
a .result of any judicial decree;
(3)	Expenditure increases required to
meet the obligations of any District labor contract including, but not limited to, movement of personnel on the District salary schedule, and employee benefit costs (not to include C.O.L.A. or raises for non-
49
' ’ ", '	' '■■"'Coalitid^n’hargaihingiunit ’•	,
members); ..............
(4)	New employees, which must be hired to meet the staffing levels of any bargained contract; or
(5)	Any expenditure increases required to meet the obligation of any nonlabor contract maintained by the District.
c.	The District shall compute the differences between items a and b above and multiply the balance by .73.
d.	The above calculation shall be made for the then current fiscal year at the time of the first interim report (10/31 or 11/30) and such amount shall be adjusted by any actual amounts in the calculation for the prior fiscal year.
e.	The result of item d above, if any, shall be made available to the parties for meeting and negotiating. Unless agreed to otherwise, the above amounts shall be distributed in equal percentage allotments to each cell of the certificated and classified salary schedules. Any dollar amounts accruing from the above formula, however, shall not be made available for change in compensation until contract negotiations have been completed.
f.	. No reductions will result from this formula, but carryover reductions may offset future. increases.
50
g.'. Not withstanding the operation of paragraphs a through f above, the parties agree as follows:
(1)	For 1994-95 the formula will produce an amount sufficient to increase salary schedules provided to bargaining unit: members by .5% effective February 1, 1995. This amount is in addition to the 1% ' previously agreed to effective July . 1. 1994-
(2)	(a) For 1995-96 the formula
will produce an amount sufficient to guarantee an increase to all salary -schedules provided to / bargaining unit members by .5% effective October 1, 1995. At the request of the ' Unions the parties1 may open for salary increases only, unless all salary schedules provided to bargaining units are increased by 1% (in addition to the aforementioned .5%) effective October 1, 1995.
(b) Further, in the event that at least $225,000. in savings is realized between the 1994-95 workers’ compensation rates and the 1995-96 workers’ compensation rates, all salary schedules provided to bargaining unit members
51
will be increased by .25%. This amount shall be in addition to the aforementioned 1.5% increase, or any increase negotiated in salary reopeners.
h. The parties agree that the aforementioned is recognized as a minimum base salary commitment to bargaining unit member compensation and is not intended to preclude agreements to reopen on salary or any other matters contained with the E.E.R.A.
Section 9.	Certification and License Differential: The District shall pay a five (5) percent differential to all employees who are required by the District to have and maintain a special license or certification in addition to any specified in their job descriptions.
Section 10.	In the event of salary computation errors, the District shall make any payment owned to the employee within three (3) days of. notification of the error. In no event shall the District make deduction to an employee’s salary due to District error in computation without proper advance written notice to the employee and an opportunity to select increment repayment deductions.
t
Section 11.	Paraprofessional Unit employees-refer to Supplement 2.
ARTICLE 17 OVERTIME AND COMPENSATION FOR OVERTIME
Section 1.	General Provisions: Overtime is defined to include any time required to be worked by an employee in excess of his/her established work week or workday. Employees whose
52
established working hours are thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hoUrs per week, seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day shall be • eligible for overtime for time worked, in excess of thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours in a calendar week or in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day. The foregoing provisions are not intended to apply to properly designated part-time positions with an assigned workday of less than seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours and a work week of less than thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours even though all such positions constitute all of the positions within a class.
1.	All hours worked beyond the work week of five (5) consecutive days shall be compensated at the overtime rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) commencing on the sixth consecutive day of work.
2.	All. hours worked on the seventh consecutive day of work up to seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours shall be compensated at double the regular rate of pay.
3.	All hours worked in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours on the sixth (6) and seventh (7) consecutive day shall be compensated at two and one-half (2-1/2) times the regular rate of pay.
4.	All hours worked on holidays designated by this Agreement shall be compensated at two and oner half (2-1/2) times the regular rate of pay.
Section 2.	Rate of Compensation for Overtime Worked: All compensable overtime shall, be paid at the rate designated above. Exceptions must be mutually agreed to. When compensatory time off is authorized in lieu of cash compensation, such compensatory time off shall be granted within twelve (12) months following the month in which the overtime was worked and without impairing the services rendered by the District. If the compensatory time has not been taken within twelve (12) months of the date on . which it was earned, and mutual agreement not reached to extend ’the period, the District shall pay the employee in cash for, all such;
53
time at the appropriate overtime rate based on the employee’s current rate of pay.
Section 3.	Accumulation of Overtime: Food Service employees in secondary schools and Central Kitchen-refer to Supplement 1.
Section 4.	Factors Which Govern Compensation for Overtime Worked: Each employee who has earned overtime compensation shall have the right to request either payment or compensatory time-off. The Division Head shall approve the employee’s choice provided that the needs of the Division and of the District service, adjudged by the Division Head, permit. The detailed methods of compensating for overtime may vary from division to division, and each Division Head shall give due consideration to divisional needs and precedents. All overtime compensation shall be paid in accordance with the contract and in compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Section 5.	Effect of Termination Upon Overtime: Each employee who resigns or is otherwise terminated shall be entitled to compensations for his/her accumulated overtime of record.
Section 6.	Procedure Governing Overtime Work: All overtime work shall be subject to prior approval by an immediate supervisor or any duly authorized representative of the District.
Section 7.	Certain Exceptions and Exclusions: The following shall apply for the employees designated:
1.	Each District employee who works as a substitute, • short-term, part-time, or intermittent appointment shall be excluded from the provisions of these Sections 1 through 6, until the total hours worked by such employee in a calendar week exceeds the established work week for full-time regular . employees.
’}•
2.	The work week shall consist of not more than five (5) consecutive working days for any employee
54
having an average workday of three and three- ‘ ..... quarters (3-3/4) hours or more during the work
. week. ‘ Such an employee. shalLbe compensated for . any work required to be performed on the sixth (6) or seventh (7) day following the commencement of the work week at the rate equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay of the employee designated and authorized to perform the work. An employee having an average workday of less than three and three-quarters (3-3/4) hours during a work week shall, for any work required to be performed on the seventh (7) day following the commencement of his/her work week, be compensated for at a rate equal to one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay of the employee designated and authorized to perform the work.
3.	Part-time positions with an assigned workday of less than seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours and work week of less than thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours shall be eligible for overtime for time worked in excess of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day or in excess of thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours per week.
Section 8.	Overtime-Equal Distribution: Overtime shall be distributed arid rotated as equally as is practical among employees in the bargaining unit within each department and at each work site according to seniority and meeting the requirements for the assignment. The senior employee may refuse the assignment without waiving his rotation rights.
Section 9.	Call-Back Time: Any employee called back to work after completion of his/her regular assignment shall be compensated for at least four (4) hours of work at the overtime ■ rate; irrespective of the actual time less than that required to be worked.
55
Section 10.	Right of Refusal: Any employee shall have the right to reject any offer or request for overtime, call-back, or call-in time.
Section 11.	Food, Service Employees—refer to Supplement 1.
Section 12.	West Contra Gosta Schools Police Unit-refer to Supplement 3.
ARTICLE 18 EXPENSE CLAIM
Section 1.	Mileage: Any employee in the bargaining unit required to use his/her vehicle on District business shall be reimbursed at the per mile rate allowed by the IRS. The mileage computation shall include mileage necessary to return to the employee’s normal job site after completion of District business. This amount shall be payable in a separate warrant drawn against District funds within thirty (30) working days of submission of the claim by the employee in the bargaining unit.
Section 2.	Miscellaneous: Any employee authorized to attend an activity away from his/her normal assignment shall submit an expense claim on the form provided by the District for all necessary expenses.
Section 3.	Damages to Personal Effects:
1.	General Provisions: The Governing Board of the District will provide for the payment of the costs of replacing or repairing the job-required personal effects of an employee which are damaged in line of duty without fault of the employee. Such items are eyeglasses, hearing aids, dentures, watches, jewelry or articles of clothing. If the items are damaged beyond repair, the actual value of such items shall be paid. The value of such items shall be determined as of the time of the damage thereto.
56
- Restrictions: It is not the intention of this section to replace personal effects which are worn out through ordinary wear and tear. The Governing Board will be responsible for repair or replacement costs to a maximum amount of four hundred ($400.00) dollars for any one (1) incident.
2.	The Governing Board shall reimburse employees for vandalism, damage to their autos occurring during duty time pursuant to the. following guidelines: Reimbursable damage is limited to damaged glass and/or that which would affect the mechanical operation or proper movement of the auto and which could reasonably be assumed to have occurred while the vehicle was parked. There shall be a four hundred ($400.00) dollar limit per automobile damage incident.
3.	Substantiation: Employees shall substantiate any claim for repair or replacement with evidence clearly indicating that damage was caused by circumstances beyond the control of the employee. Receipts for payment of repair or replacement costs will be required. Request for substantiation by the District shall not be unreasonable and shall be submitted on agreed upon forms.
Section 4.	Uniforms: West Contra Costa Schools Police Unit-refer to Supplement 3.
Section 5.	Tools: General Service, Maintenance and Operations Unit-refer to Supplement 1.
ARTICLE 19 MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Recognizing that the Board of Education is the elected body charged with conducting the affairs of the District, all rights which ordinarily vest in and have been exercised by the District
57
' shall‘continue to'vest exclusively ‘ inand be exer.cised-by the;*-' District unless otherwise agreed to.'■Such‘rights:shalkinclude,;by‘ ■ way of example but not limitation, the right to:
1.	Manage and control the District, its facilities and operations as well as to direct the working forces and affairs of the District.
2.	Within existing law, direct the working forces, including the right to select, hire, layoff, promote, discipline; suspend, dismiss, transfer, assign work of extra duties, and determine the size of the work force within existing law and the constraints of this Agreement.
3.	Determine the services, supplies, and equipment necessary to conduct the operation of the District and to determine the methods, schedules, and standards of operation essential to all' District programs.
4.	Adopt and enforce District rules and regulations.
ARTICLE. 20 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE
Employees of the District shall not take part in any strike, work stoppage, or activity during duty hours which would interfere with the normal operation of the District.
All parties signatory to this Agreement agree that neither the officers of West Contra Costa Schools bargaining unit of Local No. 1 nor employees will collectively, concertedly, or individually induce, engage, or participate directly Or indirectly in any strike, picketing, slowdown, stoppage, or other curtailment or interference with the employer’s operation, or interfere or cause interference with the flow of material or persons in or out of the premises or property.
58
All parties to any Agreement will comply with all Articles of the Agreement and perform all agreed-upon duties regardless , of any agreement or disagreement with any other District employee. It is expressly understood that the provisions of this Article do not apply to those matters subject to the reopener provisions of this Agreement.
Article 21 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS
Section 1.	General Provisions: A permanent classified employee may be suspended, demoted, or dismissed by the Governing Board for cause.
Section 2.	When emergency conditions do not exist, disciplinary steps to be used by administrators shall be as follows:
1.	Verbal reprimand.
2.	Written reprimand.
3.	Suspension.
4.	Demotion.
5.	Dismissal.
In all cases the action taken by the District shall be invoked at a level commensurate with the offense.
Section 3.	Causes: The causes which shall be deemed sufficient for suspension, demotion, or dismissal of permanent classified employees are the following:
1.	Absence without leave.
2.	Conviction of any criminal act involving moral turpitude.
59
3.	Disorderly or immoral conduct.
4.	Incompetency or inefficiency,
5.	Insubordination.
6.	Use of alcoholic beverages or narcotics while on
duty.
7.	Neglect of duty.
8.	Negligent or willful damage to District property, or waste of District supplies or equipment.
9.	Willful violation of any of the Governing Board’s • regulations regarding duties, conduct, or performance of a classified employee.
10.	Material and intentional misrepresentation or concealment of any fact in connection with obtaining employment.
11.	Misappropriation of District funds or property.
12.	Failure of employees who drive a vehicle in the regular course of their employment to maintain a good business driving record.
ARTICLE 22 RESTRICTION OF CONTRACTING OUT
During the life of this Agreement, the employer agrees that it will not contract out work which has been customarily and routinely performed by employees in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement unless specifically required by the Education Code and/or the work contracted out is in excess of that which could be reasonably performed by regular school employees.
60
ARTICLE 23 REASSIGNMENT
Section 1.	General-Definition; Reassignment shall be defined as any change of work station or work location within a work site and/or any addition to, deletion of or change in assigned duties, hours, or working conditions.
On occasion the operation of the District may require flexibility in assignment. It is agreed that this flexibility in assignment and reassignment shall not be used in a manner that will cause the employees to unreasonably speed up their work process or increase production beyond the present standard, or in order to circumvent the granting of overtime.
It is agreed that any addition to, deletion, of, or change in assigned duties, hours or working conditions shall be accompanied by a comparable addition toj deletion of, or change.in assigned duties, hours or working conditions.
Section 2.	Building Maintenance, Custodial and Landscape— refer to Supplement 1.
Section 3.	Food Service-refer to Supplement 1.
Section 4.	Gardehirig-refer to Supplement 1.
Section 5.	Paraprofessiohal-refer to Supplement. 2.
ARTICLE 24 LAYOFF AND REEMPLOYMENT
Section 1.	Reason for Layoff: Layoffs shall occur due to lack of work or lack of funds
Section 2	Form* of l_avot! layoffs tnay take one (1) of more of the following forms
61
1.	An involuntary reduction in the number of days worked in a year;
2.	An involuntary reduction in the number of hours worked in a day; -
3.	An involuntary reduction in classification through bumping by senior employees;
4.	An involuntary reduction in salary or other compensation to avoid layoff;
5.	Acceptance of bumping to a lower classification to avoid layoff is at the option of the employees affected.
Section 3.	Notice of Layoff: Unit members affected by layoff shall be given no less than thirty (30) calendar days written notice of such action.
Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
Section 4.	Order of Layoff: Layoffs shall be based upon seniority within a class and higher classes within the District.
1.	In determining order of layoff in a lateral class (where an employee moves or has moved from one (1) class to another class at the same salary range) the original class, prior to lateral movement, shall be considered a lower class for purposes of seniority within class.
2.	Members with the least seniority within the class, plus higher classes, shall be laid-off first.
3.	Effective July 1, 1987, seniority shall be based on the hire date in a permanent paid.status in a class plus higher classes, as of the date of layoff.
62
Section 5.	Bumping. Rights:
1.	A member laid-offfrom his/her present class may bump into the next lower class' in which the employee has previously, served.
2.	The accumulated service in the higher class plus . the service of seniority in the present class shall determine the seniority within- the class.
3.	The employee may continue to bump into successive: lower classes in- which he/she has served to- avoid layoff.
4.	A member may elect to be laid-off in lieu of bumping: Accepting, such, a layoff does not affect the employee’s reemployment rights under this Agreement.
5.	.When an employee was initially employed in an identifiable entry-level position within an existing specific family grouping, of classifications, that employee shall retain seniority for that entry-level position even though the position has been reclassified and/or the title changed, provided the employee meets minimum qualifications required for the; entry-level position.
Section 6.. Equal Seniority: Where two (2) or more employees subject to; layoff have equal- class seniority, layoff shall be made on the basis of the last, continuous hire date seniority.
Section 1-. Reemployment Rights: Members laid-off are eligible for reemployment in reverse order of layoff for a period of thirty-nine (39)- months and shall- be mandatorily- reemployed in preference to, the District accepting new applicants within the class from; which the layoff occurred.
Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.
63
Section 8. Special ReemployrriehVRights:
1.	Upon any "vacancy'occurring within a class within
the District' witfiinMie 'classified service, the District shall:	■'	••
a.	First*,' offer reemployment to laid-off employees ail order of highest seniority within -the-class in which the vacancy occufs'and they possess vested job rights.
b.	Such employees-shall be notified by first-
class mail 'at the last know address of record. The employee shall, if notified by mail; have ’three (3) workdays from proof of service but" in no case more than seven (7) workdays^from date of postmark to notify the District W acceptance. Failure to respond/accept shall be considered a waiver of the right to the vacancy.
c.	Second, where no employee in a layoff Status has vested or prior rights in a vacancy/orj where those having such rights* refuse-or fail to exercise them, the District;sfialhoffer reemployment to unit members in order of District seniority in any position within any class which is vacant within the units where the employee possesses the minimum qualifications: for such vacant positions as delineated <‘in the current Rules and Regulations'of the District.
■ tSucK'employees shall be notified by first class mail, at The employee shall, within seven (7) calendar
1	days from date of postmark, notify
64
and make application to the District to fill such vacancy.
2.
3.
Section 9.
1.
2.
3.
(	2) Failure to make application within the time limits shall be considered a waiver of the right to vacancy .
d.	Such reemployed members returning to the District in a class not previously occupied by them shall serve a regular probationary period in such classification and shall be placed oh "Step 1" of the new class salary rate for the probationary-period.
All terms and conditions contained within this Article shall apply to-all members in job classifications represented by Local No. 1.
Office and Technical Services Unit-refer to Supplement 4.’
Any employee who is improperly laid-off shall be reemployed immediately upon discovery of the error and shall be reimbursed for all loss of salary.
Any permanent or probationary/employee who is laid-off and is subsequently reemployed shall retain that seniority earned prior to the effective date of the layoff.
No seniority shall be earned during periods of separation from employment in the District, except during authorized military leave.
ARTICLE 25		
RECLASSIFICATION
Section 1. Reclassification means the upgrading of a position to a higher classification as a result of a gradual increase of the duties being performed by the incumbent in such position.
1.	When an employee has reason to believe that ; duties and responsibilities are being performed - . outside of the employee’s job description, so as to justify a reclassification, the employee should submit that evidence in writing to the Executive Director of Personnel through his/her department
'' head. The Executive Director of Personnel shall - conduct a desk audit on the position seeking to be reclassified and make an appropriate
. recommendation to the Superintendent.
ARTICLE 26 STAFF DEVELOPMENT
The District and the Union agree that it is to the mutual benefit , of employees and the District for employees to participate in staff development activities.
Employees shall be released, with authorization from the Personnel. Office, to attend District-sponsored in-service and staff development activities. Such authorization shall not be unreasonably denied.
Paraprofessional Unit-refer to Supplement 2
ARTICLE 27 HARASSMENT
The Board will not tolerate harassment of District
... employees by any other employee of the District. Harassment is defined as unwelcome verbal or physical contact when:
66
A...Submission to or rejection of such conduct is made, .... • either explicitly or implicitly5«a term or-condition
■ of employment;	-
B.	Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as a basis for making personnel decisions affecting an employee; or,
C.	Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an employee’s performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.
ARTICLE 28 NON-DISCRIMINATION
The District shall not discriminate against any unit member on the basis of race, color, creed, age, sex, national origin, political affiliation, domicile, marital status, sexual orientation, physical handicap, membership or participation in the. activities of an employee organization in a manner that is unlawful or violates that person’s rights.
ARTICLE 29 SITE BASED DECISION MAKING
It is agreed that any site based decision shall not impact the contractual rights or affect the negotiable issues of Local One bargaining units. It is agreed that the District and Local One may, by mutual agreement, open negotiations on the issue of inclusion of classified employees in site based decision making programs.
67
ARTICLE 30
Side Letter of Agreement
Use of Volunteers: The District agrees to follow the existing side letters of agreement and established past practices regarding the use of volunteers. It is agreed that such practices include a provision that volunteer activities shall be approved in advance by the District and shall also provide for the inclusion of the appropriate Local One personnel to coordinate any such activities.
Local One agrees to provide copies of all side letter agreements and memorandums of understanding to the District 1 regarding this issue to insure proper compliance with established past practices.
ARTICLE 31 DISTRIBUTION OF AGREEMENT
Following ratification of this Agreement by both parties herein, said parties shall "share equally the cost of preparing and distributing a sufficient number of copies to all members of the bargaining unit and designated management personnel.
68
ARTICLE 32 SIGNATURES TO AGREEMENT
Signed and entered into this 24th day of January, 1995.
WEST CONTRA COSTA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS:
Herbert M. Cole; Jr.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE’S UNION LOCAL NO. 1:
Sandra Falk
Anne Mueller Adeline Calhoun
Major Dixon Toni Etchison
Gary Abeyta Tom Bertera Donna Butler James Emerson Karl Halbritter Maria Ostenberg
John Scruggs Pat Sonsten
69
.-SUPPLEMENT 1...
GENERAL SERVICES;. MAINTENANCE AND OPERATIONS UNIT
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
1. The District recognizes Local No. 1 as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for employees in the following classifications:
Administrative Aide
Assistant Auto Mechanic
Auto Mechanic
Building Maintenance Worker
Carpenter
Carpenter/Cabinet Maker Trainee
Computer Operator
Computer Operator Trainee
Concrete Mason
Cook, Children’s Center
Cook/Manager 1, School Lunch
Custodian'
Custodian—Castro
Data Entry Coordinator
Delivery Worker
Driver Helper
Electrician
Electrician Assistant
Electrician Trainee
70
Electronic Repairworker
Equipment Control Clerk
Equipment Control Technician
Equipment Mechanic
Field Maintenance Groundskeeper
Field Maintenance Groundskeeper-Leadworker Film Checker and Shelver
Food Service Aide
Food Service Aide/Clerk Breakfast
Food Service Aide Breakfast
Food Service Clerk/Aide Food- Production Leadworker.-	r
Food Service Operations Assistant Food Transport Driver .
Furniture Driver Repairwprker
Furniture Driver Repairworker-Leadworker
Furniture Repairworker
Gardener
Gardener Leadworker
Gardener Operator
Gardener Operator Leadworker
Gardener/Tree Topper
Gardener Tree Topper Leadworker
General Mechanic Trainee
General Mechanic
Glazier
Glazier Trainee
71
Groundsworkcr
Head Custodian 1. Ei«‘m«-ntar\
Head Custodian 1, Castro
Heating and Ventilating Assistant Heating and Ventilating Trainee Heating arid Ventilating Mechanic Housekeeper, Children’s Center Irrigation Equipment Technician Key Punch Operator Locksmith
Locksmith Assistarit
Locksmith Trainee
Office Machines Repairworker Offset Press Operator
Painter
Painter Leadworker
Painter Spray Specialist Plumber
Plumber Assistant
Plumber Trainee
Roofer
Roofer Assistant
Roofer Trainee
School Bus Driver/Custodian
School Crossing Guard School Lunch Cashier
School Lunch Worker 1
72
School Lunch Worker 2
Senior Computer Operator , .
Senior Irrigation Equipment Technician
Senior Key Punch Operator .
Senior Locksmith
Senior Office Machines Repairworker
Senior Offset Press Operator
Senior Warehouseworker
Shade Worker
Sheet Metal Worker
Stock Clerk Custodian
Stock Clerk Driver
Stock Clerk Driver/Custodian •
Stores Warehouse.Driver
Telephone Operatof/Receptidnist
Tool Room and Stock Clerk
Utility Worker
Utility Worker 1
Warehouseworker 1
Warehouseworker 2.
Welder
73
ARTICLE 10.
WORKING HOURS^ REST PERIODS,-...............
LUNCH TIMEi ABSENCE FROM DUTY,
■ •	. CALL-IN TIME ..
Section 1. Working Hours:
1.	The standard work week for employees in the General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit shall consist of not more than thirty-seven and one-half (37-.1/2) hours, seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day, Monday through Friday.
2.	Working hours for employees in the classification of custodian shall consist of not less than twenty (20) hours per week, four (4) hours per day.
3.	Working hours on all of the above shall be set according to the needs of the particular job and assignment.
Section 3. Lunch Time: Head Custodian 1, Elementary and Head Custodian 1, Castro shall have lunch time of thirty (30) minutes included in working time of seven and one-half (7 1/2) hours per day. However, his/her lunch time can be interrupted to perform an essential task(s) for the principal.
ARTICLE 13 EVALUATION
Section 3. Procedure
2. Custodians:
a.
The immediate supervisor for night custodian in the junior and senior high schools shall be the Assistant Custodian Supervisor. He/she shall notify the
74
custodian to be evaluated at least five (5) working days prior to the evaluation meeting. Such meeting shall be arranged on District time and the place and time of such meeting shall be included in the prior notice to each custodian. The immediate supervisor of night custodians in the secondary schools shall involve the Custodial Supervisor in the evaluation meeting and may request the Department Head to assist them in this evaluation of the night custodian. In any case, the evaluation shall be approved by signature by the Department Head and then forwarded for final approval by the Division Head who shall also indicate his approval by signature as well on the evaluation form.
A copy of the evaluation shall be sent to the Principal of the school where the night custodian works with a specific space labeled "Principal’s Comment." The purpose of this is to enable the Principal to list any comments that he/she deems to be appropriate especially in regard to such custodian’s relationship as reported in writing to the Principal with both classified and certificated staff, with students and with the public. The comments from the Principal shall be made before the Division Head gives final approval by signature. Such comments by the Principal shall be made available to the employee prior to final approval. This same procedure shall be used for night custodians in elementary schools except that night custodians in elementary schools shall be evaluated by the Principal with input from the day elementary head custodian.
75
The immediate Supervisor of the elementaryhead custodial! shall be the elementary Principal at that school and the Principal shall include the Department Head in the evaluation meeting of the
• elementary head custodian. The evaluation shall then be signed by both the Principal and the Department Head and forwarded for final approval by signature of the Division Head.
The immediate supervisor for custodians who work oh the day shift in junior and senior high schools shall be either the Custodial Supervisor, Junior High School or Custodial Supervisor, Senior High School. The same procedure shall take place in evaluating day custodians in secondary schools as spelled out above for evaluation of the night custodians at secondary schools.
Gardening Employees: The immediate supervisor for evaluation purposes for the gardening’classified personnel shall be the Gardener Supervisor and the evaluation process in this sub-section shall be the same as listed above for the night custodians.
Maintenance Employees: The immediate supervisor for the maintenance personnel shall be the immediate foreman and the evaluation process shall be the same as listed above for the night custodian.
Food Service Employees: The immediate . ...supervisor for all food service classified- > -employees shall be the Cafeteria Manager and the evaluation process for food service
76
classified personnel shall be as listed above ■ for elementary head custodians.
ARTICLE 14 SAFETY
Section 2. Safety Committee: A safety committee shall be formed composed of two (2) members appointed by the District and five (5) members .appointed by Local No. 1 to represent the General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit, one (1) of whom shall represent the maintenance employees, one (1) to represent the gardener employees, one (1) to represent the day , custodians, one (1) to represent the night custodians, and one (1) to represent the Food Service workers.
1; The Maintenance Department shall implement safety meetings.
ARTICLE 16		
COMPENSATION
Section 7. Temporary Work in Higher Classifications: A unit - ' employee in the Food Service Department who serves as a substitute for an employee in a higher classification shall be paid the appropriate rate for such higher classification beginning with the first (1) day of such service.
Food Service employees hired after October 1, 1979, shall qualify for the higher rate of compensation effective the first (1) day after completion of five (5) days of training in the higher classification.
ARTICLE 17
OVERTIME AND COMPENSATION FOR OVERTIME
Section 3. Accumulation of Overtime-Food Service Employees in Secondary Schools and Central Kitchen: Food Service employees in the secondary schools and in the Central Kitchen who require a
77
few minutes beyond their regularly scheduled hours of work to. complete their assignments shall log this time. When one (1) . hour of overtime has been accumulated, the employee shall be paid for that hour at the overtime- rate of time and one-half (1-1/2).
Section 11. Overtime shall, wherever possible, be performed by unit members in the classification in which the work is normally . performed. Food Service employees shall be provided the opportunity to work overtime, wherever possible, oh the basis of seniority before the work is offered to temporary or substitute employees.
ARTICLE 18 TOOLS
Section 1.	Tools. The District will provide for replacement of broken or worn-out tools in the Maintenance Department upon proper verification. An inventory list of such shall be submitted to the supervisor annually.
Section 2.	The District will provide rain gear for the general classifications of Gardener, Groundskeeper, Building Maintenance Worker arid Warehouse Worker.
Section 3.	Effective July 1, 1990, the District shall provide laundry
service for Vehicle Garage employees clothing due to contact with brake shoe asbestos exposure.
ARTICLE 23 REASSIGNMENT
Section 2.	Building Maintenance. Custodial and Landscaping Reassignment:
1.	The staffing model for building maintenance
78
' workers, custodial and landscaping and the ■ maintenance department shall not be reduced except by attrition. At the-beginning of each.........
school year, the District shall post the specific assignments of each position at the work site. Prime consideration shall be given to seniority at the time of reassignment, and deviation therefrom shall be substantiated by management.
2.	The Union and the District agree that on occasion at the secondary level there will be unusual or special circumstances that require the temporary reassignment of employees within a work site. If the employee is required to work outside of his/her assigned work site for one (1) hour or more, or three (3) consecutive days, the employee shall receive additional compensation at the overtime rate, for hours worked on the third (3rd) day, to complete his/her normal duties.
3.	In the elementary schools and children’s centers a minimum of two (2) hours overtime shall be allowed wherein a substitute custodian is not obtainable to cover an absence. For custodians during summer vacation, the employee’s assignment shall be considered to be the work site.
Section 3.	Food Service, Reassignment
1.	The assignments in the Food Service Department at each work site shall encompass all of the designated tasks of the employees in that classification at the work site.
2.	The District may rotate the assignments of employees within their classifications for the purpose of allowing the employees the opportunity to train in all aspects of their jobs.
79
3.	The hours allocated for each position in the Food Service Department shall be directly related to participation.
Section 4.	Gardening, Reassignment
1.	Assignment of employees in the gardening section shall encompass all of the designated tasks of the employees in that classification at the work site.
2.	If it becomes necessary to reassign an employee to another crew, the employee who has been reassigned to another crew for a period in excess o
; K five (5) working days may at any time request in ; writing to be returned to the regular crew. The request shall be granted within ten (10) working days after receipt by the District.
3.	If at any time during the year a vacancy occurs in a crew, the most senior employee who requests th< assignment shall be given prime consideration for the appointment. Deviation therefrom shall be substantiated by management.
Side Letter of Agreement
Local No. 1 and the District agree to continue negotiation; (to be concluded by no later than January 1, 1990) regarding the implementation of AHERA and the asbestos abatement program.
It is agreed that the following issues will be included in the negotiations:
1.	Designation and method of designating "Inspectors."
2.	Designation and method of designating "Site Personnel."
80
3.	Safety and health-related issues affecting employees represented by Local No. 1.
4.	Any applicable compensation for additional duties or required certificates.
ARTICLE 29
The District agrees that it will cooperate with Local #1 in reestablishing good morale in the Maintenance and. Operations area.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN ..
WEST CONTRA GOSTA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT And peu, local #1
ASBESTOSSURVEILLANCE/INSPECTION TEAM SELECTION AND PAY FOR SERVICES
A.	Volunteers from the General Services, Maintenance, and Operations bargaining unit, in the West Contra Costa Unified School District Maintenance and Operations . Department will be considered for the. asbestos surveillance/inspection team. Twelve volunteers who qualify (see below) shall be appointed to the team.
1.	Elementary Head Custodians have the first option to perform the asbestos surveillance (six-month) at their own school; if the Elementary Head Custodian declines, surveillance of elementary schools will be completed by a designated surveillance/inspection team member.
2.	Surveillance/inspections of secondary and nonschool WCCUSD sites and other sites in which WCCUSD instructs students will be completed by surveillance/inspection team members.
Assignment to surveillance/inspection duties by team members will be made in seniority order and in rotation so that all team members will receive substantially equal assignments. Note: Asbestos inspections occur at 3 year intervals and are distinguishable from asbestos surveillance by requiring a higher degree of training and involving more intensive inspection duties.
B.	Surveillance/inspection team members must have completed the asbestos training prescribed by AHERA law and must meet the following standards.
1.	Must be able to read and comprehend the instructions for the inspections.
82
2.	Must be able to write legibly so that the inspection documents can be easily read.
3.	Must be able to interpret school plans so that they can identify asbestos sites.
4.	Must be able to differentiate between friable and non-friable asbestos.
5.	Must be physically able to climb stairs and ladders, crawl under floors and walk entire building areas.
C.	Volunteers will be interviewed and tested by the District in seniority order. Those twelve volunteers who meet the above standards will be chosen for the surveillance/inspection team.
D.	Employees will perform surveillance/inspections in overtime hours not to exceed four hours a day or 10 hours per week.
E.	Remuneration for team members will be at their regular overtime rate plus a 10% differential for hours worked performing duties referenced herein;
83
SUPPLEMENT'2 ^ARAPROEESSIONAL UNIT ... ...... t • ...
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
2.	The District recognizes Local No. 1 as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for employees in the following classifications:
Administrative Aide, Property Control
Assistant, Truancy Prevention
Audiometrist
Bilingual Paraprofessional r
Braillist
Child Care Aide PIP
Classified Specialist
Clerical Attendant
Coordinator of Parental Activities
Counseling Paraprofessional
Counselor Aide
Counselor Aide-Bilingual
Graduate Tutor
Group Aide, Children’s Centers
Head Occupational Therapist
Human Relations Bus Aide
Human Relations Specialist
Instructional Aide
Instructional Aide-Adult School'
Instructional Aide-Hearing Impaired
84
Instructional Aide—Visually Impaired
Instructional Assistant
Instructional Assistant-Bilingual
Instructional Assistant-Special Education ’ 1 -
Interpreter for the Deaf
Job Developer
Liaison Private Industry Council .	.
Library Aide
Library Assistant	■'
Library Resource Specialist
Lower Division Tutor
Occupational Therapist
Parent Activities Coordinator'
Parent Aide	. •, ■	•
Parent Aide Bilingual
Parent Liaison Worker	....
Preschool Community Worker
Reading Aide
Receptionist, Children’s Centers
School Community Outreach Specialist.
School Community Worker
School Community Worker-Bilingual
School Crossing Guard
School Health Aide
Secondary Bilingual Aide
Secondary Site Supervisor
Security Guard/Group Aide
85
: -Special. Education Assistant
Special Education Employment Specialist
Student Control Assistant
Student Supervisor
Teacher Aide-Bilingual
Technical Assistant-Visual Impaired
Transportation Scheduler/Health Department Secretary
Tutors: Lower-Division Tutor
Upper-Division Tutor
Graduate Tutor
Tutor, ESL
ARTICLE 10
WORKING HOURS, REST PERIODS, LUNCH TIME ABSENCE FROM DUTY, CALL-IN TIME
,’Z
Section 1. Working Hours
1.	The standard work week for employees in the Paraprofessional Unit shall consist of not more than thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours, seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours, per day, Monday through Friday. Working hours shall be set according to the needs of the particular job assignment.
2.	Working hours for employees in the classification of Group Aide, Children’s Centers shall consist of not less than twenty (20) hours per week, four (4) hours per day.
3.	When a substitute Group Aide is assigned in a
86
classroom with,^ permanent:Group Aide for more than one (1) day, the permanent Group Aide shall have the option to choose between the two (2) work shifts in that same classroom for the duration of the substitute assignment. For planned absences, the option shall begin on the first day.
4.	Effective semester II, 1989-90, the standard work day for all Instnictional Assistants, Special Education assigned to NSH classes shall be no less than six (6) hours per day. The Union and .the District shall negotiate a special bid procedure to be completed and implemented no later than January 15, 1990,
• 5. Instructional Assistants, Special Education: It is agreed that those Instructional Assistants, Special Education, currently working six hours shall be reduced to five hours, and that those Instructional Assistants, Special Education, in Range 49 and 43 positions currently, assigned over six hours per day shall be reduced; and maintained at six hours.
6. It is agreed that in the classification of Instructional Assistant, Special Education, assigned to the RSP program at the elementary , .	level, the District may reduce the current
assignment of positions as they become vacant from the current staffing level to 3.5 hours per day, through attrition only.
Section 2. Rest Periods: Full-time employees in the classification of Group Aide, Children’s Centers shall be granted one (1) rest period of thirty (30) minutes which, insofar as practicable,. shall be in the middle of each workday. For those full-time Group Aides, Children’s Centers who work continuously for three.; (3) hours or more without a rest period, an additional rest period often (10) minutes shall be granted. This rest period shall be,
87
insofar as practicable, in the middle of the work period of three (3) hours or more.
Section 4. Absence from Duty
1. The Children’s Center employees who are absent shall notify the Head Teacher by 1:00 p.m. the daj prior to returning to work.
Section 6. Split Shift Differential
1.	Group Aides Split Shifts
a.	The District agrees that the current number of split shifts shall not be increased and that existing split shifts shall not be lengthened.
b.	The District agrees to the establishment o: a Shift Scheduling group aides from Local 1 and Children’s Center teachers from the United Teachers of Richmond to be provided release time in order to revise work schedules under the following guidelines:
(1)	There shall be no increase in the number of split shifts nor in the length of split shifts;
(2)	No individual work day shall be greater than nine (9) hours total report time;
(3)	Equity between group aides and teachers in split shift assignments shall be maintained.
Section 10. Group Aides and Substitutes
88
1.	Group aides shall have input in the selection of substitute teachers assigned to the room in which the group aide works.
2.	Long-Term Absence, Group Aides: When a group aide shall be absent for a period of fifteen (15) work days or more, the most senior volunteer at that' site shall be allowed to select that assignment and shift.
ARTICLE 12 TRANSFER
Section 2.	Voluntary Transfer
7.	. Children’s Centers group aides shall follow a separate procedure for voluntary transfer which shall consist of two (2) .days of bidding in seniority order, beginning with the highest senior. Meetings shall be scheduled with written individual notices sent to each aide a minimum of seven (7) work days in advance, stating the date and time of the meeting and including a copy of an, accurate seniority list. The notice shall include the place, date and time of the meeting, a statement for the purpose of the meeting, and a statement that the group aide may indicate in writing to the head teacher his/her requests prior to the meeting, or may designate in writing another group aide to act as a proxy in making-selections that have been indicated in writing.
Section 6. Special Education Division:- Any bidding for assignment changes due to program changes, site changes, etc., must be posted and completed by no later than the week prior to the last week of school, and in no case later than five (5) work days prior to the last day of school.
89
....................  ARTICLE	13	''2 '
EVALUATION'	....
Section 3.	Procedure
2.	The Principal in all schools of the District, including the Head Teacher in the Children’s Centers, shall be responsible for the supervision of all Paraprofessional employees in this bargaining unit. The immediate supervisor for evaluation purposes of Paraprofessional employees in a school shall be the School Principal or designated representative. The immediate supervisor for evaluation purposes of Paraprofessional employees in the Children’s Centers shall be the Head Teacher, The evaluator shall notify the Paraprofessional employee five (5) working days prior to the evaluation meeting and shall include in such notice the time and place of such meeting which shall occur on District time. Once the Principal or the Head Teacher has completed the evaluation of the Paraprofessional employee, the evaluation shall be forwarded to the Department Head/Division Head for his/her signature of approved.
a. Children’s Centers Employees: The immediate supervisor for all classified personnel in this unit who work in the Children’s Centers shall be the Head Teacher and the evaluation process shall be the same as listed for elementary head custodians in Supplement 1.
90
ARTICLE 14 SAFETY
Section 2.	Safety Committee: A safety committee shall be formed composed of two (2) members appointed by the District and three (3) members appointed by Local No. 1 to represent the Paraprofessional Unit, one (1) of whom shall represent the Group Aides, one (1) to represent the Teacher Aides, and one (1) to . represent the other Paraprofessional members in the unit.
Section 6.	Insurance Provisions and Personal Safety
4.	Any Paraprofessional who works in any situation in. which a student has been placed due to behavior or violence-related incidents involving the student or parent shall be informed of the violence potential of that student and/or the parent(s).
ARTICLE 16 COMPENSATION
Section 7.	Temporary Work in Higher Classification. When a special education assistant, range forty-eight (49) or instructional aide, special education, range forty-three (43) with a differential is absent from the; classroom, the assistant in the seune classroom shall have first option to work in such classification and be paid the higher salary with any substitute employee then hired to replace the assistant with either lower pay or fewer hours.
Section 11.	Compensation. The District shall pay a stipend to those paraprofessional unit members in the special education division who voluntarily drive a District vehicle to. transport students as part of their duties. The stipend shall be twelve ($12.00) dollars per day for each day such driving is performed.
91
ARTICLE 23 REASSIGNMENT
Section 5. Reassignment, Paraprofessional Cmt
1.	Furthermore, the District will make every reasonable effort to provide substitutes in cases of absence within the Group Aide and Receptionist classifications.
2.	It .may become necessary to reassign an employee
within a work site. Except for Christmas, Easter, and summer vacations, the employee who has beer reassigned for a period in excess of five (5) working days may at any time thereafter request in writing to be returned to his/her regular assignment. The request will be granted within ten (10) working days after receipt by the District.
ARTICLE 26 ' TASK FORCE COMMITTEE
The District and Local No. 1 agree to establish a joint tasl force composed of three (3) representatives from the District and three (3) from Local No. 1. The District representatives shall include the Assistant Superintendent (Pupil Personnel), one (1) representative from Classified Personnel, and one (1) other designated by the District. The Union committee members shall consist of one (1) Local No. 1 staff member, the President of the Paraprofessional Unit, and one (1) other designated by the Union.
The purpose of the committee shall be to address the following issues affecting Special Education paraprofessional Unit members:
1.	.Training, and staff development
2.	Job duties
92
3.	Safety
93
SUPPLEMENTS
WEST CONTRA COSTA SCHOOLS POLICE UNIT
ARTICLE 2 UNION RECOGNITION
3. The District recognizes Local No. 1 as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for employees in the classification of Police Officer.
ARTICLE 10
WORKING HOURS, REST PERIODS, LUNCH TIME, ABSENCE FROM DUTY, CALL-IN TIME
Section 1. Working Hours: Police Officers shall work a thirtyseven and one-half (37-1/2) hour week. The working day shall consist of seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours total time. Duty hours shall be determined by the Police Chief. Work schedules for Police Officers shall be posted two (2) months in advance.
Shift Assignments. The District has agreed to the following:
1.	That it is reasonable that each officer may request and may be allowed to arrange one (1) swap with another officer in a given week and, further, that if a request for a second (2nd) swap was submitted, that the swap may be granted if an emergencytype situation existed.
2.	That it would be possible for a Police Officer to request, with reasons stated, and may be allowed to swap with another Police Officer for a full rotation (three months) period. That is to say that an officer working swing shifts would be able to swap with an officer working graveyard shift for
94
the entire three (3) month period-
3.	That in the cases of swapping that the officers making the swap would not be entitled to overtime as provided in the contractual agreement if in fact an officer worked in a sixth (6) and seventh (7) consecutive, day, the reasoning being that the officer’s sixth (6) and seventh (7) days were actually being performed on another officer’s schedule.
4.	That cases wherein, a request is denied, there shall be given pertinent supporting written reasons for the denial.
Section 3. Lunch Time: Thirty (30) minutes .of the workday is normally allowed for.a meal.
Section 7.	Night Shift Differential: Employees working a night shift shall receive twenty-one ($21.00) dollars per month additional.
Police Officers shall be entitled to payment of the full twenty-one ($21.00) dollars per month provided they are assigned to the niglit shift for five (5) days per month. Effective July 1, 1990, night shift differential shall be forty-two ($42.00) dollars per month.
Section 8.	Monthly Meetings: Regular monthly meetings shall be scheduled for all Police Officers. Attendance at meetings shall be mandatory. Compensation, shall be paid at the appropriate rate as follows:
1.	Police Officers coming off the day shift and Police Officers- going bn the swing shift shall be paid overtime for only that time which exceeds their normal workday.
2.	Police Officers coming off graveyard shift and Police Officers on day off shall be paid four (4)
95
■ hours of overtime as required By Gail-Back Time
3; Monthly meetings shall include updates on changes in laws; police techniques and procedures, and related officer training as necessary.
ARTICLE 13 EVALUATION
Section 3
Procedure
2.	West Contra Costa Schools Police
a.	Patrol Police Officers: The immediate supervisor for evaluation purposes of Patrol Police Officers shall be the Police Sergeant. The Police Sergeant shall notify the Police Officer five (5) working days prior to the evaluating meeting and shall include in such notice the time and place o such meeting which shall occur on District time. The Police Sergeant may request th< Department Head to assist him in his evaluation of the Police Officer. In any case the evaluation shall be approved by signature of the Department Head.
b.	; Police Officers Assigned to a School: The immediate supervisor for evaluation purposes of Police Officers assigned to a school shall be the school principal or designated representative. The evaluator shall notify the Police Officer five (5) working days prior to the evaluation meeting and shall include in such notice ■ • the-time and place of such meeting which ■ shall occur on District time. The evaluate
96
may request the Department Head to ’. assist him/her in the evaluation of the ■
Police Officer. The evaluation is then “ forwarded for final approval to the Division Head, who shall also indicate his/her approval by signature as well as bn the evaluation form.
. • * •
ARTICLE 14 SAFETY
Section 2. Safety Committee: A safety committee shall be formed consisting of two (2) members appointed by the District and two (2) members appointed by Local No. 1 to represent the’ West Contra Costa Schools Police Department Unit, one (1) to represent Police Officers Assigned to Patrol, and one (1) to represent Police Officers Assigned to a School.
Section 7. Safety Equipment: All Police Officers shall be provided protective vests and Kell lights. The District will provide all police officers with new protective vests. The District also will provide all police officers with rain gear.
Section & Gun Shoot: The District shall set up a schedule allowing Police Officers access to at least one (1) day and one (1) night shoot per year on District time.
ARTICLE 15 BENEFITS
Section 9. Effective January 1, 1984, the District will provide each Police Officer a Long-Term Disability (LTD) Insurance Policy designated by Local No. 1.
97
ARTICLE 17 OVERTIME AND COMPENSATION FOR OVERTIME
Section 12. Overtime payments shall be paid in accordance with all sections of this Agreement including the following: All hours worked beyond five (5) consecutive days shall be compensated at the appropriate overtime rate. ‘
ARTICLE 18 EXPENSE CLAIMS
Section 4. Uniforms: Newly-appointed Police Officers shall be furnished a regulation uniform. . Uniform clothing allowance shall be twenty-five ($25:00) dollars per month for: each Police Officer. Effective July 1, 1990, uniform allowance shall be sixty-five ($65.00) dollars per month.
Side Letter of Agreement
The District and the Union agree that within one (1) month of.the appointment of the new Captain of Police Services, but in no case later than December 15, .1989, a meeting will be held to discuss matters of concern to Local No. 1 members in the School Police Unit. Participants at the meeting will be Captain of Police Services (or Superintendent’s designee); Director of Classified Personnel, Director of Contract Management, Local No. 1 staff, and two (2) representatives of the bargaining unit. The purpose of the meeting will be to arrive at mutually satisfactory resolutions to the following issues:
1.	Training and safety programs, for officers;
2.	Schedule and content of monthly meetings;
3.	Gun shoots, CPR training, POST, Safety vests, Red Cross training and certification and radio frequency requirements.
98
Side Letter of Agreement
The District agrees to conduct a study of the cost of providing safety requirement to the members of the Police Services Unit by no later than May 30, 1995.
99
SUPPLEMENT 4
OFFICE AND TECHNICAL SERVICES UNIT
Side Letter of Agreement
The District agrees to place a Clerk Typist I at all those Elementary Schools where the enrollment level is at five-hundred (500) students or more. The increased staffing shall be posted and implemented immediately upon ratification of this agreement in accordance with current contract provisions. The Clerk Typist I positions will be staffed in all applicable schools at a minimum of three and one-half (3-1/2) hours per day per position.
Side Letter of Agreement
A committee will be established within one (1) month of the ratification of this contract with representation from the Coalition and from the District for the purpose of developing solutions for the problems of supervision of pupils that are suspended from their classrooms and sent to the school office.
Side Letter of Agreement
The Union and the District agree to form a joint committee by January 1, 1992 to study the feasibility of flexible schedules where it would not interfere with the operations of the District for positions in the Unit.
ARTICLE 2
UNION RECOGNITION
4.	The District recognizes Local No. 1 as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for employees in the following classifications:
Account Clerk 1
Account Clerk 2
100
Accountant 2
Accounting Technician
Administrative Assistant-Food Service American Indian Educational Specialist Assistant Buyer
Assistant Buyer, Textbooks and Publications Attendance Clerk Bindery Services Clerk Budget Control Clerk •	■
Buyer
Buyer, Textbooks and Periodicals Chief Attendance Technician Community Resource Assistant • Construction Accounts Secretary. Data Control Technician Data Entry Specialist ' Data Processing Clerk Documentation Clerk Employee Benefits Clerk Employee Benefits Specialist Employee Benefits Technician Employment Specialist
Equipment Control/Computer Technician Food Service Account Clerk • • F<mxJ Service Clerk > .
F<mm1 Service Secretary
Forms and Graphics Specialist
101
General Clerk
Instructional Materials Specialist Instructional Materials Technician Knolls Center Secretary Library Assistant, Secondary Library Resource Secretary
Magnet Schools Recruitment, Marketing and Cultural Inclusion Specialist
Management Information System Technician Operations Secretary Payroll Clerk 1 Personnel Clerk
Personnel/Credential Technician Personnel/Payroll Records Clerk Personnel Technician Personnel Technician 2 Preschool Clerk 1
Preschool Diagnostic Center Secretary
Preschool Secretary
Preschool Staff Secretary
Programmer
Programmer, Analyst
, Record Clerk
Resource Center Specialist
Resource Office Specialist School Secretary 1 Secretary, Administrative Services <•
102
Secretary, Construction Accounts
Secretary Independent Study
Senior Account Clerk
Senior Account Clerk--Fbod Service Senior. Account Clerk, Special Projects Senior Accounting Technician
Senior Budget Control Technician
Senior Buyer
Senior Payroll Clerk
Senior Programmer Analyst
Senior Staff Secretary
Special Projects-Assessment Specialist
Special Projects Education Assistant
Special Service Secretary
Specialist - Classified
Staff Secretary
Staff Secretary, Data Processing
Staff Secretary Bilingual
Stenographer Clerk 1
Stenographer Clerk 2
Teacher Substitute Clerk
Technical Assistant Visual Impaired
Transportation Scheduler
Twilight Clerk
Typist Clerk 1
Typist Clerk 1-Bilingual
Typist Clerk 1/Work Experience Clerk
103
Typist Clerk 2 .
Typist Clerk2--Bilingual	.	.. .. ..
Typist Clerk 3
Word Processing Specialist
Work Experience Office Secretary
ARTICLE 6 UNION RIGHTS
Section 9. The District shall make available to the Union notification of all additions and/or terminations of classified personnel immediately following an executive session of the Boar of Education.
ARTICLE 10
WORKING HOURS, REST PERIODS, LUNCH TIME, ABSENCE FROM DUTY, Call-in time
Section 1. Working Hours: The standard work week for employees in the Office and Technical Services Unit shall consist of not more than thirty-seven and one-half (37-1/2) hours, seven and one-half (7-1/2) hours per day, Monday through Friday.
Working hours shall be set according to the needs of the particular job and assignment.
All bargaining unit employees referred to as "ten-month" employees will be guaranteed a minimum of ten (10) months and eight (8) days, with the exception that School Secretary 1 shall b guaranteed a minimum of ten (10) months and ten (10) days working time. Any reduction in days or hours can only be done for lack of work or lack of funds and in accordance with layoff procedures.
1.04
Summer School Assignments: All summer work shall be considered regular employment and shall be in accordance with Education Gode, Section 45102. All summer school assignments shall be posted and bids completed by no later than May 1.
Section 3. Lunch Time
1. Any School Secretary who is interrupted during his/her lunch period shall receive compensation at the rate of time and one-half for the entire lunch period.
ARTICLE 11 LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 9.	. Sick Leave: Absence due to personal illness, excluding pregnancy, shall be allowed up to fifteen (15) working days per fiscal year, July 1 through June 30, and shall be accumulative from year to year without limitation. Absence of less than one (1) full day shall be charged to the nearest quarter hour of absence. Personal illness of more than five (5) working* ■■ days duration shall be verified by a statement from a licensed : * physician, advising that the person is physically able'to do his/her regular work. The physician’s statement shall verify the illiiess from the first (1) day of absence to the date of return to work. In cases of excessive absence or when abuse of sick leave is evident, following previous counsel with the employee, the school. administration may request in writing that the employee furnish a physician’s statement to verify ahy future absence of less than five (5) working days for the remainder of the school year.
When all available paid leaves are exhausted, the employee is placed on "Difference Leave." An employee on leave is paid the difference between his/her salary and that paid his/her substitute. This is paid for a maximum period of five (5) months. The five (5) month period is calculated from the sixteenth (16th) day of sick leave or last day of available sick leave, whichever
105
comes first. When difference leave is exhausted,, the employee. , : with one (-1) year ;of service shall be allowed? health leave; an . r , employee with less than one'(l) year of service is placed on a reemployment list for a period of thirty-nine (39) months. If at any time during the prescribed thirty-nine (39) months the employee is able to assume the duties of his/her position, the employee shall be reemployed in the first vacancy in the classification of his/her previous assignment: His/her reemployment will take preference over all other applicants except those laid-off for' lack of work or funds, in which case he/she shall be ranked according to his/her proper seniority. Upon resumption of his/her duties, the break in service will be disregarded and the employee shall be fully restored as a permanent employee.
During the first six (6) months of employment, one and one-quarter (1-1/4) days of paid sick leave per calendar month shall be granted as earned at the end of each month. Employees who work less than full-time or less than a twelve (12) month calendar year shall be credited with sick leave on a prorata basis at. the rate of one and one-quarter (1-1/4) days per month. If an employee whose regular full-time assignment is in a school where he/she is in regular contact with students contracts a communicable disease and it can be proved that the disease is attributable to employment, the employee shall not be charged sick'leave for his/her necessary absence. In such cases, the employee shall file for worker’s compensation, and said compensation shall be deducted from monies earned.
Section 10.	Vacation Leave
1.	Vacations for the most part are to be taken during Christmas, Easter or summer vacations and scheduled so as not to disrupt completing the work of the District. The District shall grant the requested vacation to the most senior employee in each classification at the worksite if there is conflict with the request of the employees for
• • •• ' vacationieave in light of the needs of the District. : . ,	- ■■ ■- Seniority shall be’ based on date of hire. The
106
District shall take under consideration any em- * ployee’s request for vacation leave other than during Christmas, Easter-or summer vacations (when school is not in session) according to the special considerations and reasons for the employee making such a request as to why such employee wishes the District to make an exception for them in regard to when vacation leave should be granted. Requests for vacation must be approved in advance. Vacation requests shall not be unreasonably denied. Once an employee’s vacation is approved, it shall not be canceled except by agreement of the employee unless the District can demonstrate an emergency need. Regular classified employees shall be entitled to vacation with pay as follows:
a.	For the first thirty-six (36) complete months of service-5/6 of a day, per month (2 weeks annually).
b.	Beginning with the thirty-seventh (37th) month through the tenth year-1-1/4 days per month (3 weeks annually).
c.	Beginning with the eleventh (11) year on, 1-2/3 days per month (4 weeks annually).
Earned vacation shall not become a vested right until completion of the initial six (6) months of employment. Vacation days may be accumulated to a maximum of double the annual entitlement with the approval of the Department Head. A maximum of forty (40) days vacation may be taken in one (1) year. Exceptions must have the approval of the Division Assistant Superintendent. Ten (10) month employees are -required to take their vacation during Christmas vacation and Easter vacation. Upon separation from the service, the employee shall be entitled to lump-sum compensation for all earned and unused vacation, except that employees who have not completed six (6) months of employment in regular status shall not be
107
erititled to such compensation. A classified employee who becoriies ill or suffers an accident during his/her vacation and who ban support this fact through a physician’s statement, can-charge, such illness br accident to sick leave time and have his/her Vacation extended to a later period.
Pay for vacation days for all bargaining unit employees shall be the same as that which the employee would have received had he/she been in a working status.
Vacation Pay Upon Termination: When an employee in the bargaining unit is terminated for any reason, he/she shall be entitled to all vacation pay earned and accumulated up to and including the effective date of termination. If, because of emergency needs, a bargaining unit employee is denied an approved scheduled vacation, he/she shall be compensated at the rate of double time and one-half (2-1/2) for all hours worked during the scheduled vacation period. In such a case, the employee shall suffer no reduction in the paid vacation days due him/her.
If, because of emergency needs, a bargaining unit . employee is hot permitted to take all or any part of his/her approved scheduled vacation, the amount not taken shall, at the option of the employee, be rescheduled or accumulated for use in the following year.
Holidays: When a holiday falls during the scheduled vacation of any bargaining unit employee, such employee shall be granted an additional day’s vacation and pay for each holiday falling within that period.
Interruption of Vacation: An employee in the bargaining unit shall be permitted to interrupt or terminate vacation leave in order to begin another type of paid leave provided by this Agreement without a return to active service, provided the employee supplies notice arid supporting information regarding the basis for such, interruption or. termination. •	.	.
108
Section 14. Break in Service: There shall be no break in service for an employee on a paid or unpaid leave of absence.
ARTICLE 12 TRANSFER
At the same time any position is posted, the District shall mail one.(l) copy of the posted vacancy'to the Union.
Section 2. Voluntary Transfer
1. All vacancies shall be posted on appropriate bulletin boards for not less than five (5) working days so that present District employees may request transfers. In calculating the number of days for which a position for transfer must be posted, the first (1st) .working day after which
. school sites may reasonably be expected to receive the notice shall be day one (1).
8. Whenever a position is vacant, permanent employees in that same salary range shall be considered for transfer on the same basis as Section 2.5 above. Whenever a position eligible for transfer under this section includes a requirement for a skill not required of the classification from which the employee seeks to move, the employee shall be required .to pass the qualifying examination.
ARTICLE 14 SAFETY
Section 2. Safety Committee: A Safety Committee shall be formed composed of two (2) members appointed by the District and two (2) members appointed by Local No. 1 to represent the Office and Technical Unit.
109
^~Section'6.'^Insurance-Provisions .arid-Personal,Safety.. .	_
’ - • •-5... ^Office,	and Technical. Services Unit ,	......
a.	The Board shall within twenty (20) days of the consummation of this Agreement enter into an Agreement with a qualified insurer.
, Such Agreement shall provide that an employee who, in the course of duty, is prosecuted for an alleged act for which the employee is held liable, shall be entitled without restriction to all reasonable expenses incurred in connection with defending against such prosecution including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees for litigation and appeal, court costs, costs for obtaining witnesses, payments for transcripts, monies expended for subpoenas, depositions, interrogatories, and reasonable expenses in investigations made. to prepare such defense. The Board shall.pay the premium for such insurance policy.
b.	The Board shall within ten (10) days of the consummation of this Agreement enter into an Agreement with a qualified insurer. Such Agreement shall provide each employee acting within the scope of his/her employment with $5,500,000 worth of coverage against personal liability for damage or death of a person, injury to a person, or damage or less of property. Such insurance policy shall also cover all reasonable expenses incurred by the employee in connection with his/her defense, including all expenses which are relevant to defense of a civil suit enumerated in Section 6.5a above.'
110
ARTICLE 24 LAYOFF AND REEMPLOYMENT
Section 3. Procedure for Office and Technical Services Unit:
1.	After the Board has determined that there is a lack of work or a lack of funds and has made the decision to layoff employees, the District will issue notices of layoff to the employees affected.
2.	Employees to be laid-off shall be notified by certi-fied/registered mail’sent to the most recent address provided to the District by the employee.
3.	The notice shall be deposited in the U.S. mail no less than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the effective date of the layoff. Copies of notices shall be sent to the Union.
4.	The notice shall contain the effective day of layoff, displacement rights, if any, and reemployment rights.
5.	The notice shall also contain a statement that the employee may be eligible for unemployment insurance.
Section 7. An employee given notice of reemployment need not accept the reemployment to maintain the employee’s eligibility on the reemployment list. However, failure to respond within the time specified or a refusal to accept four (4) offers of employment shall cause the individual’s name to be permanently removed from the reemployment list.
Ill
.SUPPLEMENT S .
TEMPO RARY.APili SUBStltiTE EMPLOYEES ' . •	-	. ' S'* ■ ’ ..	’ ' **	'.*****•■ •* •	•’♦	• •'
ARTICLE 2 UNION RECOGNITION
Effective October 17, 1983, all temporary and substitute employees working in classifications represented by Local No. 1 in the General Services, Maintenance and Operations Unit, the Paraprofessional Unit, the West Contra Costa Schools Police Unit and the Office and Technical Services Unit shall be designated as included within the appropriate respective bargaining unit for purposes of representation in accordance with the applicable law.
ARTICLE 13
EVALUATION
During the initial six (6) months of employment with the District, substitute and short-term employees shall be evaluated at least twice in accordance with the provisions of this contract.
(Evaluation Form, Exhibit E)
ARTICLE 16 COMPENSATION
Section 3. Promotion-Effect Upon Rate of Compensation
1. Filling of District Vacancies
h. Temporary and substitute employees in each bargaining unit represented by Local No. 1 shall be eligible to participate in bidding for job vacancies in the order specified in Article 16 and seniority shall be based on hours of service to the District.
112
WEST CONTRA COSTA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL SALARY SCHEDULE 1995-96
TITLE
A Account Clerk 1......................................... 45
Account Clerk 2..............................   .	. .... 47
Accountant 2 ............................................ 57
Accounting Technician................................... . 62
Administrative Aide/Property Control ..................  60
Administrative Assistant-Food Service....................63
American Indian Education Specialist...... ..............62
Assistant Auto Mechanic .. . ..........................  62
Assistant Buyer......................................... 48
Assistant Buyer/Textbooks and Publications . ............47
Assistant Truancy Prevention . .......................... 55
Attendance Clerk..............................    .......	45
Audiometrist...........................................  50
Auto Mechanic .........................................  66
Auto Mechanic Assistant/Trainee Program ..............   61
Auto Mechanic Trainee .................................  56
B
Braillist..............................................  42
Bindery Services Clerk . ..............................  50
Building Maintenance Worker............................. 56
Bilingual Paraprofessional ............................  48
Budget Control Clerk.....	....... ...................... . 50
Buyer ................................................... . 56
c
Cafeteria Lead Worker .................................  43
Career Development Work Experience Office Secretary.......54
Carpenter ...............................................66
Carpenter/Cabinet Maker Trainee..........................56
J13
Chief Attendance Technician .............................56
Child Care Aide; PIP ..............................    .	. 44
Children’s Center Secretary..............................52
Clerical Attendant ...................................   51
Communications System Operator Receptionist............  49
Community Resource Assistant ............................43
Computer Operator ...................................... 55
Computer Operator Trainee...............................; 49
Concrete Mason ......................................    66
Construction Accounts Secretary..........................60
Cook/Manager 1, School Lunch ..........................  48
Coordinator of Parent Activities.........................56
Counseling Paraprofessional . . .........................54
Counselor Aide ..........................................54
Counselor Aide Bilingual.................................55
Custodian ...........................................    48
Custodian-Castro i......................................■. 49
D Data Control Technician .................................59
Data Entry Coordinator.................................. . 59
Data Processing Clerk....................................39
Delivery Worker ........................................ 54
Documentation Clerk....................................  39
E. Electrician............................................. 66
Electrician Assistant....................................61
Electrician Trainee .....................................56
Electronics Repairworker.................................66
Employee Benefits Specialist..........................  .60
Employee Benefits Technician............................ . 52
Employment Specialist ...................................64
Equipment Control Clerk..................................48
Equipment Control Technician........................... .56
Equipment Mechanic.......................................66
114
F Field Maintenance Groundskeeper . . ........................  57
Field Maintenance Groundskeeper, Leadworker...................63
Film Checker and Shelver............. ;	33
Food Production Leadworker .... ...	.... 42
Food Service Account Clerk 2	............ . . . i...........50
Food Service Administrative Specialist	......... 59
Food Service Aide ......................................      29
Food Service Aide/Clerk . ................................    30
Food Service Aide/Clerk Breakfast .	.	.	...... ..... 30
Food Service Aide Breakfast. . ...... ... . . .. . .	29
Food Service Clerk ......................... ................	39
Food Service Operation Assistant .... . ... ... . ...... ...^.53
Food Service Secretary ........... .	.... ..........55
Food Transport Driver .............. ... . ... ... . .	... 56
Forms and Graphics Specialist. .;. . .... — ..... . . ..  ...	53
Furniture Driver Repairworker ......... ....	......... 63
Furniture Driver Repairworker, Leadworker .. . ;	; ...... . 65
Furniture Repair Trainee .............. .c.. •••..............56
Furniture Repairworker . .	... • • • • • ■ 66
G	■
Gardener ..........................................    .:....	56
Gardener Leadworker .......	....... -i-*. . . ... ..	62
Gardener Operator .................. .	.. .................. 60
Gardener Operator Leadworker* .......................... ....	63
Gardener Tree Topper......................................    61
Gardener Tree Topper Leadworker ...............	.... 64
General Clerk ..............................................  38
General Mechanic . ............ .......... .......; .... 66
General Mechanic Trainee.......	.....;.................  56
Glazier ...................................................   66
Glazier Assistant	     61
Glazier Trainee.........................  ...................	56
Graduate Tutor..............................................  65
Groundskeeper ............................ ■ • • .............48
115
H
Head Custodian 1 (Elementary) . ... .................... . E
Head Custodian 1, Castro ................................. 5
Heating and Ventilating Assistant......................... 6
Heating and Ventilating Mechanic...........................6
Human Relations Bus Aide ................................  4
Human Relations Specialist................................ 5
I Instructional Aide .......................................... 3
instructional Aide-Bilingual .................................4
Instructional Assistant . . . ..............................  5
Instructional Assistant-Bilingual...........................  4
Instructional Assistant Special Education ....................4
Instructional Assistant Special Education-Bilingual...........4
Instructional Assistant Special Education, Hearing Impaired I .......................................... 4
Instructional Assistant Special Education, Hearing Impaired II ......................................... J
Instructional Assistant Special Education, Visually Impaired I ..........................................E
Instructional Aide Adult School...............................4
Instructional Material Specialist.............................E
Instructional Material Technician . ..........................€
Interpreter for the Deaf....................................  E
Irrigation Equipment Technician...............................€
K Key Punch Operator ...........................................E
Knolls Center Secretary.......................................E
L
Liaison Private Industry Council..............................E
Library Aide .................................................3
Library Assistant.............................................E
Library Assistant, Secondary..................................E
Library Resource Secretary ...................................E
Locksmith.....................................................f
Locksmith Assistant ..........................................€
116
Locksmith Senior.........................................  68
Locksmith Trainee......................................    56
Lower Division Tutor.......................................35
M
Magnet Schools Recruitment, Marketing and Cultural Inclusion Specialist ...........................-.63
Management Information System Technician ..................53
o
Occupational Therapist ....................................69
Office Machines Repairworker	. ..........................  63
Offset Press Operator ...................... ............ . 49
Operations Secretary....................................  -57
P Painter ................................................   66
Painter Assistant...................... . . . ...........  61
Painter Leadworker............................. . 68
Parent Activities Coordinator ...........................  56
Parent Aide...................................  ......	. 39
Parent Aide Bilingual ..............................   .	. . 40
Parent Liaison Worker .........................  .	.... :. 53
Payroll Billings Clerk ....................................53
Payroll Clerk............................................  49
Payroll Technical Assistant	 51
Payroll Technician...............................          57
Personnel Clerk . .......................................  45
Personnel Clerk-Substitute Placement........	....... 50
Personnel/Payroll Records Clerk ...........................51
Personnel Credential Technician .........................  60
Personnel Technician......... . .<......................   57
Plumber .................................................  66
Plumber Assistant.................................. . 61
Plumber Trainee....................... . . ..............  .56	.
Preschool Clerk '..........■’•..•• •.....................  39
Preschool Community Worker .............................. . 52
Preschool Diagnostic Center Staff Secretary ...............52
Preschool Staff Secretary..................................52
117
Programmer ............................  ..	. . . ... . ... . . . . 63
• Programmer Analyst . . ..... . . . ........	.... ... . . . . . . .. . ... - 70
R Reading Aide..............................................39
Receptionist, Children’s Center ..........................51
. Resource Office Specialist .............................  52
Roofer .................................................  66
Roofer Assistant . .....................................  61
Roofer Trainee........................................... 56
s School Bus Driver/Custodian...............................48
School Community Outreach Specialist .....................56
School Community Worker ................................  52
School Community Worker Bilingual.........................53
School Crossing Guard.....................................26
School Health Aide .......................................39
School Lunch Cashier	....................................35
School Lunch Worker	1 ...................................33
School Lunch Worker	2 ...................................39
School Police Officer	 ...................................62
School Secretary 1 .....................................  52
Secondary School Cashier .................................46
Secondary Site Supervisor.................................33
Secretary Administrative Service..........................60
Secretary Independent Study.............................  52
Secretary Secondary Curriculum............................55
Security Guard/Group Aide ................................48
Senior Account Clerk .................................... 50
Senior Account Clerk-Food Service ........................51
Senior Account Clerk-Special Programs.....................52
Senior Budget Control Clerk ..............................55
Senior Buyer..............................................61
Senior Computer Operator..................................61
Senior Irrigation Equipment Technician ...................68
Senior Office Machines Repairworker .................  ...	67
Senior Offset Press Operator............................. 51
Senior Payroll Clerk .....................................51
11-8
Senior Programmer Analyst . ..............................‘ 72
Senior Receptionist, Children’s Center....................53
Senior Warehouseworker....................................65
Shade Worker .............................................66
Sheet Metal Worker........................................66
Special Education Assistant...............................49
Special Education Career Development Work Experience Office Secretary........................................  54
Special Education Employment Specialist ..................64
Special Services Secretary............................... . . 52
Specialist - Classified...................................56
Staff Secretary......................................    .55
Staff Secretary Bilingual................................ 56
Staff Secretary Data Processing...........................55
Stenographer Clerk 1...................................   42
Stenographer Clerk 2..................................... 46
Stock Clerk/Custodian........................... . .......52
Stock Clerk Driver....................................    59
Stores Warehouse Driver...............................   .60
Student Control Assistant ................................ . 54
Student Enrollment Options Secretary....................  55
Student Supervisor ...................................    55
T
Teacher Substitute Clerk..................................50
Teacher Assistant/Visually Impaired.......................52
Technical Assistant Visual Impaired...................... 52
Textbook Clerk ........................................... . 45
Textbooks and Publications Buyer . .....................  53
Tool Room and Stock Clerk ................................56
Transportation Scheduler .............................    49
Transportation Specialist.................................55
Twilight Clerk........................................    39
Typist Clerk 1........................................    39
Typist Clerk DBilingual ......................... — 40
Typist Clerk 1/Work	Experience............................39
Typist Clerk 2............................................44
Typist Clerk 2-Bilingual .................................45
Typist Clerk 3..........................................  46
119
Typist Clerk 3-Bilingual ......................................4
U
Upper Division Tutor...................................  4
Utility Worker . .....................................   5
Utility Worker 1* .....................................  5
W
Warehouseworker 1........................................6
Warehouseworker 2........................................6
Welder . ............................................    6
Word Processing and PC	System Operator . . ............. 5
Work Experience Secretary ...............................5
♦Plus 5% License Differentia
120
EXHIBIT A-1		SCHEDULE 5 WEST CONTRA COSTA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE 1995 .1996	issue »1 (Rev. 10/1/95) * 1.-75%
RANGE	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP S'
1 '	23	. 11.868	989	12.372	1.031	12.840	1;070	■ 13.344	1,112	13:908	1,159
.24	12.096	1.008	12.600	1’050	13,080	1.090	13.596	t,133	14,172	1.181
1 25	12.372	1.031	12.840	1.070	13,344	1,1.12	13.908	1.159	14.484	1.207
26	12.600	1.050	13,080	1.090	13.596	1,133	14.172	1 .,181	14(772	1,231
1 I 27	12.840	1,070	13.344	1,112	13.908	1,159	14.484	1.207	15.048	1.254
28	13,080 .	1.090	13.596	1,133	14,172	1.181	14,772	1.231	15.360	1.280
29	13.344	1.112	13.908	1,159	14.484	1.207	15,048	1,254	15.720	1.310
30	13,596	1.133	14.172	1,181	14,772	1,231	15,360	1,280	16.032	1.336
31	13,908	1.159.	14.484	1.207	15,048	1,254	15,720	. 1,310	16.380	1.365
32	14,172	1.181	14,772	1.231	15(360	1.280	18.032	1.336	16,704	1.392
33	14.484	1.207	15.048	1.254	15,720	1,310	16.380	' 1,365	17,100	1.425
34	14.772	1.231	15.360	1.280	16,032	1.336	16.704	1.392	17,412'	1.451
35'	15.048	1.254	15.720	1(310	16.380	1,365	17,100	1.425	17,808	1.484
36	15.360	1.280	16.032	1.336	16.704	1,392	17,412	1.451	18,156	1.513
37	15.720	1.310	16.380	1,365	17,100	1.425	17(808	1,484	18.612	1.551
SCHEDULES
WEST CONTRA COSTAUNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT	Issue #1
CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE	(Rev. 10/1/95) '
1995 - 1996 . '	' '	+ 1.75%
RANGE • STEP 1	-■ STEP 2	"STEP 3	' STEP 4	STEP'5
36	16.032	1.336	16,704	1.392	17,412	1,451	18,156	1,513	18.960	1.580
39	16.3?0	1.365	17,100	1,425	17,808	1,484	18,612	1,551	19.368	. 1.614
•; .40	. 16.704	1.392	17,412	1,451	18,156	1,513	18,960	1,580	19.716	1.643 "
41	. 17,100	1,425	17,808	1,484	18,612	1,551	19,368	1,614	20,184	? 1,682
42 .	17,412	1,451	18,156	1,513	18,960	1,580	19,716	1,643	20;616	1,718
43	17,808	1,484	18,612	1.551	19,368	1,614	20,184	1,682	21,096	1.758
44	18.156	1,513	18.960	1.580	19,716	1,643	20,616	1,718	21,528	1.794*
45	18,612	1,551	19,368	1,614	20,184	1,682	21,096	1,758	22,044	1.837
46	18,960	1,580	19.716	1,643	20,616	1,718	21,528	1.794	22,464	1.872,.
47	19,368	1,614	20,184	1,682	21,098	1,758	22,044	1,837	23,028	1,919
48	19,716	1,643	20,616	1,718	21,528	1,794	22.464	’ 1,872	23,496	1,958
49	20,184	1,682	21,096	1,758	22,044	1,837	23,028	1,919	24,024	2.002:
50	20.616	1,718	21,528	1.794	22,464	1,872	23,496	1.958	24.540	2.045
EXHIBIT A-2
SCHEDULE 5 WEST CONTRA COSTA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE 1995 - 1996
Issue *1
(Rev. 10/1/95)
*1.75%
RANGE 'STEP 1	STEP 2	’ STEP 3 '	‘STEP 4 ,.	STEP 5
51	21.096	1.758	22.044	1.837	23,028	1,919	24.024	2.002	25.104	2,092
52	• 21.528	1.794	22.464	1.872	23.496	1,958	24.540	2.045	25,632	2.136
53	22.044	1.837	. 23.028	1.919	24.024	2,002	25.104	2,092	261256	2.188
54	22.464	1.872 .	23.496	1,958	24;540	2,045	25,632	2.138	26.832	2.236
55	23.028	1,919	24.024	2.002	25,104	2.092	26.256	2.188	27.432	.2.286
56	23.496	<958 .	24.540	2.045	25.632	2.136	26,832	2,236	27.972	2,331
• 57	24.024	2.002 .	25.104	2.092	26.256	2.188	27,432	2.286	28,668	2.38’9
58	■ 24.540	2.045	25:632	2,136	26.832	2.238	27,972	2,331	29.268	2,439
59- -	25.104-	2.092 .	26:256	2.188	27.432	2.286	28,668	2,389	. 30,000	2.500
.... 60	.25.632 .	,2.136	26.832	2.236	27,972	2.331	29.268	2.439	, 30,636	2.553
’ ‘ 61	26.256	2.188	27.432	2.286	28.668	2.389	30,000	2,500	'31,368'"'	2.614
62	26.832	2.236	27.972	2.331	29.268	2.439	30,636	2.553	32.040	2.670
63	27.432	2.286	> 28.668	2,389	30,000	2.500	31,368	2.614	32,808	‘ 2.734
64	27.972	2.331	29.268	2,439	30:636	2.553	32,040	2.670	33,504	2.792
65	28.668	2.389	30.000	2.500	3,1.368	2.614	32.808	2.734	34,320	2.860
RANGE	■ ' STEP 1		SCHEDULE 5 WEST CONTRA COSTA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE						Issue »l (Rev. 10/1/95). ♦ 1.75%- STEP 5	
			STEP 2 '		1995 - 1996					
					STEP 3		STEP 4			
66	29.268	2.439	30.636	2.553	32,040	2,670	33.504	2.792	.35.028	2,919
67	30.000	2.500	31.368	2.614	32.808	2,734	34,320	2,860 '	35.916	2.993 *
68	30.636	2.553	32.040	2.670	33.504	2.792	35,028	2,919	36.696	. 3.058 '
69	31.368	2.614	32.808	. 2.734	34.320	2.860	35,916	2.993	37 598 ■	3.133
70	32.040	22,670	33,504	2,792	35,028	2,919	36,698	3.058	38,412	3:201 ■
71	32.808	2.734	34,320	2,860	35,916	2,993	37,596	3,133	39.336	’ 3278
72	33.504	2.792	35.028	2,919	36,696	3,058	38,412	3201	40.200	3.350 .
.73 ■	34.320	2.860	35.916	2.993	37.596	3,133	39,336	3.278	41.232	3,436
74	35.028	2,919	36.696	3,058	38,412	3,201	40200	3,350	42,048	3,504’
75	35.916	2,993	37,596	3,133	39,336	3278	41232	3,436	43,140	3.595
. 76	36.696	3,058	38.412	3,201	40200	3,350	42,048	3,504	44,088	3,674
77	37.596	3,133	39,336	3,278	41232	3,436	43.140	3,595	45J68	3,764
78	38.412	3.201	40200	3,350	42,048	3,504	44,088	3.674	46,104	3,842 '
EXHIBIT A-3			SCHEDULE5 WEST CONTRA COSTA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT CLASSIFIED SALARY SCHEDULE 1995 - 1996						Issue #1 (Rev. 10/1/95) * 1.75% STEP 5	
RANGE	STEP 1		STEP 2		‘ .STEP 3		STEP 4			
. 79	39,336	3.278	41.232	3.436	43.140	3,595	45,168	3,764	47.124	3,927
80	40.200	3.350	42.048	3.504	44.088	3,674	46,104	3.842	48,168	4.014
81	41.232	3.436	43,140	3,595	45,168	3,764.	47,124	3,927	49.224	4,102
82	42.048	3.504	44.088	3;674	. 46,104	3,842	49.224	.4,102	50,3.16	4,193
83	43.140	•3.595	45.168	3,764	47,124	3.927	50,316	4,193	51,420	4.285
84 ■	44.088	3.874	46.104	3,842	49,224	4,102	51.420	4,285	52.536	4,378
85	45.168	’ 3.764	47,124	3,927	50.318	4.193	52.536	4.378	53,700	4,475
EXHIBIT B
EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE RECORD DEPARTMENT COPY
DATE SENT:______________________
DATE DUE;___________________
0 2-monft probationary □	5-month probationary (IIB out No. 5 on tack of form) FINAL □	Annual 0 Special	NAME	JO8TTTU
	DEPARTMENT	
	ANNIVERSARY DATE	DUE DATE
MARK (X) IN THE APPROPRIATE BOX BELOW.	Unsatisfactory mark (X) requires ststamentfs) of explanation In Remarks column.
1. KNOWLEDGE OF WOR(:	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Neeta frequent Instructions, even on routine jota.	□ SATISFACTORY Has a good working knowledge of job.	□ OUTSTANDING Has a thorough knowledge ofjob.
Knowledge and under-standing of al phases of this job and closely related matters.	REMARKS:	-	
2. INITIATIVE AND APPLICATION:	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Wastes time. Needs dose sqrervlslon.	□ SATISFACTORY Steady and wiling worker. Requires little drectlon.	□ OUTSTANDING Industrious. Highly resourceful aid self-reliant.
Resourcefulness, Independent thinking, attention, and application to his work.	REMARKS:		
EXHIBIT B (cont.)
1 QUALITY OF WORK: The accuracy and thoroughness with which work meete recognized standards of performance.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Beiowstandard. Errors repeated. Needs frequent checking.'.	□ SATISFACTORY Meets accepted standards regularly. Needs little checking.	□ OUTSTANDING Maintains high quality.
	REMARKS:		
4. QUANTITY OF WORK: Volume of work based upon recognized standards of performance.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Consistently low and behind schedule.	□ SATISFACTORY Steady producer. Regularly meets recognized standards.	□ OUTSTANDING . High output
	REMARKS: • '	'	r	.		
5. RELATIONS WITH OTHER WORKERS: Disposition, tact, courtesy, enthusiasm and sincerity as they affect fellow workers and others.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Hinders other employees1 work.	□ SATISFACTORY Makes a satisfactory Impression.	□ OUTSTANDING Creates very favorable Impression.
	REMARKS:	.-	...		
6. DEPENDABILITY: Compliance with Instructions	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Frequently undependable.	□ SATISFACTORY Dependable under normal circumstances.	□ OUTSTANDING -Thoroughly reliable on assignments.
	REMARKS:		
EXHIBIT B (cont.)
128
7. ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY:	□ UNSATISFACTORY* High absenteetem. Often late for work	□ SATISFACTORY Infrequently tatef&sent lor work	□ OUTSTANDING nSuufy tSwaDSOni. Inrvrak
Promptoeas/regutafty reportfog for nuk	REMARKS:		? / t* ■ ; c- .	•	f
If present job required leaderelty, or If you have had an opportunity to observe evidence of leadership on the job, upraise teadersh^charactensto below; ofcerwise disregard 8»te factor.____________________________________________________________________________
A LEADERSHIP Ability to lead and frain others and to get results forough teamwork	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Unable to get satisfactory ou$ut from sfooortfnates.	□ SATISFACTORY Good on regular assignments. Haa respect of group.	□ OUTSTANDING : ® ? Outstandng leader. 'Obtains high morale and output
	REMARKS:	. ■ :-		
CONTINUE ON REVERSE SIDE
EXHIBIT B (cont.)
FOR PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES ONLY
5.	RECOMMENDATION IN VIEW OF THIS APPRAISAL:
(THE FOLLOWING IS TO BE FILLED OUT ONLY UPON MAKING THE FINAL RATING SHEET (5 MONTH] ON THE PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE.)
□	I RECOMMEND THAT THIS EMPLOYEE .BE PLACED ON PERMANENT STATUS.
□	I RECOMMEND THAT THIS EMPLOYEE BE REJECTED DURING THE PROBATIONARY PERIOD, EFFECTIVE_________________________, THE LAST DAY WORKED.
(DATE)
SIGNED:
(division head /department head)
EXHIBIT B (cont.)
1. OVERALL RATING:
WMSEARIQRY
SAPSFAQTQRX
OUTSTANDING
2.	SIGNATURE^) OF SUPERVISOR^ PREPARING EVALUATION: _________:----------------:---
3.	REVIEWED WITH EMPLOYEE ON__________'______________BY. _____________________________________________
AND DISCUSSED SPECIFIC SUGGESTIONS FORHER / HIS DEVELOPMENT OR IMPROVEMENT AS NOTED BELOW:
4.	EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION: I HAVE REVIEWED THIS REPORT. IN SIGNING IT, I DO NOT NECESSARILY AGREE WITH THEEVALU AVON. I UMJERSTAND THAT Fl DESIRE I HAVE THE RIGHT OF ADDING ANY COMMENTS IN THE SPACE BELOW: (USE ADDITIONAL SHEETS IF NEEDED.)
SIGNA TURE OF EMPLOYEE
DATE
EXHIBIT C
ftl‘ A	CUSTODIAN PERFORMANCE RECC DEPARTMENT COPY	)RD DATE SENT:	 DATE DUE:	'				
	O 2-month probationary □ 5-month probationary (fill out N back of form) FINAL 0 Annual 0 Special	F<ma	o. 5 on n « p«».(Rw.)	NME		JOB TITLE	
			DEPARTMENT			
			ANNIVERSARY DATE		DUE DATE	
	MARK (X) IN THE APPROPRIATE B(	JX BELOW. ‘Unsatisfactory mark (X) requires statement(s) of explanation in Remarks column.				
	1. KNOWLEDGE OF WORK: Knowledge and understanding of all. phases of this job and closely. related matters.	0 UNSATISFACTORY* ' Needs frequent Instructions, even on routine jobs.		0 SATISFACTORY Has a good working knowledge of job.		0 OUTSTANDING Has a thorough knowledge of job.
		REMARKS:				
	2. INITIATIVE AND APPLICATION: Resourcefulness, independent thinking, attention, and application	0 UNSATISFACTORY* Wastes time. Needs close supervision.		O SATISFACTORY Steady and willing worker. Requires little direction.		0 OUTSTANDING Industrious. Highly resourceful and self-re8ant
		REMARKS:				
Exhibit C (continued from previous page)
132
1 QUALITY OF WORK: The accuracy and thoroughness with which work meets recognized standards of performance.	□ UNSATISFACTORY0 Below standard. Errors repeated. Needs frequent checking.	□ SATISFACTORY Meets accepted standards regularly. Needslittie checking.	□ OUTSTANDING Maintains high quality.
	REMARKS:		
4. QUANTITY OF WORK: Volume of work based upon recognized standards of performance.	□ UNSATISFACTORY0 Consistently low and behind schedule.	□ SATISFACTORY Steady producer. Regularly meets recognized standards.	□ OUTSTANDING High output
	REMARKS:		
5. RELATIONS WITH OTHER WORKERS: Disposition, tact, courtesy, enthusiasm and sincerity as they affect fellow workers and others.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Hinders other employees' work.	□ SATISFACTORY Makes a satisfactory Impression.	□ OUTSTANDING Creates very favorable Impression.	;
	REMARKS:		
& DEPENDABILITY: Compliance with instructions and regulations; reliability under varying conditions.	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Frequently undependable.	□ SATISFACTORY Dependable under normal circumstances.	□ OUTSTANDING Thoroughly reliable on assignments.
	REMARKS:		
Exhibit C (continued from previous page)
7. ATTENDANCE AND PUNCTUALITY: Promptness/regularity reporting for work	□ UNSATISFACTORY* High absenteeism. Often late for work	□ SATISFACTORY Infrequently late/absent for work	□ OUTSTANDING Rarely late/absent forwctk
	REMARKS:		
If present job required leadership, or If you have had an opportunity to observe evidence of leadership on the job, appraise leadership characteristics below;otherwlsedlsregard this factor.	_______________________________________________■	____________
8. LEADERSHIP	□ UNSATISFACTORY* Unable to get satisfactory output from subordinates.	□ SATISFACTORY Good on regular assignments. Has respect of group:	□ OUTSTANDING Outstanding leader. Obtains high morale and output
Ability to lead and train others andtogetresuitsthrough teamwork	REMARKS:		
' CONTINUEONREVERSESIDE '’'
1. OVERALL RATING:
Exhibit C (continued from previous page)
UNSATISFACTORY
SAWAfilfiBX
OUTSTANDING
Z SIGNATURE(S) OF SUPERVISOR(S) PREPARING EVALUATION:
3.	REVIEWED WITH EMPLOYEE ON
BY
AND DISCUSSED SPECIFIC SUGGESTIONS FOR HIS / HER DEVELOPMENT OR IMPROVEMENT AS NOTED BaOW:
4.	EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION: I HAVE REVIEWED THIS REPORT. IN SIGNING IT, I DO NOT NECESSARILY AGREE WITH THE EVALUATION. I UNDERSTAND THAT IF I DESIRE I HAVE THE RIGHT OF ADDING ANY COMMENTS IN THE SPACE BELOW: (USE ADDITIONAL SHEETS IF. NEEDED.)
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE__________________________________________
DATE________________________
5. APPROVED:
DATE
(department head)
Exh ibit C (cartftwetf from previous pegs)
6.	THE SIGNED COPIES OF THIS.EVALUAT1ON WIL BE FORWARDED TO THE PRINCIPAL FOR HIS/HER COMMENTS TO BE ADDED IN THIS I SECTION:
PRINCIPAL'S COMMENTS----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SIGNATURE OF PRINCIPAL	DATE
7.	EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION: I HAVE REVIEWED THE PRINCIPAL’S COMMENTS. IN SIGNING IT, I DO NOT NECESSARILY AGREE WITH THE EVALUATION. I UNDERSTAND THAT IF I DESIRE, I HAVE THE PRIVILEGE OF ADDING ANY COMMENTS IN THE SPACE BELOW: (USE ADDITIONAL SHEETS IF NEEDED.)
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE DATE__________
8.	FINAL APPROVAL:______________________________■ ___________________________________ DATE_________________________________________
(division head)
FOR PRQBATIQNARYEMPLOYEE3 ONLY
9.	RECOMMENDATION IN VIEW OF THIS APPRAISAL
(THE FOLLOWING IS TO BE FILLED OUT ONLY UPON MAKING THE FINAL RATING SHEET [5 MONTH] ON THE PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE.)
□	I RECOMMEND THAT THIS EMPLOYEE BE PLACED ON PERMANENT STATUS.
□	I RECOMMEND THAT THIS EMPLOYEE BE REJECTED DURING THE PROBATIONARY PERIOD, EFFECTIVE, THE LAST DAY WORKED.
(division head)
NOTES
136