DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
2021 - 2022 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
By and Between
CITY OF TACOMA
And TACOMA FIREFIGHTERS UNION
LOCAL #31
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE___________________________________________________PAGE
PREAMBLE.....................................................2
ARTICLE 1-	SUBORDINATION OF AGREEMENT........................2
ARTICLE 2	- RECOGNITION AND BARGAINING UNIT..................2
ARTICLE 3	- JOINT LABOR COMMITTEE............................3
ARTICLE 4	- UNION MEMBERSHIP AND DUES........................3
ARTICLE 5	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE..............................4
ARTICLE 6	- WORK STOPPAGES...................................5
ARTICLE 7	- MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY........................5
ARTICLE 8	- UNION PRIVILEGES.................................5
ARTICLE 9	- UNION BUSINESS...................................5
ARTICLE 10	- SAFETY STANDARDS................................7
ARTICLE 11	- COMPENSATION PLAN.....................................8
ARTICLE 12	- HOURS OF WORK...................................8
ARTICLE 13	- STANDARD WORKING CONDITIONS....................10
ARTICLE 14	- SCHEDULING OF VACATION, HOLIDAYS, PTO, MILITARY LEAVE.15
ARTICLE 15	- LONGEVITY PAY..................................16
ARTICLE 16	- WORK ASSIGNMENTS...............................16
ARTICLE 17	- OVERTIME..............................................17
ARTICLE 18	- CLOTHING ALLOWANCE....................................17
ARTICLE 19	- PROMOTIONS............................................17
ARTICLE 20	- PROBATIONARY PERIODS..................................17
ARTICLE 21	- DEFINITION OF SENIORITY...............................18
ARTICLE 22	- PERSONNEL REDUCTIONS..................................18
ARTICLE 23	- PARAMEDIC VOLUNTARY DEMOTION..........................18
ARTICLE 24	- RULES AND REGULATIONS.................................18
ARTICLE 25	- BEREAVEMENT LEAVE..............................19
ARTICLE 26	- DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES........................19
ARTICLE 27	- COMPENSATION FOR USE OF PRIVATE AUTOMOBILE............21
ARTICLE 28	- NON-DISCRIMINATION.............................22
ARTICLE 29	- PHYSICAL FITNESS...............................22
ARTICLE 30	- OFFICIAL NOTIFICATION..........................22
ARTICLE 31	- APPENDICES AND AMENDMENTS......................22
ARTICLE 32	- SAVING CLAUSE..................................22
ARTICLE 33	- TERM OF AGREEMENT..............................23
ARTICLE 34	- EMBODIMENT.....................................23
APPENDIX A	25
APPENDIX B	29
APPENDIX C	32
Index to Letters of Agreement/Memorandums of Understanding..33
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
2021-2022 ADDENDUM AGREEMENT To The LABOR-MANAGEMENT MASTER AGREEMENT
By and Between
CITY OF TACOMA and TACOMA FIREFIGHTERS UNION LOCAL #31
PREAMBLE
THIS AGREEMENT is between the CITY OF TACOMA (hereinafter called the Employer) and TACOMA FIREFIGHTERS UNION LOCAL #31 (hereinafter called the Union) for the purpose of setting forth the mutual understanding of those employees for whom the Employer has recognized the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative.
The Employer and the Union agree that the efficient and uninterrupted performance of municipal functions is a primary purpose of this Agreement, as well as the establishment of fair and reasonable compensation and working conditions for employees and the Employer. This Agreement has been reached through the process of collective bargaining with the objective of serving the aforementioned purposes and with the further objective of fostering effective cooperation between the Employer and its employees. Therefore, this Agreement and procedures which it establishes for the resolution of differences is intended to contribute to the continuation of good employee relations and to be in all respects in the public interest.
ARTICLE1-	SUBORDIN ATION OF AGREEMENT
It is understood that the parties hereto and the employees of the Employer are governed by the provisions of applicable State law, the City Charter and City Ordinances. When any provisions thereof are in conflict with or are different than the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of said State law, City Charter, or City Ordinances are paramount and shall prevail, provided that, where such conflict exists, the parties shall enter into immediate negotiations to resolve any such conflicts.
ARTICLE 2	- RECOGNITION AND BARGAINING UNIT
The Employer hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for the purposes stated in Chapter 41.56 RCW as last amended of all employees employed within the bargaining unit defined by the classifications listed in Appendix A, which shall form a part of this Agreement.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 2
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
ARTICLE 3	- JOINT LABOR COMMITTEE
Section 3.1 It is the intent of the Union to carry out its collective bargaining responsibility as a member of the Joint Labor Committee, an organization consisting of various Unions that have been recognized as collective bargaining representatives by the Employer, To this end, the Employer agrees to confer with officials of the Union on matters subject to collective bargaining. The Union agrees that all representations made on its behalf by the Joint Labor Committee or its agents shall have the same force and effect as if made by the Union itself and that notices or other communications exchanged between the Employer and the Joint Labor Committee shall have the same effect as notices exchanged directly between the parties to this Agreement.
Section 3.2 The parties agree that for the sake of equity among employees as well as administrative efficiency, it is desirable to standardize conditions of employment pertaining to employees represented by unions affiliated with the Joint Labor committee. Therefore, the parties hereto agree to encourage standardization of benefits and other conditions of employment wherever appropriate, and to utilize the good offices of the Joint Labor Committee to affect this end.
ARTICLE 4	- UNION MEMBERSHIP AND DUES
Section 4.1 The City agrees to deduct from the pay of each employee, who has so authorized it, Union initiation fees, monthly dues, and assessments as certified by the secretary of the Union. The City will rely on information provided by the Union regarding the authorization and revocation of deductions, and the Union will provide such information to an email address provided by the City. Upon receiving notice of the employee’s authorization from the Union, the City will deduct from the employee’s pay membership dues and remit the same to the Union no later than the second payroll cycle following receipt of the authorization. The amounts deducted shall be remitted monthly by the City to the Union on behalf of the employees identified by the Union as authorizing the deduction(s). The Union shall provide the City with at least one full pay period notice of any change in the amount of Union initiation fees, monthly dues, and assessments. The Union agrees to refund to the City any amounts paid to the Union in error on account of the provisions of this Section upon presentation of proper evidence thereof. There shall be no retroactive deduction of Union initiation fees, monthly dues, or assessments. The Union agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the City from any action arising from this Section, unless caused by the City's error or negligence.
Upon receipt of an employee request for authorization of payroll deduction of Union initiation fees, monthly dues, or assessments, the City will forward the request to the Union electronically within two weeks. The City will take no action upon receiving an employee request until receiving confirmation from the Union to begin deductions.
The employee’s authorization will remain in effect until expressly revoked by the employee by written notice to the Union in accordance with the terms and conditions of the authorization. The cancellation will become effective no later than the second payroll cycle after receipt of the confirmation from the Union that the employee has revoked authorization for deduction.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 3
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
ARTICLE 5	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 5.1 A grievance is hereby defined as an alleged violation of a specific Article of this Agreement that is brought by the grieving party to the attention of the other party within thirty (30) working days of the time the grieving party first became aware of the alleged violation. An alleged violation of Article 26 Disciplinary Procedures shall be submitted at Step 2 of this procedure. Working days referred to in this Article shall be identified as Monday through Friday with the exclusion of holidays recognized by the Employer. Such grievances shall be resolved in the following manner:
Informal Employees are strongly encouraged to first discuss the alleged grievance with their director supervisor.
Step 1 The Union shall first present the grievance in writing setting forth relevant facts including the alleged violation and the resolution requested to a Deputy Chief, who shall review the grievance and render a written decision within ten (10) working days of receipt of the grievance.
Step 2 If the grievance is not resolved at Step 1, the Union may submit the grievance in writing to the Fire Chief within ten (10) working days of receipt of the Deputy Chiefs decision. The Fire Chief, after consulting with the Human Resources Director or designee, shall render a written decision within ten (10) working days of receipt of the grievance.
Step 3 If the grievance is not resolved at Step 2; the Union may submit the grievance to the City Manager or designee within ten (10) working days of receipt of the Fire Chiefs decision. The City Manager or designee shall submit a written decision within ten (10) working days of receipt of the grievance.
Step 4	If the grievance is not resolved at Step 3, the Union may, within thirty (30) calendar
days from the completion of Step 3, give written notice to the Employer of its intent to submit a grievance to arbitration. Within ten (10) working days of the Union’s request to arbitrate, a representative of the Union and of the Employer shall meet and attempt to agree on a neutral arbitrator. If unable to reach agreement, they shall immediately request a list of seven (7) arbitrators from the American Arbitration Association. Upon receipt of the list both parties shall meet within ten (10) working days to alternately strike names from the list until one name remains, who shall serve as the neutral arbitrator. The Union shall strike first in the striking process. The arbitrator shall issue a written decision within thirty (30) calendar days of the close of the hearing, or issue a bench decision if mutually agreed to and requested by both parties of this Agreement. The decision shall be final and binding on both parties. The arbitrator shall have no power to alter, amend or change the terms of this Agreement.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 4
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Section 5.2. Each party shall bear the expense of its own costs of preparing and presenting its own case, including compensating its own representatives and witnesses. The Union and the Employer shall share equally in the cost of services from the neutral arbitrator. If either party desires a record of the proceedings, it shall solely bear the cost of such record.
Section 5.3. Any and all time limits specified in the grievance procedure may be waived by written mutual agreement of the parties. Failure of the Union to submit the grievance in accordance with these time limits without such waiver shall constitute abandonment of that specific grievance. Should the Employer fail to submit a reply within the specified time limits without such waiver, the Union may submit the grievance to the next step within the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 6	- WORK STOPPAGES
The Employer and the Union agree that the public interest requires the efficient and uninterrupted performance of all City services, and to this end pledge their best efforts to avoid or eliminate any conduct contrary to this objective: During the life of this Agreement, the Union shall not cause or condone any work stoppage, strike, slowdown or other interference with City functions by employees under this Agreement, and should same occur, the Union agrees to take appropriate steps to end such interference. Employees covered by this Agreement who engage in any of the foregoing actions, shall be subject to such disciplinary action as may be determined by the City.
ARTICLE 7	- MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY
Subject to the specific provisions of this Agreement and pursuant to RCW 41.56, the Employer retains the right to operate and manage all staffing, facilities and equipment; to determine the utilization of technology; to establish and modify the organizational structure; to contract for goods and services not presently performed by bargaining unit members; to hire, promote, transfer, assign, retain and lay off employees; to direct and determine the number of personnel; to establish work schedules within the recognized hours of work and work schedules; to suspend, demote, discipline or discharge for just cause; to maintain the efficiency of the operation entrusted to the Employer.
ARTICLE 8	- UNION PRIVILEGES
All rights and privileges relative to wages, hours and working conditions held by the employees at this time even though not identified in this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect unless changed within the provisions of RCW 41.56.
ARTICLE 9	- UNION BUSINESS
Se	ction 9.1 Representatives of the Union shall be allowed to visit work locations of the employees covered by this Agreement at any reasonable time or location for the purpose of
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 5
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
administering this Agreement or investigating possible grievance. Such visitation shall not interfere with the normal operations of the Employer and the Union representative will notify the on-duty supervisor of the purpose of the visit.
Se	ction 9.2 Union Leave of Absence Time off duty to attend the following meetings will normally be granted to the president or business agent or an authorized representative of the Union without loss of pay:
A.	When attending Joint Labor Committee meetings where business of the City of Tacoma is directly involved providing notice of such meeting shall be given at least twenty-four hours (24) prior thereto to the Chief of the Fire Department by the Union, and in the absence of the Chief, to his/her Deputy Chief or the ranking supervisory officer, and in case of emergency, such meetings may be held without such twenty-four hour (24) notice but upon notice to the officer as above provided.
B.	When attending Union meetings, trainings, or conferences that benefit the City of Tacoma and Local 31 membership (hereafter called “meetings”), provided notice of such meetings shall be given at least seventy-two hours (72) prior thereto to the Chief of the Fire Department by the Union, and in the absence of the Chief, to his/her Deputy Chief or the ranking supervisory officer. In the case of an emergency, such meetings may be held without such seventy- two hours (72) notice but upon notice to the officer as above provided. By way of example but not limited to, meetings may include South Sound 911 board meetings, pension board meetings, Labor and Employment Relations Association conferences, Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response Grants program meetings, firefighter safety meetings, on-the-job injury meetings, in line of duty death meetings, etc.
C.	When attending Union meetings, when such meetings are called at the request of the Employer or its duly authorized representative.
D.	In case of contract negotiations when such negotiations are carried on with the Employer and when Fire Department salaries are discussed by the City Council at its public hearings on the annual budget.
E.	Any other meeting other than those referred to in A, B, and C, that the Fire Chief or his/her representative would deem necessary or appropriate.
F.	The parties agree to track using the electronic scheduler (as that scheduler system exists now or as modified in the future) and make available to the other party all meetings attended under this section.
Section 9.3 Attendance at Union meetings while on-duty with the permission of on-duty Battalion Chiefs, executive board members may be allowed to attend local Union meetings while they are on duty, provided their absence does not reduce the staffing level established for that particular shift.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 6
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Section 9.4 A copy of this Agreement shall be posted in a conspicuous place in each fire station. Union Bulletin Boards: The Employer agrees to provide suitable space for the Union bulletin board in each fire station or place of work. Postings by the Union on such boards are to be confined to official business of the Union.
Section 9.5 In the event a Union member is elected or appointed to the state firefighter union executive board, to the national firefighter union executive board, or both state and national firefighter union executive boards, that employee will be granted time off, as is required by the employee for the performance of the duties and functions of that office absent emergency situations. ‘‘Duties and functions” means attending the regular full meetings of the state or national organization. A maximum of two (2) employees who are state or national officers may be granted time off under this section. Such officers will be required to maintain training and appropriate certifications at all times when taking time off under this section.
Local, state and national union officers employed within the Fire Department will be allowed reasonable shift trades and work replacements beyond normal Fire Department guidelines. Such officers will be required to maintain training and appropriate certifications at all times.
Notification to the Battalion Chief should normally be made as soon as possible but no later than 06:15 hours on the scheduled work day.
Section 9.6 During each calendar year the Fire Chief will convene meetings with Local 31 members; meals and/or refreshments will be provided by the Department at these meetings. The meetings will include, but not limited to, such things as reporting the accomplishments of the previous year, the state of the Fire Department, major Departmental issues and initiatives, graduation for recruits and paramedic academies, and promotional and awards ceremonies. The Fire Chief may require that dress uniforms are required at these meetings.
Section 9.7 Use of Fire Department Equipment Upon written request to the Fire Chief the Union shall be able to use Fire Department equipment only for memorial and approved charitable events. The use of said equipment may not interfere with department operations.
ARTICLE 10	- SAFETY STANDARDS
Section 10.1 All work shall be done in a competent and professional manner.
Section 10.2 The Employer and the Union mutually agree that those applicable safety standards as outlined in federal, state, city and department regulations legally binding upon the Employer shall be complied with within a reasonable length of time or the time designated by any applicable state or national safety standards.
Section 10.3 The Employer and the Union further agree that employees shall use safety equipment as provided and as required by applicable safety standards, and the parties agree to cooperatively attain that end.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 7
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Section 10.4 There shall be a Labor-Management Safety Committee consisting of equal representation of the Employer and the Union. This committee shall meet at least each quarter or more often as agreed to discuss matters concerning health and safety. The committee shall make its findings and recommendations to the Employer.
ARTICLE 11	- COMPENSATION PLAN
Section 11.1 The Compensation Plan contained in Chapter 1.12 of the Tacoma Municipal Code as now enacted or hereafter amended is hereby incorporated as part of this Agreement for the purpose of information for the members of the Union.
Section 11.2 The current practice of paying employees a constant bi-weekly amount equal to 1 /26th of annual wages shall continue rather than varying the wages based on the actual number of hours worked in each pay period.
ARTICLE 12	- HOURS OF WORK
Section 12.1 Operations: The average regularly scheduled work week for personnel assigned to the twenty-four (24) hour shift shall be forty-six and one tenth (46.1) hours per week in a twentyeight (28) day cycle. The shift shall consist of one twenty-four (24) hour shift on duty, forty-eight (48) hours off; one twenty-four (24) hour shift on duty, ninety-six (96) hours off, with the assignment of eight (8) scheduled debit shifts and one (1) unscheduled debit shifts per calendar year. A half-shift will be twelve (12) hours. With the exception of Battalion Chiefs , whose shifts begin at 0630 hours and end at 0630 hours the following day, and Safety Lieutenants whose shifts begin at 0615 hours and end at 0630 hours the following day, all other personnel assigned to the twenty-four (24) hour shift shall begin their shift at 0700 hours.
Section 12.2 Operations: Effective July 1, 2005 the one (1) unscheduled debit shift will be canceled with one (1) holiday shift by all twenty-four (24) hour shift personnel. This will normally be done the first payroll in January.
Section 12.3 Recruit Class: The hours shall be forty-six and one-tenth (46.1), with one hour for lunch. An additional one half (1/2) hour per week may be for counseling as needed, without overtime compensation.
Section 12.4 Fire Communications: The average regularly scheduled work-week shall be forty (40) hours in a twenty-eight (28) day cycle. The shift shall consist of one twenty-four (24) hour shift on duty, forty-eight (48) hours off; one twenty-four (24) hour shift on duty, ninety-six (96) hours off, with Kelly (K) days scheduled to reduce the work hours to an average of forty hours per week. The shift shall commence at 0700 hours each day.
Section 12.5
A.	All other personnel who are members of the bargaining unit and not assigned to a 24 hour shift in either Fire Communications or Operations may work either the 9/80 shift, the 4/10 shift or the 5/8 shift. The hours of work for the 9/80 shift shall
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 8
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
be as follows: 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday; 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Friday with every other Friday off. The hours of work for the 4/10 shift shall be as follows: 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Thursday or Tuesday through Friday. The hours of work for the 5/8 shift will be 7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
B.	The Captain of Training and the Deputy Fire Marshall's hours shall be such as to ensure the staffing of their respective offices.
C.	Any change of shift shall require the prior approval of the Assistant Fire Chief of Training or Fire Prevention. Shift changes will be dependent on the ability of the Division to provide adequate levels of coverage and to maintain productivity. Any shift change must be accomplished so as not to incur any overtime liability on the part of the department.
Section 12.6	Any variation to the above recognized shifts may be made upon mutual consent of both parties.
Section 12.7
A.	Fire Inspectors shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours pay at the double time rate when called out outside of the employee's regular shift. In the event the call out exceeds two (2) hours, the Inspector shall receive time and one half (1 1/2) for those hours in excess of two (2).
B.	Fire Inspectors scheduled to work on the Holidays specified in Section 13.4 shall receive a day off in lieu of the scheduled holiday. An employee so scheduled will be required to respond to all emergencies during the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.; if called out during those hours the employee will not receive any call-out pay or overtime compensation as set forth in Section 12.7.A above, for any work performed during said hours.
C.	Fire Inspectors assigned to Stand-by by the Deputy Fire Chief will receive three dollars ($3.00) per hour for hours so assigned. In order to be eligible for such pay the assigned employee shall be required to be in telephonic communication with the department and shall be available to respond to an emergency scene within thirty (30) minutes of notification. Employees will be subject to call out during all hours for which they are receiving standby pay. If an employee is called out the appropriate overtime rate will be paid from the time the employee leaves for the assignment until the assignment ends. The employee will not receive standby pay during the period of time he/she is receiving overtime.
Section 12.8 Schools, drills, inspections and all other routine work will be performed between the hours of 7:00 am and 5:00 PM. Battalion Chiefs inspections, special schools, or company conferences may be held between the hours of 7:00 am and 5:00 PM. In addition, they may be held between the hours of 7:00 PM and 10:00 PM but not more than four times per month per shift. Except as specified above, the hours between 5:00 PM and 7:00 am shall be considered
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 9
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
emergency standby for the purpose of emergency response. Except in an emergency situation, the Fire Chief or Deputy Fire Chief, Operations, will notify the Union in advance of a planned special school which is intended to be held between the hours of 7:00 and 10:00 PM. At the request of the Union. Fire Administrative staff shall meet to discuss the planned special school with the Union.
Section 12.9 Maintenance to apparatus and equipment necessary to maintain a readiness condition may be performed outside of the routine work schedule.
Section 12.10 All routine and emergency activities shall be performed on Sundays and holidays except that no building inspections, schools or drills will be performed on the following holidays: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day unless in the company officer's view the efficiency of the company is adversely affected by not drilling.
Section 12.11 Debit days will not be assigned on July 4, Thanksgiving Day or Christmas Day.
ARTICLE 13 - STANDARD WORKING CONDITIONS
Section 13.1 - Vacations Vacations shall be as provided in Section 1.12.220 of the Tacoma Municipal Code and the Joint Labor Agreement. Section 1.12.220 provides in part for the following:
A.	Rate of accrual of vacation leave.
1.	Employees shall accrue vacation leave by reason of tenure based the following schedule of aggregate City service:
Hours Annual 24 hr. Shifts
Years of Accrued Hours Accrued Service Per Pay Period Accrued Leave 0 -3..............3.69............96..........6
4-7.............4.60...........120......... 7.5
8 -13...........5.22.......... 136..........8.5
14-18...........6.14...........160.........10
19.............6.45.......... 168.........10.5
20.............6.76...........176.........1 1
21.............7.07...........184.........11.5
22.............7.38.......... 192.........12
23.............7.69...........200.........12.5
24.............8.00...........208.........13
25.............8.31...........216.........13.5
26.............8.62...........224.........14
27.............8.93...........232.........14.5
28.............9.24...........240.........15
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 10
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
The appropriate bi-weekly accrual shall be credited for each bi-weekly pay period in which the employee is in a paid status.
Vacation accruals based on tenure shall be credited at the first of the calendar year in which any of the above periods of aggregate City service will be completed.
2.	No employee shall earn more vacation in any one calendar year than the above-stipulated days and new employees shall accrue vacation based on the above schedule beginning from the date of their appointment.
3.	Vacation leave may not be taken without the prior approval of the appointing authority and may not be taken in the pay period in which it was earned. Vacation leave shall be scheduled so as to meet the operating requirements of the Employer and, as far as practicable, the preferences of the employees. No employee may take more than one year's accrual in any one calendar year without the express approval of the Chief.
4.	Vacation accrual balances shall not exceed an amount equal to two (2) years' accrual.
Section 13,2 - Sick Allowance Sick allowance with pay shall be as provided in Section 1.12.230 of the Tacoma Municipal Code and the Joint Labor Agreement. Section 1.12.230 provides in part the following:
A.	Each regularly employed full-time employee shall accrue sick leave at the rate of 3.69 hours per bi-weekly pay period for each calendar month of service. There is no limit to the number of sick leave hours an employee may accrue.
B.	Effective January 1, 2021, an employee separated from service due to death or retirement for disability or length of service is compensated to the following extent of their sick leave accruals.
•	Accumulated sick leave between 0 and 400 hours shall be cashed out at 25%.
•	Accumulated sick leave hours between 401 and 800 shall be cashed out at 33%.
•	Accumulated sick leave hours above 801 shall be cashed out at 50%.
An employee separated in good standing from service for any other reason is compensated to the extent of ten (10) percent of their sick leave accruals, up to a maximum accrual of 1920 hours or one hundred twenty (120) days.
C.	Twenty-four (24) hour shift personnel shall be debited sick leave at a ratio of sixteen (16) hours for each twenty-four (24) hour shift off.
D.	For all other employees, sick leave will be credited and debited to each employee in the same amounts, and under the same policies governing all City employees.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 11
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Section 13.3 - On-the-Job On-the-Job injury provisions shall be as provided in the Washington State Law Enforcement and Firefighters Retirement Act for employees hired prior to October 1, 1977. For employees hired after September 30, 1977, coverage shall be as provided in Section 1.12.090 of the Tacoma Municipal Code and the Joint Labor Agreement.
A LEOFF II employee separated from City service due to an injury or illness shall be reinstated provided the employee is mentally and physically fit to perform the duties of the position.
Section 13.4 - Holidays Holidays shall be as provided in Section 1.12.200 of the Tacoma Municipal Code and Joint Labor Agreement. Section 1.12.200 provides in part that the following and such other days as the City Council, by resolution, may fix, are holidays for all regularly employed full-time employees of the City and shall be granted employees or days off in lieu thereof.
New Year's Day (January 1
Martin Luther King Day (3rd Monday in January)
President's Day (3rd Monday in February)
Memorial Day (last Monday in May)
Fourth of July
Labor Day (1st Monday in September)
Veterans' Day (November 11)
Thanksgiving Day (4th Thursday in November) The day immediately following Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day (December 25)
In order for an employee to receive holiday pay, that employee must be in a paid status on either the regularly scheduled workday immediately preceding the holiday or the regularly scheduled workday immediately following the holiday.
In addition to the days listed above, eligible employees shall receive two (2) additional paid holidays per calendar year for which time off shall be mandatory. To be eligible for these holidays, employees must have been or are scheduled to be continuously employed by the City for more than four (4) months as a regular, probationary, or appointive full-time employee during the calendar year of entitlement.
Twenty-four (24) hour employees shall receive six (6) shifts off per year in lieu of the twelve (12) recognized holidays.
The twelve (12) recognized holidays will equal ninety-six (96) hours for forty hour employees.
Section 13.5 - Personal Time Off (PTO)
A.	Within 30 days of appointment and during periodic City open enrollment or conversion periods, all Fire Battalion Chiefs (CSC 4004), Fire Communications Center Supervisors (CSC 4103), Fire Medical Services Officers (CSC 4008), Fire Captain (CSC 4003, 40 hr, Assigned to Administration Bureau), Fire Captain
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 12
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Dispatcher (CSC4003D), Fire Marshall Deputy (CSC 4016), Fire Lieutenant (CSC 4002 40hr, Assigned to Prevention), and Fire Fighter (CSC 4001,40hr, Assigned to Prevention) shall have the option - at his or her sole discretion - to elect to convert from traditional sick/vacation leave plans to the City’s PTO plan. Election shall be irrevocable for the employee once he or she chooses to convert to and participate in the City’s PTO plan as provided in Tacoma Municipal Code (TMC) 1.12.248.
B.	Any employee who had been previously hired subject to the provisions ofthe PTO plan, who later becomes represented by this Union shall be able to elect to remain on the PTO plan or convert to the sick/vacation leave plans in the following manner:
Returned forms indicated a desire to convert to the traditional sick/vacation leave plans will prompt the necessary changes to the employee’s record at the beginning of the following pay period. Sick leave will begin to accrue at the rate of 3.69 hours per pay period. Vacation leave will accrue per the vacation accrual schedule as provided in TMC 1.12.220.
Section 13.6 Medical and Hospital Insurance - Medical and hospital insurance shall be as provided in Section 1.12.110 of the Tacoma Municipal Code and the Joint Labor Agreement, provided, that a choice of at least two plans for such coverage shall be offered as required by law. Employees and their families, including all dependent children up to the age of 26 will be provided with medical and hospital insurance coverage including major medical as provided in the aforementioned City Code at the Employer’s expense. The Employer agrees to abide by the Firefighters Disability and Retirement Board standards set down by State law for all employees covered under this Agreement, hired prior to October 1, 1977.
Section 13.7 Group Life Insurance - Group life insurance shall be as provided in Section 1.12.110 ofthe Tacoma Municipal Code and the Joint Labor Agreement. The Employer will pay fifty percent or more, as budgeted therefore, of the cost of premiums for those employees electing to participate. The amount of insurance an employee may purchase is equal to one times his annual salary rounded to the next highest thousand dollars.
Section 13.8 Dental Insurance - Dental insurance shall be as provided in Section 1.12.110 of the Tacoma Municipal Code and the Joint Labor Agreement.
Section 13.9 Health Reimbursement Arrangement
A.	The City agrees to deduct from the paycheck of each LEOFF II officers’ and contribute one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) per month, and will promptly transfer said amount to the WSCFF Employee Benefit Trust for the sole purpose of establishing a Retiree Medical Savings Plan account for each employee. This shall be part of compensation for pension calculations.
B.	The Union will authorize and conduct an annual vote each calendar year of all Union members who may be eligible to retire from City employment in the following calendar year. The Union will notify the City with at least 30 days’ written notice whether the
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 13
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
contribution of unused sick leave accruals should be made to a qualified Health Reimbursement Arrangement or as a sick leave cash out under TMC 1.12.230 D.l.
C.	If the Union’s vote determines unused sick leave accruals should be made to a qualified Health Reimbursement Arrangement, upon retirement of an employee, the Employer shall make contributions into the WSCFF Employee Benefit Trust, or, upon individual employee request, into an individual Voluntary Employee Benefit Association (VEBA) plan. If no such individual request is made, the City will direct contributions to the WSCFF Employee Benefit Trust by default. The contribution value shall be in an amount equal to (100%) of the employee's sick leave cash out, as defined in Section 13.2 B. The Trust Fund is established in accordance with applicable federal and state laws, and the City shall contribute the monies on a pre-tax basis. The monies contributed to the trust fund shall only be used for retiree health insurance premiums or health service expenses. This contribution is made in lieu of a cash payment of the value of eligible sick leave accruals due to an employee upon retirement set forth in Tacoma Municipal Code (TMC) 1.12.230 and Section 13.2 B.These contributions constitute the entire obligation of the city with respect to funding the WSCFF Employee Benefit Trust Fund. To the extent the Trust Fund should be insufficient to cover all retiree health insurance premiums, fund administration, or related costs, the Union acknowledges and agrees that the City is not responsible and the Trust will be solely responsible.
All employees covered by this Agreement shall participate in the above referenced Health Reimbursement Arrangement program. No employee may request, nor will any employee receive, exemption from participation. The Union recognizes the performance of this function as a service by the City. There shall be no retroactive deductions. The Union agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City from any action arising from this section.
Section 13.10 In the event of an in-the-line-of-duty death of an employee covered under this agreement the surviving spouse or personal representative of the estate of the deceased employee may elect to obtain coverage for eligible family members within 60 days after the death pursuant to the same terms and conditions as is made available to LEOFF II retirees represented by the Union.
Section 13.11 LEOFF II Retiree Medical Coverage
A.	The City agrees that bargaining unit members, who hereafter retire into the state LEOFF II retirement system for length of service or disability, may elect at the time of retirement only to participate in the City’s health insurance program as follows:
B.	Any member receiving a pension for years of service hereunder who because of lack of age only, cannot qualify for Social Security and Medicare benefits shall be granted the privilege and option, at his/her own expense, to purchase from a health care contractor or insurer furnishing such service to active LEOFF II employees, a policy or policies of health insurance embodying therein terms substantially similar to those granted active LEOFF II employees, paying therefore the same amount as
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 14
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
the City pays for its LEOFF II employees covered under this agreement. Retiring City of Tacoma employees will no longer be offered the Kaiser Permanente medical plan, but the City will provide the Regence PPO and the Regence HDHP plans as options for continued medical coverage. The employer will not make a contribution to a Health Savings Account.
C.	The option and privilege herein shall terminate automatically upon the member’s reaching an eligible age to qualify for Medicare, whether in fact or not such member obtains the same. In no event shall the granting of this privilege give or grant the retired member any preferential treatment with reference to the health contracts over and above that of active employees of the City of Tacoma, and such privilege is at all times subject to the ability of the City of Tacoma to negotiate for and obtain said health care coverage.
D.	There shall exist no obligation on the part of the City to contribute any part of the purchase price of said policy, nor shall the City’s General Revenue Funds make any contribution therefore; provided, however, that if in fact any change results in the rate charged the City for its LEOFF II employees covered under this agreement from the granting of this privilege, such adjustment in the rate shall not be deemed a contribution of the City.
E.	In the event that active LEOFF II employees under this agreement receive their medical coverage from a non-City plan, all retired LEOFF II employees receiving medical coverage from the City plan shall transfer to the non-City plan.
ARTICLE 14	- SCHEDULING OF VACATION, HOLIDAYS, PTO, MILITARY LEAVE
Section 14.1 The Chief and the Union shall work out the mechanics of scheduling vacations, PTO and holidays. Such vacations, PTO and holidays shall be scheduled so as to meet the operating requirements of the City and, as far as practicable, the preferences of the employees, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 1.12 (Compensation Plan) of the Tacoma Municipal Code.
Section 14.2 Vacations, PTO and holidays shall be scheduled on a seniority basis subject to the provisions above set forth. Time for seniority purposes shall be computed from date of permanent appointment to January 1 of any given year.
Section 14.3 Twelve (12) personnel shall be allowed off from each shift excluding Battalion Chiefs, Fire Boat Personnel and the three (3) primary officers of the Union. This shall include vacation, PTO, holidays, and military leave.
Section 14.4 Transfers of personnel affected after vacations, PTO, holidays and military leave have been scheduled shall provide an exception to Section 14.3 above. Personnel so transferred will be allowed off in excess of the above number, not to exceed more than two (2) employees off above the agreed amount in Section 14.3 above. Transfer of personnel due to being promoted to a higher position shall have first choice of the remaining vacation, PTO, holidays and military leave of the employee leaving the shift. Whenever possible the employee shall be placed in these
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 15
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
openings. The only exceptions will occur when the employee being transferred has already made financial commitments for accommodations or prior purchase of travel tickets. In such cases, the employee shall be considered as part of the allowable two (2) personnel off in the above paragraph.
No more than ten (10) company officers shall be off on each shift at any time on vacation, PTO, holidays or military leave.
Personnel requesting transfers to another shift shall be scheduled for vacation, PTO and holidays where time is available, at the discretion of the Battalion Chief.
Section 14.5 Consistent with RCW 1.16.050, employees will be granted may elect to use up to two (2) unpaid holidays per calendar year for a reason of faith or conscience or an organized activity conducted under the auspices of a religious denomination, church, or religious organization. The employee will select the days on which to take the unpaid holidays after consultation with his or her supervisor as provided by City policy. To the extend reasonably possible, employees should submit leave requests with at least thirty (30) calendar days' notice. Employees may elect to use accrued vacation leave, PTO, compensatory time or floating holidays to remain in paid status on a requested holiday to the extent that such leave is available on the requested date under applicable policies, procedures and/or collective bargaining agreements governing the use of paid leave. An unpaid holiday requested pursuant to City policy will not be denied unless the employee is necessary to maintain public safety or the employee's absence would impose an undue hardship on the City, as defined by applicable rule or regulation.
ARTICLE 15	- LONGEVITY PAY
Section 15.1 Longevity pay shall be provided eligible employees according to the following schedule.
(a)	From five (5) through nine (9) years aggregate service as a uniformed employee -two percent (2)% of an employee's base wages.
(b)	From ten (10) through fourteen (14) years aggregate service as a uniformed employee - four percent (4)% of an employee's base wages.
(c)	From fifteen (15) through nineteen (19) years aggregate service as a uniformed employee - six percent (6)% of an employee's base wages.
(d)	Twenty (20) years or more aggregate service as a uniformed employee - eight percent (8)% of an employee's base wages.
ARTICLE 16	- WORK ASSIGNMENTS
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 16
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Employees shall be assigned duties consistent with their job descriptions. When filling temporary vacancies, the department shall consider the existing civil service list for the classification to be filled, and will assign employees to work within proper jurisdictional lines.
ARTICLE 17-OVERTIME
Overtime procedures, that currently exist within the Fire Department will be maintained during the term of this agreement unless mutually altered by the parties.
ARTICLE 18	- CLOTHING ALLOWANCE
Section 18.1 A bargaining unit employee assigned to a non-uniformed position shall receive a clothing allowance of one percent of base pay (1%) at the end of each full four (4)-month period so assigned. The periods shall be January through April, May through August, and September through December. Payment of the clothing allowance shall be made no later than fifteen (15) days following each four (4) month period. An employee working less than the full four (4) month period shall receive a prorated amount based on each full pay period so assigned. The City shall continue to provide uniforms, protective clothing, and gear for all members of the bargaining unit where same is required.
ARTICLE 19	- PROMOTIONS
Section 19,1 The City and the Union agree that Promotional Examination certification shall be done based on the “Rule of One" (1). The City and the Union agree that Oral Boards utilized in Promotional Examinations shall have access to the employee's file in the custody of the Human Resources Department.
Section 19.2 The Union and the Fire Chief will establish a Labor/Management Committee to improve the promotional process by developing a well-rounded curriculum of study to lead to a qualified and competent pool of candidates for promotion. This committee shall, at a minimum, meet quarterly to provide recommendations on the promotional process to the Fire Chief.
Section 19.3 Written notice of proposed changes (or of an intent to bargain such changes) in the structure or grading process used for administering promotional examinations within the Fire Department shall be given sufficiently in advance of the examination so as to not impair its administration. Such changes shall be bargained in accordance with the provisions of RCW 41.56.430 through 490.
ARTICLE 20	- PROBATIONARYPERIODS
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.24.780 of the Tacoma Municipal Code, all appointments made to the class of Fire Fighter shall be probationary for a period of one (1) year; all other appointments shall be probationary for a period of six (6) months.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 17
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
ARTICLE 21	- DEFINITION OF SENIORITY
Section 21.1 As it applies to this Labor Agreement, seniority shall be determined by continuous service with the Fire Department from date of hire. Continuous service shall be broken by resignation, discharge, or retirement.
Section 21.2 Employees with the same hire date shall be assigned to the seniority list in order of their ranking on the eligible list on the hiring date.
ARTICLE 22	- PERSONNEL REDUCTIONS
In case of personnel reduction employees shall be laid off in compliance with the provisions of Section 1.24.900 and 1.24.920 of the Tacoma Municipal Code.
ARTICLE 23	- PARAMEDIC VOLUNTARY DEMOTION
A.	Providing an eligible list exists with certifiable eligible thereon, an employee who has ten (10) years of service as a Paramedic and/or Paramedic Supervisor shall be eligible to voluntarily demote to Firefighter. Employees who qualify shall have their pay frozen at the present rate of pay until such time as it is equal to top step Firefighter. In no case shall the employee's pay be greater than the rate received at the time of such demotion, unless, the employee promotes to a higher classification.
B.	There shall be a limit of three eligible employees, at any given time, allowed to voluntary demote and maintain their salary level or the equivalent of the total salary differential for the three eligible employees. For 1993, this salary differential shall be $30,000, this amount shall be increased each year based on the general salary increase received by the bargaining unit.
C.	If more than three employees wish to participate in this program, the employee with the greater number of years of service as a Paramedic and/or Paramedic Supervisor shall have the first right of refusal.
ARTICLE 24	- RULES AND REGULATIONS
The Union agrees that its members shall comply with all Employer’s Rules and Regulations, Policies and Procedures, and General Orders including those relating to conduct and work performance. The Employer will notify the Union in writing of any proposed changes to Rules and Regulations, Policies and Procedures or General Orders which impact mandatory subjects of bargaining. The Union shall have fifteen (15) working days to submit a written request to bargain on the proposed change(s).
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 18
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
ARTICLE 25	- BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Upon an employee being notified of a death in his/her immediate family while on-duty, the City shall take prompt action to find a suitable relief in order that the employee may be released from duty. (Immediate family is defined as outlined in Section 1.12.230, Subsection B5, of the Tacoma Municipal Code.) An employee will be allowed to take up to two full shifts (or four eight hour days) of City paid leave (holiday, vacation, sick or PTO hours will not be negatively affected) in order to attend a funeral of an immediate family member pursuant to Section 1.12.230 (B)(5). “Family” is defined as spouse, father, mother, foster parent, brother, sister, child, or foster child of the employee, grandparent, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law of the employee or the death of a father, mother, foster parent, brother, brother-in-law, sister, sister-in-law, child, foster child, grandparent, or grandchild of the spouse of the employee.
ARTICLE 26	- DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES
Section 26.1 - Employees may be disciplined or discharged for just cause and with due process, in conformance with Sections 1.24.940 and 1.24.955 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. The discipline will be based on the severity of offense and prior record of discipline.
Section 26.2	- In general, disciplinary issues will adhere to the following chronology:
1.	An accusation is made or a supervisor becomes aware of an issue.
2.	A fact-finding investigation is conducted.
3.	A summary of the facts is reviewed, and a determination is made about a need for discipline.
a.	Discipline from supervisors shall be limited to oral or written reprimands.
b.	Severe discipline (suspension, demotion or termination) shall be administered by the Fire Chief.
4.	If the Fire Chief determines an intent to administer severe discipline, a pre-disciplinary due process hearing (Loudermill meeting) shall be provided to the employee in accordance with Section 26.6 of this Agreement and Section 1.24.955 of the Tacoma Municipal Code.
5.	Employee and/or Union may appeal via grievance procedure or to the Civil Service Board in accordance with Section 26.9 and Article 5 of this Agreement.
Section 26.3	- General Investigation Procedures.
Any employee who will be interviewed as a part of a fact-finding investigation concerning an act that, if proven, could reasonably result in disciplinary action, will be afforded the following safeguards:
1.	The employee, shall be offered and shall be entitled to have a Union and/or legal representative present at any meeting held with the Department which may result in disciplinary action.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 19
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
2.	The Department shall make a reasonable good faith effort to conduct these interviews during the employee’s regularly scheduled work shift, except for emergencies. However, the Department may schedule the interview outside the employee’s regular working hours as long as the appropriate overtime payments are made to the employee.
3.	The employee will be directed to answer any questions specifically involving the non-criminal matter(s) under investigation. Employees will not be asked any questions or required to provide any information about matters that might potentially involve criminal conduct unless they are first provided with appropriate Garrity protections in writing.
4.	The employee shall be entitled to such reasonable intermissions as may be requested for personal necessities.
5.	All interviews shall be focused on the activities, circumstances, events, conduct or acts that pertain to the incident that is the subject of the investigation. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Department from questioning the employee about information that is developed during the course ofthe interview.
6.	For investigations involving the potential for severe discipline, the Department shall not record the interview without first asking the employee for permission to do so. If the employee agrees to have the interview recorded, a copy of the complete interview of the employee shall be furnished, upon written request, to the employee and/or Union at no cost.
7.	To the extent possible, interviews and investigations shall be concluded without unreasonable delay.
8.	The complainant(s), primary respondents) and the Union shall be notified, in writing, of the conclusion and results of the investigation.
Section 26.4 - When practicable, employees directed to participate in a fact-finding investigation (including I AB or EEO investigations) will be advised whether they are being called as a witness, respondent, or otherwise.
The employee will be advised ofthe general nature of the investigation (e.g.: “poor attendance,” “insubordination,” or “EEO complaint of discrimination on the basis of race”) unless the investigator determines that it may negatively impact the integrity of the investigation. Such advisement shall not preclude the City from pursuing further investigation and discipline of an employee participating in the investigation should the facts support it.
Section 26.5 - The Department may place an employee on paid administrative leave pursuant to TMC 1.24.250 C, during an investigation and pending the final decision as to the appropriate discipline, if any, resulting from an investigation. An employee on paid administrative leave shall make him/herself available to the department between the hours of 8:00 AM and 5:00 PM. Monday through Friday.
Section 26.6 - An employee shall be provided pre-disciplinary “due process” in connection with any intent to impose severe discipline. The Fire Chief or designee shall hold a pre-disciplinary hearing no sooner than ten (10) working days from the time the employee was notified in writing ofthe specific alleged violation. The employee will be given an opportunity to respond either orally or in writing and present their side of the issue. The written notification to the employee will include notice ofthe maximum range of discipline under consideration, and the charges and the facts upon which the charges are based.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 20
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
No later than three (3) working days prior to the pre-di sci plinary hearing with the Fire Chief or designee the Department shall make available to the employee and the employee's Union representative, with the employee's authorization, a copy of all documents relevant to the alleged violation the Department has in its possession.
Section 26.7 - The employee and the employee's Union representative, with the employee's authorization, shall have the right to inspect the contents of the personnel file maintained by the Employer.
Section 26.8 - No disciplinary document may be placed in the personnel file without the employee having first been notified of said document and given a copy. The employee shall be required to sign a written reprimand or other disciplinary action acknowledging that they have read the contents of the document. An employee who disagrees with the content of any letter of reprimand added to the personnel file shall have the opportunity to place a rebuttal statement in the personnel file; however, letters of reprimand shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
Section 26.9 - A suspension in excess of twenty-four (24) hours, a dismissal or a disciplinary reduction in rank or pay may be processed under the grievance procedure provided for in Article 5 of this Agreement. Suspensions of twenty-four (24) hours or less are not subject to Step 4 of the Grievance Procedure. The filing of such a grievance shall be considered a voluntary and irrevocable waiver of the right to pursue the matter under the Civil Service procedure.
Section 26.10 - The Department agrees that the simple fact that an employee has been arrested will not result in the imposition of discipline. However, upon notification of an employee's arrest, the Department may investigate the facts and circumstances surrounding that arrest. If the Department believes that the investigation establishes cause for discipline, up to and including discharge, discipline will be imposed.
Section 26.11 - It is the Fire Chiefs sole determination as to whether or not an employee suspended without pay may be allowed to forfeit accrued vacation or compensatory time off in lieu of the suspension of pay.
ARTICLE 27	- COMPENSATION FOR USE OF PRIVATE AUTOMOBILE
Any employee required to use his private auto for City business shall be compensated at the mileage rate in effect as specified by Compensation Plan Chapter 1.12. This shall not cover transportation from employee's place of residence to his first duty assignment, nor from his last duty assignment back to his place of residence.
Mileage forms shall be provided by the Employer and be available at every fire station. It shall be the employee's responsibility to see that the forms are filled in and tendered as outlined by Tacoma Fire Department General Order.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 21
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
ARTICLE 28	- NON-DISCRIMINATION
Section 28.1	Pursuant to RCW 41.56 there shall be no discrimination against union members or union officers.
Section 28.2 It is mutually agreed that there shall be no discrimination because of race, color, religion, gender, age, marital status, or physical, mental, or sensory disabilities (that do not prevent proper performance of the job) unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. Union and management representatives shall work cooperatively to assure the achievement of equal employment opportunity.
Section 28.3	It is mutually agreed that there shall be no sexual harassment. Sexual harassment prevention guidelines are set forth in the Personnel Management Policies.
Section 28.4	It is mutually agreed that both parties shall demonstrate support for and actively work in collaboration to achieve the anti-racism goals of the City.
ARTICLE 29	- PHYSICAL FITNESS
The Fire Chief and the Union will develop and adopt by mutual agreement, a physical fitness program. All employees will be required to participate in the program; no employee will be disciplined or discharged for failure to meet standards that may be established within the program.
Local 31 and Tacoma Fire Department Administration will meet within thirty (30) days of ratification of this agreement to discuss the Fire Chiefs identification of a Fitness Coordinator from the existing Local 31 Membership.
ARTICLE 30	- OFFICIAL NOTIFICATION
The employer agrees to provide the secretary-treasurer of the Union copies of all bulletins and special and general orders. The Union agrees that it will designate the Union official authorized to sign official Union communications to the Fire Department.
All written communications involving members of Local #31 received by the Fire Chief from the Union, or by the Union from the Fire Chief shall be acknowledged or answered by the recipient within ten (10) calendar days of receipt.
ARTICLE 31	- APPENDICES AND AMENDMENTS
All appendices, amendments, or modifications to this Agreement as mutually agreed upon by the parties hereto shall be numbered or lettered, dated and when signed by the authorized parties shall form a part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 32	- SAVING CLAUSE
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 22
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction such invalidation of such part or portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions thereof, and the remaining parts or portions remain in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 33	- TERM OF AGREEMENT
Section 33.1 This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from January 1, 2021, to and including December 31,2022, provided, however, that this Agreement shall be subject to such change or modification as may be mutually agreed upon by the parties hereto.
Section 33.2 The Union may reopen the agreement for the sole purpose of discussing the deferred compensation match should any other bargaining unit receive an increase in deferred compensation match amounts.
ARTICLE 34	- EMBODIMENT
The Agreement expressed herein in writing constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties and no oral statement shall add to or supersede any of its provisions.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 23
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
EXECUTED IN TACOMA, WASHINGTON, THIS. 2Oth DAY OF —June, 2021.
CITY OF TACOMA A Municipal Organization x	DocuSigned by: 6/19	6/19/2021 §.&K.f4g^Bi34A§	 Elizabeth Pauli	Date City Manager 	6/15/2021 Torytireen	Date Tacoma Fire Chief j'Unei'-O/		 June 15, 2021 Dylan Carlson	Date Senior Labor Relations Manager x	DocuSigned by: 6/18 6/18/20	6/18/2021 	4FAFA3-D-A§Q464&0^	 Andy Cherullo	Date Finance Director Approved as to Form: OxSAzg CorwOA. (jp-1^0,0^ Cheryl Comer Deputy City Attorney Attest: x	DocuSigned by: ,.	6/20/2021 /6bBL,y4l-34094F3... City Clerk	TACOMA FIREFIGHTERS UNION LOCAL #31 AtfysonMinzman	/	/ President, Local 31 		' ^s4fam^ton 1 '	' Vice President, Local 31 Matt Frank	Date Secretary-Treasurer, Local 31
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 24
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
APPENDIX A Firefighters Union Local #31
2021 Base Rates - Local 31
Code	A	Job Title	1	2	3	4	5	6
40010		Firefighter	29.10	30.47	34.70	36.42	38.18	40.10
40020		Fire Lieutenant	46.24	48.52				
40030		Fire Captain	53.13	55.82				
40040		Fire Chief Battalion	61.10	64.21				
40050		Fire Battalion Chief Aide	46.24	48.52				
40060		Firefighter-Paramedic	44.00	46.25				
40070		Firefighter Paramedic Supervisor	50.63	53.12				
40080	A	Fire Medical Services Officer	75.77	79.60				
40110		Fire Boat Pilot	46.24	48.52				
40150		Fire Inspector 40hr	53.29	55.98				
40160		Fire Marshal Deputy 40hr	61.31	64.40				
40220		Harbor Master Deputy 40hr	62.82	65.87				
41010		Fire Communications Center Lieutenant 40hr	57.33	60.16				
41020		Fire Captain Dispatcher 40hr	62.85	65.96				
41030	A	Fire Communications Center Supervisor 40hr	67.52	70.94				
2021: A market review was completed to maintain a second (2nd) place ranking among comparables and will be effective January 1,2021. The parties agree that the established wage rate will be half-way between 1st and 3rd place ranking. Comparables to be evaluated by the City include Central Pierce, Everett, Puget Sound Regional, Renton Regional, South King Fire & Rescue, South Snohomish County, Spokane, and Vancouver. Both the City and Union met to review the market data. The resulting 2021 wage increase is 1.75%.
2022: Effective January 1, 2022, all classifications shall increase by an amount equal to 100% of the increase in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W), Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue Area, All items, measured from June of 2020 to June of 2021, with a minimum increase of 1.0% and a maximum increase of 3.0%.
This bargaining unit includes commissioned personnel only.
Pay Differentials:
a.	Fire Captain and Deputy Fire Marshall will maintain a 15% differential with Lieutenant.
b.	Fire Battalion Chief will maintain a 15% differential with Fire Captain.
Deferred Compensation:
The City will match an employee's contribution to the deferred compensation program offered by the City up to a maximum of $192.00 per pay period.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 25
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Effective January 1, 2022, the City will match an employee's contribution to the deferred compensation program offered by the City up to a maximum of $211.00 per pay period.
During the term of this agreement, the Union may select an additional earner for deferred compensation contributions, the administration of having an additional carrier will be performed by the City. If the Union selects to add an additional canner to the carrier(s) currently offered by the City, the City reserves the right to bargain the administrative and financial impacts of such action.
Application of Rates:
A.	Firefighter-Engineer/Apparatus Operator Certification - A Firefighter assigned as a
Engineer/Apparatus Operator for an engine or truck company shall receive an additional five percent (5%) of base pay.
B.	Hazardous Materials Pay and Certification - Personnel assigned to the Hazardous Materials Unit shall receive an additional five percent (5%) of base pay.
C.	Uniformed personnel assigned to Mask Repair and related services shall receive an application rate of five percent (5%) of his/her basic wage rate.
D.	In lieu of providing long-term disability insurance to bargaining unit employees covered by the LEOFF II retirement system, the City will provide to all LEOFF II bargaining unit employees an additional one percent (1 %) application of rate. The City will deduct from Union members’ paychecks the costs of the long-term disability insurance obtained by the Union and will transmit such amounts to the Union on a monthly basis..
E.	Fire Battalion Chief(s) assigned as an Administrative or Operations Battalion Chief in CSC 4004-F or 4004-G shall receive an additional 7.5 percent and shall be salaried Class D employees under Section 1.12.080 of the Tacoma Municipal Code; and will not be eligible for overtime compensation or compensatory time off.
F.	A shift incentive of 5% will be effective for day shift employees in Training, Safety, Fire Prevention, Fire Communications, and Administration. Selection of employees for day shift will be as follows:
a. Day shift personnel will be selected in the following manner:
i.	Posting a notice of vacancy
ii.	Letters of interest to be reviewed
iii.	Interviews to be conducted by Fire Administration
iv.	Final selection made by Fire Administration
v.	If no letters of interest are received Fire Administration shall assign employees in inverse order of seniority providing adequate training is easily obtained
G.	Firefighter/Paramedic Integration
1.	Employees assigned to ALS assignments will receive a fifteen percent (15%) application of rate above top-step-Fire Fighter. ALS assignments will include drivers
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 26
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
of transport units and FF /PM assigned to ALS Engine or Truck companies, and cross shift rovers. The Department reserves the right to determine ALS assignments. For non-transport units, the Department shall determine if that position on an Engine or Truck shall be an Officer/PM, or a FF /PM.
2.	Certification Pay: The employee shall provide the department with documentation of successful certification. Upon receipt of said documentation the employee will be eligible for certification pay according to the following schedule.
a.	Beginning in the 4th continuous year that a FF /PM is eligible to work as a TFD paramedic, a FF/PM will receive an additional 3% of base pay.
b.	Beginning in the 7th continuous year that a FF /PM is eligible to work as a TFD paramedic, a FF/PM will receive 5% of base pay.
3.	Transition to Lieutenant/Paramedics (Lt./PM) and Captain/Paramedics (Capt./PM) through the officer testing process shall begin immediately.
Each transport unit will be staffed with a Lt./PM and a FF/PM on all four shifts, and a Capt./PM will be assigned to each shift. Lt./PM and Capt./PM will do modified field probation, as assigned by the Fire Department command staff, as an Engine or Truck Company Officer if they have not already completed one. Lt./PM and Capt./PM will receive their pay grade plus their paramedic certification pay while fulfilling ALS assignments. Paramedic certification pay cannot be carried to any rank above Captain.
Administration may grant a FF/PM a transfer to non-ALS Engine or Truck Company assignment. A FF/PM may carry his/her certification pay after said transfer if there is a qualified employee to fill his/her ALS assignment. The administration reserves the right to return him/her to an ALS assignment as daily staffing dictates after his/her transfer. Only one PM position will be available per non-transport units.
The Department and the Local agree that as Lt./PMs become available to fill those Officer positions on transport units, they will be filled by replacing the least senior (time in grade as a PM) FF/PM filling an "in-charge" position.
H.	In recognition of the fact that future technology creates needs which did not previously exist for internal training and mentoring, highly experienced employees shall be assigned additional duties and shall receive a two percent (2%) application of rate. Highly experienced employees shall be defined as those with 25 years of service as a commissioned Tacoma firefighter in the classifications of Firefighter, Fire Lieutenant, Fire Captain, Fire Chief Battalion, Fire Battalion Chief Aide, Firefighter-Paramedic, Firefighter Paramedic Supervisor, Fire Boat Pilot, Fire Inspector, Fire Marshal Deputy, Harbor Master Deputy, Fire Lieutenant Dispatcher, Fire Captain Dispatcher, Fire Communication Manager. These duties shall be assigned and this applied rate will commence at the first of the calendar year in which an employee will complete the 25 years of service.
Upon ratification of this agreement, the Employer and the Union agree to meet within 180 days to begin to design a Mentorship Program.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 27
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
I.	Tech Rescue Specialty Pay: An applied rate of five percent (5%) shall be applied to the base rate of bargaining unit members serving on the Tech Rescue Team.
J.	Employees in the classification of Firefighter-Paramedic working up in a Fire Lieutenant/Medic in-charge position shall receive an additional five percent (5%) of base pay.
K.	The application of rate for Tiller Operator shall increase to two and one-half percent (2.5%) of base pay.
L.	The following will apply to employees assigned to Tacoma Fire Communications (TFC):
1.	Employees in the classification of Firefighter, CSC 4001 assigned and fully trained at TFC will receive an additional 7.5% above the top step of the Firefighter 40 hr, CSC 4001 range.
2.	Employees in the classification of Firefighter, CSC 4001 assigned to train at TFC, for a maximum of 6 months will receive an additional 5% above top step of the Firefighter 40 hr, CSC 4001 range. (This excludes personnel receiving more than one specialty pay, i.e. Haz-Mat. and Driver etc. who might transfer to Fire Communications. They would receive a maximum of 5%.).
3.	Regularly assigned TFC Firefighters, CSC 4001 who are temporarily upgraded (Code 9) to a Fire Communications Center Lieutenant 40hr, CSC 4101, position shall receive an additional 7.5% of their current pay for a total of 15% above their current step of the Firefighter pay range.
4.	Wages for the classification of Fire Communications Center Lieutenant 40hr, CSC 4101 will be indexed 7.5% above the Fire Lieutenant 40 hr, CSC 4002 range.
5.	Wages for the classification of Fire Communications Center Supervisor 40hr, CSC 4103 will be be indexed 7.5% above Fire Captain Dispatcher 40hr, CSC 4102. This classification is unclassified (“appointive”), salaried Class D under Section 1.12.080 of the Tacoma Municipal Code, and is not be eligible for overtime compensation or compensatory time off. Appointments to this classification shall come from Local 31 's bargaining unit and will require Fire Communications experience.
M.	Employees assigned to Basic Life Support (BLS) Transport Units shall receive an applied rate of five percent (5.0%) of base pay.
For the City:
Date
For the Union:
Date
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 28
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
APPENDIX B MEMORANDUM OF INTENT AND UNDERSTANDING WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, it appears that the costs of providing adequate fire protection in the City of Tacoma increases substantially each year, and
WHEREAS, substantially all employees ofthe Fire Department ofthe City of Tacoma has a duty week which is six and one/tenth (6.1) hours in excess of the workweek of all other employees, and
WHEREAS, both parties hereto agree it would be mutually advantageous to decrease, if economically feasible, the hours of duty of members ofthe fire service if such hours can be reduced without prejudicing or impairing existing fire protection in the City of Tacoma, and
WHEREAS, it appears that the most practical way to accomplish said end is to conduct one or more surveys or reviews of existing procedures and methods in order to ascertain the most efficient mode of operating the Fire Department consistent with its existing standards of protection;
Now, THEREFORE, the parties hereto do hereby jointly declare their intent to accomplish said result, and do agree generally as follows:
That both parties recognize and agree that this memorandum of intent and understanding outlines in very general and basic terms the desired results and hoped for accomplishments of a review study and survey program, and that the implementing of any such program will of necessity be subject to further study, review and where appropriate additional agreement. That both parties agree to cooperate to the fullest extent, one with the other, to establish and maintain a technical survey or review procedure of existing fire methods and modes of operation of the Tacoma Fire Department expressly for the purpose of determining whether or not modifications and changes thereof will result in increased efficiencies and economies in the operation ofthe Fire Department.
That such technical survey and review shall be more or less continuous in nature and be conducted jointly by the City and Fire Fighters Local #31;
It is understood and agreed that the aim or purpose of any such technical survey or surveys is to maintain or increase the efficiency ofthe Fire Fighting Department in performing fire protection services which will result in the diminution ofthe costs ofthe operation ofthe Fire Department to the City of Tacoma without a resulting loss in fire coverage and efficiency.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 29
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Appendix B
Memorandum of Understanding
Page 2
It is further understood and agreed that, in the event any changes are recommended as a result of such study and survey which may be adopted or implemented by the Fire Chief and other administrative officials of the City of Tacoma and there exists a savings as a result of the adoption of said change, then such savings shall be used for the purpose of shortening the duty week or other fringe benefits. "Savings", as used in this paragraph, shall mean that the costs of reducing said duty week together with the costs of administering the changes made, shall not exceed budgetary appropriations for the operation and maintenance of the fire service.
It is understood and agreed that the parties hereto shall hereafter adopt detailed rules and regulations for the implementing of any such changes and a procedure for the evaluation of recommendations made as a result of said survey; PROVIDED: That nothing herein contained or hereafter adopted shall in any manner diminish or impinge upon the lawful right of the administrative officials of the City of Tacoma to administer, operate, and maintain the fire service, it being understood and agreed that the duty of such supervisory officials is constant and continuing and entails, among other things, a duty and obligation to improve fire service operations within the City of Tacoma.
It is understood and agreed that both parties hereto will in a reasonable manner, attempt to implement any changes arising out of the recommendations of said technical surveys.
It is further agreed by both parties hereto that the execution of this memorandum of intent and understanding shall not constitute a waiver of either party, or any person or employee represented thereby, of any right or privilege existing under and by virtue of the ordinances of the City of Tacoma, and particularly those ordinances relating to personnel and pay and compensation, and any changes made or implemented as a result of said survey shall be binding and effective only after adoption in accordance with the laws of the State of Washington and the ordinances and regulations of the City of Tacoma.
It is agreed that this memorandum of intent and understanding may be canceled at any time by either party hereto upon the giving of written notification of its intent to terminate said agreement at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the proposed termination.
It is further agreed that no right, privilege, obligation, or duty of a specific or precise nature shall arise or exist because of the execution of this Agreement, but that the same shall arise and exist only after subsequent and additional agreements and understandings have been executed by and between the parties hereto.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 30
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Appendix B
Memorandum of Understanding
Page 3
WHEREAS, the City of Tacoma has for years adopted the policy of collective bargaining between the various labor organizations representing employees and the administration, and
WHEREAS, pursuant to said policy, Tacoma Firefighters Union Local #31 and representatives of the administration of the City of Tacoma have for some time engaged in collective bargaining sessions and have reached an agreement relating to conditions of employment in the Fire Department, and
WHEREAS, it now appears in the best interest of the City of Tacoma that the Memorandum of Agreement relating to working conditions recommended by said local union and administration be executed; Now, Therefore,
BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF TACOMA:
That the proper officers of the City of Tacoma be and they are hereby authorized and directed to execute for and on behalf of the City of Tacoma an agreement between the City of Tacoma and Tacoma Fire Fighters' Union Local #31, said Memorandum of Agreement to be substantially in the form of the Agreement on file in the Office of the City Clerk and by this reference herein incorporated as though fully set forth; and said Agreement by its terms to remain in full force and effect for the term of this Agreement.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 31
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
APPENDIX C - Assignment of Personnel
MEMORANDUM OF INTENT AND UNDERSTANDING
CITY OF TACOMA
AND
TACOMA FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 31
Assignments of Fire Officers, will be as stated below, unless the Fire Chief or his/her designee determines it is in the best interest of the Department or the employee to make a reassignment prior to expiration of the assignment.
Training Division Fire Prevention Fire Communications Tech Rescue Hazardous Materials Fire Boat
3 years
3 years
2 years
2 years
2 years
2 years
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 32
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Index to Letters of Agreement/Memorandums of Understanding
Tacoma Firefighters Union, Local 31
2021 -2022
Description____________________________________________________
1.	MOU EEO/Anti-Harassment/Discrimination Policy
2.	MOU Night Inspections
3.	MOU Fire Lieutenant minimum qualifications
4.	MOA Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA)
Date Signed 10/21/2002
6/9/2003
8/27/2003
7/22/2015 Revised
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 33
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Memorandum of Understanding Between Tacoma Fire Department and Firefighters Local #31
This memorandum sets forth the agreement between the signatories as to the EEO/Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination policy developed by the Tacoma Fire Department.
The current collective bargaining agreement by and between the City of Tacoma and Tacoma Firefighters Union Local #31 (the Union), Article 28 - Non-Discrimination, says:
Section 28.2 It is mutually agreed that there shall be no discrimination because of [ace, color, religion, sex, gender preference, sexual orientation, age, marital status, or physical, mental, or sensory disabilities (that do not prevent proper performance of the job) unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification. Union and management representatives shall work cooperatively to assure the achievement of equal employment opportunity.
Section 28.3 It is mutually agreed that there shall be no sexual harassment. Sexual harassment prevention guidelines are set forth in the Personnel Management Policies.
In order to implement these provisions, as well as to comply with state and federal law, the Tacoma Fire Department has developed Administration Policy 1003, EEO/Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination. The parties have fully bargained the contents of this policy, and the Union, by signing here, accepts the policy as embodying those obligations of the Department and its members under Sections 28.2 and 28.3 of the parties' Collective Bargaining Agreement. The parties acknowledge that to the extent state or federal law are found to conflict with Policy 1003, those laws control. However, within those laws, the parties have bargained the process rules and other relevant details to be utilized in the department. The City policy will control any matter not covered by this memorandum.
The parties agree that the Department will change the policy from time to time, in keeping with changes in City, state, and federal law, and new understandings developing from interpretations of those laws, but that the Union may require bargaining over any such change to the extent the change is a subject of mandatory bargaining.
The parties have long agreed that as a condition of employment, all employees of the Tacoma Fire Department are to be familiar with and follow the Tacoma Fire Department's EEO Policies and Procedures and that all employees will be held accountable for their actions. The parties hereby agree that every Tacoma Fire Department employee will annually sign two copies of the Department's EEO Acknowledgment Form, after having the opportunity to read and ask questions
of the current EEO Policy and Procedures.
Original Signed by:
Eileen F. Lewis 10/21/2002
Fire Chief
Ray E. Corpuz, Jr.10/21/2002
City Manager
Vern Heller 10/21/2002
Vice-President, Tacoma Firefighters Local #31
Phil Knudsen 10/21/2002
Human Resources Director
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 34
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Memo of Understanding Tacoma Fire Fighters IAFF Local 31 And the City of Tacoma
Recent events in Rhode Island and Chicago brought about a need to enhance our inspections of nightclubs and places of assembly. Effective June 16, 2003, the Tacoma Fire Department will implement a night inspection program. The purpose of the night inspection program is to:
•	Identify and eliminate fire and life safety hazards that may compromise the safety ofthe occupants
•	Confirm that a system is in place to monitor the posted occupancy load and that the occupancy load has not been exceeded
•	Confirm that hallways, stairwells and exit paths that lead to exit doors are clear and unobstructed
•	Confirm that nothing is left, placed or stored in such a manner that will hinder anyone from using any exit
•	Confirm that exit doors are unlocked, not blocked in any way and open easily from the inside
•	Confirm that exit signs are visible and illuminated
•	Confirm that walls and or ceilings are not covered with combustible materials'
•	Confirm that pyrotechnics are not being used
•	Identify and eliminate obvious fire code violations
Companies will routinely complete a night inspection of all nightclubs and identified places of assembly within their assigned inspection district. The inspections are to be conducted between the hours of 9:00 pm and 2:00 am and shall be conducted on Friday or Saturday night. However, inspections may be conducted on another night if there is reason to believe the nightclub or place of assembly is expected to have an occupancy load at or near their posted capacity.
Night inspections are not intended to be nor replace routine commercial inspections.
The pasties acknowledge the benefit of a positive working relationship and therefore enter into this Agreement. It is not to be used as a precedent with respect to any other contracts for any other divisions or departments of the City nor by other employees represented by this Union or any other Union.
Original signed by:
For Fire Fighters Local 31	For the City of Tacoma
Patrick McEIIigott__________6/4/2003	James L. Walton_____________6/9/2003
President Bruce Baurichter	6/4/2003	City Manager Eileen F. Lewis	6/9/2003
Secretary-Treasurer		Fire Chief Phil Knudsen	6/9/2003
Human Resources Director
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 35
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Memorandum of Understanding Between
The City of Tacoma Fire Department and the
Professional Tacoma Firefighters Union Local 31
Local 31 and Fire Administration have agreed to the following changes to the minimum qualifications of the Fire Lieutenant position.
The minimum qualification will be inclusive of the following:
• Permanent status as a City of Tacoma Firefighter for the last five years
The minimum qualification for eligibility will be accrued up to the day prior to the date the list is established.
Original signed by:
James L. Walton, City Manager 8/27/2003
City of Tacoma
Phil Knudsen, Human Resources Director 8/13/2003
City of Tacoma
Eileen F. Lewis, Fire Chief 8/18/2003
Tacoma Fire Department
Pat McElligott, President 8/18/2003
Firefighters, Local #31
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 36
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 37
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
Letter of Agreement Between
Tacoma Firefighters Local # 31 IAFF And City of Tacoma
Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA)
Revised: July 2015
Background: The Tacoma Firefighters Local # 31 IAFF (Union) and the City of Tacoma (City) found it in the best interest of the Parties to establish a Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association (VEBA) retirement incentive program. The original agreement was established in 2011, with retirees enrolling in 2012 and the Union forgoing 1% of the bargaining units’ salary in 2013. This Letter of Agreement memorializes the agreement between the Union and the City to maintain the implementation and processes associated with the VEBA program.
VEBA Program Parameters:
1.	For every year of the agreed upon program, the Union will forego one percent (1 %) of the bargaining units’ salary. Therefore, once the bargaining unit wage scales are identified in any given year, each member of the bargaining unit would receive ninety-nine percent (99%) of the base wage rate in exchange for this benefit.
2.	For the specific purpose of calculating wage comparisons, the one percent (1%) reduction will be considered as a component of base wages.
3.	The VEBA retirement incentive program is only available to members of the Union, who are enrolled in the Washington State Law Enforcement Officers’ and Fire Fighters’ (LEOFF) Plan 2 retirement plan. This plan is only applicable to such employees who voluntarily separate employment from the City service through retirement.
4.	The VEBA retirement incentive program is not an employee right. Employees must meet the eligibility criteria and terms of the program.
Rules and Eligibility Requirements:
1.	This is a voluntary incentive program offered to eligible LEOFF Plan 2 employees. Such employees must meet all eligibility requirements to be approved for the retirement incentive program, and the City retains the ability to make the final eligibility decisions.
2.	This voluntary retirement incentive program does not include a direct cash payment. Instead, it consists of payments made into approved retirees’ VEBA accounts of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month until the earlier of the month when the employee reaches age sixty-five (65) or Medicare eligibility. These payments will be subject to all rules and laws applicable to the retirees’ VEBA accounts.
3.	If the retiree passes away before Medicare eligibility or age sixty-five (65), the VEBA contribution will terminate. The retiree’s beneficiary (spouse or qualified dependant) will be eligible to continue to utilize this program until the funds in the deceased retiree’s account are exhausted. In the event there is no beneficiary, the remaining funds will be equally distributed among current VEBA participants within this program.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 38
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
4.	The intent of this voluntary retirement incentive program is for service retirement only. Employees who are receiving long term disability, (L&I) or are on medical layoff/retirement are disqualified from receiving this incentive. If at any time during the incentive payment term a recipient of the incentive begins receiving L&I the incentives under this program will cease.
5.	An employee applying for the voluntary retirement incentive must be eligible to retire under the applicable LEOFF plan and must not have already filed for retirement prior to the announcement the incentive. Additionally, if an employee applies for the incentive but does not retire by the established retirement deadline, the employee will not be eligible for the incentive program in any future year.
6.	Employees approved for the retirement incentive will not be placed on the City’s layoff registers and are not eligible for rehire as a regular, benefited, permanent employee.
7.	Employees approved for the retirement incentive agree not to file for unemployment benefits due to separation of employment from the City.
8.	Each year the VEBA retirement incentive program will be open for up to twenty (20) employees. If more than twenty employees apply for enrollment into the program, selection will be accomplished on the basis of LEOFF 2 seniority only, excluding individual or personal factors. Any changes to the maximum number of employees who may apply for this program will require mutual agreement between the parties.
9.	At any given time that the collective cost of the VEBA retirement program exceeds 2% of base wages annualized, up to 1 % from the Union and up to 1% from the City, the parties agree to reopen negotiations regarding a cost-sharing agreement, during which time during negotiations, no new employees will be added that would cause the program to exceed 2%. Starting in 2016, if the annual cost of the VEBA program is less than the first 1% from the Union, the percentage that is not needed will be reduced by that amount from the Union’s 1% in the following year accordingly. The calculation will be provided by December 31st of the current year, after the deadline to apply for this retirement incentive program, December 1st of the current year, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
For 2015, the annual cost of the VEBA program has been calculated based on the current number of participants in the VEBA program. Both parties agree that the annual cost is less than the 1% contribution from the Union.
The unused funds will be equally paid out to active Tacoma Firefighters Union, Local #31 members in a flat rate, one-time lump sum payment, in the first full pay period following Council approval of the new successor bargaining agreement.
A 2% per year escalator provision to the City’s monetary contribution to the VEBA account for eligible participants will be established and become effective January 1, 2015, and provided in 2016, 2017, and 2018.
10.	To be eligible for the program, employees must be at least fifty-three (53) years of age. In addition, employees must have age + years of service totaling at least seventy-five (75) or higher.
11.	The deadline to apply for this retirement incentive program is no later than 5:00 pm, December 1st of the current year, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 39
DocuSign Envelope ID: 8FCD8F70-C294-48B8-8ACE-7CB758C2D62D
12.	The deadline to retire for approved employees is June 1st of the following year, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
13.	Enrollees will sign an agreement that outlines the parameters, eligibility and terms of the retirement incentive program.
The Parties further agree:
1.	To reopen negotiations on this voluntary retirement incentive program in the event that State or national health care laws provide a retirement incentive option to firefighters.
2.	This Letter of Agreement will remain in hill force during the term ofthe 2015-2018 collective bargaining agreement, or reopened by mutual agreement of the parties.
Signed by:
Joy St. Germainm, Human Resources Director 7/22/2015
City of Tacoma
Ryan Mudie, IAFF Local 31 7/22/2015
Union
31 Tacoma Fire Fighters 2021-2022
Page 40