i4 do
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT between
State of Connecticut Judicial Branch and
State of Connecticut Judicial Employees Local 749, AFSCME, AFL-CIO
3 in the puMfc wufce
July 1, 2002—.June 30, 2006
This agreement was printed by the Commission on Official Legal Publications) the employees of which are collective bargaining unit members*
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I Preamble.................................................   1
ARTICLE II Recognition................................................ 1
ARTICLE m Union Non-Discrimination................................... 2
ARTICLE IV No Strikes—No Ixickouts.................................... 3
ARTICLE V
Entire Agreement........................................... 3
ARTICLE VI Management Rights.......................................... 4
ARTICLE VII Union Security and Payroll Deductions...................... 4
ARTICLE W Union Rights............................................... 5
ARTICLE IX Statewide T-abor Mangen icnt Advisory Committee............ 8
ARTICLE X Grievance Procedure........................................ 9
ARTICLE XI Probationary Period....................................... 13
ARTICLE XII Performance Appraisal..................................... 14
ARTICLE XIII Personnel Files.  ........................................ 15
ARTICLE XIV Discipline................................................ 16
ARTICLE XV Reduction in Force........................................ 18
ARTICLE XVI Safety.................................................... 20
ARTICLE XVII
Compensation............................................... 21
ARTICLE XVin Objective Job Evaluation................................... 24
ARTICLE XIX Temporary Service in a Higher Class........................ 24
ARTICLE XX Hours of Work. ............................................ 25
ARTICLE XXI Overtime Pay.............................................   27
ARTICLE XXII Vacation-PersonaLMilitary Leave............................ 28
ARTIC LE XXIH Personal Leave Days........................................ 30
ARTICLE XXIV Military Leave...........................................   31
ARTICLE XXV Sick Leave - Leave Without Pay............................. 31
ARTICLE XXVI Civil Leave................................................ 36
ARTICLE XXVH Holidays................................................... 36
ARTICLE XXVHI Group Health Insurance..................................... 36
ARTICLE XXIX
Employee Rights............................................ 37
ARTICLE XXX Transfers for Operational Reasons.......................... 37
ARTICLE XXXI Retirement................................................. 37
ARTICLE XXXII Savings Clause............................................. 38
ARTICLE XXXIII
Legislative Action . . , .................................     33
ARTICLE XXXIV7 Supersedence.................................................. 33
ARTICLE XXXV Seniority..................................................... 39
ARTICLE XXXVI Miscellaneous................................................. 39
ARTICLE XXXVII Duration...................................................... 43
APPENDIX A Job Titles ................................................... 43
APPENDIX B Supersedence . , . ........................................... 43
APPENDIX C Pay Groups.................................................... 44
APPENDLX D Salary Schedule Effective July II, 2003....................... 47
APPENDIX E Salary Schedule Effective June 25r 2004 ...................... 51
APPENDIX F Salary Schedule Effective June 24, 2005....................... 55
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT between
STATE OF CONNECTICUT .JUDICIAL BRANCH
and
STATE OF CONNECTICUT JUDICIAL EMPLOYEES LOCAL 749, AFSCME, AFL-CIO
.JULY 1, 2002 - JUNE 30, 2006
ARTICLE T
Preamble
The State ofCoruiecticul, acting by and through rhe Chief Court Admin ■ istrator of the Connecticut Judicial Brandi, hereinafter called “the Judicial Branch" or “the Employer,” and the State of Connecticut Judicial Employees, Local 749, Council 4h American Federation of State, Comity and Municipal Employees, AFVCTO, hereinafter called “the Union" or “AFSCME."
Witnesseth;
Whereas the parties to this Agreement desire to establish a state of amicable understanding, cooperation and harmony; and
Whereas the parties to this Agreement consider themselves mutually responsible to improve the public service tlirough increased morale, efficiency and productivity. Now, therefore, the parties mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE 11
Recognition
Section 1.	The Judicial Branch of the State of Connecticut herein recognizes the State of Connecticut Judicial Employees Local 749, Council 4, AFSCME, AFL-CTO as the exclusive representative of the employees in permanent positions regularly working 20 or more hours per week whose job titles were placed williin this bargaining unit of judicial employees by the Connecticut State Board of Labor Relations in Cases No, SE-5973, SE-59B1 and SE-9263 with the exception of employees whose titles have been removed either in Cases No. SEE-9659 and SEE-9660 or by mutual agreement, of the parties.
Accordingly, this Agreement shall pertain only to those employees whose job titles fall within the certifications above cited and shall not apply to employees who are paid on the temporary payroll Persons otherwise eligible serving a working test period are included.
Section 2.	Coverage of newly created or acquired job classifications by the Agreement (so-called “accretions”) sfiall be determined as follows:
(a)	The Employer shall notify AFSCME in writing of the new classification, (lie contemplated pay group (if any) and the Employer’s position concerning inclusion or exclusion.
1
(b)	Within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the above notification, the Union may request a meeting to discuss coverage and/or pay group issues.
(c)	In determining coverage, controlling weight’shall be given to conforming the placement of the new classification to the contours of the existing unit.
(d)	Disputes concerning how to achieve such conformity shall be referred to the Connecticut State Board of Labor Relations for the exercise of its jurisdiction to determine appropriate units.
(e)	The Employer shall notify AFSCME in writing of any Supreme Court actiun(s) that substantially change any unit job classification.
(f)	Upon request by the Union, (within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of notification), a joint Labor-Management Committee shall evaluate the newly created or substantially changed unit job classification's), to determine the accuracy of the Branch’s pay group placement If agreement cannot be reached through the Labor-Management Committee process, a mutually agreed upon arbitrator familiar with the Willis System, shall make a final decision. Any pay group deviation arrived at either through the Labor-Management Committee process or thorough the arbitration process shall be retroactive to the date the Branch created or substantially changed the job classification.
Section 3.	Stability of the Bargaining Unit. The Employer agrees not to take any action to erode the bargaining mrit by breaking down vacant permanent full-time positions into temporary positions not covered by the Agreement. Vacant permanent positions shall not be filled indefinitely by temporary employees. This provision will not be construed to prevent or restrict the Employer's right to continue its practice of utilizing temporary help to provide supplemental services.
ARTICLE ID
Union Non-Discrimination
Section 1.	Neither party shall discriminate against an employee on the basic of membership or nonmembership in, or lawful activity in behalf of, the exclusive bargaining agent
Section 2* In connection with Section I above:
(a)	An employee, the Union, or the Union on behalf of an employee alleging conduct or action inconsistent with the obligation to avoid such discrimination shall promptly report any alleged threats or coercive conduct to an appropriate official with supervisory authority over the person alleged to have engaged in such conduct Reasonable efforts shall be made to resolve the situation prior to resort to grievance-arbitration-
(b)	If tiie requirements of paragraph (a) have been met, and there has been no reasonable offer to disavow or otherwise cure any perceived discrimination, a grievance may Lie filed at an appropriate Step.
(c)	In any arbitration proceeding alleging a violation of Section 1. the Arbitrator shall determine whether the grievanl has shown by a fair preponderance of the evidence, including, where appropriate, the surrounding circumstances, that the official responsible for the adverse
action was motivated by discriminatory considerations but for which the action would not. have been taken.
Section 3.	Disputes involving alleged discrimination shall not be arbitrable if Hie obligations of Section 2(a) and 2(b) have not been met.
Section 4.	In the event that EEOC renders a ruling affecting these provisions, either party may request a reopener to negotiate new provisions.
ARTICLE IV
No Strikes—No Lockouts
Section 1.
(a)	Tlie exclusive representative shall not engage in, induce, support, encourage or condone a strike, sympatliy strike, work stoppage, slowdown, concerted withholding, interruption or disruption of services, sick* out, or any interference with the mission of tlie Judicial Branch. Thus article shah be deemed to prohibit the concerted boycott or refusal of overtime work.
(b)	Similarly, employees shall not engage in, induce, support or encourage such activities.
Section 2.	The Union shall exert its best efforts to prevent or terminate any violation of Section I of this article.
Section 3.	The Employer agrees that during the life of this Agreement there shall be no lockout.
ARTICLE V
Entire Agreement
Section 1,	Tins Agreement, upon ratification, constitutes the complete and entire agreement between the parties and concludes collective bargaining for its term No amendment to this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing, ratified, and executed by tlie parties.
Section 2,	The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or mat.rer not removed by law from tlie areas of collective bargaining, and tl iuL tlie understandings, and agreements arrived at by the parl ies after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in tills Agreement. Therefore, the Judicial Branch and the Union, for lire duration of Uiis Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to bargain collectively with respect to:
1)	any subjects or matters referred to or covered in this Agreement, or
2)	arty subjects or matters not referred to or covered in this Agreement, even though such subjects or matters may not have been within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both of the parties at The rime they negotiated or signed tills Agreement.
3
ARTICLE VI
Management Rights
The parties recognize the central role of the Connecticut Judicial Branch, as an independent branch of state government, in assuring compliance with the laws, the Constitution of the State of Connecticut, and the United States Constitution. The parties also recognize that (lie users of the Branch’s services, including the general public, demand the prompt and efficient adjudication of complaints and disputes, and insist upon the fullest protection of statutory, civil, and constitutional rights.
Unless an express, specific provision of this Agreement provides otherwise, the Connecticut Judicial Branch, acting through the Justices of the Supreme Court, the Chief Court Administrator, (and, where appropriate, the Public Defender Services Conunission), and such oilier judges and officials as may he authorized to act on their behalf, retains all the rights and prerogatives it had prior to the signing of this Agreement either by law, custom, practice, usage or precedent, to manage and control the Branch.
Such rights include but are not limited to establishing standards of productivity and performance of its employees, including establishing qualifications for ability to perform work in classes and/or ratings; determining its budget, its mission, and the methods, means and personnel necessary to fulfill that mission, including the contracting out, or the discontinuation of services, positions, or programs in whole or in part; the determination of the content of job classifications; the appointment^ promotion, assignment, direction and transfer of personnel; suspending, demotion, discharging, or taking any other disciplinary action for just cause under Article XIV; the layoff of its employees because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons as stated in Article XV; to determine the hours, days when, and locations where the courts will be in operation; to enforce existing rules and regulations for the governance of th e Branch and to add to, eliminate, or modify such rules or regulations as it deems appropriate; and tn take whatever actions may be necessary to carry out its responsibilities in situations of emergency.
Management also reserves the right to decide whether, when, and how to exercise its prerogatives, whether or not enumerated in this Agreement. Accordingly, the failure to exercise any right shall not be deemed a waiver.
ARTICLE VH
Union Security and Payroll Deductions
Section 1.	During the life of this Agreement an employee retains (lie freedom of choice whether or not to become or remain a member of the Union which has been designated as the exclusive bargaining agent
Section 2.	Union dues shall be deducted by the Employer biweekly from the paycheck of each employee who signs and remits to the Employer an authorization form. Such deduction shall be discontinued upon written request of an employee thirty (30) days in advance.
4
Section 3.	An employee who within thirty (30) days after initial employment in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement fails to become a member of the Union which is the exclusive bargaining agent for his/her unit or an employee whose membership is terminated for nonpayment of dues or who resigns from membership sliall be required to pay an agency service fee under Section 4.
Section 4* The Employer shall deduct an agency service fee or Union dues biweekly from the paycheck of each employee who is covered by this Agreement, provided, however, no such payment shall be required by employees,
1)	whose membersliip in the Union is terminated for reasons other than non-payment of Union dues; or
2)	who have initiated legal action to contest the legality of rhe agency fee, until such time as a final adjudication upholding (he legality of such fees has been rendered.
The Union shall promptly notify the Employer in writing of any termination of Union membership for reasons other than non-payment of Union dues.
The amount of agency service fee shall not exceed the minimum applicable dues payable to the exclusive bargaining agent. Any changes in the amount of Union dues or agency fees to be deducted shall be effective as soon as practicable, but in no event sooner rtian twenty-eight (28) days after receipt of written notice of such changes by die Office of the Chief Court Administrator.
Section 5-	No payroll deduction of dues or agency service fee shall be made from worker’s compensation or for any payroll period in wliich earnings received arc insufficient to cover the amount of deduction, nor sliall such deductions be retroactive.
Section 6-	Payroll deductions of Union dues shall be discontinued for other employee organizations not a party to this Agreement.
Section 7-	The Employer shall continue its practice ot rlhtoII deductions as authorized by employees for purposes other than payment of Union dues or agency service ices, provided any such payroll deductions have been approved by the Employer in advance.
Section 8-	The Union shall indemnify the Judicial Branch lor any liability or damages incurred by the Employer in compliance with Qiis Article, excluding attorney’s fees.
ARTICLE Vin
Union Rights
Section 1.	Within ninety (90) days of the execution of this Agreement, the Union will furnish the Employer with a complete list of stewards designated to represent any segment or segments of the employees covered by this Agreement, specifying the jurisdiction and location of each steward or group of stewards.
5
Section 2.	Except as otherwise provided, Employer representatives shall deal with Union-designated stewards or representatives exclusively in the processing of grievances or any other aspect of contract administration.
Section 3* Access to Premises* Union staff representatives shall be permitted to enter the work premises of the Branch at any reasonable time for the purpose of discussing, processing, or investigating filed or potential grievances or otherwise performing Union business, provided that (1) they give reasonable notice in advance to the supervisor in charge of their intent to enter the work premises, (2) they give notice of their presence immediately upon arrival to the supervisor in charge, and (3) they do not interfere with the performance of duties. The Union will furnish the Employer with a current list of its staff personnel and shall maintain the currency of said list.
Section 4.	Role of Steward in Processing Grievances. The stewards will obtain permission from their immediate supervisors to leave their work assignments in order to cany out their duties, properly and expeditiously, in connection with Illis Agreement. Permission from supervisors, based upon the work situation, will not be unreasonably withheld.
Before contacting an employee. Ilie steward will first report to and obtain permission to see the employee from the employee’s supervisor. If the supervisor is not available, the steward will obtain permission from the person left in charge. Permission from supervisors, based upon the work situation, will not be unreasonably withheld. A steward's pass, signed by his supervisor, shall be utilized as a request by stewards to meet with employees or employees to meet stewards, and shall state the name of the employee involved or steward, his/her location and the location to be visited. Request and utilization of such pass siiall imply immediate need for conducting important Union business. Stewards thus engaged will report back to their supervisors on completion of such duties and return to their job and will suffer no loss of pay or other benefits as a result thereof. The sufficiency of steward coverage shall be a subject of continuing consultation between the Employer and the Union. The Union will cooperate in preventing abuse of tliis Section.
Section 5.	Bulletin Boards* The Employer shall furnish reasonable bulletin board space, where presently available, in each location which the Union may utilize for its announcements. A bulletin board will be installed in any location presently leased by the Employer which does not have one, if the parties mutually agree.
Bulletin board space sltall not be used for material dial is of a partisan political nature, or is inflammatory or derogatory to the Employer. The Union shall limit its posting cf notices and bulletins to such bulletin board space.
Section fi. Access to Information* The Employer agrees to provide the Union, upon request and adequate notice, access to materials and information which arc necessary for the Union to fulfill its responsibility to administer this Agreement. The Union shall reimburse the Judicial Branch for the expense and time spent lor photocopying information.
6
The Union shall not have access to information which the Employer reasonably determines is privileged or confidential, or information gathered prior to April 6h 197$, unless and until such information constitutes the basis, in whole or in part, for disciplinary action as defined in (his Agreement, or constitutes the basis for a decision not to select an employee for a promotion as defined in this Agreement.
In denying the Union access to information the Employer shall state in reasonable detail the basis of the denial.
Section 7.
(a)	Delegates to the biennial AFSCME Convention not to exceed thirteen (131 tor the AFSCME Judicial bargaining unit shall be granted, subject to operating needs and prior notification to the Chief Court Administrator, leave without loss of pay or benefits, for five (5) days to attend such convention,
(b)	Delegates to the annual Connecticut Slate AFUCTO Convention not to exceed (13) for The AFSCME Judicial bargaining unit shall be granted, subject to operating needs and prior notification to the Chiel Court Administrator, leave without loss of pay or benefits for three (3) days to attend such convention.
(c)	In each contract year there shall be a bank of hours for use by the Union to conduct its business during that year The bank shall consist of 1.0 hours per employee of leave per contract year For purposes of computation the size of the bargaining unit will be defined by the total employee count reflected on the Dues/Fees Transmittal f or the pay period closest to the expiration of the contract year. Adjustments, if any, to the size of the bank will then take effect, on July TL of the subsequent contract year. For purposes of this article “contract year” is defined as rite period from July 1, (a) through June 30, inclusive, or (b) until the contract expires, whichever occurs first. Any one employee shall be limited to four-hundred (400) hours of usage per contract year, except for members uf the Local 749 Executive Board who may use time available in the bank without being subject to the 400 hours limitation. Leave granted prior to the execution of this Agreement shall be credited against the bank.
Time used for the conventions specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this Section, processing or investigating grievances, Statewide Labor-Management Advisory Committee Meetings, contract negotiations or steward training shall not be charged to this bank of hours. The Union shall give written notice to the Chief Court Administrator or his/her designee, ordinarily fourteen (14) days in advance, specifying the dates of release, the names of employees to be released and their work locations, and permission hy the Chief Court Administrator shall not be unreasonably willihcld. Time off under this Section sliall be granted in no less than half-day units only.
Section 8* Orientation and Training. The Employer will provide each new employee with a copy of the collective bargaining agreement, (hen in force and will furnish such employee with the name(s) ol' hLs/her steward(s) The Judicial Branch shall provide the Union with a list of new employees and their work locations within a reasonable period of
7
time after they are hired. Each new employee shall be released from work for one hour immediately before or after his/her meal period without loss of pay or benefits to attend a union orientation meeting. The time and location of such meeting shall be determined by mutual agreement of the Union and the Employer.
Section 9.	Steward Training. The Judicial Branch and AFSCME agree that in order to promote the precepts as incorporated in die Preamble of this Agreement and for the expeditious and reasonable processing of disputes under this Agreement, initial steward training shall be a valuable asset in promoting these goals. To that end, the Judicial Branch agrees to allow each steward two (2] days of training, without loss of pay or benefits, to a maximum of forty (40) stewards. Stewards shall be granted time oil for training and representational duties subject to the provisions, of Section 7(c) of this Article.
Section 10.	Equipment Usage. The Union IVesidcnt and the Chief Union Steward shall have access to Judicial fax/photocopying machines for the purpose of communicating on matters related to the Judicial Labor Relations office.
ARTICLE IX
Statewide Labor Management Advisory Committee
Section 1.	The parties agree, that in order to provide a method for promotion of those goals described in the Preamble and for the purpose of addressing future considerations which may affect the continuing cli-mate of harmony and mutual responsibility, there shall be a Statewide Labor Management Advisory Committee, consisting of not more titan five (5) authorized representatives of the Chief Court Administrator and not more than five (») authorized representatives of tire Union.
The parties will cooperate in multi-unit meetings within the Judicial Branch to discuss matters of overlapping concern.
Section 2.	Said Committee shall meet no less than quarterly, and possibly more frequently, by mutual agreement, to discuss problems that could lead to systemwide or institutional grievances, application, clarification and aberrant manifestations of terms and conditions of this Agreement, as well as improvement of the parties’ relationships and efficiency and increased productivity; the Committee may, by mutual agreement, discuss additional matters, mutually agreed upon in Committee, which were not within the contemplation of the parties to this Agreement but deserve immediate attention or redress. These meetings siiall not be bargaining sessions.
In addition, matters of local concern involving divisions within the Branch may be addressed by mutual agreement In such instances each party retains the right to .substitute, on an ad hoc basis, appropriate personnel familiar with the matters to be addressed.
Section 3.	If at any Lime during the term of this Agreement any insurance coverage, plan or service incorporated by reference or described herein becomes unavailable or is altered by any third party not within
8
the contemplation of this Agreement, that matter shall be the sub ject of immediate discussion hereunder, subject to the provisions of Article V (Entire Agreement).
Section 4.	Committee meetings shall be held during normal business hours without loss of pay or benefits provided that no compensatory time or overtime shall be granted for hours outside die employees1 normal work schedule.
ARTICLE X
Grievance Procedure
Section 1.	Definitions; Purpose.
(a)	A grievance is defined as a dispute concerning the interpretation or application of an express, specific provision of tiiis Agreement
(b)	Effective upon approval by ihc General Assembly a grievance is also defined as a written complaint involving the allegation of a pattern of unfair treatment of an employee by the Employer, subject to the following'.
(1)	unfair treatment grievances may be processed only through Step HI of the procedure outlined below and shall not be subject to arbitration;
(2)	the employee shall have the burden of cstabii slung that there is a pattern of unfair treatment;
(3)	the addition of a “pattern of unfair treatment” as a grievable r rm iter is intended to provide an outlet for employees to grieve problems in interpersonal relationships with supervisors which develop over a period of time. Said addition is not intended as an indirect means of enforcing alleged past practices not expressly incorporated into the Agreement; and
(4)	upon expiration of this collective bargaining Agreement allegations of a pattern of unfair treatment shall not be grievable unless affirmatively negotiated and agreed lu, in writing, by the parties.
Section 2.	Format. Grievances shall be filed on mutually agreed upon forms and shall specify in reasonable detail: (a) the facts; (bj the issues; (c) the date of the violation alleged; (d) the controlling contract, provision i; (e) the remedy or relief sought
In the event a form is unclear or incomplete and not in compliance with tins Section, the Employer shall make his best efforts to handle the grievance as he/she understands 11.
A grievance may be expanded at or before its submission to Step III. but not after.
Section 3* Grievant. A Union representative, with or without the aggrieved employee(s), may submit a grievance on his/her (their) behalf (a “general” grievance), and the Union may in appropriate cases submit a grievance in its own behalf, with respect to rights of the Union (an "institutional11 grievance).
An individual employee at any time may present a grievance to lus/her Employer and have the grievance adjusted, without intervention of an employee organization, provided the adjustment shall not be inconsistent with the terms of the collective bargaining agreement then in effect. The employee organization designated as the exclusive representative shall be given prior notice of the grievance and shall be informed of the terms
9
of the settlement. The steward shall be entitled to receive from the Employer all documents pertinent to the disposition of the grievance and to file statements of position.
Section 4.	A grievance shall be deemed waived unless submitted at Step I:
(a)	either within thirty (30) days from the act or omission from which the grievance arises; or
(b)	within thirty (30) days from the date the grievant or any Union representative or steward through reasonable diligence should have known of the act or omission, whichever is later.
Except where the grievant’s delay is prejudicial to the other party, a grievance may be filed and processed to arbitration where the grievance involves a repetition of an act or omission in the nature of a continuing violation.
Section 5.	Informal Resolution. Attempts to resolve disputes informally without resort to the grievance procedure outlined in Section 6 are encouraged.
Section 6» The Grievance Procedure.
Step I. Supervisor. A grievance may be submitted within the thirty (30) day period specified in Section 4 to the employee’s first supervisor in the chain of command who is outside the bargaining unit, as such supervisor may be designated by the Chief Court Administrator or his/ her designee after consultation with the Union. Such supervisor shall meet with the Union representative, or the grievant, or both, and issue a written response within seven (7) days after such meeting but not later than fourteen (14) days after the submission of the grievance.
Step II. Executive Director or deslgnee(s)/Chief Public Defender or dcsigneefs). When an answer does not resolve the grievance at Step 1, such grievance shall then be submitted to the division head. The employee or the Union shall present the grievance within fourteen (14) days to such designee who shall issue a written response to the grievance within fourteen (14) days.
Step ITT. Chief Court Administrator. When the answer at Step U does not resolve the grievance, the grievance shall be submitted by the Union representative, or the grievant, or both, to the Chief Court Administrator or his/her designee within seven (7) days of the response at Stop II. Witliin fourteen (14) days after receipt of the grievance, a meeting shall ordinarily be held with the employee, or the Union, or both, and a written response shall be issued within thirty (30) days after receipt of the grievance.
Step IV. Arbitration. Within thirty (30) days after the appropriate response at Step DJ, or if no response is forthcoming, after the expiration of the time limit, AFSCME may submit an unresolved grievance to arbitration, but no individual employee may submit a grievance to arbitration.
Section 7.	For the purpose of the time limits hereunder, "days" shall not include periods of time, including full days, when the Judicial Branch
10
is closed as a result of inclement weather or legal holiday. The parties to the grievance procedure may, by mutual agreement, extend time limits. The Chief Court Administrator or his/her designee, and the Union, may, by mutual agreement, waive any or all of the Steps hereinbefore cited.
Section 8.	In the event that the Employer fails to answer a grievance within the time specified, the grievance may be processed to the next higher level and the same time limits therefore shall apply as if the Employer’s answer had been timely filed on that last day.
The grievant assents to the last. attempted resolution by failing timely to appeal said decision, or by accepting said decision in writing.
Section 9.	Settlement of Grievances. Settlements of grievances under Section 6 of this Article shall be reduced to writing, signed, and a copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Chief Court Administrator. No settlement at Steps I or H shall constitute a precedent for future grievances or arbitration, unless the parties to the Agreement agree to tlie contrary; accordingly, except by mutual agreement, such settlements shall not be admissible as evidence in any arbitration proceeding. Settlements at Step IB of the grievance procedure shall be deemed precedential unless the parties expressly state to die contrary in the settlement agreement.
Section 10.	Consolidation. The parties may, by mutual agreement, consolidate for hearing by a single arbitrator two or more grievances arising out of similar factual situations, or invoking similar issues of contract interpretation, or both.
Section 11.	Arbitration.
(a)	(1) Submission to arbitration by tlie Union shall be by letter, with the grievance attached, to the Chief Court Administrator or his/her designee. If the Employer invokes the provisions of this Section, submission to arbitration shall be by letter, with tlie grievance attached, to the Executive Director of AFSCME.
(2)	Selection. The parties shall utilize a panel of four (4) mutually agreed upon arbitrators. Unless tlie parties agree to the contrary for a particular case, the following procedures will apply:
(1)	The arbitrator shall be selected by rotation in aipliabetical order from the panel of arbitrators.
(ii)	Il the arbitrator is not available to schedule a hearing witliin sixty (60) days of the receipt of the submission, the next arbitrator in rotation who is available shall be selected.
(3)	Procedures; Cost; Attendance. The arbitration hearing shall not follow the formal rules of evidence unless tlie parties agree in advance, with the concurrence of the arbitrator at or prior to the time of his appointment. The expenses for the arbitrator’s service and for tlie hearing shall be shared equally by the parties. Unless requested by a party, no verbatim record of the proceeding shall be made. Costs of making a record sliall be borne by the requesting party. If a record is made pursuant to a mutual agreement, costs of making such record sliall be shared equally. The costs of a transcript sliall be borne by the party requesting same. If the arbitrator requests that a record be made or that he be given a transcript, tlie cosh of said record or transcript sliall be shared equally
11
The Employer shall grant: reasonable time off to employees to attend an arbitration proceeding for the purpose of testifying. The Union shall provide reasonable notice, ordinarily three (3) or more days, of Ilie employees it wishes to be excused for such attendance.
(b)	On grievances when the question of arbitrability has been raised by either party as an issue prior to the actual appointment of an arbitrator, the arbitrator shall, at the request of either party, conduct a separate hearing on the issue of arbitrability and shall determine that issue before further proceedings are held. In determining such questions a rebuttable presumption of arbitrability shall be applied.
(c)	The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from, alter, or modify this Agreement, nor to grant to either party matters which were not obtained in the bargaining process, nor to impose any remedy or right, of relief for any period of time prior to the effective date of the pertinent provision of this Agreement, nor to grant pay retroactively for more than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date a grievance was first submitted. Except as expressly provided hy a specific provision of this Agreement, the exercise of rights under Article VI as well as any other matter dealing with the administration of the Branch shall be final and binding and shall not be subject to the grievance provisions of this Agreement.
The arbitrator shall render his decision in writing no later than thirty (30) calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing or receipt of briefs, whichever is later, unless the parties agree otherwise.
The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding on the parties in accordance with Connecticut General Statutes § 52-418, provided, however, neither the submission of questions of arbitrability to any arbitrator in the first instance nor any voluntary submission shall be deemed to diminish the scope of judicial review over arbitral awards, including a decision by a court of competent jurisdiction that the arbitrator's award; (1) contravenes the public interest, or (2) is arbitrary or capricious.
As to the specific express provisions of the Agreement, the parties have bargained for the arbitrator's construction. Absent any of the above grounds for overturning an award, the courts shall not substitute their interpretation for that of the arbitrator.
Section 12.	Reclassification Grievances. Disputes over an employees'job classification (reclassification grievances) shall be sutyect to the grievance procedure set forth in Article X, but shall not be arbitrable. The final step of appeal shall be to a three (3) person panel consisting of two members appointed by tlie Chief Court Administrator and one member appointed by the Union. Pay retroactively, if warranted, may not apply earlier than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date of the filing of the grievance at the earliest step.
Section 13.	Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Agreement, the following matters shall not be subject to the arbitration procedure:
(a)	discipline of employees, except as provided in Article XTV;
(b)	non-reappointment of a person holding a statutory term of office.
(c)	dismissal of employees during a probationary period;
(d)	disputes over an employee's job classification (reclassification grievances);
12
(e)	the decision to lay of! employees, subject to Article XV;
(f)	classification and pay grade for newly created jobs, provided, however, this clause shall neither enlarge nor diminish the Union's right to negotiate on such pay grades;
(g)	compliance with health and safety standards and CONN OSHA;
(h)	any incident which occurred or failed to occur prior to the effective date of tlie pertinent provision of this Agreement, subject to Article XXXVm, Sec. 1b;
Section 14.	Meetings pursuant to tliis Article shall be held during normal business hours without loss of pay or benefits provided that no compensatory time or overtime shall be granted for hours outside the employees1 normal work schedule.
ARTICLE XI
Probationary Period
Section 1.
(a)	The probationary period shall be deemed an extension of the hiring process, orT where applicable, the examination process. Aecoidingly, permanent status in a duly authorized full-time or part-time position, will be attained by the employee after the conclusion of a satisfactory probationary period of six (6] months of continuous employment, unless, prior to the conclusion of such period, die employee’s appointing authority, administrative judge, or division director reports, in writing, to the Chief Court Administrator of tile Judicial Branch dial tlie employee is unable or unwilling to perform his/her duties so as to merit continuance in such position and is, consequently, to be terminated as of a specific date not later than the termination dale of the applicable probationary period.
(b)	The employee shall be rated on the criteria, inter alia, of the quality of tlie work, the quantity of his/her work, dependability, conduct, attendance, physical and mental capacity to perform the work assigned, judgment, ability to deal with people, and, if applicable, supervisory ability. Upon receipt of such written notification at any time witliin the six (6) month period, the Chief Court Administrator or his/her designee shall remove the employee’s name from the payroll effective on the date specified in the written notification, unless tlie employee is appointed to another position in the Judicial Branch for which he/she may be better suited.
Section 2.	(a) The attainment of permanent status by an employee shall not be construed to:
(1)	require the appointment of the employee to any succeeding statu Lory term of office,
(2)	prohibit or restrict the discharge or suspension of the employee
Section 3.	Employees promoted to a higher position si tall serve a three (3) month probationary period in that position, subject to the pertinent provisions of Section 1 (a) and (b) of this Article. Upon receipt of written notification of unsatisfactory performance, the employee shall be offered aposition similar (not a lower pay grade) to that from which he/she was
13
promoted. Neither the offer, nor the acceptance, of such a position shall be deemed a demotion.
Section 4.	The Employer and the Union by mutual agreement may extend the probationary period of a bargaming unit member,
ARTICLE Xn
Performance Appraisal
Section L The annual performance appraisal report shall be completed approximately three (3) but no less than two (2) months prior to the employee's annual increase date. Unless for good cause shown, late performance appraisals shall be voidable at the option of the employee. A performance appraisal will be conducted by a management designee outside the bargaining unit, who is familiar with the employee’s work. When an employee is rated ’"unsatisfactory,” the rating supervisor sliall state reasons and, if practicable, suggestions for improvement. All performance appraisal reports with an overall “unsatisfactory1* rating must be discussed with the employee at an informal meeting to be scheduled by the rating supervisor, normally within seven (7) days after the employee has seen the report and prior to its submission to the Executive Director ordesigneefs).
Unless the parties agree to the contrary after consultation under Section 3 of this Article, there shall be two overall ratings: ' satisfactory1' or '"unsatisfactory ” An employee receiving an “unsatisfactory” evaluation shall not receive an annual increment.
Section 2.
(a)	Disputes concerning compliance with tins Article may be subject to the grievance, but not the arbitration procedure. Disputes concerning procedural requirements of this Article shall be promptly aired by the employee so that timely correction can be sought. Where appropriate, reasonable efforts shall be made to correct or mitigate alleged procedural defects.
(b)	Notwithstanding paragraph (a) or this Section, disputes concerning the grounds for an ""unsatisfactory” rating may be subject to arbitration, but the rating may only be changed if the evaluator’s decision, in light of all the credible evidence, is clearly shown to be arbitrary and capricious. The arbitrator shall not substitute his/her judgment for the judgment of the evaluator in applying and weighing evaluation standards.
Section 3.	The Union shall be consulted prior to final adoption by the Judicial Branch of any written regulations, procedures, or forms which relate to evaluation of employee performance. Noticing in the Article shall be deemed to impair the continuing use of existing procedures and forms or the implementation of existing regulations concerning matters covered by this Article.
All performance appraisals shall be conducted on forms which are standardized either by job classification or by division.
14
ARTICLE XIII
Personnel Files
:	Section 1. Definitions. An employee’s ‘'personnel file” is defined as:
(a)	the personnel record maintained at the Office of rhe Human i Resource Management Unit; and
(b)	the personnel file, if any, maintained by an Executive Director, a i primary purpose of which is the collection of information concerning syi ? employee's performance or conduct
:	The reference above to records in the Office of the Human Resource
. Management Unit shall be deemed, as to employees of the Public Defender Services Commission, to mean records contained in the Office of the Chief Public Defender.
Section 2, An employee on his/her request, or a Union representative upon written authorization, shall be permitted to examine and copy during normal business hours and at liis/her expense, all materials placed in his/ her personnel file other Qian any pre-employme.nt material or any other material that is confidential or privileged. All information gathered prior to July 1T 1978, shall be deemed to be privileged or confidential, unless and until such information constitutes the basis of a decision not to select an employee for a promotion as defined in this Agreement Any privileged or confidential information shall not be revealed to any party outside itlie • Judicial Branch without the written consent of the employee.
The Judicial Branch reserves the right to require its designee to be present while such file is being inspected or copied. The Union may liave access to any employee records upon presentation of written authorization by the appropriate employee.
Section 3.	Upon execution of this Agreement, no new material derogatory to an employee shall be placed in his/her personnel file until he/she receives a concurrent copy of such material.
1 At any time, an employee may file a written rebuttal to such material. ' Such material not subsequently incorporated into a service rating shall, upon request ol the employee, be. expunged alter twelve (12) months.
An employee may file a grievance objecting to any derogatory material pl aced in his/her file, provided however, no such gri evancc shaJ 1 be arbitrable, unless and until it is used as grounds, in whole or in part, for disdplin-, ary action, or i t constitutes the basis of a decision n ot to select an et i ipl oyce for a promotion as defined in this Agreement
The parties agree that Steps I and n of the grievance procedure, as set forth in Article X shall he waived for such grievances. The Employer’s response, with or without a meeting, is due seven (7) days after receipt of the grievance. Within seven (7) days after the Employer’s response is * received or due, whichever is earlier, the Union may invoke arbitration.
Such arbitration proceedings shall take precedence over any other pending arbitration proceedings between the parties.
In any arbitration proceeding in which it is shown that derogatory material was considered and adversely affected the employee’s chances for selection for a promotion, the remedy, if such materi;il was without
In
just cause, shall be limited to: (1) the removal of such material from the • employee's personnel record, and the insertion of his/her award if ordered j by (lie arbitrator; and (2) an order to redo the promotion from among i the original applicants without consideration of such material. Accord- * ingly, no remedy ordering the selection of the grievant shall bo available r nor shall the employee originally selected forfeit pay received while serv- i ing in the promotional position.
Section 4.	This Article shall not be deemed to prohibit supervisors ’ from maintaining written notes or records on an employee's performance or conduct for the purpose of preparing performance appraisals, ’
ARTICLE XIV
Discipline
Alt discipline under this Article shall be for just cause.
Section 1.	Types of Discipline»
(a)	Discipline includes discharge, demotion, suspension without pay, denial of an increment due to misconduct and letter of reprimand of an employee who has attained permanent status, but shall not include the non-reappointment of a person holding a statutory term of office.
(b)	The employer shall not have the authority to transfer any employee due to misconduct. Accordingly, transfers shown tn he based on misconduct shall be voidable without regard to whether such misconduct occurred.
(c)	Preventive discipline shall be defined as suspension with pay.
Section 2.	Authority to Discipline.
Any designee of the Chief Court Administrator who is not a member of the bargaining unit.
Section 3.	Procedures for Imposition of Discipline. Appeal Pro- j cedures.
(a)	The employer shall inform the employee and the President of the : Local in writing of the discharge, demotion, suspension without pay, ; denial of an increment or written reprimand, the effective date of such ; action, and the reasons for such action. The employer shall set forth ; supporting facts in reasonable detail.	,
(b)	Within twenty (20) days of the imposition of discipline, an employee J may file a Step Ilf grievance. For written reprimands, the deadline remains at thirty (30) days.	'
(c ) Within fourteen (14) days after the appropriate response at Step ' m, or if no response is forthcoming after the expiration of the time • limit set forth in Article X, Grievance Procedure the Union may invoke arbitration - subject to (d) in this section.	I
(d) Written reprimands shall be grievable, but shall not be arbitrable unless and until used as grounds, in whole or in part, for other disciplinary action, or it constitutes the basis of a decision not to select an employee for a promotion as defined in this Agreement.
In any arbitration proceeding in which it is shown that a reprimand was considered and adversely affected the employee’s chances for selec
tion for a promotion, the remedy, if such material was without just cause, shall be limited to: (1) the removal of such material from the employee’s personnel record, and the insertion of his award if ordered by the arbitrator; and (2) an order to redo the promotion from among the original applicants without consideration of such material. Accordingly, no remedy ordering the selection of the grievant shall be available nor shall the employee originally selected forfeit pay received wliilc serving in the promotional position.
Section 4.	Preventive Discipline
(a)	Suspensions with pay shall not be grievable or arbitrable.
(b)	If, as a result of an investigation of allegation of facts leading to a suspension with pay, no action is taken, the record of the suspension shall be removed from the employee's personnel file.
Section 5.	Notwithstanding the above provisions of this Article, the Employer may impose any type of disciplinary action on employees who have not attained permanent status; such action shall not be gricvahle or arbitrable.
Section 6.
(a)	Employees who engage in a strike, sympathy strike, work stoppage, slowdown, concerted withholding, interruption or disruption of service, sick-out, or any interference with the mission of the Judicial Branch may at the exclusive option of the Employer, be discharged or disciplined
(b)	In taking action under paragraph (a) above, the Employer may also consider whether the employee induced, supported, or encouraged other employees to engage in activities prohibited by Article IV,
Section 7,	Disciplinary Interviews.
(a) A Union steward may attend a disciplinary interview as a witness for, and consultant to, an employee when all of the following circumstances apply:
(1)	The employee is being interviewed as part of an investigation of misconduct hy a supervisor, official, or other representative of the Connecticut Judicial Branch.
(2)	Such discipline is considered likely at the lime of the interview, bin no final decisions have been reached.
(3)	The employee requests the presence of a steward.
(4)	A steward is available within a reasonable time, ordinarily not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours.
(5)	No emergency work situation involving the employee or the stew ard exists.
(6)	The sic ward does not interrupt or otherwise impede the interview.
(7)	Only one steward may attend an interview' or series of interviews.
(b)	The rights conferred in the Section constitute die full extent to which the parties intend the Weingarten case to be applied under C G S § 5-271(a).
(c)	Ordinarily, violations of paragraph (a) shall not be grounds for altering disciplinary action. However, the arbitrator reviewing such act ion
16
17
may order other relief appropriate to the nature and circumstances of £ the case.	f
i
Section 8. Whenever practicable, the investigation, interrogation, or .? discipline of employee shall be scheduled in a manner intended to conform • with the employee's work schedule, with an intent to avoid overtime or j. compensatory time. When any employee is called to appear at any time 1 beyond his/her normal work time, and actually testifies, he/she shall be deemed to be actually working. This provision shall not apply to Union Stewards.	!:
ARTICLE XV	i
Reduction in Force
Section 1.	Definition, A layoff is defined as the involuntary nondisci-phnary separation of an employee due to a reduction in the work force. A layoff shall not be deemed to include a non-reappointment of a person appointed for a statutory term of office.
Section 2.	Reasons for Layoff.
(a)	Employees may be laid off because of lack of work, economy, c insufficient appropriation, a change in departmental organization, aboli-lion of position or any other cause.	[
(b)	Displacement by Volunteers, Any increased use of volunteers shall L nut form the basis for a layoff of any unit employee.	:
Section 3.	Procedures for Reduction in Force.	?
(a)	Any necessary cutback in the number of employees shall be accom- j' plished as far as practicable by normal attrition.	f
(b)	Scope of Layoff. Layoffs within Ilie bargaining unit may be insti- • tuted on a department-wide basis or may be limited to one or more position classifications.
(c)	Order of Layoff. In the event a layoff is necessary, employees < serving a probationary period shall, as far as practicable, be laid off first; » thereafter permanent employees shall be laid off. In the event it becomes V necessary Lo layoff an employee with more Ilian lluee (8) years sei vice the Employer shall first consult with the Union concerning the criteria for selecting employees. Seniority shall be a controlling factor in such selection.
In determining the practicability of laying off employees with less than i three (3) years service, and in determining and weighing the criteria for i selecting for layoff employees with more than three (3) years service, the ■ Employer may consider the need to continue state-mandated services. | The concept of state-mandated services shall not operate as a basis of ; retaining a less senior employee in a classification over a more senior employee in the same classification. The Employer bears the burden of i demonstrating tiial a service is mandated by the State.
(d)	Service as used in this article is defined as current continuous < service as a full-time or part-time (pro-rated) employee in the Connecticut Judicial Branch and in the employee's current classification. The Lena ? "current” classification includes:
18
(11 for supervisory employees both the job title held and noiisupervisory job titles in the classification series;
(2)	for non-supervisory employees all nonsupervisory job titles in the classification series.
(3)	Clerical Series. Seniority in current classification is to incl ude continuous service full and part-time (pro-rated) in all formerly held ci eric al classifications from Office Clerk through Deputy Clerk, G.A. These classifications arc:
Accounting Clerk Administrative Assistant Administrative Clerk Administrative Secretary 1 Assistant Juvenile Matters Clerk Clerical Supervisor I and II Court Services Clerk Courtroom Clerk I and TI Deputy Clerk, G.A
DTO
DTO Supervisor
DTO Trainee
Juvenile Matters Clerk
Office Clerk
Secretary I
Word Processing Supervisor
Word Processing Typist
Word Processing Trainee
Current, continuous services of full-time Adult Probation Commission employees as of December 31, 1978, shall be deemed service in the Connecticut Judicial Branch.
The Employer shall give the Union not less tliaii fourteen (14) days notice of layoff and at the Union’s request shall meet to discuss alter’ natives.
Section 4,	Impact of Contracting Out.
(a)	During the life of tliis Agreement no full-time permanent employee will be laid off as a direct consequence of the exercise by the Employer of its right to contract out.
(b)	The Employer will be deemed in compliance with Lire section if ( I) the employee is offered a transfer to the same or similar position wluch in the Employer's judgment he/she is qualified to perform, with no reduction in pay; or (2) the Employer offers to train an employee for a position which reasonably appears to be suitably based on the employee s qualifications and skills. There shall be no reduction in pay during the training period.
(c)	The Judicial Branch sliall not employ Temps (Pct Diems) or Contract workers to do bargaining unit work in job classes tJwl have laid off employees. The Judicial Brandt shall not utilize Temps (Per Diems) or contract workers to do any clerical work while there are any bargaining unit employees laid off in any of the following clerical classifications (SEE APPENDIX A).
(d)	For layoff purposes only, the Union President and Chief Steward shall be granted Superseniority in their cmient classification after three years of current continuous service in office.
Section 5.	Notice of Layoff. The Branch shall give employees not less than fourteen (14) days notice of layoffs.
Section 6,	Seniority (Reemployment)* An employee who lias been laid off shall retain his/her seniority for twenty-four (24) months, but tic/ she shall not continue to accrue seniority while laid off.
19
Section 7.	Recall. Employees who have been laid off shall be recalled, in order of seniority within their current classification as defined in Section 3(d) above, provided that if an employee refuses to accept the position, if the position is within thirty (30) miles of the employee’s home, then the Employer's obligation to said employee sliall be fully discharged and the employee shall have no further rights to be recalled. Notwithstanding the above, Hie Employer’s obligation to recall an employee shall be discharged thirty-six (36) months following the employee's layoff.
Section 8.	Seniority Tiebreaker. When employees are deemed to have equivalent seniority in class, the following shall be the method by which ’'Ues’' are broken:
(1)	The employee with greater “total service” in permanent positions in the Judicial Branch shall be deemed more senior and if that does not break the tic then;
(2)	The employee with greater total state service, as calculated for longevity purposes, shall be deemed more senior and if tliat does not break the tie, then;
(3)	The determination shall be resolved by drawing the iuune(s) of the person (s) to be deemed more senior by lol.
Section 9.	Filling Vacancies. (Classes that have no employees on a recall list). Employees who have either been laid off or have been notified that they are subject to layoff on a certain date and who meet the minimum qualifications, shall be notified of such vacancies. Laid off employees who apply shall be given preference if they are "fully" Qualified. Final hiring decisions are to be at the sole discretion of the Judicial Branch and are not to be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedures.
Section 10.	There shall not be any additional layoffs of permanent employees during the remainder of this contract except for layoffs due to branch consolidations, closings and/or programmatic reductions enacted by the legislature. The provision shall not apply to temporary or durational positions or tn grant-funded or federally-funded positions upon Ilie expiration of those funds. This provision sliall expire June 30, 2006.
ARTICLE XVI
Safety
The Employer is receptive to all recommendations regarding improvement of apparently unsafe or unhealthy conditions. Once the Employer determines that an unsafe or unhealthy condition exists, it will attempt to alleviate or otherwise remedy the condition. In the event there is a disagreement regarding whether an unsafe or unhealthy condition exists, the Union and the Employer will attempt to resolve it informally
If an employee is required to perform some duty or task under an unsafe condition wluch in fact presents a clear, present, and substantial danger of physical harm the employee may refuse to perforin the duty or task pending the immediate and expedited communication of the unsafe condition through the chain of command.
j Disputes over unsafe or unhealthy working conditions sliall be pro-? cessed expeditiously through the Labor Department for compliance with | CONN-OSHA or otherwise with the Statewide Labor Management Advi-f sory Committee, but shall not be subject. to the grievance procedure.
J First aid kits shall be available in each office.
$ The appropriate applications of the Section, including disputes on / operating unsafe vehicle or equipment, shall be dismissed by tl ie Stat c wid e $ Labor Management Advisory Committee.
1	ARTICLE XVII
;	Compensation
r, Section 1. Base Salary Increases.
I (a) Effective July 11,2003, the base annual salary <T all employees shall - be increased by three percent (3.00%).
?	(b) Effective June 25, 2004, the base annual salary of all employees
\ shall be increased by three percent (3.00%).
(c) Effective June 24, 2005, the base annual salary of all employees r shall be increased by three (3.00%)
:	Section 2. Annual Increments. Employees will continue to be eligible
{ for and receive annual increments during the term of this agreement | in accordance with existing practice, except as specifically varied by i this contract,
t Effective December 26, 2003 employees at the maximum step of the ? salary plan who have ceased receiving annual increments sliall he eligible i for a lump sum payment of five hundred dollars ($500). The payment I shall be made as of the date the increment w’ould have applied (e g | January I or July 1) and may be denied for an overall "unsatisfactory1’ i. performance appraisal.
There shall be no payment of annual increment for the $500 payments I for the 2002-2003 contract year.
f The annual increments and the $500 payments sliall be delayed by * Six (6) months in the 2003-2004 and 2004-2005 contract years and paid | accordingly in the pay periods which include January 1 (for those with
July increments) or July 1 (fur those with January increments)
I Section 3. Longevity. Employees sliall continue to be eligible for i longevity payments for the life of the contract in accordance with t existing practice.
¥
j Section 4. Night Shift Differential. Employees who are regularly
I assigned to work shifts beginning before 6:00 im. or on or after 2:00 p.m,, sliall receive an eighty-five (85) cents per ho ur night, si lift diffcren tial.
> Section S. Weekend Differential.
|	(a) For purposes of this section, a weekend is defired as the forty-’
■ eight (48) hour period beginning at 11:00 p.m. on Friday and ending at I LOO p.m. on Sunday night.
J (b) Weekend differential shall be paid for working a full shift with the J majority of shift horns falling on the weekend. Weekend differential shall
20
21
be paid only for hours worked and not on leave time. Eligible employees shall receive a weekend differential of eighty (80) cents per hour.
Section 6.	Additional Compensation for Juvenile Detention Officers, Bail Commissioners and Maintainers for Work on Premium Holidays.
(a)	For purposes of this section, premium holidays are:
New Year’s Day Memorial Day Independence Day labor Day Thanksgiving Christmas Day
January 1st
the last Monday in May
July 4th
the first Monday in September
the fourth Thursday in November December 25th
(b)	Effective on the first premium holiday fallowing July 1,1981, Juvenile Detention Officers and Bail Commissioners and effective June 30, 1989, Maintainers, who are required to work on a premium holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked on the premium holiday in addition to compensatory time for the day. Premium holiday pay will be paid for work on the dates set forth in subsection (a) even if these dates fall on a Saturday or Sunday.
(c)	Premium pay shall be paid for those shifts with the majority of hours on the prominin holiday. In no event will the Employer make premium payment for more than a twenty-four (24) hour period.
(d)	The existing practice regarding compensation for holidays which are not premium holidays wall continue.
Section 7.	Tuition Reimbursement. The Employer will allocate $24t000 in the first year of this Agreement and $26,000 in each year of this agreement thereafter for the existing tuition reimbursement program contained in the Personnel and Policy binder. Tuition reimbursement shall be up to a maximum of $115.00 per credit. Unused amounts allocated for tuition reimbursement in one fiscal year shall be available in the next fiscal year.
Section 8,	Conference Fund*
(a)	Each year of this Agreement, the amount of money specified in subsection (d) of this section shall be allocated to finance attendance at workshops, seminars or conferences by employees, without loss of pay or benefits. Such workshops, seminars or conferences must be educational and beneficial to the employee and the Judicial Branch and shall not include steward training. A maximum of $200 shall be allotted for any one attendance and no employee will attend more than two conferences, workshops or seminars per year of this Agreement. These funds shall be used for payment of fees and/or travel expenses, including such items as meals or lodging.
(b)	Every effort shall be made by the employer to allow participation in said workshops, seminars or conferences. Selection of employees shall be by mutual agreement of the Union and the Branch*
(c)	Upon approval of a request under this section by the Union and (lie employer, such request shall be forwarded to the Director of Fiscal Administration at least two (2) weeks in advance of the event.
If an employee who has had a request approved does not attend the workshop, seminar or conference, prompt notice ol cancellation shall be provided to the employer.
As soon as possible, but not more than thirty (30) days following the event, the employee shall submit a. claim for reimbursement on the appropriate form and also required receipts to the employer.
If no claim for reimbursement has been submitted within ninety (DO) days of the date a workshop, seminar or conference was scheduled, the funds committed for that activity shall be released and made available for others.
Funds committed for workshops, seminars or conferences in one fiscal year shall carry over to the next fiscal year in order to allow payment of prior year claims.
Employees who attend these activities may be requested by management to prepare reports and/or make a presentation on the events and information acquired.
(d)	The amounts allocated to the conference fund for each year of this agreement are as follows:
July 1, 2002 - June 30, 2003 $3,000
July 1, 2003 - June 30, 2004 $3,500
July 1, 2004 - June 30, 2005 $4,000
July 1, 2006 - June 30, 2006 $4,000
Section 9.	Travel Reimbursements. An employee who is required to travel on official state business sliall be reimbursed up to the following rates, subject to the conditions outlined in the Standard Travel Regulations.
Breakfast...................................$5.00
Tiutich.....................................$6.50
Dinner.....................................$12.00
Miscellaneous (max.)........................$4.50
Maximum...........	 $28.00
An employee who js required to remain away from home overnight in order to accomplis!) the regular duties of his/her position, may be reimbursed for lodging expenses in accordance with ihc Standard Slate Travel Regulations. Advance approval must be obtained from the Office of the Chief Court Administrator.
Effective February 1, 2003 the mileage reimbursement rate shall be $.360 per mile. Subsequent adjustments will be in accordance with the Government Services Administration (GSA) rate adjusted to the first day of the month that follows the GSA rate change.
Reasonable parking fees and tolls shall also be rcimbuised when the request is accompanied by receipts.
Section 10.	Automobile Availability Fee, For the second, thud and fourth years of tins agreement, employees who are required to have a vehicle available for daily use, sliall receive an automobile availability payment, of $150.00, The auto availability fee shall be paid to eligible employees in the second February pay check. Eligible emplovees are
22
23
those employees active on January 1 of the year the fee is to be paid who are required to haw an automobile available for daily use. There shall be no prorating of this fee.
Section 11.	Juvenile Detention - WORKING CONDITIONS STIPEND
(a)	For the second, third and fourth contract year, full-time permanent bargaining unit employees regularly assigned to Juvenile Detention facilities shall receive a working conditions stipend of $700.00.
(b)	This stipend is limited to employees in the following “hazardous duty” job classes. Food Services Assistant, Food Services Coordinator, Juvenile Detention Officer, Juvenile Detention Shift Supervisor, andBuild-ing Supervisee's and Maintainers working in detention facilities.
(c)	This stipend shall be paid to eligible employees in the second December paycheck Eligible employees are those employees active on December 1 of the year the stipend is paid. There shall be no prorating of this stipend.
ARTICLE XW
Objective Job Evaluation
Section 1.	The SCOPE Agreement between the parties is incorporated into this Agreement
Section 2.
(a)	Any changes resulting from the Objective Job Evaluation study which was. undertaken pursuant to the 1999-2002 collective bargaining agreement shall be effective and retroactive to June 30, 2000. The impact of such changes shall be the subject of a re-opener to commence within 30 days of the issuance of the consultant’s final report, or on a different date determined by mutual agreement of the parties.
(b)	The Union and the Branch shall split the cost of the study.
(c)	No bargaining unit employee who is employed prior to the issuance of final CUE report shall be downgraded or tvred circled” as a result of the objective job evaluation process.
(d)	The Union and the Branch agree that the role of the consultant is only to make recommendations regarding now or revised job specifications. It is also agreed that final decision regarding all aspects of job specifications are the sole province of the Judicial Branch.
(e)	The parties agree tiiat any changes in pay group placement resulting from the implementation of the study recommendations will be made by the round-up method.
ARTICLE XIX
Temporary Service in a Higher Class
Section 1.	An employee who is assigned to perform temporary service in a higher class shall, commencing with the thirty‘first consecutive workday. be paid for such actual work retroactive to the first day of such work at the rale of the higher class as if promoted thereto.
Section 2,	Such assignments may be made when there is a vacancy in a permanent position which management has decided to fill, or when an employee is on extended absence due to illness, leave of absence, or other reasons. Extended absence is one which is expected to last more than thirty (30) working days.
Eligibility for temporary assignment to a lugher classification requires that the employee meet the minimum qualifications for the higher classification as defined in the official job specification.
Section 3,	A department head making a temporary assignment to a higher class shall issue the employee written notification of the assignment and shall immediately forward the appropriate form seeking written approval ol the assignment from the Chief Court Administrator or his designee.
The Chief Court Administrator or his designee shall expedite requests for approval of assignments to temporary service in a higher class
If on or after the Unity-first consecutive working day of such service, the Chief Court Administrator or his designee lias not approved the assignment, or in the event the Chief Court Administrator or his designee disapproves the requested assignment, the employee upon request shall be reassigned to his/her former position.
Tf tlic employee docs not request reassignment to his/her Conner position, the employee shall continue working as assigned with recourse under the appeal procedure for reclassification. The form certifying the assignment will specify the rights and obligations of the parties under this Agreement
Section 4.	Temporary assignments to a liigher class for periods of thirty (30) working days or less shall not be utilized to defeat the basic contractual obligation herein.
ARTICLE XX
Hours of Work
Section 1. Regular Workweek.
(a)	The regular or standard workweek is defined as the number of hours of work normally scheduled to be performed in a seven (7) day period beginning Friday (12:01 a m.) and ending Thursday (mid-night),
(b)	Employees now working a regular forty (40) hour workweek shall continue to do so for the life of this agreement except that
(1)	certain AFSCME Judicial personnel in the Juvenile detention centers shall be scheduled to work a schedule which, over reasonable periods of time, requires an average of forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours a day; such a schedule sliall be deemed to constitute a non-standard workweek.
(2)	certain AFSCME .Judicial personnel in the Commission on Official Legal Publications working a regular forty (40) hour workweek, eight (8) hours a day, on the effective date of tins Agreement, sliall continue to work such a schedule
(c)	Bail Commissioners shall work in accordance vsritii a schedule determined by the Chief Bail Commissioner. Such schedule may establish with
25
24
an average of forty (40) hours per week, eight (8) hours a. day. Such schedule may require work during days, evenings, nights and weekends. Shift assignments for Bail Commissioners hired prior to 03/08/96 will be made on a seniority basis, provided the Employer retains the right to decide the number of employees assigned to a shift
Section 2* Scheduling of Hours.
(a)	Employees working a forty (40) hour workweek shall normally work Monday through Friday between the hours of 8:00 a.m and 5:15 p.m. All subject to paragraphs (b) through (d).
(b)	The Employer and the Union sltall cooperate in developing experimental programs to determine the feasibility of establishing alternative work schedules such as flextime. Implementation of such experimented programs shall be by mutual agreement between the employer and the Union. Implementation, evaluation and continuation of flextime programs shall be a subject for Labor-Management Committee(s).
(c)	(1) Personnel in the juvenile detention centers shall work a schedule determined by the Employer. Such schedule will provide that Juvenile Detention Officers shall have alternate weekends off and shall regularly work no more than five consecutive days before having a day off.
(2)	Juvenile Detention Officers will be assigned to a fixed shift. Such assignments will be done within each institution with seniority as the controlling factor, provided the employer retains the right to decide the number of employees assigned to a shift and the right to assure appropriate staffing of male and female Juvenile Detention Officers.
A vacancy on a sidft to be filled by a permanent employee will first be subject to bidding within the institution on a seniority basis. Thereafter when the remaining vacancy is filled by transfer from another institution Lhe transferring employee will be assigned to that vacancy, without regard to seniority. Said employee may exercise seniority in any future vacancies.
(d)	Existing individual arrangements for a different starting and quitting time, eg. employees who report at 8:00 a.m, to prepare operational equipment, shall continue. Other arrangements for operational reasons or the convenience of employees may be adopted after consultation between AFSCME, Local 749 and the Chief Court Administrator or his designee.
Section 3.	Meal Periods. For full time employees meal periods shall be one (I) hour, forty-five (45), or thirty (30) minutes at the option of the employee during the term of this agreement; except the present practice in the COLT forty-five (45) minutes shall continue. Meal periods shall be scheduled close to the middle of a shift, subject to the operating needs of the jurisdiction as determined by officials in charge. Meal periods shall, except in unusual circumstances, be considered duly free. Meal periods shall not be counted as work-lime, except for Juvenile Detention Officers. The voluntary omission of a meal period in whole or in part shall not modify the starting or leaving time schedule.
Section 4.	Rest Periods. Employees shall be entitled to two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods during the working day, one (1) in each half shift (to be scheduled by the supervisor), except that operational needs may preclude such periods for court-room personnel. A rest period commences
when the employee ceases work at the duty station and ends when the employee resumes work at the duty station. The voluntary omission of a rest period in whole or in part shall not modify the starting or leaving schedule. Employees of COLP required by their nonstandard workweek to work in excess of eleven (11) hours in any shift shall be entitled to two (2) fifteen (15) minute rest periods and an additional twenty (20) minute paid meal period.
ARTICLE XXI
Overtime Pay
Section 1.	Definition, For purposes of this agreement, “overtime pay” is defined as payment for rime an employee has worked in excess of the standard work week providing, however, that such additional hours worked were assigned and performed in accordance with the provisions of this Article.
Section 2.	Earning Overtime
fa) No employee may earn overtime pay unless:
(1)	the employee is specifically directed and required, at the invitation of a judge, supervisor, or other authorized official to perform work in excess of their standard workweek; or
(2)	the division, upon request of the employee, approves in writing overtime for work already performed. It is ftirther provided that overtime cannot be earned for work performed at an employee's place of residence. No employee sliall be required to bring work home.
fb) Existing practice and requirements concerning transcript production by court reporters and court recording monitors during non-work hours or while at home for which compensation is set by statute are nut covered by the provisions of this Article.
(c)	Measurement. Overtime shall be measured to the nearest fifteen (15) minutes.
(d)	Overtime pay shall not be pyramided,
Section 3.	Except as provided in Article XVII, Section 6, employees are not eligible for compensatory time.
Section 4.	AH pay earned and all compensatory time granted in accordance with Article XVII, Section, 6 must be reported to the appropriate unit of the Administrative Services Division of flic Office of the Chief Court Administrator.
Section 5.	Overtime pay will be calculated in accordance with the federal Fair Labor Standards Act and applicable state statutes Job classifications that have historically received overtime payment in lieu of com’ pensatory time shall continue to have overtime payment? calculated using the same method they liavc in the past.
Section 6* The Employer shall equalize overtime opportunities by fob class within the facility or office.
Section 7» Juvenile Detention Centers. Overtime assignments must be approved in writing by the supervisor of the facility ur his/her designee,
27
26
Wherever possible, volunteers will be solicited before employees are assigned. Reasonable efforts will be made to distribute overtime equally among volunteers. In the event volunteers arc unavailable, the Employer retains the right to require overtime. The Employer retains the right to require the use of time clocks.
■ ;
Section 8.	GOLF* Consistent with existing practice, certain employees ; of the Commission on Official Legal Publications shall receive time and one-half their base hourly rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of ■ eight (8) hours in a day or forty (40) hours in a week.	i:
: J1
Section 9.	Maintainers. The Judicial Branch will pay overtime to s eligible maintenance employees at the straight time rate for hours over < J thirty-five (35) per week, but under forty (40) , and at time and one-lialf ’ for hours worked over forty (40). An employee who is recalled to work on an overtime basis shall be assigned to a least four (4) hours of work before being released. An employee who is recalled within two (2) hours • after being released from work shall be considered to have never been ! • released and shall be paid accordingly. If the employee is recalled within > two (2) hours of a prior release, the four (4) hour guarantee shall begin with the lime of release, rather than the time of recall. Overtime pay shall ; not be pyramided. If an employee is recalled beyond two hours after ; • being released, portal Lo portal pay (travel time to and from, home and ;; work location) shall be included wititin the four hour guarantee. An ' J employee option in either case would be to waive the four hour guarantee and select the portal to portal pay plus whatever time is needed to com-: ■_ pletc Ilie assigned recall task.	>
Notwithstanding the above, the employer will pay maintainers, who are recalled to work on an overtime basis, at the time one-half rate for | all hows worked, with a two hour guarantee, when recalled between the | hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 am. (M-F) and for all hours worked when | recalled on Saturday and Sunday,	|
Section 10* Supreme Court Police and Juvenile Transportation Ofli-1 cers will continue to receive overtime pay consistent. with existing J. practice.	1
Section 11, The Employer shall not temporarily change an employee’s | regular hours to avoid overtime. Permanent hours changes shall be gov-1 emed by Article XX, Section 2, (b) through (d), Nothing in this Article | shall l>e deemed to restrict the Employers right to require overtime. |
ARTICLE XXH	|
Vacation - Personal - Military Leave	|
Section 1.	Eligibility for Vacation Leave. Each full-time, (part-time | pro-rated) permanent employee in the bargaining unit who is included in | the regular biweekly payroll and whose salary is allocated to a particular | group and step, is eligible to accrue vacation, time with pay. The term f “permanent employee” shall be construed to mean an employee in a | permanent position as distinguished from an employee who is paid on | 28	|
the temporary payroll. It sliall not be construed to mean an employee with “permanent status” as defined in Article XI (Probationary Period).
The Chief Court Administrator or Ids designee may establish regulations concerning the accrual, prorating, and granting of vacation time with pay for employees who hold permanent part-time positions and who aie included in the regular biweekly payroll.
Section 2.	Accrual of Vacation Time.
(a)	(1) Eligible employees who are on the forty (40) hour per week payroll shall accrue ten (10) vacation hours per month for each completed month of continuous full-time service except that employees who Iiave completed twenty (20) years of service shall accrue tliirtcen and one-third (13) vacation hours for each completed month of continuous fulltime service.
(2) In computing the effective date of an employee’s first month's accrual at tile twenty (20) year rate, all service time accepted for purposes of computing longevity payments to such employee sliall apply.
(b)	Vacation leave starts to accrue with the first working day of the first full calendar month alter date of commencement of employment and is credited to the eligible employee on the completion of tile calendar month.
(c)	No leave shall accrue for any calendar month in wluch an employee is on leave of absence without pay for more than an aggregate of three (3) working days.
(d)	Unused vacation hours may accumulate to a maximum of the equivalent of one hundred twenty (120) days. After an employee has attained thismaximum accrual, vacation hours shall begin to reaccrue in the month when some of such leave is taken.
Section 3,	Taking Vacation Time*
(a)	For vacation purposes only, the calendar year shall run fi^om April 1st through March 31st. Vacation requests submitted by April 1st shall tie responded to in writing by May 1st. Once a vacation request has been approved in writing, it may only be rescinded by mutual agreement of the parties. Seniority shall be the controlling factor in determining vacation request submitted by April 1st Tn extraordinary circumstances, rhe Employer may request the Labor-Management Committee to make an exception to seniority being the controlling factor. For submission after April 1st, vacation selections sliall be granted on a first come first serve basis.
(b)	In no event shall an employee take more than twenty-five (25) days accrued vacation time in any one calendar year without first having obtained the approval of tile Office of the Chief Court Administrator.
Section 4.	Payment for Accrued Vacation Time on Termination of Employment.
(a)On termination of employment by retirement or resignation, each eligible employee, other Ihan one whose compensation is fixed by statute, shall be granted a lump sum payment for vacation leave accrued and unused up to and including the last full calendar month of work. The amount paid shall be equal to the employee’s hourly rate, which shall be
29
based upon the employee’s salary al the time of her/her resignalion or retirement, times the number of unused vacation hours accrued to his/ her credit at the time of his/her resignation or retirement
(b)	In the event an employee, other than one whose compensation is fixed by statute dies, a lump sum payment shall be made for all vacation leave accrued to him/her and unused at the time of his/her death. The amount paid shall be equal to the salary the deceased employee would have received had he/she remained in the service of the Judicial Branch until the expiration of such vacation period.
(c)	Such payment shall be made to the surviving beneficiary or beneficiaries lawfully designated by the employee under the state employees1 retirement system, or, if there is no such designated beneficiary or benefi-ciarics, to the estate of the deceased.
Section 5* Transfer of Vacation Accrual. The number of vacation hours accrued by a state employee up to the date hc/she transfers Into the Judicial Branch shall be accepted by the Branch and credited to him/ her on the Branch’s personnel records.
Section 6. Records. All vacation leave and personal leave shall be recorded in the attendance records in the Office of the Chief Court Admin-istrator. Such records shall reflect for each eligible employee the current amount of vacation leave accrued, the amount and dates when such leave was taken, the current balance of such leave available, and the number of personal leave hours taken during the calendar year. The records will be subject to review by the Chief Court Administrator, and the individual record of an employee in the department shall be available to such employee upon written request.
ARTICLE XXUI
Personal Leave Days
Section 1* In addition to normal vacation accrual as set forth in this Agreement, there shall be granted to each full-time, (part-time pro-rated) permanent employee of the department three (3) days of personal leave of absence with pay in cadi calendar year. Accrual and use of personal leave time shall be measured in "hours” rather than “days”.
Section 2.	Personal leave of absence shall be taken for the purpose of conducting private affairs, including observance of religious holidays, and shall not be deducted from vacation or sick leave credits. Personal leave of absence time may be taken only when requested in advance by the employee and approved by his department head. Personal leave time which is not taken in a calendar year shall not be accumulated but shall lapse.
Section 3.	Full-time permanent employees of the Judicial Branch may not take personal leave time until after the conclusion of six (6) months continuous service as full-time employees of the Stale of Connecticut, during wiiich period they have not been on leave of absence without pay for more than ten (10) working days.
f	ARTICLE XXIV
1	Military Leave
| . A full-time permanent employee, of the department who is a member of the armed forces of the State or of any component of the armed forces r of the United States and who is required to undergo field training therein sh^ll, for a period not exceeding three (3) calendar weeks of such field training each year, be entitled to a leave of absence with pay, in addition ; to his/her annual vacation. Such military leave shall be granted upon submission to the Chief Court Administrator of acceptable and official
i : ififfitery orders for such military training. Further military leave of absence with pay up to a maximum of thirty (30) days in any calendar year, may be granted by the Chief Court Administrator for service due to
: emergencies proclaimed by the Governor or the President.
\	ARTICLE XXV
;	Sick Leave - Leave Without Pay
I Section 1* Eligibility for Sick Leave* Each full-time, (part-time prorated) permanent employee in the bargaining unit who is included in the regular biweekly payroll and whose salary is allocated to a particular group and step is eligible to accrue sick leave starting with the first I working day of the first full calendar month after date of commencement | of employment in the department.
|	The Chief Court Administrator or his designee may establ i sh regulatfo i is
1	concerning the accrual, prorating, and granting ui sick leave with pay for employees of the Judicial Branch who hold permanent part-time positions and who are included in the regular biweekly payroll.
Section 2. Sick Leave Accrual.
(a)	Sick leave accrues at the rate of ten (10) hours per completed l calendar month of continuous full-time service for employees who work
a: scheduled eight (8) hour day. Sick leave continues to accrue during the I period of time an employee is on an authorized leave of absence with pay.
(b)	Sick leave continues to accrue in the month when some of such leave is taken.
. (c) No sick leave hours sliall accrue for any calendar month in which an employee is on leave of absence without pay for an aggregate of more than three (3) working days.
(d)	Sick leave shall accrue for file first twelve (12) months in which a Judicial Branch employee eligible to receive workers’ compensation and side leave benefits is actually receiving workers’ compensation benefits under the provisions of file General Statutes.
| Section 3. Granting Sick Leave.
|	(a) Sick leave to the extent accumulated by the employee and credited
| to his/her account in the attendance and leave records maintained by the I1 Chief Court Administrator sliall be granted to an eligible employee under I satisfactory proof of illness or injury, including pregnancy, incapacitating V such employee for duty, in order that such employee may recuperate
30
31
from such illness or injury. During such leave the employee shall be
compensated in full and retain his/her employment benefits.
(b)	Sick leave to the extent accumulated by the employee and credited _ ....r----------------Sliail L„
to her account in tile attendance and leave records maintained by the h- authorized unless the employee has first exhausted all accrual to his/her Chief Court Administrator shall be granted to an employee during the ■. credit for sick leave and vacation leave, including current accruals. No period of time that she is disabled as the result, of pregnancy. Disability : . advance of sick leave shall be granted until an employee has completed may be presumed starting not more than four (4) weeks prior to the , ( at leave five (5) years of full-time employment in state sendee, expected date of delivery as certified by the employee’s physician and p ending not more than four (4) weeks following the actual date of birth. :
(c)	The time an employee is sick while on annual vacation leave, other i than terminal vacation leave, shall be charged against accrued sick leave j
if the employee files an acceptable medical certificate with the Chief Court Administrator attesting to the fact that he/she was sick and would have been unable to work on the day or days claimed as sick.
(d) A holiday occurring when an employee is on sick leave will be counted as a holiday and not charged as sick leave. When special time oil is granted, however, an employee on sick leave shall be charged as prescribed by the Chief Court Administrator.
(e)	If an employee is receiving workers' compensation or disability compensation, he may elect to draw upon his sick leave to lire extent
authorized by the General Statutes.
(f) Consistent with existing practice, upon exhaustion of accrued sick ;	S	r	may b<?
leave, other accrued paid leaves may be used by employees who are incapacitated or disabled as provided in and subject to the conditions of
er by an employee s Executive Director or designee (s) to substantiate a ' request for sick leave or special leave of absence with pay:
>•.• (a) any period of absence consisting of more than five (5) consecutive
Section 4. Special Leave of Absence with Pay Cliargeable to working days;
f ' (b) to support request for sick leave during annual vacation, £ ’ • £cj when excessive absenteeism or other circumstances indicate rea-. spnable cause for requiring such a certificate.
■ Th? Office of the Cliief Court Administrator may have a physician make
. afurther examination.
paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
Accrued Sick Leave. Any eligible employee may be granted special leave
of absence with pay cliargeable to accrued sick leave for the following reasons:
(a)	for medical or dental treatment for which arrangements cannot be made outside of working hours;
(b)	when liis/her presence at duty will expose others to contagious disease'
(c)	in the event of death in the immediate family when as much as lluee (3) working days’ leave with pay may be granted (five (5) days effective January 1, 2000), Immediate family means husband, wife, father, mother, sister, brother or child, and also any person who is domiciled in the employee's household;
(d)	in the event of critical illness or severe iqjuiy in the immediate family creating an emergency requiring the attendance or aid of the employee, when as much as three (3) days leave with pay in a calendar year may be granted; (seven (7) days effective January 1, 2000 and ten (10) days effective January 1, 2001).
(e)	going to, attending, and returning from funerals of persons other than members of the immediate family, if prior permission is requested of and granted by the employee’s supervisor.
Section 5.	Advanced Sick Leave.
(a) No sick leave with pay in excess of the sick leave hours accumulated i Such leave may be extended beyond one (1) year by the appointing to an eligible employee’s credit shall be granted unless authorized in i authority, or any authorized committee thereof Notwithstanding rhe
advance by the Personnel Unit with the approval of the Chief Court
i Administrator. Such authorizations shall be granted only in cases involving r extended periods of illness or injury. No advance of sick leave shall be
i.	advance of sick leave shall be granted until an employee has completed
(b) The advanced sick leave which may be granted shall be on the basis [ of one (1) day at full pay for each completed year of full-time service. Tn
no case shall advanced sick leave exceed thirty (30) days at full pay.
: fc) Any such advanced sick leave as may be granted shall be repaid by n»equal charge against such sick leave as the employee may subsequently ; sectrie. No repayment of advanced sick leave shall be required, however, Until the employee has first accrued five (5) days of sick leave following hWher return to duty.
■ : fd) Except that any advanced sick leave not repai d eighteen (18) months 5 subsequent to its being granted, shall be repaid tlirough automatic deduc-
lions equal to fifty (50%) percent of the rale it is earned.
Section 6.	Medical Certificate. For the following reasons an accept-i: able medical certificate, signed by a licensed pliysician or other prac-
required of an employee by the Office of the Cliicf Court. Administrator
Secttoll 7- Removal from Payroll. Any eligible employee in the depart-)• merit absent from duty by reason of illness oi injury who has exhausted his/her accrued sick leave, vacation leave including current accrual, personal leave days and advanced sick leave when applicable, and emcr-; gengy sick leave bank time when applicable, and who thereafter docs nor L return to-duty, will receive no further compensation and will be removed - ftomthe active payroll of the department until such time as hc/she returns £ to duty.
<•
j Section 8. Leave of Absence Without Pay-
1(a) (1} A leave of absence without pay for th e protection of ur improvement of an employee’s health, or for any other cause considered reasonable or proper, may be granted to an employee upon approval of the appointing authority or any authorized committee thereof fur a period not to exceed one (1) year. Requests for such leave must be submitted in writing to the Office of the Chief Court Administrator.
32
33
above, any employee absent from duty by reason of illness or injury who has exhausted all of his/her accrued sick leave, personal leave, advanced sick leave, when applicable, and emergency sick leave bank time when applicable, and all but the hourly equivalent of five (5) working days of vacation time, shall be granted a leave of absence for a period not to exceed six (6) months upon submission of an acceptable medical certificate as provided in Section 6. Requests for extensions may be approved by the appointing authority or an authorized committee thereof. If the employee so chooses, he/she may exhaust all accrued vacation time before
taking the leave of absence.
(2) Upon expiration of paid leave for disability resulting from pregnancy, » the employee may request, and shall be granted, a medical leave of absence ® without pay, position held, for a period not to exceed six (6) months k-following the date of termination of the pregnancy. Such medical leave g of absence may, at the exclusive option of the appointing authority or an authorized committee thereof, be extended beyond (lie six (6) month period, with or without, holding the position. Requests for such extensions shall be submitted to the Office of the Chief Court Administrator.
(b) A leave of absence without pay shall be granted to a fulltime permanent employee who leaves his/her employment for the purpose of entering the armed forces of the United States. Such an employee shall be reinstated in his/her former position and duties, provided the following conditions are met:
(I) -within ninety (90) days after he/she has received a certificate of satisfactory service from the armed forces, he/she makes application for
return to service with the Judicial Branch;
(2) such person must be able and qualified to perform the work required; £
(3) work must be available. In considering the factor of availability of
work, the appointing authority of the Judicial Branch shall replace any ■ advanced.sick leave under Section 5 of this Article.
who was employed for the purpose of filling ~	; (2) The illness or injury is not covered by workers’ compensation and/
h returning employee.	* ?	benefit has been exhausted.
employee, junior in service, • the position vacated by such returning employee.
This Section shall not apply to any employee who, because of voluntary reeidistment, has been absent from the sendee with the Judicial Branch for a period of more than three (3) years in addition to war service or compulsory service and the ninety (90) day period herein before pro- j r? tee.
vided for.
Section 9. Status of Accrued Sick Leave and Paid Leave Upon
Reemployment of Resigned Employee. Any employee who resigns in good standing from tlie department and who is reemployed witilin one j £ (1) year from the date of his/her resignation shall he credited with tlie amount of sick leave accrued to his/her credit on
his/her resignation.
<lays pay.
Section 10. Compensation for Unused Sick Leave Accrual Upon ^. x ---- ------- -----------------
Retirement. Each eligible employee in the department who retires on: s a majority vote of the committee, or after July 1, 1978, shall be compensated, effective as of the date of}	—1
his/her retirement, at the rate of one-fourth (.25) of his/her daily salary for each day of sick leave accrued to his/her credit as of his/her last day on the active payroll up to a maximum payment equivalent to sixty (60)
t Section 11. Records. All leave with or without pay shall be recorded m the attendance records in the Office of the Chief Court Adniini straw.
•/ Such records shall reflect the current amount of sick leave accrued and t tire amount and dates when leave was taken, and the current balance j. .available to each employee. The records will be subject to review by the y- Cfoief Court Administrator, and the individual record of an employee in
: Ihe department shall be available to such employee upon written request.

Section 12.	Upon death of an employee who has completed ten (10) years of State service, the employer shall pay to the beneficiary onc-femrth (.25) of the deceased employee’s daily salary for each day of sick leave accrued to his/her credit as ci his/her last day on the active payroll up to a maximum payment equivalent to sixty (60) days pay.
Section 13.	Emergency Sick Leave Bank.
I
(a)	There shall be an Emergency Sick Leave Bank, composed of the contributions of bargaining unit employees pursuant to the terms of the 1981-83 collective bargaining agreement^ and any additional contributions as pro^dedpursuant to this section. Ail unit employees serving an original probationary period on the effective date of this section and all unit employees lured after that date shall contribute two (2) hours from abcrtied sick leave to the sick leave bank upon obtaining permanent
' status. Hours Contributed sltall not revert to employees if not used.

(b)	Days contributed to the bank shall thereafter be allocated to non-
JtKrbatiohary employees with eatastropliic or extended, long-term ill-Messes.
To be eligible for allocation of sick days from the bank an employee must meet tlie following conditions:
< Exhaustion of all sick leave, personal and vacation leave, including wu-*J •«.! — > -	..... J _ __ d“1 _._4_?_F- _ y- J ■ 1 A I -	-	5
acceptable medical certificate supporting the absence is on file '^‘^e-hank is not depleted.
shall be allocated by a Labor Management Advisory' Commit-‘ ' This committee shall have full authority to grant benefits and adminis-p ter the program in accordance with guidelines outlined in subparagraph r. (b) above. In addition, the Committee sludl consider as a factor (lie extent and circumstances of tlie applicant’s usage of sick leave prior to ihe I illness in question.
he credited wiui uie (0) ^used days shall be carried over from year to year and shall not the eff^tivp date of b " W* # * any time the bank balance shall tall below seven-hundred • afta fifty (750) hours, the committee shall be empowered to withdraw a siipftfemehtal contribution of up to four (4) hours from each permanent employee's accrued sick leave. Said withdrawal shall be made only after
; (f) Time off without loss of pay or benefits may be granted, as necessary, r" -to' members of the Committee to attend meetings to administer this • program.
P -j£j The actions or noii-actions of this Committee shall in no way he g subject to collateral attack or the grievance/arbitration machinery. The
34
35
panel shall not be considered a Stale agency, board or any other subdivision of the Employer No requests shall be conducted as contested cases or otherwise be subject to the Administrative Procedure Act.
ARTICLE XXVI
Civil Leave
Section 1.
(a)	Employees absent from duty to perform jury service shall receive thetr regular straight time salary, exclusive of overtime or any other premium pay. Acceptance of such salary shall be deemed a waiver of any statutory jury service fee.
(b)	Time off for jury duty shall be arranged as follows:
(1)	If the employee is scheduled to work the day shill, evening or second shift, he/she shall be off on the shift occurring on the same day as the jury duty.
(2)	If the employee is scheduled to work the night or Llurd shift, he/ she shall be off on the shift immediately prior to jury duty.
(c)	If an employee who works the day shift reports to jury duty and is released early so that court time and reasonable travel time to the work site (including time to stop at home if necessary) do not exceed three and one-half (3) hours in total, the employee shall return to work for the balance of the day shift.
If any employee who works the evening or second sliift reports to jury duty and is released so that court time and reasonable travel time to the work site (including time to stop at home if necessary) do not exceed three and one-half (3) hours in total, the employee shall report to work for his/her regular work shift.
An employee who has been off the night or third shift immediately prior to jury duty sliall not be required to report for additional work or make up the time if released early from jury duty.
Section JL An employee called as a witness outside normal working hours in a matter rising out of the performance of customary duties of employment shall, upon request, be granted compensatory time off in accordance with the provisions of Article XXI.
ARTICLE XXVE
Holidays
Section 1. Holidays. For tire purposes of this Article, holidays are as follows: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, Lincoln’s Birthday, Washington’s Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
ARTICLE XXVin
Group Health Insurance
The state shall continue in force the health insurance coverage in effect on Time 30, 2002, subject to the negotiations of the Health Care Cost Containment Committee.
;	ARTICLE XXIX
Employee Rights
</ Sknptoyees covered by this Agreement shall suffer no reprisals for F exercising, their rights under this Agreement. Employees covered under • • this Agreement shall have full rights to Union representation as described f m Article X and Article XIV, Section 6.
ARTICLE XXX
£	.	Transfers for Operational Reasons
Section 1.	The Employer decides the job class involved in transfers, and^eteimmes the location from which and to which such transfers wilt i?r he made.
p Section 2. A permanent transfer is defined as a permanent, indefinite s -thfcflige in- duty station. Permanent transfers shall first be attempted on a I':basis with seniority being the controlling factor. Involuntary L permanent transfers sliall be made in accordance with the inverse senior-least senior employee in Lire identified job class at tlie identi-I' i^si'fecatibn being transferred. Seniority for the purposes of this Ar ticle yls^fined^aBcurrent continuous service as a full-time permanent employee \l»tkeCormecticut Judicial Branch.
L	a transfer will require an employee to commute a distat ice of
'(•>&} miles or greater one way in addition to the distance he/she before the transfer, the Employer and the Union shall meet (•jifediErtuiss alternative at the request of the Union. Any agreement reached p$y06partiesat£his meeting sliall supersede tlie provision of this section < fcegasffijjg seniority as a factor in transfers. An employee who has been f ahvolimtiirily transferred sliall have the right to return to his/her original k station prior to the hiring of a new employee or transfer of an :^rr0oyee inthe same or similar job classification at that duty station. A ;	is one for which the transferred employee meets the minimum
and the salary grade for which is no higher than tlie salary f	current position of the transferred employee.
$ r Section 3. A temporary transfer is defined as a temporary assignment the duty station. Ordinarily such transfers shall not exceed Ajrf^^t^ealendardays. No employee will be required to be in temporary ;; tceftisfer status for more than 120 calendar davs in any calendar year In imporary transfers the Employer shall consider tile wishes of seniority, and operation needs; provided, however, its determi-^■'imKttisltafinot be subject to review under Article X. Employees in tempo-£•i^i^’teartsffer status shall receive mileage in accordance with existing V pfacttceC:
ARTICLE XXXI
Retirement
K;. The terms and conditions of employee retirement benefits have been £ ne^b^ated separately by the State and the Union and shall continue under F the terms of the Pension Agreement.
36
37
ARTICLE XXXH
Savings Clause
Should any provisions of this Agreement be found unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this Agreement shall continue in force, and the parties shall immediately negotiate a substitute provision. Disputes concerning the appropriate substitute provision shall not be grievable or arbitrable.
ARTICLE XXXIII
Legislative Action
The cost items contained in this Agreement and the provisions of this Agreement which supersede pre-existing statutes shall not become effective unless and until legislative approval has been granted pursuant to Section 9 of Public Act 754566. The Employer shall request such approval as provided in Section 9. If the Legislature rejects such request as a whole, the parties shall return to the bargaining table
ARTICLE XXXIV
Supersedence
Section 1* The inclusion of language in the Agreement concerning matters formerly governed by law, regulation, or policy directive shall not be deemed a preemption of the entire subject matter. Accordingly, statutes, rules, regulations, and administrative directives or orders sliall not be construed to be superseded by any provision of the Agreement except as provided in the Supersedence Appendix to this Agreement or where, by necessary implication, no other construction is tenable.
Section 2.
(a)	Except to the extent that a particular personnel or operational practice is specifically modified or restricted by an express provision of this Agreement or specifically incr>n>orated by reference in this Agreement, the Employer reserves and retains (lie right to add to, alter, or eliminate such practices.
(b)	In connection with the exercise of rights conferred under paragraph (a) above, which exercise impacts upon a mandatory subject of bargaining, toe following procedures shall apply:
CL) The Employer shall give notice of its contemplated action.
(2)	The Union jnay request that the Labor-Management Advisory Committee convene to discuss such impact
(3)	The parties shall commence discussion in a timely fashion.
(4)	(i) The fact that such discussions have not commenced or concluded shall not operate to delay the exercise of the Employer's rights under this Agreement, including but not limited to the right to implement all or part of toe contemplated action.
(u) Prior to any such implementation, the Employer sliall give notice to the Union and schedule a meeting of the Labor-Management Advisory Committee.
38	e
(6) The fact that the Employer has exercised its right shall not operate to terminate the obligation to continue such discussion for a reasonable period of time.
ARTICLE XXXV
Seniority
Section 1.
(a) Except as otherwise defined herein, seniority is defined as current vdefilimious service as a full-time employee of the Connecticut Judicial Biand! and shall include all of the following FMLA, all paid leaves, pjwided that the employee returns to work immediately following the leave; military leave granted in accordance with Article XXIV of this Agreement; unpaid medical leave of absence following exhaustion of sick leave, for up to nine (9) months for any employee who lias permanent sistuB, provided that the employee returns to work immediately following the leave.,
; <^h)Semority shall not be computed until after completion of the working t^StperitxL Upon successful completion of tire working test period, senior-ftjpghall he retroactive to the date of hire.
(e}Seruority shall be deemed broken by. 0) termination of employment caused by resignation, dismissal or retirement; (2) normally failure to report for five (5) consecutive working days without authorization. Credit for seniority up to a break in service shall he restored to an employee who is reemployed within one (1) year of a service break.
: (d) Current continuous service of foil-time A dult Probation i Commissi on employees as of December 31, 1978 shall be deemed service in the Connecticut Judicial Branch.
(e) Current continuous service of full-time DAS-BPW employees as of June 30,1985 shall be deemed service in the Judicial Branch forputposes af thia Article,
■ Section 2. Seniority shall be a relevant or controlling factor in toe following areas:
. (ffl) ^election for tayufL as provided in Article XV, Section 3(d),
r £b) Selection of vacation leave and personal leave, as provided in Article XXJLSection 3 Article XXTTIr
£cjShift assignment of Juvenile Detention Officers as provided in Article Jpj, Section 2(d) (2); and
• ^ Transfers, as provided in Article XXX.
Section 3, In January, 1981 and on an annual basis thereafter the department shall prepare a seniority list, the form of which sliall be subject, to the mutual agreement of the parties. Said list will be submitted to the Union as soon as possible after it is prepared
ARTICLE XXXVI
Miscellaneous
Section 1.	Method of Salary Payment. Employees shall continue to be paid on a biweekly basis for the duration of ttiis Agreement.
39
Section 2.	Workers’ Compensation Payments. Accrued sick leave, to the extent available, then personal leave, to the extent available, then accrued vacation leave, to the extend available, then accrued compensatory time, to the extent avail-able, may be used to supplement workers’ compensation payments up to but not beyond an employee’s regular salary.
Section 3.	The use of the term “Chief Court Administrator” in this Agreement shall be deemed to include any person(s) who may from time to time be designated by the Chief Court Administrator to perform functions set forth in the Agreement.
Section 4,	Clothing Claims. The Employer agrees to facilitate the expeditious processing of claims for lost or damaged property to the Claims Commission.
Section 5.	Reservation of Rights. The Employer, by entering into and executing this Agreement, does not waive any claims with respect to the constitutionality of Public Act 75-556 as it is or may be applied to the Connecticut Judicial Branch
Section 6.	Permanent Part-Time Employees. Permanent part-time employees will continue to receive wages and fringe benefits on a pm rata basis to the extent provided under existing rules and regulations.
Section 7.	Indemnification. Indemnification shall he provided pursuant to Public Act 8B464, as such Act may be amended from time to time. The decision whether to provide counsel to an employee being sued lor malpractice shall be based upon whether such employee was acting within the scope of his/her employment, without regard to whether the suit alleges wanton or wilful conduct The question whether the employee was acting within the scope of employment shall be sympathetically considered consistent with the purpose of the indemnification statutes. The Employer cooperate in expediting the decision of state officials whether to provide counsel.
Section 8.	Notice of Openings. Notice of vacancies to be filled in AFSCME-Judicial bargaining unit positions shall be posted division-wide within the judicial district where the vacancy occurs. Notices shall remain posted for ten (10) work days. Interested employees must submit applications within ten (10) days of the initial posting. Vacancies will not be filled within this ten (10) day period. The Employer may advertise such vacancies in any other way simultaneously with this positing.
Section 9.	The use of the word “heir or “him” in this contract shall be construed in its generic meaning, unless otherwise indicated.
Section 10.	Inclement Weather. When an employee is late for work due to inclement weather conditions, the employee shall not be cliarged for such lateness, provided that he/she reports such conditions to the Employer within a reasonable time and arrives at work as soon as possible. This Section shall not. apply if the employee fails to report to work. Disputes arising under this Section shall be grievabie but not arbitrable.
Section 11.	All Bail Commissioners and Assistant Bail Commissioners «to-were employed immediately prior to the enactment of Ihiblic Act 81 -(437shall not be required to meet the qualifications for these classifications by the Justices of the Supreme Court, pursuant to subsection ofP.A. 81-437. Accordingly, the provisions of that subsec-.?itau^hich require such employees to meet the qualifications bv January * >^-|9S6i ate superseded.
Section 12.	Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, all leave be requested and granted in increments of fifteen (15) minutes, 13* Safety Shoes. For each year of (his agreement, each =•:jMtffenance employee who is required to wear safety shoes shall receive ••up’to SlOHOCr, with receipt, for the purchase of one pair of such shoes^ ’ with the second July paycheck.
.	14. Overpayments. In the event that the Branch determines
that fcn employee has been overpaid, tlic employee will be notified in and the Branch shall meet with the affected employee and the gL iPiie Branch will explain how the overpayment or duplicate j.iay-^purred and discuss a repayment schedule. The Branch shall ge'tdrecover such overpayment from the employee over the same •	fortethe overpayment was made unless the Branch and employee
< qgfes to some other arrangement (For example, an employee who has •: Wft^verpaid by $5.00 per pay period for six (6) monttis shall refund the rt tjWfch at the rate of $5.00 per period over six months.)
t*1® ^P10^ ™tosts whether or how much he/she was or ^at th® above repayment schedule creates an undue bn the employee, the Brunch shall not institute the above refiuid i >	until the appeal is finally resolved through the grievance proce-
:’..«W’:The issue(s) may be processed directly to arbitration by the Branch the contractual grievance and arbitration procedure.
£	i - • •
Uniforms for Maintenance Employees working at. 231
Hartford. Ail maintenance employees at. 231 Capitol Ave i.g^^brdwill be required to wear i ] nif ones on a daily basis. The J udiciaJ will provide the uniforms and be responsible for cleaning costs
Leave Time Requests for Juvenile Detention Officers Soffit Supervisors,, effective March 1T 2004:
required to submit leave time requests on a quarterly .Requests for leave time must be given to the supervisor uti the p^rppriate form by the fust day of the month immediately preceding .of the quarter as outlined below:
i.	-	December, January and February (requests due by Novem-
> ^Quarter - March, April, and May (requests due by FebrUruy 1)
•f -^Quarter - June, July and August (requests due by May 1) u Quarter - September, October and November (requests due bv ' August 1)	J
t
40

Supervisors must approve/deny requests for leave time in writing to the employee by the 15* day of the first month preceding the start of the quarter as outlined below:
■ Is1 Quarter - responses due by November 15
- 21"1 Quarter - responses due by February 15
- 3"1 Quarter - responses due by May 15
- 4131 Quarter - responses due by August 15
If employees submit their vacation requests earlier than the above-mentioned due dates, the requests will not be acted upon until the corresponding response due date mentioned above. Requests submitted after the first day of the quarter will be considered on a first come, first serve basis.
Leave time requests will be considered by shift by seniority. The most senior employee in the classification on the designated shift will be given firat consideration.
The determination of the number of employees who can be granted leave time per shift will be made by the Judicial Branch and could vary from quarter to quarter, and between all the Detention Center locations, depending on the availability of full time staff and detainee population. Upon written request of the employee, supervisors will provide the reasons for denial of a request to the employee in writing.
Once a leave time request has been approved in writing, it may only be rescinded by mutual agreement of the parties.
In extraordinsuy circumstances, the Employer may request the Labor/ Management Committee to make an exception to seniority in approving leave time.
The procedures outlined here will be utilized in place of the procedures in Article XXII, Section 3 (a).
Section 17. Taking and Lapse of Compensatory Time Earned in Accordance with Article XVIII, Section 6 or For Work on a Skeleton Crew. Compensatory time earned will lapse unices it is taken not later than during the third month (six months for Juvenile Detention Officers, Juvenile Detention Shift Supervisors and Public Defender Investigators') next succeeding the month in which it has accrued
However, with the permission of an employee's fust supervisor outside the bargaining unit, earned compensatory time may be carried over for an additional period not to exceed one (1) month, if all of the following conditions have been met:
(a)	at least two (2) days in any month have been earned;
(b)	continuing job responsibilities preclude the taking of such time; and
(c)	the employee has requested such time off within two (2) weeks prior to tire initial lapse date.
Requests for permission to carry over such time shall be made in a timely fashion and shall not be unreasonably withheld. All compensatory time earned or taken must be reported on the attendance report submitted to the Office of the Chief Court Administrator.
i
ARTICLE XXXVII
Duration
Section 1,
y ^ fetcept as otherwise provided, this Agreement shall be effective • upon approval by the General Assembly through June 30 2006
*	aflsmg on or aftcr J,me 1939 but Prior to the effective
'	AgISeme!!>t w^.ch were flled a™1 processed in a timely fashion
be gievabie arid arbitrable with and to the extent provided by the i terms and conditions of the 1999-2002 Agreement.	? *
2' Succe^or Negotiations. Negotiations for a successor r.	shall commence in January' 2006. The parties may by mutual
agreement, commence negotiations at a different date.
7 \	APPENDIX A
Administrative Assistant
< Adftfinistrative Clerk
?’ 'Wmiustrative Secretary I
WServices Clerk
P Terminal Operator
r; ••Jptta.lWntfnal Operator Trainee
;OfSce Clerk
k ’.. ffiblic- Defen d er Secretary
< ^Receptionist Clerk
(■ ife&efary I
!
Wtftd Processing Typist Word Processing Typist Trainee
APPENDIX B
Supersedence
r te extent applicable and necessary, certain provisions of the i-f Agreement supersede preexisting statutes, as follows:
h W 'Hie waiver of Jury service fee by acceptance of regular salarv t0	CM1	supersede C G S sS
■< Compensation of Jurors.	*1 ’
federfuction of dues for members of AFSCME under Union Security and Payroll Deductions, sitttli be deemed to the words ‘any organization” in C G 8 Section 5-2G0
• W-WteV, Section 2 and Article XXXIV, Section 2(a) shah be deemed C.G.S. Section 1271 (a) and (e) and Section 5-272 (c) ~ J1*** Article XXXIV, Section 2(a) mandate impact bargaining
: W^isciphnary interviews (Article XIV, Sec. 61 shall be deemed in C.G.S. Section ,V271 (a) 1.	J	Wd
Section 13 shall be deemed to supersede the provi-
Se^on 3 which requires bail commissioners and hsfflsfamt bail commissioners to meet certain qualifications by Januaiv
42
43
APPENDIX C
Section 1. The authorized pay group for the bargaining unit classifications are as follows;
Classification Title
Accountant Aide.......................................
Accounting Clerk......................................
Accounts Payable Assistant............................
Accounts Payable Officer..............................
Administrative Assistant..............................
Administrative Clerk..................................
Administrative Secretary 1............................
Adult Probation Interstate Compact Coordinator........
Apprentice Printer....................................
Assistant Chief Interpreter...........................
Assistant Foreman.....................................
Assistant Juvenile Matters Clerk. ... *...............
Assistant to the Director of Juvenile Detention.......
Rail Commissioner.....................................
Building Supervisor I.................................
Building Supervisor U.................................
Building Supervisor Ill...............................
Building Supervisor IV................................
Buildings and Grounds Patrol Officer..................
Business Services Supervisor..........................
Claims Examiner.......................................
Clerical Supervisor I.................................
Clerical Supervisor II................................
Computer Operations Assistant 1.......................
Computer Operations Assistant EE......................
Court Interpreter.....................................
Court Recording Monitor...............................
Court Reporter .......................................
Court Services Clerk..................................
Courtroom Clerk I.....................................
Courtroom Clerk II................................. •	•
Court Support Services Intake Assistant
Custodial and Grounds Maintainer - Supreme Court . .
Customer Services Specialist..........................
Data Terminal Operator . .............................
Data Terminal Operator Trainee........................
Data Terminal Supervisor..............................
Deputy Clerk - G.A....................................
Facilities Drafter I..................................
Facilities Drafter H..................................
Food Services Assistant...............................
Food Services Coordinator.............................
Forms Distribution Clerk..............................
General Foreman.......................................
IAR Specialist........................................
Information Systems Trainer...........................
Pay Group
15
13
14
15
17
12
16
20
10
18
18
17
21
19
19
20
23
24
13
19
16
15
18
12
15
16
13
21
12
14
17
15
11
17
13
10
15
22
15
19
13
15
15
20
20
14
£ inventory Assistant.......................................
* investigator I (Public Defender’s)........................
p Investigator H (Public Defender’s)........................
-Investigator III (Public Defender's).....................
£ JiLVffitigator, Statewide Grievance Committee.............
f-: Jury Services Assistant.........
| Jjiv&rile Detention Officer...............................
Juvenile Detention Procedures and Operations Monitor ; Juvenile Detention Shift Supervisor.....................
£ Juvenile Detention Transportation Officer.................
« • ^hivenfle Matters Clerk I...............................
I: Juvenile Matters Clerk II................................
J tAN Specialist............................................
?• jLAX Specialist Trainee..................................
f•• Library Assistant.....................
p Maintenance Service Worker I............
£. Maintenance Service Worker 11..........
^Maintenance Service Worker IB............
Handler............................
Specialist I’(Public Defender's) paralegal Specialist II (Public Defender's) . .
pdyiUUMClA-	g g . . ,
* Payroll Officer.............
Police Officer...............
£ Police Officer Trainee......
?Police Sergeant..............
fefeter l................
Bprinter U......................
K-J&tfteader....................
Defender Secretary . , , , Assistant..............
^^t^cations Supervisor........
’ Farchasing Clerk...........-................
J&ialified Craft Worker - Supreme Court. .
Receptionist Clerk...........................
Record Assistant.............................
I. JRevenne Accounting Supervisor . . JWTPfrMfV I
Secretary I
Supervising Support Enforcement Assistant. .
t'; lOUjJU'ViaULg puppuil OlLLUICfltlt ; Support Enforcement Assistant , Service Investigator. .
^Technical Specialist - Judge Support Services . .
:- ;^e<X>mmunications Assistant...............
Warehouse Clerk.............................
f- Word Processing Supervisor.................
f Word Precessing Typist......................
Word Processing Typist Trainee..............
15 18
20 25
17 14
14 17
18 10 22
23 21
16 12
8
10 15
8 10
17 22
18 15
16 18
12 21
13 16
10 16
15 19
12 17
9 9
20 •
15 19
17 14
21 18
15 15
II 10
	6L9£•$Z	» T 9 £ " 2 ,t	TO Cfl " T8		pcor" tz	SOTO•az	h C 5B"6T	0 4a.; - 6 :	E 2 4 f • E T	9 6 6 B ' r	X7H	
	St ' 9B T	oe'itr	E9"PL1		IE•60T	60•V9 7	Laac-i	»(*■ EST	ik"Bk"	08"k *T	I'jQ	
	IT 699'1	£6 • RflL *T	c? • CH	'T	ro £59 ' r	•CH • DP9 'T	E9- BA? ' T	Ok"9ES•T	9 C"pgp ' L	At" 1Ep 'T	Hz-a	
V9£':	00' Z6r. 'a>	OC- ' T08 '9 P	00 ' ZC3	'9k	00 -eB E ' Pk	Ort "9ZB 'Zk	CO ■ I'M* 'TP	r.rt" oo 1 ov	OO"LEL'Af	CO'*L£'LC	NNV	j T
	TLOP' r--E	IZkb"12	T6T6‘bi		O/.BE" 08	B	"6T	JIZU"*T	bnoc"8 T	CBSL"LT	•S9ZT ' i T	•I'TH	
	DE "OLT	*8 " TLT	9£ " L9T		OS"29 t	PZ'LC T	E T"SET	f“•Lk t	LO■ZPI	TO'4ET	j'la	
	Lfttt' T	L£ STL ' T	ECtL!1	'E	96'280 'T	UE'ZLC 'L	E8 • 1 Z9 ' T	EZ•TLP■r	99"OZk ' t	eo •LE 'T	HI'S	
OZC ' C	Oci'SSi. '8P	DO'ILL'bk	00'0 L9 '	'EP	O0"6C% *ZP	00•6£0 ' Lk	DO•0 CL '62	00'668'BE	00"GLO 'Lt	00•bCI '5£	FTMV	fr T
	SHt • tz	0kT5‘OL	C L* L 0'0 E		TCOk ' fi- I	9bUB "B T	EDOZ ' If L	646 5"LT	9 E6t "?T	C4 BE'9T	• »i । r	
	0 5 • EL I	£X ‘frfl C	VC"091		88'4% I	P»"08T	19‘Vbl	LL"OP C	Pt"SET	OT •EC 1	Lia	
	SG’kit'T	ZT • TT9 'T	N?"T09	' 1	EL’ZSR'”	tE " POC' t	ZD"ASP 'T	I 3 " LOk'I	ZC‘bSE'2	95"DTE ' Z	K'U	
s^z' t	C*P"O9L 'bk	00‘CCA 'Zk	Ort"B8t	'IP	DO"98K'OP	Ort•»9Z '6C	DO" 2p«J 'BE	rtg' OkL 'AS	00 ‘ «(,* '5€	DO"922 'TV	• HUV	E T
	PZPL'6T	B’biPt	sect "az		69C-6'C r	ac?p"LT	99Lt•»T	f 1 5 P " 9 T	£900"9T	TTZ6■4 I	A'ier	
	56 ‘ Lt t	Cl-1ST	3k ' LH		8C'fkl	OL"6C L	88 "MF C	P6 " E£ T	£0‘$ZT	LT•VEE	LrJO	
	•EV 6lS - r	8V ‘ : T9 'E	35" kLt- '		CL 1OEk'T	WISE ' t	EE'&SE'E	EE"6IE'1	DC'OSZ'T	69 TPZ-I	am	
E TO ' 1	00 ‘ £8% ' t P	Ou ' e»k '6C	CD'S B b	‘SC	OO"4Lk ' lE	P0."Q9b 'U	0 0 • L * k ' 5 €	tO " P£k '>6	00‘If*'EE	OP" BOk ‘tr		ZT
	E80T"61	scat ■ a r	A«E8"L T		9ZLC ‘ J, T	840D ' 9T	B8EP'9E	aT4S"5T	5PO5’41	ttk-rt-ST	.’.TH	
	LB‘8UT	fi8"39T	ZL "8» C		66 ‘ UET	4Z•5ET	T9 ' TC t	BL•LZT	kO’k£ 2	ts"OET	•XTO	
	89‘Btp'T	PB‘Z9V'I	CX "LEb	' r	Tfi ‘OBE'T	kk•ZOE':	OTCTK'T	bv.' LLZ 'T	6£"DkZ 'T	£□•6DZ 'T		
5L6	OO'608 '&£	Co•OBT'be	OD'6P2	'ts	00 ‘ TLZ'9E	00"G6Z'SC	00'V2C'PE	00'5*E 'EC	DO"PLt 'TE	QO•BSE'EC	SKY	11
	869C‘ft T	9Bit"LT	or>5T " LT		8669 '» C	SfikZ"31	bO6L ' E T	£6k£‘5T	0k<8 " PT	66Pk'kT	A'lR	
	96 '$ bt	CO ■•MT	DE"L£l		09’CST	Ort "OET	Ok"9ZT	08■CSV	OS"6ET	OB'fir	Aba	
	acits 'x	trwx	DO"El£	• -	96'SEE'T	it "66Z'T	56"E92 'T	P6‘LCZ 'E	«0•T6T'I	T6 '44 C 'T	Min	
096	00 "*5S 'flE	00"PDL'9E	DO"609	'Sc	DO 'e»l 'PE	<Ja "CZ6 '££•	DC'696 'EC	00 'tbp 'IE	on•601'11	0D"69I'DE	rtbLV	DT
	eoid. ■ 4.T	SL44-JT	Bt'.¥5'9-		3L£E'91	PMLWl	BtOE'SE	D239’>1	POLk"kJ	BV50"PE	ZTH	
	0 9 ' EH	bL'5£T	S*'ZET		01'681	LL'Sj-r	Sk'ZZT	OE"6T T	LL'C C r	tb "ZET	A'T'Q	
	Lk’STfr'T	Ok'tSE-'T	05'kE£	'T	96 ' 062'T	E9 ■ L?S 'T	<jc • rzz	96 " 061 ' [	E9 ' LS C ’T	OS•VZT'E	Miff	
QLB	DO" eeo "LE	00‘atk r5£	00"*95	'PC	00 ' k69'lit	DO"68tf'IE	Ou • V35 •'EE	flO"k«0'[£	DO" HT'W	00‘fr>E'6Z	rJKY	60
	TB5T"LE	T67P "9 '.	9BTC'A T		aOL-9 "ST	6tfZ"CT	0S5B"kT	0l8 P"kt	Ttx-O "tT	C 769'FT	LTH	
	LZ* LET	9£'TCT	CT‘&ZT		to"9EE	55"TZT	kB"BIT	H‘Stl	P9"ZEE	E5--6-OE	xia	
	59"ELE'1	EC '£ t£ 'I	OS"T8E		9 P "•DCZ 'T	Ek '6TZ ' T	OP'm 'T	9C • L6E 'T	EC'9EI'I	6E’tftfl ' r	wre	
018	OO ' 9ES '$E	Ort"SBZ 'PE	Do"LVP	'EC	06 "LL9 "Sit	00■LZH'TE	03 L 20 'TE	60 • LOZ 'DE	00'L6£'tt	OO"LB4'BE	Kfl'J	80
	8E85'St	ELOO-ft	fi Ik'* ' PT		h C4 r * * r	POPD"PT	PE5L"€T	SLSk'C 2	CTO C •ET	4S3B"JT	A'TH	
	9k 'C t I	90'0?C	Pl'CTT		J J • * T7	rtf"ZTE	EO•OTI	99'LOT	OE ■ Ccj r	Ct "LOT	J.'TCI	
	09 ' HZ't	BE'00%'T	TT'lit	’ T	£9"Lki'I	C6"EZT 'E	LZ•OOT'I	09"&L0'1	26 " ESQ 'T	>8‘6Z0 rT	Jfiia	
■ 19	OO" 5 fit'EV	00" i£C ' l£	OD'IfcC	'5E	QD'ttU'6Z	OfBBE'iZ	<10 • LTL '9Z	tSO" 5*0 ' t!	CO"tflk 'LZ	DO ' COB '38	MMV	LD
TV	6 ds^s	9 <8X3	L <SI«		9 JS8.S		k dALpr	£ 4«IXS		I 83JE		dHS
GO
APPENDIX D
Judicial Employees (AFSCME) 40.00 Hour Week EFFECTIVE JULY 11, 2003
GRP pea STSf 1	STEP 2	zrrrp 3	3TE3 4	STEP 5	STEP 6	STEP	step 9	:tli a	Ai
V*	AMU BIN DL7 AT.Y	39, 170 , CiC 1.501.□» J ."i □ . 11 19.7636	IP.59J.06 1,695.29 156.59 19,4111	42,009.00 L,609.51 160,96 30.11*3	43,423.OO 1,663.?! 166.36 25.7965	"4,030. P-O 1,713.94 17L.30 2L.4743	4 6, 293.00 1,772,1* 22.1519	Ijl (Ti 0 p- •» n $ rt mJ tt #*1 « «Jd h> « M T	*8,9t0.0* 1,972.04 LB7,2L 23,4 ng*	51,059.00 1. 956.29 195.53 34.4996	1,419
27	AjJW	41. i19.gg	42,569.00	44.019.00	45,4*9,QO	46,919.00	4B,357,PD	*», aiv. to	51,064.00	93.362.00	1,450
	BIH	1,STt.4S	1,631.00	1,666.54	1,742.zl	L, 797.67	1,BSP.22	1. 909.76	L,956.40	7,041.53	
	L1Y	XS?.56	163 , ] O	16a.66	L74.22	’ 7 r77	£69.33	L90.0B	7 95 - 59	304.4 6	
	rtljZ	J 9. S9-7?	20,3a?*	21.0920	21,7754	22.*v09	23,1653	J3.BA*6	24.4960	29.5569	
Id	AUH	43, 107-00	44,C7a.06	46,169.00	47,600,00	41,191.00	50,642,00	5?, 1 12 . Pl>	*3,436.00	59,941.00	1, 49L
	BIW	1.694.66	1,7J.L. 91	1,760.93	3.016.06	1,393.19	1.940.31	1,997.44	2,047.36	2,139-51	
	DLT	Ifl*.4?	17L.19	170.90	153.61	18B.32	3 94.04	199.79	204.7-4	213,96	
	ULI	20.6539	BL.3976	33.1114	22.6256	23,5344	24.2939	24,9660	29,*930	26.7434	
15	AMW	45,319,op	46, 690.00	46,391.00	49. 913 . OP	61,443.00	52.974.00	*4,IDS.00	99.969.00	59,302.00	1. 531
	BTW	t,736.37	1,7 as.02	1.B53,66	1, 912.14	1,971.00	2,Q3».a*	2,099.32	2 , L-40.54	2.236.6*	
	PLY	173.64	L79.51	1"5.J7	191.24	197,IQ	Y02.97	206.64	214.p*	733.60	
	ALY	21.7046	22,4375	23-1710	23.9043	2-4 ,ea?s	25.3709	25.1040	2*,tiir	27.2*05	
20	AUH	47. <?*. r»a	43,199,O0	50/770.00	52,342.ng	bS,914.OO	99,496,DO	*7.0*9.00	95. 494.00	61/116.00	1,572
	BIM	1,424.76	1,984.99	1,945,za	3,006.45	2,066.69	2,139.71	2,166.14	2, 2<0.77	1,711-"7	
	BLY	162.4B	15".50	104.S3	200,55	3DA.bv	212.60	215-62	2*14 .<19	234.17	
	HLY	?2 . IJ1-,	23.5624	24.3153	3* .Dial	25.B2L0	2 6.5 7.10	Sv.9269	26.0096	29.2701	
21	AHN	42, 976.00	51.509.00	9 3,1-07.00	54,606.00	56.415-DO	.49,024.00	99, 633.00	61.134 . DP	63,975.00	1.600
	Q3W	1.914.91	1.97*.Sa	2,039.20	2,099.95	7.1*1.50	2,223.19	2,261,7*	3,341.02	2,447.32	
	□LY	L91,60	197.66	203.62	209.99	21L.15	222.32	225,4"	234.20	244.74	
	HLY	23.3354	24.7070	25.4775	25,2401	23.0165	27.760*	36-9599	29.2740	30.5913	
ts	A KN	JI , .742.00	53,246.00	55, 151.00	ST, Xsi. 00	56. 961.00	60.J6J.00	62,771.00	64, 340. 00	67, ?30.00	I , 90-7
	HIM	2,V67.60	3,040,00	2.113-07	3, 166.06	2,259.05	3.032.04	2,409.02	2,465.14	2,57*.0*	
	OL'Y	196.71	204.01	±Z1.31	SIB.61	225-91	293.21	240,51	J 4*, *2	397.61	
	H1A	24 .5666	25.5010	26.4134	27.3259	!".ssai	29.1905	30 . <1*39	3u.9143	32.2006	
23	RUN	53. 773 . □ <!	95,764.00	57,755,00	.19, 74* . 0 0	61,737.00	63. 725- DO	6b,710.00	67,362.00	70,393,00	1,99]
	azu	2.060.27	2,136.56	1,JI?,E4 22t.29	1,269.12	2,395,41	3.441.69	2,917.97	2,500,52	7, *»7 . p.1	
	11LY	506.03	215.56		229.92	Jib.bb	244.17	251,BO	359.ID	260.71	
	HL'Y	35.7534	26.7070	27,6605	3".4140	29.5676	30.5211	SI . 474*	32.2615	33.7191	
24	A (QI	66, 369.00	56,469.no	*□,S69.00	62,669.00	54,799- l>0	66,959.00	66,969.00	in, 6*3 . tip	73.674.dD	2,3 D-D
	Bjw	2j159.74	2.240.3p	2,320.66	2,401.12	2.401-*9	2,562.04	2, 012.50	2,76a.96	2.690.43	
	DLY	215.9"	224.02	232.07	210.1?	34B.16	296,21	?*4.3b	2 70.66	263.05	
	HT.Y	26.91469	26.0026	29,0063	7'0 .01 441	31.0199	33.0355	33.0313	33.6569	35.3504	
"	i.	I; * ।	•	z
xmjNiSxE
JudiciM Employees (AFSCME)
40.00 ttoilr Week
EFFECTIVE JUNE 25, 2004
GMC	tee.	STEP 1	STEP a	5Tce j	STEP 4	STEF	17C» 6	STEP 7	STEP 0	STEP 9	Ar
07	AMW	27 r €99.00	29,306.00	21,947 . *o	29,S8D.DO	30,2x7.50	$0,844.00	31,491.00	32,238.OO	33.731,VP	oyt
	biw	1,060.12	1,064.53	l,io9- »;i	3, 133.34	1,1S7.74	1,10?,15	7.208.36	1,236.71	1,292.38	
	PLY	106.02	109,46	114 -»O	113.34	115.79	110.32	120.86	123.68	129.24	
	HLY	U,?MS	13 , jr. rlr,	13.9616	14.168B	14 .4710	1-4.7769	18.0820	IB.4SB9	16.1548	
OB	TlMN	29.44 5,CO	$ci, jnfl . On	31.715.do	31.9 = 0.40	32,785.00	3 3, r.?Q, OCi	±4.4S£.00	36,316.00	36,905.00	£35
	BIW	l.lJj-l 7	7,7 8g.?€	1.193.16	I-. 224.14	1,256.14	1,206.13	1.320.12	L,3S3.11	1,413.99	
	DLY	112 . BP	11 5-Q2	Ht. *4	L22.42	125.62	129.02	13>.02	138.32	141.40	
	HLY	1 4 . l-dtJ	t« , *>g21J	1 4 .9019	IS.3019	15.7O1B	10,1016	16.501 5	16.9139	13.6749	
09	aww	30,225.00	31. 122.00	32,019.00	16-00	33,813.00	34 r 71D.OD	35,607,00	36,4 97,PV	38,139.0*	867
	BIX	1.136.03	1 , 192.42	1,226,73	1,26] - 7 0	1.295.S2	1,329.89	1,364,26	1,390,79	1,4 51 . ?7	
	DLY	115.61	119.23	122,69	1?8-13	124.S6	132.99	136.43	139,64	116,13	
	RLY	14.4756	14.9053	15.3319	1 5.7 64 4	16.1940	16.6236	17.0333	17.4795	10,2659	
10	ANS	31,075.00	72, OH , OO	33,013.40	33.992.00	34.951,00	50,420,Ou	38,800.00	37,811.00	39,812.OO	969
	BIN	1,190.52	1,227,74	L, 26'4 .B7	1,302.00	1.339-1?	1.976.PS	1,413.38	1,448.70	1,813.87	
	PLY	13 9,07	122.7}	124.49	130.20	133 -»?	7 17.65	J 4 1.34	344.87	1S1.39	
	FU.Y	i<4 . on^f*	1.* .	r*aH	15.9109	7 6•P7?p	16-7390	3 7 , Soil	17.1871	18.3 088	18.9234	
11	A-NM	32,3*1 .SO	13,JS*.op	74 r 351,90	R5.	, pp	J fr, .7 41 .00	±7,466.CP	.18,473 .<10	3 M, .13 C"l . PC	4i , ’ 00.00	1. 008
	fiLH	1,239.12	3,277.03	1,315,14	].&U4,44	1.	- 15	3.4J1,6p	?,470.)6	1 . ,1C 9 • 91>	3,874.72	
	DLY	123.92		131.62	135.47	139.J2	113.17	147,02	150,09	2 57,49	
	KLY	1£.4 890	1 *, . V7D4	16,4 51B	16.9330	17.4114	17,8956	19.3770	18.8363	19.6645	
12	ANN	33.381 .-CO	34,419.00	41'bhp n<l	M. 513.00	37 , 557.CO	38.601.00	39,949.00	40, 636.00	42,4 6S.00	1 , 044
	Bln	1,276.9 r	] P :n n . y7	7.356.97	1.399.97	1, 43B.97	1,478.97	1, SI 9.97	1,SS6.94	1,627.02	
	DLz	127.20	7 fl? . 40	13H,90	139.90	143.90	147.90	181.90	J 8S.70	382,71	
		1 5.087 L	16 , 4 977	16.9871	17.4B7I	17.9871	18.48*1	19.5871	1 9 . 481 (4	?0.$$79	
13	ANN	3 fa, 2 4 3 . i; 11	70.543.00	37,94 3 . 00	39, 143.00	4C, 4*3.-0U	4 3. >44,00	4 3,04 3. 30	4 0. 119.00	46,154.00	1. 900
	az w	I , ,1S<>. J >	1,400.12	1,44 9.93	1 <	. ?4	T , 547.M,	1.399.35	1,649.16	1, 69-9.39	1,766.44	
	D2.Y	133,134	140.02	349.3d	14t.SH	151.96	159.94	164.92	169.04	376,65	
	HLY	15.0739	17.SD1S	10.1341	19.71 E 0	19.3694	19.9919	20.6348	?1 • 1/99	22.0905	
14	VIS	36,332.00	36,.42.Op	39,552.04	40,912.00	42,272.00	4-i. IC-JP . Cid	44,992.90	46, 1L 7 .CO	49,102.00	1 ,380
	Bit?	1,411.19	'. , 4 If 3 , 7 0	L,SIS .4 1	.1 , £67.31	3 , 63 4.6P	1, 671 .73	1,723.94	1,?88.94	] 4 Mt. 4*1	
	DLY		146.33	151.ER	1=5.74	141•97	167.18	172.3?	176.70	154 . 6 3	
	rl l y	a 7 , t- 3 0 9	19.2913	1H-9426	19.5939	20.2463	20.6S6r.	21 . 54 BO	22.2868	23.0808	
13	ANN nr w	79,496.00 1,«74.9}	39,920.du 1,328.7*	41 ,304.04 ],5B2.53	42.709.00 1,636.33	44,112.00 1, 600. 3 2	48,516.70 lr''13. 92	46, 920.00	4 H, <l ? .1. u 11 U42 . (i5	•3CL 2:* ?. oc* x *323 S£	1 , 404
	BC.Y	]17.50	. R2.8I>	1 58.2 6	J 63.64	3 64,Q?	174.40	\ M ’ H	1E4.21	• as* ftfj	
	HliY	1 d . -3 3 6 9	i Q . : i> h	19. 7816	20.4 £4 1	? 1 .1265	21 .7090		23.033.	?-l .0695	
ukP
0?
CT
CT
PER
au>1 BIW PT.f HLI
ANE4 M1W PLY BLY
*w OIH CtA HLY
AWN BIN C-L* HT.r
AWW MW BLY KJ,Y
ARM
BIN
DLY HL*
amw
RX» sir nil
ANJ4
B1V< DLY 8TY
AWW 2J2W Ol.'J Kit
APPENDIX F
Judicial Employees (AFSCME) 40*00 Hour Week EFFECTIVE JUNE 24, 2005
iitr 1	STEP :	SMr 3	STEP 4	STtf 5	3TRP 6	S7£P 7	ST*P “	5 FEB 9	M
?e. -soa -on i. rfi.*6 109.20 13.649!	29,L57.DO ia.9641	29,514.09 ] . 14?.±0 114.23 14.2765	SO, 471 .-30 1, 167.46 116.73 74.5935	3L,128, pn . 1 JI. €9 110.27 14.9 DSL	31,765.00 1,217.62 121,79 13.7238	32,-442 , Cd 1,24-3.49 124.30 19.5374	33,253.OO 1,274,07 127,41 15 • 9?6«	39,749.00 1. 3 1 , H ■ 133.1* 16.6423	£53
30,329.00 1.162.04 1 4 . 62 SS	31,140.CO 1,146.02 115.51 L4.9376	32.061.00 , 225.01 122.51 15.3501	37,31700 1,?61.00 7 2b.10 15.1625	33,773.00 L, 293.99 129.40 16.1749	34 ,'604.0* 1,334.96 1$2.70 16.5673	36,495.00 1,399.97 136.CO 16.9995	38.382 - DO 1.393.56 133.40 17.4244	38,019.00 1,496.67 145.67 18.2D64	B 62
31,132.00 L,192.60 119.3" i<. amo	32,056,00 1.3=8.30 122.62 IS.3529	37,48d . 05 1.263.61 126.37 15.7951	3 3. 904.05 L,799.01 129.91 16.2376	34 . 830 , Pp 1,AN4.41 133.45 15.69D1	95.752.CO 1,369.61 136.99 17.1275	36.676,P0 1,4O!4 , 22 140.53 17.5 653	07,903.OO 1,440.39 144,34 L6.004-4	39,265,OO 1.505,18 150-07 7 6-S14S	
32,009.00 1,226.37 127.£4 16.3296	33,007.00 7.?«4 . C< 126.4? 15.6030	3< ,006.nA I,962.92 130.3D 16.2555	35,00=.CO 1,341.13 134 -13 7 6.7 54 9	36,004.DO X.379.47 137.9= 17.2434	77, 0<l3.00 '141.78 17.72]8	36,002.00 1.456.02 ] 48, n 16.2003	38.952.00 1 . 4-42.42 149.25 18.6553	40,706.00 1,959.SB *55,96 19•40* B	933
33,312.00 1,276.33 127,414 1.4.9641	34,346.DO 1. 316 .02 16.4503	35, 384 .90 1. JL5 3 . J7 135.56 16.9464	3 {. , 4 Y □ . 0 0 1,J95.41 139.S3 17,4426	37,456.00 1,435.ID 14 3. JI 17, jmsa	36, 492.00 1,474.75 16.4340	39, 528 . DC 7,514.49 261.49 IS .9311	40.516.00 1.592.34 195,24 39,4043	42,339,OP 1. 67?. 13 16?-J? 2<l .2 ?V*	1,036
34,363.00 1, 317,Ifi 131-74 1 6 , *6ru	35,455.00 1.355.55 175,Of 7 A.4924	36,535.nj 1,396.81 X3p . 'J'J 17.4676	•I7Z r. 11 . :><i 1 4 <44 1.04 Lfl.01^0	3s,667.00 1.462.27 149.23 16.5264	39,763.00 3,523.49 192.39 19.0436	40,639.00 1,064.72 156.48 19,5593	41.860-00 1,601,44 ]CP.39 .diuc	4>, 7 4 4 . CO 1,pVb.02 lbl.il 20.9503	1,076
1£,301.0-C 1,390.65 13D.09 17.3566	37. 640 .CO 1, 442 . IS 144.22 19.0269	39,O"5.00 1.493.45 145.35 LB .6651	4C ,316.00 1,944.76 164.49 19.3092	41,657.00 1,556.66 159.61 19.9506	42,996.DO 1,647.36 164.74 20.9920	44,335,00 1,698.66 168,87 21.2333	45.443. np 1.741,12 174,12 21.7640	4',', 4HN . tip 1.019. 4 J 181,95 72-7434	1,339
37, 937.00 1,453.33 145.36 16•1 C91	39,338.0C 1,SD7.21 150,7J 15.9471	4C, 739. 0d 1,9 6D.69 106.05 19.Sill	42,140.20 i,614.66 161.4 6 2-C .1923	43,341.00 1,66B.24 166.63 2C- 6530	44,942.00 1,721 .32 L72.20 31.5240	4 6, 34 3 . CO 1,775.60 177 .56	43,503.00 1,620.DO 1B3.00 27•7T0D	49,640 00 1.901.92 130.70 73.7740	1,431
.19,4! ?l 1 . Dv 1,910.ZC 1=1.92 16 . 91-0 2	11, 095,00 3 g *>74 . J.T ’ 151.47 n . K tr .1 u	42.545.OC I,6>0.OS 163.01 in.37 50	43,393.DC •. r-er 5z 163.56 73 .nn?n	4 J, 4 3 9.0-3 1. 7-70.96 174.LO ?1 .7620	46,966.00 1,7?6.40 179.64 22.4950	4B.333 PC 1.E51.54 163.19 23.1480	49, 541., OC 1. 6 98,j 3 LB9.62 23.72 56	51,77 D . 00 1.SB! . = 3 1 BE.IS 24.3 B41	1. 447
APPENDIX F
Judicial Employees (AFSCME) 40.00 Hour Week
EFFECTIVE JUNE 24, 2005

GRP	PER	STEP 1	STEP Z	STEP 3	£TTP 4	STEP 5	BTEF 6	ST6P 7	■AT^P d	Slip 9	Al
3 fi	*oaw	11,565.00	43,067,09	41,560.00	46.071.QO	47. 510.UO	49, 075. DO	SO,5*7.90	51,841.00	54.174.00	1,502
	aiw	L, 592 l53	1.650,OB	] ,797.S3	1.165.18	1.622.73	1. 890.27	1. 837.4?	1,980.26	3,075.E4	
	dly	159-36	145-01	170.09	176.5J	182 .28	100-05	193.79	190.63	2D7.57	
	Ml-r	i».0066	20.6250	21.3454	22.0648	37,7*41	29.6034	24.2228	24.9281	25.9495	
11	A MN	43. £24.00	45. 163.00 '	44,702.OO	48,241.OO	49,180,09 '	51,319.OO	52, 858 .DO	54,L79.OO	55,617.OO	1,529
	"BIN?	1. 67L.42	1,730.35	1,769,35	1,040-32	1,961.20	1,966.25	2,025.22	2,075.03	2.169.24	
	DLY	L67.15	173.94	170,94	184.04	120.73	L96,63	202.53	ZO7,59	716.93	
	HL*	20.BBSS	21.6299	32.7B4?	23.3040	23.8410	24.5*81	25-315J	4!) , 0«14	27.1*55	
IB	ANN	<i,Bia.Op	47,401.OO	41,984.00	50,367,00	57.150,00	59,733.00	65,316.00	56,699.00	69,250.DO	1,6-B.i
	Aid	L,755.48	1,916.14	1,076,73	a P 937.44	1.298.09	2,058.74	7,119.39	Z,1*2,30	2.270.12 227.02	
	SLY	1*5,55	1 *3 . 42	1 01 . £0	193.75	199.81	ZOO.00	111.04	211.24		
	KLY	21.5435	22.7D1B	23.4099	?4r3HD	24 .1)7 01	25 . 7343	26.4924	27.1540	2B,3765	
	ANN	48,080.00	49,706,00	51.330-on	s=. 4sS.00	54,560.OO	56,205.00	57,030.00	59.8*6,00	51,043 , DO	1.625
	BIW	1,042.13	1,904,43	1. 9C»,07	2.028.93	2, O9L.19	2,153.43	2,2l9,11	2.271.12	2,373.SU	
	BLY	184.22	130,45	190-Bl	202.90	209.L2	215.33	727 ,00	227-12	237.22	
	HL*	73.0340	23.nail	24.5824	25.3616	26,1399	75-0101	27.6964	26.3890	29.6662	
23	am er	50,527.00	52, 196.00	53,865•OO	55,571,□□ 2,127.74	SI,209.00	58, 872.DO	60,541.00	62,055.00	64,047,00	1,669
	BIW	1. 915 ,9]	1.999-08	;,O4J-BO		2,191,69	2.235.44	319.50	9,319.60	2,404.96	
	PLY	103•«O	144.96	206.98	212.79	219.17	.125.Bl	231.96	237.76	246.46	
	HT.Y	24.19B9	24.9901	25.7975	26,5950	27.3061	28.1965	28.9948	29.7199	31.0570	
21	AMt4	53,024.09	54.732.00	5i,440•OO	JI,340.00	59,956.00	61,564.00	63. 3*8.60	41,031.no	B7P 7 72PQO	I, 70®
	BIW	2,031.SB	2,097,gi	1,102-40	2,227.90	2,293,34	3,330.70	5.4J4.02	2,4B1.03	2,696.62	
	DLY	Z03 ,16	703-71	210.25	222.76	229,34	235.00	242.42	240.49	299.67	
	KLY	Z3-7940	26.2120	27.0398	27.8498	20,5650	29.4040	30.9028	3L.0604	32.4979	
2Z	AHM	54,460.00	56,491.00.	S3,313.00	60, 533,00	EJ.3£7.On	64,679.00	66, 60L . DO	68,256.OO	71,336.00	2,022
	H7W	2,005.94	2,164.41	2,241.98	2.319.35	2.90S.82	2,474.30	2,561.77	2,615.56	2,733,26	
	ul*	208.70	216.43	2Z1 . L9	231,04	299.69	247.43	205.10	Z51.56	3*3,33	
	HL*	25.9068	27.0551	Z0 ,0235	£0.4010	29.9603	30.92 50	31.0971	33.6945	54 1650	
23	ANN	57. 049•90	54. 1B2 . Ao	Bl .216.06	61. 388.00	68,SOL.00	57.614,00	64,127.00	71,470.00	14.686.00	2. 17 2
	$iw	2.105.79	2.265.75	2,347.71	2,429.66	2,509.67	3.S0O.58	2,671.54	2,738.32	2,861.54	
	DLY	210.58	226.68	234.70	242,07	JSO.sal	259.06	267.16	273.84	2B6.16	
	HL*	27.3234	28.3341	29,3-154	30.Jsna	31.9703	92.38 23	33.3943	34 - 3290	35,7693	
21	ANN	59, 003 . OO	62,031,OO	61,259,00	5«1,qo	60,716.OO	70,943.DO	73,171,90	75,COO.00	78,375,00	□	"3 T n
	BIW	2,291,31	2P 37fi.	2,402.04	2,541.40	2,632,70	7,718.13	ID3.4?	1	■	onl. as	
	nt.y	22? . t<4	237.67	246.21	294.74	253-70	'F 1 R7	280.35	287.06	300.20	
	hXy	26,0414	29.7084	30.7755	3? .14^3	32.9095	33.9766	35.04 36	35.9196	37.5360	

APPENDIX F
Judicial Employees (AFSCME) 40.00 Hour Week
EFFECTIVE JUNE 24, 2005
State of Connecticut
JUDICIAL BRANCH
JcMfh H. Pdtoitlao * ' CMif Court AA*iai*ralir
Retort D. Ceff^, E*^ CUefNvcoltator
Eric	E*«j-
Pabtk DefeeJer&rvfce?
Robert CaBsb^kafi
Cnrt S^pert Scrrieee Dtrtdou
Vieki MkJp»
Offltfe of the CMrf Court AdmtaiitntDr
ft Alt or CONNECTICUT JUDICIAL EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 7*9, COUNCIL *, AFSCMEAFL-CtO
Cheris Cyr__ Court Support
B*Oy Ksritod CUefNcpXiitfvr
Ukut DMikan, FvHfcDctaferS
-Terri Fom ____________
C'oarl 8uj^»ort Spricej DJvitfon
Superior t>xirr
VertrnkiNcfrah Superior Conn
^-v.
Superier Ctnat
Men?
sSwpmor Cowt' f
‘/-(ft
Btily Kuh&d, Chief Negotiator DATE Forttec
STATZ OF CONNECnCUT JUDICIAL EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 749, COUNCIL 4, AISCME, AFL-CMb UNION
STATE OF CONNECTICUT JUDICIAL EMPLOYEES, LOCAL 749, COUNCIL 4, ATSCME, AIL-C1O UNION