Cornell University ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see http://diqitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -http://diqitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Freightliner Corporation and International Union, United Automobile. Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) Local 5285 (2003)
K#: 4205
Employer Name: Freightliner Corporation
Location: NC Mt. Holly
Union: International Union, United Automobile. Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW)
Local: 5285
SIC: 3711
Sector: P
NAICS: 336211
Number of Workers: 1200
Effective Date: 06/19/03
Expiration Date: 06/19/06
Number of Pages: 185
Other Years Available: N
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/


AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FREIGHTLINER LLC
MT. HOLLY, NORTH CAROLINA
AND

INTERNATIONAL UNION, UAW LOCAL 5285
JUNE 19,2003 TO JUNE 19, 2006
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
	Preamble	1
	Agreement	1
Article I	Recognition	2
Article II	Management’s Rights	3
Article til	Representation	3
Article IV	Notification	6
Article V	Seniority	7
Article VI	Grievance and Arbitration Procedure	14
Article VII	Hours of Work	19
Article VIII	Wage Rates and Overtime	22
Article IX	Holidays	30
Article X	Vacations	33
Article XI	Layoff/Recall	42
Article XII	Job Posting	45
Article XIII	Transfer of Shift	53
Article XIV	Leave of Absence	54
Article XV	Discipline and Discharge	58
Article XVI	Health and Safety	59
Article XVII	No Strikes or Lockouts	75
Article XVIII	No Discrimination	76
ArtideXIX	Miscellaneous	77
	Work by Management Personnel	77
	Medical Personnel	77
	Emergency Notification Procedures	78
	Break Area and Lunch Rooms	79
	Legislation	79
	Garnishments	79
	Extreme Bad Weather Conditions	80
	Work Related Physical Exams Conflict Between Company Rules	80
	and Contract	81
	Bulletin Boards	81
	Injury to Employees	81
	Unjust Incarceration	82
	Paid Bereavement Leave	82
PAGE
	Jury Duty Pay	84
	Employee Sales Days	85
	Tools	85
	Alcohol and Drug Abuse	85
	Tuition Refund	85
	Successors	87
	Payday	87.
	Voting Area in Plant	88
	UAW-V-Cap Check OFF	88
	Orientation Program	88
	Recreation Club	89
	In-Plant Union Office & Equipment	89
	Skilled Trades	90
	Training	91
	Security Cameras	91
	Freightliner LLC Products	91
	UAW Decal	92
Article XX	Contract Printing	92
Article XXI	Scope of Agreement	92
Article XXII	Authorization ior Check-ott Dues	93
Article XXIII	Health and Welfare	96
Article XXIV	Pension Program	96
Article XXV	Paid Sick Leave	96
Article XXVI	Short Term Disability	98
Article XXVII	Long Term Disability	99
Article XXVIII	Life, Accident, and Disability Plans	99
Article XXIX	"41 Time’	99
Article XXX	Employee Retirement Savings	
	- Plan (401-K)	102
Article XXXI	Duration of Agreement	103
Attachment A	Mt, Holly Plant Wage Schedule	109
Attachment B	EAP/Drug and Alcohol Policy	114
Attachment C	Benefit Plans	121
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
1.	Leadpersons	149
2,	Attendance Control Policy	150
3.	Attendance Control Policy	153
4.	Sick Pay CDS lime’)	154
5.	Subcontracting	154
6.	International Union Leave	155
7.	Union Representation	155
8.	US Health Care System Concerns	156
9.	Local Union Leave	157
10.	Overtime Scheduling	157
11.	Accident Investigation Procedure	157
12,	Monday Or Friday Absences	158
13.	Light Duty Placement	158
14.	401 K Loan Enhancement	159
15.	HMO Dental (Cigna)	159
16.	LOU Skilled Trades	159
18.	Displacement/ Balancing o1	Manpower	160
19.	LOU Health & Safety Issues (2000 & 2003)	161
20.	LOU Workweek Defined	167
21.	LOU Report In Pay Language	168
22.	LOU Movement & Stocking of Parts	168
23.	Lou Vacation Anniversary Dales	169
24.	LOU Job Security	169
25.	LOU Joint Benefits Committee	t7O
26.	LOU Wage & Benefits Adjustments	171
27.	LOU Disability (STD- LTD)	172
28.	LOU Discount Internet Access	173
29.	LOA Holiday (Ratification Day)	173
30.	LOA Negotiation Cost	173
31.	LOA UNION FLAG	174
32.	LOA Profit Sharing
iii
EfiEAMSLE
Section 1,
The successful operation of the Company's business is hereby declared to be of mutual interest and both parties hereto desire to preserve, promote, and improve industrial and economic relationships, safety, cleanliness and economy and to improve and increase the quantity and quality of work performed. The Company and the Union recognize the principle of a fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay.
Sgg.Ugg_2c
The Company and the Union recognize the principle of a fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay. In general, a fair day’s work is one that is fair to both the Company and the employee. This means that the employee should give a full day’s work for the time that he or she gets paid, with reasonable atlowance for personal delays and fatigue. He or she is expected to operate in the prescribed method at a pace that may be considered representative of all-day performances by the experienced, cooperative employee.
AGREEMENT
This Agreement, made this 19 day of June, 2003. by and between Freightliner Corporation, (hereinafter designated as the “Company") and the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, UAW, on its own behalf and on behalf of Its Local No. 5285 (hereinafter referred
1
to as the “Union") covering employees in its bargaining unit at Mt. Holly, North Carolina. (Wheneverthe term he, him, his, etc. are used in this Agreement, it shall be considered to have the same intent and meaning of equal application to the female gender.)
WITNESSETH. That the parties mutually agree as follows:
ARTICLE I RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative for Production and Maintenance employees at its production facility located at Mt. Holiy, North Carolina, for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment or other conditions of employment covered by this Agreement. Whenever used in the Agreement, the word “employee" shall mean any person employed in the unit as defined by the National Labor Relations Board, Case No. II-RC-5666 in the Certification of Representative, but excluding all other employees such as but not limited to Supervisors, Professional Employees, Guards, Office Employees, employees whose duties are of a confidential nature, and any excluded employee as defined in the Labor Management Relations Acts of 1947, as amended.
2
ARTICLE II MANAGEMENT’S RIGHTS
Se£iien_L
it is expressly understood and agreed that all the rights heretofore exercised by the Company as the owner and operator of the business and not expressly contracted away by a specific provision of this Agreement are retained solely by the Company and may be impaired only with the express consent of the Company.
Section 2,
The-Company agrees that the, rights of Management will not be applied in any manner that is inconsistent with the provision of agreement.
ARTICLE III REPRESENTATION
Section 1.	The Union shall be represented in the plant by three (3) full-time Representatives on the day shift. One (1) Representative shall be elected or appointed to serve as President/ Local Union Shop Chairman. The second Representative shah be apppjntgd- tp serve as„the Benefits, Representative, The third Representative shall be appointed to serve as the Health and Safety Representative. In addition, an appropriate number of shop Committeepersons will be recognized as provided for in Section 2 below. At the time of their election or appointment to office, all Committeepersons and Rep
3
resentatives shall be employees on the active payroll of the Company. At that time, the Union will provide written notice to the Company that an employee is authorized to act on behalf of the Union.
Section 2.	The calculation of Committeepersons, who will be apportioned on the basis of one (1) per every 150 bargaining unit employees, or a major portion thereof, is based upon increases of the plant population above 300 bargaining unit employees. However, in the event that the total bargaining unit employees is reduced below the 300-employee mark, Committeeperson(s) will be retained on the basis of one (1) per every 150 bargaining unit employees, or a major portion thereof on each shift, in the plant. The Company will recognize one committeeoerson for the 3^ shift/ off shift as long as constituents are assigned.
Section 3.	Alternate Committeepersons for each area and Representatives will be permitted to function when the regular Committeeperson or Representative is absent from work. The Union will notify the Personnel Department when an alternate is acting in place of a Committeeperson or Representative.
Section 4.	Committeepersons will handle grievances in Steps 1,2 and 3 of the grievance procedure only for employees in their respective area of jurisdiction within the plant.
Section 5.	No employee shall stop his assigned work for any purpose related to the investigation or settlement of a grievance without promptly requesting per
4
mission of his supervisor to do so, which shall normally be granted within one (1) hour, unless it regards an immediate safety issue.
Section 6.	Should a Committeeperson wish to discuss a grievance with an employee, he shall make his desires known to his supervisor and request permission. If the discussion requires him to enter a work area other than his own, he shall report to the supervisor of that area, state his reason for being there, and request permission to meet with the employee with whom he needs to speak. It is understood that where the above discussions are permitted, they will be as brief as possible and Committeepersons and employees will promptly return to their jobs.
Section 7.	Where grievance-handling activities occur during regular working hours, the Committeepersons will not lose pay. It is understood that the time so spent will be reasonable. Where such activities extend beyond regular working hours, overtime pay will only be given upon prior consent of the Company. The Company will grant time to handle grievances upon request of the Committeeperson. It is understood that such requests will normally be granted within one (1) hour or as soon as reasonably practicable if circumstances prevent the immediate release of a Committeeperson to handle a grievance.
Section 8.	If the Company believes that the use of representation time is being abused, a meeting will be scheduled with Representatives of the International Union, for the purpose of discussing the alleged abuse
5
and to take appropriate action to eliminate any abuse that is found to exist.
Section 9.	Any and all activities not related to the Grievance procedure or other matters expressly provided for in this Agreement will be considered Union business and will not be conducted on Company premises or during Employees' working hours.
Section 10.	The three (3) full-time Representatives of the Union shall be paid by the Company, at the straight time rate of their regular classification for fifty (50) hours per week.
Section 11,	When employees are working overtime in a Committeeperson’s area, the Committeeperson from such area shall be included in the overtime work group. In the event the Committeeperson is not able to perform the work, or is unavailable, an alternate Committeeperson or one (1) of the Representatives may be scheduled to work.
ARTICLE IV NOTIFICATION
Section 1.	The Union shall furnish the Company with a list of employees acting in the capacity of Shop Committeeperson and their alternates. The Union will also furnish a list of the names of ail officers of the Local Union.
Section 2,	Ail supervisors will be authorized to handle grievances at the first step of the procedure. Addition
6
ally, the Corporation win furnish the Union a list of all supervisory personnel quarterly.
Section 3,	The Company shall furnish the International Union and Local Union with three (3) lists of the names of al! employees in the bargaining unit together with their last known mailing addresses, telephone number and social security number as reflected in the Company’s personnel records through information supplied by the said employees. Thereafter, at quarterly intervals, the Company shall supply the Union with appropriate revisions and additions to such mailing list. It is expressly understood that the use of such mailing lists shall be restricted to appropriate Union purposes and the information thereon shall notbe disclosed toany third parties.
All employees are encouraged to provide a telephone number through which they can be contacted.
Section 4.	The Company will keep the Union informed of changes in bargaining unit employee’s status as they occur by providing the Union with a copy of the Company's Form 190 (PAF) within three (3) working days.
ARTICLE V SENIORITY
Section 1.	An employee's seniority shall be computed from the timeof initial employment by the Employer in any capacity within the bargaining unit, except that a new employee shall be on probation for the first forty-five (45) days worked. After the forty-five (45) days
7
worked, a new employee shall be placed on the seniority list and given seniority rating as of the first day last hired by the Employer. Retention or termination of probationary employees shall be at the Employer’s sole discretion and specifically excluded from the grievance procedure, except for reason related to illegal discrimination or union affiliation. Retention or termination of probationary employees shall not be based on illegal discrimination and/or union affiliation.
Section 2.	Seniority shall be lost and employment terminated for any of the following reasons:
A.	Voluntary resignation;
B.	Discharge for just cause;
C.	Retirement;
0. Three (3) working days unreported (absence without notification to the Company for three (3) consecutive working days) unless the absence is of such a serious nature that it was impossible for the employee to provide or arrange for the provision of the required notification to the Company and is substantiated by medical documentation;
E.	Absence for five (5) consecutive working days without a reasonably satisfactory excuse;
F.	Failure to report to work within three (3) working days following notification of recall from layoff. However, it is understood and agreed to by the
8
parties that this three (3) working day rule wilt be automatically extended to seven (7) working days if the laid-off employee has taken work with another company during such period of layoff;
The only use of temporary employees in this Agreement shall be as defined below:
1.	Temporary employees shall only be used as summer vacation replacements.
2.	Employees who are on layoff who decline the opportunity to return for temporary summer employment shall not lose seniority.
3.	Employees who do return to temporary summer employment shall retain their original layoff date.
4.	Each year laid off employees will be offered temporary summer employment beginning with the most senior employee on layoff and in descending order thereafter.
5.	All other provisions of the Agreement will apply to these employees, except as specified in Article X, Section 5.
& Temporary employees may exercise shift preference among other temporary employees bv seniority at their time of initial placement. In the event it is necessary to transfer temporary employees outside their initiaLwork group, it will be done in consideration of seniority and their ability to do the lob.
G.	Layoff or medical leave of absence for a continuous period of time exceeding the applicable accumulation limit. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during
9
periods of layoff or medical leave of absence for an employee with seniority for a period equal to such employee's service with the Company or a minimum of thirty-six (36) months. During the 2003 negotiations. it was agreed that during the life of this agreement, no employee will lose seniority due to layoff.
Section 3.	It shall be the responsibility of the employee to keep both the Company and the Union informed of current address. During periods of layoff, the employee shall provide notice in writing of any change in address. Failure on the part of the employee to keep the Company informed of the correct address releases the Company of any responsibility of any back pay liabilities for failure to be recalled by seniority. Upon notice of recall by certified mail, the employee shall report to work within three (3) working days. The three (3) working days provision may be extended at the Company’s discretion upon reasonable and acceptable proof of failure to report to work but not to exceed seven (7) days.
Notice of loss of seniority and termination will be given to the employee involved at the employee's last known address, in writing, promptly after an entry to that effect is made in the personnel records of the Company.
Section 4.	A seniority list shall be prepared by the Employer each three (3) months for all employees covered by this Agreement and posted in one (1) agreed central location in the plant. The Union shall receive a copy of this list. The employee with the most Company seniority will be first on the list and the
10
employee with the least Company seniority will be the last. During periods of layoff, a seniority list of employees on layoff will similarly be provided to the Union.
Should any objections arise to seniority listing, such objections shall be made within thirty (30) days after posting the roster, with the exception that any employee who is off work due to injury, illness or layoff at the time of posting the roster shall have a thirty (30) day period after returning to work to enter such objection.
Section 5.	Commencing after ratification of this Agreement, employees who are transferred or promoted to positions within the Company outside of the bargaining unit and are subsequently separated from that job, will not have the opportunity to return to a job in the Bargaining Unit.
Section 6,	Notwithstanding their natural seniority, all active Committeepersons under Article III, Sections 1 and 2, who are involved in contract administration activities shall be deemed to have the top seniority for purposes of layoff and recall provided they are qualified to perform available work. During periods of layoff and recall, the President of the Local Union, Health and Safety, and the Benefits Representatives shall be deemed to have the top seniority in the Plant.
Section 7.	Step 1. For the purpose of establishing seniority, employees with the same hire date will be rank ordered (top tobottom) alphabetically based on the first letter of their last names. Among a group of employees with the same hire date, those with the first
11
letter of their last names coming closest to the beginning of the alphabet will be considered to have more seniority than those with the first letter of their last names coming farther down the alphabet.
Example:	Name	Hire Date
Robert Jones	10/25/79
George White	10/25/79
* Thomas Babcock	10/25/79
Sheldon Right	10/25/79
Among these employees, Thomas Babcock is the most senior followed by Robert Jones, Sheldon Right, and George White in rank seniority order.
Step 2. Employees who have the same hire date and the same first letter of their last names will be rank ordered (top to bottom), for purposes of seniority, according to the subsequent letters in their last names.
Example:	Name	Hire Date
Edward Brighton	10/25/79
Thomas Boggs	10/25/79
* Robert Baker	10/25/79
Jane Bell	10/25/79
Among these employees, Robert Baker is the most senior followed by Jane Bell, Thomas Boggs, and Edward Brighton.
If two (2) or more employees have the same last name, first names and then middle initials will be considered in the same manner.
12
Step 3. Employees who have the same hire date and same name (Last, First, and Middle (initial) will be rank ordered (top to bottom) for purpose of seniority, according to the Representative value of their Social Security number in the following manner:
Add the last four digits of the employee's Social Security number together, and the employee with the highest total will have the most seniority. If the sum total of the last four digits is equal, the middle two numbers will be added together and, if necessary, the first three digits.
Example: Soc. Sec, # Name Hire Date
* 243-78-0190 Andy A. Jenkins 10/25/79 245-80-2631 Andy A. Jenkins 10/25/79 268-58-2206 Andy A. Jenkins 10/25/79 247-61-2710 Andy A. Jenkins 10/25/79
In the above example, the employees are ranked in seniority order by the value of their Social Security number.
Step 4. In ail instances, whether they are layoffs, recalls, promotions, transfers, or otherwise, where it has been designated that an employee's status is to be determined specifically by seniority, the above procedures will apply.
Step 5. In the application of this procedure, the employee's name, as of their hire date, will be used thereafter for the purpose of determining their seniority ranking.
13
Example;
NnLjvhenJdired	Nm, Changed To
Nnk tor -Sao.-Banking
Mary Ann Adams	Mary Ann Williams
Mary Ann Williams- (Adams)
ARTICLE VI
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
The Union and the Company encourage all employees to discuss and fully disclose to their supervisor any problem or complaint in an effort to resolve such problem or complaint before resorting to the grievance procedure. If after the employee has shared the facts of the matter with his supervisor, he requests his Committeeperson, the Company will summons the Committeeperson and no further inquiries will be made by the Company until the Committeeperson arrives.
Should a grievance occur, ail parties involved should make an earnest effort to ascertain the facts and seek a fair and equitable settlement through the use of the following procedure. Neither party will burden the formal grievance procedure with insignificant matters or cases unsupported by the facts or common sense.
if the complaint is not raised within two (2) working days, it shall be deemed abandoned and not entitled to consideration thereafter, unless the employee(s) were not aware of the facts leading to the grievance.
14
SsetiQll j
Step 1, In the event that the complaint is not settled between the employee and his immediate supervisor within twenty-tour (24) hours of the time it is raised, it will be reduced to writing on an agreed-upon form provided by the Union, and presented to the employee's Supervisor by the Committeeperson. The Supervisor's answer will be given in writing and placed in the designated box within three (3) working days after receipt of the grievance.
Step 2, If the grievance is not settled at Step 1, it may be presented to the Department Manager by the Committeeperson within three (3) working days after receipt of the Supervisor's answer in Step 1. The Department Manager’s answer will be given In writing and placed in the designated box within three (3) working days.
Step 3. In the event the department manager’s answer is not satisfactory, the Committeeperson may, within five (5) working days of the department manager’s answer, request a meeting in writing with the Personnel and Administration Manager to discuss the grievance. The Step 3 meeting will include the Plant Manager or his designee, the Personnel and Administration Manager or his designee, and other Management representatives as deemed appropriate by the Company and one (1) or two (2) Representative^) of the International Union, the Committeeperson who has handled the Grievance in Steps 1 and 2, and one (1) or two (2) fulltime Representatives as provided in Article lii, Sec
15
iron 1. This group shall meet within ten (10) working days of the written request by the Committeeperson. The Company's answer will be given within five (5) working days of the conclusion of the Step 3 meeting.
Step 4, Arbitration. If the matter is one subject to arbitration as provided in Article II, Management’s Rights, or one involving the discharge and discipline of employees pursuant to Article XV, Discipline and Discharge, hereof, and all conditions satisfied, including applicable time limits, then the Union may, within fifteen (15) working days of the Company’s answer in Step 3, request that the grievance be submitted to an arbitrator for determination pursuant to Sections 2 through 6 hereof. The fact that the Union does not request arbitration within the allotted time, or the fact that a grievance is withdrawn by the Union, will be without prejudice or precedent to either party.
Section 2. The written request for arbitration of a matter, which is arbitral under the terms of this Agreement, shall set forth the nature of the grievance. Upon receipt of such request, if it is one that is subject to arbitration, the Representative of the Union and the Representative of the Company shall attempt to agree upon an arbitrator to pass upon the matter. A mutually agreed upon permanent panel of five (5) arbitrators will be designated. The current process of selection, removal and replacement of arbitrators will continue to be used.
Sectton 3, The arbitrator so selected shall schedule
16
a prompt hearing at which time he shall have the power to make determinations of fact on the questions submit' ted to him and apply them to the provisions of the Agreement alleged to have been violated, so long as the matter is one which is subject to arbitration under the terms of this Agreement and so tong as it is submitted to him in accordance with the procedure herein specified. In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Agreement which are subject to arbitration and in making findings of fact in connection therewith, the arbitrator's interpretation must be in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
No arbitrator shall have the jurisdiction or authority to add to, take from, nullify or modify any of the terms of this Agreement or to impair any of the rights reserved to management under the terms hereof, either directly or indirectly, under the guise of interpretation; nor shall he have the power to substitute his discretion for that of management in any manner where management has not contracted away its right to exercise discretion. The arbitrator shall be bound by the facts and evidence submitted to him and may not go beyond the term of this Agreement In rendering his decision. No such decision may include or deal with any issue or matter, Which is not expressly made subject to arbitration under terms of this Agreement. The decision of the arbitrator shall be in writing and shall be final and binding upon the parties when rendered upon a matter within the authority of the arbitrator and within the scope of matters subject to arbitration as provided in this Agreement.
The decision of the arbitrator shall be rendered in writing within thirty (30) calendar days after the close
17
of the hearing or the date for submission of written briefs.
Section 4, Unless it is mutually agreed otherwise, each grievance, which is subject to arbitration, shall be handled by a separate arbitrator in a separate hearing, except grievances arising out of an identical set of facts or the same incidents may by agreement be heard together. It is further agreed that arbitration cases will be scheduled on a prioritized basis such that discharge cases or other potential back pay cases will be scheduled ahead of other pending cases.
Section 5. The fees of the arbitrator and the necessary expenses (exclusive of payment to witnesses) shall be borne equally by the parties. Each party shall pay the fees of his own counsel or representative, if an employee-witness is called by the Employer, the Employer will reimburse him for the time tost. The Company will also reimburse either the grievant or one (1) Union witness for time lost to attend the arbitration hearing. If other employee-witnesses are called by the Union, the Union will reimburse them for the time lost. Any non-emptoyee witness writ be compensated by the party requesting his appearance.
In the event an arbitrator is selected and a hearing date is scheduled and agreed upon by both parties and either party subsequently cancels such hearing, the party so canceling shall pay any cost assessed by the arbitrator.
Section 6,	Should it be determined that an employee, other than a probationary employee, was disciplined or
1.8
discharged without just cause as provided in Article XV, Section 2, Discipline and Discharge, he shall be restored to his former status; provided, however, any unemployment compensation or other compensation or remuneration from any source shall be credited against any back pay award.
Section 7,	In all cases, where agreed upon time limits appear herein, those time limits shall be strictly enforced. Such time limits maybe extended only by mutual agreement in writing. Absent such agreement should the Union or its members default on such limits, the grievance shall be deemed as closed and not subject to further review.
ARTICLE Vil HOURS OF WORK
Section 1, Employees will normally be scheduled to work forty (40) hours per week consisting of five (5) consecutive eight (B) hour days not inclusive of unpaid lunch periods.
The normal workweek witt be Monday through Friday.
A.	The normal shift hours during times at which the plant is operated at two shifts instead of three will be;
First Shift (days) 6:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
Second Shift (afternoons) 3:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m.
19
For employees on continuous twenty-four (24) hour operations, the normal hours of daily shifts shall be:
First Shift (days)	6:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Second Shift (afternoons) 2.30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m. 3:00p.m. to11:00p.m.
Third Shift (midnight) 10:30p.m.to6:30a.m. 11:00 p.m. to7:00 a.m.
For all Maintenance employees on continuous twenty— four (24) hour operations, the normal hours of daily shifts shall be:
First Shift (days) 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Second Shift (afternoons) 3.00 p.m. to 11.00 p.m.
Third Shift (midnight) 11:00p.m. to7:OOa.m.
Employees in support groups (Materials, Quality Assurance) will work the same hours as the areas they service.
Any Quality Assurance or Materials employee will be given a five (5) day notification for a change in start times. Notifications must be given on Monday, of a starting time on a particular shift and may be changed once every forty-five (45) calendar days.
B.	The normal workweek or shift starting times may be changed by mutual agreement of the parties. It is
20
agreed that neither party will unreasonably withhold their mutual agreement.
C.	(t is understood that this Agreement does not guarantee to any employee any number of hours of work per day or per week or days of work per week.
Section 2.	Employees will be provided one (1) paid fifteen (15) minute rest period during each half-shift, or four (4) hour period worked. Employees who are scheduled more than eight (8) hours will be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period at the beginning of the overtime period. In addition, employees will be allowed a paid ten (10) minute cleanup period just prior to the end of the work shift.
Section 3,	Any employee reporting for work (including signing in at the plant gate) shall be given a minimum of six (6) hours continuous work or six (6) hours' pay. Employees shall be deemed to have been ordered to work unless notified not to report at or before the close Of the previous shift worked, provided, however, in the event of a plant or department shutdown due to an occasion of national or local significance which calls tor a temporary shutdown, or due to an emergency beyond the Company's control, the Company shall not be liable for wages to any employee for time lost. “Emergency" shall be defined as a situation resulting from causes such as, fire, explosion, power failure, major computer failure, or act of God.
Section 4,	An employee called back to work after completing his regular work shift and after leaving the employer's premises shall be given not less than six (6)
21
hours work or six (6) hours pay based on the overtime rate of pay that would have been in effect had the employee been continuously on the payroll since the completion of his regular shift's completion.
ARTICLE VIII WAGE RATES AND OVERTIME
Section 1.	On the effective date of this Agreement, the wage rates and classifications shall be as set forth on Attachments A1 through A5.
Section 2,	All wage adjustments, including automatic progression wage adjustments, will be computed on the first day of the pay period following the calendar week in which the employee qualifies for the adjustment.
Employees will be credited for all service time on the active payroll with respect to the automatic progression schedule, including temporary layoffs or leaves of absence of thirty (30) calendar days or lass. Employees will not be credited for advancement purposes for any time exceeding thirty (30) calendar days on layoff or leave of absence.
Employees who change jobs as a result of a promotion, demotion, or transfer within the Plant will move vertically on the progression schedule to the new applicable job rate.
At the Company's option, new employees with prior experience may be hired at any level of the progression schedule.
22
Section 3,	In addition to applicable rate of pay, employees working the second shift shall receive a premium of $.45 per hour worked and employees working the third shift shall receive a premium of $.55 per hour worked.
Section 4,	All time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in one (1) day, a day being defined as a twenty-four (24) hour period, from the employee's assigned shift starting time on Monday shall be the time used for the end re week, or forty (40) hours in one (1) week shall be considered overtime. Such overtime will be paid at one and one-half times the hourly rate of pay. All hours worked in excess of ten (10) hours per day will be paid at double times the hourly rate of pay. Additional overtime premiums will be paid in accordance with the following:
A.	All hours worked on Sundays shall be paid for at double the regular hourly rate of pay.
B.	The first 10 hours worked on Saturdays shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half. All hours over 10 worked on Saturday shall be paid for at double times the regular hourly rate.
C.	For employees with an assigned weekly schedule, which includes Saturday or Sunday, the sixth day worked shall be paid as (B) above and the seventh day worked shall be paid as (A) above.
D.	Employees required to work on a scheduled holiday shall be paid at the rate of double the regular hourly rate of pay for all hours worked plus holiday pay.
23
Section. 5,
pjartime-Proyigions
Overtime work will be voluntary, with limited exceptions as indicated in subsection 5 below, and will be distributed among qualified employees in the “overtime g roups’ set forth below:
1.	Cab Paint, Plastic Line
2.	Touch-Up Paint, Offline Paint, CRC Paint
3.	Chassis Paint
4.	Pre-Paint Cab Body Station
5.	Pool #60, Wax Booth
6.	Pool #61, Hood Build-Up, Sub Assembly Areas
7.	Electric Shop
8.	Frame Rails, Fifth Wheels
9.	Pool #1 tram Denester to wash booth. Plus Steering Gear, Cross Members, Blocks and Valves, Air Tanks, Hose Build-Up
10.	Axle Line
11.	Pool #2 New oven to engine swing. Fuel tank installation. Cry Station, Exhaust, Radiator, Battery Cable Buiid-Up
12.	Engine Line
13.	Pool #3 Including Tire Shop and any Related SubAssembly
14.	Offline
15.	Cab In White
16.	Pre-Paint Cab (Steel Line)
17.	E-Kote
18.	General Inspector
19.	Lab
20.	Dyno
24
I
21.	Materials
22.	Plate Shop
23.	Tool Crib
24.	Electrician
25.	HVAC Mechanic
26.	Industrial Truck Mechanic
27.	Machinist
28.	Tool & Die Maker
29.	Millwright
30.	Welder
31.	Robotic Technician
32.	Leadpersons
33.	Fuel Tank Fabricator
Selection of employees to work overtime will be as follows:
1.	Overtime work will be distributed among employees in overtime groups on each shift who are able to dojhfl-WfidL
2.
& A_itgiuntary-aye£titne-Sigg up .sheet jyiiLbe ppsie(Un_alLo¥eiiime. groups-on. Monday for employee (s) _who want io volunteer for jjaily overtime. Any employee scheduled, to. work will be highlighted, To.be eligible^ an employee must sign the overtime signup sheet 1 1/2 hours prior to the end of their shift. Overtime will be granted
yoluijtfifiL
a A_sesOQ±^sni£n£^ignA!p_§h£et_wJlLig g.Qgted.jn._lbe_w.erK_si3?up _fgr_jalL olhei overtime.groups so _ov£ftime_reguir£r
25
meats, can be filled _by_ the senior eligible vojunteer(s) before any mandatory overtime assignments pre made within the overtime, group.
3.	Employees who want to volunteer for available overtime must sign-up on the posted sign-up sheet. Overtime will be granted to the senior employees who volunteer and are able to do the work, if sufficient employees cannot be obtained using the above procedure, qualified volunteers will be solicited from any work group, whenever practicable.
4.	If sufficient volunteers are not acquired by the above procedure, the overtime may be made mandatory of the necessary employees within the overtime group, by seniority, beginning with the least senior employee.
5.	If the Company deems it necessary to work overtime in a complete overtime group, the overtime may be mandated without first soliciting volunteers.
When overtime is scheduled, it will be limited to no more than two (2) hours on a daily basis andnomore than eight (8) hours on weekends. It is further understood that no employee will be required to work in excess of sixteen (16) hours ot overtime per month.
If weekend hours are scheduled by the Company, and then if not cancelled before the end the employee's shift on Thursday, the hours scheduled
26
wil! count towards the sixteen (16) hours of overtime per month.
In addition, if daily overtime is scheduled, then cancelled by the Company, the hours scheduled will count towards the sixteen (16) hours of overtime per month.
The provisions of this Article that restrict the right of the Company tomandate any overtime work maybe suspended if operations are interrupted by emergency situations such as extended power shortages, fire, tornado, flood, hurricane, or other acts of God; because of major equipment breakdowns, government mandated work, regulatory training, and annual inventory.
The equipment referred to regarding “major equipment breakdown” is confined to the E-Kote System, Dyno Operations, and Robotics Systems and Poof lJ.oU^vgr^j^ns/±odULeJ'GQnygy4r1
it is understood that the overtime to be mandated because of an emergency or major equipment breakdown will be limited to a period of time to overcome the emergency or major equipment breakdown,
6.	If due to unforeseen events overtime planned for an overtime group is no longer necessary those employees, who have reported to jrork may be assigned to work_outside tbefr overtime group. Alternatively, employees will be given the option of clocking out upon notice
27
of the assignment outside of their overtime group.-Employees-who do .elect to clock out will do_sp without pay, or penalty,
7.	Employees may not refuse to work mandated overtime without a justifiable reason.
8.	Any employee skipped or otherwise missed in the overlimedistribution procedure will be offered makeup work equal to the hours worked by the employee who worked the job. In the event that more employees were skipped than worked, only the number of employees skipped who equal the number of employees who worked will be offered make-up work. It is the Company’s intent to correct mistakes on the same day if they are brought to the attention of the Supervisor prior to the end of the shift.
If the mistake is brought to the attention of the supervisor, on the day overtime is scheduled, prior to the end of shift, and the mistake is not corrected, the company will pay the empioyee(s) who were skipped or otherwise missed, the appropriate rate equal to the hours worked by the employee(s) who worked the overtime.
9.	Employees will be notified.by Wednesday (by midshift} for mandated Saturday work and for mandated Sunday work unless an emergency situation arises. Employees will not be mandated to work such overtime if vacation or a personal day has been approved for them on the Friday preceding or Monday post ceding the mandated work.
28
I
10.	Employees will be notified at least one (1) day in advance (by mid-shift) for mandated daily overtime work. When daily overtime is being mandated for an extended period, employees will be advised of the approximate duration.
11.	No mandatory overtime will be scheduled in connection with any holiday weekend,
12.	A. A voluntary overtime sign up sheet will be posted in all overtime groups on Monday fpr_emp|oyee(s) who want to volunteer tor Saturday and 7 or Sunday overtime. An employee desiring to be considered for Saturday, and/or Sunday overtime, must sign the overtime signup sheet two hours prior to the end of their shift on Wednesday. Overtime will be granted to the senior employee(s) who volunteer and are able to perform the work. If a sufficient num-bar_af-employw£ cannot-be. obtained, then volunteers from other, work groups may be solicited where practical.
B. In the, event overttmeJor -Sunday, is. not deter minod- untiL Saturday, _sny -senior employpels) that signed the volunteer list, aha, are not present-gn. Saturday, will be_ca.lted_with a union, representative present,
29
ARTICLE IX HOLIDAYS
Section 1.	Recognized holidays are as follows:
Good Friday Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day
.Veterans Day Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving
Any of the above holidays that fall on a Saturday wilt be recognized on the Friday before. Should the holiday fall on Sunday, it will be recognized on the following Monday.
In the 20Q3, contract year, the Company agrees to recognize Independence Dav, Labor Dav, Veterans Day November, 12, Thanksgiving Dav .and the Day after Thanksgiving. December_24, 25, 25, 29.30.31,
In the 2Q04 contract year, the Company agrees to recognize January 01.02, Good Friday 04/09, Memorial Day 05/31, Independence Day 07/05, Labor Day 09/06, Veterans Day November J 5. Thanksgiving Pay 11/25 Day after Thanksgiving 11/26, December 24, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31,
In the 2005 contract year, the Company agrees_to recognize January Q3, Ggod Friday Q3/25,-Memorial Pay 05/30, Independence Day 07/04, Labor Day
30

09/05, Veterans DayJfovember 14. Thanksgiving Dav 11/24 Day after Thanksgiving 11/25. December 23, 26. 27,28,29.30,
In the 2006 contract year, the Company agrees Jo recognize January 02, Good Friday 04/14, Memo; riaLDav 05/29,
Section 2.	Each employee covered by this contract shall receive eight (8) times the regular day shift hourly rate on the above-designated holidays upon which no work is performed, irrespective of the day upon which it may fall.
The shift differentia! as provided for in this contract, Article VI11, Section 3, shall be i ncluded in the amount of holiday pay to be received by employees regularly scheduled on a second or third shift at the time the holiday occurs.
Section 3.	To be eligible for holiday pay, the employee must work the complete last scheduled workday prior to and the complete next scheduled workday after the holiday, but an employee's failure to work on such prior or next-following scheduled workday shall be excused tor this purpose if due to one of the following reasons:
A.	Personal injury arising out of and in the course of employment with the Employer.
B.	Jury service.
C.	Subpoenaed witness in court.
31
D.	Scheduled vacation.
E Employees who have been laid off in reduction of force during the week prior to or during the week in which the holiday falls.
F.	Employees who are members of a military reserve unit while off on military leave to attend annual training camp.
G.	Employees who go on a medical leave of absence (which includes the five (5) day unpaid waiting period) during the work week prior to or during the work week in which the holiday falls, provided the employee presents a written doctor’s excuse which establishes to the satisfaction of the Company that such absence was for good and sufficient cause.
H.	Bereavement (Article XIX, Section 14)
i.	A person who is late to or must leave from work due to extraordinary case circumstances beyond his control, but in no case for more than two (2) hours, the Company may request substantiation of such circumstances.
An exception to the eligibility requirement involving an employee reporting more than two (2) hours late or being excused more than two (2) hours before the end of the shift will require the approval of the supervisor, which will not be unreasonably denied.
J.	FMLA
K.	Personal Leave- Union Leave.
32
Section 4, When one (1) of the above holidays fall within an eligible employee's approved vacation period and he is absent from work during his regularly scheduled workweek because of such vacation, he shall be paid for such holiday and shall receive an extra day of vacation in observance of the holiday.
ARTICLE X VACATIONS
Section 1,	Employees will be granted vacations of:
2	Weeks After	1	Year
3	Weeks After	5	Years
4	Weeks After	15	Years
5	Weeks After	20	Years
6	Weeks After	25	Years
Section 2,	Each week of vacation pay for each employee who has worked 1200 hours or more between vacation anniversary dates, shall be forty (40) times his day shift rate of pay in effect at the time vacation is taken, including shift differential if the employee is regularly assigned to a second or third shift.
Section 3.	An employee who has worked less than 1200 hours between vacation anniversary dates shall, for each week of vacation he is entitled to by reason of overall service, receive a pro rata vacation with pay in an amount equal to twopercent (2%) of the employee’s straight-time earnings, including the applicable second or third shift differential, if any, during the year immediately preceding the vacation anniversary date upon which he becomes entitled to such vacation.
33
Section 4.	The Vacation workweek is defined as Monday through Friday, Vacation must be taken within the year following the anniversary date of employment. One (1) week of vacation may be taken in increments of one (1) full day at a time. In addition, employees whose service time entitles them to at least four (4) weeks of vacation per year may elect io take two (2) weeks in increments of one day at a time. All remaining vacation shall be taken in increments of one (1) week or more. All vacations will be assigned according to seniority. The employer will allow a maximum of twelve percent (12%) of the employees in each vacation group off for vacation during the months of May, June, July, August, and September. The months of Novemberand December will have a maximum of ten percent (10%)i Other.months will have a maximum of eight percent (8%), except work groups which have limitations as outlined below.
An additional two percent (2%) will be allowed off for single days. Single days vacations will not be considered more than one (1) month (date-to-date) in advance. Additional single day vacations will be granted up to the maximum percentages specified above.
No single day vacation requests will be accepted on weekends or holidays. Employees will be allowed a two (2) hour window into their shift to submit their single day vacation request, which will be awarded on a seniority basis. Request will be processed one (1) month (date-to-date) in advance and each day thereafter until the maximum is reached. Single day vacations will be approved by seniority and posted daily. However, once you have been approved and posted to the
34
I
list you cannot be bumped by a senior person who submits a request on a subsequent day. After the maximum is reached and a cancellation occurs, the opening will be filled by the most senior person who submitted a request
SmaOf&LGtfiuesi In small work groups <?11 2 3 4 5 6 7 8Q to 12 employees, a_ maximum of two (2) employees will be permitted to_s1tnuttaneously take full week, vacations; additionaily_one (1) employee may take a singly day vacation, tn groups of 11 to 1 employees, one (1} employee-will be allowed oflJPL-4JMlLYM^QiijmkL-addiiiOMlly--SM2-XlJ employee will be permitted single dav vacation.
Skilled Trades, Vacation scheduling will be administered consistent with past practice subject to keeping the required balance of skills. At least one (1) employee per maintenance vacation group wilt be allowed off tor one-week vacation or single Si2&
The vacation groups referred to in this section are as follows:
1. Cab Paint, Plastic Line
2. Touch-Up Paint. Offline Paint, CRC Paint
3. Chassis Paint
4, Pre-Paint Cab Body Station
5. Pool #60, Wax Booth
6. Pool #61, Hood Build-Up, Sub Assembly Areas
7. Electric Shop
8. Frame Rails, Fifth Wheels
35
9.	Pool #1 from Denester to wash booth. Plus Steering Gear, Cross Members, Blocks and Valves, Air Tanks, Hose Build-Up
10.	Axle Line
11.	Pool #2 New Oven to engine swing. Fuel Tank installation. Cry Station, Exhaust, Radiator, Battery Cable Build-Up
12.	Engine Line
13.	Pool #3 Including Tire Shop and any Related SubAssembly
14.	Offline
15.	Cab in White
16.	Pre-Paint Cab (Steel Line)
17.	E-Kote
18.	General Inspector
19.	Lab
20.	Dyno
’	21. Materials
22.	Plale Shop
23.	Tool Crib
24.	Electrician
25.	HVAC Mechanic
26.	Industrial Truck Mechanic
27.	Machinist
28.	Tool & Die Maker
29.	Millwright
30.	Welder
31,	Robotic Technician-
32.	Leadpersons
33.	Fuel Tank Fabricator
Section 5,	During the months of May, June, July, and August the Company may employ or recall from layoff temporary summer employees to fill in for senior em
36
ployees while on vacation during such high vacation periods. It is understood and agreed upon by the parties that such “summer employees" will not be hired or recalled from layoff before May 1 st or retained any later than August 31st. Such employees will not be subject to shift displacement by seniority employees under Article XIII - ShiftTransfer of this Agreement. The hiring of summer employees will not be subject to Article XU - Job Posting of this Agreement. The parties agree that notification requirements regarding temporary summer employees will be the same as required regarding other Bargaining Unit employees per Article IV - Notification of this Agreement. Maximum amount of temporary employees hired for vacation replacements will not exceed the number of employees needed to fill the highest week of vacations entitlement during the four (4) month period. Inthe event the Company determines that full time regular employment will be offered to any temporary summer employee, such jobfs) will be subject to Article XII - Job Posting of this Agreement.
Employees shall, upon ten (10) working days' notice, be paid vacation pay on the last day worked before going on scheduled vacation. This does not apply to temporary layoff situations.
Section 6,
A.	An employee who has been in the employ of the Employer for sixty (60) days and who is separated from the employ of the Employer prior to the completion of an anniversary year shall be entitled to pro rata vacation pay as follows:
37
Sixty (60) days or Songer but less than two (2) years' service: Two percent (2%) of the employee’s straight time earnings since his last vacation anniversary date;
Two (2) years but less than five (5) years’ service: Four percent (4%) of the employee's straight time earnings since his last vacation anniversary date;
Five (5) years but less than fifteen (15) years' service: Six percent (6%) of the employee’s straight time earnings since his last vacation anniversary date;
Fifteen (15) years but less than twenty (20) years' service: Eight percent (8%) of the employee’sstraight time earnings since his last vacation anniversary date.
Twenty (20) years but less than twenty-five (25) years’ service: Ten percent (10%) of the employee's straight time earnings since his last vacation anniversary date;
Twenty-five (25) years or more years’ service: Twelve percent (12%) of the employee's straight time earnings since his last vacation anniversary date.
B.	In the case of an employee who terminates voluntarily or otherwise, retires, dies, payment will be made for all accrued and/or unused vacation. In the event of an employee’s death, such payment will be made to his estate.
38
। Section 7, Employees indefinitely laid off through a reduction of force will be paid for earned and accrued vacation pay including pro-ration to the last day worked. Upon request of an employee who is indefinitely lard off or terminated pending a just-cause determination by an arbitrator, the Company will defer payment of any vacation money to which he/she is entitled, but not in excess of twelve (12) months following layoff or ' termination. Vacation money paid subsequent to the date of layoff is payable at the employees' applicable vacation pay rate as of the date of his last day worked.
- Upon recall from layoff, employees will be allowed to schedule up to two (2) weeks of vacation without pay as indicated below. Scheduling unpaid vacations will be in accordance with other relevant provisions of this article.
Normal Entitlement	Without Pay
2-3 Weeks	One Week
4 or More Weeks	Two Weeks
►
Section 8, The vacation scheduling procedure is set forth below:
•	1. The month of January in each calendar year will
be the designated period set aside for advanced vacation scheduling.
2.	During the advanced scheduling period, employees may schedule all but one (1) full week of vacation, which they are eligible to take during the current calendar year through January of the following calendar year. One (1) week of
39
vacation may be reserved for either one (1) day at a time use or for selection of an open vacation week later in the year. If an employee chooses not to schedule vacation during the advancescheduling period, such employee will only be allowed to schedule vacation for remaining available weeks.
3.	Vacations will be granted on a seniority preference basis within the designated vacation groups on each shift.
4.	No employee, regardless of seniority, will be able to bump other employees from pre-scheduled vacation weeks.
5.	Requests for vacations made outside of the advanced scheduling period must be made at least one (1) day prior to the date the vacation is to be effective. Approval will be granted during the two-hour window period by seniority. Thereafter, approval will be on a first-come, first-serve basis. AH request for vacation made outside of the advanced scheduling Bgrigd-jnust^e^bmittgd jn dup]icat§jgn a standardized form available for this our-
6.	Approval for granting one (1) day at a time vacation requests will be at the sole discretion of the Company for all requests above the 2% allowed for single days. All vacations, weekly and single days, will be posted in each respective vacation group on the vacation board.
40
7.	Any employee who is required to cancel a scheduled vacation at the request of the Company and is unable to reschedule such vacation prior to his vacation anniversary date will be permitted to either receive pay in lieu of vacation on his anniversary date or carry the time forward into the next year’s schedule. It is understood that vacations will not be canceled by the Company except in emergency case situations,
8,	All employees will be required to take their full vacation entitlement each year. Any employee, who is unable to do so for any reason except No.
7 above, will be required to carry the remaining entitlement forward and take at the first available opportunity in the next year. Carryover vacation will be used after all advanced scheduled vacation has been scheduled.
9.	I f a holiday falls within an employee’s scheduled vacation, such employee will be granted an additional day off with pay, to be taken on the day immediately following the employee's scheduled vacation, or the employee may elect to receive holiday pay for such day as though the employee were not on vacation. The employee may also elect to take the vacation day at a later date during his vacation anniversary year.
10.	Adjustments to Vacation Anniversary Dates of individuals who were placed on leave of absence or laid off for periods exceeding 365 days, then re-employed at any time between 4/ 16/90 and 12/19/91. After 12/20/91, no Vacation
41
Anniversary dates will be adjusted so that no employee receives a single adjustment of more than 365 days.
ARTICLE XI LAYOFF/RECALL
Section 1. .In the event of a layoff a minimum of (5) Five Dav notice will be given to employees unless longer notice is prescribed by law. All layoffs will be conducted within affected classifications as outlined below:
A.	Probationary employees will be the first to be reduced from the classification.
B.	If it is necessary to reduce additional manpower, less senior employees will have the right to bump into other classifications previously held. It is understood that less senior employees may be retained if more senior employees do not have the specialized skills to perform available work. “Specialized Required Skills” are defined as and limited to paint (top coat, touch-up and pre-paint cab body station); certified welder. fAxle line. Fifth Wheels, Fuel Tanks) and maintenance mechanic.
C.	Employees who do not have sufficient seniority or qualifications to bump as outlined above will have the right to displace junior employees in the truck assembler, and tool crib attendant classifications.
D.	An employee having seniority in the plant, who enters the skilled trades group, will have a skilled
42
trades seniority date as the day he or she enters the group. However, it is understood that any previous seniority toward pensions, vacations, etc., will be maintained. In the event of a reduction in force in the skilled trades, the employee's plant wide seniority date will be used for layoff and recall.
'	Section 2.
A. Recall to the truck assembler, and tool crib attendant ,	classifications will be by plant seniority. Recall to
i	other classifications will be In the reverse order of
j,"	layoff from those classifications.
:	B. Employees recalled to work from layoff in excess
of six (6) months or who may have been ill or injured while on that layoff will be required to satisfactorily complete a return to work physical as required by the Company. Such return to work examinations 1	shall be consistently applied to all returning employ-
‘	ees. It is understood that additional criteria may be
required where injuries or illnesses are known to ■	have occurred.
i	If the employee fails such examination he shall be
L"	eligible for benefits consistent with terms and con,	ditions as are set forth in the leave of absence and/
or benefit language Provisos.
Disputes arising between the opinions of the employee's physician and the Company's physician concerning the medical suitability for available work recalled to will be settled by an independent physician mutually selected or a professional medical
43
organization. All costs associated with the independentexamination shall be shared equally by the parties and such final decision by such independent physician or organization will be final and binding on the Company, Union and the employee.
G. Any employee refusing recall from layoff to the job classification from which he was originally laid off will be considered as a voluntary quit. Recall to any other classification will be voluntary. No subsequent opportunities for recall to a classification other than the classification from which the employee was originally laid off will be offered.
Section 3.
During a layoff, employees who are notified that they will be displaced from their job classification may, instead of being displaced, request a voluntary layoff, which will be granted.
Requests for voluntary layoffs must be written and signed by employees and submitted to a representative of the
Personnel Department within three (3) working days following notice of displacement.
Employees who take a voluntary layoff will not be recalled until such time as an opening becomes available in the job classification they occupied at the time of their voluntary layoff.
Section 4,	This letter memorializes the "Parties" under
44
standing and Agreement concerning the issue Shutdown periods. A Shutdown occurs when the normal operations of the Plant are curtailed for a period not to exceed one (1) week. This period may be extended with mutual agreement. Such agreement will not be unreasonably withheld. During such time, employees required for essential operations will be selected in the following manner:
1.	Senior qualified volunteers from the essential work groups on all shifts.
2.	Least senior qualified employees from the essential work groups on all shifts will be required unless qualified former employees from the work group volunteer on a posted secondary list. The Company retains the right to determine qualifications.
3.	When possible any disputes between the “parties’ over who is selected to work will be addressed before the actual shutdown takes place and will be reviewed by both parties to reach a mutual agreement.
ARTICLE XII JOB POSTING
Section 1
Whenever a new job is created or a permanent vacancy, occurs within the, bargaining unit, the position will he -filled in -accordance with the procedure outlined below;
45
A vacancy is an unoccupied position, which will require replacement or addition, A vacancy is definedas a recall from layoff, hiring, or separation from employment (i.e. death, retirement, voluntary quit, etc.),
During periods of layoff, the job posting procedure will be utilized for openings not filled by Article XII, section 5, or recall.
Notice of vacancy will be posted on a designated bulletin board in the plant, including the workgroup, rate of pay, number of vacancies, job qualifications, shift and the date and time of the posting. The name(s) of the selected emoloyeefs) to fill the vacancy will also be posted after the job is filled. A union representative will review this selection process.
It is understpg{Lan<L agreed by the parties that the Job Posting Article XII will be utilized at all times that the plant rs in operation building trucks,
An employee with one (11 year of seniority (hired after ratification! who desires, to fifl a permanent job vacancy iq another regular assigned work group mav file a request-Os an .agreed, upon form to be supplied by the company. There shall be one(1) transfer or refusal allowed in a six (6) month period.
job bid request will be honored on a seniority basis provided the employee requesting
46
a change to another “regular assigned work arouD'* has the necessary skills and ability to perform the job in a normal and average manner,
Onesubsequent vacancy will be considered far job change request purposes. However, this will not apply to employees recalled from layoff except in the truck assem-bter classification,
IB) A secured box will be maintained in a designated .area for filing of such forms. When a vacancy has been posted for three (3) work? Ing davs (72 hours from the time and date of posting) the posting shall be removed from the bulletin boards by a company and union representative, and no more iob bid forms will be accepted. If an employee is inter? ested in a iob, which may be posted during his vacation, he may file a written application with the personnel department for vacancies that might occur during his absence. The union and the company wifi jointly _re? move the job bid from the box,
(C) When an employee has been .selected for a job change and he accepts, he will be allowed a trial Period to demonstrate his capabilities on the iob. The trial period shall not be less, than fifteen (15) gr more than, thirty (30) working davs. This shall count as a iob transfer under section 1 (A), An employee who fails to perform satisfactorily will be returned to his prior “regular assigned
47
work _ group”. Id___________the . event
an employee elects to return to his former “regular assigned work group", he may do so within the first ten (10) working days. This wilt also count as a job transfer under Section! (A). Employees may not apply for vacation during these ten (10) working days.
The parties agree that the “regular assigned work groups” (these work groups only apply to job posting, they are not applicable to vacation and/or overtime) referred to in this section .are as follows;
1.	Cab Paint, Plastic Line
2.	Touch-Up Paint, Offline Paint, CRC Paint
3.	Chassis Paint
4.	Pre-Paint Cab Body Station
5.	Pool #60, Wax Booth
6,	Pool #61, Hood Build-Up, Sub Assembly Areas
7.	Electric Shop
8.	Frame Rails, Fifth Wheels
9.	Pool #1 denester to wash booth. Plus Steering Gear, Cross Members, Blocks and Valves, Air Tanks, Hose Build-Up
10.	Axle Line
11.	Pool #2 New oven to engine swing. Fuel Tank Installation. Cry Station, Exhaust, Radiator, Battery Cable Build-Up
12.	Engine Line
13.	Pool #3 Including Tire Shop and any Related SubAssembly
14.	Offline
15.	Cab In white
48
16.	Pre-Paint Cab (Steel Line)
17.	E-Kote
18.	QA Inspector
19.	Materials
20.	Plate Shop
21.	Tool Crib
22.	Electrician
23.	HVAC Mechanic
24.	Industrial Truck Mechanic
25.	Machinist
26.	Tool & Die Maker
27.	Millwright
28.	Welder
29,	Robotic Technician
30.	Leadpersons
31.	Fueltank fabrication
Section 2,	To ensure retention of a sufficient number, of trained employees in a regular assigned work group, transfers through iob posting procedure will be limited, to fifteen percent (15%) of the employees but no Jess than one (1) employee from a regular assigned work group consisting of twenty-five (251 or fewer employ; ees in a thirty (30) calendar dav period.
Section 3.	When the Employer has honored an employee’s job bld form, the, employee will not be eligible for a subseouent lob change for six (6) months from the date.that the iob was awarded.
Section.4.	Administrative Procedure for the Job Change Bid System.
49
L The job bid request system will include the following:
A.	The system will use a triplicate form.
B.	Copies of the form will be given to the employee and to the Union.
C.	Forms will be submitted to the designated iob bid box at a central location in the plant.
D.	An employee must submit a bid form during the designated time frame.
E When the job bid is placed in the box it becomes final.
F.	The .list will show all jobs for which requests are submitted and vyi|| rank all employees who are requesting each iob in seniority order.
G.	A minimum of twenty (20) top senior bids will be retained for each job posting (in an effort to reduce administrative time for each oost-ina)
H.	Employees will be notified of selection for a vacancy within five (5) working days, he may be retained in his old iob for a period not to exceed twenty (20) working days in order to secure a ouali-
50
tied replacement, or longer if mutually agreed to between the parties.
I.	In cases where an employee is selected for 2 or more vacancies at the same time, the Individual mav choose between which-vacancy he wishes to fill.
Section Employees who are working in an-other_classificatlon as a result of an involuntary displacement will be given consideration to return to a vacancy in their previous regular assigned work group. Employees in_the same classification working in another work group. as a result of an Involuntary displacement, will be given consideration to return to a vacancy in their previous regular assigned work group. In the event there are employees in both categories listed above, the vacancy will be filled first by the most senior employee.
Section 6, When the need arise? to transfer employees in or out of a “regular assigned work group" (to fill any job in a work group on a temporary basis), the transfer will be offered to the senior employee. If no senior employees volunteer for such transfer, the least senior employee will be required to transfer, A transferred employee will be paid the rate of his regulaniob or the rate of the temporary iob. which ever is higher, for the time worked on the temporary job. On the thirtieth (3Qt|i) workday during_the_life of the_agreement, the.temporary job will be considered a vacancy and the iob will
51
be posted, unless the employee is on an approved leave.
A,	A workday is defined as any time in the work group,
B.	A transferred employee must have a PAF-190 Form, (identifying the move as a “Temporary transfer”) in hand to enter into any work group. The union representative for the transferred employee must be notified prior to the transfer-taking place.
C, When the same employee requires multiple moves, another PAF-190 Form will accompany him to each work group he enters. The employee must have a PAF-190 Form sending him back to his original work group prior to his return, when the temporary transfer is completed. All time worked in each work group will be documented on each PAF-190.
D. Employees are limited to no more than two (2) moves on a daily basis, unless the employee volunteers to move.
Section 7. Any employee remaining at work or recalled after a layoff with less seniority than laid off employees will be excluded from exercising job bidding rights until employees with greater seniority have been recalled.
52
ARTICLE XIII TRANSFER OFSHIFT
Section 1.	Shift Adjustments
When it becomes necessary to balance the number of employees from one shift to another within a work group, the senior employees will have the opportunity to volunteer before the least senior employees within the work group are reassigned to offset the imbalance. All employees will be given a minimum of one (1) week’s notice. The Company will consider an employee's personal hardship, which prevents the employee's reassignment. In no event will reassignment be delayed beyond a reasonable period of time to resolve the employee’s hardship. The Union will be notified of time extensions allowed to employees due to hardship.
Section 2,	Shift Preference
An employee with one (1) year of seniority who is capable of performing the required work may displace a junior employee on a different shift within the same work group subject to the following:
(a)	Requests for shift preference must be made in writing using a triplicate form. Copies of the form will be provided to the employee, the Personnel Department, and the Union.
(b)	No more than two (2) shift preference transfers shall be granted to any employee in any twelve (12) month period.
53
(c)	Employees will be moved to the shift requested no later than the second Monday following receipt of their written request to the Personnel Department.
(d)	An employee may be held in his assigned shift as necessary to train another employee in his job task, for up to thirty (30) calendar days from receipt of request. This provision will not be abused.
(e)	Probationary employees may not be displaced.
(f)	Shift transfers exercised by maintenance employees will be limited to the maintenance work group in which the transfem'ng employee works.
(g)	Any employee involuntarily displaced in another shift by the company, after using a shift change preference shall have shift change rights reinstated.
ARTICLE XIV LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1.	General
Employees with seniority may be granted personal leaves of absence, without pay, for up to six (6) months upon written request to the Company, stating the reason for the leave. Employees requesting a personal leave of absence will not be required to use accrued benefits (sick time, vacation time, etc.) when applying for such leave. It is understood and agreed that per
54
social leave is separate and apart from any requirements under the Federal Family Medical Leave Act as stipulated in Section 6 of this Article.
Such leaves are subject to Company approval, but will not be unreasonably denied if the Company's operations or requirements permit. Seniority shall continue to accumulate during the personal leaves. No personal leave of absence will be granted to employees who are incarcerated. Any employee who accepts other employment while on leave of absence will be considered to have quit his job.
Personal leaves of absence without pay must be a minimum of five (5) workdays.
Employees in the Attendance Control Program with forty (40) or more chargeable hours are ineligible for personal leaves of absence.
Section 2,	Extension of Leave
Personal leaves may be extended tor an additional period of thirty (30) calendar days upon approval of the Company. Such leaves will not be unreasonably withheld.
Section 3.	Union Leave
The Union will notify the Company in writing in the event it is necessary for employees to have a leave of absence to attend to Union business. _The Union will provide such notice as far in advance as possible. Such notice will stipulate the number of employees, not
55
to exceed twenty (20) in number and the duration of such leave^Such leaves and duration will be granted by the Company.
The Company will consider more than the aforementioned number of employees when requested by the Union providing the request would not abnormally affect the operation of the plant.
Section 4.	Medical Leave
Employees who are unable to work due to injury or illness will be granted a medical leave of absence, provided the employee completes the application for medical leave and presents medical proof of inability to work covering the period of disability. The maximum duration of medical leaves will be based upon Employees’ service with the Company to the same extent and period of time as they would maintain and accumulate seniority while on layoff.
Section 5.	Military Leave
Employees who enlist in the Armed Forces of the United States or who otherwise are required to perform military service will be granted a leave of absence and shall be entitled to reinstatement to the extent and upon the conditions provided by applicable federal and state law.
Section 6.	Federal Family Medical Leave Act
The parties recognize, understand and agree that the Federal Family Medical Leave Act, 107 Stat. 6,29 USC
56
2601, took effect on February 5,1994, for the employer’s bargaining unit employees represented by the Union.
In some instances, FMLA leaves will be concurrent with leaves of absence covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement. In those cases where the employee is eligible for leave under the Freightliner LLC-UAW Collective Bargaining Agreement and the leave also qualifies under the FMLA, the Company intends to comply with the requirements of the FMLA as well as the separate provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement regarding covered leaves of absence.
Pursuant to the Company’s present plan for compliance with the FMLA, the Company's rights under the act will be modified to:
•	Provide that an employee on FMLA leave will continue to accumulate seniority in the same manner as the employee also would be eligible under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, respectively, as appropriate.
•	Permit, but not require, employees tosubstitute vacation and/or paid sick leave in single day increments for unpaid FMLA leave.
•	Provide that employees who are married to each other will be each entitled to a maximum of twelve (12) weeks of qualifying leave under the Act.
•	Continue Company- paid Group, Life, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, and Disability Insurance during all FMLA Leaves,
57
•Not automatically designate and apply absence time that is compensated under the short-term disability and? or long-term disability provisions of the Life, Disability and Health Care Benefits Program against an eligible employee’s FNILA entitlement.
Problems related to the implementation of this letter may be discussed by the representatives of the UAW National Freightliner Department, and the Company's Employee Relations Staff.
ARTICLE XV DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
Section 1. In the case of discipline, suspension or discharge, the Company agrees that an employee who shall have completed his probationary period provided for in Article V, Seniority, shall not be disciplined or discharged without just cause, in all cases, a copy of written discipline notifications will be provided to the Union within twenty-four (24) hours of issuance to the employee. The Union will be notified of suspensions and discharges at the time of such disciplinary meetings with employees. In cases where the immediate removal of the employee from the plant is required, the Union will be notified in writing of the disciplinary action within twenty-four (24) hours.
Grievances relating to suspension or discharge must be filed by the Union within five (5) working days from the date of notification, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, and entered Into Step 3 of the Grievance Procedure.
58
Section 2,	Any employee who has been suspended or discharged may request the presence of his appropriate Committeeperson to discuss the case with him in a private setting, provided by the Company, unless the nature of his offense requires his immediate removal from the Plant. Committeeoersons in said meeting will not experience a loss of earnings.
Section 3.	The right to discipline suspend or discharge employees shall remain in the discretion of the Company except that the Company shall have the burden to show such discipline, suspension, or discharge was only imposed for just cause.
Section 4.	Disciplinary records will not be used for progressive disciplinary purposes after one (1) year from date of issuance. Upon request discipline in excess of one year will be expunged from the employees record,
ARTICLE XVI HEALTH ANOSAFETY
A.	The Company shall make a significant effort to improve the safety and health of its employees during the hours of their employment and will commit the necessary human and financial resources to achieve this goal. To further the objectives of this program, each supervisor shall conduct bi-weekly informational meetings with employees and as appropriate health, safety and ergonomics issues will be discussed and employee input solicited. Bi-weekly meetings will be conducted in quiet areas of the plant. Minutes of the meetings will be documented. Employees will be
59
encouraged to communicate health and safety
pervi$or$ wj|1 attempt to immediately resolve the problem. If the problem cannot be resolved immediately, a Safety Awareness form will be completed by the employee or supervisor. A copy of the form will be provided to the employees. supervisor, union committeeperson and the safety committee. The employee will be informed when the problem is resolved.
B.	The protective safety equipment, which will be provided by the Company, is set forth below. All personal protective equipment provided by the Company will continue to be of safe design and construction. Employees must wear the personal protective equipment, and make use of the protective devices and other safety equipment designed to protect them from injury and illness.
The company will make safety glasses and earplugs readily available to the employees and visitors upon entry into the plant. Safety glasses will be available at all times at the main plant entrance for employees and visitors.
The company will reimburse employees required to wear safety shoes $75.00 per year. The company and union will select mutually agreeable safety shoe vendors.
60
Eye Protection Program
The company will provide piano (sic) and/or prescription safety glasses to all employees starting their employment with the Company. All employees are required to wear ZNSI-A87.1 approved safety glasses in the course of their employment. The employee will provide the Company with a copy of their prescription and assume the cost of such prescription. When glasses are damaged in the course of an employee’s work, they will be replaced by the company at no cost to the employee. When a safety tens correction is required in the employee’s prescription, the cost of such lenses and frames will be assumed by the Company: provided that the glasses are acquired from a common source designated bv Freightliner: and further provided that the cost to the company will not exceed the cost of they glasses charged by the designated provider, The cost of replacement lenses and frames will not be assumed by the Company unless two (2) years have elapsed from the date of the last issue of prescription glasses, except for those instances where a change is necessitated by disease or injury in the opinion of a doctor. The replacement cost of glasses lost or damaged by improper care by the employee will be at the expense of the employee.
New hire employees will sign an authorization for deduction of the cost of prescription safety glasses from their final pay check in the event of termination during their probation period.
61
Miscellaneous
Personal protective equipment furnished employees except for prescription glasses, must be returned to the Company when terminating employment. The cost of such equipment not returned in usable condition will be deducted from the employee’s last paycheck, except for those items returned tn unusable condition due to normal wear and tear.
Personal protective equipment that is damaged as a result of a workplace injury will be replaced at Company expense.
C.	Employees must report to their supervisor any injury suffered so proper treatment can be administered by the First Aid Department or doctor. The Company shall promptly make adequate provision for first aid, hospital care, and ambulance service on al| shifts [first. sstentLeniJIiitd)
The company will survey employees on the quality of care in the medical department. The survey will be jointly developed and the results shared with the members of the Safety Committee. Improvements may be implemented based on survey results.
The supervisor will be involved in the investigation of ail reported serious injuries and, if determined that the serious injury was caused by an equipment malfunction, the investigation will be completed prior to another employee being assigned that machine, but no later than 24 scheduled hours.
62

D.	If a medical examination or test given an employee by the Company discloses any abnormal conditions, the employee shall be informed of said conditions and shall be given a summarized copy of any written opinion or recommendation made by the doctor.
E.	The Company will provide the Union Health and Safety Representative with a copy of the results of industrial hygiene surveys.
F.	The company agrees to notify the Union Safety Representative in advance when possible, of health and safety Inspections by OSH A, insurance loss control, boiler inspectors, city, county and_statE_ inspeclions_reiated to health and safety, licensed health and safety inspectors and any health and safety consultants retained by the company. The Union Safety Representative will be afforded an opportunity to accompany such officials or consultants and provide any pertinent information to them. Upon request. provlde_a copy of. such reports including those of insurance inspectors, to the Union Safety Representative regarding violations of applicable local, state, or federal codes or standards.
G.	I n an effort to monitor and control noise and air quality in the plant, the Company will purchase and maintain a multi-purpose sound level detection instrument and detector tubes for sampling air quality. The reading of air contaminants is restricted to those materials, which can be obtained from using a direct reading sampling pump, and NIOSH approved detector tubes.
63
The Union Health and Safety Representative. Alternate and Director gf Health_and Safety will be trained on the use of this equipment.
Safety Committee
There shall be a safety committee consisting of up to six (6) members either elected or appointed bv the union and uo to six 161 members of Management. The Plant Manager and the Local Union President shall serve as co- chairmen of the Safety Committee. The Safety Committee shall meet once each month to:
1.	Consider and make recommendations for the corrections of conditions determined to be unsafe, unhealthy or unsanitary based upon plant inspections and employee observations, Completion dates will be established and under most circumstances should take no longer than sixty (60) days. Copies of such recommendations will be furnished to the appropriate company and union representatives.
2.	Assist In obtaining better employee cooperation with the enforcement of accident prevention rules.
1 Review OSHA Form 300 results of Industrial hygiene surveys. Ergonomic issues. Material Safety Data Sheets, employee complaints. Outside Contractor Safety Program, Supervisor Accident Reports, local safety and health
64
education programs (such as lockout. Confined Space. Ergonomics, and Accident Investigation). and the written progress report made, by the plant Safety Supervisor on the progress of recommendations made at the previous Safetv_Conimittee Meetings.
4.	Review the status of Safety Awareness Forms.
5.	Minutes of the Committee meetings shall be taken by one of the Companv_members. and if acceptable, signed by the Safety Supervisor and the Union Health and Safety Representative. Copies shall be distributed to the Safety Committee members.
6.	Members of the Safety Committee will receive appropriate-health and safety and ergonomics training in areas such as: Accident Investigation, Noise Control. Machine Guarding, Lockout. Confined Space Entry. Toxicology. Industrial Hygiene. Ergonomics. Fall Prevention^ Ventilation and the Review of New Equipment. In addition the Union Health and Safety Representative, Alternate and the Manager of Health and Safety will attend two (2) mutually agreeable_trainlng sessions each year. One of the training sessions will be outside of the local area. The other training session will be held In the local area. The Company will cover expenses associated with both training sessions.
65
& It is understood that the Co-Chairmen of the Safety Committee will be afforded an opportunity to participate in investigating occupational injuries and illnesses in the plant. Any applicable information and photographs will be made available for the Union to review. The Union Health and Safety Representative shall also have the right to conduct incident Investigations and take photographs. The Company will promptly notify the Union Health and Safety Representative. Committeeperson and Director of Health and Safety of all significant injuries, illnesses and medical emergencies,
9. The Local Union President will be provided advanced notification of Industrial hygiene. noise and work station ergonomics evaluations, (excluding placement of employees with work restrictions) and be allowed to participate.
Ergonomics Program
It is the Company's and the Union's objective to establish and maintain an effective ergonomics program in order to control occupational related cumulative trauma disorders. The responsibility for program administration will be assigned to the Safety Committee. The Company and the Union agree to use their best efforts jointly to maintain a program which includes the following elements: injury and illness analysis, iob analysis, employees' input and tracking of complaints, modification, of equipment and methods and medical management.
66
1.	The parties have agreed to jointly discuss and determine the program's implementation plan.
2.	Injury and illness analysis of OSHA record able and Workers’ Compensation data will be conducted to identify jobs, pools and departments with the highest number and rate of cumulative trauma disorders. In addition, analysis will be conducted by type of injury and body part. The Safety Committee will utilize the reports to focus efforts in areas where risk is highest and to monitor the overall effectiveness of the ergonomics program.
3.	The job analysis method described in Appendix B ol the Washington State OSHA Ergonomics Standard wii! be used unless the parties mutually agree to an equivalent alternative process. The UAW Health and Safety Department will be involved in developing the training program for appropriate Union and Company personnel. Evaluationswill be performed whenever:
■	An employee reports complaint of injury or risk of ergonomic injury;
■	An employee is diagnosed with an ergonomic injury;
0 A Symptom Survey indicates a possible ergonomic risk factor,
-	The Company becomes knowledgeable of a ergonomic risk In a specific work activity. Symptom surveys will be administered every two years.
67
The Company will make a good faith effort to conduct an ergonomic job analysis on all production and material handling jobs in the plant during the term of this -agreement.
The components of a worksite evaluation will include but are not limited to; 1) asking the employee which work activity may be causing the injury or symptom, 2) identifying the specific work activities that are likely contributors to the ergonomic risk, symptom, or diagnosis, 3) observation of job, 4) identification and evaluation of risk factors and potential countermeasures to reduce ergonomic risk 5) asking the employee for ideas about minimizing ergonomic risk factors and 6) a description of the feasible control measures to be implemented. Such analysis includes input from other workers whose jobs will be affected by the modification;
Ergonomics job analysis will be conducted and documented within 15 days of a cumulative trauma disorder. A computerized database will be developed to store job analysis information.
4.	Upon receipt of a job analysis the supervisor will attempt to implement job corrections. If the problem is not resolved the manager will attempt to correct the problem. If the problem Is not resolved it will be referred to the Plant Manager and Safety Committee. A master list of all ergonomic problem jobs for the facility will be maintained. The Company agrees that a good faith effort will be made to implement ergonomic solutions within a three (3) month time frame after a job analysis determines that corrective
68
action is required. The parties acknowledge that there may be times when it may take longer than three (31 months to make the proper correction. The reasons will be documented.
Ergonomics design guidelines will be established by the Safety Committee in conjunction with plant engineering personnel. The guideline will include a reasonable weight limit for repetitive lifting on production jobs. Appropriate Union and Company personnel, including engineers, will be trained on the use of such guidelines. The development of these guidelines will be a priority for the Safety Committee.
g. The Safety Committee will be involved with the development of an Awareness Training Program and will review injury and illness analysis reports and associated corrective measures.
J. With prior Company approval, the Safety Committee may seek advice from ergonomics consultants in order to resolve particularly problematic issues. Such approval will not be unreasonably denied.
fl. Each member of the Safety Committee will receive basic ergonomics training and advanced training by July 2004. This training will insure that uniform job evaluations are conducted and record keeping systems are improved to maximize the effectiveness of the program.
9.	An Ergonomics Awareness Training program will be developed and made available to all plant employ
69
ees. The Safety Committee will analyze injury and illness data and recommend areas where additional training may be needed.
10.	Medical staff personnel will be provided with appropriate education and training. Referrals will be made only to outside medical personnel competent to diagnose and treat cumulative trauma disorders.
11.	The Company will empower and encourage Supervisors, Managers and Staff Managers to recommend engineering changes in their respective areas.
12.	The Company has established and implemented a process to ensure that ergonomics issues are considered in all new and modified equipment and machinery.
Notes Abatement
The Company recognizes that noise induced hearing loss is a permanent and irreversible condition that significantly affects the quality of an employee's life. Management is committed to reducing noise levels in the plant. A comprehensive sound survey will be conducted at the plant to measure the sound exposures throughout the plant. The survey will identify the primary sources of noise and list feasible engineering controls to reduce exposure. The Company will develop and implementanoise abatementprogram. The program will include an annual listing of noise reduction projects and the specific machinery and equipment affected. The goal of the noise abatement program is to significantly reduce the number of employees re
70
quired to wear hearing protection as a result of eliminating exposures to hazardous levels of noise. The Safety Committee will review the noise abatement program each year. The Company will establish an 80dBA specification for new machinery, equipment and powered hand tools. Deviations from the noise specification, when compliance is not feasible, will be reviewed by the Safety Committee. Powered hand tools will be evaluated for compliance with the noise specification and ergonomics design guidelines prior to purchase.
Posted placards containing machine specific lockout procedures, listing equipment needed and verification methods, will be posted on all machinery and equipment based upon a list prioritized by the Safety Committee. Appropriate employees, including production employees, will be trained, in lockout and be provided ngce.sgary .lockout devices.
Review of New Equipment and Rearrangements New equipment (including used equipment from other facilities) and rearrangements will be certified by the Facilities Manager and/or Safety Manager and reviewed wilh the Union Health and Safety Representative, when available prior to being placed Intooperatton. Certification reports will be made available to the Safety Committee. The Safety Committee has developed a checklist of items to be reviewed during the certification process. The Safety Committee will review safety and health design guidelines and specifications from other companies and upgrade the existing new equipment review checklist.
71
Toxic Use Reduction
Effective control of hazardous materials will serve to protect the employees of Freightliner as well as the environment in the surrounding community. The Company is committed to the continuous reduction in the use of hazardous materials. This will be accomplished through process changes and on-going efforts to identify safer substitutes for materials currently in use. This program will be reviewed with the Safety Committee and is expected to reduce employee exposures and protect the environment.
Outside Contractor Safety Program
The Company will institute art Outside Contractor Safety Program and provide a copy to the Safety Committee for their review. The Company will notify the Local Union President, in advance, of contractors working In the plant. A Log of outside contractors in the plant will be maintained and a copy will be provided to the Local Union President. Management will conduct periodic inspections to ensure compliance. Contractors found to violate health and safety regulations and standards will be advised and will be expected to implement corrective action.
Fall Prevention Program
The Company will establish a Fall Prevention Program. Maintenance employees will be trained in the proper use of personal fall protection equipment. Personal fall protection equipment will be made available, properly stored and maintained. Refresher training will be provided on an annual basis. The Company will provide persona) fall protection equipment to each skilled trades mechanic who is required to use such equipment.
72
Plant Emergency Response prill
The parties agreed to an Emergency Evacuation Plan on First, Second, and Third Shifts. It was further agreed that an Emergency Evacuation Orii I wilf be conducted on each shift. The drills will be conducted during the first and third year of this agreement. These planned and pre-announced drills will familiarize employees with the emergency warning system, evacuation routes, and assembly areas. Future drills will be conducted as deemed necessary by the Safety Committee. The Plant Emergency Evacuation Routes will be periodically updated to reflect changes in the plant. In addition, emergency coordinators will receive annual refresher training and the emergency alarm will be activated at least once a year, at pre-announced times, for familiarization purposes. Supervisors will review the evacuation routes and warning system with employees at least twice a year during supervisor safety meetings.
Audits
An annual comprehensive health and safety audit of the facility will be conducted by the Corporation, international Union, Local Union and plant Management. The audit protocol and items included will be developed jointly utilizing materials from audit processes negotiated by the UAW at other companies, and the current corporate audit process.
Working Under Suspended Loads
The Company will eliminate the practice of employees working under suspended loads in cab swing, engine swing and axle swing areas. Each task that currently requires employees to place part of their body under a suspended load will be identified and corrective mea-
73
suras will be implemented to address each including product design changes, moving certain operations to others stations and modification of tooling and methods.
Preventive Maintenance for Plant Ventilation Systems and Powered Tools
The Company recognizes the importance of ventilation systems to maintain a comfortable environment and control air contaminants and reduce the risk of fires and explosions. Preventive maintenance programs will be implemented to insure that plant ventilation systems operate properly. Ail exhaust ventilation and make up air units will be rated the highest priority. The manager of maintenance will review the program with the Safety Committee on a periodic basis.
A preventive maintenance program for powered hand tools shall be established within 90 days .of the effective date .of. this agreement. Defective powered hand, tools, will be immediately removed from service and tagged opt,
liability
The Internationa) Union, Local Union, the Joint Safety Committee and Union officials, employees and agents shall not be liable tor any work-connected injuries, disabilities, diseases, deaths, or loss resulting therefrom which may be incurred by employees of the Company or by third parties while on Company property. This Is not intended to, and does not; increase the Company's liability in such cases beyond its normal exposure, if any (i.e., worker's compensation).
74
ARTICLE XVII NO STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
Section 1, No Strikes
During the life of this Agreement, the Union shall not cause or support, nor shall any employee or employees take part in any action against the Company such as a strike, intentional slow down of production, or any other interference with or stoppage of the Company's work.
The Union agrees that if an unauthorized strike, stow down or other interference with or stoppage of work occurs, the local and international Union officials will immediately meet with the Company and take appropriate action to end the strike, slow down or other interference with or stoppage of work. The Union further agrees that in the event of a strike in violation of this Agreement, the Company may take disciplinary action up to and including discharge against those workers who take part in the strike. The Company, for its part, agrees that there shall be no lockouts during the life of this Agreement. As Jong as the Union, its officers, agents and employees comply with the above provisions, the Company ag rees not to bring any court action for damages or take other action which is not provided for in this contract, against the Union, its officers, agents and employees for breach of this Section.
75
ARTICLE XVIH NO DISCRIMINATION
Section 1, It is the policy of Freightliner LLC and the UAW that the provisions of this Agreement be applied to all employees covered by this Agreement without discrimination because of race, color, religion, age, national origin, status as a qualified person with a disability, sex, including sexual harassment, sexual orientation, marital status, union affiliation and membership in any legal protected ciass and political affiliations.
In order to assure full knowledge and understanding of the forgoing principle on the part of the employees and ail agents and representatives of Freightliner LLC and the UAW, the parties hereby incorporate the same in this agreement. Any employee who claims that, in violation of said principle, he has been denied rights guaranteed by this Agreement may complain as provided in the grievance procedure. Any such claim, when presented in writing, pursuant to step (1) of the grievance procedure, must contain a full statement of the facts giving rise to the claim and the reasons why the employee believes he has been discriminated against.
If appealed to step (2), the Committeeperson of the Local Union, before deciding whether to take the grievance up with the Department Manager, may refer the claim to the Chairman of the Civil Rights Committee. The Chairman, or in special circumstances, the Cochairman of the Civil Rights Committee, will review the
76
alleged claim of discrimination and, if mutually agreeable, will conduct a joint investigation. The investigator will receive pay for time spent on the investigation, with the understanding that any overtime must be approved by the Human Resource Manager.
The grievance and arbitration procedure shall be the exclusive contractual procedure for remedying such claims1
ARTICLE XIX MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1.	Work by Management Personnel
Non-bargaining unit personnel shall not perform bargaining unit work covered by this Agreement except in the following instances:
A.	To instruct or train employees
B.	To assist employees in emergency situations , which are rare, unusual, and extraordinary in nature
C.	On experimental work, provided the Union has been given prior notification as to the specific nature of the work and its anticipated duration.
Section 2,	Medical Personnel
In order to ensure prompt qualified medical attention, a nurse or certified Emergency Medical Techniclan (EMT) will be readily available in the plant during Production
77
hours to render first aid as required. This will also apply during periods of overtime when at least seventy-five (75) employees are scheduled to work. In addition, a list of trained personnel for emergency response purposes will be posted in the Nurse’s Station. The listed trained personnel will also be certified in basic first aid andCPR.
An in-plant ambulance will be provided which is capable of transporting injured employees on a stretcher. This ambulance will be designated for the sole use of in-plant transportation of employees who are sick or injured. The Company will provide necessary medical supplies, oxygen, diagnostic equipment and a portable defibrillator. Four (4) trained persons, trained to the level of first responder, will be available on all shifts during the week. The Safety Committee will select emergency responders. Each emergency responder will be provided a communication device and have access to the Medical Department.
Section 3,	Emergency Notification Procedures
To ensure that all bargaining unit personnel will receive immediate notification of outside emergencies, the Company agrees that such notification will be provided to the employee immediately and, in no event, any later than fifteen (15) minutes after receipt of such information. The Company further agrees that employees will be released immediately (if so requested) to attend to such emergency. The Company will log all emergency calls. The Union will have an opportunity to review the log and make copies upon request.
78
Section 4.	Break Area and Lunch Rooms
All break areas and lunchrooms will be enclosed and air-conditioned. Ail such areas and amenities will be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. The awmjMlLaggBLbreak argag for pool t u2, Final cab electrip,.pffline-pp9l, ?, and prepaint cab. All such areas will be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. Whenever feasible such afgBSJKiiLb£_gD£lgssd^. A». current. break grgag will be maintained if future .space becomes avaitable for break areas, such. Apace, will be Utilized for thpt purpose.
Section 5,	Legislation
If any of the Collective Bargaining Agreement is held invalid due to existing or future federal or state legislation, the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected thereby.
Section 6.	Garnishments
(a)	The policies concerning garnishments will be handled by the Company subject to the following:
No disciplinary action will be taken against any employee unless:
(i)	A second and separate garnishment notice or demand against the wages of an employee has been received by the Company.
79
(ii)	A second and separate wage assignment against the wages of an employee has been received by the Company.
(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) above, no disciplinary action will be taken against an employee because ot the employee’s inability to provide the Company the necessary release(s) and agreement^) required in connection with a federal government lien against the employee’s wages.
(c)	The Company and the Union agree that not withstanding any provision of this Agreement, they will comply with all applicable federal and state laws concerning disciplinary action relating to garnishment on wage assignment matters.
Section 7,	Extreme Bad Weather Conditions
Employees who are unable to report for work during extremely bad weather conditions will not be penalized by the Company.
Section 8,	Work Related Physical Exams
Periodic physical examinations and x-rays for spray painters and such other classifications, as required, shall be provided by the Company at no expense or loss of earnings, including Joss of overtime to such employees. The Company will also provide pulmonary function tests for welders.
80
Section 9,	Conflict between Company Rules and Contract
The Company shall not establish any work and/or safety rules which conflict with the express provisions of this contract. The Company is entitled to establish reasonable rules, which the Union has the right to challenge through the grievance procedure as to the reasonableness of those rules.
Section 10,	Bulletin Boards
The Company shall provide bulletin boards in each amenities area for the exclusive use of the Union. The use of these bulletin boards shall be confined to the following notices:
(1)	Recreational and social affairs of the Union;
(2)	Union meetings;
(3)	Union appointments;
(4)	Union elections, including those required in the Union Constitution, and the results of such elections.
Section 11,	Injury to Employees
When an employee sustains an injury In the plant, if necessary, the Company shall furnish transportation from the plant to the source of medical treatment and, if necessary, transportation home. Any employee who sustains an injury in the plant and returns from medical
81
treatment to the plant with medical restrictions, the company will make every effort to place the employee on a job within their restrictions. Any such employee who is not able to return to work shall be paid his applicable rate for the balance of his shift on the first day he is unable to work as a result of the injury. An employee who is able to work after sustaining an injury in the plant, but needs additional medicaitreatm ent shall be paid for al! regular shift time necessarily lost for obtaining such treatment. The additional medical treatment will be sought during non-working hours whenever possible.
Section 12,	Unjust Incarceration
Employees who have been terminated because of incarceration and who are later found by trial of a judge or jury to be “not guilty" will be returned to work without loss of seniority.
Section 13,	Paid Bereavement Leave
1,	Employees shall be excused with pay for five (5) scheduled workdays tor bereavement leave in the event of the death of an immediate family member. Immediate family shall be defined as:
Spouse	Child
Stepchild	Parents
2.	Employees shall be excused with pay for three (3) scheduled workdays in the event of the death of one (1) of the following family members:
82
Brother
Sister
Parents-in-Law
Grandparents
Grandchildren
Son/Daughter-in-Law Brother/Sister-in-Law Step Brather/Sister Step Parents
Step Parents of Spouse
3.	Employees shall be excused with pay for one (1) scheduled work day in the event of the death of one (1) of the following family members: Aunt, Uncle, Great Grandparents and Grandparents-in-Law
4.	Employees shall have the option of using up to two (2) paid sick leave days or two (2) vacation day? in connection with paid bereavement leave. Vacation-days granted _it>-Conjunction with bereavement are not Jo be calculated tn the percentages outlined in Article X. Section, 4,
5.	In-Law relationships refer only to current spouse.
6.	Employees shall have the option to use up to two (2) paid sick leave days or two (2t vacation daya to attend the funeral of persons other than those listed above with whom they have had close relationships. Employees must have prior approval to be paid and to have the absence excused. Vacation days granted in conjunction with bereavement are not to be calculated in the percentages outlined in Article X. Section 4.
7.	The appropriate shift premium will be paid for ail bereavement leaves.
83
Section 14,	Jury Duty Pay
When an employee is required to be absent from his regularly scheduled work to report for jury examination or jury duty service, he shall be granted time off with pay for all straight-time hours he was otherwise scheduled to work. In order to receive such payments, an employee must give the Company prior notice that he has been summoned for jury duty, must furnish satisfactory evidence that he reported for or performed the service and must report back to work promptly if released or excused by the court prior to 11:00 a.m.
Employees working second or third shift will be assigned to first shift during the period they are scheduled for jury service. Employees, who have received a valid court order or subpoena to appear in court during working hours as a witness and not as a principal in the court action itself, may receive pay for such time missed.
Section 15.	Short-Term Military Duty Pay
A seniority employee who is called to and performs short-term annual training in the United States Armed Forces Reserve or National Guard shall be paid the difference between his daily military earnings (including al) allowances except rations, subsistence and travel) and his regular base hourly rate for straight-time hours he otherwise would have worked up to 15 maximum work days per calendar year, in order to receive such payment, an employee must give prior notice and furnish a statement of military pay upon his return to work.
B4
Section 16.	Employee Sales Days
Employee sales days will be held once weekly on a designated day. Where practical, parts and products will be available for employees to purchase at cost. However, it is understood that the Company shall retain full discretion of the administration of the sales procedures as well as the types, quantities, and prices of items available for sale.
Section 17,	Tools
The Company will provide and replace as necessary all required tools for employees to adequately and safely perform their duties.
Section 18,	Alcohol and Drug Abuse
The Drug and Alcohol Policy attached as Attachment B was discussed during negotiations and was agreed to by the parties as the program applicable to all plant employees.
Section 19.	Tuition Refund
The Tuition Reimbursement Policy for employees participating in approved degree programs and college courses will be modified as outlined below. All participants in the current Tuition Reimbursement Program must be re-approved for participation in degree programs, Below Isa summary of guidelines that will apply.
85
General .Guidelines.;
■	Employees must have one (1) year of continuous service to qualify for program approval
•	Employees in approved degree programs must take a minimum of three (3) credit hours per term to maintain active status.
■	Employees may take up to 12 credit hours per term.
■	Employees who successfully complete pre-approved tests tor professional certification programs will qualify for reimbursement. ■
Freightliner is in the process of negotiating discounted tuition rates (based on rates charged by state schools) with local colleges and universities.
<	■ Employees will be reimbursed up to the discounted tuition limit based on grades earned.
<	Reimbursement is based on the course grade received as follows:
For undergraduate courses:
A=100%	B=90%	C=50% Below C=0%
For graduate courses:
A=100% B=90%	Beiow B=0%
86
■ Employees may receive a 50% reimbursement upon registration, with the remaining reimbursement issued upon course completion.
Additional details regarding the Revised Freightliner Tuition Reimbursement Program are set forth in the Tuition Reimbursement Program Policy Overview.
Section 20.	Successors
This Agreement shall be binding upon the employer’s successors, assigns, purchasers, or transferees whether such succession, assignment or transfer be affected voluntarily or by operation of law; and in the event of the employer’s merger or consolidation with another Company or companies, this Agreement shall be binding upon the merged or consolidated Company.
Section 21.	Payday
Employees will be paid each week on Tuesday. The first paycheck will be received on the second Tuesday following a new employee’s first week of employment. Statements showing all deductions will accompany each paycheck.
The current practice of correcting paycheck errors will be continued.
A “direct deposit of payroll’ feature wilt be available to all Mt. Holly Plant employees.
87
Section 22,	Voting Area in Ptant
A designated voting area in the plant for local Union elections will be established. The area will provide a reasonable degree of privacy for the purpose of allowing local Union members to cast ballots in elections for Grievance Committeepersons, Local Union Officers and Delegates for UAW Conventions, Such voting will take place on employees' breaks; lunch hours, or before or after working hours. It is understood that the Union will involve the Personnel Department in making arrangements for this activity. It is further understood that this Agreement does not authorize any in-plant campaigning.
Section 23-	UAW V-Cap Check Off
The Company will provide a payroll deduction procedure tor employees who elect to make contributions to a UAW political fund. The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from all claims, demands, suits, or other liability arising out of or by reason of any action taken or not taken by the Company for the purposes of complying with the provisions of this Agreement. The Union will also be responsible for providing the forms that enable the Company to initiate such deductions.
Section 24,	Orientation Program
The Union and the Company will develops a Joint Orientation Program within 90 days of ratification, The joint Program will include Union participation in the explanation of all-eligible programs, continuing educa
88
ton, apprenticeship, benefits program, health and safety, Union membership responsibilities, and participation.
The joint program will be conducted during normal working hours and all new hires will receive their starting rate of pay.
Duration of allotted time will be mutually agreed upon.
Section 25.	Recreation Club
There shall be a Recreation Club consisting of three (3) members either elected or appointed by the Union and three (3) members of Management. The Recreation Club shall meet once each month to jointly administer and budget all joint recreation activities such as summer picnic, Christmas party, etc. Funding for these activities will be derived from the payments made by the Vending Machine Company to the.Recreation Fund. The Union, upon request, will have access to all financial information regarding the fund and all activities and expenditures wifi be determined by the Joint Recreation Club Committee members.
Section 26.	In-Piant Union Office and Equipment
The Company and Union will jointly agree to adequately equip (including furniture, computers, and file cabinets) the Union office. Phone charges for other than business will be the responsibility of the Local Union. A private adjoining office will be provided for the Local Union President/Chairman and a second office for Health and Safety and Benefits business. To the
89
extent necessary .and to _roeet medical records retention privacy, legislation, a third office will be provided. Air conditioning controls will be located in the union office area,
Section 27.	Skilled Trades
1.	It is understood that skilled trades classifications are recognized solely for administrative purposes relating to vacation, overtime, training, and job posting procedures. No jurisdictional craft restrictions will apply in the assignment of maintenance work. Employees maybe assigned to any job to which they are qualified to perform. The Company will determine qualifications in assigning work.
2.	The Company will offer training to skilled trades employees by seniority in their respective classifications. Training wji| be presided whenever practicable Jn_advance-Qf new_equipment installation and technology changes, Training-mav be_ either on-site or provided bv vendors at off-site locations,
3.	During the 2000 negotiations, the parties agreed to add Industrial Truck Repair as an apprenticeship to the Apprenticeship Program. The program will be jointly developed by the Apprenticeship Committee, within 90 days of ratification of the agreement.
4.	An employee having seniority in the plant, who enters the skilled trades group, will have a skilled trades seniority date as the day he or she enters the group.
90
However, it is understood that any previous seniority toward pensions, vacations, etc., will be maintained.	■
In the event of a reduction in force in the skilled trades, the employee's plant wide seniority date will be used for layoff and recall.
Section 28.	Training
During the 1994 negotiations, the parties discussed cross training of employees within their regular assigned work group. It was agreed that such training is important to the Company and employees.
Accordingly, employees who wish to be trained on other jobs within their work group should advise their supervisor of their wishes so that training opportunities can be made as time and work schedules permit.
SgQtiqn 29, _ Security .CArtteras
Security Cameras and devices will not be used for the purpose of monitoring employees' job performances.
Section .3g, Freightliner. Lt-C Products Freightliner will establish an employee product program for employees, retirees and their immediate family members that Includes a rebate directly from the Company, gpecific re-bate amounts will be determined by the Company on a case-by-case basis, in consideration of product, model specifications, market conditions, and .other relevant criteria. The GeneraL-Man-
91
I
aoer of sales and Marketing will administer this grflgtaniJg.r Jirpigtitlifipr -LLC,
SePlipnJTL. UAW.DecaJ
Within six months after ratification of this agreement, a UAW.sticke.r_wi.il-be .placed at a mutually agreeable location-On each ^M-2_ vehicle manufactured, at Mount Holly.
ARTICLE XX CONTRACT PRINTING
The Company agrees that as soon as is practicable after signing and ratifying this Agreement (no later than sixty (60) days) io provide sufficient printed proofs of the Agreement to the Union.
The Agreement with calendars showing negotiated holidays (during the term of the agreement), will be printed by a union printer and copies will be returned to the Local Union within (90) days of ratification.
ARTICLE XXI SCOPEOFAGREEMENT
Section 1,	It is agreed that this written contract reflects the entire Agreement between the parties. Amendments or clarifications of this Agreement mutually agreed upon shall be reduced to writing, attached to, and shall become a part of this contract.
Section 2.	The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations, which resulted in this Agreement, each has had the unrestricted right and opportunity to present
92
I
demands and proposals with respect to any matter subject to collective bargaining.
Therefore, the Company and the Union freely agree that during the period of this Agreement neither party shall be obligated to bargain with respect to any matter or subject not covered or referred to in this Agreement, nor with respect to any matter or subject referred to in this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXII
AUTHORIZATION FOR CHECK-OFF DUES
During the 1994 contract negotiations for the Freightliner Mt. Holly, North Carolina truck plant, the partes agreed to a procedure for the authorization for check-off dues. The following will apply.
Subject to the limitations as provided by the laws of the State of North Carolina and/or Federal law, the Company agrees during the life of this Agreement, to deduct Union membership dues from the pay of each employee who is a member of the Union, in accordance with the procedures set forth herein and in Exhibit *1’ described below. For the purposes of this Letter, pay from which Union membership dues may be deducted shall include all categories of payment to the employee, which the Union Constitution recognizes as appropriate for deduction of dues.
Upon receipt of a signed authorization which is in conformity with the laws of the State of North Carolina and applicable Federal law, the Company agrees to deduct from pay earned by employees who are mem
93
bers of the Union the amount which is certified by the Union as membership dues, including any applicable initiation or reinstatement fees, and remit such amounts monthly to the local Union Financial Secretary. Employees who desire to authorize the request to the Company to make such deductions and payments of their Union membership dues shall use the form attached hereto as Exhibit “1 ” and entitled “Authorization for Check-Off of Dues." Such authorization shall be subject to the terms of said Exhibit and may be revoked by the employee as provided therein and as provided in Section 302(c) of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947, as amended. It shall be the responsibility of the Union to provide such authorization.
The Local Union Financial Secretary shall give written notice to the Company of the amount of membership dues, including initiation or reinstatement fees, deductible in accordance with the preceding authorization. In all cases where a deduction is made which duplicates payment already made to the Union by an employee, or where deduction is not in conformity with the provisions of the Union Constitution and bylaws and/or te rms of this Agreement, refunds to the employee will be made by the Union.
All sums deducted shall be remitted to the local Union Financial Secretary not later than the fifteenth (15) day of each calendar month in which deductions are made. At the time of remitting the deducted amounts each month, the Company will furnish the local Union Financial Secretary with a listing of the employees, by name, social security number and amount deducted, for whom payroll deduction of Union membership dues was
94
made. The Union will give the Company prompt written notice of any errors in the listing or remittances.
Once each month, the Company will forward to the local Union Financial Secretary a listing of employees’ names indicating the reason for failure to include any sum or sums, which ordinarily would have been checked-off from the pay of the employee, covered by the Agreement.
The Union shall indemnify and save the Company harmless from all claims, demands, suits, or other liability arising out of or by reason of any action taken or not taken by the Company for the purposes of complying with the provisions of this letter.
Freightliner Payroll will use the pay rate in effect for the last complete work week of each month for the dues deduction calculation the following month. Thereafter, all sums deducted will be remitted to the local Union Financial Secretary not later than the 15th day of each calendar month in which the deductions are made. Electronic reporting, will .continue to be used for this purpose.
Union Community Fund
The company will make monthly payroll deductions of employee contributions to the union community fund and transmit the amounts as Instructed in the union community fund authorization agreement.
The parties agree and understand that this procedure is solely for the purpose of enabling Freightliner to remit
95
to the local Union Financial Secretary, ail sums deducted, no later than the 15th day of each calendar month.
ARTICLE XXIII HEALTH AND WELFARE
The Company will continue a Health Care Plan for UAW represented employees that includes the same benefits as provided under the Freightliner Health Plan on the effective date of this Agreement. As an alternative, employees will be able to elect coverage under an available HMO or the Freightliner Pointof Service (POS) Plan. The plans will be administered by the Company for UAW employees under the conditions set forth in Attachment C.
ARTICLE XXIV PENSION PROGRAM
The Company will continue a pension plan program for UAW represented employees with the same benefit levels and benefit formulas as currently provided in these negotiations. The Company will establish a separate pension plan for UAW represented employees under the conditions set forth in Attachment C.
ARTICLE XXV PAID SICK LEAVE
Section 1.	Paid sick leave in the maximum amountof seven (7) days per calendar year will be accrued at the rate of 4.66 hours per month including the month in which an employee is hired. Any days not taken will be
96
accrued to a maximum of fifty (50) days. An employee with fifteen (15) or more days of accumulated paid sick leave may use five (5) of such days as an additional full week of vacation in accordance with normal scheduling requirements. An employee with twenty-four (24) or more days of accumulated paid sick leave may use ten (10) of such days as additional full weeks of vacation in accordance with normal scheduling requirements.
Section 2.	Up to four (4) days per calendar year may be used as personal time at the employee's option provided these days off are scheduled in advance in the same manner as single days of vacation.
Section 3,	Any employee with accrued Sick Leave of five (5) days may cash out the excess above five (5) days (cash out full days only) at any time.
Section 4.	Paid sick leave may be used during the statutory waiting period by employees who are off work with compensl ble injuries. Employees who choose to use contractual sick leave to satisfy the unpaid waiting period will not have any adverse pay impact. Paid sick leave used for this purpose will not be reinstated.
Section 5,	Commencing with ratification, and on an initial six-month trial basis.-paid sick leave may_be_utilized in !6 day increments. Thereafter, continuation of this utilization will be reviewed event six months and may be discontinued at the company’s discretion if there is abuse by employees, provided that .the .Gpmpany-wilLnot
97
act arbitrarily. The Union will be provided with data relied upon by. the company in making a decision to discontinue the utilization of ¥1 days-
Section 6.	Sick Leave: Eliminate accrual on all leaves over 60 days i excluding Military Leave and FMLA) in duration.
ARTICLE XXVI SHORT-TERM DISABILITY
Employees absent from work due to prolonged medical or mental illness or injury will be eligible for payments of 70% of their regular straight time wages during any fifty-three (53)-calendar days of absence per calendar year. Commencement of disability benefits requires an unpaid waiting period of five (5) consecutive workdays for each incident of illness orinjury. Eligibility entitlement also requires that the employee be under the care of a physician who determines him to be unable to perform available work for which he is qualified.
At the employee’s request, paid sick leave may be used to satisfy the disability waiting period.
There should be no interruption of the waiting period because of paid days from independently established benefits such as paid holidays. In other words, holidays should be counted toward the satisfaction of the five (5) day waiting period.
independent benefits such as paid sick leave, holidays, vacations, jury duty pay, or any other paid days for the time not worked, with the exception of 41-time, will not
98
interrupt or extend the five (5) day waiting period. Moreover, where “paid days' occur during a five (5) day waiting period, there will be no pyramiding of independent benefits (for example, vacation pay plus paid sick leave or holiday pay plus paid sick leave).
Employees who are off on worker’s compensation will have the option to supplement worker's compensation benefits with annual short-term disability paid days, if available.
ARTICLE XXVII LONG-TERM DISABILITY
The Company will continue the current Freightliner Long Term Disability Program as set forth in Attachment C.
ARTICLE XXVIII
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND DISABILITY PLANS
The Company will continue to provide the same life, accident, and disability benefits to UAW represented employees that were available on the effective date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXIX “41 TIME"
In order to qualify for approved time off with pay as “41 Time,” an employee's absence from work must be for one of the following reasons:
1.	A sudden illness or accident of an immediate family member (i.e., unplanned, unscheduled, unantici-
99
i
paled) preventing the employee's presence at work. Immediate family members include spouse, child, brother, sister, parents, parents-in-law, grandparents, and grandchildren of employees.
Clarification; Eligibility will depend upon the necessity of the employee to transport or be present with the immediate family member when medical treatment is required at a hospital, doctor's or dentist’s office. Pay for time not worked will be limited to the amount of time required to be present at the medical professional's office, plus a reasonable amount of travel time to and from the service provider and/or home or work.
“41 Time" benefits are not applicable to employees who are unable to work because of the need to care for an ill or injured family member.
2.	In attendance where major or emergency surgery is to be performed on an immediate family member.
Clarification: As with No. 1 above, pay for time not worked will be limited to the amount of time the employee is required to be present, plus a reasonable amount of travel time.
3.	Physician and dental appointments of employees which cannot be scheduled outside the employee’s normal working hours.
Clarification: Employees are expected to, to the extent practical, schedule such appointments at times that do not conflict with their work schedules.
100
However, when alternative scheduling is not available and appointments must be scheduled during working hours, pay for time not worked will be limited to the amount of time required for the appointment, plus a reasonable amount Of travel time.
An employee may be granted up to eight (8) hours of regular straight time off with pay for each separate occurrence of “41 time”.
Clarification: The interpretation of “Separate Occurrences" is understood to mean the onset of a new and unrelated illness, injury, or appointment that would qualify for“41 Time” entitlement under Items #1, #2, and/ or #3 above.
Employees are encouraged to make up the amount of “41 time" that they are absent. This time can only be made up within the workweek that it is taken. Pay for such time is at the regular straight time rate. Failure to make up time will prevent the achievement of perfect attendance. In order to receive pay, employees must fill out the “41 time’ portion of the Request for Pay During Absence form and submit it to their supervisor for approval and subsequent processing.
The payment of “41 time" shall be at the regular straight time rate for time not worked during the course of a normal and regular workday. “41 Time” pay does not extend to absences which occur on overtime.
An employee may be granted up to eight (8) hours of regular straight time off with pay for each separate occurrence of those reasons covered under the "41 time” policy.
101
ARTICLE XXX
EMPLOYEE RETIREMENTSAVINGS PLAN 401K
The Company will continue to provide the current Freightliner Employee Retirement Savings Plan (401K Plan) for UAW-represented employees, subject to the following revisions. The Company will make every possible effort to have these revisions to the Plan in effect by December 17, 2000:
1.	Increase the maximum employee pre-tax contributions to the full amount permitted under federal law.
2.	Increase the allowed frequency of changes in employee contributions from twice yearly to quarterly.
3.	Increase the allowed frequency of investment option changes and asset transfers from twice yearly to daily. Improve investment contribution flexibility to permit changes in increments of 1.0%
4.	Increase the frequency of Plan Valuations from quarterly to monthly. Such valuations will include all contributions and earnings through the close of the prior month.
5.	Increase the frequency of written Employee Statements of account balances from twice yearly to quarterly.
6.	New participants may enroll in the plan on the first day of any calendar quarter following their date of hire.
102
7.	Compensation will include all Cost-of-Living Allowances for purposes of Employee and Company matching contributions.
8.	No more than one (1) $75.00 loan fee will be chargeable to an Employee for an approved and completed loan transaction from a member’s account balance.
Effective January 1,1998, increase Company contribution to four percent (4%) on six percent (6%).
The Company may, al its option, establish a freestanding Plan containing all of the above agreed-upon features for UAW-represented employees.
Effective January 01. 2004. the loan transaction maximum, will be increased to two (2) loans at any given time.
The UAW/Freightliner Employee Retirement Savings Plan will remain in full force and effect for the duration of the Collective Bargaining Agreement of which it is a part. Any amendments to the Plan during the term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement must be made by mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
ARTICLE XXXI DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1,
This Agreement shall become effective as of June 19th 2003. and shall remain in effect until June 19M 2006. and thereafter until either party serves a sixty (60) day
103
written notice to the other specifying a desire to modify or terminate this Agreement. Should neither party give such sixty (60) day notice, this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until such notice is given and for sixty (60) days thereafter.
Section 2.
Upon receipt of said notice, the parties shall promptly arrange a mutually agreed upon date to commence negotiations pursuant to such written notice. Any new Agreement or contract modifications negotiated between the parties shall not be binding or effective unless reduced to writing and signed by the Corporate Representative and the Plant Manager and the members of the Local Shop Bargaining Committee, the UAW Regional 8 Director and the Director of the UAW Freightliner Truck Department.
In witness whereof, the parties hereto have set their hands and seals this 19™. day of June. 2003.
Accepted for the Union by:
INTERNATIONAL UNION, UNITED AUTOMOBILE, AEROSPACE AND AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA-UAW
NATE GOODEN, VICE PRESIDENT
DIRECTOR, UAW FREIGHTLINER DEPARTMENT
104
GARYCASTEEL
DIRECTOR - UAW REGION 8
STEVEJONES
ADMINISTRATIVEASSISTANT
TERRYBOLTE
INTERNATIONALREPRESENTATIVE
DEANEASON
INTERNATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE
JOHN SMITH
INTERNATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE
WILLARD BECK
INTERNATIONALREPRESENTATIVE
105
BRENTMARR
PRESIDENT, SHOPCHAIRMAN
KIM HOYLE
HEALTH AND SAFETY REPRESENTATIVE
TIM BRIDGES
BENEFITS REPRESENTATIVE
CLARK RIDDLE
COMMITTEEPERSON
STEVEAUST1N
COMMITTEEPERSON
GREG NOLEN
COMMITTEEPERSON
106
TERRYCOLE
COMMITTE EPERSON
TOMMY BRASWELL
COMMTTTEEPERSON
OON McKNIGHT
COMMITTEEPERSON
ACCEPTED FOR THE COMP AN Y BY: FREIGHTLINER CORPORATION
MARK MOSELEY
PLANT MANAGER
SCOTT EVITT
GENERAL MANAGER, HUMAN RESOURCES
107
WAYNE SIMON
HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGER
MIKE HELLER
LABOR RELATIONS SPECIALIST
108
Classification
ATTACHMENT Al - GRADE 7
06-19-03
TOP RATE $23.92
Progression Steps
109
Senior Maintenance Mechanic	Start:	$15.18
Senior Parts Fabricator	6 month:	$15.68
Robotic Technician	12 months:	$16.18
	16 months:	$16.68
	24 months:	$17.18
	30 months:	$17.68
	36 months:	$18.18
	42 months:	$18.6B
	48 months top classification	$23.92
Note: Leadpersons shall receive $1.10 per hour above the top		production
wage rate for the work group they are responsible for leading.
Classification
ATTACHMENT A2 - GRADE 6
06-19-03
TOP RATE $23.05
Maintenance Mechanic
Progression Steps
110
START $14.07 6 months: $14.57 12 months: $15.07 16 months: $15.57 24 months: $16.07 30 months: $16.57 36 months: $17.07 42 months: $17.57
48 months Top Classification Rate $23.05
Note: Leadpersons shall receive $1.10 per hour above the top production wage rate for the workgroup they are responsible for leading.
ATTACHMENT A3 - GRADE 5
Classification	06-19-03 TOP RATE $23.05
Inspector Machinist
Sr. Painter Parts Fabricator (Fuel Tank Welder) Pre-Paint Body Specialist Certified Production Welder	Start: $14.07 6 months: $14.57 12 months: $15.07 18 months: $15.57 24 months: $16.07 30 months: $16.57 36 months: $17.07 42 months: $17.57
48 months Top Classification Rate $23.05
Note: Leadpersons shall receive $1.10 per hour above the top production wage rate for the workgroup they are responsible for leading.
112
	ATTACHMENT A4- GRADE 4
Classification	06-19-03 TOP RATE $22.25
Material Handier Painter Truck Assembler Tool Crib Attendant	Start: $12.95 6 months: $13.45 12 months: $13.95 18 months: $14.45 24 months: $14.95 30 months: $15.45 36 months: $15.95 42 months: $16.45
48 months TOP CLASSIFICATION RATE $22.25
Note: Leadpersons shall receive $1.10 per hour above the top production wage rate for the workgroup they are leading.
113
ATTACHMENT A3 GRADE 3 CLASSIFICATION	06-19-03
TOP RATE $20.37 Painter Helper PROGRESSION STEPS Start: $14.07 6 months: $14.57 12 months: $15.07 18 months: $15.57 24 months: $16.07 30 months: $16.57 36 months: $17.07 42 months: $17.57 48 months Top Classification Rate $20.37 COST OF LIVING
In addition to the regular hourly wage rates specified above, a coat of living adjustment will be made toemployees on the active payroll of the company, who are at the top rate based on changes in the consumer index asfotiows: Effective 12/ 16/01, an increase In top wage rateswill be based on $.01 for each .1125point changelnthe ISM Revised Consumer Price Index, CP1-W, US Average(1$82-84)betweon October 2000(170.6) and October2001. The cost of living Increase which exceeds $.75 win be added to thetopwage shown above. Etfective12fl5ID2,anincrease in top wage rates will be based on $.01 tor each .1125 point change In the CPI-W, US Average (1982-84) between October 2001 and October2002. The cost ot living increase which exceeds $.50 will be added to the top wago shown above.
ATTACHMENTB
EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
During the 1990-1991 contract negotiations, the parties discussed the implementation of an Employee Assistance Program and the Company's Dnjg and Aicohol Policy.
It was also agreed that where the Freightliner Drug and Alcohol Policy allows for only one (1) opportunity for treatment for a drug or alcohol dependency via a “last chance agreement”, Freightliner will provide for one (1) additional treatment opportunity tor an employee under the following conditions:
1.	The employee was a prior “last chance” participant who has satisfactorily completed the program and the agreement has been terminated;
2.	The employee signs and abides by a second “Last Chance Agreement" under the same conditions as the first “Last Chance Agreement.”
During or following treatment, the employee should not expect any special privileges or exemptions from standard personnel practices; and
Nothing in this statement rs to be interpreted as constituting any waiver of Management’s responsibility to maintain discipline or the right to invoke disciplinary measures in the case of misconduct, which may result from, or be associated with the use of alcohol or drugs or personal problems. The Union may exercise its right
114
to process grievances concerning such /natters in accordance with the Freightliner-UAW Agreement;
it is understood that an employee who fails to meet all of these conditions at the time a second opportunity is requested or required will not qualify for tne second opportunity and employment will be terminated for violation of Company Policy.
The employee who receives a second opportunity will be given leave of absence as needed; however, only medical coverage for treatment will be provided. The Company Short- Term Disability payments will not apply.
Freightliner and the United Auto Workers Union agree that if Employee Assistance Program Services fails to live up to the expectations of the parties, another provider of such services may be agreed upon by mutual agreement, provided the costs of such other provider is no greater than the current provider.
DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY
I. PURPOSE
This policy is intended to provide a safe and productive work environment for Freightliner employees by elimination of drug and alcohol presence or influence in the work place and to ensure the opportunity for continued employment to those who have a drug or alcohol problem by voluntary participation in a treatinent program.
115
I). SUMMARY
This policy describes practices and procedures to ensure that work environments are free of the presence of illegal drugs and alcohol and that employees are capable of performing their tasks safely and efficiently without the influence of any legal or illegal drug or alcohol.
III.	POLICY
It is Freightliner policy that employees may not possess, use, manufacture, or distribute illegal drugs or alcohol on Freightliner premises or be under the influence of drugs or alcohol on Freightliner premises.
The Company reserves the right to conduct a search of employees and their property and to require drug screening, at management's discretion, for the purpose of enforcement of this policy.
IV.	DEFINITIONS
A.	Illegal Drugs - Any drug that is illegal under federal, state or local law. Any legal drug which has been illegally obtained of for which a valid prescription is required and lacking.
B.	Under the Influence - Behavior that adversely affects job performance, mobility, safety or speech with evidence of drug or alcohol usage. Drug or alcohol resulting in a positive drug screen.
C.	Positive Drug Levels - The minimum quantitive level for marijuana (THC) by urine sample is 50 ng/ml to be considered positive for drug testing purposes.
116
The minimum quantitive level for alcohol by urine sample is 38 mg/dl for reasonable cause testing. This is equivalent io 50 mg/dl by blood sample or .05% blood-aicohol.
The minimum quantitive level for alcohol by urine sample for testing in accordance with the "Last Chance Agreement” is 8 mg/d). This is equivalent totO mg/dl by blood sample or .01% blood-aicohol.
All other drugs testing require only a positive identification.
V.	PRE-EMPLOYMENT TESTING
All persons to be assigned employment will be required to take a physical examination, which will include a drug-screening test. Any applicant who fails the drug screen will be disqualified from employment and may not re-apply within one (1) year.
V).	RESTRICTIONS ON COMPANY PR EMISES
A. Illegal Drugs - The possession, use, manufacture, or distribution of illegal drugs or alcohol on Company property is specifically prohibited and will be cause for discharge.
8. Under the Influence - Reporting for duty or working while under the influence of any drug or alcohol (whether or not legally intoxicated) is specifically prohibited and will be cause for suspension without pay or discharge, depending on the circumstances.
117
C. Positive Drug Levels - Employees who are required to take prescription drugs, which may influence performance, must report such drug usage to management for determination of work capability. Failure to do so will be cause for disciplinary action.
VII. PROCEDURES
A.	Testing -
I
1.	impairment: When the Company has reasonable cause to believe that an employee is demonstrating signs of impairment due to the influence of drugs or alcohol he/she will be taken to a medical facility for diagnosis and drug screening. Impaired employees are prohibited from driving and transportation arrangements will be made for them by the Company.
2.	Reasonable cause shall be defined as those circumstances, based on objective evidence about the employee's conduct in the workplace, that would cause a reasonable person to believe that the employee is demonstrating signs of impairment such as difficulty in maintaining balance, slurred speech, erratic or atypical behavior, or otherwise appears unable to perform his/her job tn a safe manner.
3.	Accident: Employees who are involved in a preventable accident may, at management’s discretion, be required to submit to drug screening. The Union will be notified in the event
118
a drug screening is required dqe tp an accident. This language also applies tp outside contractors in the event of an accident.
B.	Search - Employees may be required to empty the contents of their clothing, purses, and other containers if reasonable cause exists to believe that they are in possession of prohibited substances.
C.	Positive Test Results - Employees who have a positive drug screen indicating drug or alcohol usage will be placed in the Treatment Program as provided at VI ii below.
D.	Failure to Cooperate - Employees who fail to cooperate with management’s enforcement of this policy by refusing to allow a drug search, permit confiscation of suspected material, or submit to a physical examination and drug screen will be considered insubordinate. Such insubordination will be cause for discharge.
VIII,	TREATMENT PROGRAM
One opportunity for treatment wilt be provided to employees who have a drug or alcohol dependency or a positive drug screen. Participation in a treatment program and continued employment will be in accordance with the terms and conditions of a written agreement provided by the Company. Such participation will be kept confidential, and employees will be excused from work or provided a medical leave of absence as required by the program.
119
IX.	DISCIPLINE
Any discipline provided in accordance with this policy shall be characterized as “violation of Company policy”.
X.	FEDERAL CONTRACT EMPLOYEE REQUIREMENTS
In addition, employers who are engaged in the performance of a federal contract are required, as a condition of employment, to abide by Company’s prohibition against controlled substances in the workplace and must notify the Company of any criminal drug statute violation occurring in the workplace no later than five (5) days after that conviction.
Company’s prohibition against controlled substances in the workplace and must notify the Company of any criminal drug statute violation occurring in the workplace no later than five (5) days after that conviction.
120
ATTACHMENTC
BENEFIT PLANS
The following is an outline of pension, 401 (k). health, lite insurance and long-term disability benefits for UAW employees at Freightliner Corporation's Mt. Holly Plant as agreed between Freightliner and the bargaining unit’s representative. Specific language for the respective plan documents is to be developed, and will reflect the content of this outline.
Pension Benefits
1.	Freightliner will continue the existing plan which will be administered by the Freightliner Investment Committee in accordance with the plan and Master Retirement Trust documents. Freightliner will continue to fund the plan on an on-going basis as is necessary to ensure that the minimum funding requirements under federal regulations are met.
2.	Freightliner will manage and administer the existing plan. A bargaining unit representative shall be entitled to participate in the dispute resolution process as described In Attachment C-4. All investment management shall remain exclusively under Freightliner’s authority.
3.	All Freightliner UAW employees who have retired since April 16,1990 will be covered by the negotiated plan.
121
4.	Freightliner and the UAW will nominate certain members to participate in a Joint Benefits Committee. such group to be responsible for activi-
ter of Understanding),
5.	Credited and vesting service will be granted for periods of disability, provided the employee remains disabled under the terms of the long-term disability plan, and during periods of union leave which are granted in accordance with Article XiV, Section 3, and Letters of Understanding, not to exceed Twenty (20) people at any one (1) time. Leave for any one (1) individual under Article XIV, Section 3 may not exceed six (6) months duration. Credited and vesting service will also be granted for periods of International Union Leave for any one employee tor up to two years.
6.	During the 1997 negotiations it was agreed that pension service credit would be computed from date of hire for all employees.
Health Benefits
1.	Freightliner has established new and separate active and retiree health plans, with initial features and plan language parallel to the existing plans for active UAW employees and future UAW retirees. The affected plans will have the changes contained in Attachment C-1 effective January 1, 2004
2.	Health care benefits will include, for active UAW employees and retirees, the medical care plans
122
which have been expanded to include the Freightliner Point of Service (POS) medical care plan as described in material provided, effective January 1, 2QQ4,withNOPREMIUMCONTRIBLmONSREQUIRED from covered employees during the life of this Agreement.
Employees who elect to retain the HMO medicalcare plan may do so under these conditions:
(1)	Co-pay increased to $15 on January 1, 2004.
(2)	The Company will maintain the HMO MEDICAL PLAN BENEFITS,
(3)	During the 1997 negotiations the current mail order prescription Drug Program will be added to the HMO Plan.
Employees who elect to retain the indemnity plan may do so. However, deductibles will be increased to $300/$600 with increased annual out-of-pocket maximums, effective January 1,1995. The Company will maintain the cost of frig indemnity plan benefits.
Health care options and features for the POS Plan, the Indemnity Plan, and the Managed Care Plan is shown in Attachment C-1, C-2 and C-3.
3.	Transition to Point of Service
Open Enrollment for Mt. Holly employees will beheld no later than November 2003. The following options will be available:
123
1.	CIGNA Point of -Service Plan
2,	Freightliner Indemnity Plan (PPO)
3.	HMO (Medical, Vision, Drug Coverage)
The current Dental and Vision Plans will be offered with NO Deductible.
The Express RX Plan will continue with co-pays equivalent to retail Rx.
Employees will receive new CIGNA identification cards as soon as possible.
4.	Retiree Health Premium Trust
Employees who retire under contract on or after January 1, 1995 will be charged a health care premium based on the matrix. Four cents (4c) per hour for each hour paid will be deducted from wages and paid to a VEBA trust set up and administered by the Company. (Increased to .06 per hour effective upon ratification. ,0S during 2004, and .10 during 2005). Administrative costs wilt be paid by the trust. Investment income stays in the trust. Trust pays the retiree premiums, if any, of any employee retiring during the term of the contract to the extent of funds available in the trust. No Company liability to pay retiree premium sharing amounts generated by the matrix beyond funds in the trust. AH assets of the trust will be for the exclusive benefit of future retirees. The Company wilt make quarterly disclosures to the Union concerning the status of, and participation in, the VEBA Trust.
124
S.	The following Indemnity Plan changes were agreed to during the 1991 negotiations:
■	Increase the Maximum Lifetime Benefit payable for each covered person from $1,000,000 to $2,000,000.
‘ Continue the Mail Order Prescription Drug Program for long-term maintenance-type drugs. Co-pays changed to $7.50 for generic and $15 for brand during the 2003 negotiations.
■	Cover Mammography as any other covered expense under the Health Plan, with no restrictions ON frequency.
■	Cover Pap Smear as any other covered expense
under the Health Plan, with no restriction ON frequency.
■	Cover all medical components of Coordinated Home Health Care, including nursing services, home health aides, dietitians and nutritionists but excluding all services classified as purely custodial.
Cost-sharing for retirees will also begin in 1995 for those who retire on or after January 1, 1995. This means retirees will pay a percentage of the premium cost. The chart below shows the percent of premium that retirees will pay using a combination of age and service: 85 = 100% benefit: Chart Revised during 2003 negotiations.
125
6.	Health plans coverage will be granted for periods of disability, provided the employee remains disabled under the terms of the long-term disability plan, and during periods of union leave which are granted in accordance with Article XIV, Section 3 and Letters of Understanding, not to exceed Twenty (20) people at any one (7) time. Leave for any one (1) individual under Article XIV, Section 3 may not exceed six (6) months duration.
Life Insurance Benefits
1.	Freightliner will maintain Basic (Company-paid) Life Insurance, Supplemental (Employee-paid) Life Insurance and 24-Hour Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance plans with features and plan language will be Increased to equivalent levels currently available to management employees,
2.	Basic (Company-paid) Life Insurance coverage will be continued for periods of layoff for six (6) months. Disability, provided the employee remains disabled under the terms of the long-term disability plan, and during periods of union leave which are granted In accordance with Article XIV, Section 3 and Letters of Understanding, not to exceed Twenty (20) people at any one (1) time. Leave for any one (1) individual under Article XIV, Section 3 may not exceed six (6) months duration.
3.	Supplemental (Employee-paid) Life Insurance and Supplemental (Employee-paid) Spouse Life coverage will be continued during periods of Disability
127
with a waiver of employee premiums, provided the employee remains disabled under the terms of the long-term disability plan. For periods of union leave, granted in accordance with Article XIV, Section 3, and Letters of Understanding, these supplemental insurance coverage may be kept in force by selfpayment monthly. No more than Twenty (20) people may be on leave at any one (1) time, and no leave may be granted which exceeds six (6) months duration.
4.	24-Hour Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance coverage cannot (by insurance policy provisions) be extended for periods of disability or unpaid union leave.
5.	Retire (Company-paid) Life Insurance of a $5,000 lump sum death benefit will be provided for employees who retire under this contract.
6.	Business travel accident insurance will be provided to company employees traveling on approved union business.
Long-Term Disability (Extended Sick Pay Plan) Benefits
Freightliner will continue the existing plan.
After disability ceases from ANY occupation, benefits will continue if disability prevents performance of any bargaining unit jobs available at the Mt. Holly plant which are consistent with their restrictions and to which their seniority would entitle them, but in no event will benefits
128
be extended beyond one year from the date the employee ceased to be disabled from ANY occupation.
Management and administration of the new plan shall be identical to the existing plan, except that with respect to any disputes as to eligibility to participate or calculation of benefits which arise during disability for the specific employee, a bargaining union representative shall be entitled to participate in the dispute resolution process. Should the dispute not be resolved on the basis of an examination by a physician appointed by the Company, an independent physician agreeable to both the Company and the Union will be selected, and the decision of this physician shall be binding upon the Company and the Union.
* Long-Term Disability ( Social Security Carve Out); LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING DISABILITY
The Social Security Carve- Out will continue as specified in the Summary Plan Description, However, the offset will begin whenever Social Security Benefits are approved or one fl) year after the initial onset of disability, whichever occurs first. In any case, the over payment recovery provision will apply after six /6) months of continuous disability.
General, Applied tP AH th? Above.. Mentioned Rians
1.	Future changes in the plans, with the exception of . the following categories, will be subject to the approval of the bargaining unit representative, which
129
approval may not be unreasonably withheld or unreasonably delayed:
■ Those changes heretofore mentioned, or contained in specifically mentioned Attachments or Exhibits-,
• Legal changes which affect the benefit structure and over which Freightliner has no control;
' Selection of insurance provider; and ■ Investment management of any trusts.
2.	The new plans, or their interpretation, will not be subject to the grievance or dispute resolution procedure ot any collective bargaining agreement
3.	The plans, and the changes embodied in the plans, will be effective for the term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
4.	The Joint Benefits Committee referenced in the Labor Contract (Letter of Understanding! will be involved as set forth in_the_agreement between the parties.
The foregoing meets the common understanding of both parties.
130
ATTACHMENT C-1
BENEF1TSCHANGES
1.	Mammography. Non-investigational or non-experi-mentai services prescribed by licensed physician, claims paid at 100%. Limit $200/year.
2.	Pap Smear. Non-investigational or non-experimen-ta! services prescribed by a licensed physician. Claims paid at 100%. Limit $200/year.
3.	Cover Vision care, as follows:
Optometrist	$ 50.00
Ophthalmologist	57.50
Single-vision Lenses	53.75
Bifocal Lenses	73.75
Trifocal Lenses	93.75
Lenticular Lenses	125.00
Frames	56.25
Contacts (Regular)	187.50
Contacts (Medically Necessary) 250.00
Frequency:
All except frames Once Per Year Frames	Once Each 24 Months
4.	Hearing Aid. Non-investigational or non-experimental services prescribed by licensed physician or
131
licensedaudiologist. Claims paid at 80%. Limit$800/ any three (3) year period.
5.	Layoff Benefits. Health insurance, Company-paid Life, and Accident and Disability coverage will be continued for employees on layoff for six (6) months beyond normal expiration dates for each plan. Employees are afforded twelve months of Cobra following this period. LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING: COBRA BENEFIT ENTITLEMENT W!LLBEOFFSETBYTHISSIX(61 MONTH PERIOD.
6.	Retiree Prescription Drugs. Provideretireesover65 and their families with the same prescription drug program covering active workers and pre-65 retirees.
7.	HMO Dental Cigna improve all benefit levels to match those in the Point-of-Service and Freightliner Indemnity Plans
Company Short-Term Disability payments will not apply.
8,	Healthcare - all plans: Increase co-insurance by 5% for all employees except office visits.
9,	HMO: Increase co-pay? by $10.00 for doctor visits and by $20.00 for hospital visits,
10.	POS: Increase office visits co-pays by $15.00.
11.	Prescription drugs: increase co-oavs by $7.50 for_generic and bv $15.00 for brand. Applies to both retail and mail-order.
132
12.	Rgtlrgg Medical Cost Share: Revise qge and service matrix so that age plus service In all combinations (except >85) increases_by 10%, Factors of 85 or higher wilLrequireJL co-pay. In addition, Increase VESA tru$t contributions bv $.02 per hour in each year (total ot $■10 per hour bv_third_year),
13.	Future Cost Sharing and Benefits Issues: Establish Joint Benefits Review Committee to implement a process for reviewing and controlling future additional medical costs and resolving benefits issues.
133
ATTACHMENT C-2 FREIGHTLINER MEDICAL PLAN COMPARISON
FREIGHTLINER POINT OF SERVICE PLAN (YOU CAN USE EITHER PLAN AT ANY TIME. IN-NETWORK SERVICES MUST BE DIRECTED BY PCP.)	FREIGHTLINER INDEMNITY PLAN	HMO North Carolina (where availabfe)
(N NETWORK	OUT- OF- NETWORK		
Choice of Doctor Listed In-network	Any licensed doctor,	Any licensed doctor,	Medical care must
And Hospital	doctor, hospitals and hospital and medical hospital and medical	be received from
Medical facilities facility	facilities	HMD doctors,
Hospitals, and Medical facilities
134
Service area	specific counties in the provider Directory	Worldwide coverage: there are no service area restrictions	Worldwide coverage: there are no service area restrictions	Includes Gaston, Iredell, Mecklenburg Lincoln end Rowan Counties
Claim Forms	NO	YES	YES	NO
calendar Year Deductive	NAME	$300 Employee only $600 Family	$300 Employee only $600 Family	TOTE " '
Your copayment 525 per office visit (or co-pay)		35%	25%	$15 per outpatient visit varies for other services	
135
PLAN 100% for office visits After deductible, 65% After deductible 75% 100% after copay Coinsurance {after your copay) 85% of covered expenses	of covered expenses*
payment of most other covered expenses
Your Annual out* $375employeeonly $1,050employaeonly			$1,050offlpJoyeeonJy SSOOperperson	
Of-pocket	i	5750 Family	$2,100 Family		$2,100 Family	$1,200 per Family
Maximum				
Lifetime Maximum	SSmdlionoeroerson	S2 million oer oerson			Limit not published
Physician Services				
Office Visits	$25 copay per visit	65%*	75%	$16 co-pay per visit
X-ray end Lab	95%	65%*	75%	100%
Hospital Visits	85%	65%	75%	100%
Surgery	85%	65%	75%	100%
Preventive Care				
Physicals	$25 co-pay per visit	not covered	not covered	$15 co-pay par visit
Pap A GYN Exam	$25 co-pay per visit	not covered	75%	$15 co-pay per visit
Well Child Care	$25 co-pay per visit	not covered	not covered	$15co*pay per visit
Immunizations	$25 co-pay per visit	not covered	not covered	100%
Chiropractic Care	$25 CO-pay per visit:	65%, 60 day	75%'to $35 per	covered in fuff if authorized
	60 day limit per condition	limit per condition	. visit, 26 visits	by HMO Doctor
per year EmergencTTJoor^' 85%	85^»- “	75%*^"^^5 co-pay per visit afBMd
65%* routine
136
Hospital Services
Inpatient Out Patient surg	85% wry 85%	65%* 65%'	76%’ 75%’	100% 825 co-pay per visit
Pre- Hospital Mithorliatlon	Automatic	Required: otherwise Required: otherwise not reqiured $250 reduction in benefits $250 reduction In benefits			
Maternity Care	$25 copay per visit 65% after 85% delivery and annual deductible hospital		75%^ after annual deductible	covered as any other condition tor all female members
FamilyPlanning Vasectomy	85% Tubal Ligation	85% Infertility	$25 co-pay per visit Office visit Infertility Surgery 85%		65%* 65%’ 65%’ 65%*	75%’ ?5%* 75%* not covered	$15 co-pay $15 co-pay $15 co-pay 100% inpatient
Prescription Drugs $7.50 generic $15 name brand MAIL ORDER;	$7.50 GENERIC $15 BRAND NAME		$7.50 generic $15 name brand $7.50 GENERIC $15 BRAND NAME	$7,50 generic $15 name brand $7.50 GENERIC $15 BRAND NAME	$12.5^generic $20 name brand $7.50 GENERIC $15 BRAND NAME
Mental Healthcare Inpatient	85% up to 45		65% up to 45	75% up to 45	covered In lull lor 45 days
days per calendar days per calendar days per calendar renewed with lapse of 60 year	year	year	days from discharge to
Readmit
Out Patient $25 co-pay per visit 65%* per visit up	up to $50 per visit	covered in full for 20 visits
137
Up id 50 visits per to SO visits per up to 50 visits per	per calendar year
Year	year	year
&ubstanceAbuse	-	-	-
Inpatient	55% up to 45 days	65%* up to 45 days 75%* up to 4S days	covered In full tor 45 days
Per calendar year	per calendar year	per calendar year	renewed with lapse of 60
Daye from discharge to Readmit OUT Patient $25 copay per visit	65%* per visit up	Up to $50 per visit Covered in full for 35 visits
Up to 50 visits per to 50 visits per up to 50 visits per or 70 group sessions per Year	Year	Year	calendar year
Combined Maximums Annuif maximumoFTnnunmSwimumof Annual maximumo/ NA _ For Mental Health 45 days for inpatient 45 days for inpatient 45 days for inpatient & Substance Abuse or hospital daycare or hospital day care or hospital day care
All benefits payableare based on reasonable and customary charges.
Separate maximums and limitations apply. Refer to Summary Plan Description for more information. This is only a brief summary of the benefitsavattable underthese plane, if there are any discrepancies In the communication materials, youractual benefitwill be governed by the Summary Plan Description, plan document and/ or insurance contract.
<1) Mental Health Care Benefits will comply with new Parity regulations.
ATTACHMENT C-3
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS FOR EVALUATING HMOs
TO BE OFFERED TO EMPLOYEES REPRES ENTED BY THEUAW
BASIC BENEFITS	HMO - NORTH CAROLINA
Inpatient-Hosoital	All Service must be provided,
ordered prescribed, or recommended by the HMO or plan physician except in the case of emergencies where the HMO rules of reporting shall apply.
Room and Board	Semi-private room covered in
full.
Private room covered if medically indicated.
Benefit Period	Unlimited
Maternity Admission	Unlimited
Surgery (includes plastic, cosmetic and reconstructive surgery for congenital abnormalities, correction of conditions resulting from accidental injuries or traumatic scars, and correction of deformities resulting from cancer surgery, or following medically necessary mastectomies, and tor rhytidectomies when there is secondary visual impairment resulting from conditions such aS Belt’s Palsy).
No charge - covered in full. Exception: Plastic surgery or other services indicated primarily to improve appearance not resulting in significant improvement in physical function. Exception does not apply to services correcting significant disfigurement resulting from a non-congenital injury or surgery, or to treatment of congenital anomalies like cleft palate for eligible newborns.
138
Hospital Physician Service	No charge - covered in full.
Surgical Assistance	No charge - covered in full, when medically necessary.
Ancillary Services	No charge • covered in full.
Physical Therapy	No charge - covered infull when authorized by a HMO physician, as long as significant improvement continues to be achieved through treatment. Long-term rehabilitation is not covered.
Consultations	No charge - covered in full.
Pulmonary Tuberculosis	No charge - covered in full.
Atfiliated Hospitals	No charge - covered in full.
Non-participating Hospitals	No charge if admitted by a plan doctor, or for an emergency.
These are minimum benefits.	Many plans have pluses. Once
a plan is approved, no reduction inbenefits maybe made without prior approval ot the Union.
139
ATTACHMENT C-3
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS FOR EVALUATING HMOs
TO BE OFFERED TO EMPLOYEES REPRESENTED BY THEUAW
BASIC BENEFITS	HMO - NORTH CAROLINA
Outpatient Services
Outpatient Surgery Hospital Services	No charge • covered in full.* No charge - covered in full.
Diagnostic Laboratory and X-ray No charge - covered in full.
Routine Office Visits	No charge - covered in full."
Doctor’s Home Visit	No charge - covered in full" when medically indicated.
Physical Exams	No charge • covered in full."
Pediatric Exams	No charge - covered in full."
Allergy Testing and Injections No charge - covered in full." including serum.
Other Injections and Immunizations	No charge -
covered in tult.
Pap Smears {Annually)	No charge - covered in full."
Physical Therapy	No charge" 1or up to 60 visits per condition when authorized by a HMO physician, as long as significant improvement continues to be achieved through treatment. Long-term rehabilitation is not covered.
140
Extended Care Facility Benefit Period	Mo charge - covered in full for skilled nursing cars when prescribed orauthorized trya HMO physician. Custodial care is not covered.
Physician Services	No charge. Unlimited number of visits, as medically necessary.
Consultation	No Charge - covered in full.
In-Area	Emergency Covered in full.* Authorization must be obtained as soon as possible, either before treatment (non-life threatening emergencies) or after treatment (life threatening emergencies).
Out-of-Area	No charge* - covered at 100% of UCR. Authorization must De obtained as soon as possible either before or after the occurrence (within 48 hours if hospitalized). This is worid-wide coverage.
Ambulance	No charge - covered in full when medically necessary, to or from hospital, or both ways. -
	' After a $15.00 Co-Pay
141
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS FOR EVALUATING HMOs
TO BE OFFERED TO EMPLOYEES REPRESENTED BY THEUAW
eASl£BEBlHI£	HMO-NORTH CAROLINA
Mental Health Care Hospital Inpatient	No charge for first 45 days when authorized by a HMOphy-sician. Short-term therapyonly.
Extended Care Facility	No charge - covered in full for up to 90 days if authorized by a HMO physician. Short-term therapy only.
Partial Hospitalization/ Psychiatric Admission	No charge for 90 sessions per calendar year. Two (2) days for each day of unused day o1 psychiatric hospitalization. Short-term therapy only.
Benefit Period	Renewable after a lapse ot 60 days between date of last discharge and dale of next admission.
Outpatient Psychiatric	First 20 visits per calendar year covered in full. Additional unlimited visits provided at nonmember rates. Short-term therapy only.
Psychological Testing	Nocharge - covered in fultwhen prescribed or authorized by a HMO physician.
142
Electroshock Therapy	No charge - covered in full, when medically necessary.
Alcoholism anaJPagAstolctlon Care
In-Hospital	No charge for first 45 days whenauthorized by a HMO physician.
Benefit Period	Renewable after a lapse of 60 days between date of last dis-chargeand date of next admission.
Outpatient Therapy	First 35 visits/calendar year covered in full.
Q then Services
Prescription Drugs <n-Area and
Out-of-Area Participating
Pharmacy	Covered in fuff* - up to 30 day
supply if filled at HMO pharmacy; or at in-area participating pharmacies when authorized. Insulin, insulin needles and syringes are covered.
Out-of-Area Non Participating
Pharmacy	Covered in full" when autho-
rized. Claim form required for reimbursement.
Chemotherapy	No charge • covered in full.
Inpatient and Outpatient.
143
I
Blood
No charge - covered in full for administration and plasma. Whole blood and other blood products not covered unless replaced.
* After a $15.00 Co-Pay
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS FQR EVALUATING HMDs
TO BE OFFERED TO EMPLOYEES REPRESENTED BY
BASIC RENEf US
Other Services (continued)
Coordinated Home Care
Hemodialysis
Human Organ Transplants
Radiation Therapy
CAROLINA
No charge • covered in full* when medically indicated.
No Charge - covered in full. Inpatient and Outpatient.
No charge - covered in full for heart, heart-lung, kidney, kidney-pancreas, lung, liver, cornea, bone marrow transplants when specific medical criteria are met.
No charge - covered in full for Inpatient or outpatient care.
Prosthetic and Orthotic Appliances	No charge -
covered in full when prescribed by a HMO physician.
Durable Medical Equipment	No charge - covered tn full when
prescribed by a HMO physician.
144
Private Duty Nursing
No charge - covered in full when medically necessary.
Family Planning and Infertility No charge * covered in full,* except invitro fertilization and embryo transfers. Ovum transplants are covered in full.	
Sterilizations	No charge - covered in full.
HearingAlii Benefits Examinations	Covered in full" when authorized by a HMO physician.
Hearing Aids	Ahea ring aidisprovided without charge when prescribed by a HMO physician or upon referral to a licensed audiologist and obtained from a provider approved by HMO. This benefit is limited to in-the-ear, behind the ear, and on-the-body models and may only be utilized once every 36 months.
Vision Caret Exam	Covered in full* once per calendar year.
Regular size Lenses and Frames Lenses for glasses are provided once per calendar year, accord! ng to the following schedule: Single Vision $	53.75 Bifocal	73.75 Trifocal	93.75 Lenticular	125.00	
* After a $15,00 Co-Pay
145
+ Requires North Carolina Department of Insurance Approval.
Vision Care (continued) A $56.25 credit lor frames is provided every two (2) years.
Limitations	Extra charges for no-iine bifo-
cals, tinting, scratch proofing, etc., are not covered.
Contact Lenses Allowance $187.50 Credit tor contact lenses in lieu of lenses and frames for glasses; fitting and follow-up visits are not covered. ($250 Credit for medically necessary contact lenses.)
(Following cataract surgery, tenses or glasses are covered under basic benefits not the vision program).
(Following cataract surgery lenses, frames or glasses are HMO covered benefits).
MiapfiUansius
When enrolled in Medicare	Complementary Benefits
Maternity Benefits	Immediate
New Bom Dependent Coverage Date of Birth (Notify within
Eligible Dependent Coverage
Sponsored Dependents
Patient Grievance Procedure
Conversion Privilege
Enrollment Outside HMO
Service Area
30 days)
Age 26 and as set forth in the C.B.A,
Covered at employee's expense Provided
Provided
Not covered- However, members may retain membership if they move out of the service area.
146
J
During the 1997 negotiations, the parties agreed that a dependent and health care flexible spending account option would be added.
ATTACHMENTC-4
Freightliner agrees that a Dispute Resolution Board be established, consisting of one (1) managerial employee selected by the Company and one (1) UAW member selected by the Union.
This Board shall be empowered to:
1.	Receive disputed cases and appeals from individual employees, limited to questions of Pension Plan eligibility, construction of credited and/or vesting service, and benefit calculations. Such disputed cases and appeals must be submitted to the Board in writing.
2.	Establish appropriate procedures for reviewing disputed cases and appeals.
3.	Consider and recommend methods of communicating with and furnishing information to employees regarding the Pension Plan.
4.	Resolve disputed cases in accordance with then-existing Pension Plan provisions. The Board may not alter or amend the provisions of the Pension Plan.
If the Board shall not agree on resolution, an impartial Arbitrator may be selected in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association, who shallconsiderthe caseand relevant facts and resolve the
dispute. The impartial Arbitrator must not alter or amend the provisions of the Pension Plan, basing the resolution solely on the then-existingprovisions otthe Plan and the facts presented. The decision of the Arbitrator is binding on all parties.
147
The fees and expenses of the Arbitrator shall be paid one-half by the Company and one-half by the Union.
No ruling or decision by the Board or the Arbitrator in one case shall create a basis for a retroactive adjustment in any other case prior to the date of written filing of each such specific claim.
The Board shall be furnished with a copy of the following documents on an annual basis:
■	Form 5500;
■	The Actuarial Valuation;
'	The Trustee Report;
■	A census report tor all active UAW employees, which will show credited and vesting service, dated birth, date of hire, date vested, current wage rate, and any other indicative data that should be reasonably requested by the Union;
■	A census report fora# retired UAW employees which will
show date of retirement, benefit option elected, monthly benefit payment amount, and any other indicative data that Should be reasonably requested by the Union; and
■	Anyotherfinancialplandata requested by the full Board.
The above procedures shall apply in principle, but are subject to modification by the parties in their specifics as may be necessary for their incorporation in or coordination with Plan language and administrative procedures.
148
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LEADPERSONS
This will confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union during the 2000 Neaotiationsconceming the Leadperson classification:
1.	TheprimarygeneraljobrasponsibilitiesforLeadpersonsare:
A.	Communicating workinstructionsand job specifications when directed by management assigned to their work group.
B.	Training employees,.
C.	Solving problems related to safety and quality of work.
D.	Filling in for manpower shortages created by absenteeism, vacations, etc.
2.	Leadpersons will have no vested authority in disciplinary matters Involving other employees.
3.	It is understood that no overtime shall be worked by a Leadperson without at least one employee from their assigned work group. It is further understood that the Leadperson shall be able to work overtime provided no eligible employee has volunteered for the overtime work.
4.	Job posting, overtime assignments and vacation scheduling for Leadperson will be administered consistent with the current agreement.
Lead-Peraon Clarification LOU
:	Leadperson will be assigned to a specific work
SILSIMfix
:	Leadperson reduction will be by the least
senior leadperson In the work group.
149
Leadperaon recall wjH be by the most senior, involuntarily displaced or reduced from the classification to the work group they were a leadoerson in at the time of the displacement, Job posting form-employees must specify which work qrouothey desire to be a leadoerson in. Vacation scheduling and overtime postings will be scheduled in the, work group the leadoerson Is assigned.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
ATTENDANCE CONTROL POLICY
The Company and the Union mutually agree that the Attendance Control Program implemented on March 1.1992 and revised November 9, 1992, is a reasonable work rule.
An employee's regular attendance on the job is of vital importance for the efficient operation of our business. Disruption of established work schedules due to excessive absenteeism places a heavy burden on fellow employees as well as on the planning necessary to achieve production goals. In order to maintain acceptable standards of attendance and to provide for fair and consistent treatment of employees receiving corrective action for excessive absenteeism, the following attendance monitoring and absentee control program is effective November 9, 1992:
I.	ABSENCES (Non-Chargeable)
Absences for the specific reasons fisted below are not charged against the employee’s attendance record:
1.	Negotiated Paid Sick Time (“03 Time")
2.	Short-Term Disability in Excess of Five (5) Days
150
3.	Approved Military Leaves of Absence
4.	Holidays
5.	Vacations
6.	Jury Duty
7.	Court Appearance (only as a subpoenaed witness and no! as a principal of the court action itself)
8.	Bereavement (as defined in the Agreement)
9.	Time Lost du® to Industrial Injuries
10.	Layott or Temporary Plant Closures
11.	Time Lost due to Plant Emergencies (power failures, bomb threats, tornadoes, etc.).
12.	Disciplinary Suspensions
13.	Approved Leave for Union Business
14.	Approved Personal Leave of Absence (must be preapproved and at least five (5) days in duration)
15.	"41 Time" (if made up in the same week the absence occurs)
16.	Medical Leave-(includingthefive (5) day waiting period).
II.	ABSENCES (Chargeable)
Absences lor the following reasons will be charged against the employee's attendance record (even though in some cases the time is paid)
151
1.	Casual Absenteeism
2.	“41 Time" (if not made up in the same week in which the absence occurs)
3.	Tardy/leave Early
4.	Committed Overtime
Charges for the following situations will result in an additional charge oi time equal to that time charged until the employee reports their absence or tardiness to the Company.
Late call in with 03 time available
Late call in without 03 time available
Late call in for bereavement leave
Late call in when an employee is going to be late
Late call in for workers' compensation injury
Lata cal) in lor medical leave (first day only)
Other situations such as car wrecks, being in the hospital, etc., will be looked at on a case-by-case basis.
Paid sick time (03 time) will automatically be paid from the absentee call In sheets.
ill.	PROCEDURE:
A.	The programwillbeadmrnisteredonacontinuous twelve (12) month basis beginning on the date of the employee's first chargeable absence. All chargeable absences will be accumulated over a twelve (12) month period. On the anniversary of the day in which an absence occurred, it will be subtracted from the employee's total. For example, it an employee was absent on December 1, January 3, and May 8, he would have a total of 24 charged absent hours on May 9. If no additional time was accumulated by December 2 of the following year, his chargeable hour total
152
would be reduced to 16 hours to reflect the subtraction of the eight (8) hours assessed on December 1 ot the previous year.
B.	The Corrective Disciplinary Steps are as follows:
1.	24	Hours	• Notice
2.	40	Hours	- Final Warning
			(In Lieu Of Suspension)
3.	50	Hours	• Termination
IV.	EXCESStVESHORT-TERMDISABlLtTY;
When an employee's absence due to the number and/or frequency of short-term disability leaves becomes excessive, or establishes a pattern, the employee’s attendance will be considered chronic. Employees who have chronic absences will be counseled by the Personnel Department. The employee will be warned and given a set of conditions, determined by the Company, which must be met. Should the employee fail to meet these conditions, he will be subject to corrective disciplinary measures up to and including discharge. Each case will be decided on its own merits.
V.	TARDINESS OR LEAVE EARLY
Tardiness and leave early occurrences (except for reasons listed above) will be charged against the employee's attendance record.
LETTER 0 F UNDERSTANDING
ATTENDANCE CONTROL POLICY
This letter memorializes the Parties’ understanding and agreement concerning modification to, and administration of, the Mt. Holly Attendance Control Program, which was implemented effective March 1, 1992.
153
The Union acknowledges the “no fault" program Is reasonable when modified as follows: First, paid sick leave provided in Article XXV will not be a chargeable absence under the program; second, the Local Union and Local Management wilt mutually agree upon appropriate progressive disciplinary steps culminating in termination for excessive absenteeism at fifty (50) chargeable hours. Third, employees are required to report an impending absence by no later than the start of their scheduled shift. All other provisions of the March 1, 1992 Attendance Control Program are unchanged.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SICK PAY (“03TIME")
To streamline the pay request procedure the Union and the Company agree that employees’ sick pay (“03 time”) Will automatically be paid from the absentee call in sheets.
Each.day otabsence must-be reBart«L»siQ3 theJfPS_cai| in system (70482274251, On any occasion when the TIPS system is Inoperable, absences can be reported by notifying plant, security (7048227296 or 7p482j7302),
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
SUBCONTRACTING
The following sets forth the provisions of an understanding reached in negotiations with reference to subcontracting by the Employer. Because of the fears expressed by the Union that the Employer would subcontract work that could be performed by the Employer’s employees during a period when employees are on layoff, the following assurances are given:
It is not the intent of the Employer to subcontract work customarily performed by the Employer in the Mt. Holly Plant with its own employees, during a reduction in force, or which would directly result in a reduction in force.
154
It should be understood that in some instances subcontracting involves considerations of production schedule, the lack of machinery and/or equipment or economic factors that will compel management to subcontract some functions. On the other hand, it is generally to the Employers advantage to perform as much of the work with its own employees as possible.
During the 2M3 Negotiations, The Company Reaffirmed it's commitment to keep the Union informed of work that is normally performed by bargaining unit employees that is being considered for sub-contracting prior to awarding a contract. The Company further commits tp give advanced notification In writing !st the Union describing the contemplated work to be subcontracted. andJfs reasonsJf the Unlon feels that such work Is within the capability of the bargaining unit, and can be feasibly and competitively performed by bargaining unit employees, representatives of the Company and the Union will meet together as a joint labor/management sub-contracting committee to discuss this possibility.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
INTERNATIONAL UNION LEAVE
The Company will grant Union Leave for one (1) employee for up to two (2) years for full-time Union service leave. The employee on such leave shall maintain and accrue seniority. Time on Leave will be counted for pension plan coverage.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
UNION REPRESENTATION
Itis understood by the Company that the three (3) full-time Union Representatives specified in Article III of the Labor Agreement will have all such time counted as time worked for all purposes under the contract and related benefit plans, including but not
155
limited to: the Pension Plan; the Lite, Accident and Disability Plans; the Health Care Plans; Holidays, Vacations; and the Employee Retirement Savings Plan (401 (K)).
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
U.S. HEALTH CARE SYSTEM CONCERNS
December 16,1991
Freightliner and the UAW have long recognized the major problems we jointly confront with the U.S. health care system. The Corporation and the UAW sharea serious concern about the high cost and open-ended financing of the health care system and the large number of uninsured. The high cost of health expenditures diverts corporate funds from other business priorities that will enable funds from otherbusinesspriorities that will enable Freightliner to compete more effectively in the market place. The increasing amount of national resources allocated to health care atthe expense of othernational priorities, adversely impacts the nation's ability to compete with other industrialized countries.
Both Freightliner and the UAW share the common objective for a high quality health care delivery system within our nation that is accessible to all and which functions in a cost effective manner. In this regard, Freightliner and the UAW jointly agree to support approaches directed towards achieving prompt and lasting national policy solutions, which will assure high quality care to all individuals. Such approaches should include strong cost containment, equitable financing, and appropriate quality assurance mechanisms.
156
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
LOCAL UNION LEAVE
For purposes of “compensation" under the Pension Plan, employees of the Company who are on approved onion leave will be paid for such union leave time by the Company, provided that the Union shall promptly reimburse the Company monthly for all pay provided for time not worked.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
OVERTIME SCHEDULING
It is not the intent of the Company to schedule mandatory overtime work when there is not a good faith reason to believe that the overtime work may be required.
However, it is recognized that there are occasions when scheduled overtime work will be cancelled.
The Company will endeavor to consider employees' personal circumstances and potential hardships in the event it is necessary to cancel scheduled overtime.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
ACCIDENT IN VESTIGATION PROCEDURE
This letter memorializes the ‘‘Parties" understanding and agreement concerning accident investigations. The policy for investigations of accidents is:
1,	Upon notification of an accident the supervisor will ensure that if there are anyinjuriesthat medicalaltenilon isprovided immediately. As soon as possible the supervisor will notify the Union representative.
157
I
2.	The Supervisor will investigate the accident and document the results of his/her investigation. This documentation will be forwarded to the Safety Manager.
3.	The Employee who caused the accident may be required to submit to a drug test within twenty-four (24} hours from the time of the accident. The employee will not lose any wages or benefits that he/she is entitled to while awaiting the drug test results.
4.	The Employee may be subject to appropriate discipline and/ or treatment program depending upon the circumstances of the accident. This decision is independent of the drug test results.
This "Letter of Understanding" does not change or modify Article XVI of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
MONDAY or FRIDAY ABSENCES
The Company may require that single day absences on a Monday or on a Friday be supported by a doctor's certificate which verifies that the employee was unable to work. This will be applicable only to employees who are in the Attendance Control Program, or where there is a reasonable suspicion that the request for paid sick leave was utilized for purposes other than sickness.
LIGHTDUTYPLACEMENT
The Company will attempt to Place employees with medical restrictions into jobs they can perform. However, In doing so. it is understood and agreed that more senior employees cannot be displaced by less senior employees.
158
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
401 -K PLAN ENHANCEMENT
The pu rpose of this memo is to I u rthe r c I arity the proposed 401 ■ K plan enhancement in the Company’s last, best and final proposal (Hem 3-A) dated December 19,1997.
The Retirement Savings PlanforUAW - represented employees will be amended, effective January 1, 1999, to provide for a matching contribution for each participant equal to 66 2/3nds percent times the participant's tax-deferred contributions, disregarding the participant's tax-deferred contributions in excess ol 6 percent of the participant's compensation.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
HMO-DENTAL (CIGNA) PLAN
This memo is to confirm the agreement that was reached during 1997negotiations to eliminate the individual andfamily deductibles forparticipantsenroiledintheCoventryHMO-OENTAL(CiGNA) Plan.
Thera will be no deductibles under this plan effective January 1,1998. All benefit levels will meet or exceed those in the Point-of-Service and Freightliner Indemnity Plans.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING SKILLED TRADES
This will confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union during the 2000 negotiations concerning skilled trades.
159
1.	A. Maintenance Helper classification will be deleted from the agreement. Current employees in the maintenance Helper classification will be reclassified as Millwrights.
B. All preventive maintenance work for the P-mix system, paint system and all tool repair in the Paint Department, will be assigned to skilled trades.
The Company will have up to one (1) year to train the proper skilled trades employees.
2.	In all areas where there are robotics, skilled trades will do all preventive maintenance and will be the first responder toall repairs. RoboticTechnicians will advise the trades when needed.
3.	Skilled-Trades will be utilized to replace all filters with the exception of filters located below grating.
4.	The Company and the International Union agree to meet within 90 days of ratification to review apprentices and apprentice programs.
Letter of Understanding
during the elimination of a.work .group, or reduction of force (Lav Off),
1.	When It becomes necessary to displace or balance manpower from a work group to another work group or “work groups" the Company wilt provide a list of jobs and work groups where the employees will be absorbed. The Company will then start with the most senior of the work group, the employees will be given a choice of displacement by seniority.
160
2.	If sufficient volunteers are not acquired the least senior employees will be displaced,
3.	|f the employee volunteers to be displaced he/shetose; the right to iob bid for six months. Employees who volunteer to be displaced lose all homestead rights to the original work group.
4.	If employees are involuntarily displaced into a work group, they are considered displaced for one year. If It becomes necessary to displace or balance manpower OUt of their new work group, the displaced employees will be the first to be displaced to other areas in the plant.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
HEALTH ANDSAFETY ISSUES
During the 2000 negotiations the parties spent significant time discussing opportunities to improve the health and safety program at the Mt. Holly facility. Accordingly, management agrees to make the following improvements:
1.	A preventative maintenance program will be established to insure that dollies are maintained in a safe condition within 90 days. The manager ol maintenance will review the program with the Safety Committee.
2.	Pre-paint body station sanding areas will be enclosed and additional ventilation installed to reduce exposure to dust within 6 months. Alternatively, the company may enclose the downdraft area and route the in process units around to the east of the area to be enclosed through a new opening and into the first prep booth. The use ol vacuum grinder/ sanders and wet grindinglsanding methods will be investigated and the policy of not using compressed air to cleanup the area will be enforced.
161
3.
Ventilation will be improved in the flash off area to reduce heat and exposure to air contaminants by extending an exhaust duct into this area. Additional cool air will be provided for this area.
4.	The ventilation system on the seam seal oven will be improved to prevent smoke from exiting the oven when the doors are opened within 90 days. A new roof gutter seal that will signal failure of the ventilation system. Should the above improvements fail to resolve the seam seal oven smoke issue, additional ventilation will be installed.
5.	A non-flammable material will be evaluated for washing the hoods to eliminate fire hazards.
6.	Oil, diesel fuel, paint and other hazardous materials will be stored in properly labeled closed containers.
7.	The practice of driving trucks without brakes or with inoperative brakes will be immediately stopped.
8.	The tire/wheel manipulators will be repaired, lubricated and placed on the preventive maintenance program to allow rotation of tire/wheel assembly during installation within 14 days. Should the existing manipulators fail to meet this requirement, new manipulators will be designed and manufactured.
9.	The practice ot blocking aisles will be discontinued.
10.	Local exhaust ventilation will be installed to reduce exposure to welding fumes in FL-90 within 100 days.
11.	The practice of pushing one truck with another truck will be discontinued immediately. A tug and rigid tow device will be used exclusively to move disabled trucks off the line within 90 days. During the interim a wrecker will be used to remove disabled trucks from the line.
162
12.	A new local exhaust ventilation system will be installed in the fifth wheel weld area to reduce exposure to welding fumes within 90 days. The use ol an exhausted mig welder will be investigated for use on this operation.
13.	A plant wide effort will be made to improve housekeeping, material storage and reduce the number of hoses on floors. Special emphasis will be placed on the chassis line at the end of the axle line which is often cluttered, caused by excessive production of axles, results in employees having to physically move several axle assemblies to get to the one that has to be Installed.
14.	The SafetyCommittee will establish a safe spacing distance between assemblies in all areas throughout the production process within 90 days. During the interim, a minimum four foot spacing distance will be accommodated atany powered conveyor line. A six foot minimum safe spacing distance has been established for the chassis conveyor line. Management will insure that all safe spacing distances are enforced.
15.	The use of spark producing tools will be eliminated immediately in designated hazardous locations.
16.	Management will discontinue the practice of assigning employees to jobs that require them to be under moving trucks.
17.	Management will insure that suspended loads are not left unattended.
16. Ventilation in the E-Kote area will be improved by installing a new exhaust ventilation unit to reduce exposure to air contaminants within 6 months. Existing ventilation systems will be cleaned, repaired and included in the preventive maintenance program.
163
During the 2003 negotiations the parties spent significant time discussing opportunities to improve the health and safety program at the Mt. Jfollv facility. Accordingly, management agrees to make the following im movements:

Installation of local energy control, keyed devices which enable employees to stop the line and prevent
and sell conveyor area within 90 days. The energy control procedure will be posted at each energy control device. Employees who activate an e-stop to prevent a hazardous condition wilt remain at the station until management eliminates or controls the hazard.
Z
Ventilation systems will be property maintained and the filters change^ on a timely basis. Comply with
i Restrooms, will be cleaned, painted, repaired and properly maintained. Restroom ventilation systems will be upgraded to comply with the ANSI/ASHRAE 622001 standard. The Plant manager or designated staff manager and the Union Health and Safety Representative jvill inspect thejwashrooms once a week until it is mutually agreed that signif icant Improvement has been made and a system is In place to sustain It.
4.
HazardS-associatecLwith soeedimmo the line will be addressed bv: modifying system controls to limit the maximum speed of_the line to normal speed line plus 30%, maintaining a loo of changes In line speed on each line, limiting the number of management personnel authorized to increase line speed, notifying employees on We line in advance of increasing line soeed and correcting maintenance and production problems that cause downtime.
164
5.	Air lines that create tripping hazards will be festooned or modified to eliminate the hazard In areas such as engine awing on A and B Unes, seat Instailatton^SRC and Crv station atAmenitles A.
6,	The Company will purchase the necessary equipment to eliminate manually pushing the tire wheel cart(s) to A and B chassis lines within 120 days.
Z. Minimize the practice pl starting trucks In pgol 3. Inhouse air will be used to perform necessary tests. Additional roof exhaust w<« be Installed by October 1. 2003.
6.	Braces will be installed, within 90 days. to support the Chalmerp suspension.
i Enforce the procedure to prohibit working under suspended loads and leaving cabs suspended on cranes unattended. In addition . the Company will install sufficient safety devices to prevent another cab from being lifted while a cab Is in the stand.
10.	Trucks with missing parts or Inoperative brakes will be tagged and pullet) from the line with a rigid tow device only.
11.	A policy has been established and will be enforced which prohibits remote (out of liaesifesighn programming of automated equipment and robots which effects machine motion or functional operation.
12.	Aporopriatamutual agreeable medical exams andevalu-atlons including but not limited to kidney function. liver function anq lung function will be made available to welders and employees In paint, maintenance, body station and E-Kote on an annual basis.
165
13.	Safetydevices will not bo bv-passed or defeated under anv circumstances,
14.	Employees will be properly trained prior to being released on the lob,
15,	Ihe practice of blocking aisles will be discontinued (especially between the M-2 apd rework area. Paint and Cab Line area. Hood Build Uo and Offline Restroom area).
16.	Slippery floors and poor house keening in the Plant will be corrected. The Company will identify the cause of all fluid leaks and spills In the plant, and implement corrective action. The Company will establish a check tag system procedure to indicate missing parts prior to the next station.
17.	Fatigue matting win be installed ip the.Cab Assembly. Front Axle, Rear Axle Assembly. Offline Area and Upper M-2 Assembly Deck within one year, TheSafetv Committee will establish the implementation Plan. The matting will be the same as that which was installed In the Chassis Llne_Area. Plating tn the center of Turn & Sell will be replaced with non- slip plating or have a nonslip surface applied.
15. Resolve all issues_reiating to automation and robotic operations In Ihe Bp0v Shop,
12. A dispenser with disposable ear plugs will be installed at the Plant Entrance and Stocked appropriately.
20.	Sound levels of horns and buzzers will be reduced to the minim umJeveLnecessarv within 90 days.
21.	Eliminate the Practice Of employees working under suspended loads Including installation of Henderson Suspension.
166
221 Rolling ladders or equivalent piece of equipment will
be Installed In the two make-uo air unite forthe chassis/ wash paintbooth.
23.	Provide a storage grqa for filters on the roof. In addition, the company will Install the necessary equipment to safely transport filters to the roof.
24.	An additional table will be Installed In pool #1 slat conveyor for the Henderson Suspension.
25.	Eliminate the practice of manually installing seats on the ling. A lifting devjce will bp Installed to accommodate safe seats within 120 days.
26.	Provide tire/wheel manipulators on the B-line within 90 days,
2L Eliminate manual liftlnq.of.ths brake assembly on the rear axle line.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
WORK WEEK DEFINED
The_regular_scheduled work week starts at 12:01 am. Monday and ends 168 hours thereafter, except for those employees catbird shift operations starting Sunday night In which caseJheir regularly scheduled workweek start; with the beginning of their shift Sunday night and ends 168 hours thereafter.
A TIME AND ONE-HALF
1.	For time worked in excess of eight (8) hours in any continuous twenty-four (24) hour period, beginning with the starting time of employee's shift.
167
2.	For time worked on Saturday.
EL DOUBLE TIME
1.	For time worked on the calendar Sundays.
2.	For time worked on the calendar holidays.
3.	A|| hours worked ip excess of ten (10) hours on Saturdays,
4.	Art hours worked In excess of ten HO) hours per day.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
This letter serves to clarify report-ln pay language in reoardsto the following specifics:
£ Power failure Is understood by the parties as a ma|or power failure. i.e. On the employer's side of utilities where the transmission of power to the load side Is interrupted by unforeseen failure of such items such as transformers, breakers In the switch gear rooms, or power distribution panels on the floor that feed the loads.
2. The employer commits to make an earnest attempt to
wherLProductlon .is being cancelled under the emergency situation clause of Article 7. Section 3.
1 The Company will commit to notify the President (Shop Chairperson of Local 5285 when the emergency situation arises, prior to notification of bargaining unit employees..whenever possible.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Movement and stocking of parts is exclusively bargaining unit. However: Inventory of consigned parts_may be conducted by the owner of parts.
168
I^ITEHCfl/NCfiH^NDlNtEVMAIlQNS
Vacatton.annlversanLdates tor all employees hired Prior to 4-16-1990 will be changed to their seniority date. It Is understood and agreedJhat jo more.than 85 employees are affected bv thia change. This adjustment isbelng made for administrative purposes only; therefore, the company should not Incur any additional cost.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING-JOB SECURITY
During these negotiations, the Union and the Company devoted much time to discussing thefuture viability of the
security at Mt. Holly, the Company re-confirms Its commitment to operating the Mt. Hollvfacilitv for the duration of
their, best efforts to ensureJonc- term viability of the Mt. Holly plant and, ps economically feasible Jthejontlnued employment of Its work force.
II overall market c°nditlgn^jllga-^mgnt employment levelS-WlILhe maintained. However. In the event market demands do necessitate a reduction of mpnppwer, Mt, Holly's.share ol Business Class/ M2 production will not be reduced below. 70% of the Company's overall NAFTA Business Class/M2 volume?, I.g., In this evgnt, Mt. Holly will.not be disproportionately disadvantaged.
In order to demonstrate a mutual commitment to the successful-operations at Mt, Holly, the Company and the Union will meet quarterly to review generaLeconomic
169
circumstances. Information to be regulartv ant) Bertodi: gaily reviewed will Include scheduling mix betwaen_Mt. Holly and Mexico, operational costs, quality and warranty reports, and similar relevant factors affecting Freightliner LLC s position In the Business Class market.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
During, thesejegotlatlans. the Employer and Union discussed tfie need for on-going discussions related to the implementation, administration antflmproyements of bwwfii programs. Toaccompliaii mat.lthas been agreed thanhers will be established a Joint Benefits Committee (JBC)
The employer will be represented on the Company bv two (2) Management employees (one from the location and one ItamJia-Ceataraie-Begeiit^Bapaimeni), The Unjpn ym be represented by one Benefit Representative appointed toJhgJtiseJreajdenLgLttie appropriate JQtionai Department and a representative of the Social Security. Department TheUnitai ami Managemenlmembersmav. teumduai agreement, Inyite.consuLtants to assisLthem witfLspecitic Issues,
The_Committee shaiLmeet as soecifletLbelow and-their respective functions shall Include^but not limited to:
Local Members- to meet no less than monthly
L Resolve administrative issues including those thpt were discussed during negotiations.
2,	Developing ongoing programs to educate members on the various aspects pf the different benefit programs and orovidethem with the informatiomnesded to make informed decisions.
National Members- to meet no less than quarterly
3.	Work with various Insurance carriers/admlnistrators
170
to. Improve payment claims and, if problems cannot by resolved,, change carrler/administrators,
4.	The selection of Impartial Medjcal Examiners for.Short and Lona Term Disability.
5.	To review, no less than quarterly, issues relativeJo containing costs and improving the quality of various plans.
6.	Review andapproveSummarvPIanDesc ri ptions(SPDs),
In assisting. a_ member to resolve a dispute related to benefits, it Is understood that the Joint Benefits Committee (JBC) may have access.to information about a specific member or a member of his or her family that must be kept strictly confidential. Any discussion about the information must be limited to those with an absolute need to know.
Theemployer will pay for the expenses related to JBC work. including paving Local Union members for time spent on JBC activities,
Ho changes to benefit plans shall be made except by mutual consent.
LETTERQf UN PERSIAN Pl NG
WAGE & BENEFITS ADJUSTMENTS
1.	Gontlnue.the current Labor Agreement for three additional years with no further wage Increases or adjustmasts.
2.	Effective upon ratification, the following provisions wjll applv to active employees and future retirees:
& Healthcare—all plans: Increase co-insurance by 5.% for all employees except office visits.
EL HMO; Increase co-pays by $10.00 for Doctor visits and $20 for Hospital visits,
171
POS: tpcreagaeHieg-Jfisit&,ca-pays by S15.00.
P, Prescription Dryq;: increase x<?3>a vs bv S7.50 for Seneii£arisW155SLfsEBtansLARBii£ai£fist!ireiai| end mail order.
£. STD: Jeduce.current benefit to 70% of pay.
Ex Si£k^^£L^minate.ec£ryaL2riMl£aYe5 pysr 60 davs f excluding Military and FMLA) in duration,
G. BefiKftiitedteaLGestShaffiLReyisfiASftarifissrvise matrix so that age plus service in all combinations (ex£epi^fi5HntasgS£SJitlfi5L±a£tfifsj>La5^ higher-will jeouire. zero co-oav. In addition. Increase VEB A Trust coniributignby $J2j>er hour in each veatITotai of SJO-oer hour bv the third year).
it Futurexosi sharing and benefits issues: establish joint Benefits Review Committee to implement a process for reviewing and controlling future additional medical cost and resolving benefits issues.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING DISABILITY
L SfiQrt-Tenn_Ptea!?iiay (STD);
Employees whoare off workon worker's compensation will have the option to sppplement.wgriiei’s. compensation J>enefits_wittumnual short-term, disability paid davs. it available.
<L Long-Term Disability ( Social Security Carve Out): The Social Security Carve-Out will continue as specified in the Summary Plan Description. However, the offset will begin whenever Social Security Benefits are approved or one fti year after the Initial onset of
172
i
disability, whichever occurs first. In any case, the over payment recovery provision will apply titter six months of continuous disability,
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
AQL INTERNET ACCESS
The company will use its best effprtsJo obtain discount internet access Jet, employees through America Online fAOL) bv piggy-backing on the currcoLPalmier-Chrysler program or bv using Freiohtilner's.purchasina power to . buy discount AOL services, if cut-rateaccess is available. \ it is understood that Individual subscriber's fees and cost will be paid direct b¥ jhe_individual employees.
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Continqpnt_upoo successful ratification by the membership of UAW Local 5285, of the current terms and conditions offered in the Company's proposal, including all tentative agreements, a one-time, nonprecedent setting paid holiday of July 3,2QQ$,wiU be granted to all employees represented bvJhe UAW at Mt. Holly,
LETTER OF AGREEMENT
Contingent upon successful ratiflcatlon_py.Jhe membership of UAW Locgl $2gE,J>y-no Jeter than 6;00pm, EST. Thursday. June 19. ?O(J3, the Company wilt assume costs of non-workJtoe_for hours actually spent in the preparation and negotiation by the members of the Bargaining Committee of Loes' 5;g$,
173
UNION FLAG
Contingent upon receiving a unanimous recommendation from the Local Union Bargaining Committee, Freightliner will make arrangements to tty the UAW Flag in front of the plant.
June 5, 2003
Mt. Holly Truck Manufacturing Plant Freightliner Profit Sharing Plan Proposal
The Company and Unionagreeto establish a Profit Sharing Plan designed to reward and recognize employees for their contribution and commitment to the profitability of the Freightliner Mt. Holly facility. The framework for this Plan is outlined below.
Profit Sharing Plan Framework
Plan Year
•	Calendar Year
Formula /See attached akampfe)
•	Perthe Funding Schedule, the minimum level ol Funding Per Employee will be $500 when ROS % Is greater than 0.0%. Each incremental 0.1% Return on Sales generates an additional amount ol Funding Per Employee. For example, it the ROS % is 3.0%, the funding per employee is $1,375. If an ROS % (rounded to the nearest tenth) falls between two ROS % points on the Funding Schedule, the Funding Per Employee win be calculated as follows:
Example:
ROS = 1.6%
Funding tor next highest ROS point - 2.0% = $1,000 Funding tor next lowest ROS point -1.0% =	$ 750
Incremental funding =	$ 250
Incremental tenths (2.0 - 1.0) =	10
Funding per tenth =	$ 25
174
Funding for next lowest point -1.0% =	$ 750
Additional ROS percent tenths (1.6 ■ 1.0) 6 Funding per tenth	$25
$ 150
Funding Per Employee for 1.6%=	$ 900
•	The Total Profit Share Pool equals the Average Employment times the Funding Per Employee from the Funding Schedule.
•	Average Employment equals an average of the average number of active bargaining unit employees per week for the Plan Year excluding shut down weeks.
•	TheTotal P refit Share Pool is divided by the Total Hours Paid to calculate the Profit Sharing per Hour.
•	T otal Hours Paid is equal to all hours paid during the Plan Year by Eligible Employees (including time off on Union business). Total Hours Paid excludes all overtime hours.
•	The amount of profit sharing actually paid to each Eligible Employee equals the Profit Sharing per Hour times the Eligible Employee's Total Hours Paid.
•	Pre-tax Profit Base excludes ail expenses associated with payments made under this profit sharing plan or any other profit sharing, bonus, incentive, etc. plan.
•	Pre-tax Profit Base excludes all extraordinary items (according to GAAP) and income taxes.
•	Net Revenues, Variable Costs, and Fixed Costs are defined consistent with past practice, as on Historical Overview document, however M2 revenues and expenses will be included.
Elidible-Employee
•	Bargaining Unit employee.
*	Must have completed 45-day initial probation period.
•	Terminated employees or those discharged and rehired are eligible for a payout based on Total Hours Paid including hours for which back pay is awarded.
175
•	if employes dies prior to profit sharing payout, payout goes to designated beneficiary.
•	Discharged employees are not eligible.
ftstainisSiBlian
■	Company and Union will useKPMC (an independent auditing firm) as the certified public accountant to audit the annual profit sharing calculation prepared by management. Among its obligations the accountant will be responsible for the following:
•	Audit all elements ol the profit sharing plan including the determination otthe Company's Nel Revenues, Variable Costs, and Fixed Costs.
•	Issue an unqualified audit opinion and report on the accuracy and fairness of the profit sharing payout ensuring among other things that the Company has consistently applied GAAP and all items of revenue and expense are accounted 1or on a consistent basis from year to year and with regard to the Historical Overview chart (except forthe fact that M2 trucks will be included).
•	Verify that all product or component transfers from Freightliner facilities are transacted at the selling plant's standard cost.
•	Verity that transfer prices on alt products or components transferred from other DaimlerChrysler facilities do not exceed the price(s) of comparable products or components transacted at arm's length in the marketplace. For example, the transfer price of an engine purchased from Mercedes will not exceed the price of a comparable engine from Cummins or Caterpillar. In making this comparison, the auditor will evaluate all relevant economic circumstances including, but not limited to, warranties, selling terms, etc. The auditor will issue a report each year demonstrating that this provision has been satisfied.
•	Verify that all costs and related overhead have been excluded for all products and operations other than the production ot shipped trucks. Examples of this exclusion
176
include the manufacture of sales cabs, fuel tanks, etc. which are not included in the profit sharing plan (alternative methods that accomplish the same objective may also be employed, if mutually agreed upon).
•	Managementand the Union will havetheopportunity to meet with and discuss the accountant's findings prior to issuance of the final report.
•	The Parties agree to meet and discuss the detailsof the audit within the 90-calendar day period following ratification.
•	The Company will respond assoonaspracticalto reasonable requests from the Union lor information supporting the profit sharing calculation.
•	All costs of administration are born by the Company.
•	All disputes will be referred to arbitration.
•	Payouts wilt be made on or before March 31 of the year following the Plan Year.
•	The plan will provide for elective 401k deferral of profit sharing payouts. The Company match will not apply to 401 k deferrals made from profit sharing payouts.
•	Company agrees to meet with the Union quarterly todiscuss the plant's quarterly financial performance, the year-to-date tentative results of the profit sharing plan and exchange ideas on how the plant's performance can be improved.
177
Example;
Net Revenues (millions)	$	900
Variable Costs (millions)	J	(742)
Fixed Costs (millions)	$	(130)
Cost of Capital (millions)	$	( 10)
Pre-Tax Profits (millions)	$	18
Return on Sales	2.0%
Funding Per Employee	$	1,000
Average Employment	1,000
Total Profit Share Pool	$1,000,000
Total Hours Paid	2,050,000
Profit Sharing per Hour	$	.049
Eligible Employees	1,025
Total Hours Paid	2,050,000
Average Hours per Eligible Employee	2,000
Profit Sharing Payout per Average Eligible $	900
Employee (2000 x .49$)
178
I
I
NOTES
183
NOTES
184
NOTES
185
NOTES
186