2020 2022
AGREEMENT
By and Between
the
CITY OF TACOMA
and
LOCAL 483, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
CUSTODIAL AND BUILDING MAINTENANCE UNIT
CS 2020-2022
TABLE OF CONTENTS
2020-2022
LOCAL 483, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS CUSTODIAL AND BUILDING MAINTENANCE UNIT
Page
PREAMBLE....................................................................        1
ARTICLE 1	- TERM OF AGREEMENT...................................................  1
ARTICLE 2	- UNION RECOGNITION ..........................  ........................2
ARTICLE 3	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS...................................................  4
ARTICLE 4	- STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS .................................................4
ARTICLE 5	- DISCIPLINE............................................................5
ARTICLE 6	- LABOR/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE..........................................  6
ARTICLE 7	- NON-DISCRIMINATION..................................................  6
ARTICLE 8	- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE............................................................................. 7
ARTICLE 9	- SENIORITY.........................................................    8
ARTICLE 10-SUBCONTRACTING.......................... ........................................................ 10
ARTICLE 11	- SAFETY............................................................  10
ARTICLE 12	- HOURS OF WORK......................................................10
ARTICLE 13	- WORK RULES.......................................................  12
ARTICLE 14	- BENEFITS...........................................................14
ARTICLE 15	- WAGE SCALES..................................................      15
ARTICLE 16	- SAVING CLAUSE..................................................    15
APPENDIX A	     17
APPENDIX B	    18
CS 2020-2022
2020-2022
AGREEMENT
By and Between the CITY OF TACOMA and LOCAL 483, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS CUSTODIAL AND BUILDING MAINTENANCE UNIT
PREAMBLE
THIS AGREEMENT is between the CITY OF TACOMA (hereinafter called the City) and LOCAL 483, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, CUSTODIAL AND BUILDING MAINTENANCE UNIT (hereinafter called the Union), for the purpose of setting forth the mutual understanding of the parties as to wages, hours, and other conditions of employment of those employees for whom the City has recognized the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative.
The City and the Union agree that the efficient and uninterrupted performance of municipal functions is a primary purpose of this Agreement, as well as the establishment of fair and reasonable compensation and working conditions for employees and the City. This Agreement has been reached through the process of collective bargaining with the objective of serving the aforementioned purposes and with the objective of fostering effective cooperation between the City and its employees. Therefore, this Agreement and procedure which it establishes for the resolution of differences is intended to contribute to the continuation of good employee relations and to be in all respects in the public interest.
It is understood that the parties hereto and the employees of the City are governed by the provisions of applicable State law, the City Charter and City Ordinances. When any provisions thereof are in conflict with or are different than the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of said State law, City Charter, or City Ordinances are paramount and shall prevail.
ARTICLE 1	■ TERM OF AGREEMENT
Section 1.1 - Term of Agreement This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect from January 1,2020, to and including December 31, 2022, provided, however, that this Agreement shall be subject to such change or modification as may be mutually agreed upon by the parties hereto. It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that negotiations for change or modification shall begin ninety (90) days and in no event later than sixty (60) days, prior to the termination of this Agreement.
Section 1.2 Only those letters of understanding, if attached at the end of this Agreement or those signed during the term of this Agreement shall be considered in force and subject to the provisions of the Agreement.
CS 2020-2022
1
ARTICLE 2	- UNION RECOGNITION
Section 2,1 The City hereby recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for the purposes stated in Chapter 41.56 RCW as last amended of all employees within the bargaining unit defined by the classifications listed in Appendix A to this Agreement.
Section 2.2 ■ Leave for Business Manaqer/Representative The Director of Public Utilities or City Manager will approve granting of leave of absence without pay for the period covered by this Agreement without loss of Civil Service status and/or without loss of continued accrual of seniority, and aggregate City service or tenure status for all purposes, to no more than two (2) employees of the City who are members of the Union, and whom the Union may desire to have act as its Business Manager/Representative to be locally engaged in the business of the Union.
Section 2.3 The City will inform new bargaining unit employees of the Union’s exclusive representation status. The City will provide union access to new employees entering the bargaining unit within ninety (90) days of hire. The City will allow the Union thirty (30) minutes to meet with such individuals during work hours and at their usual worksite or a mutually agreed upon location. During such meetings, an employee designated by the Union will be permitted, for up to thirty (30) minutes and without loss of regular straighttime pay, to meet with new represented employee(s). The Employer shall incur no costs for travel time or mileage, nor shall the Union use City vehicles or resources in the conduct of this union business.
Section 2.4 - Deductions The City agrees to deduct from the pay of each employee, who has so authorized it, the Union initiation fees, monthly dues, and assessments as certified by the Union. The City will rely on information provided by the Union regarding the authorization and revocation of deductions, and the Union will provide such information to an email address provided by the City. Upon receiving notice of the employee’s authorization from the Union, the City will deduct from the employee’s pay membership dues and remit the same to the Union no later than the second payroll cycle following receipt of the authorization. The amounts deducted shall be remitted monthly by the City to the Union on behalf of the employees identified by the Union as authorizing deduction(s). The Union shall provide the City with at least one full pay period notice of any change in the amount of Union initiation fees, monthly dues, and assessments. The Union agrees to refund to the City any amounts paid to it in error on account of the provisions of this Section upon presentation of proper evidence thereof. There shall be no retroactive deduction of Union initiation fees, monthly dues, or assessments.
Upon receipt of an employee request for authorization of payroll deduction of Union initiation fees, monthly dues, or assessments, the City will forward the request to the Union electronically within two weeks. The City will take no action upon receiving an employee request until receiving confirmation from the Union to begin deductions.
The employee’s authorization will remain in effect until expressly revoked by the employee by written notice to the Union in accordance with the terms and conditions of the authorization. The cancellation will become effective no later than the second payroll cycle after receipt of the confirmation from the Union that the employee has revoked authorization for deduction.
CS 2020-2022
2
Section 2.5 The City will furnish to the Union a roster and pay status of current bargaining unit employees. It is understood that this tabulation will be used by the Union for the sole purpose of compiling the Union dues formula and that the Union will not divulge any information from the subject tabulation to any other person or agency.
Section 2.6 The Union agrees to indemnify and save the City harmless against any liability which may arise by reason of any action taken by the City to comply with the provisions of this Article, including reimbursement for any legal fees or expenses incurred in connection with such action.
Section 2.7 The Business Manager or Business Representative of the Union may, after notifying the City of Tacoma official, or their designated management representative in charge of the workgroup, visit the work location of employees covered by this Agreement for the purpose of investigating conditions on the job. There shall not be any interference with the duties of employees or the operations of the Department.
Section 2.8 The City recognizes and will not interfere with the right of their employees to become members of the union and agrees there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint or coercion by the City against any employee because of their membership in the union.
Section 2.9 The City agrees to use reasonable efforts to notify the Union prior to releasing any requested information when the City receives a Public Disclosure Request specifically asking for the name, date of birth, membership status, duty station/location, address, or work email address of all of the members of the Union’s bargaining unit. The Union agrees to use reasonable efforts to notify the City prior to filing any court action to prevent the City from releasing information under such a request. The parties' obligations under this section are not subject to grievance
Section 2,10 The City agrees to provide space for a Union bulletin board at each major work site. Postings by the Union on such boards are to be confined to official business of the Union.
Section 2.11 - Shop Stewards The Union shall furnish the Labor Relations with an up-to-date list of Union shop stewards and shall keep such list current. Stewards shall be permitted to devote reasonable periods of time during normal working hours, without loss of pay, for the investigation, presentation and settlement of employee grievances, subject to the following conditions:
2.11.1	Such time shall be with the approval of the steward's immediate supervisor and such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The steward shall give the supervisor an estimate of the time needed. If the time needed would require extended time away from work time, then it may be more appropriate for a paid union official to be involved in the investigation.
2.11.2	A shop steward shall be permitted to be present at investigatory meetings or meetings where formal disciplinary action will occur and a member has requested a shop steward's presence. If a shop steward is not available, the Union shall designate another representative to attend.
CS 2020-2022
3
2.11.3	A manager need only deaf with one Union representative (Business Agent or shop steward) at a time, unless either party requests otherwise. If additional participants are deemed necessary, the party requesting the additional participants shall notify the other party.
ARTICLE 3	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
The Union recognizes the prerogative of the City to operate and manage its affairs in all respects in accordance with its lawful mandate, and the powers of authority which the City has not specifically abridged, delegated or modified by this Agreement are retained by the City, including but not limited to the right to contract for services of any and ail types.
The direction of tts working force is vested exclusively in the City. This shall include, but not be limited to, the right to: (a) direct employees: (b) hire, promote, transfer, assign, and retain employees: (c) suspend, demote, discharge, or take other legitimate disciplinary action against employees; (d) relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or other legitimate reasons; (e) maintain the efficiency of the operation entrusted to the City; (f) determine the methods, means, and personnel by which such operations are to be conducted, and (g) take any actions necessary in conditions of emergency, regardless of prior commitments, to carry out the mission of the agency; provided, however, that items (a) through (g) shall not be in conflict with City ordinances and Personnel Rules.
ARTICLE 4	> STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
It Is recognized that the City is engaged in a public service requiring continuous operation, and it is agreed that recognition of such obligation of continuous service during the term of this Agreement is imposed upon both the City and the Union.
The Union will not authorize a strike, work stoppage, or slowdown, and the Department will not engage in a lockout during the term of this Agreement. The Union wffl take every reasonable means within its power to induce employees engaged in strike, work stoppage or slowdown, in violation of this Agreement to return to work; but the Union, its officers,
CS 2020-2022
4
representatives or affiliates shall not be held responsible for any strike, work stoppage, or slowdown which the Union, its officers, representatives or affiliates shall have expressly forbidden or declared in violation hereof. Every attempt shall be made to settle all disputes or controversies arising under this Agreement under the grievance procedure and/or arbitration procedures provide for herein.
ARTICLE 5	- DISCIPLINE
Section 5.1 Employees may be disciplined or discharged for just cause and with due process, in conformance with Sections 1.24.940 and 1.24.955 of the Official Code of the City of Tacoma. The discipline will be based on the severity of offense and prior record of discipline.
Section 5.2	The employee, upon request, shall be entitled to have a Union representative present at any meeting held with the employer to discuss potential disciplinary action.
Section 5.3	If an employee wishes to have a pre-disciplinary hearing, the employee and/or Union must follow the instructions outlined in the Notice of Intent letter.
Section 5.4 If requested by the employee, the employer shall hold a pre-disciplinary hearing as soon as reasonably possible after the time the employee was notified in writing of the specific alleged violation that may result in a suspension, demotion, or termination. At this hearing, the employee will be given an opportunity to present their side of the issue. Oral warnings/reprimands, written warnings/reprimands, Notice of Performance Concerns (NPC’s), Employee Development Reviews (EDR’s), performance evaluations, or any other actions that do not result in the loss of regular wages are not subject to the pre-disciplinary hearing process
Section 5.5 No later than three (3) working days prior to the pre-disciplinary hearing, if possible, the employer shall make available to the employee and the employee's Union representative a copy of all documents relevant to the alleged violation the employer has in its possession. Where this is not possible, the employer and Union will reach a mutual agreement on the continuance of the hearing or other remedy fair to both parties.
Subsequent information requests by the Union or the employee will not necessarily result in a hearing being rescheduled.
Section S.6	The employer may place an employee on paid administrative leave pending the final decision as to the appropriate discipline resulting from the pre-disciplinary hearing and during an investigation if determined by management to be appropriate.
Section 5.7	The employee and the employee's Union representative, with the employee's authorization, shall have the right to inspect the contents of the personnel file maintained by the Employer.
Section 5.8 No disciplinary document may be placed in the personnel file without the employee having first been notified of said document and provided a copy. The notification requirement shall be satisfied if the document is mailed to the employee’s current address on file.. The employee shall be required to sign a written reprimand or other disciplinary action acknowledging that they have read the contents of the document. An employee who disagrees with the content of any letter of reprimand added to the personnel file sha]| have
CS 2020-2022
5
the opportunity to place a rebuttal statement in the personnel file, which shall be signed by the employee; however, letters of reprimand shall not be subject to the grievance procedure.
Section 5.9 A suspension of five (5) days or more, a dismissal or a disciplinary reduction in rank or pay may be processed under the Grievance Procedure provided for in Article 8 of this Agreement or may be submitted to Civil Service Rules, if applicable. Suspensions of four (4) days or less are not subject to Step 5 of the Grievance Procedure. The filing of such a grievance shall be considered a voluntary and irrevocable waiver of the right to pursue the matter under the Civil Service procedure.
ARTICLE 6	- LABOR/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The Labor/Management Committee shall be advisory in nature. It is formed to foster a relationship of mutual respect, open communications, responsible issue resolution and to discuss items of mutual concern.
The City and Union agree to hold labor-management meetings as necessary. These meetings will be called upon request of either party to discuss contract or non-contract issues affecting employees covered by this Agreement. Subjects for discussion at labormanagement meetings during the term of this Agreement shall be as agreed by the parties. The Union shall be permitted to designate members and/or stewards in affected department(s) to assist its Union Representatives in such meetings. The purpose of labormanagement meetings is to deal with matters of general concern to the Union and management in a timely and efficient manner.
ARTICLE 7	- NON-DISCRIMINATION
Section 7.1 Pursuant to RCW 41.56 there shall be no discrimination against Union members or officers based on Union activity.
Section 7.2 Neither the City nor the Union shall discriminate against any employee covered by this Agreement in a manner which would violate any applicable local, state and federal laws. Union and Management shall work cooperatively to assure the achievement of equal employment opportunity.
Section 7.3 If an otherwise reasonable accommodation is requested, pursuant to the Americans With Disabilities Act, or the Washington Law Against Discrimination, which would result in or require a violation of any provision of this contract, or recognized work rule adopted by the parties pursuant to this contract, the City may propose a written amendment and the Union agrees to consider the proposal and respond in writing, either agreeing to the same, proposing a modification which would make the amendment acceptable, or explaining why the modification cannot be made.
Sect[on 7.4 It is mutually agreed that there shall be no unlawful harassment, including sexual harassment. The City’s Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Policy is set forth in Personnel Management Policy #130.
CS 2020 2022
6
ARTICLE 8	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 8.1 Definitions
Shop Steward - Union member appointed by the Union Business Manager.
Grievance - To be valid, a grievance must be submitted in writing within thirty (30) days of the alleged violation by the grieving party.
Section 8.2 It is the goal of both the Union and the City to settle problems at the lowest possible level in a cooperative, objective method. To this end, every effort will be made by both parties to resolve problems at the lowest level. Initially, the employee shall discuss the grievance with the shop steward. Both parties will make every effort to identify the appropriate manager at each step of the grievance process Further contacts shall follow this procedure:
Step 1 The employee and/or shop steward are encouraged to meet with the immediate supervisor (written communication not required). Such meeting shall take place as soon as possible.
Step 2 If the grievance cannot be resolved at Step 1, it shall be reduced to writing specifying the section or sections violated, relevant facts, and the proposed remedy and shall be presented to the next level of management responsible for addressing grievances, with copies to the Union and Labor Relations within ten (10) working days of decision rendered at Step 1. This step shall not preclude contacts at lower levels if this may expedite the resolution process.
The specific manager responsible for addressing the grievance shall (within 10 working days) render a decision in writing to the employee and the Union.
Step 3 If the employee is not satisfied with the response, then within ten (10) working days of receipt of the responsible manager's answer, the grievance will be forwarded to the department or division head.
The Department/Division head may elect to submit the grievance to the Labor Management Committee who will hear it and offer a recommendation to the Department/Division head immediately following the committee meeting. The Department/Division may also respond to the grievance without Labor Management input.
The Department/Division head will, within ten (10) working days of either making a determination or of receiving the committee recommendation, render to the employee and the Union the decision, and the reason for it in writing.
Step 4 If the employee is not satisfied with the response, then within ten (10) working days of receipt of the department head's or division head's answer, the employee (or designated representative) will forward the grievance to either the Utilities Director, Human Resource Director, or a respective designee for possible resolution. The Utilities Director Human Resource Director, or respective designee (after consultation with the
CS 2020-2022
7
department head or division head, Labor Relations and Union Business Manager) shall submit their answer in writing within ten (10) working days after personal receipt of the grievance.
Option Optional Grievance Mediation. If the parties are unable to resolve a grievance at the Step 4 level, upon mutual agreement of the City and the Union, the parties may request grievance mediation utilizing services provided by the Public Employment Relations Commission. If mediation is agreed to the parties shall hold timelines of the grievance in abeyance until the conclusion of mediation.
Step 5 Grievances not resolved under the above steps shall be referred to arbitration by either party to this Agreement. Either party may give notice of its intention to arbitrate within fifteen (15) working days following completion of the steps listed in the aforementioned sections. A list of five (5) arbitrators shall be requested from the Public Employment Relations Commission, both parties shall meet and each shall strike a name until one (1) arbitrator is selected. Should the parties fail to arrive at the selection of an arbitrator, the Public Employment Relations Commission shall be asked to appoint one. Any decision by the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties. Each party shall bear the expense of its own representation, including attorney’s fees, and all other expenses incident to the arbitration shall be divided equally. Each party is responsible for the costs of its representatives, attorneys and all costs related to the development and presentation of their respective cases in arbitration. In the event that the City unsuccessfully challenges an arbitrator's decision in court, or the Union is forced to file an action in court to compel compliance with an arbitrator’s award, the Union may seek recovery of attorney’s fees incurred in the court action to the extent such recovery is permitted under RCW 49.48.030. The arbitrator shall have no power to render a decision that will add to, subtract from, or alter, change or modify this Agreement; and their power shall be limited to an interpretation or application of this Agreement and application of appropriate remedies.
Section 8.3 - Time Frames The time limitations in this Article may be adjusted by mutual agreement, in writing, between the Union and the Department. Failure by the non-grieving party to comply with any time limitations as provided in this Article shall constitute a right of the grieving party to proceed to the next Step without waiting. Failure of the grieving party to comply with the foregoing time limitations shall constitute resolution of the grievance.
ARTICLE 9	- SENIORITY
Section 9.1	For the purposes of this Agreement including temporary upgrades, seniority is defined as the length of continuous service by classification in which the employee is employed.
CS 2020- 2022
8
Section 9.2	An upgrade is defined as the filling of a temporary vacancy withfo the bargaining unit which is in the higher classification in the class series which receives a higher rate of pay.
Section 9.3 In the filling of temporary vacancies, the City need not upgrade an employee who, in the employer's opinion, does not possess the knowledge, skill, ability, adaptability for the job or employees assigned to other sections, divisions, or departments.
Section 9.4	Vacancies of five (5) working days or less, and in instances of emergency and illness, may be filled to meet the City's immediate needs.
Section 9.5 In the event the City, at its discretion, fills a vacancy that exceeds five (5) working days, such vacancy shall be filled from a layoff register or the existing Civil Service eligible list, providing the temporarily upgraded employee is in the same section, division or department. If no eligible list exists, such vacancy shall be filled on a seniority basis in accordance with the provisions in Section 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3.
Section 9.6	- TPU Process for Set Ups
1.	If there is a need for a bargaining unit employee to be set up to a higher classification within the bargaining unit and there is no eligibility list for the desired classification, then the set up will be offered to a permanent employee in the next lower classification on the basis of seniority
2.	In the event no Building Maintenance Worker (BMW) accepts a set up assignment to Assistant Building Maintenance Supervisor (ABMS), then it will be offered to an employee on the current BMW eligibility list.
3.	In the event that no one on the BMW eligibility list accepts a set up assignment to ABMS, it will then be offered to the Custodians on a seniority basis.
4.	An employee in a higher classification may not accept a temporary vacancy assignment to a lower classification.
Section 9.7 Whenever a regular permanent position vacancy occurs, prior to interviewing from the Civil Service list established for the particular classification, employees may bid for the vacancy on a seniority basis, providing they have permanent status in the department in the affected classification, Regular permanent vacancies will be posted for a minimum of seven (7) days on employee bulletin boards, using employer's job vacancy bid sheets, as soon as possible after the employer has knowledge of the regular permanent position vacancy. The senior bidder shall be assigned to the vacant position, provided that the City need not consider employees who do not meet the qualifications required for the position. The Union will be sent a copy of the completed bid sheet.
Subsequent position vacancies, created as a result of implementing this procedure, shall be open to bidding on a seniority basis within the terms of this section.
This section shall not in any way interfere with the right of the City to assign, adjust assignments or temporarily rotate personnel for training or for purposes of increased efficiencies.
Where practicable, the City shall make every attempt to give advance notice to the Union whenever a regular permanent position vacancy occurs, or of Its intent to so rotate and/or assign personnel.
CS 2020-2022
9
Section 9.8	- Seniority Roster The City shall post on the designated Union bulletin board a seniority roster for each classification.
Section 9,9	The above provisions shall govern when not inconsistent with the Personnel Rules contained in Chapter 1.24 of the Official Code of the City of Tacoma.
ARTICLE 10	- SUBCONTRACTING
The City shall retain all rights, powers, and authority It had prior to entering into the Agreement, including, but not limited to, the sole right to manage its operations and direct the working force which specifically includes the right to determine whether and to what extent any work shall be performed by employees The management of the City's operations and the direction of the work force, including, but not limited to, the contracting or subcontracting of work performed by the City shall be retained by the City. Sixty (60) days prior to implementing contracting/subcontracting out of bargaining unit work in excess of current practice, the City will notify the Union in writing. Upon written request by the Union, the City will bargain the impacts of such contracting/subcontracting out of bargaining unit work pursuant to the requirements of RCW 41.56.
ARTICLE 11	- SAFETY
All work shall be done in a competent and professional manner
The City and Union mutually agree that those applicable safety standards as outlined in federal, state, City, and department regulations legally binding upon the City shall be complied with.
Employees who willfully disregard reasonable and/or mandatory safety regulations shall be subject to disciplinary action.
ARTICLE 12	- HOURS OF WORK
Section 12.1 Hours of Work Schedules may consist of eight (8) consecutive hours for five (5) shifts, ten (10) consecutive hours for four (4) shifts, or eighty (80) hours worked in nine (9) shifts, excluding the meal period, or any other mutually agreed to flexible schedule. Implementation of alternative work schedules shall comply with the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Section 12.2 A day shift shall consist of at least eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of the unpaid lunch period, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. At the request of an employee, management and the Union may mutually agree to an earlier shift start time.
Section 12.3	All non-day shifts shall consist of at least eight (8) consecutive hours including a thirty (30) minute paid lunch period.
Section 12.4	The non-day shift for Custodial and Building Maintenance Employees at Public Utilities shall have an end time no later than 12:30 a.m. Monday through Friday. All shifts shall be bid based on seniority.
CS 2020-2022
10
Section 12.5	The Standard non-day shift for Custodial and Building Maintenance employees at Environmental Services shall have an end time no later than 11:00 p.m.
Section 12.6	- Building Maintenance "On Cali" Shift - Tacoma Public Utilities
A.	The "on call" shift for Building Maintenance shall be those hours when a Building Maintenance Worker or Assistant Building Maintenance Supervisor is not on regular duty but is considered “on call". The "on call" shift will be staffed on a rotational basis by each employee for one-week periods.
B.	The employee on the "on call" shift shall be responsible for monitoring the fire/security system and will coordinate and assist contract security personnel in dealing with alarm system,security problems and facility issues. The employee will be responsible for reporting within one (1) hour of the notification.
C.	When in an on-call status, an employee shall be compensated for one (1) hour at the overtime rate for the first emergency call not requiring a return to Tacoma Public Utilities Administration Complex or the work site. Subsequent calls after the first hour of paid time shall be paid at the overtime rate for the actual time spent to handle the call. During on-call status, a phone log will be maintained by the on-call employee.
D The employee on the "on call" shift will be compensated at the rate of $3,00 per hour while “on call”. In the event that the employee is required to travel to a worksite, the employee will be compensated for a minimum of two (2) hours at the appropriate overtime rate. There will be no pyramiding of rates.
Section 12.7	- Overtime
A.	Work performed in excess of the work schedules provided for in Section 12.1 (i.e., forty (40) hours) or work in excess of the shift (eight (8), nine (9) or ten (10) hours) shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay. Employees shall receive two (2) consecutive days off. Work performed on a sixth (6th) consecutive day shall be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate of pay, and work performed on the seventh (7th) day shall be paid at two (2) times the regular rate of pay. There shall be no pyramiding of rates.
Compensatory time in lieu of cash payment for overtime worked may be authorized and or used in accordance with Tacoma Municipal Code 1.12,080. All accruals of compensatory time shall be in compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act or qualify for its exemptions. Compensatory time not used in the year earned shall be paid out at the end of the calendar year in which it was earned.
B.	Scheduled overtime shall be offered to employees by classification on a voluntary basis. Overtime postings shall clearly identify the number of people required for each classification. The bid sheet will be posted no less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the scheduled overtime work day. The most
CS 2020-2022
11
senior employee volunteering will be assigned. If there are an insufficient number of volunteers for overtime, assignments will be made in the inverse order of seniority. To the extent practicable, seniority wilt be used to determine overtime assignments. In the event the overtime assignment requires special training, skills, or experience and the employee is not selected in order of seniority the Department, upon written request from the Union, shall submit in writing the reasons for the choice.
C When an employee or crew on a scheduled overtime assignment fails to complete the job, the same employee or crew may be asked to complete the job on a subsequent overtime assignment.
D.	For TPU Custodians only: Whenever possible, the bid sheet will be posted no less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the scheduled overtime work day. Overtime opportunities for custodians will be offered to employees on a voluntary basis. The overtime list will be compiled by seniority, starting with the most senior custodian. Each individual thereafter will be given an opportunity to work, or they can pass the opportunity; however, they will not be given another opportunity until their name comes up again. Each opportunity will start where the last opportunity left off. This overtime will be separate and will exclude hours worked performing the regular weekly Fleet assignment.
E.	Should a custodial overtime opportunity for an employee and the rotation of the Fleet cleaning assignment land on the same day, the senior rotation eligible custodian may select which overtime opportunity they would like to accept but cannot select two opportunities on the same day
F For TPU only: Overtime opportunities for building maintenance and repair tasks shall be offered jointly to the Assistant Building Maintenance Supervisor and Building Maintenance Worker classifications since both perform this work. In this instance, seniority shall be based on the length of continuous permanent service within both classifications, combined.
ARTICLE 13	- WORK RULES
Section 13.1	- Meal Allowance
A.	An employee working non-scheduled overtime at least two (2) hours before or beyond their regular shift and at six (6) hour intervals thereafter shall be eligible for a meal allowance of $18.00 to be entered and claimed on time card only
B.	Employees will not be eligible for a meal allowance when working scheduled overtime on their regularly scheduled day off unless the hours worked extends more than two (2) hours beyond their regularly scheduled total daily hours of work.
CS 2020-2022
12
Section 13.2	- Footwear and Clothing Allowance
A.	Employees who have successfully completed probation shall be eligible for a $185.00 annualfootwear allowance when not required by management to wear safety toed boots. Employees who have successfully completed probation and are specifically required by management to wear safety toed boots shall be eligible for a $225.00 annual footwear allowance. Safety related footwear must be worn at all times while on duty,
B.	The footwear and clothing allowances in this section shall be paid in the first pay-period of each year or when probation is successfully completed, provided at least seven (7) months remain until the next allowance is paid.
C.	Employees assigned outside of TPU will be provided a minimum of seven sets of suitable work clothing annually, or shall be provided clothing through an approved city vender and associated laundry service on an as-needed basis.
D.	Employees assigned to TPU will be provided an annual allowance of $325.00 for the purchase of suitable work clothing and will be provided seven (7) shirts that will be worn while on duty. Employees will be responsible for laundering shirts and management will provide replacements as needed.
Section 13.3	- Training
A.	The City is committed to the principle of training for all employees. Training shall be provided in accordance with City policy insofar as it does not adversely affect and interfere with the orderly performance and continuity of City services.
B.	The City shall generally encourage equal access to training opportunities for all members represented by this bargaining group to the extent that operational requirements of the City permit. The Union shall be given the opportunity to offer suggestions to the City on ways to improve access to training opportunities.
C.	Employees attending voluntary training may be asked by management to split shifts in order to accommodate the needs of the work group. Split shifts shall not be allowed for mandatory training. In the event overtime is authorized for mandatory training, seniority shall not apply.
CS 2020-2022
13
ARTICLE 14	- BENEFITS
Section 14.1 It is recognized by the parties involved, that for those items negotiated in the Joint Labor Committee, any changes in such items are appropriately negotiated with the Joint Labor Committee. Such changes in the mutually recognized fringe benefits as applied in the Joint Labor Committee Contract shall become a part of this Agreement.
The parties are participants in a Joint Labor Agreement, through which they have determined the amount of and basic rules regarding vacation leave, holidays, sick leave, personal time off and other benefits. Provisions of the Joint Labor Agreement governing these benefits are attached in Appendix B which shall independently expire or with the expiration of the Joint Labor Agreement. Appendix B shall be automatically updated and replaced in Its entirety with any changes to the provisions of the Joint Labor Agreement during the term of this Agreement as long as both parties remain signatories to the Joint Labor Agreement. Should a party choose not to sign on to a future Joint Labor Agreement the provisions in Appendix B shall be “status quo” for the year following the expiration of the Joint Labor Agreement most recently ratified by both parties.
Items covered by Appendix B may be grieved through this collective bargaining agreement, except those items challenging the interpretation or application of the Joint Labor Agreement provisions which may be grieved only through the grievance procedure included in the Joint Labor Agreement.
The information contained in the remainder of this Article is specific to this Agreement and is to be read in conjunction with Appendix B.
Section 14.2	- Personal Time Off Employees may enroll in the Personal Time Off (PTO) program on a voluntary basis during the City’s PTO open enrollment period.
Section 14.3	The City will pay overtime pay for all work performed on holidays in addition to holiday pay. Overtime pay shall be payable at time and one-half (1-1/2) actual time worked.
Section 14.4	Building Maintenance and/or Custodians assigned to the Police Department a total of three (3) mandatory holidays must be taken, they are: Independence Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
All other City recognized holidays shall be scheduled as mutually agreeable between the employee and supervisor Holidays not scheduled and used by the end of the calendar year are lost.
CS 2020-2022
14
ARTICLE 15	WAGE SCALES
Section 15.1 All work performed shall be compensated for as provided in Chapter 1.12 of the Official Code of the City of Tacoma.
Section 15.2 Employees in those classifications represented by the Union shall be paid in accordance with the wage rates specified in Appendix A hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.
Section 15,3 - Application of Rates
Employees in tine classifications of Custodian (CSC 6002), Building Maintenance Worker (CSC 6005) and Building Maintenance Supervisor, Assistant (CSC 6006), shall be paid an additional five percent (5%) above base rate for all hours worked when assigned as a “helper” to one or more of the following classifications:
Facilities Maintenance Mechanic (CSC 6008)
Facilities Maintenance Mechanic, Lead (CSC 6009)
Heating/AC Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor (CSC 5145)
Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator (CSC 5101)
Wastewater Treatment Plant Maintenance Machinist (CSC 5105)
ARTICLE 16	SAVING CLAUSE
Should any part hereof or any provision herein contained be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation of such part or portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions thereof, and the remaining parts or portions remain in full force and effect.
CS 2020- 2022
15
10th DAY OF June	2020
For the City of Tacoma:
6/1/2020
For Local 483, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Custodial and Building Maintenance Unit:
City Manager
Director of Public Utilities
Business Manager
CfC --------------------------5/20/2020
JSr. Labor Relations Manager
’Finance Director
Approved as to form:
Attest:
City Clerk
6/10/20
CS 2020-2022
16
APPENDIX A
LOCAL 483, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS CUSTODIAL AND BUILDING MAINTENANCE UNIT
Effective January 1, 2020 the classification rates of pay shall be increased by 3%, additionally, the Custodian classification shall receive a 2% market adjustment.
Code	Job Title	1	2	3	4	5
60060	Building Maintenance Supervisor, Assistant	33.10	34.76	36.50		
60050	Building Maintenance Worker	27.59	28.97	30.42		
60020	Custodian	19.64	20.62	21.65	22.73	23.87
Effective January 1, 2021 the classification rates of pay shall be increased by 2.5%.
Code	Job Title	1	2	3	4	5
60060	Building Maintenance Supervisor, Assistant	33.94	35.63	37.42		
60050	Building Maintenance Worker	28.28	29.69	31.18		
60020	Custodian	20.13	21.14	22.19	23.30	24.47
Effective January 1, 2022 the classification rates of pay shall be increased by 2.25%.
Code	Job Title	1	2	3	4	5
60060	Building Maintenance Supervisor, Assistant	34.70	36.43	38.28		
60050	Building Maintenance Worker	28.92	30.36	31.88		
60020	Custodian	20.58	21.62	22.69	23.82	25.02
The following classification shall be benchmarked at the corresponding percentage:
• Building Maintenance Supervisor, Assistant top step shall maintain an index of twenty percent (20%) above the top step of Building Maintenance Worker
Longevity shall be as provided in Section 1.12.133 of the Official Code of the City of Tacoma and the agreement with the Joint Labor Committee of Tacoma. The above classifications shall receive longevity pay consisting of:
1 % of base pay for 5 through 9 years of service 2% of base pay for 10 through 14 years of service 3% of base pay for 15 through 19 years of service 4% of base pay for 20 or more years of service
CS 2020-2022
17
APPENDIX B
This Appendix expires independently from the collective bargaining agreement to which it is attached. The following text is contained in the Joint Labor Agreement for the period 2020 --2021:
3.4 Payroll Deduction.
3.4.1	Union Dues. As evidence of its recognition of employee membership in unions and organizations affiliated with the Joint Labor Committee and other bona fide unions and employees organizations and professional societies, the City of Tacoma agrees that upon receiving notice of an employee’s authorization from the Union, it will deduct from the wages payable by the employer to such member, in the manner provided by law, such amounts as such member shall authorize, as dues to the organization, and transmit such dues to the organization. The City shall be given one full pay period advance notice of all dues changes. There shall be no retroactive deduction of dues.
3.4.2	Voluntary Contribution to Labor Funds, Committees or Subsidiary Organizations. The City will deduct from the pay of each employee, each month, the amount the employee wishes to voluntarily contribute to a fund, committee or subsidiary organization maintained or established by a labor organization; provided that the employee has submitted a written original authorization form signed by the employee to the City’s Payroll Department, and further provided that a minimum of twenty-five (25) employees have authorized a contribution to the same fund, committee or organization* The first deduction will take effect at the end of the month following the City's receipt of sufficient authorizattbn forms. The deduction will occur once per month on the second pay period of the month.
ARTICLE 6 - ENUMERATION OF BENEFITS
6.1	Domestic Partners. The City will make available to domestic partners benefits, including insurance, paid leave and statutory Family and Medical Leave, on the same basis that those benefits are provided to employee spouses. Domestic partners will be recognized if the domestic partnership is registered with or recognized by the State of Washington pursuant to RCW 26.60; provided, that the City will continue to recognize domestic partnerships on file with the City as of December 31,2016, until the participating employee’s separation from employment or dissolution of the domestic partnership, whichever occurs first.
6.2	Medical Insurance. The City of Tacoma and the Joint Labor Committee have negotiated and put in effect medical insurance programs which will continue in effect for the duration of this Agreement. During the term of this Agreement, the City will provide medical insurance to employees and their eligible dependents through the plans described in Appendix A.
CS 2020-2022
18
6.2.1	Eligibility. Permanent, project, appointive, and temporary pending exam employees and their dependents are eligible for coverage beginning on the first day of the calendar month following the date of hire, unless the date of hire is also the first working day of the calendar month, in which case benefits eligibiflfy begins on the date of hire. All other temporary employees and their dependents are eligible for coverage beginning on the first day of the calendar month following 60 days of continuous employment from the date of hire.
6.2.2	Default Options. If permanent, project, appointive and temporary pending exam employees fail to enroll or waive medical coverage within the required enrollment period, the employee will be enrolled automatically in the City's default medical plan. The default plan shall be the Regence BlueShield PPO Plan. If a temporary employee fails to timely enroll or waive coverage, the employee will be determined to have waived coverage, until such time as they enroll pursuant to a qualifying life event or an open enrollment period.
6.2.3	City Payment of Claims/Premiums. Except as provided below, the City will pay the claims or premiums (according to the plan selected by the employee) associated with the medical insurance selected by the employee and eligible dependents from the City’s Health Care Trust.
The City will not use reserve funds for purposes other than paying costs associated with the maintenance and administration of its health insurance plans without the express negotiation and consent of the Joint Labor Committee.
6.2.4	Employee Contributions to Premiums.
Effective January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, Employees selecting employee-only coverage will contribute $40 per month towards the premium costs of medical insurance. Employees insuring dependents will contribute $80 per month towards the premium costs of medical insurance.
Effective January 1,2021, Employees selecting employee-only coverage will contribute $50 per month towards the premium costs of medical insurance. Employees insuring dependents will contribute $100 per month towards the premium costs of medical insurance.
Effective January 1, 2020, in addition to these amounts, part-time employees working at least twenty (20), but less than thirty (30) hours per week will be responsible for the remainder of the premium cost of the plan they have selected after the City has made a prorated contribution toward the cost of the plan based on the percentage that the part-time employee’s FTE actual hours compensated in the previous month bears to full-time (40 hours per week). Employees will be eligible for benefits based on assigned work schedule. The work schedule shall be determined monthly, for pay periods In the upcoming month. Such schedules will be rounded up to the nearest four (4) hour increment. Part-time employees working thirty (30) or more hours per week will make contributions equal to those of full time employees.
CS 2020-2022
19
For all other purposes or benefit calculations, the City’s definitions and policies regarding part-time employment will govern.
6.2.5	Wellness Credit. Employees participating in wellness will receive a $20 per month credit toward their premium contribution for medical insurance coverage under the Regence PRO Plan or Kaiser Permanente HMO Plan, or a $40 per month credit toward their premium contribution for coverage under the Regence HDHP/HSA Plan. Employees in a temporary status are not eligible to receive the credit.
Employees or their eligible dependents may not be insured on more than one City medical insurance plan. If an employee has a spouse/domestic partner or adult child under the age of 26 working for the City, and each completes the participation requirements of the Wellness Incentives, each employee will receive the Wellness Credit toward the employee premium contributions for medfcal insurance coverage.
6.2.6	Contributions to HSA Accounts. Employees who select the Regence HDHP/HSA Plan will receive the following annual contributions to a health savings account. Contributions will be deposited on a monthly basis. Employees may contribute to their own accounts up to the maximum dollar value permitted by applicable law
a.	Employees Who Participate in Wellness - $1250 per year for employees selecting employee-only coverage; $2500 per year for employees insuring one or more dependents.
b.	Employees Who Do Not Participate in Wellness - $500 per year for employees selecting employee-only coverage; $1000 per year for employees insuring one or more dependents.
6.3	Dental and Vision Insurance. The City will provide dental and vision insurance to employees and eligible dependents according to the terms of its insurance plans. The City will not make changes to its dental or vision insurance plans during the term of this Agreement without first bargaining with the Joint Labor Committee. The City will pay the full premium cost for dental and vision insurance for employees and eligible dependents Part time employees working at least twenty (20), but less than thirty (30) hours per week will be responsible for a prorated contribution toward the cost of the plan based on the percentage that the part-time employee’s FTE actual hours compensated in the previous month bears to full-time (40 hours per week). Part-time employees working thirty (30) or more hours per week will make contributions equal to those of full time employees. For all other purposes or benefit calculations, the City’s definitions and policies regarding part-time employment will govern
6.4	Dual Coverage No City employee or eligible dependent may be insured under more than one City medical, dental, or vision insurance plan. Employees whose spouses/domestic partners/children up to age 26 are eligible for medical insurance benefits through the City will share the costs of insurance as follows:
CS 2020 2022
20
6.4.1	Employees Choosing the Same Plan - One spouse/domestic partner will be placed on the other’s medical, dental, or vision insurance, and the primary spouse/domestic partner will pay the appropriate premium cost for family coverage,
6.4.2	Employees Choosing Different Plans - If spouses/domestic partners elect coverage under different plans, they may not provide coverage to their spouse/domestic partner on their medical, dental, or vision insurance plan. Each employee will pay the appropriate cost share (individual or family) depending on whether they include children on their plan.
6.4.3	Children up to Age 26 - Benefit-eligible employees whose parents are City employees must elect coverage in their name (paying the applicable premium contribution) or coverage as a dependent on their parent’s plan (with no premium contribution), but may not receive coverage under two medical, dental or vision insurance plans.
6.5	Opt Out With Proof of Insurance. Subject to any applicable legal restrictions imposed by the Employer’s medical, dental and vision insurance providers, fulltime and part-time employees may choose to opt out of the Employer provided medical, dental and/or vision insurance. To be eligible to opt out of the medical, dental and/or vision insurance, full-time permanent, project, appointive, and temporary pending exam employees shall be required to: (I) provide the Employer with written proof of alternative medical, dental and vision insurance coverage; and (ii) notify the Employer in writing within thirty (30) calendar days if he/she should lose their alternative medical, dental and vision coverage.
6.6	Vacations shall be as provided in Section 1.12.220 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. This section provides in part for the following:
6.6.1	Full-time employees shall accrue vacation leave hours for each biweekly pay period pursuant to the following schedule:
Completed Years of Aggregate Service	Accrued Hours per Pay Period	Hours of Vacation Leave
Completion of years 0, 1, 2, 3	3.69	96
Completion of years 4, 5, 6, 7	4.60	120
Completion of years 8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13	I 5.22	136
Completion of years 14, 15, 16, 17, 18	6.14	160
Completion of 19 years •	6.45	168
Completion of 20 years	6.76	176
Completion of 21 years	7.07	184
Completion of 22 years	7.38	192
Completion of 23 years	7.69	200
Completion of 24 years	8.00	208
Completion of 25 years	8.31	216
Completion of 26 years	8.62	224
CS 2020-2022
21
Completion of 27 years	8 93	232
Completion of 28 years or more	9.24	240
Employees vacation accrual rates shall be established as of January 1 of each calendar year and shaN be based on the rate applicable to the number of years of aggregate service the employee will complete within that calendar year.
6.6.2	Part time employees will accrue vacation on a pro-rated basis according to the percentage their FTE bears to full-time
6.6.3	Employees accrue vacation in each pay period in which they are in a paid status An eligible employee shall accrue vacation based on the above schedule beginning from the date of their appointment.
6.6.4	Vacation accrual balances shall not exceed an amount equal to two (2) years' accrual at the employee’s then-current accrual rate
6.6.5	Vacation leave may not be taken without the prior approval of the appointing authority and may not be taken in the pay period in which it was earned. Vacation leave shall be scheduled so as to meet the operating requirements of the City and, as far as practicable, the preferences of the employees. Authorized vacation time may be used in increments of one tenth (1/10) of an hour.
6.6.6	For the purposes of this Section, permanent employees of the Municipal Belt Line Railway who are assigned to the extra board will be considered as full-time employees
6.7	Sick allowance with pay shall be as provided in Section 1.12,230 - 1.12 232 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. This section provides in part the following:
6.7.1	Each regularly employed full-time employee, Including temporary employees, shall accrue sick leave at the rate of 3.69 hours for each biweekly pay period in which he or she has been in a paid status. There is no limit to the number of sick leave days an employee may accrue. Part-time employees shall accrue sick leave on a prorated basis according to the percentage their FTE bears to full-time
6.7.2	An employee separated from service due to death or retirement for disability or length of service is compensated to the extent of twenty five percent (25%) of his/her sick leave accruals. An employee separated in good standing from service for any other reason who has a minimum of ten (10) days accrual, is compensated to the extent often percent (10%) of his/her sick leave accruals, up to a maxiiTHim accrual of one hundred twenty (120) days.
6.7.3	Permissible uses of sick leave are described in Tacoma Municipal Code Sections 1.12.230- 1.12.232.
CS 2020-2022
22
6.8	Personal Time Off shall be as provided in Section 1.12.248 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. This section provides in part for the following:
6.8.1	Employees enrolled in the Personal Time Off (P*TO) Plan shall accrue PTO hours for each bi-weekly pay period pursuant to the following schedule. Employees receive PTO in lieu of vacation and sick leave
Completed Years of Aggregate Service	Hours per Year	Hours per Pay Period
Completion of years 0, 1. 2, 3	144	5.54
Completion of years 4, 5, 6, 7	168	6.46
Completion of years 8, 9, 10,11, 12,13	184	7.08
Completion of years 14,15, 16, 17, 18	208	8.00
Completion 19 years	216	8.31
Completion of 20 years	224	8.62
Completion of 21 years.	232	8.92
Completion of 22 years	240	9.23
Completion of 23 years	248	9.54
Completion of 24 years	256	9.85
Completion of 25 years	264	10.15
Completion of 26 years	272	10.46
Completion of 27 years	280	10.77
Completion of 28 years or more	288	11,08
6.8.2	Employees shall accrue PTO on a prorated basis according to the percentage their FTE bears to full-time. Employees’ PTO accrual rates shall be established as of January 1 of each calendar year and shall be based on the rate applicable to the number of years of aggregate service the employee will complete within that calendar year. An employee may accrue a maximum of 960 hours of PTO.
6.9	On-the-job injury shall be as provided in Section 1.12.090 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. That section provides in part:
6.9.1	In the case of a disability covered by State Industrial Insurance or Worker Compensation, the first three (3) calendar days shall be paid at the regular normal pay and charged to earned leave, in the event the time loss is less than fifteen (15) calendar days.
6.9.2	For one-hundred-twenty (120) working days, the City will pay a supplement payment such that State payment plus City supplement equals eighty-five percent (85%) of regular normal pay.
6.9.3	Pursuant to Ordinance 27753, adopted November 18, 2008, after the payment and use of the one hundred twenty (120) working days, the employee may request to use accumulated sick leave and/or planned time off (PTO) balances to supplement the time loss pay such that the
CS 2020-2022
23
combination of the supplement and the time loss pay equals eighty-five percent (85%) of the employee’s normal wage (the employee's rate at the time of injury plus any longevity pay to which the employee is eligible). If the employee elects to use paid sick leave and/or PTO the election will continue until such balances are exhausted or until the employee returns to work. Hours deductions from the employee’s PTO or sick leave balances shall be determined by dividing the supplement by the employee’s regular hourly wage. Example: Assume a supplement amount of $596 dollars is necessary to bring the total to 85%. If the employee’s regular wage is assumed to be $23.84, the deduction from sick leave and/or PTO would be $596/$23.84=25 hours.
6.9.4	Any employee who becomes disabled prior to completing thirty (30) working days' employment with the City, shall receive the compensation disability allowance for a maximum of thirty (30) working days.
6.9.5	The above does not apply to Police and Fire commissioned hired prior to October 1, 1977, however, such employees shall have on-the-job injury claims charged against their sick leave accruals in the same manner as other employees of the City.
6.9.6	For the purposes of this Section, regular normal pay shall be that rate of the classification in which they were working in on the date of injury.
6.10	Group Life Insurance shall be as provided in Section 1.12.096 of the Tacoma Municipal Code The City will pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of premiums for those employees electing to participate. The amount of insurance an employee may purchase is based on their annual salary rounded to the next highest $1,000 of coverage
6.11	Longevity pay may be provided to employees of member unions pursuant to the terms of Ordinance 20938, which reads in part as follows.
6.11.1	Regular, probationary, and appointive employees who through union agreement have elected the option of longevity pay shall receive additional compensation based on a percentage of their base rate of pay received for the class in which they are currently being paid. No application of rate may be used in computing longevity pay.
6.11.2	Eligible employees shall receive longevity pay in accordance with the following schedule:
From 5 through 9 years aggregate service From 10 through 14 years aggregate service From 15 through 19 years aggregate service 20 years or more aggregate service
1 % per month 2% per month 3% per month 4% per month
6.11.3	Eligibility for longevity pay shall be determined by the length of aggregate City service and will be paid to an employee at the first of the calendar year in which any of the above stipulated periods of aggregate service will be completed.
CS 2020-2022
24
6.12	Holidays shall be as provided in Section 1.12.200 of the Tacoma Municipal Code. This section provides in part that the following and such other days as the City Council, by resolution, may fix, are holidays for all regularly employed fulltime employees of the City and shall be granted to employees or days off in lieu thereof.
New Year's Day (January 1)
Martin Luther King Day (third Monday in January) Presidents' Day (third Monday in February) Memorial Day (last Monday in May) Fourth of July
Labor Day (first Monday in September) Veterans' Day (November 11) Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November) The day immediately following Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day (December 25)
6.12.1	A full-time employee shall receive eight (8) hours of holiday pay for each holiday listed above, provided he/she is in a paid status on both the entire regularly scheduled workday immediately preceding the holiday and the entire regularly scheduled workday following the holiday.
6.12.2	In addition to the days listed above, eligible employees shall receive two (2) additional eight (8) hour paid floating holidays per calendar year for which time off shall be mandatory. Floating holidays may not be carried over from one calendar year to the next, and may not be converted to cash in any circumstances. To be eligible for these floating holidays, employees must have been or scheduled to be continuously employed by the City for four (4) months as a full-time or part-time regular, probationary, or appointive employee during the calendar year of entitlement. An employee hired into a part time status shall receive holiday pay on a prorated basis on the hours that he/she Is hired to work.
6.12.3	Full time employees working alternate schedules who are normally scheduled to work more than eight (8) hours on a day observed as a holiday may use vacation leave, personal time off, compensatory time, or leave without pay at the employee’s option to make up the difference between the employee’s normally scheduled shift and the eight (8) hours of holiday pay.
6.12.4	Unpaid Holidays. Employees wilt be granted two (2) unpaid holidays per calendar year for a reason of faith or conscience or an organized activity conducted under the auspices of a religious denomination, church, or religious organization. The employee will select the days on which to take the unpaid holiday(s) after consultation with his or her supervisor as provided by City policy. To the extent reasonably possible, employees should subnrt leave requests with at least thirty (30) calendar days’ notice. Employees may elect to use accrued vacation leave, PTO, compensatory time or floating holidays to remain in paid status on a requested holiday to the extent that such leave is available on the requested date under applicable policies, procedures and/or collective
CS 2020-2022
25
bargaining agreements governing the use of paid leave. An unpaid holiday requested pursuant to City policy will not be denied unless the employee’s absence would impose an undue hardship on the City, as defined by applicable rule or regulation^
6.13	The City shall contribute up to $3.00 per month for long term disability coverage for all permanent non-commissioned City employees.
6.14	The City wffl maintain an Internal Revenue Service Code Section 125 flexible benefits plan. The City shall pay the monthly per participant administrative fee. Employees cannot utilize this plan for Long Term Disability premium payments. Employees who participate in the City medical plan will be eligible to participate in the Section 125 flexible benefits plan. The maximum annual allowable employee contribution for medical reimbursement shall be based on IRS regulations. At the end of each year any unspent monies in employee flexible benefits accounts will revert to the Labor/Management Health Care Trust Account.
6J5 Wellness
6.15.1	Wellness Committee The parties will maintain a Labor Management Health Care Committee (aka Wellness Committee) during the term of the Agreement to discuss and address issues regarding the City’s insurance programs and wellness program. The Wellness Committee will be comprised of four (4) City and four (4) Labor representatives. The Committee will:
a.	Develop monthly or bimonthly newsletters to help educate and encourage the City employees.
b.	Review all Health Trust Fund/Flex Account balances.
c Review experience reports.
6.15.2	Wellness Funds. The City will establish a budget amount to fund activities associated with its Wellness Program. Expenditures of such budgeted funds will be recommended and reviewed by the Wellness Committee.
6.15.3	Participation. To receive the benefits associated with participating during each year of the Agreement, employees must complete participation requirements established by the Wellness Committee.
6.16 Meal allowances may be paid to employees pursuant to TMC Section 1.12.195 and the applicable collective bargaining agreement covering an individual member union of the Joint Labor Committee. Effective January 1, 2020, the meal allowance shall increase to $18 per occurrence unless an applicable collective bargaining agreement covering an individual member union provides for a higher amount
CS 2020-2022
26