AGREEMENT between THE CITY OF SARASOTA and THE CITRUS, CANNERY, FOOD PROCESSING AND ALLIED WORKERS, DRIVERS, WAREHOUSEMAN & HELPERS, LOCAL UNION #173 Affiliated with International Brotherhood of Teamsters Referred to Herein as TEAMSTERS LOCAL #173
(10/1/2019 - 9/30/2022)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE 1	- RECOGNITION	1
ARTICLE 2	- DEFINITIONS	2
ARTICLE 3	-MANAGEMENT RIGHTS	4
ARTICLE 4	-NO-STRIKE PROVISION	10
ARTICLE 5	- EMPLOYEE/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE	13
ARTICLE 6	-UNION STEWARDS	14
ARTICLE 7	- BASE RATE OF PAY	16
Section 1.	General Wage Increases
Section 2.	Longevity Pay
Section 3.	Step Increases
Section 4.	Shift Differential
Section 5.	Language Specialty Pay
Section 6.	Acting Supervisor
Section 7.	Sexual Offense Liaison Differential
Section 8.	On-Call
Section 9.	Represented Titles
Section 10.	CDL Fees
ARTICLE 8	- BLANK ARTICLE	20
i
ARTICLE 9	-HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
21
Section l.	Assignment of Work Schedule
Section 2.	Overtime Assignment
Section 3,	Overtime Rate of Pay for Eligible Members of Teamsters Local #173
Section 4.	Excepted Hours in Overtime Compensation
Section 5.	Definitions
Section 6.	Call-Back Time/Pay
Section 7.	Compensatory Time Off
Section 8.	Court Time/Pay
Section 9.	Policy on Tardiness
Section 10.	Travel Time
ARTICLE 10	- UNIFORM AND SAFETY REGULATIONS	25
ARTICLE 11	-BULLETIN BOARD	26
ARTICLE 12	-TEAMSTERS' RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS	27
Section 1.	Dues Deductions and Service Charges
Section 2.	Exception to Dues Deduction
ARTICLE 13	- CONTRACT GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE	29
ARTICLE 14	- DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE	40
ARTICLE 15	- PTO PROVISIONS AND PROCEDURES	44
ARTICLE 16	- MATERNITY LEAVE AND BEREAVEMENT LEAVE	46
ARTICLE 17	- HOLIDAYS	47

ARTICLE	18	- MILITARY LEAVE	51
ARTICLE	19	- COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH CARE PROGRAM	52
ARTICLE	20	- SENIORITY	54
ARTICLE	21	- LAYOFF/RECALL	55
ARTICLE	22	- PRIVATIZATION	56
ARTICLE	23	- SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY	57
ARTICLE	24	- SEVERABILITY	58
ARTICLE	25	- ENTIRE AGREEMENT	59
ARTICLE	26	- DURATION OF AGREEMENT	60
CONTRACT SIGNATURES - APPROVAL	61
EXHIBITS
1.	Step Schedules
1 A. 2019-2020	62
1 B. 2020-2021	64
1 C.2021-2022	66
2.	Step Plan Methodology	68
3.	On-Call Policy	70
4.	Represented Positions	73
5.	Affidavit	75
5 A. How to Complete an Affidavit	76
iii
ARTICLE #1
RECOGNITION
Section 1.	The City of Sarasota, Florida, (hereinafter referred to as the “City”), recognizes the Citrus, Cannery, Food Processing, and Allied Workers, Drivers, Warehouseman & Helpers, Teamsters Local #173 Affiliated with The International Brotherhood of Teamsters, (hereinafter referred to as the "Teamsters Local #173") as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of the employees in the bargaining unit described herein. (Reference case No. RC-94-012 verification of election results and certification of exclusive collective bargaining unit representative dated and approved by the Public Employees Relation Commission on July 17, 1994).
For the duration of this Agreement, the bargaining unit shall include:
All regular full-time employees employed by the City of Sarasota and as authorized under PERC Order #RC-94-012, as may be amended from time to time.
For the duration of this Agreement, the bargaining unit shall exclude:
All Probationary and Temporary Employees, Confidential Employees, Managerial Employees, Conflict Supervisors Employees, Professional Employees, Human Resources Department Employees, and all Employees in other City of Sarasota Bargaining Units certified by the Commission, and all other employees. In accordance with the attachments to the PERC Order #RC-94-012, as may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.	The Teamsters Local #173 recognizes that the City Manager is the collective bargaining representative for the City. The Teamsters Local #173 further recognizes its obligation to bargain solely and exclusively with the City Manager and/or his designee.
Page 1 of 79
ARTICLE #2
DEFINITIONS
FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS AGREEMENT:
BASE HOURLY RATE OF PAY:	"Base hourly rate of pay” is defined as the base
	hourly rate of pay, (as established here) exclusive of any and all other wage, compensations or benefit elements, such as longevity, specialist pay, etc.
CITY:	"City" is defined as the municipal corporation under the laws of the State of Florida, consisting of an electorate, elected and appointed officials. For the purpose of this Agreement, the term "City" shall also mean the City Commission, its appointed administrative officers, designees and representatives.
CITY MANAGER:	"City Manager" is defined as that person appointed by the City Commission who is the Chief Administrator/Executive Officer of the City, and/or his designee.
DEPARTMENT:	"Department" shall refer to a Department within the City of Sarasota as determined by the City Manager.
EMPLOYEE:	Unless otherwise indicated, an "Employee" is defined as an employee of the City who is a member of the bargaining unit described in Article #1, herein.
HE OR HIS:	"He" or "his" shall be used to designate individuals of both sexes.
Page 2 of 79
MANAGE:	"Manage" is defined to mean the authority of the City
to plan, implement, control, direct, coordinate, train and discipline such as, but not limited to, the following: To hire, assign, transfer, retain, budget, lay-off, recall, promote, discipline, suspend, demote, discharge, negotiate, reward, direct rank and file workers, adjust grievances, or to effectively recommend any of the above by use of the independent judgment of the City.
REGULAR HOURLY RATE OF PAY:	"Regular hourly rate of pay" is defined as the
regular hourly rate of pay, inclusive of any and all other wage, compensation or benefit element such as longevity, etc.
WORK:	"Work" is defined to mean the duties and responsibilities
assigned to an employee by the City, and does not include such elements as PTO, lost-time due to on-the-job injuries, holiday, training during off-duty hours, travel, etc., unless specifically and expressly assigned, authorized and approved in writing by the City.
Page 3 of 79
ARTICLE #3
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
Section 1.	Except as specifically and expressly abridged, limited or modified by the written terms of this Agreement, all of the rights, powers and authority previously possessed or enjoyed by the City of Sarasota prior to this Agreement are retained by the City, and may be exercised without prior notice to or consultation with the Teamsters Local #173. This article pertains to all members of the bargaining unit as assigned within the City of Sarasota and as authorized by PERC Order #RC-94-012.
Section 2.	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed so as to limit, or impair, the right of the City to exercise its sole and exclusive discretion on all of the following matters, providing such exercise is consistent with the express terms of this Agreement and this agreement pertains to all members of the bargaining unit as described in Article #1 herein.
A.	To manage the City of Sarasota and related departments, exercise sole and exclusive control and absolute discretion over the organization and operations thereof.
B.	To determine the purpose and functions of the City of Sarasota and related departments and its constituent divisions, bureaus and units.
C.	To perform those duties and exercise those responsibilities which are assigned to the City by Federal and State Law, City Ordinance or City Regulation.
D.	To determine and adopt such policies and programs, standards, rules and regulations as are deemed by the City to be necessary for the operation/improvement of the City of Sarasota and related departments and to select, manage, direct and evaluate all management, supervisory, administrative and other personnel.
Page 4 of 79
E.	To take such reasonable measures as the City may determine to be necessary to maintain order and efficiency relative to both the work force and the operations/services to be rendered thereby; subject to the provisions of Section 16 as outlined herein.
F.	To set methods, means of operations and standards of services to be offered by the City of Sarasota and related departments and to contract such operations/services to the extent deemed necessary, practical and feasible by the City in its sole discretion.
G.	To establish and determine and/or redetermine employee job content, duties, responsibilities, and work load; and number of employee classifications.
H.	To decide the number, location, design and maintenance of the City of Sarasota and related Departments. To relocate, remodel or otherwise revise operations and facilities as may be deemed necessary by the City.
I.	To determine the qualifications of all employees of the City of Sarasota and related Departments. To select, examine, hire, classify, train, assign, schedule, direct, transfer, promote, discipline, discharge, layoff, retain and manage all employees of the City of Sarasota.
J.	To select supervisory and managerial personnel from the working forces strictly on the basis of management's determination of individual ability, based on competitive examination as applicable, performance evaluation, and other elements currently being utilized.
Page 5 of 79
K.	To discharge, demote or suspend any employee of the City of Sarasota and related Departments, and to take other disciplinary action against such employees, or to relieve such employees from duty, for just cause.
L.	To establish, change or modify the number, and types of positions/employees assigned to a department, division, bureau, unit or project of the City of Sarasota and related Departments.
M.	To determine the extent of operations of the City of Sarasota and related Departments. To determine when any part of the complete operation shall function or be halted; and to determine when, where and to what extent operations/services shall be increased or decreased.
N.	To reasonably make, issue, publish, enforce and modify policies, procedures, rules and regulations. If any involve or impact on the wages, hours or terms and conditions of employment of bargaining unit employees, they will be subject to negotiation between the parties to this Agreement.
O.	All other rights to manage the City of Sarasota and related Departments and the operations, functions and purposes thereof, which are not in or expressly limited by this Agreement, are reserved exclusively to the City.
Section 3.	The City Commission has the sole authority to determine and redetermine the purpose and mission of the City of Sarasota and related Departments.
Section 4.	If, in the sole discretion of the City Manager, it is determined that civil
emergency conditions exist, including but not limited to riots, civil disorders, hurricane/tornado conditions, epidemics, public employee strikes or similar catastrophes, the provisions of this Agreement may be suspended by the City during the time of such declared emergency, except monetary provisions.
Page 6 of 79
Section 5.	The City Charter, together with all applicable General Laws of the State of Florida, shall be supreme to this Agreement in all matters pertaining to or resulting from any negotiations in such areas of discretion as the City of Sarasota and related Department's mission, budget, obligation to its citizens, organization, assignment of personnel, tasks, duties, responsibilities, or the technology required to perform work.
Section 6.	The City has the sole, exclusive right to direct managerial, supervisory, administrative personnel and any other employees not covered by this Agreement, to perform any task in connection with the operation of the City of Sarasota and related Departments whether or not normally performed by the employees within the bargaining unit.
Section 7.	The selection and assignment of supervisory and managerial personnel are the sole responsibility of management and shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures provided in this Agreement.
Section 8.	The Teamsters Local #173 recognizes that the City of Sarasota and related Departments have certain obligations to comply with Federal, State and Local Laws, Ordinances, Regulations, Directives and Guidelines which may be applicable to such matters as Affirmative Action, Equal Employment Opportunity, etc., and shall cooperate in such compliance. Such matters shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures provided in this Agreement.
Section 9.	The City shall have the right, during the term of this Agreement, to terminate selected services/operations permanently. The City shall also have the right, from time to time during this Agreement, to suspend selected services/operations subject to its obligation to negotiate with Teamsters Local #173 as to the effects of such action.
Section 10.	The City hereby retains and reserves all rights, powers, duties, authority and responsibility conferred upon and vested in it by the laws and constitutions of the State of Florida and the United States.
Page 7 of 79
Section 11.	Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement any written rule, regulation, policies, procedures affecting the wages, hours or terms and conditions of employment of the bargaining unit in effect prior to, as well as those issued after, the effective date of this Agreement, shall remain and be in full force and effect unless changed, modified or deleted by the terms of this Agreement. Final authority to change, modify or delete any rule, regulation or policy rests with the City of Sarasota.
Section 12.	It is expressly understood by and between the parties to this Agreement that the City of Sarasota and related Departments shall not be deemed to have waived or modified any of the rights reserved to the City under this Article by not exercising said rights either in a particular matter or in a particular manner.
Section 13.	Nothing contained in this Agreement shall abrogate the rights, duties and responsibilities of the City Manager, as provided by law.
Section 14.	Nothing in this Agreement shall limit the City in the exercise of its managerial functions. It is agreed that these enumerations of management prerogatives shall not be deemed to exclude other prerogatives of management not specifically enumerated.
Section 15.	The exercise of the above enumerated managerial rights, except as otherwise provided herein, shall not preclude an aggrieved from filing a grievance, but such grievance can be filed only on the grounds that the action complained of by him is in violation of the express written terms of this Agreement.
Section 16.	In the exercise of the above enumerated rights, the City of Sarasota recognizes its obligation to bargain, if the law requires, over such rights or decisions that alter, modify or impact on hours, wages and terms and conditions of employment of bargaining unit employees. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the City from implementing the proposed right or decision prior to negotiations, but any settlement, agreement or legislative imposition finally reached as a result of negotiations shall be retroactive to the date of implementation.
Page 8 of 79
Section 17.	The City of Sarasota shall not discriminate against any employee because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age or disability.
Page 9 of 79
ARTICLE #4
NO STRIKE PROVISION
Section 1.	The Teamsters Local #173, its officers, representatives, agents, members, employees, and employees covered by this Agreement shall not engage in, instigate or support:
A.	A strike.
B.	Concerted failure to report for duty.
C.	Concerted absence from their respective positions.
D.	Concerted stoppage of work.
E.	Concerted submission of resignations.
F.	Concerted abstention in whole or in part from the full and faithful performance of the duties of their employment by the City.
Section 2.	The foregoing prohibited activities "A" through "F" shall not be engaged in for the purpose of inducing, influencing, condoning or coercing a change in the terms and conditions of employment or in the rights, privileges or obligations of public employment of any employees within or without the bargaining unit.
Section 3.	No employee or group of employees, in furtherance of a strike or work stoppage, shall participate in:
A.	A deliberate and concerted course of conduct which adversely affects the services of the City, or
B.	A concerted failure to report for work after the expiration of this collective bargaining Agreement, or
Page 10 of 79
C.	Disruptive picketing or disruptive hand billing of any City facility, office or premises, as provided in Chapter 447.09, Florida Statutes, or
D.	Illegal picketing or illegal hand billing of any City facility, office or premises, or
E.	Any picketing or hand billing in the area of the residence of any official, employee or agent of the City.
Section 4.	Any employee or group of employees committing or participating in any of the acts proscribed in this Article shall be terminated without the right of appeal, except as stated in Section 5 of this Article, which provides for binding arbitration. If any such terminated employee is reemployed by the City, it shall be under the following conditions:
A.	Such person shall be on probation for a period of six (6) months following his reemployment. During this period, the person may be discharged in accordance with the City's Rules and Regulations.
B.	The compensation of such person may in no event exceed that received by him/her immediately prior to the time of the violation.
C.	The compensation of the person may not be increased until after the expiration of one (1) year from such reemployment.
Section 5.	The only question which may be presented to an arbitrator, pursuant to Section 4 and the grievance and arbitration procedure in this Agreement, is whether an employee (or group of employees) is participating or has participated in activity proscribed in Sections 1, 2 and 3 of this Article. If an Arbitrator determines that an employee (or group of employees) is participating or has participated in such activity/activities, the arbitrator is not empowered to consider or rule upon any penalty or discipline given by the City, including discharge from employment.
Page 11 of 79
Section 6.	In the event there should be a strike or other prohibited activity, the City shall not be obligated to reopen or reactivate any facilities/operations affected by that activity.
Page 12 of 79
ARTICLE #5
EMPLOYEE/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Section 1.	There shall be an Employee/Management Committee consisting of the following Employee/Management Representatives:
A.	Two representatives as appointed by the Union President; and
B.	Two representatives as appointed by the City.
C.	Either party may request participation in a meeting by other persons. If such request is mutually acceptable, the other persons may participate.
Section 2.	Meetings of this Committee shall be held not more than once each month and shall be scheduled at the request of either party upon ten (10) days’ notice. The party requesting such a meeting shall forward to the designated Representative of the other party an agenda specifying those questions/issues to be presented for discussion. The time, place and duration of discussion shall be mutually agreed upon between the City and Teamsters Local #173.
Section 3.	The sole function of the Employee/Management Committee shall be to discuss general matters pertaining to Employee Relations. The Committee shall not engage in Collective Bargaining or the resolution of grievances.
Section 4.	Committee members of the Bargaining Unit shall be paid by the City to participate in Employee/Management meetings
Page 13 of 79
ARTICLE #6
UNION STEWARDS
Section 1.	The Union will appoint Stewards. The Union will use its best judgment to cover all shifts and locations in selecting the Stewards. All Stewards will be granted reasonable time during working hours to investigate and settle grievances on the job site within their jurisdiction without loss of pay. The parties agree to a maximum of six (6) Stewards which includes the two (2) Chief Stewards.
Stewards and union members shall not engage in union business during working hours at working locations without the prior authorization of their immediate supervisor.
Such absences from the work area will be for the purpose of attending meetings with the employee who has requested representation or for the purpose of investigating an alleged issue.
Stewards shall have access, if permissible, to the premises to meet and confer with bargaining unit employees, but the Union agrees not to interfere with the normal operation of the City.
Section 2.	Chief Stewards designated by Teamsters Local #173, up to two people, shall be granted authorized leave with pay to a maximum total number of 150 hours for each Chief Steward per fiscal year to attend union negotiation sessions, as scheduled, between the City and the Teamsters Local #173, and the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure and the Disciplinary Procedure provisions of Article 13 and Article 14 of this agreement.
Section 3.	The City agrees that a maximum total number of authorized hours without pay per fiscal year will be 125 hours. These hours will be available to each Steward participating in union training or business. The Union agrees that requests for time off under this provision are to be made so as not to affect service to the citizens of Sarasota. Such effect may result in denial of the request.
Page 14 of 79
Such time shall not be used to promote or distribute union materials.
Section 4.	The City may grant a Leave of Absence without pay to any bargaining unit members appointed to a full or part time position of the Union or elected to a position in the Union, as provided in accordance with the City of Sarasota Rules and Regulations after a review of the City’s operational needs. Such leave of absence will be no longer than 6 months as outlined in City of Sarasota Rule 11.13.A.
Page 15 of 79
ARTICLE #7
BASE RATE OF PAY
Section 1.	General Wage Increases:
General Wage Increases (GWI) are applicable to all covered employees as follows:
10/1/2019 All members will receive a 3% GWI to their base rate of pay to be effective 10/2/2019.
10/1/2020 All members will receive a 2.5% GWI to their base rate of pay.
10/1/2021 All members that are eligible for a Step Increase during the third year of the contract will receive the step increase on the first pay period of the fiscal year instead of on their anniversary. The third year of the contract will also be the implementation of the FRS, as set forth in the MOU, attached and incorporated hereto. Employees that choose to enter FRS from the City’s DC or DB plans will have a reduction of mandatory 6% contribution to a 3% FRS contribution, or the contribution rate set by the state at that time.
All other members that would be on Step 8 or above will receive a 1.5% Wage Increase (WI) to their base rate of pay.
Section 2.	Longevity Pay:
Longevity increases will continue for eligible employees.
Longevity Pay:
Minimum # of Yrs Continuous Service (From date of hire as a Full- Time Probationary Employee)		Percentage of Base Hourly Rate of Pay
5	an additional 2% to	2%
10	an additional 2% to	4%
15	an additional 2% to	6%
20	an additional 2% to	8%
25	an additional 2% to	10%
30	an additional 2% to	12%
Page 16 of 79
Section 3.	Step Increases:
Step increases are applicable to eligible employees who achieve no less than a satisfactory performance evaluation. Step increases will be effective the beginning of the pay period in which the employee’s anniversary falls, except for the third year of the contract, 10/1/2021 effective date, the Step increase shall be at the beginning of the Fiscal year.
•	Exhibit 1 - Step Schedule
•	Exhibit 2 - Step Methodology
Section 4.	Shift Differential:
An hourly shift differential will be paid for full shifts worked in all departments of the City, where the employee has been scheduled to work that shift.
$.40 per hour will be paid for the second shift; for shifts scheduled to start after 3 pm but prior to 10 pm.
$.75 per hour will be paid for the third shift; for shifts scheduled to start after 10 pm but prior to midnight.
Call outs or other partial shifts will not be eligible for the shift differential. Employees will be assigned to second shift or third shift and this differential will be paid for all hours worked on their assigned shift until they are transferred to another shift. Other employees that are scheduled for second or third shift will be eligible for shift differential.
Section 5.	Language Specialty Pay:
Employees may qualify for language specialty pay as follows:
Language: Multilingual
Positions: Customer Service Representative, Sr. Customer Service Representative, Service Dispatcher I, Service Dispatcher II, Code Compliance Tech Inspector, License Page 17 of 79
Tech, Building Inspector, Maintenance Tech. I, II, III, Shift Supervisor TPO, and Supervisor Facilities Maintenance. Additional positions will be considered if the City deems these to be beneficial for City business.
Procedure:
•	Employees will make a written request to their department head to be considered for bilingual status. Department Head will supply names of those to be tested to the Human Resources Department.
•	Testing and certification for bilingual status will be scheduled once per year and completed on City time.
•	Once certified in a second language, employees will receive $.50 per hour.
•	Employees certified in an additional language will need to be available for translation and interpretation throughout the City and depending upon customer requests.
Section 6.	Acting Supervisor:
Employees assigned to work in an acting supervisor role, for more than two consecutive weeks, will receive a 5% temporary pay increase on the base rate of pay for said employee, for the length of the assignment.
Section 7.	Sexual Offense Liaison Differential:
The City of Sarasota and Teamsters Local #173 agree to the establishment of a $.50 per hour differential payable to those members of the Sarasota Police Department who perform the duties of Sexual Offense Liaison.
Section 8.	On-Call:
The City and Union agree that On-Call pay will apply to all employees of the City where the employee has been placed on a duty roster and is to be available outside normally scheduled work hours and further agree to the following:
1.	Employee On-Call is paid $150/week for the first year of the contract; $160/week for the second and third year of the contract.
2.	Employee will have a 2-hour minimum at time and a half for each call out or actual hours worked for the call out at time and a half.
Page 18 of 79
3.	On-Call work rules delineated in Exhibit 3 must be followed.
4.	The employee must be on an identifiable schedule such as a duty roster or on-call schedule to be paid on-call.
Section 9.	Represented Titles:
A list of job titles by grade that are represented by the union can be found in Exhibit
4.
Section 10.	CDL Fees:
Eligible employees with CDL licenses will be eligible for reimbursement of their renewal fees.
Page 19 of 79
ARTICLE #8
This Article left blank intentionally
Page 20 of 79
ARTICLE #9
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Section 1.	Assignment of Work Schedule. The City of Sarasota shall, in its sole discretion, schedule the work hours, work days and work weeks of employees in the bargaining unit. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as a guarantee or limitation of the number of hours to be worked per day or per week. The City has the sole discretion to schedule and/or assign hours of work, either less or more than the normal work day/period. Unless otherwise directed by the City, the work period is designated in accordance with the exemption authorized under the Fair Labor Standards Act and as defined in Article 2 of this Agreement. The duty schedule shall be as defined in Section 4 of this Article.
Section 2.	Overtime Assignment. In an attempt to ensure a reasonable balance, distribution of overtime will be reviewed at least quarterly to monitor even overtime distribution equity. Imbalances will be defined as those employees that have greater than a 15% difference of scheduled overtime hours than the person with the highest number of hours.
Section 3.	Overtime Rate of Pay for Eligible Members of the Teamsters Local #173. (Excluding exempt employees of the bargaining unit.) All time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a given work period, by eligible members of the Teamsters Local #173, for the seven (7) consecutive day work period shall be paid at one and a half (1 1/2) times the regular hourly rate of pay. In order for an employee to be compensated for time worked in excess of the forty (40) hours in a work period, the overtime must be ordered and approved at the sole discretion of the City of Sarasota.
Section 4.	Excepted Hours in Overtime Compensations. Holiday hours will be considered as time worked for the purposes of computing overtime pay. Other time off, such as leave time, bereavement leave, PTO and other authorized absences with pay, will not be considered as time worked for purposes of computing overtime pay.
Page 21 of 79
Section 5.	Definitions. For the purpose of this Agreement, the following terms are hereby defined:
A.	"Work Period" for eligible members of the bargaining unit means scheduled seven (7) consecutive days commencing with shifts or work periods starting on Wednesday and ending on Tuesday, with a maximum of 40 hours of nonovertime work.
Note: The phrase “with shifts or work periods starting after”, in the definition of “Work Period” is necessary because some shifts start at 11:00 p.m. Such shifts are paid as if the entire shift was worked before Tuesday midnight. Shifts are paid in the work week in which the shift began.
B.	"Duty Period" means the number of hours in a work day as scheduled by the City.
C.	"Duty Schedule" for members of the bargaining unit as established by the City of Sarasota and related Departments based on operational requirements.
Section 6.	Call Back Time/Pay. The City of Sarasota has the sole discretion to require employees to return to work on other than their normally scheduled or regularly assigned shifts, provided, however, that such employee(s) shall receive a minimum of two (2) hours work time with pay at the rate of time and one-half for such required duty, except that any member of the bargaining unit called back within one and a half hours of the starting time of his assigned shift will be not eligible for the call back time outlined herein. Should that occur, the employee(s) would have the time worked (up to one and one-half hours) prior to the start of the scheduled shift and that time would be added to their regular day of work for that specific day or days. In addition, if an employee is retained on his regular shift for any extended duty then that individual will receive straight time until he is eligible for normal overtime requirements.
Page 22 of 79
Section 7.	Compensatory Time Off. The City, in its sole discretion, may either compensate employees who work in excess of forty (40) hours in a given work week at the prescribed overtime rate, or may grant equivalent compensatory time off within the same work week.
Section 8.	Court Time/Pay. Eligible members of the bargaining unit required to appear in court on behalf of the City or serving on Jury Duty shall be eligible for compensation at their regular rate of pay except that any compensation paid by the court to eligible members shall be turned in to the Finance Department within three calendar days after receiving the pay by the eligible member(s) of the bargaining unit. Employees who are in court for only part of their normal work day shall report for work when excused or released by the court.
Court leave shall be charged as authorized leave of absence with pay and notification shall be made (on the authorized form) by the Department Head through the Director of Human Resources.
Section 9.	Policy on Tardiness. Increments of 0.1 (one tenth) of an hour will be used to measure tardiness and docking of pay for payroll purposes as listed below. This mirrors the time clock rounding schedule that is currently in place. As employees are expected to arrive on time to shifts, disciplinary action for tardiness can occur if a pattern of tardiness is observed.
1 thru 3 minutes			=	.00
4 thru 9 minutes			=	.10
10 thru 15	m	nutes	=	.20
16 thru 21	m	nutes	=	.30
22 thru 27	m	nutes	=	.40
28 thru 33	m	nutes	=	.50
34 thru 39	m	nutes	=	.60
40 thru 45	m	nutes	=	.70
46 thru 51	m	nutes	=	.80
52 thru 57	m	nutes	=	.90
58 thru 60	m	nutes	=	1 Hour
Page 23 of 79
Section 10.	Travel time will be paid according to FLSA.
Page 24 of 79
ARTICLE #10
UNIFORM AND SAFETY REGULATIONS
Section 1.	The City at its sole discretion shall establish policies and procedures with respect to uniforms and safety regulations consistent with applicable law and departmental requirements. Suggestions and comments with respect to modifications shall be provided in writing to the Department Director.
Section 2.	In the event an employee is transferred or for any reason leaves the employment of the City, the employee shall return all protective devices, wearing apparel, and equipment to the issuing department upon demand or prior to the employee receiving the last paycheck. The replacement cost as determined by the City of any of the above-mentioned items that are lost, abused or misused by the employee, shall be borne by the employee through payroll deductions, if necessary.
If the City of Sarasota requires uniforms or special safety equipment, they must be provided by the City.
Section 3.	The City Safety Committee shall include at least one Teamster represented employee and the Committee shall meet on an average of at least every two months during the year. Either party may request a special Safety meeting, if necessary.
Page 25 of 79
ARTICLE #11
BULLETIN BOARDS
Section 1.	The Union shall be provided with partial use of existing suitable bulletin boards accessible to each department and shall be provided bulletin board space which is at least equal to 17 by 22 inches in dimension.
Section 2.	The Union agrees that it shall use space as provided by the City on bulletin boards only for informational purposes to the bargaining unit. Signed copies of all materials, notices or announcements shall be submitted to the Director of Human Resources or his/her designee for approval prior to posting on any Bulletin Board. Prior to posting in any department, the Department Head will be furnished a copy by the Union.
Section 3.	The Union or any member of the bargaining unit shall not post any notice or other documents containing negative or disparaging remarks against the City or its officials. Violations of this article shall entitle the City to immediately remove such materials from the bulletin boards.
Page 26 of 79
ARTICLE #12
TEAMSTERS RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
Section 1.	Dues Deductions and Service Charges.
A.	Dues Deduction:
1.	A member of the bargaining unit may present written authorization on the prescribed form to the City to deduct from his/her salary Teamster dues in a specific bi-weekly amount. Each authorization shall be effective until the earliest of the following dates:
(a)	The expiration of the collective bargaining Agreement; or
(b)	The determination by the Florida Public Employees Relations Commission (PERC) that the Teamsters Local #173 has participated in, supported or instigated in any manner a strike against the City; or
(c)	Thirty (30) calendar days after written notice of revocation of said authorization by the employee to both the City and the Teamsters.
2.	The City will transmit the dues and uniform assessments deducted in any pay period less the appropriate charge authorized herein, to the Treasurer of the Union at a convenient time following said deductions, but not later than fifteen (15) calendar days from the end of the week in which the deductions were made, except in the case of reasonable delays.
Page 27 of 79
3.	The City's sole obligations with respect to said funds are the collection and transmittal of those funds. The Teamsters Local #173, its officers, agents and members will hold the City, its officers and agents harmless for the cost of any action which may be brought by any of its members, group(s) of members, agencies of law or other parties with respect to the use of disposition of said funds, after they have been transmitted to the Teamsters.
4.	The City will not collect fines, penalties or special assessments levied or attempted to be levied upon its employees by the Teamsters, its officers, agents or members.
5.	The Teamsters Local #173 agrees to indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all claims or suits against the City or any of its employees because of the City’s collection of dues or other assessments pursuant to this article.
B.	Service Charges:
The City shall deduct from the payment made to the Union the following expenses of bookkeeping, retention and transmittal of funds:
Three Hundred Dollars ($300.00) per fiscal year.
The above service charge shall be effective and deducted within the first Month after final ratification or until the entire agreed amount is deducted and shall be collected thereafter during the month of October for the duration of the collective bargaining Agreement.
Section 2.	Exception to Dues Deductions. In the event an employee's salary earning within any given pay period (after deductions for withholding tax, retirement, health insurance and other priority items) are not sufficient to cover dues, it will be the responsibility of the Teamsters to collect its dues for that pay period directly from the affected employee. Application and Notice for membership forms can be acquired from union stewards or Teamster Local #173 Hall.
Page 28 of 79
ARTICLE #13
CONTRACT GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCEDURE
Section 1:	Definitions, Exclusions and General Requirements
A.	Definitions:
1.	The “Aggrieved” is an employee or a group of employees. The Teamsters Local #173 may act as the Aggrieved on its own behalf only in Grievances arising out of those Article(s) expressly setting forth the Teamsters Local #173 rights and/or obligations.
2.	A “Grievance” is a written allegation by the Aggrieved that he has been adversely affected by a misinterpretation or misapplication of a specific written term(s) of this Collective Bargaining Agreement occurring after the effective date and before the termination of the Agreement. A “Grievant” is an employee or union representative who has filed a written Grievance.
3.	A “Business Day” is considered Monday through Friday, excluding Holidays, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
4.	References to “Department Director,” “Human Resources Director” or “Charter Official” include their designees when the Director or Charter Official has assigned a designee to act on his or her behalf. Notwithstanding this, a designee of a Charter Official cannot be the Department Director of the Grievant.
B.	Exclusions:
The following acts are excluded from consideration under the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure:
sexual harassment (see Rule 2.18 of the City’s Personnel Rules and Regulations); discrimination (see Rule 2.19 of the City’s Personnel Rules and Regulations); demotion, suspension, dismissal, layoff (see Rule 7.21 of the City’s Personnel Rules and Regulations) except when such demotion,
Page 29 of 79
suspension, dismissal or layoff alleges misinterpretation or misapplication of a specific written term(s) of this agreement; establishment and approval of levels of compensation; and Employee Performance Evaluations (see Rule 13 of the City’s Personnel Rules and Regulations).
C.	Requirements for Initiating a Grievance:
Any Grievance presented by an Aggrieved pursuant to Article 13 must contain the following information on the Grievance and Arbitration Form included herein:
1.	A statement of the problem or situation that led to the filing of the Grievance, including date of occurrence, details, and facts upon which the Grievance is based.
2.	The Article and Section of the Agreement alleged to have been breached.
3.	How the Aggrieved believes the Article and Section was breached so as to adversely affect him.
4.	The action, remedy or solution requested by the Aggrieved.
5.	Signature of employee(s) or union representative.
6.	Date Grievance submitted to Department Director.
7.	No Grievance under this procedure may be processed without the signature of an employee directly affected by the breach of the collective bargaining agreement, or the signature of the Teamster Local #173 representative if the union is acting as the aggrieved party.
Page 30 of 79
D.	General Requirements:
1.	All contract disputes involving the interpretation and application of this agreement must be decided through the Grievance and Arbitration procedure set forth herein unless otherwise prescribed by law. The commencing of legal proceedings against the City in a court of law or equity, or before the Public Employee Relations Commission, or any other administrative agency, by an employee or employees for an alleged violation or violations of the express terms of this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver by said employee or employees of their right to resort to the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure contained in this Agreement for resolution of the alleged violation or violations of the express terms of this Agreement.
2.	The exercise of Management Rights by the City shall not be considered arbitrable under this Grievance and Arbitration procedure. However, the exercise of such rights shall not preclude employees or their representatives from raising grievances, should decisions on the above matters have the practical consequence of violating the terms and conditions of this collective bargaining agreement.
3.	Grievances submitted under this procedure which do not contain the information described in Section 1C (1-7) above shall be considered insufficient and shall be declared null and void. Refer to Section 2B (Step 1) for timelines for resubmitting the grievance.
4.	The time limits contained herein are absolute. The failure of the Aggrieved to timely file a Grievance or to timely appeal the Grievance to subsequent Steps constitutes a waiver of the right to bring the Grievance. Questions or disputes regarding compliance with the time limits set forth in this Article are not arbitrable. Arbitration is available only to those who have timely proceeded through each of the Steps set forth in Section 2(B) herein. Notwithstanding the above, in any Step in
Page 31 of 79
the Grievance and Arbitration Procedure, the time limits may be extended upon mutual agreement of both parties. Should there be no response by the City during the prescribed time limits, that Step in the Grievance shall be deemed denied and the employee may move on to the next step in the process.
5.	Employees shall follow all written and verbal directives of supervisors, unless said directives pose a safety hazard, even if such directives are allegedly in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement. Compliance with such directives will not in any way prejudice the employee’s right to file a Grievance within the time limits contained herein, nor shall compliance affect the ultimate resolution of the Grievance. No employee or group of employees may refuse to follow directions pending the outcome of a Grievance.
6.	The Aggrieved may present his Grievance at the Informal and Formal Resolution steps on City time. Except as herein provided, the investigation and preparation of grievances by the employee may not be conducted during working hours without authorization or prior approval from Department Director or designee and cannot interfere with the employee’s work duties and hours.
Section 2:	Informal and Formal Resolution Procedure:
A.	Informal Resolution:
1.	If an employee (or group of employees) perceives that a contractual issue has arisen, the employee(s) shall request a meeting with his supervisor in an attempt to resolve the matter informally. The employee(s) shall also notify the union and the Human Resources Director of the potential contractual issue. The purpose of such notification is to alert those parties who can intervene before the issue rises to the level of a Grievance.
Page 32 of 79
2.	A member or members of the bargaining unit, acting on their own behalf or through counsel, may use the Informal Resolution Procedure without the intervention of The Teamsters Local #173 provided that:
(a)	The resolution of the matter is not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement; and
(b)	The Teamsters Local #173 has been given reasonable opportunity to attend the meeting, present information, and be heard on the matter.
3.	An Aggrieved is required to use the Informal Resolution process before filing a formal Grievance.
B.	Formal Resolution:
Step 1: Submission of Grievance:
If the contractual issue is not resolved informally, the Aggrieved shall submit a completed Grievance and Arbitration Form to the Department Director. This form must be submitted no later than ten (10) Business Days after the problem or situation first occurred, or when the aggrieved should have had knowledge thereof, as determined by the Human Resources Director. Said request shall identify the article and/or section of the contract that has allegedly been breached and how the Aggrieved was adversely affected. The Grievance must be clearly stated and provide the detail specified in Section 1.C of Article 13. If a Grievance is rejected because it is incomplete, the Aggrieved may receive an additional five (5) Business Days to resubmit the Grievance.
Step 2: Department Director Response:
Within ten (10) Business Days of receipt of the Grievance form, the Department Director shall schedule a meeting with the Aggrieved and his union representative and/or counsel. Within ten (10) Business Days after the meeting, the Department Director shall give the Aggrieved a written response. The Department Director’s response shall clearly state his decision or proposed resolution with reasons for the determination. The Department Director shall send copies to the Human Resources Director and to the Teamster Local #173.
Page 33 of 79
Step 3: Appeal to the City Manager/City Auditor and Clerk:
If the Grievant is not satisfied with Department Director’s decision, he may request an appeal of the decision to the City Manager or City Auditor and Clerk for their respective employees. Said request shall be made to the Director of Human Resources no later than ten (10) Business Days after the receipt of the written response from the Department Director or, in the absence of a written response, from the date a response was due. After receiving the request for an appeal, the City Manager or City Auditor and Clerk shall schedule an informal hearing with the Aggrieved and his counsel and/or union representative, which may also include the Department Director and the Director of Human Resources. The parties shall make a good faith effort to schedule the hearing within 30 calendar days of the request. The City Manager or City Auditor and Clerk shall submit a written response within fifteen (15) Business Days of the hearing.
Step 4: Arbitration Procedure:
1.	If the Grievant is not satisfied with the disposition of the Grievance in Step Three, or in the absence of a written response, he may submit the dispute to the American Arbitration Association (AAA) pursuant to the Voluntary Labor Arbitration rules for a binding decision. Any request for binding arbitration must be made by the Grievant within thirty (30) Business Days of the decision in Step Three or from the final date a response was due in the absence of a written response. A copy of the request for Arbitration must be sent to the City Manager or City Auditor and Clerk with a copy to the Director of Human Resources and the City Attorney’s Office.
2.	The arbitrator shall have no power to add to, subtract from, modify or alter the terms of this Agreement, and shall confine his decision solely to the interpretation or application of this Agreement. The arbitrator shall not have the power to arbitrate any matter excluded from arbitration.
3.	Any relief granted requiring the expenditure of City funds which is not in accordance with Florida Statutes shall be void. Any relief granted shall not be deemed to establish past practices, custom, precedent, or usage as to any other circumstances or occurrences without the express approval of the City
Page 34 of 79
Manager. The arbitrator is not empowered to render any reward which imposes fines or penalties upon the City.
4.	In the event that the arbitration of the Grievance under this procedure arises out of the discharge of an employee, the arbitrator is empowered to either sustain the discharge or to reinstate the employee, with or without back pay, in whole or in part, as the circumstances warrant. Any award of back pay shall be reduced by any unemployment compensation the grievant(s) may have received and shall also be reduced by interim earnings of a discharged employee from any other source earned from a replacement job or jobs.
5.	Should either party request a transcript of the arbitration proceedings, then that party will bear the full costs for that transcript.
6.	Each party shall bear the full cost for its representation in the arbitration and the compensation of its participants. Each party shall be responsible for the compensation of its witnesses, including employees. The cost of the arbitrator and the AAA will be divided equally between the parties. Employees within the bargaining unit are not paid by the City for testifying on behalf of a bargaining unit member, or for serving as a witness for the Teamsters Local #173 or the Aggrieved.
Page 35 of 79
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION FORM
This form accompanies Article 13 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Teamsters Local #173 and the City of Sarasota. Please use this form to file a formal Grievance against the City. By completing, signing and submitting this form, you are indicating that you believe that a specific Article and Section of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement has been breached, and that you have been adversely affected as a result.
In order to be considered, this completed and signed form must be submitted to the Aggrieved’s Department Director within 10 Business Days of the occurrence of the problem or situation that is the subject of this Grievance, or within 10 Business Days of when the Aggrieved should have known of the problem or situation as determined by the Human Resources Director.
1.	Your name, title, classification and department in which you work:
2.	Describe in detail the problem or situation that leads you to file this Grievance, including all relevant facts:
3.	If not already answered above, state when and where the problem or situation occurred:
4.	State the Article and Section of the Agreement that you believe has been breached, and how it has adversely affected you:
Page 36 of 79
5.	List other persons who were directly involved or have knowledge of the problem or situation:
6.	How do you think this issue can be resolved or corrected, or what action do you believe should be taken?
Name of Grievant/Employee:
(Print or type)
Signature:_____________________________________________________________
Date Submitted to Department Director:
Page 37 of 79
RESPONSE OF DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR AND/OR CHARTER OFFICIAL
Instructions for Department Director and Charter Official:
The Collective Bargaining Agreement between the City and Teamsters Local #173 requires that the City follow the steps in Article 13, Section 2(B) of that Agreement whenever a formal Grievance has been filed. Please review these Steps.
Your Response to the Grievant must be in writing and must be attached to this Grievance and Arbitration Form in order to provide a complete record of the action taken in Article 13, Section 2(B).
1.	Please state whether you agree or disagree with the Grievant:
2.	Please state your reasons for your determination:
3.	If you agree with the Grievant, please state your proposed resolution of the problem or situation:
4.	Please sign and date as indicated below:
Response of Department Director:
Date Grievance submitted to Department Director:
Date Department Director’s decision provided to Grievant:
This form was executed this day of, 20_____________________by:
Printed name of Department Director:
Signature of Department Director:________________________________
Page 38 of 79
Response of Charter Official:
(City Manager or City Auditor and Clerk for their respective employees)
Date Grievance submitted to Charter Official:
Date Charter Official’s decision provided to Grievant:
This form was executed this day of, 20_______________________________by:
Printed name of Charter Official:__________________________________________
Signature of Charter Official:_____________________________________________
Page 39 of 79
ARTICLE #14
DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
Section 1:	Definitions and Exclusions
A.	Definitions:
1.	“Problem Solving” is a procedure that is available to provide employees and management with an effective procedure whereby job-related problems may be freely discussed between the employee and management in a fair, equitable and timely manner. The Problem-Solving Procedure focuses on improving employee relations between the employee and management.
2.	A “business day” is considered Monday through Friday, excluding Holidays, from 8am to 5pm.
B.	Exclusions:
The following acts are excluded from consideration under the Disciplinary Procedure: sexual harassment (see Rule 2.18 of the City’s Personnel Rules and Regulations); discrimination (see Rule 2.19 of the City’s Personnel Rules and Regulations); the establishment and approval of levels of compensation; and Employee Performance Evaluations (see Rule 13 of the City’s Personnel Rules and Regulations).
Section 2:	Discipline
A.	Notification:
Department management will notify the Human Resources department and union steward when an employee’s work habits and/or quantity/quality of work have been determined to be below standards. The purpose of such notification is to alert those parties who can intervene with the employee before the issue rises to the level of potential disciplinary action.
Page 40 of 79
B.	Minor Discipline:
If previous counseling was offered and fails to correct the deficiency or the employee commits an offense requiring investigation and adjudication, the City will notify the union of such event. Department management may issue disciplinary action such as instruction and cautioning or a written reprimand. In this circumstance, no pre-determination letter will be issued.
C.	Pre-Determination Hearing: (Only for issues involving potential suspension, demotion, or dismissal)
If management is considering a suspension, demotion or dismissal, department management shall issue a pre-determination letter outlining alleged disciplinary violations and indicating when the pre-determination hearing will be held. Copies of the letter shall be sent to the Teamster Local #173 and the Human Resources Department.
The pre-determination hearing shall include the Department Director or designee, a Human Resources representative, the employee, and the employee’s counsel and/or union representative. The employee shall have the opportunity to respond to the alleged violation(s) and present information in support of his position. Questions may be asked by either party.
D.	Determination Decision:
Within ten (10) business days after the pre-determination hearing, a determination will be made and communicated in writing to the employee. The determination letter will state the rule(s) violated if discipline is to be applied and the extent of the discipline. A copy of the determination letter and supporting documentation shall be sent electronically to Teamster Local #173 and sent to Human Resources.
E.	Discipline Applied:
The discipline as outlined in the determination letter will be applied. The determination letter and supporting documentation shall be filed in employee’s personnel file.
Page 41 of 79
Section 3:	Appeal Hearing:
A.	The employee shall have ten (10) business days after the receipt of the determination letter to request an appeal of the action. The employee may only appeal terminations, demotions and suspensions.
B.	A Request for Appeal to the City Manager, or to the City Auditor and Clerk for their respective employees, must be made by the employee in writing to the Director of Human Resources with a copy of the request to the Department Director and to Teamster Local #173.
C.	The Appeal will be heard by the City Manager or designee or City Auditor and Clerk or designee for their respective employees.
D.	After receiving the Request for Appeal, the City Human Resources Dept., in consultation with the parties, will schedule a hearing to take place as soon as is practicable, but in no event later than 60 calendar days from the date the appeal notice was received in HR, unless the parties mutually agree to a date outside that timeframe. The hearing will consist of the employee, the Department Director, the Director of Human Resources and/or the City Attorney representative, the union representative(s), the City Manager or designee or City Auditor and Clerk or designee for their respective employees, and counsel for either party if requested.
E.	The process for the appeal hearing shall be as follows: The employee, union representative or counsel shall state why the employee believes the discipline was wrongly applied. The employee may challenge the facts relied upon by the Department Director in making the decision or may argue that the discipline was disproportionate to the charges. The Department Director shall then present the department’s position, after which the employee may respond. During the hearing the City Manager or designee or City Auditor and Clerk or designee for their respective employees may ask questions of either party.
Page 42 of 79
F.	The employee may issue a written appeal of five (5) typed pages or less instead of or in addition to presenting a case in person. The employee may also, in either event, submit affidavits from persons with first-hand knowledge of the events at issue on the prescribed form (see Exhibit 5). All documents must be submitted to the City Manager’s or City Auditor and Clerk’s office no later than ten (10) business days prior to the Appeal Hearing.
G.	The City Manager or designee or City Auditor and Clerk or designee shall submit a written response within fifteen (15) business days after the appeal hearing to the employee with copies sent to the Teamster Local 173 and the Human Resources Department. The response of the City Manager or City Auditor and Clerk or designee, shall be the City’s final decision in the appeal process except in the case of termination, as set forth in Section 3H below.
H.	If the employee is appealing a termination, the employee may request an appeal of the decision of the City Manager or City Auditor and Clerk or designee to a Special Magistrate selected jointly by the City and Teamsters Local 173, whose response shall become the final decision in the termination appeal. The appeal hearing shall take place within 90 calendar days of the decision of the City Manager or City Auditor and Clerk. An extension of this timeframe may be granted by the Special Magistrate upon a showing of good cause. A request for an extension that is more than 180 days from the date of the charter official’s decision shall not be granted unless the parties mutually agree to a date outside that timeframe.
Page 43 of 79
ARTICLE #15
PTO PROVISIONS & PROCEDURES
Section 1.	PTO (Paid Time Off):
Qualified employees of the City of Sarasota, upon application to and with the approval of the Director or Department Head or his/her designee shall be accorded Leave in compliance with and subject to the following provisions and conditions.
Employees shall request PTO in writing at least seven days prior to the requested time off, and the Director or Department Head or his/her designee shall approve or deny the request. If unexpected needed time off occurs, the employee shall contact their immediate supervisor or designated management as directed by their department, these instructions must be explicit for the employees, at least 30 minutes prior to the start of their scheduled shift.
Employees will be paid in a lump sum for all PTO and/or Bonus time owed upon separation of employment.
Accrual rate:
Years of Service	Accrual Rates of PTO
1 - 5 years	190 hrs.
6 years	200 hrs.
7 years	210 hrs.
8 years	220 hrs.
9 years	230 hrs.
10 years	240 hrs.
11 / 12 years	250 hrs.
13 / 14 years	260 hrs.
15 / 16 years	270 hrs.
17 - 24 years	280 hrs.
25+ years	300 hrs.
Page 44 of 79
A. PTO maximum accrual
Maximum accrual is a total of two years of earned accrual. Once that limit is hit the plan stops accruing until the time is used and then it begins to accrue again.
B.	Accrual rates are the same for all employees regardless of length of assigned shift.
C.	Employees would be allowed to sell up to 80 hours of PTO back to the City annually, to be paid in November/December timeframe.
Section 2.	Run/Walk/Swim/Bike Voluntary Wellness Incentive Program:
A.	Run/Walk/Swim/Bike Program is a wellness program promoted by the City to engage active and healthy behaviors. This event results in individual rating based upon meeting certain aerobic categories based upon age and gender and for running, walking, swimming or biking a set distance. This is a voluntary program that requires a physician’s approval to participate.
B.	The categories for earning an incentive are excellent, good and fair/participatory. The earned incentive for each category are listed below.
Rating Categories:	Possible PTO Hours Earned	Possible Health Incentive Earned
Excellent Category	24 hours	$200
Good Category	16 hours	$100
Fair Category	8 hours	$50
Participatory Category	4 hours	$25
Page 45 of 79
ARTICLE #16
MATERNITY LEAVE AND/BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Maternity Leave and Bereavement Leave shall be administered in accordance with the City of Sarasota Rules and Regulations.
An employee shall, upon request, be granted three (3) days administrative leave with pay on the death of any member of the immediate family, as defined by this Subsection. For a related death and/or funeral outside of the State of Florida, the employee shall be granted an additional two (2) days of administrative leave with pay.
The definition of immediate family members is defined as spouse and the following of the employee or the employee’s spouse: grandparent, parents, stepparents, brothers, sisters, stepbrothers, stepsisters, children, stepchildren and grandchildren.
Page 46 of 79
ARTICLE #17
HOLIDAYS
Section 1.	Authorized:
The official holidays to be observed by the employees of the City of Sarasota shall be:
New Year's Day	January 1st
Birthday-Martin Luther King Jr.	Third Monday in January
Washington's Birthday	Third Monday in February
National Memorial Day	Last Monday in May
Independence Day	July 4th
Labor Day	First Monday in September
Veteran's Day	November 11th
Thanksgiving Day	Fourth Thursday in November
Friday after Thanksgiving Day	Fourth Friday in November
Christmas Eve	December 24th
Christmas Day	December 25th
Page 47 of 79
Section 2.	Holiday Clarifications:
A.	General:
The City Manager may designate any other workday a holiday for qualified employees. Holidays shall be paid as eight hours regardless of the length of the shift worked or assigned. Employees assigned to a 10-hour shift who are unable to adjust the work week to five 8-hour days may use PTO to make up the difference for a regularly scheduled shift, i.e. a 10-hour shift.
The City will make a good faith effort to adjust the Holiday week to a five 8-hour days schedule for those employees assigned to a 10-hour shift. In the unusual circumstance when this is not possible, the department head will present the business need of the division/department as to why this cannot be changed two weeks prior to the Holiday week.
B.	Normal Work Week: (Monday through Friday)
1.	An official holiday that falls on a Sunday shall be observed on the following Monday by permanent employees whose scheduled work week is either Monday through Friday, inclusive, or Monday through Saturday, inclusive.
2.	An official holiday that falls on a Saturday shall be observed on the Friday preceding the holiday by permanent employees whose regular scheduled work week is Monday through Friday, inclusive.
C.	Qualified Employees:
Only regular City employees of the Bargaining Unit may qualify to receive compensation for an official holiday without working on such holiday, and without charge against any accumulated leave.
Section 3.	Compensation:
Hourly paid employees who qualify under the above shall be paid their regular straight-time rate of pay for eight hours for the day on which the holiday fell, or was observed. Holiday hours paid but not worked shall count towards the computation of overtime.
Page 48 of 79
Holidays as designated by this contract shall not be charged to PTO leave with the only exception being shifts longer than 8 hours may utilize additional PTO time to make up the difference in a regularly scheduled shift., i.e. a 10-hour shift. Therefore, employees who are scheduled to work on an authorized holiday and are granted the day off will be charged for the holiday and not vacation time. This will occur even if the employee requested to use PTO on the authorized holiday.
Section 4.	Other Than Normal Work Week:
A.	The following shall include members of the Bargaining Unit who’s regularly scheduled work week includes Saturday or Sunday as a day of work and who is required to work on a holiday falling on Saturday or Sunday, and whose days off are scheduled during the normal work week.
B.	Bargaining Unit members, whose services are required on an official holiday for the conduct of an activity essential to the City of Sarasota and related Departments, may request, subject to approval of the Department Head to: 1. Be accorded 8 hours for the holiday placed in the PTO Bank in accordance with the City's Rules and Regulations; or
2.	Receive pay for the hours worked on the holiday at their regular straighttime rate of pay in addition to their regular straight-time pay for the scheduled workday on which the holiday fell;
Section 5.	Exclusions from Holiday Pay:
The following listed categories of employees specifically do not qualify to receive compensation for an official holiday as listed herein:
A.	Any employee who is absent, without the specific approval of his Department for such absence, on either his scheduled working day immediately preceding or immediately following the day on which a holiday is observed;
Page 49 of 79
B.	Temporary employees;
C.	Part-time employees without regularly scheduled hours or days of work;
D.	Employees on Worker’s Compensation.
Section 6.	Responsibilities of Department Head:
Nothing set forth herein shall be construed as relieving the Heads of the various departments, offices and activities of their responsibilities for the performance of required functions. The Department Head shall determine the employees who may or may not observe holidays.
Page 50 of 79
ARTICLE #18
MILITARY LEAVE
Military leave shall be as provided by Federal and State Law, and City of Sarasota Rules and Regulations.
Page 51 of 79
ARTICLE #19
COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH CARE PROGRAM
Section 1.
A.	Effective upon ratification The City and Teamsters Local #173 agree to two medical and dental plans.
B.	Employer required medical testing will be completed on City paid time.
C.	Biweekly incentive premiums will be available to the primary member upon completion of all elements of the annual biometric testing, regardless of the biometric results.
2020 Rates
Plan 1	Biweekly	Biweekly incentive Premium
Single	$27.71	$20.02
Plus One	$206.85	$195.31
Family	$247.95	$228.72
2020 Rates
Plan 2-High Deductible Health Plan	Biweekly	Biweekly incentive Premium
Single	$0.00	$0
Plus One	$101.50	$89.96
Family	$185.00	$165.77
2020 Dental Rates
DENTAL PLAN I	Biweekly
Single	$2.35
Plus One	$4.71
Family	$7.06
DENTAL PLAN II	Biweekly
Single	$4.95
Plus One	$9.22
Family	$13.46
Page 52 of 79
Future medical and dental rates after the benefit year of 2020.
No more than a 10% increase over current employee rates for either medical or dental.
Section 2.
A.	City provided basic Life insurance will increase to $25,000 for all eligible regular full-time Teamster employees as of benefit year starting 1/1/2020. This will be considered the basic life insurance policy that is offered and paid for by the City of Sarasota.
B.	The City will provide Long Term Disability (LTD) coverage for eligible regular full-time Teamster employees as of benefit year starting 1/1/2020. The City will incur the cost of this benefit.
C.	A Health incentive account will be available for employees enrolled into one of the medical plans offered by the City. A Health Savings Account (HSA) will be available to qualified employees enrolled into the High Deductible Health Plan. An HRA will be available to employees not enrolled in a qualifying High Deductible Health Plan.
Page 53 of 79
ARTICLE #20
SENIORITY
Section 1.	Seniority is defined as a regular employee's length of service which entitles him to certain considerations and preferences in accordance with the City's Rules and Regulations.
Section 2.	Each regular employee will have seniority standing in the City equal to the employee's full-time service with the City, in accordance with the City's Rules and Regulations. (Excluding temporary employment)
Section 3.	Termination of Seniority:
An employee's seniority and employment shall terminate in accordance with the City Rules and Regulations and when an employee:
•	Voluntarily resigns
•	Retires
•	Is dismissed or laid-off
•	Is absent for three (3) consecutive working days without authorized
leave
•	Has not worked for the City 12 months after layoff
•	Fails to respond within seven (7) calendar days after the date of service of a certified letter recalling the employee to work
Section 4.	A seniority list shall be prepared for each department. Any alleged discrepancy of an employee’s seniority date must be presented in writing. Seniority shall apply only to permanent employees and shall be determined by the total length of service with the City of Sarasota. Any dispute with reference to seniority which cannot be resolved informally, may be presented to the Employee Management Committee.
Page 54 of 79
ARTICLE #21
LAYOFF/RECALL
Section 1.	Layoff shall be allowed as provided by the City of Sarasota Rules and Regulations. In the event that the City is in a position to lay off employees, the process for bargaining unit employees shall be in the following order:
A.	No permanent employee shall be laid off while another person in a position is employed on a probationary or temporary basis in the same class in that department. Temporary employees shall be laid off before probationary employees.
B.	The layoff of permanent employees shall be made on the basis of Employees’ Performance (i.e. Satisfactory, Above Average, etc. or the descriptive language used in the future if the performance management system is modified that connotates performance level), and the need for the service rendered, and in inverse order of length of service, in the class and in the department.
Section 2.	In the event of a layoff, eligible employees will have 12 months recall rights to their former position.
Section 3.	Up to four Union Stewards will be granted “super-seniority” for the purposes of obtaining employment in the event of a layoff. Designation of those eligible for “super-seniority” will occur annually on October 1 of each subsequent contract year. Should a currently designated Steward with “super-seniority” leave in mid-year, the President of the union shall then notify the City of the name of the new Steward who shall be classified as having “super-seniority”.
Page 55 of 79
ARTICLE #22
PRIVATIZATION
Impact on Subcontracting, Sale, Franchising, or Other Disposal
Section 1.	Should the City contemplate the subcontracting out, selling, franchising or otherwise disposing of all or any part of its operations, a meeting with union representatives will be held in order to bargain the impact on represented employees.
Section 2.	If the outcome of the discussions is that the subcontracting out, selling, franchising or otherwise disposing is the best solution in the judgment of the City, the City will attempt to announce its decision to the union and the employees to be displaced by such action as early as possible, with a goal of sixty (60) days prior to any required layoff. Employees so notified who wish to be placed in the equivalent or lesser jobs within the City shall notify Human Resources of their desire within ten (10) days of receipt of such notice.
Section 3.	For employees who meet the notice requirements, the City shall attempt to place such employees prior to the final date of layoff into vacant positions for which they meet minimum qualifications.
Page 56 of 79
ARTICLE #23
SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY
The City of Sarasota's Substance Abuse Policy, as applicable to members of the Bargaining Unit employees, implements the Drug Free Workplace Act of 1988 and sets forth the City's position on substance abuse. Both parties agree that this plan, as it applies to bargaining unit employees, is a part and parcel of this contract. Copies of the plan have been provided to The Teamsters Local #173.
Page 57 of 79
ARTICLE #24
SEVERABILITY
Section 1.	If any Article or Section of this Agreement should be found to be invalid, unlawful, or not enforceable by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted State legislation or by judicial authority, all other Articles and Sections of this Agreement that are not affected shall remain in full force and effect for the duration of this Agreement.
Section 2.	After written notification to either party that there has been such invalidation, the parties will arrange to meet within thirty (30) calendar days to begin negotiations on a replacement(s) if deemed by either party to be required. Such negotiations shall not in any way extend beyond the specific frame of reference/issue of the invalidated Article or Section.
Page 58 of 79
ARTICLE #25
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
Section 1.	The City and the Teamsters Local #173 acknowledge that, during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, each party had the right and opportunity to make proposals with respect to all subjects/matters not removed by law from the scope of collective bargaining. The subsequent understandings and agreements arrived at by the City and the Teamsters Local #173, after the exercise of such right and opportunity, are set forth in this Agreement.
Section 2.	The City and the Teamsters Local #173, for the duration of this Agreement, each voluntarily and unqualifiedly waives the right, and agrees that the other shall not be obligated, to bargain collectively with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or covered in this Agreement, unless otherwise provided for herein.
Section 3.	The City and Teamsters Local #173 agree to impact bargain any changes to the City’s Rules and Regulations in accordance with Article #3, Section 16.
Page 59 of 79
ARTICLE #26
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Section 1.	Effective dates - Except as otherwise provided herein, this agreement shall become effective after Union ratification and subsequent approval by the City Commission and shall continue in effect from October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2022.
Section 2.	Assignment of Agreement. This Agreement may not be assigned by either party.
Section 3.	Union Affiliation Restriction. In the event that the Teamsters Local #173 becomes a subordinate of or affiliates with any state, national or international union or labor organization which does not forswear, prohibit or enforce the prohibition of strikes against public employers, the City shall have the sole option to terminate this Agreement at any time during the duration thereof.
Section 4	Violation of No-Strike Provision. In the event that the Teamsters Local #173 or any of its members violates any provision of The No Strike Provisions as outlined herein in this Agreement, the City of Sarasota reserves the sole and exclusive option to terminate the entire Agreement.
Section 5.	Exception to Retroactivity. Any provisions for retroactive compensation shall not apply to any employee of the bargaining unit not employed by the City of Sarasota or related Departments as an eligible member of the Teamsters Local #173 at the time of final ratification of this Agreement or future related associated Agreements.
Page 60 of 79
IN WITNESS HEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be signed on this day of 22 October 2019
FOR THE CITY OF SARASOTA
In Accordance with Section 447.309(1)
Florida Statutes
THE CITRUS, CANNERY, FOOD PROCESSING AND ALLIED WORKERS, DRIVERS, WAREHOUSEMAN & HELPERS TEAMSTERS, LOCAL UNION #173
x ■■■■DocuSigned by:
By: ____$ ______ ----------026A2ED59AA64E0...
Thomas Barwin City Manager
By:
x '' DocuSigned by:
 
---FFAD882FAEC84DA...
Richard Zebracki
President, Local #173
X DocuSigned by:
---CF3E7C92A883488...
Liz Alpert Mayor
z- DocuSigned by:
^oA»v
---8DFF2F5317F34D2...
John Hayes
Chief Steward, Local #173
(In Accordance with the Provisions of the Charter of the City of Sarasota, Florida)
x ""DocuSigned by:
SiaS/U/l, _________________
SusanBlake
Chief Steward, Local #173
v----08B8E1E5F35146A...
ATTEST:
John Sours
x ""DocuSigned by:
--------L_ '	'	-----------------------
---CDE4CA15935542F...
Shayla Griggs
Interim City Auditor and Clerk
Secretary/Treasurer, Local #173
FOR FORM AND LEGAL CORRECTNESS:
X DocuSigned by:
034BE83CD0D6440...
Robert Fournier
City Attorney
(In Accordance with the Provisions of the Charter of the City of Sarasota, Florida.)
Page 61 of 79
Exhibit 1 A
Step Schedule FY 2019-2020
Grade	100 Annual	Hrly	101 Annual	Hrly	102 Annual	Hrly	103 Annual	Hrly	104 Annual	Hrly	10! Annual	Hrly
1	$ 29,230.45	14.0531	$ 30,107.36	14.4747	$ 31,612.73	15.1984	$ 32,561.12	15.6544	$ 33,537.95	16.1240	$ 34,544.08	16.6077
2	$ 30,752.51	14.7849	$ 31,182.63	14.9916	$ 32,741.76	15.7412	$ 33,724.00	16.2135	$ 34,735.72	16.6999	$ 35,777.80	17.2009
3	$ 31,397.68	15.0950	$ 32,257.88	15.5086	$ 33,870.78	16.2840	$ 34,886.90	16.7725	$ 35,933.51	17.2757	$ 37,011.51	17.7940
4	$ 32,042.83	15.4052	$ 33,333.15	16.0256	$ 34,999.81	16.8268	$ 36,049.80	17.3316	$ 37,131.29	17.8516	$ 38,245.23	18.3871
5	$ 32,687.99	15.7154	$ 34,408.41	16.5425	$ 36,128.83	17.3696	$ 37,212.70	17.8907	$ 38,329.08	18.4274	$ 39,478.95	18.9803
6	$ 33,333.15	16.0256	$ 35,483.68	17.0595	$ 37,257.86	17.9124	$ 38,375.60	18.4498	$ 39,526.87	19.0033	$ 40,712.67	19.5734
7	$ 33,978.31	16.3357	$ 36,558.93	17.5764	$ 38,386.88	18.4552	$ 39,538.49	19.0089	$ 40,724.65	19.5792	$ 41,946.39	20.1665
8	$ 34,623.46	16.6459	$ 37,634.20	18.0934	$ 39,515.92	18.9980	$ 40,701.39	19.5680	$ 41,922.43	20.1550	$ 43,180.10	20.7597
Grade	106 Annual	Hrly	107		108 Annual	Hrly	109		110 Annual	Hrly		
1	$ 35,580.41	17.1060	$ 36,647.82	17.6191	$ 37,747.25	18.1477	$ 38,879.67	18.6921	$ 40,046.05	19.2529	$ 41,247.44	19.8305
2	$ 36,851.13	17.7169	$ 37,956.67	18.2484	$ 39,095.37	18.7959	$ 40,268.23	19.3597	$ 41,476.27	19.9405	$ 42,720.57	20.5387
3	$ 38,121.86	18.3278	$ 39,265.51	18.8777	$ 40,443.48	19.4440	$ 41,656.79	20.0273	$ 42,906.49	20.6281	$ 44,193.69	21.2470
4	$ 39,392.59	18.9387	$40,574.37	19.5069	$ 41,791.61	20.0921	$ 43,045.34	20.6949	$ 44,336.71	21.3157	$ 45,666.81	21.9552
5	$40,663.32	19.5497	$41,883.22	20.1362	$ 43,139.72	20.7402	$ 44,433.79	21.3624	$ 45,766.92	22.0033	$ 47,139.93	22.6634
6	$41,934.05	20.1606	$43,192.06	20.7654	$ 44,487.83	21.3884	$ 45,822.47	22.0300	$ 47,197.14	22.6909	$ 48,613.06	23.3717
7	$43,204.77	20.7715	$44,500.92	21.3947	$ 45,835.95	22.0365	$ 47,211.03	22.6976	$ 48,627.36	23.3785	$ 50,086.18	24.0799
8	$44,475.50	21.3825	$45,809.77	22.0239	$ 47,184.06	22.6846	$ 48,599.58	23.3652	$ 50,057.58	24.0661	$ 51,559.30	24.7881
Page 62 of 79
Exhibit 1 A
Step Schedule FY 2019-2020
Grade	112 Annual	Hrly	113 Annual	Hrly	114 Annual	Hrly	115 Annual	Hrly	116 Annual	Hrly	11 Annual	7 Hrly
1	$42,056.21	20.2193	$43,738.47	21.0281	$ 45,488.00	21.8692	$ 47,307.52	22.7440	$ 49,436.37	23.7675	$ 51,661.00	24.8370
2	$43,708.43	21.0137	$45,456.76	21.8542	$ 47,275.03	22.7284	$ 49,166.03	23.6375	$ 51,378.50	24.7012	$ 53,690.53	25.8128
3	$45,360.63	21.8080	$47,175.06	22.6803	$ 49,062.05	23.5875	$ 51,024.54	24.5310	$ 53,320.64	25.6349	$ 55,720.07	26.7885
4	$47,012.84	22.6023	$48,893.35	23.5064	$ 50,849.09	24.4467	$ 52,883.06	25.4245	$ 55,262.79	26.5686	$ 57,749.61	27.7642
5	$48,665.04	23.3967	$ 50,611.66	24.3325	$ 52,636.12	25.3058	$ 54,741.56	26.3181	$ 57,204.93	27.5024	$ 59,779.15	28.7400
6	$ 50,317.26	24.1910	$ 52,329.95	25.1586	$ 54,423.15	26.1650	$ 56,600.07	27.2116	$ 59,147.07	28.4361	$ 61,808.69	29.7157
7	$ 51,969.47	24.9853	$ 54,048.24	25.9847	$ 56,210.17	27.0241	$ 58,458.58	28.1051	$ 61,089.22	29.3698	$ 63,838.23	30.6915
8	$ 53,621.67	25.7796	$ 55,766.54	26.8108	$ 57,997.20	27.8833	$ 60,317.09	28.9986	$ 63,031.36	30.3035	$ 65,867.77	31.6672
Grade	118 Annual	Hrly	119	
1	$ 53,985.74	25.9547	$ 55,594.94	26.7283
2	$ 56,106.61	26.9743	$ 57,977.57	27.8738
3	$ 58,227.48	27.9940	$ 60,360.22	29.0193
4	$ 60,348.34	29.0136	$ 62,742.85	30.1648
5	$ 62,469.22	30.0333	$ 65,125.49	31.3103
6	$ 64,590.08	31.0529	$ 67,508.13	32.4558
7	$ 66,710.96	32.0726	$ 69,890.77	33.6013
8	$ 68,831.82	33.0922	$ 72,273.41	34.7468
Page 63 of 79
Exhibit 1 B
Step Schedule FY 2020-2021
Grade	100 Annual	Hrly	101 Annual	Hrly	102 Annual	Hrly	103 Annual	Hrly	104 Annual	Hrly	105 Annual	Hrly
1	$ 29,961.21	14.4044	$ 30,860.04	14.8366	$ 32,403.05	15.5784	$ 33,375.14	16.0457	$ 34,376.39	16.5271	$ 35,407.68	17.0229
2	$ 31,521.33	15.1545	$ 31,962.19	15.3664	$ 33,560.30	16.1348	$ 34,567.10	16.6188	$ 35,604.12	17.1174	$ 36,672.24	17.6309
3	$ 32,182.62	15.4724	$ 33,064.33	15.8963	$ 34,717.55	16.6911	$ 35,759.07	17.1919	$ 36,831.85	17.7076	$ 37,936.80	18.2388
4	$ 32,843.90	15.7903	$ 34,166.48	16.4262	$ 35,874.81	17.2475	$ 36,951.04	17.7649	$ 38,059.57	18.2979	$ 39,201.36	18.8468
5	$ 33,505.19	16.1083	$ 35,268.62	16.9561	$ 37,032.05	17.8039	$ 38,143.02	18.3380	$ 39,287.31	18.8881	$ 40,465.93	19.4548
6	$ 34,166.48	16.4262	$ 36,370.77	17.4859	$ 38,189.31	18.3602	$ 39,334.99	18.9111	$ 40,515.04	19.4784	$ 41,730.49	20.0627
7	$ 34,827.77	16.7441	$ 37,472.91	18.0158	$ 39,346.56	18.9166	$ 40,526.96	19.4841	$ 41,742.76	20.0686	$ 42,995.04	20.6707
8	$ 35,489.05	17.0620	$ 38,575.06	18.5457	$ 40,503.81	19.4730	$ 41,718.93	20.0572	$ 42,970.50	20.6589	$ 44,259.60	21.2787
Grade	106 Annual	Hrly	107		108 Annual	Hrly	109		110 Annual	Hrly		
1	$ 36,469.92	17.5336	$ 37,564.01	18.0596	$ 38,690.93	18.6014	$ 39,851.66	19.1595	$ 41,047.21	19.7342	$ 42,278.63	20.3263
2	$ 37,772.41	18.1598	$ 38,905.59	18.7046	$ 40,072.75	19.2657	$ 41,274.93	19.8437	$ 42,513.18	20.4390	$ 43,788.58	21.0522
3	$ 39,074.91	18.7860	$ 40,247.15	19.3496	$ 41,454.57	19.9301	$ 42,698.21	20.5280	$ 43,979.15	21.1438	$ 45,298.53	21.7781
4	$ 40,377.41	19.4122	$ 41,588.73	19.9946	$ 42,836.40	20.5944	$ 44,121.48	21.2122	$ 45,445.12	21.8486	$ 46,808.48	22.5041
5	$ 41,679.90	20.0384	$ 42,930.30	20.6396	$ 44,218.21	21.2588	$ 45,544.64	21.8965	$ 46,911.10	22.5534	$ 48,318.43	23.2300
6	$ 42,982.40	20.6646	$ 44,271.87	21.2846	$ 45,600.02	21.9231	$ 46,968.03	22.5808	$ 48,377.07	23.2582	$ 49,828.38	23.9560
7	$ 44,284.89	21.2908	$ 45,613.44	21.9295	$ 46,981.85	22.5874	$ 48,391.31	23.2651	$ 49,843.04	23.9630	$ 51,338.33	24.6819
8	$ 45,587.39	21.9170	$ 46,955.02	22.5745	$ 48,363.67	23.2518	$ 49,814.57	23.9493	$ 51,309.02	24.6678	$ 52,848.28	25.4078
Page 64 of 79
Exhibit 1 B
Step Schedule FY 2020-2021
Grade	112 Annual	Hrly	113 Annual	Hrly	114 Annual	Hrly	115 Annual	Hrly	116 Annual	Hrly	117 Annual	Hrly
1	$ 43,107.62	20.7248	$ 44,831.93	21.5538	$ 46,625.20	22.4160	$ 48,490.21	23.3126	$ 50,672.27	24.3617	$ 52,952.53	25.4579
2	$ 44,801.14	21.5390	$ 46,593.18	22.4006	$ 48,456.90	23.2966	$ 50,395.18	24.2285	$ 52,662.96	25.3187	$ 55,032.79	26.4581
3	$ 46,494.64	22.3532	$ 48,354.44	23.2473	$ 50,288.61	24.1772	$ 52,300.15	25.1443	$ 54,653.66	26.2758	$ 57,113.07	27.4582
4	$ 48,188.16	23.1674	$ 50,115.69	24.0941	$ 52,120.32	25.0578	$ 54,205.13	26.0602	$ 56,644.36	27.2329	$ 59,193.35	28.4583
5	$ 49,881.67	23.9816	$ 51,876.95	24.9408	$ 53,952.02	25.9385	$ 56,110.10	26.9760	$ 58,635.05	28.1899	$ 61,273.63	29.4585
6	$ 51,575.19	24.7958	$ 53,638.20	25.7876	$ 55,783.72	26.8191	$ 58,015.07	27.8919	$ 60,625.75	29.1470	$ 63,353.91	30.4586
7	$ 53,268.71	25.6100	$ 55,399.44	26.6343	$ 57,615.43	27.6997	$ 59,920.04	28.8077	$ 62,616.45	30.1041	$ 65,434.19	31.4587
8	$ 54,962.21	26.4241	$ 57,160.71	27.4811	$ 59,447.13	28.5804	$ 61,825.01	29.7236	$ 64,607.15	31.0611	$ 67,514.46	32.4589
Grade	118 Annual	Hrly	119	
1	$ 55,335.38	26.6035	$ 56,984.81	27.3965
2	$ 57,509.28	27.6487	$ 59,427.01	28.5707
3	$ 59,683.16	28.6938	$ 61,869.22	29.7448
4	$ 61,857.05	29.7390	$ 64,311.42	30.9190
5	$ 64,030.95	30.7841	$ 66,753.62	32.0931
6	$ 66,204.83	31.8292	$ 69,195.83	33.2672
7	$ 68,378.73	32.8744	$ 71,638.03	34.4414
8	$ 70,552.61	33.9195	$ 74,080.25	35.6155
Page 65 of 79
Exhibit 1 C
Step Schedule FY 2021-2022
Grade	100 Annual	Hrly	101 Annual	Hrly	102 Annual	Hrly	103 Annual	Hrly	104 Annual	Hrly	105 Annual	Hrly
1	$ 29,961.21	14.4044	$ 30,860.04	14.8366	$ 32,403.05	15.5784	$ 33,375.14	16.0457	$ 34,376.39	16.5271	$ 35,407.68	17.0229
2	$ 31,521.33	15.1545	$ 31,962.19	15.3664	$ 33,560.30	16.1348	$ 34,567.10	16.6188	$ 35,604.12	17.1174	$ 36,672.24	17.6309
3	$ 32,182.62	15.4724	$ 33,064.33	15.8963	$ 34,717.55	16.6911	$ 35,759.07	17.1919	$ 36,831.85	17.7076	$ 37,936.80	18.2388
4	$ 32,843.90	15.7903	$ 34,166.48	16.4262	$ 35,874.81	17.2475	$ 36,951.04	17.7649	$ 38,059.57	18.2979	$ 39,201.36	18.8468
5	$ 33,505.19	16.1083	$ 35,268.62	16.9561	$ 37,032.05	17.8039	$ 38,143.02	18.3380	$ 39,287.31	18.8881	$ 40,465.93	19.4548
6	$ 34,166.48	16.4262	$ 36,370.77	17.4859	$ 38,189.31	18.3602	$ 39,334.99	18.9111	$ 40,515.04	19.4784	$ 41,730.49	20.0627
7	$ 34,827.77	16.7441	$ 37,472.91	18.0158	$ 39,346.56	18.9166	$ 40,526.96	19.4841	$ 41,742.76	20.0686	$ 42,995.04	20.6707
8	$ 35,489.05	17.0620	$ 38,575.06	18.5457	$ 40,503.81	19.4730	$ 41,718.93	20.0572	$ 42,970.50	20.6589	$ 44,259.60	21.2787
Grade	106 Annual	Hrly	107		108 Annual	Hrly	109		110 Annual	Hrly		
1	$ 36,469.92	17.5336	$ 37,564.01	18.0596	$ 38,690.93	18.6014	$ 39,851.66	19.1595	$ 41,047.21	19.7342	$ 42,278.63	20.3263
2	$ 37,772.41	18.1598	$ 38,905.59	18.7046	$ 40,072.75	19.2657	$ 41,274.93	19.8437	$ 42,513.18	20.4390	$ 43,788.58	21.0522
3	$ 39,074.91	18.7860	$ 40,247.15	19.3496	$ 41,454.57	19.9301	$ 42,698.21	20.5280	$ 43,979.15	21.1438	$ 45,298.53	21.7781
4	$ 40,377.41	19.4122	$ 41,588.73	19.9946	$ 42,836.40	20.5944	$ 44,121.48	21.2122	$ 45,445.12	21.8486	$ 46,808.48	22.5041
5	$ 41,679.90	20.0384	$ 42,930.30	20.6396	$ 44,218.21	21.2588	$ 45,544.64	21.8965	$ 46,911.10	22.5534	$ 48,318.43	23.2300
6	$ 42,982.40	20.6646	$ 44,271.87	21.2846	$ 45,600.02	21.9231	$ 46,968.03	22.5808	$ 48,377.07	23.2582	$ 49,828.38	23.9560
7	$ 44,284.89	21.2908	$ 45,613.44	21.9295	$ 46,981.85	22.5874	$ 48,391.31	23.2651	$ 49,843.04	23.9630	$ 51,338.33	24.6819
8	$ 45,587.39	21.9170	$ 46,955.02	22.5745	$ 48,363.67	23.2518	$ 49,814.57	23.9493	$ 51,309.02	24.6678	$ 52,848.28	25.4078
Page 66 of 79
Exhibit 1 C
Step Schedule FY 2021-2022
Grade	112 Annual	Hrly			114 Annual	Hrly			116 Annual	Hrly		
1	$ 43,107.62	20.7248	$ 44,831.93	21.5538	$ 46,625.20	22.4160	$ 48,490.21	23.3126	$ 50,672.27	24.3617	$ 52,952.53	25.4579
2	$ 44,801.14	21.5390	$ 46,593.18	22.4006	$ 48,456.90	23.2966	$ 50,395.18	24.2285	$ 52,662.96	25.3187	$ 55,032.79	26.4581
3	$ 46,494.64	22.3532	$ 48,354.44	23.2473	$ 50,288.61	24.1772	$ 52,300.15	25.1443	$ 54,653.66	26.2758	$ 57,113.07	27.4582
4	$ 48,188.16	23.1674	$ 50,115.69	24.0941	$ 52,120.32	25.0578	$ 54,205.13	26.0602	$ 56,644.36	27.2329	$ 59,193.35	28.4583
5	$ 49,881.67	23.9816	$ 51,876.95	24.9408	$ 53,952.02	25.9385	$ 56,110.10	26.9760	$ 58,635.05	28.1899	$ 61,273.63	29.4585
6	$ 51,575.19	24.7958	$ 53,638.20	25.7876	$ 55,783.72	26.8191	$ 58,015.07	27.8919	$ 60,625.75	29.1470	$ 63,353.91	30.4586
7	$ 53,268.71	25.6100	$ 55,399.44	26.6343	$ 57,615.43	27.6997	$ 59,920.04	28.8077	$ 62,616.45	30.1041	$ 65,434.19	31.4587
8	$ 54,962.21	26.4241	$ 57,160.71	27.4811	$ 59,447.13	28.5804	$ 61,825.01	29.7236	$ 64,607.15	31.0611	$ 67,514.46	32.4589
Grade	118 Annual	Hrly	119	
1	$ 55,335.38	26.6035	$ 56,984.81	27.3965
2	$ 57,509.28	27.6487	$ 59,427.01	28.5707
3	$ 59,683.16	28.6938	$ 61,869.22	29.7448
4	$ 61,857.05	29.7390	$ 64,311.42	30.9190
5	$ 64,030.95	30.7841	$ 66,753.62	32.0931
6	$ 66,204.83	31.8292	$ 69,195.83	33.2672
7	$ 68,378.73	32.8744	$ 71,638.03	34.4414
8	$ 70,552.61	33.9195	$ 74,080.25	35.6155
Page 67 of 79
EXHIBIT 2
Step Plan Methodology Guidelines
1.	Slotting into the step plan will be based on the employees’ in-classification service date as of 10/01/2016:
• For career ladder promotions, the City will slot individuals into the wage schedule using the same methodology as the promotion guidelines outlined in item 3 below.
2.	Future step increases will occur at the beginning of the pay period in which the employee’s anniversary falls.
3.	Promotional increases will follow this formula for employees who are not at their market rate - Number of grades promoted minus one = the number of step interval(s) lower on the new wage schedule - For example:
•	One Grade Promotion:
In Step Schedule: A move one grade level higher, but the employee remains in the same Step number that they are currently in. Example: Employee is promoted from a Grade 108 to a Grade 109. The employee is at Step 3 of Grade 105; this employee will now be at Step 3 of Grade 109.
Above Midpoint: Employees above Midpoint of their grade will receive the percentage between the two grades increase for a 1 grade promotion. If this percentage increase brings the employee back into the Step schedule of their new grade, they will then be placed into the closest Step for their new grade.
•	Two Grade Promotion:
Page 68 of 79
In Step Schedule: A move two grades higher and one Step lower than current Step. Example: Employee is promoted from Grade 108, Step 5 to Grade 100. Employee will move two grades and will move one Step back in new grade. Employee will then be at Step 4 of Grade 110.
Above Midpoint: A 7% increase for employees above Midpoint of their grade. If this percentage increase brings the employee back into the Step schedule of their new grade, they will then be placed into the closest Step for their new grade.
•	Three Grade Promotion:
In Step Schedule: A move three grades higher and two Steps lower than current Step. Example: Employee is promoted from Grade 108, Step 5 to Grade 111. Employee will move three grades and will move two Steps back in new grade. Employee will then be at Step 3 of Grade 111.
Above Midpoint: An 8.5% increase for employees above Midpoint of their grade. If this percentage increase brings the employee back into the Step schedule of their new grade, they will then be placed into the closest Step for their new grade.
•	Four Grade Promotion:
In Step Schedule: A move four grades higher and three Steps lower than current Step. Example: Employee is promoted from Grade 108, Step 5 to Grade 112. Employee will move four grades and will move three Steps back in new grade. Employee will then be at Step 2 of Grade 112.
Above Midpoint: A 10% increase for employees above Midpoint of their grade. If this percentage increase brings the employee back into the Step schedule of their new grade, they will then be placed not the closest Step for their new grade.
•	In no case will the employee be paid less than the minimum in the new grade.
•	Promotional increases will be no less than 3% when the employee is not currently at their market rate.
Page 69 of 79
4.	Eligibility for the step increases will follow the same methodology in existence for receiving the current general wage increases - Employees must meet no less than the minimal performance standards (3.0) in their most recent performance evaluation. Failure to do so will result in the increase being delayed until the standards are met. No retroactivity will be provided should this occur.
Page 70 of 79
EXHIBIT 3
On-Call Pay for Non-Exempt Employees:
To provide coverage for services during off-duty hours, it may be necessary to assign and schedule employees to be on-call. On-call requires an employee to be available for work due to an urgent situation occurring on his off-duty time. Employees shall be required to be on-call when assigned.
1.	On-call employees must always be reachable by a pre-determined means of communication, and able to arrive at the work location within the time established by the department director or designee. As employees are compensated for being on-call, they must refrain from drinking, taking medications or engaging in any other activity which would prevent being ready for duty.
2.	On-call assignments shall be distributed equitably on a rotational basis to the extent practicable among qualified employees, consistent with operational needs. Employees will be required to accept on-call status in order to maintain effective service to the City.
3.	Employees assigned to be on-call shall be paid $150 for each calendar week in the first year of the contract and $160 for each week for the second and third years of the contract. On-call pay shall accrue to the pay period in which the calendar week ends.
4.	Employees on PTO or another type of authorized absence from duty shall be ineligible to be on-call unless otherwise approved by management.
5.	On-call time shall not count as hours worked for the purpose of computing overtime.
Page 71 of 79
6.	On-call pay shall be included in the calculation of the base rate for overtime compensation.
7.	An employee who is called to work when on-call will be paid for the actual time worked with a minimum guarantee of two (2) hours pay for each call-in. Subsequent calls while on the first two (2) hour minimum shall not be eligible for an additional two (2) hour minimum, and the employee shall be paid for the actual time worked beyond the first minimum. Pay for call-in will be considered ordered extra duty according to personnel rule 8.11.
8.	In the event an employee who is on-call fails to respond to a call to work, he shall forfeit on-call pay and may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
9.	An employee who is off-duty and not on-call and called back to work shall be compensated according to personnel rule 8.11 for ordered extra duty.
10.	Call outs will not be eligible for shift differential.
11.	Exempt employees are not eligible for on-call pay.
12.	Under emergency conditions, the number of persons called in and the specific individuals called shall be at the discretion of the supervisor.
13.	This written policy and procedure does not change in any way the City’s right to assign on-call status to management/ supervisory personnel whenever it deems necessary.
14.	Employees assigned on-call status are not eligible for call back pay.
Page 72 of 79
15.	Employees designated for on-call status may be authorized to take home a City vehicle and necessary service equipment in accordance with Department policies and procedures. The Department Director or designee shall have the authority to implement additional requirements governing these procedures for on-call status, as deemed appropriate.
16.	On-call status will not count toward the accrual of PTO.
17.	On-call status on a holiday will not entitle the employee to additional pay in excess of their regular pay and on-call pay.
Page 73 of 79
Exhibit 4
Represented Positions		
Grade 100	Grade 101	Grade 103
Inventory Technician Office Asst	Facility Maintenance Tech Golf Course Opers Attend Jr Lifeguard Maintenance Tech I Recreation Attendant Maintenance Tech I Service Dispatcher	Accounting Tech I Administrative Spec I Customer Service Rep Field Svc Rep Golf Course Shop Attend Landscape Maint Tech I Lifeguard I Maintenance Tech II Parking Attendant Parking Enforc Spec Parking Garage Attendant Recreation Specialist Service Dispatcher II Solid Waste Helper
Grade 104	Grade 105	|Grade 106
Inventory Tech II Sr. Transcriber	Accounting Tech II Administrative Spec II Irrigation Technician Maintenance Tech III Parking Collections Spec Parking Meter Maint Tech Permitting Technician I Records Specialist I	Equipment Mechanic I Maintenance Mechanic I Utility Mechanic I
Grade 107	Grade 108	(Grade 109
Equipment Operator I Laboratory Tech I Refuse Equip Oper Res Sr Customer Service Rep Treatment Plant Oper Appr	Accounting Spec Administrative Spec III Arborist I Building Inspector Sect 8 Business Tax Tech Landscape Maint Tech II Permitting Tech II Procurement Spec I Records Specialist II Refuse Equip Oper Com Spray Technician	Engineering Tech I Lifeguard II Maintenance Mechanic II Payroll Spec I Property Evidence Spec
Grade 110	Grade 111	Grade 112
Control Systems Tech I Equipment Mechanic II Equipment Operator II Housing Asst Program Spec Laboratory Tech II Planning Tech Traffic Signal Tech I	Engineering Tech II Head Lifeguard Inspection Specialist LBTR Specialist Procurement Spec II Senior Records Specialist	Code Compliance Insp Code Compliance Spec Coord Utility Billing Office Coord Victim Advocate Maintenance Mechanic III Payroll Specialist II Treatment Plant Oper B
Page 74 of 79
Treatment Plant Oper C
Utility Mechanic II
Victim Advocate
Housing Asst Program Spec
Zoning Analyst
Grade 113	Grade 114	Grade 115
Accts Rec Payable Spec Arborist II Bldg Inspec Single License Coord Meter Services Coord Permitting Equipment Mechanic III Recreation Leader Traffic Signal Tech II Utility Mechanic III	Control Systems Tech II Crew Leader I Electrician Engineering Tech III Procurement Spec III Professional Buyer Reliability Maint Planner I Shift Supv TP Opns B Treatment Plant Oper A	Engineering Inspector Reliability Maint Planner II
Grade 116	Grade 117	Grade 118
Arborist Ordinance Comp Computer Support Spec Crew Leader II Journeyman Electrician Rehab Construction Inspec Supv Parking Garage Supv Parking Services	Bldg Inspec Multi Lic Coord Infrastructure Info Shift Supv TP Opns A Sr Procurement Specialist Sr Professional Buyer	Computer Support Spec II Network Analyst Net Sys & Comm Analyst Technical Support Tech II Windows Sys Administrator Sr Arborist Ordinance Comp Net Sys & Comm Analyst
Technical Support Tech I
Grade 119
Supv Material Stores
Page 75 of 79
EXHIBIT 5
AFFIDAVIT
STATE OF FLORIDA )
COUNTYOF SARASOTA )
BEFORE ME personally appeared(Affiant), who after first being duly sworn, deposes and says:
1.	My name is, and I am over the age of eighteen years.
2.	I have personal knowledge of the facts set forth in this Affidavit.
3.
4.
5.
FURTHER AFFIANT SAYETH NOT.
Signature of Affiant
SWORN TO AND SUBSCRIBED before me this day of,
2013,by, who is personally known to me or who has produced as identification.
Signature of Notary Public
Printed name of Notary Public:
My Commission expires:_________________________
Page 76 of 79
EXHIBIT 5A
How to Prepare an Affidavit
An affidavit is a written statement made under oath that some fact, or a set of facts, is true to the best of the knowledge of the individual making the affidavit who is referred to as the “Affiant.” In preparing an affidavit it is important that you state your full legal name and your age or birth date. An affidavit must be sworn to (or affirmed) by the Affiant and signed in the presence of a notary public. When you sign the Affidavit before a notary public, you should sign using the exact name as stated in the affidavit.
As the Affiant, you must be at least 18 years of age and have personal knowledge of the facts set forth in the affidavit. The statement of the facts should be brief but may include as few or as many facts as necessary to include all of the relevant information, with each fact or small number of related facts stated in separately numbered paragraphs. The facts should be described clearly and concisely providing names, dates, addresses, and any other supporting information as needed. If a support document is referred to in the affidavit, it should be attached to the affidavit as an exhibit. Each exhibit should be individually numbered (or lettered) in the order it is referred to in the affidavit. For example, if describing a document in the affidavit, state that a copy of the document is attached and marked as “Exhibit A” then write “Exhibit A” on a copy of the document and staple it to the completed affidavit.
Remember, when appearing before the notary public to sign the affidavit, you will be asked to provide proof of your identify (such as a valid driver’s license or passport) in the event you are not personally known by the notary public.
Page 77 of 79