2016
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
FEDERAL CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION
AND FEDERAL PRISON CAMP OXFORD, WISCONSIN
AND
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES
LOCAL #3495
DATE
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
........................... ...
Preamble
This supplemental is entered into by the Federal Correctional Institution Oxford, Wl, here in referred to as the “Employer" and the American Federation of Government Employees, Council of Prison Local 33, Local 3495 Oxford, Wl, here in referred to as the “Union."
In accordance with the provisions of the Master Agreement between the Federal Bureau of Prisons and the Council of Prison Locals. This agreement shall be a supplement between FCI Oxford and Local 3495 to the said Master Agreement. This agreement shall remain in effect until the ratification of a new Master Agreement.
This agreement along with any future Negotiated additions, deletions, changes, or Memorandum of Understanding, as may be agreed upon from time to time, shall constitute a bargaining agreement by both parties.
Article 1	Recognition
By delegation of the Council of Prison Locals #33, The Agency recognizes Local 3495 as the sole and exclusive representative for all bargaining unit employees at FCI Oxford. Local 3495 is the recognized voice of all bargaining unit employees at FCI Oxford. As such Local 3495 is solely and exclusively authorized to act on the behalf of all bargaining unit employees in all negotiable matters regarding personnel policies, practices and other conditions of employment and is entitled to negotiate all negotiable agreements, policies, procedures and appropriate arrangements that pertain to any employee of the Bargaining Unit.
The Union President or expressed designee will be the contact person whenever the Union is identified in this supplement, unless otherwise specified in writing.
The Agency shall provide a list of all bargaining unit employees assigned to FCI Oxford upon request of the Union.
Article 2	Joint Management Relations Meetings
The purpose of Labor Management Relations Meetings “LMR” is to discuss issues and concerns as well as perceptions and seek out resolutions to personnel policies, practices affecting working conditions and employee morale at FCI Oxford.
Page 1 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Labor Management meetings will be scheduled the 3rd Thursday of every month at 9 AM. The only exceptions will be if that day is a federal holiday, either party’s LMR Chairperson is at training, or institutional emergencies. If the scheduled LMR meeting falls on a federal holiday, either party's LMR Chairperson is at training, or institutional emergencies, the Local and the Agency agree that this meeting will be held the next week Thursday, unless an agreement is made between both parties.
Justification to change or cancel the meeting will be in writing or email and will be shared as soon as practicable to the other party’s LMR chair. Agency staffing and Agency training to include ART will not constitute a legitimate reason for cancelation.
The duration of the LMR meetings will normally conclude when both the local and agency have reached conclusions to each agenda item. The agency will provide existing office supplies and equipment as needed to conduct LMR meetings. If the Local officials start the day on official time, they will finish the day on official time unless there is an institution emergency.
LMR meetings will general be held in the Warden’s Conference Room. If the Warden’s Conference Room is not available, the LMR meeting will be held in the Staff Training Center. If both locations are unavailable, a third location at FCI Oxford will be mutually agreed upon by both parties.
It is strongly recommended that each party exchange LMR agendas. The LMR agendas are due 1 week before LMR. The Local shall be authorized reasonable official time to prepare for the meeting. The Local LMR chair and the President or designee will be placed on Official time for 8 hours to prepare the agenda no later than the week before the meeting. Official time must be requested per Article 11 of the Master Agreement. This official time if needed may be approved in 4 hour blocks.
Both LMR chairs will have binding authority in the meeting unless the Local President is present for the Union in the meeting.
Page 2 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Both the Local and the Agency are allowed Advisory staff in the meeting. The Locals advisory staff are Bargaining unit employees and would request official time for the duration of their visit in LMR. The Agency will not use Bargaining Unit employees as advisory staff in the LMR Meeting. Once the issues or agenda item is addressed and an appropriate response is given the Advisory staff will be asked to leave. At no time will the Local have a member of the LMR committee leave the meeting to relieve an advisory staff member.
All LMR Agenda items will have a response from the Agency, and the Local. If an item needs to be tabled for further research by either party, the teams will caucus. The bargaining Unit will be made aware of all agreements reached in LMR via GroupWise for the posting of minutes on Sallyport by the Agency. Any completion deadline set in the meeting will be met by the other party. Any extension to the deadline will be discussed between the LMR Chair and Local LMR Chair.
The Agency will keep the official minutes. When available the minutes will be shown on a smart board during the meeting. Both parties reserve the right to have their opinion of the response and further discussion entered into the minutes.
The format will look as follows:
Issue:
Agency response:
Local response:
Final conclusion:
Per Article 7, the Local retains its right to determine its representatives present in LMR. The Local Executive Committee will be in attendance. If an Executive committee member cannot be present for the meeting the Local will solicit replacements.
The Local at a minimum will have 1 more member than management at the table during LMR. Official time requests of attendees will be made the week prior to the LMR meeting.
The Agency, when quoting Policy will provide a written copy of that policy.
The Local will be allowed to read their agenda items verbatim before the Agency gives the response. The Agency will have the same rules.
Page 3 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Labor Management Relations meeting is a place where the Local and Agency can address issues and seek resolution. All agreements made in LMR meetings are binding. LMR is not a place where formal negotiations take place.
The Agency and the Local will participate in monthly Partnership. Partnership Forum Meetings will be held in the first week of each month (Partnership Forum Meetings may be rescheduled or postponed if there is an Institution Emergency, Annual Refresher Training, or both parties agree to reschedule or postpone). Union representatives wishing to attend the Partnership Forum Meeting will request official time the week prior. Requests for official time will follow the procedures outlined in Article 11 of the Master Agreement. Both parties will engage in conversations regarding issues that are affecting the institution. The Agency will keep informal notes for the new Partnership Forum Meetings.
Article 3	Governing Regulations
Local supplemental agreements will take precedence over any Agency issuance derived or generated policy at the Local level.
Article 4	Relationship to this Agreement of Bureau Policies, Regulations, and Practices
On matters which are not covered in supplemental agreements at the Local level, all written benefits, or practices and understandings between parties implementing this Agreement, which are negotiable, shall not change unless agreed to in writing by the parties.
The employer will provide expeditious written notification of the changes to be implemented in working conditions at the local level. Such changes will be negotiated in accordance with the provisions of this agreement.
Article 5	Rights of the Employer
Refer to the Master Agreement
Page 4 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Article 6	Rights of the Employee
Each employee shall have the right to form, join, or assist a labor organization, or to refrain from any such activity, freely and without fear of penalty or reprisal, and each employee shall be protected in the exercise of such right. Except as otherwise provided by 5 USC, such right includes the right:
1.	To act for a labor organization in the capacity of a representative and the right, in that capacity to present the views of the labor organization to heads of agencies and other officials of the executive branch of government, the Congress, or other appropriate authorities; and
2.	To engage in collective bargaining with respect to conditions of employment through representatives chosen by employees in accordance with 5 USC.
When an employee requests to speak to a representative of the Union, in advance and work load permitting, the employee may report to the Union official as approved. If a relief cannot be provided, the supervisor will inform the employee when he/she can be made available.
Preferences regarding hairstyle and facial hair are a matter of individual concern. Employees will maintain a neat appearance and dress, considering the correctional environment, and such appearance and dress will not interfere with the security or safe running of the institution. Uniforms for all staff will be in accordance with policy, and only those staff occupying positions outlined in policy will be eligible for a uniform allowance. The Employer will pay an allowance each year to each employee who is required by policy to wear a uniform in the performance of their official duties. Staff attending Annual Refresher Training and/or other approved training may elect not to wear the approved uniform; however they will continue to maintain a neat appearance and dress.
Page 5 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Unit employees, including probationary employees, have the right to a Union representative during any examination by, or prior to submission of any written report to, a representative of the Employer in connection with an investigation if:
1.	The employee reasonably believes that the examination may result in disciplinary action against the employee; and
2.	The employee requests representation.
3.	Staff may request representation for any formal meeting between the supervisor and subordinate, however, the supervisor has the option to approve or disapprove based on needs of the institution or sensitivity of the issue.
The Local President will be notified of any proposals or decisions regarding disciplinary or adverse action against bargaining unit staff, to include the charge and the proposed corrective action.
If an employee is requested to submit a statement to the Agency and requests a representative, a Union appointed representative will be made available in a reasonable amount of time: If a Union appointed representative cannot be provided, the employee may be sent back to their normal duty assignment until such time as a representative is made available, provided this does not jeopardize the safe and orderly running of the institution.
Employees who are investigated and interviewed at home by the Agency or its representative will be reimbursed for the time of the interview. If the interview takes place at the institution but runs over their scheduled shift, the Agency will reimburse the employee.
For current FCI Oxford employees and retirees in the local commuting area, an honor guard, consisting of BOP dress uniformed employees, may be afforded for the purposes of a funeral (with the family’s approval). This will be coordinated at the institution level with current administration and Local 3495. Staff attending the funeral as an Honor Guard may request Annual Leave or LWOP.
Page 6 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Agency retains the right to authorize service of warrants in criminal matters. In civil cases, if the warrant or subpoena specifically states that it is to be served at the employee’s worksite, it will be served in a private setting out of sight of other employees or inmates. Upon a process server’s arrival, the Human Resource Department will contact the employee being served to inform the staff member a subpoena is required to be served at work. If the subpoena is not required to be served at work, the employee may inform the HR staff they refuse or elect to receive service at this time.
Actual serving of a subpoena, reading a subpoena, or warrant procedure:
1.	The employee will be relieved from their job assignment during the time they are actually being served
2.	The employee will be served in the Human Resource Conference Room
3.	If the Human Resource Conference Room is not available they will be served in the Warden’s Conference Room.
When circumstances allow, the President of the Local 3495 or designee, shall be notified of any situation that requires a bargaining unit employee to be removed from their work site or the institution for security or safety reasons. When such an escorted departure, to include hand-cuffing a staff member, is necessary, efforts will be made wherever possible to ensure that such actions are handled in a discrete manner.
Procedures for filing Tort claims will be made available to staff via the FCI Oxford Human Resources SallyPort webpage. Procedures for filing a Tort Claim will be explained to employees each year and to new employees during ICT. The Legal Assistant at FCI Oxford will respond to, guide, monitor, and review all Tort Claims at FCI Oxford and provide assistance when necessary to the employee per Institution Supplement 1320.03 and the Legal Assistant Position Description. A record of all Tort Claims should be kept for Union Review, upon request
The Agency will maintain the lockable boxes in the front lobby that are used for staff to store cell phones during their business day.
Page 7 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Employees will be appropriately compensated in accordance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations for attending meetings, including responses to proposed disciplinary/adverse actions, called by or agreed to by the employer. An affected staff member's Union Rep's work schedule, when possible, will be adjusted to accommodate these meetings and/or will be appropriately compensated with applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
In accordance with Article 6 section G of the Master Agreement, the Employer agrees to alert all employees to their representational rights by posting such rights on the bulletin board in the employee lounge, across from the control center and in the camp officers station as well as verbally during annual refresher training and ICT. The Union will have a 1 hr block of time to alert the new employees of these rights during ICT.
At the conclusion of a local investigative interview, the employee will be given a copy of their affidavit upon request, absent rare or exigent circumstances.
When a work assignment is to be performed away from the institution, the employee may request to use a Government vehicle to travel to and from the assignment while in paid duty status and on official business.
Employees who apply for disability retirement may request a temporary assignment to another work area pending the outcome of the disability request.
When an employee receives a proposal, they may request their complete investigative file. They will receive all materials which are relied upon to support the reasons for the action given in the notice.
All contributions to charities, causes, and functions are to be a matter of personal concern and strictly voluntary in nature. If a fund raising event includes the sale of food items, the employer will continue to maintain the regular operation of employees dining facility at the regular employee rate.
When the employer has a staff recall of any type, employees mandated by the employer to attend the recall will be in a paid status. If a mandated employee is in a pay status at the start of the recall and reaches the end of their shift, during the recall, the employee will immediately leave the recall or be paid overtime while at the recall. Employees may volunteer to attend any recall and choose not to be compensated.
Page 8 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
In regards to appointing a bargaining unit employee as acting supervisor in any department, management will first solicit volunteers to fill the acting position. In selecting the acting supervisor, management will consider the selected employee’s desire to act or not. When a bargaining unit staff is acting their main roles as the supervisor may include but not limited to attending meetings, conduct Special Housing Rounds, and maintain a point of contact for the department.
When the employer orders a fitness for duty test, the cost of the examination and any related travel expense will be borne by the agency consistent with Federal Travel Regulations set by OPM or law. The employee will be on paid status and will be allowed, upon request, union representation, who will be on official time during the process.
When the employer offers a polygraph examination, employer will act in compliance with Article 6 and Article 7 of the Master Agreement and the law with regard to representation during a local investigation, applicable pay regulations, and compliance with granting official time per the Master Agreement.
Employees may request a delivery of a purchased meal, from the Dining Hall or FSTC during the normal serving times of the meals, to their supervisor as needed.
The Agency will provide the bargaining unit employees a locker room with showers that is heated and air conditioned. This locker room will have a male and female side. This locker room will be used by employees who wish to shower and change clothes before or after work.
Article 7	Rights of the Union
The Agency will notify the Local 3495 President only in writing as to any change in working conditions 30 days prior to the change. The Local will either accept the change or choose to invoke its right to negotiate on the change.
In the emergency absence of the Local President the Local Vice President will have binding authority over the Local. In a non-emergency absence by the Local President the Local President will email the Agency of the e board member who will have binding authority over the Local forthat absence.
Shop Stewards approvals on formal resolutions for change in working conditions or grievances are not binding unless approved by the Local 3495 President or their designee.
Page 9 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
The Employer and the Union agree to the scheduling, at the local level, of at least one Union representative, to daytime hours of work. Daytime hours of work is defined as those hours between 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
The Union may be afforded a 30 minute time slot for both Annual Refresher training and ICT. This time will be used to advise staff of their rights under the Master Agreement, Local supplement and 5 USC.
The Local President or designee will be invited to meetings that include Bargaining Unit members regarding changes in working conditions, grievances, or disciplinary action (upon employees’ request). Meetings the Local President or designee may be invited too are: Department Head Meetings, Departmental Staff Meetings, and Local Community Relations Board meetings.
Reasonable official time will be granted to elected/appointed Union officers, designated stewards, and other representatives authorized by the Union, to the extent that official time falls within the duty hours of the Union officer, steward, and/or representative affected.
The Local President will be notified of any proposals or decisions regarding disciplinary or adverse action against bargaining unit staff.
The Local President or their designee will be given an opportunity to review and/or respond to Local Post orders which affect personnel policies, practices, and/or conditions of employment, prior to implementation. The Local representative will receive reasonable amount of official time to perform this. The Local will receive the current and changed post order.
If an FCI Oxford employee files a grievance or ULP without the Local 3495 assistance, the Local will be given a copy of the grievance within two working days after it is filed. After the Employer gives a written response to the employee, the Employer will provide a copy to the Local within two working days. The Local will be notified and given an opportunity to be present during any settlement or adjustment of any grievance.
The Local President or their designee will normally be informed, as soon as feasible, about significant reportable incidents, specifically those which involve staff injury.
Page 10 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Union dues will be deducted from an eligible employee’s regular salary after properly submitting a SF-1187. An employee may terminate a Union dues allotment in accordance 5 U.S.C. 7115 (a) by the local Union submitting a properly completed SF-1188 to the Human Resource Office at any time during a forty-five day period following the employee’s Union membership anniversary date. A Union official will verify the employees’ anniversary date and note it on the SF-1188. The completed form must be received in the Human Resource Office within a forty-five day period following the anniversary date.
Dues erroneously omitted, after receipt by the Employer of an SF-1187 or notification of dues increase pursuant to section f. of this article shall be retroactively deducted through written notification of the Employer. The Employer, through NFC, shall take appropriate action to correct errors in dues deduction.
During normal business hour/day the local president will be notified of any representational duties or assignments needed. In the case of off shifts representational needs, will be referred to any other E Board member on the shift. If no E Board members are available, the Union designated representative will be afforded a reasonable amount of time to travel to the site of examination.
When there is Agency Training which travel is required, a properly requested government vehicle will be afforded.
Article 8	Union Dues by Payroll Deduction
As referenced in the Master Agreement.
Article 9	Negotiations at the Local Level
The Local reserves the right to negotiate with the Agency for issues concerning changes in conditions of employment covering the bargaining unit.
Article 10	Union Representation on Committees
Normally the Agency will give 24 hour advance notice to the Local and afford membership to the following committee meetings
1)	Health and safety, in accordance with Article 27;
2)	Incentive awards (to help oversee the system and review, suggestions only) 3) Affirmative action;
Page 11 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
4)	Staff Housing (whenever members of the unit have applied); and
5)	Commissary
6)	Partnership
The designated Union representative will be placed on official time and properly relieved to attend committee meetings which the Union has membership.
For committee meetings which the Union has membership and meeting minutes are taken, the Local may request a copy and the Agency will provide.
Article 11	Official Time
Official time will be requested to the respective supervisor.
When the Agency declines an official time scheduling request, the Agency will work with the Local President or designee to establish a time it can be granted.
The Local will be entitled to eighty hours per calendar year of official time for such training during the term of this agreement.
The Agency will preschedule the E board on official time for LMR and Partnership. The Local may request additional staff.
The Agency recognizes the need for the Local to conduct official time outside the institution. The Local agrees to provide the Agency with contact information when that occurs.
The Local Treasurer and secretary can request and be granted, workload permitting, 8 hours of official time to perform the duties of the Treasurer.
When the Agency has a need to cancel a Union Representative’s official time, the Agency will do this by the Close of Business the day before the official time was scheduled.
Article 12	Use of Official Facilities
The Agency agrees to provide a locked bulletin board in for the Locals use in the following areas:
1)	Entrance to Sallyport of control
2)	Lieutenants office
Page 12 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
The Agency will continue to provide the Local with the same office space as normal. That space is the first 2 offices down the AW corridor as you enter from the control area.
The Local may request a refrigerator and microwave for the Union Office and the Agency will provide if there are any of these items in excess of existing and not being used.
All facility parking spaces will be undesignated except for handicap parking and 6 designated for government vehicles. All non- handicap parking spaces will be available for all staff on a first come first serve basis.
The Local Union Office will be afforded the following by the agency:
1.	3 outside telephone lines with outside calling access
2.	4 computers with access to a printer, LAN, and Internet access.
3.	A standard set of office furniture to include desks, table, chairs, book shelves, and file cabinets
4.	Refrigerator
5.	Coat hanger
6.	At the discretion of the Warden, Television Cable access provided and furnished.
Article 13	Questionnaires
Refer to Master Agreement
Article 14	Employee Performance Rating
It is required, supervisors and managers, to hold in-person meetings with employees to discuss progress reviews and final evaluations.
Page 13 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Bargaining unit employees have the right to appeal their performance ratings through the negotiated grievance procedure with or without the Union. If the grieving employee requests a Union representative, one will be provided.
Evaluations should be completed by supervisors who have the most knowledge of an employee’s performance. Where employees serve subject to multiple supervision, it is recommended that such employees’ ratings be completed by the supervisors for whom they worked during the rating period.
The Agency will provide the Local President upon request a list of award recipients to include SSPs, QSIs, time off awards, promotions and any other award that an employee is compensated for
Once an evaluation is issued and signed by an employee, another supervisor cannot change the rating without providing the employee, the rater, and the Union (upon employee’s request) the reason as to why the rating was changed.
Article 15	Outside Employment
Refer to the Master Agreement.
Article 16	Position Description and Review
Employees will have access via computer and hard copy of their position description.
When there is a unique position description to FCI Oxford, the Union will be notified and have the right to l&l any issues. Standardized Position descriptions are generated by the Office of Personnel Management.
When an employee alleges inequities in his/her position classification, the Employer will provide information on statutory appeal rights and procedures set forth in applicable regulations.
Article 17	Employee Personnel Files
Employee personnel files will be available via computer on all shifts (eOpf) and upon request of the employee the Employer will copy for the employee their records that are not prohibited by applicable laws and regulations.
Page 14 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Article 18	Hours of Work
The Employer agrees to negotiate with the Local, new bargaining unit requests for compressed work schedules at the local level.
If requested, Management agrees to negotiate compressed work schedules for departments without an approved compressed work schedule.
In addition to the provision in Section D of this article, the Administrative Lieutenant will do the following for sick n annual:
1)	Email all custody bargaining unit staff two weeks prior to the procedures outlined in section d (posting of the blank roster) requesting volunteers for sick n annual.
2)	Correctional Officers will have 2 weeks to respond back
3)	Correctional Officers who volunteer for sick n annual will be assigned sick n annual: Staff on military leave will be placed on the sick n annual roster.
4)	The Administrative Lieutenant will then post the sick n annual roster with the blank roster.
5)	In the event that there are more requests for sick n annual then there are slots, the Agency will use seniority to fill those slots.
The employee preference request form will consist of 10 choices.
After the roster committee is completed and the initial roster is posted for review, staff will be afforded the opportunity to switch quarterly assignments in accordance with the Master Agreement. In accordance with the Master Agreement, staff will be credited with working the post and shift assignment they originally bid for and received excluding sick and annual. There will be no maximum amount a staff member may request to switch shifts or posts.
Upon department rosters being signed and becoming official, a copy will be sent to the Local 3495 President.
When filling an open roster spot in correctional services, the Agency will first exhaust all sick and annual staff available on the roster. If sick and annual staff are used to fill a roster spot, it will be filled by qualified reverse seniority
The Agency will allow staff who has received sick n annual to submit a memo to the Administrative Lieutenant requesting a shift they would prefer. Ordinarily management will use seniority to determine who will be placed on what shift. If a staff member during the course of the quarter needs to be reassigned to another
Page 15 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
shift, management will first request for volunteers out of the sick and annual pool and then make a reasonable effort to reassign based on seniority.
Employees shall be given at least twenty-four hours’ notice when it is necessary to make shift changes, except for employees assigned to the sick and annual roster (as specified in Section g (4).), or when the requirement for prior notice would cause the vacating of a post. During instances when 24 hour notice is required, management will attempt to contact the effected staff via telephone or verbally (a voicemail constitutes verbal contact).
When the Agency offers overtime to a bargaining unit staff member and the staff member accepts and works the overtime, the Agency should expect to pay overtime. It is the employees’ choice to work for comp. time.
An employee may request to change a work assignment or schedule. Any approval or denial will be on a case by case basis and any denial will be done in writing to the requestor.
Employees who receive a temporary assignment to other duties for health conditions or recuperating from illness will normally remain on their assigned shift.
Unless volunteering or mandated for overtime, the Employer will make efforts to ensure no employee is required to work sixteen (16) consecutive hours against the employee’s wishes.
Article 19	Annual Leave
Total leave year scheduling procedures at FCI Oxford are as follows:
1)	Employees will request annual leave by selecting as many choices as they want, in order of preference in each round
2)	Starting with the most senior Bureau of Prisons employee in the Department. Employees will select annual leave slots for the next year from all available/open leave slots. Once the maximum number of leave slots have been reached for a given week, the week will be considered closed; weeks do not need to be consecutive.
3)	Leave scheduling will be conducted in 2 rounds. The first round all employees will receive 2 weeks. In the 2nd round, staff earning 4hours per pay will receive 1 additional week; staff earning 6 hours per pay period will receive 2 additional weeks; employees earning 8 hours per pay period will receive 3
Page 16 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
additional weeks. After the first two rounds are complete, all staff may request the remainder of their unused leave they may have by seniority.
When annual leave becomes available, the Department head will post the leave for bid by seniority to all bargaining staff. Normally, the leave will be posted for a minimum of three weeks (3), with an established deadline within the notification of posted leave vacancy.
Employees may submit a memo requesting leave, and if open slots are available, the employee will receive the week requested. Should none of the requested weeks be available and after receiving the input from the Union, the Employer will determine the maximum number of employees that may be on scheduled annual leave during the requested week.
The Agency will not cancel leave for arbitrary or capricious reasons.
Employees who are required to attend Military drills may be given the option to exchange their normal days off within the same pay week with supervisor’s approval to avoid using annual leave.
Article 20	Sick Leave
Employees will complete an SF71, Application for Leave, prior to their sick leave usage, if possible, or upon their return to duty. Employees can request a hard copy of an SF71 from their supervisor to be delivered.
When an employee who will be or is absent needs to notify their supervisor and the supervisor is unavailable, the employee will contact the next available supervisor in their chain of command.
When an employee calls a supervisor to request sick leave, that supervisor shall not intimidate or harass the employee and should not question the employee about their scheduled days off.
If an employee becomes ill on the job and notifies their supervisors, the employees will be considered for relief as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Page 17 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
When an employee is given written notification that they are being placed on questionable sick leave usage, this notification will include the reason(s) why they are being placed in this status. Upon request of the employee concerned, sick leave records will be made available to the employee and/or the employee's representative. When the decision to require or continue to require a medical certificate is discussed with the employee, the Employer will notify and give the Union the opportunity to be present.
If a staff is placed on AWOL, they will be afforded the opportunity to request another type of leave.
Annually in the Partnership Forum, the Agency and the Local will discuss the subject of what determines questionable sick leave usage.
The Local President should be notified of any issues with alleged sick leave abuse in order to assist both staff and management in rectifying the situation before a questionable leave letter is issued
Article 21	Training
During annual training or any other training deemed appropriate by the Warden, employees shall be authorized to wear business casual attire to include jeans.
The Local upon request will be provided a reasonable amount of time to present Local and National issues and provide information about the Union during Annual Refresher Training.
Article 22	Equal Employment Opportunity
The Employer and the Union agree to cooperate in providing equal opportunity for all qualified staff.
Article 23	Upward Mobility
The Agency will reasonably assist every employee with career development.
Page 18 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Article 24	Employment of Relatives
Refer to Master Agreement
Article 25	Reduction in Force, Transfer of Function and Reorganization
Refer to Master Agreement
Article 26	Retirement and Resignation
Upon request of the employee, the Agency will reasonably assist all staff who wish to retire whether with time in service or medically.
Article 27	Health and Safety
An employee who is soiled by bodily fluids will be given the opportunity to return home to shower and change while on paid status. If the employee chooses to not return for the remainder of their shift, the employee may request annual or sick leave. Should an employee choose to stay working, the Agency will provide a clean and secure shower area as well as clothing for the staff to wear. The affect staff may request clean clothing (jumpsuits/scrubs).
To the extent practicable, the Agency may increase staff in a housing unit when a staff member is assaulted or an inmate on inmate assault results in the unit being locked down and at the time the unit resumes normal operations.
In addition to the current location of stretchers and AEDs, an AED and stretcher will be maintained and placed on the East and West Complexes.
All bargaining unit staff will be provided with properly fitted cut and puncture resistant gloves. These gloves will be replaced if they become unserviceable or their warranty life has expired.
Upon request the Agency will provide each staff member with an antiregurgitation mask. Staff can receive a replacement mask once on is used or unusable.
Staff bathrooms will not be used by inmates and under no circumstance will inmate urinalysis be conducted using a staff bathroom. Staff bathrooms will all be able to lock and have working lights, hot water, toilet paper, and paper towels.
Page 19 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Program Statement 3300.02 Employment, uniformed employees work boot/work shoe procedures:
•	Uniformed staff not already receiving a boot allowance for safety toe boots will have the ability to select one pair of either black work boot or black work shoe every May
•	Staff ordering work boots or work shoes will have their selections to the Captain Secretary between April 1 and April 30, each year. All work boots or shoes will be ordered by the Captain's Office.
•	The parties agree on the cost of said footwear to be up to $115.00. o This amount is contingent on a passed budget.
•	Vendors uniformed staff will order said work boots from:
o AD Meyers
o Galls
o Rogan Shoes
•	Reasonable efforts will be made to ensure proper foot wear is purchased for staff with an administratively acceptable foot condition.
•	This proposal will be renegotiated 2 years after the Local Supplemental Agreement is implemented and every 2 years after.
Web based training for Workman’s Comp, will be available to staff upon request.
Employees may voluntarily submit written requests to their supervisors for temporary job modifications for non-work related injuries.
The Agency will reasonably assist staff with filing and requesting their OWCP documents upon request.
The Agency will offer staff training in OSHA, EPA and other health and safety departments to ensure compliance with each.
As funding is available, the Agency will offer a flu vaccination and TB test to staff yearly.
The Agency will follow national policy on stab resistant vest. Vest will be offered to staff annually at Annual Training. A request or declination will be on file for all staff.
Page 20 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Article 28	Uniform Clothing
All staff required to wear a uniform by policy will receive a clothing allowance.
Any staff member who works in a department that some staff receives a clothing allowance and others do not may request to receive a clothing allowance through the Warden in accordance with Program Statement 3300.02, Employment.
5	sizes of foul weather jackets will be made available to chit out in the Lieutenant’s Office: Medium, Large, X-Large, XX-Large, and XXX-Large.
5	sizes of foul weather overalls will be made available to chit out in the Lieutenant’s Office: Medium, Large, X-Large, XX-Large, and XXX-Large. One set of foul weather jacket and/or overall will also be available for the rear gate to be chitted out.
The employer will provide radio holder for all radio/body alarms. Additionally, the employer will have sufficient supply of cases or clips for immediate replacement.
The employer will provide 10 protective style aprons and 3 pair of protective kitchen style gloves for SHU officers for purposes of serving meals and protective safety glasses to staff when filling the mowers with gasoline.
Management will provide kitchen style aprons to food service staff, upon request, to protect their uniforms from daily wear and tear associated with that department. If the apron becomes unusable, staff may exchange on a one for one basis.
Staff may use the agency provided duty belt, key clips and chains (1 clip and chain per set of keys), hand cuff case, belt retainers, gloves pouch, a MK 4 Case, and a radio holder. Staff may wish to purchase their own equipment however the Agency will still supply these items.
The Agency will provide all staff with Credentials and a Holder.
Article 29	Work Site Conditions
Work site stations shall be ergonomically correct. A work station is defined as the place where an employee performs the majority of their work.
Vehicles will be maintained in a roadworthy condition with all safety equipment in good operating condition.
Page 21 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
When staff working Patrol 1 or Patrol 2 posts require the use of a restroom, the following procedures will be used:
1.	Contact the FPC Officer for relief per post orders instruction. (Primary)
2.	Contact the powerhouse operator and be relieved per post orders instructions. (Secondary)
3.	Be relieved by other patrol vehicle per post orders instruction. (Secondary)
When a chair becomes unserviceable it will be replaced within 5 days.
When the physical location of a worksite is created or changed, the Union President or designee will be notified to be given the opportunity to assess the impact and implementation of the worksite and be granted 4 hours of official time and may request more if necessary.
The Agency agrees that no staff member shall share an office with an inmate.
Management will continue to maintain current computers with LAN access for correctional posts. These posts that do not have computers will have access on duty time to a computer with LAN access.
Correctional Services post which have computers and do not have contact with the public will be provided with working computer speakers. The Agency will provide a printer for each housing unit officer’s station.
Management agrees that current staff lounges will be maintained for the purpose they were designed.
The Agency will make sure that during a snow storm the institution road from Hwy G (rear gate entrance) will be plowed open and accessible to all parking lots in the institution before 430 AM.
Management agrees to provide suitable cover for staff to exchange weapons on the perimeter post.
A working TV will be maintained in all current employee lounges that currently have a TV.
Article 30	Disciplinary and Adverse Action
Page 22 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
An employee’s requested union representative will be allowed to attend formal meetings or discussions, issuance of sick leave abuse letters, Weingarten Interviews, and written or oral presentations between the employer and employee.
During local investigations conducted by the Bureau of Prisons, the employee’s representative may make note of the questions during the affidavit process, provided it does not interfere with the investigation. The employee and/or representative may make a request through a data request.
After an employee is interviewed and is the subject of an investigation, the employee and/or representative can request, in writing, every thirty (30) days as to the status of the investigation. If no disciplinary or adverse action will be proposed will be proposed on an employee who is the subject of an investigation, the employee will be notified of this decision within seven (7) working days after the review of the investigation by the Chief Executive Officer or designee.
The Agency, upon request and approval, will provide the Local President, or designee, with a minimum of 8 hrs of official time to formulate and write a grievance.
Article 31	Grievance
Refer to the Master Agreement
Article 32	Arbitration
In reference to Article 32, section b of the Master Agreement, once the arbiter has furnished the parties with (5) dates, the parties shall confer to determine if they can agree to a specific date. In the event the parties cannot agree on one of the 5 dates provided, the parties will inform the arbiter of their respective available dates and request an additional five (5) dates on that basis.
All Arbitration awards will be published upon mutual agreement of the parties or if so ordered by the arbitrator.
Article 33	Merit Promotion
Refer to Master Agreement
Page 23 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Article 34	Employee Assistance Program
The Employer will make available a list of all Local resources for employees to seek out for assistance under EAP
Staff will be allowed to refer other staff in need as an informal EAP referral to the EAP coordinator. This referral will be kept private and discrete.
If the Agency mandates an employee to EAP, the Local President will be notified.
Article 35	Priority Placement Program
Refer to Master Agreement
Article 36	Human Resource Management
FCI Oxford management, Executive staff, and the Union will abide by the fact that the staff employed at FCI Oxford are the most valuable resource to the Bureau of Prisons. The Agency and the Union will treat every staff member with respect and dignity.
Article 37	Sexual Harassment
Refer to the Master Agreement
Article 38	Qualified Handicap Employees
Refer to Master Agreement
Article 39	Furloughs
Refer to the Master Agreement.
Article 40	Asbestos
The Agency will follow all OSHA and applicable laws mandated protocol for removing asbestos from the institution. Any contractor who may be involved in removing asbestos from the institution will abide by the rules and regulations set forth by OSHA, applicable laws, and this agency.
Page 24 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
The Agency will provide all staff the proper OSHA required protection devices when those staff are working with asbestos material.
The Agency will provide the Local President any changes or updates to the Asbestos Survey. Upon request, the Agency will provide the Local President a list of trained staff in asbestos yearly.
Article 41	Publication and Distribution of this Agreement
The Agency will print and distribute this agreement to all staff 30 calendar days after the Agreement is completed. Electronic copies of the Master Agreement and Local Supplemental Agreement will be placed on the Oxford website.
Article 42	Effective Date and Duration of this Agreement
Refer to Master Agreement
Page 25 of 26
FCI Oxford Local Supplemental Agreement
Signed this Aft day of	, Ao? 7 , at the Federal Correctional
Institution Oxford, Wisconsin.
Rebecca Hensley, Executive Assistant/Camp Admin.
D. Thompson, HRM
imothy Viegut, President AFGE Local #3495
FCI Oxford, Wisconsin
Page 26 of 26