USW - DELPHI - GM MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING - HOME AVENUE DELPHI RESTRUCTURING AUGUST 16, 2007
The United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union and USW-Local 87L (together, “USW”), Delphi, and the General Motors Corporation (“the Parties”) have a critical interest in Delphi’s successful emergence from bankruptcy with certain USW-represented operations. The Parties acknowledge that restructuring actions are necessary and commit to take specific actions to protect the needs of the Parties and their constituencies, continuing progress already made toward transforming Delphi’s labor cost structure and ongoing business operations. To enable continued transformation to more competitive wage and benefit levels, to address capacity, divestiture, work rules and staffing level issues, and to better position Delphi to retain existing business and attract new business, the Parties agree as follows on a two-party or three-party basis, as applicable, (the “Agreement”) subject to ratification by the membership.
A.	DURATION
1.	This Agreement will continue until 11:59 p.m. on September 14, 2011.
2.	The USW Local 87 and Delphi agree the USW-Delphi Master Agreement dated December 8,1999 and supplemental agreements attached as Exhibits thereto and all related agreements and understandings (collectively the “Master Agreement”) will be extended and remain in effect until 11:59 p.m. on September 14, 2011. The USW Local 87-Delphi Local Agreement dated January 20,1997, and the Memorandum of Understanding and Agreement - Joint Job Security Plan dated January 14,1997 (the “Home Avenue Local Agreements”) will be extended and remain in effect until 11:59 p.m. on September 14, 2011 or until the first day of the month following the month when Delphi operations at the Home Avenue facility cease, whichever is earlier, whereupon the Home Avenue Local Agreements applicable to the Home Avenue plant will terminate. The Parties agree that the Master Agreement and the Home Avenue Local Agreements are modified or eliminated to conform to the provisions of this Agreement.
3.	The agreements comprising the USW - Delphi collective bargaining agreements, national and local, following the date of this Agreement are set forth in the matrix of modified and eliminated provisions in Attachment E hereto.
B.	SITE PLAN
Delphi and the USW agree that the businesses at the Home Avenue Operations will be sold. Delphi operations at the Home Avenue site will continue to be performed on a contract manufacturing basis by USW-represented Delphi employees until they
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
1 of 20
8/16/07
cease as provided in Attachment A.
C.	WORKFORCE TRANSITION
Delphi, the USW and GM, as applicable, have agreed to a Special Attrition Program -Transformation for Delphi employees at the Home Avenue operations who are participants in the Delphi Hourly-Rate Employees Pension Plan (“Delphi HRP”), except as specified in C.1 .a.2) and C.2 below. That agreement is attached as Attachment C and is summarized below.
1.	Retirement Incentives
Retirement options will be provided for eligible Delphi employees in accordance with Attachment C as follows:
a.	An attrition program will be run for Delphi Home Avenue Operations employees as follows. The retirement incentives are subject to the terms of Attachment C, and are generally described below. No transformation options will be afforded to any Delphi employee hired on or after October 8, 2005 or who was a temporary employee on or after that date.
1)	$35,000 for normal or early voluntary retirement retroactive to October 1,2005.
2)	50 & 10 Mutually Satisfactory Retirement (MSR) including employees hired under the 1996 competitive agreement, who are not participants in the Delphi HRP, and have a benefit code of B3 and therefore will receive no Delphi HRP benefit but can retire for purposes of eligibility for post-retirement health care and employer paid post-retirement life insurance benefits (OPEB).
Provisions 1 .a.1) and 1 .a.2) will apply to employees who are otherwise eligible to retire by January 1,2008. Eligible employees may retire beginning October 1, 2007, provided their services are no longer required, but no later than January 1, 2008.
b.	Pre-retirement program covering employees with at least 26 years of credited service, but less than 30 years of credited service as of January 1, 2008 as provided in Attachment C. Employees may commence the pre-retirement program effective October 1,2007 in accordance with Section C.8, but no later than January 1,2008.
c.	These retiring employees will be considered to have transitioned to GM for purposes of retirement (“Check the Box”) and will be treated in accordance with the Check the Box provisions of Attachment C.
2.	Buy Outs
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
2 Of 20
8/16/07
Delphi Home Avenue employees, regardless of participation in the Delphi HRP, who are active, on temporary layoff or on leave status, will be offered lump sum buyouts, less applicable withholdings, to sever all ties with Delphi and GM except vested pension benefits (as such no pension supplements are payable) on a date no later than January 1,2008. Employees with 10 or more years of seniority or credited service as of January 1, 2008, whichever is greater, are eligible for $140,000; employees with three (3) but less than 10 years seniority or credited service as of January 1, 2008, whichever is greater, are eligible for $70,000; and employees with one (1) but less than three (3) years of seniority or credited service as of January 1, 2008, whichever is greater, are eligible for $40,000 (the "Buyout Payments"), paid in lump sum, less withholdings.
3.	The application period will begin as soon as practical and will end no later than the earlier of 60 days after the application period begins or December 31,2007.
4.	All participants will be required to sign a release of all claims against Delphi, GM and the USW except workers' compensation claims.
5.	An employee may only select one of the options described in subparagraphs C.1 .a.1), C.1.a.2)., C.1.b and C.2 hereof.
6.	Failure to Select an Option
Employees of the Home Avenue Operations who are eligible to retire under Section C.1 .a.1) of this Agreement, and who elect to continue to work after January 1, 2008, will retain their existing base wage rate but will have their benefits modified as described in Attachments D and F. Such employees will receive a $10,000 payment, less withholding, on January 1,2008 and January 1,2009 provided they are on the active roll as of the payment dates. Employees who leave voluntarily before a specified payment date will not be eligible for any portion of the next payment. Employees who leave the active roll because their services are no longer required (i.e. are laid off or who retire in lieu of layoff) will receive a pro-rata share of the next payment based on the number of pay periods worked. Receipt of these payments is contingent upon a release of claims consistent with Paragraph C.4 of this Agreement. When their services are no longer required, such employees will retire without any incentive or be laid off without Corporation-paid benefits except for vested pension benefits. All other employees at the Home Avenue Operations, active, on layoff and on leave of absence, with a base hourly wage rate above $16.50 for production or $24.00 for skilled trades, who do not select one of the options described in Section C.1 .a.2), C.1 .b or C.2 for which they are eligible will, on and after January 1, 2008, receive the base wage rate of $16.50 per hour, plus any COLA added to the base wage rate in accordance with Paragraph E.6 of this Agreement, for production employees and $24.00, plus any COLA added to the base wage rate in accordance with Paragraph E.6 of this Agreement, for skilled trades employees and will have their benefits modified as described in Section E for the duration of their employment.
Thereafter, when an employee’s services are no longer required at the Home Avenue Operations, employees will be laid off in line with their seniority without eligibility for Corporate-paid benefits other than vested pension benefits and accrual of credited
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
3 of 20
8/16/07
service for eligibility purposes up to the limits set forth in the Delphi HRP for employees on layoff. Employees otherwise covered under the Term Sheet, defined in Section D below (Attachment B), whose wages and/or benefits are modified in accordance with this paragraph and Section E will retain eligibility for OPEB and pension benefits in accordance with Attachment B without regard to such modifications.
7.	The Parties agree that the approximately twenty-five (25) employees at the Delphi Vandalia Operations who meet the retirement or pre-retirement program criteria contained in Sections C.1 .a and C.1 ,b herein may, at the employee’s election, be transferred to Home Avenue Operations. Such employees who accept transfer to the Home Avenue Operations will be eligible to participate in the retirement or pre-retirement options of the Home Avenue Special Attrition Program -Transformation.
8.	The timing of retirement and Buy Out release dates will be determined by Delphi based upon staffing considerations, but no later than January 1,2008. Delphi is willing to work cooperatively with the USW to seek mutually agreeable operating arrangements that would facilitate the ability to address employees’ desires regarding release dates. When employees’ services are no longer required, individual release dates will be in accordance with the Local Seniority Agreement from an integrated list of eligible employees who have applied for retirement, placement in the pre-retirement program or Buy Out under Paragraphs C.1. and C.2 of this Agreement.
9.	As Home Avenue Operations are discontinued, employees who were participants in the Delphi HRP as of February 19,1991 and who make written application for transfer to the Vandalia Operations, will be provided an opportunity to transfer to the Vandalia Operations in seniority order, displacing lesser seniority employees if necessary. Upon transfer, employees will retain their existing seniority, but they will become E-l employees at the Vandalia Operations, and Paragraph C.7 of the USW-Delphi-GM Memorandum of Understanding and Special Attrition Program - Vandalia - Delphi Restructuring dated August 16, 2007 will apply.
D.	PENSION AND OPEB / BENEFIT GUARANTEE
1.	The Parties have agreed to a Term Sheet - Delphi Pension Freeze and Cessation of OPEB, and GM Consensual Triggering of Benefit Guarantee (the “Term Sheet”) with respect to the freezing of Delphi’s pension plan, the cessation of Other Post Employment Benefits for Delphi employees and retirees and the consensual triggering of the Benefit Guarantee. That agreement is attached as Attachment B, and is incorporated by reference herein.
2.	GM and the USW agree that the period of time on or before which GM’s obligations under sections b., c., d., and e. of the Benefit Guarantee Agreement between GM and the USW, dated December 13,1999 and signed December 22,1999 (“Benefit Guarantee”), may be triggered shall be extended to December 31,2007 (and to March 31,2008 if Delphi has commenced solicitation of acceptances of its chapter
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
4 of 20
8/16/07
11 plan of reorganization prior to December 31,2007 but the plan has not been confirmed and substantially consummated or such later date as GM shall agree to extend ), provided, however that notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Agreement, this extension shall be without prejudice to any rights, defenses or claims of any Party with respect to the Benefit Guarantee.
E.	NATIONAL AND LOCAL AGREEMENT MODIFICATIONS
1.	Plant Closing and Sale Moratorium
The USW and Delphi agree that Document 53 of the Master Agreement (dated December 8, 1999) and all related agreements and understandings are eliminated.
2.	Sourcing
The USW and Delphi agree that Appendix N of the Master Agreement (dated December 8,1999) and all related agreements and understandings are eliminated
3.	Job Security
The USW and Delphi agree that Appendix L - Memorandum of Understanding - Job Opportunity Bank (JOBS) Program of the Master Agreement (dated December 8, 1999) and all related agreements and understandings are eliminated. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to alter the status of employees who elect to participate in the pre-retirement program under subparagraph C.1 .b of this Agreement
4.	Transfer of Pension Assets and Liabilities - (414)(l)
A transfer of pension assets and liabilities will occur as provided in the Term Sheet pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section (414)(l).
5.	AOL
The USW and Delphi agree that the Corporation-paid subsidy for AOL will be discontinued.
6.	COLA
The USW and Delphi agree that the Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) will be frozen at its existing level as of the Effective Date of this Agreement. This frozen COLA will be folded into employees’ base wages effective October 1,2007. Thereafter, there will be no COLA.
7.	Independence Week
The USW and Delphi agree that Independence Week Pay and Additional Time Off related to working during Independence Week will be eliminated. Employees who are
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
5 Of 20
8/16/07
not scheduled to work during the Independence Week period shall have the option to use Vacation Entitlement hours, if available, or be granted an unpaid leave of absence for such period.
8.	Vacation Entitlement
The USW and Delphi agree that beginning with the 2008 eligibility year, Vacation Entitlement will be limited to a maximum of 160 hours. Unused 2007 Vacation Entitlement paid in February 2008 shall be paid at the employee’s rate prior to the wage reduction in Section C.6.
9.	Funding and Existing Accruals for Joint Activities and Health & Safety
The USW and Delphi agree that as of the Effective Date of this Agreement, all funding for Joint Activities, including Health & Safety activities will be eliminated. Any future participation in joint activities after the Effective Date will be a matter of negotiation at the plant level. As of the Effective Date of this Agreement, pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court, existing joint fund accruals in an amount not to exceed $100,000 will, upon presentment of validly paid invoices, be paid to the USW or the Independent Committee to reimburse the USW or the Independent Committee for ordinary costs and expenses incurred in connection with the establishment and administration of the VEBA trust described in Section F.3.
10.	Tuition Assistance & Scholarship for Dependent Children
The USW and Delphi agree that all Tuition Assistance and/or scholarship funding for active and retired employees and dependents, and any programs supported by the use of such funds will be discontinued as of the Effective Date of this Agreement.
11.	Guaranteed Income Stream (GIS)
The USW and Delphi agree that the Guaranteed Income Stream Program (Exhibit E to the 1999 USWA Local 87-Delphi Master Agreement) will be eliminated as of the Effective Date of this Agreement.
12.	Benefits
The USW and Delphi agree that on and after January 1,2008, benefits for all employees, active, on layoff or on leave of absence, will be as set forth in Attachment D and F.
Delphi intends to maintain the Traditional Care Network health care plan (with the recently negotiated increases to prescription drug co-payments) for those employees choosing the Pre-Retirement option under the Special Attrition Plan at Home Avenue for as long as there are Home Avenue participants in Pre-Retirement status. Delphi will seek to continue to provide alternative plans (e.g., PPO and HMO) to these employees as long as they are cost effective and/or the carriers will administer such
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
6 Of 20
8/16/07
plans. In the event an alternative plan is no longer available, enrollees will be placed into the Traditional Care Network plan.
13.	Sale of Operation (Document 54)
The USW and Delphi agree that the body of Document 54 of the Master Agreement (dated December 8,1999) shall be deleted and replaced by the following: “The Corporation agrees that, in the event of a sale of the Home Avenue facility or the Delphi - AHG/Thermal & Interior Vandalia site as an ongoing operation, including the transition of the bargaining unit employees to employment with the buyer, the buyer will be required to recognize USW-Local 87L as the collective bargaining representative of the buyer’s employees subject to the terms and conditions of the collective bargaining agreements then in effect.”
14.	Temporary Employees
The USW and Delphi agree that Delphi will use temporary and/or contract employees as needed to address any operational issues through cessation of operations.
Temporary production employees will be paid at the rate of $8.00 per hour; temporary skilled trades employees will be paid at the rate of $17.10 per hour. Employees who have taken a Buy Out in accordance with Section C.1.c. of this Agreement may be rehired in line with their former seniority as temporary employees. Such employees will not be eligible for conversion to permanent status.
15.	Holidays
The USW and Delphi agree to adopt the same specified holidays for the Home Avenue Operations as agreed to by General Motors and the UAW through October 12, 2011 (not including any paid Independence Week days except for the specified Independence Day holiday itself).
F.	SETTLEMENT OF ALL EMPLOYEE, RETIREE AND UNION ASSERTED AND UNASSERTED CLAIMS
The Parties agree to the following in partial consideration for the USW entering into this Agreement and in consideration for the releases to be provided pursuant to Section G:
1.	Individual settlements pursuant to Transformation Program terms and conditions.
2.	In resolution of certain claims asserted by the USW, including in connection with the modification of retiree benefit programs, and without any acknowledgment by either GM or Delphi of those claims, GM has agreed to pay the amount of $9 million to the VEBA described below in Section F.3.
3.	The USW shall receive an allowed general unsecured pre-petition claim in the amount of $3 million against Delphi in complete settlement of all asserted and
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
7 of 20
8/16/07
unassorted USW claims, including without limitation asserted and unasserted claims of current and former Vandalia Operations bargaining unit members, pursuant to an order of the Bankruptcy Court. The Bankruptcy Court order shall further provide that the proceeds realized from the liquidation of said claim by the USW and/or the VEBA shall be contributed directly to a voluntary employees' beneficiary association (VEBA) trust to be established by an entity other than GM, Delphi or their respective benefit plans to provide certain retiree welfare benefits to certain eligible employees and retirees, including certain current or future participants in the Delphi Hourly Rate Employee Pension Plan or the GM Hourly Rate Employee Pension Plan, and their dependents. The VEBA shall be administered by an independent committee (the "Committee") which shall be the sponsor, "named fiduciary" and plan administrator of the VEBA. The Committee shall consist of (i) two members not affiliated with either GM or Delphi and appointed by the USW and (ii) three members who shall not have any affiliation with the Delphi, GM or the USW and who shall consist of health care, employee benefits, or ERISA experts or asset management experts or similarly qualified persons ("Independent Committee Member"). Prior to the termination of such an Independent Committee Member, the three Independent Committee Members shall recruit and select replacement Independent Committee Members to fill any vacancies among the three of them. Neither Delphi nor GM shall have any responsibility for or involvement with respect to the establishment or administration of the VEBA; provided however that GM and Delphi shall reasonably cooperate with appropriate information requests made by the Committee in order to allow it to administer the VEBA. The USW shall have the power to remove or replace the members it appoints.
4.	There shall be no waiver of rights, if any, to vested pension benefits, workers compensation benefits, unemployment compensation benefits, future claims arising out of the modified collective bargaining agreements and pursuance of pending ordinary course grievances of employees remaining in the workforce.
5.	All other consideration and concessions provided by GM and Delphi under the terms of this Agreement and all attachments to this Agreement.
The Parties also acknowledge that (i) the consideration provided by GM pursuant to this Agreement and all attachments to this Agreement constitutes a substantial contribution to Delphi’s plan of reorganization, (ii) this contribution is necessary to the success of Delphi’s plan of reorganization, and (iii) GM would not have made this contribution without obtaining the waivers and releases provided for herein. The Parties further acknowledge that nothing in the preceding sentence shall give rise to or entitle GM to seek or be allowed any claim against or consideration from any entity, including Delphi, other than as specifically approved by the Bankruptcy Court as agreed to by Delphi and GM in a comprehensive settlement agreement resolving the financial, commercial, and other matters between them.
G.	EFFECTIVE DATES AND BANKRUPTCY PROCEEDINGS
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
8 Of 20
8/16/07
1.	Subject to its terms and conditions, this Agreement is a final, binding and conclusive commitment and agreement that will be effective on the later of entry of an Order by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court approving this Agreement that is satisfactory to the USW, GM and Delphi (the “Approval Order”), or the first Monday following receipt by Delphi of written notice of ratification from the USW (the “Effective Date”). The ratification process will commence as soon as practical following the date of this Agreement. In connection with Delphi's prosecution of a motion to obtain entry of the Approval Order in the Bankruptcy Court, (a) Delphi shall use its best efforts to file a motion for approval of this Agreement in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Parties to be heard not later than the first monthly omnibus hearing at which the motion can be considered under the case management orders entered in the Bankruptcy Court, (b) Delphi shall provide, to the extent reasonably practicable, both the USW and GM with copies of, and a reasonable opportunity to comment on, all motions, applications, proposed orders, pleadings and supporting papers prepared by Delphi for filing with the bankruptcy court relating to court approval of this Agreement, and (c) the Parties shall support the approval of this Agreement in the Bankruptcy Court without condition, qualification or exception.
2.	The parties acknowledge that the following provisions of this Agreement will not become effective until all of the following events have occurred and as of the date when the last of such events shall have occurred: (a) execution by Delphi and GM of a comprehensive settlement agreement resolving the financial, commercial, and other matters between them and (b) the substantial consummation of a plan of reorganization proposed by Delphi in its chapter 11 cases and confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court which incorporates, approves and is consistent with all of the terms of this Agreement and the comprehensive settlement agreement between Delphi and GM:
a.	The Benefit Guarantee Term Sheet (Attachment B)
b.	Delphi pension freeze (Section D and Attachment B)
c.	Cessation of Delphi OPEB (Section D and Attachment B)
d.	414(1) transfer (Section E.4 and Attachment B)
e.	Section F.2
f.	Section F.3
3.	The Parties agree that the order of the Bankruptcy Court approving this Agreement shall provide that any plan of reorganization consistent with this Agreement and any confirmation order entered into with respect to such plan shall include the following provisions:
a.	On the effective date of such plan of reorganization, the USW, all employees and former employees of Delphi represented or formerly represented by the USW, and all persons or entities with claims derived from or related to any relationship with such employees or former employees of Delphi, waive and release and be deemed to have waived and released any and all claims of any nature, whether liquidated, unliquidated, contingent, non-contingent, asserted or unasserted, existing and/or arising in the future against Delphi, its subsidiaries or affiliates, the Delphi HRP, the Delphi Health Care Program for Hourly Employees and the Delphi
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
9 of 20
8/16/07
Life and Disability Benefits Program for Hourly Employees, GM, its subsidiaries or affiliates, the GM HRP, the GM Health Care Program for Hourly Employees and the GM Life and Disability Benefits Program for Hourly Employees, and the officers, directors, employees, fiduciaries, and agents of each, arising directly or indirectly from or in any way related to any obligations under the collective bargaining agreements between Delphi and the USW and between GM and the USW related to such employees and the USWA-GM-Delphi Memorandum of Understanding -Benefit Plan Treatment dated December 10,1999 regarding pension and other matters concerning the employment of GM employees with Delphi Automotive Systems related to such employees (provided, however, that claims for benefits provided for or explicitly not waived under the provisions of this Agreement (including, but not limited to, worker’s compensation benefits against Delphi, its subsidiaries or affiliates that are otherwise assertable under applicable law) are not waived).
b.	A plan exculpation and release provision (which provision shall be at least as comprehensive as the plan exculpation and release provision under the plan of reorganization for the debtor) for the USW released parties (which shall include the USW and each of their current or former members, officers, committee members, employees, advisors, attorneys, accountants, investment bankers, consultants, agents and other representatives) with respect to any liability such person or entity may have in connection with or related to the Delphi bankruptcy cases, the formulation, preparation, negotiation, dissemination, implementation, administration, confirmation or consummation of any of the plan of reorganization, the disclosure statement concerning the plan of reorganization, this Agreement or the Agreements on Attachment E hereto or any contract, employee benefit plan, instrument, release or other agreement or document created, modified, amended or entered into in connection with either the plan of reorganization or any agreement between the USW or Delphi, or any other act taken or omitted to be taken consistent with this Agreement in connection with the Delphi bankruptcy.
c.	This Agreement and the agreements referenced in Attachment E shall be assumed under 11 U.S.C. §365.
4.	Nothing contained herein shall constitute an assumption of any agreement described herein, including, without limitation any collective bargaining agreement between the USW and Delphi (except as provided for in Section G.3) or any commercial agreement between GM and Delphi, nor shall anything herein be deemed to create an administrative or priority claim with respect to GM or convert a prepetition claim into a postpetition claim or an administrative expense with respect to any party. The Parties further agree (and the Bankruptcy Court order shall also provide) that this Agreement is without prejudice to any interested party (including the parties to this Agreement and the statutory committees) in all other aspects of Delphi’s Chapter 11 cases and that each Party to this Agreement reserves all rights not expressly waived herein.
5.	Unless this Agreement is consummated following all required approvals, nothing herein shall bind any of the Parties nor shall the Agreement be admissible in any
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607	10 of 20
8/16/07
judicial or other proceeding on behalf of or against any Party.
The parties, by their duly authorized officers and representatives, agree accordingly this 16th day of August, 2007.
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607	11 of 20
8/16/07
United Steelworkers of
America, Local 87L
Delphi Corporation
General Motors Corp.
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
12 Of 20
8/16/07
Attachment A (Whole Chart Revised)
Brake hose sourced to Newco Oct. 1 - Delphi will operate as a contract mfr. In Home Ave. up to 12 months
Mount sale targeted for late Q1 2008 - Delphi will operate as a contract mfr. In Home Ave. up to 20-24 months
After December 31,2007 Delphi will operate the site under a contract manufacturing arrangement with the buyerfs) of the businesses)
Staffing projections are estimates. Duration of operations at the site beyond December 31, 2007 will be totally at the discretion of the buyers)
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
13 of 20
8/16/07
Attachment B - Benefit Guarantee Term Sheet
Attached Separately
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
14 of 20
8/16/07
Attachment C - Special Attrition Plan - Transformation
Attached Separately
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
15 of 20
8/16/07
Attachment D - Benefits
Effective January 1, 2008, the following changes are applicable to all Home Avenue employees, skilled and production who are not retired (subject to the provisions of Attachment B).
Active Health Care
Medical and Drug coverage will be the same as provided for UAW Supplemental Employees (see Attachment F), including a Health Reimbursement Account valued at $600 per employee per year.
•	Traditional dental coverages will be available after reaching three (3) years of seniority.
•	Vision coverages are available after five (5) years of seniority.
Post-employment Health Care
•	Upon retirement from Delphi, eligible employees will be able to continue any health care coverages then in effect. Continuation of such coverages will be at the retiree’s own expense and will be the full cost of any coverages continued.
•	Delphi will provide a Retiree Health Care Credit Balance (“Balance”) that retirees can use to pay for continued coverages. Delphi will credit each balance with $0.50 for every compensated hour during the employee’s active employment after January 1, 2008. Hours for which credit will generally be granted include any time for which pay is received, including straight-time hours, for such things as:
o Bereavement Pay;
o Call-in Pay;
o Holiday Pay;
o Jury Duty;
o Overtime;
o Short-term Military Duty; and
o Vacation
•	The Balance will also be credited with interest on an annual basis. The interest rate is that for the 30-year U.S. Treasury Bond. Any interest will be credited based on the accrued Balance at the end of each calendar year and will be recorded no later than May 1 of each year. This Balance continues to accrue until retirement or death at which time all credits and interest will cease to accrue.
•	The Retiree Health Care Credit Balance will be a “notional” account and will not be funded but paid out of the general assets of the Corporation.
•	At retirement or death, as applicable, the retiree or eligible surviving spouse may begin to draw down the balance. Credits may only be used to pay for the cost of health care coverages continued through Delphi or health care coverages purchased on an individual basis or through another group. In other words the credits can be used for premiums or contributions
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607
16 of 20
8/16/07
towards premiums, but cannot be used to reimburse medical expenses such as deductibles and co-payments.
•	The Balance has no cash value and may not be transferred. Employees who leave Delphi without retiring forfeit any accumulated Balance.
•	Upon the death of the retiree or if an employee dies after an employee becomes eligible to retire voluntarily under the Hourly-Rate Employees Pension Plan, health care coverages that were available may be continued for an eligible surviving spouse and eligible dependents on a self-pay basis. If the retiree/employee was eligible for and had any remaining Balance, the surviving spouse will be allowed to draw from such Balance on the same basis as the retiree until the Balance is exhausted.
•	A surviving spouse age 65 or older who is eligible, but is not enrolled for Medicare Part B coverage is not eligible to draw upon the Balance. Coverages may be continued on a self-paid basis until Medicare Part B coverage is obtained. After enrollment in Part B, the surviving spouse may draw upon the Balance while Medicare Part B enrollment is maintained.
LIFE AND DISABILITY BENEFITS
•	Corporation-paid Life Insurance while active will be based on the reduced base hourly rate.
•	Corporation-paid Life Insurance will cease upon retirement; the employee may continue any employee-paid coverage.
OTHER BENEFIT MODIFICATIONS
•	GIS. will be eliminated
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607 17 of 20
8/16/07
Attachment E -- List of Agreements
Attached Separately
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607	18 of 20
8/16/07
Appendix F - Health Care
Delphi Corporation
UAW Supplemental Health Care Plan
Health Care Plan Benefit Summary		
	IN-NETWORK SERVICES Services must be provided by a TCN physician for maximum benefits up to 90% of R&C*	OUT-OF-NETWORK SERVICES Coverage is reduced if you use out-of-network providers without a referral, subject to the out-of-pocket maximums listed below
ANNUAL DEDUCTIBLE** •	Individual •	Family	$300 $600	$1,200 $2,100
COPAYMENTS** •	Plan Pays •	Enrollee Pays	90% 10%	65% 35%
ANNUAL OUT-OF-POCKET MAXIMUMS** •	Individual •	Family	$1,000 $2,000	None None
OUTPATIENT SERVICES •	Outpatient Surgery •	Physical Therapy •	Routine Office Visits •	Diagnostic X-ray and Lab •	Well-Baby Care •	Preschool Immunizations •	Pap Smears and Mammograms •	PSA Screening •	Allergy Testing & Injections	90% 90% up to 60 treatments per condition per year by an approved provider. Not Covered 90% 90% for 6 visits in first year 90% specified types 90% 90% for test that meets program criteria; otherwise not covered Not covered	65% R&C* 65% up to 60 treatments per year by tin approved provider Not Covered 65% R&C* Not covered Not covered 65% R&C* 65% R&C* for test that meets program criteria; otherwise not covered Not covered
HOSPITAL SERVICES •	Semiprivate Room and Board •	Miscellaneous Hospital, X-ray •	Surgery •	Doctor Visits In-Hospital •	Maternity Benefits	90% up to 365 days 90% 90% 90% 90%	65% up to 365 days (non-par provisions apply to non-par facility) 65% R&C* 65% R&C* 65% R&C* 65% R&C*
EXTENDED CARE • Skilled Nursing Facility (excludes Custodial Care)	90% up to 730 days (2 days for each unused day of hospitalization)	65% up to 730 days (2 days for each unused day of hospitalization) in approved facility
EMERGENCY •	In-Plan Area/Out-of-area •	Ambulance - Ground •	Ambulance- Air/Boat	90% 90% when medically necessary for transfers that meet program criteria. 50% up to 100 miles	90% Requires predetermination within 24 hrs of admission 90% when medically necessary for transfers that meet program criteria. 50% up to 100 miles
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS		Administered by Medco Health @ 1-800-711-3459	
•	Participating Pharmacies	You pay $7.50 (generic)/ $15 (brand) per prescription up to 34-day supply	Not applicable
•	Non-participating Pharmacies	Not applicable	You pay $7.50 (generic)/ $15 (brand) plus 25% R&C* per prescription (
•	Mail-Order Prescription	You pay $7.50 (generic)/ $15 (brand) per prescription up to 90-day supply	Not applicable
•	Insulin / Syringes	You pay $15 per prescription	You pay $15 plus 25% R&C* per prescription
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607 19 of 20
8/16/07
Delphi Corporation New Hire Health Care Plan
Health Care Plan Benefit Summary
	IN-NETWORK SERVICES	OUT-OF-NETWORK SERVICES Services must be provided by a TON physician for Coverage is reduced if you use out-of-network maximum benefits up to 90% of R&C*	providers without a referral, subject to the out- of-pocket maximums listed below
MENTAL HEALTH • Outpatient Services •	Inpatient/Residential*	• These services require pre-authorization: Call ValueOptions at 1-877-786-4008 100% visits 1-20. You pay 25% for visits 21-35	50% of panel reimbursement (physicians only) 100% up to 45 days	50% of panel reimbursement (physicians and facility only)
SUBSTANCE ABUSE •	Outpatient Services •	Inpatient/Residential (including detoxification)**	These services require pre-authorization: Call ValueOptions at 1-877-786-4008 100% up to 35 visits	Not covered 100% up to 45 visits	Not covered, except for emergency **Mental Health and Substance Abuse: inpatient	detoxification days are combined for a total of 45 days allowed.
HEARING CARE		
• Examination/Hearing Aid	90%; Audiometric exam, up to $122 for evaluation test, and one hearing aid every 36 months	Not covered
OTHER
Medicare Eligibles	Accepted.
PAYMENT FOR NONEMERGENCY
• Out-of-Area Services	Call the carrier for details on providers in other
areas
Accepted
If HSM services are received from a nonparticipating provider (except with a referral from a participating provider), you will be assessed the Out-of-Network Deductible, Copayment and Out-of-Pocket Maximum amounts
^Reasonable and Customary (RfcC) Charges based on charges for services by providers in specific geographic location. The carrier determines what is considered reasonable and customary charges.
*♦ Annual deductibles, copayments and out-of-pocket maximums are calculated on the basis of RiC. Each covered individual can only contribute a maximum of $300 toward satisfying the Family Deductible. Copayments and out-of-pocket maximums apply only to covered hospital/surgical and medical services. Deductibles, copayments and out-of-pocket maximums do not apply to mental health/substance abuse coverage, Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics & Orthotics and Prescription Drugs. Mental health/substance abuse and prescription drugs have separate cost sharing features.
***Amounts paid for all office visit services do not count towards your deductibles and annual out-of-pocket maximum.
To the extent any of the above information conflicts with the terms and conditions of the Delphi Health Care Program for Hourly Employees (“the Program”), the terms of the Program will apply.
USW Home Ave 1113 MOU_Final_081607	20 of 20
8/16/07