W-
LABOR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
HASBRO GAMES
Division of Hasbro, Inc.
AND
LOCAL ST*
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION
United Pood Commercial Workers (Playthings, Jewelry and Novelty Workers Divisions)
FEBRUARY 3, 2003 - FEBRUARY 4, 2007
NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY
Hasbro Games and Local 224 acknowledge the policy that no Company employee, and no applicant for employment, will be discriminated against because of race, creed, religion, national origin, age, sex, handicap or status as a disabled veteran or veteran of the Vietnam era.
This policy of non-discrimination includes, but is not limited to, such personnel actions a recruitment, hiring, demotion, promotion, transfer, layoff, termination and rates of pay.
I
OFFICERS
President
Dennis Eaton
Financial Treasurer				 Bill	Fisher
1st Vice President			 Melvin	Drungo
2nd Vice President			 Donna	Casey
3rd Vice President				 Thomas	Donohue
Recorder.............................. Ruth	Tetreault
Sergeant at Arms..................... Ed	Nieves
Trustee............................ Ron Spaulding
Trustee............................ Ruth Rawson
Trustee............................ Linda Ryan
II
INDEX
Page
Agreement................................... 1
ARTICLE I	Recognition	1
ARTICLE II	Hours	of Labor 3
ARTICLE III	Overtime	- Holidays 5
ARTICLE IV	Rate of Pay 8
ARTICLE V...........Seniorityand Layoffs	10
ARTICLE VI..........Job Bidding Procedure 16
ARTICLE VII.........Distribution of Work	19
ARTICLE VIII	Adjustment of Grievances	20
ARTICLE IX...............General Agreement	23
ARTICLE X	Vacations	29
ARTICLE XI	Leaves	of Absence	32
ARTICLE XII	Military	Service 35
ARTICLE XIII.	..Death in Immediate Family	35
ARTICLE XIV	Termination	36
Work Areas........................... 37
Wage Structure....................... 40
Classifications...................... 41
III
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, effective the 3rd day of February, 2003 between HASBRO GAMES (hereinafter referred to as the Company), and RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION/LOCAL 224, United Food Commercial Workers, A.F.L.-C.I.O. (Playthings, Jewelry and Novelty Workers Division) (hereinafter referred to as the Union).
ARTICLE I - RECOGNITION
1.01 The Company recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all production, maintenance and warehouse employees at its plants in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and within a 30 mile radius, excluding however, all clerical and professional employees and all supervisory employees as defined in the National Labor Relations Act.
1.02 Union Membership: All present employees who are now members of the Union, shall, as a condition of employment, continue to remain members of the Union in good standing. All new employees shall, not later than thirty (30) days following the beginning of such employment, acquire and maintain membership in the Union to the extent of paying such periodic dues and initiation fees as are uniformly required of all Union members as set forth on the checkoff card signed by the individual employees.
The Union agrees that neither it nor any of its officers will expel any member in good standing contrary to its Constitution and By-laws.
1.03	The Company agrees to deduct initiation
fees and weekly dues in Such amounts as may be specified by the Union as officially and duly established under its Constitution and By-laws, from the earned wages of those
1
employees to whom this Agreement applies, who are members of the Union, and who individually in writing have authorized such deductions. The Union will give the Company written notice of initiation fees and weekly dues, and will notify the Company of any changes at least thirty (30) days in advance of the date that any changes therein shall become effective.
The Company shall make available to the Union on the first Friday of each month a check comprising of the deductions of initiation fees and weekly dues from the employee’s pay checks.
1.0	4 All new employees in Labor Grades 6 and below shall be considered probationary employees until they have completed a thirty (30) day probationary period. All new employees in Labor Grades 7 and above shall be considered probationary employees until they have completed a sixty (60) day probationary period. The discharge or layoff and seniority rights of probationary workers shall not be subject to review by the Union during the probationary period. A ninety (90) day probationary period shall apply for purposes of attendance under the Company’s attendance policy.
1.0	5 The Company reserves the right to hire temporary employees. Temporary employees are employees who are hired to work not more than 50% of a calendar year. The number of temporary employees employed at one time will not exceed 15% of the number of regular employees unless mutually agreed by the Company and the Union. The Union’s agreement to increase the number of temporary employees will not be unreasonably withheld.
The Company agrees to provide the Union prior to the starting dates of these employees their names and starting dates. These employees will be designated as temporary employees and will receive a signed receipt from the Company as to their temporary status. The discharge of temporary employees is subject to review by the Union after the first 90 days of employment. The layoff and seniority rights of temporary employees shall not be subject to review
2
by the Union. Temporary employees are not eligible for any insurance related benefits.
Temporary employees will not be offered overtime if it deprives regular employees the opportunity to work overtime within the work area.
Temporary employees are not eligible for job bidding unless all other regular employee bidders have been considered and the job remains open. If a temporary employee is a successful bidder, such employee will be subject to the applicable probationary period in Section 1.04.
A temporary employee who bids for and accepts a permanent position will be paid a training rate equal to the mid-point between $8.00 and the start rate for the position for which the employee is hired. Once the employee completes the probationary period, he/shc will receive the start rate for the position for which he/she was hired.
ARTICLE II	- HOURS OF LABOR
2.01 Eight (8) consecutive hours, exclusive of a lunch period, shall constitute a workday, and a workweek will be defined as five (5) consecutive days beginning:
Monday, a.m. (First Shift)
Monday, p.m. (Second Shift)
Monday, p.m. (Third Shift)
Any time worked over eight (8) hours per day and/or forty (40) hours per week, shall be classified as overtime.
At the signing of this contract, Union and Management have agreed to the hours of work and lunch periods as posted in each work center. Any changes to these work hours or lunch periods will be made only by mutual agreement.
3
The Company reserves the right to establish other part-time or full-time shifts as necessary to maintain production requirements.
2.02 Buildings with work centers having a three-shift operation will work continuous hours in those centers that work three (3) shifts.
Other changes may be made by mutual agreement between the Union and Management.
2.03 Any employee has completed his or her regular shift, has left the plant and is recalled to work shall be guaranteed a minimum of three (3) hours pay at one and a half times the employee’s regular rate of pay. If the call is of an emergency nature, the employee called in to do the job shall only be required to do the job they have been called in for. Employees who are called in to work on a weekend shall receive one and a half times their regular rate of pay.
Employees who report for work at the regular starting time on their shift when they have not been notified not to report and for whom work is unavailable, shall be provided with four (4) hours work or four (4) hours straight time pay in lieu thereof at their regular rate of pay.
If assignment to their own jobs is not available, they will be assigned to other work in which event they will be paid their rate of pay.
However, this clause shall not apply in case of fire, flood, acts of God, power interruption, major machine breakdown, or similar circumstances beyond the Company’s control after the employee reports for work.
A notice not to report for work as required by this Article will be given by the Company either by telephone, radio, or by other public announcement at least one and a quarter (1-1/4) hours before the time the employee is scheduled to report for work.
2.04 Thirty cents (.30) per hour will be added for each straight time hour worked as a shift differential for all work done on a full eight (8) hour second shift. Effective, February 2, 2004, this shift differential will be increased to thirty-five ($.35) per hour. Effective, February 7, 2005, this
4
shift differential will be increased to forty cents ($.40) per hour.
2.05 Fifty-five cents ($.55) an hour will be added for each straight time hour worked as a shift differential for all work done on a full eight (8) hour third shift. Effective, February 2, 2004, this shift differential will be increased to sixty cents ($.60) per hour. Effective, February 7, 2005, this shift differential will be increased to sixty-five cents ($.65) per hour.
2.06 Regular scheduled lunch periods will be adhered to for all employees except in cases of emergencies.
2.07 In cases of emergency, employees who are asked to work during their lunch period shall receive an additional ten (10) minute rest period with pay and will be considered to be on a continuous shift for the day.
Employees who have a twenty (20) minute lunch break with pay are not allowed to leave the building without their supervisor’s permission.
2.08 Employees who are temporarily transferred to another shift at the Company’s request shall receive their shift differential.
ARTICLE III	-
OVERTIME - HOLIDAYS
3.01 All work performed in excess of eight (8) hours in any one-day and work performed on Saturday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2).
The Union will not engage in a concerted refusal of overtime work. Employees are required to do such overtime work as is necessary in order to maintain production requirements except that, on request, an employee will be excused from doing such work if notice was not given by three (3) hours into the shift two (2) days, or earlier, prior to such
5
overtime work being required, or, may be excused for other reasons at the discretion of the Company.
3.02 All work performed on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of double time unless the work performed is on a shift whose workweek commences on Monday morning. However, should any shift be established whose workweek commences on a day other than a Monday, time and one-half (1-1/2) shall be paid for the sixth (6th) day and double time for the seventh (7th) day.
3.03 Work performed by employees eligible for holiday pay on any of the holidays listed in the following section, shall be paid for at the rate of double time in addition to holiday pay of eight (8) hours. However, time and one-half (1-1/2) will be paid for work performed on any of the holidays listed in the following section in the event that the employee does not work his/her entire scheduled work week in the week in which the holiday occurs; provided, further, that work performed in excess of eight (8) hours on a holiday shall be compensated at the rate of double time.
3.04 The Company agrees to pay eight (8) hours pay at average hourly straight time earnings, based upon vacation pay average, to all employees who have worked the scheduled work day before and the scheduled work day after the following listed holidays:
New Year’s Day President’s Day Good Friday Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day
Columbus Day Veterans’ Day Thanksgiving Day Day after Thanksgiving Day before Christmas Christmas Day
The requirement to work the scheduled work day before and after these holidays does not apply where employees work on the holiday itself.
Employees will receive a paid day off on their birthday in accordance with Company policy.
In addition, all second and third shift employees will have their respective shift differentials included in their
6
average hourly straight time earnings. Furthermore, part-time workers shall receive holiday pay based upon their normally scheduled workday.
Within the first nine (9) calendar months of each calendar year, January through September, employees requesting permission to be excused from work at time of overtime notice will be excused by Management from Saturday work which is scheduled either prior to Monday holidays or following Friday holidays and will not be considered to have failed to work the day preceding the Monday holiday or following the Friday holiday for purposes of holiday pay qualifications if they have worked their regularly scheduled shift proceeding the Monday holiday or following the Friday holiday. However, employees who have agreed to work said Saturday or have failed to request permission at the time of overtime and who fail to appear for such Saturday work will be considered to have failed to fulfill the requirements for holiday pay. Also, during this nine (9) calendar month period, all other requirements for holiday pay eligibility must be fulfilled. If any employee is laid off by the Company for lack of work during a week in which a holiday falls, they shall be paid for the holiday. In addition, any employee who is recalled during a week in which a holiday occurs, said employee shall be paid for that holiday. An employee with a recall date will receive subsequent holiday pay that falls within his/her layoff period.
Probationary workers who are discharged during the week in which a holiday falls will not be paid holiday pay, except that probationary employees with at least thirty (30) days employment will be paid for the holiday providing that the employee works the scheduled work day before and after the holiday.
Working on holidays will be voluntary.
3.05 The Company will notify the Union fortyeight (48) hours prior to any of the holidays mentioned in this Article, of their intention to operate or close down.
3,06 Employees who are permitted a sick leave will be given one (1) day's holiday pay if one or more of the
7
named holidays falls during the period of their excused sick leave or in the week they return from sick leave. However, in the event of consecutive holidays (Thanksgiving, Day after Thanksgiving, Day before Christmas and Christmas Day), employees will be paid two (2) days holiday pay. Such pay to be given at the same time holiday pay is made up for all factory employees.
3.07 If any of the holidays covered in this Agreement falls on a Sunday, it shall be celebrated on the following Monday or if it falls on a Saturday, it shall be celebrated on the proceeding Friday. The plant will close and any work performed on such a Monday or Friday will be paid for at the rate of double time plus the regular holiday pay, provided the employee works his/her entire scheduled work week in which the holiday occurs. If this condition is not fulfilled, the employee will be paid for the holiday at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2).
3.08 If an employee is required to come in before their normal starting time and is allowed to leave early because of a lack of work or emergency, they shall be paid for the hours prior to their normal starting time at the rate of time and one half (1-1/2).
3.09 An employee will not be obligated to work more than ten (10) hours of overtime in his/her work center in any workweek. Any voluntary overtime in another work center shall not count toward an employee’s ten (10) hours of overtime.
ARTICLE IV - RATE OF PAY
4.01 The minimum starting rate for employees shall be $8.00 per hour, or the current FederaUState minimum wage, whichever is greater.
4.02 Effective as of February 3, 2003, all present employees covered by this Agreement shall receive an increase of 2.5%.
8
Effective as of February 2, 2004, all present employees covered by the Agreement shall receive an increase on the following basis: All employees in Labor Grade 7 and above shall receive a rate increase of 2.75%. All employees in Labor Grade 3 through 6 shall receive a lump sum payment of 3.75%.
Effective as of February 7, 2005, all present employees covered by this Agreement shall receive an increase on the following basis: All employees in Labor Grade 7 and above shall receive a rate increase of 2.75%. All employees in Labor Grade 3 through 6 shall receive a lump sum payment of 3.75%.
Effective as of February 6, 2006, all present employees covered by this Agreement shall receive a rate increase of 3.0%.
The Lump Sum payment of 3.75% shall be calculated by multiplying an employee’s current rate, times 2,080 hours multiplied by 3.75%. (Second and third shift employees will have shift differentials added.) In addition, employees who have worked overtime hours during the prior year shall have those hours multiplied by their current base rate times 3.75%. This amount shall be added to the Lump Sum Payment.
4.03 Overtime shall be computed daily.
4.04 All employees are to have five (5) minutes wash-up time at noon and five (5) minutes wash-up time at the end of the day,
4.05 Employees who are called upon for Jury Duty will not be required to report for work on a morning when they are required to report for Jury Duty. It is expected, however, that if they are dismissed or excused for the balance of the day before noon, that they will report for work for the balance of the day. The Company and Union agreed to the implementation of the Middlesex Jury Law which became effective January 1, 1985.
Employees who report for Jury Duty and are dismissed early and cannot report for work because their shift has been completed shall receive their normal days pay.
9
Hardship cases regarding payments for Jury Duty will be handled through Human Resources.
4.06 Employees called in to work on snow removal shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1-1/2) their regular rate of pay for all hours worked prior to the start of their regular shift. Any employees called in to work snow removal on Sunday shall be paid at the rate two times their regular rate of pay.
Employees who work on snow removal will be allowed to work their normally scheduled shift, but in no event more than twelve (12) continuous hours unless permission to do so is specifically granted by the Supervisor.
4.07 If the Company hires an employee from outside the Company, the employee will be slotted to the same rate of pay as current employees in the same job classification provided that such employees have the same number of years experience. The Union President and a Human Resources Manager will approve the rate to which the new hire should be slotted. If licenses are necessary for the position, this clause is not applicable.
If employee bids and is accepted on a job, the employee will not be paid at a rate higher than the lowest rate paid for the job. If the employee has at least five (5) years seniority, Management will slot the employee to the rate of the job by seniority.
ARTICLE V -SENIORITY AND LAYOFFS
5.01 The Company and Union agree that when making promotion decisions within the bargaining unit and/or increases or decreases of the work force, the Company shall be governed by employee length of service when the ability of the candidates is relatively equal.
io
5.02 In the event of a Reduction in Force, displacement shall take place in the following order:
a)	Seniority permitting, the affected employee shall bump the least senior employee on the same shift and in the same job classification.
b)	Seniority permitting, the affected employee shall bump the least senior employee in the same job classification on the shift of his/her choice. The same job classification shall be defined as the specific job title that the affected employee holds. However, in the event of a reduction in force within a job skill progression within the same job classification, an affected employee would be given an option of bumping the least senior employee in the lowest job classification on the shift of his/her choice, seniority permitting. In this situation, the affected employee will retain his/her former job classification.
c)	Seniority permitting, the affected employee shall bump the least senior employee on the shift of the job last previously held by the employee. This only may occur if the affected employee is immediately able to perform the job with customary orientation for the position. The affected employee would be paid a rate commensurate with his/her skill for the job classification he/she was being placed in. In placing an employee into a position, the pay rate and seniority of the incoming employee will be comparable to other employees with similar seniority currently holding the classification.
d)	Seniority permitting, the affected employee shall bump the least senior employee in a job not previously held, regardless of shift, if the following conditions are met: 1. the job is deemed to be within
11
a normal job skill progression; and 2. the affected employee is qualified to perform the job with only such training as is necessary for an employee who holds the classification. The rate of pay of the affected employee would not exceed the lowest rate paid to an employee in that classification. If the employee has at least five (5) years seniority, Management will slot the employee to the rate of the job by seniority.
e)	Employees affected by the Reduction in Force will be indefinitely laid off and will not be allowed to bump job classifications which they have not held. However, seniority permitting, affected employees may bump the following job classifications:
Carton Line Assembler
S & S Line Assembler
General Purpose Assembler/Operator
Seniority permitting, affected employees will have their choice of bumping the least senior employee on the shift of their choice. The rate of pay of the affected employee will be done by slotting of seniority.
f)	For the purposes of reductions in force, increases in force, layoffs and recalls, S & S Line Assemblers and General Purpose Assemblers/Operators will be considered the same job classification.
g)	Within the Reduction in Force Procedure, where ability is equal, length of continuous service will prevail,
h)	If a job is lost through a Reduction in Force and is subsequently reposted and a displaced employee from that position is awarded the job within two
12
years of his or her displacement, that individual would receive his or her former rate of pay plus any Union increase.
5,03 No employee may claim seniority over any job or classification except when Section 5.02 (d) applies. When a work center is liquidated and its operations absorbed by another work center, the employees of the former work center shall retain plant seniority in the new work center.
5.04 In all cases of temporary layoffs and recalls, plant seniority will be applied within job classification. Temporary layoffs are defined as layoffs with a recall date. In the event a layoff eliminates a department and there is no recall date, the Company may attempt to transfer employees from one class of work to another. This process will be governed by Section 5.02.
5.05 When business conditions necessitate a curtailment of departmental operations, all probationary employees, temporary employees and employees with six months or less seniority shall be laid off from that department.
5.06 If one or more laid-off employees are needed for temporary (up to six [6] weeks) employment, laid-off employees, in point of seniority as above defined, will be given the opportunity of doing the work required if he/she so desires, but, if an employee declines the temporary employment, it will not be considered that he/she has broken their service record as set out in Paragraph 9.23 of this Article IX.
5.07 It shall be the responsibility of each laid-off employee to furnish the Company with the information if he/she changes their address or telephone number during the time of layoff.
5.08 No new employees shall be hired within a work center or a subdivision of a work center so long as there are laid-off employees who desire to return and are capable of performing the work required. Employees who are called back to work on a seniority basis to jobs other than those which they have performed shall be slotted to the rate of the job by seniority.
13
5.09 Seniority shall prevail in the choice of shifts to be worked or when there are openings or vacancies.
Seniority is not to be construed to mean that an employee can claim preference during the course of the day on a job being performed by another employee because of the completion of a job by said employee or of interruption of operation due to a breakdown or the like.
5.10 If seniority, as above defined, is not observed, the employee involved shall receive full financial remuneration for time lost, provided the Union has presented a grievance to the Supervisor of the work center involved, in writing, within forty-eight (48) hours of the time the events giving rise to the grievance were known or should have been known to the employee, the Union, or any person acting on behalf of the Union.
5.11 When an employee is permanently transferred from one work center to another, said employee shall retain their plant seniority.
5.12 Transferring employees between plants if not done by seniority must be done for just cause.
5.13 Before implementing a temporary or indefinite layoff or recall, the following will apply:
a)	A meeting will be held with the following: the Local Union President or his/her representative, the Director(s) of the affected Departments or his/her representative, and the Human Resources representative. This meeting will be held to insure the due process of applicable contractual rights of the affected employees.
b)	In cases of layoff, either temporary or indefinite, it is agreed that the Personnel Manager will give a layoff list to the Union President, or in his/her absence the Union Representative, before implementation and Section 5.13(a) has been adhered to, forty-eight (48) hours prior to the commencement of such layoff and also will supply a list of recall after layoff.
14
c)	Affected employees with or without bumping rights will be processed through the Human Resources Department (see Reduction in Force Procedure) with Union representation. Employees without bumping rights will be notified of layoff and given applicable information concerning unemployment compensation, benefits and bidding rights.
d)	Employees notified of layoff shall work the full schedule for his/her work center of the following regular work day after they have been notified of layoff, except in emergencies beyond the control of the Management, such as breakdowns. If an employee chooses not to work the following regular workday after notification, layoff shall be deemed to have commenced the day of notification.
e)	Employees who are laid off will maintain bidding rights and recall rights for a period of one (1) year from date of layoff.
f)	Employees who bid on a job from layoff and are accepted only will maintain recall rights to their former job for thirty (30) days, unless their seniority permits them to bump their former job.
g)	When there is a need to recall employees from lay-off, the Union President or his/her representative will be notified.
h)	The Human Resources Department will contact an affected employee eligible for recall by phone and certified mail at the address of record. It is the affected employee’s obligation to provide the
15
Human Resources Department with a current address/phone number.
i)	Employees will be recalled to their former position and shift, or be removed from payroll as a voluntary quit. Employees failing to respond also will be removed from payroll. Employees who have held a job classification for S & S Line Assembler, General Purpose Assembler / Operator, or Carton Line Assembler will be first recalled to their former position, seniority permitting, or may be recalled to any of those other positions, if available and seniority permitting.
j)	Employees on layoff for a period greater than two (2) weeks must clear through the Medical Department prior to returning to work.
ARTICLE VI -JOB BIDDING PROCEDURE
6.01 The Personnel Department will post any open job for a period of three (3) business days, during which time any employee may apply for it. Lateral bids will be allowed as long as the bid is not within the same job classification. However, any accepted employee with less than five (5) years seniority will not be allowed to earn a rate greater than the lowest rate paid in the job classification. Furthermore, both lateral and downbids can not occur until one (1) year has elapsed from previous acceptance of his/her job position. If no applications are received, or none accepted by the Company, the job will be filled by hiring from outside the plant. Priorities shall be given to employees in the work area.
16
Should the Union disagree with Management’s refusal to accept any bids, the Union shall be allowed to discuss it with the Company.
If an employee applies, and the Management accepts the applicant for trial, the applicant will be given a trial period not to exceed thirty (30) days. During the trial period, the employee shall retain seniority rights in his/her former work center. If, at any time during the thirty (30) days either the employee or the Company decides to terminate the trial period, the employee will be returned to the former department without loss of seniority.
6.02 The Company agrees to allow employees with one (1) year of service in their current job classification to request a shift change when such a vacancy within his or her job classification exists on the shift of their choice. However, for Labor Grades 8 and above, the Company would require a period of up to sixty (60) days to train a replacement before the transfer is effected. For Labor Grades 2 through 7, the Company would require a period of up to thirty (30) days to train a replacement before the transfer is effected. For all Labor Grades, the training period will commence on the date when the replacement begins work. In addition, employees in Labor Grades 2 through 7 who have at least six (6) months of service in their current job classification will be allowed to bid on positions which are of a higher labor grade. In the case of an employee in Labor Grade 8 and up whose bid is accepted, that employee shall not be allowed to bid upon another position for at least one (1) year.
6.03 It is understood and agreed that in all cases of promotion within the bargaining unit, increase or decrease of working forces, the following factors shall be considered and where ability is relatively equal, length of continuous service shall govern.
6.04 Jobs will be filled in the following order within the work area:
a)	Most senior bidder who had previously held the open job but lost it through a reduction in force within the last six (6) months. However, if a
17
position which an employee held and was subsequently reduced from becomes open again within thirty (30) days, the employee will be given the option of returning to his/her former position without posting the position.
b)	Among bidders who hold the same classification and bidders who are down bidding, the most senior bidder.
c)	Most senior bidder in the work area where ability is relatively equal.
6.05 All hourly job bids will be posted for three (3) consecutive business days until 3:00 p.m. on the third day. The employee shall sign a receipt when bidding on a job and copies of the signed receipt shall be given to the employee and to the Union.
6.06 If a job is posted after 12:00 noon on a business day, the three-day period will not begin until the following business day.
6.07 If an employee bids and is accepted on a job, the employee will not be paid at a rate higher than the lowest rate paid for the job. If, however, the employee has at least five (5) years seniority, Management will slot the employee to the rate of the job by seniority.
6.08 To fdl jobs outside the work area, job bids will be reviewed among the Director or his/her representative of the function where the job is posted, the Union President, । and the Human Resources representative. Job bids will be | reviewed within five (5) working days.
6.09 Any employee who has made a bid for a 1 posted job position and has been denied shall be given a denial slip within three (3) business days from the Personnel Manager with the reason as to why his/her bid was denied.
6.10 The Company agrees to post all jobs and to give a copy of a Bid Summary Sheet to the Local Union
18
President prior to notifying any employee of a job bid decision.
641 The Company agrees not to post any jobs during its shutdown periods.
6.12 Late bids by employees will be considered on an individual basis.
6.13 The existing Bid Summary Sheet will be utilized if the position becomes open within 30 days from the date when the original bid closed, for labor grades 7 and above, and within 60 days from when the original bid closed, for labor grades 6 and below. If the respective 30-day and 60-day periods have expired, the job will be reposted.
6.14 An employee will be an ineligible bidder if he/she puts in a job bid after he/she has reported and started the trial period of a new position without withdrawing the job bid.
6.15 When reviewing employees who have bid on a job the Company agrees to consider other factors which would indicate potential ability in addition to the Mechanical Aptitude Test.
6.16 Future Inspector openings will be filled through the normal bidding procedure.
ARTICLE VII-D1STR1BUTION OF WORK
7.01 Supervisors will distribute regular and overtime work to the employees within the work center as equally and fairly as possible, consistent with the economical and efficient operation of the work center. In considering whether overtime work has been distributed as equally and fairly as possible, weekday overtime shall be considered separately from weekend or holiday overtime.
19
7.02 No employee will be allowed to hold down two (2) jobs in the factory or warehouse, such as factory work in the daytime and sweeping offices at night.
7.03 Supervisors, Coordinators or Assistant Supervisors will not be allowed to change any time slips without first notifying the employee.
7.04 Supervisors will not do any work regularly performed by the bargaining unit. Nothing in this provision shall prevent supervisors from instructing employees, solving quality issues or addressing safety concerns.
7.05 Any employee leaving the bargaining unit by transfer or promotion out of the bargaining unit will retain, for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of transfer or promotion, all seniority that has been gained in the bargaining unit. In the event the employee returns to the bargaining unit after thirty (30) days from date of transfer or promotion out of the bargaining unit, the employee will lose from their seniority in the bargaining unit a time equal to the time spent out of the bargaining unit from date of transfer or promotion.
ARTICLE VIII -ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
8.01 Should any dispute arise between the Union and the Company (or any member of the Union) regarding the meaning or application 'of any provision of this Agreement, negotiations for settlement shall be conducted in the following manner:
8.02 The aggrieved employee may with or without their work center representative consult the supervisor in an attempt to adjust the grievance within forty-eight (48) hours of the occurrence of the grievance or first knowledge of same.
8.03 If the grievance is not thus settled, it shall be submitted to the Union President who will consult with the
20
Management Representative within four (4) working days of the date of the occurrence of grievance or first knowledge of same by the aggrieved employee, and attempt to adjust the grievance. If not successful, the grievance shall be submitted to the Union Grievance Committee.
8.04 If then the grievance is not settled, it shall be presented to the Management Grievance Committee within a twenty-four (24) hour period. The Union President, the Grievance Committee and if necessary, the aggrieved party will then meet with the Management Grievance Committee in an attempt to adjust the grievance. A reply will be given to the Union by the Personnel Manager within three (3) working days following the meeting.
8.05 If the Management Grievance Committee, Union President and Grievance Committee are unable to adjust the grievance, it shall be reduced to writing and the matter shall be referred to the Representative of the Executive Management. The Grievance Committee shall have the privilege of bringing in a representative of the International Union if they so desire, but shall not be required to do so. Meetings for this purpose shall be held within twenty-five (25) working days after the grievance has been answered by the Management Grievance Committee. However, if a meeting with the Executive Management is not held within twenty-five (25) working days, the answer submitted by the Management Grievance Committee shall be considered Management’s final answer.
8.06 In the event this final decision does not satisfactorily settle a grievance, the matter may only be referred by the Union or the Company to an arbitrator chosen pursuant to the procedures of the American Arbitration Association. This step must be taken within thirty-five (35) working days from the date the grievance has been .answered by the Management Grievance Committee. Failure to process the grievance within any of the time limits herein prescribed in Article IX shall constitute a full and complete waiver and abandonment of the grievance with no further right of appeal or recourse by either party unless, such time limits are
21
mutually extended in writing by both the Union and the Company. Any decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties during the life of the Agreement. The Arbitrator shall have no power to add or subtract from or modify any of the terms of this Agreement or any supplementary agreement nor to rule on any matter except while this Agreement is in full force and effect between the parties.
8.07 Decisions involving financial remuneration shall be reduced to writing and shall be retroactive to the date the grievance was presented to the Supervisor if it is so agreed. In grievances involving remuneration, the Union will present grievances in writing to the Management Grievance Committee.
8.08 It is agreed that representatives of the Union shall be allowed to leave their work center to consult with the Chairperson of the Grievance Committee during working hours, providing they first notify their Supervisor before leaving the work center. The representative of the Union should only leave the work area when it is absolutely necessary to do so. If it is necessary for the Union representative to be replaced, the Union representative will wait a reasonable time until he or she is replaced before leaving the work area.
8.09 Any grievance meeting shall be without loss of time to the members of the Grievance Committee providing Management is in agreement to said meeting.
8.10 The Grievance Committee may meet with the Executive Management from time to time (but not more often than monthly) to discuss general conditions other than specific grievances of employees and when it desires to do so, it shall request an appointment date through the Management Grievance Committee.
22
ARTICLE IX -GENERAL AGREEMENT
9.01 The Union and its members individually and collectively agree that during the term of this Agreement and any extension thereof, there shall be no strike, walkouts, slow-down, sit-down, or other stoppage of work.
9.02 It is agreed that the Union will not authorize any strike, not otherwise prohibited, or picket the Company's plant or premises in respect to any controversy, dispute or grievance, if the grievance procedure provided herein has been completely and fully complied with by the Company.
9.03 The Company agrees as part of the consideration of this Agreement, that neither the International Union, the Local Union, or their Officers or Agents, shall be liable for damages for unauthorized stoppages, strikes, intentional slowdowns, or suspensions of work, if the Company and the Union comply with all of the provisions of the grievance procedure.
9.04 The Union agrees that as part of the consideration of this Agreement, that it will take immediate steps to end any unauthorized stoppages, strikes, intentional slowdowns or suspension of work, not later than the end of the same shift in the following regular work day after violation occurs. It is further agreed that in the event of such an unauthorized stoppage the Union shall post a notice to the effect that the stoppage is unauthorized and shall order all employees to end such unauthorized stoppage. For this purpose regular workdays shall be Monday through Friday.
9.05 In the event of a stoppage in violation of this Agreement, the Company shall have the right to discipline by way of discharge or otherwise, any member of the Union who participates therein, furthers or agitates such strike action. Such action may be subject to review through the grievance procedure.
23
9.06 The Company agrees not to effect a lockout if the grievance procedure is pursued by the Union and fully followed.
9.07 The parties hereto agree that only the Union Grievance/Negotiation Committee shall have the right to waive or modify any of the terms of this Agreement for the life of this Agreement.
9.08 It is agreed that the Union may post notices tn all work centers; notices to be first approved by the Management.
9.09 It is agreed that at no time will there be any work sent out to be done as home work.
9.10 The Union agrees that the operation of the Plant is strictly the business of the Management. The Union further agrees that Management must receive the full cooperation of the Union in the disciplined running of the Plant. To effect this end, the Union agrees with the mutually agreed base rates, and the maintenance of proper conditions on the job, that the operator should earn a rate of at least 20% over the base rate. Any employee who does not earn at least 20% above the base rate, under the conditions outlined above, may be subject to transfer, layoff or discharge. Such transfer, layoff or discharge shall be a matter that may be treated as a grievance under the grievance procedure described herein.
9.11 The Company will give to the Union a list of all Supervisors, Assistant Supervisors and Inspectors at the time of signing of the Agreement. The Union will give to the Company a list of all Officers, Bargaining Committee Members and Work Center Stewards at the signing of the Agreement. AU changes thereafter affecting these lists will be rectified in writing within twenty-four (24) hours.
9.12 Any provisions of this Agreement that are in conflict with any Federal or State Law,. shall be unenforceable.
, 9.13 Employees-taking Company property from the Plant without Management authorization may be subject to immediate discharge.
24
9.14	The description of the present Pension Plan that is contained in the retirement booklet “Pension Plan for Hourly Employees Of Hasbro, Inc. - East Longmeadow Manufacturing Facility” issued to the plant employees is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement during the term of this Agreement. Effective, February 3, 2003, the pension benefit will be $21.75 per month multiplied by years of service as provided under the terms of the Plan. Effective, February 2. 2004, the pension benefit will be $22.25 per month multiplied by years of service as provided under the terms of the Plan, Effective, February 7, 2005, the pension benefit will be $22.75 per month multiplied by years of service as provided under the terms of the Plan.
9.15	The description of the Group Insurance Plan contained in the booklet entitled “Milton Bradley Company Group Insurance Plan. Plant Employees” issued to plant employees is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement during the term of this Agreement.
9.16	Employees who retire prior to February 3, 2003, with at least ten (10) years service will be allowed to continue their participation in one of the health insurance plans available to active employees until they reach 65 so long as the retired employees contribute an amount equal to the active employee contribution rate. Employees hired prior to February 3, 2003, who retire after February 3, 2003 at ages 60 through 64 with 25 years of service will be eligible to continue to participate in one of the health insurance plans available to active employees until they reach age 65, so long as they contribute 30% of the monthly premium. Employees hired on or after February 3, 2003 will not be eligible to participate in the Company’s health insurance plan upon their retirement.
9.17	Should any part hereof, or any provision herein contained, be rendered or declared invalid by reason of any existing or subsequently enacted legislation, or by a decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, each invalidation of such part or portion of the Agreement shall not invalidate
25
the remaining parts or portions hereof, and they shall remain in full force and effect.
9.18	All terms of this Agreement are subject to compliance with Acts of Congress, including the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970, as amended, and government regulations and Presidential orders issued thereunder, which affect the amount and effective dates of changes in wage increases and other benefits called for by the provisions of this Agreement.
9.19	Subject to the express provisions of this Agreement, the management of the business and direction of the working forces, including, but not limited to, the right to direct, plan and control plant operations; to establish and change work schedules, to make assignments; to hire, promote or transfer employees; to establish rules and regulations not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement; to maintain plant efficiency; to lay off employees because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons; to choose and direct supervision; to introduce new or improved methods or facilities; to change existing methods or facilities; to engage outside labor services and subcontract work; and to determine the number of Plants, their locations and whether or not to operate or close all or any part of them is vested exclusively in the Company and is not subject to arbitration under Article IX of this Agreement.
Except as limited by the express terms of this Agreement, the management of the business and direction of the working forces otherwise is vested in the Company, including, but not limited to, the right to assign, direct, retire, discipline, suspend and discharge employees for just cause and to establish and apply standards of performance.
The exercise or non-exercise of these rights retained by the Company shall not be deemed to waive any such rights, or the discretion to exercise them in some other way in the future.
9.20	There will be a Labor/Management Safety Committee with equal representation from the Management and the Union.
26
9.21	The Company agrees to notify the Local Union prior to its increasing the established work standard for any position. Management will comply through the Management Grievance Committee.
9.22	It is agreed that each quarter the Company will submit to the Union, three (3) copies of the average listing, and three (3) copies of the rates of pay for all I employees covered by this agreement.
|	9.23 Each quarter the Company will submit to
! the Union four (4) copies
i of the Seniority Listing. The seniority of an employee will not be considered to be broken except through the following acts and/or conditions:
a)	Discharge for any justifiable reason.
b)	Voluntarily leaving the service of the Company. Employees who absent themselves without permission and fail to notify the Management within forty-eight (48) hours shall be deemed to have terminated their employment.
c)	Employees who do not report back upon expiration of leaves of absences, or, employees who have been laid off for a period of one year, will be considered to have left the Company and will cease to have seniority rights as they apply to benefits where longevity is a factor including vacation, pension plan, seniority and group insurance.
9.24	The Company will follow all Federal requirements to insure and maintain a drug-free work place. To that end, the Company may test employees for just cause. t Just cause shall include any damage to property or personal injury. The Director of Safety and representative from the Human Resources Department shall determine, after consultation with the Union, whether there is just cause. No employee shall be disciplined for scoring “positive” on such a test. Rather, an employee who scores “positive” on such a test
27
shall be referred to the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) for counseling and shall be subject to periodic drug screening occurring two times within one year of the initial test. An employee who refuses EAP counseling shall be terminated. In addition, an employee who scores “positive” on test subsequent to the initial test shall be terminated,
9.25	In the event of a complete closing of the plant the Company will offer severance benefits according to the following schedule:
♦	2 weeks for all active seniority list employees, regardless of length of service
♦	3 weeks additional severance pay for employees with 1 to 5 years of service
♦	5 weeks additional severance pay for employees with 6 to 10 years of service
♦	6 weeks additional severance pay for employees with 11 to 15 years of service
♦	15 weeks additional severance pay for employees with over 15 years of service
♦	20 weeks additional severance pay for employees with over 25 years of service
In addition, the Company will provide medical insurance coverage to employees for the duration of the severance period. The Company agrees to provide employees with 60 days of notice prior to termination.
9.26	Employees who are absent due to their own serious health condition may be eligible to be compensated 66% of their weekly wages for up to twenty-six (26) weeks.
28
ARTICLE X - VACATIONS
10.0	1 The terms, conditions and limitations of the vacation pay shall be as set forth in this Article.
The Company agrees that all factory employees as designated in the recognition clause, who have completed thirty (30) weeks of employment but less than forty (40) weeks of employment with the Company as of June 1, shall be t given three (3) days with pay; all factory employees who have completed forty (40) weeks but less than one (1) year of employment as of June 1, shall be given four (4) days with pay.
Vacation pay shall be computed for hourly paid employees at their regular rate, at their average straight time earnings.
10.02 Employees who have completed more than one (1) year of employment shall receive vacations or vacation pay as follows:
a)	One (1) year of service as of June 1, but less than two (2) years shall receive one (1) weeks vacation pay.
b)	Two (2) years of service as of his/her anniversary date of employment, but less than five (5) years, shall receive two (2) weeks vacation pay. However, an employee may be scheduled during the vacation shutdown period for the 2nd week of his/her vacation.
c)	Five (5) years and over, but under twelve (12) years of service as of their date of hire, shall receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay. This third week of vacation shall be specifically subject to the limitations of Paragraphs 11.05 and 11.06 of this Agreement.
29
d)	Employees with twelve (12) years and over, but under twenty (20) years of service as of their hire date, shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay. This fourth week of vacation shall be specifically subject to the limitations of Paragraphs 11.05 and 11.06 of this Agreement.
e)	Employees with twenty (20) years of service as of their date of hire shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay. This fifth week of vacation shall be specifically subject to the limitations of Paragraphs 11.05 and 11.06 of this Agreement.
Any employee who has been on the payroll for one (1) year or more and who is called into military service shall receive vacation pay in accordance with the above schedule, provided the employee has not already taken his/her vacation.
10.03 Vacation pay for full-time employees shall be based on the average scheduled work center hours per week during January, February and March prior to vacation period, not to exceed forty-eight (48) hours per week, computed at straight time rates. In computing vacation pay, maximum credited hours for any one week will not exceed forty-eight (48) hours. A work center is required to work in its entirety in excess of forty (40) hours in any week for a total of at least three (3) weeks during January, February, and March in order to receive credit in excess of forty (40) hours in any such week in the above computations.
Employees who work at least 65 hours of overtime during January. February or March, shall be entitled to overtime vacation pay computation. In calculating the vacation pay computation, the employee shall receive the average weekly overtime worked during the first quarter. However, in no case will vacation pay exceed forty-eight (48) hours pay.
30
Furthermore, employees will not receive credit in the above computation unless they have worked their regularly scheduled workweek.
In the event that an employee qualifies under both vacation computation eligibility provisions, the employee will receive the greater of the two benefits.
10.04 The time for each employee’s vacation period shall be left to the sole discretion of the Company with the understanding, however, that unless otherwise mutually agreed between the Company and the employee, up to two (2) weeks vacation shall be given during the plant shutdown which shall occur on Monday, June 30, 2003, Monday, July 5, 2004, Monday, July 4, 2005, and Monday, July 5, 2007. Employees required to work during the plant shutdown may take up to two (2) weeks vacation between June 15 and September 15 unless otherwise mutually agreed between the Company and the employee. All employees who are entitled to three (3), four (4) or five (5) weeks of vacation shall be allowed to take their third, fourth or fifth weeks of vacation at their discretion. Employees may take their third week of vacation in segments of two (2) or three (3) days. Employees may take fourth or fifth weeks of vacation in days. Management, however, reserves the right of final approval so as to effectively maintain proper staffing requirements.
10.05 Company agrees to adopt a policy of posting, in the Maintenance Work Area only, for employees to select two weeks of their vacation entitlement, by April 1 of each year. The assignment of these vacation periods will be based on seniority and granted so long as they do not conflict with the operation of the Work Area or the Company. Selection or change after April 1 will be granted on a basis of available time and production requirements, honoring prior commitments first.
10.06 Vacation time taken in full week increments will be paid prior to the first day of vacation.
31
ARTICLE XI - LEAVES OF ABSENCE
11.01 Employees with at least two (2) years of continuous service may be eligible to take an unpaid two (2) week Personal Leave of Absence. A Personal Leave of Absence will only be allowed if the employee’s department schedule will allow for the absence and if the employee has exhausted all of his or her vacation time. If applicable, this leave shall run concurrently with an employee’s family and medical leave entitlement. Employees with ten (10) or more years of service will be eligible for holiday pay during a personal leave of absence.
11.02 Employees who are absent from work under worker’s compensation will remain on the Company payroll with the following guidelines:
Eligible to Length of Service	Remain on Payroll
Less than 10 years 10 years but less than 15 years 15 years plus	1 year 1-1/2 years 2-1/2 years
If an employee returns from a worker’s compensation leave prior to the expiration of his or her payroll eligibility period and the employee is subsequently absent from work due to the same worker’s compensation occurrence within two (2) years from the last worker’s compensation leave, the employee shall only be eligible to remain on the payroll for the amount of time remaining for the initial eligibility period.
11.03 Employees are eligible for family and medical leave in accordance with the Company’s Family and Medical Leave Policy. Any disputes regarding an employee’s eligibility for leave under the Company’s Family and Medical Leave Policy will be resolved by the Union President and the
32
Human Resources Manager, Employees who have completed twelve (12) months of service and who have worked at least 1,000 hours in the preceding twelve (12) month period are eligible for Family and Medical Leave (“FMLA Leave”). Eligible employees may take unpaid leave for up to thirteen (13) weeks for the following reasons:
1)	because of the birth or placement for adoption or foster care of a new son or daughter and in order to care for that child;
2)	to care for a parent, spouse, son or daughter who has a serious health condition; or
3)	for the employee’s own serious health condition.
Employees who are absent due to their own serious health condition may be eligible to be compensated 66% of their weekly wages for up to twenty-six (26) weeks.
11,04 Employees who submit a certified physician’s note stating that the employee is under the-physician’s care and is temporarily unable to perform his/her job duties may be placed out of work at the Company’s discretion. The time period in which a person is placed under doctor’s care is subject to the attendance policy and counts as one absence if the absence is not covered by the FMLA.
11.05 With the approval of Management and the Union, employees with at least fifteen (15) years of service and who have exhausted their FMLA entitlement, may be allowed up to an additional six (6) months of “Emergency” Leave. These employees will be eligible for Emergency Leave once every three (3) years, subject to the nature of the emergency and Management’s approval.
11.06 All requests for Leaves of Absences, with the exception of emergency leaves, must be submitted at least two weeks prior to the start of the requested leave.
11.07 Employees who obtain leave of absence or extension thereof with permission of the Management and who fail to report to the Management within forty-eight (48)
33
hours after the leave has expired, shall be deemed to have terminated their employment. Right to appeal by any employee due to exceptional and unforeseen circumstances shall be granted. The Company agrees to give the Union a copy of all leaves of absences, giving the starting date and expiration date.
11.08 Leaves of absences which are in excess of twelve (12) months in duration, as defined in Section 11.02 shall not be considered as part of an employee’s longevity, nor will it be counted for purposes of the pension plan.
11.09 If any employee is out on a leave of absence for more than six (6) months, but less than twelve (12) months, he/she will receive only one-half of his/her allowable vacation. If out for the twelve (12) months or more, he/she will not receive any vacation pay. Provisions of this vacation pay shall apply to the vacation year which is established from June 1 to May 31.
11.10 Employees who are absent because of an industrial accident and who wish to return to work but are prohibited from doing so by the sole discretion of the Company physician shall be paid 50% of their wage until they are eligible for Worker’s Compensation.
34
ARTICLE XII	-MILITARY SERVICE
12.0	1 No employee shall lose their seniority rights or the rights to their job by reason of enlisting into the Armed Forces of the United States, providing said employee was on payroll at the time of enlistment, and they shall be reinstated as provided for in the Selective Service and Training Acts of 1948 and amendments thereto.
As pursuant to the Selective Service Act, this clause applies only to those employees who have completed their probationary period.
12.0	2 A Military Leave of absence will be granted to employees with official orders stating the start and completion dates of the leave.
ARTICLE XIII	-DEATH IN IMMEDIATE FAMILY
13.01 In the event that an employee suffers the loss by death of any of the following members of the employee's family: Brother, Sister, Grandchild, Grandparent of the employee, Sister-in-Law, Brother-in-Law, Daughter-in-Law, Son-in-Law, Father-in-Law, Mother-in-Law, and Stepchild, the employer agrees to allow the employee up to three (3) days leave with pay, based on the employee's average hourly straight time earnings, for the department's regular scheduled hours which the employee would have worked in his/her department at that time. This leave will be allowed for the purpose of arranging and attending the funeral or its equivalent, provided that proper documentation is submitted by the employee.
If the employee suffers the loss by death of his or her spouse's grandparents, the Company agrees to allow the employee one (1) day's leave with pay during the normal work
35
week for the purpose of attending the funeral, or its equivalent, to be computed on the basis indicated in this Article, provided that proper documentation is submitted by the employee.
13:02 In the event that an employee suffers the loss by death of any of the following members of the employee's family: Mother, Father, Wife, Husband, Child, Step-Mother or Step-Father, three (3) days of bereavement pay will be paid.
ARTICLE XIV	-TERMINATION
14.01 The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall become effective on February 3, 2003, and shall continue uninterrupted without re-openers for a period of four years, until midnight February 4, 2007.
14.02 At least sixty (60) days but not more than ninety (90) days prior to the annual termination date of this Agreement, if either party is desirous of making changes, they will notify, in writing, the other party of such desire. If such notice is not given, this agreement will continue in full force and effect.
14.03 IN WITNESS WHEREOF
The parties hereto have caused these presents to be signed by their respective officers and their respective seals to be hereunto affixed the day and year first above written.
36
WORKAREAS CONFIGURATIONS
Work Area 2
WC 13
WC 19
WC 20
Work Area 6
WC 22
Work Area 3
WC 24
Work Area 4
WC41
WC 45
Work Area 7
WC 64
WC 26
Work Area 8
WC68
Work Area 9
WC 14
Work Area 5
WC 52
WC 53
WC 83
Work Area 10
WC 50
WC69
WC75
37
HASBRO GAMES
BY: PEDRO J. CACERES
Senior Vice President - Operations
RETAIL, WHOLESALE AND DEPARTMENT STORE UNION/UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL
WORKERS, A.F.L.-C.LO. LOCAL #224 (Playthings, Jewelry and Novelty Workers Division)
BY: DENNIS J. EATON
President
BY: MELVIN DRUNGO
1st Vice President
BY: DONNA CASEY
2nd Vice President
BY: THOMAS DONOHUE
3rd Vice President
BY: BILL FISHER
Financial Treasurer
BY: RUTH TETREAULT
Recorder
BY: ED NIEVES
Sergeant at Arm
INTERNATIONAL REPRESENTATIVE
CHARLES FERREIRA
INTERNATIONAL VICE PRESIDENT, R.W.D.S.U.
Date: January 31, 2003
38
AREA STEWARDS
WORK CENTER	NAME
First Shift 13-19-20.........................
68...............................
24......................:........
41-45............................
50...............................
69-75............................
52...............................
53-83 ...........................
64-Lines 1 -5....................
64-Lines 6- 10...................
14...............................
22 - Chestnut Street ............
Second Shift
Chief Shop Steward...............
13-19-20.........................
68...............................
22...............................
24...............................
41-45............................
50-69-75.........................
52-53-83 ........................
22 - Chestnut Street ............
64...............................
Third Shift 68...............................
19-20 ...........................
41-45 ...........................
50...............................
64-69-75 ........................
24...............................
Ray Montagna Dawn Zelck Melvin Drungo Dennis Eaton
Vai Janas James Maia Zita Rodrigo Steve Vitelli Katie Lewis Geraldine Mitchell Bill Fisher
Carol Eaton Mark Menard Dwayne Year by John McCaffery Mark Kirkpatrick Carol Eaton Hector Castro
MarkTetreault Gail Hail
Tina Johnson Richard Worden Steve Santos Rene Peloquin
John Vivenzio
39
WAGE RATES FOR HOURLY EMPLOYEES
Effective February 3,2003		
LABOR GRADE	START RATE	JOB RATE
2	$8.00	$9.25
3	$8.43	$10.25
4	$9.01	$10.97
5	$9.69	$11.79
6	$10.11	$12.92
7	$11.12	$13.53
8	$11.79	$14.25
9	$12.30	$14.97
10	$12.92	$15.68
11	$13.48	$16.40
12	$14.15	$17.22
13	$14.82	$17.94
9P	$12.92	$15.68
17P	$16.41	$19.58
19P	$16.81	$20.60
WAGE RATES FOR HOURLY EMPLOYEES		
Effective February 6,2006
LABOR GRADE	START RATE	JOB RATE
2	$8.00	$9.25
3	$8.64	$10.51
4	$9.23	$11.24
5	$9.93	$12.08
6	$10.36	$13.24
7	$11.40	$13.87
8	$12.08	$14.60
9	$12.61	$15.34
10	$13.24	$16.07
11	$13.82	$16.81
12	$14.50	$17.65
13	$15.19	$18.39
9P	$13.24	$16.07
17P	$15.86	$19.33
18P	$16.55	$20.07
19P	$17.23	$21.12
40
HASBRO GAMES
HOURLY POSITIONS
LABOR GRADE 1
Temporary Employee
LABOR GRADE 4
Automated Padding Cell - Gluer/Inspector
Carton Line Assembler
Custodian
General Purpose Operator/Assembler
Maintenance Helper
Material Handler
Mold Utility Operator - Level I
Plant Clerk
S&S Line Assembler
Sheridan Line Operator C
Wrap Moneyline Assembler (Fuji Machine)
LABOR GRADE 5
Automatic Bagging Machine Operator B
Automatic Card Cutter (AEL Rollem) Helper
Bliss Setup Operator B
Cartoner - Conveyor Line
Edson/Cartoner Former
Loader - Automatic Cutting Line
Maintenance Oiler
Manufacturing Logistic Person C
41
Mobile Power Truck Operator B
Padlocker Cartoner - Collate & Carton Line
S&S Tight wrap Operator
Score/Corner Mahine Operator & Material Handler
Sheridan Line Operator B
Stripper B
Tightwrap Inspector Box/Cover
Work-In-Process Trucker
Wrap Moneyline (Fuji Machine) Setup B
LABOR GRADE 6
Assembler B (Shipping)
Automatic Bagging Machine Operator A
Auxiliary Equipment Person B - Final Pack
Bliss Press Operator
CECO Cell Operator B
Collation Line Setup/Carton Erector Operator
Electric Card Cutter
Gameboard Operator B
Label Comerer
Mold Utility Operator - Level 11
Order Processing Coordinator & Sample Inspector
Padding Equipment Setup B
Palletizer Records Clerk
Quality Assurance Inspector B
Sheridan Collator Operator B
Sheridan Line Operator A
Testing Lab Assistant
Tool Crib Attendant B
42
LABOR GRADE 7
Automatan High Speed Laminator Assistant Operator Automatic Bagging Machine Setup B Auxiliary Equipment Person - Puzzle Bliss Setup Operator A Bobst Operator C
Folding Machine Operator B Line Setup - Trucker Litho Entry Level - Apprentice Machine Setup B Manufacturing Logistic Person B Mold Utility Operator - Level III Padding Cell Setup Operator Play-Doh Capper Labeler Polar Guillotine Cutter B Quality Assurance Inspector A Spotter Operator - Final Pack Vacuum Form Operator B Woodward Aerator/Jogger Operator. Wrap Moneyline (Fuji Machine) Setup A
LABOR GRADE 8
Assembler A (Shipping)
Automatan 3710 Operator B Automatan 4260 Operator B Automatic Bagging Equipment Setup A Automatic Card Collating Setup & Operator Automatic Padding System/Cutter Operator Automation Line Operator - Final Pack Baler Operator CECO Cell Operator A Cutter - Automatic Cutting Line Folding Machine Operator A Gameboard Operator A
Goebel Web - Offset Press Helper
43
Machine Operator/Setup B - Final Pack
Machine Setup B - Puzzles
Machinist B
Maintenance Mechanic B
Millwright B
Mobile Equipment Mechanic B
Mobile Power Truck Operator A
Mold Machine Mechanic B
Mold Utility Operator - Level IV
Multilith/Multigraph/Bar Code Label System Operator
Pallet Repair
Rollem Machine Setup & Operator
Stripper A
Labor Grade 9
Bobst Operator B
Card Conversion Setup - Operator
Electrician B
Electronic Component Repair A
Gameboard Ceil Operator
Group Leader I
Injection Mold Technician - Level II
Machine Operator/Setup A - Final Pack
Machine Setup A
Manufacturing Logistics Person A
Manufacturing Logistics Person A - Cage
Material Coordinator
Play-Doh J-Pak Cell Operator
Robotic Paiietizer/Operator B
Sheridan Collator Operator A
Shipper
Steel Rule Die Maker B
Tool Crib Attendant A
Truck Driver
Utility Operator
Vacuum Form Operator A
44
LABOR GRADE 9-P
Feeder Operator B
LABOR GRADE 10
Automatan 3710 Operator A
Injection Mold Technician - Level 3
Machine Setup A Puzzles with Auto Feed
Machine Setup A Gameboard Cell
Maintenance Mechanic A
Millwright A
Mold Machine Mechanic A
Play-Doh Mixer Cutter
LABOR GRADE 11
Automatan 4260 Operator A
Bobst Operator A
Cutter Litho Labels
Dispatcher
Feeder Operator A
Group Leader II
Group Leader Technical I
Machine Repair
Machinist A
Mobile Equipment Mechanic A
Mold Machine Mechanic A
Polar Guillotine Cutter A
Robotic Palletizer CelVOperator A
Steel Rule Die Maker A
Tool & Die Maker
Tractor/Tratler Driver
45
LABOR GRADE 12
Electrician A
Electronic/Systems Technican Folder/Gluer - Operator HVAC - R Technician Mold Maker
Play-Doh Setup Operator Pre Press Person B Senior Machine Repair Senior Mobile Equipment Mechanic Senior Mold Machine Mechanic
LABOR GRADE 13
Goebel Web - Offset Press Operator
Group Leader III
Group Leader Techanical II
Litho 1 Color 58” Press Operator
Pre Press Person A
Senior Electrican
LABOR GRADE 17-P
5/6 Color Press - 2nd Press Operator
LABOR GRADE 18-P
5/6 Color Press - 1 14 Press Operator
LABOR GRADE 19-P
Group Leader Technical/Lithographic
46
NOTES
NOTES