TEAMSTER LOCAL 705
UNITED PARCEL SERVICE
AGREEMENT
/’f ’
For the Period August 1, 2002 to July 31, 2008
STABLE 0F,CONJENTS:by.Subject.	' Article	Section	Page
Bad checks	10	2	22
Bidding	44	7	114
Bids filled within 10 days	44	6c	114
Building heat	18	6	36
Buying or Leasing Equipment Not Required	55	3	125
Car washer, porter jobs protected	32	P2	56
Cardinal sins list	54		123
COL Qualification - Loss of license	16	3.4	29
Change of Operation in Local 705 jurisdiction	55	6	125
CHANGE OF OPERATIONS	38		86
Climatic Conditions Committee	18	20.3	40
COMPENSATION CLAIMS	14		24
COMPETITION	26		51 ■
Controlled Substance Testing	35	3	61
COST-OF-LIVING	33		56
Coverage work list	3	7c	7
Creation of full-time combination jobs	22	3	45
Delinquent payments to the Pension Trust Fund	34	4	58
Description of area, loop, base line	44	6b	114
Dignity and respect language	37	1a	85
DISCHARGE AND SUSPENSION	54		123
Discipline - 9 month rule	54		124
Disqualification from driving	22	6	48
Disqualified Driver - Alternative Work	20	4	44
Dollies	18	12	37
Double shifting, early call-in, overtime	3	7b	6
Drivers - Excessive rides	37	3	86
Drivers - Management rides	37	2	86
Dropped trailers at customers	26	b	52
Drug - Confirmatory Test	35	3.4	62
Drug - Disciplinary Action	35	3.13	68
Drug - District Medical Review Officer	35	3.17	72
Drug - Employees Who Must Be Tested	35	3.1	61
Drug - Employer Responsibilities	35	3.12	67
Drug - Laboratory Testing	35	3.5	63
Drug - MRO Determination	35	3.18	73
Drug - Paid For Time	35	3.21	74
Drug - Post-Accident Drug Testing	35	3.9	64
Drug - Preparation for Testing	35	3.14	68
Drug - Pre-Qualification Testing	35	3.7	63
Drug - Random Testing	35	3.10	65
Drug - Reasonable Cause Testing	35	3.8	63
Drug - Record Retention	35	3.19	73
Drug - Rehab and Testing After Return To Duty	35	3.12	66
Drug - Release of Drug Testing Information	35	3.20	74
ii
			
Drug - SAP and Employer Duties	35	3.12	66
Drug - Screening Test	35	3.3	62
Drug - Specimen Collection Procedures	35	3.15	69
Drug - Specimen Shipping Preparations	35	3.16	71
Drug - Substance Abuse Professional (SAP)	35	3.12	66
Drug - Test Notification	35	3.11	66
Drug - Testing	35	3.2	62
Drug - Types of Testing Required	35	3.6	63
Due consideration language	37	1a	85
Dues, Joint Dues Committee and Deductions	3	3	4
Duplicate Operations Prohibited	1	4	2
DURATION	56		126
DUTIES	47		117
Duties ■ Feeder Drivers	47	e	117
Duties ■ Full-time Combination Jobs	47	b	117
Duties ■ General Utility	47	c	117
Duties - Parcel Drivers	47	a	117
Duties - TDP Drivers	47	f	117
Duties - Washers and Porters	47	d	117
EMERGENCY REOPENING	27		52
Employee’s Bail and/or Court Appearance	35	1	60
EMPLOYEE’S BAIL, LICENSE, SUBSTANCE AND ALCOHOL	qk		fin
TESTING			
Employees Covered	1	2	1
Employer to provide forms for recording times	12	p3	24
Equipment, Vehicles and Conditions	18	1	33
EXAMINATION AND IDENTIFICATION FEES	20		43
Exhaust Systems	18	13	38
Extra Contract Agreements	6	1	10
Fair day’s work for a fair day’s pay	37	1a	85
Fatality while on the job	14	p8	25
Feeder - Cross Town Operation	48	2	118
Feeder - Job bid	48	1	117
Feeder - Qualified list	48	1	118
Feeder - Start time change	48	1	118
Feeder - Supervisory rides	48	4	118
Feeder - Tractor - Trailer School	48	3	118
FEEDER DRIVERS	48		117
Filling Vacancies	44	5	113
Funeral Leave	29	2	54
GARNISHMENTS	31		55
Green Checks	55	4	125
Grievances - Enforcement and right to strike	7	1	14
Grievances - Innocent until proven guilty	7	p1	13
Grievances - Payment of settlements	7	3	15
iii
TABLE OF CONTENTS by Subject	Article	Section	Page
Grievances - Steps	7	1	13
Grievances, Issues Heard First at UPS/705 Panel	55	8	125
Guarantee - Monday - Friday	45	1	114
Guarantee - Saturday and Sunday	45	2	114
GUARANTEES	45		114
Harassment	37	1a	85
Hazardous Materials Handling Program	18	21	41
HEALTH & WELFARE AND PENSION	34		57
Health and Welfare Insurance - Full-time, Retiree	34	1	57
Heaters and Defrosters	18	15	38
Holiday - Qualifications	51	3	120
Holiday - Weekly Guarantee	51	4	120
Holiday Falling During Lay-off, Illness or Injury	51	6	120
Holiday Pay	51	1	119
Holiday Rate	51	2	119
Holiday Shift	51	5	120
HOLIDAYS	51		119
Hourly Training	6	5	11
Hours worked prior to scheduled start	51	7	121
Identification	20		44
Identifying badges for temporary personnel	55	5	125
Incentive Plans - Bonus	55	2	124
Incompatible Package Handling	18	22	43
Indoor Air Pollution	18	6.1	36
Injured on the job - pay	14	p5	24
Injury report	14	p1	24
INSPECTION PRIVILEGES	24		50
JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES	30		55
Jury Duty	29	1	53
Just cause and proper warnings	54	p1	123
Lateral Bids for Full Time Combo Employees			128
Lay Offs	44	4	112
Layover provisions	9	4	21
Leave - Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)	16	6	31
Leave - For union office	16	1	27
Leave - Loss of license	16	3.1	28
Leave - Maternity and Paternity	16	4	29
Leave - Rehabilitation Program	16	5	30
Leave - Requested by employees	16	2	27
Leave - Short term union leave	16	1	27
LEAVE OF ABSENCE	16		27
Letters of Understanding			128
Lie detector test	12	p1	23
Loading and unloading trailers	26	c	52
LOCAL GRIEVANCE MACHINERY	7		13
iv
iTWErOFlC?3NTENT;SMSufiiectI®na0MMBI		■Section!	
Local Union defined	3	5	6
Long-Term Disability - Full-time	34	6	59
Loss of personal money or personal property	10	3	22
LOSS OR DAMAGE	10		21
Loss or damage to parcels	10	1	21
LUNCH PERIOD AND BREAKS	49		119
MAINTENANCE OF STANDARDS	50		119
MANAGEMENT - EMPLOYEE RELATIONS	37		85
Medical treatment during working hours	14	P6	24
MILITARY CLAUSE	15		26
Mirrors	18	11	37
Miscellaneous	55		124
Mission Statement	55	9	125
Motor Carrier’s Act or other applicable law	9	3	21
Nametags, Management required to wear	20	P2	45
NATIONAL GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	8		15
National Safety and Health Committee	18	20.1	39
National Safety and Health Grievance Committee	18	20.2	40
New Equipment	6	3	10
Night work in Package centers	46	2a	116
No call, no show language	44	1	111
No part-time employee shall drive (see exceptions)	22	1	45
Noise Abatement	18	16	39
NON-DISCRIMINATION	36		84
Operations Covered	1	1	1
Out of Service Equipment and Vehicles	18	2	34
Over 70 - Inside Package Handling Procedures	39	3	89
Over 70 - New methods and new equipment.	39	4	90
Over 70 - On Area Package Handling	39	1	88
Over 70 - Package Identification	39	2	89
OVER 70 POUND SERVICE PACKAGE HANDLING	39		88
Overtime - Full-time Employees	45	4	115
Package Cars	18	14	38
Package Cars - Door handle shields coverings	18	14	38
Package Cars - Gearshift extensions	18	14	38
Package Cars - Grab handles	18	14	38
Package Cars - Handcarts	18	14	38
Package Cars - Lower cab entry steps	18	14	38
Package Cars - Package compartment venting	18	14	38
Package Cars - Power steering	18	14	38
Package Cars - Replacement of package cars	18	14	38
Package Driver Safety and Security	18	14.1	38
Package Drivers - excessive OT (9.5 language)	37	1c	85
Package Drivers - relief of OT (8 hour request)	37	1b	85
PAID-FOR TIME	17		32
V

PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT	1		1
Part-time Educational Transfer	22	15	50
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES	22		45
Part-time extra work	22	9	48
Part-time Health and Welfare	22	13	49
Part-time job selection lists	22	4	46
Part-time paid break	22	8	48
Part-time Pension Plan	22	14	50
Part-time shift change	22	4	46
Part-time Special Vacations	22	12e	49
Part-time Staggered starting times	22	11	48
Part-time start times	22	10	48
Part-time to Full-time seniority and benefits	22	7	48
Part-time vacations	22	12	49
Part-time wages	22	5	47
PASSENGERS	13		24
Pay - Holiday rate	45	6	115
Pay - Sunday premium	45	5	115
Pay for 6th, 7th Day Start	51	7	121
Pay for Saturday, Sunday Start	51	7	121
Pay for supervisors working violations	3	7d	7
Pay periods	46	2c	116
Pay shortages and penalties	17	p3	32
Payroll checks, EFT, check cards	3	6	6
Peak season operations	26	a	52
Pension Funding - Full-time	34	2	57
Pension payments to the fund	34	3	58
Pension Plan - Part-Time	34	7	59
Pension Trust Agreement	34	5	58
Permanent full-time inside jobs guaranteed	22	2	45
Permanently Disabled Employees	14	3	25
Phone Number Postings	10	2	22
Picket Line	9	1	20
POLYGRAPH / TIME CLOCKS	12		23
POSTING	19		43
Posting Lists	44	3	112
Premium pay for alternate work week employees	46	1	116
PREMIUM SERVICES	43		106
Probationary Employees	44	2	111
PROTECTION OF RIGHTS	9		20
Qualification on Equipment	18	19	39
Radios	18	8	36
Recognition	3	1	3
RECOGNITION, UNION SHOP AND CHECKOFF	3		3
Required Examinations	20	1	43
vi
R^BMG>£[eWJiENlTlSl^ISAj5ject]
Required meetings with the designated responders	18	21	41
Retiree Health & Welfare Coverage - Part-time	34	8	60
Return to Work Examination	20	2	44
Right to inspection of time records	12	p2	23
Right to representation in case of accident	18	3	35
Right to strike to enforce certain terms	7	2	14
Right to sue to enforce certain terms	7	3	15
Route Changes - Temporary or Permanent	44	6	114
Safety and Health Committees (CHSP)	18	20,4	40
SAFETY AND HEALTH, EQUIPMENT, ACCIDENTS AND			3?
REPORTS			
SANITARY CONDITIONS	5		9
Satellite facilities	38	1a	87
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT	2		2
Seasonal employees	44	1	111
Seats	18	4	35
SENIORITY	44		111
Seniority Rights	44	1	111
SEPARABILITY AND SAVINGS	25		51
SEPARATION OF EMPLOYMENT	23		50
Serious accident definition	18	3	35
Shocks	18	10	37
Single Bargaining Unit	2	1	2
Six-for-one basis for filling full time driving jobs	22	4	46
Social Security Number Postings	10	2	22
Social Security numbers on sign in sheets	55	7	125
Special Operation Weeks			128
SPECIAL VACATIONS	53		123
Step-up guarantee	41	5	106
Steward's badge	4	p5	9
STEWARDS	4		7
Stewards - Authority of Stewards	4	P2	7
Stewards - Commitment to active involvement	4	p2	8
Stewards - Employer recognition	4	p1	7
Stewards - Paid for time	4	p4	8
Stewards - Representation rights	4	p1	9
Stewards - Right to Investigate, present, process	4	p3	8
Stewards and Agents - Right to view documents	4	p4	9
Struck Goods	9	2	21
SUBCONTRACTING	32		56
Sun visors	18	5	36
Supervisors shall not work - defined	3	7a	6
Supervisors Working	3	7	6
Suspension or Revocation of License	35	2	60
SYMPATHETIC ACTION	28		52
vii
TABLE OF CONTENTS by Subject
Article Seclion Page
Tax Deferred Savings Plan 401 (k)	29	3	54
Technological Change	6	4	11
Temporary Alternate Work	14	2	25
Third Doctor Procedure	20	3	44
Tires	18	9	37
Trailer Configuration	18	7	36
Transfer of Company Title or Interest	1	3	2
Transportation when injured	14	p7	25
Trial Period	45	3	115
Two Hour Gap Review			128
Uniform starting times - full-time	46	2b	116
UNIFORMS	42		106
UNION ACTIVITY	21		45
Union has equal opportunity to provide applicants	3	1b	3
Union is the exclusive representative	3	1a	3
Union Liability	18	23	43
Union Shop and Dues	3	2	3
Vacation - Eligibility - Full Time	52	1a	121
Vacation - Holiday falls during vacation - options	52	1e	122
Vacation - Option week	53		123
Vacation - Pay	52	2	123
Vacation - Pay upon resignation and prorating	52	1d	122
Vacation - Percent allowed off	52	1e	123
Vacation - Prohibited weeks	52	1c	122
Vacation - Weeks and Selection	52	1b	121
VACATIONS	52		121
Vehicle and Personal Safety Equipment	18	18	39
Vehicle Integrity	18	17	39
WAGES	41		101
Wages - By full-time classification	41	5	103
Wages - Full-time Combination Employees	41	3	102
Wages - Increases - Full-time	41	1	101
Wages - Package care pulling pup	41	4	103
Wages - Progression - Full-time	41	2	101
Waiver of Union representation	4	P3	9
Warning, suspension, discharge letters	4	p5	9
Weekly guarantee	45	7	115
Work Assignments	3	4	6
Work week - alternate work week	46	1b	116
Work week - Monday - Friday	46	1a	116
WORK WEEK AND DAYS	46		116
Workweek Reduction	6	2	10
viii
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT Local 705 / UPS 2002 - 2008 Agreement
This Agreement has been negotiated through the process of collective bargaining and is entered into by and between the parties in a mutual effort to stabilize employment conditions and to promote solid labor and management relations.
Any reference to gender appearing in this Agreement shall mean both the masculine and the feminine gender.
ARTICLE I. PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT
The Employer and the Union adopt this Article and enter into this Agreement with a mutual intent of preserving and protecting work and job opportunities for the employees covered by this Agreement. No bargaining unit work will be subcontracted, transferred, leased, assigned or conveyed except as provided in this Agreement.
Section 1.	Operations Covered
The execution of this Agreement on the part of the Employer shall cover all employees of the Employer in the bargaining unit at any existing centers, new centers, new air hubs and gateway operations, new buildings, and any other new operations of the Employer within the jurisdiction of the Local Union signatory to this Agreement as determined or may be determined by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, with regard to wages, hours, and other conditions of employment.
Section 2.	Employees Covered
Employees covered by this Agreement shall be construed to mean, where already recognized, feeder drivers, package drivers, sorters, loaders, unloaders, porters, office clerical, clerks, general utility, maintenance personnel (building maintenance), car washers, United Parcel Service employees in the Employer's air operation, and to the extent allowed by law, employees in the export and import operations performing load and unload duties and other employees of the Employer for whom the union is or may become the bargaining representative.
In addition, effective August 1,1987, the Employer recognized as bargaining unit members clerks who are assigned to package center operations, hub center operations, and/or air hub operations whose assignment involves the handling and progressing of merchandise, after it has been tendered to United Parcel Service to effectuate delivery. These jobs cover: package return clerks, bad address clerks, post card room clerks, damage clerks, rewrap clerks and hub and air hub return clerks. Effective no later than February 1, 2003 the Employer recognizes as bargaining unit members FDC / ODC clerks, international auditors, "smart label” clerks and revenue auditors who work in the operations facilities.
Section 3.	Transfer of Company Title or Interest
This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors, administrators, executors and assigns. In the event an entire operation, or portion thereof, or rights only, are sold, leased, transferred or taken over by sale, transfer, lease, assignment, receivership or bankruptcy proceedings, such operations or use of such rights shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, for the life thereof.
On the sale, transfer or lease of an individual run or runs, or rights only, the specific provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. It is understood by this Section that the parties hereto shall not sell, lease or transfer such run or runs or rights to a third (3rd) party to evade this Agreement.
In the event the Employer fails to require the purchaser, the transferee, or lessee to agree to assume the obligations of this Agreement, the Employer (including partners thereof) shall be liable to the Local Union and the employees covered for all damages (including but not limited to monetary damages) sustained as a result of such failure to require assumption of the terms of this Agreement until its expiration date, but shall not be liable after the purchaser, the transferee or lessee has agreed to assume the obligations of this Agreement. The Employer shall give notice of the existence of this Agreement to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee, etc., of the operation covered by this Agreement or any part thereof, including rights only. Such notice shall be in writing with a copy to the Local Union, at the time the seller, transferor, or lesser executes a contract or transaction as herein described. The Local Union shall also be advised of the exact nature of the transaction, not including financial details.
Section 4.
The employer agrees that it will be a violation of this Section if it, any affiliate, or any other entity under its control enters into a business so as to duplicate the Employer's common carrier operations as defined in Article 1 in any area. Affiliate for purposes of this Section means any entity which is owned, managed or controlled by the Employer or its parent. This Section will also cover an entity if the Employer or its parent maintains the ultimate right to control or approve a decision by such entity.
The Employer will be financially responsible for all losses resulting from a violation of this Section.
ARTICLE 2.	SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
Section 1. Single Bargaining Unit
All employees covered by this Agreement shall constitute one (1) bargaining unit.
2
To the extent provided by law, this Agreement shall be applied to all subsequent additions to, and extensions of, current common carrier operations of the Employer, and newly established operations of the Employer, which are utilized as a part of such current operations of the Employer, without additional evidence of Union representation of the employees involved (provided that newly acquired operations of the Employer which are not utilized as part of such current common carrier operation of the Employer, shall not be deemed additions to, or extensions of, operations of the Employer). If the Employer purchases a related common carrier business, the Employer, to the extent allowed by law, recognizes Teamsters Local 705 as the bargaining representative and will meet to negotiate proper terms to be included in that new bargaining agreement.
ARTICLE 3.	RECOGNITION, UNION SHOP AND CHECKOFF
Section 1.	Recognition
a)	The Employer recognizes and acknowledges that the Union is the exclusive representative of all employees of the Employer in covered classifications. The employees and Union covered under this Agreement shall constitute one (1) bargaining unit.
b)	When the Employer needs additional employees, it shall give the Union equal opportunity with all other sources to provide suitable applicants, but the Employer shall not be required to hire those referred by the Union.
If employees are hired through an employment agency, the Employer shall pay the employment agency fee, if any, due from the employee. However, if the Union has been given equal opportunity to furnish employees, as provided herein, and if the employee is retained through the probationary period, this fee shall not be paid until the thirty-first (31st) day of employment except as otherwise provided.
Section 2.	Union Shop and Dues
a)	All present employees who are members of the Local Union on the effective date of this Subsection or on the date of execution of this Agreement, whichever is the later, shall remain members of the Local Union in good standing as a condition of employment. In order to assist the Local Unions in maintaining current and accurate membership records, the Employer will furnish the appropriate Local Union a list of new employees. The Employer agrees to notify the Local Union when a new employee attains seniority. This notification will be made in conjunction with the new employee listing. The list will include the name, address, social security number, date of hire, hub or center to which assigned, shift and classification or position hired into. The list will be provided on a monthly basis. All present employees who are not members of the Local Union and all employees who are hired hereafter, shall become and remain members in good standing of the Local Union as a condition of employment on and after the thirty-first (31st) day following the beginning of their employment,
3
or on and after the thirty-first (31st) day following the effective date of this Subsection, or the date of this Agreement, whichever is the later. An employee who has failed to acquire, or thereafter maintain membership in the Union, as herein provided, shall be terminated seventy-two (72) hours after the Employer has received written notice from an authorized representative of the Local Union, certifying that membership has been, and is continuing to be offered to such employees on the same basis as all other members, and further that the employee has had notice and opportunity to make all dues or initiation fee payments. This provision shall be made and become effective as of such time as it may be made and become effective under the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act, but not retroactively.
b)	No provision of Section 2(a) of this Article shall apply to the extent that it may be prohibited by state law.
Section 3.	Dues Checkoff and Joint Dues Committee
The Union and the Employer will establish a Joint Dues Committee to review the deduction and remittance of union dues. This Committee is charged with the responsibility of ensuring that dues are accurately deducted and remitted in a timely manner to the Local Union. It is anticipated that this Committee shall serve as a source of continuing study regarding the most efficient, accurate and expeditious deduction and payment of dues, including exploring electronic solutions. The Union and the Employer will establish procedures for the operation of this Committee.
The Employer agrees to deduct from the pay of all employees covered by this Agreement the initiation fees, dues and/or uniform assessments of the Local Union having jurisdiction over such employees. Employees shall be under an obligation to pay dues from the first day of employment unless prohibited by law. However, initiation fees and or assessments shall begin with the pay period following seniority. Dues in the amount designated by the Local Union shall be deducted from the first paycheck of new employees and then from subsequent paychecks in accordance with the specified weekly amount. The Local Union will provide the Employer a weekly amount to be deducted from each employee. The Local Union will individually specify the weekly amount to be deducted for initiation fees, union dues and/or assessments. For initiation fees and assessments, the Local Union will notify the Employer the number of weeks these deductions are to be taken from the employee. Notification of deductions to be made by the Employer for the benefit of the Local Union must be received at least one month prior to the date the deduction is to be made. The obligation of the Local Union to provide this information shall be satisfied by the transmission of a computer file in mutually agreeable format.
The Employer will provide a remittance to the Local Union within 15 days following the check date the deduction was taken. With each remittance, the Employer shall submit a report, by center and/or sort, listing all employees alphabetically with their social security number and job classification. For those employees who had no deduction for the week, the
4
Employer will provide a reason. In the event the Local Union does not want to receive a weekly remittance, the Employer will provide a monthly remittance by the 15fh day of the following month. However, if this option is chosen, the Employer will still make weekly deductions as described above.
The Employer will provide a list of peak season employees to the Local Union. The company agrees to honor the dues checkoff cards for peak season employees.
Where law requires written authorization by the employee, the same is to be furnished in the form required. No deduction shall be made which is prohibited by applicable law.
Any Local Union shall have the option of monthly deductions with monthly remittance on or before the 15th day of the same month.
On written request of the employee, payroll deductions will be made to purchase U.S. Savings Bonds for said employee.
The Employer agrees to deduct from the paycheck of all employees covered by this Agreement voluntary contributions to DRIVE. DRIVE shall notify the Employer of the amounts designated by each contributing employee that are to be deducted from his/her paycheck on a weekly basis for all weeks worked. The phrase “weeks worked" excludes any week other than a week in which the employee earned a wage. The Employer shall transmit to DRIVE National Headquarters on a monthly basis, in one (1) check, the total amount deducted along with the name of each employee on whose behalf a deduction is made, the employee’s Social Security number and the amount deducted from that employee’s paycheck. The International Brotherhood of Teamsters shall reimburse the Employer annually for the Employer's actual cost for the expenses incurred in administering the weekly payroll deduction plan.
The Employer agrees to deduct certain specific amounts each week from the wages of those employees who shall have given the Employer written notice to make such deductions. The Employer will remit amounts deducted to the applicable credit union once each week. The amount so deducted shall be remitted to the applicable credit union once each month or weekly. The Employer shall not make deductions and shall not be responsible for remittance to the credit union for any deductions for those weeks during which the employee’s earnings shall be less than the amount authorized for deductions.
In the event the Employer has been determined to be in violation of this Article by a decision in the grievance procedure, and if such Employer subsequently is in violation thereof after receipt of seventy-two (72) hours’ written notice of specific delinquencies, the Local Union may strike to enforce this Article. However, such strike shall be terminated upon the delivery thereof. Errors or inadvertent omissions relating to individual employees shall not constitute a violation.
5
Section 4.	Work Assignments
The Employer agrees to respect the jurisdictional rules of the Union and, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, shall not direct or require their employees or persons, other than the employees in the bargaining units here involved, to perform work which is recognized as the work of the employees in said units. This is not to interfere with bona fide agreements with bona fide unions.
Section 5.
The term "Local Union" as used herein refers to the IBT Local Union which represents the employees of the Employer at the particular place or places of business to which this Agreement is applicable, unless by agreement of the Local Union involved or by directive issued pursuant to the IBT International Constitution.
Section 6.
Employees shall have the option of participating in the Employer's electronic funds transfer (EFT), the Employer’s check card payment system, or a paper payroll check system. New employees shall make this election during orientation. Recognizing the mutual benefits and advantages of these systems over a paper payroll check, the Union agrees to encourage all employees to select either EFT or a check card as method of payment.
Section 7.	Supervisors Working
a.	The Employer agrees that the function of supervisors is the supervision of employees and not the performance of the work of the employees they supervise. Accordingly, the Employer agrees that supervisors or other employees of the Employer who are not members of the bargaining unit shall not perform any bargaining unit work, except to train employees or demonstrate safety, or as otherwise provided in this agreement. The employer shall make every reasonable effort to maintain a sufficient workforce to staff its operations with bargaining unit employees. The Employer also agrees that supervisors or other employees of the Employer who are not members of the bargaining unit shall not perform bargaining unit work in preparing the work areas before the start of the Employer's hub, preload or reload operation, nor shall the Employer send any bargaining unit employee home and then have such employee's work performed by a supervisor or other employees of the employer who are not members of the bargaining unit.
b.	When additional employees are necessary to complete the Employer's operations on any shift or within any classification, the supervisor shall exhaust all established local practices to first use bargaining unit employees including, where applicable, double shifting, early call-in and overtime.
6
c.	If there is no established local practice the following shall apply with regard to inside work. Within each building, each operation will maintain appropriate list(s), by seniority, of those part time employees requesting coverage work. It will be the employee’s responsibility to sign up on the appropriate list. The Company shall post such list and employees who are interested in adding their names to the lists shall do so on the first working day of each month. It will be the employee’s responsibility to make sure his/her contact information is correct. Employees who are unavailable to work on three (3) separate occasions within a calendar month shall have their names removed from the coverage list. Those employees shall be eligible to re-sign the list the following month. When coverage work is available, the Company will use the appropriate list to fill the required positions, and such employees will work as assigned. The employee must be qualified for the available work and double shift employees shall have seniority among themselves. No employee is allowed to work more than two shifts in any twenty-four (24) hour period. Local call verification practices and procedures shall remain in place.
Nothing contained in this Section shall change existing practices or procedures covering full time work.
d.	If it is determined at any step of the grievance and/or arbitration procedure that this Section, or a “supervisor working" provision in this agreement has been violated, the aggrieved employee will be paid as follows:
1)	If the actual hours worked by the supervisor amounts to two (2) hours or less, the aggrieved employee will be paid for the actual hours worked by the supervisor at the rate of one and one-half times the employees rate of pay at the time of the incident;
2)	If the supervisor works more than two (2) hours, the aggrieved employee shall be paid four (4) hours at straight time or actual hours worked at one and one-half times the employee’s rate of pay at the time of the incident, whichever is greater. If no aggrieved employee can be identified, the payment will be made to the grievant.
Such remedy shall be in addition to any other remedies sought by the Union in the appropriate grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 4.	STEWARDS
The Employer recognizes the right of the Local Union to designate Job Stewards and alternates from the Employer's seniority list. The authority of Job Stewards and alternates so designated by the Local Union shall be limited to, and shall not exceed, the following duties and activities:
a)	The investigation and presentation of grievances with the Employer or the designated company representative in accordance with the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement:
7
b)	The collection of dues when authorized by appropriate Local Union action; and
c)	The transmission of such messages and information, which shall originate with, and are authorized by the Local Union or its officers, provided such message and information:
1)	Have been reduced to writing; or
2)	If not reduced to writing, are of a routine nature and do not involve work stoppages, slowdowns, refusal to handle goods, or any other interference with the Employer's business.
Job Stewards and alternates have no authority to take strike action or any other action interrupting the Employer's business, except as authorized by official action of the Local Union. The Employer recognizes these limitations upon the authorized Job Stewards and their alternates, and shall not hold the Union liable for any unauthorized acts. The Employer in so recognizing such limitations shall have the authority to impose proper, nondiscriminatory discipline, including discharge. However, in the event the Job Steward or the designated alternate has led, or instigated or encouraged unauthorized strike action, slowdown or work stoppages in violation of this Agreement, he/she may be singled out for more serious discipline, up to and including discharge. Stewards and/or alternate stewards shall not be subject to discipline for performing any of the duties within the scope of their authority as defined in this Section, in the manner permitted by this Section.
Recognizing the importance of the role of the Union Steward in resolving problems or disputes between the Employer and its employees, the Employer reaffirms its commitment to the active involvement of union stewards in such processes in accordance with the terms of this Article.
The Job Steward or the designated alternate shall be permitted reasonable time to investigate, present and process grievances on the Company's property without interruption of the Employer’s operation. Upon notification to his or her supervisor, a steward shall be afforded the right to leave his/her work area for a reasonable period of time to investigate, present and process grievances and to represent a fellow employee concerning grievances or discipline so long as such activity does not interrupt the Employer's operations. The Employer will make a reasonable effort to insure that its operations are not interrupted by the steward's engaging tn such activity. The Employer shall not use interruption of its operation as a subterfuge for denying such right to the steward.
Where mutually agreed to by the Local Union and Employer, stewards may investigate off the property or other than during their regular schedule, without loss of time or pay. Stewards will be paid for time spent in meetings under this Article which occur during the steward's regular working hours. Stewards shall also be paid for time spent at meetings which occur outside his or her working hours, or on days off, by mutual consent. Such time
8
spent during the Job Steward’s or the designated alternate's regular working hours shall be considered working hours in computing daily and/or weekly overtime if within the regular schedule of the Job Steward or the designated alternate.
The Employer recognizes the employee’s right to be given requested representation by a Steward, or the designated alternate, at such time as the employee reasonably contemplates disciplinary action. The Employer also recognizes the steward's right to be given requested representation by another Steward, or the designated alternate, at such time as the Steward reasonably contemplates disciplinary action. When requested by the Union or the employee, there shall be a steward present whenever the Employer meets with an employee concerning grievances or discipline or investigatory interviews.
In such cases, the meeting shall not be continued until the steward or alternate steward is present.
If an employee does not wish to have a Union steward present in any meeting where the employee has a right to Union representation under this Article, the employee shall sign a waiver of Union representation, a copy of which shall be furnished to the Union upon its request.
Business Agents and Stewards shall be permitted to view documents requested in good faith, as permitted by law and the contract, in a timely manner.
If requested by the Local Union, the designated Stewards will be provided with copies of all warning, suspension and discharge letters.
Job Stewards, or designated alternates, shall be allowed to wear an identifying steward’s badge, provided by the Union, at all times while on the Employer’s premises.
ARTICLE 5.	SANITARY CONDITIONS
The Employer agrees to maintain a clean, sanitary washroom having hot and cold running water with toilet facilities in all present and future buildings. The Employer further agrees to provide separate toilet and changing facilities for male and female employees in all present and future UPS buildings which have more than fifteen (15) drivers.
The Employer shall implement procedures designed to ensure privacy for all employees when using facilities in UPS buildings with fifteen (15) or fewer drivers.
Such toilet facilities will be equipped with proper ventilation devices and shall be heated, as climatic conditions shall warrant.
The Employer agrees to provide lockers for those employees who are required to change into a uniform or take a lunch period. All other
9
employees will be provided a suitable area for keeping personal items and clothes. Assigned lockers will not be opened by the Employer unless either the employee or a Union Representative is present.
Where the Employer and the Union agree that the local water is not suitable for drinking, the Employer will provide bottled drinking water.
ARTICLE 6
Section 1.	Extra Contract Agreements
Except as may be otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Employer agrees not to enter into, or attempt to enter into, any agreement or contract with its employees, either individually or collectively, or to require or attempt to require employees to sign any document, either individually or collectively, which in any way conflicts with the provisions of this Agreement. Any such Agreement or document shall be null and void. Any such Agreement or document may not be placed in an employee's file or used by the Employer as a basis for discipline or used in connection with any disciplinary proceeding, nor may any such Agreement or document nor the contents thereof be divulged to any person or entity.
In addition, an employee's refusal to sign a Company form relating to the principle of a fair day’s work shall not be used for disciplinary purposes unless the signing is required by law or by this Agreement.
Section 2.	Workweek Reduction
If either the Fair Labor Standards Act or the Hours of Service Regulations are subsequently amended so as to result in substantial penalties to either the employees or the Employer, a written notice shall be sent by either party requesting negotiations to amend those provisions which are affected. Thereafter the parties shall enter into immediate negotiations for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory solution. In the event the parties cannot agree on a solution within sixty (60) days, or mutually agreed extensions thereof after receipt of the stated written notice, either party shall be allowed economic recourse.
Section 3.	New Equipment
Where new types of equipment and/or operations, for which rates of pay are not established by this Agreement, are put into use after the ratification date of this Agreement within operations covered by this Agreement, rates governing such operations shall be subject to negotiations between the parties. This paragraph shall apply to all new types of equipment including office and clerical equipment.
In the event agreement cannot be reached within sixty (60) days after date such equipment is put into use, the matter may be submitted to the National Grievance Committee for final disposition. Rates agreed upon or awarded shall be effective as of the date equipment is put to use.
to
Section 4.	Technological Change
1.	Technological change shall be defined as any significant change in equipment or materials which results in a significant change in the work of the bargaining unit or diminishes the number of workers in the bargaining unit.
2.	The Employer and the Union agree to establish a National Teamster/UPS Committee for Technological Change, consisting of an equal number of representatives from the Union and UPS. The Committee shall meet in conjunction with the National Grievance Panel as necessary to review any planned technological changes covered by this Section.
3.	The Employer will advise the affected Local Unions and the National Teamster/UPS Committee for Technological Change of any proposed technological changes at least six (6) months prior to the implementation of such change except where the change was later determined in which case the Employer shall provide as much notice as possible.
4.	The Employer shall be required to provide the Local Union or the National Teamster/UPS Committee for Technological Change, upon written request, any relevant information to the extent available regarding the technological changes.
5.	The Employer will meet with the Local Union, or, if requested, the National Teamster/UPS Committee for Technological Change, promptly after notification to negotiate regarding the effects of the proposed technological changes.
If a technological change creates new work that replaces, enhances or modifies bargaining unit work, bargaining unit employees will perform that new or modified work. The Employer shall provide bargaining unit employees with training required to utilize the new technology, if necessary.
6.	In the event that the Local Union and Employer cannot reach an agreement on effects, the matter shall be referred to the National Teamster/UPS Committee for Technological Change.
7.	In the event that the National Committee cannot reach agreement on the dispute, either party may refer all outstanding disputes to the National Grievance Committee for resolution in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 in order to determine if the Employer has violated the provisions of this Section or if the change will result in a violation of any other provision of the collective bargaining agreement.
Section 5.	Hourly Training
1.	It is agreed that Teamster represented employees, on a voluntary basis, may train other employees. UPS reserves the right to choose to use or not to use Teamster represented trainers to fulfill its training needs.
11
2.	Trainers shall be paid a $.50 per hour training premium for each hour spent training.
Drivers training helpers, in accordance with Supplemental Agreements, and two (2) on the car rides for the purpose of route knowledge shall not be entitled to the training premium.
3.	The parties shall establish a National Training Committee. The Committee shall be empowered to hear and resolve any disputes that may arise over these issues. Unresolved disputes will be subject to the National Master Grievance Committee.
4.	Each Supplemental area shall meet and agree or continue existing agreements on the details of the application of this agreement in their area in accordance with Supplemental language. Other issues left for resolution at this level include, but are not limited to, the minimum qualifications for trainers, if any, the number of hours to be worked by the trainer, and the application of Supplemental language concerning compensation for work performed in higher classifications. Disputes shall be resolved in accordance with paragraph 3.
5.	Trainer selection and assignments to on the job training will be done in accordance with supplemental seniority provisions, providing the trainers have the necessary qualifications and skills for the job.
6.	The training records that a Teamster represented trainer can be required to complete for drivers, are those previously agreed to by the parties. If the Employer wishes to amend these forms, it will first meet and agree with the National Training Committee. Such agreement will not be unreasonably withheld. No training record or verbal report by the trainer will be relied upon to discipline any employee or to evaluate any seniority employee's performance.
7.	If a trainer is removed from the qualified list by the Employer, that employee and the Local Union shall have access to the grievance procedure. If the Union establishes that the removal was not for just cause, the grievant shall be reinstated.
8.	No trainer shall be required to train in any method which violates the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
9.	Teamster represented trainers will not be permitted to perform or recommend disciplinary action.
10.	Teamster represented trainers will not be required to make decisions or recommendations regarding the attainment of seniority, by their trainees. The decision as to whether a trainee attains seniority will be made solely by UPS management.
12
11.	Employees to be retrained, after qualifying in their classification, and seniority employees scheduled for safety rides, may request that a non-bargaining unit employee perform that training, in lieu of a Teamster represented trainer. Such requests will be honored.
12.	Trainers will not be held liable for auto accidents incurred by the trainee.
ARTICLE 7.	LOCAL AND AREA GRIEVANCE MACHINERY
Except in cases involving cardinal infractions, as outlined in Article 54 of this Agreement, an employee to be discharged or suspended shall be allowed to remain on the job, without loss of pay unless and until the discharge or suspension is sustained under the grievance procedure. The Union agrees it will not unreasonably delay the processing of such cases.
Section 1.
Differences between the Employer and the Union as to the application or interpretation of any of the provisions of this Agreement, including the question of whether an employee has been disciplined or discharged for just cause, shall be settled by the following grievance and arbitration procedure.
1.	a) The Employee shall discuss any issues or complaints with a supervisor.
b) The Union Steward or Business Agent shall discuss any issues or complaints with the appropriate supervisor or manager.
2.	If the Employee’s issue or complaint is not resolved in step 1(a), the Employee shall discuss the issue or complaint with his/her steward and the appropriate supervisor or manager.
3.	If the parties fail to agree on the dispute or issue the steward shall promptly submit a written grievance to the Employer with a copy to the Business Agent within thirty (30) calendar days of the occurrence or knowledge of the occurrence. Grievances relating solely to discharge or discipline shall be filed within fifteen (15) calendar days of the notice of discipline.
4.	Failure to follow the above procedure may result in the dismissal of the grievance.
5.	Unresolved grievances may be submitted to the 705/UPS Grievance Committee. The 705/UPS Grievance Committee shall consist of an equal number of members selected by the Employer and the Union.
6.	Failure to achieve a resolution resulting in a deadlock at the 705/UPS Grievance Committee may result tn the grievance being submitted to arbitration by the Union.
13
7.	Notwithstanding the forgoing, any case deadlocked by the 705/UPS Grievance Committee that involves the application or interpretation of language that is the same as in the National Master Agreement shall be submitted to the appropriate National Grievance Committee for resolution upon approval of the 705/UPS Grievance Committee Chairs.
8.	The Union shall have up to sixty (60) calendar days to notify the Company by letter or other mutually agreeable means of its intent to arbitrate.
9.	The Company and the Union shall select from a list of five (5) names to be furnished by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service or American Arbitration Association, at the Union’s request, from which list the Employer and the Union shall each strike two (2) different names, and the person whose name remains shall be designated as the arbitrator.
10.	The fees and expenses of the arbitration shall be borne by the loser.
All decisions of the 705/UPS Grievance Committee and or arbitrator shall be final and no strike or lockout shall occur except as is hereinafter provided. Nothing herein shall authorize the arbitrator to alter the terms and conditions of the agreement or make a new Agreement.
Upon failure of the Employer to meet with the Union to adjust a grievance when requested to do so, or to appoint members of the Grievance Committee or to strike names from the list, or failure to comply with any final decision, then the Principal Officer or his / her designee and the Company Regional Labor Relations Manager or his / her designee shall meet within seventy-two (72) hours to attempt to resolve the dispute. Failing to agree, the Union at its discretion shall be permitted all legal and economic recourse (including the right to strike) in support or enforcement of its demands notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement. The action taken by the Union in recourse or enforcement of its right shall not be arbitrable nor reviewable by any tribunal. Grievance and arbitration proceedings on behalf of an employee respecting his/her grievance may be invoked by the Union when in their opinion they deem it justified.
Section 2.
Should a Certified Public Accountant designated by the Union certify in writing specifically that the Employer is violating the wage scale, hours of work, vacations, applicable Health and Welfare provisions or Pension provisions or working conditions or other terms or conditions of employment based upon the payroll records, time cards and/or sheets, audited by him, or if Employer refuses to produce such records for audit as provided in this Agreement, then the grievance procedure shall have no application to such facts and circumstances and the Union shall be permitted all legal and economic recourse including the right to strike notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement.
14
Section 3.
The legal recourse reserved to the Union in this Agreement shall be cumulative with and not exclusive of any other remedy, economic or legal, available to it. The Union may (in addition to pursuing other remedies) sue the Employer in the Union's own behalf or in behalf of any aggrieved employee for specific performance of this Agreement, injunctive relief, recovery of dues, wages, vacations or other benefits or any other legal redress, and the Employer hereby expressly waives the right to object to the Union being party plaintiff in such an action. In pursuing the aforesaid legal remedies, the Union shall have the right to recover all reasonable costs and attorney's fees.
All monetary grievance settlements shall be submitted by separate check payable to the grievant or grievants and a copy of the same sent to the Local Union for their records. Such settlements shall be paid within ten (10) working days of settlement.
ARTICLE 8.	NATIONAL GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Section 1.
All grievances and/or questions of interpretation arising under the provisions of this National Master Agreement shall be resolved in the following manner:
Deadlocked cases involving only National Master language may be submitted to the National Master Panel for decisions. Those deadlocked cases which cannot be decided by a lower panel because of disagreement over the interpretation of National Master language may be submitted to the Master Panel for interpretation. Requests for interpretations with no factual case to be decided will be heard by the Master Panel by mutual agreement of the Co-Chairpersons. Interpretations rendered on factual cases by the National Grievance Committee will be sent back to the lower panel to be used to resolve the factual case.
The Committee shall be composed of an equal number of Employer and Union representatives. The National Grievance Committee shall meet upon call of the Chairman of either the Employer or Union representatives on the National Grievance Committee. The National Grievance Committee shall adopt rules of procedure which may include the reference of disputed matters to subcommittees for investigation and report with the final decision or approval, however, to be made by the National Grievance Committee. If the National Grievance Committee resolves any dispute by a majority vote of those present and voting, such decision shall be final and binding upon all parties.
15
Section 2.	Work Stoppages
All grievances and/or questions of interpretation arising under the provisions of this Agreement shall be submitted to the grievance procedure for determination.
Accordingly, no work stoppage, slowdown, walkout or lockout over such grievances and/or questions of interpretation shall be deemed to be permitted or authorized by this Agreement except:
a.	Failure to comply with a duly adopted majority decision of the National Grievance Committee;
b.	Failure to make health & welfare and pension contributions in the manner required by the Agreement; and,
c.	Nonpayment of established wage rates provided for in this Agreement.
Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) of this Section, strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, walkouts or lockouts over disputes, which do not arise under provisions of this Agreement, shall be permitted or prohibited as provided in this Agreement. The Local Union shall give the Employer a seventy-two (72) hour prior written notice of the Local Union's authorization of strike action, which notice shall specify the majority National Grievance Committee decision or deadlocked National Grievance Committee decision providing the basis for such authorization. The Local Union shall comply with the provisions of this Agreement, relating to strike action resulting from delinquencies in the payment of health and welfare or pension contributions.
Section 3.
The Union and Employer may under this section review and reverse, if necessary, decisions by any area, regional or local grievance committee which interprets Master language erroneously.
The National Grievance Committee may consider and review decisions raising an issue of interpretation of Master Agreement language which are submitted by the Union (either the Chair of the Teamsters National United Parcel Service Negotiating Committee or his designee or the designated Employer representative. The committee shall have the authority to reverse and set aside the majority decision of any area, regional, local grievance committee, if, in its opinion, such decision is contrary to the language of the National Master Agreement. The decision of the National Grievance Committee shall be final and binding. The National Grievance Committee shall determine whether a decision submitted to it raises an issue of interpretation of Master Agreement language.
In order for such cases to be reviewed, the decision must interpret Master language. A decision raising an issue of interpretation of Master Agreement language is one in which (1) Master Agreement language was interpreted
16
by a lower panel (2) the interpretation sets a precedent for future grievances; and (3) a reasonable case can be made that the lower panel interpretation was contrary to the true meaning of the Master Agreement. If the National Grievance Committee deadlocks on whether a decision meets these criteria, arbitration may be requested pursuant to Article 8, Section 4.
Prior to such cases being placed on the Master docket, the moving party either the Chair of the Teamsters National United Parcel Service Negotiating Committee or his designee or the designated Employer representative shall confer with his counterpart and discuss the matter.
Cases that are docketed will be presented in the following manner:
1)	The representatives of the moving party, as described above, present first.
2)	The presenter will cite the specific Master language that the lower panel interpreted;
3)	Any evidence to prove that the interpretation was contrary to the provisions set forth in the Master Agreement must be presented.
4)	The representative of the responding party will present any responsive evidence he / she deems necessary.
5)	If the Master Panel is unable to reach agreement, then either party may appeal the issue presented to final and binding arbitration.
Decisions made by lower panels that are properly submitted to the National Grievance Committee pursuant to this Article and Section, shall be reviewed by the National Grievance Committee. A decision will be entered by the National Grievance Committee based upon its interpretation and the facts of that case. Such decision will be final and binding upon the parties.
Arbitration decisions under this agreement which interpret Master Agreement language may also be submitted to the National Grievance Committee provided the three above referenced criteria are satisfied. If an arbitration decision is reviewed by the National Grievance Committee it shall be processed in accordance with this section except that the Committee will make a final and binding decision rather than refer the case back to the arbitrator. Article 8, Section 4 shall not apply if the National Grievance Committee deadlocks upon review of an arbitrator’s decision.
Section 4.
Where the National Grievance Committee fails to reach a majority decision as to any case submitted pursuant to this Article (excepting arbitrator decisions) either party shall have the right to refer the case to binding arbitration. Either party wishing to submit a grievance to arbitration must do so within ten (10) days of mailing or hand delivery of the National Grievance Committee deadlock decision. The arbitrator is to be selected
17
from an American Arbitration Association national panel list and all aspects of the arbitration procedure shall be governed by the Rules of the American Arbitration Association.
Any provision in the grievance procedure of this agreement which would require deadlocked disputes to be determined by any arbitration process, shall be null and void as to any grievance and/or interpretation of the National Master Agreement, The decision of the National Grievance Committee as to whether a grievance and/or interpretation which is subject to this procedure shall be final and conclusive.
Section 5.
Any grievance that does not raise an issue of interpretation of a Master Agreement Article or Section shall be resolved pursuant to the provisions relating to the local, state and area grievance procedures set forth in this Agreement. Prior to invoking the arbitration procedure the parties, by mutual agreement, may submit said case to the National Grievance Committee for resolution.
In the event of strikes, work stoppages, or other activities which are permitted in case of default or failure to comply with majority decisions under this Agreement, no decision and/or interpretation of this Agreement by any tribunal shall be binding upon the Union or affect the legality or lawfulness of the strikes unless the Union stipulates to be bound by such interpretation, it being the intention of the parties to resolve all grievances and/or questions of interpretation by mutual agreement.
In any Section of this Article where language refers to deadlocks, either party shall have the right to refer any unresolved case to arbitration, except as specified otherwise in Section 2 of this Article.
Section 6.
The arbitrator shall have the authority to apply the provisions of this Agreement and to render a decision on any grievance coming before him/her but shall not have the authority to amend or modify this Agreement or to establish new terms or conditions of employment.
Any grievance that does not raise an issue of interpretation of a Master Agreement, Article or Section shall be resolved pursuant to the provisions relating to the grievance procedures set forth in this agreement. The no-strike, work stoppage, slowdowns, walkout and lockout provisions of this Agreement shall apply to such grievances. Prior to invoking the arbitration procedure the parties, by mutual agreement, may submit said case to the National Grievance Committee for resolution.
18
Section 7.
Deadlocked cases referred from the National Grievance Committee to binding arbitration pursuant to this Article, will be governed by the following procedures:
1.	The arbitration process will be administered by the offices of the American Arbitration Association, whose offices located in the following cities will administer deadlocked cases arising from the following corresponding geographical Regions of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters:
Somerset	Eastern
Chicago	Central
Fresno	Western
Atlanta	Southern
2.	The current arbitrators will continue to serve until the parties jointly designate twenty-eight (28) arbitrators (which may include the incumbents). Cases will be assigned to arbitrators on a rotating alphabetical basis within each Region based upon the date of the original grievance that gave rise to the deadlocked case.
3.	The panels will consist of the following number of arbitrators who hear American Arbitration Association administered cases in each region of the
IBT:
Eastern
Central
Southern Western
11
5
4
8
4.	The parties shall attempt to agree on the four (41 panels within thirty (301 days of the conclusion of negotiations. Failing agreement within that time, the parties shall exchange lists of two (2) times the remaining number of arbitrators to be assigned to each regional panel within fifteen (15) days thereafter and at the conclusion of an additional fifteen (15) days will alternatively strike from the lists until the correct number of arbitrators is left for each panel. Unless the parties mutually agree otherwise, any arbitrator proposed by the Employer or Union must be a member of the National Academy of Arbitrators and reside within the geographical area covered by the panel.
5.	Each arbitrator shall offer one or more potential hearing date(s) within six (6) months of the assignment of the case by the AAA or within six (6) months of a cancellation by either party as outlined below. If the arbitrator fails to offer a timely date, or a timely rescheduled date after a cancellation, the case shall be reassigned to the next arbitrator to be assigned based on the rotating alphabetical list. If an arbitrator fails to offer a timely date on four (4) occasions in a twelve (12) month period, he/she shall be stricken from the panel of arbitrators at the written request of either party. The
19
parties shall fill any vacancy pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraph 4.
6.	Once a case is assigned to an arbitrator it will remain with that arbitrator until it is concluded, except in the case of a reassignment specified in paragraph 5.
7.	The parties may mutually agree in writing to remove any individual arbitrators from the panel at any time. Each party may unilaterally remove two (2) arbitrators during the month of June each year upon giving ten (10) calendar days notice specifying the arbitrator to be removed. The other party shall have the right to remove two (2) arbitrators within ten (10) calendar days from receiving the notice. The parties shall fill any vacancy pursuant to the procedures set forth in paragraph 4.
8.	Except by mutual agreement arbitrations will be scheduled for 10:00 a.m. until at least 5:00 p.m.
9.	There shall be no more than one (1) cancellation of arbitration dates by either party in the hearing of any single arbitration case, except as permitted by the arbitrator with good cause.
10.	The parties shall share equally the American Arbitration Association’s and the arbitrator's fees and expenses for the arbitration or settlement (including rental of the hearing room). The Party requesting a cancellation will pay any cancellation fees.
11.	The location of the arbitration will be determined by mutual agreement, taking into account the travel requirements of witnesses, counsel, and the arbitrator. In the event that the parties are unable to agree on the location the arbitrator will decide. All hearings will be held at the American Arbitration Association offices unless the parties mutually agree on an alternate site.
12.	Any or all of the foregoing may be modified in writing by mutual agreement of the parties at any time.
ARTICLE 9.	PROTECTION OF RIGHTS
Section 1.	Picket Line
It shall not be a violation of this Agreement and it shall not be cause for discharge or disciplinary action (including but not limited to the temporary or permanent replacement of any employee) in the event an employee refuses to enter upon any property involved in a primary labor dispute, or refuses to go through or work behind any primary picket line, including the primary picket line of the Union party to this Agreement, and including primary picket lines at the Employer’s place of business, and the Employer shall not direct any employee to cross a primary picket line.
20
Section 2.	Struck Goods
It shall not be a violation of this Agreement and it shall not be a cause for discharge or disciplinary action if any employee refuses to perform any service which his/her Employer undertakes to perform as an ally of an employer or person whose employees are on strike, and which service, but for such strikes, would be performed by the employees of the employer or person on strike.
Section 3.
Subject to the appropriate subcontracting provisions of this Agreement, the Employer agrees that it will not cease or refrain from handling, using, transporting, or otherwise dealing in any of the products of any other employer or cease doing business with any other person, or fail in any obligation imposed by the Motor Carrier's Act or other applicable law, as a result of individual employees exercising their rights under this Agreement or under law, but the Employer shall, notwithstanding any other provisions in this Agreement, when necessary, continue doing such business by other employees.
Section 4.
The layover provisions of this Agreement shall apply when the Employer knowingly dispatches a road driver to a terminal at which a primary picket line has been posted as a result of the exhaustion of the grievance procedure, or after proper notification of a picket line permitted by the collective bargaining agreement, or economic strikes occurring after the expiration of a collective bargaining agreement or to achieve a collective bargaining agreement.
Section 5.	Grievances
Within five (5) working days of filing a grievance claiming violations of this Article, the grievance shall be submitted directly to the Grievance Committee without taking any intermediate steps, any other provisions of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE 10.	LOSS OR DAMAGE
Section 1.
No employee shall make any reimbursement or have monies deducted from his/her pay for loss or damage to parcels except as provided in this Section.
No employee shall be disciplined or required to make reimbursement for lost or damaged parcels unless the Employer demonstrates that the employee, without justification or mitigation, violated pertinent established rules or policies, the observance of which would have prevented the loss or damage. In no event shall a driver be subject to reimbursement for loss or
21
damage to a Driver Release parcel valued at one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less.
An employee who is charged for loss or damage by the Employer shall not be subject to both discipline and reimbursement. The Employer will clearly notify the employee and the Union of its intent to either discipline or seek reimbursement. No employee shall be subject to discipline or reimbursement unless the Employer brings the loss or damage to the employee's attention within fifteen (15) business days after receiving a written shipper notice of claim.
When an employee is subject to discipline, the employee shall not make any reimbursement for such loss or damage. When an employee is subject to reimbursement, the employee shall not be subject to discipline for such loss or damage.
Any employee who is found to be responsible for two (2) reimbursements in a twelve (12) month period may receive a warning letter in addition to being responsible for reimbursement should a third loss occur in the same twelve (12) month period.
No action shall be taken by the Employer under this Section until the grievance procedure is invoked and concluded. In such grievance hearings the Employer shall present its case first.
If an employee is held liable for reimbursement for loss or damage under Article 10, Section 1 in regard to any package he/she will be held liable for the value of the package, the amount paid by the Employer to the customer, or the insured value of the package, whichever is least.
Reimbursement schedules shall be reasonable and fair, based upon the circumstances of each case.
This Article is not to be construed as permitting charges for loss or damage to equipment or for any damage to merchandise as a result of a vehicular accident under any circumstances.
Section 2.
Employees handling money shall account for and remit the same to the Employer at the completion of each day’s work. An employee's cash turn tn may be verified or audited by the Employer. If the Employer fails to verify and deposit an employee’s cash turn-in, when requested, no deduction or disciplinary action shall be taken. Upon request by the Local Union, the Employer and the Local Union shall meet to review any problems relating to transportation of cash via feeders or cashier's check rules.
To ensure that the employee will not be held accountable when the Employer verifies and deposits or fails to verify and/or deposit the employee's cash turn-in, the employee and Employer will sign a document, to be maintained by the Employer, showing whether the employee
22
requested verification and deposit and whether the employee's cash turn-in has either been verified and deposited or not verified and/or deposited.
In cases of proven bona fide error (in addition or subtraction) of the cash turn-in, the employee will be responsible for making proper restitution for such shortage.
In such cases of bona fide error, the Employer and an employee, with the participation of the Local Union and where permitted by applicable law, shall execute a written document providing for an agreed upon amount and schedule of reimbursement and/or deduction. A copy of any such agreement will be provided to the Local Union.
The Employer shall make a reasonable effort to collect for losses due to bad checks. The employee shall not be held liable for restitution or disciplined if he/she accepts an irregular check if a reasonable person would have accepted the check. No employee shall be subject to restitution or discipline unless the Employer brings the bad check to the employee's attention within fifteen (15) business days after receiving a written shipper notice of claim.
The Employer will not post or make available for viewing in the work place any employee’s social security number or home telephone number.
In areas where bidding systems require both a signature and a phone number, an employee will have the option of providing his/her phone number privately to the person controlling the bid.
Section 3.
The Employer shall reimburse employees for loss of personal money or personal property in a holdup while on duty, up to a maximum of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per employee, provided the employee promptly reports such holdup to the Employer and the police, and cooperates in the investigation of such holdup. Employees shall be paid for all time involved. However, reimbursement for cash loss shall be limited to one hundred dollars ($100.00)
ARTICLE 11.
(RESERVED)
ARTICLE 12.	POLYGRAPH / TIME CLOCKS
No applicant for employment and no employee will be required to take any form of a lie detector test as a condition of employment.
Upon request, an employee or the Union may inspect the record of an employee's time recorded on the DIAD or other device for previous days' work. An employee will be permitted to examine the operation record for the current pay period for the purpose of ascertaining his/her hours worked.
23
The Employer agrees to provide forms for the employee to record his/her starting and ending times.
When requested by the Union, time clocks will be left in place for employees to record their work hours for their own personal use.
ARTICLE 13.	PASSENGERS
No drivers shall allow anyone, other than employees of the Employer who are on duty, to ride on their truck except by written authorization of the Employer, except in cases of emergency arising out of disabled commercial equipment, accidents, or an Act of God, in accordance with Department of Transportation regulations.
ARTICLE 14.	COMPENSATION CLAIMS
Section 1.
When an injury is reported the reference number will be given to the employee and when requested, a copy of the injury report will be furnished to the employee within two (2) working days of such request. A copy of the injury report will also be furnished to the Local Union if requested by a Local Union official.
The Employer agrees to cooperate toward the prompt disposition of employee on-the-job injury claims.
The Employer shall provide the Union Co-chair of the National Safety and Health Committee with current summaries of the essential functions of all positions covered by this Agreement. The Union shall have the right to challenge any such summary through the applicable grievance procedure. Any employee who is adversely affected by any such summary shall have the right to challenge such summary through the applicable grievance procedure.
The Employer shall provide Worker’s Compensation protection for all employees even though not required by state law or the equivalent thereof if the injury arose out of or in the course of employment.
An employee who is injured on the job, and is sent home, or to a hospital, or who must obtain medical attention, shall receive pay at the applicable hourly rate for the balance of his/her regular shift on that day. Upon receiving an employee's timely report of injury, the Employer shall not pressure an employee to continue to work. When, because of such pressure, an employee spends time in a clinic after his or her normal finish time, the time spent shall be the subject of a pay claim through the grievance procedure.
An employee who has returned to regular duties after sustaining a compensable injury, and who is required by the Worker’s Compensation
24
doctor to receive additional medical treatment during the employee’s regularly scheduled working hours, shall receive the employee's regular hourly rate of pay for such time.
The Employer agrees to provide any employee injured locally immediate transportation, at the time of injury, from the job to the nearest appropriate medical facility and return to the job, or to the employee's home, if required. In such cases, no representative of the Employer shall be permitted to accompany the injured worker while he/ she is receiving medical treatment and/or being examined by the medical provider, without the employee's consent. In the event that any employee sustains an occupational illness or injury while on a run away from the home terminal, the Employer shall obtain medical treatment for the employee, if necessary, and, thereafter, will provide transportation by bus, train, plane or automobile to the employee's home terminal, if and when directed by a doctor.
In the event of a fatality, arising in the course of employment while away from the home terminal, the Employer shall return the deceased to the home of the deceased at the point of domicile.
Section 2.	Temporary Alternate Work
The Company may continue a modified work program on a nondiscriminatory basis. This program is designed to provide temporary work opportunity to those employees who are unable to perform their normal work assignments due to an on-the-job injury. Employees shall be provided their guaranteed hours for the duration of TAW, provided the work is available. These guaranteed hours will be reduced as medical restrictions dictate.
The Employer will develop a list of possible TAW assignments by location. It is understood that this list may not be all-inclusive and management maintains the right to determine the availability and designation of all TAW assignments.
Any such program that has been, or is in effect, as of the effective date of this Agreement, shall be reduced to writing, a copy of which must be submitted to the National Safety and Health Committee and the affected Local Union. If either party wants to include non-work related injuries or illnesses under the TAW program the parties will meet and agree upon such amendment. The Employer shall also meet with the Local Union upon request to discuss any changes the Local Union may propose in the TAW program. Any unresolved issues will be referred to the National Safety and Health Grievance Committee for resolution.
Section 3.	Permanently Disabled Employees
The Parties agree to abide by the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act. The Company shall be required to negotiate with the Local
25
Union prior to providing a reasonable accommodation to a qualified bargaining unit employee.
The Company shall make a good faith effort to comply in a timely manner with requests for a reasonable accommodation because of a permanent disability. Any grievance concerning the accommodation not resolved at the center level hearing will be referred to the appropriate Union and Company co-chairs for the Local Area or to the Region Grievance Committee, if applicable. If not resolved at that level within ten (10) days, the grievance shall be submitted directly to the National Safety and Health Grievance Committee.
If the Company claims that the individual does not fall within the protections of the Americans with Disabilities Act, then the grievance must follow the normal grievance procedure in order to resolve that issue before it can be docketed with the National Safety and Health Committee.
Any claim in dispute concerning rights under this Section shall be addressed under the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement. A grievance may be filed by an employee or the Union, notwithstanding any contrary provision in this agreement. The submission of a claim under this Section to the grievance and arbitration procedures of the Agreement shall not prohibit or impede an employee or the Union from pursuing their statutory rights under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) or comparable state or local laws.
The parties agree that appropriate accommodations under this Section are to be determined on a case-by-case basis.
Section 3.1
Pursuant to Article 22.3 and Article 37 and notwithstanding language in this agreement, the Employer and the Union agree to meet and discuss certain full-time positions that may be filled by employees who can no longer perform their assigned job. When full-time openings occur, these employees will be given the opportunity to fill the opening prior to the Employer hiring from the outside. The employee must be physically fit and qualified to perform the new job. The employee placed in the opening will be paid the rate for the job based upon the employee's seniority.
ARTICLE 15.	MILITARY CLAUSE
Employees in service in the uniformed services of the United States, as defined by the provisions of the Uniform Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA), Title 38, U.S. Code Chapter 43, shall be granted all rights and privileges provided by USERRA and/or other applicable state and federal laws. This shall include continuation of health coverage as provided by USERRA, and pension contributions for the employee's period of service, as provided by USERRA. Employees shall be subject to all obligations contained in USERRA which must be satisfied for the employees to be covered by the statute.
26
The Employer, in its discretion, may make additional payments or award additional benefits to employees on leave for service in the uniformed services in excess of the requirements outlined in the USERRA.
Upon notification from an employee that he/she is taking USERRA qualified military leave, the Employer shall notify the Local Union within five (5) business days.
ARTICLE 16.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Section 1.
The Employer agrees to grant the necessary time off, without discrimination or loss of seniority rights and without pay, to any employee designated by the Union to attend a labor convention or serve in any capacity on other official business, provided forty-eight (48) hours written notice is given to the Employer, by the Union, specifying length of time off. The Union agrees that, in making its request for time off for Union activities, due consideration shall be given to the number of employees affected in order that there shall be no disruption of the Employer's operations due to lack of available employees.
A Union member elected or appointed to serve as a Union official shall be granted a leave of absence during the period of such employment, without discrimination or loss of seniority rights, and without pay.
Section 2.
Any employee desiring leave of absence from employment shall secure written permission from both the Union and the Employer. The request for leave of absence shall be made in writing at least thirty (30) days before the day on which the leave is sought to commence. If the leave is not foreseeable, the employee shall submit the written request as soon as possible and shall include an explanation why the leave was not foreseeable. The Employer and Union shall respond to the request in writing within ten (10) days after receiving the request. The maximum leave of absence shall be for ninety (90) days and may be extended for like periods. Permission for the same must be secured from both the Union and the Employer. During the period of absence, the employee shall not engage in gainful employment, except as provided in Section 3 below.
Failure to comply with this provision shall result in the complete loss of seniority rights for the employees involved. Inability to work because of proven sickness or injury shall not result in the loss of seniority rights.
The employee may make suitable arrangements for the continuation of health and welfare and pension payments before the leave may be approved by either the Local Union or the Employer.
27
Section 3.	Loss of License
Section 3.1	Leave of Absence
When an employee, in any job classification requiring driving, loses his or her operating privilege or whose license has been suspended or revoked for reasons other than those for which the employee can be discharged by the Employer, leave shall be granted for such time as the employee's operating privilege or license had been suspended or revoked but not for a period longer than one (1) year, provided the driver whose operating privilege or license has been suspended or revoked notifies the employee's immediate supervisor before the employee’s next report to work of such suspension or revocation. The above provision need apply only to the first (1st) suspension or revocation except for suspension of commercial drivers license (CDL) of one (1) year or less duration.
Employees who take a leave of absence under this Section whose loss of operating privilege or license is the result of driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol will be allowed alternative work and to return to their job in accordance with Section 3.3 below.
Section 3.2,	Alternate Work (Other than Alcohol/Controlled Substance)
When an employee, in any job classification requiring driving, has lost his/her license under this Article he/she shall be afforded the opportunity to displace junior, one (1) full-time or two (2) part-time, inside employees, until he/she can return to his/her driving job, not to exceed one (1) year, unless provided for otherwise in this Agreement. The employee shall receive the appropriate rate of pay for the job performed based on his/her seniority. Coverage for benefits shall continue for the length of the leave of absence or for the job duration, up to one (1) year.
Section 3.3.	Alternative Work (Alcohol/Controlled Substance)
When an employee, in any job classification requiring driving, has lost his/her license for driving under the influence of alcohol or a controlled substance he/she will be offered available inside work of one (1) full-time or two (2) part-time openings, not to exceed one (1) year provided that the employee is assessed by a Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) and is released to return to work by the SAP. The SAP shall establish the terms upon which the employee may return to work. The employee must also enter a rehabilitation program, if required by the SAP, within one (1) month of the SAP's assessment. The employee shall be returned to driving once he/she successfully completes the rehabilitation program, provided his/her driving privileges have been restored. The employee shall receive the appropriate rate of pay for the job performed based on his/her seniority. Coverage for benefits shall continue for the length of the leave of absence or for the job duration, up to one (1) year.
Any driver cited for Driving Under the Influence who does not have his/her license suspended, or .who has limited driving privileges shall be
28
assessed by a SAP within five (5) working days of the citation. If the SAP determines the driver does not require rehabilitation, then he/she shall be allowed to return to driving. Until the assessment is completed, the driver shall be allowed to work inside in accordance with the paragraph above. If rehabilitation is required, the above paragraph shall also be applicable. The one time right to rehabilitation provided in Article 35, Section 4.11 shall not be applicable to a driver who completes a rehabilitation program under this paragraphs unless, as a result of the DUI citation, the driver is convicted or loses his/her license for driving.
This Section does not apply to the employee that has lost his/her license for being disqualified for testing positive for controlled substances.
Section 3.4	CDL Qualification
This Article shall also apply in the event an employee is unable to successfully pass the DOT commercial drivers license (CDL) examination provided the employee makes a bona fide effort to pass the test each time the opportunity presents itself.
Section 4.	Maternity and Paternity Leave
It is understood that maternity leave for female employees shall be granted with no loss of seniority for such period of time as her doctor shall determine that she is physically unable to return to her normal duties and maternity leave must comply with applicable state and federal laws.
A light duty request, certified in writing by a physician, shall be granted in compliance with state or federal laws, if applicable.
Paternity leave shall be granted in accordance with Section 6 of this Article with the exception of employees not able to meet the qualifications set out in Section 6, who shall be granted leave not to exceed one (1) week.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any Supplement, Rider, or Addenda, an employee shall be allowed to designate in any vacation year paid time off up to twenty (20) days, to be used in the next vacation year, in accordance with this paragraph. Any paid time off that is provided on a weekly basis can only be banked in weekly increments. The accrued paid time off may be used in the next vacation year to cover any period of time that (1) the employee is determined to be unable to perform her job due to pregnancy (for the father, time off is requested due to the birth) and (2) is not covered by the FMLA, existing disability plans or other paid time off. If the accrued time off is not used in that year, it will be paid to the employee within two weeks of the request. If the vacation is not used as part of the leave, and it would have originally been taken in that vacation year, the employee shall also have the option of rescheduling the unused vacation as time off in accordance with local practice.
29
Section 5.	Rehabilitation Program - Leave of Absence
An employee shall be permitted to take a leave of absence for the purpose of undergoing treatment in an approved program for alcoholism or substance abuse. Employees may use the United Parcel Service Employee Assistance Program (EAP); a Union sponsored rehabilitation program, as well as any other referral service in choosing an approved program for treatment.
The leave of absence must be requested prior to the commission of any act subject to disciplinary action except as provided in Article 35, Section 3 and Section 4. The leave of absence shall be for a maximum of ninety (90) days; additional time may be granted if it is mutually agreed between the Company and the Union, or requested by the Substance Abuse Professional (SAP). While on such leave, the employee shall not receive any of the benefits provided by this Agreement, except the continued accrual of seniority.
If an employee voluntarily enters such a rehabilitation program, under the provisions of the Article, the following shall apply:
1.	Before returning to work, the Employer shall ensure that the employee is “alcohol/drug free," This requirement shall be satisfied when the employee has provided a negative drug test result, as per cutoff levels contained in Section 3.3 or Section 3.4 of Article 35, as applicable, and/or an alcohol test with an alcohol concentration less than .02.
2.	Within one year of the date on which an employee returns to work, the employee may be subject to unannounced alcohol/drug testing, as specified in the return to work agreement. The one (1) year period may be extended only by the SAP and must be substantiated by written verification of the SAP.
3.	Unannounced alcohol/drug testing for the above mentioned employee, if required, shall be determined by the SAP as provided in this Article. The date, time and place of collection for alcohol/drug testing, if required, shall be determined by the SAP.
4.	Failure to comply with the after-care treatment plan or a positive specimen as part of the after-care treatment plan will result in discipline pursuant to Article 35, Sections 3.13 and 4.12.
All alcohol/drug treatment agreements including pre-care, after-care and return to work agreements entered into shall be confidential and signed by the employee and SAP overseeing the treatment program and must have been approved by the Local Union business agent prior to the employee’s signature. The post-care agreement shall comply with all provisions of this Article.
The Employer agrees to recognize the employee's rights to privacy and confidentiality while being party to such an agreement. The Employer
30
agrees that in all circumstances the employee's dignity will be considered and all necessary steps taken to insure that the entire process does nothing to demean, embarrass or offend the employee unnecessarily.
Section 6.	Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
All employees who have worked for the Company for a minimum of twelve (12) months and worked at least 1250 hours during the past twelve (12) months are eligible for unpaid leave as set forth in the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.
Additionally, any employee not covered above, that has worked for the Company for a minimum of thirty-six (36) months and accrued at least 625 paid hours during the past twelve (12) months is eligible for unpaid leave as set forth below, except that the amount of leave allowed will be computed at one half (1/2) of the time provided by the FMLA.
Eligible employees are entitled up to a total of 12/6 weeks of unpaid leave during any twelve (12) month period for the following reasons:
1.	Birth of a child;
2.	Adoption, or placement for foster care;
3.	To care for a spouse, child, or parent of the employee due to a serious health condition;
4.	A serious health condition of the employee.
The employee’s seniority rights shall continue as if the employee had not taken leave under this section, and the Employer will maintain health insurance coverage during the period of the leave.
The Employer may require the employee to substitute accrued paid vacation or other paid for leave for part of the 12/6 week leave period.
The employee is required to provide the Employer with at least thirty (30) days advance notice before FMLA leave begins, if the need for leave is foreseeable. If the leave is not foreseeable, the employee is required to give notice as soon as practicable. The Employer has the right to require medical certification of a need for leave under this Act. In addition, the Employer has the right to require a second (2nd) opinion at the Employer's expense.
The provisions of this section are in response to the Federal Act and shall not supersede any state or local law which provides for greater employee rights.
31
ARTICLE 17.	PAID-FOR TIME
Al! employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid for all time spent in service of the Employer. Rates of pay provided for by this Agreement shall be minimums. Time shall be computed from the time that the employee is ordered to report for work and registers tn and until the employee is effectively released from duty. All time lost due to delays as a result of overloads or certificate violations involving federal, state or city regulations, which occur through no fault of the driver, shall be paid for by the Employer.
The Employer will not allow employees to work prior to their start time without appropriate compensation.
Wages for properly selected vacations, in all instances, will be paid to the employees no later than the workday prior to their vacation. If the employee does not receive his/her vacation check, the Employer will make all reasonable efforts to provide the check the following day including delivery by Saturday or Next Day Air. Other shortages involving more than thirty dollars ($30.00) for full-time employees, and fifteen dollars ($15.00) for part-time employees, will be corrected and the payment will be made available to the employee at his/her reporting location on his/her second scheduled workday after reporting the shortage. If the Employer fails to make the payment available on the employee's second scheduled workday and the shortage was the result of the Employer's error, the employee will be paid an additional amount equal to one-half of his/her daily guarantee at his/her regular hourly rate for every full pay period in which the shortage is not paid after the second (2nd) scheduled work day, until corrected.
Errors of less than thirty dollars ($30.00) for full-time employees or fifteen dollars ($15.00) for part-time employees and overages will be corrected in the following weekly paycheck.
All green checks will be taxed at the employee’s regular withholding tax rate.
Paycheck stubs will show the year-to-date vacation, sick and personal leave balances.
ARTICLE 18.	SAFETY AND HEALTH, EQUIPMENT, ACCIDENTS AND REPORTS
Preamble
The Employer and the Union agree that the safety of the employees and the general public is of utmost importance.
The Employer and the Union have developed the following Sections and Subsections of this Agreement to respond to that mutual concern for safety. The contract language responds to a variety of areas related to safety, health, ergonomics, climatic conditions as well as federal, state and local laws dedicated to providing a safe and healthy workplace.
32
To address safety and health issues, the Employer and the Union have developed the following:
A.	National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Committee.
B.	National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Grievance Committee to respond to safety, health, ergonomic and climatic issues and concerns; and;
C.	Safety and Health Committee, chaired by the UPS Director of Health and Safety and the IBT Director of Safety and Health, will be formed to address present and future safety and health solutions.
D.	Local area joint labor/management committees comprised of bargaining unit members and management to address job related safety and health concerns through the Comprehensive Health and Safety Process (CHSP).
Notwithstanding the employee’s right to contact federal, state or local agencies, it is the recommendation of the committee that issues and concerns, regarding this Agreement, should first be brought before the National Safety and Health Committee.
Section 1.	Employees’ Rights - Equipment, Vehicles and Conditions
The Employer shall not require employees to take out on the streets or highways any vehicle, or use any type of equipment, that is not in a safe operating condition or equipped with the safety appliances prescribed by law. First line trailers will be swept on a daily basis. All package cars and tractors will be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition including mirrors and windows.
Under no circumstances will an employee be required or assigned to engage in any activity involving dangerous conditions of work or danger to a person or property or in violation of a government regulation relating to safety of person or equipment. The term “dangerous conditions of work” does not relate to the type of cargo which is to be hauled or handled.
It shall not be a violation of this Agreement, or cause for disciplinary action, where employees refuse to operate equipment or a vehicle when such operation constitutes a violation of any state or federal rules, regulations, standards or orders applicable to commercial motor vehicle safety or health, or because of the employee’s reasonable apprehension of serious injury to himself/herself or the public due to the unsafe conditions as set out in any state or federal rules, regulations, standards or orders applicable to commercial motor vehicle safety or health to include Part 392.14 of the Federal Motor Carrier Regulations.
33
Section 2.	Out of Service Equipment and Vehicle Reports
All equipment which is refused, or has been written up for repair, because not mechanically sound or properly equipped, shall be appropriately tagged, and placed out of service, so that it cannot be used by other drivers, or employees until the Automotive/Maintenance Department has adjusted the complaint.
Employees shall immediately, or at the end of their shifts, report all known defects of equipment on a suitable form furnished by the Employer. The Employer shall not ask or require any employee to utilize equipment that has been reported by any other employee as being in an unsafe condition. Such equipment will be red tagged, as necessary, by automotive/maintenance personnel. The tag must not be removed until the Automotive/Maintenance Department has determined that the vehicle/equipment is in a safe operating condition or, where no Automotive/Maintenance Department exists, qualified management will make the deciding determination. Management not qualified to make such a determination, will consult with qualified automotive/maintenance personnel before removing a red tag. The person making the decision will sign off the car condition report or other form required by law. Any automotive/maintenance person consulted will be noted on this report.
When the occasion arises where an employee gives a written report on forms in use by the Employer of a vehicle/equipment being in unsafe working or operating condition and receives no consideration from the Employer, the employee shall take the matter up with an officer of the Union, who will take the matter up with the Employer. But in no event shall an employee be required to operate a vehicle/equipment that is unsafe or in violation of any federal, state or local, rules, regulations, standards or orders applicable to equipment or commercial motor vehicles.
Copies of the car-condition reports or Driver Vehicle Inspection Reports (DVIR) will be available in centers for review by drivers. Upon notification, drivers may make copies of said reports in facilities that have copy equipment. In facilities with no copy equipment, the employee will be provided a copy as soon as practical, when requested. In no case will the copy of the DVIR remain valid after the DOT retention requirement (90 days) or the original DVIR expires. The current DVIR will be maintained in each vehicle between completions of Preventative Maintenance Inspections (PMI). Other copies will be made available for review by drivers as required by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act (FMCS), 49 CFR 396, as applicable to the Employer.
Section 3.	Accidents and Reports
Any employee involved in any accident shall immediately notify the Employer.
When required by the Employer, the employee, before the end of the employee's shift, shall complete a report of the accident including all
34
available names and addresses of witnesses to the accident. The reference number will be given to the employee, and when requested, a copy of the accident report will be furnished to the employee within two (2) working days of such request. A copy of the accident report will also be furnished to the Local Union if requested by a Local Union official. In cases of equipment accidents where a Driver’s Report of Accident form is completed, the employee will be given a copy of the form the same day, when requested. In facilities with no copy equipment the employee will be provided a copy as soon as practicable.
In the event of a vehicle accident, the Employer shall have twenty (20) days to complete its investigation, if warranted, and ten (10) days to take disciplinary action, if any, unless otherwise mutually agreed. Except for serious accidents, where the driver may be presumed to be at fault, a driver will not be removed from the payroll during an investigation of the accident.
A serious accident is defined as one in which:
1.	There is a fatality, or;
2.	A citation is issued and there is bodily injury to a person who, as a result of the injury, receives immediate medical treatment away from the scene of the accident, or;
3.	A citation is issued and one or more motor vehicles incur disabling damage as a result of the accident requiring a vehicle to be transported away from the scene by a tow truck or other vehicle.
4.	Any vehicular contact with an aircraft which results in damage that grounds such aircraft.
5.	There is an accident involving a motor vehicle on Company property, outside of any building that results in a fatality or bodily injury to a person, who as a result of the injury receives medical treatment away from the scene of the accident.
The driver will be entitled to non-driving work during this period at his/her normal rate of pay.
The Employer and the Union mutually agree that the employee’s rights to Union representation will be protected pursuant to Article 4 of the National Master UPS Agreement.
Section 4.	Seats
The Employer will provide air-ride seats in all new tractors and when replacing the driver seat in present tractor equipment. Such seats shall be maintained in a proper and reasonable condition.
When replacing the seat cushion in package cars where the seat is attached to a post, the Employer will use the new soft ride cushion agreed
35
to. When replacing the seat back, the Employer agrees to provide the new seat back with the adjustable lumbar support feature. Seat backs will be replaced as needed subject to availability from the manufacturer. In all new P-32 through P-120 vehicles, the Employer agrees to provide multi-adjust seats.
Section 5.	Sun Visors
Employer approved replacement sun visors will be provided upon request on all equipment.
Section 6.	Building Heat
Centers will be heated, where practical.
On a facility-by-facility basis, the Employer will evaluate whether additional ventilation or heat is needed for purposes of safety and health. This will include clerical work areas outside of office structures in the UPS facilities.
Section 6.1.
Indoor Air Pollution
1.	Motor vehicles shall be physically connected to a local exhaust ventilation system when the operations in the shop require that the vehicle engine be idled or otherwise operated. Shop areas shall be designated as separate walled-in areas.
2.	The Employer will instruct drivers of motor vehicles not to allow vehicles to unreasonably idle while indoors.
Section 7.	Trailer Configuration
The Employer will make every effort to have the heaviest loaded trailer as the lead trailer. If the percent of load in one (1) trailer exceeds the other by twenty-five percent (25%) or more, such trailer shall be the lead trailer, except when state or federal regulations require otherwise. However, if the driver feels the percentage exceeds twenty-five percent (25%) in the rear trailer or the unit does not handle properly, he/she may contact management and will be authorized to switch the unit and be paid for such time.
Section 8.	Radios
Transistor radios will be allowed in package cars.
Applicable laws regarding the use of cell phones while driving will be followed by all employees while driving company vehicles. The use of cell phones by other employees will be with the approval of the Employer.
The use of Citizen Band (C.B.) Radios, not to exceed five (5) watts, shall be permitted in all feeder road equipment as follows:
36
a.	Operators of C.B. Radios must conform to FCC rules and regulations and be properly licensed and license be on record with the Employer.
b.	Head sets and earphones shall not be allowed.
c.	The Employer will not be responsible in any way for any damage or loss of C.B. Radio equipment.
d.	All power hookups and antenna brackets shall be provided and installed by the Employer.
e.	Antennas shall be so installed that they do not interfere with the operation of the wash rack or restrict the vision of the driver.
Section 9.	Tires
Only first-line tires will be used on the steering axle of feeder road equipment, including P80's used as feeders. In case of breakdown a temporary replacement other than a first-line tire may be used to return to the home terminal. The Company agrees to not mix radials and bias ply tires on the same unit.
Section 10.	Shocks
Where the manufacturer recommends and provides shock absorbers as standard equipment, properly maintained shocks on such equipment shall be considered as a necessary and integral part of that assembly.
Section 11.	Mirrors
All vehicles shall be equipped with regular mirrors and a convex mirror.
New feeder road equipment shall be equipped with heated mirrors. Any feeder road equipment not presently equipped shall be equipped with heated mirrors when the mirrors require replacement.
The Employer shall continue to install and maintain the agreed to camera/monitor backing system devices in all package cars for the furtherance of safety while backing If technological advances would allow a more effective system or enhancements in the current system, the Employer shall meet with the Union to discuss and review any potential chances
Upon request, cab-over tractors with a lower window on the right side door will be equipped with a convex mirror on the door.
Section 12.	Dollies
All new dollies placed into service shall be counter balanced (max 70 lb. lift weight) with handles on the tongue. All dollies in the system will be counter balanced for 70 lb. lift weight and have handles on the tongue.
37
Section 13.	Exhaust Systems
All new diesel tractors added to the fleet after January 1, 1994, shall be equipped with a vertical exhaust stack. Package car exhaust systems, when replaced, shall exit to the side of the vehicle.
Section 14.	Package Cars
All new package cars, P-32 and larger, added to the fleet shall be equipped with package compartment venting. Upon ratification of this Agreement, the Climatic Conditions Committee shall meet to evaluate and, if needed, recommend appropriate methods for venting the package compartments. The installation of cab compartment fans will be determined by individual districts.
All requests for door handle shields coverings will be complied with in a timely manner.
When requested, package cars larger than a P-32 will have grab handles located on the curbside of the package car and mounted on the inside, and will be equipped with mounting brackets to secure hand carts. The Employer will make every effort to require all new package car designs to have lower cab entry steps
Gearshift extensions shall be addressed on a case-by-case basis.
All new package cars placed into service shall be equipped with power steering.
The Employer will replace package cars at a rate no less than the percent replaced over the duration of the prior contract that expired July 31, 2002. The Union will be notified if the Employer cannot meet this schedule because of volume downturns.
A package car will be equipped with a handcart at the driver's request.
Section 14.1. Driver Safety and Security
The bulkhead door release in package cars must be accessible from the inside as well as the outside in order to enable exit from the package compartment.
Section 15.	Heaters and Defrosters
The Employer shall install and maintain heaters and defrosters on all trucks and all safety equipment required by law. Complaints regarding heaters or defrosters not being in proper working order shall be addressed pursuant to the red-tagging procedures under Article 18, Section 2.
38
Section 16.	Noise Abatement
All new package cars and feeders will be ordered to comply with Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (FMCSR), regarding in cab noise levels.
Section 17.	Vehicle Integrity
The Employer agrees to maintain all door and engine compartment seals in order to eliminate, as much as possible, fumes, dust and moisture in the package car.
Section 18.	Vehicle and Personal Safety Equipment
All automotive vehicles shall be equipped with a manufacturer certified seat belt restraint system. Jump seats shall be equipped with a safety belt. Three-point shoulder harness safety belts shall be provided on the driver’s side of all new vehicles, and on the jump seat for all new P-32 through P-120 vehicles and all new 24-foot vans. It shall be required that the driver’s seat belt and the jump seat safety belt be worn at all times when the vehicle is moving.
Feeder tractor door locks, where provided as original equipment, shall be maintained in working order.
Section 19.	Qualification on Equipment
If the Employer or a government agency requests a regular employee to qualify on equipment requiring a classified or special license, or in the event an employee is required to qualify (recognizing seniority) on such equipment in order to obtain a better job opportunity with his/her Employer, the Employer shall allow such regular employee the use of the equipment so required in order to take the examination.
Section 20.	National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Committee
Se	ction 20.1. National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Committee
Safety, Health and Equipment Issues
The Employer and the Union shall maintain a National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Committee. The Committee shall be governed by the terms of this Agreement and by an agreed to set of rules of procedure.
It is the responsibility of the Committee to provide guidance and recommendations on all factual issues, involving safety and health (including ergonomic issues) and equipment, affecting employees covered by the National Master United Parcel Service Agreement. The Committee is also charged with the responsibility to review and approve the development and implementation of the CHSP. At the discretion of the chairmen, it may also consider any subject pertaining to the safety and health of the employees covered by this Agreement which it deems
39
significant. Such Committee shall convene on a regular basis, with an agenda to be agreed to by the respective chairmen.
As agreed by the chairmen, the Committee may establish such subcommittees as it deems necessary to address matters affecting safety and health.
Se	ction 20.2 - National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Grievance Committee
The Committee shall also serve as the National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Grievance Committee. All interpretations and grievances, of a factual nature, arising under but not limited to Articles 18 and 35 of the National Master UPS Agreement shall be heard by the Committee, pursuant to Article 8, of the National Master UPS Agreement, and the rules of the National Grievance Committee.
Decisions of this Committee shall be final and binding on all parties. Cases that are deadlocked by the Committee, unless called to the National Grievance Committee by mutual agreement of the National Chairpersons, may proceed to arbitration.
The Committee shall meet in conjunction with the National Grievance Panel to resolve all cases on its agenda.
Se	ction 20.3 Climatic Conditions Committee
The National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Committee is also responsible for the Climatic Conditions Committee, formulated to review severe climatic conditions that may seriously affect employees in different geographic areas.
The Committee shall have the authority to resolve factual issues before it and its decision will be final and binding. Cases that are deadlocked by the committee shall be referred to the National Grievance Committee.
Se	ction 20.4. Safety and Health Committees
There shall be Safety and Health committees to cover all full-time and part-time employees. There shall be one committee per Center unless the number of employees and/or job classifications within a center dictate the establishment of more than one committee. The respective committees will be comprised of a mutually agreed to number of bargaining unit representatives and up to an equal number of management representatives.
Bargaining unit members who seek to serve on the Safety and Health committee may volunteer to do so, with approval of the local union. The Union co-chair of the committee(s) shall be selected by the bargaining unit members of the committee.
40
Each committee shall meet at least once each month at a mutually agreeable time and place. The Employer shall provide committee members with adequate time to perform committee functions, as described in paragraphs 1 through 7 below.
Each committee shall perform functions including but not limited to:
1.	Creating sub-committees, on an as needed basis, to investigate specific issues of safety and health concern. These committees shall report to the full committee.
2.	Developing and maintaining minutes for all meetings with copies to all committee members and posted on designated safety bulletin boards.
3.	Conducting periodic inspections of the facility to ensure that there is a safe, healthful and sanitary working environment in each center.
4.	Accompanying governmental union, and/or company health and safety professionals on facility inspection tours. The Employer may limit the number of bargaining unit members of the committee accompanying such an inspection tour.
5.	Receiving information pertaining to lost workday injury/accident causes and review results of the investigation of such injuries / accident.
6.	Receiving copies of the center's OSHA Illness and Injury logs and the facility's man-hours.
7.	Receiving the Company sponsored training to enable committee members to effectively perform their respective functions as safety and health committee members.
Any information provided to a CHSP committee will not be shared outside the committee without the Employer's consent.
If the committee is unable to resolve a safety and health concern and all steps of the Comprehensive Health and Safety Process (CHSP) have been exhausted, the issue will be subject to the grievance procedure.
Section 21.	Hazardous Materials Handling Program
The Employer and the Union in compliance with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) have developed a comprehensive program to deal with hazardous material spills, the UPS Damaged Package Response procedure. As a result of the Agreement, the Employer developed a training program for individuals who are responsible for responding to spills of hazardous materials.
The Employer agrees to:
1.	Provide twelve (12) hours of training, and the proper equipment, to those employees involved in the clean-up of hazardous material spills. All
41
designated responders, when positions become open, will be selected in seniority order. The Employer will allow first responders to resign their position with written notice given at least sixty (60) days prior to their annual certification. The resignation will become effective upon completion of training of a replacement. The Employer may disqualify such employees from holding the position of designated responder for a period of one (1) year.
2.	Provide one (1) hour of awareness training to every employee who handles packages potentially containing hazardous materials.
3.	Conduct training for new employees during orientations and for current employees during normal working hours, with all employees compensated at the appropriate rate of pay.
4.	Provide the necessary medical examination for designated first responders at no cost to the employee.
5.	Provide annual refresher training to all employees.
6.	Comply with all applicable state and federal OSHA regulations regarding hazardous materials.
7.	Identify, process and store all hazardous type waste, resulting from spilled or leaking packages, in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local laws. Processing of hazardous material spills will be initiated and completed as soon as practicable, but in all events prior to the hazmat responder being assigned to other non-hazmat duties or completing his/her shift. The Employer designated processing area will be properly ventilated.
8.	Conduct emergency evacuation drills on an annual basis.
9.	The Employer will hold meetings, with the designated responders, on a scheduled basis, and when necessary will hold special meetings, to discuss and resolve problems or concerns related to hazardous material handling, clean-up and storage of hazardous materials. The Employer agrees to resolve any problems or concerns as expeditiously as possible.
The National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Committee is also responsible for an Occupational Safety and Health Subcommittee to provide training recommendations for handling hazardous materials, toxic and other harmful substances for appropriate bargaining unit employees.
This Committee shall function as part of the National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Committee and shall review UPS hazardous materials training programs and make recommendations for improvements in:
1.	Training course content, material and frequency.
2.	Equipment needed.
3.	Other related issues deemed appropriate by the Committee.
42
Failure of the subcommittee or the National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Committee to reach an agreement will result in the unresolved issue being processed under the National Grievance procedure rules.
Section 22.	Incompatible Package Handling
The Employer agrees that all irregular or incompatible packages such as bars, buckets, exposed metal parts, tire rims, etc., shall be given special handling in accordance with UPS handling methods and local conditions.
Section 23.	Union Liability
Nothing in the Agreement or its Supplements relating to health, safety or training rules or regulations shall create or be construed to create any liability or responsibility on behalf of the Union for any injury or accident to any employee or any person or does the Union assume any such liability or responsibility.
The Employer will not commence legal action against the Union, on a subrogation theory, contribution theory, or otherwise, as a result of the Union’s negotiation of safety standards contained in this Agreement or failure to properly investigate or follow-up Employer compliance with those safety standards.
ARTICLE 19.	POSTING
The Employer agrees to supply and provide suitable space for the Union bulletin board in each center, hub, or place of work. Postings by the Union on such board are to be confined to official business of the Union and on the Union's official letterhead or TITANS. In each package center there shall be a covered bulletin board. Union Stewards shall have a key for the Union bulletin boards. The Employer shall not remove, tamper with or alter any notice posted by the Union unless such notice is harmful to the Employer. Any such notice removed by the Employer shall be re-posted if the Union's position is sustained through the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 20.	EXAMINATION AND IDENTIFICATION FEES
Section 1.	Required Examinations
Physical, mental or other examinations required by a government body or the Employer shall be promptly com plied with by all employees; provided, however, the Employer shall not pay for any time spent in the case of applicants for jobs, but shall be responsible to other employees only for time spent at the place of the examination or examinations where the time spent by the employee exceeds two (2) hours, and in that case only for those hours in excess of said two (2). Examinations are to be taken at the employee's home area and are not to exceed one (1) in any one (1) year, unless the employee has suffered serious injury or illness within the year. Employees will not be required to take examinations during their working
43
hours unless paid by the Employer for all time spent. Employees shall be given reasonable notice of dates of examinations.
For those drivers subject to DOT regulations who possess a valid medical certificate from a designated DOT provider, the Employer shall pay for any additional physical, mental, or other examinations required by the Employer to confirm the validity of the medical certificate.
Section 2.	Return to Work Examination
It is understood by the Employer, and the Union, that once an employee notifies the Employer that he/she has been released to return to work by the employee's doctor, the Company doctor must examine the employee within three (3) working days from the time the employee brings the return-to-work slip to the Employer.
Section 3.	Third Doctor Procedure
The Employer reserves the right to select its own medical examiner or doctor and the Union may, if it believes an injustice has been done an employee, have said employee re-examined at the employees expense. If the two (2) doctors disagree, the Employer and the Union shall mutually agree upon a third (3rd) doctor within ten (10) working days, whose decision shall be final and binding on the Employer, the Union and the employee. Neither the Employer nor the Union will attempt to circumvent the decision of the third (3rd) doctor and the expense of the third (3rd) doctor shall be equally divided between the Employer and the Union.
If the third (3rd) doctor agrees that the employee should be returned to work, the employee shall be reimbursed at his/her daily guarantee, less any other monies received back to the date of the examination by the Company doctor. It shall exclude any time the employee was not available for examination or work.
Section 4,	Disqualified Driver - Alternative Work
Except as provided for in Article 16, a driver who is judged medically unqualified to drive, but is considered physically fit and qualified to perform other inside jobs, will be afforded the opportunity to displace the least senior full-time or part-time inside employee at such work until he/she can return to his/her driving job unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement. While performing the inside work, the driver will be paid the highest part-time rate as an employee with equivalent seniority or current area practice. If no full-time inside position is available, the Employer will meet with the Local Union to develop a full-time position, if possible out of available work.
Section 5.	Identification
Should the Employer find it necessary to require employees to carry or record personal identification, such requirements shall be complied with by
44
the employees. The cost of such personal identification shall be borne by the Employer.
All management personnel shall wear a nametag identifying them as supervision while on duty.
ARTICLE 21.	UNION ACTIVITY
Any employee member of the Union acting in any official capacity whatsoever shall not be discriminated against for acts as such officer of the Union so long as such acts do not interfere with the conduct of the Employer's business, nor shall there be any discrimination against any employee because of union membership or activities. Any employee shall have the right to wear a Union pin where there is a practice affording such a right.
ARTICLE 22.	PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Section 1.
No part-time employee shall drive except:
a.	When no full-time employee or combination full time employee is on the premises:
b.	To avoid delay in the work; or,
c.	As provided for in Article 40 Air Operation
Section 2.
The number of permanent full-time inside jobs in each Local Union area as of April 30, 1979, shall be guaranteed from replacement by part-time employees. In addition, the number of permanent full-time inside jobs created after April 30, 1979, under the provisions of Section 3 will also be guaranteed from replacement by part-time employees. The exception to the above will be in cases of bona fide agreements prior to the ratification of this Agreement.
Section 3.
The parties agree that providing part-time employees the opportunity to become full-time employees is a priority of this Agreement. Accordingly, the Employer commits that during the life of this Agreement, it will offer part-time employees the opportunity to fill at least five hundred (500) permanent full-time job openings throughout its operations covered by this Agreement.
The commitment shall include the obligation to create at least the number of full-time or combination full-time jobs as listed on the following page:
45
1st year	0
2nd year	125
3rd year	0
4th year	125
5th year	100
6th year	150
The Employer shall, wherever possible, reschedule part-time employees to make additional full-time jobs or combination full-time jobs. No part-time employee shall be laid off or suffer loss of job as a result of creating a full time job under this Article or Article 40.
In order to enable the Union to enforce and monitor this provision, the Employer shall provide a quarterly report to the designee of Local 705 containing the location of each job created under this Section during the previous quarter and the identity of the jobs combined to create the positions.
Part-time employees shall be selected for full-time openings in accordance with the procedures contained in the Local 705 Agreement.
The number of full time jobs created under Article 22, Section 3 of the 1997 - 2002 Agreement shall not be reduced.
Section 4.
Part-time employees shall be given the opportunity to fill full-time jobs before hiring from the outside on a six-for-one basis [six (6) part-time to every one (1) outside hire].
The following will be incorporated into the job selection procedures in this Agreement.
The Employer will fill all vacancies and permanent new jobs for part-time employees from the part-time selection list in all months except November and December.
Part-time employees with six (6) months or more seniority shall have the right to place their name on the list of employees waiting to be moved to a preferred job within their building. Such preferred jobs shall include, but not be limited to: Preload, Sorter, Clerical, Irregular Train, Designated Responder, Carwasher, Loader and Unloader. Employees do not have the right to select any specific unit, load or workstation unless a prior past practice has been established.
A maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the employees on a shift shall be allowed to change shifts in any one (1) calendar year. The employee obtaining the new position shall remain on that shift for at least six (6) months.
46
Section 5.	Wages
a.	Part-Time Employees
All part-time employees who have attained seniority as of August 1, 2002 will receive the following general wage increases:
August 1, 2002	seventy-five cents per hour	($0.75)
August 1, 2003	seventy-five cents per hour	($0.75)
August 1, 2004	eighty cents per hour	($0.80)
August 1, 2005	eighty cents per hour	($0.80)
August 1, 2006	ninety cents per hour	($0.90)
August 1,2007	one dollar per hour	($1.00)
In addition to the general wage increases above, part-time employees who have attained seniority as of August 1, 2002 and were not red-circled on or before 1982 shall receive the following increases:
August 1, 2002	ten cents per hour	($0.10)
August 1, 2003	fifteen cents per hour	($0.15)
August 1,2004	fifteen cents per hour	($0.15)
August 1, 2005	twenty cents per hour	($0.20)
August 1, 2006	twenty cents per hour	($0.20)
August 1, 2007	twenty cents per hour	($0.20)
Part-time employees still in progression on the effective date of this Agreement shall receive the above contractual increases and, will be paid no less than what they are entitled to in accordance with the wage schedules in Article 22, Section 5 (b) below.
b.	Newly Hired Part-Time Employees
All part-time employees who are hired or reach seniority after August 1, 2002, will be paid according to the following wage schedules:
Hourly Rate
	Preloader/Sorter	All Others
Start	$ 9.50	$8.50
Start plus ninety (90) calendar days	$10.00	$9.00
Seniority plus one (1) year	$10.50	$9.50
Seniority plus two (2) years	$11.00	$10.00
Seniority plus three (3) years	$11.50	$10.50
Seniority plus four.(4) years	$12.25	$11.25
Employees working high volume direct or low volume direct shall receive the preloader / sorter rates.
c.	The wage rates and increases provided in (a) and (b) shall be a minimum.
47
d.	All part-time employees governed by this Article shall be provided a minimum daily three and one-half (3-1/2) hour guarantee. Should any part-time employee work beyond the fifth (5th) hour, he / she shall be paid time and one-half (1-1/2) his / her regular rate for all time worked in excess of five (5) hours.
Section 6.
Part-time employees who do not meet the qualifications for driving after the forty (40) day probationary period will be ineligible for another attempt during the life of the Agreement.
Section 7.
If any part-time employee subsequently becomes a regular full-time employee, he/she shall be considered a newly hired full-time employee. At such time, he/she shall be entitled to such other benefits as provided in this Agreement.
Part-time employees who become full-time employees will, after one (1) year of service as a full-time employee, get credit for their part-time service for vacation purpose.
Section 8.
Part-time employees shall be given a paid break of ten (10) minutes per day. Breaks shall not be scheduled prior to one (1) hour of work being performed.
Section 9.
Part-time employees will work off of the part-time seniority list in each Center.
Seniority shall prevail for extra work and the work shall be assigned by seniority within the classification and work area to those who are qualified, present and available.
Section 10.
Part-time employees starting times must be posted by Friday of the preceding work week, except for those employees on an alternate work week schedule as defined in Article 46, Section 1(b) whose starting times must be posted by their last scheduled work day each week.
Section 11.
The use of part-time employees or the staggering of their starting times will not be used to defeat a full time job.
48
Section 12.	Vacations
a)	An employee, who has been employed for one (1) year from his/her anniversary date of hiring, and has worked 625 hours, shall be entitled to one (1) week vacation with pay computed at twenty (20) times his/her straight time hourly rate of pay.
b)	An employee, other than in his/her first year of employment, who has worked not less than 625 hours in a year from his/her anniversary date of hiring, shall be entitled to vacation with pay according to the following schedule:
1 year 3 years 9 years 15 years 20 years 25 years	20 hours 40 hours 60 hours 80 hours 100 hours 120 hours
c)	Any part-time employee who is eligible for a full vacation, and who resigns or whose services are terminated due to circumstances over which he/she has no control, shall receive pay for the number of weeks vacation as set forth in subsection (b) or his/her then completed years of service. Any part-time employee, after his/her first year of employment who resigns, or whose services are terminated due to circumstances over which he/she has no control, but who has not worked 625 hours, shall be entitled to receive a pro-rata vacation to be computed according to the formula below. This formula shall also apply to employees still on the payroll who have worked less than 625 hours during their anniversary year.
Pro-rata shall be computed on a percentage basis by dividing the number of straight time hours worked into 625 and that will equal the percent (%) of vacation paid.
d)	If a holiday falls during a part-time employee's vacation, he/she shall be paid for the holiday in addition to his/her regular vacation pay or shall receive an additional consecutive day of vacation with pay at the option of Employer.
e)	Special Vacations. See Article 53 (Special Vacations)
Section 13.	Health and Welfare
Health and Welfare insurance will be provided for part-time employees during the term of this Agreement as outlined in the new UPS Health & Welfare Package Summary Plan Description.
Part-time employees who have achieved seniority as of July 31, 2002 shall receive dependent coverage and eye and dental coverage as outlined in the new UPS Health & Welfare Package Summary Plan Description. Part-time employees who achieve seniority on or after August 1, 2002 shall
49
receive dependent coverage and eye and dental coverage effective thirty-six (36) months from their original seniority attainment date as outlined in the new UPS Health & Welfare Package Summary Plan Description.
The Employer will provide, to all part-time employees, Health and Welfare booklets describing benefits.
Part-time employees shall receive the same coverage as full time employees with the exception of the weekly accident and sickness benefits and Life Insurance coverage as outlined in the new UPS Health & Welfare Package Summary Plan Description.
Section 14.	Pension Plan.
Part-time employees will be covered under United Parcel Service, Inc. Pension Plan as required by law and not by the Local Union No. 705 Pension Plan.
Section 15.	Part-time Employee Educational Transfer
Part-time employees who wish to transfer to another location outside of Local 705’s jurisdiction for educational purposes may submit a written request to the Employer. If approved, the transfer shall be allowed subject to the following conditions:
A.	A part-time opening exists at the desired location.
B.	Employees must have attained seniority and been employed by the Employer for at least one year.
C.	Job Classification Seniority shall be end tailed.
D.	Company seniority shall be retained for the purpose of number of weeks of vacation, and number of holidays in accordance with the applicable Supplement at the new location.
E.	Any expenses, including moving expenses associated with an approved transfer, shall be the responsibility of the employee.
ARTICLE 23.	SEPARATION OF EMPLOYMENT
Upon discharge, the Employer shall pay all money due to the employee during the first (1st) payroll department working day. Upon quitting, the Employer shall pay all money due to the employee on the payday in the week following such quitting.
ARTICLE 24.	INSPECTION PRIVILEGES
Authorized Representatives of the Union shall have access to the Employer’s establishment during working hours for the purpose of adjusting
50
disputes, investigating working conditions, collection of dues, and ascertaining that this Agreement is being adhered to, provided, however, that there is no interruption of the Employer’s working schedule.
The Employer agrees that in situations where a specific form of identification may be required by law to access a location, it will assist the Local Union in obtaining such identification so as to perform their duties consistent with this Article.
ARTICLE 25.	SEPARABILITY AND SAVINGS
If any Article or Section of this Agreement be held invalid by operation of law or by any tribunal of competent jurisdiction, or if compliance with or enforcement of any Article or Section should be restrained by such tribunal pending a final determination as to its validity, the remainder of this Agreement or the application of such Article or Section to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it has been held invalid or as to which compliance with or enforcement of has been restrained, shall not be affected thereby.
In the event that any Article or Section is held invalid or enforcement of or compliance with which has been restrained, as above set forth, the parties affected thereby shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations after receipt of written notice of the desired amendments by either the Employer or the Union for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement of such Article or section during the period of invalidity or restraint. There shall be no limitations of time for such written notice. If the parties do not agree on a mutually satisfactory replacement within sixty (60) days after receipt of the stated written notice, either party shall be permitted all legal and economic recourse in support of its demands notwithstanding any provisions of this Agreement to the contrary.
ARTICLE 26.	COMPETITION
The Union recognizes that the Employer is tn direct competition with the United States Postal Service and other firms engaging in the distribution of express letter, parcel express, parcel delivery, and freight, both air and surface. In order to meet that competition and thereby protect and, if possible, increase the number of bargaining unit jobs, it is agreed that any provisions in the Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Employer:
a)	May use substitute means of transportation (such as airplane, helicopter, ship or T.O.F.C.) in its operations; provided, however, that no feeder driver in the employ of the Employer, as of August 1, 1997, will be laid off or displaced from a feeder classification as a result of a run being placed on the rail. However, the Employer shall not be required to remove loads from the rail to provide work for employees whose ground loads were eliminated or temporarily discontinued. Any claimed abuse of this Section by the Local Union shall be subject to immediate review by the Grievance Committee.
51
Merchandise that has been tendered by United Parcel Service to the | railroad and moved by T.O.F.C. will not subsequently be moved by the railroad, on the ground, to its final destination. Any exception to the above language will be in cases of emergency or cases where the railroad must ground the merchandise early to meet the company's service commitment.
In these cases, every effort will be made to use UPS employees.
Bargaining unit employees will move scheduled T.O.F.C. loads from the rail yards to UPS locations except during peak season.
During peak season, the Employer will make every reasonable effort to use current UPS employees and hire a sufficient number of employees to handle peak volume. After doing so, the Employer may use alternate means of transporting packages during peak season and will utilize union carriers whenever possible. Plans to utilize outside carriers will be reviewed and agreed with the Local Union. Such Agreement will not be unreasonably withheld.
b)	May drop loaded or empty trailers at locations designated by it, its customers or consignees for customer or consignee loading or unloading. It is understood that customers and consignees will not move trailers for loading and/or unloading other than on their premises. It is further understood that dropping and picking up these trailers shall be done by members of the bargaining Unit.
c)	All loading and unloading of dropped shipment at UPS locations will be done by UPS employees.
ARTICLE 27.	EMERGENCY REOPENING
In the event of war, declaration of emergency, imposition of mandatory economic controls, the adoption of a National Health Program or any Congressional or Federal Agency action which has a significantly adverse effect on the financial structure of the Employer, during the life of this Agreement, either party may reopen the same upon sixty (60) days written notice and request renegotiation of the provisions of this Agreement directly affected by such action. There shall be no limitation of time for such written notice. Upon the failure of the parties to agree in such negotiations, within sixty (60) days thereafter, either party shall be permitted all lawful economic recourse to support its request for revisions.
If governmental approval of revisions should become necessary, all parties will cooperate to the utmost to attain such approval. The parties agree that the notice provided herein shall be accepted by all parties as compliance with the notice requirements of applicable law, so as to permit economic action at expiration thereof.
ARTICLE 28.	SYMPATHETIC ACTION
In the event of a labor dispute between any Employer party to this Agreement and any International Brotherhood of Teamster's Union parties
52
to this or any other International Brotherhood of Teamster's Agreement during the course of which dispute such Union engages in lawful economic activities which are not in violation of this or such other Agreement, then any other affiliate of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters having an Agreement with such Employer shall have the right only if sanctioned pursuant to the procedures of the International Constitution, and only after receiving such sanctions, to engage in lawful economic activity against such Employer in support of the above first mentioned Union notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or the International Brotherhood of Teamsters Agreements between such Employer and such other affiliate.
ARTICLE 29.
Section 1.	Jury Duty
When a seniority employee is called for jury duty service, he/she shall be excused from his/her regular duties on the days he/she is required to appear in court or comply with jury rules that prevent him/her from reporting for work. For any regularly scheduled workday in which time off for such jury service is granted, the full-time employee shall be paid his/her guarantee and part-time employee shall receive four (4) hours' pay at his/her straight-time hourly rate, less any amount received as a jury duty fee if such fees are defined as wages under applicable laws. The employee shall be required, however, to turn over to the Employer adequate proof of his/her jury duty service and compensation, if any, in order to receive the compensation provided above.
Employees who are scheduled to work a day shift shall not be required to report for work on any day he/she is required to report for jury duty unless released from jury duty not less than six (6) hours prior to the end of his/her regularly scheduled shift, in which event he/she will be allowed two (2) hours from the time he/she is released from jury duty to report and work the remainder of his/her regularly scheduled shift.
Employees scheduled to work any shift other than the day shift shall not be required to report to work on any day he/she is required to report for jury duty unless he/she has been released from jury duty not less than four (4) hours prior to the start time of his/her regular shift and provided further he/she would complete such shift not less than ten (10) hours prior to the time he/she is required to report for jury duty the next following day. Notwithstanding the above, no employee, working other than a day shift, will be required to report to work on a night if he or she has served jury duty that day and that service prevents him or her from reporting for work.
In the event an employee returns to work after being released from jury duty and works beyond his/her regularly scheduled workday such hours worked shall be compensated for at the applicable overtime rate of pay.
53
An employee who is required to report for jury duty during a week of previously scheduled vacation may select another available week of vacation.
Time spent on jury duty service will be considered time worked for purposes of Employer contributions to health & welfare and pension plans, vacation eligibility and payment, holidays and seniority, in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement.
Section 2.	Funeral Leave
In the event of a death of a member of the employee’s family, a seniority employee shall be allowed a reasonable time off to attend the funeral or other bereavement rite.
Members of the employee's family means spouse, child, or step-child, grandchild, father, mother, brother, sister, grandparents, mother-in-law and father-in-law and step-parents.
A regular full-time employee shall be guaranteed two (2) days off to be taken between the day of death and two (2) working days following the funeral provided the employee attends the funeral or other bereavement rite. In cases involving the funeral of a relative listed in paragraph 2 above, an employee who attends the funeral or bereavement rite is guaranteed a minimum of two days off.
An employee shall be allowed one (1) day off to attend the funeral or other bereavement rite of a sister-in-law or a brother-in-law. Reimbursement for this day shall be the same as provided below.
Time off shall not extend beyond the day of the funeral unless an additional day is required for travel, except as provided above. In no event will total compensated time off exceed four (4) scheduled workdays. The employee will be reimbursed at eight (8) times the employee’s straight-time hourly rate for each day lost from work for those employees whose regular scheduled workweek is five (5) days, and ten (10) times the straight-time hourly rate for those employees whose regular scheduled workweek is four (4) days. Part-time employees will receive the same benefits as above, paid at four (4) times the employee's hourly rate.
Section 3.	Tax Deferred Savings Plan 401(k)
The Employer and the Union agree to continue the Teamster UPS National 401 (k) Tax Deferred Savings Plan. The Employer shall pay the record-keeping expense for the Plan.
It is further agreed by the Union and the Employer that the Employer shall withhold from an employee's earnings, amounts mutually agreed between the Employer and the employee, and deposit such monies into a 401(k) account in the employee’s name in compliance with the Internal Revenue Code and E.R.l.S.A.
54
r
The Plan will be jointly administered by the Union and the Employer.
ARTICLE 30.	JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES
In the event that any dispute should arise between the Local Union party to this Agreement and any other Union, relating to jurisdiction over employees or operations covered by this Agreement, the Employer agrees to accept and comply with the decision or settlement of the Unions or Union tribunals which have the authority to determine such dispute. The parties do not intend by this paragraph to take away the Employer's right to designate the home domicile of his employees provided, however, that any employees adversely affected shall have recourse to the grievance procedure. The Employer further agrees that prior to the change of the domicile of any of its employees, it shall so notify the Union.
ARTICLE 31.	GARNISHMENTS
In the event of notice to the Employer that a court order has been issued requiring the Employer to withhold a percentage of an employee's wages to satisfy a garnishment, the Employer may take disciplinary action if the employee fails to satisfy such garnishment or wage assignment within a seventy-two (72) hour period after notice to the employee that the Employer is considering disciplinary action. However, the Employer may not discharge any employee by reason of the fact that his/her earnings have been subjected to garnishment or wage assignment for any one (1) indebtedness. An employee may be suspended by reason of the fact that his/her earnings have been subjected to garnishment or wage assignment for any one (1) indebtedness, but any such suspension must be for a fixed, stated period of time.
If the Employer is notified of three (3) garnishments or wage assignments for more than one (1) debt, irrespective of whether satisfied by the employee within a seventy-two (72) hour period, the employee may be subjected to discipline. However, the employee may not be discharged upon notice of a third (3rd) garnishment, under this provision, unless and until the Employer has actually begun withholding the employee's wages on a second (2nd) debt. If the Employer has an established practice of discipline or discharge with a fewer number of garnishments or wage assignments, or impending garnishments or wage assignments, and if the employee fails to adjust the matter within the seventy-two (72) hour period, such past practice shall be applicable, provided it does not result in the discharge of an employee prior to the actual withholding of the employee's wages for a second (2nd) debt.
A garnishment for child support or alimony shall not be considered a debt for purposes of discipline.
55
The Employer shall comply with federal, state and local law in enforcing the provisions of this Article, discipline or discharge pursuant to this Article shall be reasonable and nondiscriminatory.
ARTICLE 32,	SUBCONTRACTING
For the purpose of preserving work and job opportunities for the employees covered by this Agreement, the Employer agrees that no work or services of the kind, nature or type, and including new operations or buildings, covered by, presently performed, or hereafter assigned to the collective bargaining unit will be subcontracted, transferred, leased, assigned or conveyed in whole or in part to any other plant, person or non-unit employees, unless otherwise provided in this Agreement. The Employer may not subcontract work in any classification for the purpose of avoiding overtime. The Employer may not subcontract work in any classification if any employee who normally performs such work is on layoff.
The number of car washer and porter jobs in the bargaining unit as of July 31, 1990 shall be guaranteed from replacement by the Employer subcontracting this work. It is further agreed that additions to the workforce in areas that currently have bargaining unit employees performing this work shall become bargaining unit members covered under this Agreement.
ARTICLE 33.	COST-OF-LIVING
All seniority employees who have completed their appropriate wage progression schedule shall be covered by the provisions of a cost-of-living allowance, as set forth in this Agreement.
Employees, who have not completed their appropriate wage progression on the effective date of a COLA increase, shall receive the adjustment on a prospective basis on the date they complete their wage progression schedules.
The amount of the cost-of-living allowance shall be determined as provided below on the basis of the “Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, CPI-W (Revised Series using 1982-1984 Expenditure Patterns). All items (1982-84=100), published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor" and referred to herein as the "Index".
Effective August 1, 2003, and every August 1 thereafter during the life of the agreements a cost-of-living allowance will be calculated on the basis of the difference between the Index for May 2003 (published June 2003) and every May thereafter, and the base Index for May 2002 (published June 2002) and every May thereafter, as follows:
For every 0.2 point increase in the Index, over and above the base (prior year's) Index plus 3.0% there will be a 1 cent increase in the hourly wage rates payable on August 1, 2003, and every August 1 thereafter. These increases shall only be payable if they equal five cents ($0.05) in a year.
56
All cost-of-living allowances paid under this agreement will become and remain a fixed part of the base wage rate for all job classifications. A decline in the Index shall not result in the reduction of classification base wage rates.
Mileage Paid employees will receive cost-of-living allowances on the basis of 0.25 mills per mile for each 1 cent increase in hourly wages, subject to the threshold set forth above.
In the event the appropriate Index figure is not issued before the effective date of the cost-of-living adjustment, the cost-of-living adjustment that is required will be made at the beginning of the first (1st) pay period after the receipt of the Index.
In the event that the Index shall be revised or discontinued and in the event the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, does not issue information which would enable the Employer and the Union to know what the Index would have been had it not been revised or discontinued, then the Employer and the Union will meet, negotiate, and agree upon an appropriate substitute for the Index. Upon the failure of the parties to agree within sixty (60) days, thereafter, the issue of an appropriate substitute shall be submitted to an arbitrator for determination. The arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding.
ARTICLE 34.	HEALTH & WELFARE AND PENSION
Section 1.	Health and Welfare Insurance
Health and Welfare insurance will be provided for full-time employees and retired employees during the term of this Agreement as outlined in the new UPS Health & Welfare Package Summary Plan Description.
In the event that national health care legislation is enacted, the parties agree to meet and discuss any ramifications of that legislation on the provisions of this Article.
Section 2.	Pension Funding
Pension contributions for all full time employees shall be as follows:
Date	Employer Weekly Contribution
August 1, 2002	$186.00	per week
August 1, 2003	$200.00	per week
August 1, 2004	$214.00	per week
August 1, 2005	$228.00	per week
August 1, 2006	$242.00	per week
August 1, 2007	$260.00	per week
57
Section 3.
The Employer payments to the Fund shall be as follows:
a)	The amount per employee per week shall be paid for each regular employee covered by this Agreement for any week in which such employee performs any services for the Employer even when such services are not performed under the terms of this Agreement;
b)	Payment shall be made on replacements for absentee employees for the days worked by such replacements at a rate equal to twenty percent (20%) per day of the aforesaid weekly payment;
c)	If an employee is absent because of non-occupational illness or injury, the Employer shall pay the required payment for a period of four (4) weeks;
d)	If an employee is absent because of occupational illness or injury, the Employer shall pay the required payment for the period of twelve (12) months;
e)	The obligation to make the above payments shall continue during periods when a new Collective Bargaining Agreement is being negotiated;
f)	All leaves of absence, when granted by the Employer, in addition to the requirements of the parties, shall be conditioned upon the Employer and the employee making satisfactory arrangements for paying the weekly payment to the Fund and at all times the payment shall be made by the Employer for the period of such granted leave of absence;
g)	The Employer is not obligated to make payments to the Fund for an absent employee, except as outlined in subsection (c) and (d) above,
h)	Contributions required to be paid hereunder shall be paid for all days off which are paid for under the Holiday and Vacation provisions of this Agreement.
Section 4.
Whenever the Union in its discretion determines that the Employer is delinquent in making payments to the Pension Trust Fund, as required under this Agreement or the rules and regulations of the Fund, a meeting shall be scheduled between the Company and Union Co-Chairs. If a resolution to the dispute cannot be reached, the Union will provide the Company with a seventy-two (72) hour notice prior to striking the Employer to enforce payment.
Section 5.
Payments will be made to the Local 705 International Brotherhood of Teamsters Pension Trust Fund (Fund) an irrevocable trust heretofore created by an Agreement and Declaration of Trust (Trust Agreement)
58
pursuant to a Collective Bargaining (Cartage) Agreement between certain Employers and the Union. The Fund shall use these payments for purposes permitted under the Trust Agreement and to provide pension, death and such other benefits as permitted by said Trust Agreement, as amended.
Section 6.	Full-Time Long-Term Disability
Long Term disability will be provided for full-time employees during the term of this Agreement as outlined in the new UPS Health & Welfare Package Summary Plan Description.
Section 7.	UPS Part-Time Pension Plan
1)	The UPS Pension Plan will be improved to provide monthly benefits to part-time employees as follows:
The benefit formula in the UPS Pension Plan for current or future part-time employees who are participants will be increased effective August 1, 2004 to fifty-five dollars ($55.00) for each year of past and future credited service to a maximum of 35 years of credited service.
For example, the total combined monthly benefit will be equal to the following provided the employee meets the credited service requirement:
$1,925.00 at any age after 35 years of Credited Service
$1,650.00 at any age after 30 years of Credited Service $1,375.00 at age 60 with 25 years of Credited Service $1,125.00 at any age with 25 years of Credited Service
(Based on $45.00 per year of credited services)
2)	Part-time employees will receive one (1) year of Credited Service for 750 or more paid hours. (Six months of part-time Credited Service will be granted for 375 to 500 hours worked in a calendar year, and 9 months of part-time Credited Service will be granted for 501 to 749 hours worked in a calendar year. This paragraph will also be applied to determine Credited Service for all full time employees on the payroll on August 1, 2002 who were formerly participants in the UPS Pension Plan.
3)	The Employer will be responsible for funding the UPS Pension Plan as required to provide the benefits described above and will be responsible for maintaining the plan.
4)	The UPS Pension Plan will be governed by the terms of the Plan document.
5)	Effective August 1, 2002, the Employer will grant additional years of Credited Service in accordance with the terms of the Plan to all full time and part time employees on the payroll on August 1, 2002, who worked for UPS after they were 21 but were denied Credited Service solely because
59
the UPS Pension Plan required that an employee be age 25 or older to participate in the UPS Pension Plan.
6)	For those multi-employer pension plans with which the UPS Pension Plan does not have reciprocity, the UPS Pension Plan will execute a mutually agreeable reciprocity agreement with those plans.
Section 8.	Part-time Retiree Health & Welfare Coverage
The Employer will provide health insurance coverage to all part-time employees, not covered by a Union plan, who retire on or after that date as outlined in the new UPS Health & Welfare Package Summary Plan Description.
ARTICLE 35. EMPLOYEE'S BAIL, LICENSE, SUBSTANCE AND ALCOHOL TESTING
Section 1.	Employee’s Bail and/or Court Appearance
When an employee is required to appear in any court for the purpose of testifying because of any accident the employee may have been involved in during working hours, such employee shall be reimbursed in full by the Employer for all earnings opportunity lost because of such appearance. The Employer shall furnish employees who are involved in accidents during working hours with bail bond and legal counsel and shall pay in full for the same. Employees shall be compensated for time spent in jail at his/her regular rate of pay. Said bail bond and legal counsel shall remain assigned to the employee until all legal action in connection with said accident is concluded, provided the employee is not charged and convicted of criminal negligence.
This Section shall not apply to employees who are found guilty of drunken driving when involved in an accident during working hours. The Employer shall assume all responsibility for all court costs, legal fees, and bail bond fees for any employee who is involved in any accident or accidents during working hours and shall assume all responsibility for all judgments and awards against any employee who is involved in accidents during working hours, which result through court action against said employee, except as provided above. In case an employee shall be subpoenaed as a witness in a company-related case, or as a result of his/her on duty observations of an accident not involving a UPS vehicle, he/she shall be reimbursed for all time lost and expenses incurred.
Section 2.	Suspension or Revocation of License
In the event an employee shall suffer a suspension or revocation of the right to drive the Employer's equipment for any reason, the employee must notify the Employer before their next report to work. Failure to comply will subject the employee to disciplinary action up to and including discharge in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Agreement. (See also Article 16, Leave of Absence, Section 3.1.)
60
If such suspension or revocation comes as a result of the employee complying with the Employer’s instruction, which results in a succession of size and weight penalties or because the employee complies with the Employer’s instructions to drive Employer’s equipment which is in violation of the Department of Transportation regulations relating to equipment or because the Employer’s equipment did not have either a speedometer or a tachometer in proper working order and if the employee has notified the Employer of the citation for such violation as above mentioned, the Employer shall provide employment to such employee at not less than the employee’s regular earnings at the time of such suspension for the entire time period.
Section 3.	Controlled Substance Testing
The parties have agreed that the procedures as set forth in Article 35, Section 3 shall be the methodology for all testing and will be modified only in the event that further federal legislation or Department of Transportation regulations require revised testing methodologies or requirements during the term of this Agreement. To the extent a subject is not covered by this Article, the appropriate regulation shall control.
Should other categories, modifications or types of testing be required by the government, the parties will meet as expeditiously as possible to develop a mutually agreeable procedure.
The provisions of Article 16, Section 5 will apply to all employees requesting enrollment in a rehabilitation program following a positive drug test. Employees may use the United Parcel Service Employee Assistance Program, a Union sponsored program, as well as any other referral service in choosing an approved program for treatment.
Section 3.1.	Employees Who Must Be Tested
UPS employees subject to Department of Transportation mandated drug testing are drivers of vehicles with a vehicle weight rating over 26,000 pounds, requiring a commercial driver license (CDL). This includes mechanics and employees who relieve for vacations or other temporary vacancies. Any employee who drives a tractor-trailer and is on the qualified feeder driver list is also subject to DOT mandated testing as provided in this Agreement.
In addition to testing mandated employees, controlled substance testing will be part of pre-qualification conditions for feeder driver employment, and those persons transferring to a feeder driver position. Individuals who are on a “bid list” for tractor-trailer employment or other similar classification type jobs are subject to being tested for controlled substances before being accepted into such a position.
Employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement who are not subject to DOT mandated drug testing are only subject to reasonable cause testing as provided herein. The substances for which testing shall be
61
conducted, and cut-off levels thereto, shall be consistent with those listed for the DOT-covered employees. This provision also applies to testing conducted pursuant to rehabilitation and after care programs.
1
Section 3.2.	Testing
Because of the consequences that a positive test result has on an employee, UPS will employ a very accurate, two stage testing program. Urine samples will be analyzed by a highly qualified independent laboratory which is certified by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) all samples will be tested according to DOT drug testing requirements. Validity testing for the presence of adulterants shall be conducted on all specimens, per HHS requirements.
Section 3.3.	Screening Test
The initial test uses an immunoassay to determine levels of drugs or drug metabolites. The following initial cutoff levels shall be used when screening specimens to determine whether they are negative for these five drugs or drug classes.
Substance___________
Marijuana Metabolites Cocaine Metabolites Opiate Metabolites Phencyclidine Amphetamines
Initial Test Level (ng/ml) 50
300
2000
25
1,000
These substances and test levels are subject to change by the Department of Transportation as advances in technology or other considerations warrant.
Section 3.4	Confirmatory Test
All specimens identified as positive on the initial test shall be confirmed using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) techniques at the cutoff values listed. The following cutoff levels shall be used to confirm the presence of drugs or drug metabolites:
Substance	Confirmatory Test Level (ng/ml)
Marijuana Metabolite (1)	15
Cocaine Metabolite (2)	150
Opiates:	
Morphine	2000
6 - Acetyl morphine (3)	10
Codeine	2000
Phencyclidine	25
Amphetamines:	
Amphetamine	500
Met amphetamine (4)	500
62

(1)	Delta - 9 - tetrahydrocannabinol - 9 - carboxylic acid.
(2)	Benzoylecgonine.
(3)	Test for 6-AM when morphine concentration is greater than or equal to 2000 ng/ml.
(4)	Specimen must also contain amphetamine at a concentration greater than or equal to 200 na/ml before reporting met amphetamine positive.
In the event the initial urine test indicates a positive response the confirmatory test must be done. These substances and test levels are subject to change by the Department of Transportation as advances in technology or other considerations warrant.
Section 3.5.	Laboratory Testing
All laboratories selected by UPS for analyzing Controlled Substances Testing specimens will be HHS certified.
Section 3.6.	Types of Testing Required
Testing procedures will be performed as part of pre-qualified practices, after defined DOT reportable accidents, on the basis of reasonable cause, upon return to duty after a positive test, under DOT mandated random testing and as follow-up testing for post drug rehabilitation as outlined under Article 16, Section 5.
Section 3.7.	Pre-Qualification Testing
Controlled substance testing will be part of UPS’ regulated pre-qualification conditions for feeder driver positions.
Drivers will be advised in writing prior to the application process that pre-qualification testing will be conducted to determine the presence of controlled substances. Applicants will be required to acknowledge in writing an understanding of this request before they receive an application.
Section 3.8.	Reasonable Cause Testing
Upon reasonable cause, UPS will require an employee to be tested for the use of controlled substances.
Reasonable cause is defined as an employee’s observable action, appearance, or conduct that clearly indicate the need for a fitness-for duty medical evaluation.
The employee's conduct must be witnessed by at least two (2) supervisors, if available. The witnesses must have received training in observing a person’s behavior to determine if a medical evaluation is required. When
63
the supervisor(s) confronts an employee, a Union representative should be made available pursuant to Article 4 of this Agreement as interpreted. If no steward is present, the employee may select another hourly paid employee to represent him/her.
Documentation of the employee’s conduct shall be prepared and signed by the witnesses within twenty-four (24) hours of the observed behavior, or before the test results are released, whichever is earlier. In addition, a copy will be sent to the Local Union in a timely manner.
Note: (Reasonable Cause)
At the time the urine specimen is collected, the employee may opt to also give a blood sample. If the employee takes this option, the blood sample must confirm positive presence for the substance confirmed in the urine test. If no positive is confirmed in the blood specimen, the employee will be given a warning letter, offered an opportunity for rehabilitation, as set forth in this Article, and the employee will be required to otherwise satisfy the requirements imposed by the DOT regulations. However, if there is a second occasion where reasonable cause testing results in a positive urine test, the employee will then be subject to discharge.
Non-DOT - Reasonable Cause:
In the event an employee (not covered by DOT) is tested pursuant to the discipline Article in this Agreement, such test will be performed under the same procedures and requirements as those set forth in this Article. In the event the test result is positive, as set forth above, it shall be considered a dischargeable offense.
Section 3.9.	Post-Accident Drug Testing
DOT mandated drivers will be required to submit to a drug test after a DOT defined serious accident, which is one in which:
1.	There is a fatality, or;
2.	A citation is issued and there is bodily injury to a person who, as a result of the injury, receives immediate medical treatment away from the scene of the accident, or;
3.	A citation is issued and one or more motor vehicles incur disabling damage as a result of the accident requiring a vehicle to be transported away from the scene by a tow truck or other vehicle.
Non-DOT mandated drivers may be required to submit to drug testing if there is any reasonable suspicion of drug usage or reasonable cause to believe that a driver has been operating a vehicle while under the influence of drugs, or reasonable cause to believe the driver was at fault in the accident and drug usage may have been a factor.
64
h	Drivers are required to submit to such testing as soon as possible, but in all
*	events within thirty-two (32) hours. Union representation will be made
available pursuant to Article 4 of this agreement, as interpreted.
It is not the intention of this language to prohibit the driver from leaving the scene of an accident for the period of time necessary to obtain assistance in responding to the accident or to receive necessary medical attention.
The result of a urine test for the use of controlled substances, conducted by federal, state, or local officials having independent authority for the test, shall be considered to meet the requirements of post-accident testing, provided such tests conform to applicable federal, state or local requirements, and that the results of the tests are obtained by the Employer.
Section 3.10.	Random Testing
Random Employee Selection:
The procedure used to randomly select employees for drug testing, in compliance with the U.S. Department of Transportation Regulations, will be a computer program specifically intended for such an application.
The program will utilize an internal computer clock procedure to randomly generate lists of employees mandated for testing by the Department of Transportation/Federal Highway Administration. The computer shall randomly select the required number of employees from the total pool of affected employees. The total pool list shall be by each region.
For verification purposes and to cover absences the computer shall print the following lists for each testing period:
1.	An alphabetical total pool list of employees in the region.
2.	A district list of employees shall be printed from the random list in the order in which they are computer selected.
An absent employee whose name appears on the primary list on the random test day must be tested upon return to work immediately upon notification provided he/she returns prior to the next selection period. The lists, or true copies of the lists, shall be maintained by a third party administrator. Upon request to the District Labor Relations Manager, the lists will be made available for review by Local Union representatives and company labor relations managers to verify the proper application and use of the lists in the random testing system.
The parties agree that no effort will be made to cause the system and method of selection to be anything but a true random selection procedure insuring that all affected employees are treated fairly and equally.
65
The parties further agree not to amend or change the current method of random selection as described herein without prior agreement between the parties.
Section 3.11.	Notification
UPS employees, subject to Department of Transportation mandated random drug testing, will be notified of testing in person or by direct phone contact. Notification shall be given by the management person responsible for such notification.
Section 3.12.	Rehabilitation and Testing After Return To Duty.
SAP and Employer Duties
A positive test specimen as a result of a DOT pre-qualification or random test will result in a rehabilitation opportunity. An employee whose test results are reported to the Medical Review Officer by the HHS certified laboratory and who has been contacted by the Medical Review Officer MRO or his/her designee has 72) hours to contact the Medical Review Officer MRO to review the test results. If the review time schedule is not met, then the MRO may report to UPS Management that the test is verified as positive. If neither UPS nor the MRO, after making all reasonable efforts, as required by the DOT regulations is able to contact the employee within ten (10) calendar days from receiving the laboratory results, the test will be considered an uncontested positive test result. If the MRO determines a specimen is positive, then the employee will have five (5) calendar days to evaluate his/her situation with a Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) counselor and then up to fifteen (15) calendar days to enter the rehabilitation treatment center after approval of a leave of absence as outlined in Article 16, Section 5 of this agreement. UPS will follow the final recommendations of the Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) as to the appropriate after-care protocol and post rehabilitation unannounced drug testing.
The employee will be permitted to return to work after the SAP has determined that the employee has successfully complied with prescribed education and/or treatment and the employee has provided a negative drug test result, as per cutoff levels contained in Section 3.3 or Section 3.4 of this Article, as applicable, and/or an alcohol test with an alcohol concentration less than 0.02.
It is understood that if the grievance procedure is utilized contractual time limits on disciplinary action and the employee's request for rehabilitation will be suspended until resolution of the grievance.
Substance Abuse Professional (SAP)
Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) Each Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) must be a licensed Doctor of Medicine or Osteopathy, or a licensed or certified psychologist social worker, employee assistance professional,
66
or drug and alcohol counselor (certified by the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification Commission) with knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of alcohol and controlled substance-related disorders and be knowledgeable of the SAP function as it relates to Employer interest in safety-sensitive functions and applicable DOT agency regulations In addition, the SAP shall keep current on applicable DOT agency regulations and comply with the DOT qualification training and continuing education requirements.
The SAP is responsible for performing the following functions:
1.	Conducting the initial face-to-face clinical assessment and evaluation to determine what assistance is needed by the employee to solve problems associated with alcohol and/or drug use;
2.	Referring the employee to an appropriate education and/or treatment program;
3.	Conducting a face-to-face follow-up evaluation to determine if the employee has actively participated in the education and/or treatment program and has demonstrated successful compliance with the initial assessment and evaluation recommendations;
4.	Providing the Employer with a follow-up drug and/or alcohol testing plan for the employee and;
5.	Providing the employee and Employer with recommendations for continuing education and/or treatment.
Follow-up testing shall consist of at least six (6) tests in the first twelve (12) months following the employee's return to duty. The one (1) year Period may be extended as necessary by written verification of the Substance Abuse Professional.
Employer Responsibilities:
Prior to allowing an employee to return to duty, after the employee has tested positive for the presence of controlled substances or has refused to submit to a drug test, the Employer shall:
A.	Ensure that the employee is "drug free", based on a drug test that shows no positive evidence of the presence of a drug or a drug metabolite in the employee's system.
B.	Ensure that the employee has been evaluated by a Substance Abuse Professional for drug use or abuse.
C.	Ensure and confirm with the Substance Abuse Professional that the employee demonstrates compliance with all conditions or requirements of a rehabilitation program in which he or she participated.
67
Section 3.13.	Disciplinary Action
Employees may be subject to discipline up to and including discharge as provided below if they test positive for drugs specified elsewhere in this Article.
1.	Reasonable Cause Testing
a.	A positive test is a dischargeable offense unless the Union and the Employer expressly agree to a lesser penalty. Any such agreement will not be precedent settings.
b.	Refusal to submit to a reasonable cause drug test is a dischargeable offense.
2.	Post-Accident Testing
a.	A positive test is a dischargeable offense.
b.	Refusal to submit to a post-accident drug test is a dischargeable offense.
3.	Random Testing
a.	1st offense - a positive test shall result in a warning letter (subject to successful completion of rehabilitation).
b.	2nd offense - A positive test is a dischargeable offense.
c.	Refusal to submit to a random drug test is a dischargeable offense.
4.	Pre-qualification
a.	1st offense - a positive test shall result in disqualiflcation/not considered for feeder list until the next feeder driver school is conducted (subject to successful completion of rehabilitation).
b.	2nd offense - A positive test is a dischargeable offense
5.	Other Dischargeable Offenses:
a.	Failure to successfully complete rehabilitation.
b.	A positive specimen as part of after-care drug testing.
c.	Failure to comply with after-care treatment plan.
d.	An adulterated or substituted specimen.
Section 3.14,	Preparation for Testing
Pursuant to Department of Transportation regulations, the Employer reserves the right to utilize on site or off site collection facilities.
Upon arrival at the collection site, an employee must provide the collection agent with:
Photo identification issued by the Employer or a federal, state or local government.
68
If the employee arrives without the above-listed items, the collection agent should contact the District Safety and Health manager or district Human Resources manager.
A standard DOT approved urine custody and control form will be supplied by the appropriate laboratory. This form must be used by all collection facilities and signed by the employee and the collection agent in the appropriate areas.
Section 3.15.	Specimen Collection Procedures
The Employer agrees to continue use of the Specimen Collection Checklist. The checklist, approved by the National UPS/IBT Safety and Health Committee, is to be used with the affected employees at the collection site by the person performing the collection services for the Employer.
The checklist is to be used at all locations, but it is understood that failure to use or the refusal to use the checklist does not invalidate a properly conducted controlled substance testing procedure. Nor does it prohibit an employee's recourse to the collective bargaining agreement and/or the grievance procedure.
All procedures for urine collection will follow Department of Transportation guidelines to ensure an individual's privacy. An employee who gives reason to believe that he or she may have adulterated or substituted a sample will be required to provide a specimen under direct observation by a same gender collection agent. If it is determined that an employee has adulterated or substituted a sample it shall result in the termination of his/her employment.
No unauthorized personnel will be allowed in any area of the collection site. Only one controlled substances testing collection procedure will be conducted at a time and the specimens can only be handled by the collection site person.
The employee being tested should remove any outer garments, such as coats, jackets, hats or scarves, and should leave any personal belongings (purse or briefcase) with the collection agent. The employee shall display the items in his/her pockets to the collection agent. If the employee requests it, the collection agent shall provide the employee a receipt for his or her belongings. The employee may retain his or her wallet.
After washing his/her hands, the employee shall remain in the presence of the collection agent and shall not have access to any water fountain, faucet, soap dispenser, cleaning agent or other materials which could be used to adulterate the specimen.
The collection agent provides the employee with a new, sealed kit selected by the employee.
69
The employee will provide his or her specimen in a stall or otherwise partitioned area that allows for privacy. The Employer agrees to recognize all employee’s rights to privacy while being subjected to the collection process at all times and at all collection sites. Further, the Employer agrees that in all circumstances the employee’s dignity will be considered and all necessary steps will be taken to insure that the entire process does nothing to demean, embarrass or offend the employees unnecessarily. Authorization for collection under direct observation will be in accordance with Department of Transportation regulations. All procedures shall be conducted in a professional, discreet and objective manner. Refusal to provide a specimen under direct observation when requested shall be considered a refusal to test and a terminable offense.
The employee shall be instructed to provide at least forty-five (45) milliliters of urine in the collection container. The employee shall hand the specimen to the collection agent. The specimen shall remain in the sight of both the collection agent and the employee at all times. A minimum of thirty (30) milliliters of urine shall be placed in the primary specimen container by the collection agent. The collection agent then must pour at least fifteen (15) milliliters of urine from the collection container into the second specimen bottle to be used for the split specimen. If the individual is unable to provide forty-five (45) milliliters of urine, the collection agent shall direct the individual to drink fluids, not to exceed forty (40) ounces distributed reasonably over a period not to exceed three (3) hours or until a sufficient specimen is provided, whichever occurs first. (The original specimen, if any, should be discarded, unless it was out of temperature range or showed evidence of adulteration or tampering.) If the individual is still unable to provide forty-five (45) milliliters of urine, he/she will be taken out of service and a medical evaluation will be conducted within five 15) business days by a licensed physician who has the expertise in this type of medical issue, and is approved by the Employer to determine if there is a medical reason for the inability to provide a specimen. If it is not determined that there is a medical reason, the individual will be treated as having refused to take the test. If the employee fails for any reason to provide forty-five (45) milliliters of urine, the collection agent should contact a third party administrator (TPA) and either the District Safety and Health Manager or another Employer designee.
The regulations specify the privacy procedures and the reasons to believe that a specimen has been adulterated which includes, but is not limited to, conduct clearly and unequivocally indicating an attempt to substitute or adulterate the sample, e.g., abnormal urine color or urine temperature outside the acceptable range. All specimens suspected of being adulterated shall be packaged and forwarded to the laboratory for testing.
In the event of suspected specimen adulteration, a second specimen will be immediately collected if possible, and the entire procedure should be repeated including initiation of a new chain-of-custody form and separate packaging for shipping.
70
In the event of suspected specimen adulteration, a second specimen will be immediately collected under direct observation and the entire procedure should be repeated including initiation of a new custody and control form and separate packaging for shipping. If an employee refuses to provide a second specimen, it shall be noted as a refusal to test and shall be a terminable offense.
The collection agent shall document any unusual behavior or appearance on the urine custody-and-control form.
Specimen handling (from one authorized individual or place to another) will always be conducted using chain-of-custody procedures. Every effort must be made to minimize the number of people handling specimens. Both specimen containers shall be sealed and then forwarded to an approved laboratory for testing.
When a return-to-duty or foflow-up test is being conducted the collection process may be observed. If observed, the observer shall be the same gender as the employee being tested.
When a test kit is received by a laboratory, the thirty (30) milliliter sealed urine specimen container shall be removed immediately for testing. The shipping container with the remaining sealed container shall be immediately placed in secure refrigerated storage.
If an employee is told that the first sample tested positive, the employee may, within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt of actual notice, request that the second urine specimen be forwarded by the first laboratory to another independent and unrelated HHS approved laboratory of the parties’ choice for GC/MS confirmatory testing of the presence of the drug. If an employee chooses to have the second sample analyzed, he/she shall at that time execute a special checkoff authorization form to insure payment by the employee. If the second test is positive, and the employee wishes to use the rehabilitation option, the employee shall reimburse the Employer for the costs of the second confirmation test and handling and shipping charges before entering the rehabilitation program. For those employees who choose to have the second specimen tested, disciplinary action can only take place after the MRO verifies the first test as positive first laboratory reports a positive finding and the second laboratory confirms the presence of the drug. However, the employee must be taken out of service once the first while the second test is being performed. If the second laboratory report is negative, the employee will not be charged for the cost of (he second test and will be reimbursed for all lost time. It is also understood that if an employee opts for the second specimen to be tested, contractual time limits on disciplinary action in this Agreement are waived.
Section 3.16.	Specimen Shipping Preparations
After measuring temperature and visibly inspecting the urine specimen, the collection agent should tighten and seal the specimen shipping container.
71
The collection agent places a security label (initialed and dated by the employee) over the bottle cap, overlapping the bottle sides.
A double-pouch bag will be used for shipping, with one side for the urine specimen and the other for paperwork.
The collection agent places the urine specimen in the seal able pocket of the specimen bag and then seals the bag.
The collection agent places laboratory copies of the urine custody and control form in the back sleeve of the double-pouch bag.
The collection agent places the sealed specimen bag in the shipping box.
The employee receives a copy of the urine custody and control form.
Section 3.17.	District Medical Review Officer
Any person serving as a Medical Review Officer (MRO) for the Company must be a licensed doctor of medicine or osteopathy with knowledge of substance abuse disorders, issues relating to adulterated and substituted specimens, possible medical causes of specimens having an invalid result, and a applicable DOT agency regulations. In addition the MRO shall keep current on applicable DOT agency regulations and comply with the DOT qualification training and continuing education requirements.
The MRO is responsible for performing the following functions, in addition to those specified in the DOT regulations:
1.	Reviewing the results of UPS's drug testing program.
2.	Receiving all positive and negative drug test reports as prescribed under the DOT regulations, and making all reports of drug test results to the Employer.
3.	Within a reasonable time, notifying an employee of a confirmed positive test result.
4.	Reviewing and interpreting each confirmed positive test result in order to determine if there is an alternative medical explanation for the specimen’s testing positive. The MRO shall perform the following functions as part of the review of a confirmed positive test result:
a.	Provide an opportunity for the employee to discuss a positive test result.
b.	Review the employee’s medical history and relevant biomedical factors. A driver is allowed to use a controlled substance (except for methadone) only when taken as prescribed by a licensed medical practitioner who is familiar with the driver’s medical history and assigned duties.
72
c.	Review all medical records made available by the employee to determine if a confirmed positive test resulted from legally prescribed medication or other possible explanation.
d.	Verify that the laboratory report and assessment are correct. The MRO shall be authorized to request that the original specimen be reanalyzed to determine the accuracy of the reported test result.
e.	Processing an employee’s request to test the split sample. Such testing will be conducted at the employee’s expense. The employee shall be reimbursed by UPS for any such expense should the retest provide a negative result. If a reanalysis is negative, then the MRO will declare the test canceled.
Section 3.18.	MRO Determination
If the MRO determines, after appropriate review, that there is a legitimate medical explanation for the confirmed positive test result, the MRO shall report the test to the Employer as a negative. If the MRO determines, after appropriate review, that there is no legitimate medical explanation for the confirmed positive test result, the MRO shall report the positive test result to the appropriate member of management in accordance with DOT regulations.
Based on a review of laboratory reports, quality assurance and quality control data and other drug test results, the MRO may conclude that a particular confirmed positive drug test result should be cancelled under these circumstances, the MRO shall that the test is cancelled.
Not later than 72 hours after notification of a confirmed positive test result or refusal to test because of adulteration or substitution, an employee may submit a written or verbal request to the MRO for testing of the split sample. The laboratory used must be certified by the HHS and must follow usual chain-of-custody procedures,
The employee shall be reimbursed for any pay lost if taken out of service based upon a positive test result which is negated by the second test or as the result of the resolution of the grievance.
Section 3.19.	Record Retention
The medical review officer is the sole custodian of the individual test results. The MRO shall retain reports of individual positive test results for a minimum of five (5) years. Individual negative test results will be }	maintained for at least twelve (12) months. UPS shall maintain in a driver’s
''	qualification file only such information as required by the DOT to document
’ compliance with the drug testing requirements.
73
Section 3.20.	Release of Drug Testing Information
The MRO shall inform the employee before beginning the verification interview, that the MRO could transmit to appropriate parties information concerning medications being used by the employee or the employee’s medical condition only if, in the MRO's medical judgment, the information indicated that the employee may be medically unqualified under applicable DOT agency rules.
When a grievance is filed as a result of a positive test the Employer shall obtain from the laboratory its records relating to the drug test. Upon receiving the records, the Employer shall provide copies to the appropriate official of the Union, by the end of the following business day after receiving the documents from the laboratory or the MRO, as applicable, provided that the employee has executed written consent authorizing release to the Union, a copy of which must be provided to the Employer.
The Company agrees to notify the Union of any change of HHS approved laboratories used for drug testing, for whatever reason.
Section 3.21.	Paid For Time
Testing - Except for drug tests taken in conjunction with a DOT physical, the employee will be paid their regular straight time hourly rate of pay in the following manner:
1.	For al! time at the collection site.
2.	(a) If the collection site is reasonably en route between the employee's home and the center, and the employee is going to or from work, pay for travel time one way between the center and the collection site or the collection site to the center; or
(b) For travel time both ways between the center and the collection site, only if the collection site is not reasonably enroute between the employee's home and the employee's center.
3.	If an employee is called at home to take a random drug test at a time when the driver is not en route to or from work, the employee shall be paid in addition to all time at the collection site, travel time both ways between the employee’s home and the collection site with no minimum guarantee.
j
When an employee is on the clock and a random drug test is taken any ;i time during the employee’s shift, and the shift ends after eight (8) hours, the employee shall be paid time and one-half for all time past the eight (8) J hours.	]
Provisions in Supplements, Riders and Addenda that are superior shall | prevail.
74
Section 4. Alcohol Testing
The parties have agreed that the procedures as set forth in Article 35, Section 4 shall be the methodology for testing and will be modified only in the event that further federal legislation or Department of Transportation regulations required by regulation, revise testing methodologies or requirements during the term of this Agreement.
Where such regulations allow revised testing methodologies such modifications shall be subject to mutual agreement by the parties.
Section 4.1.	Employees Who Must Be Tested
UPS employees subject to Department of Transportation mandated alcohol testing are drivers of vehicles with a vehicle weight rating over 26,000 pounds, requiring a Commercial Drivers License (CDL). This includes mechanics and employees who relieve for vacations or other temporary vacancies. Any employee who drives a tractor-trailer and is on the qualified feeder driver list is also subject to DOT mandated testing as provided in this Agreement.
Section 4.2.	Testing
Because of the consequences that a positive test result has on an employee, UPS will employ a very accurate, two-stage testing program. Breath samples will be collected by a Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT), who has been trained in the use of the Evidential Breath Testing (EBT) device, in a course equivalent to the DOT'S model course. All samples will be tested according to DOT alcohol testing requirements. In the event that breath testing is not possible in such cases as reasonable cause, or post accident, the Employer has the right to use alternative DOT approved methods.
Section 4.3.	Screening Test
The initial screening test uses an Evidential Breath Testing (EBT) device to determine levels of alcohol. The following initial cutoff levels shall be used when screening specimens to determine whether they are negative for alcohol. The EBT must also be capable of distinguishing alcohol from acetone at the .02 concentration level, test an air blank, and perform an external calibration check.
Breath Alcohol Levels:
Less than 0.02 - Negative 0.02 and above - Positive (Requires Confirmation Test)
75
Section 4.4.	Confirmatory Test
All specimens identified as positive on the initial screening test, showing an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or higher, shall be confirmed using an EBT that is capable of providing a printed result in triplicate; is capable of assigning a unique and sequential number to each test; and is capable of printing out, on each copy of the printed test result, the manufacturer’s name for the device, the device's serial number, and the time of the test.
A confirmation test must be performed not sooner than 15 minutes after the screening test, but not more thirty (30) minutes after the screening test.
The following cutoff levels shall be used to confirm the presence of alcohol:
Breath Alcohol Levels:
Less than 0.02	Negative.
0.02 to 0.039	Positive/Out of service for 24 hours from time of the test.
0.04 and above	Positive/Out of service and referred to Substance Abuse Professional (SAP).
Section 4.5.	Types of Testing Required
Testing procedures will be performed as part of pre-qualified practices, after defined DOT reportable accidents, on the basis of reasonable cause, upon return to duty after a positive test, under DOT mandated random testing and as follow-up testing for post alcohol rehabilitation as outlined under Article 16, Section 5.
Section 4.6.	Reasonable Cause Testing
Upon reasonable cause, UPS will require an employee to be tested for the use of alcohol.
Reasonable cause is defined as an employee's observable action, appearance or conduct that clearly indicates the need for a fitness-for-duty medical evaluation.
The employee’s conduct must be witnessed by at least two (2) supervisors, if available. The witnesses must have received training in observing a person’s behavior to determine if a medical evaluation is required. When the supervisor confronts an employee, a union representative should be made available pursuant to Article 4 of this Agreement as interpreted. If no steward is present, the employee may select another hourly paid employee to represent him/her.
76
Documentation of the employee’s conduct shall be prepared and signed by the witnesses within twenty-four (24) hours of the observed behavior. In addition, a copy will be sent to the Local Union in a timely manner.
NON-DOT Reasonable Cause Testing
Employees covered by this Collective Bargaining Agreement who are not subject to DOT mandated alcohol testing are only subject to reasonable cause testing as provided herein, in accordance with supplemental practices.
Section 4.7.	Post Accident Alcohol Testing
DOT mandated drivers will be required to submit to an alcohol test after a DOT defined serious accident, which is one in which:
1.	There is a fatality, or;
2.	A citation is issued and there is bodily injury to a person who, as a result of the injury, receives immediate medical treatment away from the scene of the accident, or;
3.	A citation is issued and one or more motor vehicles incur disabling damage as a result of the accident requiring a vehicle to be transported away from the scene by a tow truck or other vehicle.
Non-DOT mandated drivers may be required to submit to alcohol testing if there is any reasonable suspicion of alcohol usage or reasonable cause to believe that a driver has been operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, or reasonable cause to believe the driver was at fault in the accident and alcohol usage may have been a factor.
Alcohol testing will be required after accidents under the above conditions and drivers are required to submit to such testing within two (2) hours of the accident, if possible, and within eight (8) hours at the latest.
Drivers are required to submit to such testing as soon as possible within two (2) hours. Under no circumstances shall this type of testing be conducted more than eight (8) hours after the time of the accident.
It shall be the responsibility of the driver to remain readily available for testing after the occurrence of a commercial motor vehicle accident. It is also the responsibility of the driver to not use alcohol for eight (8) hours or until an alcohol test is performed under this section, whichever occurs first. Union representation will be made available pursuant to Article 4 of this Agreement, as interpreted.
It is not the intention of this language to prohibit the driver from leaving the scene of an accident for the period of time necessary to obtain assistance in responding to the accident or to receive necessary medical attention.
77
Law Enforcement Testing
The result of a breath or blood test for the use of alcohol or a urine test for the use of controlled substances, conducted by federal, state, or local officials having independent authority for the test, shall be considered to meet the requirements of post-accident testing, provided such tests conform to applicable federal, state or local requirements, and that the results of the tests are obtained by the Employer.
Section 4.8.	Random Testing - Random Employee Selection
The procedure used to randomly select employees for alcohol testing, in compliance with the U.S. Department of Transportation regulations, will be a computer program specifically intended for such an application.
The program will utilize an internal computer clock procedure to randomly generate lists of employees man-dated for testing by the Department of Transportation/Federal Highway Administration. The computer shall randomly select the required number of employees from the total pool of affected employees. The total pool list shall be by each Region. The pool of employees selected randomly for controlled substance testing will also be the pool of employees selected for alcohol testing in compliance with DOT regulations. For verification purposes and to cover absences the computer shall print the following lists for each testing period:
1.	An alphabetical total pool list of employees in the Region.
2.	A District list of employees shall be printed from the random list in the order in which they are computer selected.
An absent employee whose name appears on the random test list must be tested upon return to work immediately after notification provided he/she returns before the next selection period. The lists, or true copies of the lists, shall be maintained by a third party administrator. Upon request to the District Labor Relations Manager, the lists will be made available for review by Local Union representatives and company labor relations managers to verify the proper application and use of the lists in the random testing system.
The parties agree that no effort will be made to cause the system and method of selection to be anything but a true random selection procedure insuring that all affected employees are treated fairly and equally.
The parties further agree not to amend or change the current method of random selection as described herein without prior agreement between the parties.
A driver shall only be tested for alcohol while the driver is performing safety sensitive functions, just before the driver is to perform safety sensitive functions, or just after the driver has ceased performing such functions.
78
Employees who are on long term illness or leave of absence shall not be subject to testing.
Section 4.9.	Notification.
UPS employees, subject to Department of Transportation mandated random alcohol testing, will be notified of testing in person or by direct phone contact. Notification shall be given by the management person responsible for such notification.
Section 4.10.	Rehabilitation and Testing after Return to Duty.
If the Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT) determines a specimen is confirmed positive, then the employee will be removed from service and have five (5) calendar days to evaluate his/her situation with an approved Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) and then up to fifteen (15) calendar days to enter the rehabilitation treatment center after approval of a leave of absence as outlined in Article 16, Section 5 of this Agreement. UPS will follow the final recommendations of the Substance Abuse Professional (SAP), concerning the appropriate after-care protocol and post rehabilitation unannounced alcohol testing.
’ It is understood that if the grievance procedure is utilized contractual time limits on disciplinary action and the employee's request for rehabilitation will be suspended until resolution of the grievance.
The provision of Article 16, Section 5 will apply to all employees requesting enrollment in a rehabilitation program following a positive alcohol test. Employees may use the United Parcel Service Employee Assistance Program, a union sponsored program, as well as any other referral service in choosing an approved program for treatment.
Follow-up testing shall consist of at least six (6) tests in the first twelve (12) months following the driver’s return to duty. The one (1) year period may be extended as necessary by written verification of the SAP.
Employer Responsibilities
Prior to allowing an employee to return to duty after the employee has tested positive for an alcohol concentration higher than .02, or has refused to submit to an alcohol test, the Employer shall:
A.	Ensure the employee is "alcohol free", defined as less than .02, based on an alcohol test.
B.	Ensure the employee has been evaluated by an SAP for alcohol use or abuse.
C.	Ensure and confirm with the SAP the employee demonstrates compliance with all conditions or requirements or a rehabilitation program in which he or she participated.
79
Section 4.11.	Discipline.
It is agreed that an employee will have a one time rehabilitation opportunity for alcohol abuse as outlined in Article 16, Section 5, except as provided under Random Testing below. There shall also be a one time rehabilitation opportunity for substance abuse.
1.	Reasonable Cause Testing
An employee who is tested for reasonable cause and whose alcohol level is 0.02 to 0.039 will be taken out of service for twenty-four (24) hours and receive a warning letter.
An employee who is tested for reasonable cause and whose alcohol level is 0.040 to 0.069 will be taken out of service for twenty-four (24) hours, referred to a Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) and suspended for ten (10) days. If the employee has committed a disciplinary offense under the terms of this Agreement, the results of the test may be used in the support of the Employer's disciplinary action.
A second positive test of 0.02 or above is a dischargeable offense. A positive test of 0.070 or above is a dischargeable offense. A presumption exists that the employee was drinking on the job if the observation, time of testing and alcohol level combine to show the employee's level was too high to have consumed alcohol prior to the employee's report time.
An employee taken out of service for a positive test result must have a negative test prior to returning to work.
2.	Post Accident Testing
An employee who is involved in an accident for which the mandate requires post accident testing must submit to such test. A post accident test of 0.02 or above is a dischargeable offense.
3.	Random Testing
A positive test of 0.02 to 0.039 will result in the employee being taken out of service for twenty-four (24) hours and a warning letter shall be issued.
A second positive test of 0.02 to 0.069 or an initial positive test of 0.04 or above will result in the employee being taken out of service and a ten (10) day suspension shall be imposed. The employee will also be referred to a Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) for evaluation. If the SAP requires in-patient treatment and that in-patient treatment is the second such treatment afforded the employee, the cost of such treatment will not be borne by the UPS medical plan.
A third positive test of 0.02 or above after the employee was tested pursuant to the above levels will subject the employee to discharge.
80
4.	Dischargeable Offenses
’ Other language to the contrary notwithstanding, the following may result in discipline up to and including discharge:
A.	Failure to successfully complete rehabilitation.
B.	A positive test, defined as .02 or higher, as part of post-care testing.
C.	Failure to comply with the after-care treatment plan.
I	D. Possession of and/or consumption of an alcoholic beverage while on
f	duty.
E.Any test of an on-duty employee that measures at or above the state mandated DWI level. Should any state reduce the DWI mandated levels below 0.08, the Employer and the Union agree to meet and re-negotiate section E. of this Agreement.
F.	An employee’s refusal to submit to a negotiated test.
Non-mandated employees shall be subject to reasonable cause testing as > outlined above.
p
| In no circumstances under this Section shall suspension time run concurrently with any leave period.
| Section 4.12. Preparation for Testing.
Pursuant to Department of Transportation regulations, the Employer ■	reserves the right to utilize on site or off site testing facilities. Under no
[j	circumstances shall the Employer utilize UPS personnel to serve as a
Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT).
Upon arrival at the testing site, an employee must provide the BAT with j photo identification.
•	If the employee arrives without the photo identification, issued by the
I	Employer, or a federal, state or local government, the BAT should contact
the District Safety and Health manager or the District Human Resources manager.
A standard DOT approved alcohol testing form must be used by all testing i facilities. The form used for non-DOT tests will contain the same information as the DOT form.
} Section 4.13. Specimen Testing Procedures.
The Employer agrees to implement a “Specimen Testing Checklist”. The checklist, approved by the UPS/IBT Safety and Health Committee, is to be
81
used with the affected employees at the testing site by the person performing the testing for the Employer. The checklist is to be used at all locations, but it is understood that failure to use or the refusal to use the checklist does not invalidate a properly conducted alcohol testing procedure. Nor does it prohibit an employee’s recourse to the collective bargaining agreement and/or the grievance procedure.
Procedures for alcohol testing will follow Department of Transportation guidelines to ensure an individual's privacy.
No unauthorized personnel will be allowed in any area of the testing site. Only one alcohol testing procedure will be conducted at a time.
The employee will provide his or her specimen in a location that allows for privacy. The Employer agrees to recognize all employee's rights to privacy while being subjected to the testing process at all times and at all testing sites. Further the Employer agrees that in all circumstances the employee’s dignity will be considered and all necessary steps will be taken to insure that the entire process does nothing to demean, embarrass or offend the employees unnecessarily. Testing will be under the direct observation of a BAT. All procedures shall be conducted in a professional, discreet and objective manner. Direct observation will be necessary in all cases.
The employee shall provide an adequate amount of breath for the EBT device. If the individual is unable to provide a sufficient amount of breath, the BAT shall direct the individual to again attempt to provide a complete sample. If the employee fails for any reason to provide the requisite amount of breath, the BAT shall contact the District Safety and Health manager or Human Resources manager.
If an employee is unsuccessful in providing the requisite amount of breath, < the Employer then must have the employee obtain, within five (5) business days, an evaluation from a licensed physician chosen by the Employer who has the expertise in the medical issues concerning the employee’s medical ability to provide an adequate amount of breath. If the physician determines that a medical condition has, or with a high degree of probability, could have precluded the employee from providing an adequate amount of breath, the employee’s failure to provide an adequate amount of breath will not be deemed a refusal to take the test.	j
If the physician is unable to make a determination that the employee was 1 medically unable to provide a sufficient amount of breath, the employee will be regarded as refusing to take the test.
The BAT shall document any unusual behavior or appearance on the alcohol testing form.
82
Section 4.14	Substance Abuse Professional (SAP)
Each Substance Abuse Professional (SAP) must be a licensed Doctor of Medicine or Osteopathy, or a licensed or certified psychologist, social worker, employee assistance professional, or drug and alcohol counselor (certified by the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification Commission) with knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of alcohol and controlled substance-related disorders and be knowledgeable of the SAP function as it relates to Employer interest in safety-sensitive functions and applicable DOT agency regulations. In addition, the SAP shall keep current on applicable DOT agency regulations and comply with the DOT Qualification training and continuing educations-requirements,
The SAP is responsible for performing the following functions:
1.	Conducting the initial face-to-face clinical assessment and evaluation to determine what assistance is needed by the employee to solve problems associated with alcohol and/or drug use,
2.	Referring the employee to an appropriate educational and/or treatment program
3.	Conducting a face-to-face follow-up evaluation to determine if the employee has actively participated in the education and/or treatment program and has demonstrated successful compliance with the initial assessment and evaluation recommendations;
4.	Providing the Employer with a follow-up drug and/or alcohol testing plan for the employee-,
5.	Providing the employee and employer with recommendations for continuing education and/or treatment.
Section 4.15	Record Retention.
The Employer shall maintain records in a secure manner, so that disclosure of information to unauthorized persons does not occur.
Each Employer or its agent is required to maintain the following records for two (2) years:
1.	Records of the inspection and maintenance of each EBT used in employee testing;
2.	Documentation of the Employer's compliance with the Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) for each EBT it uses for alcohol testing;
3.	Records of the training and proficiency testing of each BAT used in employee testing; and
83
4.	Any required logbooks.
The Employer or its agent must maintain for five years records pertaining to the calibration of each EBT used in alcohol testing, including records of the results of external calibration checks.
Section 4.16	Release of Alcohol Testing information
The Breath Alcohol Technician (BAT) shall inform the employee before testing that the Employer will be notified if the confirmatory test is greater than 0.02, since the employee will be removed from service and considered medically unqualified to drive under DOT agency rules and regulations.
When a grievance is filed as a result of a positive test the Employer shall obtain records relating to the alcohol test. Upon receiving the records, the Employer shall provide copies to the appropriate official of the Union, by the end of the following business day after receiving the documents from the laboratory or the MRO, as applicable, provided that the employee has executed written consent authorizing release to the Union, a copy of which must be provided to the Employer.
Section 4.17	Paid For Time.
Testing - the employee will be paid their regular straight time hourly rate of pay in the following manner:
1.	For all time at the testing site.
2.	(a) If the testing site is reasonably en route between the employee’s home and the center, and the employee is going to or from work, pay for travel time one way between the center and the testing site or the testing site to the center; or
(b) For travel time both ways between the center and the testing site only if the testing site is not reasonably enroute between the employee's home and the employee’s center.
When an employee is on the clock and a random alcohol test is taken any time during the employee’s shift, and the shift ends after eight (8) hours, the employee shall be paid time and one-half for all time past the eight (8) hours.
Provisions in Supplements, Riders and Addenda that are superior shall prevail.
ARTICLE 36.	NON-DISCRIMINATION
The Employer and the Union agree not to discriminate against any individual with respect to hiring, compensation, terms or conditions of employment because of such individual's race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, veteran status or age in violation of any federal or state
84
law, or engage in any other discriminatory acts prohibited by law, nor will they limit, segregate or classify employees in any way to deprive any individual employees of employment opportunities because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, veteran status or age in violation of any federal or state law, or engage in any other discriminatory acts prohibited by law. This Article also covers employees with a qualified disability under the Americans with Disabilities Act.
ARTICLE 37.	MANAGEMENT-EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
Section 1.
a)	The parties agree that the principle of a fair day's work for a fair day's pay shall be observed at all times and employees shall perform their duties in a manner that best represents the Employer's interest. The Employer shall not in any way intimidate, harass, coerce or overly supervise any employee in the performance of his or her duties. The Employer will treat employees with dignity and respect at all times, which shall include, but not be limited to, giving due consideration to the age and physical condition of the employee. Employees will also treat each other as well as the Employer with dignity and respect.
No employee shall be disciplined for exceeding personal time based on data received from the DIAD /1 VIS or other information technology.
b)	It is the policy of the Employer to cooperate with a package car driver who desires to be relieved of overtime, subject to the understanding that such package car driver will complete his/her assignment and subject to the provisions below. Any package car driver who desires to be relieved from overtime on a particular day or days shall submit a request in writing at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance. The Center Manager and the Steward shall process such requests based on seniority. The Employer shall allow a minimum of ten percent (10%) of the package car drivers worked in any center off on a daily basis. No package car driver will be granted more than two (2) requests per month. It is understood that to accomplish the above the Employer may need to provide an earlier start time. It is further understood that the Employer is not obligated to let more than one (1) driver in a loop off at one time. Such requests shall not be submitted during the months of November and December.
c)	The Employer shall make a reasonable effort to reduce Package car drivers' workdays below 9.5 hours per day where requested. If a review indicates that progress is not being made in the reduction of assigned hours of work, the following language shall apply, except in the months of November and December:
Drivers shall have the right to file a grievance if the Employer has continually worked a driver more than 9.5 hours per day for any three (3) days in a workweek. If a grievance under this provision (or a Grievance under any excessive overtime provision of a Supplement, Rider or Addendum) cannot be resolved at the local level, the Union may docket the
85
grievance to be heard by the "9.5 Committee." This Committee shall be composed of two (2) Union and two (2) Employer representatives. The 9.5 Committee shall have the authority to direct the Employer to adjust the driver’s work schedule. Deadlocked cases shall be referred to the Employer's Vice President of Labor Relations and the Co Chair of the Teamster United Parcel Service Negotiating Committee for final and binding resolution. The Employer's Vice President and the Union's Co-Chair shall have the discretion to grant the grievant double time pay for hours worked in excess of 9.5 per day and/or to order the Employer to adjust the driver's work schedule. In the event the Employer's Vice President and the Union's Co-Chair cannot resolve a grievance either party may refer the matter to arbitration in accordance with Article 8. In the event the position of the Union is sustained, the arbitrator shall have the authority to impose any remedy set forth in this Section.
Section 2.
Not more than one (1) member of management will ride with a driver at any time except for the purpose of training management personnel. No driver will be scheduled for more than one (1) days ride per year with more than one (1) member of management on the car. Such day will not be used for disciplinary purposes. The sole reason for two management employees on the car is for supervisory training. If a supervisor assists a driver during an O.J.S., that day will not be used in determining a fair day's work.
During scheduled safety training for feeder drivers the supervisor will only drive for demonstration purposes and this will not exceed one (1) hour per workday.
Section 3.
Any alleged violation of this Article shall be subject to the applicable grievance procedure. Where an employee has submitted a grievance regarding an excessive number of rides, no member of management shall ride with that employee unless and until the local level hearing is concluded, provided such hearing is held within five (5) working days. If the Union has a legitimate reason for not being available within the five (5) working days, the period will be extended up to a total of ten (10) working days.
ARTICLE 38. CHANGE OF OPERATIONS
Section 1.
a)	The Employer agrees that prior to any change in its operation that will result in a change of domicile and/or possible layoff of seniority employees, it shall notify the affected Local Union(s) in writing and then meet jointly with them to inform them of the changes and to resolve questions raised in connection with the change. This meeting shall be completed where practical at least forty-five (45) days prior to the change. The change may not be implemented until the forty-five (45) days' notice is provided and the
86
meeting is completed unless the operational change is dictated by emergency conditions. The Union shall not unreasonably delay the scheduling or completion of the requested meeting.
In all locations where the Employer implements "satellite" facilities, the Employer shall meet with the affected Local Union(s) and discuss the issues covered by this Article.
b)	Any agreed to change of operations reached by the Local Union(s) and the Employer shall be reduced to writing and filed with the Joint National Change of Operations Committee. It is understood that a regional area representative of the affected region(s) shall sit on the Joint National Change of Operations Committee.
c)	A Joint Change of Operations Committee will be established in each Regional area and will resolve issues arising out of the proposed change of operations. The Committee will resolve issues involving seniority application, health and welfare, and pension coverage and layoff questions for employees who are involved in the change. All affected parties will make reasonable efforts to convene and attend the Regional Joint Change of Operations Committee meeting prior to the scheduled implementation date to resolve these issues.
If the Regional Joint Change of Operations Committee is unable to resolve the issues, such issues shall be referred to the Joint National Change of Operations Committee for resolution. If no resolution is reached, outstanding issues shall be referred to the National Grievance Committee for resolution.
The Committee which decides the issues, as described above, shall retain jurisdiction for a period of twelve (12) months following the change of operations decision. The decision of the Committee shall be final and binding.
Unless specifically covered in individual Supplements, Riders or Addenda, the following shall apply:
1)	Whenever a center is closed and the work is transferred to or absorbed by another center, the affected employees will be entitled to follow their work and their seniority shall be dovetailed at the new center.
2)	Whenever a center or hub is partially closed and the work of package drivers and all other regular employees, part-time and full-time, excluding feeder drivers, is transferred to or absorbed by another center, the affected employees may either follow their work and have their seniority dovetailed in the new center or be allowed to exercise their seniority in their present center and displace the least senior employee in their respective classifications. If any of the employees whose work is transferred elects not to follow his/her work, then he or she shall have the same rights as the remaining employees on the seniority list from which the work was
87
transferred to bid the work being transferred. Those employees who follow the work shall have their seniority dovetailed in the new center.
3)	In a Change of Operations affecting feeder drivers, the following language will apply: Whenever a center is partially closed and the feeder work is transferred to or absorbed by another center, all feeder drivers, in seniority order, will have the option of following the available work and have their seniority dovetailed in the new center or be allowed to exercise their seniority in their present center, and take whatever jobs become open as a result of other employees following the work or taking a layoff. If a senior feeder driver elects to take a job which has been transferred out, the displaced employee(s) will fill the vacated job(s) by seniority until the next bid.
Section 2.
As a result of the Employer moving an operation more than seventy-five (75) miles, all full-time employees in accordance with classification seniority, who choose to move, will have their moving expenses paid.
The expense shall include the reasonable cost of packing and the moving of household goods or house-trailer including dismounting and mounting. The employee(s) who transfer will have one (1) year from the date of the change to move.
a. Employees who are transferred out of their original area where they are covered by a Teamster Pension Trust Fund into the jurisdiction of another pension trust fund, such employee(s) shall remain in their original pension trust fund.
The Employer agrees to pay the required pension contributions to the employee(s) original pension trust fund as set forth in the trust agreement, provided there is no conflict with any collective bargaining agreement and/or trust agreement.
ARTICLE 39.	OVER 70 POUND SERVICE PACKAGE HANDLING
The parties agree that the health and safety of the employees are of the utmost importance. The Employer agrees that UPS management will not insist that any unsafe action be undertaken and the Union agrees to encourage its members to cooperate in effectuating the handling, pick-up and delivery of parcels without exposing themselves to safety hazards.
Section 1.	On Area Package Handling
No employee shall be required to handle any over 70 pound packages alone if it is the employee's good faith belief that such handling would be a safety hazard to herself or himself. In such cases, the Employer shall provide whichever of the following is requested in good faith by the employee in handling over 70 pound packages:
88
r
1.	Another bargaining unit employee for assistance, or
2.	Appropriate lifting/handling devices, or
3.	Another bargaining unit employee and an appropriate lifting/handling device for handling, pick-up or delivery circumstances that require both bargaining unit help and an appropriate lifting/handling device.
In all such instances involving package car drivers, where assistance from another bargaining unit employee has been requested in good faith, both employees will be full-time employees of the bargaining unit except that air drivers or helpers, where permitted by this Agreement, may be used to assist the full-time driver in the delivery and/or pickup of such overweight packages. On Saturdays, air drivers may be assisted by another air driver in the delivery and / or pickup of overweight packages. A helper may be used to assist a driver in the handling of overweight packages when a helper is already on the package car in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
No employee will be required to solicit or accept customer assistance if it is the employee's good faith belief that the customer is not qualified to help or that such assistance would be a safety hazard to themselves or the customer.
All new and existing employees who handle packages shall be provided with periodic training in the recognition and proper handling of over 70 pound packages.
Section 2.	Package Identification
The Employer agrees that it will periodically instruct its customers to place at least one (1) over 70 pound label on all such packages shipped, enter the weight of the package on the label and notify the pick-up driver of the over 70 pound packages to be picked up. The driver shall complete and affix as many additional over 70 pound labels and/or identifying tape as is reasonably necessary to provide proper visual identification of the package for safe movement through the system. The label and tape shall be of bright contrasting colors. No package will move through the system without enough tape clearly visible from all sides identifying the package as over seventy (70) pounds.
Section 3.	Inside Package Handling Procedures
For the purpose of inside handling, all over 70 pound packages shall be considered to be irregular shipments and will not be co-mingled with under 70 pound regular packages. No over 70 pound packages will be placed onto the belt, box line or slide systems used for under 70 pound package operations, except as provided in the Employer’s standard irregular handling practices and in accordance with safe packages handling procedures.
89
Where over 70 pound packages are moved by belt, box line or slide system, such packages will be handled by two (2) bargaining unit employees and/or the use of appropriate lifting/handling devices when requested in good faith by the employee.
No over 70 pound package shall be loaded below the flaps of a drop frame trailer or stacked taller than waist high.
Packages over 150 pounds shall not be picked up. However, if such a package is discovered in the UPS system, the package shall not be handled by one bargaining unit employee unless such package can be reasonably broken down into packages which do not exceed 70 pounds.
Section 4.
The parties recognize that it may be necessary to consider new methods and new equipment to handle over 70 pound packages. If either the Union or the Employer believes it is necessary to implement changes in the over 70 pound handling procedures or equipment, including any change in labeling, or if the Employer believes it is necessary to increase the current weight limit or the current limits on package dimensions, it may request a review of such changes. The Employer shall negotiate and reach agreement with the Union before any change is implemented. Neither party shall unreasonably withhold agreement.
If the parties are unable to reach an agreement, a grievance claiming that agreement was unreasonably withheld may be filed by either party directly with the National Safety and Health Grievance Committee in accordance with the provisions of Article 18, Section 20.2.
ARTICLE 40.	AIR OPERATION
Preamble
In order for the Employer, the Union and the employees to further benefit from the expanding air operations, the following Sections shall supersede language on the same subjects in the Supplements, Riders and Addenda, unless specifically stated otherwise in this Article.
Section 1.	Air Drivers
a)	Air driver work shall consist of delivery and pickup of air packages which, because of time and customer commitments, cannot be reasonably performed by regular package drivers. Such work may include:
1)	Delivery of air packages which the regular delivery drivers cannot deliver within guaranteed time commitments.
2)	Delivery of air packages arriving at the facility after regular drivers have been dispatched.
90
3)	Delivery and pickup of air packages on weekends and holidays.
4)	On call air pickups.
5)	Pickup at air counters and drop boxes.
6)	Additional late air pickups.
7)	Air drivers may, on an exception basis, be used to make service on packages which are not air packages.
An exception package is intended to be when an Air Driver is making a pickup, as outlined above, after the regular driver has been at the customer’s premises, and the customer has an exception ground package(s) for shipment, the air driver may make service on this package(s). Air drivers may continue to pick up Automatic Return Service packages but the features of this service will not be expanded.
Any violation of Section 1, (a), (7), shall obligate the Employer to pay the Air Driver involved the difference between his/her rate of pay and the top regular package car driver wage rate existing at that building. Grievances concerning violation or abuse of this shall be referred directly to the National Air Committee.
8)	Delivery of early AM Packages.
9)	Movement of air packages to airports and other locations such as service centers, UPS buildings and driver meet points. Shuttle work currently performed by regular full-time drivers shall be excluded. Should a regular full-time driver vacate a position which includes air shuttle work, that job shall either be re-bid as it previously existed and continue to be paid at the regular driver rate or the air shuttle work may be combined with other air work to create one or more full-time air or full-time combination job(s) paid in accordance with Section 6 below. In no event shall such shuttle work be assigned to a part-time air driver.
Shuttle work currently being performed by part-time air drivers shall be converted to full- time air driver work when the driver vacates the job except when there is not enough work available to create a full-time job.
b)	. The workday for Air Drivers shall be as follows:
1)	Eight (8) hours scheduled work in the air driver’s classification, or a combination of eight (8) hours scheduled work in the air driver’s classification and other bargaining unit classifications, except air walker. These employees shall receive all appropriate full-time benefits.
2)	Less than eight (8) hours scheduled work in the air driver classification or a combination of less than eight (8) hours scheduled work in the air driver classification and other bargaining unit classifications, except air walker. The Employer will notify the Union within thirty (30) calendar days
91
in writing when a less than eight (8) hour position is created, and the Union will have thirty (30) calendar days to grieve the implementation if they believe such position is improper. This grievance shall go directly to the National Air Committee. These less than eight (8) hour employees shall receive appropriate part-time benefits. No less than eight (8) hour combination job will be rescheduled to create two (2) part-time jobs.
3)	Combinations which require more than a two (2) hour gap between jobs will normally not be used unless mutually agreed to by the Local Union and the Employer.
c)	. Air Driver Workweek
The workweek for full-time air drivers currently working a Monday through Friday workweek shall continue on that schedule. The workweek for additional full-time air drivers shall be any five (5) consecutive days in seven (7), and for all part-time air drivers shall be any five (5) in seven (7) days.
d)	. Air Driver Guarantee and Overtime
1)	Full-time air drivers shall have the same daily and weekly guarantees as provided for regular drivers in this Agreement. They shall receive overtime pay for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period or in excess of forty (40) hours per week.
2)	Less than eight (8) hour air drivers (part-time air drivers) who have a regular scheduled start time shall have a three (3) hour daily guarantee. They shall receive overtime pay for hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period or in excess of forty (40) hours per week.
3)	Any less than eight (8) hour combination air driver (part-time combination air drivers) who works their three (3) hour guarantee shall be guaranteed four (4) hours. They shall be paid overtime for work in excess of eight (8) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period or in excess of forty (40) hours per week.
4)	The provisions above do not apply to an air exception driver who performs extra work under Sections 1.h, j or k. below.
5)	Employees in paragraphs two (2) and three (3) above shall be entitled to all other provisions in this Agreement (such as rest periods, shift differential, bidding to full-time jobs and layoff provisions, etc.).
e)	. Start Times
All full-time and part-time air drivers, who have a scheduled assignment, shall have start times posted the previous week. Start times may be adjusted with notification prior to the employees reporting to work.
92
f)	. Break Periods
1)	Full-time air drivers shall receive the same provisions for lunch and/or breaks as regular drivers receive in this Agreement.
2)	This provision is not intended to give less than eight (8) hour air drivers or less than eight (8) hour combination air drivers more than one (1) break unless specifically stated otherwise in this Agreement. However any less than eight (8) hour air driver (part-time air driver) or less than eight (8) hour combination air driver (part-time combination air driver) who is dispatched with eight (8) or more hours will be provided the same break or lunch period as that provided to full-time drivers under this Agreement.
g)	. Bidding Procedure
Air driver jobs shall be subject to the appropriate bidding procedures in this Agreement.
h)	. Exception Air Drivers
1)The Employer and the Union recognize that there may be air packages that cannot be delivered by the regular full-time package car driver or the scheduled air drivers listed in this Section. Therefore, the parties agree to continue the practice of allowing the use of part-time employees who have signed the exception qualified list or who have expressed in writing their desire to be on the list and who have been certified to deliver these exception air packages.
2)	Employees certified on the exception Air Driver list who have not worked over forty (40) hours in the current workweek shall be offered this work by seniority.
3)	Exception air drivers shall have no guarantee and will be paid only for the time worked making air deliveries. In the event a part-time employee works over eight (8) hours in any one (1) twenty-four (24) hour period, he or she shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half for all hours worked over eight (8) hours at the rate of pay specified in Section 6 below.
4)	No exception air driver shall be required by the Employer to wait at a center for packages off the clock.
i)	. Personal Vehicles
Air exception drivers will use the Employer's vehicles whenever possible. Air Exception drivers who would happen to use their personal automobiles shall be reimbursed at the IRS limit applicable per mile for all miles driven to perform the air driving work in addition to their air driver wages. When an employee uses his/her own vehicle in the service of the Employer and is involved in an accident, the Employer shall be responsible for the damages
93
to both the employee’s vehicle and to the other person's vehicle and/or property, and will provide liability insurance coverage.
j)	. Holiday Work
When it is necessary to provide air service on holidays, the following procedure shall be used:
1)The Employer shall offer this work in seniority order to full-time air drivers who have worked at least one (1) day that week before offering it to part-time air drivers.
2)	When the scheduling needs cannot be met using the above provision, the Employer shall have the right to force part-time air drivers and then full-time air drivers to work starting in reverse order of seniority. If after exhausting the above steps scheduling needs are still not met, the Employer shall offer the work in seniority order within the package driver classification. If more drivers are still needed the reverse seniority order concept will be used for package drivers. Package car drivers who work on a holiday may make a written request for an eight (8) hour guarantee. Such written request shall be made the last workday prior to the holiday. All time worked on a holiday will be paid at the Supplemental holiday rate.
3)	The scheduling of the support work will be reviewed with the Local Union prior to the holiday. If the Local Union believes that the Employer has scheduled an excessive number of support employees, it shall have the right to appeal directly to the National Air Committee. The National Air Committee will review the schedule and determine whether the Employer has scheduled an excessive number of support employees. If it is determined by the National Air Committee that the Employer worked excessive support employees, the excessive employees worked shall be paid double time for hours worked in addition to their holiday pay.
4)	Air drivers and support employees scheduled on a holiday to ensure air services to the customer, including time performing incidental work, shall receive straight-time for all hours worked up to eight (8) hours in addition to the holiday pay. Overtime provisions shall apply if the employee works over eight (8) hours.
k)	. Saturday or Sunday Air Work
1)To perform Saturday or Sunday air work the Employer and the Union recognize the need for air drivers other than those regularly scheduled. Qualified part time employees who are interested in performing this work will so notify the Employer, be certified and be placed in seniority order on a posted qualified air driver list. Such work will be first offered in seniority order to employees on the qualified list who have not worked more than thirty-seven (37) hours in the current week. This work shall then be offered in seniority order to qualified part time employees regardless of hours worked. If the scheduling needs still cannot be met, and additional
94
employees are needed, the Employer may force qualified part-time employees in reverse seniority order.
2)	These employees shall be paid at the air driver’s straight-time rate of pay in accordance with Section 6 below. Time and one-half will be paid after eight (8) hours per day or after forty (40) hours per week.
3)	All employees working as an air driver on Saturday or Sunday under this Section shall have a three (3) hour guarantee.
I)	. References in this Article to an air driver, part-time or full-time, include employees who, on a scheduled basis, perform (1) only air driving work, or (2) air driving work in combination with other bargaining unit work.
Section 2.	Air Walkers
a)	Air Walkers may deliver and/or pickup air packages and shall not drive any vehicle which requires a driver’s license in the performance of their duties.
b)	Air Walkers will not be used to pickup or deliver ground packages.
c)	Air Walkers shall start and end the day in the area they work.
d)	Air Walkers shall be guaranteed three (3) hours per day and shall be given a ten (10) minute paid break.
e)	Air Walkers shall be paid in accordance with Section 6 below.
f)	Air Walkers shall receive all part-time benefits and conditions of employment as outlined in this Agreement including the right to bid into full-time jobs. An air walker position shall be open for bid to current employees prior to filling that position from the outside.
g)	The intent of this Section is not to eliminate present full-time air jobs and/or combination jobs.
Section 3.	Air Hub and Gateway Operations
Employees presently working in or hired into existing air hubs and/or gateways shall continue to work under the present agreements covering the air hub and gateway operations. If no agreement exists, Article 40, Section 3 shall apply. However, if Section 3 is silent, this Agreement will apply.
a)	. Workweek
1)The workweek for air hub and gateway employees shall consist of any five (5) days in a seven (7) day period.
2)	Air hub and gateway employees hired prior to August 1, 1987 shall have the right to maintain the workweek in existence at that time, if such workweek exists.
b)	. Daily Guarantees
The three (3) hour daily guarantees shall apply whenever possible. Further, the parties agree that in those areas that do not currently have a daily guarantee the following procedure shall apply: If eighty percent (80%) of the employees reporting to a shift work three (3) or more hours for thirty (30) working days within a forty (40) day period, except for peak season, such shift shall be entitled to a three (3) hour guarantee. The Employer may also provide a higher daily guarantee to the extent it does not conflict with the overtime rules in this agreement. Grievances concerning this issue shall be brought directly to the National Air Committee.
c)	. Holidays
1)	When it is necessary to operate an air hub and gateway operation on a holiday, those employees worked will be paid overtime in addition to holiday pay if it is not a scheduled workday for those employees.
2)	For those employees not qualified for overtime, as stated above, the holiday will be a normal workday.
3)	The holiday shall be defined as the day the holiday is nationally observed.
4)	Start times on these days may differ from normal workday start times.
d)	. Rest Periods - Air operation employees who are covered by a daily guarantee shall receive the same rest period provisions as outlined in this Agreement.
e)	. Newly Expanded Hubs and Gateways
If an air operation is expanded or altered and is no longer able to effectively operate, the Employer and the Union shall meet to work out any needed modifications, which would be subject to approval of the National Air Committee.
f)	. Seniority
1)	Air hub and gateway employees shall work off one (1) seniority list within each operation, unless otherwise mutually agreed. Part-time employees covered under this Section shall be given the same opportunities for full-time positions as described in this Agreement. Where those Agreements are silent or are not clear, the Employer and the Local Union shall meet and agree upon a method of affording the opportunity for full-time employment.
96
2)	In air hub and gateways that currently have no procedure to recognize part-time seniority, part-time employees with one (1) or more years of seniority will be allowed in seniority order to fill permanent vacancies on a different shift and/or fill permanent vacancies between the airport sort facility and the ramp in all months except November and December. The employee will be allowed to exercise this procedure once a year.
g)	. Start Times
Start times may be adjusted with notification, prior to the employees reporting for work, to coincide with the arrival and departure of parcels.
h)	. Rain Gear
The Employer shall provide all outside ramp employees rain gear, to include, pants and tops. De-ice crews shall be provided with insulated coveralls, insulated gloves, boots and rain gear that are large enough to fit over the insulated coveralls.
i)	. Air Gateway In addition to the Union's right to organize employees at the Company's air gateways in accordance with applicable law, work performed at air gateways shall be performed by United Parcel Service bargaining unit members in accordance with the following procedure:
The Union Chairperson of the National Air Committee shall serve the Company Chairperson of the National Air Committee with written notice of the Union’s position that work at a particular gateway is appropriate for conversion to work performed by United Parcel Service bargaining unit members. Upon receipt of the notice, the Union and Company Chairpersons of the National Air Committee shall meet to review the details of the specified gateway operation, including if necessary an inspection of the air gateway. For work at an air gateway/ramp operation (including any sort work performed on the ramp) to be performed by United Parcel Service bargaining unit members, all of the following criteria must be met:
1)The air gateway operation must have an established five (5) day workweek with a minimum of three (3) hours of continuous work on all shifts excluding rest periods provided in the appropriate Supplement, Rider or Addenda for all employees;
2)	There is a minimum of forty (40) potential bargaining unit members on the ramp;
3)	The Company currently owns, rents or leases the appropriate ramp equipment. Disputes over the economic impact of the Company's ability to purchase, rent or lease the necessary ramp equipment will be resolved by the Union and Company National Air Committee Chairpersons, and,
4)	The Company is not prohibited from obtaining legal permission to operate on the airport ramp by the operating authority of that particular airport.
97
Once the Union Chairperson of the National Air Committee has served the Company Chairperson of the National Air Committee with written notice of the Union’s position that a particular air gateway is appropriate for conversion in accordance with the criteria set forth in (1) through (4) above, the Company agrees that subsequent alteration or changes in the four (4) criteria listed above, which are made by the Company, shall not be used as a subterfuge to avoid conversion.
The conversion period shall be no longer than one hundred twenty (120) days from the date the Union and Company Chairpersons verify that the above stated criteria have been satisfied.
The completed conversion of an air gateway to work being performed by United Parcel Service bargaining unit members under the provisions of this Section shall not be affected by subsequent alteration or changes in the criteria set forth in (1) through (4) above at any such converted air gateway.
Air gateway location(s) which utilize a Teamster represented vendor contracted by United Parcel Service are not subject to this Section.
Section 4.	Start Times for Air Shuttle and Air Feed Drivers
Because of the nature of the air business, regular air shuttle and air feed drivers may have flexible start times on Monday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday and/or holidays to coincide with the needs of the Employer's air operations.
Section 5.	Grievance Procedure
a)	. A Joint National Air Committee shall be appointed for the purpose of continually reviewing the progress of the air expansion and the unforeseen problems that may arise. This Committee shall have the authority to amend, alter, add to and delete provisions of this Article as it deems necessary to further the best interests of the employees and the Employer's air operation.
b)	. All grievances, controversies and/or disputes concerning the Air Operation shall be subject to the regular grievance procedure. Any decision rendered by a local, state or area panel which interprets Article 40 shall not be precedent setting in any other case.
c)	. Any dispute concerning the interpretation or applicability of this Article, including cases which have deadlocked at the lower level, shall be submitted to the Joint National Air Committee for resolution. Such resolution will include the right to submit the matter to arbitration in accordance with Article 8 procedures. Decisions made in accordance with this section shall be final and binding on all parties.
98
Section 6.	Wages
All hourly wages for employees covered under Article 40 will be determined in accordance with this Section, Article 22 and Article 41 where specified.
	a). Part-time air drivers, including exception air drivers, will be paid as follows:	
	Start	$11.50
	Seniority	$12.50
	Seniority plus 12 months	$13.00
I	Seniority plus 18 months	$13.50
	Seniority plus 24 months	Top Rate
	1)The 24 month (top) rate will change August 1st of each year of the	
	Agreement as follows:	
	August 1, 2002	$16.25
	August 1,2003	$17.00
	August 1, 2004	$17.80
	August 1, 2005	$18.60
	August 1, 2006	$19.50
	August 1,2007	$20.50
2)	All part-time bid air drivers in progression on August 1, 2002 will be slotted into the new progression in paragraph a. above. Seniority part-time employees entering a part-time air driver job after August 1, 2002 will begin at the seniority rate.
Part-time employees who are awarded a scheduled part time air driver job shall receive progression credit in accordance with the following: for each four (4) days on which exception air work was performed in the two (2) years immediately prior to the bid award, one (1) month of progression credit shall be granted. In addition, if a bid part-time air driver is displaced, he will retain his/her progression credit under paragraph a. for any air exception work.
b). Full-time air drivers will be paid as follows:
Start	$13.50
Seniority	$14.50
Seniority plus 12 months	$15.00
Seniority plus 18 months	$15.50
Seniority plus 24 months	Top Rate
1)The 24 month (top) rate will change August 1sl of each year of the Agreement as follows:
August 1,2002	$18.25
August 1, 2003	$19.00
August 1,2004	$19.80
99
August 1, 2005
August 1, 2006
August 1, 2007
$20.60
$21.50
$22.50
2)	All full-time air drivers in progression on August 1, 2002 will be slotted into the full-time progression in paragraph b. above. Seniority full-time employees entering a full-time air driver job will be slotted based on their Company seniority.
a)	All new hire full-time or part-time air drivers will be placed in the applicable progression in paragraphs a. or b. above.
b)	All current full-time or part-time air drivers who are out of progression shall receive the general wage increases provided for in Article 41 on each contract anniversary date, or the Top Rate provided in paragraphs a. or b. above, whichever is greater.
c)	Employees in existing or newly created less-than-eight hour combination jobs shall be paid the appropriate part-time air rate in accordance with paragraph a. above for air driver work and their normal part-time wages for the hours worked in other classifications in accordance with Article 22.
d)	Employees who are in existing full-time combination jobs or who hereafter enter a full-time combination job shall be paid the appropriate full-time air rate for air driver work and appropriate inside part-time rate for the hours worked in other classifications. If an employee has no established inside rate, that employee will be paid the appropriate part-time rate in accordance with his / her Company seniority.
e)	Employees on the exception air driver list shall continue to be slotted into the part-time air driver progression in paragraph a. above based upon the length of time the employee has been performing air exception work. Seniority employees who begin performing air exception work will start at the seniority rate. New part-time employees signing up to perform air exception work will receive the start rate in paragraph a) above until they gain seniority.
f)	Part-time air hub and gateway employees and air walkers shall be paid at the all other rate of pay as shown in Article 22. However, if a part-time employee is awarded an air walker job he/she shall continue to receive his/her inside rate in accordance with Article 22. Full-time air hub and gateway jobs shall be paid in accordance with Article 41, Section 3 unless there is an existing agreement in accordance with Section 3 expressly providing a pay rate for such a classification.
g)	Air operation employees who are covered by a daily guarantee shall receive the same rest period provisions as outlined in this agreement.
100
ARTICLE 41.	WAGES
Sec	tion 1. Full-Time Wage Increases
All full time employees who have attained seniority as of August 1, 2002 will receive the following general wage increases:
August 1, 2002	Seventy-five cents per hour	($.75)
August 1,2003	Seventy-five cents per hour	($.75)
August 1, 2004	Eighty cents per hour	($.80)
August 1, 2005	Eighty cents per hour	($.80)
August 1, 2006	Ninety cents per hour	($.90)
August 1, 2007	One dollar per hour	($1.00)
Full time employees still in progression on the effective date of this Agreement shall receive the above contractual increases and will be paid no less than what they are entitled to in accordance with Article 41, Section 2 below.
Sec	tion 2. Full-time Wage Progression
a.	The following wage progression schedule will cover all full-time employees, except apprentices, who are in the progression as of August 1, 2002 or who enter a full-time job after August 1, 2002 other than package, feeder, air or one covered by Section 3 below:
The rate in effect on July 31, 2002 will be used to calculate the progression rates for the life of this Agreement.
Rate in Effect on July 31, 2002
Start	70%
Seniority	75%
Seniority date plus one (1) year	80%
Seniority date plus 18 months	90%
Seniority date plus two (2) years	Top Rate
Part time employees on the payroll as of July 31, 2002, who subsequently are promoted to full-time employment under this progression, will be red circled until such time as the calculated progression rate exceeds that rate. The transfer date will become his/her full-time start date for purposes of applying the above progression.
When a part time employee bids to a full-time classification under this progression where the top rate of the full time classification is less than his/her current rate, the employee shall be placed at the top rate of the new classification immediately.
b.	No employee shall be required to complete a full-time progression more than one time even if he or she transfers between full-time jobs except as
101
set forth in this paragraph The sole exception is when an employee is awarded a package car or feeder driver job and has not previously held a full-time job which includes driving duties. In such event, the employee will have a break in rate equal to the employee's current wage rate until six (6) months from the date the employee entered the job. The employee will then go to the prevailing top rate. A part-time air driver who has completed the Article 40 progression bids a full-time inside job and then a driver job within two (2) years shall have the same break-in period.
c.	The progression for employees entering a package car driving or feeder position after August 1,2002 shall be as follows:
Start
Seniority
Twelve (12) months
Twenty-four (24) months
Thirty (30) months
$14.70
$15.75
$16.80
$18.90
(current top rate)
Part-time employees on the payroll as of July 31, 2002 who subsequently are promoted to full-time employment as a driver will be red circled until such time as the calculated progression rate exceeds that rate. The transfer date will become his/her full-time start date for purposes of applying the above progression.
If a part-time employee bids to a driver position and the top rate of the classification is less than his/her current rate, the employee shall be placed at the top rate of the new classification immediately.
This Sub-section shall supercede any provision to the contrary in this agreement.
Sec	tion 3. Full Time Inside Combination Employees Wages
The top pay rates for full-time inside only jobs created under Article 22, Section 3 under the prior or the current Agreement shall be as follows:
August 1, 2002	$18.25
August 1, 2003	$19.00
August 1,2004	$19.80
August 1, 2005	$20.60
August 1, 2006	$21.50
August 1, 2007	$22.50
These rates shall not apply to any full-time inside jobs guaranteed by Article 22, Section 2 created prior to August 1, 1997.
Part-time employees whose rates are higher than those set forth above who bid into a full-time inside job covered by this section shall be paid their current inside wage rate plus the general wage increases.
102
Other part-time employees who bid into a full time inside job covered by this section will be red circled at their current wage rate until such time as the calculated progression rate set forth below exceeds that rate. The transfer date will become his/her full time start date for purposes of applying the progression set forth below.
Start Seniority Seniority plus 12 months Seniority plus 18 months Seniority plus 24 months	$13.50 $14.50 $15.00 $15.50 Top Rate
The 24 month (top) rate will Agreement as follows: August 1,2002 August 1, 2003 August 1, 2004 August 1, 2005 August 1, 2006 August 1, 2007	change August 1st of each year of the $18.25 $19.00 $19.80 $20.60 $21.50 $22.50
Employees who are currently in the above progression as of August 1, 2002 shall be slotted into the above progression or continue at their red circled rate until the new progression exceeds that rate.
Full-time employees who bid into a full-time inside job covered by this Section will be paid in accordance with their full-time seniority date. Full-time employees with two (2) or more years of seniority who bid into a full-time inside job will be paid the top current rate of the classification.
Sec	tion 4.
The Employer agrees to pay an additional ten cents ($0.10) per hour when
a package car driver operates a	package car with a "pup."
Section 5. Classifications (1) Tractor Driver Effective August 1, 2002 Effective August 1, 2003 Effective August 1, 2004 Effective August 1, 2005 Effective August 1, 2006 Effective August 1,2007	24.185 24.935 25.735 26.535 27.435 28.435
(2) Parcel Driver Effective August 1, 2002 Effective August 1, 2003 Effective August 1, 2004 Effective August 1, 2005 Effective August 1, 2006 Effective August 1, 2007	23.835 24.585 25.385 26.185 27.085 28.085
103
(3)	Sorters, Loader-Unloaders, Pullers-Loaders
(a)	Sorters
Effective August	1,	2002	23.835
Effective August	1,	2003	24.585
Effective August	1,	2004	25.385
Effective August	1,	2005	26.185
Effective August	1,	2006	27.085
Effective August	1,	2007	28.085
(b)	Loaders-Unloaders
Effective August	1,	2002	23.35
Effective August	1,	2003	24.10
Effective August	1,	2004	24.90
Effective August	1,	2005	25.70
Effective August	1,	2006	26.60
Effective August	1,	2007	27.60
(c)	Puller-Loaders
Effective August	1,	2002	23.45
Effective August	1,	2003	24.20
Effective August	1,	2004	25.00
Effective August	1,	2005	25.80
Effective August	1,	2006	26.70
Effective August	1,	2007	27.70
(4)	General Utility Employees
Effective August	1,	2002	23.31
Effective August	1,2003	24.06
Effective August	1,2004	24.86
Effective August	1,2005	25.66
Effective August	1,2006	26.56
Effective August	1,2007	27.56
(5)	Washers and Porters
Effective August 1,	2002	23.06
Effective August 1,	2003	23.81
Effective August 1,	2004	24.61
Effective August 1,	2005	25.41
Effective August 1,	2006	26.31
Effective August 1,	2007	27.31
104
(6)	Delivery Information Department and Quality Control
Group 1. Delivery Information Servicemen and Quality Control Inspectors
Effective August 1, 2002	23.835
Effective August 1, 2003	24.585
Effective August 1, 2004	25.385
Effective August 1, 2005	26.185
Effective August 1,2006	27.085
Effective August 1, 2007	28.085
Group 2. Address Correction Clerks and Quality Control Clerks
Effective August 1, 2002
Effective August 1, 2003 Effective August 1, 2004 Effective August 1, 2005 Effective August 1, 2006 Effective August 1, 2007
Group 3. Teletype Operators
Effective August 1, 2002
Effective August 1, 2003
Effective August 1, 2004
Effective August 1, 2005
Effective August 1, 2006
Effective August 1, 2007
23.355
24.105
24.905
25.705
26.605
27.605
23.255
24.005
24.805
25.605
26.505
27.505
Group 4. Delivery Information Clerks
Effective August 1, 2002	22.935
Effective August 1, 2003	23.685
Effective August 1, 2004	24.485
Effective August 1, 2005	25.285
Effective August 1, 2006	26.185
Effective August 1, 2007	27.185
(7) Inside Jobs (After July 31, 2002)
Effective August 1, 2002	20.36
Effective August 1, 2003	21.11
Effective August 1, 2004	21.91
Effective August 1, 2005	22.71
Effective August 1, 2006	23.61
Effective August 1, 2007	24.61
105
"Step-Up" Guarantee applies to all of the above. For work up to 4.0 hours at a higher classification, he/she shall receive four (4) hours guarantee at the higher rate. For work in excess of 4.0 hours at a higher classification, he/she shall receive eight (8) hours guarantee at the higher rate.
ARTICLE 42.	UNIFORMS
If an employee is required to wear any kind of uniform as a condition of his/her continued employment, such uniform, except shirts, shall be furnished and maintained by the Employer, free of charge, and worn at the standard required by the Employer. The wearing of hats and ties is optional with the employee.
The Employer shall supply both a lightweight uniform for summer and a heavier uniform for winter. Each employee will be issued six (6) pairs of trousers and ten (10) shirts. The employee will be allowed to select his/her choice of shirts and trousers in any combination from short sleeved shirts, long sleeved shirts, shirt jacs, light trousers and heavy trousers.
Effective May 1, 1994, short uniform trousers will be provided as an option for package and feeder drivers at no cost to the employee. Such shorts may only be worn in compliance with uniform and appearance standards established by the Employer.
Wearing of the uniform other than during working hours is prohibited. Employees exercising the short pants option can wear either the shorts or the shirt to and from work, but not the entire uniform.
Employees shall be allowed to wear the most current safe driving pin on their shirt pocket and the company approved Local 705 miniature Teamster logo pin on their left front collar.
ARTICLE 43.	PREMIUM SERVICES
Section 1. Job Protection
From time to time, the Employer must offer special new premium services to its customers in order to protect existing jobs and further the mutual goal of increasing the number of bargaining unit jobs. The Employer shall utilize bargaining unit employees to perform the feeder movement work of such new premium services, which work shall be considered to be bargaining unit work. The provisions of this Article shall also apply to all packages moved by airplane and to the Employer's “city pairs" service, where it is necessary for the Employer to implement the service to meet its competition. No feeder driver will be laid off or displaced from a feeder classification as a direct result of any provision in this Article.
In implementing such new premium services, the Employer shall utilize the following options to complete the ground movement of the customers' packages in the following order:
106
(1)	If the Employer’s existing feeder network can meet the Employer’s time and service needs, that network will be used first.
(2)	When the existing feeder network will not adequately meet the Employer’s time and service needs, the Employer agrees to establish a new driver classification, which shall be called a premium service driver. This driver will be typically used to move loads to and from ground and air hubs that are more than two hundred fifty (250) miles apart. Wherever practical, the driver will start at approximately the same start time each day and make two (2) round trips per week to a scheduled sort location. Such work must provide the driver a minimum four (4) day workweek.
► Benefits provided will be those of regular full-time feeder drivers. The driver will be provided the opportunity to work ten (10) hours per day four (4) days per week. Drivers will also be provided with lodging and shuttle service at J the away destination. When jobs are created that have less than ten (10) hours of work, the premium service driver will be paid at the feeder rate of pay and be allowed to work locally in either origin or destination city to fill
I	out his/her workday. In regards to the premium service drivers, since some
’	hubs work on Friday and some on Sunday, the Employer may move the fifth
(5th) day loads via a TOFC pursuant to Article 26.
(3)	If the Employer cannot accommodate its time and service needs under (1) and (2) above, the Employer shall have the right to propose the use of bargaining unit sleeper teams to the Local Unions and the Joint Premium Service Review Committee as set forth in Section 4 below. The wages and other economic terms of employment for such sleeper teams shall be as set *	forth below.
‘	Section 2. Sleeper Team Operations
' The Employer may use subcontractors for new custom contracts for reasonable start-up periods. In no event shall such start-up period exceed
I	thirty days.
f	(1). Bidding and Mileage
i
।	a) Sleeper cab runs approved pursuant to the provisions of Article 43 will
.	be posted and employees may bid for such runs in accordance with the
bidding procedures set forth in this Agreement. No seniority employee shall be forced to drive in a sleeper cab run. A senior driver who ' successfully bids a sleeper cab run shall be permitted to select his/her respective sleeper cab team partner without regard to seniority, provided that the driver selected as a partner has, prior to such bid, acknowledged his agreement, in writing, to accept such permanent sleeper cab run driving assignment and provided further that the selected partner possesses the required qualifications.
b) There shall be no two (2) person operations on runs of less than five hundred fifty (550) outbound miles and one thousand one hundred (1,100) miles round trip. All bids and cover drivers will receive reasonable time off
!
107
at their home center. Every team driver shall be guaranteed at least forty (40) hours of pay per week.
(2)	. Driver Team
Once driver teams are established it is understood that they are not to be separated unless mutually agreed to by the Employer, the Local Union, and the driver team involved, except in case of emergency or reduction in force. Only two (2) drivers shall be permitted in sleeper cab equipment at any one time except in case of emergency, an Act of God, or where a new type of equipment is put into operation.
(3)	. Furnished Transportation and Lodging
Comfortable, sanitary lodging shall be furnished by the Employer in all cases where an employee is required to take a rest period away from his home center. Air-conditioned hotel rooms shall be furnished. Hotel rooms shall be equipped with blinds or draperies or be suitably darkened during daylight hours. There shall be no bunk beds or double beds and both drivers shall be entitled to a room. All team driver lodging must be maintained on the basis of one (1) driver per room.
Under unusual circumstances in which the Employer is unable to furnish satisfactory lodging, the employee shall be paid fifty dollars ($50.00) for each rest period; except where accommodation is unavailable at such figure and it is necessary for the driver to pay in excess of fifty dollars ($50.00), he shall receive reimbursement of the actual cost of the room.
The Employer shall furnish transportation to and from the nearest public transportation, when there is unreasonable delay, at an away-from-home center, provided there is no public transportation available in the near vicinity and provided further that this provision shall not apply where the driver is allowed to use company equipment for transportation.
All time waiting for motel/hotel furnished transportation and/or waiting for a sleeping room to be made available will be paid at the hourly rate of pay.
(4)	. Safety and Health Committee
The parties will maintain a safe and healthy working environment in sleeper operations. The parties agree to establish a committee composed of four (4) members each to review the comfort and/or safety aspects of sleeper berths pertaining to ride. Such committee shall meet by mutual agreement of the Co-chairmen as to time and place. The committee shall confer with appropriate representatives of equipment manufacturers and/or other experts on this subject as may be available. The intent of the committee is to identify any problems with the comfort and/or safety aspects of sleeper berths pertaining to ride that may exist, and through its deliberations with the manufacturers and/or other experts, develop ways and means to correct such situations. Any disputes will be referred to the Joint Premium Service Review Committee.
108
(5)	. Sleeper Equipment
Newly purchased equipment will meet the following specifications:
a)	Minimum interior dimensions of the sleeper berths shall be:
1)	Length - 80 inches;
2)	Width - 36 inches; and,
3)	Height - 24 inches.
It is understood that a “manufacturing tolerance of error” of one inch (1”) is permissible, provided the original specifications were in conformity with the above recommended dimensions.
b)	Sleeper berths shall be equipped with individual heat and air-conditioning controls and units.
c)	Bunk restraint strap/net buckles on sleeper equipment shall be mounted on the entrance side of the sleeper berth.
d)	Sleeper equipment shall be equipped with a power window on the passenger's side of the cab that is operable from the driver’s side of the cab.
(6)	. Subsistence Allowance.
Each employee shall be allowed road expense in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each one thousand (1000) miles traveled.
(7)	. Delay Time
It is the intent of the parties to make the driver whole for all justified delay time, such as waiting for late loads, unscheduled on property work, accident delay or on road equipment breakdown. Any disputes will be referred to the Joint Premium Service Review Committee.
(8)	. Solo Driving
There shall be no solo driving permitted in sleeper cab operations, except in cases of emergency. In case of emergency where one (1) driver is used to complete a sleeper cab trip, the driver so used shall receive the full mileage rate of pay per unit mile traveled in addition to all other compensation provided for herein. In cases of emergency solo driving of such length that a rest period is necessary, the driver, in addition, shall be provided the cost of lodging for such rest period.
109
(9)	. Layover Pay
In the event a driver is required to take a rest period during any one (1) round trip away from his home center, the driver shall be compensated at his regular hourly rate of pay for all hours after the first eight (8) hours of the layover.
(10)	. Mileage Determination
Sleeper drivers shall be paid for the actual miles that they drive, on a point-to-point basis, over the routes driven.
The basic method of measurement for mileage under this provision will be jointly logging miles with a K-1000 electronic measuring device or calibrated hubometer.
(11)	. All new hires will be paid in accordance with the progression set forth in Article 41 Section 2 as applied to the mileage rates set forth below.
Section 3. Mileage Rates
Premium Service drivers will be paid the cents per mile shown below for all miles driven. Sleeper teams will receive a two (2) cents per mile premium on the appropriate mileage rate and will equally divide the appropriate rate.
Date	Single	Double	Triple
August 1, 2002	54.530	55.730	56.910
August 1, 2003	56.250	57.480	58.710
August 1, 2004	58.080	59.360	60.620
August 1, 2005	59.910	61.230	62.530
August 1, 2006	61.970	63.340	64.690
August 1, 2007	64.270	65.680	67.080
Section 4. Joint Premium Service Review Committee
The Employer and the Union agree to establish a Joint Premium Service Review Committee consisting of four (4) Union representatives and four (4) Employer representatives. This Committee shall meet at least quarterly or upon the call of either the Union Chair (who shall be appointed by the Union General President) or the Employer Chair.
In the event the Employer proposes to implement either a mileage layover run or sleeper team run in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 above, the run must first be reviewed and approved by the affected Local Union(s). Such approval shall not be unreasonably denied. After approval by the Local Union(s), the accommodation shall be submitted to the Joint Premium Service Review Committee for review. The Employer may also submit the accommodation to the Committee for review in the event approval is denied by the Local Union(s). No such accommodation shall be implemented without the approval of the Parcel & Small Package Division
110
Director or the General President’s designee. Approval shall not be unreasonably denied.
The Committee shall also review the Employer’s compliance with the provisions of this Article and shall report and recommend improvements or alterations in the implementation and operation of premium service and sleeper team drivers.
ARTICLE 44. SENIORITY
Section 1.	Seniority Rights
Employee seniority, and not the equipment, shall prevail for all purposes and in all instances. Seniority shall be broken only by discharge for just cause, voluntary resignation, more than two (2) years lay-off, or if the employee fails to report to work for three (3) consecutive working days and does not properly notify the company by the beginning of his/her start time on the fourth (4th) day. tn the event of a lay-off, an Employee so laid off shall be given two (2) weeks notice of recall, mailed to his/her last known address. Unless physically unable to do so, an Employee must respond to such notice within three (3) days after receipt thereof and actually report to work in seven (7) days after receipt of notice unless otherwise mutually agreed to. In the event the Employee fails to comply with the above, he shall lose all seniority rights under this Agreement.
Employees hired to fill vacancies during the vacation period, or hired only for peak season (October 1st through December 31st) shall not be entitled to seniority. No new Employees shall be hired if Employees on the Seniority list are available at adjoining Centers and willing to perform the work.
All employees hired to perform collective bargaining unit work shall pay union dues in the same manner as seniority employees of the collective bargaining unit. Upon attaining seniority an employee will be required to pay the Local Union initiation fees.
Section 2.	Probationary Employees-Orientation Meetings
a)	A probationary employee shall work under the provisions of this Agreement but shall be employed only on a forty (40) working day trial basis, during which period he/she may be terminated without further recourse; provided however, that the Employer may not terminate or discipline for the purpose of evading this Agreement or discriminating against Union members. After working forty (40) days within a ninety (90) consecutive day period, the employee shall be placed on the regular seniority list, and his/her seniority date shall revert back to the first day of the forty (40) day period in which the employee gained seniority.
b)	Attendance at orientation meetings, not to extend beyond three (3) days, shall not count as working days. People attending orientations shall be paid a daily rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) for full time and thirty dollars ($30.00) for part time.
Ill
Section 3.	Posting List
A current list of employees arranged in the order of their seniority and hiring date shall be posted quarterly in a conspicuous place at each Center. Copies of all lists shall be made available upon request to the Local Union official.
Section 4.	Lay Offs
The Employer will make an effort to reduce assigned overtime in any classification where employees may be laid off.
Full-Time
When it becomes necessary to reduce the working force in a classification, the employee in that classification with the least amount of Company Seniority shall be laid off first. For the duration of the layoff the employee will have one choice of the following options.
1	a) If a full time feeder driver is laid off he/she may exercise his/her company seniority in the same classification and displace the employee with the least amount of full time company seniority in the classification on the following Monday in the District.
b)	If a full time package car driver is laid off he/she may exercise his/her company seniority in the same classification and displace the employee with the least amount of full time company seniority in the classification on the following Monday in the District.
c)	If any other full time employees are laid off he/she may exercise his/her company seniority and may displace the employee with the least amount of full time company seniority in the classification on the following Monday in the District, if qualified.
2.	If a full time employee, as stated above, is laid off and is unable to exercise full time company seniority within the classification, he/she may displace the employee with the least amount of company seniority in any full time classification within the District after five (5) working days (Monday through Friday) provided they are qualified.
3.	Laid off full time seniority employees, in order of their company seniority, may elect to take (instead of above the options) the work of the two (2) least senior part-time employees within their building, if any, for the duration of the layoff, provided they are qualified. In such cases, the full time employees shall be guaranteed a minimum of eight (8) hours of work at the prevailing rate of pay for the classification of work he/she performs in addition to all fringe benefits.
4.	If the laid off full time employee elects to take a layoff rather than exercise the right to one of the above options, he/she shall be considered a
112
laid off employee for lack of work for the purpose of unemployment compensation.
5.	Employees displaced from their original domicile due to layoff shall remain on the job and location to which they are displaced provided they have the company seniority and shall be entitled to select in the location and classification they are working. Their seniority shall be dovetailed for this purpose.
6.	When the layoff is over the employee will return to his/her regular Center. Seniority employees should be offered any available job even if on a temporary basis.
Part-Time
When it becomes necessary to reduce the part time workforce on a shift or sort in a building, the employee with the least amount of company seniority shall be laid off first.
1.	If a part time employee is laid off for one week, (Monday through Friday) he/she may place their name on a list to exercise his/her seniority within the building, to displace the least senior part time employee.
2.	If the laid off part time employee elects to take a layoff rather than exercise his/her right to displace, he/she shall be considered a laid off employee for lack of work for the purpose of unemployment compensation.
3.	When the layoff is over, the employee will return to his/her regular sort.
Section 5.	Filling Vacancies
a.	In manning a new operating Center those employees whose territory is being transferred shall have the option of moving to a new operating Center. Any additional permanent assignments that are needed shall be filled by posting such jobs for all employees in the classification company-wide, until all such vacancies are filled by qualified employees.
b.	In filling permanent vacancies in an existing Center (including swing drivers) the employees in the Center shall be given first choice at such vacancies in order of seniority. Permanent vacancies except at Christmas time will be understood to be any job which has existed for a period of thirty (30) working days.
c.	Filling all permanent vacancies shall be in such manner so as to cause minimal disruption to the Employer's operations, with said vacancies being bid no later than thirty (30) days from date of vacancy.
113
Section 6.	Route Changes
Temporary:
When a bid area is changed fifty percent (50%) or more, the employee shall have the right to follow the portion in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the delivery stops. If the temporary change involves more than a two-way split, the driver shall be assigned by seniority.
Permanent:
When a driver's bid area is permanently changed by fifty percent (50%) or more of the stops, start time change of more than one (1) hour, or a change of fifty percent (50%) or more of the area or loop, he/she shall have the right to follow whichever portion of his/her bid area he/she desires or allow the job to proceed through the bidding procedure and work as directed, in the event that there are two (2) or more drivers that choose the same split under the above language, seniority shall prevail.
In centers where drivers bid on delivery areas, the bid shall contain a description of the area or loop and identify the base line. It is understood that day-to-day adjustments may be made. The above language shall also apply to full-time combination jobs.
All job bids shall be filled within ten (10) working days after completion of the bidding process.
Section 7.	Bidding
When any vacancy or opening occurs, it shall be posted for bid and remain posted for five (5) working days.
Package car drivers shall be limited to three (3) successful bids in a calendar year.
ARTICLE 45.	GUARANTEES
Section 1.	Monday Through Friday Full Time Employees.
Any employee who is assigned to work shall be guaranteed not less than eight (8) continuous hours of work or the full equivalent in pay in any one (1) day.
Any employee who is called to work but not assigned shall be guaranteed not less than eight (8) continuous hours of work or the full equivalent in pay in any one (1) day not including the ten percent (10%) employees unless assigned.
Section 2.	Saturday and Sunday
Any employee called or put to work on Saturday or Sunday shall be guaranteed not less than eight (8) continuous hours of work or the full equivalent in pay at Saturday or Sunday rates, except for those employees
114
on an alternate work week schedule whose pay rate will be determined as provided in Article 46, Section 1 (b).
Section 3.	Trial Period
Any employee promoted to a higher rated job shall be given a fair trial for a period not to exceed forty (40) days, at the rate of the higher job. If at the end of the trial period, it is determined that the employee is not qualified or adapted to the new position he/she shall return to the old position, at the same rate of pay which was formerly paid for the old position. The employee will be afforded this opportunity once during the life of the 2002-2008 Agreement.
Section 4.	Overtime - Full Time Employees
Time and one-half rate shall be paid for all work performed by an employee before and after his/her regular scheduled workday. Time and one-half rate shall be paid after eight (8) hours in one (1) day and after forty (40) hours in any one (1) week, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, but overtime shall not be paid twice for the same hours worked. Overtime for all employees shall be prorated on a minute basis for all overtime worked.
Section 5.	Sundays
Double time shall be paid for all work performed on Sundays except for those employees on an alternate work week schedule, as defined in Article 46, Section 1(b), and with respect to Washers and Porters, where the present practices shall prevail.
Section 6.	Holidays
Holidays will be paid at the appropriate rate.
Section 7.	Weekly
The first ninety percent (90%) by seniority of employees in any Center called or put to work during any day of the regular work week shall be guaranteed forty (40) straight time hours of work or its equivalent in pay for such regular work week, but the Employer shall be exempt from such weekly guarantee if (1) an employee at his/her own initiative takes off a regular scheduled work day during such work week or is laid off or discharged for just cause, or (2) the Employer had not directly or indirectly caused a work stoppage, such as fire, floods, destruction or national or local emergency, which as a proximate result thereof caused a complete stoppage of all or part of the Employer's operation, or (3) the week of Christmas and the week of New Year.
Hours worked prior to the employees posted starting time shall not be credited toward the forty (40) hour guarantee.
115
ARTICLE 46.	WORK WEEK AND DAYS
Section 1.
a)	The straight time work week for all employees shall consist of five (5) days, Monday through Friday inclusive (except as provided in (b) below), of eight (8) continuous hours each, with time and one-half to be paid for work performed on Saturday, except for Washers and Porters where the present working conditions shall prevail.
b)	In order to meet the needs of expanded business, the Employer shall be permitted to create schedules that differ from those that exist today. Future schedules may be expanded to provide that all employees may be scheduled five (5) consecutive days, on an alternate schedule of either Sunday thru Thursday or Tuesday thru Saturday.
Seniority employees on the payroll in each classification as of the ratification date of this Agreement shall not be assigned to such alternate schedules, except at the request of the employee or, if as a result of the employee following their work to a new Center, there are no available Monday thru Friday schedules, employees will be afforded the opportunity, in seniority order, to select their preferred work schedule.
For those employees scheduled on the above alternate work weeks, all work performed on the employee's sixth (6th) day shall be paid at time and one-half (1&1/2). All work performed on the employee's seventh (7th) day shall be paid at double time.
Section 2.
a)	Full time employees on nights have the option to work Sunday instead of Friday night at package center as scheduled by the Employer with the approval of the Union.
b)	A full-time seniority employee's uniform starting time must be scheduled by Friday of the preceding workweek for the following workweek. If an employee is called to start work before his/her posted starting time he/she shall be paid one and one-half times the regular straight time rate for the hours worked before the posted starting time. For those employees covered by Article 46, Section 1(b), starting times will be posted on their last scheduled work day each week.
c)	All employees shall be paid in full each week. Not more than five (5) days pay may be held back but then only if the Employer presently adheres to such program. Employees who are laid off will be paid in full on their next scheduled pay period.
116
ARTICLE 47.	DUTIES
(a)	Duties of Parcel Drivers:
Parcel driver's regular duties may include sorting and loading the packages assigned to their routes. Records of such deliveries will be made by the parcel drivers on their routes, if not previously recorded / sheeted.
(b)	Full-Time Combination Jobs:
The Employer will determine the classifications to be used when creating new full-time jobs as outlined in Article 22. All new full time jobs shall contain a job description of duties and qualifications that will be required to successfully qualify for the job.
(c)	General Utility Employees:
Employees who put up additions to bins, perform minor repairs and act as handymen.
(d)	Washers and Porters:
Washers, who wash vehicles and check gas and oil, and porters who keep the premises, inside and out, clean and neat and store records.
(e)	Feeder Drivers:
Feeder drivers shall load and unload as directed regardless of domicile. Feeder drivers may be required to sort during those hours when the regular sorting crews are off and in those locations that do not have sorters assigned.
(f)	TDP Drivers
All TDP/Package combination areas or any vacated TDP/Package combination areas shall be bid to all full time qualified package drivers in that building. TDP/Package combination employees will work in the package driver classification. Drivers who successfully bid a TDP/Package combination in such facilities shall be afforded the right to attend Tractor / Trailer school, if needed, and shall have a forty (40) working day qualification period. However, they shall not be placed on the feeder qualified list.
ARTICLE 48.	FEEDER DRIVERS
Section 1.	Job Bids
In March and September of each year, all feeder jobs in each building shall be posted for bid by classification seniority. Twenty-five percent (25%) of the employees in their classification will bid weekly. Those who fail or decline to make their selection by the required time period will be assigned.
H7
Such bidding procedure shall be completed by the end of said months. In addition to the March and September bid of each year, the feeder drivers shall have unlimited bidding.
If a new permanent vacancy becomes available in a building, the feeder driver in that building may bid on such openings in seniority order.
If a feeder driver's start time is changed by one (1) hour or more or eliminated, he/she shall have the right to exercise their seniority and displace any junior employee within the feeder classification in their building.
Local 705 shall receive a current, and any future updated list of employees in seniority order, that are on the feeder qualified list.
Section 2.	Cross Town Operation
The cross town operation shall be scheduled pursuant to Article 46, Section 1(b).
Section 3.	Tractor-Trailer School
Employees who are interested in qualifying as a tractor-trailer driver, shall so notify the Employer. Such employees in seniority order will be permitted to attend on their own time, the Employer training program which may be established from time to time as the need occurs. The Employer agrees to furnish the necessary equipment and instructors.
To qualify for attendance at the tractor-trailer school a Union employee must have one (1) year safe driving record for the year preceding his/her application to attend the school.
Upon completion of tractor-trailer school, the Employer will determine whether the employee is qualified to drive tractor-trailers and whether the employee will be placed on the qualified list.
Before hiring from the qutside, the Employer will consider other employees to fill tractor-trailer openings if they meet the same criteria as those employees hired from the outside.
Section 4.
When performing supervisory rides with feeder drivers in extremely inclement weather, management will suspend demonstrations, if the Employee feels his/her personal safety is in jeopardy, until conditions improve.
118
ARTICLE 49.	LUNCH PERIOD AND BREAKS
(a)	The lunch period shall be one (1) hour, which shall be taken between the third and sixth hour by all employees, except feeder drivers shall take their lunch between the fourth and the end of the sixth hour.
(b)	All employees shall receive at least one (1) ten (10) minute paid break.
(c)	Employees who presently enjoy two (2) paid breaks shall continue this practice.
(d)	All paid-for time shall be counted in computing overtime.
ARTICLE 50.	MAINTENANCE OF STANDARDS
All conditions of employment in the Employer's individual operation relating to wages, hours of work, over time, differentials and general working conditions shall be maintained at not less than the highest standards in effect at the time of the signing of this Agreement and the conditions of employment shall be improved wherever specific provisions for improvement are made elsewhere in this Agreement. (Errors found at any time will be corrected immediately and over or under payments will only be adjusted for 90 calendar days.) Any disagreement between the Union and the Employer with respect to this matter shall be subject to the Grievance Procedure (Article 7). This provision does not give the Employer the right to impose or continue wages, hours, and working conditions less than those contained in this Agreement.
ARTICLE 51.	HOLIDAYS
Section 1.	Holiday Pay
Employees shall be paid: eight (8) hours pay for full time employees, four (4) hours pay for part time employees, at the straight time hourly rate for the following holidays: New Year's Day, Decoration Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Day, December 31st, and two (2) optional holidays, and regardless of the day of the week on which it falls, provided, they comply with the qualifications set forth hereinafter. Holidays which fall on Sunday shall be observed on Monday. Where the Employer schedules work on a holiday, such work shall be offered in order of seniority and if not fully staffed the least senior employee(s) shall work the holiday.
Section 2.	Holiday Rate
Employees called to work on any of the above listed holidays shall be guaranteed a minimum of eight (8) continuous hours work or its equivalent in pay at double the regular rate in addition to the eight (8) hours pay above referred to. Part time employees shall be guaranteed four (4) hours of work or pay on the same basis as above.
119
Section 3.	Qualifications
(a) In order to qualify for eight (8) hours of straight time pay for holidays not worked, an employee must be employed for ninety (90) days or more and must work his/her regular work day which immediately precedes or follows the holiday unless the Employer agrees to give the employee the extra time off.
Section 4.	Weekly Guarantee
If the holiday falls on a weekday, Monday through Friday, employees shall be guaranteed forty (40) hours at straight time pay for that week without having to work the holiday. If a holiday falls on a Saturday, employees shall be guaranteed forty-eight (48) hours at straight time pay for that week without having to work that Saturday except for employees on an alternate work week schedule as defined in Article 46, Section 1(b). In the event the holiday falls on their regularly scheduled work day, these employees shall be guaranteed forty (40) hours straight time pay for that week without having to work the holiday. If a holiday falls on their sixth or seventh day during the week, these employees shall be guaranteed forty- eight (48) hours at straight time pay for that week without having to work their scheduled day off.
Section 5.	Holiday Shift
a)	If an employee is regularly scheduled or starts to work on the day before the holiday and continues to work into the holiday he/she shall be guaranteed eight (8) hours of continuous work at the regular straight time hourly rate.
b)	If an employee is regularly scheduled or starts to work on a holiday and continues to work into the following day, he/she shall be guaranteed eight (8) hours of work at two (2) times his/her regular straight time rate.
Hours worked prior to his/her regular scheduled starting time shall not be credited to his/her eight (8) hours’ guarantee.
Section 6.	Holidays Falling During Lay-off, Illness or Injury
If any holiday falls within the thirty (30) day period following an employee’s lay off due to lack of work or because of his/her illness or injury, and such employee is also recalled or returns to work during the same thirty (30) day period but did not receive any holiday pay, then in such case he/she shall receive an extra day's pay for each holiday, in the week in which he/she returns to work. Said extra day's pay shall be equivalent to eight (8) hours at the straight time hourly rate specified in the Agreement. Such employee who was ill or injured shall receive the difference between the appropriate rate for the extra day's pay and any amount collected from worker's compensation. An employee who was laid off because of lack of work or was ill or injured and is not recalled to or does not return to work within the
120
aforementioned thirty (30) day period is not entitled to the extra pay upon his/her return. Under no circumstances shall the extra pay referred to herein be construed to be holiday pay, nor shall it be considered as hours worked for weekly overtime.
Section 7.	Saturday and Sunday Shift
An employee who is regularly scheduled to work on a Friday shift and works into Saturday shall be compensated at the straight time hourly rate. An employee who starts to work on Saturday and works into Sunday, shall be compensated at the Saturday rate for all hours worked. An employee who starts to work on Sunday and works into Monday shall be compensated at the Sunday rate for all hours worked.
The above language shall not apply to those employees on an alternate workweek schedule as defined in Article 46, Section 1(b). Those employees shall be paid as follows: An employee who is regularly scheduled to work on their fifth day and works into their sixth day shall be compensated at the straight time hourly rate. An employee who starts to work on their sixth day and works into their seventh day shall be compensated at the sixth day rate for all hours worked. An employee who starts to work on their seventh day and works into the next day shall be compensated at their seventh day rate for all hours worked.
Hours worked prior to the regular scheduled starting time shall not be credited towards the eight (8) hour guarantee.
ARTICLE 52.	VACATIONS
Section 1.	Eligibility - Full Time Employees
a.	An employee, who in his/her first year of employment has been employed for one (1) year from his/her anniversary date of hiring and has worked 1,250 hours, shall be entitled to one (1) week vacation with pay computed at fifty (50) times his/her straight time hourly rate of pay.
b.	An employee, other than in his/her first year of employment, who has worked not less than 1,250 hours, in a year from his/her anniversary date of hiring, shall be entitled to vacation with pay according to the following schedule:
Years of Service Total Weeks of Vacation
1	1
3	2
9	3
15	4
20	5
25	6
Employees will pick vacations by Local 705 full time seniority with thirty (30) days to pick - November 1st through November 30th, and schedule
121
vacations from December 26th through the week ending Friday, the day after Thanksgiving. The employee shall be ready to pick when asked, at the rate of 25% per week in seniority order. If not ready, the employee will be passed over and pick what is available when ready.
c.	With the exception of Delivery Information Employees where the prohibition is in effect from the third (3rd) Monday in January to the third (3rd) Monday in March.
d.	Any employee who is eligible for a full vacation, and who resigns or whose services are terminated due to circumstances over which he/she has no control, shall receive pay for the number of weeks vacation as set forth in subsection (b) for his/her then completed years of service. Any such regular full time employee, with more than one (1) year of service who resigns or whose services are terminated due to circumstances over which he/she has no control shall receive prorated pay for the number of weeks vacation as set forth in this Article for his/her then completed years of service.
Prorated pay shall be computed on a percentage basis by dividing the number of straight time hours worked into 1,250 as illustrated below:
125 hours	10%	of full	vacation
250 hours	20%	of full	vacation
312 hours	25%	of full	vacation
625 hours	50%	of full	vacation
937 hours	75%	of full	vacation
1,250 hours	100% of full vacation
Any full time employee who displaces a part time employee shall have those hours counted towards his/her hours worked for a full time vacation.
e.	If a holiday falls during an employee's vacation, he/she shall indicate at the time of selecting said week which of the following options he/she wishes:
1)Take eight (8) hours pay in lieu of the holiday to be paid with the vacation.
2)	The Friday prior to starting vacation off as the paid holiday, or the last scheduled work day for those employees on an alternate work week schedule, as defined in Article 46, Section 1 (b).
3)	The Monday following vacation off as the paid holiday, or the first scheduled work day for those employees on an alternate work week schedule, as defined in Article 46, Section 1 (b).
4)	Hold the paid holiday and use as an additional optional holiday. Note: The Friday before and the Monday after a week with a holiday in it will be restricted to only one person each day and assigned to those looking to
122
exercise that option by seniority. The locking tn of these two (2) days supersedes any option request days.
5)	Unused option days will be paid in full the first week of December each year.
The Employer will schedule fifteen percent (15%) of the Employees by classification off on vacation from the Monday after Easter, up to and including the week in which Labor Day falls and a minimum of five percent (5%) off the remaining months. Optional weeks are not to be differentiated from regular vacation weeks in selection.
Section 2.	Vacation Pay
On the payday immediately preceding an employee's vacation he/she shall be entitled to vacation pay computed on the basis of fifty (50) hours per week at the current year's hourly rate.
ARTICLE 53.	SPECIAL VACATIONS
In lieu of three (3) days sick leave, Day after Thanksgiving holiday and employee's holiday set forth in Article 5 of 1976-1979 contract, plus an additional sick day in 1979, employees will receive fifty (50) hours of vacation pay. (To be eligible, employees must have acquired seniority and be on the payroll by May 1st of any year. Part time employees receive twenty-five [25] hours.)
The option week of vacation is not subject to the pro-rata provision of Article 52. An employee must be actively on the payroll at the time this week is scheduled and taken.
Special vacation week consisting of fifty (50) hours can be picked at the same time the vacation is picked or at any time during the year. If the special vacation is not taken by the end of vacation period, fifty (50) straight time hours will be paid. (Part time employees receive twenty-five [25] hours.)
Employees (full time or part time) may take pay in lieu of time off for optional week. Employees must indicate preference at time of vacation selection.
ARTICLE 54.	DISCHARGE AND SUSPENSION
The Employer shall not discharge or suspend any employee without just cause. No employee shall be suspended or discharged without first being verbally warned and the warning being documented, except for the following offenses:
123
(a)	Dishonesty;
(b)	Drinking of or under the influence of alcoholic beverages or narcotics during the workday;
(c)	Personal possession or the use of drugs, marijuana or L.S.D. during the work day;
(d)	Gross negligence resulting in a serious accident as defined in Article 18.
(e)	The carrying of unauthorized passengers while on the job;
(f)	Failure to report an accident;
(g)	A runaway accident;
(h)	Sexual harassment;
(i)	Fighting on the job.
The warning notice, as herein provided, shall have no force or effect for a period of more than nine (9) months from the date of said warning notice. Warning notices or file write-ups beyond the nine (9) month period set forth above, will not be considered in the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE 55.	MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1.
The provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all accretions to the bargaining unit including but not limited to newly established or acquired terminals, consolidations of terminals, etc.
This provision shall not apply to wholly-owned and wholly independently operated subsidiaries which are not under contract with the Union. "Wholly independently operated" means, among other things, that there shall be no interchange of freight, equipment or personnel, or common use, in whole or in part of equipment, terminals, property, personnel or state or ICC rights.
The exception set forth above shall not apply to accretions to the collective bargaining unit.
Section 2.	Incentive Plans-Bonus
The Employer shall not put into effect any new plan of an economic nature affecting employees (such as incentive plans, sick leave schedules, piece rate plans, etc.) without first checking with and securing the approval of the Union. There will be no newly implemented incentive plans unless approved by the affected employees and the Union. Current plans will
124
remain in effect unless the Union decides to terminate the plan after voting the employees in the affected Center.
Section 3.	Employees Not Required to Buy or Lease Equipment.
The Employer shall not require, as a condition of continued employment, that an employee shall purchase any truck, tractor-trailer or vehicular equipment, or that an employee purchase or acquire any proprietary or other interest or obligation in the business.
Section 4.
Green checks will be in envelopes.
Section 5.
All temporary personnel will wear their company identifying badges while on company property.
Section 6.
Prior to any Change of Operation in Local 705 jurisdiction, the Company and the Union will meet to resolve all issues.
Section 7.
Once an Employee’s Social Security number is on file with the Employer, the employee will only be required to write his/her last four (4) digits of the Social Security number on sign in sheets at the Employer's guard shack.
Section 8.
It is understood that all unsettled grievances and/ or issues will be heard at the UPS/705 Panel before it is referred to any other party. Neither party will unreasonably deny a grievance being sent to the National Committee and/or local arbitration, after review by the Co-Chairs.
Section 9.	Local 705 I UPS Chicago Districts Mission Statement
Notwithstanding any contractual provision elsewhere in this Agreement, in an effort to further develop and increase volume and customer confidence in the Local 705 / UPS Districts operating areas, it is understood Teamsters Local 705, it’s Agents, and members may take a pro-active role in supporting and promoting participation in any and all company initiated volume development activities.
125
ARTICLE 56. DURATION
Section 1.
This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from August 1, 2002, to and including July 31, 2008, and shall continue from year to year thereafter unless written notice of desire to cancel or terminate the Agreement is served by either party upon the other at least sixty (60) days prior to date of expiration.
Section 2.
Where no such cancellation or termination notice is served and the parties desire to continue this Agreement, but also desire to negotiate changes or revisions in this Agreement, either party may serve the other a notice at least sixty (60) days prior to July 31, 2008, or July 31st of any subsequent contract year, advising that such party desires to revise or change terms or conditions of such Agreement.
Section 3.
Revisions agreed upon or ordered shall be effective as of August 1, 2002 The respective parties shall be permitted all legal or economic recourse to support their request for revisions if the parties fail to agree thereon.
Section 4.
In the event of an inadvertent failure by either party to give the notice set forth in Section 1 and 2 of this Article, such party may give such notice at any time prior to the termination or automatic renewal date of this Agreement. If a notice is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the expiration date of this Agreement shall be the sixty-first (61st) day following such notice.
Signed For the Union: Teamsters Local Union No. 705
Signed for the Employer:
Title: North Central Region Labor Relations Manager
126
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
For the Employees:
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 705 UPS NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE
Thomas A. Nightwine, Chair
Gerald Zero, Co-Chair
Rank and File Members:	
Joe Allen	Mike Miller
Ken Bradshaw	Ted Mullins
Don Clemen	Christi Pellegrini
Dave Cygan	Vince Phillips
Patricia Gillette	Dean Serna
Ron Knee	Jackie Tyler
Local 705 Staff Members: Katina Barnett Dan Campbell Mike Colgan Brian Daugherty Dennis DeBoni Jeff Dexter Tony Gatson Bob Persak Becky Pluister Joe Strazzante Paul Waterhouse
For the Employer:
UNITED PARCEL SERVICE
Gerald A. Nerone, Chair
Committee Members:
Tom Haefke Gary Landem Chuck Schmidbauer Bob Steege Jonn Higgins Scott Lang Margaret Kuzara Steve Meyer
127
Letters of Understanding
1.	Lateral Bids for Full Time Combo Employees.
Full time combination employees shall enjoy the same lateral bid rights as package drivers.
2.	Special Operation Weeks - Affected Inside Employees
In January of each year the Employer and Union shall meet and agree on weeks during the year that may require special operations.
Affected Full Time Inside and Full-Time Combination Employees
During special operation weeks affected full time inside employees shall be offered available work to fulfill their daily guarantee as well as their weekly guarantee (except for the weeks of Christmas and New Year). Start times and work assignments may be changed due to the special operation needs. Not less than one week prior to the agreed to special operation week, affected full time inside employees shall be offered available work and start times in seniority order within their building. Employees shall indicate their selection on a form provided by the Employer.
Affected Part Time Inside Employees
If no work is available on a shift in a special operation week, affected seniority part time employees shall be offered work on other shifts in their building. Part time employees who sign up for such work shall work as directed on the shift selected. They shall have seniority among themselves. Not less than one week prior to the agreed to special operation week, affected part time inside employees shall be offered their options within their building in seniority order. Employees shall indicate their selection on a form provided by the Employer.
3.	Two Hour Gap Review
The Employer shall periodically review full time combination jobs that have over an hour break between segments and where possible will reduce the gap.
128