Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of
America (CWA), AFL-CIO (2002)
K#: 5302
Employer Name: Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)
Location: OH
Union: Communications Workers of America (CWA), AFL-CIO
Local:
SIC: 4813	NAICS: 517110
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 3300
Effective Date: 01/01/02	Expiration Date: 01/29/05
Number of Pages: 224	Other Years Available: N
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
I GENERAL AGREEMENT
CMM
between
and
ven7on
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
ILLINOIS/ INDIANA/OHIO MICHIGAN/WISCONSIN
VERIZON NORTH INC.
(NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
EFFECTIVE January 1,2002 EXPIRES January 29,2005
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	SUBJECT	PAGE
Preamble 1 Union Recognition ■	1
2	Union Security	2
3	Union Dues	3
4	Mutual Responsibilities	5
5	Union Business	6
6	Management Responsibilities	9
7	Non-Discrimination	10
0	Administration of Discipline	10
9	Definitions	11
10	Federal and State Laws	17
11	Grievance Procedure	17
12	Arbitration Procedures	' 20
13	Work Schedules, Tours and	Overtime	21
14	Job Bidding and Transfers	28
15	Board & Lodging, Per Diem	and Transportation Allowance	30
16	Tools, Equipment and Safety Practices	33
17	Force Adjustment	35
18	Seasonal Worker Program	40
19	Contract Labor	41
20	Holidays	41
21	Vacations	44
i
ARTICLE
SUBJECT
PAGE
22	Short Term Disability Benefits	48
23	Industrial Accidents and Worker Compensation	50
24	Authorized Absence	51
25	Group Insurance Benefits	53
26	Concession Service	55
27	Military Leave Agreement	56
28	Wage Administration	58
29	Premiums and Differential Pay	61
30	Contents and Duration	62
	Wage Progression Schedules - Illinois	139
	Wage Progression Schedules - Indiana	148
	Wage Progression Schedules - Ohio	164
	Wage Progression Schedules - Wisconsin	182
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENTS:
SUBJECT	PAGE
Adoption Assistance	64
Business Solutions Group/lncentive Compensation Plan	65
Commercial Driver License (CDL)	66
Compensated Availability	67
Contingent Employment	69
Consumer Sales and Support Center Incentive Compensation Plan	71
Customer Contact Representative/Customer Contact	Sales	72
Representative
Customer Engineer-Data Applications	73
Dental Plan	75
Family and Medical Leaves of Absence (FMLA)	77
Flexible Reimbursement Plan (FRP)	80
Grievance Mediation	81
Group Universal Life (GUL) Insurance	83
Home Dispatch	84
Hourly Savings Plan (HSP)	85
income Security Plan (ISP)	87
Living Benefit Rider (LBR)	90
Long Term Disability	92
Lump Sum Payment Option	96
Mail Order Prescription Plan (MOPP)	98
Medical Plans	100
Pensions	102
iii
SUBJECT
PAGE
Alltel Pension Conversion
Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension
Personal Lines of Insurance
Preferential Scheduling
Prescription Identification Card (PIC)
Public Communications Incentive Compensation Plan
Purchase of Optical Products
Retail Sates Consultant Incentive Compensation Plan
Retiree Life Insurance
Safety Committee '
Self Nomination Committee
Team Performance Award
Hourly Incentive Program Detail
Vision Plan
Voluntary Layoff of Absence
Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association (VEBA)
National Verizon/GTE/CWA Memoranda of Agreement
Domestic Partner Benefits
Education and Life-Learning Learning
Holidays
Hourly Savings Plan (HSP)
Hourly Savings Plan
Neutrality and Consent Election
Service and Seniority Recognition Union Leave of Absence
Vacation Carry Forward (Banking)
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Work and Family Issues
Work Opportunity Reassignment Center (WORC)
104
106
108
110
111
113
114
115
117
118
119
120
122
132
126
128
(Purple Inserts)
135
136
iv
AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INCORPORATED (North Central Region) And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
Preamble
This agreement is entered into this 1" day of January, 2002, by and between VERIZON NORTH INC. (North Central Region), its successors and assigns, hereinafter referred to as the Company, and the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO hereinafter referred to as the Union. This agreement shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the Company and no provisions, terms, or obligations herein contained shall be affected, modified, altered, or changed in any respect whatsoever by the consolidations, merger, sale, transfer, reorganization, or assignment of the Company, or by any change in the legal status, ownership, or management thereof.
ARTICLE 1
UNION RECOGNITION
1.1	Union Recognition
1,1.1	As to the Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO bargaining unit, the Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative with respect to wages, hours, and other conditions of employment of all employees, except supervisory employees, professional and managerial employees, guards, confidential employees as defined in the Labor-Management Relations Act, as amended, and such other employees as may be excluded from time to time, by mutual agreement, of the Company and the Union.
1.2.1	The Company and the Union will strive at all times to promote harmony and efficiency to the end that the public, the Company, the employees, and the Union may be benefited.
1
ARTICLE 2
UNION SECURITY
2.1	Obligations
2.1.1	Under federal labor laws and obligations under this Agreement, the Union is required to represent al! of the employees tn the bargaining unit fairly and equally without regard to whether the employee is a member of the Union. In consideration thereof, Agency Shop provisions will prevail during the term of this Agreement.
2.2	Membership
2.2.1	Membership in the Union is not compulsory. Employees in job classifications within the collective bargaining unit are free to accept or decline, membership in the Union.
2.2,2	Any employee who is a member of the Union may, upon proper notice voluntarily withdraw from such membership, but may not thereby be relieved of Agency Shop requirements herein.
2.3	Options
2.3.1	Subject to conditions set forth within this Article, all employees,
,	within thirty (30) calendar days of hire, shall as a condition of
employment and at their option either: (1) apply for membership in the Union and, if accepted, maintain membership in good standing thereafter during the term of this Agreement, or (2) alternately arrange to pay to the Union a service fee equal in amount to the membership dues uniformly required for all members of the same class.
2.4	Definitions
2.4.1	For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions will apply:
2.4.1.1	In Good Standing — means that the employee pays, or tenders payment of, initiation fees and periodic dues in the amount and frequency regularly required by the Union as a condition of acquiring and retaining membership.
2.4.1.2	Service Fee Employee - means a covered employee who elects not to become a member of the Union or who withdraws membership from the Union and is required in lieu of membership to pay the representation fee to the Union.
2
2.4.1.3	Proper Notice - means the employee will notify both the Company and the Union by registered mail, return receipt requested. Notice to the Company will be directed to the Labor Relations Department, and notice to the Union will be to the applicable Union Local President.
2.5	General
2.5.1	No Service Fee Employee shall be required to pay the representation fee during any period that, by Union rules or actions, dues payments are suspended or not enforced for regular members of the Union.
2.5.2	Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the Union's lawful rights to determine and enforce regulations regarding acquisition of and retention of membership in the Union. Any covered regular employee who is refused membership, or whose membership is involuntarily terminated by action of the Union body (other than for refusal to tender initiation fee and periodic dues) shall not be subject to discharge from employment, but rather, shall take on the status of service fee employee.
2.5.3	The Union agrees to indemnify the Company against any claims that may be made against the Company as a result of the Company's good faith application of this Article 2.
2.5.4	These Agency Shop provisions apply to all Bargaining Unit employees as defined in 2.3.1.
2.5.5	Service Fee employees are in no manner members of the Union and possess no membership rights, privileges or responsibilities that accrue to members of the Union.
ARTICLE 3
UNION DUES
3.1	Payroll Deductions
3.1.1	The Company agrees to make deductions of monthly Union membership dues or service fees from the pay and Benefit Payments of any employee upon receipt of a payroll deduction authorization card, signed by such employee, and to forward the full amount thus deducted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union or his/her authorized agent as directed.
3.1.1.1	Monthly Union membership dues or service fees shall be deducted on a bi-weekly basis. In the event a Local determines that the amount of dues or service fees is to
3
be on a percentage basis, the deduction amount shall be established annually on the anniversary date of this Agreement. The bi-weekly deductions shall be an identical whole amount and can only be increased or decreased on the anniversary date of this Agreement.
3.2	Insufficient Earnings
3.2.1	When earning and benefit payments are insufficient to cover the authorized deductions after other essential deductions have been made, Union dues or service fees shall be deducted in the next payroll period in which sufficient pay and benefit payments are available.
3.3	Suspension
3.3.1	Dues or service fees deductions shall be suspended during periods of leave-of-absence o,r lay-off. When the employee is returned to the payroll, deduction of Union membership dues or service fees shall be resumed automatically except in instances of military leave. '
3.4	Cancellation
3.4.1	The authorization shall continue in effect until revoked by duplicate written notice from the employee by registered receipted mail, one to the Company's Labor Relations Department and one to the Local Union President. The Company will rely solely upon Its copy of the written notice.
3.5	Information
3.5.1	Each month the Company shall furnish the Union: A list of the bargaining unit, including employee's name, address, social security number, current wage rate, amount of dues or service fees authorized and amount of dues or service fees deducted. Other information may be provided as agreed upon by the parties.
3.5.1.1	Dues or service fees deducted monthly during each calendar month shall apply to dues payable to the Union for the same month.
3.6	Company Responsibility
3.6.1	The Union agrees that the Company assumes no responsibility in connection with deduction of dues or service fees except that of forwarding moneys deducted as set forth in this Article 3. The Union shall indemnify the Company and save the Company harmless from any and all claims against the Company by an
4
employee or employees for amounts deducted and withheld from earnings as aforesaid.
ARTICLE 4
MUTUAL RESPONSIBILITIES
4.1	Recognition
4.1.1	The Company and the Union for itself and tn behalf of the employees represented recognize this Agreement as mutually binding and obligatory upon them for the term thereof.
4.2	Responsible Union - Company Relationship
4.2.1	The Company and the Union recognize that it is in the best interests of both parties, the employees, and the public that all dealings between them continue to be characterized by mutual responsibility and respect. To insure that this relationship continues and improves, the Company and the Union and their respective representatives at all levels will apply the terms of this contract fairly in accord with its intent and meaning and consistent with the Union's status as exclusive bargaining representative of all employees in the unit. Each party shall bring to the attention of all employees in the unit, including new hires, their purpose to conduct themselves in a spirit of responsibility and respect and of the measures they have agreed upon to insure adherence to this
'	purpose.
4.3	No Lockout-No Strike	.
4.3.1	The Company and the Union agree that during the term of this Agreement there shall be no lockouts. . The Union and the Company agree that during the same period, neither the Union nor its agents, nor its members will authorize, instigate, aid, condone, or engage in work stoppage, slow down, or strike.
4.3.2	The Company agrees that it will not require an employee to cross a picket line established in connection with a strike of another employer.
4.3.3	The Company agrees that no employee covered by this Agreement shall be required to fill the job of any employee who may be on strike elsewhere.
4.4	Bulletin Boards	.
4.4.1	The Union shall be permitted adequate space to place bulletin
5
boards on Company property for exclusive use of the Union.
4.4.1.1	The number type and location of Union Bulletin Boards .	shall be satisfactory to the Company.
4.4.2	No material shall be placed on Union Bulletin Boards except by designated Union representatives.
4.4.3	Material posted shall not contain anything political or controversial or anything derogatory to the Company or its employees.
4.4.3.1	Should any material other than the type described above be posted, the Union agrees that such material will be removed upon the request by the Company to an appropriate Union Representative.
4.5	Orientation
4.5.1	The Company agrees to allow Local Union representatives reasonable time (approximately fifteen (15) minutes) during new employee orientation sessions for bargaining unit employees for the purpose of providing information about the Union.
ARTICLE 5
UNION BUSINESS
5.1	Authorized Time
5.1.1	Neither the Union nor its members shall carry on Union activities during time when any one of the employees involved is on duty. Insofar as this provision is concerned, relief periods and lunch periods are not considered as time on duty.
6.2 Conferences
5.2.1	Authorized Union representatives shall be granted necessary and reasonable time off for the processing of grievances as provided for within this Agreement and for joint conferences with the Company. Should excessive or unreasonable time be spent in processing of grievances, the Company shall have the right to protest to the Union.
5.3	Notification	-
5.3.1	Union officers or representatives absenting themselves from scheduled work for joint conferences with Management, processing of grievances or negotiating with Management, shall
6
notify their immediate supervisor stating the probable duration of absence in advance of such absence and shall report to the immediate supervisor prior to resuming work. During periods of operating emergencies where such absence would interfere seriously with work requirements or telephone service to the public, permission for such absence may be denied pending relief from the emergency.
5.4	Paid Time
5.4.1	Union representatives shall not suffer loss of basic wage rate for scheduled time lost by reason of processing grievances or meeting in joint conference with the Company in connection with the administration and application of this Agreement.
5.4.2	This provision shall apply to a maximum of one representative in the Issue Resolution Step and a maximum of two representatives in Formal Step 1 and 2 of the Grievance Procedure.
5.5	Negotiation Meeting
5.5.1	The Company agrees to reimburse four employee members of the Union Negotiating Committee at the basic rate for scheduled work time lost by reason of attendance at collective bargaining sessions for the purpose of negotiating changes, amendments, or modifications to this Agreement.
5.5.2	Reimbursement shall include reasonable traveling time but shall exclude meeting time called by the Union for its committee outside that immediately associated with joint sessions.
5.6	Time Off Without Pay
5.6.1.	Employees of the Company who are officers of the Union or duly authorized representatives of such officers, shall be given time off without pay on request to take care of Union business provided reasonable notice is given to the immediate supervisor and further that the employee's absence will not seriously interfere with communication service. Such period for time off shall not exceed two months in any one instance.
5.7	Leave of Absence for Union Business
5.7.1	Employees elected or selected to full time positions in the Local Union or the International, which takes them from their employment with the Company, shall, upon written request from the Union to the Company, receive leaves of absence for periods of twelve (12) months, the sum total of which shall not exceed fifteen (15) years.
7
5.7.2	The written request shall be furnished to the Company at least thirty (30) calendar days In advance of the original request for leave. At teast fifteen (15) calendar days notice shall be furnished to the Company in writing in advance of each subsequent twelve (12) months' leave.
5.7.3	Not more than six (6) such employees shall be granted a leave of absence for Union Business at a time, and not more than one (1) from each Division or one (1) from the General Office shall be granted a leave at any one time during any portion of the same period.
5.7.4	Upon return on or before the expiration date from a leave of absence for Union activities, an employee shall be re-engaged in his/her former job classification. If no vacancies exist in his/her former job classification, he/she shall be re-engaged in a job of comparable compensation within the division. The employee's position on the wage schedule at the time the leave is granted will be the same position assumed upon his/her return.
5.7.5	An employee's accumulated years of service for pension shall be preserved while on leave of absence. All pension rights as outlined in "Plan for Hourly Paid Employees' Pension" will be applicable. Upon reinstatement the employee's continuous service date shall be his/her original service date as established prior to the leave, except that credit toward service shall not accrue beyond fifteen (15) years of leave.
5.7.6	Contributory Group Life Insurance will be available at group rates. The amount of such insurance will be determined by the employee’s basic wage in effect on the January 1“ preceding the leave. The Company will bill the employee direct for the appropriate premium. Non-contributory Insurance, in the amount provided prior to the leave, will continue in effect only if the employee subscribes to the contributory portion of the Program.
5.7.7	When permitted by the carrier of the approved basic hospitalmedical plan and when approved by the Company, the employee may arrange for direct billing of the premium for the approved basic hospital-medical plan at the group rates.
5.7.8	An employee granted a leave for Union activities will be ineligible for wages or other benefits from the Company during the period of the leave.
5.7.9	No physical or other examination shall be required as a requisite of reinstatement except when an obvious physical or mental condition exists which requires medical advice regarding job
8
placement or fitness for work.
5.7.10	An employee who does not return to work as specified In his/her request for leave of absence shall be considered to have automatically terminated his/her employment effective on the date when the leave of absence started.
ARTICLE 6
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
6.1	General
6.1.1	Except as limited by a provision of this Agreement, the Company shall continue to have the sole right to take any action it determines appropriate in the management of its business and direction of the work force in accordance with its judgment.
6.1.2	The Company specifically reserves the exclusive right and responsibility for the following: to determine products and services offered to customers; to establish (consistent with safe working practices) reasonable work rules, working hours, regulations, conditions of employment, and standards; to reprimand, suspend, discharge, or otherwise discipline employees for sufficiency of cause; to hire, promote, retire, demote, transfer, lay off, and recall employees to work; to select and direct the work force in accordance with requirements determined by management; to determine the size of the work force including the number of employees assigned to any particular job or department; to establish job classifications and job content of any classification; to assign work; to make or change rules, policies, and practices not in conflict with provisions of this Agreement.
6.1.3	The right of the Company to establish, determine, maintain and enforce reasonable standards of telephone service is fully recognized. The Company shall not be required to retain in its employment any employee who refuses or is unable to meet established work standards. A regular employee who becomes physically incapable of meeting established work standards shall be transferred to work he/she is physically capable of performing whenever practical.
6.2	Company Rules and Regulations
6.2.1	The Company agrees to promote safe working conditions for the protection of employees in their job duties.
9
6.2.2	In the Interests of safety, continuity of service, and efficient and orderly operation, it is expected that the employees will abide by the Company's rules and regulations as currently in effect or as may be modified or adopted hereafter. However, there shall be no enforcement of any rule or regulation which is not made known to employees, which is contrary to any provisions of this Agreement, or which is contrary to law or to a legally enforceable order of an agency of the government.
6.2.3	The Company shall neither make nor modify any rule, practice, or regulation during the term of this Agreement that will reduce previous employment benefits not otherwise provided for within this Agreement except upon prior agreement with the Union. Such employment benefits include military service payment allowances, disability benefits and pension benefits.
6.3	Management and Productive Work
6.4.1	Except In cases of emergency, abnormal conditions affecting service or safety, or when instructing, supervisory employees shall not be permitted to do productive work normally performed by bargaining unit employees.
ARTICLE 7
NON-DISCRIMINATION
7.1	Non-Discrimination
7.1.1.	Neither the Company nor the Union will discriminate against employees because of age, race, sex. creed, color, religion, national origin, handicap, Viet Nam era veteran status, disabled veterans, union membership or non-membership.
ARTICLE 8
ADMINISTRATION OF DISCIPLINE
8.1	General
8.1.1	Regular employees and Seasonal Workers covered by this Agreement shall not be released, discharged, demoted or disciplined without sufficiency of cause.
8.1.2	The Company shall not initiate any disciplinary action against any employee for whom the Union is the bargaining agent after the expiration of thirty (30) days alter the act was committed or after
10
the date which the Company became aware of the act.
8.1.2.1	The time limits specified above may be extended in 30 day increments with mutual consent between the Company and the Local Union President or the CWA Staff Representative.
8.2	Procedure for Recourse
8.2.1	Whenever the Union has reason to claim that any such action has been taken improperly by the Company, recourse shall be through the Grievance Procedure. Grievance relating to release or discharge shall be initiated within 10 calendar days after date of notice to the Local Union President.
8.3	Union Notification
8,3.1	The appropriate Company representatives will notify the Local Union president and the employee of each instance of discharge, demotion, or suspension at the time such action is taken. Such written notification shall be sent to the Local Union president containing the reason for such action taken. The Company and the Union recognize there may be instances where such notification cannot be given at the time the action is taken. In such instances the notification shall be forwarded as promptly as possible. The period for initiation of a grievance shall commence upon date of delivery of the written notice in person or to the latest known address of the Local Union president. Non-receipt of such notice, however, shall provide no basis for reversal of action.
8.4	Voluntary Discussion
8.4.1	Nothing within this Article will preclude voluntary discussion with 1he Local Union president, or his/her designee, concerning impending action with an opportunity for the Union to apply its influence toward correction of the undesirable performance by the employee.
ARTICLE 9
DEFINITIONS
9.1	Accredited Service
9 1.1 The term accredited service shall mean the aggregate of the years and months of active employment in the service of the Company, its predecessors, its associated companies or
11
companies affiliated with the Corporation that is recognized for service purposes. Accredited service shall include all active employment for which a wage or salary was paid, and any additional excused absent time or leave of absence time that was specifically approved for service credit purposes in accordance with published statement of Company policy.
9.1.1.1 Accredited service for part-time employees will be based on the accumulation of hours worked. For this purpose, forty hours shall be considered to constitute one week.
9.2	Basic Wage Rate
9.2.1	Basic Rate is the hourly rate of pay determined from the wage schedule for the job.
9.3	Bridging of Service
9,3.1	When an employee's employment has been terminated and thereafter is re-employed and accumulates six (6) months of accredited service, then the break in the employee's employment shall be bridged and there shall be added to the six (6) months of accredited service which has accumulated since reemployment, the period of all accredited service which the employee had previously accumulated, provided each such prior accredited service equalled or exceeded six (6) months. Official Company records shall be used for the verification of all prior service.
9.4	Call-Out Time	,
9.4.1	Time worked during an unforeseen condition for which the employee is called to return back to work outside the scheduled tour without prearrangement and there is no change in work schedule.
9.5	Calendar Day
9.5.1	Any twenty-four (24) hour period beginning immediately after midnight, and ending twenty-four (24) hours later.
9.6	Calendar Week
9.6.1	The calendar work week is a period of seven consecutive days commencing at 12:01 a.m. on Sunday and ending at midnight on the following Saturday.
9.7	Differential Pay
12
9.7.1	An additional payment given for certain responsibilities of positions assigned by management.
9.8	Division
9.8.1	As referenced in this collective bargaining agreement division will be defined by the states of Illinois, Indiana, Michjgan/Ohio and Wisconsin.
9.9	Employee
9.9.1	The general term “employee" refers to those who perform the work of the Company for a regular stated compensation and the nature of whose work duties are within the scope of the recognized collective bargaining unit. The term “Employee'1 or "Employees" wherever used in this Agreement shall include both sexes except as otherwise specifically provided herein. Whenever the masculine "pronoun" or "possessive" is used in this Agreement, the feminine "pronoun" or "possessive" is also intended, except as otherwise specifically provided herein.
9.10	Employee-Regular
9.10.1	Regular Employee is a person who has completed the probationary period, has been accepted by the Company for continued employment, and has satisfactorily met the Company's standards for employment in a regular status.
9.11	Employee-Probationary
9.11.1	A probationary employee is a person who has not completed the 180-day probationary period prior to intended assignment as a ■ regular employee.
9.11.2	Employees who cannot meet all of the Company’s employment standards by the end of the probationary period may be granted additional time in which to comply. The probationary period shall not exceed nine months under normal conditions. During the additional time, such employees shall be considered as being probationary subject to release for failure to meet such standards. Employees so retained shall be extended all remaining rights and privileges available to regular employees under the terms of this Agreement.
9.11.2.1	If conditions warrant the extension of the probationary period the Company will notify the local Union President.
9.12	Employee - Full Time
13
9.12.1	Employee, Full-Time—Regular and temporary employees who are normally scheduled to work at least five full tours or their equivalent each week.
9.13	Employee - Part Time
9.13.1	A Regular or Temporary Part Time employee is an employee whose normal assignment of work is less than the normal work week.
9.14	Employee-Occasional
9.14.1	Occasional Employee is a person engaged to perform work or irregular assignments wherein there is no regular schedule of work and who temporarily fills in for, or supplements the work of, regular employees on an occasional employment basis. Occasional employees are employees only on the specific individual days for which work assignments are scheduled. Wage treatment shall not exceed wage schedules effective for regular employees and may be based on cumulative previous hours worked for the Company.
9.14.1.1	Occasional employees shall not be employed to an extent as to adversely affect the usual employment of current regular full-time or part-time employees.
9.15	Employee - Temporary
9.15.1	Temporary Employee is a person engaged for a specific project, or for a definite period of time in connection with performance on a specific project or as a temporary addition to the work force under conditions that employment ceases on or before completion of the assignment and employment is continuous for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months. A six-month continuous period may be extended subject to the mutual agreement between the Union and the Company.
9.16	Formally Scheduled Tours
9.16.1	For purposes of arranging and posting work schedules for normal tours and for purposes of determining overtime hours worked, no employee shall be scheduled on a formal basis to work tours of more than eight hours in any one day, nor totaling more than forty hours in one week, nor more than the equivalent of five eight hour tours in any six days within a work week. Such scheduling of lours within these limits shall constitute the normal work schedule and shall be known as the employee's formally scheduled tours.
14
9.16.2	The provisions for formally scheduled tours shall not constitute any guarantee or requirement that 40 hours per week shall be the maximum number of hours of work that may be required of any employee. The determination of the number of hours to be worked is a responsibility of the Company according to work demands and telephone service requirements except as may be limited by law and by reasonable considerations for health and safety of employees.
9.17	Holiday
9.17.1	Means the twenty-four hour period between 12:01 a.m. on the holiday or day so observed and the succeeding midnight.
9.18	Normal Tour
9.18.1	A normal tout of duty shall be eight (8) hours.
9.18.2	Normal Workday—Part-time Employees: Up to eight hours in any one day.
9.19	Normal Work Week
9.19.1	A normal work week shall consist of forty (40) hours.
9.19.2	Normal Workweek—Part-time Employees: Up to eight hours per day and forty hours per week. Part-time employees must be scheduled one day off each week.
9.20	Premium Pay
9.20.1	Premium Pay is an amount, in addition to basic rate, paid for working certain hours or days.
9.21	Reporting Location
9.21.1	Designated as a building or place therein, as determined by (he Company, where an employee begins and ends his/her assigned tour of duty.
9.22	Seniority
9.22.1	Unless otherwise provided within this Agreement, Seniority shall mean the length of Computed Active Employment within the bargaining unit of the company; the bargaining unit of any other GTE Company and any other predecessor company where the acquisition understanding Included such consideration. Seniority shall include absences as a result of labor-management disputes.
15
9.22.1.1	Employees entering this bargaining unit after December 31, 1984, from another GTE Company whose bargaining unit observes only unit seniority will have seniority based from date of entry into this bargaining unit.
9.22.1.2	Seniority of present bargaining unit employees, shall be as computed and established by previous agreements, seniority records, and seniority lists prior to the effective date of January 1,2002.
9.22.1.3	New employees shall accumulate seniority beginning with the most recent date of hire. Seniority for regular part-time employees shall be computed at the rate of one (1) week for each forty (40) hours worked.
9.22.1.4	Former employees who are re-engaged shall have their seniority bridged accordingly after completion of 6 months of service. Only time previously served in the bargaining unit will be Included. Such bridging, however, shall not serve to bring about an increase in .	wage rates purely as a result of the bridging.
9.22.1.4.1	Employees who have retired and who return to work for the Company will not be eligible to bridge any seniority accumulated prior to retirement. The ■	employee's rehire date will be used for
purposes associated with customary applications of seniority such as: selection of vacations, shift selections, promotions, transfers, and force adjustments.
9.22.1.5	Employees promoted to classifications outside of the collective bargaining unit covered by this Agreement shall continue to accrue accredited service, but not seniority. Such employees, when returned to employment within the collective bargaining unit, shall be entitled to exercise their seniority as defined in this Section 9. 22.
9.22.1.6	The transfer date of Seasonal Workers will be calculated once a year and will only be used for transfers and promotions.
9.23	Straight-Time Rate
9.23.1	Straight-Time Rate is the basic rate plus premiums or differentials
16
when applicable.
ARTICLE 10
FEDERAL AND STATE LAWS
10.1	Federal And State Laws
10.1.1	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require either of the parties hereto to act contrary to any State or Federal law or regulation. In the event that any such condition arises, it is agreed that this Agreement shall be deemed to be modified In respect to either or both parties to the extent necessary to comply with such law or regulation.
ARTICLE 11
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
11,1	Definition
11.1.1	A grievance is any comptaint by an employee, or group of employees, or by the Union on the employees behalf:
11.1.1.1	Agreement, Alleging violation of the provisions or application of the provisions, of this Agreement.
11.1.1.2	Public Laws. Alleging violation of public laws governing wages, hours, and working conditions.
11.1.1.3	Discipline. With respect to any actions taken under which an employee is discharged, demoted or disciplined allegedly without sufficiency of cause.
11.1.1.4	Benefits. With respect to any action taken under which an employee, or group of employees, allegedly suffers improper loss, or reductions of, any established benefits arising out of the job or of employment with the Company.
11.1.1.5	Hazard. Alleging that an employee or group of employees are subjected unduly to hazardous or unsafe working conditions beyond the normal exposures inherent to the job assignment.
11.1.1.6	Discrimination. Or other complaint alleging that an employee or group of employees has been
17
discriminated against ar otherwise unfairly treated by the Company In carrying out its responsibilities.
11.2	I ntent Of Grievance Procedure
11.2.1	It Is the Intent of both parties that grievances shall be settled with sincerity and dispatch.
11.2.2	Union representatives may meet with the Company at any reasonable time for the purpose of discussing working conditions, or for presenting problems, not specifically covered by the provisions of this Agreement. Failure to arrive at an agreement shall not of itself qualify the subject matter as a grievance.
11,2,3	The Company agrees that settlements shall be exclusively with the Union in all instances wherein grievances are filed by or through the Union and that, once the Union notifies the Company of its intent to process a grievance, the Company will not attempt to adjust the matter with the employee or employees involved without the consent of the Union.
11.2.4	The Union shall be given the opportunity to be present at the settlement of any grievance presented directly by any employee or group of employees. In no event shall settlements be made that are contrary to the provisions of this Agreement.
11.2.4.1	It is recognized that the presentation of routine questions or problems to the supervisor as arising in day-to-day operations need not require the presence of a Union representative unless failure of the supervisor to provide an adequate routine answer permits the problem to develop into an actual grievance.
11.3	Grievance Process
11.3.1	Issue Resolution Step. It is in the mutual interest of the Company and the Union to have potential grievances settled prior to the need for a formal written grievance. Accordingly, an Informal Issue Resolution Meeting will be requested with the appropriate management employee within ten (10) calendar days for release or discharge of an employee and within forty-five (45) days for all other violations, after the event giving rise to the grievance. Attendance at the Issue Resolution Meeting shall be limited to those individuals actually involved with the issue l.e., management representative, union representative and/or involved employee (s). Any resolution reached shall be final and shall not be considered precedent setting. The subject of any subsequent grievance or arbitration resulting from failure to reach resolution
18
at this meeting shall be limited to the issue addressed in the meeting.
11.3.2	Formal Step 1. Settlement not. being reached at the Issue Resolution Meeting the appropriate Union representative shall submit the grievance in writing to the second level manager and/or department head within twenty (20) calendar days. Discussions shall commence unless mutually arranged otherwise within ten (10) calendar days after receipt of the Union's written response. The appropriate Company representative shall submit the Company's response in writing to the Local Union President within twenty (20) calendar days upon completion of the Formal
.	Step 1 meeting.
11.3.3	Formal Step 2. Settlement not being reached at the formal first step meeting the appropriate Union representative shall have thirty (30) calendar days in which to appeal the grievance to the Labor Relations Manager. Discussions shall commence, unless mutually arranged otherwise, within fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt of the Union's written notice. The Company shall respond in writing within thirty (30) calendar days to the appropriate Union representative upon completion of the Formal Step 2 discussion.
11.3.4	Late Appeal. Where a grievance is not appealed to the next higher step within the prescribed, or mutually agreed alternate time limit, it shall be barred from further processing.
11.3.5	Late Reply. A grievance not resolved within any step by failure of the Company to meet prescribed time limits shall be advanced ■ automatically to the next higher step.
11.3.6	The time periods specified in this Article may be extended or modified by mutual consent.
11.4	Written Presentation Of Grievance
11.4.1	Preparation. Whenever a grievance is to be submitted for action, the grievance shall be reduced to a statement in writing and signed by the employee, or by an appropriate representative of the Union.
11.4.2	Distribution. The written statement of grievance shall be furnished to the 2nd level manager at Step 1 as indicated in Article 11, Section 11.3.2. The form provided by the Union shall be as adopted by mutual agreement of the Union and the Company; it shall be the only recognized form for presentation of grievances.
11.4.3	Content. The written statement shall set forth in substance the
19
specific nature of the alleged grievance, briefly, but in sufficient detail that dates, times, occurrences and the nature of the circumstances causing the grievance can be identified readily. There shall also be a statement as to the public law or as to the specific Article, Section, and Paragraph of this Agreement which allegedly has been violated if either is the basis for the grievance. If the grievance is not based on the foregoing, then the written statement shall include Information as to the foundation of the complaint.
11.5	Mutual Information
11.5.1	The Union and the Company shall keep each other currently informed in writing concerning the names and titles of their respective representatives for purposes of processing grievances.
ARTICLE 12
ARBITRATION PROCEDURES
12.1	Appeal
12.1.1	Grievances as defined in Section 1 of Article 11 remaining unresolved upon completion of the prescribed Grievance Procedure, may be referred to arbitration.
12.1,1.1	Arbitrations shall be conducted by the American Arbitration Association.
12.1.2	Whenever a grievance is to be submitted to arbitration, written notice of such intent is to be served on the other party within 30 calendar days after the receipt of the last written answer as provided for in Step 2 of the Grievance Procedures. The time may be reasonably extended by mutual consent of the Company and the Union.
12.1.3	The written request shall restate the grievance as originally submitted under Article 11 and shall certify that the parties failed to reach a satisfactory settlement in the Grievance Procedure as set forth in Article 11. This written submission then shall serve as basis for proceedings in arbitration.
12.1.4	Should the parties fail to reach mutual agreement within ten calendar days after receipt of written demand for arbitration that the dispute is a proper matter for arbitration, the Union then may serve written notice upon the company within ten calendar days thereafter that the matter is to be submitted to arbitration for the purpose of determining whether the issue involved is properly
20
arbitrable.
12.1.5	All proceedings under this Section shall be started and carried to conclusion as expeditiously as possible.	.
12.1.6	Each party shall bear the expense of preparing and presenting its own case. The compensation and expenses of the arbitrator and the incidental expenses of the arbitration proceeding mutually agreed to in advance shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
12.2	Authority
12.2.1	The decision of the arbitrator shall be binding upon both parties and shall conclusively determine the dispute being arbitrated. An arbitrator may decide only one grievance rather than multiple ones submitted or pending unless otherwise agreed.
12.2.2	The arbitrator shall not have authority to add to, subtract from, or modify any provision of this Agreement, nor to rule on any question except the ones submitted for arbitration.
12.2.3	The arbitrator shall not possess authority to assess damage or punitive payments against either party to the other. In rendering a decision, the arbitrator shall be confined to the specific issue.
12.3	Make Whole
12.3.1	Where the issue submitted to Arbitration involves the payment of . money to a grievant retroactively or otherwise, the Arbitrator shall have the authority to include in the award a direction for the payment of money retroactively or otherwise, but limited to making the grievant whole and no more. With respect to back wages only "make whole” means reimbursing the grievant for the wages he/she would have made if employment had been continuous, less wages actually received by the grievant, from any other source, Workers” Compensation, Unemployment Compensation, or other monetary compensation for which the grievant would not have been eligible for had the grievant not been suspended or discharged, during the period in question.
ARTICLE 13
WORK SCHEDULES, TOURS AND OVERTIME
13.1	Tour Of Duty
13.1.1	A formal tour of duty shall consist of not more than eight
21
consecutive hours (exclusive of a meal period not exceeding one hour). When any employee is not permitted to leave the job for a full meal period of at least one-half hour, the meal period shall be paid for as time worked. Where two or more . employees are on duty, the normal rest periods may be combined to constitute a paid lunch period.
13.1.1.1	When any part-time employee is formally scheduled to remain on the job continuously for more than six hours, he/siie shall be granted eating time as part of his/her tour.
13.1.2	Usually each tour is made up of two sessions. The sessions are scheduled at various times as necessitated by proper telephone service to the public.
13.1.2.1	A split tour is a tour with more than one (1) hour between sessions and will be applicable to employees in the Consumer Safes Solutions Center. Repair Resolution Center. Business Solutions Group and Business Contact Center.
13.1.3	A relief period of fifteen minutes paid for as time worked will be granted to employee as near the middle of each session as practical.
13.2	Work Day
13.2.1	For scheduling purposes, a formally scheduled tour of duty shall be considered as falling on that calendar day in which the majority of the hours of the scheduled tour occur. If the scheduled hours are equally distributed between two calendar days, the first of such days shall be considered as the day for which the tour is scheduled. Reporting time worked for payment, however, shall be on the basis of the day on which the time was actually worked.
13.3	WorkWeek
13.3.1	The formally scheduled work week usually consists of five normal tours of duty within a calendar week. Subject to these considerations, tours may be scheduled on any of the seven days of the week.
13.4	Work Schedules
13.4.1	A formal work schedule shall be set up for each regular and probationary employee and will show the following:
22
13.4.1.1	The name of each employee assigned.
13.4.1.2	The name of each temporary or occasional employee working as a substitute for a regular or probationary employee.
13.4.1.3	The days of the calendar work week on which the employee is scheduled to work.
13.4.1.4	The scheduled tour for each of these days.
13.4.1.5	The employee's starting and quitting time and the normal designated lunch period.
13.5	Choice of Tours and Days.
13.5.1	Alt employees will be granted their selection of available tours and days of work on schedules designated by the Company In accordance with their seniority. All assignments of available tours and/or days will be subject to restrictions imposed by law, restrictions due to work demands, or necessary training or retraining.
13.5.1.1	When work schedules consist of 2 or more weeks, employees will be accorded a choice of hours and days they are to work by signing for each weekly unit in order of seniority.
13.5.1.2	Regular and probationary full time employees shall be extended first choice. Next in order, part-time employees, then occasional and/or temporary employees.
13.6	Posting
13.6.1	Work schedules shall be posted by reporting location showing tours of duty for the next succeeding week and employees shall be notified by schedule posting not later than 5:00 p.m. Thursday of the preceding week. The schedules shall indicate the tours which constitute the normal work week.
13.6.1.1	When hours of scheduled work remain the same from week to week, a single posting shall be sufficient until the hours or days are to be changed.
23
13.6.1.2	Tour vacancies within a posted schedule may be titled by assignment of available personnel without requirement for change of the posted schedule for tour choice by seniority.
13.7	Schedule Change
13.7.1	When unforeseen circumstances necessitate the changing of hours or days to be worked by any regular employee from the original formerly scheduled tour of duty, the treatment shall be as follows:
13.7.1.1	When less than forty-eight hours notice before the beginning of work on the original formally scheduled tour is given to an employee, the changed hours shall be worked but no change shall be made in the employee's formal schedule. Any time worked outside of the employee's formal schedule shall be treated as overtime. Such overtime work shall not be included in the employee's formally scheduled week.	.
13.7.1.2	When forty-eight hours or more notice before the beginning of work on the original formally scheduled tour is given, the employee shall work only the hours of the changed tour which shall be considered a substitute for, and in place of, the original formal scheduled tour. Such time worked which falls within the limits of the changed tour shall be paid for at the straight-time rate. Work in excess of the hours of the changed tour shall not be used to modify the employee's then scheduled week.
13.7.2	An employee's formally scheduled work hours may be changed on personal request with approval of the supervisor. Approval will be contingent upon consideration of work load, requirements of telephone service, requirements of law and the provisions of this Agreement. Ordinarily, approval will be denied if overtime results from the change. The changed scheduled hours shall then supersede and replace the original scheduled hours which shall cease to exist.
13.7.2.1	Exchanging of tours or of days off between employees will be permissible subject to the foregoing provisions.
13.8	Four Ten-Hour Tours
24
13.8.1	The Company shall select the classifications and the reporting locations that are subject to the ten-hour, four-day week.
13.8.1.1	Management will discuss the schedule with the affected work group or work groups involved prior to posting the schedule to be bid.
13.8.2	The tour will not be subject to overtime for the hours worked in excess of 8 in any one day. Hours worked in excess of ten in any one day or forty in any one week shall be paid at the overtime rate.
13.8.3	There will be weeks during the year when the employee’s scheduled tours will revert back to five (5) eight-hour tours for specific weeks. This will usually be done when the employee is scheduled for school, vacation or when a designated holiday fails during the week or when required to meet the service demands of the business. The second week in which an employee is absent-sick paid would revert back to five (5) eight-hour tours.
13.8.3.1	Absent paid time including death in immediate family, jury and witness duty and sickness; employees scheduled four ten-hour tours will receive absent paid time based on ten hours per scheduled day.
13.8.3.2	The floating holidays may be an exception to paragraph 13.8.3. With supervisory approval, the floating holidays may be scheduled during the ten-hour tours subject to the provisions of Article 20. If the selected day for the employee’s floating holiday falls on a non-scheduled day, it will result in 8 hours pay.
13.8.3.3	Employees scheduled for four ten tours shall In no case receive in excess of their allotted vacation pay per year nor shall they gain an advantage over employees working eight hour tours.
13.9	Travel Timo
13.9.1	Traveling time spent by any employee on Company business between the time when he/she reports for work as required and the time when he/she is released from work, shall be treated as working time.
25
13.9.2	Traveling time, in line of duty, spent by an employee riding in or driving a Company motor vehicle while going to or from a job location shall be treated as working time.
13.9.3	When sleeping accommodations are provided, the employee’s formally scheduled hours for the day shall be treated as working time.
13.9	.4 There will be no reduction in formal scheduled hours on the day by reason of traveling.
13.10	Overtime
13,10.1	Overtime is:
13.10.1.1	All time worked in excess of eight hours in any one day.
13.10,1.2	All time worked in excess of forty hours in a work week.
13.10.2	Part-time employees shall be paid at the overtime rate only for hours worked in excess of eight in any one day or after forty hours at straight-time pay in any one week.
13.10.3	Overtime normally will be worked on one day but it may extend from one day to another when the time worked is continuous. Overtime may be worked either prior to, or after, or both prior to and after, the formal tour.
13.10.4	Overtime work continuous with a formally scheduled tour shall . be compensated at the applicable overtime rate for actual time worked. Work time shall be considered as continuous if it immediately precedes or follows hours worked in a formal tour of duty or if the employee is requested to go back to work within thirty (30) minutes before he/she has initially left the premises. When the employee is permitted, at his/her own request, to take reasonable time off for a meal, and then return to work, the additional time worked shall be considered continuous for the purposes of this Section.
13.10.5	Call-out time, or overtime not continuous with a formal schedule, shall be at the applicable overtime rate with a minimum payment of two hours at such rate.
26
13.10.6	Total compensation for overtime work shall be at the rate of one and one-half times the straight-time rate of pay during the overtime hours worked; there shall be no pyramiding of overtime rates or premium rates calling for payment of one and one-half times the straight-time rate except as noted in Article 29, Section 29,6.
13.10.7	Any employee who is directed by the Company on an overtime basis to remain on the job continuously for more than six hours, shall be granted paid time to eat a meal as job conditions warrant. However, only in extreme emergencies will an employee be expected to work more than six consecutive hours without such meal period.
13.10.8	When overtime is assigned within a job classification and reporting location, it shall first be offered to the most senior qualified employee or employees in that classification and the offering shall continue down the seniority list of qualified employees. If no one is willing to work the overtime, it shall be assigned to the least senior qualified employee or employees In that reporting location.
13.10.8.1	An employee who does not accept such assignment three (3) consecutive times shall be removed from the overtime list. The employee may be returned to his/her proper seniority position on the active list by written request to his/her supervisor after a seven (7) day waiting period.
13.10.8.2	An employee may also be removed from the active list by written request to the supervisor, Such request may be withdrawn at any time by written request to the supervisor and placed back on the active list after a seven {7) day waiting period.
13.10.9	When the situation (for example, work continuation, time constraints, service requirements) does not allow management to obtain employees under Section 13.10.8 above, the supervisor can require a qualified employee(s) to work.
13.10.10	Employees shall not ordinarily be required or permitted to work sixteen (16) or more continuous hours. However, in service emergencies or under circumstances beyond the control of the Company, it may become necessary to work an employee such extended hours.
27
13.10.10.1	Such employee who has worked sixteen (16) or more continuous hours shall be entitled to an eight-hour rest period before returning to work. If any portion of the rest period extends into the employee's regular scheduled shift, the employee shall be excused from work without toss of pay for such hours.
13.10.11 When an employee is required to work on a regular scheduled day, three (3) hours or more beyond the employee's regular quitting time, the employee shall be eligible for a meal allowance of $5.00.
ARTICLE 14
JOB BIDDING AND TRANSFERS
14.1	General
14.1.1	The Company may transfer or promote employees within each .	division of the bargaining unit between jobs and departments in
conformity with the requirements of telephone service and the operating efficiency of the Company.
14.1.2	Regular employees wishing to bid on a vacancy must follow the procedures outlined In the hourly self-nomination process.
14.1.2.1	Hourly job bids shall be submitted to the HR Staffing Representative. Bids shall contain an outline of experience, training or other qualifications of the employee which are pertinent to Ihe job being requested.
14.1.2.2	The appropriate Union President will be notified of the successful candidate within 30 days of the job being awarded.
14.1.3	In making a selection for a job within the bargaining unit the selection will be based on full consideration of the ability, personal training for the job, dependability, and seniority of eligible employees. Seniority will prevail among employees whose ability and qualifications are consistent with the job requirements. The Company retains the right to conduct oral and written tests to determine qualifications.
28
14.1.3.1	It is understood and agreed that the Company reserves the right to select or employ individuals from outside the Company where services requiring special training or special abilities not available in the Company are required.
14.1.3.2	Employees with below standard work records will not be eligible for a transfer or promotion.
14.1.4	An employee accepting a reclassification is required to work in the new classification for 12 months except as provided below. This requirement may be waived by management.
18 months - Customer Care Technician, Lineworker, Sr.
. Lineworker and Senior Cable Technician.
24 months - COE Installer-Repairer, Construction Cable Splicer, Business Zone Technician (I), Customer Zone Technician I, Customer Zone Technician II, Customer Engineer-Data Applications, Cable Splicer, Facilities Locator Assignor, Facilities Locator-Assigner, Facility Assignee CO Equipment Technician, Construction Detailer, Networks Systems Technician and Service Area Equipment Technician.
Employees accepting a job in a new classification as a result of returning from layoff or bumping during the layoff will be excluded from the above restrictions.
14.1.5	Any employee who transfers pursuant to this Article 14 will serve a probationary period not to exceed six (6) months. At the end of this probationary period the employee shall be assigned the higher classification or be transferred back to his/her previous classification and progression interval.
14.2	Transfers
14.2.1	Transfers between departments will be recognized to the extent that there will be no disruption to operations within the department from which the employee would transfer. In the event immediate transfer is denied because of disruption of departmental operations, the employee shall be offered transfer at the earliest opportunity thereafter.
14.2.2	Self nominations involving a downgrade of an employee to a job on a lower wage schedule will be considered at the discretion of the Company according to work demands and force requirements.
14.3	Involuntary Transfers
29
14.3.1	Employees selected for involuntary transfer from one exchange to another shall be chosen on the basis of least seniority to the extent that ability and qualifications are consistent with the demands of the job to be filled. Costs of moving to new work locations will be assumed by the Company.
14.3.2	When opportunity arises, an employee involuntarily transferred by the Company in accordance with the foregoing Paragraph 14.3.1 of this Article shall be afforded an opportunity to retransfer to his/her former job or to another job for which he/she is qualified at the first exchange from which he/she was transferred. The retransfer shall be afforded in accord with seniority limited only by necessary considerations of telephone service requirements.
14.3.3	The Company will neither engage a new employee nor re-engage a former employee with less seniority than the employee involuntarily transferred under the provisions of the foregoing Paragraph 14.3.1 of this Section for a job which the involuntarily transferred employee can fill in accord with Paragraph 14.3.2 of this Section.
ARTICLE 15
BOARD & LODGING, PER DIEM AND TRANSPORTATION ALLOWANCE
15.1	Reporting Location
15.1.1	All employees shall be assigned to definite reporting locations.
15.1.2	Employees will be subject to work assignments at other than their normal assigned reporting location.
15.1.3	The selection of employees for such reassignment to a temporary work location shall be subject to the following:
15.1.3.1	The work group will be asked for qualified volunteers.
15.1.3.2	If sufficient volunteers are not obtained, qualified employees will be assigned in inverse order of seniority.
15.2	Per Diem
15.2.1	When an employee is assigned to work temporarily at a location more than 10 miles from his/her regular reporting location, the following shall apply:
30
15.2.1.1	If the temporary reporting location is more than 10 miles and up to and including 20 miles, the employee will be compensated a per diem of $11.00 per day for each working day of the assignment.
15.2.1.2	If the temporary reporting location is more than 20 miles and up to and including 40 miles, the employee will be compensated a per diem of $21.00 per day for each working day of the assignment.
15.2.1.3	If the temporary reporting location is more than 40 miles and up to and including 60 mites, the employee will be compensated per diem of $34.00 per day for each working day of the assignment.
15.2.1.4	If the temporary reporting location is more than sixty (60) miles away from the regular reporting location, the Company shall select and pay for lodging at the employee's request. The employee will be compensated a meal allowance of $32.00 per day for each working day of the assignment. Management will provide transportation, on Company time on the initial trip to and the last trip from the temporary reporting location in the form of a Company vehicle, public k transportation or a mileage allowance. When the employee's personal vehicle is used, the employee will be compensated a mileage allowance for the round trip transportation on each interim weekend of the assignment.
15.2.1.5	If the temporary work assignment is outside the division in which the employee reports, reasonable board (or a meal allowance of $32.00) and lodging with supervisory approval will be paid for each day of the assignment. No per diem will be paid. Employees, on temporary work assignments outside the state in which the employee reports, will be permitted to return home at the end of each three week period. Approved transportation expenses will be paid by the Company.
15.2.3	All reference to miles shall mean the most direct and practical one-way highway distance to the temporary reporting location as . determined by management.
31
15.2.4	For each day that an employee is assigned to a temporary reporting location more than 60 miles from his/her regular reporting location, the employee shall be allowed to charge to the Company one personal long distance call of a five minute duration, terminating in the state in which the employee resides.
15.2.5	- If the temporary reporting location is closer to the employee's home than his/her regular reporting location, the employee will not be paid per diem.
15.2.6	Employees on per diem will travel on their own time, except as provided in 15.2.1.5 and unless otherwise directed by management to move vehicles and equipment.
15.2.7	Per diem payment is in lieu of all other employee expenses unless otherwise specified herein.
15.3 School Assignments
15.3.1	An employee assigned to a school location away from his/her reporting location may be required to stay overnight at or near the school location. When an employee does stay at or near the school location, clean comfortable lodging will be arranged by the Company. The Company will pay the cost of such lodgings and per diem as follows:
15.3.1.1	Effective 1-1-2002: $32.00 per day.
15.3.1.2	Employees electing to commute back and forth daily may do so on their own time and expense with the approval of his/her supervisor. Employees will receive round trip personal vehicle mileage allowance from school to normal reporting location in lieu of and not to exceed lodging expense and per diem. This option is not available when a Company vehicle is provided.
Per diem, as referenced in 15.3.1.1 will not be paid;
' however, the commuter will receive a $8.00 stipend for miscellaneous expenses. In no case will the mileage, combined with the stipend, exceed lodging and per , diem cost.
15.4 Personal Vehicle
15.4.1	Whenever an employee is authorized by the Company to use his/her personal vehicle, the mileage allowance shall be paid in accordance with Company policy, but no less than $.31 per mile when the employee's personal vehicle is used.
15.4.2	When a mileage allowance is paid for the use of an employee's
32
personal vehicle, it is intended to cover all the expenses Incurred for operating the vehicle such as, but not limited to: gasoline, oil, and repairs.
15,4.3	When a mileage allowance is paid for the use of an employee's vehicle, the employee must have the minimum necessary liability limits on the vehicle used as required to comply with the Financial Responsibility of the State.
ARTICLE 16
TOOLS, EQUIPMENT AND SAFETY PRACTICES
16.1	Tools
16.1.1	The Company will furnish, without cost to employees, all toots necessary for the performance of their duties.
16.1.2	Employees who are furnished tools by the Company will be held responsible for their proper use and care and will be held accountable for all tools assigned to them.
16.1.2.1	Tools furnished to employees by the Company which become broken or worn through normal wear will be replaced by the Company without cost to the employee.
16.1.2.2	Tools furnished to the employees by the Company which are lost or stolen will be replaced at the employee's expense except when loss results from causes beyond the employee's control including failure of the Company to provide a secure place for storage.
16.1.2.3	The Company may inspect tools at any time, and shall condemn from further use any tool which is found to be unsafe or unfit.
16.1.3	Employees will continue to use their present required tools until such tools are, or become, worn out, or otherwise not usable, at which time the Company will furnish replacements.
16.1.4	The Company will specify the quantity, kind, type and make of tools that are to be used in connection with each type of work.
16.1.5	The Company will furnish, without cost to the employees, work gloves for outside plant forces, subject to the provisions, as are applicable to tools, of the preceding paragraphs of this Article 16.
33
16.2	Safety Practices
16.2.1	It Is agreed that the Company will make every reasonable effort to provide the employees with safe working conditions and the Union will support and encourage the practice of safety by employees.
16.2.2	It is the intent of the parties that no employee shall be required to work under conditions which are unsafe or unhealthy beyond the normal hazards inherent in the operation of the Job in question.
16.2.3	It will be the employee’s responsibility and obligation to maintain safety standards and to report any unsafe working conditions.
16.2.4	The Company will instruct its employees in safe methods and practices of performing their work through a definite safety program consisting of instruction scheduled on Company time in safety practices.
16.3	Inclement Weather
16.3.1	During bad weather, employees will be required to be available for such work as may be necessary to maintain telephone service, or such other work as may be assigned. If an employee is excused, no time shall be lost.
16.3.2	Outside employees shall not suffer loss of scheduled work time when inclement weather prevents the performance of their normal work duties and the employee has reported for work as required. Inclement weather shall be construed to include heavy rain, wet snow and excessive cold weather any of which coutd interfere with the safe performance of work.
16.3.2.1	The immediate supervisor shall determine the type and location of alternate duties to be performed.
16.3.2.2	The immediate supervisor shall determine in all instances the extent to which outside work shall be performed during inclement weather with reasonable protection for health and safety of employees and with due consideration to the protection of life, property or continuity of essential services.	'
34
ARTICLE 17
FORCE ADJUSTMENT
17.1	Reduction In Work Time
17.1.1	Whenever conditions al any reporting location require a reduction in forces through lay-off or part-timing in one or more title classifications, such reductions shall be in accordance with the following:
17.1.1.1	The Company will notify the Union at least two weeks in advance before proceeding to lay-off or part-time regular full-time employees with less than one year seniority. Such lay-offs shall proceed by order of inverse seniority within each reporting location, department and title classification.
17.1.1.2	At Company request the Union will meet with the Company to develop a proposed plan. Or, at Union request, the Company will meet with the Union to .	review the Company’s submitted plan for the purpose
of negotiating changes or modifications. If agreement as to a final plan cannot be achieved within 15 days following notification to the Union, or during any mutually agreed extension thereof, then further lay-offs shall be effected to the extent needed in order of inverse seniority by reporting location, department and title classification.
17.1.1.3	Initially, lay-offs shall be made in the following order to the extent needed within each reporting location, department and title classification.
17.1.1.4	Occasional and/or temporary employees.
17.1.1.5	Probationary employees
17.1.1.6	Regular part-time employees.
17.2	Transfer in Lieu of Layoff
17.2.1	Employees shall be offered the opportunity to fill vacancies for which they are qualified in other reporting locations in the same title classification or another title classification on the same wage schedule. The filling of such vacancies shall be in order of seniority.
35
17.2.2	In the event that there are not enough volunteers, the Company may assign employees in the surplus reporting location and classification to vacancies in the same classification within a radius of 25 miles from his/her current reporting location. Such assignments will be made on the basis of inverse seniority.
17.2.3	Any remaining excess forces will be considered to be those employees of least seniority in the title classification affected at the reporting location determined to have surplus. These employees shall be offered opportunities for bumping as prescribed in this Article 17.
17.3	Bumping Rights
17.3.1	An employee with one or more years of seniority who is notified that, through force reduction, employment cannot be continued in the present job, shall have bump rights. Bumping may be to a job within the bargaining unit of his/her respective Division in the same title classification but in another location, or to a job in another title classification. In the latter instance, the employee must have previously performed the same job satisfactorily within the Company, can still perform it satisfactorily, and the job is held by a less senior employee. An employee may bump to another title classification within the bargaining unit of his/her respective Division, not previously held within the Company, but which job he/she may be qualified to perform by previous experience and training. An employee may bump to a job on a higher wage schedule with authorization of management.
17.3.2	The employee must possess sufficient qualifications, in accordance with Company standards in effect at the time of requested bump, so that the alternate job can be performed with minimum additional training. The Company shall decide whether qualifications are adequate.
17.3.2.1	In the application of rights under this Section, employees may exercise their options within the bargaining unit of his/her respective division based on their seniority.
17.3.3	For the purpose of this Article, seniority may be modified in instances of limited experience in the present title classification.
17.3.3.1	An employee can exercise his/her full Company seniority only after he/she has two or more years work time spent at his/her job classification.
17.3.3.2	When an employee is downgraded to a lower classification through this modification, the period of
36
work time spent at the higher classification shall be added to any time previously worked at the lower classification to establish the employee’s seniority status.
17.3.4	When an employee exercises an option under Section 17.3 requiring relocation to another reporting location, the Company may select the reporting location where operating factors become a matter for consideration. Costs of moving to the new reporting location will be assumed by the employee.
17.3.5	When an employee has exhausted bump rights, the employee shall have five working days after notification before being laid off.
17.3.6	An employee desiring not to exercise options available under Section 17,3 does not prejudice his/her rights for recall from layoff under the provisions of Section 17.4.2 of this Article.
17.3.7	For purposes of this Article, employees absent from active employment by reason of disability and/or leave-of-absence shall be treated as follows:
17.3.7.1	When sufficient seniority exists to retain employment, the employee's status shall remain unchanged.
17.3.7.2	When insufficient seniority exists to retain employment, the employee shall be subject to lay-off in the same manner as though actively at work.
17.4	Rocall/Retransfer
17.4.1	When additions to the work force are required reinstatement shall be offered in the order of seniority to the extent that the individual can do the work.
17.4.1.1	Employees who have been assigned to a vacancy or bumped in lieu of layoff to a classification or location other than that which they left, shall be returned to their previous classification and location, if they so desire, at the earliest opportunity. When an offer of retransfer has been made the employee shall accept within one week of receipt of such notice and shall report for duty within two weeks of the date such retransfer is offered. This right of retransfer shall not exceed two years and apply only to the original job classification. Should the employee refuse retransfer, all retransfer rights are terminated. This provision supersedes Article 14, of this Agreement
37
17.4.2	The Company will integrate, by seniority, laid off employees who submit self-nominations along with the list of other self-nom candidates for all future vacancies. (It will be the laid off employees' responsibility to submit a self-nomination form for any job they wish to be considered.) All employees, both active and laid off, will thus be considered on a seniority basis provided they are qualified to perform the job. It is presumed that an employee will automatically be considered qualified if they previously held the job unless a substantial technological change has occurred. This process may only be utilized in accordance with Section 17.4.5 from the employee's layoff date. If the employee refuses to return to work when offered a job through the self-nomination process, the employee shall be terminated and the Company is under no obligation to offer any other position.
17.4.2.1	Employment with the Company in an occasional or temporary status during the period of lay-off may be accepted without alteration of the meaning and intent of rights to recall from lay-off as provided for within this Agreement.
17.4.3	Laid off employees shall be offered reinstatement before new employees are engaged.
17.4.3.1	Employees who have been laid off must keep the Company informed of the address at which they can be reached. Any offer of reemployment shall be made in person and/or by registered mail addressed to the latest address so furnished. When an offer of reemployment has been made, the former employee shall accept within one week of receipt of such notice and shall report to duty within two weeks of the dale such reemployment is offered.
17.4.3.2	Failure to comply with the time limits set forth above, or failure to keep the Company informed concerning latest correct address, shall result in forfeiture of all ' further rights and shall be deemed to be a termination of further reemployment rights with the Company. Exception shall be extended when temporary personal disability prevents acceptance of offered reinstatement.
17.4.5 Laid off employees, upon re-engagement under the provisions and circumstances of this Article 17 shall be granted the accredited service and seniority to which they were entitled at the date of lay-off in accordance with the following limitations:
38
17.4.5.1	If seniority is less than one year, re-engagement must occur within one year after the date of lay-off.
17.4.5.2	If seniority is one year but less than five years, reengagement must occur within two years.
17.4.5.3	If seniority is five years or more, re-engagement must occur within three years.
17.5 Termination Pay
17.5.1	Regular employees with two or more years of accredited service who suffer loss of Immediate employment through lay-off by reduction of forces due to force surplus, will be paid a termination allowance based on accredited service and basic wage rate at the time of lay-off. Computation of termination allowance will be on the basis of one week (40 hours) for each year of accredited
■ service.
17.5.1.	1 Payments to part-time employees who are part-timed by reason of Company convenience will be prorated according to the employee's normal work week.
17.5.2	Termination allowance normally will be paid on a weekly basis for the hours equivalent to the employee's regular work week to the extent of the total allowance granted. Lump sum payment will be made only wherein it becomes conditional upon such payment that the employee's services are terminated and no further obligation rests upon the Company with respect to that employee.
17.5.2.1	Termination payments made will be exclusive of earned vacation payments to which the employee may .	be entitled.
17.5.2.2	Whenever any employee who has been paid termination allowance is subsequently reemployed and is again terminated, termination allowance In the instance of the second, or subsequent, termination will be computed on the basis of total accredited service less payments previously received.
17.5.3	Termination allowance will be paid in accordance with the Section 17.5.1 to regular employees who are involuntarily retired under circumstances of insufficient accredited service for pension benefits.
39
17.5.4	No termination allowance shall be due to an employee in any case where termination Is the result of (a) voluntary or involuntary retirement on pension or (b) death, or (c) termination for transfer between companies, or (d) resignation or quit by the employee, or (e) dismissed for cause, or (f) as a result of any sale or other disposition by the Company of the exchange at which the employee is working or at which he/she is assigned to work out of. when the employee concerned is continued in the employment of the Company or of the new management of the exchange.
17.5.5	No termination allowance shall be due any eligible employee who fails or refuses to accept transfer within the same exchange area, or to any other area within the Company without good cause demonstrated. (Good cause demonstrated includes refusal to accept transfer to a part-time job by a regular full-time employee having held a job eliminated by technological change.)
17.5.5.1	If such offer for transfer be made when the employee is receiving termination allowance payments, such payments will be immediately discontinued.
%
17.5.5.2	An employee who disqualifies himself for termination allowance by refusal of reasonable transfer opportunity, will be treated as waiving all further rights to reemployment and to eligibility for termination allowance payments.
ARTICLE 18
SEASONAL WORKER PROGRAM
18.1	Recall Rights
18.1.1	Based on work load requirements, Seasonal Workers, after working two (2) consecutive seasons, totaling six (6) months of service shall be recalled prior to hiring new Seasonal Workers.
18.2	Address
18.2.1	Seasonal Workers must keep the Company informed of the address at which they can be reached. The Company is not obligated to go beyond the address last given by the employee.
18.3	Bad Weather
18.3.1	If the Seasonal Worker is excused at the stan of the tour due to bad weather, the employee will receive a two (2) hour "show-up" pay. If the Seasonal Worker is excused after thirty (30) minutes
40
of the start of the tour, the minimum payment will be four (4) hours.
ARTICLE 19
CONTRACT LABOR
19.1	Contracting Out Work
19.1.1	Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit the Company in the employment of such contract labor as may become necessary for the proper construction, installations, and maintaining of the communications facilities owned, serviced and/or operated by the Company for the rendition of proper and adequate communication service to the public. However, the ’ ' Company shall not enter into any contractual arrangement for the construction, installation and maintenance of plant facilities as may result in the lay-off or part-timing of those employees customarily performing work of the same nature as that to be provided under the contractual arrangement.
19.2	Notification
19.2.1	The Company will notify the Union once a month of the current utilization of contractors.
ARTICLE 20
HOLIDAYS
20.1	Recognition
20.1.1	Holidays. The following days are recognized as holidays for regular employees;
New Year's Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Thanksgiving Day Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Day Five (5) Floating Holidays
♦ Effective 1-1-2003 employees	.
will be eligible for a 6th Floating Holiday
I
I
I
I
I
I
*	Phone Mart employees will recognize	।
an additional floating holiday in lieu
of the Day after Thanksgiving	i
*	The Company will allow as many employees as possible to schedule December 24th and Martin Luther King Day as a floating holiday and still maintain appropriate service levels.
20.1.	2 An employee may select any five (5) days (six (6) days effective 1-1-2003) within the calendar year to observe his/her Floating Holidays. Floating Holiday (s) may be taken during any of the 12 months of the year. The employee will give at least 30 days' notice to his/her supervisor in advance of each of the days on which he/she intends to observe as a Floating Holiday. Such time limit may be waived by supervisory approval. If an employee selects a day to observe as a Floating Holiday which, because of work requirements, would not be available, or if two or more employees in the same work group select the §ame day, the employees will choose an alternate available day in order of seniority. An employee’s Floating Holidays must be taken prior fd December 31.
20.1.2.	1 By September 1*' management shall post by seniority a list of employees' unused Floating holidays and the remaining dates available for selection of Floating Holidays. Between September 1*1 and October 1*' of each calendar year employees should schedule any
' unused Floating holiday(s). If management and the Union agree that a problem exists that will not allow reasonable time for each employee to make their selection then the problem will be resolved between the Local Union President and the Company (departmental manager) in an expedient manner.
20.1.2.	2 With supervisory approval, an employee may lake up to three (3) floating holidays in four (4) hour increments. One of the five (5) floating holidays may be taken in two (2) hour increments.
20.1.	3 Holiday on Sunday. Whenever a holiday falls on a Sunday the following Monday shall be treated as the holiday.
20.1.	4 Holiday on Saturday. Whenever a recognized holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday except for those employees formally scheduled to work on Saturday shall observe Saturday as the holiday.
42
i
20.2	Holiday Payment
20.2.1	Insofar as telephone service to the public and work requirements permit, regular employees shall be excused from scheduled work with payment of holiday allowance at the basic wage rate if the employee meets attendance requirements set forth herein.
20.2.1.1	Occasional employees shall not be eligible for holiday pay allowance.
20.2.1.2	Probationary and Temporary employees shall not be eligible for holiday allowance.
20.2.1.3	Holiday allowance for part-time employees will be computed by dividing the total number of hours worked by each such employee during a representative week by five. The result will be the number of hours of holiday allowance that each such employee shall receive for the holiday, not to exceed eight.
20.2.2	When a holiday falls on the employee's regularly scheduled day off, such employee shall be scheduled one other day off in the same work week. In lieu thereof, and if work requirements permit, the employee may elect to take time off at the basic rate of pay at a mutually agreeable alternate day during subsequent calendar weeks provided the employee meets attendance requirements of Paragraph 20.3.
20.3	Absence
20.3.1	Holiday allowance will not be paid when an employee is absent without pay during the last half of the last scheduled tour before or the first half of the first scheduled tour after the holiday unless such absence results from illness or accident substantiated by a doctor's statement. Holiday allowance will be paid when an employee is excused for a joint Company-Union meeting the last half of the last scheduled tour before or the first half of the first scheduled tour after the holiday.
20.3.1.1	Tardiness of fess than one-half hour or an absence resulting from injury arising from pursuit of job duties during the qualifying periods as above, or excused absence from the later portion of either qualifying period with the approval of the supervisor, provided the employee has reported for work, shall not be disqualifying.
43
20.3.2	The intent of this qualification is that employees who would otherwise be absent without pay may not overcome the effect of the absence solely through Holiday recognition.
20.4	Overtime Com putatlo n
20.4.1	.Employees who are excused with pay on the holiday will be credited with the equivalent as time worked on the holiday for purposes of computing overtime.
20.5	Premium Payments
20.5.1	Whenever any regular employee works on a recognized holiday payment shall consist of the equivalent of holiday allowance plus one-half times the basic hourly rate, inclusive of differentials, when applicable. Additionally, the night premium will be paid during the hours worked for which such payment is specified.
20.5.2	Time worked In excess of eight hours on a holiday shall be compensated as overtime computed at double-time.
20.5.3	The minimum compensation for work performed on a holiday shall be three hours at the straight-time rate plus holiday premium.	.
.	20.5.4 For purposes of this Article 20, a holiday tour shall be construed
as a tour of the majority of which falls on a holiday. Only one scheduled tour shall be considered as a holiday tour,
ARTICLE 21
VACATIONS
21.1	Vacation Eligibility
21.1.1	The annual vacation eligibility period will be January 1st of each calendar year.
21.1.2	Annual vacations with pay at the basic hourly rate for regular employees shall be granted in accordance with the following schedule.
21.1.2.1	Two Weeks. When accredited service is one (1) year or more, all regular employees shall be entitled to vacation time off of two weeks.
21.1.2.2	Three Weeks. When accredited service is five (5) years or more all regular employees shall be entitled to
44
vacation time off of three weeks.
21.1.2,3	Four Weeks. When accredited service is fifteen years or more, all regular employees shall be entitled to vacation time off of four weeks.
21.1.2.4	Five Weeks. When accredited service is twenty-five years or more, all regular employees shall be entitled to vacation time off of five weeks.
21.1.3	Regular part-time employees will be eligible for vacations according to computed accredited service. Vacation payment will be computed on the basis of the average hours worked during a previous representative 12 weeks.
21.2	Holidays
21.2.1	If a holiday occurs within a vacation period on an employee's otherwise formally scheduled tour of duty, the holiday shall not be counted as part of the vacation but an additional vacation day off with appropriate pay allowance shall be granted. The additional day off, however, must be taken at a convenient time agreeable to the Company within the period of thirty days prior to or thirty days following the vacation period, but not after December 31 of the vacation year. As an option the employee may be granted with supervisory approval an extra regular day's pay at the regular straight-time rate.
21.3	Calendar Week
21.3.1	Vacation time off shall be on the basis of full calendar week and shall not extend beyond December 31, except as specified in Section 21.4.5 and 21.5.
21.4	Vacation Scheduling
21.4.1	The scheduling and granting of vacations will be permitted In advance of the employee's completion of the required years of accredited service i.e. for years 1, 5, 15, and 25. Should an employee be permitted to use this privilege and later fail to meet the accredited service requirements, the Company may recover the difference from the wages due the employee.
21.4.2	Seniority shall govern in the choice of available vacation periods allotted according Io telephone service requirements. Any necessary changes made by the Company from originally scheduled vacation shall not result in loss of vacation benefits; the vacation then shall be rescheduled at a mutually satisfactory alternate period during the same year or during the succeeding
45
year if the vacation would otherwise be unattainable.
21.4.2.	1 Employees entitled to three (3) or more weeks of vacation may with supervisory approval receive straight-time pay in one week increments in lieu of taking one week's vacation during the vacation year.
21.4.2.	2 Employees may not elect to remain on duty for the purpose of accumulating vacation time off to be carried over to another year except that employees with 10 or more years accredited service may defer one week vacation time to the following year. Such deferring shall be subject to advance written application and to approval by the Company.
21.4.2.	3 An employee shall not generally be recalled to duty by the Company during his/her vacation. However, if compelling circumstances should necessitate such action, the employee shall be reimbursed for, out-of-■	pocket expense connected with recall and shall
receive the remainder of his/her vacation at a mutually acceptable later date.
21.4.4	For the purpose of administering the provisions of this section, seniority as a determining factor in the selection time off shall be effectuated prior to December 31 of the preceding vacation year. The Company will commence solicitation of employees' expressions of desired vacation time off at least 60 days prior to December 31 of the preceding vacation year. After December 31, seniority will be applicable only in the selection of available and vacated scheduled vacation periods that exist after December 31.
21.4.5	Employees may schedule vacations the last week of December, such vacation to be applied only to that year ending. The holiday which falls within that week (New Year's Day) will be taken in accordance with Section 21.2.
21.5 Day-at-a-time Vacation
21.5.1	Employees a re permitted to take two weeks of their vacation on a' day-at-a-time basis with the following restrictions:
21.5.1.1	Employees must be eligible for two (2) weeks vacation before vacation on a day-at-a-time basis may be taken.
46
1	21.5.1.2 Employees must elect to take one or two weeks of
vacation on a cfay-at-a-time basis at the time the vacation schedules are chosen.
21.5.1.3	Employees must notify and receive approval by their supervisor at least ten (10) working days prior to changing a day of vacation. The supervisor may waive this requirement.
21.5.1.4	A day of vacation shall not be scheduled in conjunction with a holiday. Also, the last workday preceding or the . first day following a holiday will not be scheduled as a
I	vacation day. The supervisor may waive this
requirement.
21.5.1.5	In selection of day-at-a-time vacation, weeks vacation )	shall have precedence over day-at-a-time vacation
selection.
*	21.5.1.6 Day-at-a-time vacation shall not be carried over to the
।	next vacation year.
I	21.6 Resignations
I	21.6.1 An employee who resigns, retires, is part of a work force
reduction, is approved for a leave of absence or is separated from ।	the Company on or after January 1*’ of any given calendar year,
and works at least one day in the new calendar year, shall
1	receive payment for unused vacation that would normally be
scheduled during that calendar year.
21.7	Absence
21.7.1	An employee's vacation period will not be changed because of illness, accident, or death in the immediate'family, or for any other eligible paid absent time which occurs after a vacation has begun.
21.7.2	An employee who suffers illness disability prior to the start of vacation time off may exercise any of the following options.
21.7.2.1	The vacation time may be taken as an offset against the waiting period and period of full Benefit Payment under the Company's Disability Benefit Plan.
21.7.2.2	The scheduled vacation time may be vacated for reassignment within the same year.
21.7.3	An employee who suffers illness disability during vacation time off shall be considered as being on vacation for the full week during
47
which the disability occurs. Any remaining vacation time may be applied as an offset against the waiting period and full Disability Benefits under the Company's Disability Benefit Plan. Otherwise, the waiting period commences with the first day on which the employee would normally report back to work.
21.8	Vacation — Overtime Computation
21.8.1	Employees who are excused with pay while on vacation will be credited with the equivalent as time worked for purposes of computing overtime.
(Reference Article 13.6 for treatment of ten-hour day, four-day work week.)
ARTICLE 22
SHORT TERM DISABILITY BENEFITS
22.1	Sickness Benefits
22.1.1	Regular employees shall be allowed disability payments at basic rates for scheduled work days absent from duty when incapacitated by illness or physical injury in accordance with the following schedule:
Accredited Service '	Number of Days or Weeks Allowed	Payment Starts On
Less than 1 year	No payment	
1 year, but less than 5 years	4 weeks full pay 13 weeks half pay	Fourth consecutive scheduled day absent
5 years, but less than 10 years	13 weeks full pay 13 weeks half pay	Third consecutive scheduled day absent
10 years, but less than 15 years	13 weeks full pay 39 weeks half pay	Second consecutive scheduled day absent
15 years but less than 20 years	20 weeks full pay 32 weeks half pay	Second consecutive Scheduled day absent
20 years or over	26 weeks full pay 26 weeks half pay	First scheduled day Absent
22.1.2	For regular employees with one (1) year or more of accredited service, the entire waiting period will be waived if the employee has not been absent for personal illness and/or injury in the
48
I
I
previous six (6) months or; the employee is hospitalized on the I	first scheduled day of absence or; a surgical procedure in an
outpatient surgical facility or hospital when the employee provides
I	documentation of the surgical procedure performed.
I	22.1.3 Employees with absence beyond three (3) consecutive scheduled
work days must notify the Verizon Short Term Disability
I	Administrator immediately. Failure to do so may result in denial
of Short Term Disability Benefits.
22.1.4	Payment for pa ri-time employees will be computed by d ividing the I	total number of hours worked by each such employee during a
representative week by five (5). The result will be the number of I	hours of Short Term Disability Benefits that each such employee
shall receive per day of absence, not to exceed eight (8).
i
22.2	Restoration of Benefits
22,2.1	Successive periods of Short Term Disability shall be counted 1	together as one (1) period in computing the period during which
the employee shall be entitled to benefits, except that any ।	sickness occurring after an employee has been continuously
engaged in the performance of duty for thirteen (13) weeks shall >	be considered as a new sickness and not a part of any disability
which preceded such period of thirteen (13) weeks.
22.3	Offsets
22.3.1	An employee may elect with supervisory approval to offset scheduled lost time through sickness (includes off-the-job injury) disability by using earned day-at-a-time vacation and/or floating holiday(s).
22.4	Eligibility for Mental/Emotional Illness
22.4.1	Work time lost when hospitalized (or participating in intense outpatient therapy approved in advance by the Company) by a qualified physician for mental or emotional illness (and for drug addiction and alcoholism) is included provided the hospital (or intense out-patient therapy) is recognized as qualified under the Company's basic hospitalization insurance plan. Exceptions such as hospitalization in a Veteran’s hospital will be decided by the Company in line with the aforesaid intention. In addition to the time paid while hospitalized for mental illness, the employee will be allowed payment for prescribed recuperative time following such hospitalization up to the following levels:
49
Length of Hospitalization
Recuperative Period Up to
1 through 10 work days	0 work days
11 through 20 work days	2 work days
21 through 30 workdays	-	5 work days
' More than 30 work days	10 work days
22.4.1.1 No right to benefits under this article shall exist in the case of disability without hospitalization, or intensive out-patient therapy, or evaluation and disability determined by a licensed psychiatrist.
22.5	Administration
22.5.1	An employee's length of service as of the first day of absence determines the length of time for which benefits will be paid .during that absence.	■
22.5.2	Pay for the purpose of determining disability benefits shall be computed at the employee's basic wage rate not including differentials, premiums or overtime.
22.5.3	An employee who is required to be absent from work or who finds it necessary to leave work due to illness will be required to report to the employee's immediate supervisor at the beginning of such absence.
22.6	Recovery of Wages
22.6.1	Recovery of Wages - In the event an employee receives a recovery for lost wages from a third party, the Company shall have a lien on the proceeds of any recovery from the third party, after the deductions of reasonable and necessary expenditures, including attorney's fees, to the extent of the total amount of the disability benefits paid by this Plan.
ARTICLE 23
INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS AND WORKER COMPENSATION
23.1	Accident Disability
23.1.1	In cases of physical disability to work resulting from compensable accidental injuries while on the job, the Company will augment the payments the employee receives through Workers' Compensation in the following manner:
23.1.1.1	For a period of thirteen weeks' absence resulting from
50
I
I
any one such accident, the Company will pay the I	difference, if any, between the amount received from
Workers' Compensation and 90 % of his/her regular I	pay.
I	23.1.1.2 For the next thirty-nine weeks of absence due to the
same accident, the Company will pay the employee
I	the difference between the amount received from
Workers' Compensation and one-half of his/her regular
I	pay-
।	23.1.2 The payments mentioned above shall be made on the
employee's normal payday.
I
,	ARTICLE 24
AUTHORIZED ABSENCE
24.1	Civic Responsibility
24.1.1	After 90 days from date of hire an employee shall be paid at the '	basic wage rate for excused time off during the formally
scheduled work day because of jury duty. Employees engaged in jury duty shall, while temporarily excused from attendance in court, report for scheduled duties during scheduled time.
24.1.2	Any employee shall be paid at the basic wage rate for excused . time off during the formally scheduled work day because of appearance before constituted authorities on behalf of the Company.
24.1.3	Other appearances before constituted authorities by regular employees may be permitted without loss of basic pay if the reasons therefore are satisfactory to the Company.
24.1.4	When an employee is notified by the Company 14 days in advance of an election that he/she will be away from his/her customary reporting location the day of the election, he/she must vote an absentee ballot. Any employee with less than 14 days notice shall be returned to the home reporting location for participation in voting at public polls upon request entered reasonably in advance. Such transportation shall be on paid Company time, but actual voting shall be accomplished on the employee's personal time.
24.2	Bereavement Time
24.2.1	After 90 days from date of hire employees shall be granted
51
excused time to be based on the circumstances in each case by reason of making arrangements for, or attending, a funeral in the immediate family. Compensation shall be at the basic hourly rate for normal scheduled work hours actually lost but shall not exceed 3 basic days' pay. This shall be only applicable through a period starting with the day of death and including the day following interment. The employee shall select the day or days within this funeral period. The immediate family shall be considered as father and mother, or equivalent thereof, father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother, sister, spouse, children, employee's grandchildren, grandparents and great grandparents of employee, and relatives who have regularly resided in the employee's household and so resided at time of death. Immediate family shall also include the brother-in-law and sister-in-law of the employee, provided however, that payment hereunder shall be applicable only for the day of the funeral.
24.4	Personal
24.4.1	An employee with six (6) months or more of service who is required to leave work due to illness during the first session will be paid full wages for that session and the second session will be subject to benefits or will constitute the first half day of the waiting period. Such an employee who leaves work during the second session will be paid for the full day and the waiting period or benefits will begin on the following scheduled day.
24.4.2	When the Company requires a visit to the Company doctor, an employee will be excused from regular duty without loss of regular pay.
24.5	Leaves of Absence
24.5.1	Reasons for granting a leave of absence shall be for urgent and compelling personal reasons.
24.5.2	Authorized, informal leaves of absence (furloughs) shall not be deducted from an employee's accredited service.
24.5.3	Authorized leaves of absence may be partly or wholly deducted in computing an employee's accredited service.
52
I I
I
।	ARTICLE 25
I	GROUP INSURANCE BENEFITS
*	25.1 Medical Plan
I	25.1.1 The premium cost for the employee Group Medical Plan, will be
offset by Company Contribution. The Company Contribution will
1	be extended to regular full-time employees and will be 100% per
month toward the monthly premium cost for each eligible
1	employee's individual, employee plus one dependent or family
membership. The Company contribution for part-time employees 1	hired after January 1, 1991 will be 100% per month toward the
premium for individual membership or 50% toward the premium for employee plus one dependent or family membership. The term Group Medical Plan does not refer to or include Health Maintenance Organizations. Contributions to Health Maintenance Organizations will be made in accordance with law.
25.1.1.	1	Seasonal Workers must average eighty-five (85) hours
of work per month to be eligible for health insurance. The Company will pay 100% of the Company contribution for the "Employee Only” premium rate. Company contribution for "Employee plus One dependent" or "Employee plus Two or more dependents" will be equal to the amount the Company contributes to coverage for the "Employee Only” premium rate. The employee will contribute the difference to receive coverage for "Employee plus One dependent" or "Employee plus Two or more dependents".
25.1.	2 The Group Medical Plan consists of the Plan or Plans operating within the Company’s geographical operation areas, and as made available by the Company to its regular full-time and regular parttime employees through authorized payroll deductions.
25.1.	3 Employees will be eligible for insurance coverage after ninety (90) days from date of hire or when the employee enrolls whichever is ' later. This requirement will be waived for employees returning to work the following year.
25.2	Dental Plan
25.2.1	Dental Insurance will be provided to employees and the enrollment will be an Independent offering from the Group Medical Plan. Employees will be eligible for dental coverage after ninety (90) days from date of hire or when the employee enrolls
53
whichever is later. This requirement will be waived for employees returning to work the following year.
25.2.2	Company contribution toward the dental premium cost for regular full-time employees is as follows:
Type Coverage	Company Contribution	Effective 1-1-2003	Effective 1-1-2004
Single	100%	100%	100%
Employee +1	50%	75%	60%
Family	50%	75%	60%
25.2.3	Company contribution toward the dental premium cost for regular part-time employees is as follows:
Type Coverage	Company Contribution *	Effective 1-1-2003	Effective 1-1-2004
Single	100%	100%	100%
Employee + 1	50%	50%	60%
Family	50%	50%	60%
25.3	Group Life Insurance
25.3.1	During the term of this Agreement employees may participate in the GTE Life Insurance Program in existence for bargaining unit employees. The Company provided life insurance will be offered to employees after ninety (90) days from date of hire. This requirement will be waived for employees returning to work the following year.
25.4	Enrollment
25.4.1	Enrollment in the Group Medical and Group Dental as well as the GTE Life Insurance Program will be in accordance with the usual and customary procedures of the carrier.
25.5	Carrier Changes
25.5.1	This Agreement, and the fact of its existence, shall not stand to ' deter any changes in the Group Medical and the Group Dental Plan with respect to premium rates, coverage, or other related matter as initiated by the carrier in the usual or customary manner.
25.6	Disputes
25.6.1	In the event of any dispute involving an employee's eligibility for
54
i
the premium contribution toward the Group Medical Plan premium cost, the dispute, at the request of the Union, may be a subject for grievance and/or arbitration under the procedure set forth for grievance and arbitration in the Primary Agreement. No other matters concerning the Group Medical Plan shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure.
25.7	Level of Benefits
25.7.1	During the term of this Agreement, the plans for employee's pensions, Group Life Insurance, dental, and health coverage will remain in full force and effect as amended. The Company agrees to negotiate with the Union any changes in such plans which would decrease the benefits therein.
,	ARTICLE 26	.
CONCESSION SERVICE
26.1	Monthly Rate
।	26.1.1 Subject to any provisions of the Company's lawfully established
tariffs, all employees after 90 days from date of hire are eligible (or 50% concession rates for monthly recurring flat-rate local service network charges or USS basic local service and usage
।	charges (local exchange and extended area service points),
including touch calling charges and applicable state and federal i	excise taxes, but excluding access charges in connection with
residence telephone service furnished to a regular employee of
i	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region). Regular rates are
charged for all toll message sendee, foreign exchange service, i	* non-recurring charges, installation, repair, moves and changes,
and all other services offered by the Company.
i	■	•
26.2	Restrictions
26.2.1	Concession rates shall be applicable to telephone service in the employee's place of residence with listing in the employee’s name in any exchange area served by the Company.
26.3	Telecommunications Allowance
26.3.1	Employees residing outside of any Verizon operating territory will receive a monthly telecommunications allowance of $6.00. This allowance may apply to any Verizon product or service offering.
26.4	Account Payment Irregularities	'
55
26.4.1	Telephone Concession will be considered abused when an employee does not maintain his/her account in a current status.
.	As management is made aware of an employee's delinquent
account, the employee will be required to make restitution to the Company through either payment in full or approved payment arrangements. The Company reserves the right to withhold an employees' wages to reclaim monies past due.
ARTICLE 27
MILITARY LEAVE AGREEMENT
27.1	General
27.1.1	Military leaves of absence will be granted to regular employees of the Company entering military services of the United States under any taw which is now in effect or may in the future be enacted by the United States.
27.1.2	Application for-reemployment must be made within ninety (90) days of release from active duty. If at the time of application for reemployment by an employee who has been in the military services, no vacancy exists, one may be created by discharge, layoff, transfer or demotion, and in such cases the discharge, layoff, transfer or demotion will be in inverse seniority order.
27.2	Military Reserve
27.2.1	Regular employees who attend Military Reserve Training in the U.S. Armed Forces will be paid the difference, if any. between the total pay they receive from the government for the fourteen day tour of duty and their basic wage rate plus any differentials or premiums which are "permanent in nature" for ten work-days, provided the military pay is the lower of the two. This payment will not exceed ten days in any calendar year. For the purpose of this section, “Armed Forces" shall include the Army, the Air Force, the Navy, the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard and the National Guard. Proof of pay received for reserve training must be provided to the Company.
27.3	Benefits
27.3.1	Employee benefits to those regular employees who are granted military leave of absence are as follows:
27.3.1.1	Group Life Insurance. Group Life Insurance for an employee will be continued by the Company for one hundred twenty (120) days after the beginning
56
'of the leave and then cancelled at the end of the one hundred twenty (120) day period. Upon reinstatement, the employee may have Group Life Insurance reinstated without a physical examination provided the employee makes application for such reinstatement within ninety (90) days after returning to work.
27.3.1.2	Pension Plan. An employee shall be given full service credit under the Plan for Employees’ Pensions for the term of a military leave of absence, provided, however, that such credit shall be given only if the employee is covered by the Plan for Employees' Pensions at the time the military leave became effective.
27.3.1.3	Vacation. Employees who enter military service may receive a lump sum payment in lieu of vacation to which such employees were entitled at the time they leave the Company to enter military service. Upon reinstatement with the Company, vacation privileges will be reinstated and the time spent on military leave will be counted as credited service for the purposes of computing vacation eligibility.
27.3.1.4	Sick Leave Credit. Upon reinstatement after military leave of absence, employees will be granted the same amount of sick benefit credit they had at the time of the beginning of the leave.
27.3.1.5	Service Pins. Military leave of absence service will be counted as credited service for purposes of computing service pin eligibility.
27.3.1.6	Telephone Concession. Telephone concessions that may be in effect at the time a military leave of absence is granted will be continued at one-half (1/2) the regular filed tariff rate for the period of the military leave. This service would normally be given only where the employee concerned had maintained a home with those dependent upon the employee for support.
27.3.1.7	Wages and Wage Progression. Military leave of absence service will be considered as service with the Company in the determination of credited service for purposes of scheduled wage increases or other wage purposes.
57
27.3.1.0
Seniority. An employee will accumulate net credited service for seniority during the period of military leave.
ARTICLE 28
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
28.1	Wage Schedules
28.1.1	Employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid in accordance with the wage schedules attached hereto and made a part hereof. These wage schedules are identified as "Appendix A".
28.2	New Employees
28.2.1	New employees may be employed at a wage rate commensurate with their applicable training, experience, and qualifications as determined by the Company on a wage schedule applying to the work classification in which the employee is engaged.
28.3	Wage Administration and Wage Progressions
28.3.1	Progression of increases within the wage schedule are to proceed according to the interval established by the "Schedule Interval". An employee is to be paid at least the start rate but not in excess of the maximum rate of the wage schedule for their job classification. ' An employee's wage rate within the wage schedule is not necessarily determined by total service with the Company.
28.3.1.1	"Schedule Interval" indicates the required months of service between progression wage increases.
28.3.1.2	Wage progression increases will be adjusted to the beginning of the nearest calendar work week.
28.3.1.3	Service bridging shall not alter wage progressions as determined from wage schedule service.
28.3.2	During the first twelve (12) months of service of an employee, an Increase may be granted to recognize experience or unusual ability,' after the completion of twelve (12) months of service, any proposed increase above the normal progression schedule shall be the subject of notice to the Local Union President and a conference may be requested between the Union and the
58
Company representatives if written notice is given by the Union to the Company within fifteen (15) days.
28.3.3	When temporary and/or seasonal employees are rehired within twelve (12) months, wage progression intervals shall be based on accumulated straight time hours worked.
28.4	Wago Treatment Upon Reclassification
28.4.1	Employees reclassified to a higher wage schedule who formerly held a higher wage schedule position within twenty-four (24) months and who have the knowledge and ability to immediately perform the functions of the new position, will be compensated at the same progression interval as the formerly held position. Cases exceeding twenty-four (24) months may be waived at the Company's discretion.
28.4.2	Employees receiving a promotion will move to the next higher wage rate on the new schedule plus one (1) additional wage step on the new schedule. The employee's wage will then follow the new progression schedule with the date for the next wage treatment being six (6) months from the date of promotion.
if an employee has been at the top rate over six (6) months, an additional step on the new progression schedule will be granted.
28.4.3	If an employee is changed to another job on a lower wage schedule, the employee's rate Is to be adjusted to the rate on the lower wage schedule that is the same as or immediately below the employee's current rate. Subsequent progression increases will proceed from the date of the previous progression increase.
26.4.4	If an employee is changed to another job on the same wage schedule, there will be no change in rate. Progression Increases will proceed from the date of the previous progression increase.
28.4.5	An employee transferred or loaned on a temporary basis to another job that falls under another wage schedule will continue on the wage schedule of his/her regular job. Should a temporary transfer be to a job on a higher wage schedule, the employee's rate will be adjusted after one (1) consecutive hour of work to the rate on the higher wage schedule that is immediately above the employee's current rate for time worked in the higher job. An employee who has held the higher job classification and who Is transferred or temporarily assigned to that former classification will have his/her wage rate adjusted to the position on the wage schedule that he/she obtained when he/she formerly held the job after one (1) consecutive hour of work; or have his/her wage adjusted according to whichever is higher.
59
28.4.6	Employees temporarily assigned to work in a lower wage classification will not have their wage reduced.
28.4.7	If an employee is reclassified from a higher to a lower wage schedule because of sickness or accident disability and, upon recovery, wishes to return to his/her former classification, the employee may do so provided an appropriate vacancy exists. If the employee is able to return to the former classification within six months of being reclassified, the employee will be placed in the former job at the same wage step from which the employee left, maintaining the original progression date. If more than six months have elapsed since reclassification, the employee will be eligible to return through normal Self-Nom procedure and, if awarded the job, will be given wage credit in accordance with Company policy.
28.S New Jobs
28.5.1	The Company shall notify the Union within thirty days whenever job classifications are established for jobs included within the collective bargaining unit but not provided for within the foregoing identified wage schedules.
28.5.2	The notification shall be in writing and shall include the title of the job, a description of the job content, the proposed wage schedule to be followed, and the date the job was Instituted.
28.5.3	The Union shall indicate its acceptance of, or disagreement with, the proposed wage schedule within forty-five days thereafter. Upon acceptance formally, or by non-response, the job classification and proposed wage schedule shall be deemed incorporated herein for the duration of the Agreement.
28.5.4	If the Union protests the proposed wage schedule, negotiation shall be entered into for the purpose of establishing that appropriate wage schedule. In the interim period, employees affected shall be paid according to the proposed schedule. Upon adoption of a proper schedule by mutual agreement, affected employees' rates of pay will be revised upwards or downwards as required at a time and in a manner mutually agreed upon.
28.5.5	If no agreement is reached between the parties with respect to the establishment of the new wage schedule within 30 days from the date the Company notifies the Union of their establishment of the job In question, the appropriateness of the wage schedule shall be subject to the arbitration procedure as set forth in Article 12.
60
ARTICLE 29
PREMIUMS AND DIFFERENTIAL PAY
29.1	In-Charge Differential
29.1.1	A seventy-five cent ($.75) per hour differential will apply to hours worked by an employee during the time that the employee is designated by the supervisor to be in-charge of work operations. Differentials will not be paid for non-productive time. It is only paid for hours worked.
29.1.2	A one dollar ($1.00) per hour differential will apply to hours worked by an employee during the time that the employee Is designated by the supervisor to be in-charge of network cable construction where four (4) or more employees are involved in a work operation. This differential is not paid in addition to the seventy-five ($.75) per hour In-charge differential or in locations with Senior Lineworkers. Differentials will not be paid for nonproductive time. It is only paid for hours worked.
29.1.3	In each case, the employee placed in charge shall be an employee who is properly qualified to assume the responsibility, full consideration having been given to the seniority of the employees in the group.
29.2	Supervisory Differential
29.2.1	A one dollar ($1.00) per hour differential will apply to hours worked by an employee during the time, one (1) day or more, that the employee is designated to temporarily replace a supervisor. Differentials will not be paid for non- productive time. It is only paid for hours worked.
29.3	Seasonal Differential
29.3.1	A sixty cent ($.60) per hour differential will apply to hours worked by a Seasonal Worker while operating the following heavy equipment, Including but not limited to:
Case DH4, 475, 550, 580, 660, 760, 850 Ditchwitch 3210, 4010, 5010, 5020,6510, JT2320 JCB 1400
John Deere 210. 310, 350, 450, 550, 650, 850
Komatsu D85E
Vermeer Flex-75, Flex-115
Ford 550B
61
29.4	Night Tour Premium
29.4.1	A night premium of $1.00 per hour will be paid to employees for scheduled hours actually worked.
29.4.2	The night premium shall be applicable between the hours of 9;00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
29,4.3	The night premium shall apply only to scheduled hours actually worked; night premium does not apply to overtime hours worked and compensated on an overtime basis.
29.5	New Year's Eve Premium
29.5.1	Holiday Eve Premium. A premium will be paid for formally scheduled hours worked on New Year's Eve (December 31). The premium will be computed at three times the normal night premium rate during the hours worked between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. subject to paragraph 29.4.3. This premium payment shall be additional to normal night premium rate,
29.6	Sunday Premium
29.6.1	All hours worked on Sunday by an employee shall be subject to a premium payment of one-half times the basic hourly rate, inclusive of differentials when applicable. Additionally, night premium will be paid during the hours worked for which such payment Is specified. Scheduled or required hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours on Sundays shall be entitled to both Sunday premium and overtime premium.
ARTICLE 30
CONTENTS AND DURATION
30.1	Contents
30.1.1	The Union and the Company agree that the entire understanding between them is set forth completely in this Agreement. Any amendment to this Agreement or any interpretation of the true intent and meaning of the provisions herein shall be committed to writing and signed by the duly authorized representative of both the Union and the Company.
62
30.2	Duration
30.2.1	This Agreement and the Addendum, except as provided to the contrary therein, shall take effect January 1, 2002, and shall remain in full force and effect until January 29, 2005 and thereafter until terminated by sixty (60) days written notice from either party to the other expressly stating its intention to terminate this Agreement.	.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized officers.
. VERIZON NORTH INC.
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF
(NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
AMERICA
Edward J. Weise	Date Jeffre^A. Rechenbach Date
Regional President —	International V.P. - CWA
North Central Region
r!c> Ldou-t,	4J - 7- d /
Holiday NJ] Parker	Date crystal J. Roberts	Date
Director - Labor Relations	CWA Staff Representative
Mary J.fDdfling 7\ Date Tami Drollinger	* Date
Labor Relations Manager	President Local 4371-OH
■e>/
Labor Relations Manager
President Local 4773-IN
David Stachovak	Date
President Local 4672-WI
iVh/q (
Karl Akers	Date
President Local 4372-OH
63
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
ADOPTION ASSISTANCE
1.	Effective January 1, 2003, Verizon agrees to make available the opportunity for regular full or part time employees of the Company who are covered by the collective bargaining agreement to participate in the Adoption Assistance Plan which allows employees to claim reimbursement of expenses incurred on or after the effective date up to $10,000 per adopted child in accordance with existing Plan provisions.
2.	The selection of the administrator, the administration of the Plan and all the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration, or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company. No matter concerning the Adoption Assistance Plan or any difference thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
3.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of agreement shall also terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers
Of America
Crystal J. Roberts
Staff Representative
CWA
64
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
BUSINESS SOLUTIONS GROUP INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the Communications Workers of America agree to implement the Business Solutions Group Incentive Compensation Plan set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement. The implementation date of this plan will be after January 1, 1998.
2.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002, and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that all the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also expire on January 29, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.	Communications Workers
(North Central Region)	of America
Holiday M. Parker	Crystal J. Roberts
Director	Staff Representative
Labor Relations	CWA
65
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
COMMERCIAL DRIVER LICENSE (CDL)
This letter sets forth the understanding of the parties with respect to expenses associated with physical examinations and random drug tests required by the Department of Transportation, and the purchase of a Commercial Drivers License (CDL).	'
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) agrees to the following;
1.	• The Company will pay the cost of physical examinations including the drug screening test, required by DOT regulations when the examinations are conducted at Company selected facilities and the job classification requires a CDL. If an employee chooses to have the physical examination at a facility not selected by the Company, the employee will bear the cost of the physical examination.
2.	The Company will pay the cost of random drug tests required by DOT regulations. The drug test will be conducted at Company selected facilities.
3.	The Company will reimburse employees in classifications that require a CDL the difference between the costs of a CDL and a Class D Drivers License.
This agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that all the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also expire on January 29,2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to -by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.	Communications Workers
(Northeast Region)	Of America
Holiday M. Parker	Crystal J. Roberts
Director	Staff Representative
Labor Relations	CWA
66
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
COMPENSATED AVAILABILITY
In selected classifications and locations, where business needs exist, Compensated Availability will be established.
1.	The election to participate in Compensated Availability will normally be voluntary on the part of the employee. However, where business needs exist, management may assign an employee to Compensated Availability.
2.	Employees on Compensated Availability shall normally be excused from overtime assignments other than "call-outs" involving critical or emergency services.
3.	Such "Compensated Availability" shall be rotated among those qualified employees in the selected classifications and locations.
4.	Compensation shall be $125.00 for a calendar week assignment. Single assignments shall be compensated at $15.00 per scheduled day and ' $25.00 per non-scheduled day.
5.	Primary contact to the employee will be via the regular telephone switch network, In such areas where other technology may be available to supplement the contact (pagers, etc.) such will be used at Company discretion.
6.	If work is performed, the employee shall receive the minimum compensation referenced in Article 13 for each instance that they are called from home. In addition, the employee shall be paid overtime computed from the time the employee leaves home until returning home.
7.	This practice does not supersede normal call-out procedures. Employees on "Compensated Availability" will be called in the same order of seniority as the active overtime list for the classification and reporting location, with the exception of 1) emergency situations or 2) any day between the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a m.
8.	Employees assigned to such duty must be available and accessible during
67
I
the term of assignment in order to receive compensation.
9.	When assigned "Compensated Availability" the employee may be granted
- permission where practical to take a Company vehicle home if not already participating in Home Dispatch. The employee shall exercise reasonable । care for the security and safety of the vehicle and tools. It is understood the vehicle and tools are not available for personal use.
10.	if “Compensated Availability" assignments conflict with the employee's personal calendar, he or she will be afforded the opportunity to trade days or weeks with supervisory approval. Solicitation of the trade will be the responsibility of the employee.
11.	It is not the intent of this agreement to circumvent vacation or holiday	।
scheduling, payment, premiums or overtime provisions.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002 through January
29, 2005 and shall continue in force from year to year thereafter. If the Communications Workers of America believes that the assignment of Compensated Availability is being abused, the parties agree to meet and discuss	.
the situation.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker Director Labor Relations
Communications Workers
Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
68
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between ■
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
CONTINGENT EMPLOYMENT
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the Communications Workers of America hereby agree that bargaining unit employees who have been laid off and are within their period of recall may be engaged for work assignments and specific projects on a contingent basis. Wherever practical and consistent with the needs of the business, contingent employees shall be used in lieu of contractors for a designed period of time not to exceed twelve consecutive months with the following stipulations:
1.	Employees placed under this Agreement will have the word "Contingent" preceding their occupational title. For example, an employee who is placed in the occupational title of Facilities Technician will, for record purposes, have a new occupational title of Contingent Facilities Technician.
2.	A Contingent Employee will be treated as a regular employee for the time that he/she is reinstated. Upon completion of the work assignment, the Contingent employee will be returned to lay-off status. The use of Contingent employment supersedes the application of Article 17.1, 17.2 and 17.3.
3.	An employee reinstated on a Contingent basis will not be eligible for Per Diem under Article 15 by virtue of this Contingent Employment Agreement. If a Contingent Employee is subsequently assigned to work temporarily at a location more than ten miles from the "contingent" reporting center, per diem will apply.
4.	Offers of Contingent employment will be made to individuals eligible for recall. Offers for reinstatement to Contingent employment will be made in order of seniority to the extent the individuals can do the work.
5.	The period for recall will be adjusted by any service accrued during Contingent reinstatement.
6.	Contingent employment during an individual's period of lay-off may be accepted or rejected without alternation of the meaning and intent of rights
69
to recall from layoff as provided for within Article 17.4 of the primary agreement.
7.	The Company shall notify the Union prior to initiation of Contingent employment to discuss the classification, number of employees, and other terms of employment.
S. Any bargaining unit employee reinstated to Contingent employment will have his/her membership status reinstated immediately and dues deduction made on the next payroll period.
This Memorandum of Agreement shall be effective January 1, 2002 and shall remain in effect for the duration of the primary agreement unless terminated by not less than sixty days written notice served by either party upon the other.
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker Director	'
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
70
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
CONSUMER SALES AND SUPPORT CENTER INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the Communications Workers of America agree to implement the Consumer Sales and Support Center Incentive Compensation Plan set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2.	For a summary of details, refer to the attachment entitled Consumer Sales and Support Incentive Compensation Plan.
3.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002, and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that all the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of. Agreement shall also expire on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
71
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
CUSTOMER CONTACT REPRESENTATIVE CUSTOMER CONTACT SALES REPRESENTATIVE
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the Communications Workers of America agree to the following:
2.	Customer Contact Sales Representative will be responsible primarily for contacts with high value residential customers. This classification will be placed on wage schedule 6A and employees will participate in the Consumer Sales Incentive Compensation Plan upon implementation of the plan.
3.	Customer Contact Representative will be responsible primarily for contacts with all other residential customers. This classification will be placed on wage schedule 6 and employees will not participate in the Consumer Sales Incentive Compensation Plan.
4.	Initial staffing of the Customer Contact Sales Representative position(s) will be by seniority from among the active Customer Contact Representatives who volunteer for this opportunity and meet the initial selection criteria as determined by management, if there are not enough volunteers, the remaining vacancies will be staffed with Customer Contact Representatives in order of inverse seniority. These classifications will not be staffed until the incentive plan is implemented.
5.	This Agreement is effective January 1, 2002, and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that all the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall terminate on January 29, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
72
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
CUSTOMER ENGINEER-DATA APPLICATIONS
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the Communications Workers of America, agree to the provisions concerning the newly established classification of Customer Engineer-Data Applications set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2.	The attached position profile provides some information concerning the duties and qualifications of the classification. It is understood that this does not constitute an inclusive job description or indicate that the qualifications wili not change over time.	_
3.	The Customer Engineer-Data Applications classification will be placed on the highest Wage Progression Schedule.
4.	The Customer Engineer-Data Applications may be assigned to a specific customer service order or safes contract. Sales contracts could include customer requirements such as, but not limited to, specific qualifications, security clearances, drug testing and safety considerations. These assignments could also include accommodating customers who stipulate a particular Customer Engineer-Data Applications employee as a condition of their contract with Verizon North. Such accommodations may require call outs, overtime, travel, etc., without advance notice.
5.	Customer Engineers-Data Applications shall work where assigned by the Company and may cross any and all jurisdictional boundaries without consequence. Customer Engineers-Data Applications from any Verizon bargaining unit may perform such work within the jurisdictional boundaries covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement between Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the Communications Workers of America. Hours of work, overtime and premium pay, holidays travel, per diem payments and all other conditions of employment (i.e., vacations, benefits, etc.) will be In accordance with the provisions of the home Collective Bargaining Agreement except any provisions requiring the equalization of overtime will not apply to Customer Engineers-Data Applications.
6.	Professional business attire, as determined by management, is required for
73
Customer Engineers-Data Applications.
7.	The parties agree that current employees who demonstrate the required job knowledge and aptitude through passing of the required testing will not be denied the position due to the tack of formal college degree.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)	Communications Workers Of America
Holiday M. Parker Director Labor Relations	Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
74
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
DENTAL PLAN
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to extend the provisions of the Dental Plan set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2.	For a summary of details, refer to the attached booklet, Your Dental Benefits. The annual deductible will be $25.00 per individual for all regular .and part-time employees. Effective January 1, 2003, the annual $25.00 per individual deductible will be waived when an employee and/or his/her enrolled dependents use a Preferred Dental Provider (POP).
3.	Coverage under the Plan begins ninety (90) days from date of hire or the date which the employee enrolls, which ever is later.
4..	Maintenance of Benefits (MOB) permitted to the level of benefits provided in the Dental Plan.
Effective January 1, 2003:
Orthodontic Care: increase per covered person lifetime maximum from $1,000 to $1,500.
TMJ Care: establish new per covered person lifetime maximum of $500.
Preventive General & Major Services: increase per covered person annual maximum from $1,000 to $1,500.
5.	The monthly employee contribution shall be in accordance with Article 25 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
75
6.	The Plan will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning the Plan or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The selection of the Plan Administrator, the administration of the Plan and ail the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration, or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company.
7.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on January 1, 2002, and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the Dental Plan, shall also terminate on January 29, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties In writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker , Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
76
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION) And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVES OF ABSENCE (FMLA)
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the Communications Workers of America agree to the provisions concerning Family and Medical Leaves of Absence under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA), set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2.	The purpose of the leave shall be as follows:
(a)	for the birth and care of a newborn child of the employee, or the placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster care.
(b)	to care for a spouse, biological or adoptive parent, or person who has acted in the role as parent with day-to-day responsibility, or child (biological, adopted, foster or stepchild or legal ward or child for whom the employee has day-to-day parental responsibility) who has a "serious health condition".
(c)	for a serious health condition of the employee which makes the employee unable to perform the functions of the position of such employee. As with any absence for a serious health condition, employees will be required to provide a "fitness for duty" certification to return to work after such leave.
3.	The total period of this leave will be up to twelve (12) work weeks within a twelve (12) calendar month period.
4.	Employees who have completed at least twelve (12) months of accredited service at the beginning of the leave and worked at least 1,250 hours during such period may be eligible for leave.
5.	The FMLA excludes employees where there are less than fifty (50) employees within seventy-five (75) miles of the employee's work site. The Company will attempt to accommodate requests for FMLA leave for employees at remote locations, however, such requests may be denied based on business necessity.
77
6.	Leave may be taken on an intermittent or reduced schedule basis for reasons specified in paragraphs 2.b and 2.c if determined to be "medically necessary" as defined in the Departments of Labor Regulations 29 CFR Part 825. It may not be taken intermittently or on a reduced schedule basis for reasons specified in paragraph 2.a unless approved by the Company.
7.	If an employee is granted intermittent or reduced schedule leave, the Company may require such employee to transfer temporarily to an available alternative, equivalent position that better accommodates recurring periods of leave than the employee's regular position.
8.	Employees shall be required to present, to the satisfaction of the Company's Human Resources Services Department, documentation concerning the basis for the requested leave of absence. Failure to provide medical certification within twenty-five (25) days of the request for leave may result in denial of leave.
9.	Employees shall provide the Company with at least thirty (30) days advance notice of intent to take leave when foreseeable.
10.	In cases where both spouses are employees, the leave period will be restricted to a total of twelve (12) work weeks for both, except to care for a Child with a serious health condition or for reasons provided in 2c.
11.	While on FMLA leave, eligible employees shall continue to receive company-paid life Insurance and medical/dental benefits to the extent provided to active employees.
12.	Upon return to work, employees granted FMLA leave shall receive accredited service for the period of the leave. There is no break in service for purposes of vesting, eligibility to participate in pension plans and other types of benefits and seniority.
13.	Subject to Item 14 below, at the end of the approved leave (or each segment of the leave, as applicable), employees shall be guaranteed reinstatement to the same or equivalent job.
14.	Reinstatement is subject to any contractual provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement which cover adjustments to the workforce that may have occurred during the (eave of affected employees.
15.	Employees who wish to change their projected return date, may request the change and the Company will endeavor to accommodate such requests.
16.	Employees, while on leave, shall be considered to have terminated employment if they accept employment with another employer, engage in business for profit, and/or apply for unemployment insurance benefits.
78
17.	The provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement are not subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement except for the application for reinstatement by employees on leave.
18.	All terms herein shall be defined as set forth in the Department of Labor Regulations, 29 CFR 825.
19.	The Company has the right to act in accordance with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 and to comply with the regulations provided by the Department of Labor.
20.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts
Staff Representative
CWA •
79
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
FLEXIBLE REIMBURSEMENT PLAN (FRP)
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) agrees to make available and to implement the GTE Flexible Reimbursement Plan (FRP).
2.	For a summary of details, refer to the brochure entitled "LOOKING AHEAD TO A NEW WAY TO SAVE ON HEALTH AND DEPENDENT CARE".
3.	The FRP will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning the FRP or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Tho selection of the FRP Administrator, the administration of the FRP and all the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration or reimbursement shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company.
4.	Effective 1-1-2002 employees will be eligible to enroll in the GTE Flexible Reimbursement Plan ninety (90) days after date of hire or when the employee enrolls whichever is later.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
SO
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
GRIEVANCE MEDIATION
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company and the Union agree to Grievance Mediation as outlined below:
1.	The mediation procedures herein will only apply to disciplinary action -suspensions of one (1) day or more and discharges - which are specifically subject to arbitration under the primary agreement.
2.	After the filing of the request for arbitration, in accordance with Article V, the parties may agree to use this mediation process.
3.	The parties will proceed to select a mediator and establish a mediation conference at the earliest date feasible to all concerned.
4.	The mediation conference will be held in a mutually agreed to location.
5.	Should the availability of the mediator unnecessarily delay the processing of the grievance in the opinion of either party, another mediator may be selected or the mediation process may be bypassed and the grievance pursued to arbitration.
6.	Each party shall have one principal spokesperson at the mediation. An attorney writ not be used by either party at the mediation conference.
7.	The mediation conference will normally be attended by the grievant, the Local President and those people actually involved in the mediation conference. The number of employees who shall suffer no loss in pay shall be no more than three (3). Should additional employees be necessary for the complete discovery of facts at the conference, the parties will agree in advance on the number of additional employees who will attend the conference and suffer no loss in pay.
8.	Any written material that is presented to the mediator or to any other party shall be returned to the party presenting the material at the termination of the mediation conference.
81
9.	Proceedings before the mediator shall be informal in nature. Normally the evidence presented would be that discussed during the grievance procedure. The rules of evidence shall not apply and no record of the mediation conference shall be made.
10.	The mediator will have the authority to meet separately with any person or persons,’but will not have the authority to compel the resolution of a grievance.
11.	The Company and the Union spokespersons may accept or reject the resolution proposed by the mediator and such settlement or any other settlement agreement resulting from the conference shall not be precedent setting, unless both parties agree.
12.	If no settlement is reached the mediator shall provide the parties with an immediate oral advisory opinion, unless both parties agree that no opinion shall be provided.
13.	If no settlement is reached at mediation, the parties are free to arbitrate.
14.	In the event that a grievance which has been mediated subsequently is arbitrated, no person serving as a mediator between these parties may serve as arbitrator for the same grievance. In the arbitration proceedings there shall be no reference to the fact that a mediation conference was or was not held and there shall be no reference to or use made of any statements, oral or written, or of things done at the mediation conference.
15.	The fees and expenses of the mediator shall be shared equally by the parties.
Verizon North Inc.	Communications Workers
(North Central Region) .	Of America	■
Holiday M. Parker	Crystal J. Roberts
Director	Staff Representative
Labor Relations	CWA
82
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
GROUP UNIVERSAL LIFE (GUL) INSURANCE
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) agrees to make available, without endorsement, the opportunity for employees to enroll in Group Universal Life (GUL) Insurance.
2.	A summary of details is contained in the brochure entitled "GROUP UNIVERSAL LIFE”.
3.	GUL will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning GUL or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The administration of GUL and all the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Insurance Carrier.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
83
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
HOME DISPATCH
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the Communications Workers of America agree that the Company may offer employees the opportunity to participate in the Home Dispatch Program subject to the following provisions:
The Company will determine the individuals and/or work groups to which home dispatch will be offered.
The election to participate tn the Home Dispatch Program will be voluntary on the pad of the employee. The employee will commit to participation in the program for a specified time period, such period to be mutually agreed to by the employee and supervisor.
Company vehicles will be used only for business purposes. The employees paid time will start and end at the job site.
The employee will be responsible for maintaining his/her assigned vehicle in accordance with the Company's maintenance procedures during non-working hours at Company expense. Breakdowns or other vehicle problems occurring during working hours will be corrected during working hours.
The employee will be expected to exercise good judgement in the care, storing and use of the Company vehicle.
This agreement will become effective July 22, 1990 and will continue perpetually until terminated by thirty (30) days written notice to the union.
Verizon North Inc.	Communications Workers
(North Central Region)	Of America
Holiday M. Parker	Crystal J. Roberts
Director	Staff Representative
Labor Relations	CWA
84
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
HOURLY SAVINGS PLAN (HSP)
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and the Communications Workers of America (CWA) will make Ihe GTE Hourly Savings Plan (HSP) available to regular full or part-time hourly employees of the Company who are covered by a Collective Bargaining Agreement. •
2.	The Company reserves the right at any time, and from time to time, by action of the Board of Directors, to modify or amend in whole or part, any or all of the provisions of the HSP, but no such amendment or modification Shalt have the effect of reducing the accrued benefits of members, retired members, former members or their beneficiaries or of diverting any part of the Trust Fund to any purpose other than for the exclusive benefit of members, former members, or their beneficiaries and the payment of reasonable HSP administration expenses.
3.	The Company reserves the right, by action of the Board of Directors, to terminate or partially terminate the HSP at any time. Upon termination or partial termination of the HSP or upon the complete discontinuance of contributions under the HSP, the member accounts of the members affected by the termination, partial termination, or complete discontinuance of contributions as the case may be shall be nonforfeitable.
4.	The HSP may be merged into or consolidated with another plan, and its assets or liabilities may be transferred to another plan; provided, however, that no such merger, consolidation, or transfer shall be consummated unless each member and beneficiary under the HSP would receive a benefit immediately after the merger, consolidation, or transfer, if the transferee plan then terminated, that is equal to or greater than the benefit he/she would have been entitled to receive immediately before the merger, consolidation or transfer, if the HSP had then terminated.
5.	The Company and the Union agree that every provision heretofore contained in this Agreement is contingent upon the Company's receipt of a favorable determination that the HSP, as amended, continues to be qualified under Section 401 (a) et. Seq., of the Internal Revenue Code. In the event any recession in the HSP is necessary to obtain or maintain a favorable determination from the Internal Revenue Service, the Company
85
will make the revisions, adhering as closely as possible to the level of benefits contained in the HSP.
6.	In the event any portion of this Agreement is determined by a court or government agency to be in violation of existing law or is voided by a change in existing laws, the Company retains the unilateral right to make whatever modifications it deems necessary and appropriate to comply with the law, including the right to rescind the Agreement, if it deems no such modification is feasible. The Company shall have no obligation to bargain or negotiate with the Union in the event that this Agreement is modified or eliminated or in the event the Company does not implement any or all of the provisions of this Agreement because it does not receive Internal Revenue Service approval, any or ali of these plans are deemed not qualified, or because of a change in existing laws.
7.	The HSP will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions and no matter concerning the HSP or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement but rather shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the HSP and the interpretation of the HSP Committee.
8.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on January 1, 2002, and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the HSP, shall also terminate on January 29, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc. ' (North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers
Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
86
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
INCOME SECURITY PLAN (ISP)
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America recognize the need for technological change in the business and hereby enter into this Memorandum of Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the Agreement). In order to lessen the economic impact upon regular employees who become surplus due to technological change, the Company and the Union agree to establish the INCOME SECURITY PLAN (the Plan). "Technological change" shall be defined as a change in plant or equipment, or a change in a method of operation, diminishing the total number of regular employees required to supply the same services to the Company or its subscribers. "Technological change” shall not include layoffs or force realignments caused by business conditions, variations in subscribers' requirements, or temporary or seasonal interruptions of work.
When technological change brings about any of the following conditions, the Plan shall apply:
A.	A need to layoff and/or force realign employees in any job title:
B.	Reassignment of regular employees to permanent headquarters fifty (50) miles or more from the employee's permanent headquarters.
2.	During the term of this Agreement, if the Company notifies the Union In writing that a technological change has created or will create a surplus In any job title in any work group and/or work location, regular employees meeting the following qualifications shall be eligible for Plan participation:
A. Accredited service of one year or more;
B No comparable assignment available within fifty (50) miles of the former permanent headquarters and/or refusal of reassignment to a new permanent headquarters fifty (50) miles or more from the former permanent headquarters.
87
However the Company reserves the right to apply this Plan to any surplus in force, whether or not it is brought about by technological change, that the Company deems appropriate. All elections shall be voluntary and acceptance by the Company will be in order of seniority.
3.	The Company reserves the right to determine the job titles and work group(s) and/or work location(s) in which a surplus exists, the number of work groups and/or work locations in which a surplus exists, the number of employees in such titles and locations which are considered to be surplus, and the period during which the employee may, if he or she so elects, leave the service of the Company pursuant to this Plan. In no event shall the number of employee elections accepted under Ihe terms of the Plan exceed the number of employees determined by the Company to be surplus.
4.	For those employees who are eligible in accordance with Sections 1 and 2, the Company will provide ISP Termination Allowance:
A.	$1,100, less withholding taxes, for each completed year of accredited service up to and including thirty (30) years for a maximum of $33,000 prior to withholding taxes. The ISP Termination Allowance is not prorated for any partial year of service.	'
B.	In addition to the IPS'Termination Allowance, the Company shall pay an employee who has left the service of Ihe Company with ISP benefits an ISP Expense Allowance not to exceed $750, less withholding taxes, for each completed year of accredited service for a maximum of $3,750 prior to withholding taxes. The ISP Expense Allowance is not prorated for any partial year of service.
The intent of the ISP Expense Allowance is to assist the employee to defray out-of-pocket expenses which include, but are not limited to, relocation cost, tuition or training cost, or job placement.
The combined maximum ISP Termination pay benefit payable as set forth in Paragraphs A and B of this Section 4 shall in no event exceed a total of $36,750.
The dollar amounts set forth in this Agreement shall be prorated for regular part-time employees based on the average hours worked during the last twenty-six (26) pay periods; i.e., average of thirty (30) hours worked per week would result in termination benefits paid at 75% of those paid to a regular full-time employee.
5.	Employees eligible for ISP Termination Allowance in accordance with Section 2 will receive a lump sum payment for the entire amount of the ISP Termination Allowance paid in the month following the month in which the employee leaves the service of the Company.
88
6.	Reemployed employees must complete one (1) full year of Accredited service with the Company before coming eligible again for termination benefits. In subsequent terminations to which this Agreement is - applicable, the employee shall receive the difference between the termination benefits for which he or she is presently eligible and any benefits previously received.
7.	All benefits payable under the Plan are subject to legally required deductions.
8.	Termination benefits shall not be made if the termination Is the result of any sale or other disposition by the Company of the exchange or office at which the employee is working or from which the employee is assigned to work, when the employee Is continued in the employment of the new management of the exchange or office.
9.	An employee's election to leave the service of the Company and Receive termination pay benefits must be in writing and transmitted to the Company within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of the Company's offer in order to be effective, and it may not be revoked after such fourteen (14) calendar day period.
10.	This Agreement will be implemented prior to Invoking the Provisions of Article 17 (Force Adjustments) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, when conditions set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement exist as determined by the Company.
11	Neither the right to effect a technological change, the determination of a surplus condition, eligibility for participation in the Plan, nor any part of this Plan or Agreement shall be subject to the grievance/arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
12.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on January 1, 2002, and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also terminate on January 29, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.	Communications Workers
(North Central Region)	Of America
Holiday M. Parker	Crystal J. Roberts
Director	Staff Representative
Labor Relations	CWA
89
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
LIVING BENEFIT RIDER (LBR)
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) agrees to make available a Living Benefit Rider (LBR) to employees and their spouses who are presently enrolled in Group Universal Life (GUL) Insurance.
2.	The Company and the Union recognize'that long term care will continue to be the most likely catastrophic illness risk facing employees. As a result of these concerns and for these reasons, the LBR option to GUL is established to provide protection against the financial ravages of declining health.	•
3.	The LBR provides a benefit equal to 2% of the face value of the policy (excluding any cash value amounts) per month for a period up to 25 months. In effect, the LBR can pay out a maximum of 50% of the face value of the policy (25 months X 2%). The maximum potential benefit is $10,000 per month with a minimum potential monthly benefit of $400.
4.	Eligibility for the benefit shall be based on the following conditions:
A.	Employees or spouses must be continuously unable to care for themselves in a minimum of three activities of daily living for at least six months. Activities of daily living are defined.as eating, getting around, transferring, toileting, bathing, and dressing.
B.	Employees or spouses must submit written medical evidence that shows the Inability to perform the activities of daily living.
C.	The condition causing the inability to care for oneself cannot be a condition for which the individual received medical care or treatment during the six months immediately before LBR coverage became effective (pre-existing condition clause).
D.	GUL must remain in force.
E.	The LBR is paid for a maximum of 25 months and permanently reduces any amount of life insurance proceeds by the total amount of the LBR paid.
90
5.	' No matter concerning the Living Benefit Rider or any differences arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
6.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the Living Benefit Rider, shall also terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of (his Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
91
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
LONG TERM DISABILITY
In recognition of the impact a prolonged disability can have on income security and as a valuable supplement to the short-term disability benefits currently provided by the Company, Verizon North Inc. {North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to establish a Long-Term Disability (hereinafter referred to as LTD) plan subject to the following provisions:
1.	Regular full-time employee are eligible to participate in the LTD plan, subject to the following requirements:
A.	Employees will be eligible to participate ninety (90) days following their date of hire (new hires) and employees may enroll during the first ninety (90) days of employment.
B.	Enrollment during periods not mentioned above additionally requires regular full-time employees to submit evidence of good health at their expense and subject to approval by the Plan Administrator.
C.	When opting up or increasing the LTD benefits level, employees are required to submit evidence of good health at their expense and subject to approval by the Plan Administrator.
D.	The contributions are continuously paid following enrollment.
2.	The cost of the LTD plan coverage will be paid by the employee. Contributions for coverage may change from time to time. Should this occur, the Company agrees to notify the Union in writing, within fifteen calender days prior to the date of modification, specifying the cause for any change In the contribution rate.
3.	The LTD plan shall pay monthly benefits as follows:
A.	Up to 50% of the employee's basic monthly earnings, up to a maximum of $3,000 per month, or
B.	Up to 60% of the employee's basic monthly earnings, up to a
92
maximum of $5,000 per month
Monthly benefits shall be coordinated and reduced by any amount received from Worker's Compensation (or its equivalent), primary and dependent disability or retirement benefits from the Federal Social Security Act. payments under any other State or Federal disability benefits law, Company-provided salary continuation plan (EAIP, TPP, layoff allowances) or the Railroad Retirement Act, or payments under any other plan which provides income benefits,	.
A.	The employee must apply for primary and dependent (if applicable) Social Security disability benefits.
B.	Plan benefits are not payable for any period of disability during which ihe employee refuses or fails to apply for Social Security disability benefits or to appeal any denied claim for Social Security benefits.
4.	LTD Benefits will be paid, provided the Plan is in force, if eligible employees have been continuously and totally disabled, under the care of a physician and absent from work for twenty-six (26) weeks or if the disability has resulted in twenty-six (26) weeks of absence during a period of fifty-two (52) consecutive weeks and the eligible employees have been under the care of a physician.
A.	Monthly benefits will be paid for twelve (12) months, if the disability prevents eligible employees from performing their regular work or an alternative occupation with similar earnings potential.
B.	Monthly benefits will be paid following this twelve (12) month period, if the disability prevents eligible employees from performing any work for which they are otherwise qualified to perform.
C.	If eligible employees become disabled prior to age sixty (60), benefits will be paid up to their sixty-fifth (65th) birthday.
D.	If eligible employees become disabled on or after age 60, benefits will be paid according to the following schedule:
Age of Disability
Benefits Paid to Age
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
65
66
67
68
69
70
70
70
93
68	71
69	72
70	72
71	72.5
72	73.5
73	74.5
74	75.5
75+	For 1 year
E.	Disabilities as a result of a mental health disorder, alcoholism or drug addiction, will generally result in monthly LTD benefits for no longer than twelve (12) months.
F.	If the disability is not caused by participation in an assault, crime or illegal occupation, an intentionally self-inflicted injury, war or act of war.
G.	If the disability does not result from Pre-existing Conditions that existed within three (3) months before the date LTD coverage began. Coverage for Pre-existing Conditions begins twelve (12) months after the coverage effective date.
5.	During the period LTD benefits are paid, eligible employees will continue to receive medical and dental Insurance coverage, and non-contributory life insurance coverage in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement between GTE North Incorporated (North Central Region) and the Communications Workers of America. Accredited Service will be applied toward eligible employees' pension calculations until the disability benefits end or the eligible employee retires, quits or dies.
6.	The amount and availability of benefits under the LTD Plan are governed by the provisions of the Plan and the insurance contract. Any benefits received will be determined under the terms of the Plan in effect at the time eligible employees receive the benefits in question. The operation and administration of the LTD Plan, selection of the insurance carrier, eligibility for the benefits, cost of coverage, eligibility requirements, all terms and conditions related thereto and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration or benefits payable shall rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedures set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
7.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement relating to the Long-Term Disability Plan, shall terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
94
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)	Communications Workers Of America
Holiday M. Parker Director Labor Relations	Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
95
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
LUMP SUM PAYMENT OPTION
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to modify the Plan for Hourly Employees' Pensions (hereinafter referred to as the Plan). Such modifications are conditional upon the approval from the appropriate Board of Directors and a favorable determination from the Internal Revenue service that the Plan is and continues to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Therefore, the effective date of January 1, 1995 for the following modification will be contingent upon the receipt of the necessary approvals.
2.	Regular employees who are eligible to receive a single life annuity from the Plan will be provided a lump sum payment option which wilt be based on the present value of their single life annuity.
3.	The amount and availability of benefits under the Plan are governed by the provisions of the Plan and are subject to the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations. Any payments received will be determined under the terms of the Plan in effect at the time regular employees separate from service. The operation and administration of the Plan, the calculation of the lump sum benefit, eligibility requirements, all terms and conditions related thereto and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, and administration of the Plan shall rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
4.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parlies specifically agree that the terms ■ and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement, relating to the lump sum payment option, shall terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
96
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)	Communications Workers Of America
Holiday M. Parker Director Labor Relations	Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
97
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
MAIL ORDER PRESCRIPTION PLAN (MOPP)
1.	Effective January 23. 1994. the Company will continue the Mail Order Prescription Plan (the Plan) available to regular full or part-time hourly employees of the Company.
2.	A 90-day prescribed supply of medication will be provided at a $5.00 per generic prescription or $15.00 per brand name co-payment. This copayment cannot be reimbursed through the Company Medical Plan and does not apply to deductibles or out-of-pocket maximums. Generic drugs ' will be provided when available and permissible by law.
3.	Employees and dependents currently covered under the Company Medical Plan will be eligible to participate in the Mail Order Prescription Plan. Once employees (who are covered under the Company Medical plan) retire, they and their eligible dependents may continue to participate in this Mail -Order Prescription Plan on the same basis as active employees. The Plan is not available to participants in Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO's) and/or participants in a Point of Service (POS) Medical Plan.
4.	The Plan will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning the Plan or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedures of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The selection of the Plan Carrier, the administration of the Plan and all the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, or administration shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company.
5.	The Company shall have the right to amend the Plan in any way, including the selection of the Plan Carrier. However, any amendment diminishing the level of benefits contained in this Memorandum of Agreement or increasing the cost per prescription to the employee/dependent will be limited to those changes applicable to salaried employees.
6.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002 and shall
98
expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the Mall Order Prescription Plan, shall also terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties In writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
99
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
-	Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
MEDICAL PLANS
The benefits presently provided in each Division under the Company sponsored Medical Plans will not be discontinued or amended without the agreement of the Company and the Union. Please refer to the appropriate Summary Plan Description for the details of each respective Plan.
The Company sponsored Medical Plans will be administered solely in accordance with their provisions and no matter concerning these Plans, or any differences arising thereunder shall be subject to the Grievance-Arbitration Procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The selection of the Plans* Administrators, the administration of the Plans and all terms, conditions, interpretation, administration or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company. If the Company sponsored Medical Plans' Administrator changes during the life of the Agreement, there will be no decrease in benefits.
Coverage under the Company sponsored Medical Plans for regular employees begins ninety (90) days following date of hire or when the employee enrolls, whichever Is later.
Major improvements to the Company sponsored Medical Plans effective January 1, 2003 Include:
A.	Wherein there is a Lifetime Maximum of $1,000,000, this maximum will increase to $2,000,000.
B.	Employees who elect not to enroll themselves or their eligible dependents in the Company sponsored Medical Plan or an HMO will be eligible for an annual “opt out" credit of five hundred dollars ($500). This credit wilt be given to the employee over twenty-four (24) pay periods on his/her bi-weekly paycheck. In order to be eligible for this credit, the employee may be required to provide satisfactory evidence of medical coverage upon request.
C.	A hearing aid benefit will be added to the Company sponsored
100
Medical Plans. This benefit will provide coverage for expenses for a hearing'examination by a licensed audiologist or physician, the hearing aid device, molds, repairs, hearing aid check and batteries. The maximum reimbursement under this benefit is $1,000 per covered individual every 24 months. The benefit is not subject to deductible, co-pays or R&C and there are no separate maximums for any in or out of network expenses. Hearing aids are covered for all hearing impairments that are a result of birth defects, Illness, accidents and/or injury and progressive loss of hearing. Replacement and repair of hearing aids are covered unless due to misuse or loss.
D.	Eligible surviving Spouses, dependents, and registered domestic Partners (RDP) of an active employee who participates in a Company sponsored Medical Plan, shall be provided with medical coverage at no charge for twenty-four (24) months following the death of the employee.
This Memorandum of Agreement Is effective on January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the Company sponsored Medical Plans, shall also terminate on January 29, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director _
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
101
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
PENSIONS
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to modify the Plan for Hourly Employees' Pensions. Such modifications are subject to Ihe Company's Board of Directors and the United States Department of the Treasury approvals and. therefore, the effective date of January 1, 2003 for the modifications will be contingent upon receipt of all necessary approvals.	■
Specific language will be prepared to modify the present Plan for Hourly Employees' Pensions to effect the following:
Years of Accredited Service
Present Minimum
Annual
Minimum
15 but less than 20 years
20 but less than 25 years
25 but less than 30 years
30 but less than 35 years
35 but less than 40 years
40 or more years
$ 4,700 $6,100 $ 7,500 $ 8,900 $10,300 $11,700
$ 4,900 $ 6,300 $ 7,800 $ 8,300 $10,700 $12,200
This agreement shall become effective upon ratification and shall remain in effect until midnight, January 29, 2005 and shall automatically continue in full force and effect thereafter until terminated, or amended, in accordance with the following procedure.
If this Agreement is to be terminated, a written notice must be sent by either party to the other not less than sixty (60) days prior to any date thereafter on which such cancellation is to become effective.
This Agreement may be amended or modified by either party giving written notice to the other of such desire to so amend or modify at least sixty (60) days and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the termination date set forth above. The written notice shall contain a full statement as to the amendments or modifications desired.
102
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
103
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. {NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
ALLTEL PENSION CONVERSION
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to modify the Plan for Hourly Employees- Pensions. Such modifications are subject to approvals by the Company's Board of Directors and the United States Department of the Treasury. Therefore, the effective date of January 1, 2001 for the modifications will be contingent upon receipt of all necessary approvals.	-
For employees whose coverage under the plan was effective November 1, 1093, the Plan will provide for recognition of accredited service for pension eligibility and calculation as outlined below.
Verizon will provide a defined pension plan benefit based upon the greater of:
(a)	an ALLTEL accrued defined pension plan benefit as of the Closing Date of the exchange of properties (without consideration of any ALLTEL profit sharing benefit, if applicable) based upon (i) ALLTEL and future GTE average annual compensation for the five consecutive highest paid years and ALLTEL service plus (ii) a future accrual under the GTE defined benefit pension plan commencing on the Closing Date based upon GTE (and not ALLTEL) average annual compensation for the five consecutive highest paid years and GTE service:
OR
(b)	the accrued benefit under the GTE defined benefit pension plan as if all ALLTEL service was recognized under the GTE plan.
The amount and availability of benefits under the Plan are governed by the provisions of the Plan and are subject to the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations. Any payments received will be determined under the terms of the Plan in effect ai the time regular employees separate from service. The operation and administration of the Plan, eligibility requirements, all terms and conditions related thereto and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, and administration of the Plan shall rest with the
104
Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure set forth In the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
This Agreement shall become effective on January 1, 2002, and shall remain in effect until midnight, January 29, 2005 and shall automatically continue in full force and effect thereafter until terminated, or amended, in accordance with the following procedure:
If this Agreement is to be terminated, a written notice must be sent by either party to the other not less than sixty (60) days prior to any date thereafter on which such cancellation is to become effective.
This Agreement may be amended or modified by either party giving written notice to the other of such desire to so amend or modify at feast sixty (60) days and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the termination date of January 29, 2005. The written notice shall contain a full statement as to the amendments or modifications desired.
The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement shall terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Communications Workers
Of America
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
105
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
PRE-RETIREMENT SPOUSE'S PENSION
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to modify the Plan for Hourly Employees' Pensions. Such modifications are subject to approvals by the Company's Board of Directors and the United States Department of the Treasury. Therefore, the modifications will be contingent upon receipt of necessary approvals, and the effective date will be January 1,2003.
2.	Specific language will be prepared to modify the present Plan for Hourly Employees' Pensions to provide a survivor benefit to an employee who is actively employed on the effective date and who is vested in the Plan.
3.	For married employees, the spouse will automatically be considered the beneficiary. However, subject to the requirements regarding non-spouse beneficiaries and with spousal consent, a married employee may name a beneficiary other than the spouse. For unmarried employees, a valid beneficiary designation must be on File for the pre-retirement survivor benefit to be paid. A single individual must be named as beneficiary; an estate or trust may not be named, nor may multiple individuals.
4.	Subject to the small benefits provision contained in the Plan, the survivor will have the option of choosing between a 50% survivor annuity or the lump sum equivalent in the event of the death of the employee.
5.	If a vested employee terminates employment on or after the effective date, the named survivor will be eligible for the survivor pension payable on the date the employee would have reached the age 65. An actuarially reduced benefit may be payable before age 65 if the vested employee would have been eligible for an earlier commencement.
6.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that all the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also expire on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
106
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Communications Workers Of America
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
107
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
PERSONAL LINES OF INSURANCE
Effective January 1, 2002, Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) agrees to make available, without endorsement, the opportunity for regular full-or part-time hourly employees of the Company who are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement to purchase automobile, home and other personal property and casualty insurance through payroll deduction.
Personal Lines of Insurance will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning Personal Lines of Insurance or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The administration of Personal Lines of Insurance and all the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration, or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Insurance Carrier.
The company reserves the right at any time, and from time to time, to modify or amend in whole or in part, pny and all provisions of the agreement with the Insurance Carrier, to change Insurance Carriers, or to terminate the agreement with the Insurance Carrier.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including Personal Lines of Insurance, shall also terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
108
MetPay Program
The MetPay program is provided by Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company and affiliates, Warwick, Rhode Island, a subsidiary of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
The MetPay program is a voluntary program which allows employees to purchase Automobile Insurance, Homeowner Insurance, Renter's Insurance, Excess Personal Liability, and other personal property insurance through payroll deduction.
The MetPay program offers group discounts to Verizon employees. The amount of the discount is governed by the state insurance regulations. Therefore, the discount varies by state.
The program is administered by Metropolitan Property and Casualty. Verizon will deduct the premiums from the employee's paycheck as directed by Metropolitan.
All administrative questions, claims, and questions should be directed to Metropolitan at 1-B00-GET MET1 (438-6381) or www.metpay.com.
The employees can also contact Metropolitan by calling the Verizon Benefits Center at 1-800-GTE-BENS (483-2367). The call will be transferred to a Metropolitan Representative. The Verizon Benefits Center can not answer any questions regarding the MetPay program.	■
The program is portable. Employees retiring from Verizon under the terms of the Verizon pension plans will retain the group discounts they had as an employee. Employees who terminate will retain the group discounts they had as an employee until the renewal date for the policy. On the renewal date, the premiums will be recalculated using Metropolitan's retail customer rates.
109
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
PREFERENTIAL SCHEDULING
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to the following Preferential Scheduling for employees in Consumer Sales and Solutions Centers. Business Solutions Groups, and Repair Resolution Centers.	■
1. For employees in the Consumer Sales Solutions Center, Repair Resolution Center, Business Solutions Group, and Business Contact Center, the Company's "Preferential Scheduling’1 process will be used and will include split tours. Split tours will be scheduled with no less than one (1) and more than four (4) hours between tours.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on January 1, 2002, and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, relating to Preferential Scheduling in Consumer Sales and Solutions Centers, Business Solutions Groups, and Repair Resolution Centers, shall terminate on January 29, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
110
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION) And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA PRESCRIPTION IDENTIFICATION CARO (PIC)
1.	Verizon North Inc. and Communications Workers of America agree to offer the Prescription Identification Card, effective January 1, 2002 for employees and their eligible dependents enrolled in the Comprehensive Medical Plan.
2.	Once employees (who are covered under the Comprehensive Medical Plan) retire, they and their eligible dependents may continue to participate in this PIC plan on the same basis as active employees. PIC Is not available to participants in Health Maintenance Organizations (HMO's) and Point of Service (POS) plans.
3.	Eligible employees may purchase prescription medications from participating network pharmacies at a Verizon discounted rate. Employees who use participating network pharmacies will have an annual $25.00 deductible and a twenty (20) percent (%) co-payment.
4.	Eligible employee purchasing prescription medications from non-network pharmacies will have an annual $75.00 deductible and a twenty (20) percent (%) co-payment.
5.	The deductible and co-payment do not apply to the deductible or out-ofpocket maximums of the Comprehensive Medical Plan. The out-of-pocket maximum for PIC is $300 per person.
6.	PIC will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions and no matter concerning PIC or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The selection of the PIC carrier, the administration of PIC and all of the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, Interpretation, or administration shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company.
7.	The Company shall have the right to amend PIC in any way, including the . selection of the PIC carrier. However, any amendment diminishing the level of benefits contained in this Memorandum of Agreement or increasing
111
the cost per prescription to the emptoyee/dependent will be limited to those changes applicable to salaried employees.
8.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the Prescription Identification Card, shall also terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts
Staff Representative
CWA
112
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to continue the Public Communications Incentive Compensation Plan as set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
1.	For a summary of details refer to the attachment entitled Public Communications Incentive Compensation Plan.
2.	For the term of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Public Access Sales Technician and Collector Maintainer will be treated as one title in a force adjustment.	.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002 and shall expire January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also expire on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of the Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc. ' (North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts
Staff Representative
CWA
113
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
PURCHASE OF OPTICAL PRODUCTS
1.	Effective January 1, 2002, Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) will make available to employees and their dependents the opportunity to purchase safety glasses and optical products that are covered under an Agreement between the Company and the Aearo AO Safety Company. Both prescription and plain safety glasses are available through the plan. Special safety glasses for operators of video display terminals (VOT's) are available through AO Safety. The cost of eye examinations and/or prescriptions is not covered under this Plan.
2.	if any employee so desires, the Company will implement payroll deductions for the cost of covered products, to be deducted in three equal amounts in the next three payroll periods.
3.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the Purchase of Optical Products, shall also terminate on and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
4.	In the event AO Safety is unable to fulfill its contractual obligations with the Company, this Memorandum of Agreement will be immediately terminated.
Verizon North Inc.	Communications Workers
(North Central Region)	Of America
Holiday M. Parker	Crystal J. Roberts
Director	Staff Representative
Labor Relations	CWA
114
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
RETAIL SALES CONSULTANT INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
This letter sets forth the Company and the Union understanding regarding the administration of the Incentive Compensation Plan for Retail Sales Consultant in the Phone Marts.
1.	All active regular full-time and regular part-time Sales Clerks assigned to a Marketing Phone Mart will be eligible.
2.	The Company will have the responsibility to establish and administer the standards to be used.
3.	The Company reserves the right to adjust standards as needed to ensure equitable treatment of all parties. Any goal adjustments will be communicated to affected employees and the Union thirty (30) days in advance of any changes.
4.	The provisions of the Sales Incentive Plan are not subject to the grievance/arbitration provisions of the current Labor Agreement however any dispute as to whether an employee is paid in accordance with the terms of the plan will be subject to the grievance (and arbitration) procedures(s).
5.	Data to be made available when necessary to the Union under the plan is limited to:
a.	The employee’s worked hours for the month.
b.	The total worked hours for all eligible employee in the Phone Mart.
. c. The employee's monthly incentive compensation plan.
d.	The employee's goal.
e.	Record of employee's sales for the month in question only.
All other data is considered Company Confidential and is not available to the Union.
6.	It is understood by the parties that there is no guarantee of Incentive earnings under the plan.
115
The Plan will remain in effect perpetually unless terminated by the Company with thirty (30) days written notice to the Union.
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)	Communications Workers Ot America
Holiday M. Parker Director Labor Relations	Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
116
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
RETIREE LIFE INSURANCE
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to make available to employees who retire on or after January 1, 2002 with a service or disability pension under the GTE Pension Plan, a $5,000 retiree life insurance benefit.
For employees who retire on or after January 1, 2003, with a service or disability pension under Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) Pension Plan, the retiree life Insurance benefit will be $10,000.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parlies specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the retiree life insurance benefit, shall also terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties In writing.
Verizon North Inc.	Communications Workers
(North Central Region)	Of America
Holiday M. Parker	Crystal J. Roberts
Director	Staff Representative
Labor Relations	CWA
117
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
GTE NORTH INCORPORATED (NORTHEAST REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
SAFETY COMMITTEE
The Company and the Union recognize their individual responsibility as set forth in Article 16, Section 16.2.1. In so doing, it is agreed that the Company and the Union have a mutual obligation to promote a pro-safety atmosphere.
1.	Both the Company and the Union will continually strive to educate the employees and pursue compliance regarding the use of safety equipment and safe work practices.
2.	The Administrator-Safety or designate and two Company employees so designated by the Union will meet quarterly for the purpose of discussing specific safety matters. It shall be the responsibility of the Company to set the time and place for such meetings.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative
CWA
118
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
SELF NOMINATION COMMITTEE
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to the establishment of a Self Nomination Partnership Committee to assist in the implementation and communication of the Self Nomination Job Bidding Process, The Committee will also provide the Company with feedback on the on-going process.
2.	The Self Nomination Committee will be comprised of a minimum of four (4) CWA members and an equal or lesser number of management employees.	•
3.	The Committee will meet on a quarterly basis at the Region Headquarter's location unless another location is mutually agreed upon.
4.	This Memorandum of Agreement shall be effective on January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties also specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall terminate on January 29, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless cancelled by either party with a thirty (30) day written notice.
Verizon North Inc.
(North Central Region)
Holiday M. Parker
Director
Labor Relations
Communications Workers Of America
Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
119
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD
The Company and the Union agree to develop and implement Team Performance Award(s) which will provide participating employees the opportunity to earn additional compensation based upon collective/team performance results. Objectives and standards will be developed and administered solely by the Company.
The development, design, duration, size, location and frequency and/or administration of such Team Performance Award(s) are wholly within the discretion of the Company and are not subject to the grievance/arbitration provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The following administrative guidelines shall apply:
(a)	All regular full-time and regular part-time employees who are not covered by another incentive program will be eligible to participate if they are on a TPA Team for 30 calendar days or more.
(b)	Plan objectives and Standards will not normally change after they are initially established at the start of the plan year. However, the Company reserves the right to adjust the objectives and standards of the plan if it is deemed necessary. The Company will provide participating employees and the Union a minimum of thirty (30) days advance notice of any such modifications.
(c)	Any dispute as to whether an employee is paid in accordance with the terms of the plan will be subject to the grievance/arbitration procedures.
(d)	The plan will be calendar-year based with an effective date of January 1, 2002. The Team Performance Award earnings will be paid by April 30 of the following year.
(e)	It is understood between the parties that there are no guarantees of Team Performance Award earnings under this plan.
(f)	Should any of the provisions of Paragraph 2 of this memorandum be
120
invoked, the sales incentive already earned under this' plan will not be affected.
(g)	Deductions for federal, state, local tax liabilities and Union dues will be made in accordance with lump sum distribution tax laws.
This Memorandum of Agreement shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the benefits provided for as part of the Team Performance Award shall also terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)	Communications Workers Of America
Holiday M. Parker Director Labor Relations	Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
121
HOURLY INCENTIVE PROGRAM DETAIL
The Team Performance Award (or "TPA”) is a compensation program that reflects the changing needs of the organization and is based on the idea that greater competition and rapidly changing technology and regulatory environments make it desirable that all employees be afforded an opportunity to directly affect the success of the Company.
Details of the plan are as follows:
1.	ELIGIBILITY
TEAM MEMBERS: All regular full-time and regular part-time hourly employees are eligible to receive an award if they are on a TPA Team for 30 calendar days or more. Employees on other Incentive plans are not eligible, i.e., BSC, Retail, Operator Services.
2.	AWARD
Award is based on performance toward objectives over the period of a calendar year. An award amount is determined for the applicable calendar year, a percentage of which may be earned by eligible employees depending on team performance during the calendar year. The payout ranges from 0% to 120% of an established target.
The range of the Team Performance Award payout is as follows:
A.	The 2002 target award is 4% payable in April 2003. The range of 0% to 120% based on achievement of objectives.
B.	The 2003 target award is 4% payable in April 2004. The range of 0% to 120% based on achievement of objectives.
C.	The 2004 target award is 4% payable in April 2005. The range of 0% to 120% based on achievement of objectives.
NOTE: The percentage is applied to an employee's highest hourly basic rate of pay, during the 26 pay periods of the calendar year times 2080 hours. Payouts for part time employees will be based on hours worked during the year.	.
PROMOTED/RECLASSIFIED: Employees transferring between teams shall have their award prorated according to the time on each team.
REORGANIZATION: Employees transferring between teams shall have their award prorated according to the time of active service on each team. In the event of reorganization which results in employees changing teams, awards shall be prorated based upon each team's performance.
122
RESIGNS/LAID OFF/DIES/RETIRES: An employee who resigns, is laid off, terminated, dies or retires during the calendar year is eligible for a prorated Team Performance Award if all other eligibility requirements have ■ been met. In case of Termination for Cause the individual situation will be reviewed to determine if the individual is eligible for an award.
LEAVES OF ABSENCE: Employees on an approved military leave of absence who have one year or more service will be given full wage credit up to three months toward the Team Performance Award. Employees on other approved leave of absences will have cumulative leave time excluded from award computation.
TIME OFF FOR UNION ACTIVITIES: Excused time off for union activity will be counted as time worked when computing Team Performance Awards.	.
3.	BENEFITS TREATMENT
TPA payments are recognized in the calculation of Pension Plan benefits, Group Life Insurance, and the GTE Hourly Savings Plan. Such payments will be applicable in the year payment is received. This is in accordance with GTE Benefit Plan definitions.
All other benefits are paid in accordance with the Labor Agreement and are based on rates shown in the hourly wage schedules.
4.	TAXES. PERSONAL ALLOTMENT
Deductions for federal, state, local tax liabilities and Union dues will be made in accordance with lump sum distribution tax taws. Personal allotments such as savings bonds, and United Way contributions will not be made.
5.	OVERTIME	'
The TPA payouts are for hours worked and must be included in overtime payments.
The overtime payment will be calculated as follows:
The TPA payout/total hours worked equals the award hourly rate. This rate is then muttiplied times .5 x number of overtime hours in the same calendar year for which the TPA was paid. The result of this calculation is the award
overtime payment due the employee.		
	1997	1997
Example calculation:	Target	Maximum
	1.5%	1.8%
123
Team Performance Award Total Hours Worked	$549.12/ 1,880	$658.94/ 1,880
Award Hourly Rate 'A Overtime Rate	0.2921 x .5 =	0.3505 x .5 =
Hourly Overtime Rate of Pay Totat Overtime Hours	0.1461 x 125	0.1753 x 125
Award Overtime Payment	$18.26	$21.91
The overtime incentive payment is not included in benefit plan calculations.
The TPA overtime payment will be included in the Team Performance Award payout.
6.	O8JECTIVES/MEASURES
All hourly employees normally will be assigned to teams based on their . functional area of responsibility. Teams may consist of a few employees or many.
Each team will be given a set of objectives linked to one or more of these performance areas:
■	Quality/Valueof Services Delivered
-	Productivity
-	Expense Budget
-	Revenue
Teams that satisfy a minimum level of performance will receive an incentive payment. If that minimum level of performance is exceeded, the incentive payment will be larger. Each member of a team will receive the same percentage of target award that the team achieved. An example would be as follows:
Level of Performance	Percentage of Target Award
Below minimum	0%
Minimum to Target	10% - 99%
Target	100%
Over Target to Maximum	101% - 120%
Once the minimum level of performance is achieved for the team, payment will be based on the actual level of performance and can range from 10% to 120%.
124
This description of TPA is just a summary. The Memorandum of Agreement contains additional details about the plan.
7.	The Company reserves the right to establish objectives and determine performance results. The objectives, the performance results, or any part of the Team Performance Award program shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration provisions of the collective bargaining agreement.
8.	Prior to the announcement of objectives and performance targets for the applicable year, company representatives will meet with Union representatives to review the rationale for such objectives and targets.
. 9. MODIFICATION OF THE TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD
Verizon may at any time modify, in part or in whole, the Team Performance Award Plan. Any modification shall not affect awards already earned under this plan.
10. TERMINATION OF THE TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD PLAN
The suspension or termination must be by mutual agreement of the parlies.
125
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
VOLUNTARY LAYOFF LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1.	Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to the provisions concerning a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2.	The purpose of a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence shall be to provide an alternative method of temporarily adjusting the size of the work force during the months of November, December, January, February, March and April. The Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence would be in lieu of the layoff provisions as provided for In Article 17 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
3.	The total period of a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence will not exceed four months. Voluntary Layoff Leaves of Absence will be offered by seeking volunteers from the affected classification and reporting location. This will be done at least 30 days prior to the effective date. The decision to offer Voluntary Layoff Leaves of Absence, the time frame or duration of the leave, the number of Voluntary Layoff Leaves of Absence authorized, and the location and the classification affected will be at the sole discretion of Management.
4.	If the number of volunteers is not sufficient, Management will then layoff the excess remaining employees in accordance with Article 17 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. If more employees volunteer then needed Management will allow the most senior of the volunteers to take the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence.
5.	While on a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence, eligible employees shall continue to receive Company paid life insurance, medical/dental insurance and telephone concession benefits to the extent provided to active employees.
6.	Employees granted a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence wilt be required to take all unused or remaining vacation and personal holiday time prior to the end of the calendar year in which the leave is to begin. In addition, the employees will be required to use all vacation time for the calendar year in
126
which the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence ends. Employees eligible for four or more weeks of vacation, may take one week of vacation during the fourth quarter of the calendar year in which the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence ends. The fourth week of vacation must be scheduled from the available weeks on the existing vacation schedule. Employees who are eligible for five weeks of vacation, may take the fifth week of vacation after their return from the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence. The fifth week must be scheduled from the available weeks on the existing vacation schedule.
7.	All Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absences are without pay and are subject to approval by Management. Application of unemployment compensation will not be contested by the Company.
8.	This agreement shall in no way limit Management from using other company employees to perform work assignments of the nature performed previously by an employee who may be on a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence.
9.	Upon return to work, employees granted a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence shall receive accredited service and seniority for the period of the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence.
10.	At the end of the approved Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence, employees will be guaranteed reinstatement to a Job within their previous classification and reporting location.
11.	Employees are required to return to work on the agreed upon date. Failure to return on the expected return date, for other than a personal compelling reason as determined by management, will result in termination of employment. Should an employee be unable to return to work due to personal illness or injury and that illness or injury would be covered by the Company’s sickness disability benefits, the employee may apply for sickness disability benefits for the remainder of the time that would normally be covered by sickness disability benefits.
12.	Reinstatement is subject to any contractual provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement which covers adjustments to the work force that may have occurred during the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence of affected employees.
Verizon North Inc.	Communications Workers
(North Central Region)	Of America
Holiday M. Parker	Crystal J. Roberts
Director	Staff Representative
Labor Relations	CWA
127
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC, (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
VOLUNTARY EMPLOYEES BENEFICIARY ASSOCIATION (VEBA)
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) (hereinafter referred to as the Company) and Communications Workers of America (hereinafter referred to as the Union) hereby mutually agree to the establishment of an Internal Revenue Code Section 501 (c) (9) trust (also known as Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association trust) to provide for the payment of medical or other permissible welfare benefits and administrative service costs ("Retiree Medical Benefits") for eligible employees who retire between January 31,1993 (Wl), February 1,1994 (OHIMI), January 1, 1995 (IN & IL), and January 29, 2005 with a service or disability pension under the GTE Pension Plan and their beneficiaries (hereinafter referred to as the Eligible Participants). This trust is being established to provide benefit security for the term of this Memorandum of Agreement.
1.	The funding and operation of this trust will be determined by the Company based on reasonable financial standards (and where applicable, regulatory approval for recovery).
2.	The Company agrees that funds placed into this trust will be used exclusively to pay for the benefits and administrative costs described below or for any other purpose permitted by law.
3.	During the term of this Memorandum of Agreement the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits for the Eligible Participants shall be governed by the GTE RETIREE OPTIONS Summary Plan Description, which may be amended or discontinued by the Company at its discretion subject to paragraph 8 below.
4.	In order to receive Retiree Medical Benefits, the retiree must pay a percentage of the Retiree Medical premium ("Retiree Contribution Percentage"). Similarly, the Company will pay a percentage of the premium ("Company Contribution Percentage"), subject to Section 5 below. During the term of this Memorandum of Agreement, the Company and Retiree Contribution Percentages will be based on the following contribution schedules:
128
A.	For eligible employees who rotlre(d) between February 1, 1994 and January 29, 2005 (OH/MI) or for all eligible employees who retire between January 1, 2003 and January 29, 2005:
Years of Accredited	Company Contribution	Retiree Contribution
Service at Retirement	Percentage	Percentage
Less than 10	0	100
10 through 14	20	80
15 through 19	40	60
20 through 24	60	40
25 through 29	80	20
30 and over	90	10
B.	For eligible employees who retlre(d) between January 1, 1995 and July 1, 2001 (INJ or January 1,1995 and January 1, 2003 (IL) or January 31,1993 and January 1, 2003 (Wl): -
Age at Retirement	Company Contribution Percentage	Retiree Contribution Percentage
Less than 60	0% Non-Medicare covered, 60 +	100% • Medicare covered Retiree (per eligible life)	100% 0% $15 per month
C.	For eligible employees who retlre(d) between July 1, 2001 and January 1,2003 (IN):
Age at Retirement
Less than 59
Non-Medicare covered, 59 + Medicare covered Retiree (per eligible life)
Company Contribution Percentage
0% 100%
Retiree Contribution
Percentage
100%
0%
$20 per month
5.	(a) The Company shall determine the cost of providing Retiree Medical
Coverage ("Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums"). Further, it is the Company's intention to cap the amount it pays toward such Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums for employees who retire on or after July 1, 1998.
(b)	When the Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums for the $350 deductible coverage option under GTE RETIREE OPTIONS reach the figures set forth in the chart below ("Capped Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums"), the Company Contribution Amount shall be capped and the Company shall make no additional contributions towards Retiree Medical Benefits
129
Premiums.
Capped Retiree Medical Coverage Category	Benefits Premium
Retiree only (primary coverage)	$ 6,314
Retiree plus one dependant coverage	$ 12,626
Family coverage	$14,144
Medicare covered retiree	$ 1,642
(per eligible life)
(c)	The Maximum Company Contribution Amount applicable to each Coverage Category shall be determined by multiplying the applicable Company Contribution Percentage times the Capped Retiree Medical Benefits Premium as set forth above for that coverage. The applicable Maximum Company Contribution Amount shall not Increase when the Retiree Medical Benefits Premium exceeds the amount set forth in the chart above.
6.	In order to receive Retiree Medical Benefits, the retiree must pay the Company the amount the Retiree Medical Premium exceeds the Company Contribution Amount as described in paragraphs 4 and 5 above ("Retiree Contribution Amount"). When the Retiree Medical Benefits Premium reaches or exceeds the Capped Retiree Medical Benefit Premium, the retiree must pay the Company the amount the Retiree Medical Benefits Premium exceeds the Maximum Company Contribution Amount.
7.	The Capped Retiree Medical Benefits Premium and the Maximum Company Contribution Amount set forth in paragraph 5 above is based upon the $350 deductible coverage option. If the retiree elects the $150 deductible coverage option, the Retiree Contribution Amount will increase by the amount the $150 deductible coverage option exceeds the $350 deductible coverage option. If the retiree elects the $1000 deductible coverage option, the Retiree Contribution amount will decrease by the amount the $1000 deductible coverage option is less than the $350 deductible coverage option (not to exceed zero). When the Retiree Medical Benefit Premiums for the $350 deductible coverage option reach the amounts set forth in the chart in paragraph 5, the Company Contribution Amount for all coverage options, including the $150 and $1000 deductible coverage options, shall be capped at that time and the Company shall make no additional contributions toward Retiree Medical Benefits.
8.	The Company agrees to notify the Union and to discuss its actions should the Company determine that the funding or operation of the trust and/or applicable sections of this Memorandum of Agreement, other than pooling of claims experience and those sections relating to the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits, need to be modified or rescinded prior to the
130
expiration of the Articles of Agreement. This notification will take place, in writing, within fifteen calendar days prior to the date of modification or rescission. This notification will specify the cause for and affect of this action. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on such changes, the funding or operation of the trust and/or applicable sections of this Memorandum of Agreement, other than pooling of claims experience and those sections relating to the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits, will be modified or rescinded at the Company's discretion.
9.	The funding and operation of the trust; the level and administration of the Retiree Medical Benefits; amount or cost of premiums; premium pricing mechanisms; the attainment of the Maximum Company Contribution Amount; the selection of the claims administrator, alternate health carrier or insurance carrier; eligibility for the benefits; all terms and conditions related hereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration, or benefits payable shall rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
10.	This Memorandum of Agreement Is effective January 1, 2002 and shall be in effect for the duration of this Agreement. The parties specifically agree that this Memorandum of Agreement, the Retiree Medical Benefits described herein, and the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement relating to Retiree Medical Benefits, including but not limited to the Maximum Company Contribution Amount and the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits shall terminate on January 29, 2005 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)	Communications Workers Of America
Holiday M. Parker Director Labor Relations	Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
131
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
VISION PLAN
1.	Effective January 1, 2003 Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to implement the provisions of the Vision Plan set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2.	For a summary of details, refer to the attachment entitled Vision Plan Highlights. -
3.	Some of the major provisions include:
•	No annual deductible.
•	Eye exam every twelve months.
•	One pair of prescription eyeglasses or contact lenses every 24 months.
4.	Employees eligible to participate in the Company-sponsored Point of Service or Indemnity' Medical Plan are automatically enrolled in the Vision Plan.
5.	The cost of the Vision Plan coverage will be paid by the Company.
6.	The amount and availability of benefits under the Vision Plan are
governed by the provisions of the Plan and the insurance contract. Any benefits received will be determined under the terms of the Plan in effect al the time eligible employees receive the benefits in question. The operation and administration of the Vision Plan, selection of the insurance carrier, eligibility for the benefits, eligibility requirements, all terms and conditions related thereto and the resolution of any disputes involving Vision Plan terms, conditions, interpretation, administration or benefits payable shall rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedures set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
132
7.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on January 1, 2002, and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parlies specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, relating to the Vision Plan, shall terminate on January 29, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties In writing.
Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region)	Communications Workers Of America
Holiday M. Parker Director Labor Relations	Crystal J. Roberts Staff Representative CWA
VISION PLAN HIGHLIGHTS
Feature	Participating Provider	Non-participating Provider
		
Annual Deductible	None	None
Eye Exam (Once every 12 months)	You pay the network provider a $25 co-payment. No claim filing is required.	You pay the expense in full and file a claim with Davis Vision. The Plan reimburses you up to $25.
Lenses and Frames (Once every 24 months)*	You pay the network provider a $75 co-payment for lenses and frames or $37.50 for just lenses or frames.	You pay the expense in full and file a claim with Davis Vision. The Plan reimburses you up to $25 for tenses and $25 for frames for a maximum reimbursement of $50.
Contact Lenses (Once every 24 months)-	You pay nothing for standardwear, soft, daily-wear, or disposable contact lenses.	You pay the expense in full and file a claim with Davis Vision.
	Discounts available for replacement lenses.	The Plan reimburses you up to $50.
Laser Vision Correction	Discounts available.	No discounts available.
* Limited to one pair of prescription eyeglasses or one parr of prescription contact lenses every 24 months.		
133
I
Additional Provisions
•	Two or more opticians, optometrists, or ophthalmologists within 20 miles of the employee's home.
•	Employees that have no provider within 20 miles can use the Out-of-Area Provision.
Out-of-Area Provisions
Steps to find an Out-of-Area Provider:
1.	Call Davis Vision when ready to schedule an appointment for services.
2.	Ask the Member Service Associate to locate a non-participating provider (NPP) or give them the name and address of a local provider.
3.	Davis Vision will contact the provider to arrange in-network vision care services for you and will contact you with an authorization to receive your services.
4.	Employee will receive the participating provider benefits.
Professional Provider Services
Standards of care for eye examinations are entirely consistent with those established by State Departments of Health and include preventive eye care with glaucoma testing, refractive care and the prescribing of eyeglasses.
Each patient receives a comprehensive eye examination with a preferred optometrist or ophthalmologist which includes the following components:
•	Case History - chief complaint, eye and vision history, medical history
•	Entrance distance acuities
•	External ocular evaluation including slit lamp examination
•	Internal ocular examination inclusive of dilated fundus evaluation
•	Tonometry
•	Distance refraction - objective and subjective
•	Binocular coordination and ocular motility evaluation
•	Evaluation of pupillary function
•	Biomicroscopy
•	Gross visual fields
•	Assessment and plan
•	Patient education
•	Form completion - school, motor vehicle, etc.	■
All of these components are fully within the education, training and scope of licensure for both optometrists and ophthalmologists.
134
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
WHEREAS the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO (hereafter "CWA" or "the Union") arid Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter the "Verizon/GTE Companies" or ’’the Companies" or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States,
NOW THEREFORE THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES AND CWA agree as follows:
1.	Understandings set forth in Exhibits I through VIII as listed below become effective January 1, 2002 according to their terms. These agreements shall supersede or replace existing provisions and shall be deemed to be incorporated into the existing collective bargaining agreements between the Verizon/GTE Companies and their CWA bargaining units except where the included companies or bargaining units may be expressly limited by the Understandings.
Exhibits I through VIII are:
EXHIBIT I EXHIBIT II EXHIBIT III EXHIBIT IV EXHIBIT V EXHIBIT VI EXHIBIT VII
EXHIBIT VIII
DOMESTIC PARTNER BENEFITS
EDUCATION AND LIFE-LONG LEARNING
HOLIDAYS	'
HOURLY SAVINGS PLAN (HSP)
HOURLY SAVINGS PLAN
NEUTRALITY AND CONSENT ELECTION UNION LEAVE OF ABSENCE
VACATION CARRY FORWARD (BANKING)
2.	These provisions shall be effective on January 1, 2002 subject to ratification by the membership by a national ’pooled" vote of all CWA's former GTE bargaining units by secret written ballot.
3.	The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth In Exhibits I through VIII shall terminate on July 1, 2004, or as otherwise extended and agreed In writing by the parties. If, however, the parties do not reach agreement on successors to Exhibits I through VIII, they shall renew for one year.
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
Executive Assistant to the President
Morton Bahr, President
Date: /
EXHIBIT I
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
DOMESTIC PARTNER BENEFITS
WHEREAS the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO (hereafter "CWA" or "the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter the "Verizon/GTE Companies" or “the Companies" or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;	.
NOW THEREFORE THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES AND CWA agree as follows:
1.	The Company and the Union agree to extend benefits, as set forth below, to employees' domestic partners and children of domestic partners.
2.	Employees may elect health and welfare benefits coverage of domestic partners and children of domestic partners, as described below. Employees who have been (or will be) Identified by the Company as employed as part of an operation that Is to be divested as part of former GTE's Video Servlces/Medla Ventures Repositioning program are excluded from this Memorandum of Agreement.
3.	The Company and the Union agree that eligibility of a domestic partner for health and welfare benefits shall be based on the following conditions:
A.	The employee and the domestic partner are same-sex, adult partners.
B.	Neither the employee nor the domestic partner is married or a domestic partner of a third party.
C.	Both the employee and the domestic partner are at least eighteen (18) years of age and are mentally competent to contract.
D.	The employee and the domestic partner are not related by blood to a degree of closeness that would prohibit legal marriage in their state of residence.
E.	The employee and the domestic partner live together at the same permanent residence.
' F. The employee and the domestic partner are jointly responsible for each other's welfare and basic living expenses.
G.	The domestic partner is the employee's sole domestic partner and Intends to remain so Indefinitely.
H.	The employee and the domestic partner agree to notify the Company and any other appropriate party of any changes in the above conditions.
4.	The Company and the Union agree that eligibility of children of domestic partners for health and welfare benefits shall be based on the following conditions:
A.	An eligible domestic partner is the natural parent, adoptive parent or legal guardian of the child.
B.	The child is unmarried and either under the age of nineteen (19), or under the age of twenty-five (25), attending an accredited secondary school, college, university or nursing school, and are dependent on the domestic partner for care and support.
5.	An employee may elect coverage of a domestic partner and any children of a domestic partner for the following benefits. The amount and availability of benefits are governed by the provisions of the applicable plan and are subject to the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations.
A.	Medical
B.	Dental
C.	Health care continuation	coverage
D.	Flexible	Reimbursement	Plan	Healthcare Reimbursement Account (for
IRS Tax Dependents)
E.	Dependent Care Reimbursement Account (for IRS Tax Dependants)
F,	Retiree Medical (limited to Domestic Partner and children of Domestic - Partner who are covered by medical plan at lime of employee's retirement)
G.	Group Universal Life
6.	Employees are entitled to Bereavement Leave in the event of the death of a domestic partner, children of the domestic partner and other domestic partner family members as specified In the relevant collective bargaining agreement.
7.	Employees are entitled to Family and Medical Leave for the care of a serlously-III domestic partner, or child of a domestic partner, subject to general eligibility requirements.
8.	Other benefit programs are also available to domestic partners and/or their children, as applicable. Availability and amount of benefit Is governed by the applicable plan or policy.
A.	Event travel Expense (one guest accommodated)
B.	Financial Counseling
C.	Survivor Support
0.	Dependent Scholarships (children of domestic partner only)
E.	Adoption Assistance (employee must be adoptive parent)
F.	Company Discounts (recipient is employee)
G.	Childcare Discounts (recipient Is employee)
H.	Employee Assistance Program
9.	In the event that any of the above Domestic Partner Benefits are found to be discriminatory against non-eliglbte, unmarried employees in any jurisdiction, then these Domestic Partner Benefits will not be available in that jurisdiction.
10.	To the extent that the terms of any plan conflict with the provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement, the terms of such plan shall govern. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Memorandum of Agreement shall constitute part of the plan to which it relates; provided, however, it may be elaborated upon in other plan materials, such as employee bulletins and enrollment materials, by the Company. To the extent that any provision of this Memorandum of Agreement conflicts with any state or local law, the parties agree to discuss the applicability of such state or local law.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
EXHIBIT H
Between
THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES
’	And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
EDUCATION AND LIFE-LONG LEARNING
WHEREAS Ihe Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO (hereafter "CWA" or "the Union*) and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter the "Verizon/GTE Companies" or "the Companies" or "Ihe Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;
NOW THEREFORE THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES AND CWA agree as follows:
The Company and Ihe Union agree to continue joint efforts (including Ihe 100% tuition reimbursement and the 100% prepaid feature), which allow employees additional opportunities to team and enhance their knowledge of the jobs being performed. On an "as needed" basis as determined jointly by the parties, a joint , study team, consisting of management and union officials, will be created to explore opportunities for joint educational programs. Joint study teams will explore issues such as:
•	The level of employee awareness of the Verizon Communications, Inc. tuition assistance program. r
•	The rote of education assistance in the attraction and retention of bargaining unit employees.
•	The design and coordination of communication vehicles, in conjunction with NACTEL, to encourage employee and prospective employee participation in the AAS degree In Telecommunications or other programs developed.
•	The identification of certain non-degreed programs, which enhance or certify job knowledge.
Any joint study team formed by the parties will report Its findings and make recommendations to the Joint Company/Union Steering Committee for review and final determination.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
EXHIBIT III
Between
THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
HOLIDAYS
WHEREAS the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO (hereafter "CWA" or "the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter the "Verizon/GTE Companies" or "the Companies' or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;
NOW THEREFORE THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES AND CWA agree as follows:
The Company.and the Union recognize the Importance of providing exceptional customer service and also allowing additional flexibility for employees to observe holidays. To maximize these objectives the following holiday schedule will continue to be effective for CWA and Verizon/GTE Companies bargaining units (except Verizon Select Services, formerly GTE Customer Networks, and Verizon Buried Service Wire Group, formerly GTE Buried Cable Services Group):
•	Seven designated holidays
-	New Years Day
-	Memorial Day
-	Fourth of July
-	Labor Day
-	Thanksgiving Day
-	Day after Thanksgiving
-	Christmas Day
• Five floating holidays (as a minimum)
All provisions related to scheduling holidays, observing holidays and working on holidays, etc. currently contained in collective bargaining agreements (CBA) will remain In effect. Phone Mart employees will have one additional floating holiday In lieu of the day after Thanksgiving as outlined In each CBA.
This MOA serves to modify the composition of holidays in each bargaining unit where different than outlined above (with exceptions as noted above).
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
EXHIBIT IV
Between
THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
HOURLY SAVINGS PLAN (HSP)
WHEREAS the Communications Workers of America. AFL-CIO (hereafter "CWA" or “the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter the “Verizon/GTE Companies" or "the Companies' or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;
NOW THEREFORE THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES AND CWA agree as follows:
1.	The Company and the Union will make the Hourly Savings Plan (HSP) available to regular full or part-time hourly employees of the Company who are covered by a Collective Bargaining Agreement.
2.	The Company reserves the right at any time, and from time to time, by action of the Board of Directors, to modify or amend in whole or part, any or all of the provisions of the HSP, but no such amendment or modification shall have the effect of reducing the accrued benefits of members, retired members, former members or their beneficiaries or of diverting any pari of the Trust Fund to any purpose other than for the exclusive benefit of members, former members, or their beneficiaries and the payment of reasonable HSP administration expenses.
3.	The Company reserves the right, by action of the Board of Directors, to terminate or partially terminate the HSP at any time. Upon termination or partial termination of the HSP or upon the complete discontinuance of contributions under the HSP, the member accounts of the members affected by the termination, partial termination, or complete discontinuance of contributions as the case may be shall be nonforfeitable.
4.	The HSP may be merged Into or consolidated with another plan, and its assets or liabilities may be transferred to another plan; provided, however, that no such merger, consolidation, or transfer shall be consummated unless each member and beneficiary under the HSP would receive a benefit immediately after the merger, consolidation, or transfer, if the transferee plan then terminated, that is equal to or greater than the benefit he/she would have been entitled to receive Immediately before the merger, consolidation or transfer, If the HSP had then terminated.
5.	The Company and the Union agree that every provision heretofore contained In this Agreement is contingent upon the. Company's receipt of a favorable determination that the HSP, as amended, continues to be qualified under Section 401 (a) et. seq., of the Internal Revenue Code. In the event any recession in the HSP Is necessary to obtain or maintain a favorable determination from the Internal Revenue Service, the Company will make the revisions, adhering as closely as possible to the level of benefits contained In the HSP.
6.	In the event any portion of this Agreement Is determined by a court or government agency to be In violation of existing law or Is voided by a change in existing laws, the Company retains the unilateral right to make whatever modifications it deems necessary and appropriate to comply with the law, Including the right to rescind the Agreement, If it deems no such modification Is feasible. The Company shall have no obligation to bargain or negotiate with the Union in the event that this Agreement is modified or eliminated or In the event the Company does not Implement any or all of the provisions of this Agreement because it does not receive Internal Revenue Service approval, any or all of these plans are deemed not qualified, or because of a change in existing laws.
7.	The HSP will be administered solely In accordance with its provisions and no matter concerning the HSP or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement but rather shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the HSP and the interpretation of the HSP Committee.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
EXHIBIT V
Between
THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
HOURLY SAVINGS PLAN
WHEREAS the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO (hereafter "CWA" or 'the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter the “Verizon/GTE Companies’ or "the Companies" or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;
NOW THEREFORE THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES AND CWA agree as follows:
The Company and the Union agree to Increase the company matching contribution to the Hourly Savings Plan (HSP).	.
•	Effective July 7, 2002, the company matching contribution will increase from 66 cents to 75 cents for every $1 contributed by the employee, up to a maximum of six percent of pay.
•	Effective July 6, 2003, tjie company matching contribution will increase from 75 cents to 82 cents for every $1 contributed by the employee, up to a maximum of six percent of pay.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
EXHIBIT VI
Between
THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
NEUTRALITY AND CONSENT ELECTION
WHEREAS the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO (hereafter "CWA” or "the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter the "Verizon/GTE Companies" or "the Companies" or "the Company”) have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;
NOW THEREFORE THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES AND CWA agree as follows:
This agreement between Company and the Union covers all understandings between the parties concerning union organizing; access to employees and code of conduct applicable to union organizing efforts.
The Union and the Company recognize that it is in their mutual interest to enhance the success and image of the Company, to acknowledge the Union as a valued partner, and to foster the pride and commitment of the employees. The parties also share the mutual goals of building a world class, high performance enterprise and addressing employment security through business success and employee development. As a means to enhance these goals, the parties will mutually support regulatory and legislative efforts, marketing/sales and service efforts and other business initiatives leading to employment security and Verizon's business success.
The parties also recognize that the Union's goal of growing membership is Intrinsically linked to the successful growth of the business. In order to maintain this perspective and to avoid unnecessary confrontation, the parties agree that the following principles regarding neutrality and Consent election will be applicable to Verizon's former "GTE Network Services Companies" (Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers and Logistics). This shall be the exclusive means by which the Union, their locals, or Individuals acting on their behalf, will conduct an effort to organize eligible employees in the covered Verizon's former "GTE Network Services Companies" (Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers and Logistics) as defined by the National Labor Relations Act.
1.	Employee Choice
Both the Union and the Company support and agree with the principle that the decision as to whether or not to become represented by a union is one that does not belong to either the Union or to the Company. Rather, it Is an individual decision that belongs (g the employee. With the parties' mutual
recognition of this fundamental tenet, the following provisions are intended to establish, encourage and nurture an environment during a union organizing drive that will allow employees to choose whether or not to become represented in a fully informed and uncoerced manner. All negotiations concerning appropriate unit, access, conduct and voting will be performed by Verizon Labor Relations Staff in conjunction with local management and designated Union representatives.
2.	Neutrality
The Company and the Union agree that an organizing drive will be met by a neutral position by the Company. This statement Is consistent with and reinforces the previously established principle of employee choice. II should follow that an environment Intended to foster employee choice would be a neutral environment and that information communicated by either party would be fact based and not misleading, distorted or disparaging. Neutrality means the following:
(a)	Management will not be anti-Union nor will the Union be antimanagement.
(b)	Management will not advocate that employees should not vote for a Union to represent them.
(c)	The Unions will be afforded reasonable opportunities for access to employees to get their message communicated.
(d)	Management will respond to employee questions and Is obligated to correct Inaccurate or misunderstood Information by employees.
(e)	The Unlon(s) will be referred to by name and will not be characterized as a "third part/ or "outsider'.
(f)	Any written information distributed to employees by either party relative to the organizing campaign will be shared with the other. The parties' communications with employees will be shared with the other. The parties' communications with employees will be In accordance with this agreement.
(g)	Neither party will hire consultants who encourage an adversarial relationship.
(h)	Neither managers nor Union representatives will be personally attacked.
(i)	Neither the Union nor the Company will be attacked as Institutions.
(j)	The Company wilt not conduct meetings for the sole purpose of
discussing organizing activities without inviting appropriate Union representatives to attend.	.
Allegations of violations of these provisions will be handled via the dispute resolution process contained in this Agreement.
3.	Rules
- The procedures to be followed are listed below:
(a)	The Union must show a minimum of 50% + 1 show of interest on signature cards of the appropriate unit.
(b)	A vote of 50% + 1 of those votes, validated by the Third Party Neutral (TPN), will determine the outcome.
(c)	if the Union is not successful, another election will not be scheduled for twelve months.
(d)	The TPN will resolve any Issue concerning challenged ballots in similar fashion to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) process.
4.	Time Bound
It Is In the Interest of both parties that the organizing campaign be conducted expeditiously. The Union is therefore obligated to notify management of Its intention to conduct a formal organizing drive before it begins. The date of this notification will 'start the clock'. The entire campaign, Including the consent election, will be concluded In 90 days, it is the intent of the parties that the 90-day time frame will Include discussion and agreement on the unit, in the event the parties are unable to agree on the unit, the dispute resolution process set forth below will be utilized and the time period will be extended by the number of days required to reach agreement on the unit, but In no event will the total campaign. Including resolution of the scope of the bargaining unit and the consent election process exceed 120 days. If employees vote not to be represented, the Union agrees not to initiate another campaign (nor continue the current campaign) in that same work group for 12 months from the date of the conclusion of the campaign. This would not preclude the local Union from having contact with the workers in the group. If employees vote to be represented, collective bargaining over the terms and conditions of employment will commence within 60 days and will be limited to the agreed upon unit.
5.	Informed Decision
Both parties agree that employees should be fully informed about all aspects of Union representation. The Union will provide fact-based Information to employees as it endeavors to convince prospective members of the merits of being represented by a Labor Union. Management's role during this process will include:
(a)	responding to Individual employee Inquiries;
(b)	explaining the organizing process, Including obligations and
responsibilities; and
(c)	correcting any inaccuracies, misstatements or misunderstandings
disseminated by the Union.
6.	Free from Coercion
Consistent with the basic tenet of employee choice, the parties want to ensure that employees have expressed their choice from an Informed position and are completely free from any coercion by the Company, the Union or any other party or parties. One way to ensure this objective Is to have a NLRB conducted election.	'
In the alternative, the Company and the Union agree to use a process that Is called "Consent Election." This process will work as follows:
(1)	As part of the access discussions, the parties agree to use "Consent Election".
(2)	The Unions shall initiate the consent election process by providing to a TPN proof of support by means of show of interest cards from 50% + 1 of the employees In the unit. The TPN will then notify Verizon Labor Relations Staff and request a list of names, job titles and home addresses. The Company will furnish the list within five working days. The Union will also be furnished with the list. The "show of Interest" cards will clearly state their purpose and that a secret ballot consent election will be conducted to determine the will of the unit. If the TPN
. determines that the Union has a sufficient show of interest, he/she will schedule a Consent Election process in accordance with this agreement.
(3)	The election process will be supervised by a mutually selected TPN, whose role is to ensure the Integrity of the process itself, and will be conducted within two weeks of the submission of the Union's show of Interest to the TPN. Employees.will be asked to express their Individual preference In a manner that will ensure that their choice wilt not be known to either party. The TPN will count the votes and advise the parties of the outcome. Consistent with this agreement, a vote of 50% + 1 of those who vote will control. The parties may have an observer
' present when the TPN counts the ballots.
(4)	In all cases, the election process shall take place within 14 days of receipt and verification of the Union's show of interest cards by the TPN. In those cases where there Is no dispute about the composition of the unit, the election process will be held within seven days. The election may be held at the Company location or at a neutral site as agreed by the parties. The cost of using a neutral site will be split equally by the parties.
If there Is a dispute as to composition of the unit, the TPN shall decide the Issue within an additional seven days.
7.	Access Agreement
As soon as reasonably practicable after a request by the CWA for access, Verizon Labor Relations Staff, in conjunction with local management and CWA representatives, will meet to discuss the details related to reasonable access to the unit by the CWA representatives. The Union will be allowed reasonable opportunities for access to Verizon facilities. It Is the intent and commitment of Verizon and the CWA that the access agreed upon will not interfere with the operation and other normal and routine business activities, plans and programs of Verizon generally, and specifically, the selected unit. Access agreed upon will be in non-working areas and during employee non-working times. Agreements as to eventful access, such as access to conference rooms, will be reasonable In length and there will be reasonable periods between requests for eventful access. However, an uneventful access, such as a prearranged meeting with an Individual employee, will not be affected.
If Verizon and the CWA are unable to agree on reasonable access, the TPN will be asked to resolve the Issue. Successful access agreements utilized at other
units will be looked to for guidance as to what works and is reasonable. Verizon and the CWA commit that they will reach such an access agreement in each Instance In an expeditious manner. .
8.	‘ Dispute Resolution
(a)	Questions or disputes arising during the course of an organizing effort ' within a particular unit of non-represented employees will, in all cases, be addressed first by and between the parties themselves and, in particular, Labor Relations Staff In conjunction with local Verizon management and . appropriate CWA representatives. It is the intent and desire of Verizon and the CWA that such matters are dealt with by and between the parties themselves, particularly at the local level, without having to resort to the assistance of a third party. It is also agreed, however, that If every good faith and reasonable effort has been made, but the matter ‘	unresolved, the process described below will be utilized.
(b)	The TPN will resolve disputes In the manner set forth in this agreement. Either Verizon or the CWA can refer a question or dispute, unresolved after good faith efforts have been made to resolve the dispute locally, to the chosen TPN by providing three working days' written notice to both the other party and the TPN. The notice will provide concise statement of the question or dispute to be addressed and a statement that the parties have attempted In good faith but have been unable to resolve the matter by and between them.
(c)	If the question or dispute involves a matter related to access (l.e., the nature, event, time, location, individuals involved, etc.) the TPN will fully investigate all relevant facts surrounding the question or dispute. The TPN will then call the parties together and attempt to facilitate resolution of or otherwise mediate the matter.
If, after a good faith attempt at facilitated resolution or mediation, the access question or dispute Is still not resolved, the TPN will attempt to render an Immediate decision, which includes a method or alternative methods of resolving the perceived problem. However, in no event will the TPN take longer than five days thereafter to render a decision. The decision of the TPN will be final and binding and the parties agree to abide by his/her decision. This process, from the time the TPN is contacted to the time his or her opinion Is Issued, will not take more than 15 days unless the parties agree otherwise.
(d)	If the dispute involves the appropriateness of the bargaining unit the Union seeks to organize and the parties are unable to agree, after negotiating In good faith for a reasonable time, upon the description of an appropriate unit for bargaining, the issue of the description of such unit shall be submitted to TPN and a hearing shall be conducted consistent with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The TPN shall be confined solely to the determination of the appropriate unit for bargaining and shall be guided In such deliberations by the statutory requirements
of the National Labor Relations Act and the decisions of the NLRB and Appellate reviews of such Board decisions.
(e)	Regardless of the type of question or dispute that is submitted to the TPN, the parties will each be given a full opportunity to present their positions and supporting factual Information prior to the issuance of any opinion. No written briefs will be submitted. There shall be no ex parte contact with the TPN without the concurrence of all parties. Verizon and CWA believe that matters pertaining to these values are best handled by and between the parties themselves and resort to a TPN should be necessary in only a limited number of cases.
Verizon and the CWA agree that the parties may distribute a decision of the TPN to employees in the selected unit but not outside to the public such as the press.
(f)	The parties agree that the process set forth herein shall be the exclusive means for resolving disputes covered by this dispute resolution process, and neither party will utilize any other forum (e.g. NLRB, federal court, etc.) to address issues subject to resolution pursuant to this process.
(g)	All expenses, resulting from the use of the TPN process, shall be split equally by Verizon and CWA.
9.	Acquisitions and Ventures
The parties recognize the rapidly changing nature and structure of the communications industry. Verizon may acquire (or be acquired by) another entity. It has and may In the future form joint ventures or strategic alliances, may license Ils brand or technology, or may be a financial investor in other entities. The employees in those entitles may be non-represented, represented in whole or In the part of the CWA, or represented in whole or In part by some other labor organization. It is not possible to structure a single rule which will apply to all such circumstances and the Company cannot compel other entitles to abide by this agreement.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
EXHIBIT VII
Between
THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
UNION LEAVE OF ABSENCE
WHEREAS the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO (hereafter “CWA" or "the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter Ihe "Verizon/GTE Companies' or “the Companies" or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;
WHEREAS former GTE/CWA bargaining unit employees have become full-time employees of the CWA or Its local affiliates:
WHEREAS the treatment of such CWA employees for Verizon/GTE pension benefit credit varies both among former GTE/CWA bargaining units and between CWA and local affiliate employment; and
WHEREAS other employers In Verizon's Industry permit similarly situated employees greater pension benefits credit than does Verizon/GTE:
NOW THEREFORE THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES AND CWA agree as follows;
1.	Any full time employee of a Verizon/GTE Company In a CWA bargaining unit who becomes a full-time employee of either CWA or a CWA local affiliate (a “Verizon/GTE-Union employee") shall be entitled to be on leave of absence ■status from Verizon/GTE. While on such leave status, the Verizon/GTE-Union employee shall continue to accumulate seniority and shall retain return rights to the bargaining unit.
2.	While on leave of absence status, a Verizon/GTE-Union employee shall accrue Accredited Service under the Verizon/GTE Pension Plan in which the employee actively participated while a bargaining unit employee until either:
a.	The Verizon/GTE-Union employee ends his/her full-time employment with the CWA or a local affiliate; or
b.	The Verizon/GTE-Union employee retires from Verizon/GTE or otherwise affirmatively relinquishes his/her leave of absence; or
c.	The aggregate length of all such leaves of absence equals fifteen (15) years.
i.	Effective January 1, 2002 the aggregate length of all such leaves of absence equals eighteen (18) years.
II.	Effective January 1. 2004 the aggregate length of all such leaves of absence equals twenty (20) years.
3.	This provision will apply retroactively, providing that to be eligible for retroactive leave of absence status and pension benefit credits as described hereinabove, the Verizon/GTE-Unlon employee must have been a current full-time CWA or local affiliate employee on March 1, 2000, and must not have as of that date retired or received a voluntary separation benefit from Verizon/GTE.
4.	In the event that any court of competent jurisdiction finds this Agreement to be unlawful, It shall be null and void as of the date of its execution, but Verizon/GTE and the CWA will immediately negotiate in good faith to provide the most equivalent lawful benefit for Verizon/GTE-Unlon employees.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
EXHIBIT VIII
Between
THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
VACATION CARRY FORWARD (BANKING)
WHEREAS the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO (hereafter "CWA" or "the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter the "Verizon/GTE Companies" or "the Companies" or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States:
NOW THEREFORE THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES AND CWA agree as follows:
1.	The Company and the Union agree that eligible employees may carry forward into future years a limited number of weeks of vacation for each vacation year as set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement
2.	Employees eligible for four (4) weeks of vacation may carry forward up to one (1) vacation week for each vacation year: employees eligible for five (5) weeks of vacation may carry forward up to two (2) vacation weeks for each vacation year.
3.	Such carried forward vacation shall be subject to supervisory approval.
4.	Future scheduling of such accumulated carried forward vacation time is subject to advanced written application and approval.
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES
'	And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
SERVICE AND SENIORITY RECOGNITION
WHEREAS the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO (hereafter "CWA" or "the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter the “Verlzon/GTE Companies" or "the Companies" or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United ■ States;
NOW THEREFORE THE VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES AND CWA agree as follows:
SERVICE RECOGNITION
1.	Effective with the merger of fGTE and the former Bell Atlantic (fBA) on June 30, 2000, all service will be recognized prospectively at all “affiliate'' companies for retirement eligibility and vesting purposes.
2.	Effective January 1,2002 any service previously recognized by pre-merger (BA for Net Credited Service (NCS) and ERISA Service of at least 1000 hours will be recognized by the fGTE “affiliate'' companies for eligibility and vesting in pension plans (but not for calculation of pension benefits) and for eligibility for health and welfare plans and retiree medical plans.
3.	Effective January 1, 2002 Verizon (fGTE) will recognize service for pension eligibility and vesting purposes (but not for calculation of pension benefits), for eligibility for health and welfare plans, and for retiree medical plans that meets the definition of eligible Portability service as described briefly below:
•	The employee must have been working at a Portability Company on December 31; 1083.
•	The employee had to be a non-supervisory employee (or a supervisory employee with a base pay of $50,000 or less) on December 31, 1983 and at termination. The pay limit Is adjusted monthly for inflation and it Is based on the Consumer Price Index (CPI).
•	The employee must not have elected to waive Portability treatment at any point in their career at any company.
4.	Individuals who are subsequently rehired will ba eligible for recognition of prior service, as identified in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, upon completion of 1,000 hours of continuous active service.
5.	Employees will have until February 1, 2002 to request a review of prior service— subject to research and verification of employee records. In the event the employee's request is received after February 1, 2002, bridging will be effective upon verification.
SENIORITY RECOGNITION
Effective January 1, 2002 It is further agreed that all service recognized for pension and vesting eligibility and health and welfare benefits Is recognized by all parties to this Agreement for seniority purposes for all represented employees subject to the following conditions:
1.	Service, as defined in this Memorandum of Agreement, with a Verizon Company that is earned while the employee Is represented by the Communications Workers of America is recognized for seniority purposes In all Verizon/CWA collective bargaining agreements covered by this Memorandum of Agreement.
2.	Service, as defined in this Memorandum of Agreement, with a Verizon Company that is earned while the employee Is represented by a unlon(s) other than the Communications Workers of America is recognized for seniority purposes in all Verizon/CWA collective bargaining agreements covered by this Memorandum of Agreement where the seniority provisions of that other unlon(s) are reciprocal.
3.	Service, as defined in the Memorandum of Agreement, with a Verizon Company that is earned while the employee is not represented by a union will be recognized for seniority purposes in all Verizon/CWA collective bargaining agreements covered by this Memorandum of Agreement after the employee has been represented by the Communications Workers of America for one year, but In no event earlier than January 1, 2003.
This agreement shall supersede or replace existing relevant provisions and shall be deemed to be incorporated into the existing collective bargaining agreements between the Verizon/GTE Companies and their Communications Workers of America bargaining units.
VERIZON/GTE COMPANIES
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA

Date:
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
GTE NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
WORK AND FAMILY ISSUES
It is agreed between Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America that the parties will establish a joint Management/Union committee in each respective division as needed. Such committee(s) shall meet for the purpose of discussing and assessing the subject of work and family issues.
The committee will be comprised of an equal number of members each from Management and the Union.
Meetings will be scheduled quarterly and may be scheduled more frequently if necessary.
Hourty employees will be compensated for lost scheduled work time while attending such meetings.
The Company agrees to take the research and recommendations from the committee under advisement. The Company, however, retains jurisdictional authority in deciding appropriate action to be taken.
Verizon North Inc.	Communications Workers
(North Central Region)	Of America
Holiday M. Parker	Crystal J. Roberts
Director	Staff Representative
Labor Relations	CWA
135
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
2.
3.
4.
5.
Between
GTE NORTH INC. (NORTH CENTRAL REGION)
And
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
WORK OPPORTUNITY REASSIGNMENT CENTER (WORC)
Recognizing the significance of a changing workforce and the impact an employee surplus can have on the workforce, Verizon North Inc. (North Central Region) and Communications Workers of America agree to provide the Work Opportunity Reassignment Center (hereinafter referred to as WORC) to lessen the impact of a reduction on forces.
Should the Company determine there is a need to reduce the number of active employees within a reporting location under Article 17, Force Adjustment, it reserves the right to offer the option of WORC. WORC program implementation shall be initiated by the Labor Relations/Human Resources and the contents of this memorandum is limited to each respective division and their employees within the scope of this bargaining unit.
WORC would be made up of those employees displaced because of a surplus condition who agree to forego their options as outlined in Article 17. Termination Allowance and Force Adjustment and, if offered. ISP in exchange for a temporary work assignment to avoid a bump or layoff.
The Company reserves the right to determine the job titles in work group(s) and/or reporting locations in which WORC would be offered, the duration of the WORC and the number of employees eligible. In no case shall the number of employees who may elect the WORC exceed the number of employees determined by the Company to be surplus. Additionally an employee electing to participate in the WORC must submit in writing and transmit this request to the Company within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of the Company's offering. This request may not be revoked after such fourteen (14) calendar day period.
Those employees who elect WORC will be compensated at the current basic hourly wage rate last held prior to participating in WORC. In the event an employee is assigned to perform work in a different wage schedule they will be compensated in accordance with Article 28 and their division's respective wage schedules.
The Company and the Union agree that this program requires flexibility
136
with regards to the assignment of duties, activities and training. The Company assignment of employees shall not be restricted by seniority. These assignments will be considered temporary and are not subject to the provisions under Article 14. Assignments will not be counted as a position held for bumping options. Employees participating in WORC will normally not exceed a twelve (12) month period.
An employee participating in WORC can be:
(a)	Assigned to additional training (training received while participating in WORC will not be considered when placing WORC employees, unless no other interna! candidates are qualified).
(b)	Used as a replacement to facilitate the training of another employee.
(c)	Given an assignment outside the bargaining unit of each respective division which may involve non-traditional work (assignment to non-bargaining unit position shall not create an extension of the respective division's bargaining unit jurisdiction nor shall it create continuing rights to perform such work). Employees performing non-bargaining unit work, normally compensated at a higher rate, will be upgraded by moving to the closest applicable respective division's bargaining rate.
6.	The Company will pay a moving expense allowance up to five hundred dollars ($500) for those employees under the WORC who accept a permanent position beyond twenty-five (25) miles from their original report center.
7.	WORC administration will be shared jointly between the Company and the Union. One (1) Union appointed representative will assist a Management representative designated by the Company, to administer and monitor WORC in each respective division.
8.	The Company and the Union recognize that having no precedent of this nature or history to negotiate from, there could be situations that arise over the term of this Agreement which will call for adjustments in the Agreement's administration and guidelines. Any adjustments will be made by the Company after discussion and concurrence with the Union.
9.	The Company reserves the right to terminate WORC with reasonable notice to the Union and participating employee(s). This notice shall be given no less than sixty (60) days prior to its termination. Employees in WORC at the time of its termination, will be allowed the options under the contract which were originally offered at the time a surplus was declared.
137
10.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on January 1, 2002 and shall expire on January 29, 2005. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, relating to the WORC, shall terminate on January 29, 2005, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.	Communications Workers
(North Central Region)	Of America
Holiday M. Parker	Crystal J. Roberts
Director	Staff Representative
Labor Relations	CWA
138
CWA ILLINOIS
Wages for Wage Schedule: I
Schedule Interval	9/2/01	3/3/02	9/1/02	3/2/03	2/29/04
Start	$6.30	$6.43	$6.62	$6.78	$7.05
06 Months	$6.74	$6.88	$6.98	$7.26	$7.55
12 Months	$7.20	$7.35	$7.46	$7.76	$8.07
18 Months	$7.71	$7.86	$7.98	$8.30	$8.63
24 Months	$8.25	$8.41	$8.54	$8.88	$9.24
30 Months	$8.80	$8.98	$9.12	$9.48	$9.86
36 Months	$9.41	$9.59	$9.74	$10.13	$10.54
42 Months	$10.06	$10.26	$10.42 ■■	$10.84	$11.27
48 Months	$10.77	$10.99	$11.15	$11.60	$12.06
54 Months	$11.52	$11.75	$11.93	$12.41	$12.91
Job Titles:
CUSTOMER REPRESENTATIVE
139
CWA ILLINOIS
Wages for Wage Schedule: II
Schedule Interval	9/2/01	3/3/02	9/1/02	3/2/03	2/29/04
Start	$6.80	$6.94	$7.05	$7.33	$7.62
06 Months	$7.32	$7.47	$7.58	$7.88	$8.20
12 Months	$7.87	$8.03	$8,15	$8.48	$8.82
18 Months	$8.46	$8.63	$8.76	$9.11	$9.47
24 Months	$9.09	$9.28	$9.42	$9.80	$10.19
30 Months	_ $9.78	$9.98	$10.13	$10.54	$10.96
36 Months	$10.52	$10.73	$10.90	$11.34	$11.79
42 Months	$11.31	$11.54	$11.71	$12.18	$12.67
48 Months	$12.17	$12.41	$12.60	$13.10	$13.62
54 Months	$13.08	$13.34	$13.54	$14,08	$14.64
Job Titles:	CUSTOMER SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE ,
ENGINEERING CLERK . UTILITY WORKER
140
CWA ILLINOIS
Wages for Wage Schedule: III
Schedule Interval	9/2/01	3/3/02	9/1/02	3/2/03	2/29/04
Start	$6.55	$6.68	$6.78	$7.05	$7.33
06 Months ■	$7.13	$7.27	$7.38	$7.68	$7.99
12 Months	$7.76	$7.92	$8.04	$8.36	$B.69
18 Months	$8.44	$8.61	$8.74	$9.09	$9.45
24 Months	$9.18	$9.36	$9.50	$9.88	$10.28
30 Months	$10.00	$10.20	$10.34	$10.75	$11.18
36 Months	$10.87	$11.09	$11.25	$11.70	$12.17
42 Months	$11.83	$12.06	$12.24	$12.73	$13.24
48 Months	$12.88	$13.14	$13.33	$13.86	$14.41
54 Months	$14.02	$14.30	$14.51	$15.09	$15.69
Job Titles:	GENERAL LABORER , STOREKEEPER
141
CWA ILLINOIS
Wages for Wage Schedule: IV
Schedule Interval	9/2/01	3/3/02	9/1/02	3/2/03	2/29/04
Start	$6.93	$7.07	$7.18	$7.47	$7.77
06 Months	$7.62	$7.77	$7.89	$8.21	$8.54
12 Months	$8.35	$8.52	$8.65	$9.00	$9.36
18 Months	$9.17	$9.35	$9.49	$9.87	$10.26
24 Months	$10.07	$10.27	$10.43	$10.85	$11.28
30 Months	$11.05	$11.27	$11.44	$11.90	$12.38
36 Months	$12.13	$12.37	$12.55	$13.05	$13.57
42 Months	$13.31	$13.57	$13.78	$14.33	$14.90
48 Months	$14.60	$14.89	$15.11	$15.71	$16.34
54 Months	$16.03	$16.35	$16.59	$17.25	$17.94
Job Titles:	DRAFTSPERSON
142
CWA ILLINOIS
Wages for Wage Schedule: IV-1
Schedule Interval	9/2101	3/3/02	9/1/02	3/2/03	2/29/04
Start	$8.34	$8.51	$8.64	$8.99	$9.35
06 Months	$9.06	$9.24	$9.38	$9.76	$10.15
12 Months	$9.85	$10.04	$10.19	$10.60	$11.02
18 Months	$10.71	$10.92	$11.09	$11.53	$11.99
24 Months	$11.63	$11.86	$12.04	$12.52	$13.02
30 Months	$12.64	$12.90	$13.09	$13.61	$14.15
36 Months	$13.74	$14.01	$14.22	$14.79	$15.38
42 Months	$14.93	$15.23	$15.46	$16.08	$16.72
48 Months	$16.22	$16.55	$16.79	$17.46	$18.16
54 Months	$17.63	$17.98	$18.25	$18.98	$19.74
Job Titles:	COLLECTOR MAINTAINER . PUBLIC ACCESS SALES
TECHNICIAN
143
CWA ILLINOIS
Wages for Wage Schedule: V
Schedule Interval	9/2/01	3/3/02	9/1/02	3/2/03	2/29/04
Start	$8.88	$9.06	$9.19	$9.56	$9.94
06 Months	$9.65	$9.85	$9.99	$10.39	$10.81
12 Months	$10.48	$10.69	$10.85	$11.28	$11.73
18 Months	$11.41	$11.63	$11.81	$12.28	$12.77
24 Months	$12.38	$12.63	$12.82	$13.33	$13.86
30 Months	$13.47	$13.74	$13.95	$14.51	$15.09
36 Months	$14.64	$14.93	$15.16	$15.77	$16.40
42 Months	$15.92	$16.24	$16.48	$17.14	$17.83
46 Months	$17.31	$17.65	$17.92	$18.64	$19.39
54 Months	$18.81	$19.19	$19.48	$20.26	$21.07
Job Titles:	CABLE TECHNICIAN
144
CWA ILLINOIS
Wages for Wage Schedule: VI
Schedule Interval	9/2/01	3/3/02	9/1/02	3/2/03	2/29/04
Start	$10.32	$10.53	$10.68	$11.11	$11.55
06 Months	$11.18	$11.40	$11.57	$12.03	$12.51
12 Months	$12.12	$12.36	$12.54	$13.04	$13.56
18 Months	$13.14	$13.40	$13.60	$14.14	$14.71
24 Months	$14.23	$14.52	$14.74	$15.33	$15.94
30 Months	$15.42	$15.72	$15.96	$16.60	$17.26
36 Months	$16.72	$17.05	$17.31	$18.00	$18.72
42 Months	$18.10	$18.47	$18.74	$19.49	$20.27
48 Months	$19.62	$20.01	$20.31	$21.12	$21.96
54 Months	$21.26	$21.69	$22.01	$22.89	$23.81
Job Titles:	BUILDING SERVICES TECHNICAN
145
CWA ILLINOIS
Wages for Wage Schedule: VII
Schedule Interval	9/2/01	3/3/02	9/1/02	3/2/03	2/29/04
Start	$10 03	$10.23	$10.38	$10.80	$11.23
06 Months	$10.89	$11.11	$11.27	$11.72	$12.19
12 Months	$11.83	$12.06	$12.24	$12.73	$13.24
18 Months	$12.82	$13.08	$13.28	$13.81	$14.36
24 Months	$13.93	$14.21	$14.42	$15.00	$15.60
30 Months	$15.13	$15.43	$15.66	$16.29	$16.94
36 Months	$16.42	$16.74	$16.99	$17.67	$18.38
42 Months	$17.82	$18.18	$18.45	$19.19	$19.96
48 Months	$19.35	$19.74	$20.03	$20.83	$21.66
54 Months	$21.04	$21.46	$21.78	$22.65	$23.56
Job Titles:	CABLE SPLICER-CONSTRUCTION , CUSTOMER ZONE TECHNICIAN 11, SENIOR CABLE TECHNICIAN
146
CWA ILLINOIS
Wages for Wage Schedule: VIII
Schedule Interval	9/2/01	3/3/02	9/1/02	3/2/03	2/29/04
Start	$10.21	$10.42	$10.57	$10.99	$11.43
06 Months	$11.12	$11.34	$11.51	$11.97	$12.45
12 Months	$12.09	$12.34	$12.52	$13.02	$13.54
10 Months	$13.16	$13.42	$13.62	$14.16	$14.73
24 Months	$14.32	$14.61	$14.82	$15.41	$16.03
30 Months	$15.58	$15.89	$16.13	$16.78	$17.45
36 Months	$16.95	$17.29	$17.55	$18.25	$18.98
42 Months	$18.47	$18.84	$19.12	$19.88	$20.68
48 Months	$20.08	$20.48	$20.79	$21.62	$22.48
54 Months	$21.92	$22.36	$22.69	$23.60	$24.54
Job Titles:	BUSINESS ZONE TECHNICIAN , CUSTOMER ZONE TECHNICIAN I				
147
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: U
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$9.32	$9.46	$9.65	$9.79	$10.18	$10.59
06 Months	$9.77	$9.92	$10.12	$10.27	$10.68	$11.11
12 Months	$10.66	$10.82	$11.04	$11.21	$11.66	$12.13
18 Months	$11.24	$11.41	$11.64	$11.81	$12.28	$12.77
24 Months	$11.90	$12.08	$12.32	$12.50	$13.00	$13.52
30 Months	$12.62	$12.81	$13.07	$13.27	$13.80	$14.35
36 Months	$13.44	$13.64	$13.91	$14.12	$14.68	$15.27
Job Titles:	UTILITY WORKER
148
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: CA
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$7.22	$7.33	$7.48	$7.59	$7.89	$8.21
06 Months	$7.50	$7.61	$7.76	$7.88	$8.20	$8.53
12 Months	$7.86	$7.08	$8.14	$8.26	$8.59	$8.93
18 Months	$8.24	$8.36	$8.53	$8.66	$9.01	$9.37
24 Months	$8.64	$8.77	$8.95	$9.08	$9.44	$9.82
30 Months	$9.11	$9.25	$9.44	$9.58	$9.96	$10.36
36 Months	$9.60	. $9.74	$9.93	$10.08	$10.48	$10.90
42 Months	$10.16	$10.31	$10.52	$10.68	$11.11	$11.55
48 Months	$10.76	$10.92	$11.14	$11.31	$11.76	$12.23
54 Months	$11.44	$11.61	$11.84	$12.02	$12.50	$13.00
60 Months	$12.16	$12.34	$12.59	$12.78	$13.29	$13.82
66 Months	$13.18 •	$13.38	$13.65	$13.85	$14.40	$14.98
Job Titles:	CUSTOMER ASSISTANT , CUSTOMER ASSISTANT
CLERK
149
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: A
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$7.11	$7.22	$7.36	$7.47	$7.77	$8.08
06 Months	$7.48	$7.59	$7.74	$7.86	$8.17	$8.50
12 Months	$7.87	$7.99	$8.15	$8.27	$8.60	$8.94
18 Months	$8.32	$8.44	$8.61	$8.74	$9.09	$9.45
24 Months	$8.83	$8.96	$9.14	$9.28	$9.65	$10.04
30 Months	$9.39	$9.53	$9.72	$9.87	$10.26	$10.67
36 Months	$10.18	$10.33	$10.54	$10.70	$11.13	$11.58
Job Titles:	RETAIL SALES CONSULTANT
150
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 1
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$7.69	$7.81	$7.97	$8.09	$8.41	$8.75
06 Months	$8.03	$8.15	$8.31	$8.43	$8.77	$9.12
12 Months	$6.39	$8.52	$8.69	$8.82	$9.17	$9.54
18 Months	$8.79	$8.92	$9.10	$9.24	$9.61	$9.99
24 Months .	$9.25	$9.39	$9.58	$9.72	$10.11	$10.51
30 Months	-$9.72	$9.87	$10.07	$10.22	$10.63	$11.06
36 Months	$10.28	$10.43	$10.64	$10.80	$11.23	$11.68
Job Titles:	HOUSEKEEPER
151
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 2
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$8.60	$8.73	$8.90	$9.03	$9.39	$9.77
06 Months	$8.98	$9.11	$9.29	$9.43	$9.81	$10.20
12 Months	$9.36	$9.50	$9.69	$9.84	$10.23	$10.64
18 Months	$9.78	$9.93	$10.13	$10.28	$10.69	$11.12
24 Months	$10.26	$10.41	$10.62	$10.78	$11.21	$11.66
30 Months	$10.76	$10.92	$11.14	$11.31	$11.76	$12.23
36 Months	$11.34	$11.51	$11.74	$11.92	$12.40	$12.90
42 Months	$11.94	$12.12	$12.36	$12.55	$13.05	$13.57
48 Months	$12.64	$12.83	$13.09	$13.29	$13.82	$14.37
Job Titles:	BUILDING CUSTODIAN , CUSTOMER REPRESENTATIVE
152
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 3
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$9.10	$9.24	$9.42	$9.56	$9.94	$10.34
06 Months	$9.53	$9.67	$9.86	$10.01	$10.41	$10.83
12 Months	$9.96	$10.11	$10.31	$10.46	$10.88	$11.32
18 Months	$10.47	$10.63	$10.84	$11.00	$11.44	$11.90
24 Months	$11.00	$11.17	$11.39	$11.56	$12.02	$12.50
30 Months	$11.59	$11.76	$12.00	$12.18	$12.67	$13.18
36 Months	$12.26	$12.44	$12.69	$12.88	$13.40	$13.94
42 Months	$13.01	$13.21	$13.47	$13.67	$14.22	$14.79
48 Months	$13.85	$14.06	$14.34	$14.56 .	$15.14	$15.75
Job Titles:	GARAGE ATTENDANT . REPORTS & RECORDS
REPRESENTATIVE . SERVICE CLERK, SUPPLY CLERK
153
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 4
Schedule Interval	6/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$9.34	$9.48	$9.67	$9.82	$10.21	$10.62
06 Months	$9.77	$9.92	$10.12	$10.27	$10.68	$11.11
12 Months	$10.25	$10.40	$10.61	$10.77	$11.20	$11.65
18 Months	$10.76	$10.92	$11.14	$11.31	$11.76	$12.23
24 Months	$11.34	$11.51	$11.74	$11.92	$12.40	$12.90
30 Months	$11.99	$12.17	$12.41	$12.60	$13.10	$13.62
36 Months	$12.77	$12.96	$13.22	$13.42	$13.96	$14.52
42 Months	$13.48	$13.68	$13.95 '	$14.16	$14.73	$15.32
48 Months	$14.39	$14.61	$14.90	$15.12	$15.72	$16.35
Job Titles:
ASSIGNMENT REPRESENTATIVE , MATERIAL CONTROLLER , SALES & SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE
154
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 4A
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$10.25	$10.40	$10.61	$10.77	$11.20	$11.65
05 Months	$10.76	$10.92	$11.14	$11.31	$11.76	$12.23
12 Months	$11.34	$11.51	$11.74	$11.92	$12.40	$12.90
10 Months	$11.09	$12.17	$12.41	$12.60	$13.10	$13.62
24 Months	$12.77	$12.96	$13.22	$13.42	$13.96	$14.52
30 Months	$13.48	$13.68	$13.95	$14.16	$14.73	$15.32
36 Months	$14.39	$14.61	$14.90	$15.12	$15.72	$16.35
Job Titles:	CUSTOMER ZONE TECHNICIAN III
155
I
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 5
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$10.12	$10.27	$10.48	$10.64	$11.07	$11.51
06 Months	$10.60	$10.76	$10.98	$11.14	$11.59	$12.05
12 Months	$11.12	$11.29	$11.52	$11.69	$12.16	$12.65
16 Months	$11.70	$11.88	$12.12	$12.30	$12.79	$13.30
24 Months	$12.33	$12.51	$12.76	$12.95	$13.47	$14.01
30 Months	$13.09	$13.29	$13.56	$13.76	$14.31	$14.88
36 Months	$13.87	$14.08	$14.36	$14.58	$15.16	$15.77
42 Months	$14.78	$15.00	$15.30,	$15.53	$16.15	$16.80
48 Months	$15.81	$16.05	$16.37	$16.62	$17.28	$17.97
Job Titles:	BUILDING MECHANIC S HELPER , COIN COLLECTOR ,
FACILITY ASSIGNMENT REPRESENTATIVE , GARAGE MECHANIC'S HELPER
156
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 5A
Schedule Interval	6/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$10.66	$10.82	$11.04	$11.21	$11.66	$12.13
06 Months	$11.18	$11.35	$11.58	$11.75	$12.22	$12.71
12 Months	$11.75	$11.93	$12.17	$12.35	$12.84	$13.35
16 Months	$12.37	$12.56	$12.81	$13.00	$13.52	$14.06
24 Months	$13.10	$13.30	$13.57	$13.77	$14.32	$14.89
30 Months	$13.87	$14.08	$14.36	$14.58	$15.16	$15.77
36 Months	$14.77	$14.99	$15.29	$15.52	$16.14	$16.79
42 Months	$15.78	$16.02	$16.34	$16.59	$17.25	$17.94
48 Months	$16.91	$17.16	$17.50	$17.76	$18.47	$19.21
Job Titles:	BUSINESS SALES SUPPORT SPECIALIST
157
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 6
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$11.02	$11.19	$11.41	$11.58	$12.04	$12.52
06 Months	$11.58	$11.75	$11.99	$12.17	$12.66	$13.17
. 12 Months	$12.21	$12.39	$12.64	$12.83	$13.34	$13.87
18 Months	$12.88	$13.07	$13.33	$13.53	$14.07	$14.63
24 Months	$13.68	$13.89	$14.17	$14.38	$14.96	$15.56
30 Months	$14.55	$14.77	$15.07	$15.30	$15.91	$16.55
36 Months	$15.52	$15.75	$16.07	$16.31	$16.96	$17.64
42 Months	$16.65	$16.90	$17.24	$17.50	$18.20	$18.93
48 Months	$17.97	$18.24	$18.60	$18.88	$19.64	$20.43
Job Titles:	COLLECTOR/MAINTAINER , PUBLIC ACCESS SALES
TECHNICIAN , STOREKEEPER
158
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 7
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$11.86	$12.04	$12.28	$12.46	$12.96	$13.48
06 Months	$12.50	$12.69	$12.94	$13.13	$13.66	$14.21
12 Months	$13.21	$13.41	$13.68	$13.89	$14.45	$15.03
18 Months	$13.98	$14.19	$14.47	$14.69	$15.28	$15.89
24 Months	$14.88	$15.10	$15.40	$15.63	$16.26	$16.91
30 Months	$15.89	$16.13	$16.45	$16.70	$17.37	$18.06
36 Months	$17.06	$17.32	$17.67	$17.94	$18.66	$19.41
42 Months	$18.37	$18.65	$19.02	$19.31	$20.08	$20.88
48 Months	$19.95	$20.25	$20.66	$20.97	$21.81	$22.68
Job Titles:	LINEWORKER, FRAME ATTENDANT
159
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 8
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$11.93	$12.11	$12.35	$12.54	$13.04	$13.56
06 Months	$12.58	$12.77	$13.03	$13.23	$13.76	$14.31
12 Months	$13.30	$13.50	$13.77	$13.98	$14.54	$15.12
18 Months	$14.13	$14.34	$14.63	$14.85	$15.44	$16.06
24 Months	$15.06	$15.29	$15.60	$15.83	$16.46	$17.12
30 Months	$16.10	$16.34	$16.67	$16.92	$17.60	$18.30
36 Months	$17.32	$17.58	$17.93	$18.20	$18.93	$19.69
42 Months	$18.70	$18.98	$19.36	$19.65	$20.44	$21.26
48 Months	$20.36	$20.67	$21.08	$21.40	$22.26	$23.15
Job Titles:	BUILDING MECHANIC , CABLE SPLICER , CUSTOMER
ZONE TECHNICIAN II , FACILITY ASSIGNER , FACILITY TESTER , VEHICLE MECHANIC
160
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 9
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$12.19	$12.37	$12.62	$12.81	$13.32	$13.85
06 Months	$12.85	$13.04	$13.30	$13.50	$14.04	$14.60
12 Months	$13.63	$13.83	$14.11	$14.32	$14.89	$15.49
18 Months	$14.46	$14.68	$14.97	$15.19	$15.80	$16.43
24 Months	$15.42	$15.65	$15.96	$16.20	$16.85	$17.52
30 Months	$16.54	$16.79	$17.13 .	$17.39	$18.09	$18.81
36 Months	$17.81	$18.08	$18.44	$18.72	$19.47	$20.25
42 Months	$19.25	$19.54	$19.93	$20.23	$21.04	$21.88
48 Months	$21.00	$21.32	$21.75	$22.08	$22.96	$23.88
Job Titles:
BUILDING SERVICES TECHNICIAN, VEHICLE MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN. SR. LINEWORKER
161
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 10
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$12.63	$12.82	$13.08	$13.28	$13.81	$14.36
06 Months	.	$13.33	$13.53	$13.80	$14.01	$14.57	$15.15
12 Months	$14.13	$14.34	$14.63	$14.85	$15.44	$16.06
18 Months	$15.02	$15.25	$15.56	$15.79	$16.42	$17.08
24 Months	$16.04	$16.28	$16.61	$16.86 ’	$17.53	$18.23
30 Months	$17.22	$17.48	$17.83	$18.10	$18.82	$19.57
36 Months	$18.57	$18.85	$19.23	$19.52	$20.30	$21.11
42 Months	$20.12	$20.42	$20.83	$21.14	$21.99	$22.87
4B Months	$22.00	$22.33	$22.78	$23.12	$24.04	$25.00
Job Titles:	BUSINESS ZONE TECHNICIAN I . CUSTOMER ZONE
TECHNICIAN I , RADIO TECHNICIAN
162
CWA INDIANA
Wages for Wage Schedule: 11
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	8/4/02	2/2/03	8/3/03	8/1/04
Start	$12.65	$12.84	$13.10	$13.30	$13.83	$14.38
06 Months	$13.45	$13.65	$13.92	$14.13	$14.70	$15.29
12 Months	$14.38	$14.60	$14.89	$15.11	$15.71	$16.34
18 Months	$15.45	$15.68	$15.99	$16.23	$16.88	$17.56
24 Months	$16.70	$16.95	$17.29	$17.55	$18.25	$18.98
30 Months	$18.12	$18.39	$18.76	$19.04	$19.80	$20.59
36 Months	$19.84	$20.14	$20.54	$20.85	$21.68	$22.55
42 Months	$21.93	$22.26	$22.71	$23.05	$23.97	$24.93
48 Months	$24.48	$24.85	$25.35	$25.73	$26.76	$27.83
Job Titles; CUSTOMER ENGINGEER-DATA APPLICATIONS
163
CWA OHIO I MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-0
Schedule Interval	10/28101	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$5.87	$5.99	$6.08	$6.32	$6.57
06 Months	$6.20	$6.33	$6.42	$6.68	$6.95
12 Months	$6.53	$6.66	$6.76	$7.03	$7.31
18 Months	$7.26	$7.40	$7.51	$7.81	$8.12
24 Months	$7.65	$7.81	$7.92	$8.24	$8.57
30 Months	$8.06	$8.22	$8.35	$8.68	$9.03
Job Titles:	CUSTODIAN				
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-0
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Top	$9.70	$9.89	$10.04	$10.44	$10.86
Job Titles:	GRANDFATHERED CUSTODIAN
104
CWA OHIO/MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-1
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$7.22	$7.37	$7.40	$7.78	$8.09
06 Months	$7.66	$7.82	$7.94	$8.26	$6.59
12 Months	$8.13	$8.29	$8.41	$8.75	$9.10
18 Months	$8.63	$8.81	$8.94	$9.30	$9.67
24 Months	$9.16	$9.34	$9.48	$9.86	$10.25
30 Months	$9.73	$9.92	$10.07	$10.47	$10.89
36 Months	$10.32	$10.53	$10.68	$11.11	$11.55
Job Titles:	RETAIL SALES CONSULTANT
165
CWA OHIO/MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-1A
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$5.67	$5.99	$6.08	$6.32	$6.57
06 Months	$6.57	$6.70	$ $6.80	$7.07	$7.35
12 Months	$7.31	$7.48	$7.57	$7.87	$8.18
18 Months	$8.14	$8.30	$8.43	$8.77	$9.12
24 Months	$9.08	$9.27	$9.40	$9.78	$10.17
30 Months	$10.12	$10.32	$10.47	$10.89	$11.33
Job Titles:	GENERAL LABORER
166
CWA OHIO/MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-2
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$6.53	$6.66	$6.76	$7.03	$7.31
06 Months	$7.11	$7.25	$7.36	$7.65	$7.96
12 Months	$7.75	$7.91	$8.02	$8.34	$8.67
18 Months	$8.47	$8.64	$8.77	$9.12	$9.48
24 Months	$9.22	$9.41	$9.55	$9.93	$10.33
30 Months	$10.05	$10.25	$10.41	$10.83	$11.26
36 Months	$10.94	$11.16	$11.33	$11.78	$12.25
42 Months	$11.00	$12.14	$12.32	$12.81	$13.32
48 Months	$12.96	$13.22	$13.42	$13.96	$14.52
Job Titles:	MAIL MESSENGER. REPORTS AND RECORDS CLERK				
167
CWA OHIO I MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-4
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$6.78	$6.92	$7.02	$7.30	$7.59
06 Months	$7.43	$7.58	$7.69	$8.00	$8.32
12 Months	$8.09	$8.26	$8.38	$8.72	$9.07
18 Months	$8.86	$9.04	$9.17	$9.54	$9.92
24 Months	$9.65	$9.85	$9.99	$10.39	$10.81
30 Months	$10.55	$10.76	$10.92	$11.36	$11.81
36 Months	$11.48	$11.71	$11.89	$12.37	$12.86
42 Months	$12.56	$12.81	$13.00	$13.52	$14.06
48 Months	$13.68	$13.96	$14.17	$14.74	$15.33
Job Titles:	DATA REVIEW CLERK , RECORDS CLERK . STENOGRAPHER CLERK . TYPIST CLERK				
168
CWA OHIO / MICHIGIAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-5
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/2S/04
Start	$7.04	$7.18	$7.29	$7.58	$7.88
06 Months	$7.51	$7.66	$7.78	$8.09	$8.41
12 Months	$8.07	$8.23	$8.36	$8.69	$9.04
18 Months	$8.71	$8.88	$9.01	$9.37	$9.74
24 Months	$9.46	$9.65	$9.79	$10.18	$10.59
30 Months	$10.34	$10.55	$10.71	$11.14	$11.59
36 Months	$11.43	$11.66	$11.83	$12.30	$12.79
42 Months	$12.77	$13.03	$13.22	$13.75	$14.30
48 Months	$14.43	$14.72	$14.94	$15.54	$16.16
Job Titles:	CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONS CENTER CLERK , DATA ANALYSIS CLERK , DOR CLERK . GENERAL REPORTS CLERK , GROUNDWORKER , MAINTENANCE CLERK , ORDER CLERK
16S
CWA OHIO/MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-6
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/26/04
Start	$7.47	$7.62	$7.74	$8.05	$8.37
06 Months	$8.02	$8.18	$8.30	$8.63	$8.98
12 Months	$B.61	$8.78	$8.91	$9.27	$9.64
18 Months	$9.22	$9.41	$9.55	$9.93	$10.33
24 Months	$10.01	$10.21	$10.36	$10.77	$11.20
30 Months	$10.94	$11.16	$11.33	$11.78	$12.25
36 Months	$12.06	$12.30	$12.49	$12.99	$13.51
42 Months	$13.41	$13.67	$13.88	$14.44	$15.02
48 Months	$15.15	$15.45	$15.68	$16.31	$16.96
Job Titles:	DATABASE REP, SR, OFFSET PRESS OPERATOR,
DRAFTSPERSON
170
CWA OHIO/MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-6A
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$6.84	$6.97	$7.08	$7.36	$7.65
06 Months	$7.30	. $7.45	$7.56	$7.86	$8.17
12 Months	$7.83	$7.98	$8.10	$8.42	$8.76
18 Months	$8.44	$8.61	$8.74	$9.09	$9.45
24 Months	$9.16	$9.34	$9.48	$9.86	$10.25
30 Months	$10.01	$10.21	$ 10.36	$10.77	$11.20
36 Months	$11.03	$11.25	$11.42	$11.88	$12.36
42 Months	$12.28	$12.52	$12.71	$13.22	$13.75
48 Months	$13.86	$14.13	$14.35	$14.92	$15.52
Job Titles:	CUSTOMER CONTACT SALES REPRESENTATIVE
171
CWA OHIO I MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-6B
Schedule Interval	4/27/03	2% Adj. 4/27/03	2% Adj. 10/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$8.05	$8.21	$8.38	$8.71
06 Months	$8.79	$8.97	$9.15	$9.51
12 Months	$9.60	$9.79	$9.99	$10.39
18 Months	$10.49	$10.70	$10.91	$11.35
24 Months	$11.46	$11.69	$11.92	$12.40
30 Months	$12.51	$12.76	$13.02	$13.54
36 Months	$13.67	$13.94	$14.22	$14.79
42 Months	$14.93	$15.23	$15.53	$16.15
48 Months	$16.31	$16.64	$16.97	$17.65
Job Titles:	CUSTOMER CONTACT REPRESENTATIVE			
172
CWA OHIO / MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-7
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$7.70	$7.85	$7.97	$8.29	$8.62
06 Months	$8.20	$8.37	$8.49	$8.83	$9.18
12 Months	$8.78	$8.96	$9.09	$9.45	$9.83
18 Months	$9.46	$9.65	$9.79	$10.18	$10.59
24 Months	$10.24	$10.45	$10.61	$11.03	$11.47
30 Months	$11.16	$11.38	$11.55	$12.01	$12.49
36 Months	$12.28	$12.52	$12.71	$13.22	$13.75
42 Months	$13.64	$13.91	$14.12	$14.68	$15.27
48 Months	$15.37	$15.68	$15.92	$16.56	$17.22
Job Titles:	BUSINESS SALES SUPPORT REPRESENTATIVE				
173
CWA OHIO/MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-7A
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	First 2% 4/27/03	Second 2% 10/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$7.62	$7.77	$7.89	$8.21	$8.37	$8.54	$8.88
06 Months	$8.09	$8.26	$8.38	$8.92	$9.10	$9.28	$9.65
12 Months	$8 64	$8.82	$8.95	$9.69	$9.88	$10.08	$10.48
16 Months	S9.26	$9.46	$9.60	$10.54	$10.75	$10.97	$11.40
24 Months	$1002	$10.22	$1037	$11.46	$11.69	$11.92	$12.40
30 Months	$10.89	$11.11	$11.27	$12.45	$12.70	$12.95	$13.47
36 Months	$11.94	$12.18	$ 12.37	$13.54	$13.81	$14.09	$14.65
42 Months	$13.22	$13.49	$13.69	$14.72	$15.01	$15.31	$15.93
46 Months	$14.86	$15.15	$15.38	$t600	$1632	$16.65	$17.31
Job Titles:	BUSINESS SALES REPRESENTATIVE						
174
CWA OHIO/MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-7B
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$7.99	$8.15	$8.27	$8.60	$8.94
06 Months	$8.48	$8.65	$8.78	$9.13	$9.50
12 Months	$9.07	$9.25	$9.39	$9.77	$10.16
18 Months	$9.74	$9.93	$10.08	$10.48	$10.90
24 Months	$10.54	$10.75	$10.91	$11.35	$11.80
30 Months	$11.45	$11.68	$11.85	$12.32	$12.81
36 Months	$12.57	$12.82	$13.01	$13.53	$14.07
42 Months	$13.93	$14.21	$14.42	$15.00	$15.60
48 Months	$15.65	$15.97	$16.20	$16.85	$17.52
Job Titles:	BUSINESS SALES SUPPORT SPECIALIST , CUSTOMER
RELATIONS SPECIALIST
175
CWA OHIO I MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-0
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$8.21	$8.37	$8.50	$8.84	$9.19
06 Months	$9.23	$9.42	$9.56	$9.94	$10.34
12 Months	$10.27	$10.47	$10.63	$11.06	$11.50
18 Months	$11.29	$11.51	$11.69	$12.16	$12.65
24 Months	$12.32	$12.57	$12.76	$13.27	$13.80
30 Months	$13.34	$13.61	$13.81	$14.36	$14.93
36 Months	$14.37	$14.65	$14.87	$15.46	$16.08
42 Months	$15.40	$15.71	$15.94	$16.58	$17.24
48 Months	$16.42	$16.75	$17.00	$17.68	$18.39
Job Titles:	COLLECTOR MAINTAINER . CUSTOMER ZONE
TECHNICIAN III , GENERAL UTILITY WORKER , PUBLIC ACCESS SALES TECHNICIAN . STOREROOM ATTENDANT . TRUCK DRIVER
170
CWA OHIO/MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-9
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/26/04
Start	$9.43	$9.62	$9.77	$10.16	$10.57
06 Months	$10.61	$10.83	$10.99	$11.43	$11.89
12 Months	$11.79	$12.03	$12.21	$12.70	$13.21
18 Months	$12.97	$13.23	$13.43	$13.97	$14.53
24 Months	$14.14	$14.43	$14.64	$15.23	$15.84
30 Months	$15.32	$15.63	$15.87	$16.50	$17.16
36 Months	$16.50	$16.83	$17.09	$17.77	$18.48
42 Months	$17.69	$18.04	$18.31	$19.04	$19.80
48 Months	$18.85	$19.23	$19.52	$20.30	$21.11
Job Titles:	LINEWORKER HEAVY	,STOREKEEPER,TRUCK DRIVER-			
177
CWA OHIO I MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-10
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$9.56	$9.75	$9.89	$10.29	$10.70
06 Months	$10.35	$10.56	$10.72	$11.15	$11.60
12 Months	$11.22	$11.45	$11.62	$12.08	$12.56
18 Months	$12.19	$12.43	$12.62	$13.12	$13.64
24 Months	$13.20	$13.47	$13.67	$14.22	$14.79
30 Months	$14.32	$14.61	$14.82	$15.41	$16.03
36 Months	$15.56	$15.87	$16.10	$16.74	$17.41
42 Months	$16.82	$17.16	$17.42	$18.12	$18.84
48 Months	$18.24	$18.61	$18.89	$19.65	$20.44
54 Months.	$20.11	$20.51	$20.82	$21.65	$22.52
Job Titles:	CONSTRUCTION CABLE SPLICER , CUSTOMER ZONE
TECHNICIAN II , EQUIPMENT OPERATOR , FLEET MECHANIC
178
CWA OHIO/MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-11
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/26/04
Start	$10.28	$10.49	$10.65	$11.08	$11.52
06 Months	$11.45	$11.68	$11.85	$12.32	$12.81
12 Months	$12.61	$12.86	$13.06	$13.58	$14.12
18 Months	$13.77	$14.05	$14.26	$14.83	$15.42
24 Months	$14.93	$15.23	$15.46	$16.08	$16.72
30 Months	$16.08	$16.40	$16.65	$17.32	$18.01
36 Months	$17.24	$17.59	$17.85	$18.56	$19.30
42 Months	$18.40	$18.77	$19.05	$19.81	$20.60
48 Months	$19.57	$19.96	$20.26	$21.07	$21.91
54 Months.	$20.73	$21.14	$21.46	$22.32	$23.21
Job Titles:	FACILITIES LOCATOR-ASSIGNER , SR LINEWORKER
178
CWA OHIO IMICHGIAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-12
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	'	$10.34	$10.55	$10.71	$11.14	$11.59
06 Months	$11.57	$11.80	$11.98	$12.46	$12.96
12 Months	$12.78	$13.04	$13.23	$13.76	$14.31
18 Months	$14.00	$14.28	$14.49	$15.07	$15.67
24 Months	$15.22	$15.53	$15.76	$16.39	$17.05
30 Months	$16.44	$16.77	$17.02	$17.70	$18.41
36 Months	$17.65	$18.00	$18.27	$19.00	$19.76
42 Months	$18.87	$19.24	■$19.53	$20.31	$21.12
48 Months	$20.09	$20.49	$20.80	$21.63	$22.50
54 Months.	$21.46	$21.89	$22.21	$23.10 '	$24.02
Job Titles:	BUILDING TECHNICIAN , BUSINESS ZONE TECHNICIAN CUSTOMER ZONE TECHNICIAN 1, DIVISION COE INSTALLER-REPAIRER , STATE COE INSTALLER- ■ REPAIRER , VEHICLE MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN
180
CWA OHIO I MICHIGAN
Wages for Wage Schedule: C-13
Schedule Interval	10/28/01	4/28/02	10/27/02	4/27/03	4/25/04
Start	$13.37	$13.64	$13.85	$14.40	$14.98
06 Months	$14.47	$14.76	$14.98	$15.58	$16.20
12 Months	$15.67	$15.99	$16.23	$16.88	$17.58
18 Months	$16.99	$17.32	$17.58	$18.28	$19.01
24 Months	$18.45	$18.62	$19.10	$19.86	$20.65
30 Months	$20.06	$20.46	$20.77	$21.60	$22.46
36 Months	$21.83	$22.27	$22.60	$23.50	$24.44
42 Months	$23.77	$24.24	$24.61	$25.59	$26.61
46 Months	$25.92	$26.44	$26.83	$27.90	$29.02
Job Titles:
CUSTOMER ENGINEER-DATA APPLICATIONS
181
CWA WISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule: S1
Schedule Interval	815101	213102	2/2103	2/1/04
Start	$8.88	$9.24	$9.61	$9.99
06 Months	$9.43	$9.81	$10.20	$10.61
12 Months	$10.05	$10.45	$10.87	$11.30
16 Months	$10.78	$11.21	$11.66	$12.13
24 Months	$11.60	$12.06	$12.54	$13.04
30 Months	$12.57	$13.07	$13.59	$14.13
36 Months	$13.68	$14.23	$14.80	$15.39
Job Titles:	SEASONAL WORKER
182
CWA WISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule: S2
Schedule Interval	8/6/01	2/3/02	2/2/03	2/1/04
Start	$6.59	$6.85	$7.12	$7.40
06 Months	$6.97	$7.25	$7.54	$7.84
12 Months	$7.35	$7.64	$7.95	$8.27
16 Months	$7.78	$8.09	$8.41	$8.75
24 Months	$8.28	$8.61	$8.95	$9.31
30 Months	$8.84	$9.19	$9.56	$9.94
38 Months	$9.48	$9.86	$10.25	$10.66
Job Titles:	BUILDING CUSTODIAN , FLEET ATTENDANT
183
CWA WISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule: S3
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	2/2/03	2/1/04
Start	$7.95	$8.27	$8.60	$8.94
06 Months	$8.38	$8.72	$9.07	$9.43
12 Months	$8.89	$9.25	$9.62	$10.00
18 Months'	$9.46	$9.84	$10.23	$10.64
24 Months	$10.12	$10.52	$10.94	$11.38
30 Months	$10.85	$11.28	$11.73	$12.20
36 Months	$11.71	$12.18	$12.67	$13.18
42 Months	$12.74	$13.25	$13.78	$14.33
48 Months	$13.95	$14.51	$15.09	$15.69
Job Titles:	ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK , CUSTOMER CARE
REPRESENTATIVE , DIVISION CLERK A
184
CWA WISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule: S4
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	2/2/03	2/1/04
Start	$8.19	$8.52	$8.86	$9.21
06 Months	$8.67	$9.02	$9.38	$9.76
12 Months	$9.20	$9.57	$9.95	$10.35
18 Months	$9.81	$10.20	$10.61	$11.03
24 Months	$10.46	$10.88	$11.32	$11.77
30 Months	$11.23	$11.68	$12.15	$12.64
36 Months	$12.11	$12.59	$13.09	$13.61
42 Months	$13.17	$13.70	$14.25	$14.82
48 Months	$14.41	$14.99	$15.59	$16.21
Job Titles:	ADMINISTRATIVE CLERK SR., DIVISION CLERK B ,
SENIOR CLERK , STOCKROOM CLERK
185
CWA WISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule: S5
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	2/2/03	2/1/04
Start	$8.47	$8.81	$9.16	$9.53
06 Months	$8.96	$9.32	$9.69	$10.08
12 Months	$9.53	$9.91	$10.31	$10.72
13 Months	$10.15	$10.56	$10.98	$11.42
24 Months	$10.85	$11.28	$11.73	$12.20
30 Months	$11.67	$12.14	$12.63	$13.14
36 Months	$12.62	$13.12	$13.64	$14.19
42 Months	$13.76	$14.31	$14.88	$15.48
48 Months	$15.09	$15.69	$16.32	$16.97
Job Titles:	DAC ASSIGNMENT CLERK , LEAD DISPATCH
CLERK
186
CWA WISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule: S6
Schedule Interval	8/5701	2/3/02	2/2/03	. 2/1/04
Start	$9.43	$9.81	$10.20	$10.61
06 Months	$10.01	$10.41	$10.83	$11.26
12 Months	$10.66	$11.09	$11.53	$11.99
18 Months	$11.40	$11.86	$12.33	$12.82
24 Months	$12.25	$12.74	$13.25	$13.78
30 Months	$13.26	$13.70	$14.34	$14.91
36 Months	$14.44	$15.02	$15.62	$16.24
42 Months	$15.84	$16.47	$17.13	$17.82
48 Months	$17.54	$18.24	$18.97	$19.73
Job Titles:	COIN TELEPHONE COLLECTOR-MAINTAINER , COURIER . CUSTOMER CARE TECHNICIAN . CUSTOMER INQUIRY ADVOCATE. DRAFTER , FRAMEWORKER . PUBLIC ACCESS SALES TECHNICIAN
187
CWA WISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule: S7
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	2/2/03	2/1/04
Start	$9.86	$10.25	$10.66	$11.09
06 Months	$10.48	$10.90	$11.34	$11.79
12 Months	$11.19	$11.64	$12.11	$12.59
18 Months	$12.01	$12.49	$12.99	$13.51
24 Months	$12.93	$13.45	$13.99	$14.55
30 Months	$14.01	$14.57	$15.15	$15.76
36 Months	$15.30	$15.91	$16.55	$17.21
42 Months	$16.84	$17.51	$18.21	$18.94
48 Months ■	$18.75	$19.50	$20.28	$21.09
Job Titles:	VACANT			
188
CWAWISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule: SB
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	2/2/03	2/1/04
Start	$9.96	$10.36	$10.77	$11.20
06 Months	$10.62	$11.04	$11.48	$11.94
12 Months	$11.37	$11.82	$12.29	$12.78
18 Months	$12.23	$12.72	$13.23	$13.76
24 Months	$13.23	$13.76	$14.31	$14.88
30 Months	$14.44	$15.02	$15.62	$16.24
36 Months	$15.86	$16.49	$17.15	$17.84
42 Months	$17.57	$18.27	$19.00	$19.76
48 Months	$19.73	$20.52	$21.34	$22.19
Job Titles	- FLEET MECHANIC , LINEWORKER ,
STOREKEEPER
189
CWA WISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule: S9
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	2/2/03	2/1/04
Start	$9.98	$10.38	$10.80	$11.23
06 Months	$10.67	$11.10	$11.54	$12.00
12 Months	$11.45	$11.91	$12.39	$12.89
18 Months	$12.35	$12.84	$13.35	$13.88
24 Months	$13.43	$13.97	$14.53	$15.11
30 Months	$14.68	$15.27	$15.88	$16.52
36 Months	$16.22	$16.87	$17.54	$18.24
42 Months	$18.09	$18.81	$19.56	$20.34
48 Months	$20.46	$21.28	$22.13	$23.02
Job Titles:	CABLE SPLICER, CUSTOMER ZONE TECHNICIAN 11, FACILITIES LOCATOR ASSIGNOR, FLEET technician
190
CWA WISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule.- S9-A
Schedule Interval	2/3/02	2/2/03	2/1/04
Start	$10.77	$11.20	$11.65
06 Months	$11.24	$11.69	$12.16
12 Months	$12.06	$12.55	$13.05
18 Months	$13.01	$13.53	$14.07
24 Months	$14.14	$14.71	$15.30
30 Months	$15.46	$16.08	$16.72
36 Months	$17.09	$17.77	$18.48
42 Months	$19.06	$19.82	$20.61
46 Months	$21.56	$22.42	$23.32
Job Titles:	Job Titles: SR. LINEWORKGR
191
CWA WISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule: S10
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	2/2/03	2/1/04
Start	$10.35	$10.76	$11.19	$11.64
06 Months	$11.05	$11.49	$11.95	$12.43
12 Months	$11.83	$12.30	$12.79	$13.30
18 Months	$12.77	$13.28	$13.81	$14.36
24 Months	$13.85	$14.40	$14.98	$15.56
30 Months	$15.11	$15.71	$16.34	$16.99
36 Months	$16.65	$17.32	$18.01	$18.73
42 Months	$18.53	$19.27	$20.04	$20.84
48 Months	$20.89	$21.73	$22.60	$23.50
Job Titles:	BUILDING SERVICES TECHNICIAN , BUSINESS ZONE TECHNICIAN 1 , CO EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN , CONSTRUCTION DETAILER, CUSTOMER ZONE TECHNICIAN 1. NETWORK SYSTEMS TECHNICIAN . SERVICE AREA EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN
192
CWA WISCONSIN
Wages for Wage Schedule: S11
Schedule Interval	8/5/01	2/3/02	2/2/03	2/1/04
Start	$10.64	$11.07	$11.51	$11.97
06 Months	$11.73	$12.20	$12.69	$13.20
12 Months	$12.94	$13.46	$14.00	$14.56
18 Months	$14.27	$14.84	$15.43	$16.05
24 Months	$15.73	$16.36	$17.01	$17.69
30 Months	$17.33	$18.02	$18.74	$19.49
36 Months	$19.11	$19.87	$20.66	$21.49
42 Months	$21.07	$21.91	$22.79	$23.70
48 Months	$23.23	$24.16	$25.13	$26.14
Job Titles:	CUSTOMER ENGINEER-DATA APPLICATIONS
193
2002
g
6 13 20 27
3 10 17 24
3 10 17 24 31
7 14 21 26
5 12 19 26
2
9
16 23 30
MTWTF8	SHTWTFS
JANUARY	JULY
12345	123456
7	6	9	10	11	12	7	6	9	10	11	12	13
14 15	16	17	18	19	14	15	16	17	IB	19	20
21 22	23	24	25	26	21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28 29	30	31	28	29	30	31
FEBRUARY 1 2 4 5	6	7	8	9
11 12	13	14	15	16
18 19	20	21	22	23
25 26	27	28
MARCH 1	2
4 5 6 7 8 9 11 12 13 14 15 16 18 19 20 21 22 23 25 26 27 28 29 30
AUGUST 12 3
4 5	6	7	8	9	10
11 12	13	14	15	16	17
18 19	20	21	22	23	24
25 26	27	28	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER 1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8	9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30
APRIL
1	2	3	4	5	6
8	9	10	11	12	13
15 16	17	18	19	20
22 23	24	25	26	27
29 30
MAY
12	3	4
6	7	8	9	10	11
13	14	15	16	17	16
20	21	22	23	24	25
27	26	29	30	31
OCTOBER
1	2	3	4	5
6 7	8	9	10	11	12
13 14	15	16	17	IB	19
20 21	22	23	24	25	26
27 28	29	30	31
NOVEMBER 1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	2B	29	30
JUNE	DECEMBER
L	1234567
345678	8	9	10	11	12	13	14
10 11	12	13	14	15	15	16	17	18	19	20	21
17 18	19	20	21	22	22	23	24	25	26	27	28
24 25	26	27	28	29	29	30	31
2003
S M . T W T r B
JANUARY 12	3	4
5 6	7	8	9	10	11
12 13	14	15	16	17	18
19 20	21	22	23	24	25
26 27	28	29	30	31
FEBRUARY 1
2	3	4	5	6	7	B
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	20
MARCH 1
2	3	4	5	6	7	B
9 ’10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30 31
APRIL 1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	1*2
13 14	15	16	17	10	19
20 21	22	23	24	25	26
27 28 29 30
MAY 12	3
4	56	78	9	10
11 12	13	14	15	16	17
18 19	20	21	22	23	24
25 26	27	28	29	30	31
JUNE
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8 9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30
S M T W T F 6
JULY
1	2	3	4	5
6	7	B	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
AUGUST
1	2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10 11	12	13	14	15	16
17 19	19	20	21	22	23
24 25	26	27	29	29	30
31
SEPTEMBER
1	2	3	4	5	6
7 8	9	10	11	12	13
14 15	16	17	IB	19	20
21 22	23	24	25	26	27
28 29 30
OCTOBER
12 3 4
5 6	7	8	9	10	11
12 13	14	15	16	17	18
19 20	21	22	23	24	25
26 27	20	29	JO	31
NOVEMBER
1
2 3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	IB	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30
DECEMBER
1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31
2004
3 M T W T P S
JANUARY 12	2
4 5	6	7	6	5	10
11 12	13	14	15	16	17
IB 19	20	21	22	22	24
25 26	27	2B	29	30	31
FEBRUARY 1 2	3	4	5	6	7
8 9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	28
29
S M T W T r s
JULY 12	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11 12	13	14	15	16	17
18 19	20	21	22	23	24
25 26	27	28	29	30	31
AUGUST 1 2	3	4	5	6	7
8 9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	2B
29 30 31
MARCH 1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
28	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER 12	3	4
5	6	7	8	9	ID	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	2D	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29
APRIL 12 3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
IB	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	28	29	30
MAY
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	20	29
30 31
JUNE 1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	IS	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27 28 29 30
OCTOBER
1 2
3 4	5	6	7	B	9
10 11	12	13	14	15	16
17 18	19	20	21	22	23
24 25	26	27	28	29	30
31
NOVEMBER 1	2	3	4	5	6
7	8	9	10	11	12	13
14	15	16	17	18	19	20
21	22	23	24	25	26	27
20 2? 30
DECEMBER
12	3	4
5	6	7	6	9	10	11
12	13	14	15	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	28	29	30	31
2005
S M T W T F S
JANUARY
1
2 3	4	5	6	7	0
9 10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	20	29
30 31
FEBRUARY 1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27 28
8 M T W T F S
JULY 1 2 3 4	5	6	7	0	9
10 11	12	13	14	IS	16
17 10	19	20	21	22	23
24 25	26	27	20	29	30
31
AUGUST 1	2	3	4	5	6
p7 8	9	ID	11	12	13
14 15	16	17	10	19	20
21 22	23	24	25	26	27
28 29	30	31
MARCH 1	2	3	4	5
6	7	8	9	10	11	12
13 14	15	16	17	10	19
20 21	22	23	24	25	26
27 28	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER 12 3 4	5	6	7	0	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
10	19	20	21	22	23	24
25	26	27	20	29	30
APRIL
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	fl	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	18	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	20	29	30
MAY 12	3	4	5	6	7
8 9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	26
29 30 31
OCTOBER
1
2f 3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	IB	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30 31
NOVEMBER 12	3	4	5
6	7	6	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	2B	29	30
JUNE	DECEMBER
1	2	3	4	1	2	3
5	6	7	8	9 10 11	456709 10
12 13	14	15	16	17	18	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
19 20	21	22	23	24	25	18	19	20	21	22	23	24
26 27	2B	29	30	25	26	27	2B	29	30	31