Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see http://diqitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref(o)cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), AFL-CIO Locals 1451, 1635, 1637, and 1944 (2001)
K#: 5715
Employer Name: Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region)
Location: PA
Union International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), AFL-CIO
Local: 1451, 1635, 1637, 1944
SIC: 4813	NAICS: 517110
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 1400
Effective Date 10/28/01	Expiration Date: 10/23/04
Number of Pages: 201	Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/


1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUBJECT
ARTICLE SECTIQN(S) PAGE(S)
Adoption Assistance					Memo	70
Advance Funds		7	4	33
Agreement				1
Amendments		18		56
Arbitration		12	1-6	49-51
Bulletin Boards				15	1-2	53
Commercial Drivers License			Memo	92
Company/Union Conference		5	16-E	27
Compensated Availability			Memo	125
Concession Service		7	7	34
Constituted Authority Behalf of			
Company		5	16-C	27
Other				5	16-D	27
Continuous Employment		16	1-4	53-54
; Contractor Committee LOI			LOi	169
Customer Engineer-Data Applications			Memo	81-82
Death in Immediate Family		5	16-B	26-27
Definitions:			
Basic Hourly Rate		3	9	8
Constituted Authority		3	16	9
Day		3	13	8
Differential Pay		3	11	8
Employee		3	14	8
Holiday				3	13-B	8
Location		3	15	9
Occasional Employee		3	4	7
Premium 				3	12	8
Probationary Employee		3	2	5-6
Regular Employee		3	1	5
Regular Full-Time Employee		3	1-A	5
Regular Part-Time Employee		3	1-B	5
Scheduled Time		3	6	8
Seniority		3	7	8
Seniority w/Transfer Memo			Memo	91
Service		3	6	7
Straight Time Rate		3	10	8
Sunday		3	13-A	8
Supervisor				3	5	7
i
SUBJECT
ARTICLE SECTION(S) PAGE(S)
Temporary Job Employee		3	3	6-7
Dental Alternative (Concordia Plus			
Plan)			Memo	102
Discharge & Demotion For Cause		e	1	35
Discretionary Awards			Memo	83
Domestic Partner Benefits			Memo	84-87
Downgrading Matrix		10		39
Drug & Alcohol Policy			Memo	88-90
Duration of Agreement		20	1-2	56
Education and Life-Long Learning			Memo	127-128
Family & Medical Leave (FMLA)			Memo	94-96
Federal or State Laws		19		56
Flexible Reimbursement Plan			Memo	113
Force Adjustments		10	1-6	36-38
Force Adjustment Activity LOI			LOI	171
Four Ten Hour Tours			Memo	93
General Employment Conditions		7	1-7	33-34
Grievance Mediation			Memo	75-76
Grievance Procedure		11	1-10	47-49
ft roup Insurance				22		59-62
Group Universal Life Insurance				Memo	114
Holidays:			
Attendance Requirements		5	10-G	16
Authorized Holidays		5	10-A	14-15
Excused on Holiday		5	10-D	16
Failure to Report to Work		5	10-L	17
Personal Holidays		5	10-B	15
Holiday Allowance		5	10-H	17
Holiday Premium		5	10-1	17
Non-Scheduied Holiday		5	10-E	16
Overtime on Holiday		5	10-K	17
Saturday/Sunday Holiday		5	10-C	16
Work on Holiday		5	10-I&J	17
Work Schedules 		5	10-F	16
Home Dispatch			Memo	74
Hourly Employee's Pensions			Memo	129-130
Hourly Savings Plan (HSP)			Memo	. 121-122
Hourly Savings Plan			Memo	123-124
ii
SUBJECT	ARTICLE	SECTION(S)	PAGE(S)
Inclement Weather		5	8	14
In-Charge Differential....		Exh-A	9	175
Income Security Plan (ISP)			Memo	43-46
Job Creation		4	1-3	9
Jury Duty				5	16-A	26
Layoff Notice		10	7	40
LiveSource Incentive Plan			Memo	157-158
Living Benefit Rider			Memo	118-119
Long Term Disability (LTD)			Memo	133-136
Lump Sum Payment Option			Memo	107
Lump Sum Pension Calculation (GATT)			Memo	159
Management of Productive Work		9	1	35
Management Responsibilities				17	1-3	54-55
Management Return to Bargaining Unit...	6	Memo	32
Meals		5	17	27-28
Merit Increase				Exh-A	7	174
Mileage Reimbursement Rate		5	13F	21
Military Reserve Training....		5	16F	27
Myerstown Plant Engineering Positions...		Memo	67
Negotiation Meetings			13	3	51
Neutrality and Consent Election			Memo	161-168
Night Premium		Exh-A	8	174
Notary Fee		Exh-A	10	175
Occupational Titles LOI			LOI	170
Overtime....		5	6	13
Overtime Memo	 Per Diem:		Memo	77-80
10-20 Mites		5	13D-1	20
21-40 Mites		5	13D-2	20
41-60 Miles		5	13D-3	20
More than 80 Mites		5	13D-4	20
Training Center In-State		5	13J-1	21
Training Center Out-of-State		5	13J-2	21
Personal Lines of Insurance	i			Memo	115-116
Point of Service Medical Plan			Memo	97-98
Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension			Memo	131-132
Progression Increases		Exh-A	3	172
SUBJECT
ARTICLE SECTIONS PAGE(S)
Promotion			 Public Communications Incentive Compensation Plan	 Public Communications Incentive Compensation Plan	 Purchase of Optical Products		5	14 Memo Memodetail Memo	21-23 142 143-147 120
Recall from Force Adjustment		10	9	40-41
Rest Period		5	7	14
Retail Sales Consultant Incentive			
Compensation Plan		Exh-A	11	175-176
Retiree Life Insurance			Memo	117
Safety Committee	.			7	6	34
Safety Eye Glasses		7	2	33
Safety Practices		7	5	34
Seasonal Employment			Memo	71-73
Seasonal Workers			Memo	68-69
Seniority		6	1-8	30-31
Seniority w/Transfer Memo			Memo	91
Shoes		7	3	33
Short Term Disability Benefit Plan		21	1-3	57-59
Sunday Work		5	9	14
Team Performance Award (TPA)			Memo	148-152
Technological Change		10	10	41-42
Temporary Assignment	.		Exh-A	5	174
Temporary Supervisor		9	2	35
Termination Allowance		10	8	40
Testing			Memo	153
Testing Matrix					189-190
Tools & Equipment		7	1	33
Tour of Duty				5	3	11
Transfer with Consolidation			Memo	65-66
Transfers		5	15	25-26
Traveling Time		5	12	19-20
Union Activity on Co. Property		13	2	51
Union Activity Absence		13	5	52
Union Dues Deduction		14	1-6	52-53
Union Leave of Absence			Memo	155-156
Union Recognition		1	1	2-3
Union Security and Membership		2	1-7	3-5
iv
SUBJECT
Vacation:
Day-at-a-Time.......................
Eligibility Period..................
Holiday within Vacation.............
Number of Weeks.....................
Selection/Posting...................
Vacation Carry Forward.................
Vision Plan............................
Vision Plan Highlights.................
Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association (VEBA).....................
Voluntary Layoff of Absence..........
Wage Adjustment: Promotion.............................
Demotion............................
Lateral.............................
Physical Disability.................
Physical Disability On-Job-Injury...
Physical Disability On-Job-Injury Returning To Work...................
Wage Credit.........................
Wage Schedules.........................
Work Schedule..........................
Work Schedule (Change).................
WorkWeek............................-
ARTICLE	SECTION(S)	PAGE(S)
5	11-E-1	19
5	11-B	18
5	11-E-2	19
5	11-A	17
5	11-D	18
	Memo	137-138
	Memo	103-104
		105-106
	Memo	109-112
	Memo	139-141
Exh-A	4-B	173
Exh-A	4-A	172
Exh-A	4-C	173
Exh-A	4-D	173
Exh-A	4-E	173
Exh-A	4-F	173-174
Exh-A	6	174
Exh-B		177-188
5	4	11-12
5	5	12
5	2	10
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENTS
Adoption Assistance.................................................... 70
Commercial Drivers License (CDL).......	92
Compensated Availability............... 125-126
Customer Eng-Data Applications.........	81-82
Dental Alternative (Concordia Plus
Plan)...............................................................   102
Discretionary Awards................................................... 83
Domestic Partner Benefits........................................... 84-87
Drug & Alcohol Policy............................................... 88-90
Education & Life-Long Learning.........	127-128
Family & Medical Leave (FMLA)..........	94-96
Flexible Reimbursement Plan........................................... 113
Four Ten Hour Tours.................................................... 93
Grievance Medition.................................................. 75-76
V
Group Universal Life Insurance (GUL)..	114
Home Dispatch........................................................ 74
Hourly Employee's Pensions...................................... 129-130
Hourly Savings Plan (HSP)....................................... 121-122
Hourly Savings Plan............................................. 123-124
Income Security Plan (ISP)........................................ 43-46
LiveSource Incentive Plan....................................... 157-158
Living Benefit Rider (LBR)...................................... 118-119
Long Term Disability............................................ 133-136
Lump Sum Payment Option............... 107-108
Lump Sum Pension Calculation (GATT)..	159-160
Management Return to Bargaining Unit...	32
Memorandum of Agreement.............................................. 64
Myerstown Plant Engineering Positions....	67
Neutrality and Consent Election.......	161-168
Overtime.......................................................... 77-80
Personal Lines of Insurance..................................... 115-116
Point of Service Medical Plan.................................... 97-101
Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension.......	131-132
Public Communications Incentive
Comp. Plan.................................................... 142-147
Purchase of Optical Products........................................ 120
Retiree Life Insurance................ 117
Seasonal Employment............................................... 71-73
Seasonal Workers.................................................. 68-69
Seniority With Transfer.............................................. 91
Team Performance Award (TPA)..........	148-152
Testing.......................•................................. 153-154
Transfer w/Consolidation.......................................... 65-66
Union Leave of Absence................ 155-156
Vacation Carry Forward (Banking)......	137-138
VESA............................................................ 109-112
Vision Plan..................................................... 103-106
Voluntary Layoff of Absence..................................... 139-141
LETTERS OF INTENT Contractor Committee.............................................. 169
Force Adjustment Activity........................................ 171
Occupational Titles.............................................. 170
Exh = Exhibit
vi
AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made by and between Verizon North Inc. (Mld-Atlantic Region), its successors and assigns, hereinafter called the Company, and Local Unions 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 collectively of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, hereinafter called the Union.
The parties recognize that the Company is a public service corporation and that continuity of service by the Company is of vital importance to the communities which it serves.
To promote harmonious relationships, the parties hereto desire to establish a standard of conditions and procedures under which the employees shall work for the Company during the terms of this Agreement, to establish rational, systematic methods for the settling of disputes by peaceful means, and to provide for rates of pay, hours of work, and other conditions of employment for such employees.
i
Article 1
ARTICLE 1
SECTION 1.	BARGAINING UNIT
A.	The Company herewith recognizes the Union, having been certified by the National Labor Relations Board, as the sole and exclusive collective bargaining representative with respect to wages, hours, and working conditions for all non-supervisory employees of the Company as classified in the Occupational Titles listed in Exhibit B of this Agreement, located in and assigned to the following exchanges:
Airville	Johnstown	Titusville
Avonmore	Jonestown	Union City
Beaverdale	Lincolnville	Vandergrift
Bertin	Loganville	Waterford
Bernville	Manchester	Wattsburg
Boswell	■	McKean	Wesley
Brogue	Meyersdale •	Windber
Cambridge Spgs.	Myerstown	Womelsdorf
Central City	‘ Nanty Gio	.	Wrightsville
Clintonville	New Bedford	York
Confluence	New Wilmington	
Cooperstown	North East	
Corry	Oil City	
Davidsville	Pleasantville	
Delta	Princeton	
Dillsburg	Red Lion	
Dover	Robesonia	
East Berlin	Rockwood	
Edinboro	Salisbury	
Emmaus	Saltsburg	
Erie	Sayre	
Fairview	Schaefferstown	
Fawn Grove	Seward	
Franklin	Shellsville	
Frystown	Somerset	
Girard	South Fork	
Glen Rock	Spartansburg	
Grand Valley	Spring Grove	
Hooversville	Stewartstown	
Jefferson	Stoystown	
2
Articles
Excluded are all York clerical employees in the Supply and Transportation Department, occasional employees in the operating and custodial departments, secretaries and clerks performing confidential duties for the employer, professional employees, guards, and supervisors as defined in Section 2 (11) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947.
B.	it is agreed that during the term of this Agreement, work usually performed by the employees in the occupational titles and in exchanges included within the bargaining unit may also be performed as assigned by the Company outside the exchange listed in Article 1, Section 1.
SECTION 2.	NON-DISCRIMINATiON
The Company and the Union agree that the provisions of this Agreement shall apply to all employees covered hereby - without discrimination on account of race, religion, sex, color, age, national origin or disability. These provisions shall also apply to those employees who may be disabled veterans or veterans of the Vietnam era.
ARTICLE 2
UNION SECURITY
SECTION 1.	UNION SECURITY
Under Federal labor taws, and obligations under this Agreement, the Union is required to represent all of the employees in the bargaining unit fairly and equally without regard to whether the employee is a member of the Union. In consideration thereof, Agency Shop provisions will prevail during the term of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.	UNION MEMBERSHIP
A,	Membership in the Union is not compulsory. Employees in job classifications within the collective bargaining unit are free to accept or to decline membership in the Union.
B.	Any employee who is a member of the Union may, upon proper notice, voluntarily withdraw from such membership but may not, thereby, be relieved of Agency Shop requirements herein.
C.	Upon hire, the Company will notify the respective Local Union, in writing, of the name, address, and occupational title of all regular fulltime and part-time employees.
3
Article 2
SECTION 3.	MEMBERSHIP OPTION
Subject to conditions set forth within this Article 2, regular full-time employees and regular part-time employees within 90 calendar days of hire shall as a condition of employment and at their option either: (1) apply for membership in the Union and if accepted, maintain membership in good standing thereafter during the term of this Agreement or, (2) alternatively arrange to pay to the Union a service fee equal in amount to the membership dues uniformly required for all members of the same class.
SECTION 4.	MEMBERSHIP DEFINITIONS
A.	For purposes of this Article 2, the following definitions will apply:
B.	IN GOOD STANDING-means that the employee pays, or tenders payment of, initiation fee, and periodic dues in amount and frequency regularly required by the Union as a condition of acquiring and retaining membership.
C.	SERVICE FEE EMPLOYEE - means a covered employee who elects not to become a member of the Union, and is required in lieu of membership to pay the representation fee to the Union.
D.	PROPER NOTICE - means that the employee will notify both the Company and the Union by registered mail return receipt requested. Notice to the Company will be directed to the Labor Relations Director, and notice to the Union will be to the appropriate Union Local President,
SECTION 5.	AGENCY SHOP PROVISIONS
A.	These Agency Shop provisions apply to alt newly-hired covered regular fulltime employees and regular part-time employees whose date of engagement is on, or after September 1,1973.
B.	Any covered employee who is a member of the Union, on September 1, 1973, is subject to the Agency Shop requirements herein.
C.	Any covered regular full-time employee and regular part-time employee who is not a member of the Union on the date specified in B. above, is excused from the Agency Shop requirements. However, such employee may elect to join the Union, or to become a Service Fee employee, at any later time at his or her option.
D.	Service Fee employees are in no manner members of the Union, and possess no membership rights, privileges, or responsibilities that accrue to members of the Union.
4
Article 2
E.	No Service Fee employee shall be required to pay the representation fee during any period that, by Union rules or actions, dues payments are suspended or not enforced for regular members of the Union.
SECTION 6.	UNION MEMBERSHIP RESPONSIBILITY
Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the Union’s lawful rights to determine and enforce regulations regarding acquisition of, and retention of, membership in the Union. Any covered regular full-time employee and regular part-time employee who is refused membership, or whose membership is involuntarily terminated by action of the Union body (other than for refusal to tender initiation fee and periodic dues) shall not be subject to discharge from employment but, rather, shall take on the status of a Service Fee employee.
SECTION 7.	COMPANY FINANCIAL LIABILITY
The Company shall incur no financial liability in the enforcement of this Article.
ARTICLE 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION 1.	REGULAR EMPLOYEE
"Regular Employee" is a person who has completed the 6 months probationary period, has been accepted by the Company for continued employment, and has complied with all of the Company's employment standards for employment in regular status.
A.	"Regular Full-Time Employee" is a regular employee whose normal assignment of work is the normal basic work week.
B.	"Regular Part-Time Employee" is a regular employee whose normal assignment of work is less than the normal basic work week.
SECTION 2.	PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE
"Probationary Employee" is a person who has not completed the 6 months probation period, has not been accepted by the Company for continued employment, and has not obtained regular status.
A.	Employees who cannot meet the Company's employment standards by the end of the 6 month probationary period may, by mutual agreement between the Company and the appropriate Union Representative, be granted
5
Article 3
additional time not to exceed 90 days in which to so comply. Employees who are so retained in probationary employment shall be accorded, during the additional time, all the rights and privileges extended to regular employees under the terms of this Agreement except as limited by Paragraph B.
B.	. During the initial 6 months period, and any extension thereof, the right to hire, rehire, or discharge shall be vested in the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedures.
C.	The probationary period for employees that are reclassified from temporary or occasional to regular full-time or regular part-time in the same occupational title shall include all hours worked as a temporary or occasional in that occupational title.
SECTION 3.	TEMPORARY JOB EMPLOYEE
A.	Definition - A Temporary Employee Is a person who is employed for a limited period of time not to exceed six (6) months or the equivalent thereof in any consecutive twelve-month period. Temporary employees may work full or part-time. However when a temporary employee is filling in for a regular employee who is HI, there will be no time limit.
B.	With the exception of recalled employees from lay off status, temporary employees are not eligible to any benefits of the Collective Bargaining Agreement unless specifically set forth as applicable to temporary employees. Employees recalled from lay off status to temporary positions will immediately commence medical and dental benefits as appropriate to their part-time or full time status.
C.	Subject to conditions set forth In Article 2 of the Collective Bargaining
Agreement temporary employees, within 90 calendar days of hire, shall as a condition of employment and at their option either:
1.	Apply for membership in the Union and if accepted, maintain
membership in good standing thereafter during the term of this Agreement or,
2.	Alternatively arrange to pay to the Union a service fee equal in amount to the membership dues uniformly required for all members of the same class.
D.	The Company agrees to make monthly collection of union dues and payroll deductions from temporary employee paychecks upon signed authorization.
6
Article 3
E.	Temporary employees who work beyond six (6) months or the equivalent thereof in any consecutive twelve (12) month period will initiate a job vacancy in the same classification and status which shall be subject to the provisions of Article 5, Section 14 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement Temporary employees who are awarded the job shall not be required to serve a probationary period. '
SECTION 4.	OCCASIONAL EMPLOYEE
"Occasional Employee" is a person engaged to perform work wherein there is no regular schedule of work or who temporarily fills in for, or supplements the work of, regular employees on an occasional employment basis. Occasional employees are employees only on the specific individual days for which work assignments are scheduled.
SECTION 5.	SUPERVISOR
Supervisor" means any employee of the Company performing supervisory functions as defined and set forth in Section 2 (11) of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947.
SECTION 6.	SERVICE
"Service" shall mean the aggregate of the years and months of active regular fulltime or regular part-time employment with Ihe Company and/or with another Verizon/GTE Companies' affiliate.
A.	For the purpose of computing service, absences from scheduled work totaling
less than 30 calendar days a year (22 work days accumulative for full-time employees) shall be considered as active employment (See Paragraph 6B).
B.	Absences from work by reason of accident disability or illness disability shall
be considered as active employment during the periods that disability benefits are paid to the employees by the Company. Periods of absence during which disability pension payments are made are not computed as service. (See Paragraph 6A).
C.	Service for part-time employees shall be computed on a proportionate basis
according to weekly scheduled hours worked as related to the normal fulltime work week.
0.	Computation of service shall be made at least once annually and the employees notified concerning their service dates.
7
Article 3
SECTION 7.	SENIORITY
"Seniority" as used in this Agreement shall mean the aggregate of the years and months of active regular full-time or regular part-time employment within the bargaining unit of Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region).
SECTION 8.	SCHEDULED TIME
"Scheduled Time" is the posted hours of work for each employee.
SECTION 9.	BASIC HOURLY RATE
"Basic Hourly Rate" is the hourly rate of pay established by the wage schedule under Exhibit B for the job.
SECTION 10.	STRAIGHT TIME RATE
"Straight Time Rate" means the employee's basic hourly rate of pay for the job assigned in accord with the appropriate wage schedule with added effective premiums or differentials, if any.
SECTION 11.	DIFFERENTIAL PAY
"Differential Pay" means the additional payment given to employees while temporarily assigned to serve in an in-charge capacity, while still performing Bargaining Unit duties.
SECTION 12.	PREMIUM
"Premium" is an amount in addition to basic rates, which an employee is paid for working certain hours or days.
SECTION 13.	DAY
"Day" means the 24-hour period between 12:01 A.M. and the succeeding midnight,
A.	"Sunday" means the 24-hour period between 12:01 A.M. Sunday and the succeeding midnight,
B.	"Holiday" means the 24-hour period between 12:01 A.M. on the holiday or the day otherwise recognized as the holiday, and the succeeding midnight.
SECTION 14.	EMPLOYEE
"Employee" as used in this Agreement refers to the employees, male or female,
8
I
Article 4
directly concerned.
SECTION 15.	LOCATION
Location shall be defined as the locations of the Erie district, the Oil City district, the Johnstown and Somerset districts combined, the York district, the Sayre district, the Vandergrift district and the Myerstown district and the Emmaus district.
SECTION 16.	CONSTITUTED AUTHORITY
Any entity, be it Federal or State court or representatives thereof, of any Administrative Agency or other Governmental decision making panel, or any legislative body or committee that has either subpoena provisions or may otherwise order or compel individuals to appear before such entity.
ARTICLE 4
JOB CREATION
SECTION 1.	NOTIFICATION
When a new job is created, Management shall notify the Union before performance of such job begins, stating the title of such job, a brief description of its requirements, and the proposed rates to be paid and where the position will be placed on the downgrading matrix.
SECTION 2.	ASSIGNMENT
A.	The new job will be advertised within the location(s) it is to be filled for 10 calendar days.
B.	At the end of the 10 calendar days, Management will fill said position in accordance with Article 5, Section 14, Paragraph B.
SECTION 3.	TRIAL PERIOD
A.	At the end of a 6-week trial period, the Company shall again notify the Union in regard to the new job, which may either revise or duplicate the original notice. If Management deems that an upgrade to a higher wage schedule is appropriate, the employee will be compensated at the higher wage rate for all hours previously worked in the new job.
B.	Within 21 calendar days thereafter the Union, if dissatisfied with the proposed rates and/or placement on the down-grading matrix, may submit a written complaint for disposition under the established grievance procedure.
9
I
Article 5
ARTICLE 5
WORKING PRACTICES
SECTION 1.	APPLICATION
The following practices shall apply to all regular employees:
SECTION 2.	WORK WEEK
A.	Calendar Work Week - The calendar work week is a period of 7 Consecutive days commencing at 12:01 AM. on Sunday and ending at midnight on the following Saturday.
B.	Scheduled Work Week - The scheduled work week customarily consists of five (5) eight-hour tours or four (4) ten-hour tours of duty within a calendar work week. Under unusual conditions, 2 half tours may be scheduled in a ' calendar week, Monday thru Saturday, in lieu of 1 tour. Subject to the above requirements, tours may be scheduled on any of the 7 days of the week.
C.	When four (4) ten-hour tours of duty are scheduled in a work week, the following terms will take precedence over other provisions of this Agreement:
1.	The tour will not be subject to overtime payment for the hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any one day. Hours worked in excess of ten (10) in any one day or forty (40) in any one week shall be paid at the overtime rate.
2.	There will be weeks during the year when the employee's scheduled tours will revert back to five eight-hour tours for specific weeks. This will usually be done when the employee is scheduled for school, when vacation or holidays fall during the week or when required to meet the service demands of the business.
3.	Absent paid time for death in the immediate family, jury duty, and incidental sickness disability will be based on ten hours per scheduled day. Planned sickness disability or continuous sickness disability that extends into a second calendar week will revert back to eight-hour tours.
D.	Whenever employees are scheduled 2 days off in a work week, every effort will be made by the Company to schedule the days off consecutively.
io
Article 5
SECTION 3.	TOUR OF DUTY
A.	A tour of duty shall consist of not more than 8 or 10 hours in any 24-
hour period, including Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays plus a lunch period of not more than 1 hour.
1.	Toure starting at or after 11:00 P.M., but ending before 8:01 AM will consist of not more than 8 consecutive hours in length which includes a 1/2-hourpaid lunch period.
B.	Usually each tour is made up of 2 sessions. The sessions are scheduled at various times as necessitated by operating conditions.
C.	A relief period of 15 minutes paid for as time worked will be granted as near the middle of each session as practical.
D.	A split tour is a tour applicable to Operators, Senior Operators, BRC Generalists, with more than 1 hour between sessions. An additional premium of $2.50 per tour will be paid for each tour worked.
1.	A split tour and split tour premium is applicable to Retail Sales Consultants commencing the week which includes the Thanksgiving Holidays through and including the week in which the last day of the year occurs.
E.	There shall be a minimum of 2 coincidental tours (except the lunch period) scheduled in each operator office at all times.
SECTION 4.	WORK SCHEDULE
A.	A work schedule shall be set up for each regular employee showing the days of the calendar week on which the employee is scheduled to work and the employee's basic scheduled tour for each of these days indicating the starting time and the quitting time.
B.	All hours of a tour will be considered as being worked on the calendar day on which the majority of the hours of the tour are actually worked.
C.	Schedules shall be posted by noon Thursday of the preceding week. Changes in such schedules may be posted no later than the normal quitting time of the affected department or 5:00 PM, whichever comes earlier of the same day.
D.	When revised schedules are not posted before the normal quitting time of the
11
Article 5
affected department or 5:00 P.M. Thursday of the immediately preceding calendar work week, their schedule for the current week shall be considered as the schedule for the succeeding week.
E.	In departments or sections where the daily work hours and work weeks are the same for long periods of time, a single general posting of scheduled hours will be sufficient until the hours or days are to be changed.
F.	All regular employees will be granted their selection of hours and days of work on schedules designated by the Company in accordance with their seniority. All assignments of hours and/or days will be subject to restrictions imposed by law or restrictions due to work demands.
SECTION 5.	CHANGE OF WORK SCHEDULES
A.	In the event it becomes necessary after the normal quitting time of the affected department or 5:00 P.M. whichever comes earlier on Thursday of the preceding week for the Company to change an employee's weekly work schedule to the extent of changing his scheduled day or days off, all scheduled time worked on the originally scheduled day or days off will be paid at the rate of 1 1/2 times the "regular rate of pay" plus any applicable premiums.
B.	The changing of hours to be worked on any scheduled day from the scheduled tour of duty, shall be treated as follows:
1.	When less than 24-hours notice before the start of work on a changed
tour is given to an employee, the employee will work only the hours of the changed tour. No change shall be made in the employee's scheduled tour for that day, but any time worked outside of the scheduled tour shall be paid at the rate of 1 1 /2 times the regular rate of pay. Any additional tours worked on the changed schedule shall be considered and paid for as straight time.
2.	When 24 hours or more notice before the start of work on the changed
tour is given, the employee shall work only the hours of the changed tour which shall be considered a substitute for, and in place of, the scheduled tour. Such time worked, which falls within the limits of the changed tour, shall be paid for at the straight time rate. Time worked beyond the limits of the changed tour shall be treated as overtime,
C.	Scheduled work hours may be changed if requested by any employee if, in the opinion of the Company, the work load requirements of telephone service to the public and other work requirements permit. Employees whose work hours are changed for personal convenience shall not receive the 1 1/2-time rate identified in Section 5A or Section 5B as a result of such change.
12
Article 5
SECTIONS. OVERTIME WORK
A.	It is understood that the Company is restricted in no way from requiring employees to perform work any number of hours in a day or tn a work week except as may be limited by requirements of law. The direction of the work forces and the specifying of hours to be worked is the sole responsibility of the Company according to the work demands and telephone service to the public.
B.	Overtime is:
1.	All time worked in excess of an 8 or 10-hour tour in one day.
2.	All time worked in excess of 40 scheduled hours in the calendar
work week.
C.	All paid non-productive time, except sickness or accident payments, will be considered as time worked.
D.	Overtime normally will be worked on one day, but it may extend from one day to another when the time worked is continuous. Overtime may be worked either prior to or after, or both prior to and after the tour or scheduled work week.
E.	Call-out time is time worked during an unforeseen condition in which the employee is called from his home and which does not necessitate a change in work schedule. Compensation shall be at the applicable overtime rate with a minimum payment of 2 hours at such rate. A maximum allowance of 1/2 hour to report for work after instructions are received shall be included as time worked.
1.	If an employee is called out and works 4 hours after midnight, and such call out results in the employee being unable to obtain sufficient test prior to the start of their next regular scheduled tour, the employee may opt to be excused from the first half of their scheduled tour without pay. This excused time shall not result in any violation of any terms of this Agreement, including attendance.
F.	Unless otherwise specified, overtime shall be computed on the basis of 1 1/2 times the "regular rate of pay" for work performed during the overtime hours.
There shall be no pyramiding of overtime rates and/or other premium rates calling for payment 1 1/2 times or more straight time pay for the same hours worked. Overtime occurring on a holiday shall be paid for at the holiday rate
13
Article 5
as set forth in Section 10 herewith.
G.	Employees shall not be required to take time off from their scheduled work hours to offset overtime worked.
SECTION 7.	REST PERIOD
A.	When an employee works 16 or more hours in a 24-hour period, he/she shall be entitled to a rest period of 8 consecutive hours before returning to work.
B.	If this rest period extends into his/her regular scheduled working hours, he/she shall be paid straight time rate for all time foiling within his/her regular scheduled working hours that is necessary to give him/her 8 hours of rest.
C.	In the interest of the employee's personal safety or health, at the employee's
request he/she shall be excused from reporting for work for the balance of his/her next regular scheduled work hours, without pay and without the employee's Company or Union being in violation of any of the terms of this Agreement.
SECTION 8.	WORK DURING INCLEMENT WEATHER
The Company will not require employees to do construction or maintenance work in exposed locations out of doors during heavy or continuous storms or excessively cold weather, unless such work is necessary to protect life, property, or continuity of essential service.
A.	Such employees shall not be required to lose time due to such weather conditions, but the Company may provide work indoors at their regular rate of pay.
B.	Employees required to work outdoors in wet weather shall be furnished protective outer clothing including raincoats, hats and boots.
SECTION 9.	WORK ON SUNDAY
A.	All hours worked on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of 1-1/2 times the basic hourly rate plus differentials, night premiums or evening premiums when applicable.
B.	All hours worked on Sunday up to a maximum of 8 or 10 hours shall be counted in determining when 40 hours have been worked in the week.
SECTION 10.	AUTHORIZED HOLIDAYS
14
Articles
A.	The following days are classified as holidays for regular employees:
New Year's Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day after Thanksgiving - Phone Mart employees will Christmas Day	Recognize an additional Personal
Day in lieu of being scheduled to work the Day after Thanksgiving
NOTE: The Monday after Thanksgiving may be substituted for the authorized holiday on the Friday after Thanksgiving provided such request is made prior to September 1 st. It must be noted that only one or the other of the above days can be taken as the authorized holiday.
B.	Five (5) Personal holidays shall be observed. Effective January 1,2002 six (0) Personal holidays shall be observed. It is the intent that Personal holidays should normally be taken as a day off with pay and not worked. One of these Personal holidays must be taken during the months of January, February, March or April. A regular employee may select and observe five (5) of his/her Personal holidays during any of the 12 months of the calendar year. The employee may first request Personal holidays on the third pass at the time of vacation scheduling or an employee will give at least 30 days’ notice to his/her Supervisor in advance of each of the days on which he/she intends to observe as a Personal holiday. Such time limit may be waived by supervisory approval. If an employee selects a day to observe as a Personal holiday which, because of work requirements, would not be available, or if two or more employees In the same work group select the same day, the employees will choose an alternate available day in order of seniority.
' 1.	Personal Holiday (s) may be taken in two (2) 4- hour sessions.
2.	Two Persona] Holiday(s) may be taken in a minimum of two (2) hour
increments on any day of the year.
3.	Regular employees may elect to cany over one Personal Holiday to the following year subject to the following terms:
(a)	One Personal Holiday may be "carried over" from one calendar year to the next provided that it is scheduled and taken no later than the week beginning with the last Sunday in March of the year into which the Personal Holiday is
15
Articles
carried over.
(b)	Employees electing to carry over a Personal HoBday must schedule the day at the same time the vacation selection is made for the calendar year into which the Personal Holiday is carried over.
4.	Between September 1 and October 1 of each calendar year, employees shall schedule any unused Personal hollday(s). If, after October 1, an employee has not taken or scheduled their remaining Personal holiday(s), their supervisor shall designate day(s> to be taken,
5.	The Company will allow as many employees as possible to schedule Christmas Eve (December 24th) and Good Friday as a Personal holiday and still maintain appropriate service levels.
C.	If a holiday occurs on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as a holiday. If a holiday occurs on a Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday, except for employees who are formally scheduled to work on Saturday shall observe Saturday as the holiday.
D.	Insofar as telephone service to the public and work requirements permit, regular employees who are scheduled on a holiday will be excused on that day and will be paid a holiday allowance to which eligible.
E.	Regular full-time employees who are non-scheduled on a holiday may have an additional day off at basic pay. The additional day may be taken either within the holiday week or at a later date with supervisory approval.
F.	Work schedules during a holiday week are established by the Company.
G.	Attendance requirements apply to the day that is observed as a holiday for
each employee. To receive a holiday allowance, each employee must work or receive a non-productive time payment for the last half of the scheduled tour before the holiday and the first half of the scheduled tour after the holiday.
1,	The foregoing attendance requirements may be waived if the employee's inability to meet these requirements is for valid reasons in the opinion of his/her supervisor.
2.	Tardiness or non-paid absence of less than 1/2 hour shall not be disqualifying.
16
Article 5
H.	Regular full-time employees who are excused from a scheduled tour on a holiday will receive 8 hours pay at the basic hourly rate as a holiday allowance provided attendance requirements are met.
1.	Holiday allowance for regular part-time employees will be done by computing the total number of hours worked in a previous representative week(s) and dividing that total by the number of days scheduled provided attendance requirements are met.
2.	Occasional, temporary job, and probationary employees are not eligible for holiday allowance.
I.	Employees required to work during a scheduled tour on a holiday will receive a holiday premium for such work.
1.	The holiday premium is paid at 1 1/2 times the basic hourly rate for hours actually worked.
2.	The holiday premium of 1 1/2 times the basic hourly rate for hours actually worked will be paid in addition to the holiday allowance.
J.	Regular employees who are scheduled and work on any of the holidays listed
under Paragraph A may have an additional day off at basic pay in lieu of receiving the holiday allowance. The additional day must be selected on the first scheduled tour following the holiday and designated on the vacation schedule with supervisory approval. Employees may schedule the additional day for Christmas Day during the first quarter of the following year.
K.	Overtime on the holiday and call-out outside the scheduled tour will be paid at 2 % times the basic hourly rate.
L.	Employees who are scheduled to work and who fail to report will not receive any holiday payment.
1.	if the employee's failure to report for work is for valid reasons in the opinion of his supervisor, the above-mentioned holiday payment will be made.
SECTION 11.	VACATIONS
A.	Vacations will be granted to regular employees in accordance with the following schedule:
1.	Effective January 1, 2002 employees who complete 12 months of accredited service with the Company will be granted a
17
Article 5
maximum of 2 weeks of vacation at their basic rate of pay.
2.	Employees who have completed 5 years of accredited service with the Company will be granted a maximum of 3 weeks vacation at their basic rate of pay.
3.	Employees who have completed 15 years of accredited service with the Company will be granted a maximum of 4 weeks of vacation at their basic rate of pay.
4.	Employees who have complet . ?5 years of accredited service with the Company will be granted a maximum of 5 weeks of vacation at their basic rate of pay.
5.	The granting of vacations in advance of the employee's completion of the required years of accredited service for such vacation is done on die assumption that the employment will continue beyond the service anniversary of the individual. Should an employee be permitted to use this privilege and later fail to meet the accredited service requirements, the Company may recover the difference from wages due the employee.
B.	The annual vacation eligibility period will be January 1st of each calendar year.
1.	An employee who resigns, retires, is part of a work force reduction, is approved for a leave of absence or Is separated from the Company on or after January 1“ of any given calendar year, and works at least one day in the new calendar year, shall receive payment for unused vacation that would normally be scheduled during that calendar year.
2,	Vacation eligibility for regular part-time employees will be according to computed accredited service. Vacation payment will be done by computing the total number of hours worked in a previous representative week(s) and dividing that total by the number of days scheduled.
C.	Employees may not elect to receive vacation pay allowance without taking vacation time off.
D.	Beginning November 1st (October 1st for LiveSource) of the preceding calendar year. Management will consult with all employees eligible for vacations and from such consultation, Management shall establish the vacation schedules for each occupational title within a department subject
18
Article 5
to work requirements, which will be posted no later than January 2nd of the calendar year.
1.	All vacations will be granted so far as possible in accordance with the desires of the employees in the order of their seniority, but the Company may allot vacation periods in order to insure orderly operations and adequate and continuous service to the public.
2.	Should an emergency or other unexpected situations arise, the Company may require needed employees to change their vacation periods already assigned. Such changes are to be kept to a minimum, and notice given to the affected employees as far in advance as circumstances permit. It is understood, however, that any such changes made by the Company will not result in any loss of vacation benefits.
E.	Vacation time off normally shall cover full calendar weeks, except employees
may split their vacation weeks over any 2 calendar weeks during the year.
1.	Employees may select vacation on a day at a time basis after all full weeks and split weeks have been selected.
2.	If a holiday occurs within a vacation period on an employee’s otherwise scheduled tour of duty, the holiday will not be counted as part of the vacation, but an additional vacation day off with appropriate pay allowance will be granted. The additional day off may be taken on the Friday preceding the week of the vacation or the Monday following the week of the vacation. The additional day may be scheduled either prior to or after the vacation with supervisory approval. In all cases, the additional day must be scheduled at the time the vacation selection is made.
SECTION 12.	TRAVELING TIME
A.	Traveling time spent by any employee on Company business between the time when he/she reports for work as required and the time when he/she is released from work shall be treated as working time, except travel time for lunch.
B.	There shall be no reduction in the employee's scheduled hours for that day on account of his/her being required to travel.
C.	Travel time during non-scheduled days shall be treated as work time up to a maximum of the original travel schedule as determined by Management.
19
Articles
D.	Transportation will be furnished employees traveling to and from the specified lunch locations.
SECTION 13.	PER DIEM
A.	Management will designate a specific Verizon reporting center for each employee when not otherwise assigned to a work location.
B.	Employees are expected to report to assigned work locations at their scheduled starting time. At the end of a tour employees will leave directly from the last work location they were assigned to.
C.	If the temporary reporting center is closer to the employee’s home than his/her regular reporting center and/or within walking distance from his/her regular reporting center, the employee will not be paid per diem or mileage.
D.	When an employee Is assigned to begin their tour at a work location that is:
1.	More than 10 miles and including 20 miles from their designated reporting center, the employee will be compensated $11.00 per day for each working day of the assignment.
2.	More than 20 miles and including 40 miles from their designated reporting center, the employee will be compensated $20.00 for each working day of the assignment.
3.	More than 40 miles and including 60 miles from their designated reporting center, the employee will be compensated $36.00 for each working day of the assignment.
4.	More than 60 miles from the designated reporting center, the Company shall arrange and pay for lodging. A meal allowance wherein the employee will be compensated $38.00 for each day so assigned will be paid regardless of an overnight stay.
Employees will travel on Company time for the initial trip to and the last trip from the temporary reporting center. Management will provide transportation on the initial trip and last trip, at its option, in the form of Company vehicle, public transportation or a mileage allowance when the employee’s personal vehicle is used.
E.	All reference to miles shall mean the most direct and practical one-way highway distance to the temporary reporting center as determined by Management.
20
Articles
F.	Whenever an employee is authorized by the Company to use his/her personal vehicle, the mileage allowance shall be paid in accordance with IRS Regulations and business related parking and toll fees will be reimbursed with receipts when the employee's personal vehicle is used.
G.	When a mileage allowance is paid for the use of an employee's personal vehicle, it is intended to cover all the expenses incurred for operating the vehicle such as, but not limited to: gasoline, oil, and repairs.
H.	When a mileage allowance is paid for the use of an employee's vehicle, the employee must have the minimum necessary liability limits on the vehicle used as required to comply with the Financial Responsibility Law of the State.
I.	For each day that an employee is assigned to a work location more than 60 miles from the designated reporting center, the employee shall be allowed to charge to the Company one personal long distance call of a 5-minute duration, terminating in the state of Pennsylvania,
J.	When an employee is assigned to training in a different location, the following will apply:
1.	Within the State of Pennsylvania, the provisions of Paragraph D4 will apply. When the employee's personal vehicle is used, $2.00 per day will be paid for local travel reimbursement.
2.	Outside the State of Pennsylvania, reasonable board and lodging expenses will be paid for each day so assigned. No per diem will be paid.
3,	Return to the regular reporting center every third weekend on Company
time and expense. Board and lodging expenses or per diem will not be paid during this period.
4.	A laundry expense reimbursement of up to $10.00 per week after the completion of the first week,
SECTION 14.	JOB APPLICATION PROCEDURES
It is the interest of the Company and the Union to fill vacancies with existing employees. For such purposes, effective April 1,2002, the following procedure will be the guide.
A.	Regular employees wishing to apply for a vacancy shall follow the selfnomination process.
21
Article 5
1.	Applications for current vacancies must be completed by the employee and forwarded to Staffing on or before the posting close date.
2.	Employees may apply for an unlimited number of pasted vacancies at any given time.
3.	Employees must submit a separate application for each and every
posted vacancy In which they are Interested. Employee applications will only be valid for the specific requisition number indicated on the application and will not be valid for any other vacancies.
4.	Employees who refuse a position offered through the job posting procedure can be considered for future vacancies with the same Job titie/location. The employee must apply for each vacancy they are interested in as It occurs.
S.	Employees within a location will be given first priority for any vacancy.
B.	in making a selection for a vacancy in any department, the senior qualified incumbentiapplicant within a location will be given first priority. If there are no qualified incumbents and more than one employee meets the qualifications for the job, seniority will govern.
1.	Qualifications shall include, but not be limited to, the ability to pass validated tests, satisfactory past job performance (including attendance records) and the physical ability to perform the essential functions of the job.
a. Past job performance will include attendance records, any current or pending disciplinary action and Performance Appraisal Reviews (PAR). The PAR'S of various job applicants will not be compared; however, a low overall rating on the PAR may serve to disqualify a job applicant.
C.	In the event that there are no qualified internal applicants for any given vacancy, the Company may fill the vacancy at its discretion. In the event there are no qualified applicants for any job opening and the Company direct hires, any job applicant considered will have to pass the required validated test(s) as well as meet all other employment requirements.
D.	It is understood that there may be two individuals/occasions durfog the term of this Agreement when additional qualifications other than those stated in
22
Articles
the job profile for a specific job classification may be necessary. In such instances, the additional required qualifications will be announced to employees via the self-nom job board and the IVRU and a letter to the Chairman-IBEW System Council 7-1. This business need will be designated as a “Ready Now" candidate and will state so on the posted vacancy.
E.	Wage treatment of an employee who is the successful candidate to another job will be tn accord with the Wage Administration Procedure. Exhibit A.
F.	Once an employee has been hired into a position or has been selected for a job as a result of this job application procedure, that employee shall have the right to apply for another vacancy however the employee may be held in that classification until he/she has performed in the position for
6 months - wage schedules 1—3
12 months - wage schedules 4-6
24 months - wage schedules 7-12
These time limits can be waived by the Company if the Company's needs so indicate. Also, these time limits may be waived by mutual consent of the Company and the Union for individual employee needs that may occur. Should the Union wish to escalate any individual situation they may do so by contacting the HR Staffing Manager.
G.	An employee who successfully completes one specific Company provided training course of 6 weeks or more duration, which pertains to his/her job assignment, will be required to perform in that assignment for a period of 36 months after receiving the training before he/she is eligible to apply for another job or request a transfer within the occupational title. This restriction may be waived by the Company, if the Company’s needs so indicate. This provision will only be applied to an employee for one training course of 6 weeks or more duration in a given occupational title.
H.	The training courses referenced in Section G may or may not be scheduled in consecutive days or weeks.
I.	When a successful candidate for a job vacancy has been awarded the appropriate Union President will be notified.
23
Article 5
August 22,1960
Mr. Donald E. Delo, Chairman
System Council T-1
Dear Mr. Delo:
This is to serve as a letter of intent on career counseling. The intent of career counseling is as follows:
1. On or before January 1, 1981, the Company will implement a career counseling program for craft employees.
2.	The program will be implemented to provide counseling to employees so that they may better plan and prepare for future promotional opportunities within the Company.
3.	The program will also address top craft employees in job classifications involved in the transition to new technology so that they may be better prepared for the transition to new technology.
4.	In this regard, the Company recognizes its responsibility to train employees in their classification to perform their job. It is also recognized that there may be instances when an employee's ability may be below that required for Company provided training, in such instances, the employee will be counseled and offered guidance which at times may be a program for self study in order to come up to a level required to attend Company-provided training.
General Telephone Company of Pennsylvania
By: John J. Ahearn
Vice President-Human Resources
24
Articles
SECTION 15.	TRANSFERS
A.	The Company may transfer employees within the bargaining unit between jobs, tours, departments and exchanges or divisions as needed to meet the requirements of telephone service and the operating efficiency of the Company,
B.	In the selection of employees for voluntary transfer from one exchange or division to another, the Company shall give first consideration to those senior eligible employees who desire such transfer and who meet the requirements of the job.
C.	Whenever an employee must be involuntarily transferred from one exchange or division to another, the employee transferred shall be selected on the basis of least seniority provided ability and qualifications are consistent with the demands of the job to be filled.
D.	When an employee is transferred to another exchange or division, voluntarily or involuntarily, for Company convenience, and such transfer should be deemed by the Company to be permanent, reasonable expenses incidental to such transfer, such as the cost of moving the furniture and personal belongings (excluding the cost of packing) and the cost of personal transportation for the employee and his immediate family, shall be paid by the Company. The Company reserves the right, however, to select the transportation agency and to stipulate a maximum amount for such other moving expenses as the Company may agree to bear under the circumstances of this specific transfer.
1.	If housing cannot be found immediately at the new location, the employee shall be allowed reasonable expenses for board and lodging for him/herself while finding accommodations for his/her family at the new location for a period not exceeding 30 calendar days following the date of such transfer. If the Company agrees with the employee that exceptional difficulties are present in finding a house, the Company shall pay reasonable expenses of such board and lodging for not more than 30 additional calendar days.
E.	When opportunity arises, an employee involuntarily transferred by the Company in accordance with the foregoing Paragraph C shall be afforded an opportunity after one year to re-transfer to his former job or to another job for which he is qualified at the first exchange or division from which he was transferred. Such re-transfer shall be made in accordance with the employee's seniority.
F.	The Company will neither engage a new employee nor re-engage a former
25
Articles
employee with a lesser number of years of seniority than the employee involuntarily transferred under the provisions of the foregoing Paragraph C for a job which the involuntarily transferred employee can fill in accord with Paragraph E herewith.
G.	An employee transferring from one exchange or division to another at his request or for his personal convenience, or in the exercise of personal rights which might be accorded under the terms of this Agreement, will assume his own cost for moving furniture and personal belongings and the cost of personal transportation.
H.	Refusal of an employee to voluntarily transfer from one job to another or from one location to another shall not deprive such employee of future opportunities for advancement. In the event, however, that an employee refuses a transfer offered for the purpose of maintaining continuity of employment, or in accord with Paragraph C herewith, such employee may then be laid off in accord with his seniority status.
I.	Employees transferred from one exchange or location to another will retain seniority.
J.	None of the provisions of this Section 15 shall apply to temporary job employees.
SECTION 16.	APPROVED ABSENCE	'
A.	Any regular employee who is excused from scheduled work for performance of jury duty in their home county or federal district shall be compensated at their basic hourly rate for such approved time off falling within the scheduled work day.
1.	In the case of those employees scheduled to work tours other than 8:00 A.M. to 5:00 PM who are summoned for jury duty, the Company will reschedule those employees to 8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. tours during the weeks of jury duty, provided the employees notify the Company of their summons for jury duty by Wednesday of the week preceding their reporting for jury duty. In the event employees aren’t notified by the appropriate officials prior to Wednesday of the preceding week, short notice to the Company will be accepted. However, no overtime will be paid those employees as a result of the schedule change.
2.	Employees engaged in jury duty shall, while temporarily excused from attendance in court, report for duty during the scheduled tour.
B.	Regular employees shall be granted a maximum of 3 days paid time off for
26
Article 5
absence by reason of death in the immediate family. Paid time off shall be at the basic hourly rate for scheduled hours lost. The employee may select any 3 days between and including the day death occurs and two (2) days following burial. The immediate family is defined as spouse, father or mother, sister or brother, children, parent-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, natural grandparent, grandchild or any relative by blood or marriage or foster child residing In the employee's home.
1.	Regular employees will be granted a maximum of 2 days paid time off to attend the funeral of spouse’s grandparent, brother-in-law and sisterin-law.
C.	Any employee shall be paid at the straight time rate for approved time off during the scheduled work day because of appearance before constituted authorities on behalf of the Company.
0. An employee who is absent from scheduled work to appear under subpoena, before a constituted authority as an impartial witness, shall be compensated at their basic hourly rate. Other absence from work to appear under subpoena in a court of law may be compensated with prior management approval.
1. Employees may absent themselves from work for appearances before constituted authorities necessary to act on their own behalf, without pay.
E.	Any employee requested by the Company to attend a conference between the Company and the Union or to attend conferences with the Company on other than Union matters shall receive payment at the straight time rate for such excused time from scheduled hours.
F.	A regular employee who participates in an organized training program as a member of the National Guard or Reserves of the Armed Forces of the United States will be compensated for the difference between his basic weekly pay and the weekly amount received as military service pay. Such compensation shall be limited to 2 weeks in any calendar year.
SECTION 17. MEALS
A.	Year round, the securing of a lunch meal will be the employee's responsibility except as specifically provided for in sections of this Agreement,
B.	The Company reserves the right to schedule either %-hour or 1-hour lunch periods for all employees.
27
Article S
C.	In cases where a 1/2-hour lunch is scheduled and selected, travel in Company vehicles will not be permitted during the lunch period.
D.	There will be occasions for bargaining unit employees to eat while continuing their work schedule. In those instances, any meal period of less than 1/2 hour will be paid for as time worked with prior supervisory approval.
28
Article 5
December?, 1986
Mr, C. Daniel Porter, Jr,, Chairman
System Council T-1
Dear Mr. Porter:
This is to serve as a letter of intent on Articles, Section 17C. The intent of this language is as follows:
1.	Commencing with the next selection of work schedules, employees in work classifications that have assigned vehicles, an option to select schedules with either one-half or one hour lunches.
2.	The above-mentioned groups will be polled in advance of preparing the schedule in order to determine their desires. Based on this input, management will provide an appropriate number of one-half hour lunch schedules and one hour lunch schedules.
3.	On schedules with one-half hour lunch, at least 50% will have an early quit time. When less than 50% of the work group have one-half hour lunches, all employees selecting the one-half hour lunch may have an early quit time.
4.	There wiil be no change in the way schedules are selected once the schedule is prepared.
5.	In cases where multiple-person crews are involved, the senior person in the crew will select the lunch period.
6.	Employees selecting one-half hour lunch schedules will not be permitted to move their vehicles during the lunch period.
General Telephone Company of Pennsylvania
By: Holiday M. Parker
State Director-Human Resources
29
ArtctaS
ARTICLE 6
SENIORITY
SECTION 1.	PURPOSE
Seniority, as used herein, relates to certain preferences and privileges provided for in this Agreement	■
SECTION 2.	PROVISIONS
Seniority and service shall include time spent in the armed forces of the United States as provided by law and shall include employment service with any Company purchased by or merged with Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) prior to December 6, 1986. In the event a dispute arises as to seniority of 2 or more employees who started working for the Company on the same date, the older In age shall be deemed to have the greater seniority.
SECTION 3.	PREFERENCE
Senior employees, as defined in Article 3, Section 7 shall be given preference in matters pertaining to choice of vacation periods, more desirable working hours, promotions within the bargaining unit, layoff, and reinstatement.
SECTION 4.	ACCUMULATION
New employees shall not begin to accumulate seniority until after completion of the probationary period, but such seniority accumulated shall begin with the first date of regular full-time or regular part-time employment.
SECTION 5.	TERMINATED SENIORITY & SERVICE
Seniority and service shall be deemed to have been broken or terminated by:
1,	Discharge for cause.
2.	Resignation from Company service.
3.	Failure of an employee to return to employment immediately following termination of a leave of absence, or extension thereof.
4.	Failure of a laid off employee to return to offered employment or to be
recalled to work as provided within this Agreement.
30
Article 6
SECTION 6.	BRIDGED SENIORITY & SERVICE
Former employees who have 1000 hours or more of service and seniority and who are re-engaged shall have their accredited service and seniority bridged accordingly after completion of 1000 hours of service. Such bridging, however, shall not operate to bring about an increase in wage rates purely as a result of the service bridging.
SECTION 7.	PROMOTION OUTSIDE OF BARGAINING UNIT
Employees promoted to occupational titles outside of the collective bargaining unit covered by this Agreement shall continue to accrue service. Such employees, when returned to employment within the collective bargaining unit, shall be entitled to exercise their seniority as defined by Article 3, Section 7.
SECTION 8.	SENIORITY LISTS
The Company will furnish a quarterly seniority list to Local Union 1451, Local Union 1635, and Local Union 1637. The seniority list to each Local Union will designate the bargaining unit employees by classification under the jurisdiction of the respective Local Unions. The seniority lists will be mailed to the respective Local Union Presidents.
31
Article 6
MEMORANDUM OF INTENT
The following constitutes an understanding between the Company and the Union regarding the return of employees who were promoted outside of the collective bargaining unit, as well as the changes in the definitions of service and seniority. The understanding encompasses these provisions:
(1)	Employees who, prior to the date of this Agreement, have returned to employment within the collective bargaining unit, shall be "grandfathered" and entitled to exercise seniority, which shall be a combination of time spent with the bargaining unit as well as time spent in jobs outside of the bargaining unit.
(2)	Henceforth, employees who return to the bargaining unit from nonbargaining unit positions will do so under the provisions of new Article Vt, Section 5 and Article III, Section 7,
(3)	It is further understood that non-bargaining unit employees will not "bump" into positions within the collective bargaining unit but will be placed into said unit as the Company's needs will allow. Employees re-entering the collective bargaining unit will do so in accord with their seniority as compared to the seniority of those employees who might already be laid off or downgraded from the occupational title in question.
(4)	Service and Seniority for temporary employees who prior to the date of this Agreement have been reclassified to regular full time or regular part time employment will be grandfathered as to any service and/or seniority accredited to them for said temporary time.
VERIZON NORTH INC.
MID-ATLANTIC REGION
By Holiday M, Parker
State Director-Human Resources
March 25.1984
By Donald E. Delo
Chairman, System Council T-1
March 25, 1984
NOTE: Article VI, Section 5 and Article III,
Section 7 is now Article 6, Section 7
And Article 3, Section 7.
32
Article 7
ARTICLE?
GENERAL EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS
SECTION 1.	TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT
A.	The Company will furnish tools, equipment and work gloves as are necessary to do the work and maintain the standard of service required by the Company.
B.	If replacement tools and equipment are deemed necessary by the Company, the Company will furnish without cost to the employee, except where negligence, loss or destruction is apparent.
C.	Employees who are furnished tools and equipment by the Company will be held responsible for proper accounting, maintenance and care of such tools and equipment until termination of employee's services with the Company.
D.	A safe storage place will be provided by the Company for all tools, construction equipment and clothing used at any point designated by the Company. Failure to provide such safe place shall relieve the employee of responsibility for same.
SECTION 2.	SAFETY EYE GLASSES
A.	The Company will provide to all employees and their dependents the option to purchase prescription safety glasses at a reduced price.
B.	It is understood that the Company will not be responsible for any increase in price during the term of the Agreement.
SECTION 3	- SHOES
A.	The Company and the Union will, as a joint venture, provide to all employees and their dependents the option to purchase safety, dress and casual shoes at a reduced price.
B.	It is understood that neither the Company or the Union will be responsible for any increase in price during the term of this Agreement.
SECTION 4.	ADVANCE FUNDS
Employees who receive temporary advance funds will be required to repay such funds within 2 weeks of employee's return to normal duty. If an employee fails to do so, the Company may deduct an amount equal to the temporary advance fund
33
Article?
from wages due the employee.
SECTION 5.	SAFETY PRACTICES
A.	The Company will provide safe working conditions and will continue to instruct its employees in safe methods and practices of performing their work through a definite safety program scheduled on Company time.
B.	No employee shall be required to climb or otherwise endanger himself/hersell unless and until he/she has been properly instructed and trained, or is under proper instruction, in the work required.
SECTION 6.	SAFETY COMMITTEE
A.	There will be a joint Union and Management Safety Committee in each location with a non-voting chairman designated by the Committee.
B.	It shall be the responsibility of the Safety Committee to recommend improvements in safety programs and safe working conditions.
C.	The meetingswill be held on a quarterly basis.
SECTION 7.	CONCESSION SERVICE
All regular full-time employees and regular part-time employees with more than one year of service covered by this Agreement are eligible for 50% concession rates for monthly recurring flat rate local service network charges or an equivalent dollar amount for local calling plans. As an alternative, employees may receive 50% concession rates on USS basic local service and usage charges (local exchange and extended area service points). Concession service will include touch calling charges and applicable state and federal excise taxes, but excluding access charges in connection with residence telephone service. Regular rates are charged for all toll message service, foreign exchange service, non-recurring charges, installation, repair, moves and changes, and all other services offered by the Company.
34
Article 8 & 9
ARTICLE 8
DISCHARGES, DISCIPLINES DEMOTIONS FOR CAUSE
SECTION 1.	DISCHARGE, DISCIPLINE, DEMOTION
If the Company disciplines, discharges or demotes any regular employee for cause, and the Union has reason to claim that such action has been taken without sufficiency of cause, such claim shall be reviewed in accord with Article 11, "Procedure for Adjusting Grievances."
SECTION 2.	GRIEVANCE APPEAL
Grievances relating to the discharge, demotion or suspension of an employee shall be initiated within 14 calendar days following the effective date of the action.
ARTICLES
MANAGEMENT OF PRODUCTIVE WORK
SECTION 1.	MANAGEMENT OF PRODUCTIVE WORK
The Company acknowledges a general policy that Management or supervisory personnel will not perform substantial productive work of the same type and nature as normally assigned to regular employees included within the aforesaid collective bargaining unit. It is understood, however, that it is a normal function of Management personnel to perform productive work under conditions of operating emergencies, work incidental to training of employees, to enforcement of safety practices, to inspection of work completed by productive employees, and operatorswitchboard work as may be required to meet the demands of service. Also, when a qualified employee is not available or cannot be reached with reasonable dispatch for an assignment, productive work may be performed by Management personnel until a qualified employee can be secured.
SECTION 2.	TEMPORARY SUPERVISOR
The Company may, as it deems necessary, appoint qualified non-supervisory employees to act temporarily as supervisors over other employees, subject to the understanding that an employee desiring not to accept such appointment shall not be deprived of future opportunities for advancement It is agreed, however, that during emergencies involving the protection of life, property or maintenance of essential services, appointments, as required, may be made without reservation.
35
I
Article 10
ARTICLE 10
FORCE ADJUSTMENTS
SECTION 1-	REDUCTION OF FORCE
Whenever economic conditions are considered by the Company to warrant reduction in forces through part-timing, laying off, or both, the reduction in forces may be done subject to the following conditions:
SECTION 2.	NOTICE TO UNION
A.	The Company will inform the appropriate Local Union of any proposed plan for force adjustments within the bargaining unit represented by the Local Union.
B.	The Company may retain those employees who possess knowledge and skills whose loss would jeopardize the company's ability to provide customer service on critical customer accounts. Such employees will be identified prior to the notification to the Union of a force adjustment and will not be subject to the force adjustment provisions of Ihe Collective Bargaining Agreement.
SECTION 3.	SENIORITY
For the purpose of force reductions and/or reclassification, seniority as defined in Article 3, Section 7, shall prevail.
SECTION 4.	PART-TIMING
The Company may part-time employees in each occupational title within the bargaining unit represented by the Local Union. The part-timing may be done on the basis of inverse seniority or a reduction of the normal work week for all employees within the same occupational title. If the normal work week for all employees within an occupational title is reduced, the reduction will not exceed the equivalent of one working day. Part-timing for any given occupational title within a location will not last longer than 6 months.
SECTION 5.	REDUCTION IN OCCUPATIONAL TITLE
If a reduction of the number of employees in a particular occupational title and location is necessary, such reduction will be done on the following basis:
A.	If the Employee Adjustment Income Plan or Termination Pay Plan have not been offered, the Company will solicit. volunteers from the location and
36
Article 10
occupational title that is being reduced to accept termination with termination allowance, or take voluntary layoff. Acceptance by the Company will be in order of seniority. In no event shall the number of employees who volunteer to separate exceed the number of employees determined by the Company to be surplus.
B.	If there are not enough volunteers within the designated occupational title and
location, such reduction will be done on the basis of inverse seniority.
C.	Probationary Employees, Temporary Job Employees and Occasional Employees within an occupational title, probationary employees, temporary job employees and occasional employees will be laid off or terminated before laying off regular full-time employees and/or regular part-time employees.
SECTION 6.	RECLASSIFICATION
A.	If an employee is notified that through force reduction, he/$he cannot continue to be employed at his/her current occupational title, said employee may elect to terminate with termination allowance or elect to volunteer for layoff or reclassify to another job within an occupational title that is within the same location. The right to displace a less senior employee to retain employment is at the election of the employee subject to the following conditions:
1.	An employee may select a job that is either within the same wage schedule or on a lower wage schedule that he/she has previously held and performed satisfactorily with the Company. Or, an employee may select a job on a lower wage schedule within his/her current job category on the downgrading matrix. Or, an employee may select a job that is on a lower wage schedule under the “open" category on the downgrading matrix assuming all prerequisite requirements are satisfied.
2.	The employee must be able to perform the job satisfactorily within a reasonable familiarization period as determined by the Company.
3.	The job in question is held by the least senior employee within the occupational title.
4.	The employee will be permitted to exercise his/her full seniority within the new occupational title.
B.	Before any employee within an occupational title is displaced as a result of reclassification, all employees within the occupational title will be offered voluntary layoff with termination allowance. The number of employees
37
Article 10
separating under this provision will not exceed the number of employees to be displaced within that occupational title.
C.	Management may restrict the number of employees reclassifying into DAC Associate, Network Provisioning Associate, RDM Associate and Sates Associate. The restriction will not apply to employees who previously performed the job. In no event will this restriction be less than a minimum of 50 percent.
D.	If an employee opts not to separate and cannot move into another occupational title in accord with the provisions of this section, said employee will be laid off with the option of receiving Termination Allowance immediately, thereby waiving all reinstatement rights; or remaining on the recall tist(s) for up to 2 years and then receiving his/her Termination Allowance if said reinstatement has not occurred.
1.	If an employee is unable to reclassify to another job solely by reason of the displacement factor contained in Paragraph C, he/she will be granted recall rights to said position, in accordance with his/her seniority.
36
Artic* 10
DOWNGRADING MATRIX
	TECHNICAL	DATA AFP	OSP ENG	SUPPLY	SVC OFC	SVC REP	OPEN
12		CUST ENG					
11	BZT CZTI EQPT INST TECH		ENG TECH		BRC SPECIALIST		BLDG TECH VEHICLE MAIN TECHNICIAN *
10	CABLE SPEC CZTII REP ANALYST						
9	3ONSTTECH			STRKEEPER			FLEET mech *
B	COLLECTOR MNTNR FRAME mntnr PUBLIC ACC SALES TECH		JMETPHOV REP				IM-DIVCOUR BLDG MTC MECH
7			FAC ASSN		SWITCH PROVISIONING SPECIALIST, FACILITY PROVISIONING SPECIALIST. BRC GEN		
6					bdc spec BRC ASSOC		AOMIN ASSOC* DAC ASSOC* NTWKPRV ASSOC* ROM ASSOC* DOR CLERK*
5							POLL OPERATOR* SR OPERATOR* OPERATOR'
4							ASSOCIATE ATTENDANT REPAIR ATTENDANT
3							MAIL MESSENGER UTILITY WORKER
2							RETAIL SALES CONSULTANT*
1							BLOG CUSTODIAN *	Requires a passing soore an advance xe-requisite testing. *	Inspection License
39
Article 10
SECTION 7.	LAYOFF NOTICE
Employees shall be given at least 2 weeks notice.
SECTION 8.	TERMINATION ALLOWANCE
Termination allowance shall be computed on the basis of 1 week's pay at the basic wage rate (excluding differentials, overtime pay, bonuses, commissions, premiums or extra payment) for each full year of net accredited service up to and including 10 years and 2 week's pay at the basic wage rate, for each full year of net accredited service in excess of 10 years to a maximum of 36 week's pay in total.
A.	In computing a termination allowance, a fraction of a year amounting to less than 6 months will be disregarded and a fraction amounting to 6 months or more will be considered a full year.
B.	Termination allowance will be paid either on the recognized pay cycle in the same manner as regular wage payments or as a lump sum payment, to the extent of the total termination allowance granted,
C.	Termination allowance will be made regardless of whether or not an employee is eligible to receive a service pension.
D.	The services of any employee receiving termination allowance shall be completely terminated and no further obligation rests upon the Company with respect to that employee.
E.	If any employee who has been paid termination allowance is subsequently re-employed and again laid off, termination allowance in the instance of the second layoff or of any subsequent layoff will be based on service subsequent to the date of last re-engagement, plus any portion of the prior allowance which remains unpaid.
SECTION 9.	RECALL
A.	Employees laid off as a result of force adjustment shall have recall rights for
up to 2 years. If an employee elects not to accept recall when offered, said employee shall forfeit all further recall rights.
B.	Selection of employees for jobs held prior to force adjustment will be done on the basis of the seniority of those employees who elected to move into other occupational titles or laid off without termination allowance. Job posting will not be necessary.
40
Article 10
1.	If an employee refuses reinstatement to a regular full-time job, the job
will be posted and filled in accordance with Article 5, Section 14.
C.	Before a new employee is engaged for an occupational title, the Company shall offer recall in order of seniority to laid off employees who were performing essentially the same type of work within the location. The former employee must be qualified to do the work.
D.	Former employees who have been laid off must keep the Company informed of the address at which they can be reached. An offer of re-employment shall be made in person, by telephone, or by registered mail addressed to the latest address so furnished.
E,	When an offer of re-employment has been made, the former employee shall accept within one week of the receipt of such notice and shall report to work within 2 weeks from receipt of the notice.
F.	Failure to comply with the time limits set forth in Section E or failure to keep the Company informed concerning latest correct address, shall result in forfeiture of all further rights and shall be deemed to be a termination of further recall rights with the Company.
G.	If an employee is recalled to the same occupational title that he/she had at the time that he/she was laid off or reclassified, he/she shall be reinstated at the wage step that was in effect at the time of the force adjustment. If a former employee is recalled to a different occupational title, the rate of pay shall be adjusted in accordance with the provisions of the wage administration procedure.
H.	Former employees, upon recall under the provisions of this Article shall be granted the service and seniority to which they are entitled at the date of layoff.
SECTION 10.	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and the System Council T-1 of the IBEW recognize the need for technological change in business and have agreed to address all such changes in the following manner:
A.	The Company shall advise the Union as far in advance as possible of any proposed technological change. Technological change shall be defined as change in plant or equipment, or a change in a method of operation diminishing the total number of regular employees required to supply the same services to the Company or its subscribers. Technological change
41
Article 10
shall not include layoffs caused by business conditions, variations in subscribers' requirements or temporary or seasonal interruptions of work.
B.	If the Company changes its methods of operation or dial installations are made, employees retained by the Company in any exchange so converted shall be those senior in point of seniority to the extent that ability, qualifications and trainability are consistent with the demands of the job to be filled.
C The Company recognizes its responsibility to employees when it becomes necessary to reduce any part of an occupational title within a location as a result of the introduction of technological change.
D.	When technological change results in a surplus of employees in any given occupational title within a location, the Company shall notify the appropriate Local Union(s) of the number of reductions to be achieved.
E.	Reduction of an occupational title within a location shall be done on the basis of seniority first, under the offering of the Income Security Plan as further explained in the attached Memorandum of Agreement.
F.	If the necessary reduction of employees within an occupational title and location cannot be achieved through the application of the Income Security Plan, the remaning reduction will be done on the basis of inverse seniority in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of this Article 10,
42
Artjefe 10
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION}
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
INCOME SECURITY PLAN (ISP}
1.	Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 recognize the need for technological change In the business and hereby enter into this Memorandum of Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the Agreement). In order to lessen the economic impact upon regular employees who become surplus due to technological change, the Company and the Union agree to establish the INCOME SECURITY PLAN (the Plan). "Technological change" shall be defined as a change In plant or equipment, or a change in a method of operation, diminishing the total number of regular employees required to supply the same services to the Company or its subscribers. "Technological change" shall not include layoffs or force realignments caused by business conditions, variations in subscribers' requirements, or temporary or seasonal interruptions of work.
When technological change brings about any of the following conditions, the Plan shall apply:
A.	A need to layoff and/or force realign employees in any job title.
B.	Reassignment of regular employees to permanent headquarters fifty (50) miles or more from the employee’s permanent headquarters.
2.	During the term of this Agreement, if the Company notifies the Union In writing that a technological change has created or will create a surplus In any job title in any work group and/or work location, regular employees meeting the following qualifications shall be eligible for Plan participation:
43
Article 10
A.	Accredited service of one year or more;
B.	No comparable assignment available within fifty (50) miles of the
former permanent headquarters and/or refusal of reassignment to a new permanent headquarters fifty (50) miles or more from the former permanent headquarters.
However, the Company reserves the right to apply this Plan to any surplus in force, whether or not it is brought about by technological change, that the Company deems appropriate. All elections shall be voluntary and acceptance by the Company will be In order of seniority.
3.	The Company reserves the right to determine the job titles and work group(s) and/or work location(s) in which a surplus exists, the number of work groups and/or work locations in which a surplus exists, the number of employees in such titles and locations which are considered to be surplus, and the period during which the employee may, if he or she so elects, leave the service of the Company pursuant to this Plan. In no event shall the number of employee elections accepted under the terms of the Plan exceed the number of employees determined by the Company to be surplus.
4.	For those employees who are eligible In accordance with Sections 1 and 2, the Company will provide ISP Termination Allowance:
A.	$1,100, less withholding taxes, for each completed year of accredited service up to and including thirty (30) years for a maximum of $33,000 prior to withholding texes. The ISP Termination Allowance is not prorated for any partial year of service.
B.	In addition to the ISP Termination Allowance, the Company shall pay an employee who has left the service of the Company with ISP benefits an ISP Expense Allowance not to exceed $750, less withholding taxes, for each completed year of accredited service for a maximum of $3,750 prior to withholding taxes. The ISP Expense Allowance is not prorated for any partial year of service.
The intent of the ISP Expense Allowance is to assist the employee to defray out-of-pocket expenses which include, but are not limited to, relocation cost, tuition or training cost, or job placement
The combined maximum ISP Termination pay benefit payable as set forth in Paragraphs A and B of this Section 4 shall in no event exceed
44
Article 10
a total of $36,750.
The dollar amounts set forth in this Agreement shall be prorated tor regular part-time employees based on the average hours worked during the last twenty-six (26) pay periods; i.e., average of thirty (30) hours worked per week would result in termination benefits paid at 75% of those paid to a regular full-time employee.
5.	Employees eligible for ISP Termination Allowance in accordance with Section 2 will receive a lump sum payment for the entire amount of the - ISP Termination Allowance paid in foe month following the month In which the employee leaves the service of the Company.
6.	Re-employed employees must complete one (1) full year of accredited service with the Company before coming eligible again for termination benefits. In subsequent terminations to which this Agreement Is applicable, the employee shall receive the difference between the termination benefits for which he or she is presently eligible and any benefits previously received.
7.	All benefits payable under the Plan are subject to legally required deductions.
8.	Termination benefits shall not be made if the termination is the result of any sate or other disposition by the Company of the exchange or office at which the employee Is working or from which the employee is assigned to work, when the employee is continued in the employment of the new management of the exchange or office.
9.	An employee's election to leave the service of the Company and receive termination pay benefits must be in writing and transmitted to the Company within fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of the Company's offer In order to be effective, and it may not be revoked after such fourteen (14) calendar day period.
10.	This Agreement will be implemented prior to invoking the provisions of Article 10 (Force Adjustments) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, when conditions set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement exist as determined by the Company.
11.	Neither the right to effect a technological change, the determination of a surplus condition, eligibility for participation in the Plan, nor any part of this Plan or Agreement shall be subject to the grlevance/arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
45
Article 10
12.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification, and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also terminate on October 23,2004, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling	•
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
46
Article 11
ARTICLE 11
PROCEDURE FOR ADJUSTING GRIEVANCES
SECTION 1.	DEFINITION
A grievance is any alleged violation of the terms, or the application of the terms, of this Agreement or any alleged violations of public laws governing wages, hours and working conditions. All grievance matters shall be processed in accordance with the procedure set forth in this Article 11, unless by mutual consent a substitute^ procedure is adopted.	'
SECTION 2.	PROPER GRIEVANCE FILING
The Union agrees the Company shall assume no responsibility for and shall not be required to consider any grievance unless the grievance has been presented under and in accordance with the provisions of this Article 11.
SECTION 3.	TIME LIMITATION
No grievance shall be eligible for handling hereunder unless proceedings to that end shall be started within 14 calendar days for discharge, demotion or suspension and 21 calendar days for all other violations after the event out of which such grievance has arisen.
SECTION 4.	DISPUTE RESOLUTION
When a grievance arises, it shall be processed as follows:
Informal Resolution. It is in the mutual interest of the Company and the Union to have potential grievances settled prior to the need for a formal grievance. Accordingly, an Informal Resolution Meeting will be requested with the appropriate first line management employee within 14 calendar days for discharge, demotion and suspension and 21 calendar days for all other violations, after the event giving rise to the grievance. Attendance at the Issue Resolution Meeting shall be limited to those individuals actually involved with the issue i.e., management representative, union representative and/or involved employee(s). Any resolution reached shall be final and shall not be considered precedent setting. The subject of any subsequent grievance or arbitration resulting from follure to reach resolution at this meeting shall be limited to the issue addressed In the meeting and be submitted formally to the appropriate Company representative within 10 working days from management's response to the Informal Issue Resolution.
47
Artide 11
A. Informal Resolution meetings will be held as expeditiously as possible but no later titan ten (10) working days after notification by the Union.
SECTION 5.	SUBMISSION
A.	Before a grievance may be submitted for action, it shall be reduced to a statement in writing and signed by a representative of the Union on a form provided by the Union.
B.	The particular form adopted for submission of grievances in writing shall be mutually agreed upon by both parties and shall be the only recognized form,
C.	Ths written statement shall set forth in substance the specific nature of the alleged grievance briefly but in sufficient detail that dates, times, occurrences and the nature of the circumstances causing the grievance can be identified readily. The specific Article, Section and Subsection of this Agreement which allegedly has been violated shall be written into the grievance submission.
SECTION 6.	PROCESS
When a grievance arises, it shall be processed as follows:
Step 1 Second level management and/or designee for grievances within his/her organization.
Step 2 The Regional Manager-Labor Relations and/or designee.
SECTION 7.	MEETINGSAND RESPONSES
A.	Grievance meetings will be held as expeditiously as possible but no later than
10 working days after receipt of either the original grievance or an answer to a grievance.
8. The Company agrees to provide the Union with a decision as expeditiously as possible but no later than 10 working days following a grievance meeting. If the decision is not provided within this time limit, the grievance will automatically be eligible for handling at the next step.
C.	If the grievance is not submitted by the Union to the next level as outlined in the Article within 10 working days following receipt of the Company's decision, it shall not be eligible for further appeal.
48
Article 11
D.	If the grievance Is not satisfactorily adjusted under the procedure of Section 5, the matter shall be considered closed unless subject to mediation and/or arbitration.
E.	The time periods specified in this section may be extended or modified by mutual consent.
SECTION 8.	UNION ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS
Pay shall be allowed for attendance at grievance meetings during employee's scheduled tours for a maximum of 3 Union representatives.
SECTION 9.	INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS
Nothing contained in this Article 11 shall be construed to restrict in any way the individual right of the employees to present grievances directly to the Company provided the Union has been given the opportunity to have 1 representative present during any settlement.
SECTION 10.	CLAIMS FOR BACK WAGES
A.	Claims for back wages shall be limited to making the employee whole and no more.
B.	With respect to wages "make whole" means reimbursing the individual for the basic wages he/she would have made if his/her employment had been continuous, less wages from any source, Workers' Compensation, Unemployment Compensation or other monetary compensation which the employee would not have been eligible for had he/she not been suspended or discharged during the period.
ARTICLE 12
ARBITRATION
SECTION 1.	DEFINITION
Arbitration shall be limited to a controversy or dispute between the parties arising from the interpretation or application of the terms of this Agreement that remains unresolved following the application of Article 11.
SECTION 2.	TIME LIMITATION
43
Article 12
If the Union desires to arbitrate a matter as defined in Section 1 of this Article, it shall present a Demand for Arbitration to the American Arbitration Association within 30 days from certified receipt of the last Company answer, or within 10 days of mediation. A copy of the Demand for Arbitration shall be forwarded to the Company. The time periods specified in this section may be extended or modified by mutual consent.
SECTION 3.	ARBITRATOR SELECTION
A single Arbitrator shall be selected by the parties alternately deleting 1 name from a list of 9 arbitrators that shall be provided by the American Arbitration Association,
SECTION 4.	PROCEEDINGS
A. All proceedings under this Article shall be carried on as expeditiously as possible.
8. The Arbitration proceedings under this Article shall follow the current voluntary labor arbitration rules established by the American Arbitration Association.
C.	The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties.
D.	The Arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, subtract from, modify or alter the terms of this Agreement,
SECTION 5.	BACK WAGES .
A.	The Arbitrator shall have the authority to decide on ciaims for back wages when the issue is involved, but limited to making the employee whole and no more.
B.	With respect to wages "make whole" means reimbursing the individual for the basic wages he/she would have made if his/her employment had been continuous, less wages from any source. Workers' Compensation, Unemployment Compensation or other monetary compensation which the employee would not have been eligible for had he/she not been suspended or discharged during that period.
SECTION 6.	COST OF PROCEEDINGS
A.	Each party shall bear the expense of preparing and presenting its own case,
including the costs of witnesses and other persons present on behalf of each party.
50
Arida 13
B.	The cost of the Arbitrator and incidental expenses of the arbitration proceeding mutually agreed to in advance, shall be bome equally by the parties.
ARTICLE 13
UNION ACTIVITY
SECTION 1.	DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVES
A.	The Company and the Union shall respectively keep each other informed In writing of the designations and names of authorized representatives.
B.	The Company will recognize stewards selected in accordance with Union rules and regulations as Union representatives of employees in the respective groups or departments for which they are chosen.
SECTION 2.	UNION ACTIVITY ON COMPANY PROPERTY
Stewards or officers of the Union shall not engage in Union activity during working hours on Company property except when attending joint conferences mutually agreed upon or when processing grievances. However, such employees shall be permitted 1 hour before and 1 hour after normal working hours on Company property, without pay, as necessary in the pursuit of their legally recognized Union duties provided there is no interference with employees working or with work in progress.
SECTION 3.	NEGOTIATION MEETINGS
The Union will designate six (6) representatives to be excused from their normal work assignment and paid at the basic hourly rate to attend joint conferences with Management for the purpose of negotiating new contract language, changes, amendments or modifications to this Agreement.
1.	Additional representatives may be excused from their normal work assignments without pay to attend such conferences on an ad hoc basis with mutual consent of Management.
SECTION 4.	ABSENCE FOR JOINT CONFERENCES
A.	Officers and designated representatives of the Union may be excused from work for attending joint conferences mutually agreed upon by the parties or for the purpose of attending grievance meetings in the manner provided for in Article 11.
51
Article 14
B.	Such absence from work must be with the expressed permission of each representative's supervisor.
C.	Officers and designated representatives of the Union shall not suffer loss of basic pay within the limits of their normal scheduled work hours when excused to attend joint conferences mutually agreed upon or as provided for in Article 11.
SECTION 5.	ABSENCE FOR UNION ACTIVITY
A.	Officers and designated representatives may be excused from work, upon request, to attend Union meetings and conventions or otherwise carry out their Union duties.
B.	Unless otherwise agreed to, such time off shall not be paid for by the Company.
ARTICLE 14
DEDUCTIONS FOR UNION MEMBERSHIP DUES	.
SECTION 1.	DUES DEDUCTION
The Company agrees to make monthly collection of Union dues (not including initiation fees, fines or special assessments) for any employee submitting a signed payroll deduction authorization form to the Company, and to pay over to the Financial Secretaries of each Local the total amount thus deducted for all such employees, together with a list of the names of the individuals for whom the deductions were made.
SECTION 2.	AUTHORIZATION
Collection of Union dues by payroll deduction for any employee will proceed only on the basis of specific written authorization signed by the individual employee and delivered to the Company: Such written authorization shall be on a form fully acceptable to the Company and will continue in effect only during such periods as this Agreement or extensions thereof are in effect and the authorization remains unrevoked by the employee.
SECTION 3.	INSUFFICIENT PAY
Where an employee receives insufficient pay or no pay on the scheduled day for monthly dues deduction, no deduction for Union dues will be made. The Company will attempt to make the deduction at a subsequent date.
52
Article 15 & 16
SECTION 4.	CORRECTIONS
Wherein errors occur either through failure to begin deduction of the dues or to cease deductions, correction will be made as of the date such error is discovered without retroactive payments or deductions one way or the other.
SECTION 5.	DISCONTINUATION
If an employee is transferred or promoted on a permanent basis to an employment status exempt from the provisions of this Agreement, the Company will discontinue immediately the deduction of Union dues and will notify the employee that his job classification does not come within the provisions of the Agreement.
SECTION 6.	COMPANY RESPONSIBILITY
The Union agrees that the Company assumes no responsibility in connection with deduction of dues except that of forwarding money deducted as set forth in this Article 14.
ARTICLE 15
BULLETIN BOARDS
SECTION 1.	PLACEMENT
The Company agrees that the Union may provide a sufficient number of presentable bulletin boards in each exchange area in mutually agreeable locations to be used exclusively for Union notices.
SECTION 2.	RESTRICTIONS ON SUBJECT MATTER
Material posted shall not contain anything political, religious, racial, controversial or contentious.
ARTICLE 16
CONTINUOUS EMPLOYMENT
SECTION 1.	EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITY
The Union agrees that its members who are employees of the Company will individually and collectively perform loyal and efficient service, that they will use their influences and best efforts to protect the property of the Company and will cooperate with the Company at all times.
53
Artiste 16
SECTION 2.	RULES AND REGULATIONS
In the interest of safety, continuity of service and efficient and orderly operation, the Union agrees that its members will abide by the Company's rules and regulations. Accordingly, it is understood that all rules and regulations now in effect, or as adopted or changed in the future, shall be enforced and observed at all times. However, no rule or regulation shall be adopted which is contrary to the law or to the terms of the Agreement except at a legally enforceable order of an agency of the Government.
SECTION 3,	NO STRIKE - NO LOCKOUT
A.	The Union agrees that during the term of this Agreement neither the Union nor its agents nor its members will authorize, instigate, aid, condone or engage in work stoppage, slow-down or strike. The Company agrees that during the same period there shall be no lockouts.
B.	It is understood that an employee will not be required to cross a lawful picket line at a customer's premises against that customer, where a strike is in effect by said customer's employees. If employees are not available to perform such work, the work may be performed by Management personnel.
C.	In order that the intent and purpose of this Section may be effectively executed, the Union agrees that the Company may discipline or discharge any employee violating the no-strike provisions of this Section.
SECTION 4.	CONTINUATION OF BENEFITS
All existing benefits for the welfare of the employees of the Company who are covered by the terms of this Agreement including those which are presently in effect under (a) Plan for Hourly Paid Employees' Pensions, (b) Group Life Insurance Plan, (c) GTE Hourly Savings Plan, (d> GTE Point of Service Medical Plan, (e) Long Term Disability Rian (LTD), (f) Dental Plan, or (g) Leaves of Absence shall not be reduced during the period of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 17
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION 1.	MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
54
Article 17
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed to limit the Company in any way in the exercise of the regular generally recognized customary functions and responsibilities of Management of the business and direction of the working force consistent with safe working practices including the right to hire, to use improved methods or equipment, to combine jobs, to discontinue jobs, to determine work assignments and tours, to decide the number of employees needed at any particular time or place and to be the sole judge of the communications service rendered the public. Moreover, such functions of Management as may be included herein shall not be deemed to limit other functions of Management not specifically included herein.
SECTION 2.	STANDARDS
The right of the Company to establish, determine and maintain standards of telephone service to the public is fully recognized. The Company shall not be required to retain in its employ any employee who fails continuously to meet established work standards unless such failure arises from causes due to working conditions beyond the employee's control. The Company recognizes the obligation to treat employees with fairness and Justice; however, if an employee repeatedly refuses to meet established work standards he may be disciplined or discharged.
SECTION 3.	CONTRACT LABOR
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit the Company in the employment of such contract labor as in the discretion of the Company may become necessary for the proper construction, installation and maintaining of communication facilities owned, serviced and/or operated by the Company for the rendition of proper and adequate communication service to the public. However, the Company shall not enter into any contractual arrangement for the construction, installation and/or current maintaining of plant facilities as may result in the current layoff or part-timing of its employees customarily performing work of the same nature as that to be provided under the contractual arrangement.
The Company will provide the Local Union Presidents with timely information as to how many contractors’ employees are engaged in clerical work, or construction, installation and/or maintaining of communication facilities within the jurisdiction of the respective Local Unions. It is understood and agreed that the Company will not provide information to the Local Unions concerning contractors engaged in tree trimming, construction of buildings, maintenance of buildings, telephone booth cleaning, manhole guards, security guards and traffic studies.
55
Article 18,19 & 20
ARTICLE 18
AMENDMENTS
This Agreement shall be subject to amendment at any time by mutual consent of the parties hereto. Such amendment shall be reduced to writing, state the effective date and be executed in the same manner as is this Agreement.
ARTICLE 19
FEDERAL OR STATE LAWS
In the event that any federal or state law or regulation or the final decision of any court or board of competent jurisdiction directly or indirectly affects one or more practices or provisions of this Agreement, the practices or provisions so affected shall be made to conform with the requirements of such law, regulation or decision. In all other respects this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 20
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
SECTION 1
This agreement and the provisions thereof, when signed by authorized representatives of the Company and the Union, shall be effective from October 28, 2001 to and including, October 23,2004 and shall continue in full force and effect thereafter unless terminated by written notice from either party to the other in which case ttirs contract shall terminate 60 days following the receipt of such notice. After receipt of the notice to terminate, the parties shall commence collective bargaining with respect to a new contract on a date that is mutually agreeable to the parties.
In the event a new contract is not agreed upon between the parties hereto, before this contract is terminated as a result of such notice, this contract may be extended beyond such termination date by mutual agreement by the parties hereto.
SECTION 2
Meetings for the purpose of negotiating amendments or modifications shall begin within 30 days after delivery of Vie original notice. All terms of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect during the period that negotiations are in process.
56
Article 21
ARTICLE 21
SHORT TERM DISABILITY BENEFIT PLAN
SECTION 1.	SHORT TERM BENEFITS
A.	Full-time employees shall be allowed disability payments at basic rates for scheduled work days absent from duty when disabled by illness or physical injury in accordance with the following schedule:
Accredited Service	# of days or weeks allowed	Payment starts on
		
1 yr, but less than 5 yrs.	4 wks full pay 13 wks half pay	4m consecutive sch. day absent
		
5 yrs, but less than 10 yrs.	13 wks full pay 13 wks half pay	3rt consecutive sch. day absent
		
10 yrs, but less than 15 yrs.	13 wks full pay 39 wks half pay	2"° consecutive sch. day absent
		
15 yrs, but less than 20 yrs	20 wks full pay 32 wks half pay	2nd consecutive sch. day absent
		
20 yrs. or more	26 wks full pay 26 wks half pay	1st sch. day absent
1.	Non-scheduled days will not be included as part of the waiting period.
2.	For employees with one (1) year or more of accredited service the waiting period will be waived if the employee has not been absent for illness, injury or occupational injury in the preceding 180 days, if the employee is hospitalized on the first scheduled work day of absence, or for a surgical procedure performed in an outpatient surgical facility or hospital when the employee provides documentation of the surgical procedure performed.
3.	A second waiting period will not be required if a regular employee is again forced because of illness or injury to leave work within his/her fourteen (14) calendar days following the end of the prior absence for which benefits were paid. Management may waive the waiting period in those instances where an employee is suffering an extended or cata
57
Article 21
strophic illness/injury and has made every reasonable effort to return to and/or remain at work.
4.	An employee may elect with supervisory approval to offset scheduled lost time through Short Term Disability by using day-at-a-time vacation and/or personal holiday(s).
B.	Absences must be authorized by the appropriate management representative and prior to authorization of absences exceeding three (3) consecutive scheduled days, the Company shall require the employee to furnish a medical physician's report to support the illness or injury. Illness or physical injuries in excess of three (3) consecutive scheduled days not substantiated by a medical physician’s report will be ineligible for Short Term Disability Benefits,
C,	Management will reserve the right to investigate any case of disability due to illness, injury or nervous disorder, for which benefits are requested and may require an opinion from a physician other than the one in regular attendance, or a statement from the physician in regular attendance.
D.	Successive periods of Short Term Disability shall be subject to the waiting days outlined in Paragraph A and shall be counted together as one period in computing the period during which an employee shall be entitled to benefits. Any sickness occurring after an employee has been continuously engaged in the performance of duty for thirteen (13) weeks shall be considered as new sickness and not part of any disability which preceded such period of thirteen (13) weeks.
E.	Employees shall not be entitled to receive Short Term Disability Benefits for time for which any other payments are paid them by the Company.
F An employee who is qualified for Short Term Disability Benefits and whose condition permits reporting for work on a partial basis, shall be paid wages for hours worked and allowable Short Term Disability Benefits for the balance of the scheduled tour.
G.	Regular part-time employees will be granted Short Term benefits in accordance with the schedule except eligibility will be on an adjusted service basis. Payment for days or weeks allowed will be done by computing the total number of hours worked in a previous representative week (s) and dividing that total by the number of days scheduled.
H.	No rights to benefits under this Article shall exist in the case of disability for work time lost for mental and/or emotional illness, drug addiction and/or alcoholism (with the exception of hospitalization and/or intensive out-patient therapy) unless the determination for disability is made by a
58
Article 22
licensed psychiatrist.
SECTION 2.	ON-THE-JOB INJURY
Regular employees wifi be allowed disability benefit pay on account of physical disability to woric by reason of accidental injury arising out of and in the course of employment with the Company in accord with the following:
A. For the first thirteen (13) weeks, such payment will be the difference between Workers Compensation and 85% of the employee's basic hourly rate.
SECTION 3.	RECOVERY OF WAGES
In the event an employee receives a recovery for lost wages from a third party, the Company shall have a lien on the proceeds of any recovery from the third party, after the deduction of reasonable and necessary expenditures, including attorney's fees, to the extent of the total amount of the disability benefits paid by the plan.
ARTICLE 22
GROUP INSURANCE
The benefits provided by the Point of Service Medical Plan and the Dental Plan will not be discontinued or amended without the agreement of the Company and the Union.
The Point of Service Medical Plan and the Dental Plan will be administered solely in accordance with their provisions, and no matter concerning the Point of Service Medical Plan, the Dental Plan, or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the Grievance-Arbitration Procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The selection of the Plan Administrators, the administration of the Plans and all terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company. If either the Point of Service Medical Plan and/or the Dental Plan Administrator change during the life of the Agreement, there will be no decrease in benefits.
Coverage under the Medical and Dental Plans for regular full-time and part-time employees begins ninety (90) days following date of hire or the date which the employee enrolls, whichever is later.
Major improvements to the Company sponsored Medical Plan effective July 1,2002 Include:
59
Article 22
A.	Wherein there is a Lifetime Maximum of $1,000,000, this maximum will increase to $2,000,000.
B.	A hearing aid benefit will be added to the Company sponsored Medical Plan. This benefit will provide coverage for expenses for a hearing examination by a licensed audiologist or physician, the hearing aid device, molds, repairs, hearing aid check and batteries. The maximum reimbursement under this benefit is $1,000 per covered individual every 24 months. The benefit is not subject to deductible, co-pays or R&C and there are no separate maximums for any in or out of network expenses. Hearing aids are covered for all hearing impairments that are a result of birth defects, illness, accidents and/or injury and progressive loss of hearing. Replacement and repair of hearing aids are covered unless due to misuse or loss.
C.	Eligible surviving spouses, dependents and registered domestic partners (RDP) of an active employee who participates in a Company sponsored Medical Plan, shall be provided with medical - coverage at no charge for twenty-four (24) months following the death of the employee.
D.	Effective January 1, 2003 employees who elect not to enroll themselves or their eligible dependents in the Company sponsored Medical Plan or an HMO will be eligible for an annual “opt out” credit of five hundred dollars ($500). This credit will be given to the employee over twenty-four (24) pay periods on his/her bi-weekly paycheck. In order to be eligible for this credit, the employee may be required to provide satisfactory evidence of medical coverage upon request
60
Article 22
Improvements to the Company sponsored Dental Plan effective July 1, 2002 are as follows:
A.	Orthodontic Care: Increase per covered person lifetime maximum from $1,000 to $1,500.
B.	TMJ Care: Establish new per covered person lifetime maximum of $500.
C.	Preventive General & Major Services: Increase per covered person annual maximum from $1,000 to $1,500.
D.	The annual $25.00 per individual deductible will be waived when an employee and/or his/her enrolled dependents use a Preferred Dental Provider (PDPj.
With respect to Medical and Dental Insurance, the Company agrees to the following monthly premium payments during the life of this Contract:
Coverage Type
Point of Service Medical Insurance
Regular Full-Time Employees
Regular Part-Time Employees Hired Prior to November 5,1989.
Single
Employee + 1
Family
Regular Part-Time Employees Hired after 11/5/1989
Single Employee +1 Family
100%
100%
100%
100% 50% 50%
Part-time employees who have worked 1560 hours or more in the preceding year shall be eligible for 100% coverage under the Medical Plan.
61
Article 22
Coverage Type ■	Dental Indemnity
Regular Full-Time Employees:
Current Company Effective	Effective
Contribution January 1,2003 January 1,2004
Single	'100%	100%	100%
Employee +1	50%	75%	80%
Family	50%	75%	80%
Regular Part-Time Employees:			
Single	100%	100%	100%
Employee +1	50%	50%	60%
Family	50%	50%	60%
62
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized officers and committees on November 8, 2001.
ATTEST.
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
(s)Amy M McDevitt, Region Pr£sident-Mid-Atlantrc Region	*
(s) Mary J. Darling, Regional ManagerLabor Relations
Signature u
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFFILIATED WITH THE AFL-CIO, LOCAL UNIONS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
By (s) Carl A. Crone, President IBEW, Local, 1451
By (s) Frank S. Svencer, President IBEW. Local 1635
By (s) Robin L. Pirrello, President IBEW, Local 1637

By (s) Donna Howrylchak, President IBEW, Local 1944
Signature
Signature
63
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
These Articles embody the total Agreement between Verizon North Inc. (MidAtlantic Region) and the System Council T-1, IBEW with the exception of the agreed upon documents exhibited within the addendum, orgrievance resolutions and expressed intentions made during contract negotiations where the contract language has not subsequently been changed. It is understood that "Local Agreements" made between Local Union Officials and Local Management will not be disrupted by this memorandum, nor will they be binding upon the Company in other areas or the System Council T-1.
64
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
TRANSFER WITH CONSOLIDATION
In the event that the Company transfers or consolidates work functions from one location to another location as defined by Article 3, Section 15, the filling of all additional bargaining unit positions associated with said transfer will be accomplished in the following manner.
1.	Employees at the "receiving” location who are currently force adjusted out of the specific "occupational title" and have recall rights to said title, shall be offered recall in accordance with Article 10, Section 9.
2.	If vacancies continue to exist following the recall or if a recall is not applica-
ble, employees within the same occupational title at the location that the functions are being eliminated and/or transferred from, will be offered the opportunity to voluntarily transfer to such vacancies at the "receiving" location. Said transfers will be offered in accordance with the employees' seniority.
Note: Should a consolidation involve the reduction of jobs at multiple locations, the Company will specifically identify the number of vacancies being created for each location and the transfer opportunities will be prorated accordingly.
3.	If vacancies continue to exist following the implementation of 1 and 2 above, said vacancies will be advertised at both the "receiving" location and the location(s) where the associated reduction will occur.
The selection process will be done in accordance with Article 5, Section 14, Paragraph B for all employees at the "receiving" location. If all of the advertised vacancies are not filled, the selection process will continue in accordance with Article 5, Section 14, Paragraph B at the other locations(s) where said jobs were advertised.
4.	Should vacancies continue to exist after all of the above, the Company will give due consideration to any requests for voluntary transfers from any location in accordance with Article 5, Section 15.
It is understood and agreed upon between the Company and the Union that any and all employee transfers referenced above will be done in accordance with Article 5, Section 15, Paragraph G.
It is further understood and agreed upon between the Company and union, that the implementation of this Memorandum of Agreement may take place, with
65
proper notice to the Union, up to six months in advance of the actual reclassification and/or transfer date.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Holiday M. Parker
State Director-Human Resources
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Locals 1451, 1451-1, 1635, 1637
and 1944
By C. Daniel Porter, Jr. .
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: 12/16/86
66
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
MYERSTOWN PLANT ENGINEERING POSITIONS
Verizon North Inc. (Mld-Atlantic Region) and System Council T-1 agree to exclude from the bargaining unit the two outside plant engineering positions in Myerstown. The parties further agree the exclusion applies to the two positions and not the incumbents and shall remain in effect regardless of the number of positions in existence at any one time.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Holiday M. Parker
State Director-Human Resources
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Locals 1451,1451-1, 1635, 1637 and 1944
By C. Daniel Porter, Jr.
Chairman, System Counsel T-1
Date: 12/16/86
67
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
SEASONAL WORKERS
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) (successor to GTE North Incorporated (Northeast Region) and General Telephone Company of Pennsylvania) and the System Council T-1 of the IBEW hereby agree to establish a new classification of SEASONAL WORKER under the following provisions.
A. Seasonal Workers will be hired at the beginning of the construction season and terminated at the end of such season.
1.	Seasonal Workers will not be hired to work in occupational titles within locations that regular employees are force adjusted out of.
8. Seasonal Workers will perform the duties of burying and termination of drops and/or assisting tn the placement of outside plant Facilities.
1. Seasonal Workers will not operate heavy machinery but will be required to operate lawn plows and drive Company vehicles that do not require a Class 3 operators license.
C.	Seasonal Workers will be compensated in accordance with Wage Schedule 4.
1.	Seasonal Workers rehired in subsequent years will be placed on the
wage step they were on at the time of termination. Subsequent progression increases will proceed from the date of rehire.
D.	All provisions of the contract will be applicable to Seasonal Workers with the following exceptions:
1.	Seasonal Workers will not be eligible for Holiday Allowance until they
have completed the Probationary Period. If such employees are rehired in subsequent years, they will be eligible to receive Holiday Allowance for designated holidays that fall within their term of employment immediately upon rehire.
2.	Seasonal Workers will not be eligible for any compensation in accordance with Articles 5, Section 16 "Approved Absence" and/or Article 21 “Short Term Disability Benefit Plan”.
3.	Seasonal Workers will accrue service and seniority only for the current employment period. Service will not be bridged unless the requirements of Article 6, Section 6 are met. Seniority will be
6S
bridged immediately upon rehire.
4.	Company provided medical insurance will begin 90 days from date of hire or when the employee enrolls whichever is later.
5.	The provision of Article 10 will not be applicable to Seasonal Workers.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
69
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC, (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
ADOPTION ASSISTANCE
1.	Effective July 1,2002, Verizon agrees to make available the opportunity for regular full or part-time employees of the Company who are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement to participate in the Adoption Assistance Plan which allows employees to claim reimbursement of expenses incurred on or after the effective date up to 510,000 per adopted child in accordance with existing Plan provisions.
2.	The selection of the administrator, the administration of the Plan and all the terms and conditions rotating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes Involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration, or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company. No matter concerning the Adoption Assistance Plan or any difference thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement
3.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth In this Memorandum of Agreement shall also terminate on October 23,2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
70
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1037 and 1944
SEASONAL EMPLOYMENT
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 agree that bargaining unit employees who have been force adjusted and are within their period of recall rights may be engaged for work assignments and specific projects on a seasonal basis. Wherever practical and consistent with the needs of the business, Seasonal Employees shall be used in lieu of contractors when qualified employees who have recall rights are available to perform the work. Seasonal Employees shall be employed for a designated period of time not to exceed ten (10) consecutive months with the following stipulations:
1.	If the most senior qualified employee has been force adjusted to another position an offer wilt be extended to the Department Manager wherein the employee is working. The offer extended will be an option to the departinent to release the force adjusted employee to the seasonal assignment or to retain the employee and pay the difference in hourly wage rate to the force adjusted employee for the duration of the seasonal assignment.
2.	Employees placed under this Agreement will have the word "Seasonal' preceding their occupational title. For example, an employee who is placed in the occupational title of Construction Technician will, for record purposes, have a new occupational title of Seasonal Construction Technician.
3.	A Seasonal Employee will be heated as a regular employee for the time that he/she is re-employed. Upon completion of the work assignment, the Seasonal Employee will be returned to the status and/or position held immediately preceding the seasonal assignment. The use of seasonal employment will supersede the application of Article 10.
4.	An employee recalled on a seasonal basis will not be eligible for per diem under Article 5, Section 13 by virtue of this seasonal recall. If a
71
seasonal employee is subsequently assigned to work temporarily at a location other than the "seasonal* reporting center, per diem will apply as outlined in Article 5, Section 13.
5.	Offers of seasonal employment will be made in the order of seniority. If however, the anticipated duration of the assignment is less than 30 days, offers of seasonal employment will be made to individuals eligible for recall from layoff only,
6.	An employee may elect to reject a recall to a seasonal occupational title without forfeiting their recall rights to a regular full time position.
7.	The two (2) year period for recall will be adjusted by any service accrued during a seasonal recall.
8.	An individual who accepts seasonal employment shall be placed on the appropriate wage progression schedule in accordance with Article 10, Section 9, Paragraph G.
9.	When applicable. Management will honor an employee's previous vacation selection to the extent possible and agrees to discuss this with the employee prior to the employee making the decision to accept the seasonal recall. Employees on layoff will accrue vacation based on the period of time worked on seasonal recall.
10.	An individual who is recalled from layoff for seasonal employment will be eligible for recognized holidays in accordance with Article 5, Section 10A. The recalled employee will be granted eight (8) hours of holiday allowance in lieu of a personal holiday for each 120 calendar days of seasonal employment.
11.	The Company will notify the Union prior to initiation of seasonal employment to discuss the classification, numbers of employees, locations and the expected duration of the seasonal recall.
12.	By executing this agreement, neither the Company or the Union waives any argument or position it has maintained with respect to current provisions of the collective bargaining agreement pertaining to layoffs, recall rights, or the use of contractors as set forth in the current collective bargaining agreement and/or as advanced in pending grievances.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and will remain in effect through October 23,2004. Thereafter, it will remain in effect from year to year unless terminated by not less than 60 days written notice served by either party upon the other.
72
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Cad A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date; December 6, 2001
73
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
HOME DISPATCH
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and the System Council T-1 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers hereby agree that Management may extend to employees in the occupational titles of Customer Zone Technician II, Business Zone Technician, and Cable Specialist, the opportunity to participate in the Home Dispatch Program.
Employees that elect to participate in the Home Dispatch Program will be provided a Company vehicle in order to begin work at the start of each tour at a designated work location and leave at the end of each tour from a work location.
It is understood and agreed that participation in the Home Dispatch Program will be on a voluntary basis only.
It is further understood and agreed that employees participating in the Home Dispatch Program will not be eligible for the per diems outlined in Article 5, Section 13, Paragraphs D1. The provisions of Article 5, Section 13, Paragraphs D2, 03 and D4 will be applied when an employee's first assignment of the day is to a work location within one of those distances from their designated reporting center.
The parties agree that this Memorandum of Agreement shall become effective upon ratification of the Articles of Agreement and shall remain in effect for the duration of the Articles of Agreement.
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Holiday M. Parker
Regional Director-Human Resources
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Locals 1451, 1635,1637 and 1944
By Nancy L. Schneider
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: 11/22/92
74
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
GRIEVANCE MEDIATION
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635 , 1637 and 1944 agree to establish Grievance Mediation, for grievances relating to discipline, sickness disability benefits and time limitations relating to grievances as designated in Article 11.
1.	Mediation will be requested within 15 working days after receipt of the Company's second step answer as outlined in Article 11.
2.	The Company and Union by mutual agreement may request the assistance of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Services, prior to arbitration. Should the availability of the Federal mediator be unnecessarily delayed, the Company and Union by mutual agreement may request the assistance of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Bureau of Mediation.
3.	The parties will select a mediator and establish a mediation conference as expeditiously as possible for both parties.
4.	The mediation conference will be held in a mutually agreed to location.
5.	The mediation conference will normally be attended by the grievant, Local Union President and those people actually invoked in the mediation conference. Pay shall be allowed for the attendance at the mediation conference during employees scheduled tours for a maximum of 3 Union representatives.
75
Verizon North Inc.
(MId-Atiantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Cart A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 9, 2001
76
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635 .1637 and 1944
OVERTIME
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 recognize that It is in the best interest of the Company, the Union and employees to have our customers perceive Verizon as the Telecommunications Provider of Choice. The parties recognize that there may be occasions when overtime work may be necessary. While it is the hope of both parties that these occasions will be satisfied by having employees volunteer to work overtime, it is recognized that there may be occasions when employees will have to be assigned to perform such overtime work. In an effort to allot these assignments in a fair and equitable manner, the parties have agreed to equalize overtime with the following understanding:
1.	Management will maintain overtime distribution lists (per local practice) for each occupational title and/or zone which will reflect the overtime actually worked and the overtime charged for each employee within the occupational title and/or zone,
A.	Employees that work overtime will be charged the hours actually . worked.
B.	Employees that have been asked to work but do not work will be charged with the hours associated with the declined assignment.
C.	Employees that were contacted telephonically and a message was left, will be charged with the hours associated with the assignment for which the contact was made.
2.	From the overtime list, Management will develop two (2) "availability lists" which will consist of employees who have made known their availability to work either
A.	Planned Overtime - Which will consist of overtime that is either contiguous to an employee's tour or scheduled to be worked on
77
an employee's non-scheduled day,
OR
B.	Call-Out - Which will consist of time worked during an unforeseen condition which necessitates an immediate response from the employee.
By the employee placing his or her name on either availability list they consent to be available to work as indicated for that respective list.
3,	When overtime or call-out is required, Management will refer to the appropriate availability list and choose the employee(s) with the least amount of overtime hours charged that possess the skills necessary to perform the required work.
It should be noted that each list will be equalized separately. Specifically, call-outs will not count towards planned overtime equalization and planned overtime will not count towards call-out equalization.
4.	When a sufficient number of employees have not been obtained from the appropriate availability list to meet the Company's overtime requirements, Management will assign employees to work from the overtime distribution list. Such asstgnment(s) will be determined on the basis of least hours actually worked.
5	For purposes of assigning employees to work overtime, the parties agree to an ’’overtime cap" of twelve hours within a calendar week. Once an employee has actually worked 12 hours or more of overtime within a calendar week, he or she will have the ability to decline any further non-emergency overtime assignments during that particular week except as defined tn Paragraph A below:
A.	The Union and Company recognize there are times when it is necessary to require employees to work beyond the 12 hour cap.
1.	It is not the Company’s intent to routinely assign employees beyond the 12 hour cap, but rather to ensure the Company’s ability to meet customer committed activity in exceptional situations. When such a situation occurs the Company will confer with the respective local Union whenever the overtime cap will be exceeded. This communication will identify the nature and estimated duration of the non-emergency along with any proposed resolutions. The Company will solicit
78
input from the local Union to resolve the non-emergency whenever the overtime cap will be exceeded.
B.	The language of paragraph A and A-1 above shall remain in effect through June 1, 2000. Thereafter, it will remain In effect from year to year unless terminated by not less than 60 days written notice served by either party upon the other,
C.	Should Paragraph B be invoked by either party, the overtime language will revert to the language as outlined tn the Memorandum of Agreement on Overtime contained in the Articles of Agreement dated November 5, 1995, with the exception that overtime will be capped at fourteen (14) hours within a calendar week,
D,	All overtime hours worked may be counted toward this "overtime cap". This will include any time worked that is associated with callouts as well as any planned overtime.
E.	For purposes of the "overtime cap" only, all hours worked or scheduled to be worked on a designated holiday may be counted toward the "overtime cap" whenever an employee is required by Management to work and the employee elects to receive the holiday allowance.
6.	The Local Union Presidents will be provided with a copy of the Monthly Overtime Distribution List
7.	If an individual is not available for equalization of overtime in a work classification because of lack of qualifications or a change in job title, he will be placed on the overtime distribution list(s) with the maximum overtime hours charged and the minimum hours actually worked of those respective people in his work classification when he becomes available for overtime.
The Company and Union agree to meet at the request of either party and discuss the application of this memorandum as deemed necessary. The parties agree that this Memorandum of Agreement shall become effective upon ratification of the Articles of Agreement and shall remain in effect for the duration of the Articles of Agreement. '
79
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 19,1998
60
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451, 1635 ,1637 and 1944
CUSTOMER ENGINEER-DATA APPLICATIONS
As a result of the transition from the Branch Organization Verizon North Inc. (MidAtlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 agree to discontinue the Customer Engineer - Data Application Team Incentive Plan as follows:
1.	Effective January 1,1999, Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) will terminate in whole, the Customer Engineer Data Applications Team Incentive Plan. This termination will not affect sales incentive already earned under the Team Incentive Plan.
2.	Also effective January 1,1999, Verizon North tnc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) will place ail employees currently holding the Customer Engineer - Data Applications title on the Team Performance Award (TPA) Incentive Plan.
3.	To compensate for any loss of compensation, the Company agrees to roll the targeted sales incentive compensation award amount into the base hourly rate for this position. Effective January 1,1999, this will result in a $2.25 per hour increase to each step of the existing Wage Schedule 13 upon ratification of the Articles of Agreement.
4.	The Customer Engineer - Data Applications will be responsible for providing customer support through hardware installations and maintenance of Verizon provided Datacom and Office Systems products and services. In addition, this position will provide software installation and maintenance assistance to the Application Engineer for large and/or complex projects.
Bl
5.	Customer Engineer-Data Applications shall work wherever assigned by the
Company and may cross any and all jurisdictional boundaries without consequence. Customer Engineers-Data Applications from any Verizon bargaining unit may perform such work within the jurisdictional boundaries covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement between Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region} and between International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451,1636,1637 and 1944. Hours of work, overtime and premium pay, holidays, travel and per diem payments will be in accordance with the provisions of their home Collective Bargaining Agreement except that any provisions requiring the equalization of overtime will not apply to Customer Engineer-Data Applications.
This Memorandum of Agreement will become effective upon the ratification of the Articles of Agreement and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that all the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also expire on October 23, 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region}
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
82
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
DISCRETIONARY AWARDS
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atiantic Region) and System Council T-1, IBEW hereby agree that employees may receive discretionary awards in accordance with Company policies.
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Holiday M. Parker
Regional Director-Human Resources
By Nancy L. Schneider
Chairman, System Council T-1, IBEW
Date: 11/22/92
S3
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. {MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635, 1637 and 1944
DOMESTIC PARTNER BENEFITS
1.	Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region), ("the Company"), and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944, ("the Union"), agree to extend benefits, as set forth below, to employees' domestic partners and children of domestic . partners.
2.	Effective January 1, 2001, employees may elect health and welfare benefits coverage of domestic partners and children of domestic partners, as described below.
3.	The Company and the Union agree that eligibility of a domestic partner for health and welfare benefits shall be based on the following conditions:
A.	The employee and the domestic partner are same-sex, adult partners. '
B.	Neither the employee nor the domestic partner is married or a domestic partner of a third party.
C.	Both the employee and the domestic partner are at least eighteen (18) years of age and are mentally competent to contract
D.	The employee and the domestic partner are not related by blood to a degree of closeness that would prohibit legal marriage in their state of residence.
E.	The employee and the domestic partner live together at the same permanent residence.
84
F.
The employee and the domestic partner are jointly responsible for each other’s welfare and basic living expenses.
G.	The domestic partner is the employee’s sole domestic partner and intends to remain so indefinitely.
H.	The employee and the domestic partner agree to notify the Company and any other appropriate party of any changes in the above conditions.
4.	The Company and die Union agree that eligibility of children of domestic partners for health and welfare benefits shall be based on the following conditions:
A.	An eligible domestic partner is the natural parent, adoptive parent or legal guardian of the child.
B.	The child is unmarried and either under the age of nineteen (19), or under the age of twenty-five (25), attending an accredited secondary school, college, university or nursing school, and are dependent on the domestic partner for care and support
5.	An employee may elect coverage of a domestic partner and any children of a domestic partner for the following benefits. The amount and availability of benefits are governed by the provisions of the applicable plan and are subject to the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations.
A.	Medical
B.	Dental
C.	Healthy care continuation coverage
D.	Flexible Reimbursement Plan Healthcare Reimbursement
Account (for IRS Tax Dependents)
E.	Dependent Care Reimbursement Account (for IRS Tax
Dependants)
F.	Retiree Medical (limited to Domestic Partner and children of
Domestic Partner who are covered by medical plan at time of employee’s retirement)
65
G.	Group Universal Life
6.	Employees are entitled to Bereavement Leave In the event of the death of a domestic partner, children of the domestic partner and other domestic partner family members as specified in the labor agreement between the parties dated November 1,1998.
7.	Employees are entitled to Family and Medical Leave for the care of a seriously-ill domestic partner, or child of a domestic partner, subject to general eligibility requirements.
8.	Other benefit programs are also available to domestic partners and/or their children, as applicable. Availability and amount of benefit is governed by the applicable plan or policy.
A.	Event travel Expense (one guest accommodated) '
B.	Financial Counseling
C.	Survivor Support
D.	Dependent Scholarships (children of domestic partner only)
E.	Adoption Assistance (employee must be adoptive parent)
F.	Company Discounts (recipient is employee)
G.	Childcare Discounts (recipient is employee)
H.	Employee Assistance Program
9.	In the event that any of the above Domestic Partner Benefits are found to be discriminatory against non-eligible, unmarried employees in any jurisdiction, then these Domestic Partner Benefits will not be available in that jurisdiction.
10,	To the extent that the terms of any plan conflict with the provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement, the terms of such plan shall govern. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Memorandum of Agreement shall constitute part of the plan to which it relates; provided, however, it may be elaborated upon in other plan materials, such as employee bulletins and enrollment materials, by the Company. To the extent that any provision of this Memorandum of Agreement conflicts with any state or local law, the parties agree to discuss the applicability of such state or local law.
86
11.	This Memorandum of Agreement shall terminate October 23, 2004.
Verizon North inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
87
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY
Verizon North Inc, (Mid-Atlantic Region) and Local Unions 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 collectively of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers agree to the implementation of Sections 7.3,7.4 and 7.5 of the Company's Drug and Alcohol Policy (Practice 117-300-000).
This Memorandum of Agreement shall become effective upon ratification of the Articles of Agreement and shall automatically continue in full force and effect for the duration of the Agreement.
This Memorandum of Agreement, as related to Sections 7.3, 7.4 and 7.5 is subject to amendment at any time by mutual consent of both parties.
The following represents the understanding of the parties concerning the implementation of Section 7.3, 7.4 and 7.5 of the Company's Drug and Alcohol Policy (Practice 117-300-000).	.
7.3 a. The Company will require that the observations that result in the requirement for drug and/or alcohol screening will be documented in writing by the management employee(s) who makes the observations.
b.	It is not the intent of the policy to require a drug/alcohol screen as a result of a performance problem(s) in and of itself, without the presence of indicators that would cause a "reasonable person" to conclude that the individual could be under the influence of a drug or alcohol. This is to say that a single indicator that could be the result of many different conditions would not be the sole factor that would result in a requirement for a drug/alcohol screening.
c.	The Company acknowledges that employees will have the right to Union representation, as provided by the Weingarten decision, during foe screening process. The Company has not agreed to representation beyond that provided in Weingarten except as may otherwise be required pursuant to the provisions of applicable law.
d.	The Company agrees to delete the portion of the consent form that reads: "I hereby release GTE, its employees, and any such designated institution or person from any liability resulting from the medical procedures outlined above."
as
e.	At the time the specimen is collected, it will be split Into separate containers. The second specimen will be properly sealed and maintained so as to be available for retest at the request of the employee and/or the Union as described below.
f.	The Company agrees that the employee who tests positive on both the screen and the confirmation test will have the option to request the additional specimen be released to a certified lab to be retested. If there is no second specimen a portion of the remaining specimen will be made available for retest. The Company responsibility for the chain of custody ends when the specimen is released at the direction of the second testing fab. This request must be made by the Union or the employee within ten (10) work days from the date the original test result is provided to the employee. It is understood that the employee and/ or the Union is responsible to arrange for the test and all associated additional cost. The results of this retest will be forwarded to the Company within ten (10) working days from the date the results are available for consideration by the Company.
g.	It is understood that a decision to discipline as a result of a positive test as determined by the GCMS method would depend on all circumstances surrounding the particular situation and would be based on established just cause standards.
h.	It is agreed that an employee who tests positive on the first occasion will not be terminated as a result of this first test, unless surrounding the incident that resulted in the requirement for the test there are other performance or behavior problems that warrant discharge.
7.4	a. The Company agrees that an employee will not be subject to unannounced testing beyond one year as a result of the post treatment provision of the policy.
7.5	a. It is not the intent of the policy to require drug or alcohol screening after an accident (in which no death occurs) as a result of behavior that can clearly be attributed to the accident alone.
89
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Holiday M. Parker
Regional Director-Human Resources
By Nancy L Schneider
Chairman, System Council T-1, IBEW
Date: 11/22/92
90
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
SENIORITY WITH TRANSFER
The Company and the Union have agreed that an employee who transfers from another bargaining unit within (GTE to an occupational title located within the jurisdiction of IBEW Locals 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 due to job consolidation, shall be able to exercise his/her respective seniority as follows:
1.	Within the occupational title he/she transferred into, seniority accumulated within another bargaining unit shall be applicable for all purposes for as long as he/she remains in that classification.
2.	For the purpose of reclassifications, promotions and transfers, only seniority accumulated within the bargaining unit of Verizon North Inc, (Mid-Atlantic Region) shall apply.
3.	If for any reason the employee is reclassified back to the occupational title to which he/she originally transferred into, full bargaining unit seniority shall apply.
The parties agree that this Memorandum of Agreement shall become effective upon ratification of the Articles of Agreement and shall remain in effect for the duration of the Articles of Agreement.
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Holiday M. Parker
Regional Director-Human Resources
By Nancy L. Schneider
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: 11/22/92
91
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL
WORKERS, LOCALS 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944
COMMERCIAL DRIVERS LICENSE (CDL) CDL LICENSING/DOT PHYSICALS AND DRUG TEST
The Company agrees to reimburse those employees in job classifications requiring CDL licenses the difference of costs incurred between renewing an employee’s operator license and a Commercial Drivers License (CDL). In addition, the Company agrees to reimburse the costs incurred by employees that, as a result of State and Federal Law mandates, are required to take the DOT Physical and Drug Test.
This agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that all the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also expire on October 23, 2004, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1	.
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
92
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
FOUR 10 HOUR TOURS
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and System Council T-1, IBEW agree to the following intent with regard to four 10 hour work schedules.
(1)	Management will assign where needed, four (4) ten (10) hour work schedules for employees in the occupational titles of Construction Technician and Equipment Installation Technician.
(2)	For all other occupational titles not mentioned above, Management will solicit employees in advance of preparing the schedules in order to determine what number of schedules will consist of four (4) ten (10) hour tours. Based on this input, Management will determine work schedules of four (4) ten (10) hour tours and five (5) eight (8) hour tours that will effectively meet the demands of the business.
(3)	Employees will be limited to bidding the work schedule they elected, either four (4) ten (10) hour tours or five (5) eight (8) hour tours, via local practice.
(4)	Management reserves the right to revert all schedules back to five (5) eight (8) hour schedules at any time.
(5)	Employees who elect to take day-at-a-time vacation as described in Articles, Section 11 will be paid 10 hours; however, in no case shall an employee's combination of days off (8 hours or 10 hours) exceed eighty (80) hours of pay.
(6)	Employees who elect to take a personal holiday as described in Article
5, Section 10, Paragraph B, will be paid the holiday allowance for 10 hours, which may be taken in two (2) five hour sessions.
The Memorandum of Agreement will become effective with the ratification of the Articles of Agreement and shall remain in effect for the duration of the Articles of Agreement.
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Holiday M. Parker
Regional Director-Human Resources	.
By Nancy L. Schneider
Chairman, System Council T-1, IBEW
Date: 11/22/92	■
93
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVES OF ABSENCE (FMLA)
1.	Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 agree to the provisions concerning Family and Medical Leaves of Absence under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA), set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2.	The purpose of the leave shall be as follows:
(a)	for the birth and care of a newborn child of the employee, or the placement of a child with the employee for adoption or foster care.
(b)	to care for a spouse, biological or adoptive parent, or person who has acted in rote as parent with day-to-day responsibility, or child (biological, adopted, foster or stepchild or legal ward or child for whom the employee has day-to-day parental responsibility), or parent-in-law, grandparent or grandparent-in-law who has a ’'serious health condition*.
(c)	for a serious health condition of the employee which makes the employee unable to perform the functions of the position of such employee. As with any absence for a serious health condition, employees may be required to provide a “fitness for duty" certification to return to work after such leave.
3.	Effective January 1, 2002, the total period of this leave will be up to twelve (12) work weeks within a twelve (12) calendar month period.
4.	Employees who have completed at least twelve (12) months of accredited service at the beginning of the leave and worked at least 1,250 hours during such period may be eligible for leave,
5,	The FMLA excludes employees where there are 50 employees or less
94
within 75 miles of the employee’s worksite. The Company will attempt to accommodate requests for FMLA leave for employees at remote locations, however, such requests may be denied based on business necessity.
6.	Leave may be taken on an intermittent or reduced schedule basis for reasons specified in paragraphs 2.b and 2.c if determined to be “medically necessary* as defined in the Departments of Labor Regulations 29 CFR Part 825. It may not be taken intermittently or on a reduced schedule basis for reasons specified in paragraph 2.a unless approved by the Company.
7.	If an employee is granted intermittent or reduced schedule leave, the Company may require such employee to transfer temporarily to an available alternative, equivalent position that better accommodates recurring periods of leave than the employee's regular position.
8.	Employees shall be required to present, to the satisfaction of the Company's Human Resources Department, documentation concerning the basis for the requested leave of absence. Failure to provide medical certification within 25 days of the request for leave may result in denial of leave.
9.	Employees shall provide the Company with at least thirty (30) days advance notice of intent to take leave when foreseeable.
10.	In cases where both spouses are employees, the leave period will be restricted to a total of twelve (12) work weeks for both, except to care for a child with a serious health condition or for reasons provided in 2.c.
11.	While on FMLA leave, eligible employees shall continue to receive company-paid life insurance and medicalfdental benefits to the extent provided to active employees.
12.	Upon return to work, employees granted FMLA leave shall receive accredited service for the period of the leave. There is no break in service for purposes of vesting, eligibility to participate in pension plans and other types of benefits and seniority.
13.	Subject to Item 14 below, at the end of the approved leave (or each segment of the leave, as applicable), employees shall be guaranteed reinstatement to the same or equivalent job.
14.	Reinstatement is subject to any contractual provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement which cover adjustments to the workforce that may have occurred during the leave of affected employees.
95
15.	Employees who wish to change their projected return date, may request the change and the Company will endeavor to accommodate such requests.
16.	Employees, while on leave, shall be considered to have terminated employment if they accept employment with another employer, engage in business for profit, and/or apply for unemployment insurance benefits.
17.	The provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement are not subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement except for the application for reinstatement by employees on leave. ■
18.	All terms herein shall be defined as set forth in the Department of Labor Regulations, 29 CFR 825.
19.	The Company has the right to act in accordance with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 and to comply with the regulations provided by the Department of Labor.
20.	The Company may elect to replace any employees on leave with temporary or contract employees for the duration of the leave without affecting or being affected by Article 17, Section 3 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement with IBEW.
21.	The parties agree that this Memorandum of Agreement shall become effective upon ratification and shall remain in effect for the duration of the Articles of Agreement
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date; Decembers, 2001
96
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 <
POINT OF SERVICE MEDICAL PLAN (ROS)
1.	. Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1636, 1637 and 1944 agree to the provisions of the Point of Service Medical Plan (the Plan) set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2.	For a summary of details, refer to the attachment entitled Point of Service Medical Plan.
3.	Some of the major provisions include:
A.	Where feasible, a network of managed care providers will be established to provide benefits as outlined in Uln-Network".
B.	Employees who reside or work in a Network Area and opt to use non-network providers will receive benefits as outlined in ROS Out-of-Network benefits.
C.	Employees who reside or work outside any and all "Network Areas"
will receive benefits as outlined in *Out-of-Area" (PPO) benefits, unless they opt to utilize services in an established ‘Network Area".
D.	First dollar deductible on all Point of Service Medical Plan benefits, where applicable.
E.	Maintenance of Benefits will be permitted to the level of benefits provided in the Point of Service Medical Plan where applicable.
F.	Mental Health and Substance Abuse Benefits as outlined in the Point of Service Medical Plan.
G.	Coverage under the Plan begins three (3) months following date of hire or the date which the employee enrolls, whichever is later.
97
4.	The Point of Service Medical Plan will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning the Point of Service Medical Plan or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the GrievanceArbitration Procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The selection of the Health Care Plan Administrator, the administration of the Point of Service Medical Plan and all terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes invoking the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Company. If the Health Care Plan Administrator changes during the life of the Agreement, there will be no decrease in benefits.
5.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire October 23,2004, The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement, including the Point ’ of Service Medical Plan, shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North tnc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling	1
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A, Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
98
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944
DENTAL ALTERNATIVE
Effective January 1, 1999, Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 agree to implement the ConcordiaPLUS Plan (formerly Dental Plus Plan) as an alternative to the Dental Indemnity Plan to regular full-time and part-time employees. Company contribution for premium payment for Employee, Employee + 1, and Family will be at 100%, Coverage under the ConcordiaPLUS Plan shall begin 90 days following date of hire or the date which the employee enrolls, whichever is greater.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23,2004, The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also terminate on October 23,2004.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
102
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
VISION PLAN
1.	Effective July 1, 2002 Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 agree to implement the provisions of the Vision Plan set forth In this Memorandum of Agreement
2.	For a summary of details, refer to the attachment entitled Vision Plan Highlights.
3.	Some of the major provisions Include:
•	No annual deductible.
•	Eye exam every twelve months.
•	One pair of prescription eyeglasses or contact lenses every 24 months.
4.	Employees eligible to participate in the Company-sponsored Point of Service or Indemnity Medical Plan are automatically enrolled in the Vision Plan.
5.	The cost of the Vision Plan coverage will be paid by the Company.
6.	The amount and availability of benefits under the Vision Plan are
governed by the provisions of the Plan and the insurance contract Any benefits received will be determined under the terms of the Plan In effect at the time eligible employees receive the benefits In question. The operation and.administration of the Vision Plan, selection of the insurance carrier, eligibility for the benefits, eligibility requirements, all terms and conditions related thereto and the resolution of any disputes Involving Vision Plan terms, conditions,
103
interpretation, administration or benefits payable shall rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedures set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement
7.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement relating to the Vision Plan, shall terminate on October 23, 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1	1
Date: December 6, 2001
104
VISION PLAN HIGHLIGHTS
Feature	Participating Provider	Non-participating Provider
		
Annual Deductible	None	None
Eye Exam (Once every 12 months)	You pay the network provider a $25 co-payment. No claim filing is required.	You pay the expense in full and file a claim with Davis Vision. The Plan reimburses you up to $25.
Lenses and Frames (Once every 24 months)*	You pay the network provider a $75 co-payment for lenses and frames or $37.50 for just lenses or frames.	You pay the expense in full and file a claim with Davis Vision. The Plan reimburses you up to $25 for lenses and $25 for frames for a maximum reimbursement of $50.
Contact Lenses (Once every 24 months)*	You pay nothing for standardwear, soft, daily-wear, or disposable contact lenses.	You pay the expense in full and file a claim with Davis Vision.
	Discounts available for replacement lenses.	The Plan reimburses you up to $50.
Laser Vision Correction	Discounts available.	No discounts available.
* Limited to one pair of prescription eyeglasses or one pair of prescription contact lenses every 24 months.		
Additional Provisions
•	Two or more opticians, optometrists, or ophthalmologists within 20 miles of the employee's home,
•	Employees that have no provider within 20 miles can use the Out-of-Area Provision.
Out-of-Area Provisions
Steps to find an Out-of-Area Provider:
1.	Call Davis Vision when ready to schedule an appointment for services.
2.	Ask the Member Service Associate to locate a non-participating provider (NPP) or give them the name and address of a local provider.
3.	Davis Vision will contact the provider to arrange in-network vision care services for you and will contact you with an authorization to receive your services.
4.	Employee will receive the participating provider benefits.
105
Professional Provider Services
Standards of care for eye examinations are entirely consistent with those established by State Departments of Health and include preventive eye care with glaucoma testing, refractive care and the prescribing of eyeglasses.
Each patient receives a comprehensive eye examination with a preferred optometrist or ophthalmologist which includes the following components:
•	Case History - chief complaint, eye and vision history, medical history
•	Entrance distance acuities
•	External ocular evaluation including slit lamp examination
«	Internal ocular examination inclusive of dilated fundus evaluation
•	Tonometry
*	Distance refraction - objective and subjective
•	Binocular coordination and ocular motility evaluation
•	Evaluation of pupillary function	.
•	Biomicroscopy
•	Gross visual fields
•	Assessment and plan
•	Patient education
•	Form completion - school, motor vehicle, etc.
AH of these components are fully within the education, training and scope of licensure for both optometrists and ophthalmologists.
106
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL
WORKERS, LOCALS 1451, 1635,1637 and 1944
LUMP SUM PAYMENT OPTION
1.	Verizon North Inc. (MidAtlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635,1637 and 1944 agree to modify the Plan for Hourly Employees' Pensions (hereinafter referred to as the Plan). Such modifications are conditional upon the approval from the appropriate Board of Directors and a favorable determination from the Internal Revenue Service that the Plan is and continues to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Therefore, the effective date of April 1, 1996 for the following modification will be contingent upon the receipt of the necessary approvals.
2.	Regular employees who are eligible to receive a single life annuity from the Plan will be provided a lump sum payment option which will be based on the present value of their single life annuity.
3.	The amount and availability of benefits under the Plan are governed by the provisions of the Plan and are subject to the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations. Any payments received will be determined under the terms of the Plan in effect at the time regular employees separate from service. The operation and administration of the Plan, the calculation of the lump sum benefit, eligibility requirements, all terms and conditions related thereto and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, and administration of the Plan shall rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
4.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective on ratification and shall expire
on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, relating to the lump sum payment option, shall terminate on October 23, 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
107
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1	•
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
108
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635, 1637 and 1944
VOLUNTARY EMPLOYEES BENEFICIARY ASSOCIATION (VEBA)
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) (hereinafter referred to as the Company) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451,1635, 1637 and 1944 (hereinafter referred to as the Union) hereby mutually agree to the establishment of an Internal Revenue Code Section 501 (c) (9) trust (also known as Voluntary Employees Beneficiary Association trust) to provide for the payment of medical or other permissible welfare benefits and administrative service costs ("Retiree Medical Benefits") for eligible employees who retire between November 8, 1992 (Locals 1451, 1635 and 1637) and April 1, 1994 (Local 1944) and October 23,2004 with a service or disability pension under the GTE Pension Plan and their beneficiaries (hereinafter referred to as the Eligible Participants). This trust is being established to provide benefit security for the term of this Memorandum of Agreement.
1.	The funding and operation of this trust will be determined by the Company based on reasonable financial standards (and where applicable, regulatory approval for recovery).
2.	The Company agrees that funds placed into this trust will be used exclusively to pay for toe benefits and administrative costs heretofore described or for any other purpose permitted by law.
3.	During the term of this Memorandum of Agreement the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits for the Eligible Participants shall be governed by toe GTE RETIREE OPTIONS Summary Plan Description, which may be amended or discontinued by the Company at its discretion subject to paragraph 8 below.
4.	In order to receive Retiree Medical Benefits, the retiree must pay a percentage/amount of the Retiree Medical premium (“Retiree Contribution Percentage/Amounf). Similarly, the Company will pay a percentage/amount of the premium (‘Company Contribution
109
Percentage/Amounf), subject to Section 5 below. During the term of this Memorandum of Agreement, the Company and Retiree Contribution Percentages/Amount will be based on the following contribution schedules;
A.	For eligible employees who retire(d) between November 8, 1992 and June 30, 2003 (Locals 1451,1635 and 1637):
Age at Retirement Company Contribution Retiree Contribution % /Amount	%/Amount
(Employee +1) (Employee +1)
Less than 60	0%	100%
Non-Medicare covered, 60 +	100%	0%
Medicare covered Retiree (per	• $15.00 per month
eligible life)	.
B.	For eligible employees who retire(d) between April 1,1994 and October 23, 2004 (Local 1944) and eligible employees who retire between July 1,2003 and October 23,2004 (Locals 1451, 1635 and 1637):
Years of Accredited	Company Contribution Retiree Contribution
Service at Retirement	Percentage	Percentage
Less than 10	0	100
10 through 14	20	80
15 through 19	40	60
20 through 24	60	40
26 through 29	B0	20
30 and over	90	10
5.	(a) The Company shall determine the cost of providing Retiree
Medical Coverage ("Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums'*). Further, it is the Company’s intention to cap the amount it pays toward such Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums for employees who retire on or afterJuly 1,1996.
(b)	When the Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums for the $350 deductible coverage option under GTE RETIREE OPTIONS reach the figures set forth in the chart below (“Capped Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums*), the Company Contribution Amount shall be capped and the Company shall make no additional contributions
110
towards Retiree Medical Benefits Premiums.
Coverage Category
Retiree only (primary coverage)
Retiree plus one dependant coverage
Family Coverage
Medicare covered retiree (per eligible fife)
Capped Retiree Medical Benefits Premium
$ 6,314 $12,628 $14,144 $ 1,642
(c)	The Maximum Company Contribution Percentage Amount applicable to each Coverage Category shall be determined by multiplying the applicable Company Contribution Percentage times the Capped Retiree Medical Benefits Premium as set forth above for that coverage. The applicable Maximum Company Contribution Amount shall not increase when the Retiree Medical Benefits Premium exceeds the amount set forth in the chart above.
6.	In order to receive Retiree Medical Benefits, the retiree must pay the Company the amount the Retiree Medical Premium exceeds the Company Contribution Amount as described in paragraphs 4 and 5 above ■ ("Retiree Contribution Amount"). When the Retiree Medical Benefits Premium reaches or exceeds the Capped Retiree Medical Benefit Premium, the retiree must pay the Company the amount the Retiree Medical Benefits Premium exceeds the Maximum Company Contribution Amount.
7.	The Capped Retiree Medical Benefits Premium and the Maximum Company Contribution Amount set forth in paragraph 5 above is based upon the $350 deductible coverage option, tf the retiree elects die $150 deductible coverage option, the Retiree Contribution Amount will increase by the amount the $150 deductible coverage option exceeds the $350 deductible coverage option. If the retiree elects the $1,000 deductible coverage option, the Retiree Contribution amount will decrease by the amount the $1,000 deductible coverage option is less than the $350 deductible coverage option (not to exceed zero). When the Retiree Medical Benefit Premiums for the $350 deductible coverage option reach the amounts set forth in the chart in paragraph 5, the Company Contribution Amount for all coverage options, including the $150 and $1,000 deductible coverage options, shall be capped at that time and the Company shall make no additional contributions toward Retiree Medical Benefits.
in
8.	The Company agrees to notify the Union and to discuss its actions should the Company determine that the funding or operation of the trust and/or applicable sections of this Memorandum of Agreement, other than pooling of claims experience and those sections relating to the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits, need to be modified or rescinded prior to the expiration of the Articles of Agreement. This notification will take place, in writing, within fifteen calendar days prior to the date of modification or rescission. This notification will specify the cause for and affect of this action. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on such changes, the funding or operation of the trust and/or applicable sections of this Memorandum of Agreement, other than pooling of claims experience and those sections relating to the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits, will be modified or rescinded at the Company's discretion.
9.	The funding and operation of the trust; the level and administration of the Retiree Medical Benefits; amount or cost of premiums; premium pricing mechanisms; the attainment of the Maximum Company Contribution Amount; the selection of the claims administrator, alternate health carrier or insurance carrier; eligibility for the benefits; all terms and conditions related hereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration, or benefits payable shall rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement
10.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective October 28,2001 and shall be in effect for the duration of this Agreement. The parties specifically agree that this Memorandum of Agreement, the Retiree Medical Benefits described herein, and the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement relating to Retiree Medical Benefits, including but not limited to the Maximum Company Contribution Amount and the level and type of Retiree Medical Benefits shall terminate on October 23, . 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
112
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION}
And
. INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
GTE FLEXIBLE REIMBURSEMENT PLAN (FRP)
Effective January 1, 1990, Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) agrees to make available and to implement the GTE Flexible Reimbursement Plan (FRP).
The FRP will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning the FRP or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Articles of Agreement. The selection of the FRP Administrator, the administration of the FRP and all the terms and conditions relating thereto shall be determined by the Company.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 19,1998
113
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL
WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1044
GROUP UNIVERSAL LIFE INSURANCE (GUL)
Effective January 1,1990, Verizon North tnc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) agrees to make available, without endorsement, the opportunity for employees to enroll in Group Universal Life (GUL) Insurance.
GUL will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning GUL or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Articles of Agreement. The administration of GUL and all the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration or benefits payable shall be determined by the Insurance Carrier.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman. System Council T-1
□ate: December 19,1998
114
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 & 1944
PERSONAL LINES OF INSURANCE
Effective July 1, 2002, Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) agrees to make available, without endorsement, the opportunity for regular full or part-time hourly employees of the Company who are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement to purchase automobile, home and other personal property and casualty insurance through payroll deduction.
Personal Lines of Insurance will be administered solely In accordance with its provisions, and no matter concerning Personal Lines of Insurance or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement The administration of Personal Lines of Insurance and all the terms and conditions relating thereto, and the resolution of any disputes Involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration, or benefits payable shall be determined by and at the sole discretion of the Insurance Carrier.
The Company reserves the right at any time, and from time to time, to modify or amend in whole or In part, any and all provisions of the agreement with the Insurance Carrier, to change Insurance Carriers, or to terminate the agreement with the Insurance Carrier.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement including Personal Lines of Insurance, shall also terminate on October 23, 2004 and shall riot survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
115
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations	,
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
MetPay Program
The MetPay program is provided by Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company and affiliates, Warwick, Rhode Island, a subsidiary of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.	-
The MetPay program is a voluntary program which allows employees to purchase Automobile Insurance, Homeowner Insurance, Renter's Insurance, Excess Personal Liability, and other personal property insurance through payroll deduction.
The MetPay program offers group discounts to Verizon employees. The amount of the discount is governed by the state insurance regulations. Therefore, the discount varies by state.
The program is administered by Metropolitan Property and Casualty. Verizon will deduct the premiums from the employee's paycheck as directed by Metropolitan.
All administrative questions, claims, and questions should be directed to Metropolitan at 1-800-GET MET1 (438-6381) or www.metpay.com.
The employees can also contact Metropolitan by calling the Verizon Benefits Center at 1-800-GTE-BENS (483-2367). The call will be transferred to a Metropolitan Representative. The Verizon Benefits Center cannot answer any questions regarding the MetPay program.
The program Is portable. Employees retiring from Verizon under the terms of the Verizon pension plans will retain the group discounts they had as an employee. Employees who terminate will retain the group discounts they had as an employee until the renewal date for the policy. On the renewal date, the premiums will be recalculated using Metropolitan's retail customer rates.
116
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 AND 1944
RETIREE LIFE INSURANCE
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 agree to make available to employees who retire on or after July 1, 2002, with a service or disability pension under the GTE Pension Plan, a $10,000 retiree life insurance benefit
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective July 1,2002 and shall expire on October 23,2004, The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the retiree life Insurance benefit, shall also terminate on October 23, 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
117
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
LIVING BENEFIT RIDER (LBR)
1.	Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) agrees to make available a Living Benefit Rider (LBR) to employees and their spouses who are presently enrolled in Group Universal Life (GUL) Insurance.
2,	The Company and the Union recognize that long term care will continue to be the most likely catastrophic illness risk facing employees. As a result of these concerns and for these reasons, the LBR option to GUL is established to provide protection against the financial ravages of declining health.
3.	The LBR provides a benefit equal to 2% of the face value of the policy (excluding any cash value amounts) per month for a period up to 25 months. In effect, the LBR can pay out a maximum of 50% of the face value of the policy (25 months x 2%). The maximum potential benefit is $10,000 per month with a minimum potential monthly benefit of $400.
4,	Eligibility for the benefit shall be based on the following conditions.
A.	Employees or spouses must be continuously unable to care for themselves in a minimum of three activities of daily living for at least six months. Activities of daily living are defined as eating, getting around, transferring, toileting, bathing, and dressing.
B.	Employees or spouses must submit written medical evidence that
shows the inability to perform the activities of daily living.
C.	The condition causing the inability to care for oneself cannot be a condition for which the individual received medical care or treatment during the six months immediately before LBR coverage became effective (pre-existing condition clause).
D.	GUL must remain in force.
118
E.	The LBR is paid for a maximum of 25 months and permanently reduces any amount of life insurance proceeds by the total amount of the LBR paid.
5.	No matter concerning the Living Benefit Rider or any differences arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement,
6,	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the Living Benefit Rider, shall also terminate on October 23,2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Barfing
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date; December 6, 2001
119
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And	_
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS. LOCALS 1451. 1635, 1637 and 1944
PURCHASE OF OPTICAL PRODUCTS
1.	Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) will make available to employees the opportunity to purchase safety glasses and optical products that are covered under an Agreement between the Company and the Cabot Safety Corporation (CSC). Both prescription and plain safety glasses are available through the plan. Special safety glasses for operators of video display terminals G^OT's) are available through CSC. The cost of eye examinations and/or prescriptions is not covered under this plan.
2.	If any employee so desires, the Company will implement payroll deductions for the cost of covered products, to be deducted in three equal amounts in the next three payroll periods.
3.	This Memorandum of Agreement Is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23,2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the Purchase of Optical Products, shall also terminate on and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
4.	In the event CSC is unable to fulfill its contractual obligations with the Company, this Memorandum of Agreement will be immediately terminated.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations	.
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
120
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION}
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635, 1637 and 1944
HOURLY SAVINGS PLAN (HSP)
1,	Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region} will make the Verizon Hourly Savings Plan (HSP) available to regular full or part-time hourly employees of the Company who are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement
2.	The Company reserves the right at any time, and from time to time, by action of the Board of Directors, to modify or amend in whole or part, any or all of the provisions of the HSP, but no such amendment or modification shall have the effect of reducing the accrued benefits of members, retired members, former members or their beneficiaries or of diverting any part of the Trust Fund to any purpose other than for the exclusive benefit of members, former members, or their beneficiaries and the payment of reasonable HSP administration expenses.
3.	The Company reserves the right, by action of the Board of Directors, to terminate or partrally terminate the HSP at any time. Upon termination or partial termination of the HSP or upon the complete discontinuance of contributions under the HSP, the member accounts of the members affected by the termination, partial termination, or complete discontinuance of contributions, as the case may be, shall be nonforfeitable.
4.	The HSP may be merged into or consolidated with another plan, and its assets or liabilities may be transferred to another plan; provided, however, that no such merger, consolidation, or transfer shall be consummated unless each member and beneficiary under foe HSP would receive a benefit immediately after foe merger, consolidation, or transfer, if the transferee plan then terminated, that is equal to or greater than the benefit he/she would have been entitled to receive immediately before the merger, consolidation, or transfer, if the HSP had then terminated.
5,	The Company and the Union agree that every provision heretofore contained in this Agreement is contingent upon the Company’s receipt of a favorable determination that the HSP, as amended, continues to be
121
qualified under Section 401(a) et. seq., of the Internal Revenue Code. In the event any recision in the HSP is necessary to obtain or maintain a favorable determination from the Internal Revenue Service, the Company will make the revisions, adhering as closely as possible to the level of benefits contained in the HSP.
6.	In the event any portion of this Agreement Is determined by a court or government agency to be in violation of existing law or is voided by a change in existing laws, the Company retains the unilateral right to make whatever modifications it deems necessary and appropriate to comply with the law. Including the right to rescind the Agreement, if it deems no such modification is feasible. The Company shall have no obligation to bargain or negotiate with the Union in the event that this Agreement is modified or eliminated or in the event the Company does not implement any or all of the provisions of this Agreement because it does not receive Internal Revenue Service approval, any or all of these plans are deemed not qualified, or because of a change in existing laws.
7.	The HSP will be administered solely in accordance with its provisions and no matter concerning the HSP or any difference arising thereunder shall be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement but rather shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the HSP and the interpretation of the HSP Committee.
8.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23,2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including the HSP. shall also terminate on October 23, 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Cari A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
122
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGIONJ/GTE COMPANIES
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
.	(IBEW)
HOURLY SAVINGS PLAN
WHEREAS the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 (hereafter ''IBEW" or "the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter “Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region)/GTE Companies” or "the Companies" or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;
NOW THEREFORE VERIZON NORTH INC, (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)/GTE COMPANIES AND INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 AND 1944 agree as follows:
The Company and the Union agree to increase the Company matching contribution to the Hourly Savings Plan (HSP).
•	Effective July 7, 2002, the Company matching contribution will increase from SO cents to 75 cents for every $1 contributed by the employee (Locals 1451, 1635 and 1637), up to a maximum of six percent of pay.
« Local 1944 employees will be grandfathered at their current HSP contribution of 75 cents for every $1 contributed by the employee, up to a maximum of six percent of pay through July 5, 2003.
•	Effective July 6, 2003, the Company matching contribution will increase from 75 cents to 82 cents for every $1 contributed by the employee (Locals 1451,1636,1637 and 1944), up to a maximum of six percent of pay.
123
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification, and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also terminate on October 23,2004, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic
Region|/GTE Companies
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1	'
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: Decembers, 2001
124
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION) '	And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS. LOCALS 1451.1635.1637 and 1944
COMPENSATED AVAILABILITY
In the classifications of Customer Zone Technician I, Customer Zone Technician II, Cable Specialist, Construction Technician, Business Zone Technician and Customer Engineer-Data Applications Compensated Availability wilt be established where business needs exist.
1.	The election to participate in Compensated Availability will be voluntary whenever possible. However, where business needs exist, management may assign employees as needed.
2.	Employees on Compensated Availability shall be excused from overtime assignments other than “call-outs".
3.	Such ‘Compensated Availability" shall be rotated among those qualified employees in the selected classifications and locations.
4.	Compensated Availability may be assigned on a weekly or daily basis. Compensation shall be $15.00 for each calendar day of an assignment. Employees otherwise non-scheduled wilt be compensated at $25.00. tn addition employees will be compensated $25.00 for assignments on holidays.
5.	Employees will be contacted by telephone, pagers etc.
6.	During days assigned to Compensated Availability employees will be supplied with a cellular telephone to be used exclusively for business purposes.
7.	If called out to perform work the employee shall receive the minimum compensation referenced in Article 5, Section 6, Paragraph E.
8.	This practice does not supersede normal call-out procedures if additional employees are required to work.
125
9.	Employees assigned to such duty must be available and accessible during the term of assignment in order to receive compensation.
10.	When assigned “Compensated Availability" the employee may be granted permission where practical to take a Company vehicle home. The employee shall exercise reasonable care for the security and safety of the vehicle and tools. It is understood the vehicle and tools are not available for personal use.
11.	If "Compensated Availability* assignments conflict with the employee's personal calendar, he or she will be afforded the opportunity to trade days or weeks with supervisory approval. Solicitation of the trade will be the responsibility of the employee.
12.	It is not the intent of this agreement to circumvent vacation or holiday scheduling, payment, premiums or overtime provisions.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23, 2004. If the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers believes that the assignment of Compensated Availability is being abused, the parties agree to meet and discuss the situation,
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Cari A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
□ate: December 6,2001
126
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGIONJ/GTE COMPANIES
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635, 1637 and 1944
(IBEW)
EDUCATION AND LIFE-LONG LEARNING
WHEREAS the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 (hereafter "IBEW" or “the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter “Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region)/GTE Companies" or "the Companies" or “the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States; '
NOW THEREFORE VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGIONJ/GTE COMPANIES AND INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 AND 1944 agree as follows:
The Company and the Union agree to continue joint efforts (including the 100% tuition reimbursement and the 100% prepaid feature), which allow employees additional opportunities to learn and enhance their knowledge of the jobs being performed. On an “as needed” basis as determined jointly by the parties, a joint study team, consisting of management and union officials, will be created to explore opportunities for joint educational programs. Joint study teams will explore issues such as:
•	The level of employee awareness of the Verizon Communications, Inc. tuition assistance program.
•	The role of education assistance In the attraction and retention of bargaining unit employees.
«	The design and coordination of communication vehicles, in conjunction with NACTEL, to encourage employee and prospective employee participation in the AAS degree in Telecommunications or other programs developed.
127
• The identification of certain non-degreed programs, which enhance or certify job knowledge.
Any joint study team formed by the parties will report its findings and make recommendations to the Joint Company/Union Steering Committee for review and final determination.
This Memorandum of Agreement shall become effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23,2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement shall also terminate on October 23, 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing,
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic
Region)/GTE Companies
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Dato: December 6, 2001
128
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MIO-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451.1635,1637 and 1944
HOURLY EMPLOYEE S PENSIONS
1.	Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and Internaitional Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 agree to modify the Plan for Hourly Employees' Pensions. Such modifications are subject to approvals by the Company's Board of Directors and the United States Department of the Treasury. Therefore, effective upon ratification, the modifications will be contingent upon receipt of all necessary approvals.
2.	Specific language will be prepared to modify the present Plan for Hourly Employees' Pensions to effect the following changes:
Annual Minimum Pension
Years of Accredited Services	Current Effective July 1,
2002
15 but less than 20 years	$ 4,700	$ 4,900
20 but less than 25 years	$ 6.100	$ 6,300
25 but less than 30 years	$ 7,500	$ 7,800
30 but less than 35 years	$ 8,900	$ 9,300
35 but less than 40 years	$10,300	$10,700
40 or more years	$11,700	$12,200
3.	This Agreement will become effective upon ratification, and will remain in effect until midnight, October 23,2004, and will automatically continue in full force and effect thereafter until terminated, or amended, in accordance with the following procedure:	.
If this Agreement is to be terminated, a written notice must be sent by either party to the other not less than sixty (60) days prior to any date thereafter on which such cancellation is to become effective.
129
4,	This Agreement may be amended or modified by either party giving written notice to the other of such desire to so amend or modify at least sixty (60) days and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the termination date set forth above. The written notice will contain a full statement as to the amendments or modifications desired,
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darting
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Cart A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
130
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. {MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
PRE-RETIREMENT SPOUSE’S PENSION
1.	Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 agree to modify the Plan for Hourly Employees’ Pensions. Such modifications are subject to approvals by the Company’s Board of Directors and the United States Department of the Treasury, Therefore, the modifications will be contingent upon receipt of necessary approvals, and the effective date will be July 1, 2002.
2.	Specific language will be prepared to modify the present Plan for Hourly Employees' Pensions to provide a survivor benefit to an employee who Is actively employed on the effective date and who is vested In the Plan.
3.	For married employees, the spouse will automatically be considered
the beneficiary. However, subject to the requirements regarding nonspouse beneficiaries and with spousal consent, a married employee may name a beneficiary other Qian the spouse. For unmarried employees, a valid beneficiary designation must be on file for the preretirement survivor benefit to be paid. A single individual must be named as beneficiary; an estate or trust may not be named, nor may multiple individuals.
4.	Subject to the small benefits provision contained in the Plan, the survivor will have the option of choosing between a 50% survivor annuity or the lump sum equivalent in the event of the death of the employee.
131
5.	If a vested employee terminates employment on or after the effective date, the named survivor will be eligible for the survivor pension payable on the date the employee would have reached the age 65. An actuarially reduced benefit may be payable before age 65 if the vested employee would have been eligible for an earlier commencement.
6.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and - shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that all the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also expire on October 23,2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties In writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: Decembers, 2001
132
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between .
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635, 1637 and 1944
LONG TERM DISABILITY
In recognition of the impact a prolonged disability can have on income security and as a valuable supplement to the short-term disability benefits currently provided by the Company, Verizon North tnc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 agree to establish a Long-Term Disability (hereinafter referred to as LTD) plan subject to the following provisions:
1.	Regular full-time employees are eligible to participate in the LTD plan, subject to the following requirements:
A.	Completion of 3 months of continuous employment (new hires).
B.	Enrollment during the first 3 months of employment (new hires).
C.	Enrollment during the initial Company-designated enrollment period (incumbents with 3 months of continuous employment).
D.	Enrollment during periods not mentioned additionally require regular full-time employees to submit evidence of good health at their expense and approval by the Plan Administrator.
E.	The disability is not caused by participation in an assault, crime or illegal occupation, an intentionally self-inflicted injury, war or act of war.
F.	The disability does not result from conditions that existed on the date LTD coverage began or does not result in an absence from work because of the pre-existing condition for 3 consecutive months.
G.	The employee contributions are continuously paid following enrollment.
133
2.	The entire cost of the LTD plan coverage will be paid by the employee. Contributions for coverage may change from time to time. Should this occur, the Company agrees to notify the Union in writing, within fifteen calendar days prior to the date of modification, specifying the cause for any change tn the contribution rate.
3.	The LTD plan shall pay monthly benefits as follows:
A.	Up to 50% of the employee’s basic monthly eamings, up to a maximum of $3,000 per month.
Or
B.	Effective July 1,1999, up to 60% of the employee's basic monthly earnings, up to a maximum of $5,000 per month
Monthly benefits shall be coordinated and reduced by any amount received from Worker's Compensation (or its equivalent), primary and dependent disability or retirement benefits from the Federal Social Security Act, payments under any other State or Federal disability benefits law, Company-provided salary continuation plan (ISP, layoff allowances) or the Railroad Retirement Act, or payments under any other ptan which provides income benefits.
4.	Benefits will be paid if eligible employees have been continuously disabled, under the care of a physician and absent from work for 26 weeks or if the disability has resulted in 26 weeks of absence during a period of 52 consecutive weeks and the eligible employees have been under the care of a physician.
A.	Monthly benefits will be paid for 12 months, if the disability prevents eligible employees from performing their regular work or an alternative occupation with similar earning potential.
B.	Monthly benefits will be paid following this 12 month period, if the
disability prevents eligible employees from performing any work for which they are otherwise qualified to perform.
C.	If eligible employees become disabled prior to age sixty (60), benefits will paid up to their sixty-fifth (65th) birthday.
D.	If eligible employees become disabled on or after age 60, benefits will be paid according to the following schedule:
134
Age of Disability
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75+
Benefits Paid to Age
65
66
67
68
69
70
70
70
71
72
72
72.5
73.5
74.5
75.5
For 1 year
E.	Disabilities as a result of a mental health disorder, alcoholism or drug addiction, will generally result in monthly LTD benefits for no longer than 12 months.
5.	During the non-contributory period LTD benefits are paid, eligible employees win continue to receive non-contributory life, medical and dental insurance coverage in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement between Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and Internationa) Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 1451, 1635,1637 and 1944. Accredited Service will be applied toward eligible employees' pension calculations until the disability benefits end or the eligible employee retires, separates or dies.
6.	The amount and availability of benefits underthe LTD Plan are governed * by the provisions of the Plan and the insurance contract. Any benefits received will be determined under the terms of the Plan tn effect at the time eligible employees receive the benefits in question. The operation and administration of the LTD Plan, selection of the insurance carrier, eligibility tor the benefits, cost of coverage, eligibility requirements, all terms and conditions related thereto and the resolution of any disputes involving the terms, conditions, interpretation, administration or benefits payable shall rest with the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration procedures set forth in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
7.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms
135
and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, relating to the Long-Term Disability Plan, shall terminate on October 23, 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
136
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)/GTE COMPANIES
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 (IBEW)
VACATION CARRY FORWARD (BANKING)
WHEREAS the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 (hereafter "IBEW* or "the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter "Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region)/GTE Companies" or "the Companies" or “the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;
NOW THEREFORE VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGIONJ/GTE COMPANIES AND INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 AND 1944 agree as follows:
1.	The Company and the Union agree that eligible employees may carry forward into future years a limited number of weeks of vacation for each vacation year as set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement
2,	Employees eligible for four (4) weeks of vacation may carry forward up to one (1) vacation week for each vacation year; employees eligible for five (5) weeks of vacation may carry forward up to two (2) vacation weeks for each vacation year.
3.	Such carried forward vacation shall be subject' to supervisory approval.
4.	Future scheduling of such accumulated carried forward vacation time
is subject to advanced written application and approval.
137
5.	This Memorandum of Agreement will become effective upon ratification and will remain In effect until October 23,2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth In the Memorandum of Agreement shall terminate on October 23, 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties In writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic
RegionJ/GTE Companies
By Mary 4. Darling '
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Cart A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
138
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635.1637 and 1944
VOLUNTARY LAYOFF LEAVE OF ABSENCE
1.	Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635 ,1637 and 1944 agree to the provisions concerning a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2.	The purpose of a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence shall be to provide an alternative method of temporarily adjusting the size of the work force up to four months. The Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence would be in lieu of Force Adjustment provided for in Article 10, Section 1.
3.	The total period of a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence will not exceed four months. Voluntary Layoff Leaves of Absence will be offered by seeking volunteers from the affected classification and location. This will be done at least 30 days prior to the effective date. The decision to offer Voluntary Layoff Leaves of Absence, the time frame or duration of the leave, the number of employees authorized, and the classification affected will be at the sole discretion of Management.
4.	If the number of volunteers is not sufficient, Management will then layoff the excess remaining employees in accordance with Article 10 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. If more employees volunteer than needed Management will allow the most senior of the volunteers to take the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence provided that Management shall have the right to retain those employees who have skills which an employee with lesser seniority does not possess.
5.	While on a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence, employees shall continue to receive Company paid life insurance, rhedical/dental insurance and telephone concession benefits to the extent provided to active employees.
6.	Employees granted a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence prior to year end will be required to take all unused or remaining vacation and personal
139
holiday time during the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence period that occurs prior to the end of the calendar year. In addition, the employees will be required to use all vacation time for the calendar year in which the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence ends. Employees who are eligible for four and five weeks of vacation may take one week of vacation after their return from the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence. That one week must then be scheduled from the available weeks on the existing vacation schedule.
7.	All Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absences are without pay and are subject to approval by Management. Application for unemployment compensation will not be contested by the Company.
B.	This agreement shall in no way limit Management from utilizing other Company employees to perform work assignments of the nature performed previously by an employee who may be on a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence.	-
9.	Upon return to work, employees granted a Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence shall receive accredited service and seniority for the period of the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence.
10.	At the end of the approved Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence, employees
will be guaranteed reinstatement to a job within their previous classification and reporting location.
11.	Employees are required to return to work on the agreed upon date. Failure to return on the expected return date, for other than a personal compelling reason as determined by Management, will result in termination of employment.
12.	Reinstatement is subject to any contractual provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement which covers adjustments to the work force that may have occurred during the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence of affected employees.
13.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire October 23,2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement, including the Voluntary Layoff Leave of Absence, shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless mutually agreed to by the parties in writing.
140
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1 ,
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: Decembers, 2001
141
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
.	And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
Verizon North Inc. (Mld-Attantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 agree to implement the Public Communications Incentive Compensation Plan set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
For a summary of details refer to the attachment entitled Public Communications Incentive Compensation Plan. The implementation date of this plan will be after January 1,1999.
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that all terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement shall also expire on October 23,2004, and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, including the Public Communications Incentive Compensation Plan, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
14 2
PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
I.	OVERVIEW
The Public Communications Incentive Compensation Plan (herein after referred to as the Plan) described below has been developed as the standard Incentive Compensation Plan for Verizon North Inc. (MidAtlantic Region) Public Communications. It is designed to maximize revenue attainment, improve quality and increase sales efficiency and productivity.
II.	PLAN OBJECTIVES
A.	Increase sales of products and services.
B.	Increase Public Communications quality results to the small business market
C.	Reward and provide an incentive to employees performing at expected levels of performance.
D.	Increase total compensation above current levels for those employees performing above target.
III.	ELIGIBILITY
The Plan is designed solely for Public Access Sales Technicians within the Public Communications Safes Organization.
IV.	INCENTIVE COMPENSATION STRUCTURE
The Compensation Plan is a combination base wage plus commission, with commissions paid on quarterly objective results.
Commission Payout
Public Access Representative
Compensation will-be based on the achievement of team plan objectives.
Example: Revenue on products/service — quality results
143
Note: Weighting for the objectives is determined by management
A.	Minimum Objective Attainment Qualifier
Compensation payouts may be limited where management established a need for a minimum quota attainment level in one or more produces) serviced) category(ies).
Example:
Compensation on total attainment will be capped at 110% unless 100% of monthly quota is achieved in all assigned product categories.
B.	Frequency of Payments
Commissions are to be paid on a quarterly basis. Commission payments earned during a quarter will be paid within two (2) months following the quarter in which the commissions were earned.	'	.
V.	PROGRAM TRACKING
Results will be accumulated from the first day worked in the month to the last day worked in the month.
Additions and deletions of products and services will be handled in accordance with current Public Communications procedures/policies. Reasonable advance notice will be provided to employees whenever additions or deletions of products or services are made. The Company reserves the right to establish and revise the procedures/policies in accordance with business needs.
The Company agrees to meet with the Union at periodic intervals (six (6) months or longer) to review and provide a status report on the Plants). It is understood that these meetings are not intended to be negotiation sessions, but rather information-sharing sessions to provide a better understanding of how this new approach to compensation is working.
VI.	ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Management will have the sole and exclusive responsibility to establish and administer the Plan, and reserves the exclusive right to adjust the product/service mix and/or associated objectives as required to ensure equitable treatment of all parties.
144
The Plan will be administered by an Administrative Committee comprised of representatives of Public Communications, Human Resources and Business Analysis. In addition, the Administrative Committee is empowered to interpret the Plan, to approve objectives, to approve awards and to interpret rules and regulations within the provisions of the Plan.
A.	New Participants
In the event that an individual becomes a participant in the Plan during a plan year, the employee will be assigned quota and be eligible for all associated commissions earned.
B.	Modifications
Public Communications may at any time modify, in whole or in part the provisions of the Plan. Public Communications may at any time modify objectives, product line categories, qualifiers, and thresholds as business needs may dictate.
Any modification shall not affect safes commission already earned under this Plan.
C,	Retirement, Disability or Death
In the event that a participant retires, becomes disabled or dies during the Plan year, the participant or the designated beneficiary(ies) will receive an award earned up to the effective date of retirement, disability or death. Payment made to the individual or the participant's designated beneficiary(ies) when awards are paid to other Plan participants.
D.	Statement of Acceptance
Each plan participant will indicate acceptance of the conditions for participation by signing the "Statement of Acceptance".
E.	Termination of Employment
In the event that a plan participant's employment terminates prior to the scheduled payout of awards, the company will pay all awards earned by participants. Such awards shall be computed and paid when awards are paid to other plan participants.
F.	Transfers/Promotions
145
In the event that a Plan participant is transferred or promoted to another position during the Plan year, the participant will be eligible to receive commissions based upon sates performance up to the date of transfer or promotion. Such commissions shall be computed and paid when awards are paid to other Plan participants.
G.	Windfalls
A windfell is a situation resulting in a change of volume of sale from that anticipated by management in setting objectives and incentives. Management will review all incentive results that are more than 200% of objective prior to payment. Management may approve or adjust the payment based on the payment based on the circumstances of reaching more than 200% of objective. Management reserves the right to adjust any portion of the Plan to bring the compensation in line with what it determines to be reasonable objective and/or incentive compensation attainment.
H.	Benefits
Generally speaking, commission payments are typically included in the calculations of many Company benefits. An approved list of specific benefits which either include, or exclude, commission earnings is available.
I.	Grievance/Arbitration
The Incentive Compensation Plan shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure outlined in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
J.	Suspension/Temnination of Plan
The suspension or termination of this Incentive Compensation Plan must be by mutual agreement of the parties.
K.	Compensation - Adjustments
In the event an employee or the Company believes an overpayment/underpayment has occurred a Company representative and the employee or their union representative agrees to meet to review relevant facts. If it is determined that an overpayment/underpayment has occurred, the Company will
146
appropriately adjust future sales compensation payouts to address the situation. However, the Company will not require the employee to pay back any overpayment from his/her base salary. If the employee moves to a position that is not covered by a Public Communications Incentive Plan, or is separated from the Company, he or she will not be liable for any repayment.
NOTE: If an employee’s sales compensation is paid based on inaccurate or fraudulent sales results, the employee will be required to repay the entire unearned compensation amount regardless of whether or not the employee is still a participant in a Public Communications Incentive Plan.
147
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451. 1635,1637 and 1944
TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD (TPA)
1.	Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635 ,1637 and 1944 agree to implement the Team Performance Award set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement.
2.	For a summary of details, refer to the attachment entitled Team Performance Award.
3.	This Memorandum of Agreement ts effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23,2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, relating to the Team Performance Award shall terminate on October 23, 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
14 8
TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD
1.	Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region! and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 agree to develop and implement a Team Performance Award which will provide participating employees the opportunity to earn compensation based upon collectivefteam performance results.
2.	ELIGIBILITY
Team members, full and part-time hourly employees who have at least six months active service during the calendar year are eligible for an award. Active service may not be rounded up to six months to achieve eligibility. Neither may disability or leave of absence time (except up to 12 weeks of approved FMLA leave entitlement) be included to meet the six months minimum active service requirement Those employees in the plan for six or more months, but less than twelve months, will be eligible to receive a prorated award.
3.	AWARDS
Awards are based on performance toward objectives over the period of a calendar year. An award amount is determined for the applicable calendar year, a percentage of which may be earned by eligible employees depending on team performance during that calendar year. The payout ranges from 0% to 120% of an established target.
The range of the Team Performance Award payout is as follows;
A.	The 2001 target award is 4% payable in April 2002. The range is 0% to 120% based on achievement of objectives.
B.	The 2002 target award is 4% payable in April 2003. The range is 0% to 120% based on achievement of objectives.
C.	The 2003 target award is 4% payable in April 2004. The range is *	0% to 120% based on achievement of objectives.
The payout percentage is applied to an employee's basic rate of pay as of the last day of the year prior to payout.
Employees transferring between teams shall have their award prorated according to the time of active service on each team.
In the event of reorganization which results in employees changing teams,
149
awards shall be prorated based upon each team's performance.
An employee who resigns, is laid off, terminated, dies or retires during the calendar year is eligible for a prorated Team Performance Award if all other eligibility requirements have been met. Eligibility requirements exclude termination for cause.
Employees having cumulative short-term disability absence(s) for 90 days or less In a year will receive a full incentive plan award for time on the team. When the disability period is in excess of 90 days in a year the Team Performance Award will be adjusted by the number of days in excess of 90 days.
Employees on approved military leave of absence who have one year or more service will be given full wage credit up to three months toward the Team Performance Award. Employees on other approved leave of absences will have cumulative leave time excluded from award computation.	“
4.	TIME OFF FOR UNION ACTIVITIES
Excused time off for union activity will be counted as time worked when computing Team Performance Awards.
5.	BENEFITS TREATMENT
Team Performance Award payments are recognized in the calculation of Pension Plan benefits. Group Life Insurance, Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and the GTE Hourly Savings Plan. Such payments will be applicable in the year payment is received. This is in accordance with GTE benefit plan definitions.
All other benefits are in accordance with the collective bargaining agreement and are based on rates shown in the hourly wage schedules.
S. TAXES, PERSONAL ALLOTMENT
Deductions for federal, state and local tax liabilities will be made in accordance with lump sum distribution tax laws.
Personal allotments such as savings bonds, and United Way contributions will not be made.
7.	OVERTIME
150
The Team Performance Award payouts are for hours worked and must be included in overtime payments.
The overtime payment will be calculated as follows:
The Team Performance Award payout divided by the total hours worked equals the award hourly rate. This rate is then multiplied times .5 x number of overtime hours in the same calendar year for which the Team Performance Award was paid. The result of this calculation is the award overtime payment due the employee.
EXAMPLE:
Team Performance Award	$	500
divided by Total Hours Worked	1,880
Equals
Award Hourly Rate	$ 0.2659
Times
Overtime Rate (1/2)	0.5
Equals
Hourly Overtime Rate of Pay	$0.1329
Times
Total Overtime Hours	100
Equals
Award Overtime Payment	$ 13.29
The overtime incentive payment is not included in benefit plan calculations.
A Team Performance Award overtime payment will be included in the award payout.
8.	OBJECTIVES/MEASURES
All hourly employees will normally be assigned to teams based on their functional area of responsibility. Teams may consist of a few employees or many.
Each team will be given a set of objectives linked to, but not limited to, one or more of these performance areas;
-	Quality/Vatue of services delivered
-	Productivity
-	Expense Budget
151
-	Revenue
Teams that satisfy a minimum level of performance will receive an incentive payment. If that minimum level of performance is exceeded, the incentive payment will be larger. Each member of a team will receive the same percentage of target award that the team achieved. An example would be as follows:
Level of Performance
Percentage of Target Award
Below minimum Minimum to Target Target
Over Target Maximum
0% 10-99% 100%
101 • 120%
9.	The Company reserves the right to establish objectives and determine performance results. The objectives, the performance results, or any part of the Team Performance Award shall not be subject to the grievance or arbitration provisions of the collective bargaining agreement.
10.	Prior to the announcement of objectives and performance targets for the applicable year, company representatives will meet with Union representatives to review the rationale for such objectives and targets.
11.	MODIFICATION QF THE TEAM PERFORMANCE PLAN
Verizon may at any time modify, in part or in whole, the Team Performance Award Plan. Any modification shall not affect awards already earned under this plan.
12.	TERMINATION OF THE TEAM PERFORMANCE PLAN ■
The suspension or termination must be by mutual agreement of the parties.
152
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION}
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
TESTING
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 acknowledges Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region} may use standardized tests to establish employee qualifications for a job classification.
1.	The Company will utilize professionally developed and validated tests for selection purposes. The Company may use such validated tests to determine qualifications for a job classification.
2.	Any such test will be equally applied and administered to all employees covered by the Agreement between the Company and Union. The form, content, and administration of such tests, provided such tests are reasonably related to the essential functions of the particular job classification, shall be at the sole discretion of the Company.
3.	In the event that the Company determines it is necessary to change
the contends) and/or passing score of any given test and/or the administrative guidelines, the Union will be notified.
4.	This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement shall not survive the expiration of the Memorandum of Agreement, . unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
153
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
154
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)/GTE COMPANIES
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944 (IBEW)
UNION LEAVE OF ABSENCE
WHEREAS the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 (hereafter "IBEW" or "the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter "Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Reglon)/GTE Companies" or "the Companies" or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;
WHEREAS former GTE/IBEW bargaining unit employees have become fulltime employees of the IBEW or its local affiliates:
WHEREAS the treatment of such IBEW employees for Verizon/GTE pension benefit credit varies both among former GTE/IBEW bargaining units and between IBEW and local affiliate employment; and
WHEREAS other employers in Verizon's industry permit similarly situated employees greater pension benefits credit than does Verizon/GTE:
NOW THEREFORE VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)/GTE COMPANIES AND INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 AND 1944 agree as follows;
1.	Any full time employee of a Verizon/GTE Company in a IBEW bargaining unit who becomes a full-time employee of either IBEW or a IBEW local affiliate (a "Verizon/GTE-Union employee") shall be entitled to be on leave of absence status from Verizon/GTE. While on such leave status, the Verizon/GTE-Union employee shall continue to accumulate seniority and shall retain return rights to the bargaining uniL
155
2.	While on leave of absence status, a Verizon/GTE-Union employee shall accrue Accredited Service under the Verlzon/GTE Pension Plan in which the employee actively participated while a bargaining unit employee until either:
a.	The Verizon/GTE-Union employee ends his/her full-time employment with the IBEW or a local affiliate; or
b.	The Verizon/GTE-Union employee retires from Verizon/GTE or otherwise affirmatively relinquishes his/her leave of absence; or
c.	The aggregate length of all such leaves of absence equals fifteen (15) years.
3.	This provision will apply retroactively, providing that to be eligible for retroactive leave of absence status and pension benefit credits as described hereinabove, the Verizon/GTE-Union employee must have been a current full-time IBEW or local affiliate employee on March 1, 2000, and must not have as of that date retired or received a voluntary separation benefit from Verlzon/GTE
4.	In the event that any court of competent jurisdiction finds this Agreement to be unlawful, it shall be null and void as of the date of its execution, but Verizon/GTE and the IBEW will immediately negotiate In good faith to provide the most equivalent lawful benefit for Verizon/GTE-Union employees.
' 5. This Memorandum of Agreement will become effective upon ratification and will remain in effect until October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement shall terminate on October 23,2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic
Region)/GTE Companies
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 5,2001
156
I
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
LIVESOURCE INCENTIVE PLAN
Verizon North Inc, (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 agree to implement a LiveSource Incentive Compensation Plan which will provide participating employees the opportunity to earn additional compensation based upon individual and/or team performance results.
Objectives and standards will be developed and administered solely by the Company. The development, design, duration, size, location and frequency and/or administration of such LiveSource Incentive Plan are wholly within the discretion of the Company and are not subject to the grievance/arbitration provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The following guidelines shall apply for the application of the Plan;
1.	All regular full-time and regular part-time Operators will be eligible.
2.	The incentive compensation payout will be based on the following performance areas:
A.	Quality of Work
B.	Quantity of Work
C.	Compliance to Schedule	.
3.	incentive compensation will be paid on a quarterly basis, in the first pay period of the second month following the end of each calendar quarter,
4.	The Company reserves the right to revise the performance measures as it deems appropriate. Any adjustments of measure will be communicated to the Union and the participating employees within a minimum of thirty (30) days advance notice.
5.	It is understood by both parties that there rs no guarantee of incentive
157
earnings under the Plan.
6.	The Plan may be modified or suspended in whole or in part; and if suspended, any or all of the provisions of the Plan may be reinstated. Any modifications or suspensions shall not affect a pro-rata incentive earned during a particular quarter up to the date immediately preceding the modifications of suspension.
This Memorandum of Agreement will become effective upon ratification and will remain in effect until October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement, relating to the LiveSource Incentive Plan shall terminate on October 23, 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement, unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J, Darling *
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
158
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION*
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451, 1635,1637 and 1944
LUMP SUM PENSION CALCULATION
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 recognize the lump sum pension calculations for retirement eligible employees change on January 1, 2000 as a result of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trades (GATT) legislation.
The Company and its Unions agree to protect employees who are eligible to retire on or before December 31,1999 from adverse implications from GATT legislation.
All employees who are eligible to retire on or before December 31,1999, and who are eligible for lump sum pension distributions will be allowed to continue to receive the highest Jump sum produced by the two lump sum calculation methods currently used in the GTE Pension Plans and a third new method that complies with GATT. Regardless of when these employees retire, on or after January 1,2000, they will receive the highest lump sum amount produced by these three methodologies.
For employees who are eligible to retire on or after January 1, 2000, pensions will be paid using whichever of the following rates produces the largest lump sum amount.
■ The GTE Plan Rate (currently the 10-year treasury bond rate)
Or
• The GATT rate (30-year treasury bond rate)
The Memorandum of Agreement Is effective October 28, 2001, and shall expire on October 23,2004, unless extended by the parties in writing.
159
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
160
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGIONJ/GTE COMPANIES
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
(IBEW)
NEUTRALITY AND CONSENT ELECTION
WHEREAS the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 and 1944 (hereafter "IBEW" or "the Union") and Verizon Communications companies which were subsidiaries of the former GTE Corporation (hereafter “Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region)/GTE Companies" or "the Companies" or "the Company") have collective bargaining relationships throughout the United States;
NOW THEREFORE VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)/GTE COMPANIES AND INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 AND 1944 agree as follows:
This agreement between Company and the Union covers all understandings between the parties concerning union organizing; access to employees and code of conduct applicable to union organizing efforts.
The Union and the Company recognize that it is in their mutual Interest to enhance the success and image of the Company, to acknowledge the Union as a valued partner, and to foster the pride and commitment of the employees. The parties also share the mutual goals of building a world class, high performance enterprise and addressing employment security through business success and employee development As a means to enhance these goals, the parties will mutually support regulatory and legislative efforts, marketing/sales and service efforts and other business initiatives leading to employment security and Verizon’s business success.
The parties also recognize that the Union's goal of growing membership is intrinsically linked to the successful growth of the business. In order to maintain this perspective and to avoid unnecessary confrontation, the parties agree that the following principles regarding Neutrality and Consent election
161
will be applicable to Verizon's former "GTE Network Services Companies" (incumbent Local Exchange Carriers and Logistics). This shall be the exclusive means by which the Union, their locals, or individuals acting on their behalf, will conduct an effort to organize eligible employees in the covered Verizon’s former "GTE Network Services Companies” (Incumbent Local Exchange Carriers and Logistics) as defined by the National Labor Relations Act
1.	Employee Choice
Both the Union and the Company support and agree with the principle that the decision as to whether or not to become represented by a union is one that does not belong to either the Union or to the Company. Rather, it is an individual decision that belongs to the employee. With the parties’ mutual recognition of this fundamental tenet, the following provisions are intended to establish, encourage and nurture an environment during a union organizing drive that will allow employees to choose whether or not to become represented in a fully informed and uncoerced manner. All negotiations concerning appropriate unit, access, conduct and voting will be performed by Verizon Labor Relations Staff In conjunction with local management and designated Union representatives.
2.	Neutrality
The Company and the Union agree that an organizing drive will be met by a neutral position by the Company. This statement is consistent with and reinforces the previously established principle of employee choice. It should follow that an environment intended to foster employee choice would be a neutral environment and that Information communicated by either party would be fact based and not misleading, distorted or disparaging. Neutrality means the following:
(a)	Management will not be anti-Union nor will the Union be antimanagement
(b)	Management will not advocate that employees should not vote for a Union to represent them.
(c)	The Unions will be afforded reasonable opportunities for access to employees to get their message communicated.
(d)	Management will respond to employee questions and is obligated to correct inaccurate or misunderstood information by employees.
(e)	The Unlonfs) will be referred to by name and will not be characterized as a “third party” or "outsider”.
152
(f)	Any written information distributed to employees by either party relative to the organizing campaign will be shared with the other. The parties’ communications with employees will be shared with the other. The parties’ communications with employees will be in accordance with this agreement
(g)	Neither party will hire consultants who encourage an adversarial relationship.
(h)	Neither managers nor Union representatives will be personally attacked.
(i)	Neither the Union nor the Company will be attacked as institutions.
(j)	The Company will not conduct meetings for the sole purpose of discussing organizing activities without inviting appropriate Union representatives to attend.
Allegations of violations of these provisions will be handled via the dispute resolution process contained In this Agreement
3.	Rules
The procedures to be followed are listed below:
(a)	The Union must show a minimum of 50% + 1 show of interest on signature cards of the appropriate unit
(b)	A vote of 50% + 1 of those votes, validated by the Third Party Neutral (TPN), will determine the outcome.
(c)	If the Union is not successful, another election will not be scheduled for twelve months.
(d)	The TPN will resolve any issue concerning challenged ballots In similar fashion to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) process.	•
4.	Time Bound
It is in the interest of both parties that the organizing campaign be conducted expeditiously. The Union is therefore obligated to notify management of its intention to conduct a formal organizing drive before it begins. The date of this notification will “start the clock”. The entire campaign, including the consent election, will be concluded in 90 days. It is the Intent of the parties that the 90-day time frame will include discussion and agreement on the unit In the event the parties are unable to agree on the unit the dispute resolution process set forth below will be utilized and the time period will be extended by the number of days required to reach agreement on the unit but in no event will the total campaign, Including
163
resolution of the scope of the bargaining unit and the consent election process exceed 120 days. If employees vote not to be represented, the Union agrees not to Initiate another campaign (nor continue the current campaign) in that same work group for 12 months from the date of the conclusion of the campaign. This would not preclude the local Union from having contact with the workers in the group. If employees vote to be represented, collective bargaining over the terms and conditions of employment will commence within 60 days and will be limited to the agreed upon unit
S.	Informed Decision
Both parties agree that employees should be fully informed about all aspects of Union representation. The Union will provide fact-based information to employees as it endeavors to convince prospective members of the merits of being represented by a Labor Union. Management’s role during this process will include:
(a)	Responding to individual employee inquiries;
(b)	Explaining the organizing process, including obligations and responsibilities; and
(c)	Correcting any Inaccuracies, misstatements or misunderstandings disseminated by the Union.
6.	Free from Coercion
Consistent with the basic tenet of employee choice, the parties want to ensure that employees have expressed their choice from an Informed position and are completely free from any coercion by the Company, the Union or any other party or parties. One way to ensure this objective is to have a NLRB conducted election.
In the alternative, the Company and the Union agree to use a process that is called “Consent Election.’’ This process will work as follows:
(1)	As part of the access discussions, the parties agree to use "Consent Election".
(2)	The Unions shall initiate the consent election process by providing to a TPN proof of support by means of show of Interest cards from 50% ♦ 1 of the employees in the unit The TPN will then notify Verizon Labor Relations Staff and request a list of names, job titles and home addresses. The Company will furnish the list within five working days. The Union will also be furnished with the list The “show of interest" cards will clearly state their purpose and that a secret ballot consent
164
election will be conducted to determine the will of die unit. If the TPN determines that the Union has a sufficient show of interest, he/she will schedule a Consent Election process in accordance with this agreement
(3> The election process will be supervised by a mutually selected TPN, whose role Is to ensure the integrity of the process itself, and will be conducted within two weeks of the submission of the Union's show of interest to the TPN. Employees will be asked to express their individual preference in a manner that will ensure that their choice will not be known to either party. The TPN will count the votes and advise the parties of the outcome. Consistent with this agreement, a vote of 50% + 1 of those who vote will control. The parties may have an observer present when the TPN counts the ballots.
(4)	In all cases, the election process shall take place within 14 days of receipt and verification of the Union's show of interest cards by the TPN. In those cases where there Is no dispute about the composition of the unit, the election process will be held within seven days. The election may be held at the Company location or at a neutral site as agreed by the parties. The cost of using a neutral site will be split equally by the parties.
If there is a dispute as to composition of the unit, the TPN shall decide the issue within an additional seven days.
1. Access Agreement
As soon as reasonably practicable after a request by the IBEW for access, Verizon Labor Relations Staff, in conjunction with local management and IBEW representatives, will meet to discuss the details related to reasonable access to the unit by the IBEW representatives. The Union will be allowed reasonable opportunities for access to Verizon facilities. It is the intent and commitment of Verizon and the IBEW that the access agreed upon will not interfere with the operation and other normal and routine business activities, plans and programs of Verizon generally, and specifically, the selected unit Access agreed upon will be In non-working areas and during employee non-working times. Agreements as to eventful access, such as access to conference rooms, will be reasonable in length and there will be reasonable periods between requests for eventful access. However, an uneventful access, such as a prearranged meeting with an individual employee, will not be affected.
If Verizon and the IBEW are unable to agree on reasonable access,
16S
the TPN will be asked to resolve the issue. Successful access agreements utilized at other units will be looked to for guidance as to what works and is reasonable. Verizon and the IBEW commit that they will reach such an access agreement in each Instance in an expeditious manner.
8.	Dispute Resolution
(a)	Questions or disputes arising during the course of an organizing effort within a particular unit of non-represented employees will, in all cases, be addressed first by and between the parties themselves and, in particular, Labor Relations Staff in conjunction with local Verizon management and appropriate IBEW representatives. It Is the intent and desire of Verizon and the IBEW that such matters are dealt with by and between the parties themselves, particularly at the local level, without having to resort to the assistance of a third party. It is also agreed, however, that if every good faith and reasonable effort has been made, but the matter unresolved, the process described below will be utilized.
(b)	The TPN will resolve disputes In the manner set forth in this agreement Either Verizon or the IBEW can refer a question or dispute, unresolved after good faith efforts have been made to resolve the dispute locally, to the chosen TPN by providing three working days' written notice to both the other party and the TPN. The notice will provide concise statement of the question or dispute to be addressed and a statement that the parties have attempted in good faith but have been unable to resolve the matter by and between them.
(c)	If the question or dispute involves a matter related to access (l.e., the nature, event, time, location, individuals involved, etc.) the TPN will fully investigate all relevant facts surrounding the question or dispute. The TPN will then call the parties together and attempt to facilitate resolution of or otherwise mediate the matter.
If, after a good faith attempt at facilitated resolution or mediation, the access question or dispute is still not resolved, the TPN will attempt to render an Immediate decision, which Includes a method or alternative methods of resolving the perceived problem. However, In no event will the TPN take longer than five days thereafter to render a decision. The decision of the TPN will be final and binding and the parties
US
agree to abide by his/her decision. This process, from the time the TPN is contacted to the time his or her opinion is issued, will not take more than 15 days unless the parties agree otherwise.
(d)	If the dispute Involves the appropriateness of the bargaining unit the Union seeks to organize and the parties are unable to agree, after negotiating in good faith for a reasonable time, upon the description of an appropriate unit for bargaining, the issue of the description of such unit shall be submitted to TPN and a hearing shall be conducted consistent with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The TPN shall be confined solely to the determination of the appropriate unit for bargaining and shall be guided in such deliberations by the statutory requirements of the National Labor Relations Act and the decisions of the NLRB and Appellate reviews of such Board decisions.
(e)	Regardless of the type of question or dispute that is submitted to the TPN, the parties will each be given a full opportunity to present their positions and supporting tactual information prior to the Issuance of any opinion. No written briefs will be submitted. There shall be no ex parte contact with the TPN without the concurrence of all parties. Verizon and IBEW believe that matters pertaining to these values are best handled by and between the parties themselves and resort to a TPN should be necessary in only a limited number of cases.
Verizon and the IBEW agree that the parties may distribute a decision of the TPN to employees in the selected unit but not outside to the public such as the press.
(f)	The parties agree that the process set forth herein shall be the exclusive means for resolving disputes covered by this dispute resolution process, and neither party will utilize any other forum (e.g. NLRB, federal court, etc.) to address issues subject to resolution pursuant to this process.
{g)	All expenses, resulting from the use of the TPN process, shall
be split equally by Verizon and IBEW.
9.	Acquisitions and Ventures
The parties recognize the rapidly changing nature and structure of the communications industry. Verizon may acquire (or be acquired by)
167
another entity. It has and may in the future form joint ventures or strategic alliances, may license its brand or technology, or may be a financial investor in other entities. The employees In those entities may be non-represented, represented in whole or in the part of the IBEW, or represented in whole or in part by some other labor organization. It is not possible to structure a single rule which will apply to all such circumstances and the Company cannot compel other entities to abide by this agreement
This Memorandum of Agreement is effective upon ratification and shall expire on October 23, 2004. The parties specifically agree that the terms and conditions set forth in this Memorandum of Agreement, including Neutrality and Consent Election, shall also terminate on October 23, 2004 and shall not survive the expiration of this Memorandum of Agreement unless agreed to by the parties in writing.
Verizon North, Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic
Regionj/GTE Companies
By Mary J. Darting
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date; December 6, 2001
168
LETTER OF INTENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635, 1637 and 1944
CONTRACTOR COMMITTEE
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451. 1635, 1637 and 1944, in the spirit of the labor/management cooperation, agree to establish a Contractor committee. The committee shall be composed of designated union and management representatives.
It is the intent of union/management to convene this committee on a quarterly basis for the purpose of discussing contractor issues and with the intent of reaching mutually acceptable solutions for the benefit of the Union and the Company.
The Company agrees to share available and relevant information in order to encourage meaningful discussion between the parties.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Cari A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 19, 1998
169
LETTER OF INTENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 and 1944
OCCUPATIONAL TITLES
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and the International Brotherhood of . Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635. 1637 and 1944, agree the deletion of occupational titles that occur after ratification of the Agreement are as a result of having no employees currently occupying the titles. Should a job opening occur in a position, having duties equal to the position currently deleted from the contract, Management will reinstitute the position on the same wage schedule accorded under the articles of agreement which expire October 23, 2004.
The following classification titles shall be retained:
BOC Associate	Coin Telephone Collector
BOC Associate M3C	Material Control Associate
Business Service Representative	Repair Associate
Data Associate	Line & Cable Assignor
Business Service Technician	Fleet Technician
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantlc Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Cart A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6, 2001
170
LETTER OF INTENT
Between
VERIZON NORTH INC. (MID-ATLANTIC REGION)
And
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCALS 1451,1635,1637 AND 1944
FORCE ADJUSTMENT ACTIVITY
Verizon North Inc. (Mid-Atlantic Region) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Locals 1451, 1635, 1637 & 1944 agree that whenever conditions in any location require a reduction in forces through lay-off or parttiming in one or more title classifications, such reductions shall be In accordance with the following:
At Company request the Union will meet with the Company to develop a proposed plan. Or, at Union request, the Company will meet with the Union to review the Company‘s submitted plan for the purpose of negotiating changes or modifications. If agreement as to a final plan cannot be achieved within 14 days following notification to the Union, or during any mutually agreed extension thereof, then further lay-offs shall be effected to the extent needed In order of inverse seniority in accordance with Article 10.
This Letter of Intent is effective January 1, 2002 and shall expire on October 23, 2004.
Verizon North Inc.
(Mid-Atlantic Region)
By Mary J. Darling
Regional Manager-Labor Relations
System Council T-1
By Carl A. Crone
Chairman, System Council T-1
Date: December 6,2001
171
Exhibit A
EXHIBIT A
WAGE ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 1.	WAGES
Employees covered by this Agreement (including Probationary employees) shall be paid in accordance with the wage schedules attached hereto and made a part hereof, and entitled "Exhibit B".
SECTION 2.	MINIMUM RATES
The foregoing identified wage schedules shall represent the minimum rates of pay applicable to the named occupational title for each employee subject to this wage schedule administration.
SECTION 3.	PROGRESSION OF INCREASES	.
A.	Progression of increases within the wage schedule are to proceed according to the Schedule Interval. An employee's wage rate is not necessarily determined by total service with the Company.
B.	The Scheduled Interval is the required 6 months of accredited service between progression wage increases.
C.	The top rate for each occupational title is the maximum rate to be paid for . that occupational title subject to the provisions of Section 4 (D).
SECTION 4.	WAGE ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURE
A.	If an employee is changed to another job on a lower wage schedule, the employees’s rate is to be adjusted to the rate on the lower wage schedule that is immediately below the employees’ current rate. Subsequent progression increases will proceed from the date of the previous progression increase.
1)’ An employee with less than ten (10) years of accredited service who is downgraded two (2) or more wage schedules as a result of a force adjustment and whose wage rate prior to the downgrade is in excess of the maximum wage rate for the new job, shall have their basic hourly wage rate adjusted to the maximum rate for the new job, effective at the beginning of the fifth payroll period which occurs after the effective date of the reclassification.
172
Exhibit A
2)	An employee with ten (10) years or more of accredited service who is downgraded two (2) or more wage schedules as a result of a force adjustment and whose wage rate prior to the downgrade is in excess of the maximum wage rate for the new job, shall have their basic hourly wage rate adjusted to the maximum rate for the new job, effective at the beginning of the tenth payroll period which occurs after the effective date of the reclassification.
B.	If an employee is changed to another job on a higher wage schedule, the
employees rate is to be adjusted to the rate on the higher wage schedule that is immediately above the employee's current rate. Subsequent progression increases will proceed from the date of the previous progression increase.
(1)	Employees on incentive plans other than the Team Performance Plan will receive a wage adjustment to the next higher wage rate on the higher wage schedule, which results in a minimum increase of no less than seventy-five cents ($.75) per hour.
C.	If an employee is changed to another job on the same wage schedule, there will be no change in rate. Progression increases will proceed from the date of the previous progression increase.
D.	If an employee is unable to perform hrs normal duties because of physical
disability, an attempt will be made to place him in a position which he is capable of performing. In this situation, if the application of Paragraph A results in a wage reduction to a disabled employee who is earning a rate of pay in excess of the maximum rate, such reduction shall be accomplished by reducing the employee's wage rate at no greater than 10% each year until the employee's wage rate is equal to the amount of the maximum rate for the job to which he is transferred.
E.	If an employee becomes disabled as a result of an on-the-job injury, the Company shall place the employee into another job on the same or lower wage schedule, which he/she is capable of performing. The Company may place an individual into another job on a higher wage schedule only with mutual agreement of the Union. If such placement is into an existing vacancy, the Union agrees to waive the provisions of Article 5, Section 14. If the placement is on a lower wage schedule, the disabled employee's rate will be reduced at no greater that 10% per year until the employee's wage rate is equal to the amount of the maximum rate of the lower wage schedule.
F.	An employee who is reclassified under Paragraph E above and who is subsequently able to return to his/her former Occupational Title, will at a
173
Exhibit A
minimum, return to their former step on the wage progression schedule.
SECTION 5.	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENT
A.	An employee temporarily assigned to a higher classification for one (1) full working hour or more shall receive a wage adjustment to the next higher wage rate on the higher wage schedule, which results in a minimum increase of $.10 per hour for the duration of the assignment.
B.	An employee temporarily assigned to a job that he/she has recall rights to shall receive a wage adjustment to the wage step that was in effect at the time of the force adjustment.
SECTION 6.---WAGE CREDIT • ------------- -------------- !
A.	Whenever the Company hires applicants possessing previous experience or education which qualifies those individuals for rates of pay greater than the specified starting rates, the Company may hire such applicants by granting appropriate equivalent Wage Credit, for wage purposes only, to establish a proper rate of pay within the appropriate wage schedule.
B.	New employees without previous experience or education will be paid the starting rate on the wage schedule for the job to which they are assigned.
C,	Progression increases for employees who have been granted wage credit shall proceed in accord with the interval to increase as designated by the position of the wage rate on the wage schedule.
SECTION 7.	MERIT INCREASE
In an exceptional case of outstanding merit in job performance, an employee may be advanced by an appropriate step or steps on his wage schedule as merit increase. Subsequent progression increases will proceed from the effective date of the previous wage increase. Only one merit increase may be granted to any employee in a calendar year.
SECTION 6. NIGHT PREMIUM
A.	An employee will be paid $1.00 an hour night premium for hours actually worked between 9:00 p m. and 6:00 a.m.
B.	if an employee works a day tour and works overtime after his/her day tour and such overtime extends beyond 9:00 p.m., night premium will not be paid.
174
Exhibit A
SECTION 9.	IN-CHARGE DIFFERENTIAL
A.	Bargaining Unit employees will receive an in-charge differential of $1.00 per hour when asked and assigned by management to perform any of the following functions:
1.	The employee is placed in-charge of an employee(s) to complete a special project, ie: installing a large key system, re-wiring a large plant, etc., or coordinating a large project or job.
2.	The employee acts as a lead lineman in a construction crew.
3.	The employee is assigned by management the responsibility for
teaching specific job skills to another employee through on-the-job training to assist with their skill development. Routine, daily knowledge sharing does not constitute in-charge.
4.	The employee, as assigned during the absence of supervision, and in conjunction with productive work, coordinates routine questions, contacts and activities within their work group. This will not include discretionary activities as defined in B. below.
B.	In-charge differential is not to be paid to employees performing supervisory functions. Supervisory functions include discretionary activities such as staffing, disciplinary action, determining overtime, etc., and are the responsibility of management.
SECTION 10.	NOTARY FEE
Engineering Technicians will be paid $.75 for each Company document that is notarized.
SECTION 11	- RETAIL SALES CONSULTANT INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
Retail Sales Consultants assigned to Phone Marts will be provided the opportunity to participate in a Retail Sales Consultants Incentive Compensation Plan with the following administrative guidelines for application of the plan:
1.	All regular full-time and regular part-time Retail Sales Consultants assigned to a Marketing Phone Mart will be eligible.
2.	The Company shall have the responsibility to establish and administer the standards to be used.
17S
Exhibit A
3.	The Company reserves the right to adjust standards as needed to ensure equitable treatment of all parties. Any adjustment in goals will be communicated to Ute affected employees and the Union no less than 30 days in advance of any change.
4.	Any dispute as to whether an employee is paid In accordance with the terms of the plan will be subject to the grievance (and arbitration) procedure(s).
5.	The Company agrees to provide the following data to the Union when necessary to resolve such questions as may arise under paragraph 4 above:
A)	Individual employee’s worked hours for the month.
B)	The total worked hours for al eligible employees in the Phone Mart.
C)	The employee’s monthly incentive payment.
D)	The employee's goal.
6.	It is understood by both parties that there is no guarantee of incentive earnings under the Plan.
176
Exhibit B
EXHIBIT B
WAGE SCHEDULES
WAGE SCHEDULE 1
Schedule Interval	GWI 10/28/2001	GWI 10/27/2002	GWI 10/26/2003
Start	$5.96	$6.26	$6.44
6	$6.40	$6.72	$6.92
12	$6.97	$7.32	$7.54
18	$7.56	$7.94	$8.18
24	$8.21	$8.62	$8.87
30	$8.91	$9.36	$9.64
Building Custodian
Building Custodians receiving the additional $1,05 per hour on the ratification date will continue to receive that payment as long as he/she does not exit the occupational title of their own accord.
177
Exhibit B
WAGE SCHEDULE 2
Schedule Interval	GWI 10/28/2001	GWI 10/27/2002	GWI 10/26/2003
Start	$7.39	$7.76	$8.00
6	$7.86	$8.26	$8.50
12	$8.33	$8.75	$9.01
18	$8 85	$9.29	$9.57
24	$9.39	$9.86	$10.16
30	$9.97	$10.47	$10.79
36	$10.58	$11.11	$11.44
Retail Sales Consultant
I I
178
Exhibit 8
WAGE SCHEDULE 3
Schedule Interval	GWI 10/28/2001	GWI 10/27/2002	GWI 10/26/2003
Start	$7.26	$7.62	$7.85
6	$7.79	$8.18	$8.42
12	$8.34	$8.76	$9.02
18	$8.95	$9.40	$9.68
24	$9.61	$10.09	$10.39
30	$10.31	$10.82	$11.15
36	$11.06	$11.61	$11.96
42	$11.86	$12.45	$12.82
48	$12.71	$13.34	$13.74
Mail Messenger Utility Worker
179
Exhibit B
WAGE SCHEDULE 4
Schedule Interval	GW1 10/28/2001	GW1 10/27/2002	GW1 10/26/2003
Start	$7.55	$7.93	$8.17
6	$8.11	$8.52	$8.77
12	$8.73	$9.16	$9.44
18	$9.37	$9.84	$10.13
24	$10.08	$10.58	$10.90
30	$10.84	$11.38	$11.72
36	$11.65	$12.23	$12.60
42	$12.52	$13.15	$13.54
48	$13.47	$14.14	$14.57
Associate
Attendant Repair Attendant Seasonal Worker
180
Exhibit B
WAGE SCHEDULES
Schedule Interval	Market Pay Adjustment	GWI 10/28/2001	GWI 10/27/2002	GWI 10/26/2003
Start	$6.64	$6.91	$7.25	$7.47
6	$7.18	$7.47	$7.84	$8.08
12	$7.78	$8.09	$8.50	$8.75
18	$8.41	$8.75	$9.18	$9.46
24	$9.09	$9.45	$9.93	$10.22
30	$9.83	$10.22	$10.73	$11.06
36	$10.61	$11.03	$11.59	$11.93
42	$11.50	$11.96	$12.56	$12.93
Operator
Toll Operator: To be paid $.10 an hour above the foregoing appropriate rate.
Senior Operator: To be paid $.55 an hour above the foregoing appropriate rate.
Grandfathered Operators:
$14.04	.	$14.74	$15.18
161
Exhibit B
WAGE SCHEDULE 6
Market Pay
Schedule Interval	Market Pay Adjustment	GWI 10/28/2001	GWI 10/27/2002	Adjustment 4/27/2003	GWI 10/26/2003
Start	$7.65	$7.96	$8.35	$8.35	$8.60
6	$8.25	$8.58	$9.01	$9.01	$9.28
12	$8.88	$9.24	$9.70	$9.70	$9.99
18	$9.57	$9.95	$10.45	$10.45	$10.76
24	$10.31	$10.72	$11.26	$11.26	$11.60
30	$11.11	$11.55	$12.13	$12.13	$12.50
36	$12,06	$12.54	$13.17	$13.24	$13.64
42	$13.12	$13.65	$14.33	$14.54	$14.98
48	$14.29	$14.86	$15.61	$15.99	$16.47
Administrative Associate
BDC Specialist BRC Associate DAC Associate DOR Clerk
Network Provisioning Associate RDM Associate
18 2
Exhibit 8
WAGE SCHEDULE 7
Market Pay
Schedule Interval	Market Pay Adjustment	GWI 10/28/2001	GWI 10/27/2002	Adjustment 4/27/2003	GWI 10/26/2003
Start	$8.41	$8.75	$9.18	$9.18	$9.46
6	$9.12	$9.48	$9.96	$9.96	$10.26
12	$9.96	$10.35	$10.87	$10.96	$11.29
10	$10.87	$11.30	$11.86	$12.03	$12.39
24	$11.83	$12.30	$12.92	$13.19	$13.59
30	$12.92	$13.44	$14.11	$14.50	$14.93
36	$14.11	$14.67	$15.41	$15.94	$18.41
42	$15.40	$16.01	$16.81	$17.51	$18.04
48	$16.81	$17.49	$18.36	$19.25	$19.83
BRC Generalist
Facility Assigner
Facility Provisioning Specialist
Switch Provisioning Specialist
193
I
Exhibit B
WAGE SCHEDULE fl
Market Pay
Schedule Interval	Market Pay Adjustment	GWI 10/28/2001	GWI 10/27/2002	Adjustment 4/27/2003	GWI 10/26/2003
Start	$8 80	$9.15	$9.61	$9.61	$9.90
6	$9.57	$9.95	$10.45	$10.45	$10.76
12	$10.38	$10.80	$11.34	$11.35	$11.69
18	$11.36	$11.81	$12.40	$12.49	$12.87
24	$12.41	$12.91	$13.56	$13.74	$14.15
30	$13.58	$14.12	$14.83	$15.13	$15.58
36	$14.85	$15.44	$16.21	$16.65	$17.15
42	$16.25	$16.90	$17.75	$18.35	$18.90
48	$17.78	$18.49	$19.42	$20.21	$20.82
Building Maintenance Mechanic Collector - Maintainer
Frame Maintainer
Inter - Division Courier
Network Provisioning Representative
Public Access Sales Technician
184
i
Exhibit B
WAGE SCHEDULES 9
Market Pay
Schedule Interval	Market Pay Adjustment	GWI 10/28/2001	GWI 10/27/2002	Adjustment 4/27/2003	GWI 10/26/2003
Start	$9.83	$10.22	$10.73	$10.84	$11.17
6	$10.77	$11.20	$11.76	$11.92	$12.28
12	$11.79	$12.26	$12.87	$13.11	$13.51
18	$12.92	$13.44	$14.11	$14.43	$14.87
24	$14.17	$14.74	$15.47	$15.89	$16.37
30	$15.53	$16.15	$16.96	$17.49	$18.02
36	$17.03	$17.71	$18.60	$19.26	$19.84
42	$18.67	$19.42	$20.39	$21.21	$21.85
48	$20.48	$21.29	$22.36	$23.36	$24.07
Construction Technician Fleet Mechanic Storekeeper
185
Exhibit B
WAGE SCHEDULE 10
Market Pay
Schedule Interval	Market Pay Adjustment	GWI 10/28/2001	GWI 10/27/2002	Adjustment 4/27/2003	GWI 10/26/2003
Start	$10.51	$10.93	$11.48	$11.48	$11.82
6	$11,47	$11.93	$12.53	$12.56	$12.94
12	$12.54	$13.05	$13.70	$13.79	$14.21
18	$13.73	$14.28	$14.99	$15.17	$15.62
24	$15.02	$15.62	$16.40	$16.67	$17.17
30	$16.44	$17.10	$17.95	$18.32	$18.87
36	$18.00	$18.71	$19.65	$20.15	$20.75
42	$19.70	$20.49	$21.51	$22.16	$22.82
48	$21,55	$22.42	$23.54	$24.36	$25.09
Cable Specialist Customer Zone Technician II Repair Analyst
186
Exhibit B
WAGE SCHEDULE 11
Schedule interval	Market Pay Adjustment	GWI 10/28/2001	GWI 10/27/2002	Market Pay Adjustment 4/27/2003	GWI 10/26/2003
Start	$10.70	$11.13	$11.68	$11.68	$12.03
6	$11.71	$12.18	$12.79	$12.79	$13.17
12	$12.86	$13.38	$14.05	$14.10	$14.52
18	$14.13	$14.70	$15.43	$15.55	$16.02
24	$15.53	$16.15	$16.96	$17.16	$17.68
30	$17.07	$17.75	$18.64	$18.94	$19.51
36	$18.76	$19.52	$20.49	$20.91	$21.53
42	$20.63	$21.46	$22.53	$23.08	$23.77
48	$22.70	$23.61	$24.79	$25.50	$26.26
BRC Specialist
Building Technician
Business Zone Technician Customer Zone Technician I Engineering Technician Equipment Installation Technician Vehicle Maintenance Technician
187
Exhibit B
WAGE SCHEDULE 12
Market Pay
Schedule Interval	Market Pay Adjustment	GWI 10/28/2001	GWI 10/27/2002	Adjustment 4/27/2003	GWI 10/26/2003
Start	$13.58	$14.12	$14.83	$14.83	$15.27
6	$14.70	$15.29	$16.05	$16.05	$16.53
12	$15.96	$16.60	$17,43	$17.43	$17.95
18	$17.31	$18.00	$18.90	$18.90	$19.47
24	$18.83	$19.58	$20.56	$20.56	$21.18
30	$20.47	$21.29	$22.35	$22.35	$23.02
36	$22.31	$23.20	$24.36	$24.36	$25.09
42	$24.42	$25.40	$26.66	$26.74	$27.55
48	$26.78	$27.85	$29.24	$29.48	$30.37
Customer Engineer - Data Applications
188
WAGE SCHEDULE	UTBR-1 A ’ DATA ENTRY b-typing test C - BDC SPEC KNOW “SlTKlurtd liwcnk*	LTTBR-2 A - DATA ENTRY B* TYPING TEST *Siraetored Interview	UTBR'3 A’ BASIC EL/SAreTY B» ADV ELECTRONICS O ELECTRONIC 1 O ELECTRONIC II E ■ DATA ENTRY F- BLDG TECH KNOWLEDGE G«CUST ENG DATA APPL KNOW. ’StnKtuNd Interview	utBr-i A-DATA ENTRY	UJBR‘5 A ■ OSP Eng Aptitude B«CAD	NU TESTING ASSIGNED »»
7	Facility Prov. Spec.	BRC Generalist (A) * Switch Prov. Spec. (B)				
6	Admin Assoc iate (B) BDC Specialist (A/Cj DAC Associate (A) Network Prov Assoc (B) RDM Associate (A)	BRC Associate (A) DOR Clerk				
5	Operator* Toll Operator ’ Sr Operator *					
4						Associate Attendant Repair Attendant Seasonal Worker
a			Utility Worker	Mail Messenger		
2		Retail Sits Consultant •				
1						Bldg Custodial
** If position is being staffed testing will be reviewed with Testing Administration for validation.
190
2001
s
7
14 21 26
4 11
16 25
4
11 ie 25
1
8 IS 22 29
6 13
20
23
3 10 17
24
M	T	W	T	F	8
JANUARY 1	2	3	4	S	€
B 9 10 11 12 13 15 16 17 18 18 20 22 23 24 25 26 27 29 30 31
FEBRUARY 12 3
5 6 7 8 8 10 12 13 14 15 16 17 19 20 21 22 23 24 26 27 28
MARCH 12 3
5 6 7 8 9 10 12 13 14 15 16 17 1? 20 21 22 23 24 26 2? 28 29 30 31
APRIL
2 3 4 5 6 7 9 10 11 12 13 14
16 17 18 29 20 21 23 24 25 26 27 28
30
MAY
12	3	4	5
7 8	9	10	11	12
14 15	16	17	IB	19
21 22	23	24	25	26
26 29	30	31
JUNE
1 2
4 5 6 7 B 9 11 12 13 14 IS 16
16 19 20 21 22 23 25 26 27 28 29 30
S M T K T F 8
JULY 1	2	3	4	5	6	7
B	9	10	11	12	13	14
15	16	17	18	19	20	21
22	23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30 31
august 12 3 4 5 6	7	8	9	10	11
12 13	14	15	16	17	IB
19 20	21	22	23	24	25
26 27	28	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER
1 2	3	4	5	6	7	S
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	18	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30
OCTOBER 1	2	3	4	5	6
7 8	9	10	11	12	13
14 15	16	17	IB	19	20
21 22	23	24	25	26	27
20 29	30	31
NOVEMBER 12 3 4 5	6	7	8	9	10
11 12	13	14	15	16	17
18 19	20	21	22	23	24
25 26	27	28	29	30
DECEMBER 1 2 3	4	5	6	7	8
3 10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	26	29
30 31
2002
8 M	T	W	T	?	5
JANUARY 12	3	4	5
6	7	S	9	10	11	12
13 14	15	16	17	IB	1?
20 21	22	23	24	25	25
27 28 29 30 31
3 M T W T F S
JULY 1	2	3	4	5	5
7 8	9	10	11	12	13
14 15	15	17	16	19	20
21 22	23	24	25	25	27
28 29	30	31
FEBRUARY
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	0	9
10 11	12	13	14	15	15
17 IB	19	20	21	22	23
24 25	25	27	20
MARCH
1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10 11	12	13	14	15	16
17 IB	19	20	21	22	23
24 25	26	27	2B	29	30
31
APRIL
1	2	3	4	5	6
7 B	9	10	11	12	13
14 15	16	17	18	19	20
21 22	23	24	2S	26	27
26 29 30
MAY 12 3 4
5	6	7	8	9	10	11
12	13	14	IS	16	17	18
19	20	21	22	23	24	25
26	27	2B	29	30	31
AUGUST 12 3 4	5	5	7	8	9	10
11	12	13	14	15	16	17
IS	19	20	21	22	23	24
29	28	27	2B	29	30	31
SEPTEMBER 12	3	4	5	6	7
8 9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	18	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	20
29 30
OCTOBER
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 IS 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
NOVEMBER 1 2
3 4	5	6	7	8	9
10 11	12	13	14	IS	16
17 18	19	20	21	22	23H
24 25	26	27	28	29'	30
JUNE
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
DECEMBER
1	2	3	4	5	6	7
8 9	10	11	12	13	14
15 16	17	IB	19	20	21
22 23	24	25	26	27	28
29 30 31
2003
S M T w T F S
JANUARY 12 3 4
5 6	7	B	?	10	11
12 13	14	15	15	17	IB
1? 20	21	22	23	24	25
26 27	2B	29	30	31
FEBRUARY
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	B
9	10	11	12	13	14	15
16	17	IS	19	20	21	22
23	24	25	26	27	28
MARCH
1
2	3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	25	27	28	29
30 31
APRIL OCTOBER 12345 1234
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 5 6 7 S 9 10 11 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 27 28 29 30 26 27 28 29 30 31
MAY 12	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10
11 12	13	14	15	16	17
18 19	20	21	22	23	24
25 26	27	28	29	30	31
S M T W T F 9
JULY 1 2	3 4 5
5	7	8	9	10	11	12
13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26
27	28	29	30	31
AUGUST 1 2
3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16
17	IB	19	20	21	22	23
24	25	26	27	2B	29	30
31
SEPTEMBER 1	2	3	4	5	6
7 B	9	10	11	12	13
14 15	16	17	18	19	20
21 22	23	24	25	26	27
28 29 30
NOVEMBER
1
2 3	4	5	6	7	8
9 10	11	12	13	14	15
16 17	18	19	20	21	22
23 24	25	26	27	28	29
30
	JUNE	DECEMBER
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	1	2	3	4	5	6
8	9 10 11 12 13 14	7 B 9 10 11 12 13
15	16 1? 18 19 20 21	24 15 16 17 18 19 20
22	23 24 25 26 27 28	21 22 23 24 25 26 27
29	30	28 29 30 31
2004
3	N	T W	T	F	5	S	M I W T	F	S
		JANUARY 1		2	3		JULY 1	2	3
4	5	6	7	8	9	10	4	5 6 7 B	9	10
11	12	13 14	15	16	17	11	12 13 14 15	16	17
16	19	20 21	22	22	24	18	19 20 21 22	23	24
25	2$ 27 2B 29 FEBRUARY			30	31	25	26 27 28 29 AUGUST	30	31
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	1	3 3 4 5	6	7
e	9	10 11	12	13	14	8	9 10 11 12	13	14
15	16	17 18	19	20	21	15	16 17 13 19	20	21
22 29	23 1	24 25 MARCH 2	3	26 4	27 5	2B 6	22 29	23 24 25 26 30 31 SEPTEMBER 1 2	27 3	28 4
7	8	9 10	11	12	13	5	6 7 8 9	10	11
14	15	16 17	16	19	20	12	13 14 15 16	17	18
21 2B	22 29	23 24 30 31 APRIL	25 1	26 2	27 3	19 26	20 21 22 23 27 2B 29 OCTOBER	24 1	25 2
4	5	6 7	8	9	10	3	4	5 6 7	8	9
11	12	13 14	15	16	17	10	11 12 13 14	15	15
IB	19	20 21	22	23	24	17	10 19 20 21	22	23
25	26	27 28 MAY	29	30	1	24 31	25 25 27 28 NOVEMBER 12 3 4	29 5	30 5
2	3	4 5	6	7	8	7	8 9 10 11	12	13
9	IC	11 12	13	14	15	14	15 16 17 18	19	20
16 21 30	17 24 31	18 19 25 26 JUNE 1 2	20 27 3	21 2B 4	22 29 5	21 28	22 23 24 25 29 30 DECEMBER 1 2	26 3	27 4
6	7	8 9	10	11	12	5	6 7 6 9	10	11
13	14	15 16	17	IB	19	12	13 14 15 16	17	IB
20 27	21 28	22 23 29 30	24	25	2G	19 26	20 21 22 23 27 28 29 30	24 31	25