Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see http://diqitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us: Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca. NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://diqitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Qwest Corporation, Quest Business Resources Inc., and Communications
Workers of America (CWA) District 7 (2003)
K#: 5734
Employer Name: Qwest Corporation, Qwest Business Resources Inc.
Location: National
Union Communications Workers of America (CWA)
Local: District 7
SIC: 4813	NAICS: 517110
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 3000
Effective Date: 08/17/03	Expiration Date: 08/13/05
Number of Pages: 272	Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Wages and Working Conditions Agreement..........................................................................................  5
Preamble.............................................................................................6
Definitions.......................................................................................................................7
ARTICLES
Article 1	Recognition and Responsible Relationship......................................................................  10
Article 2	Hoursand DaysofWork...............................................................,.............................14
Article	3	Differentials and Allowances.....18
Article	4	Premium Payments.....................................    21
Article	5	Call for Work.....................................    25
Article	6	New or Changed Jobs.      „,26
Article	7	Training and Work Assignment Selections.........................................28
Article	8	Primary Reporting Place.................................31
Article	9	Travel Time, Transportation, Travel Expense Allowance,
Temporary Living Expense Provisions.....,............32
Article	10	Motor Vehicle Usage Program..........................................38
Article	11	Vacation, Personal Days and Holidays..............................................39
Article	12	Sickness Payments the First Week of Absence................................45
Article	13	Death in Family........................................................................................46
Article	14	Jury and Witness Duty.................................    47
Article	15	Union Company Relationship....................................    ,.48
1
Article 16	Grievance and Arbitration Process................  ...56
Article 17	Discipline............................................63
Article 18	Employee Classifications............................  64
Article 19	Force Adjustment and Force Reductions.................68
Article 20	Lateral Force Rearrangement...........................82
Article 21	Post and Bid Process..........................      ..84
Article 22	Leaves of Absence.................................... 89
Article 23	TreatmentofMedicallyRestricted Employees..............91
Article 24	Award Programs........................................95
Article 25	Personnel Records.....................................96
Article 26	Compliance With the Law.............................  97
Article 27	Special Customer Agreements...........................98
Article 28	Effective Date of Agreement and Duration............  99
ADDENDA
Addendum 1	Wage Administrative Practices........................100
Addendum 2	Occupational Relocation Expense Plan...............  106
Addendum 3	Letters of Agreement
Building Specialist Certification..................HO
COEIT.............................................Hl
Committee on Substance Abuse.....................112
Community Relations Differential.................114
Contracting of Work................................. 116
Electronic Data Gathering..........................118
Employee Development Using Call Recording And Observing.....................................120
Employee Involvement............................    123
Enhanced Compensation Plan.......................124
2
Executive Work Council.........................  ..125
Expectations Regarding Occupational Dress....,...127
Fleet Specialist & Fleet Technician Certification..128
Greater Length of Service......................    130
Health and Wellness Advisory Committee.............132
Job Swap Guidelines................................135
Labor-Management Forums.........................  137
Leveraged Compensation Plan -Reasonable Objectives..............................139
Local Agreements...................................141
Local Agreements on Overtime Administration in the Network Organization........................142
Lump Sum Pension Option.........................  .143
National Public Policy Common Issues Forum...,....,144
Occupational Safety and Health Committee...........146
PATHWAYS To The Future.............................148
Payroll Policies................................  151
Pension Band 120.................................152
Priority Personal Days.............................154
Qwest/Communications Workers of America Diversity Committee..............................  156
Qwest - Organization Structure.....................158
Qwest Uniform Program..............................159
Retiree Health Care................................161
Student Classification...........................  163
Supplemental Payment Cities......................165
Tax-Exempt Trust.................................  167
Telephone Concession Service.......................168
Union Representation Rights for Occupational Employees...................................    ...170
Addendum	4	Family Issues........................................  173
Addendum	5	Titles...............................................179
Addendum	6	Reasonable Commuting Areas (RCA)/Wage Zones......,...182
Addendum	7	Wages and Lump Sum Payments..........................  206
Addendum 8	Pension Bands  ..............................    224
Addendum 9	Qwest Business Resources. Inc, (BRI1 ..........  227
3
Addendum 10 Benefits.......................................228
Addendum 11 Leveraged Compensation Plan (Consumer).........230
Addendum 12 Leveraged Compensation Plan (General Business).244
ALPHABETICAL INDEX.........................................2S8
4
WAGES AND WORKING CONDITIONS AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
QWEST CORPORATION
QWEST BUSINESS RESOURCES. INC,
AND
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
AGREEMENT
Effective on this date. August 17, 2003. the Communications Workers of America (hereafter the "Union'1) and the administrative units and component entities of Qwest Corporation and Qwest Business Resources. Inc., which have employees presently represented by the Union, (hereafter collectively referred to as the "Company" or “Qwest”) agree as follows.
5
PREAMBLE
The Agreements of August 13, J 989, between the Union and the Company, superseded any and all past practices, policies, or procedures, either oral or written, which existed between the parties prior to the date of those Agreements, This Agreement between the Union and the Company continues the effect of that understanding and will govern the relationship between the parties during its term. No modification to this Agreement shall be effective unless signed by the parties.
6
DEFINITIONS
Agree	When used in the context of non-mandatory subjects of bargaining, the parties will strive for consensus on a particular issue, after making a good faith effort during a reasonable period of time. If, however, the parties do not reach agreement on an issue, the Company may move forward and implement its decision. The Union may pursue its concerns through the applicable processes.
Basic Wage Rate	The rate of pay, exclusive of all differential or premium payments.
Calendar Day	Shall be one which starts during the period of time at or after midnight and ends prior to midnight of that calendar day.
Calendar Week	Seven (7) consecutive days, Sunday through Saturday.
Contracting	Contracting shall refer to work performed by contractors, sub-contractors, vendors, or leased workers.
Contractors	Contractors shall refer to contractors, sub-contractors, vendors, or leased workers.
Discuss	The Company will offer the Union the opportunity to review pertinent data and openly discuss questions or concerns. The Company will consider and respond, as appropriate, to matters raised by the Union.
Equivalent Work Week	The result of a formula that is used to determine the applicable pay eligible Regular and Seasonal Part-Time employees receive for contractually authorized holidays, vacations, personal time, sickness absence and separation payments.
Incidental Overtime	Incidental overtime is defined as the amount of overtime an employee needs to complete their final work assignment of the day. Examples would include employees clearing the queue and/or completing the ticket/order being worked on at the end of their normally scheduled tour. Incidental overtime will not exceed one ill hour.
7
Mandatory Overtime	Mandatory overtime is defined as overtime that employees are required to work as determined bv the Company.
Needs of the Business	Any and all requirements deemed necessary to manage the business as determined by the Company.
Organization	Identifiable divisions as defined by the Company that provide products and services to specific customer markets and/or provide specific services and technical support.
Primary Reporting Place (PRP)	Any site or location designated by the Company and used to determine the appropriate travel time, expense treatment and transportation allowances when an employee is temporarily assigned to work at a different site or location.
Prorated	That which has been divided or distributed proportionately.
Review	The Company will provide advance information about an issue to enable the Union to understand the topic/plan and to communicate such information to its membership, if appropriate.
Schedule	The working hours and days of the week which an employee has been assigned.
Session	One-half (1/2) or approximately one-half (1/2) a tour prior to or following a meal period.
Split Tour	A tour with unpaid intermissions of more than one (1) hour but not greater than five (5) hours. A split tour will not span more than thirteen (13) hours.
Term of Employment (TOE)	Length of service (employment) as determined by the Company and as defined in the Qwest Pension Plan for employees covered by this Agreement.
Time Paid/Not Worked	When applicable, primarily includes; vacation time, personal time, Organization personal time, contractually authorized holidays, short term disability, incidental illness, and authorized Company/Union meeting time.
8
Tour	An employee's scheduled or assigned hours on a particular calendar day.
Voluntary Overtime	Voluntary overtime is defined as overtime as assigned bv the Company that the employee agrees to work.
9
ARTICLE I
RECOGNITION ANO RESPONSIBLE RELATIONSHIP
RECOGNITION
Section LI The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of ALL Company employees in the job titles listed in Addendum S of this Agreement in the locations listed in Addendum 6 of this Agreement for purposes of collective bargaining in resnect to rates of nav. hours of work and other terms and conditions of employment. For purposes of this recognition, the Union shall continue to represent those employees who were represented by the Union at the time of entry into this Agreement or who thereafter hold a presently represented job title within the unit presently represented bv the Union. Bv the recognition described in this paragraph, the parties do not intend to expand, diminish, or alter the Union’s current scope of representation,
JOB TITLES AND JOB BRIEFS
Section 1.2 No job titles will be added to or deleted from this Agreement without Union agreement except for the addition of job titles as described in Article 6. Discussion shall occur with the Union prior to the depopulation of a iob title recognized under Section 1.1, In addition, all changes to the job briefs maintained bv the Staffing group shall be discussed with the Union prior to implementation. If the Union requests a iob analysis as set forth in Article 6 as a result of such a change, and it meets the job evaluation criteria, the Company shall perform such an analysis.
MOVEMENT OF WORK
Section U Work (fob duties/functions) performed bv represented employees will continue to be modified and change due to the implementation of new technology and/or the restructure of work processes. These changes have the potential to modify, eliminate and/or combine the work presently performed bv represented employees with the work presently performed bv non-represented Qwest employees, Qwest maintains the right to assign work, but agrees that when restructure and/or technology changes result in the potential for work presently performed bv represented employees to be moved to Qwest non-represented employees the Company shall make decisions regarding such movement of work that do not violate the following principles:
10
Qj CWA acknowledges that the implementation of new technology and/or reorganization of work have the potential to cause work to be eliminated or absorbed into the work of represented or non-represented employees fe.g., clerical employees processed paper time sheets: now most employees directly report time to payroll using a telephone! These types of work changes do not fall under the scope of this Section.
Q) Work performed bv a titlels) recognized under Section 1.) that remains similar or the same will remainas work performed by represented employees unless:
fa) there is a permissible movement of work under any other principle in this Section:
(b)	there is a business need to reallocate work that is currently allocated between represented employees and non-represented employees (such as we currently have in Small Business where represented and non-represented employees handle customer sales based on size or other differentiating factors) and the reallocation does not directly result in a surplus: or
(c)	After a good faith review of relevant circumstances, it is agreed between the Company and Union at the Bargaining Agent level that the movement of work is appropriate.
(3)	Work performed bv title(s) recognized under Section LI that remains essentially the same after the implementation of new technology fe,g„ employees would be performing essentially the same work, but with a new computer system) shall continue to be performed bv represented employees, and represented employees will be trained on the new technology,
(4)	When the contemplated movement of work is driven bv a reorganization and/or a technology change that will result in work performed bv represented employees being combined with work performed bv nonrepresented Qwest employees, the group (either represented or nonrepresented) that performed more than half of the work of the changed position prior to the reorganization shall perform the combined functions, subject to any National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) limitations.
11
(5)	In situations where there are parallel work functions; i.e., both bargaining unit and non-bargaining unit employees are performing the same work or different subsets of the same work (e.g.. represented employees perform desktop support for one Organization but not another Organization!, an analysis shall be conducted to determine which group can best perform the work emphasizing a goal of not diminishing the bargaining unit.
In order to further these commitments. The Executive Work Council (EWC) will be created as outlined in Addendum 3. The EWC shall review any restructure and/or technological change initiated by the Company prior to implementation that could result in a significant amount of work performed by represented employees being moved to Qwest non-represented employees. A significant amount shall be defined as the movement of five <53 or more employees’ work to Qwest non-represented employees. However, CWA reserves the right to challenge through the EWC process, including arbitration, the significant movement of work to non-represented Qwest employees that occurs over a period of time if it is not brought to the EWC by the Company. Situations nor contemplated by the above referenced principles or that may create a potential conflict between two principles will be resolved by the EWC.
organizing and neutrality
Section 1.4 The Company agrees to remain neutral during anv organizing campaign of employees eligible for union representation under the NLRA. This means that the Company will not hold anv captive audience meetings, and when responding to inquiries, will only advise employees that it is an individual employee’s choice to support or not support the Union's organizing efforts and/or join or not join the Union. The Company, including its supervisors, will not take anv action or make anv statements that will state or imply anv opposition by the Company to the selection by such employees of a collective bargaining agent. The Union agrees that information distributed (verbally or in writing) will contain accurate information that is not disparaging towards the Company or anv of its employees and that it will not attempt to organize anv employees in the Human Resources, Labor Relations, or Legal departments.
The Company agrees that when non-represented employees of the Company who perform duties similar to currently represented employees choose representation by CWA as a result of organizing efforts, the Company shall apply this Collective Bargaining Agreement except as to provisions which the Company can establish would .cause it financial hardship if implemented for this newly represented group of employees. As to such provisions, the parties will meet and negotiate to resolve such financial hardships.
12
In other instances in which employees of the Company choose representation by CWA as a result of organizing efforts (e.g,. the Union has organized employees who worked for an acquired company or who do not perform work that is similar to that of existing represented employees), the Company shall apply the grievance/arbitration procedures and other administrative provisions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement to these newly represented employees unless otherwise agreed. In addition, the Company will perform a good faith evaluation of whether these employees can be represented under the remaining terms and conditions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement in a cost effective manner. If so. the employees will be represented under the terms and conditions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, Otherwise, the Company and Union will meet and negotiate an appropriate Addendum that could modify work rules, benefits, or other terms and conditions of the Agreement for those employees in such a manner that economic requirements can be met.
RESPONSIBLE UNION-COMPANY RELATIONSHIP
Section 1.5 The Company and the Union recognize that it is in the interest of both parties and the employees that all dealings between them be characterized by mutual responsibility and respect. To insure that this relationship continues and improves, the Company and the Union will apply the terms of the Agreement in accordance with the bargained for intent and meaning and consistent with the Union's status as exclusive bargaining representative of all employees in the unit.
SUCCESSORSHIP
Section 1.6 In the event of a merger or acquisition of Qwest Corporation or Qwest Business Resources, Inc,, whereby a controlling interest in Qwest Corporation or Qwest Business Resources, Inc, is obtained by another company, or in the event of the sale to, or the acquisition by, another company of substantially all the assets of Qwest Corporation or Qwest Business Resources, Inc„ the parties agree that such company shall become the successor to Qwest Corporation or Qwest Business Resources, Inc, shall be bound by the terms and conditions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement between Qwest Corporation Inc., Qwest Business Resources, Inc, and CWA, and shall assume all other duties and responsibilities of a successor (as that term is construed under the National Labor Relations Act). Qwest Corporation and Qwest Business Resources. Inc, agree to require any such successor to accept the terms of this Collective Bargaining Agreement by written notice. A copy of such notice shall be provided to CWA at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of any sale, transfer or assignment.
13
ARTICLE 2
HOURS AND DAYS OF WORK
BASIC WORKWEEK
Section 2.1 Weekly schedules and daily tours or duty shall be arranged to fit the needs of the business and with consideration for the needs of the employees. The basic work week shall be any assigned forty (40) hours in one (1) calendar week, Sunday through Saturday inclusive. Saturday and Sunday assignments shall be done on a rotational basis among the qualified group unless otherwise agreed to by the local union and Company. Weekly assignments will consist of five (5) daily tours of eight (8) consecutive hours; four (4) daily tours of ten (10) consecutive hours; or four (4) daily tours of nine (9) consecutive hours and one (I) daily tour of four (4) consecutive hours; unless otherwise agreed to under Flexible Work Arrangements.
Split tours are tours with unpaid intermissions of more than one (1) hour but not greater than five (5) hours. Split tours are limited to the Repair Call Handling Center (RCHC) unless otherwise agreed to by the local union. Split tours shall be voluntary in other Organizations. If scheduled, split tours shall start no earlier than 7:00 a.m. and shall end no later than 12:30 a.m. A tour shall not span more than thirteen (13) hours. Employees who are assigned split tours shall be paid an allowance of five dollars ($5.00) per day if at least part of both sessions of the tour are worked. This allowance will not be paid if the employee requests a split tour.
An employee’s tour on a particular day is his or her scheduled or assigned hours. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, employees shall not be paid for time not worked.
For scheduling purposes and purposes of wage administration, all tours shall be considered as falling within the calendar day on which the tour commences.
FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS
Section 2.2	Flexible work arrangements are those varying work schedules that may be developed mutually between the Company and the local union that will provide opportunities to meet the evolving and changing needs of both the Company and the employees. Listed below are some categories of flexible work arrangements:
(a)	Flex-Time: Is a work scheduling method in which start in g/s topping times can vary.
14
(b)	Variable Work Week Schedules: Is a method of scheduling the assigned work hours within the calendar week.
(c)	Split Tours: Employees may elect to volunteer for these tours in any Organization.
Section 2.3	Flexible work arrangements will comply with all federal
and state wage and hour laws.
Section 2.4	Daily overtime will be paid according to Article 4,
Section 4.3. If a full-time employee is working a tour under a flexible schedule, the employee shall only receive premium payment for those hours worked in excess of the employee’s scheduled tour.
Section 2.S	Where compelling business, competitive and/or employee
needs exist and agreement on scheduling is not reached in a timely manner, the Company and Union Bargaining Agents will meet to develop mutually agreeable solutions.
WORK SCHEDULE POSTING
Section 2.6	The Company may elect not to post weekly work schedules in those work groups which are normally scheduled for the same tours. If appropriate for a work group, the Company shall poster make work schedules available to employees at least seven (7) calendar days before the starting dale of the weekly work schedule.
WORK SCHEDULE CHANGES
Section 2.7 The Company will inform an employee of a schedule change, including the scheduling of overtime, no later than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the start: (a) of the employee's tour or normally scheduled tour; or, (b) of the schedule change if that change is earlier than the normally scheduled tour. If the Company fails to give the employee the appropriate twenty-four (24) hours notice of a schedule change, the employee shall be paid one and one-half (1 1/2) times his or her basic wage rate for all hours actually worked outside of his or her normal tour and a short notice premium of one dollar ($1.00).
A work schedule shall become fixed seven (7) calendar days before the beginning of the weekly schedule. If the Company changes an employee’s schedule (including the scheduling of overtime) after the schedule is fixed but with more than twenty-four (24) hours notice of the change, the employee shall be paid a schedule change premium of five dollars ($5.00).
15
Quarterly usage reports of short notice premium and schedule change premium shall be provided to the Company and Union Bargaining Agents for review.
The following shall be excluded from the above outlined requirements:
(a) Incidental and voluntary overtime as defined in Section 4.6
lb) Changes made at the employee's request
[£} Natural disasters and national security emergencies, including but not limited to floods, tornadoes, earthquakes and other catastrophic conditions.
A notification of a schedule change that includes multiple days shall only constitute one change and require only one short notice premium payment: (e.g.. employee advised on Monday that his/her schedule is changed Wednesday through Friday.)
TOUR SELECTION
Section 2.8	Choice of tours shall be based on seniority within a workgroup, needs of the business permitting.
(a)	The Company may assign employees hours of work by seniority within a job title in a work group based on each employee's preference as noted on his or her open-end Tour Preference Card. Employees shall have a choice of tours for each day of a calendar week.
(b)	In work groups ordinarily having consistent tours or weekly assignments, employees shall choose their tours quarterly or at some other time interval agreed to by the Company and the local union. Rotation can be selected as a choice of tour option if employees in the work group unanimously agree to a rotation schedule.
TEMPORARY TOUR COVERAGE
Section 2.9	When temporary tour coverage is necessary for training, vacations, holidays, personal time and illness of one (I) week or more, seniority shall be the determining factor to the extent permitted by qualifications and current work assignments in the selection of employees for temporary coverage.
16
BUSINESS DISRUPTION
Section 2.10 When employees report for duty and business is disrupted because of equipment failure or other catastrophic conditions, and in the opinion of the Company, the employees are unable to perform their regular duties, such employees shall be assigned to perform other work. If no such work is assigned, or if the Company advises an employee not to report to work at the start of the employee's tour because work is not available, the time off shall be paid at the employee's basic rate and considered as actual time worked, provided the employee remains available to work.
17
ARTICLE 3
DIFFERENTIALS AND ALLOWANCES
NIGHT DIFFERENTIAL
Section 3.1 Employees shall receive a night differentia] equal to ten percent (10%) of the employee's basic wage rate for all time actually worked between the hours of 7:00 p.m, and 6:00 a.m. A night differential shall not be paid when an employee works during the night differential time period as a result of the employee's request to change his or her scheduled hours.
The night differential shall be added to the basic wage rate of pay in computing vacation, personal time, and sickness absence provided that such differential was paid to the employee for more than fifty percent (50%) of the tours worked during the preceding four (4) weeks. The night differential shall be added to the employee's basic wage rate in computing holiday pay for those hours that the employee would have been scheduled if the day had not been a holiday.
ADMINISTRATIVE/TRA1N1NG DIFFERENTIAL
Section 3.2 The Company may designate an employee to (I) act on behalf of management and/or (2) conduct formal, planned training. An employee so designated shall receive a differential of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour for each hour the employee acts on behalf of management and/or conducts forma), planned training.
Section 3.3 An employee's duties while receiving Administrative/Training differential may include, but are not limited to, supervising employees, working on a project or conducting formal, planned training. The employee shall not be responsible for administering discipline or appraisals.
Section 3.4 For purposes of this differential, formal, planned training is classroom or on-the-job training which is evaluated by the Company, but does not include routine activities on the job such as assisting co-workers or answering questions. This differential shall not be paid to employees when the job description for the job title they hold specifically includes a training function.
18
Section 3.5 In selecting individuals for the assigned duties, the Company will give consideration to, but is not limited to, factors such as seniority, qualifications, developmental needs, ability to work with the group, and rotational opportunities within the group.
ACCESS ALLOWANCE
Section 3.6 Employees who volunteer and are designated by the Company to carry access devices; (i.e, pagers, cellular phones, etc.), for purposes of being accessed quickly outside of their scheduled tour shall be paid twenty dollars ($20.00) for each consecutive twenty-four (24) hour period the employee is designated to and does cany the access device. The Company expects employees designated to carry these access devices to respond as soon as possible and to accept any work assignments offered. Access device selection procedures shall require a local agreement. The criteria that must be considered include the business need, employee qualifications, employee willingness, and other relevant factors when designating employees to cany access devices. If an agreement cannot be reached locally, the device will be assigned to employees in the workgroup with the skills to perform the work fa), by seeking volunteers first: and, (b), then on a rotational basis bv inverse seniority among the group.
Employees who do not volunteer but are required to carry an access device for a defined seven (7) day window (or portion thereof) shall be paid twenty dollars ($20.00) for each twenty-four (24) hour consecutive period they are designated to and do cany the access device. In the event the non-volunteer employee is required to carry an access device for an additional seven (7) day window for portion thereof) in the same calendar month, they will be paid forty dollars ($40.00) for each twenty-four (24) hour consecutive period they are designated to and do carry the access device.
The seven (7) day window shall be any seven (7) consecutive day period; e.g., Tuesday through Monday, Thursday through Wednesday, etc., which shall be designated in the local agreement along with the selection process. If the parties are unable to reach agreement on the seven (7) day window, it shall default to Friday through Thursday.
When a seven (7) day window spans two (2) calendar months, the entire seven (7) day window shall be deemed to fall in the month in which the first day of the access device assignment occurs.
The Company will make every effort to avoid assigning access devices to an individual in excess of one (I) week a month. An employee shall not be restricted on the amount of times they may volunteer to carry access devices.
19
BILINGUAL - MULTILINGUAL DIFFERENTIAL
Section 3.7 Employees who are required to utilize linguistic skills, where proficiency testing is required in order to provide customer service, will receive a differential of five dollars ($3.00) for each half tour or ten dollars ($10.00) for each full tour the employee actually works.
20
ARTICLE 4
PREMIUM PAYMENTS
GENERAL
Section 4.1 A premium payment is money added to the basic wage rate as outlined in the following sections. No more than one (1) premium payment shall be paid for the same hours worked by an employee.
Section 4.2 The Company shall not pay for meal intermission(s) taken by an employee during hours worked for which a premium payment is payable. The Company may, however, under special circumstances in its judgment, authorize a meal intermission to be treated as actual time worked.
DAILY PREMIUM
Section 43 Premium shall be paid to employees at the rate of one and one-half (I 1/2) hours pay for each hour worked in excess of the employee's scheduled tour for that particular day, unless otherwise addressed in this Agreement. Regular Part-Time employees, scheduled for less than forty (40) hours in a week, shall be paid daily premium in accordance with this Section, provided that the scheduled tour is at least eight (8) hours. The following lime will be included when computing the scheduled tour:
(a)	All actual work time
(b)	All time paid for by the Company in connection with Union-Management meetings
(c)	All time paid for by the Company in problem solving and grievance meetings
21
FORTY HOUR PREMIUM
Section 4.4	Premium shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) hours pay for each hour worked after working forty (40) hours in a calendar week.
For purposes of this Section, the following shall be included in computing the forty (40) hours worked in a calendar week:
(a)	All actual work time, except time worked for which employee received a premium payment under Section 4.3
(b)	All time paid for but not worked on contractually authorized holidays and/or Company designated personal days
(c)	All time paid for by the Company in connection with Union-Management meetings
(d)	All time paid for by the Company in attending problem solving and grievance meetings
(e)	Ail paid personal days. Personal time counting toward the forty (40) hour calculation does not impact actual pay treatment for a personal day. When taken, personal days are always paid at straight time.
FORTY-NINE HOUR PREMIUM
Section 4.5	Premium shall be paid at the rate of two (2) hours pay for each hour worked after working forty-nine (49) hours in a calendar week.
For purposes of this Section, the following shall be included in computing the forty-nine (49) hours worked in a calendar week:
(a)	All actual work time
(b)	All time paid for but not worked on contractually authorized holidays and/or Company designated personal days
(c)	All time paid for by the Company in connection with Uni on-Management meetings
(d)	All time paid for by the Company in attending problem solving and grievance meetings
(e)	All paid personal days, Personal time counting toward the forty-nine (49) hour calculation does not impact actual pay treatment for a personal day. When taken, personal days are always paid at straight time.
22
Section 4.6	The Company and the local union will discuss the guidelines and procedures for overtime administration and are encouraged to reach local agreement when appropriate, (See Letter of Agreement on page 142.1
(a)	When mandatory overtime is required, as determined by the Company, the limit of mandatory overtime shall be eight (81 hours per week.
(b)	Employees working mandatory overtime resulting in a six (6) day work week shall be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) five (5) day work weeks with two (2) consecutive days off in each calendar month.
(cl When an employee is scheduled mandatory overtime and the overtime is cancelled with less than twenty-four (241 hours notice, the employee will be given the choice to: lai, work the overtime as scheduled; or. (b). waive the scheduled overtime.
None of the limitations and/or guarantees outlined in this Section shall apply to voluntary overtime or incidental overtime.
Mandatory overtime is defined as overtime that employees are required to work as determined bv the Company.
Incidental overtime is defined as the amount of overtime an employee needs to complete their final work assignment of the day. Examples would include employees clearing the queue and/or completing the ticket/order being worked on at the end of their normally scheduled tour. Incidental overtime will not exceed one (Dhour.
Voluntary overtime is defined as overtime as assigned bv the Company that the employee agrees to work.
Exceptions to the above can be made for natural disasters and national security emergencies; including but not limited to, floods, tornadoes, earthquakes and other catastrophic conditions. Purine a peak load season the Company and local union may agree to temporarily remove the mandatory overtime cap.
23
Section 4,7 All actual work time on Sunday shall be paid at one and one-half (I 1/2)
times the employee’s basic wage rate, plus any applicable differential.
For wage purposes, tours shall be treated as falling completely on the calendar day on which the tour commences.
SUNDAY PREMIUM
HOLIDAY PREMIUM
Section 4.8	All actual work time on contractually authorized holidays or Company designated personal days shall be paid at the rate of two and one-half (2 1/2) hours pay for each hour worked. All time paid for but not worked on contractually authorized holidays or Company designated personal days shall be paid at the basic wage rate plus any applicable differential.
For wage purposes, tours shall be treated as falling completely on the calendar day on which the tour commences.
CHRISTMAS EVE/NEW YEAR’S EVE PREMIUM
Section 4.9	An employee who is scheduled to work and does work on Christmas Eve and/or New Year’s Eve shall be paid two (2) times the employee's basic wage rate for each hour actually worked between 8:00 p,m. and 3:00 a.m.
24
ARTICLE 5
CALL FOR WORK
Section 5.1	When an employee is "called for work" (i.e,, accepts a work opportunity offered by the Company that requires his or her immediate services outside of the scheduled tour), the following shall apply, depending on the nature of the call for work:
(a)	If departure from the employee's residence or departing location is not required, the employee shall be paid no less than the equivalent of two (2) hours pay at the basic wage rate. Time spent resolving the problem shall be considered actual work time.
(b)	If departure from the employee’s residence or departing location is required, the employee shall be paid no less than the equivalent of three (3) hours pay at the basic wage rate. Time spent resolving the problem, including travel time from the employee's residence or departing location commencing upon departure to the work location and upon return to his or her residence or departing location, shall be considered actual work lime. When an employee on a call for work continues to work into his or her scheduled tour, travel time for the return trip home shall not be paid. The minimum three (3) hour payment does not apply to the following:
(1)	Time worked during a meal period falling within the hours of the employee’s scheduled tour.
(2)	Time worked as a continuation of the employee's scheduled tour on that day.
(3)	If the employee is called to work before the start of the employee's scheduled tour for the day and continues to work all or part of his or her scheduled tour.
Section 5.2	When a call for work requires an employee to drive a personal automobile, the Company shall pay the employee for actual mileage according to the mileage allowance rate in Article 9, Section 9.4(3), except when the call for work continues into the employee's scheduled tour.
25
ARTICLE 6
NEW OR CHANGED JOBS
COMPANY INITIATED
Section 6.1 Whenever the Company determines it is appropriate to create a new job title and/or a new wage scale or to restructure or redefine an existing job, the Company Bargaining Agent shall notify the Union Bargaining Agent and the following procedures shall take place:
(a)	The Company shall notify the CWA District Representative prior to a job content review taking place.
(b)	The Company Bargaining Agent shall notify the Union Bargaining Agent in writing of the job title and wage scale and shall furnish a job description of the duties. The Union will have the right, within thirty (30) calendar days from the receipt of notice from the Company, to initiate negotiations concerning the wage scale or title established by the Company. The Company may implement the results once the thirty (30) calendar days have passed.
(c)	If negotiations are not initiated within thirty (30) calendar days or if agreement is reached between the parties within sixty (60) calendar days following receipt of notice from the Company concerning the wage scale and title, the title and wage scale shall become final and binding on both parties and shall not be subject to grievance, mediation, and/or arbitration.
(d)	If negotiations are initiated and the parties are unable to reach agreement as to the appropriate wage scale within sixty (60) calendar days following receipt of notice from the Company, the issue of an appropriate wage scale shall be submitted to a neutral third party. The guidelines for selection of the neutral third party and the wage scale dispute process are mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union and will be used for all neutral third party cases falling within this Contract unless modified and agreed to by the Company and the Union.
26
UNION INITIATED
Section 6.2 The Union Bargaining Agent may request a job content review of existing job titlefs) and/or wage scales that have been substantially changed or modified during the term of this Agreement, according to the following procedures:
(a)	The Union Bargaining Agent shall notify the Company Bargaining Agent in writing of the job title and/or wage scale in dispute and shall furnish supporting documentation for the claim.
(b)	If a job content review is deemed appropriate, the Company shall notify the CWA District Representative prior to this review taking place. The Company shall respond to the Union within six (6) months of receipt of notification from the Union.
(c)	If agreement is reached between the parties, the decision shall become final and binding on both parties and shall not be subject to grievance, mediation, and/or arbitration.
(d)	If the Union does not agree with the Company's response, the Company and Union Bargaining Agents will meet to negotiate the issue. If agreement is not reached within that period of time, the issue will be submitted to a neutral third party in accordance with Section 6.1(d)
(e)	Wage scale issues are not subject to the grievance process, mediation, and/or arbitration.
PROCEDURES FOR TREATMENT OF INCUMBENTS IN UPGRADED JOBS
Section 63 When, as a result of the process described in Section 6.1 or Section 6.2, a job(s) is upgraded, the incumbents) shall remain in the upgraded position and shall be placed on the step of the new wage scale that is equal to his or her current rate. If there is no equal rate, the employee will be advanced to the next higher rate.
PROCEDURES FOR TREATMENT OF INCUMBENTS IN DOWNGRADED JOBS
Section 6.4 When, as a result of the process described in Section 6.1 or Sectton 6.2, a joh(s) is downgraded, the incumbent(s) shall immediately be placed in the appropriate wage scale and title and shall receive bi-weekly payments calculated under the terms of Reassignment Pay Protection Allowance (RPPA) in Article 19 .
27
ARTICLE 7
TRAINING AND WORK ASSIGNMENT SELECTIONS
TRAINING SELECTION
Section 7.1 The Company and the local union will discuss the criteria for training selection at least annually, and are encouraged to reach local agreement that will normally be used when training opportunities will not be offered to the entire work group. Factors to consider include employee development, employee availability and qualifications, volunteers by seniority, and day-to-day business operations. To the extent that the preceding factors and circumstances permit, seniority shall be the primary factor in offering an employee a training opportunity. Neither the provisions of this Section nor their application will be subject to the arbitration process.
TRAINING COMPENSATION
Section 7.2 An employee selected for a training assignment will retain his or her current title and basic weekly wage rate for the duration of the training assignment.
WORK ASSIGNMENT SELECTION
Section 7,3 Work assignments within an employee's job title and RCA will be assigned by the Company to the employees) it determines to be qualified and available to perform such work. Employees, within their job title, may be loaned outside their RCA under the provisions of Article 9,
The Company can assign work outside of an employee’s job title within the RCA to the employee it determines to be qualified and available to perform such work for a period not to exceed one hundred and twenty (120) days. An employee who volunteers may work for a period not to exceed one hundred and eighty (180) days. If such assignment, one hundred and twenty (120) or one hundred and eighty (180) days, is expected to last longer, the issue will be discussed with the Union to determine if there are other alternatives to performing the work. The Company shall utilize volunteers by seniority to the greatest extent possible when qualifications and availability are equal.
28
Work assignments outside of the employee's job title, outside of the RCA, will be filled from qualified volunteers by seniority to the greatest extent possible.
These assignments may also be accomplished through the Post and Bid Process, Section 21.8, if no employees are available for such an assignment.
While the Company may work an employee in a lower rated job title, the employee's pay will reflect their regular wage rate. When an employee is temporarily assigned to perform the work of a higher wage scale, there shall be no change to his or her regular title or basic wage rate. An employee shall receive a daily differential in accordance with the following chart if they work any portion of the day at the assigned higher rate. In no case shall an employee receive more than one (1) differential payment, as outlined in the following chart, per day.
29
TEMPORARY UPGRADE (180 CALENDAR DAVS OR LESS) DAILY DI FFERENT1AL
Temporary Assignment Zone 10 Zone 20
CSS		$8.00	$8.00
Scale	1	$5.00	$4.75
Scale	2	$4.75	$4.75
Scale	3	$4.75	$4.75
Scale	4	$4.25	$4.25
Scale	M	$4.25	$4.25
Scale	5	$4.25	$4.00
Scale	6	$4.00	$4.00
Scale	7	$4.00	$3.75
Scale	8	$3.75	$3.75
Scale	9	$3.75	$3.75
Scale	10	$3.75	$3.75
Scale	11	$3.00	$2.75
QWEST BUSINESS RESOURCES, INC. (BRI)
Temporary Assignment
Daily Differential Rate
Schedule	A	$4.75
Schedule	Ul	$4.25
Schedule	(Z	$3.50
Schedule	D*	$3,25
Schedule	e	$2.75
*BRI Wage Schedules
Section 7.4 A temporary work assignment greater than one hundred and eighty (180) days shall be accomplished through the Post and Bid Process as outlined in Section 21.8.
30
ARTICLE 8
PRIMARY REPORTING PLACE
Section 8.1 The Company shall assign each employee a Primary Reporting Place (PRP). The PRP shall be any site or location designated by the Company and shall be used to determine the appropriate travel time, expense treatment and transportation allowances when an employee is temporarily assigned to work at a location other than their PRP.
31
ARTICLE 9
TRAVEL TIME, TRANSPORTATION, TRAVEL EXPENSE ALLOWANCE, TEMPORARY LIVING EXPENSE PROVISIONS
Section 9.1 When an employee is assigned to a temporary reporting location that is other than his or her Primary Reporting Place (PRP), the employee shall be required to commute to such locations. The following provisions will be paid by the Company, if the employee is reporting directly to the temporary location and the PRP is:
EMPLOYEE PROVIDES OWN TRANSPORTATION
(a)	Less than 15 miles:	- travel time is not paid.
- mileage is not paid.
(b)	15 miles to 30 miles:	- travel time is not paid.
- mileage is paid from PRP.
(c)	31 miles to 60 miles:	- travel time is not paid.
- mileage is paid from PRP. - $10 allowance is paid.
(d)	Greater than 60 miles: (personal vehicle Is used, if Company agrees)
-	Travel time is paid to all employees traveling from the sixty (60) mile perimeter from the employee's PRP to the temporary location. In no case shall the paid travel time exceed the alternative commercial transportation schedule time plus one (I) hour.
-	Mileage is paid to the driver from PRP, reimbursement will not exceed the cost of alternative commercial transportation.
-	Ten dollars ($10) allowance is paid to all employees traveling, does not apply traveling on Company paid time.
-	If Company and employee agree to use personal vehicle to travel between locations, mileage will be paid to the driver for all miles driven.
•OR-
32
(Company vehicle is used)
-	cravel time is paid from the PRP to temporary location.
-OR*
(commercial transportation is used)
-	ticket is provided and paid by Company.
-	travel time is paid up to thirty (30) minutes check in time, plus travel time on commercial transportation to final destination is paid.
-	mileage is paid to commercial transportation terminal from PRP.
-	Fifty dollars ($50) intercity transportation allowance is paid.
NOTE: The same procedures, above, shall be used for the return trip if appropriate. The mileage reimbursement will be paid to the driver for all miles driven.
AN OVERNIGHT ASSIGNMENT
Section 9.2 If the employee is assigned to stay overnight, the employee is entitled to one (1) of the following two (2) options:
Option A: An allowance of sixty live dollars ($65.00) per day.
Option B: The Company shall provide lodging at Company designated hotels or motels, as well as a daily per diem for all meals and miscellaneous expenses of thirty two dollars ($32.00). The thirty two dollars ($32.00) per diem shall not be paid if the Company provides three (3) meals. When the Company provides: one (I) meal, the employee receives thirty two dollars ($32.00) per diem; two (2) meals, the employee may voucher a reasonable meal as determined by the manager.
33
(1)	A temporary overnight assignment shall be filled on a voluntary basis by seniority from die qualified group by an employee who can be released from his or her current work assignment and who is qualified to perform such assignments. If volunteers are not available, the temporary assignment will be filled on an inverse seniority basis by an employee with the same title performing the same work within the same Organization within the same Reasonable Commuting Area (RCA) who can be released from his or her current work assignment and who is qualified to perform such assignment. Generally, there shall not be two (2) temporary moves to fill the temporary assignment.
(2)	Normally, the Company will provide one (1) week's notice for temporary overnight assignments, including written notice of entitlements.
(3)	Certain metropolitan areas have been designated as high-cost cities. For those employees selecting Option B, the per diem rate shall be thirty-four dollars ($34.00) for the metropolitan areas. They are:
Atlantic City. NJ
Boston, MA
Chicago, IL
Los Angeles, CA
Newark, NJ
New York, NY
Philadelphia, PA
San Francisco, CA
Washington, DC
(4)	Option A or Option B are not provided when the Company provides lodging and meals at a training center, etc,
(5)	Option A or Option B shall be provided on contractually authorized holidays, Company designated personal days, and periods of incidental absence, provided the employee remains at the temporary work location. Option A or Option B shall also be provided on non-worked days, provided they are not in conjunction with vacation or personal days and if the employee remains at the temporary work location. For COElT’s, see Letter of Agreement on page 111.
(6)	Option A or Option B are not provided for excused or non-excused absence, while receiving short-term disability benefits, while on vacation and/or personal days or Union business that is equal to the daily tour.
34
(7)	An overnight stay with appropriate living expenses, as provided in this Section, may be assigned to an employee if, in the opinion of the Company and with consideration for the employee's needs, conditions make daily commuting impractical.
(8)	At the Company's request, and when an employee voluntarily chooses to remain at the temporary assignment location and work when he or she would be entitled to the provisions of Section 93, the following treatments shall apply:
(1)	The employee will forfeit the entitlements of Section 93;
(2)	The employee will be entitled to Option A or Option B.
(9)	When an employee is assigned to an overnight location which is less than four hundred (400) miles from his or her PRP, a Company vehicle may be used for trips home on the weekend. The use of Company vehicles is based on vehicle availability and supervisory approval. If a Company vehicle is used for a trip home, the provisions in this Section, 9.1 and 93 would not apply.
(10)	Option B shall be the only Option available on the final work day of the temporary assignment and the only Option for the last work day prior to a Trip Home Entitlement.
TRIP HOME ENTITLEMENT
Section 93 An employee who is over two hundred (200) road miles from his or her PRP and who has exercised either Option A or Option B shall be entitled to:
-	a round-trip home to his or her PRP in accordance with the schedule below,
-	ticket is provided and paid by the Company.
-	mileage from terminus to the PRP is paid.
-	fifty dollars ($50) intercity transportation allowance is paid.
-	same procedure shall be used for the return trip if appropriate.
35
Length of Assignment
Trip Home Entitlement
More than three (3) weeks/
but less than six (6) weeks	One (1)
More than six (6) weeks / but less than nine (9) weeks Two (2)
More than nine (9) weeks /
but less than twelve (12) weeks Three (3)
More than twelve (12) weeks will be treated in the same pattern.
NOTE: There is no cash payment in lieu of trip home if the employee elects to remain at temporary work location. A trip home will normally be at the end of each three (3) week interval. A trip home may be advanced or delayed by the Company to meet specific work operation needs of the work assignment. If specifically authorized by the Company, a trip home may also be advanced or delayed to compliment an employee's vacation or accommodate a personal preference when such rescheduling does not disrupt the work operation. The Company will make every effort to schedule return trips to maximize the time an employee spends at his or her home location. An additional paid trip home may be authorized in the event of an unusual personal situation that would require an employee to return.
TIME AND MILEAGE
Section 9.4 When time and mileage is paid by the Company, they will be measured by the most direct route normally used for such travel as approved by the Company.
(1)	Paid time spent traveling at the direction of the Company on Company business shall be considered actual work time and paid at the basic wage rate, excluding the following:
(a)	Meal periods.
(b)	Layover time en route outside the employee's scheduled tour when sleeping accommodations are furnished.
(2)	The normal daily commute to and from the employee's PRP is not considered traveling on Company time or expense.
36
(3)	The mileage reimbursement rate will be at the current rate of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) business use deduction rate. In the event the IRS changes the standard mileage rate allowable as a business use deduction, the Company will match the amount of allowable reimbursement as soon as practical.
(4)	After reporting to the work location, if the Company and an employee agree that the employee will use a personal vehicle to travel between work locations, the mileage reimbursement will be paid to the employee for all miles driven.
(5)	When the Company requires an employee to carry other than incidental tools or equipment (e.g„ other than a normal tool box, tool belt, portable computer, roll of "P" wire) in the employee's personal automobile to perform his or her job, the employee wit! be paid for time as though traveling in a Company vehicle.
(6)	DEDICATED TRAVELING CREWS (COE INSTALLATION, ARP INVENTORY) If the Company and the employee agree that the employee will use a personal automobile in lieu of commercial transportation or Company vehicle for temporary overnight assignments, the driver of the personal automobile will receive an "on the road" allowance of ten dollars ($10.00) for each day he or she is required to use the personal automobile for work.
37
ARTICLE 10
MOTOR VEHICLE USAGE PROGRAM
GENERAL
Section 10.1 The Motor Vehicle Usage Program provides for the assignment of a Company motor vehicle to an employee for use in the employee's work and for traveling between his or her work locations and place of residence or other designated place for motor vehicle storage.
IMPLEMENTATION
Section 10.2 The Company may, after discussion with the local union, implement or discontinue the Motor Vehicle Usage Program in work groups or portions of work groups where some or all of the employees normally use a Company provided vehicle in the performance of their work.
PARTICIPATION
Section 10.3 The Company will identify those employees who will be eligible to participate in the Motor Vehicle Usage Program. The Company may identify an entire work group or specific employees in a work group to participate. Those identified employees may volunteer to participate in this program. When an employee participating in the Motor Vehicle Usage Program chooses not to store the Company vehicle at his or her place of residence or the Company determines that the Company vehicle cannot be properly stored at an employee's place of residence, the Company shall determine where the Company vehicle will be stored and will pay for such storage. When participating employees elect to keep the Company vehicle at their residence, the employee shall provide secure and legal storage for the Company vehicle.
Section 10.4 Operation and maintenance costs shall be at the Company's expense. The Company shall make arrangements for maintenance of the motor vehicle; however, it shall be the responsibility of the employee to whom the motor vehicle is assigned to ensure that the motor vehicle is properly maintained.
38
ARTICLE II
VACATION, PERSONAL DAYS AND HOLIDAYS (SEE ARTICLE 18 FOR PAY TREATMENT OF PART-TIME EMPLOYEES)
VACATION
Section 11.1 Employees shall be entitled to yearly paid vacation at their basic wage rate based upon length of service (Term of Employment [TOE] as shown by the records of the Company), according io the following schedule:
Service Completed
Vacation Weeks
Less than 6 months	0
6 months or more; less than t year	1
1 year or more; less than 7 years	2
7 years or more; less than 15 years	3
15 years or more; less than 25 years	4
25 years or more	5
Section 11.2 When an employee completes six (6) months TOE and twelve (12) months TOE in the same calendar year, the employee shall be granted two (2) weeks paid vacation.
Section 113 Vacation weeks may be scheduled and taken for the year in which the employee will complete his or her service requirement. An employee may not schedule any vacation prior to completing six (6) months TOE.
Section 11.4	Employees covered under the Mandatory Portability Agreement who are hired in a different calendar year than the year they left employment of an "Interchange Company" or employees with previous Qwest service may schedule and take vacation in anticipation of their bridged TOE. However, selection of vacation is based on the employee's actual TOE at the time of selection.
Section 11.5	Full-Time employees shall be paid forty (40) hours for each week of vacation at their basic wage rate, plus any applicable differential.
Section 11.6	An employee who returns from a leave of absence of two (2) months or more without pay shall not be eligible to take full weeks of vacation until four (4) weeks following the date of return.
39
Section 11.7	Any weeks of a regularly scheduled vacation which the employee is unable (o take at the scheduled time because of short term disability benefits may be rescheduled provided that the vacation is scheduled and taken before the end of the entitlement scheduling period, April 30 of the following year. Vacations not taken before April 30 of rhe following year, shall not be rescheduled.
Section 11.8 When an illness or accident occurs during a vacation and continues into short term disability, the portion of that scheduled vacation period from the first day of illness through the last scheduled day of that vacation period or the last day of illness, whichever comes first, may be rescheduled. Vacations not taken before April 30 of the following year shall not be rescheduled. When an illness or an accident occurs during a vacation and does not result in short term disability, the vacation shall not be rescheduled.
Section 11.9 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF:
Regular Separations:
Employees who resign, retire, are separated under Article 19, or dismissed for any reason other than an act of misconduct, shall be paid in lieu of their unused vacation and personal days. Such payment may also be made to employees who are separating following an approved leave of absence.
Separations Following Short Term Disability:
Employees who are on short term disability, and who do not return to work, will not be paid in lieu of vacation and personal days unless they have actually worked a commensurate portion of the calendar year in which the vacation and personal day entitlement is earned as shown in the following schedule:
Employee Entitlement
1	Vacation Week
2	Vacation Weeks
3	Vacation Weeks
4	Vacation Weeks
5	Vacation Weeks
4 Personal Davs
8 Personal Davs
8 Personal Davs
Employee Worked Time In Calendar Year
1 or More Weeks 2 or More Weeks
3 or More Weeks 4 or More Weeks
5 or More Weeks
4 Davs
8 Davs
5 Davs
Pay In Lieu Of
1	Week
2	Weeks
3	Weeks
4	Weeks
5	Weeks
4 Personal Davs
8 Personal Davs
5 Personal Days
40
The commensurate portion worked criteria for payment in lieu of vacation and personal days applies to the calendar year in which the employee is separating from the payroll. Any unused entitlement time from the prior calendar year will be paid in lieu of only if the employee's separation is on or before April 30 of the current calendar year Otherwise, it shall be forfeited.
Section I LIO Vacations may be taken on a calendar week, day-at-a-time, or on a one-half (1/2) day-at-a-time basis. One (1) week of vacation may be taken in one (1) hour increments.
PERSONAL DAYS
Section 11.11 Regular Full-Time, Regular Part-Time and Regular Term employees who have at least six (6) months TOE on January 1 of each year shall be granted eight (8) paid personal days (64 hours) or their equivalent and one (1) personal day (8 hours) or its equivalent without pay during a calendar year.
Section 11.12 Employees, as defined in Section 11.11, who do not have six (6) months of service on January 1 will be entitled to four (4) days (32 hours) or their equivalent of paid personal time for that calendar year.
Section 11.13 Employees, as defined in Section 11.11, hired after January 1 will be entitled to one (I) day (8 hours) for each quarter remaining in that calendar year, including the quarter in which they were hired.
Section 11.14 Each Organization may designate one (1) or more, but not more than four (4) personal days to meet market requirements. An individual Organization may designate a personal day or days in a specific location if mutually agreed to by the Company and Union Bargaining Agents. The Company shall advise the affected work groups of the designated personal day(s) no later than October 31 of the preceding year.
Section 11.15 Employees who are required to and do work on personal days designated by the Company shall be paid at the rate of two and one half (2 1/2) hours for each hour actually worked, plus any applicable differential.
Section 11.16 Regular Full-Time and Regular Full-Time Term employees shall be paid for personal days at their basic wage rale, plus any applicable differential.
Section 11.17 If an employee agrees to and does work on a scheduled personal day, the employee shall be paid at his or her basic wage rate, plus any applicable differential, and shall reschedule such personal day based on earliest request and the needs of the business.
41
Section 11.18 Personal days can be taken for all hours of the scheduled tour or in one (1) hour increments.
VACATION AND PERSONAL DAY SCHEDULING
Section 11.19 The entitlement schedule shall be sixteen (16) months in length from January I through April 30 of the following year. All vacation and personal days must be taken on or before April 30 of the calendar year following the year in which the entitlement was earned.
Section 11.20 Vacations shall be selected on a seniority basis, determined by TOE as shown by the records of the Company, within the work group.
Section 11.21 Employees are expected to schedule all of their entitlement time during the entitlement selection process, excent in the case of priority personal days. The Company will make adequate time off available during the calendar year so that all employees in the workgroup may schedule their entitlement time during the calendar year. During the entitlement selection process, the Company will maximize, as much as possible, lime available during the more desirable periods. A reasonable amount of time will be made available on a daily basis.
During initial entitlement selection process, a minimum of an additional twenty percent (20%) ofthe total entitlement time will be available during the scheduling process for the calendar year. The local union and the Company will discuss the placement of the additional twenty percent (20%) allocation, along with the selection process and method for handling vacated entitlement lime and whether entitlement time can be scheduled on Saturday or Sunday.
Discussion, between the Company and local union, will also occur once the initial scheduling process is completed and prior to adjustment of non-scheduied entitlement time. The Company will retain adequate lime available for employees to take their entitlement during the calendar year.
Section 11.22 During the entitlement scheduling process, full weeks of vacation shall have priority over full day-at-a-time entitlements. Entitlement lime not scheduled Shalt be granted based on the earliest request, subject to the needs of the business.
Section 11.23 Vacation and personal days scheduled to be taken during January through April of the subsequent year shall take precedence over the following year's selection process.
42
Section 1L24 The entitlement scheduling process shall be completed no later than December 31. The entitlement schedule shall be posted or accessible at all times to employees.
Section 11.25 Both the employee and the Company will be responsible for tracking an employee's paid entitlement time. If paid entitlement time taken by an employee exceeds the amount of paid entitlement time for which the employee is eligible, overpayment for excess time shall be recovered by the Company.
Section 11-26 When an employee moves from one work group to another, excluding management initiated lateral force rearrangement as outlined in Article 20, Section 20.1, and Article 19, the receiving manager will review with the employee his or her prescheduled entitlement time. The Company will make every effort to accommodate an employee's pre-scheduled entitlement time. If the time cannot be accommodated as scheduled, the employee will be notified as soon as possible.
Section 11.27 At the discretion of the Organization, the Company may buy back scheduled vacation weeks from employees. During the first fifteen (15) calendar days in any quarter, Organizations may announce the amount of vacation which is available for a buy back opportunity, by location. Employee participation is voluntary. The granting of the “buy back opportunity” shall be done by seniority.
The maximum amount of vacation available for buy back is one week per employee per year.
PRIORITY PERSONAL DAYS (Short Notice Time Off at Employee's Discretion)
NOTE: See Letter of Agreement on Priority Personal Days
Section 11.28 Employees who are entitled to personal days shall be eligible to take two (2) personal days as priority personal days by notifying and/or requesting prior to the start of their tour.
Section 11-29 Personal days taken as priority personal days shall be taken during the calendar year earned.
Section 11.30 Local union and Company representatives shall set the parameters and establish implementation guidelines for priority personal days in each work group. If agreement on parameters or implementation guidelines cannot be reached, the Company and Union Bargaining Agents may assist with the resolution.
43
HOLIDAYS
Section 11.31
The following days shall be contractually authorized holidays:
New Years Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day
January 1
Last Monday in May
July 4
First Monday in September
December 25
Section 11.32 Full-Time employees who are not required to work on a contractually authorized holiday shall be paid eight (8) hours, one-fifth (1/5) of their basic wage rate, plus any applicable differential.
Section 1133 Employees who are not scheduled to work on contractually authorized holidays falling on Saturday or Sunday shall be entitled to an additional paid personal day (8 hours) in lieu of holiday pay for each such holiday. Unless otherwise agreed to locally, scheduling of this additional paid personal day shall be by seniority and may occur prior to the contractually authorized holiday following the schedule being posted and the employee not being scheduled to work.
Section 1134 Employees who are scheduled to and do work on a contractually authorized holiday shall be paid at the rate of two and one-half (2 1/2) hours pay for each hour worked plus any applicable differential.
Section 1135 Employees who are scheduled to work on the contractually authorized holiday but fail to report to work and are unexcused shall receive no payment for the holiday.
Section 1136 At least thirty-five (35) calendar days before a recognized contractually authorized holiday, the Company shall identify the tours to be worked on the holiday. In the next fourteen (14) calendar days, the employees who will be scheduled to work on the holiday will select their tours, based on seniority and the needs of the business. The Company in all work groups shall post, or make available, each work group's schedule for a holiday twenty-one (21) calendar days before the holiday is observed.
44
ARTICLE 12
SICKNESS PAYMENTS FIRST WEEK OF ABSENCE
Section 12.1 An employee whose Term of Employment (TOE) is one (I) or more years shall be paid during the first seven (7) consecutive calendar days of absence due to sickness as follows:
0 = No Payment	P = Paid if scheduled to work SICK DAY	1	2 3 4 5 6 7
TERM OF EMPLOYMENT
Less than 1 year	0 0 0 0 0 0 0
1 year, but less than 2 years	0 0 P P P P P
2 years, but less than 5 years	0 P P P P P P
5 years or more	_	P p p P p p p
Section 12.2 An employee whoreports to work and is excused from the job because of personal illness shall be paid for the remainder of the tour if the employee has one (1) or more years TOE. If tine employee's TOE is less than one (1) year, the employee shall be paid for the remainder of the session (half tour).
Section 12.3	Payments to Regular Part-Time employees who qualify for sickness payments under this Section shall be prorated based on the employee's Equivalent Work Week.
Section 12.4	Payments to employees under this Article may be suspended or discontinued for just cause.
45
ARTICLE 13
DEATH IN FAMILY
Section 13.1 An employee shall be paid at the basic wage rate for a period that the employee feels is reasonable and warranted, but not to exceed three (3) scheduled working days, on account of death in his or her immediate family. In addition, if an employee requests, the employee shall also be excused without pay or use their entitlement time, for a period not to exceed two (2) days. In total, an employee shall be granted up to but not co exceed five (5) scheduled working days off
If more than five (5) scheduled working days are needed by an employee, entitlement time or excused unpaid time off may be granted.
NOTE: "Immediate family" shall be understood to mean:
•	employee's parentis) or step-narentfs'l
•	an individual for whom the employee has assumed the rights, duties and responsibilities of a parent
•	employee's childiren) or step-chi I dfreril
•	employee's brother(s) or st eo-brother (si
•	employee's sister(s) or step-si sterfs)
•	spouse
•	employee's grandparent(s) or great-grandparents)
•	employee's grandchildren) or great-grandchi Id(ren)
•	others living in the same household with employee
•	current mother-in-law and current father-in-law
•	same-sex domestic partners and their parents
46
ARTICLE 14
JURY AND WITNESS DUTY
JURY DUTY
Section 14.1 An employee shall be paid at the basic wage rate for all or any part of his or her scheduled tour for absence due to jury duty. Such paid lime shall be considered as actual work time. An employee working evening or night tours will be rescheduled to day tours at his or her request during the period they are required to be absent because of jury duty.
Section 14.2 When an employee is excused from jury duty for all or part of a scheduled day. the employee will immediately contact his or her manager for a work assignment.
WITNESS DUTY
Section 14.3 An employee who is subpoenaed as a witness for a legal proceeding and who is not a party (i.e., either a plaintiff or a defendant) in the matter will be paid for all or any part of his or her scheduled tour at the basic wage rate; such paid time shall be considered as actual work time. If an employee is excused from such witness duty for all or part of a scheduled day, the employee shall immediately contact his or her manager for a work assignment. If the subpoenaed employee is a party (i.e„ either a plaintiff or defendant), or one who testifies as an expert witness, no payment for lost wages as a result of attending the legal proceeding shall be made unless approved by the Company,
47
ARTICLE IS
UNION COMPANY RELATIONSHIP
AGENCY SHOP
Section 15.1 Except as otherwise provided, each employee who is a member of the Union or who is obligated to tender to the Union amount; equal to periodic dues on the effective date of this Agreement, or who later becomes a member, and all employees entering into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement, shall as a condition of employment, pay or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members, for the period from such effective date or, in the case of employees entering into the bargaining unit after the effective date, on or after the thirtieth (30th) day after such entrance, whichever of these dales is later, until the termination of this Agreement. For the purpose of this Article, "employee" shall mean any person entering into the bargaining unit. This provision shall apply in states which permit it under taw.
Section 15.2 The condition of employment specified above shall not apply during periods of formal separation* from the bargaining unit by any such employee, but shall reapply to such employee on the thirtieth (30th) day following his or her return to the bargaining unit.
* The term "formal separation" includes transfers out of the bargaining unit, removal from the payroll of the Company, and leaves of absence of more than one (I) month duration.
PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF UNION DUES
Section 15,3 The Company agrees that, upon receipt of an individual written authorization in form approved by the Company and signed by an employee covered by this Agreement, it will deduct monthly from such employee's wages the amount of Union dues specified in such authorization and forward the amount thus deducted to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union or his or her authorized agent. All such authorizations shall be submitted on and shall be subject to all conditions contained in the Union Dues Deduction Authorization Card designated as Section 15.10 in this Agreement.
48
Section 15.4 in general, dues deductions will be made in a designated pay-period in the current month for properly executed dues deduction authorizations received by the Director-Payroll at least five (5) work days (excluding Saturday and Sunday) prior to the end of the payroll period from which deductions will be taken. However, the Company assumes no responsibility, either to the employee or to the Union, for any failure to make, or for any errors made in making such deductions, but will make such efforts as it deems appropriate in correcting any such errors or omissions.
Section 15.5 The furnishing of employee information and dues deduction information for employees represented by the Union is governed by such rules of procedure as are agreed upon from time to time by the Union and the Company.
Section 15.6 It is agreed that the payroll deduction of Union dues shall be in lieu of Union collection of dues and assessments on Company premises where work operations are being performed and while the Union representative and/or the employees involved are ott Company time.
Section 15.7 An employee’s authorization shall be automatically suspended when an employee is: (1) removed from the payroll of the Company, (2) transferred out of the bargaining unit or (3) on a leave of absence in excess of thirty (30) calendar days duration or longer. The authorization shall be reinstated automatically when the employee returns to the bargaining unit.
Section 15.8 Authorizations for dues deductions shall be "open-ended” to provide for the deduction of dues io an amount which is certified to the Company in writing by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union as being the regular monthly membership dues duly established in accordance with the Constitution of the Communications Workers of America and the By-laws of the particular local union involved.
Section 15.9 The written certification changing the amount of dues to be deducted must be delivered by the Union to the Director-Payroll on or before the seventh (7th) calendar day of the month preceding the month in which the first deduction at the new rate is to be made effective.
49
DUES DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION CARD
Section 15.10
SOC. SEC. NO.
PRINT YOUR NAME (LAST. FIRST, MIDDLE)
WORK LOCATION ADDRESS CITY STATE ROOM NO.
AUTHORIZATION OF DEDUCTION FROM SALARY EQUIVALENT OF UNION DUES - CWA
I hereby authorize___________________to deduct each month from my salary or wages,
disability payments, or entitlement payments, except sixty (60) percent pay disability payments, the amount equal to regular monthly Union dues as certified to the Company by the Secretary-Treasurer of the Communications Workers of America. This authorization is voluntarily made and is neither conditioned on my present or future membership of the Union, nor is it to be considered as a quid pro quo for membership. Each amount so deducted shall be remitted by the Company to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Communications Workers of America or their duly authorized agent. If for any reason the Company fails to make a deduction, I authorize the Company to make such deduction in a subsequent payroll period. This authorization shall continue in effect until cancelled by written notice signed by me, and individually sent by certified or registered mail to the Company and to the Union, postmarked during the ten (10) calendar day period prior to each anniversary date of the current or any subsequent Collective Bargaining Agreement, or during the ten (10) calendar day period prior to the termination date of the current or any subsequent Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Effective 20____________ Organization_____________________________________________
LOCAL NO._________________________
Union membership dues and agency fees are not deductible as charitable contributions for Federal income tax purposes. Dues and agency fees, however, may be deductible in limited circumstances subject to various restrictions imposed by Internal Revenue Code.
EMPLOYEE SIGNATURE (in ink) DATE OFC.TEL.NO. COMPANY NAME
RETURN TO: Local Union Representative
50
EXCUSED PAID TIME - UN I ON-MANAGEMENT MEETINGS
Section J5.ll Authorized representatives of the Union shall be allowed excused time, paid at the employee's basic wage rate, to attend Union-Management meetings held on matters pertaining to the administration of this Agreement, or the relationship between the Company and the Union. Such payment shall be in compliance with the provisions outlined in Section 15.12 and shall be considered time worked.
EXCUSED PAID TIME - GRIEVANCE MEETINGS
Section 15.12 Authorized representatives of the Union may be allowed excused time, paid at the employee's regular basic wage rate (not to exceed the employee's scheduled tour hours in one (1) calendar day), for purposes of attending scheduled grievance meetings with Company representatives. The Union agrees, in advance of a grievance meeting, to advise the Company of the subject of the grievance. The Company and the Union mutually agree to seek arrangements which shall minimize service disruption or unnecessary expense for either patty.
The Company shall endeavor to accommodate such requests for time off subject to the conditions stated hereafter:
(a)	Paid lime for attending grievance meetings shall be considered actual work time,
(b)	No payment shall be made to an employee for time spent in a grievance meeting while the employee is excused from duty without pay or is on a leave of absence.
(c)	Payment shall be allowed: (I) if the employee has been excused from duty in advance by his or her manager to attend the meeting; (2) such meeting is held during said employee's scheduled working hours; and (3) said employee would have worked had the employee not attended the meeting.
(d)	When a Union-Management meeting, including a grievance meeting, ends within a reasonable time prior to the completion of the employee’s scheduled tour, the employee shall return to work.
51
EXCUSED NON-PA1D TIME
Section 15.13 Unless prevented by needs of the business, the Company will grant any employee (except full-time representatives of the Union) designated by the Union the total aggregate time off, without pay, up to a maximum of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or a total of nine hundred sixty (960) hours in a calendar year to handle Union business. This does not include time spent in joint meetings dealing with grievances or other meetings held at the Company's request dealing with UnionCompany relations. Except where it is impossible because of time or other circumstances, the Company shall be given one (I) week’s notice in advance of the date of such absences and the duration of each such absence shall not exceed thirty (30) consecutive calendar days.
REQUEST FOR NON-PAID TIME OFF FOR UNION ACTIVITIES
Section 15.14 Request for time off for Union activities shall be made in writing td the appropriate Company representative by a designated representative of the Union. In the event a verbal request for time off under the provisions of Section 15.13 is granted by supervision, such request shall be confirmed in writing by the Union.
UNION LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 15.15 Upon written request by the Vice President of District 7 or a designated representative of the Union, the Company shall grant leaves of absence without pay to Union officers or designated representatives for periods of not less than thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or more than one (I) year. Written requests shall contain reasons for such leaves of absence,
(a)	A leave of absence shah be required if a continuous period of absence for Union activity is to exceed thirty (30) consecutive calendar days, or if the time off for Union activities is in excess of nine hundred sixty (960) hours in a calendar year as provided for in Section 15.13.
(b)	The period of leave of absence shall be used for the purpose of enabling authorized representatives of the Union to carry on Union business.
(c)	Whether a leave of absence is granted by the Company shall be subject to the needs of the business as determined by the Company.
52
Section 15.16 A leave of absence granted under Section 15.15 cannot be terminated prior to the termination date fixed by such leave except by the giving of at least one (I) week's notice to the Company, and only if the employee is to perform the employee's normal dudes. Any request for the extension of a leave of absence shall be served upon the Company at least one (I) week prior to the date such leave of absence would otherwise terminate.
Section 15.17 A Union representative, upon return from an excused absence or leave of absence, shall be reinstated at work generally similar to that in which engaged last prior to the absence, subject, however, to the provisions of this Agreement relating to layoffs. Employees shall be placed on the payroll at the wage rate received when such absence began, adjusted for any changes in wage level made during the period of absence. Adjustments shall also be made for any changes in location or position in accordance with existing practices and wage scales.
Section 15.18 Leaves of absence, together with any extensions or renewals, shall not exceed in the aggregate a total period of fifteen (15) years for any one individual during the individual's employment with this Company and shall be subject to the following provisions:
(a)	Leaves of absence for a total period not to exceed fifteen (15) years shall be granted full credit for service, with eligibility for death benefits as provided under the Company's "Plan", and to re-employment in the case of sickness.
(b)	During the period of a leave of absence for Union activities:
(1)	The employee may continue the employee's Qwest Health Care Plan coverage and Supplemental Group Life by paying one hundred percent (100%) of the premiums for those coverages.
(2)	The Company shall continue the employee's Basic Group Life insurance coverage in effect.
(c)	The pension band of an employee who is on a leave of absence for Union
activities shall be updated to what the pension band would be if the employee had not taken a leave of absence for Union activities. Pension band determination is derived by using the employee's assigned title.
Section 15.19 Not more than a total of ninety (90) Union officers and designated representatives shall be on such leaves of absence at any one time from the Bargaining Unit.
53
Section 15.20 A leave of absence granted under Section 15.15 shall automatically terminate if at any time the employee on leave engages in any gainful occupation other than as a representative of the Union or if the employee ceases to function as an authorized representative of the Union.
UNION ACTIVITY ON COMPANY PREMISES
Section 15.21 Communications Workers of America (CWA) Union Representatives or members may solicit members and carry on similar Union activity outside of working periods in space where no Company operations or administrative work is performed. Any such activities shall be carried on in such a manner as not to interfere with the rights of an individual employee. Neither the Union, its officers, its members or agents will engage in Union activities including the solicitation of non-members to become members of the Union, in locations where Company operations or administrative work is being performed.
Section 15.22 When an employee reports to a new work group, the local union representative shall be introduced, if present in the group, or. if hot present, the name of the employee new to the work group shall be given to the local union representative. A reasonable amount of time shall be granted to the new employee and the local union representative for the purpose of furnishing the new employee with information about the Union. Time spent during the scheduled work period for each employee will be considered time worked.
BULLETIN BOARDS
Section 15,23 Union bulletin boards shall be placed, without charge for rental space, in type, number, and location, with due regard to visibility and accessibility to the employees, as mutually agreed to between the appropriate local union and Company representative.
Section 15+24 Material posted shall contain only factual information and shall not contain derogatory statements concerning the Company or its employees, or contain material likely to be considered offensive by customers or clients who may be visiting or conducting business with the Company. Material, which in the opinion of Management, is not in conformity with the above shall be called to the attention of a local union representative, who will remove the material, pending a final decision as to whether the material violates this Article. Any materia) posted on the bulletin boards shall bear a signature and title of an authorized Union Representative.
54
NON-DISCR1MIN ATION
Section 15.25 in a desire to restate their respective policies, neither the Company nor the Union shall unlawfully discriminate against any employee.
Section 15.26 It is mutually agreed that neither party shall interfere with, restrain, coerce, or otherwise discriminate against any employee for exercising his or her right to join or assist or refrain from joining or assisting any labor organization.
Section 15.27 The Company agrees that membership in the Union or any lawful activity on behalf of the Union will not interfere with an employee's advancement in the Company or continuity of employment.
55
ARTICLE 16
GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION PROCESS
GENERAL
Section 16.1 The Company and the Union recognize the right of any individual employee or group of employees to present grievances to Company representatives. It shall be the objective of both the Company and the Union to settle grievances, formally or informally, at the lowest step possible. If a settlement is reached either informally or at the first step of the grievance process, it shall be non-precedential and non-referable.
Section 16.2 Both the Company and the Union have the right to investigate the facts relating to a dispute between the parties and the Company and the Union agree to assist each other in the conduct of such investigations. On a case by case basis, the parlies will provide to one another any requested documentation relevant to the dispute or issue raised in the grievance, subject to established policy, procedures or legal constraints regarding the protection of employee privacy.
Section 16.3 Neither the Company or its representatives, nor the Union, its local representatives or members, will attempt, by means other than the grievance procedure, to bring about the settlement of any issue which is properly a subject for disposition through grievance or arbitration procedures.
Section 16.4	Payment to authorized local union representatives presenting grievances shall be as follows:
(a)	Employees who are authorized local union representatives shall be paid for all time spent attending grievance meetings that occur during their scheduled hours, as well as for necessary time Spent traveling to and from the grievance meeting during normal working hours. This time shall be considered time worked.
(b)	Except by mutual agreement and unless otherwise provided specifically in this Article, no more than two (2) authorized local union representatives shall be paid and no more than three (3) local union representatives may meet with the Company for the purpose of grievance meetings.
56
Grievance and Alternative Dispute Resolution (Process) - Dual Tracks
GRIEVANCE FORMAT
Section 16.5	Grievances which are filed must be in typewritten/legible form and must contain:
(a)	the name or names of the employees aggrieved;
(b)	the specific section or sections, if any, of this Agreement which are claimed to have been violated and a brief description of the circumstances out of which it arose; and
(c)	the local union's settlement proposal.
DISCIPLINE
Section 16.6	Sections 16.7 through 16.10 shall apply only to those disciplinary actions defined in Section 17.1 and Section 17.3 of this Agreement.
Step One
Section 16.7
(a)	The local union representative must file a grievance with the employee's immediate Director, or his or her designated representative, within thirty (30) calendar days after the events) giving rise to the grievance.
(b)	The local union and Company representatives shall meet within thirty (30) calendar days after the grievance was filed. The Company shall present its lypewritten/legible proposed disposition within five (5) calendar days after the grievance meeting. If the Company's proposed disposition is not presented within this time frame, the local union may proceed to the next step of this process.
(c)	The local union will furnish the Company with a typewritten/legible acceptance, rejection or notice of appeal within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the Company's disposition.
57
Step Two
Section 16.8	if the grievance is not resolved in Step One the CWA Staff Representative will present the grievance to a Labor Relations representative.
(a)	A joint Union-Company meeting wil) be held within thirty (30) calendar days after notice of appeal.
(b)	If the grievance is unable to be resolved during the meeting, the Union will have seven (7) calendar days to notify the Company of their intent to appeal the grievance through an advisory bench arbitration process.
(c)	Within sixty (60) calendar days after notice of the appeal of the grievance, the Company and the Union shall submit the grievance io a mutually agreed upon neutral third party who will conduct an advisory bench arbitration process.
(d)	If the parties resolve the grievance at this step, the settlement shall be non-precedential and non-referabte.
(e)	With respect to the advisory bench arbitration process, each party shall pay for the expenses of its own witnesses. The expenses and compensation of the neutral third party and the general expenses of the advisory bench arbitration process shall be borne equally by the Company and the Union.
(f)	Discipline grievances that are filed because of written warning will not be subject to advisory bench arbitration. Written warnings not resolved at Step Two. may be appealed by the CWA Representative to the Bargaining Agent.
(e) Grievances that are filed because of discipline related to the Company’s policies on non-discrimination, sexual harrassment, workplace violence, and off duty misconduct will not be subject to advisory bench arbitration. These grievances, if not resolved at Step Two, may be appealed bv the CWA Representative to Arbitration.
Section 16.9 If a grievance is not met on at Step One or Two within ninety (90) days from the event, the union may appeal the grievance to the Bargaining Agents for further review.
58
arbitration
Section KUO The Company and the Union will have fourteen (14) calendar days either to implement the decision of the neutral third party or to reach an alternative settlement, [f the grievance remains unresolved, the Union has fourteen (14) calendar days to notify the Company in writing of its intent to arbitrate,	/
ALL OTHER GRIEVANCES
Step One
Section KU I
(a)	Regional impacting grievances may be filed at Step Three,
(b)	Any grievance regarding the administration of the Post and Bid Process or other activity regarding placement of occupational employees shall be presented directly to the staffing personnel responsible for the decision which resulted in a grievance activity.
(c)	The local union representative must file a grievance with the appropriate manager within thirty (30) calendar days after the event(s) giving rise to the grievance,
(d)	The local union and Company representatives shall meet within fifteen (15) calendar days after rhe grievance was filed. The Company shall present its typewritten/legible proposed disposition within five (5)	।
calendar days after the grievance meeting. If the Company's proposed disposition is not presented within this time frame, the local union may proceed to the next step of this process.
(e)	The local union will furnish a typewritten/legible acceptance, rejection or notice of appeal within seven (7) calendar days following receipt of the Company's disposition.
59
Step Two
Section 16.12 If the grievance is not resolved at Step One, the local union
representative will present the grievance to the appropriate Labor Relations
representative. The process shall be as follows:
(a)	The local union and Company representatives shall meet within forty-five (45) calendar days after receipt of the notice of appeal to Step Two, The Company shall present its typewritten/kgibie proposed disposition within five (5) calendar days after the grievance meeting. If the Company's proposed disposition is not presented within this time frame, the local union may proceed to the next step of this process.
(b)	The local union will furnish the Company with a typewritten/lcgible acceptance, rejection or notice of appeal within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the Company's disposition.
Section 16.13 If a grievance is not met on at Step One or Two within ninety (90) days from the event, the union may appeal the grievance to the Bargaining Agents for further review.
Step Three
Section 16.14 Discipline cases, as defined in Section 16.6 of this Agreement, are not subject to Step Three of the grievance process. For any other grievance which is not resolved al Step Two, the Union Bargaining Agcnt(s) will present rhe grievance to the Company Bargaining Agent or his or her designated representative.
1	(a) The Union and Company representatives will meet within forty-five
(45) calendar days after receipt of the notice of appeal from Step Two. The Company will furnish the Union with a typewritten/! cgible disposition within forty-five (45) calendar days after the grievance meeting. This requirement may be satisfied by the panics mutually agreeing to submit the grievance to an alternative dispute resolution process, provided that the process is completed and the Company provides the Union with a typewritten/legible disposition within forty-five (45) calendar days after receipt of the notice of appeal from Step Two.
(b) Within thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the Third Step disposition, the Union must notify the Company in writing of its intent to reject, accept or arbitrate the proposed Third Step disposition.
60
ARBITRATION
Section 16.15 After the Company has received a written notice of intent to arbitrate under Section 16,10 or Section 16.14(b) of this Agreement, the grievance shall be arbitrated subject to the following conditions:
(a)	The provisions for arbitration shall apply only to controversies regarding the true intent and meaning of any provisions of this Agreement or regarding a claim that a commitment made in this Agreement has not been fulfilled.
(b)	Within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of the notice of intent to arbitrate, the Company and the Union Bargaining Agents shall meet and attempt to negotiate a settlement, if such efforts are unsuccessful, the parties shall select an arbitrator by using either a name from a mutually agreed upon, standing list of arbitrators or from a panel provided by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
(c)	The arbitration hearing shall be scheduled as soon as possible, subject to the schedules of the participants, and carried to a conclusion as expeditiously as possible. The arbitrator shall hear and accept pertinent evidence submitted by both parlies and shall render a decision in writing to both parties within sixty (60) calendar days of the completion of the hearing.
Section 16.16	The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties, and the Company and the Union agree to abide by such decision.
Section 16.17	The arbitrator shall have no authority to change, add to or subtract from the terms of this Agreement.
Section 16.18	In disciplinary cases, the arbitrator shall determine whether the discipline was for just cause, if the arbitrator concludes the discipline was not for just cause, the employee shall be reinstated with back pay. Under no circumstances shall the Company be liable for back pay for more than eighteen (18) months after the date of the disciplinary action giving rise to the grievance.
Section 16.19 Each party shall pay for the expenses of its own witnesses. The expense of the arbitrator or neutral third party and the general expenses of arbitration shall be bome equally by the Company and the Union.
Section 16.20	The time periods under this Article may be extended by written, mutual agreement of the parties.
61
Section 16.21	The following shall not be arbitrable under this Article:
(a)	training selections under Section 7.1 of this Agreement;
(b)	administration of the Voluntary Separation Payment Program;
(c)	demotions and terminations under Article 23 of this Agreement;
(d)	the terms and administration of pension and welfare benefit plans
which are subject to the Employee Retirement income Security Act of 1974, as amended (including, without limitation, the terms of any proposed change in such plan, plan administration and matters of eligibility);
(e)	disciplinary actions involving employees with less than one year Term of Employment;
(1)	Company or Union initiated job evaluations under Article 6 of this Agreement;
(g)	the decisions of the Technical Career Ladder review panel; and
(h)	any other subjects mutually agreed to by the Company and Union
Bargaining Agents.
Section 16.22	Upon mutual agreement of the Company and Union Bargaining Agents, any step of the grievance process may be by-passed.
Section 16.23	The Company and Union Bargaining Agents may, from lime to time, mutually agree to modify this Article.
62
ARTICLE 17
DISCIPLINE
Section 17.1	At any meeting between a representative of the Company and an employee in which discipline (including warnings which are going to be recorded in the personnel file, suspension, demotion or dismissal for just cause) is to be taken, a local union representative shall be present if the employee so requests.
Section 17.2	If the affected employee did not request local union representation, and such action was taken, notice shall be given to the appropriate local union representative.
Section 173 In the event an employee is dismissed, suspended, demoted or had a warning put in their personnel file, a charge that the action taken was without just cause shall be handled in accordance with Article 16 of this Agreement.
Section 17.4	For rhe purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions apply:
(a)	A dismissed employee is one whose service is involuntarily terminated from the Company for any reason other than transfer to or engagement by another employer, layoff, resigned, work completed (for Regular Term employees), retirement or death.
(b)	A suspended employee is one who is prospectively prohibited by the Company from working for a specific period of time for disciplinary reasons.
(c)	A demoted employee is one who, as a result of discipline for any reason, is transferred to a different job that has a lower maximum basic rate of pay. Retreats under the Post and Bid Process or placement as a result of medical restrictions are not considered demotions in this Agreement.
63
ARTICLE 18
EMPLOYEE CLASSIFICATIONS
REGULAR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES
Section 18.1	A Regular Full-Time employee is one who is scheduled to work at least forty (40) hours per calendar week for an indefinite period of time.
REGULAR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Section 18.2	A Regular Part-Time employee is one who, for an indefinite period of rime, will be scheduled to work fewer hours than a Regular Full-Time employee is usually scheduled to work in a calendar year.
(a) Part-Time: will be scheduled to work for al least one thousand one hundred fifty (1,150) hours per calendar year. At the mutual agreement of the employee and the manager, the employee may be scheduled fewer hours.
(h) Part-Time Seasonal: will be scheduled to work for at least one thousand one hundred fifty (1,150) hours per calendar year and may not be scheduled during the slow work season as determined by the manager.
Within an RCA, up to fifteen percent (15%) of the workforce within a job title may be classified as Part-Time Seasonal employees. Within an RCA up to fifteen percent (15%) of the workforce within a job title may hold the combined classifications of Part-Time Seasonal and Regular PartTime. The fifteen percent (15%) may be exceeded upon mutual agreement between the Company and the local union up to a maximum of twenty percent (20%). Exceptions that exceed twenty percent (20%) require mutual agreement between the Union and Company Bargaining Agents.
Regular Part-Time employees (Part-Time Seasonal and Part-Time) will be scheduled tours of at least four (4) hours.
Section 18.3	For employees who are classified as Regular Part-Time
(Part-Time Seasonal and Part-Time) after January 1, the scheduled hours under this Section shall be prorated by multiplying 1,150 by a fraction which has a numerator equal to the number of weeks remaining in the calendar year and a denominator of 52.
64
Section 18.4 Regular Pan-Time employees (Part-Time Seasonal and Part-Time)
shall be eligible to participate, on the same basis as Regular Full-Time employees, in the
Qwest Health Care Plan, Group Life Insurance Program and the Long Term Care Plan.
Section 18.5	Regular Part-Time employees (Part-Time Seasonal and Part-Time) shall be eligible to participate in the Qwest Savings and Investment Plan (OS IP') and such participation shall be based on his or her actual wages.
Section 18.6 Regular Part-Time employees (Part-Time Seasonal and Part-Time) shall be eligible to participate in the Qwest Pension Plan on a prorated basis, as provided by the terms of such plan.
Section 18.7 Regular Part-Time employees (Part-Time Seasonal and Part-Time) shall receive pay for contractually authorized holidays, vacations, personal days, Company designated personal days, paid absence under Article 12, Qwest Disability Plans, separation payments under Article 19 and other "time paid for but not worked", on a prorated basis, based on the employee’s current "equivalent work week", at their basic wage rate, plus any applicable differential.
Section 18.8 Regular Part-Time employees (Part-Time Seasonal and Part-Time) may schedule personal and vacation time on days they are not scheduled to work. PartTime Seasonal employees who schedule vacation during the slow season months as determined by the Company will be paid based on a forty (40) hour equivalent work week.
Section 18.9 When a Regular Full-Time employee transfers to a Regular Part-Time classification (Part-Time Seasonal or Part-Time), he or she will maintain an equivalent work week of forty (40) for the remainder of the calendar year. When a Regular PartTime employee transfers to a new assignment with a Part-Time or Part-Time Seasonal classification, he or she will maintain their existing equivalent work week for the remainder of the calendar year.
When any other employee, i.e. a new hire, Regular Term, or Incidental, is assigned to the Part-Time (Part-Time Seasonal or Part-Time) classification, he or she will be assigned an equivalent work week (EWW) of 35. The EWW will remain in effect for the balance of the calendar year adjusted in accordance with the timeframes noted in Section 18.10.
65
Section 18,10 The equivalent work week will normally be determined by dividing the total of actual time worked and time paid for but not worked during the twelve (12) months preceding December 1 of each year (minus time worked and paid for at the applicable overtime rate) by 52.2 and rounding the result to the next higher whole number. On or about December I of each year, each Regular Part-Time employee's equivalent work week will be reviewed and, if appropriate, adjusted. Such adjusted equivalent work week will be effective on January I of the following year and will remain in effect until adjusted under this paragraph.
Example: 1,375 hours divided by 52.2 equals 26.3; rounded to the next higher whole number equals an equivalent work week of 27.
Section 18.11 Any Regular Part-Time or Seasonal employee with an EWW of forty (40) hours for the last two (2) consecutive calendar years, as outlined in Section 18.10, will have the option of convening to Regular Full-Time.
INCIDENTAL EMPLOYEES
Section 18.12 An Incidental employee is one who, for an indefinite period of time, is employed on an as needed basis for a cumulative total of less than eight hundred fifty (850) hours in a calendar year. The terms of Articles 11, 12, 13, 14 and 23 shall not apply to Incidental employees. Incidental employees shall not participate in the Qwest Health Care Plan (except as stipulated in 18.13), Group Life Insurance Program, Qwest Disability Plans, Long Term Care Plan, or any other employee benefit plan which does not expressly include Incidental employees as a class of employees.
The Company shall have no more than four hundred (400) Incidental employees on the payroll. Exceptions to this restriction may be agreed upon at the Bargaining Agent level. The Company shall provide to the Union a quarterly report that contains the number of Incidentals.
Section 18.13	An Incidental employee may participate in the Qwest Health Care Plan for medical coverage only (not for vision, dental or spending accounts):
(a)	Beginning in the first calendar month after he or she completes one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days on the Company's payroll; and
(b)	Provided that he or she pays the full cost for coverage elected by the employee.
66
Section 18.14	An Incidental employee shall receive a progression wage increase whenever his or her cumulative, actual hours worked and paid for equal one thousand forty (1,040) hours or multiples thereof.
Section 18.15	The Company will not schedule an Incidental employee for a tour shorter than four (4) hours.
Section 18.16	The Company may assign an Incidental employee to any job title for which he or she is basically qualified.
REGULAR TERM EMPLOYEES
Section 18.17 A Regular Term employee is one who is employed for a specific project with the definite understanding that his or her employment will terminate upon completing the project. A Regular Term employee shall be further classified as either "Full-Time" or "Part-Time'’. Regular Term Full-Time employees shall have the benefits and entitlements of Regular Full-Time employees. Regular Term Part-Time employees shall have the benefits and entitlements of Regular Part-Time employees.
Section 18.18 A Regular Term employee will ordinarily be hired fora period of up to three (3) years. With the Union's concurrence, a Regular Term employee may be employed for more than three (3) years if the Company assigns such employee to work on a specific customer contract which extends beyond three (3) years.
Section 18.19 The terms of Articles 19, 21, and 23 shall not apply to Regular Term employees. Regular Term employees may not participate in the Training/Retraining Program.
Section 18.20 Any Regular Term employee whose period of employment is shortened by the Company from his or her initial period of employment without two (2) weeks notice shall be paid a lump sum equal to the employee's basic wage rate for two (2) weeks.
GENERAL
Section 18.21 The Company intends to use Part-Time, Term, and Incidental employee classifications as a strategy to assist in fulfilling the intent of the Letter of Agreement on Contracting of Work and to manage effectively changing customer and employee needs, periodic shifts in business demands and evolving needs of rhe business.
Use of these classifications as an alternative to contracting will be discussed with CWA representatives as outlined in the Letter of Agreement on Contracting of Work.
$7
ARTICLE 19
FORCE ADJUSTMENT AND FORCE REDUCTIONS
Force Adjustment Decisions
Section 19.1 The Company shall determine when it may be necessary to make force reductions. The three available options include ZIPP Voluntary Separation Payment Program (ZIPP VSPP), Reduction of Hours, and the declaration of a formal surplus. Prior to implementation of a formal surplus, the Company should, if applicable, adjust its force under the provisions of Article 20.
When force adjustment becomes necessary in any Adjustment Group within an RCA, the Company shall first discontinue or reduce the use of any Incidental or Term employees within the Adjustment Group where the force is to be reduced, to the extent that such termination of services does not impact the Company’s ability to meet the demands of service or force adjustment transition process.	’
ZIPP Voluntary Separation Payment Program (ZIPP VSPP)
Section 19.2 The Company may, at its discretion, offer the option of ZIPP VSPP by seniority within a title, within an RCA, and Organization, in order to eliminate the need for other force adjustment processes. Employees who accept ZIPP VSPP will be entitled to all regular Voluntary Separation Payment Program (VSPP) separation entitlements.
Reduction of Hours
Section 19.3 Whenever, in the judgment of the Company, there exists a need for a temporary reduction in work time, the Company agrees to give the Union fifteen (15) calendar days notice of its intent to negotiate a Reduction of Hours Program. The Company will determine the extent of the reductions required and the Adjustment Group(s) and RCA(s) affected. The Company and Union will work together in order to minimize the impact on the employee groups. Reduction of Hours may include either voluntary or involuntary reduction of hours but will require mutual agreement of the parties.
When a Reduction of Hours Program is administered in locations where a state-approved program exists that provides partial payment of unemployment insurance benefits (to eligible, participating employees), the Company shall submit an application to the appropriate state agency to establish eligibility for such benefits.
60
Nothing in this section prohibits the Company from combining Reduction of Hours with other force adjustment provisions.
Formal Surplus Declaration
Section 19.4 The Company's Bargaining Agent will provide written notice to the Union's Bargaining Agent, providing a description of the location(s) or arca(s), title, and work group(s) affected. After such notice to the Union, the local Company organization and the local union representative will together notify the employees within the affected work group(s). The Company will provide the affected work group with a minimum of ninety (90) calendar days notice. The Company and Union may agree to a modification of the notification period. Should it become necessary to increase the declaration number once surplus has been formally declared in an Organization within a title and RCA, a new declaration must be made for the entire force group with a revised ninety (90) day resolution date.
Adjustment Group
Section 19.5 The Company shall determine the work groups or titles to be force adjusted (the “Adjustment Group"). The Adjustment Group will include all Regular employees within the same Organization having the same title who are within a Reasonable Commuting Area (“RCA") as defined in Addendum 6. The Company and the Union may mutually agree to a different Adjustment Group, e.g. one that combines titles, includes employees in different Organizations performing essentially the same type of work in the same or different title within the RCA, or considers factors such as function based skill requirements within a title, Organization and RCA. The Union and Company agree to give good faith consideration to requests that would alter the Adjustment Group.
Surplus Resolution Provisions
Section 19.6 Employees in the Adjustment Group, within seven (7) calendar days of the surplus notification, will be covered on the provisions and entitlements available under this Article. Available surplus resolution provisions include reassignment, Voluntary Separation Payment Program (VSPP), Surplus Transitional Leave of Absence (STLA), Expanded Voluntary Separation Payment Program (EVSPP), elimination of contractors, Incidentals and Terms, and layoffs/lnvoluntary Separation Payment Program (ISPP). Details on these provisions are as follows:
69
(A)	Reassignment:
(I)	Follow your Work: When work of a Force Adjustment Group(s) is being transferred to another RCA, the Company shall offer employees in the Adjustment Group(s) the opportunity to transfer to the work group(s) in the receiving RCA when there are openings the Company determines are to be filled. Such transfer shall not create a surplus in the same title and function in the receiving RCA.
(2)	Post and Bid: Surplus employees will receive priority consideration for downgrade or lateral placement opportunities through the Post and Bid Process based on TOE provided they meet the basic qualifications to perform the duties. Basic qualifications would include any test/skill requirements. However, in some circumstances, the Company may find it necessary to reserve the right to select a candidate that is better qualified in jobs which fall in Wage Scale 4 and above. Such occurrences will be discussed with the Union. Exceptions may be agreed upon at the Bargaining Agent level. Placement in an opening at any Qwest subsidiary will be governed by the staffing guidelines of that subsidiary.
(a)	Reassignment Pay Protection Allowance (RPPA): If an employee accepts an assignment at any Qwest subsidiary where the current rale of pay (hourly equivalent) of the new position is less than the current rate of pay (hourly equivalent) of the employee’s regular position (excluding lateral zone adjustments), the employee will be paid the difference between their current rate (hourly equivalent) and the rate (hourly equivalent) of the new position in biweekly payments based on the employee’s TOE at the lime of the assignment in accordance with the following table:
TOTAL AMOUNT OF ALLOWANCE PAY
Term of Employment Period of Payment
Obut less than 5 years	13 weeks
5 but less than 10 years 39 weeks 10 but less than 15 years 78 weeks 15+years	156 weeks
70
'	If an employee is subsequently downgraded through
another force adjustment he/she will be entitled to a second RPPA which will run concurrently with the remainder of the first RPPA period.
RPPA will be subject to recalculation if a subsequent promotion occurs within the Company due to a subsequent force adjustment.
RPPA will be discontinued upon regular movement through the Post and Bid Process,
(b)	Relocation: A Regular employee who accepts an assignment under the provisions of this Article will be reimbursed for the cost of moving in accordance with Addendum 2 if the employee: (a), has more than one (1) year of TOE; (b), must travel more than fifty (50) miles further to the new work location from his/her residence than to the existing work location; and, (c), as a result, elects to relocate.
(3)	Discretionary Job Offers: The Company may, at its discretion, offer an employee a lateral or upgraded position for which the employee is basically qualified which would not require the employee to travel more than thirty-five (35) miles further to their new work location than to their former work location. This offer may be made regardless of whether the employee has submitted a self-nomination for the position. Rejection of this offer will result in forfeiture of Article 19 entitlements except priority consideration as described above.
(B)	Voluntary Separation Payment Program (VSPP): The Company shall offer Regular employees within an Adjustment Group, the opportunity to elect voluntary separation payments under VSPP. This offer will be in order of TOE. The number of employees who make such election shall not exceed the number of employees the Company determines to offer this alternative. Neither such determination by the Company or any other part of the VSPP Sections of this Article shall be subject to arbitration.
71
Employees who elect to leave the service of the Company as a VSPP participant may receive, in combination with such benefits, a retirement service pension (if eligible for such pension) plus compensation for any accrued, unused entitlement time to which the employee is entitled at the time of leaving the Company. The Company will set the separation datefs) that are applicable to employees electing to separate as a VSPP participant.
Any employee who elects to leave the service of the Company as a VSPP pancipant shall not have eligibility to the Recall Rights Provision outlined in Section 19,6 (I) of this Article.
An employee's election to leave the service of the Company and receive voluntary separation payments must be in writing, and delivered to the Company within ten (10) working days from the date of the Company's offer in order for the employee to be accepted as a participant under the provisions of VSPP. Such election may not be revoked after the ten (10) day period.
The voluntary separation payments elected in accordance with VSPP will be calculated as follows;
(1)	One thousand one hundred dollars ($1,100) for each year of TOE (prorated for any partial year of service) to a maximum of twenty-six thousand four hundred dollars ($26,400), but in no event to exceed twice the base annual salary plus applicable differentials.
(2)	Employees separated under the provisions of VSPP will be treated under the Separation Payment Guidelines outlined in Section 19.6(H).
(C)	Surplus Transitional Leave of Absence (STLA): Employees in an Adjustment Group may elect STLA for a maximum of two (2) years if they meet all eligibility requirements. STLA is in lieu of separation payments. An employee is STLA eligible if they are on the active payroll and in a position identified as surplus, and either currently eligible for a pension (i.e., service or disability pension), or within two years of the actual age and/or years of service required for a service pension. (This includes employees within two (2) years of bridging rhe necessary service).
The time on leave counts toward service pension eligibility and for computing the amount of service pension. Any reduction for early retirement will apply based on the employee’s actual age and service at the time of retirement at the end of the STLA.
72
Medical, dental, and vision benefits along with Group Life Insurance will continue during the leave the same as for an active employee. If an employee elects to continue Supplemental Life, Dependent Life and Long* Term Care Insurance, they will be billed. Contributions to Dependent Care Spending Accounts will be suspended; however, claims on amounts remaining in the account for expenses incurred through the end of the calendar year in which the suspension of contributions occurred may be billed. Health Care Spending Accounts will only be available (under the provisions of COBRA) on an after-tax basis; if employees do not elect to continue, only those expenses incurred through the date the STLA commences can be reimbursed.
For those eligible employees, telephone concession as well as PATHWAYS will continue during the leave.
QSIP contributions will cease. Employees may request withdrawals, fund transfers, or loans while on leave, but may not request total distribution of their account.
STLA will expire prior to the end of the two (2) year period if the employee on leave is hired by any Qwest entity or any former Bell System company and is covered for interchange of benefit obligation, including Mandatory Portability Agreement or Divestiture Interchange Agreement, if the employee on leave designates a date within the two (2) year period that the STLA is to end, or in the event of the death of the employee,
(D)	Expanded Voluntary Separation Payment Program (EVSPP): The Company may elect to extend the VSPP election to other force groups not affected by a force adjustment, within or outside the RCA, as an additional method to reduce an Adjustment Group. Administration and application of an expanded VSPP offer shall be in accordance with the mutually established guidelines which are set by the Company and Union Bargaining Agents.
IE) Elimination of Incidentals and Terms: In order to avoid a layoff, employees classified as Incidental and Term within an_ RCA shall be released prior to looking at contracting provided, however, that such employees may be retained or employed temporarily to meet emergency or peak load situations, or to perform functions that employees in the Adjustment Group are not skilled or trained to perform.
73
No later than twenty (20) calendar days prior to the resolution date, the Company shall provide to the Union a list of Incidentals and Term employees who work in the impacted RCA. The list shall include their titles and the number of hours they have worked in the last six (6) months
Impacted employees who have indicated an interest in replacing a Term/lncidental shall be offered these positions if they have the skills and training to perform such work.
(Fl Elimination of Contractors: Work previously performed bv represented employees (since August 13. 1989) currently being performed bv contractors for the Company will be treated as follows:
(1)	Contracting Within the RCA: As of the date of a proposed layoff, contracting within the impacted RCA shall be discontinued to the extent necessary to avoid the laving off of Regular employees if there are any employees in the Adjustment Group . who have the training and skills to perform such work. Work that was previously performed within a iob title shall be brought bock within the iob title. This does not preclude the Company from initiating an Article 6 job evaluation on a work function.
No later than fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the resolution date the Company shall provide the Union a list of contractors who are performing work previously performed bv represented employees in the impacted RCA. The list shall include the type and amount of work they perform in the RCA.
Work that must be returned in accordance with this subsection will be returned under the following guidelines:
(a)	Work previously performed within a iob title shall be returned and assigned to employees in the adjustment group with the skills and training to perform such work.
74
(b)	If the returned work, as outlined in subsection fa). does not resolve the surplus, work previously performed outside of the title shall be offered to the impacted employees that have the skills and training to perform the work. However, if the returned work will create an opportunity for an upgrade, the Company will offer returned work to employees in the Adjustment Group that have the skills and training to perform the work. The local union shall assist in the identification of non-impacted employees who would be interested in such an opportunity.
The fact that expense may be incurred shall not be a factor in returning the work unless it imposes a significant start-up expense or investment requirement fe.g. purchasing a backhoe, test set, trencher, or a mini-sneak would not be considered significant).
(2)	Contracting from Call Centers: Call Center work previously performed, bv represented employees in the impacted center that was contracted out by the Company after August 16,2003. shall be discontinued to the extent necessary to avoid laving off Regular employees if the impacted employees have the training and skills to perform the work and the return of work can be achieved with no more than a de minimus added cost to the Company.
The Company would return the contracted work to the impacted center if the work being returned were of a similar nature to the work being performed in that center. However, if the center is now performing work dissimilar to that of the contracted work, the Company would place the contracted work in a center of their choice.
In a situation where there is a center closure, the Company must discontinue the contracted work previously performed bv represented employees in the impacted center in an amount equal to the number of employees to be laid off. The Company would place the contracted work in a center of their choice.
Where there are open positions described in each of the above two paragraphs, the emploveefs) in the Adjustment Group shall be offered the option to perform the returned work in the new location.
75
If the Company contracted only particular fimction(s) previously performed bv a represented job title, and the Company returns that work under this Section, the Company can choose to have the contracted functionfs) performed separately rather than integrating the work back into an existing job title. If it does so, a new job title and/or wage scale may be created in accordance with Article 6 of this Agreement, and the thirty 130) calendar day period for implementation of the Company’s proposed title and wage scale as outlined in Article 6.1(b) shall be waived. Although not required bv this subsection, if the Company chooses to bring in contracted work not previously performed bv represented employees where they have the skills and training to perform such work, the terms of this paragraph will also apply.
For purposes of this Section, an employee shall be considered to have the necessary training and skills if the employee meets the following criteria:
(a) He/she has passed the appropriate screens and tests for the work being returned:
OR
fb) He/she currently holds the title of the work being relumed and is performing or has performed the work being returned for more than six (6) months in the last five (5) years. This may not apply if the work being returned has significantly changed since the employee performed the work:
AND
fc) He/she can become proficient in the basic job duties of the returning work with minimal training, normally not to exceed two (2) weeks.
(G)	Layoff Procedures: If a force adjustment will necessitate layoffs involving Regular employees, the Company Bargaining Agent shall notify the Union Bargaining Agent in writing, at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to taking such action, and shall offer to negotiate with the Union concerning the best alternative methods for further reduction of the Adjustment Group and preventing layoffs. If no agreement is reached in fifteen (15) calendar days, further reductions of the Adjustment Group shall proceed under the Company's original plan for force adjustments.
76
Layoffs shall be made effective among employees in inverse order of TOE within the defined Adjustment Group in an RCA, subject to the following conditions:	,
Regular employees laid off under the provisions of this Article will be entitled to involuntary separation payments under the Involuntary Separation Payment Program (ISPP), plus compensation for any accrued, unused entitlement time to which the employee is entitled at the time of leaving the Company, Employees who leave the service of the Company as a participant in ISPP may receive, in combination with such benefit, a retirement service or vested pension (if eligible for such pension).
The involuntary separation payments paid in accordance with the ISPP Table will be calculated based on TOE as follows, but in no event to exceed twice the base salary plus applicable differentials:
77
ISPP TABLE
TERM OF EMPLOYMENT (TOE)	DOLLAR PAYMENT	TERM OF EMPLOYMENT (TOE)	DOLLAR PAYMENT
less than 1	less than $ 600		20	16,900
1	600	21	18,400
2	1,200	22	19,900
3	1,800	23	21,400
4	2,400	24	22,900
5	3,000	25	24,400
6	3,600	26	25,900
7	4,200	27	27,400
8	4,800	28	28,900
9	5,400	29	30,400
10	6,400	30	31,900
11	7,400	31	33,400
12	8,400	32	34,900
13	9,400	33	36,400
14	10,400	34	37,900
■	15	11,400	35	39,400
16	12,400	36	40,900
17	13,400	37	42,400
18	14,400	38	43,900
19	15,400	39	45,400
		40	46,900
		4]	48,400
		42	49,900
		43	51,400
		44	52,900
		45	54,400
		Etc.	Etc.
Employees who are separated under the provisions of ISPP will be treated under the
Separation Payment Methods outlined in Section 19.6 (H).
78
(H)	Separation Payment Method: Employees will receive a separation payment, extended medical/dental and vision benefits, and education benefits under VSPP or ISPP provisions in accordance with the following:
(1)	A lump sum payment to be made within sixty (60) calendar days after the employee has left the service of the Company. If an employee who has received a separation payment is re-employed as a Regular employee by any Qwest subsidiary, they will repay the difference between (a) the lump-sum paid; and (b) the amount the employee would have received between the date of separation and date of re-engagement if the separation payment had been paid out using a bi-weekly payment method. Repayment of this amount shall be made at the time of re-employment or, if deemed appropriate by the Company, through the terms of the current Qwest Payroll Policy.
If an employee who left the Company under VSPP or 1SPP is subsequently re-employed and again paid payments under this Article, the separation payments in the case of the second or of any subsequent VSPP or ISPP participation, shall be based upon the employee's TOE, less any prior separation payments received (if required as outlined in the prior paragraph) and not refunded to the Company.
(2)	Regular employees who are not eligible for a service pension and whose employment is terminated as a result of a layoff or application of the force adjustment provisions of the VSPP, shall continue to remain eligible for extended coverage under COBRA for up to eighteen (18) months under the Company's health care, dental and vision plans or successor plans, as follows:
To exercise any of the following options, the employee must complete and return the COBRA Election Form, contained within the COBRA packet sent to the employee following separation, within sixty (60) calendar days of receipt.
(a)	An employee with less than one (1) year of TOE, who is eligible for coverage at the time of termination of employment, may elect to continue such coverage at the employee's expense, for a period of eighteen (18) months following the month in which employment is terminated by paying the monthly premium amount.
79
(b)	An employee whose TOE is at least one (I) year, but less than live (5) years, will be eligible for coverage, al Company expense, for a period of three (3) months following the month in which employment is terminated. The employee may elect to continue such coverage for an additional fifteen (IS) months, at the employee's expense, by paying the monthly premium amount.
(c)	An employee whose TOE is five (5) years or more will be eligible for coverage, at Company expense, for a period of six (6) months following the month in which employment is terminated. The employee may elect to continue such coverage for an additional twelve (12) months, at the employee's expense, by paying the monthly premium amount.
The extended medical/dental/vision coverage shall be on the same basis and in the same amount to which the employee was entitled immediately prior to leaving the service of the Company. If, during the period of any extended medical/dental/vision coverage as described above, the plans are changed for employees who remain on the payroll, the same changes will be applied to persons participating in this extended coverage program.
(3)	Employees shall be eligible to participate in the PATHWAYS Program outlined in this Agreement for a period not to exceed twenty-four (24) months from their first course/class enrollment which must be within twelve (12) months from their separation date.
(1)	Recall Rights: Regular employees laid off under the provisions of this Article shall be recalled in order of TOE for Regular Part-Time or Regular Full-Time job vacancies within the same title. Organization and RCA where the layoff occurred provided:
(a)	the employee has not been laid off more than two (2) years
(b)	the employee is able to perform the essential functions of the job,
(e.g. he/she would not be entitled to recall if a medical restriction prevented him/her from performing those functions:
BO
£c) the employee successfully completes all applicable pre-olacement screens, (i.e. drug test, background check-!;
(d) the employee has submitted a self-nomination request through the Post and Bid Process for the posted job in the same title. Organization and RCA from which the layoff occurred.
If an employee was on a step of discipline at the time of layoff, the employee will not be eligible for recall.
When an employee accepts a recall offer, the Company has fulfilled its recall obligation. An employee, who accepts a recall offer and subsequently resigns, fails training oris terminated from employment, will no longer have recall rights. An employee who declines a recall offer of employment will no longer have recall rights.
Failure to report for duty on a start date no less than seven i7} calendar days from the final job offer date constitutes a declination and a forfeiture of recall rights.
Layoffs Not Constituting a Break In Service
Section 19.7 When an employee is laid off due to lack of work and such employee is re-engaged as Regular or Regular Term within a two (2) year period from date of layoff, prior service will be credited as follows:
(a)	Immediately upon reinstatement providing the period was six (6) months or less;
-OR*
(b)	When the period of layoff exceeds six (6) months, service will be deducted for the period of layoff.
NOTE If an employee returns to work within two (2) years of the layoff under any classification other than Regular or Regular Term, the layoff bridge rule will be applied if the employee, without interruption in service, is later reclassified as a Regular or Regular Term employee.
81
ARTICLE 20
LATERAL FORCE REARRANGEMENT
Section 20.1 The Company may adjust its force within an Organization within or between Reasonable Commuting Areas (RCA) for such reasons as force leveling/force imbalances. This will be handled outside the Post and Bid Process provisions of Article 21 and does not require invoking the provisions of Article 19, except as provided in this Article, in accordance with the following provisions:
WITHIN A REASONABLE COMMUTING AREA
Section 20.2 The Company may reassign employees within an RCA, as defined in Addendum 6; such reassignment may involve changes from one job assignment to another within the same title and/or front one work location to another within an Organization. The reassignment will be made from the identified work group(s) and title from among employees performing essentially the same type of work function in the work location(s) impacted.
(a)	If a reassignment would qualify an affected employee to relocate his/her residence as defined under Section 19.6 (A) (2) (b), the employee will be eligible for relocation expenses if the employee elects to relocate, subject to the following conditions:
(1)	Employees who elect to relocate under the provisions of Lateral Force Rearrangement are limited to a one (1) time eligibility for relocation expenses within each Reasonable Commuting Area (RCA);
AND
(2)	Relocation expenses will only be paid for relocations that are made within the geographic parameters of the RCA in which the employee is reassigned.
NOTE: The Company agrees to review any unusual individual hardships associated with the limitations outlined in Section 20.2 (a) (I) and Section 20.2 (a) (2) above.
82
(b)	An employee's regular assignment shall not be changed for a period of less than six (6) months except when the change is made at the employee's request or for temporary changes in assignment.
(c)	The Company will consider Term of Employment (TOE) in selecting employees for lateral force rearrangements.
OUTSIDE A REASONABLE COMMUTING AREA (RCA)
Section 203 When the Company finds it necessary or appropriate to reassign employees to a reporting location which is outside the RCA, the Company will seek volunteers in the title from among employees performing essentially the same type of work (function) in the work location(s) the Company identifies as having force available for reassignment.
(a)	Such reassignment, if any, will be accomplished from among volunteers in order of TOE. An employee's election to participate in reassignment outside of their RCA is strictly voluntary.
(b)	If such rearrangement would qualify an affected employee to relocate his/her residence as defined under under Section 19.6 (A) (2) (b), the employee will be eligible for relocation expenses if the employee elects to relocate.
(c)	The Company will notify the Union Bargaining Agent of any reassignments under this Section. Such notice will be in advance of the employee's report date.
Section 20.4 Employees may initiate a request for reassignment within the same title, within their Organization, within the same RCA without going through the Post and Bid Process. The Company and local union are encouraged to work together to determine the guidelines for employee initiated moves within an RCA.
(a)	Employees requesting such reassignment would not be eligible for relocation expenses.
(b)	The Company will consider factors such as TOE and qualifications in granting an employee initiated reassignment.
83
ARTICLE 21
POST AND BID PROCESS
APPLICATION
Section 21.1 Eligible occupational employees desiring a transfer to a different job title in the same location, to the same job title in a different location, or to a different job title in a different location may submit unlimited self-nomination requests for posted positions with the Company.
SELECTION
Section 21.2 In the selection of employees for posted positions, the Company will adhere to the principle that Tenn of Employment (TOE) will govern if all other qualifications of the individuals considered are determined to be substantially equal. The selection process will be modified during a force adjustment as outlined in Article 19. Section 19.6 (A).
ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
Section 21J	An employee meets eligibility requirements provided the employee:
(a)	Is classified on the payroll as Regular Full-Time or Regular Part-Time;
(b)	Meets time-in-title/location requirements. The employee is responsible for accurately reporting time-in-title/location fulfillment on the prescreening questions. The time-in-title/location requirement will be waived or amended under the following conditions;
(I)	Waived - Employee is part of a Force Adjustment Group treated under the provisions of Article 19; or
(2)	Waived - Employee is being treated under Article 23; or
(3)	Waived - Employee had their former title changed under Article 6
processes. In such cases, the employee will not have to reestablish time-in-tille. Time spent in the former title will be accrued to the new assigned title; or
84
(4)	Waived - Regular Full-Time employees who accepted Part-Time positions under the reassignment provisions of Article 19; or
(5)	Waived - Employees placed under the provisions of Article 19 into a lower rated wage schedule;
or
(6)	Amended - Employees placed under the provisions of Article 19 into a lateral wage schedule will be required to fulfill one-half (1/2) of the required time-in-title for that position.
(c)	Is not on corrective action for any area of performance, including attendance, in their current job unless their placement/selection is a result of reassignment under the provisions of Article 19 or Article 23.
TIME - IN -TITLE/LOCATION
Section 21.4 Time-in-title and request eligibility are as follows:	time-in-location	requirements for self-nomination
Wage Scale Group or Title	Time-In-Title	Time-1 n-Loeation
1,2, Technical Career Ladder	30 months	18 months
3. 4. 5. M. Sales Consultants	24 months	15 months
	24 months	12 months
C.D	18 months	12 months
E	12 months	12 months
6, 7, 8, 9	12 months	9 months
F	12 months	6 months
10, 11	6 months	6 months
Time-in-title and time-in-location requirements indicate minimum standards. The Company and Union Bargaining Agents can agree to reduce or extend the time frames.
85
PART-TIME EMPLOYEE PROVISIONS
Section 21.5 Regular Part-Time employees shall be able to submit self-nomination requests for a full-time position in the same job title and same job function after fulfilling the time-in-location requirements. For moves to titles other than the employee's current title, time-in-title requirements will have to be met.
RELEASE PROVISIONS
Section 21.6 When an employee is selected for a position through the Post and Bid Process, the sending Organization will release the employee within a reasonable time frame, which would normally be two (2) weeks. An employee may be held back due to needs of the business for a period of up to thirty (30) calendar days. Release dates for lateral or lower rated short duration assignments through the Post and Bid Process will be subject to the needs of the business.
RETREAT PROVISIONS
Section 21.7 Except in force adjustment situations, both management and employee initiated retreat rights apply to moves through the Post and Bid Process. The time frame for either management initiated or employee initialed retreats will be sixty (60) calendar days following the placement in the new job or alter formal classroom training. Employee initiated retreats are subject to available openings with the employee being placed in the next available open position. Employees who initiate a retreat will, upon return to their former position, be required to fulfill time-in-local ion requirements prior to being eligible to submit future seif-nomination requests through the Post and Bid Process. The Company and Union Bargaining Agents may extend the time frame for employee or management initiated retreat requests to their former title for select titles with mutual agreement.
TEMPORARY (SHORT DURATION) ASSIGNMENTS
Section 21.8 Temporary assignments not accomplished under other applicable provisions of the Agreement will be filled as follows:
66
ASSIGNMENTS UP TO 180 CALENDAR DAYS
(a)	The Company has the option of using the provisions of this Article to fill temporary assignments for durations of less than one hundred eighty-one (181) calendar days. Employees placed in temporary upgrades under this option shall be treated in accordance with Addendum 1, A 1,2 (a) for purposes of title and compensation.
(b)	Assignments for g duration of less than one hundred eighty-one (181) calendar days made by the Organization outside of this Article will be offered to volunteers based on such factors as TOE, qualifications, and availability. Employees placed in temporary upgrades under this option shall be treated in accordance with Article 7, Section 7.J, for purposes of title and compensation,
ASSIGNMENTS OF 181 CALENDAR DAYS OR MORE:
(c)	If the temporary (short duration) assignment is for a period of one hundred eighty-one (181) calendar days or more, it will be effected under the terms of the Post and Bid Process, Employees placed in temporary upgrades under this provision shall be treated in accordance with Addendum J, A 1.2 (a) for purposes of title and compensation.
(d)	Self-nominated candidates who fill temporary (short duration) assignments retain their current employment classification.
(e)	At the end of the temporary (short duration) assignment, the employee has
guaranteed return rights to the same or equivalent (same wage scale) job (if the former position is not available), in the same location and in the former Organization, even if this creates a force adjustment condition.
(fl Regular employees accepting temporary (short duration) assignments through the Post and Bid Process have the same retreat provisions as outlined in Section 21.7.
(g) Regular employees accepting temporary (short duration) assignments are expected to remain for the length of ihe assignment. They would, however, be eligible to submit self-nomination requests after fulfilling time-in-title requirements.
87
PLACEMENT OF MANAGEMENT INTO THE BARGAINING UNIT
Section 21.9 The Company agrees to avoid the placement of management employees in bangaining unit positions if it will create a force surplus or if it adds to a present force adjustment condition in that location. The Company and the Union Bargaining Agents will periodically review placements made under these provisions to ensure compliance with the parties’ intent. Notice of such placements will be sent to the Union Bargaining Agent in a timely manner.
88
ARTICLE 22
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 22,1 Insofar as the requirements of the service will permit, leaves of absence for good cause, and of reasonable length, will be granted upon request.
Section 22,2 The granting of a leave of absence in excess of thirty (30) calendar days does not guarantee that an employee will be given a position at the expiration of the leave unless so agreed at the time the leave is granted and so shown on the leave of absence form,
MILITARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section 22.3 The following provisions shall apply to Regular employees who are members of military units:
(a)	Employees who are members of the National Guard or Naval Militia, and who are called out for active emergency service, shall be paid for such absence not to exceed thirty (30) days in anyone (1) year, at the basic rate less compensation paid by the Government (State or Federal).
(b)	A Regular employee who is a member of the National Guard, Naval Militia or Reserve components of the armed forces shall be paid at the basic rate less compensation paid by the Government (State or Federal) for the first fifteen (15) work days in the calendar year on which the employee is absent from work for military training for which the employee received military orders; however, the payment will be made only if the circumstances of the Company permit the absence. The fifteen (15) days of training may be annual training, active duty or a combination of both,
(c)	Government pay, as stated above, includes basic military pay (which includes pay for cumulative years of military service), special pay, incentive pay for hazardous duty and, for employees with dependents, the difference between quarters allowance established for those with the employee's number of dependents and quarters allowance for those of equal rank without dependents.
(d)	The deduction for military compensation shall not exceed the employee's pay for a basic work week during the same period.
69
(e)	These paid absences shall not affect the regular vacation entitlement or allowance to which the employee may be entitled.
NOTE; For purposes of this Article, the “basic rate” for Sales Consultants covered by Addenda II and 12. Leveraged Compensation Plan, will be the Average Hourly Rate.
FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT OPTIONS
Section 22A Other than absence under the Short Term Disability Plan, time off taken under the rules and guidelines of the Family and Medical Leave Act ("FMLA") shall fall into the following categories.
(a)	Illness Leave
Employees on an illness leave shall use all of their available entitlement time (i.e. vacation and personal days) prior to using excused unpaid time.
(b)	Family Care Leave and Care of Newborn, Adopted, or Foster Child Leave
Employees on these leaves shall have the option of using either their available entitlement time (i.e. vacation and personal days) or excused unpaid time.
The Company and Union will discuss the impact of any changes in the FMLA rules and guidelines that occur during the life of this Agreement.
90
ARTICLE 23
TREATMENT OF MEDICALLY RESTRICTED EMPLOYEES
TREATMENT OF MEDICALLY RESTRICTED EMPLOYEES
Section 23.1	An employee who is unable to perform the functions determined as essential by the Company of his or her regular job as a result of an on-the-job accidental injury (as defined in the Qwest Disability Plan) or an illness, physical or mental limitation, or off-the-job injury, will be considered for a position of equal or lower status and pay.
MEDICAL RESTRICTION OF LESS THAN ONE HUNDRED EIGHTY (180) CALENDAR DAYS DURATION
Section 23.2	if Qwest Disability Services or its designee has determined the employee can return to work with a medical restriction of one hundred eighty (180) calendar days or less, the employee shall remain in the present job title and receive the present paid rate.
MEDICAL RESTRICTION OF MORE THAN ONE HUNDRED EIGHTY (180) CALENDAR DAYS DURATION
Section 23.3	If Qwest Disability Services or its designee determines the medical restriction (or consecutive restrictions) are expected to or do, in fact, last longer than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days and the employee can perform his or her regular job with reasonable accommodation, the employee shall remain in the present job title and receive the present paid rate.
If the employee whose restriction (or consecutive restrictions) are expected to or do, in fact, last longer than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days, and the employee cannot perform the functions determined by the Company as essential of his or her regular job with reasonable accommodation, an assessment to assist in determining the abilities of the employee may be conducted at the request of the employee, or as described in Article 23.4.
If Qwest Disability Services or its designee and the employee’s physician disagree on the length and scope of the restriction an Independent Medical Evaluation (IME) as defined in Section 23.5 may be conducted, if requested, followed by Ute job search process.
91
ASSESSMENT OF ABILITIES EVALUATION
Section 23.4 To assist in determining the abilities of an employee with medical restriction of over one hundred and eighty (180) days, an assessment will be conducted at the request of the employee or the local union (if the employee concurs) or at the initiation of the Company. The employee must participate in this evaluation. The assessment tool, which may include but not be limited to, a Functional Capacity Evaluation, Independent Medical Evaluation, and/or Cognitive Testing, will be determined by Qwest Disability Services or its designee based on (he employee’s condition and diagnosis. This assessment will determine the employee’s ability to remain in his/her current job or another job within the Company with or without accommodation, and will occur within thirty (30) days of the determination of the permanent restriction or as soon as evaluation can be scheduled. Utilization of the assessment tool will not alter the job search process as outlined in Article 23.6.
INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EVALUATION
Section 23.5 Following is the position to be taken regarding the option of obtaining an Independent Medical Evaluation (IME). A demotion or termination handled under the provisions of Article 16 which results from the imposition of a medical restriction, shall not be subject to arbitration. If a dispute arises concerning either the length or the scope of the medical restriction, and the employee so requests or the local union requests (if the employee concurs), Qwest Disability Services or its designee will consult with the employee's personal physician concerning the length and scope of the restriction. If they are unable to agree, the matter will be referred to a mutually acceptable physician (in accordance with the administrative guidelines in place regarding this process) who is knowledgeable in occupational safety and health matters who shall be afforded the opportunity to review the pertinent medical data, to review the requirements of the work place, and to examine the employee. An agreement with the independent physician will ensure that the results of the examinations will be received by the Company and the Union within fifteen (15) calendar days of the examination. Both the Company and the Union will comply with the decision of this physician as to the proper length and scope of the restriction.
JOB SEARCH PROCESS
Section 23,6 The job search process will proceed from the date of the determination that the employee cannot perform his/her duties and cannot be accommodated in his/her current job. The job search process will last for eighty (80) calendar days.
92
The Company will assign the employee to a job for which he or she meets basic qualifications, as determined by the Company, which satisfies the employee’s medical restriction, if such a job is available as specified in (b) below.
(a)	Activities as outlined in (b) and (c) below will take place during the time frame the assessment of abilities evaluation is being conducted.
(b)	The Organization will assign the employee to any job vacancy of equal status and pay, in that Organization, in (or within reasonable commuting area of) the town in which the employee is assigned. If an employee is physically able to work with a medically imposed work restriction and there is an available job the employee is qualified to perform as described above, the employee will be placed in that job.
(c)	If there is no job vacancy as described above, the employee may submit unlimited self-nomination requests for posted positions within the Company. If the employee should decline an offer of an upgraded position for which they have self-nominated, the Company will terminate employment and the employee will forfeit separation payments.
(d)	If the job search is unsuccessful, the Company will terminate employment.
RELOCATION EXPENSES
Section 23.7 If an employee with a medical restriction due to an on-the-job accidental injury accepts a job offer in a different exchange as a result of any of the above items and the employee must travel more than fifty (50) miles further to the new work location from his/her residence than to the existing work location, moving expenses will be paid according to the moving expense provisions in Addendum 2 of this Agreement.
PAY TREATMENT
Section 23.8
(a)	If the employee is assigned to a lower rated job because of his/her medical restriction, the appropriate title and wage schedule for that job shall be assigned. Any subsequent progressions or contractual wage adjustments shall be administered based on the lower rated schedule.
93
(b)	In the event of such reassignment to a lower rated job, as the result of a medical restriction, the difference in rate of pay between the former job and the job to which reassigned under the provisions of this Article will be treated in accordance with the Reassignment Pay Protection Allowance (R.PPA) as provided in Article 19.
(c)	Employees who are separated from the payroll as a result of a medical restriction under the provisions of this Section (exclusive of the provisions in Section 23.6(c)) shall be allowed a transition payment according to the following schedule;
Term of Employment
J -10 Years
10	weeks pay at basic wage rate
10-15 Years
14	weeks pay at basic wage rate
15	+ Years
18	weeks pay at basic wage rate
This payment shall be made in a lump sum within thirty (30) calendar days following the employee’s separation from the payroll.
Section 23.9 Employees separated under Article 23 will be entitled to extended coverage under COBRA for up to eighteen (18) months under the Company’s health care, dental and vision plans of which six (6) months shall be at the Company’s expense. Employees will also be entitled to PATHWAYS benefits for two (2) years.
RETURN TO PREVIOUS TITLE
Section 23.10 Occupational employees assigned to a downgraded position because of medical restrictions shall have reinstatement rights to the title previously held in the employee's former RCA, if the medical restriction is lifted, for a period of two (2) years from the date of the downgrade. The employee must initiate this process and obtain concurrence of Qwest Disability Services or its designee that the medical restriction should no longer apply. A return to the title previously held will be accommodated only if a position exists for which the employee will require no training. The employee will not be relumed to the title if such return does or will create a force adjustment situation within the work group.
ARTICLE 24
AWARD PROGRAMS
Section 24.1 The Company and the Union mutually recognize and agree that changes in the telecommunications industry and the Company's position m that industry necessitate all possible efforts to expand and strengthen the Company’s marketing capabilities. To that end, the Company and the Union agree that individual and team contributions to the Company's marketing efforts may be recognized and rewarded through Award Programs, subject to the following provisions.
(a)	The Programs will be used with those employees who, in their regular job activities, have an opportunity to directly contribute to the Company's revenues or to positively and directly affect the perception of the . Company in the marketplace.
(b)	Prior to the commencement of each Award Program, the Company will discuss the nature of the Program with the Union either through an established Labor-Management Forum or with a CWA Bargaining Agent.
(c)	All such Programs will be fairly and equitably designed, implemented and administered.
(d)	The cunent process of Union involvement will be continued for the life of the agreement.
95
ARTICLE 25
PERSONNEL RECORDS
DEFINITION
Section 25.1	Personnel files are those files maintained by the Company, normally by an employee's manager, that pertain to the employee's work performance, background, employment history and other personnel information.
ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILE
Section 25,2	An employee may review his or her personnel file on at least an annual basis, or as specified by law, with the review being conducted in the presence of the employee's manager.
Section 253 An employee will be provided a copy of his or her personnel file upon request but not more often than once in twelve (12) consecutive months or as specified by law.
96
ARTICLE 26
COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW
Section 26.1 !n the event any law or regulation or governmental order, or the final decision of any court or board of competent jurisdiction affects any one or more provisions of this Agreement, the provision or provisions so affected shall be made to comply with the requirements of such law, regulation, governmental order or decision for the localities within the jurisdiction, and otherwise the Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
Section 26.2 The Company will notify the Union in writing if compliance will require modification of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Unless the Company determines that compliance requires immediate implementation, the change will not be implemented until the Union has had an opportunity to negotiate with the Company the interpretation of the law, regulation, order, determination or ruling.
97
ARTICLE 27
SPECIAL CUSTOMER AGREEMENTS
Section 27.1 Whenever the terms of a customer contract or agreement conflict with the provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall notify the Union of ail such differences. The terms of the customer contract or agreement which differ from this Agreement shall not apply to employees performing work under such customer contracts or agreements without the Union’s approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
98
ARTICLE 28
EFFECTIVE DATE OF AGREEMENT AND DURATION
Section 28.1 The provisions of this Contract will become effective Aueust 17. 2003, except as otherwise specified herein and will continue in effect until 11:59 p.m. MDT, Aueust 13, 2005, unless extended by mutual agreement.
Section 28.2 Negotiations on a new Contract will begin not earlier than sixty (60) calendar days prior to such termination; provided, however, that this limitation will not preclude prenegotiation conferences at the request of either party. It is the intention of the parties, with respect to the collective bargaining of future replacing Agreements, to conduct their negotiations thereon in such a manner as to reach a new Agreement on or before the termination date of this present Agreement,
Section 283 The Company will provide a copy of the Agreement to each employee in the bargaining unit upon the employee's request. This Agreement is also available on the Qwest Electronic Library. Employees are encouraged to access this Agreement electronically whenever possible.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Union and the Company have caused this Agreement dated Aueust 17,2003, to be executed by their authorized representatives.
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS
OF AMERICA		QWEST	
SIGNED;	Annie Hill	SIGNED:	Cvnthia R. Kok
SIGNED:	LeRov Christensen	SIGNED:	DeAnna M. Simmons
SIGNED:	Jay Boyle	SIGNED:	Mark K, Jeffries
SIGNED:	Bill Buelt	SIGNED:	Michael G. Lynch
SIGNED:	Annette Cunningham		
SIGNED:	Patti Glazener		
99
ADDENDUM 1
WAGE ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICES
Section Al.l WAGE PAYMENTS
(a)	Full-time employees shall be paid at the weekly rate as established for their respective wage scales. Regular Part-Time employees shall be paid in the proportion of part-time hours to full-time hours per week.
(b)	Wage progression increases, in the amounts shown on the applicable wage scale, shall be granted automatically upon completion of the time intervals specified, subject to the following conditions:
(I)	Increases to be made effective on the anniversary date of the time interval.
(2)	Absence of Seven (7) Days or Less - A period of absence of seven (7) calendar days or less shall have no effect on the establishment of the effective date of the increase, which shall be determined by application of the provisions of(l) above.
(3)	Absence of More Than Seven (7) Days and Up To Thirty (30) Days - Employees absent in excess of seven (7) calendar days and up to thirty (30) calendar days shall accrue wage service credit. A scheduled wage increase that occurs during that period of absence shall became effective on the scheduled wage increase date. The effective date of this increase shall not change the date from which the time interval for the next increase would otherwise be computed.
(4)	Absence of More Than Thirty (30) Days -When an employee is absent in excess of thirty (30) calendar days because the employee is on an approved leave of absence, he or she shall continue to accrue wage service credit.
If the approved leave is a Military leave of absence, the wage increase shall become effective on the scheduled wage increase date. For all other approved leaves of absence, the increase shall become effective immediately upon the employee's return from leave of absence status.
100
(5)	Employees on approved Short Term Disability benefits shall continue to accrue wage service credit and wage increases shall become effective on the scheduled wage increase date,
(c)	Employees shall be paid according to their job title and wage progression step bi-weekly. Paychecks will be issued no later than Friday following the close of the bi-weekly pay period. When a contractually authorized holiday falls on Friday, paychecks will be issued on the preceding Thursday.
(d)	The Company and the Union encourage all employees to be paid through Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) to the employee's bank account or account in such other financial institution as designated by the employee. In those instances where an employee declined to use EFT, or in geographic areas where EFT is unavailable, the Company will mail the paycheck to the employee's home,
(e)	The Company shall not be held responsible for any claims, damages, costs, fees or charges of any kind resulting from delays in the postal service.
(f)	Upon request of the employee, paychecks payable during a vacation period will be delivered on the last working day preceding the vacation, provided the request is made no less than nine (9) calendar days prior to the first day of the vacation.
Section AL2 WAGE ZONE AND WAGE SCALE CHANGES
Pay practices for moving employees between wage zones and wage scales are as follows:
(a)	Promotion - Higher Rated Wage Scale
(I)	Employees transferring to higher rated wage scales through the Post and Bid Process, shall be placed on the step of the new wage scale that is equal to their current basic wage rate. If there is no equal rate, the employee will be advanced to the next higher rate.
101
(2)	The next date of progression increase will be the same as it would have been had the employee remained on the old wage scale. If an employee was at top of the old wage scale, the next date of progression will be six (6) months front the date of promotion and administered in accordance with Al.lb(l).
(3)	When an employee is upgraded on the same date on which a progression increase is due, both increases will be effective on that date, but the progression increase will be considered as preceding the reclassification increase.
(b)	Lateral
Employees who are remaining on the same wage scale, who are transferring to a different wage zone, will occupy the same wage step in, the new wage zone as they occupied at the time of transfer in their former ■ wage zone including any accrued time toward the next progression increase.
(c)	Downgrade - Lower Rated Scale
Employees transferring to a lower rated wage scale will be placed on the new wage scale at the same wage step as the employee occupied on the old wage scale - including any accrued time toward the next progression increase.
(d)	Multiple Activities on Same Day
Employees moving to a lower rated wage scale os a result of a force adjustment situation may also receive a progression or annual wage increase on that same day. The wage increase al the higher wage scale shall be applied in advance of moving the employee to the lower wage scale according to the applicable guidelines.
(e)	Incidental Employees
When Incidental employees accept Regular Full-Time, Part-Time, or Term positions, the provisions of this Section will apply with the exception that the next date of progression will always be six (6) months from the dale of placement.
102
Sec lion A13 WAGECREDIT
(a) Individual
Based on an individual's education, experience and/or other relevant factors, the Company may hire an individual and place him or her in wage progression above the start rate for the job title into which the person is hired.
(b)	Wage Credit for Re-Engaged (Fortner) Employees of Qwest
Employees re-engaged following a period of absence from Qwest shall receive a wage credit reduction from the wage schedule step held at the time of such employee's last date of employment in accordance with the following table.
Period of Absence	Wage Schedule Reduction
Less than 1 year 12 months through 1? months 18 months through 23 months 24 months through 29 months 30 months through 35 months 36 months through 41 months 42 months through 47 months 48 months through 59 months 60 months or more	0 months 3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months 18 months 21 months 24 months no wage credit except as provided below
Wage schedule reduction for those employees re-engaged into a job title or skill match in which they have previously been employed will not exceed twenty-four (24) months, regardless of the length of the period of absence. Sales Consultants covered under the Leveraged Compensation Plan. Addenda 11 and 12, shall be re-engaged at the Entry Level base wage rate.
(c)	Employees who transfer into a job title at a higher wage scale which they have previously held and established satisfactory job performance, will have wages calculated as follows:
Step One: Determine highest wage step when last held title.
Step Two: Reduce this wage step/rate according to the following schedule of reduction:
103
If time elapsed since last bolding the title is: The Wage Step Reduction Is:
Less than 12 months
12 months, less than 24 months
24 months, less than 36 months
36 months, less than 48 months
48 months, less than 60 months
& months 6 months 12 months
18 months
24 months
In no case will the reduction result in less wage than current administrative practices would dictate.
(d) Group
When the Company determines that wage credit should be given in an Organization job title in a wage scale, the Company will notify the local union of the Organization job title in a wage scale for which the wage credit will be given, the Reasonable Commuting Area (RCA) in which the wage credit will be given and the dates on which the Company will start and stop using such wage credit.
When wage credit is given under this Section, the basic wage rate of the incumbent employees, in the affected Organization job title and RCA who are on the wage scale at a step below that of the wage credit given, will be adjusted upward to the same progression step of the wage credit given under the above paragraph.
Section AL4 PREVAILING WAGES
Whenever a customer contract or agreement requires the Company to pay employees working on a particular project at the applicable prevailing wage, the Company shall pay its employees assigned to such project at either the appropriate wage rate under this Agreement or the applicable prevailing wage, whichever is greater. Any additional payments to employees under this Section shall be made as allowance payments.
When required by federal, state or local prevailing wage regulations, the Company will compensate employees for work performed according to such regulations. Prevailing wage compensation, when appropriate, will consist of an allowance payment, that when added to the basic weekly wage rate, equals the prevailing wage regulations. The Union will be notified in advance of such payment.
104
Section Al.5 CHANGES TO AND FROM DAYLIGHT SAVINGS TIME
(a)	Employees who are working ar the time the clocks are moved ahead one (1) hour will not be paid for time not worked. Affected employees may exercise one of the following two (2) options:
(1)	Extend their scheduled time by one (I) hour and be paid for the full tour
(2)	Work the originally scheduled tour and be paid one (1) hour less due to the time change.
(b)	Employees who are working at the time the clocks are moved back one (1) hour shall be paid appropriately for all hours actually worked at the applicable rate.
105
ADDENDUM 2
OCCUPATIONAL RELOCATION EXPENSE PLAN
Section A2.I GENERAL
The provisions of the Relocation Expense Plan will be offered only to Regular employees who qualify under the definition outlined in Section 19.6 (A) (2) (b) and are being treated in accordance with one (I) of the following Articles:
(a)	Force Adjustment and Force Reductions Article 19; or
(b)	Lateral Force Rearrangement Article 20; or
(c)	Treatment of Medically Restricted Employees Article 23	'
Section A2.2
UP-FRONT LUMP SUM
(a)
House Hunting Lump Sum Payment
Under 500 miles
Over 500 miles
Homeowner: $750.00
Homeowner: $ 1,500.00
Renter
$500.00
Renter:
$ 750.00
Within the RCA
Homeowner: $ 150.00
Renter:
$100,00
(b)
Miscellaneous Lump Sum Payment
Under 500 miles	Over 500 miles
Homeowner $500,00	Homeowner: $ 1,000.00
Renter $500,00	Renter $1,000.00
Within the RCA
Homeowner: $500.00
Renter $250.00
106
(c) Moving Household Goods Lump Sum Payment
Under SOO miles	Over SOO miles
Homeowner:	51,300-00	Homeowner:	$2,000.00
Renter:	51,000.00	Remer:	$1,700.00
Within the RCA
Homeowner	$1,000.00
Renter $ 750.00
An up-front check (advance) of the above lump sum payments will be paid no earlier than forty-five (45) days before the effective reporting date to the new position.
Relocation is defined as establishing a residence bv signing a lease and/or rental agreement or purchasing a home in the new location. If an employee subsequently does not relocate and/or fails to provide required proof of established residency within the required timeframe, the advance must be repaid to the Company.
Section A23 REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES (Receipts required)
(a)	Home Sale/Rental Reimbursement will be for actual documented expenses up to a maximum of:
Homeowner:	$6,000.00
Renter:	$1,000.00
Homeowner: Covers normal closing costs, if the sale of the employee's primary residence takes place within twelve (12) months from effective date of change in position.
Renter: Covers prepaid and unrefunded rent, security deposit and actual expenses associated with terminating a lease.
(b)	Capital Loss/Capital Improvement Reimbursement
Homeowners only: Actual receipts not to exceed $9,000.00
107
(c> Mobile Home Reimbursement
This policy will cover mobile homes which are legally permissible to relocate (single units and double units) which are owned and occupied by the employee as their principal place of residence at the time of a Company-initiated transfer. Employees who elect to sell/move their mobile home will be eligible for the same House Hunting and Miscellaneous Lump Sum Payments provided to homeowners in Section A2.2 (a) and (b) of this Plan,
(I)	Moving/Sale of Mobile Home Reimbursement (Receipts Required);
The expense reimbursement outlined in Option 1 and Option 2 is in lieu of Sections A2.3 (a), A2;3 (b) and A2.2 (c) of this Plan.
Employees may elect one (I) of the following two (2) options (MAXIMUM $7,000 on either option).
OPTION I Move the nt obi Ie home and be reimbursed for the following expenses:
a.	Towing charges from the old location to the new location, if done by a licensed professional mover of mobile homes.
b.	Unblocking trailer, disconnecting utilities and removing skirting at the old location; reblocking (leveling), reconnecting utilities and reinstalling skirting at the new location.
c.	Reasonable charges for packing and unpacking breakable items such as dishes and lamps inside the mobile home, hauling vehicle or moving.
-OR-
109
OPTION 2 Sale of the mobi Ip home with reimbursements for (he following expenses:
a.	Selling commission, legal fees, recording fees and transfer taxes associated with the sale of the mobile home through a mobile home agent.
b.	Reimbursement for the cost of moving household goods.
Section A2.4 TAX GROSS-UP
At the conclusion of the move the relocation expenses will be divided into deductible and non-deductible categories (according to IRS guidelines). The Company will do a gross-up (compute a tax allowance) on the non-deductible total. If the employee is not able to itemize deductions when filing taxes, the gross-up will be on the full relocation total.
In the case where there are two (2) approved Qwest Company-initiated moves within the household, both salaries will be used in computing gross-up. Otherwise, spousal salary will not be a factor.	'	‘
Section A2.5 PAID TIME
Each relocated employee will be allowed up to a maximum of three (3) days without loss of pay for such activities as locating a new residence, packing or unpacking and traveling to the new work location.
109
ADDENDUM 3
LETTERS OF AGREEMENT
August 30, 1998
Mr. Joseph L Petersen
Bargaining Agent
Communications Workers of America
8085 E. Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Building Specialist Certification
Dear Mr. Petersen:
This memorandum is intended to outline Qwest Business Resources requirements pertaining to certifications for the Building Specialist title.
Building Specialists must have achieved certification in one of the following ways:
•	Building Owners and Managers Institute (BOMJ) Certification as Systems Maintenance Administrator (SMA)
•	Refrigeration Service Engineers Society (RSES) Certification
•	One or two years Hearing Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) from local Technical Schools or Colleges (depending on specific curriculum offerings)
Recertification for employees holding the title listed above will not be required. However, any future training required by the Company will be provided on Company time and at Company expense.
If this agreement correctly sets forth our understanding, please sign in the space provided.
Melissa L. Schaus Bargaining Agent
AGREED:
Joseph L. Petersen, Bargaining Agent
110
August 19, 2001
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 E. Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: COE1T
Dear Ms. Hill:
A COE1T employee who is on an overnight assignment who chooses to travel home at his/her own expense and time during a “beyond 60 mile work assignment”, outside of the specified “paid trip home allowance” will be allowed the following:
-	to remain on rhe Option (A or B) they are currently on
OR
-	to switch from one Option (A or B) to the other, provided this switch is approved in advance of the out of town assignment so that appropriate board and lodging provisions are made and adhered to.
The employee will be responsible for returning to the temporary location again at their own expense and time and must report at the designated time.
Sincerely,
	
Ginger A. DeReus	Concurred:
Chief Bargaining Agent	Annie Hill
HR-Labor Relations	Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
111
August 16, 1998
Mr, John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Committee on Substance Abuse
Dear Mr. Thompson:
tn response to the continuing concerns of the Union and the Company in connection with chemical and substance abuse, the parties recommend the renewal of the Regional Committee on Substance Abuse.
The parties recognize the previous work accomplished in dealing with chemical and substance abuse and recommend the expansion of the role and scope of the regional program. The Committee will continue to deal with the raising of employee awareness and education of the magnitude and cost of substance abuse to the Company and employee body, and the Committee will continue to encourage employee participation in the program.
The Committee will be charged with:
(a)	The continued education of the Qwest employees and dependents as to the nature of substance abuse in individual and family lives; including awareness about drugs of abuse, for warning signs, prevention strategies and improving consumer awareness regarding appropriate rehabilitation.
(b)	The maintenance and continuous improvement of the PEIR (Program for Employee Information and Referral) Facilitator Program to match the size and locations of the workforce, and coordinate its activities,
(c)	Insure that the Union and Company commitment to a drug free workplace remains a major goal within Qwest by monitoring penetration rates in the Drug and Alcohol Program and by monitoring the number and nature of PEIR contacts.
112
(d)	Acting as an “oversight" Committee to insure that the Qwest Drug and Alcohol Policy in effect as of the date of this letter is continually reviewed in regard to state of the an treatment, etc. Any changes or improvements endorsed by this Committee will be presented to the respective Bargaining Agents for consideration.
The Committee will be charged with submitting periodic reports to the Union and Company Bargaining Representatives regarding the efforts made to ensure long range planning, the implementation of new programs and the maintenance of current programs, the results of those efforts, and any recommendations for changes in the program which will further the efforts to contain escalation of costs and effects on the employee body, or their families or dependents.
The Union members of this committee will be appointed by the Vice President of Communications Workers of America, District 7, or designee.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America

113
August 16, 1998
Mr, John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Community Relations Differentia!
Dear Mr. Thompson:
This will confirm our understanding regarding the intent and administration of the Community Relations Representative differential.
In communities where Qwest has not assigned the community relations function to a management person, the Company may elect to offer to a qualified employee the responsibility ofhandling community relations functions.
The need to establish a Community Relations Representative in a certain state or community shall be approved by the Company Bargaining Agent and the State Vice President. The selection of an employee to be offered the Community Relations Representative responsibility and also, the decision to discontinue an employee's participation, shall be a decision reached by the Company Bargaining Agent, the State Vice President organization and the employee's department. Union input will be considered as an important factor in these decisions. The Company Bargaining Agent shall inform CWA District #7 in writing prior to offering the Community Relations Representative responsibility to an employee.
Responsibilities of the Community Relations Representative may vary dependent on the state and community. The Community Relations Representative differential covers the following four (4) basic areas:
1.	Key people contacts
2.	Local service organization(s) membership
3.	News media release	>
4.	Contribution recommendations
114
A two-way information channel shall be established between the State Vice President organization and the Community Relations Representative for the purpose of facilitating the above responsibilities.
An employee who accepts the Community Relations Representative responsibilities shall receive the following compensation:
1.	An occupational differential of fifteen dollars (SI 5,00) per week above his or her basic wage rate.
2.	Membership fees for service club memberships when such membership is determined by the Company to be appropriate to the community relations functions,
3.	Traveling to and from meetings or presentations in pursuit of the community relations function will be paid if travel occurs during the employee's scheduled tour hours.
4,	In the event the employee is assigned by the Company to make a specific formal presentation which is outside the usual scope of the community relations activities, attendance and travel time shall be paid.
This Agreement may be canceled by either jjarty by giving thirty (30) days written notice to the other party.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communicatipns Workers of America
115
August 17.2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue '
Greenwood Village. CO 80111
RE: Contracting of Work
Dear Ms. Hill:
A challenge to an effective union-management relationship is the frequent debate about the need to respond quickly and efficiently to competitive market forces and customer demand, and meet the financial expectations of investors and shareholders. In doing so, both parties understand the importance of employment security and job opportunities for current and future employees and share a philosophy that employees should be favored over contractors. However, the Company maintains the ability to use alternative sourcing options including contractors in appropriate instances.
As we have long discussed, it is not possible to make specific commitments on contracting out of work. However, in making decisions regarding contracting work, it is the Company's objective to consider carefully the impact on employees of Qwest. In doing so. the Company has made commitments regarding the return of contracted work to avoid layoff as set forth in Article 19 of this Agreement. Also, it continues to be the policy of Qwest that bargaining unit work will not be contracted out if it will currently and directly cause a surplus or layoff of Regular employees.
When work normally performed bv bargaining unit employees is contracted to meet immediate needs or short-term situations, the Company will review the activity with the local union representatives as soon as practical.
Through the Executive Work Council, Qwest and Communications Workers of America will focus on strategic workplace issues necessary for success of both the Company and the Union. Between August 2003 and July 2005. the Executive Work Council will meet quarterly to discuss the Company’s policies and strategic direction as it relates to contracting of work. In addition, during this time frame, the Council will also serve as a forum to discuss opportunities to return contracted out work to the bargaining unit in a cost effective manner,
116
In order to facilitate these discussions, the Company will bring to the quarterly EWC meetings the following information regarding contracted work previously performed by represented employees:
(1)	The type and location of work involved,
(2)	The start date and estimated duration of the contracted work.
(3)	Information the Company has regarding the scope and volume of the contracted work..
(4)	Information regarding the cost of contracting, including an economic analysis to the extent such an analysis exists.
If you concur, please sign below.
Sincerely.
Cynthia Kok Director
Labor Relations
Mu/
Concurred:
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
117
August 16, 1998
Mr. John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Electronic Data Gathering
Dear Mr. Thompson:
Electronic Data Gathering, with the constant changes in technology, is today and will be in the future, an integral part of the work place. The proper use of the data gathered by this method shall be an important factor in the continued successes of the corporation and therefore, of its employees.
For the purpose of this agreement, Electronic Data Gathering is defined as the systematic use of computerized technology to collect, store, report and analyze information about the work activities of employees. This is also referred to as Electronic Monitoring.
The following policy statement has been developed by a committee of representatives from the Communications Workers of America and Qwest to address this issue.
To provide a beneficial experience in an environment of trust and respect, all employees shall be made aware of the current capabilities, impacts, uses and changes of Electronic Data Gathering. The Company’s responsibility is to ensure clear definition and communication of Electronic Data Gathering to all employees as it relates to their work activities. The Company will also ensure managers have a working knowledge of systems that monitor their work groups and that uniform guidelines are utilized within the Organizations.
The following guidelines will apply:
1.	Information and method of notification about new or changed Electronic Data Gathering systems shall be shared with the local union President or their designated representative and employees in the work group before implementation.
2.	Results of the data gathered will be provided to employees in a timely manner based on the frequency of the information obtained.
118
Quality service and increased revenues are cornerstones to the success of Qwest. Communications Workers of America and Qwest are committed to working together to achieve these results.
Electronic Data Gathering is a valuable tool that can assist all of us in accomplishing our goals when used in accordance with the developed policy and guidelines outlined above.
No employee shall be disciplined as a result of Electronic Data Gathering; except for fraud, violation of privacy of communications, gross customer abuse or when developmental efforts have not been successful.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
119
August 28.2003
(Revised 10/7/03)
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Greenwood Village, CO 80111
RE: Employee Development Using Call Recording And Observing
Dear Ms. Hill:
The coaching and development of employees to be successful and deliver superior customer service is an important mission for both Communications Workers of America and Qwest. Some of the tools available to assist in employee development are call recording and observing. The primary use of these tools is to promote an employee’s development while insuring a superior customer experience. An employee’s development is maximized when they receive a combination of positive reinforcement and constructive feedback outlining areas needing improvement. The following principles shall govern rhe_use of call recording and observing in the development of employees.
Any call has the potential to be recorded and/or observed.
An employee’s immediate supervisor or coach has direct responsibility to evaluate and develop the employees that report to them.
Evaluative Process
Employees will be evaluated bv their sunervisor/coach using a minimum of six (61) recorded calls which are evenly distributed throughout the month unless otherwise identified in the individual’s development plan. All calls used for an employee’s monthly evaluation shall come from recorded calls. The calls will be gathered to provide an overall view of the employee’s monthly performance. Employees shall be covered on ail calls and the calls shall be reviewed with the employee as soon as practical. Their monthly evaluation will be based on a cumulative score of the calls.
120
Developmental Process
Supervisors/coaches may record and/or observe additional calls to assist employees who require additional developmental activities. This process shall be outlined in a written developmental plan that shall be. developed and supported by the supervisor/coach and the employee. Those calls may also be used for evaluative purposes. Emphasis shall be placed on the use of recorded calls. Developmental plans shall also include desk side coaching, role-plaving and call modeling. The plan shall be reviewed and discussed with the employee prior to implementation. Employees shall receive feedback on all recorded and/or observed calls that are done in conjunction with their developmental plan.
Supervisors/coaches may also receive copies of recorded calls from internal or external quality assurance groups: e.g. Concentra and Quality Assurance in Consumer, and the Random Remote Observing Group in Small Business. The primary focus of this monitoring is to assess overall customer satisfaction and for proper call handling. The Company is also required bv state agencies in some instances to monitor for legal and regulatory compliance. Supervisors/coaches that choose to use these calls for additional employee development with individual employees must give feedback on all calls. This additional feedback shall not impact their monthly evaluative score,
Supervisors/coaches or quality assurance groups may identify inappropriate employee actions that do not meet the cal! handling standards set by the Company when recording or observing calls. Calls in this category shall be covered with the employee as soon as practical and shall be documented in the employee’s file, An employee’s developmental plan shall be established or modified if additional training and coaching is appropriate. When developmental efforts are unsuccessful, the employee may be subject to progressive discipline.
Serious Offenses
Employees shall be notified of serious offenses (required bv Qwest regulatory or other legally binding agreements I that fall outside of the scope of gross customer abuse or “cramming/s lamming" (see definition below) as soon as practical. The coverage shall be documented and, if appropriate, additional training and coaching shall be written into the employee’s developmental plan. If the inappropriate actions are repeated after coaching and development, the employee may be subject to disciplinary action.
121
Gross Customer A buse-Slamming/Cra mining
Employee actions meeting the definition of gross customer abuse or “cramming/slarnming” (intentional unauthorized addition of products or services or the intentional unauthorized change of a customer's lone distance provider) may be dealt with in a disciplinary manner up to and including dismissal. Gross customer abuse is defined as unreasonable behavior that demonstrates the intentional disregard for, the disrespect of. or service to. the customer. Gross customer abuse is the intentional cut-off of the customer, using profane language: racial slurs: sexual remarks: or substantially similar types of conduct.
To ensure the spirit and intent of this letter is carried out, the Employee Development Council shall be established. This will include reviewing individual situations where this Letter of Agreement has been allegedly violated. The Employee Development Council will meet at least quarterly and wilt consist of the following members: at least one (1) Company senior leader from the Organizations’ call center operations: the Company's Bargaining Agent: and rhe Union's Bargaining Agent. The Union and Company may each designate up to two (2) additional people from the Union and Company, respectively, to participate in any meeting.
If you concur, please sign below.
Sincerely,
Cynthia Kok Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
122
August 16,1998
Mr. John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Employee Involvement
Dear Mr. Thompson:
The Company and the Union have come to agreement on the following Principles regarding Employee Involvement:
I,	We have a mutual desire to have employees participate in problem solving and the quality process.
2.	Management has the right to run the business including the decision to seek Union participation in business matters.
3.	Problem solving and quality processes are normal employee work activities.
4,	Recommendations from problem solving and quality efforts which affect wages, benefits, hours or working conditions will be negotiated by the Bargaining Agents.
5.	Appointments of employees to projects and committees which affect wages, benefits, hours or working conditions will be by mutual agreement of the Union and the Company. Such appointments will be prompt and based on relevant knowledge of the subject. Ideally, people performing the targeted work will be appointed. Disputes in the selection process will be resolved by the LaborManagement Forum.
6.	Communication by the Company and Union about Employee Involvement must call for consistent support and understanding by local union leaders and managers.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
123
August 17. 2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue "
Greenwood Village, CO 80111
RE: Enhanced Compensation Plan
Dear Ms, Hill:
The Union and Company agree that effective August 17. 2003. the Enhanced Compensation Plan tECP) shall be discontinued. All employees participating in the ECP as of that date shall be opted out of the Plan. Such employees shall be placed at the wage step they would have been at had they never participated in ECP based on their time-inti tie as of August 17. 2003, including all time on ECP and all wage credit. However, no employee shall be placed at less than the fifty-four 154) month step.
Sincerely.
Cvnthia Kok Director Labor Relations
(jut/
Concurred:
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
124
Aueust 17.2003
Ms, Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Greenwood Village. CO 80111
RE: Executive Work Council
Dear Ms. Hill,
Jn order to fulfill the commitments and obligations specified in Article 1, Section 1.3 and the Letter of Agreement on Contracting of Work, the Executive Work Council will be established. The Union.and Company agree to review through the EWC when the Company plans a reorganization and/or technology change that proposes the movement of a significant amount of work currently being performed by represented employees to Qwest non-represented employees as outlined in Section 1.3. The EWC will review the plan prior to its implementation, discuss alternatives and resolutions to such situations, and sponsor the implementation. In general, the Company shall be responsible for presenting such plans for review to the Council. However, if the Union believes there is a situation that meets the above criteria but has not been brought before the Council, the Union may raise the issue with the Council within six (6) months of the event that gave rise to their concern. In the event that the Union concern revolves around a significant movement of work that occurs over a period of time, the six (6) months shall run from the time the Union is on notice that a significant amount of work performed by represented employees has moved from represented to non-represented Qwest employees.
Grievances pending as of June 1, 2003, on the movement of work will be resolved through this process, up_ to and including expedited arbitration. In resolving these grievances, the EWC will be guided by the principles set forth in Section 1.3. recognizing that the movement of work al issue in these grievances pre-dates the time these principles were agreed to.
Starting in August 2003^the Council will meet at least quarterly. Membership during that time frame will include fa) two (21 CWA Bargaining Agents appointed bv the District 7 Vice President: lb) at least one fl) person at the Vice President level or above from the Company, appointed bv the Executive Vice President Human Resources; and (c) the Company’s Director of Labor Relations. The Union and Company may each designate up to three f3) additional people from the Union and Company, respectively, to participate in anv meeting. These guidelines may be altered bv mutual agreement of the Union and Company.
125
The information to be reviewed shall include the number, title and location of the employees currently performing the work that may be moved out of the bargaining unit, the impact upon these employees fe.g., will a surplus be declared and is it likely it will result in layoffs, will employees be considered qualified for the non-represented positions and/or will they be given other work to perform, etc.l the business reasons underlying the planned movement of work, and such other relevant information that is requested bv the Union, The business unit that is planning the event that may result in the relevant movement of work out of the bargaining unit shall be responsible for preparing and submitting to the Council this information. In reviewing these situations to determine whether the movement of work out of the bargaining unit is appropriate, the Council shall be governed bv the principles outlined in Article 1.
In the event that the Council cannot reach agreement, the Company shall make the final decision whether to go forward with the movement of work at issue after discussion with the Council about the potential ramifications. However, if the Union is dissatisfied with the decision, an expedited arbitration process shall be used for resolution of any alleged violation of the movement of work principles set forth in Section 1.3 and the appropriate remedy, A panel of arbitrators to be used specifically in this circumstance will be mutually agreed upon bv the Company and the Union no later than September 1.2003.
Criteria will be established jointly bv Qwest and CWA that should be considered in determining whether represented or non-represented employees can “best perform” parallel work, emphasizing a goal of “not diminishing the bargaining unit" as set forth in Section 1.3 (5k
Anv disputes regarding the alleged movement of work out of the bargaining unit that alleges a violation of Section 1.3 shall be resolved solely through the EWC process including expedited arbitration. This means the parties waive anv right to process Section 1.3 disputes through the regular grievance/arbitration procedure in Article 16 and/or unit clarification petitions under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRAk
Sincerely.
Cynthia Kok Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
126
August 16, 1998
Mr, John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America	'
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Expectations Regarding Occupational Dress
Dear Mr. Thompson:
We have agreed that employees should dress in a manner that is appropriate for the job they are performing. Attire should be guided by the work functions and customer contact associated with specific job duties, Jn addition, there are certain standards of attire:
•	Casual attire is the general standard for all office environments.
•	When employees are representing the Company io the public and customers, there may be additional requirements beyond the general standard.
•	In any work environment, the following should not be worn: athletic shorts, cutoffs, halter tops, tube tops, muscle shirts or any other type of apparel mutually agreed to by the Company and the Union.
Sincerely,
Karen L, Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
127
September 4,2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Greenwood Village, CO 80111
RE: Fleet Specialist & Fleet Technician Certification
Dear Ms. Hill.
This memorandum is intended to outline Qwest Business Resources requirements pertaining to certification for Fleet Specialist and Fleet Technician titles.
In light of our rapidly changing environment, the Company requirements for appropriate certifications will be as follows:
Fleet Specialists must possess certification from the National Institute for Automotive Excellence (ASE) in the following content areas:
•	A1-Engine Repair or Tl-Gasoline Engines
•	T2-Diesel Engines
•	A3-Manual Drive Train and Axles or T3-Drive Train
•	A4-Susnension and Steering or T5-Suspension and Steering
•	A5-Brakes or T4-Brakcs
•	A6-Electrical/Electronic Systems or T6-Electrical/Electronic Systems
•	A7-Heating and Air Conditioning or T-7-Heating. Ventilation and Air Conditioning
•	A8-Engine Performance
Fleet Technicians must possess certification from the National Institute for Automotive Excellence (ASE) in the following content areas:
•	Al-Engine Repair ofTl-Gasoline Engines
•	A3-Manual Drive Train and Axles or T3-Drive Train
•	A4-Suspension and Steering or T5-Suspension and Steering
•	A5-Brakes or T4-Brakes
•	A6-Electrical/Electrooic Systems or T6-Electrical/Electronic Systems
128
Recert i flea lion for employees holding the titles listed above will no longer be required. However, any future training required bv the Company will be provided on Company time and at Company expense.
If this agreement correctly sets forth our understanding, please concur bv signing below.
Sincerely,
Michael Lynch	Concurred:
Director Labor Relations	Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President Communications Workers of America
129
August 16, 1998
Mr. John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President Communications Workers of America District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Greater Length of Service
Dear Mr. Thompson:
We have had discussions regarding the intent and application of the provisions of Greater Length of Service (GLS). following is the agreement of the parties regarding the definition and application of GLS.
Greater Length of Service, or GLS, is the combination of an individual’s Term of Employment (TOE) plus the following additional periods of service performed by that individual which do not duplicate the individual's Term of Employment (TOE): (1) service with any Qwest subsidiary at least eighty percent (80%) owned or controlled by Qwest. Inc., provided the individual is transferred directly from such subsidiary to another, regardless of the number of such direct transfers, and (2) to the extent provided under the terms of a merger or acquisition agreement (which the Company will attempt to negotiate with a long term goal of consistency as to Union members), service performed for a former company which, by merger or acquisition, becomes a pan of the Qwest controlled group of entities. GLS shall be used as the measurement of an individual’s length of Qwest service for purposes of determining (a) the calculation of Separation Payment Plan payouts, (b) eligibility to participate and vesting under the Qwest Disability Plan, Qwest Group Life Insurance Plan, Qwest Health Care Plan, and Qwest Savings and Investment Plan (QSIP), and (c) any other purpose agreed upon by the Company under the terms of a merger or acquisition transaction. GLS shall not be used for purposes of determining seniority (i.e. for vacation scheduling or surplus declarations), eligibility to participate or vesting in the Qwest Pension Plan, or for purposes of determining the level, amount or duration of benefits under any Qwest benefit plan identified in this paragraph, except as such plan or plans may specifically provide otherwise (or as provided in (c) above).
130
Should you agree that this letter reflects our agreement, please sign in the space provided.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
131
August 17.2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Greenwood Village, CO 80111
RE: Health and Wellness Advisory Committee
Dear Ms. Hill:
With the continued expressed strong concern relative to the 'escalating costs and quality issues of health care services utilized by employees and their dependents, Qwest and Communications Workers of America agree to the continuation of a Health and Wellness Advisory Committee.
It is the intent of the parties to continue effective utilization of the Health and Wellness Advisory Committee as the forum to surface issues surrounding health care cost containment and quality issues, and to explore, develop and implement programs such as indicated (but not limited to) below:
1.	Maintain the maximum quality in healthcare services.
2.	Examine the major factors influencing medical, dental and vision care costs, particularly those which affect the Company and its employees.
3.	Recommend cost containment measures as may be appropriate to control and manage costs.
4.	Review prescription drug cost increases and evaluate requiring a generic substitution when the physician has not indicated to dispense as written,
5,	Continue to examine the viability of plan design and economic structure with the intent to change utilization patterns as a method to control cost escalation.
6.	Promote an educational process to raise employee awareness in the areas of preventive health, health care fitness, efficient use of the medical insurance plan and the high cost of health care.
132
7.	Review the need for baseline health tests for employees in occupations with potential long-term health risks.
8.	Provide oversight to the Committee on Substance Abuse and the Qwest Drug and Alcohol Policy,
9,	Monitor the Independent Medical Evaluation (1ME) process as used in the administration of the Agreement with the understanding that an IME will generally be used, if needed, after a review of a disability case by the Disability Review Committee.
10.	Review request for proposal (RFP) used to evaluate and select health care plans. Make such modifications deemed appropriate to the RFP to farther efforts around selecting the best quality health plans.
11.	The Company and the Union shall discuss in the Health and Wellness Advisory Committee, the possibility of the Company offering Networks in No-Network regions where the Company determines it to be appropriate based on the availability, cost and quality of the Network and the number of employees located in the respective area.
12.	Maintain two (2) Health Benefit Coordinators for assisting all employees in understanding and utilizing the health benefit processes, the FMLA process and disability process. The Company and Union co-chairs shall discuss the appointment of Health Benefit Coordinators prior to final selection,
13.	The Company and the Union shall discuss in the Health and Wellness Advisory Committee, the definition of “health11 and the overall intent of the health plan.
14.	Following ratification of the 2003 Collective Bargaining Agreement the Committee shall immediately begin discussion and evaluation of a Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) or other plan designs which would incorporate co-insurance requirements for in network services. Should the Committee reach agreement on a new plan design, which includes an implementation date of January 1. 2005, it is agreed that the Committee has the authority to do so and may proceed with implementation planning and communication.
133
The Committee will be charged with submitting periodic reports to the Union and Company Bargaining Agents regarding the efforts made io contain escalating health care costs, the results of those efforts, and will be authorized to make changes in the Health Plans which further the efforts to contain escalation of health care costs while preserving the quality of health care for employees. The Committee will also be charged with the responsibility of reviewing, revising and recommending design changes dealing with the Qwest Disability Plans and Leaves of Absence in order to consolidate and formulate common plans across the region.
The Union members of this committee will be appointed by the Vice President of Communications Workers of America, District 7, or designee.
Sincerely,
Cvnthia Kok Director
Labor Relations
Concurred;
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
134
August 17, 2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Job Swap Guidelines
Dear Ms. Hill:
As a result of negotiations with CWA, a provision was bargained in 1989 which allows for occupational employees, under certain conditions, to “swap" jobs.
With management concurrence at both locations, Regular employees may initiate a swapping of like positions within or outside an Organization. Job swaps can occur within a Reasonable Commuting Area (RCA), within a particular state or across the region. Such a swap is not intended to incur Company expenses; any costs associated with a swap such as relocation, traveling, etc., are to be borne by the employees involved.
“Like" positions are defined as same title and comparable functions. To determine comparable functions, little, if any, training would be involved on either end. Job swaps shall occur within the bargaining unit; employees cannot trade jobs between different Union affiliations. Job swaps cannot occur between Regular Full-Time to Regular Part-Time/Regular Term classifications or vice versa.
A job swap is originated by the employee(s). it is his/her responsibility to locate and identify a co-worker willing to participate in such a trade. This movement will occur outside the provisions of the Post and Bid Process. Occupational Staffing Office personnel will not be involved as there is no self-nomination request to be submitted or job vacancy to be filled. Self-nomination requests of employees who swap jobs remain active unless the Occupational Staffing Office is notified that the employee is no longer interested in bidding for the posted vacancy. Employees who swap jobs remain eligible to participate in the Post and Bid Process.
Because job swaps occur outside of the Post and Bid Process, there are no time-in title/time-in-location requirements to be met either prior or subsequent to the swap. “Swapping” employees will follow normal contractual provisions for selection of vacations and tours. There is no guarantee employees can retain previously scheduled vacations at the new location.
135
Retreat provisions do not apply in a job swap situation. Neither management nor the
employee may initiate a retreat following a job swap. If job performance becomes
unsatisfactory subsequent to a job swap, management will handle it under normal
performance guidelines.
Employees involved in force surplus situations cannot initiate iob swaps. Job swaps are not to be utilized to either circumvent or “take advantage” of force surplus conditions. Individuals are not to trade jobs so that employees may opt for entitlements, such as separation payments, in a particular area.
Each Organization must determine their own criteria in consenting to a job swap.
There are no established time frames to accomplish a job swap once it has been requested. It is, however, in the best interest of the Company and the employee(s) to achieve the swap as soon as possible. If management decides a swap will not occur, feedback to the employees involved must include the rationale for the refusal.
Sincerely,
Cvnthia Kok
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
136
August 16, 1998
Mr. John R, Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice venue
Englewood, CO 80111	.
RE:	Labor-Management Forums
Dear Mr. Thompson:
With the rapidly changing environment in our industry, Qwest and the Communications Workers of America have a commitment to work together to institute effective change in the workplace. Labor-Management Forums may be established in each Organization to accomplish our mutual goals of providing the highest quality of customer service, supporting a workforce that is highly skilled and successful in our competitive markets, and enhancing employment security.
The purpose of these Forums may include:
•	To establish and maintain productive relationships between the Communications Workers of America (CWA) and Qwest leaders.
•	To share information, address and resolve business and employee concents.
•	To define the purpose, assign participants, provide resources, support and assess the progress of sponsored participative initiatives within Organizations.
•	To establish and implement communication structures with local unions, CWA District 7, and other Labor-Management Forums.
•	To work closely with the Bargaining Agents on any improvement efforts that affect wages, benefits, hours or working conditions.
Forums, where desired, will be sponsored by the appropriate Organization and CWA representatives.
Forums will consist of equal numbers of union and management representatives, and may include the Organization Vice President, one (1) Labor Relations Manager, and one (I) CWA District 7 representative.
137
Appointments of employees to projects and committees which affect wages, benefits, hours or working conditions will be by mutual agreement of the Union and the Company. Such appointments will be prompt and based on relevant knowledge of the subject. Ideally, people performing the targeted work will be appointed. Disputes in the selection process will be resolved by the Labor-Management Forum. Written agreements between the Company and Union will be made concerning expectations of such activities.
Qwest will provide excused paid time for all employees participating in such activities. Joint training may also be provided.
Frequency and length of meetings will be determined by the members of the individual Labor-Management Forum.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves
Director Labor Relations
Concurred;
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
138
August 1 ?. 2003
Ms. Cvnthia Kok
Director Labor Relations
Qwest
1801 California Street. Ste. 200
Denver, CO 80202
RE: Leveraged Compensation Plan - Reasonable Objectives
Dear Ms. Kok;
The Union has expressed that obtaining reasonable objectives for Sales Consultants it represents, who are covered under the terms and conditions of the Leveraged Compensation Plan fLCPk is one of its top goals during this round of contract negotiations. CWA's Bargaining Team is committed to bring resolution io this issue in a timely and appropriate manner.
More importantly, the Sales Consultants need to have a resolve. The Company and the Union need to collectively address the struggle for success bv many of the employees working under the terms of the LCP. This is confirmed bv reviewing the low attainment rates in many of the centers.
The Leveraged Compensation Plan was bargained between the Union and the Company during 1995 contract negotiations and went into effect January of 1996. The primary purpose of the plan was to have a pay system in place that would drive strong revenue performance for the Company and equitably compensate Sales Consultants for the increased revenue dollars brought to the Company for selling products and services. Since the implementation of the LCP. the Union has seen literally thousands of our members move through the Sales Consultant title. The overwhelming majority of the Company’s employees. Union members, want the ability to sell Qwest products and services while providing superior customer service, as well as earn the money that was promised at the inception of the plan. They want to be successful.
Since 1996 the Oversight Committee, with representatives from both the Union and the Company, have met to discuss issues and concerns specific to the Leveraged Compensation Plan. The issue that has consumed the overwhelming majority of the parties* time has revolved around discussion of sales objectives and attainment levels reached in relationship to those objectives. The issue of “reasonable" objectives has been a contentious issue to say the least. Both the Company and the Union have spent thousands of dollars and hundreds of hours of time and energy in an attempt to resolve the disagreement between the parties, The parties have met through informal meetings, grievance meetings, committee meetings, arbitrations, and judicial proceedings, as well as changed contract language. None of these avenues have resolved this issue. The Union has vet another arbitration pending, which was filed early in 2002.
139
Our collective attempts to resolve the issue amongst ourselves have not resolved the issue: therefore, it is time for a new approach. Last year, those parties used an innovative approach and worked together to redesign the components of the Leveraged Compensation Plan. We used two different consulting firms, who assisted in gathering information and analyzing the data. It was very helpful to have a fresh set of eves. The other major difference was the involvement of the front line employees who were impacted hv the nlan. There were Sales Consultants on the committees and focus groups done in each of the offices with both managers and Sales Consultants. Additionally, there were interviews done with both CWA and Qwest leadership. The end results were design Plan changes, in both General Business and Consumer, which were well received and supported bv the majority of the Sales Consultants. The plan was simplified and contained components that provided focus on producing revenue and providing a positive customer experience.
Because of the success of this approach, we have agreed to use the same approach to resolve this issue. Therefore, the committee participants will include outside consultants. SC*s and the appropriate Qwest decision makers. There needs to be a sense of urgency because of the ongoing frustration and concern about this issue, An initial meeting shall take place as quickly as possible, and Ibe process will be completed no later than October 15, 2003. The scope of the issues for discussion will be how to improve the success of the Leveraged Compensation-Plan to benefit the employees and the Company. specifically, the percentage of employees who are successful in meeting and exceeding the net sales revenue objective. The committee will communicate with the SC’s while they are working through the process.
The parties further agree that the pending arbitration on reasonable objectives will not _be_held before November 1.2003.
If You concur, please sign below.
Sincerely,
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
Concurred: Cynthia Kok Director Labor Relations
140
August 16,1998
Mr, John R- Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Local Agreements
Dear Mr. Thompson:
After much discussion about Local Agreements, it is agreed that effective January 1, 1999, Local Agreements must include the following:
1.	Signature of Local President or designee
2.	S ignature of appropri ate manager
3.	Length of agreement
4.	Either party can reopen negotiations. If no agreement is reached, the current agreement will remain in effect.
It is also agreed that current Local Agreements which do not include the above, will expire on December 31, 1998, and any new Local Agreements must include the preceding four elements.
Sincerely,
Karen L, Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred;
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
141
August 17.2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 E. Prentice Avenue
Greenwood Village. CO 80111
RE: Local Agreements on Overtime Administration in the Network Organization
Dear Ms. Hill:
Significant discussions occurred during contract negotiations about overtime administration and the ability of the local union and management teams to have local agreements, Considerable concern was expressed regarding fair and consistent overtime administration and the Company's ability to meet customer needs and manage cost effectively.
The purpose of this letter is to address these issues within the Local Network organization.
The Company and local union shall have a local agreement on the guidelines.and procedures for overtime administration within the Local Network field and PCS organizations. This requirement for local agreements wilt be implemented within die i&M/Construction field organizations and the PCS organization. This Letter of Agreement shall apply to workgroups that are made up of the Network Technician. Customer Data Technician, and Assistant Technician titles.
The criteria that must be discussed in all local agreements are;
•	Whether overtime will be offered first to volunteers
•	The Company’s right to manage overtime opportunities to the 49* hour
■	When customer service needs are_not met through volunteers the Company has the ability to schedule mandatory overtime
■	Development of a process to track equal distribution of overtime by employee on an annual basis
•	Process to address overtime caps during peak load periods
This Letter of Agreement is in effect through August 13, 2005.
Sincerely,
Cvnihis Kok Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
142
August 17. 2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
Dear Ms, Hill:
RE: Lump Sum Pension Option
The parties have reached an agreement in the following area:
Employees eligible under the Pension Plan to receive their pension benefit may receive that benefit in a lump sum.
IhiS-Letter of_Agreement shall beeftective for the term of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Sincerely,
Cynthia Kok Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
143
August 16, 1998
Mr. John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: National Public Policy Common issues Forum
Dear Mr. Thompson:
The Company and the Union recognize that continuing changes in the telecommunications industry require constant examination of the laws and regulations. Quite often the positions taken by the Company or the Union on these national issues are compatible and more leverage could be gained with individual Public Policy makers if there were discussions regarding the respective positions.
The parties have agreed to continue the National Public Policy Common Issues Forum which will:
(a)	Facilitate communication on Public Policy issues of interest to both parties,
(b)	Provide an opportunity for both parties to explore creative solutions io Public Policy issues,
(c)	Facilitate understanding of each party's position and avoid unnecessary disputes by addressing significant differences early in the process,
(d)	Provide an opportunity for greater leverage on Public Policy makers when positions are compatible.
The parties recognize that national issues may be mirrored in various state forums. In such instances, consistent messages al both levels may be helpful. Accordingly, the parties agree that this forum may, from time co time, identify such issues and provide appropriate data to local representatives of the parties. While this forum may provide information, advice and counsel, and coordinate with state councils, the parties recognize that the state councils are autonomous entities.
144
The Forum shall be comprised of equal numbers of Union and Company representatives
with total membership not exceeding ten (10). Meetings will be convened by the parties
at least quarterly at mutually agreeable places and times. The members of the Forum
shall determine its structure, agenda and operation.
The Union members of the Forum shall be appointed by the Vice President of Communications Workers of America, District 7, or designee. The Company members shall be appointed by the President of Public Policy.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves Director Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
145
August 17, 2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Greenwood Village. CO 80UI
RE: Occupational Safety and Health Committee
Dear Ms..Hill:
The Company and Union recognize the importance of a strong safety program and the continuing need to promote better understanding and acceptance of the principles of safety by employees for their own safety and that of their fellow employees, customers, and the public in general.
The Company and the Union agree to support the Mutual Occupational Safety and Health Committee (MOS&HC) which shall consist of not more than four (4) representatives each from the Company and the Union (to be appointed by the Company and the Union respectively). The Union members of this committee will be appointed by the Vice President of the Communications Workers of America, District 7, or designee. This committee shall:
•	Evaluate safety concerns in the Qwest territory and shall make recommendations regarding ongoing program changes where needed relative to occupational safety and health. '
•	Maintain a process for identifying and resolving occupational safety and health issues as they arise.
•	For mutually agreed upon issues, establish jointly managed projects or innovative countermeasures to address the issue. These projects or countermeasures will be limited in scope, membership and time frame and will result in specific predetermined deliverables or outcomes.
•	Assist each Mutual State Committee with the implementation of programs and resolution of issues within their organizations or localities.
•	Discuss ergonomic issues, which are important to both the Union and the Company.
146
State Safety Committees:
Each State will have a safety committee made up of a Company and Union Co-Chair. Other members of these committees will be appointed equally by the Company and Union respectively with consideration of the geographical, organization, state OSHA laws and local Union makeup unique to each state. These committees shall not be larger than eight (8) people (four (4) representatives each from the Company and the Union). Exceptions to this number shall be subject to the approval of the MOS&HC. Each state committee shall formally meet four (4) times a year to identify and resolve safety issues within the state. Union and Company Co-Chairs may meet as necessary between meetings to address pressing issues. State committees will work to educate and expand awareness of safety within the Company. The ultimate goal is to resolve safety issues at the lowest level possible. State safety committees will act as a mechanism recommending resolution of local safety issues or escalating issues to the MOS&HC as appropriate.
Sincerely,
Cynthia Kok Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
147
August 16, 1998
Mr. John R- Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: PATHWAYS To The Future
Dear Mr. Thompson:
In the ongoing environment of rapid technological changes and competitive entries into the telecommunications marketplace, both parties recognize the benefits in continuing to offer employees an education and training program for skills enhancement and career development. The program provisions are as follows:
FUNDING:	The Company will provide, at Company expense, the
PATHWAYS To The Future Program, as developed by Training Partnerships, Inc.
PURPOSE:	The purpose of PATHWAYS is to promote life long learning
through educational opportunities which meet individual needs, provide personal and career choices, and create a flexible and skilled workforce so that the employees, the Company and the Union are prepared to fully participate in a changing and diverse marketplace.
GOVERNANCE: PATHWAYS To The Future is governed by Training Partnerships, Inc. (TP1), a Company and Union non-profit corporation. The Co-Directors, one (I) Union and one (1) Company, will be appointed by theTPI Board of Directors to assist in implementing the PATHWAYS program.
ELIGIBILITY:	PATHWAYS To The Future is an educational benefit program for
employees to use for education and training outside their current job. All Regular FullTime and Regular Part-Time employees with a minimum of six (6) months Term of Employment (TOE) will be eligible to participate in PATHWAYS.
PARTICIPATION: PATHWAYS-provided education and training will be separate and distinguished from an employee’s current job specific training. PATHWAY S-sponsored education provides for education and training for skills not expected or required in the employee’s current job. Participation in the program is voluntary and is on an employee’s own time.
148
EXCLUSIONS:	Alternatively, Company-sponsored “job specific” training will
include, but is not limited to, expected and/or required training for the employee’s current job assignment. Therefore, “job specific” training is to take place on work time and is to be paid for by the Company (Organization), and will not fall under the provisions or funding by PATHWAYS. The Company and Union Bargaining Agents with the assistance of the TPI Board, will determine the best process for assessing and monitoring the exclusions to the PATHWAYS To The Future Benefit Program.
ADVOCATES:	To support employees in their commitment to continuing
education and life-long learning, Advocates shall be appointed and Advocate Committees shall be established. These committees are co-chaired by union and management advocates. While time off for Advocates to perform their duties is voluntary time, instances may arise where the Company and local union may mutually agree to compensate the Advocate Committees with paid time off under Section 15.11 of this Agreement (Excused Paid Time-Un ion Management Meetings). Reimbursable expenses such as supplies, mileage, lodging, meals, may be mutually agreed upon at the local level.
ADVOCATE CONFERENCE FUNDING:	In support of the Advocate network,
one PATHWAYS Advocate Conference will be funded during the life of the 1998 Agreement. Time offto attend this conference will be paid under Section 15.11 ofthis Agreement. Reimbursable expenses will be paid to the employees by PATHWAYS, per the provisions of this contract.
PROGRAM SUMMARY AND DESIGN CHANGES:
1.	No Cap Undergraduate Degree Option - two (2) or four (4) year Associate or
Bachelors degrees through accredited schools under the PATHWAYS eligibility policy. Provides up to three hundred dollars ($300) per calendar year of personal development.
2.	Two thousand one hundred dollars ($2,100) Tuition Cap for Continuing Education Option - Includes up to three hundred dollars ($300) for personal development. It covers a variety of continuing education options such as credit and non-credit courses, certificate and license programs, technical training, and vocational courses.
3.	Essential Skills - No Cap - Essential skills are defined as the skill requirements for future job functions where skill gaps or shortages exist today or will exist in the future. The Departments are encouraged to identify their essential skills for inclusion in this option. The TPI Board of Directors will determine eligibility of courses, classes and programs under this option. Where such courses, classes and programs are required for an employee’s current job, PATHWAYS will not fund it. (Note: “EXCLUSIONS” as defined above.)
149
I
In addition to pre-paid tuition, these options include career planning, assessment, fees and book reimbursement paid per PATHWAYS policies.
Employees may participate in the following ways;
The No Cap Undergraduate Degree option.
The No Cap Undergraduate Degree option and the Essentia) Skills option.
The two thousand one hundred dollars ($2,100) option.
The Essential Skills option and the two thousand one hundred dollars ($2,100) option.
4.	Separated Employees - Employees who separate from Qwest under the provisions of Article 19 or Article 23 will be eligible to participate in the PATHWAYS for Separated Employees Program. This program includes the following provisions;
(a)	Program eligibility period is twenty-four (24) consecutive calendar months. The twenty-four (24) month period will start no later than twelve (12) months from the employee's separation or earlier if the employee enrolls in courses or classes within the initial twelve (12) month period . from separation.
(b)	Not more than ten thousand five hundred dollars ($10,500) will be reimbursed at a maximum of five thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($5,250) per twelve (12) month period to include tuition, fees, books, personal development and applicable taxes.
(c)	Applicable taxes are withheld from these reimbursements.
In conclusion, the PATHWAYS To The Future Program supports life-long learning opportunities for Qwest employees and CWA’s members. Education and training is a competitive advantage. Continuous teaming opportunities are essential to our collective success in the future.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred;
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
150
August 16, 1998
Mr, John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7 8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Payroll Policies
Dear Mr. Thompson:
As was discussed during recent negotiations, payroll policies (specifically regarding overpayments and underpayments) may need to change due to unforeseen circumstances.
When this occurs, the policy changes will be reviewed with the Company and Union Bargaining Agents prior to implementation.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves Director Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
151
August 17.2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Greenwood Village. CO 80111
RE: Pension Band 120
Dear Ms. Hill:
During 1989 collective bargaining, agreements were reached on specific title changes which resulted in pension band impact to certain former Northwestern Bell (NWB) Zone I titles. _This occurred in both the U S WEST fnow Qwest) and former BRI bargaining unit. Employees holding these titles were in Pension Band 120 under the 1986 Agreement and would have moved to Pension Band 119 under the above-referenced title change agreements.
The impacted titles were as follows:
Facility Specialists
Network Systems Technicians
Switchboard Technicians
Testing Technicians
Toll Terminal Technicians
Communications Channel Technicians
Communications Channel Specialists
Building Specialists
152
The following is proposed relative to protection of Pension Band 120 for the originally impacted employees:
Employees in the listed titles on August 13, 1989. will remain in Pension Band 120 for the life of the 2003 Agreement. We will provide you with a listing bv name of the individuals impacted.
Employees who have moved into these titles (or their translated titles) since August 13,1989, will be placed in Pension Band 119.
Any employee who has moved or will move out of these titles during the life of this Agreement will no longer be protected.
Any future changes during the life of the 2003 Labor Agreement that would impact Pension Bands could make this agreement null and void.
If the above accurately reflects our understanding, please sign in the space provided below.
Sincerely,

Cynthia Kok Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
153
August 16, J 998
Mr. John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Priority Personal Days
Dear Mr. Thompson:
During 1998 Bargaining, the Company and the Union spent a significant amount of time discussing the Union's desire to also consider the needs of the employee when determining the needs of the business. The Company and the Union agree to have local union and Company representatives set the parameters and implementation guidelines for each work group. These local representatives will have the latitude to address the following issues;
(a)	whether to increase the number of priority personal days
(b)	how priority personal days and excused non-paid time interact
(c)	whether certain days need to be exempt
(d)	increments in which priority personal days may be taken
(e)	frequency in which priority personal days may be taken (i.e., one per quarter)
(f)	procedure to request a priority personal day
(g)	a reasonable amount of priority time will be made available every day with the exception of holidays which may be blocked
(h)	whether daily caps are needed in some cases to minimize negative impact on customers. (If necessary, priority personal days would be granted on a first-come, first-serve basis.)
154
Local representatives should be creative and develop guidelines which work best for their work group and empower employees to manage their work and personal lives. If the local representatives are unable to reach agreement on the guidelines, the Company and Union Bargaining Agents may assist with the resolution.
Sincerely,
Karen L, Craves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
155
I
August 16, 1998
Mr. John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Qwest / Communications Workers of A mcrica Diversity Committee
Dear Mr. Thompson:
Recognizing the importance of each employee in Qwest becoming aware of and adhering to the principles of diversity, equal employment opportunity, and affirmative action, the parties agree to continue the Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action Committee (EEO/AA) now named Qwest/Com municat ions Workers of America Diversity Committee (Qwest/CWA Diversity Committee).
The primary focus of this committee will be to help the Company move toward an environment that is devoid of racism and sexism as well as embracing diversity in all aspects of the business.
In this respect, the committee will work with the leaders of the Diversity Center to promote diversity and EEO/AA by helping to remove the subtle and overt barriers to diversity in the workplace.
The role and scope of the committee shall include:
1.	A focus on barriers to diversity at the front-line of the Company and the Union.
2.	Commissioning a task force, as needed, to help identify and eliminate perceived barriers.
3.	Recommending tools/products that help each employee understand what diversity means at Qwest.
4.	Providing feedback to the Company and the Union on perceived barriers or issues that hinder the progress of diversity in the workplace.
156
This committee will be composed of three (3) representatives from both the Company and the Union and will meet at least four (4) times a year. In addition, the committee may review with the Company and the Union Bargaining Agents when the need for more representatives may be needed during this Agreement.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
157
August 16, 1998
Mr, John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Qwest - Organization Structure
Dear Mr, Thompson:
The Company and the Union recognize the continuing changes in the organizational structure of the business in the context of administration of Articles 7, 19, 20, and 21. As you know, the names, size, numbers, and relationship within and between organizations have and will continue to reflect what we believe is the best structure for delivering customer service. As such, the organizational structures and names are likely to continue to change and evolve over time.
As we have discussed, the Company determines organizational structures and names and will keep the Union Bargaining Agent advised of such changes in a timely manner and discuss the impacts, if any, on the administration of the provisions outlined in Articles 7, 19, 20, and 21, The Company and the Union Bargaining Agents will mutually agree on any modifications of the administration of these provisions that become necessary as a result of organizational structure changes based on the above definition.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves Director Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
158
August 17. 2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 E. Prentice Avenue
Greenwood Village. CO 80111
RE: Qwest Uniform Program
Dear Ms. Hilt:
The Company and the Union have agreed to a voluntary clothing program for customer facing employees in the Network and Public organizations in the following titles: Network Technician, Central Office Technician, Customer Data Technician, COE Technician, Public Telephone Technician, Coin Collector. Antenna Technician, Assistant Technician, Customer Service Specialist, and CPE Technician. Two (Ti additional titles. Frame Attendant and Supply Attendant, may participate on a limited basis as described in the plan. The following sets forth the terms of this agreement:
1.	An employee's participation in the clothing program is voluntary. Once, however, the employee opts to participate in the clothing program, he or she must continue for the period of the current Collective Bargaining Agreement.
2.	When an employee elects to participate in the clothing program, he or she will be able to order items from a list of available uniform items prior to the beginning of the program. The Company will also provide two CWA pins to each employee who elects to participate in the clothing program. The design and supplier of these pins will be approved by the CWA. The Company and the Union will continue to discuss the possibility of the employee having the choice between a pin or patch.
3.	Each participant is required to wear the article of Qwest clothing provided during their tour of duty. The goal is to have our employees appear to the customer as the professionals they are. Accordingly, the Company expects participants’ clothing to be neat, clean and well maintained, including jeans or overalls. The CWA agrees to endorse this program and encourage full participation by its members.
4.	To the extent the value of the clothing articles provided to employees under this program is taxable, the taxable amount will be “grossed up.”
159
5.
This agreement will terminate on August 13. 2005. unless otherwise negotiated by the parties. Either party may re-open negotiations. If no other agreement is reached this agreement will remain in effect.
Sincerely,
Cvnthia Kok Director Labor Relations
Concurred:
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
160
August 17.2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Greenwood Village. CO 80111
RE: Retiree Health Care
Dear Ms. Hill:
This letter will confirm our agreement regarding retiree health care and the provisions surrounding retiree health care caps:
(a)	The Company shall contribute funds (by direct payment and/or payments made from the Company sponsored trust funds or other Company sources) for the actual aggregate Qwest Health Care Plan ("Plan") costs (excluding Plan coverage Medicare Part B premiums capped at 1995 reimbursement level) for Union represented employees retiring from the Company (and their Class 1 dependents) in each calendar year after 1990, up to a total Company contribution of not less than the single amount calculated as the sum of the costs in all Coverage Categories (i.e., the sum of column (D)) in the following restructured schedule:
(A) Coverage Category	(B) Cost Cap	(C) Multiple Factor	(D) Total Category Cost
Under age 65 adult	$4,960	Total adults (retirees + spouses)	(B)x(C)
Child(ren) (incl. students & handicapped)	$2,070	Total retirees who cover I or more children	(B)x(C)
Age 65 and over, adults	$2,570	Total adults (retirees + spouses)	(B)x(C)
161
I
With respect to individuals retiring on or after January 1, 1991. (except employees who retired under the 1992 ERO), the Company reserves the right to assess individual premiums (which, if assessed, shall vary based on whether the individual is over or under the age of sixty-five (65)) and the type of Plan coverage (adult, child) as an alternative method of funding Plan costs in excess of the aggregate amount of Company contributions calculated across all categories under the above schedule. If in a given Plan year, the costs for one of the Coverage Categories (e.g., Under age 65, adult) exceed the maximum Company contribution for that category, but the total costs for all Coverage Categories do not exceed the maximum Company contribution on an aggregate basis (i.e,, the sum of column (D)), then no retired employee would be required to make a contribution for the Plan year. However, no retired employee shall be required to pay any contribution toward Plan costs for coverage prior to January 1,2006.
If the Cost Caps in the above schedule ore increased in any bargaining contract between the Union and the Company entered into after expiration of this contract, the Company will adjust the Cost Caps in the above schedule to match the increased Cost Cups as bargained.
(b)	For employees who retire on or after January 1, 1991, the Plan shall provide benefits equivalent to the average actuarial value (subject to the possibility of the Company's assessment of premiums as set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section) of the benefits provided from time to time under the health care plan for active occupational employees, and the Company shall continue to have the right to amend such benefits subject to negotiations. This paragraph will apply to employees who retired under ERO only to the extent it is consistent with the 1992 "ERO" health care commitment.
(c)	For active and future retired employees, there shall be no lifetime maximum on the amount of benefits available from the Plan during the term of this Agreement.
(d)	With respect to individuals retiring on or after January 1, 1991, effective January I, 1996, the Company will cap the Medicare Part B reimbursement at the 1995 rate of forty-eight dollarsand ten cents ($48.10) per month.
Sincerely,
Cvnthia Kok Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
162
August 17. 2003
Ms. Annie Hill
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Greenwood Villaee. Colorado 80111
RE: Student Classification
Dear Ms. Hill:
The purpose of this letter is to confirm the understanding that the Company and the Union have reached regarding the implementation of the Student classification.
The number of employees placed in this classification will be limited to two hundred (200) Students, The Company will determine the locations, organization, and titles to be populated. Placement in the Student classification will not occur until a student verification is made through school transcripts at the lime of hire. To remain in the Student classification, verification of transcripts will take place at the end of each quarter or semester.
Employees hired into the Student classification must be considered a full-time student by the educational institution they attend. The terms of Articles II, 12, 13, 14, 19 and 23 shall not apply to Students. Student employees shall not participate in the Qwest Health Care Plan, Group Life Insurance Program, Qwest Disability Plans, Long Term Care Plan, or any other employee benefit plan which does not expressly include Student employees as a class of employees.
The Student will receive a lump sum payment based on a verifiable Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.0 or greater, and must have satisfactory performance and attendance. The lump sum will be five hundred dollars ($500) per quarter grading period or seven hundred and fifty dollars'($750) per semester grading period to a maximum of two thousand dollars ($2,000) per calendar year.
Student employees will not be guaranteed a minimum or maximum number of scheduled hours in a calendar year. Student employees will not be involuntarily scheduled for a lour shorter than three (3) hours. Student employees, regardless of their title, may be scheduled for split tours. The Student employee is a separate work group for scheduling purposes. The scheduling of Student employees shall not negatively impact the availability of desirable hours and days of work for Regular employees.
163
If the Company ends the assignment of an employee in the Student classification after the employee has started a new semester or quarter, the Company will pay the lump sum payment so long as the Student meets the criteria set forth above.
Sincerely,
Cynthia Kok
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
Annie Hili
Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
164
August 16, 1998
Mr. John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Supplemental Payment Cities
Dear Mr. Thompson:
This will confirm our understanding regarding Supplemental Payment Cities. The Company and the Union recognize that special conditions exist in certain cities in the Qwest territory that impact the Company’s ability to attract and retain employees. For that reason, the Company and the Union agree to the following:
An employee whose most current Primary Reporting Place (PRP) is within the city limits of a city listed below, will receive a supplemental payment as shown. This payment shall continue so long as the employee’s most current PRP is located in one of these cities:
Supplemental Payment Cities
$95.00 Per Week
$125,00 Per Week
Craig, CO Crested Butte, CO Durango, CO
Frisco, CO Granby, CO
Hailey, ID
Heber City, UT Ketchum, ID Los Alamos, NM
Park City, UT Ridgeway, CO Santa Fe, NM Steamboat Springs, CO Telluride, CO
Aspen, CO
Avon, CO
Breckenridge, CO
Dillon, CO
Glenwood Springs, CO
Jackson, WY
Rifle, CO
Silverthorne, CO
Vail, CO
165
The supplemental payment shall enter into computation of overtime pay as required by law, but will not be part of basic wage rate for any other purpose, nor enter into computation of any payment under the plans for employee’s pension, disability benefits, or any other fringe benefits or differentials.
This agreement may be canceled by either party by giving thirty (30) days written notice to the other party.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
166
August 16, 1998
Mr. John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE:	Tax-Exempt Trust
Dear Mr. Thompson:
The Company shall continue to maintain and/or establish one or more tax-exempt trusts under Section 501 (CX9) of the Internal Revenue Code for the purpose of funding some or all of the following benefits for eligible employees and retirees, their eligible dependents, and/or their designated beneficiaries; life insurance, sickness, medical, accident and other allowable welfare benefits. The level and timing of all contributions to such trusts and trust reserves shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Company subject to any applicable limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. The funding of post-retirement medical benefits, and such other benefits as the Company shall deem appropriate, shall be separately accounted for within the trust.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
167
August 16, 1998
Mr. John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE:	Telephone Concession Service
Dear Mr. Thompson:
This will confirm our understanding regarding Telephone Concession Service.
It is the intent of Qwest to provide Telephone Concession Service based on the following terms and conditions.
Effective April 1, 1999, continuation or establishment of concession service is contingent upon all current and future employees signing up for Qwest AutoPay Service.
Employees with less than thirty (30) years service
50% Local Service 50% Intra-lata Toll
Employees with thirty (30) years or more service, Service Retirement or Disability Retirement
100% Local Service
100% Intra-lata Toll
Eligibility Rules
Eligibility Rules:	All Regular Full-Time, Regular Part-Time
and Regular Term employees with first day of employment
Concession Items:	Concession is applicable to any residential
revenue-producing product and/or item of service that is offered as an approved concession provided by Qwest.
108
	Concession would also apply to nonrecurring service charges for items available at concession.
Death of Employee:	The concession rate shall be continued until the second billing period after death.
Termination:	Concession ends on date of termination.
Retired:	Concession rate to be one hundred percent (100%) at time of service or disability retirement whether or not employee has thirty (30) years of service.
Leaves:	Concession eligibility during leaves shall be spelled out by Company policies.
Employees are eligible for telephone concession service only on products or services provided by Qwest.
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
169
August 16,1998
Mr. John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the Vice President
Communications Workers of America
District 7	'
8085 East Prentice Avenue
Englewood, CO 80111
RE: Union Representation Rights For Occupational Employees
Dear Mr. Thompson:
As a result of recent contract negotiations, the parties have agreed to include this Letter of Agreement in the Agreement.
The purpose of this document is to provide further clarification on when an employee is entitled to have a steward present during a meeting with management. An employee has the right to a union representative, upon request, in investigatory interviews, and when discipline is being administered.
An investigatory interview occurs when a manager questions an employee about his or her conduct or performance. In this circumstance, if the employee has a reasonable belief that disciplinary action may result from the interview, he or she has the right to have a union representative present upon request.
Discipline is defined, per Article 17, as “warnings which are going to be recorded in the personnel file, suspension, demotion, or dismissal for just cause". Furthermore, per the Occupational Employee Performance Plan (OEPP), discipline occurs when an employee is not meeting standards, or complying with Company policy, and corrective action is taken.
There is no contractual or legal entitlement for an employee to have a union representative present any time he or she meets with management. Therefore, when meeting with an employee, it is imperative for a manager to clearly state the purpose of the discussion.
Periodic performance reviews are an important part of employee development and sustained productivity. If, during one of these discussions, the manager questions an employee about his or her conduct or performance, and the employee has a reasonable belief that disciplinary action may result from the interview, he or she has the right to a union representative upon request. However, there is no entitlement to union representation if the stated intent is not to take disciplinary action as a result of information gained in this meeting.
170
Examples of Manager - Employee Meeting
Employee Entitled To Union Representation
Employ ee oriental ion on Companypolicies	No
and/or workgroup standards.
Performance review - employee meeting	No
standards, with no supervisory reference made to OEPP disciplinary action.
Performance review - employee meeting	No
standards, possible OEPP disciplinary action discussed, no documentation recorded in personnel file and the discussion will not be relied upon should disciplinary action become an issue in the future.
Performance review - employee meeting	Yes
standards, possible OEPP disciplinary action discussed, documentation is recorded in personnel file.
Performance review - employee not	Yes
meeting standards, OEPP disciplinary action discussed or applied, documentation is recorded in personnel file.
Discussion with employee to advise that,	Yes
based on an alleged violation of Company policy, he or she is being sent home, suspended without pay, pending further investigation.
The OEPP is a Company policy, and like others should be covered with all employees annually. This coverage is the Orientation phase of the OEPP. Therefore, it meets the just cause criteria that employees know the consequences of poor performance. This coverage is not a disciplinary action and does not require application of Article 17 of the contract. It is an informational coverage with no current negative consequences for an individual employee.
171
Developmental plans are appropriate for all employees to ensure continuous improvement. Discussions about these plans are not considered disciplinary. Therefore, union representation is not an entitlement in these sessions as long as management does not refer to potential, future disciplinary action.
Corrective action plans are developed when employees become unsatisfactory, and discipline is administered in accordance with the OEPP .
Sincerely,
Karen L. Graves
Director
Labor Relations
Concurred:
John R. Thompson
Administrative Assistant to the
Vice President
Communications Workers of America
172
ADDENDUM 4
FAMILY ISSUES
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Section A4.I CARE OF NEWBORN, ADOPTED, OR FOSTER CHILD LEAVE
The leave for care of a newborn, adopted, or foster child is without pay and shall, with required approval, be for a period of up to one (1) year. The leave will be granted for an initial period of six (6) months, but may extend to one (1) year. When determining the period of leave to be granted, the Company will take into consideration the desires of the employee and the needs of the business.
While on leave, benefit coverage for eligible employees shall, to the extent provided to active employees, be as follows:
Death Benefit - Company pays for the period of the leave (up to one (1) year).
Basic Group Life insurance - Company pays premium for the period of the leave (up to one (1) year).
Qwest Health Care Plan/HMO - Company paid coverage continues for the duration of the leave on the same basis as for the employee’s active employment.
Dental - Company pays for the first six (6) months. Employee covers the balance.
Supplementary Group Life Insurance and Dependent Group Life Insurance - Employee covers the cost of the premium.
Qwest Disability Plan - Available after the leave if the employee is disabled at the end of the leave.
Service Credit - Upon reinstatement at expiration of the leave, the employee will be granted service credit for the entire period of the leave.
Employees who are granted a Leave of Absence for the Care of Newborn Children (CNC) will be entitled to guaranteed reinstatement to one of the following:
173
(a)	If the employee is granted a leave of absence and returns within six (6) months, the employee will be placed in the same job.
(b)	If the employee is granted a leave of absence and returns between six (6) and twelve (12) months the employee will be placed in a position of like status and pay.
(c)	During the first six (6) months of the CNC leave of absence which begins at the end of the disability period, if applicable, following the birth, adoption, or placement of a foster child or children, the employee may return to her/his position on a part-time basis upon mutual agreement of the employee and the immediate supervisor. By mutual agreement of the immediate supervisor and the employee, this part-time work may be extended an additional six (6) months.
Section A4.2 FAMILY CARE LEAVE
Family Care Leave(s) will be administered as follows:
The Family Care Leave is without pay and shall, with required approval, be for a total period of up to twelve (12) months within a two (2) year period. The employee shall be guaranteed reinstatement al the end of each segment of the leave.
The purpose of the leave shall be to care for a seriously ill family member.
For purposes of this leave, “family member" shall mean:
Spouse or other individual living in the same household and dependent upon employee.
Biological or adopted unmarried child under nineteen (19) years of age (or age twenty-three (23) if a full-time student) or an unmarried child of any age who is incapable of self-support; or physically or mentally handicapped and fully dependent on the employee.
Biological or adoptive parent or parent-in-law; grandparent or grandparent- in-law.
The employee shall be required to present evidence of serious illness of a family member and the expected duration of the illness and the reason for the employee’s involvement, to the satisfaction of the Company.
174
While on leave, benefit coverage for eligible employees shall, to the extent provided to active employees, be as follows:
Death Benefit - Company pays for the period of the leave (up to one (1) year).
Basic Croup Life Insurance - Company pays premium for the period of the leave (up to one (1) year).
Qwest Health Care Plan/HMO - Company paid coverage continues for the duration of the leave on the same basis as for the employee’s active employment.
Supplementary Group Life Insurance and Dependent Croup Life Insurance - Employee covers the cost of the premium.
Qwest Disability Plan - Available after the leave if the employee is disabled at the end of the leave.
Service Credit - Upon reinstatement at expiration of the leave, the employee will be granted service credit for the entire period of the leave.
Section A4.3 CHILD / ELDER CARE RESOURCE AND REFERRAL
The services of a national community based Child Care and Elder Care Resource and Referral Service will continue to be engaged by the Company to help employees locate, evaluate, and manage quality child care and elder care services. This service will be provided by a professional organization charged with the responsibility of locating existing services, provide consultative services, distribute appropriate educational materials, provide on-site educational workshops, audio tapes, or video tapes of educational workshops and where necessary engage in community resource development which will increase the quantity and enhance the quality of care.
The Company will pay the cost associated with contracting for, managing and operating the Child and Elder Care Resource and Referral Service. The selection of the national vendor will be the sole responsibility of the Company. The selection of the provider and associated costs for the services of the provider will be the sole responsibility of the employee.
This service will be renewed effective with the date of this Agreement for al! Regular employees.
175
Section A4.4 ADOPTION ASSISTANCE
Documented adoption expenses incurred on or after January I, 1996, by Regular employees will be eligible for reimbursement up to a maximum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) for expenses associated with the legal adoption of each minor child (under eighteen (IS) years of age). When two (2) or more children are adopted at the same time (as in the case of twins or siblings), documented adoption expenses will be reimbursed per child, not per adoption transaction. Only one (1) parent is eligible to receive reimbursement even if both parents are employed by Qwest. The parent employee that applies for adoption assistance may not transfer this to the other parent employee. If a change in employment status alters the eligibility of the initial applicant, a new application can be submitted by the other parent employee, but in no event may the total reimbursement exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) per adoption, per family.
The employee may be eligible for an additional one thousand dollars ($1,000) when adopting a special needs child. A uniform definition of “special needs" will be determined and approved by the Company, (States usually provide financial assistance for the adoption of a "special needs" child. This one thousand dollars ($1,000) will be made available to the employee only if not reimbursed by the state).
The following additional conditions shall apply to adoption expense reimbursements:
(a)	Documentation submitted must include original receipts.
(b)	Expenses must not otherwise be reimbursed or covered under other Qwest plans or programs or under the plans or programs of the non-Qwest parent's employer.
(c)	Expenses must be directly connected to the adoption process. This includes agency fees, court costs, and necessary medical and legal fees, but excludes all travel and travel expenses for anyone associated with die adoption, including, but not limited to, the child, adoptive parents, biological parents, and appointed guardians. Health care expenses for the biological mother are not included. Expenses for the adoption of stepchildren are included, but not the legal fees associated with determining the custodial parent.
176
(d)	The employee must be an active Regular employee both at the time the child is placed in the employee's home for rhe purpose of adoption (or, if ' the child is already in the home for other purposes, at the time expenses directly connected to the adoption process are first incurred) and at the time the adoption becomes legally final. Only expenses incurred while the employee is an active, Regular Qwest employee will be eligible for reimbursement. For puiposes of this paragraph, an employee will continue to be considered as in active status while on an approved leave of absence for the care of a newborn, adopted, or foster child, family care, disability, anticipated disability, or education, or an approved personal leave or leave pending placement.
(e)	The child(ren) must be placed in the employee's home for adoption on or after January 1, 1996 (or, if already in the home prior to that date for other purposes, the first expenses directly connected to the adoption process must be incurred on or after January 1, 1996).
Eligible expenses will be reimbursed at the time the adoption becomes legally final, except with respect to employees on a leave of absence as described above, in which case reimbursement shall occur upon reinstatement to active, Regular employment. The amount reimbursed will constitute taxable income and be subject to withholding obligations.
Section A4.5 FAMILY AND WORK DEVELOPMENT FUND
During 1995 Baraainine. the Company agreed to create a Family and Work Development Fund. Effective January 1, 2004. the Company will bring the balance of funds available for calendar year 2004 to two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00); and effective January 1.2005. the Company will bring the balance of funds available for calendar year 2005 to two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) for the purpose of funding family care programs to address the evolving needs of employees represented by the Communications Workers of America (CWA) and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (1BEW) throughout the fourteen (14) state region for Qwest and Qwest Business Resources, Inc. (BRI). These funds will be made available to fund activities approved by a joint Company/Union board (the Family and Work Development Board) which shall be composed of one (1) member each from both the CWA and the IBEW and two (2) members designated by the Company, and which shall operate within the following guidelines.
177
The Family and Work Development Board shall be charged with the following duties:
(a)	Develop a mission statement that will focus the direction of all joint efforts in the area of family and work.
(b)	Establish a system for soliciting or otherwise identifying new or expanded initiatives in the area of child, disabled adult, and elder care services that will enhance the quality of the supply of these services and/or increase the quantity of community options through which these services are available (the "Service Initiatives") for represented employees. Service Initiatives may include, for example, training of care providers, start-up loans for emergency and back-up care centers, planning grants to community agencies, and matching funds for federal or state grants to non-profit organizations that foster family care programs.
(c)	Review, approve, or reject all requests for funding of Service Initiatives impacting the communities where represented employees live or work.
(d)	Recommend long-range plans for family and work issues as well as strategies for introduction and integration of such plans into Company policies and practices.
(e)	Review the activities of the various groups and organizations dealing with family and work issues throughout the Qwest family of companies.
<f) Assume responsibility for exchanging information among interested parties within the Company and for gathering information on the trends in American industries regarding child, disabled adult, and elder care.
The Family and Work Development Board will not have the authority to alter the terms and conditions of existing Collective Bargaining Agreements between Qwest or BRI and either the CWA or IBEW, or any locals thereof.
178
ADDENDUM 5
TITLES
JOB TITLE	SCALE
ADMINISTRATIVE ATTENDANT *	F
ADMINISTRATIVE DESIGNER*	C
ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS CLERK	7
ADMINISTRATIVE REPRESENTATIVE*	E
ADMINISTRATIVE SPECIALIST *	B
ADMINISTRATIVE TECHNICIAN *	D
ANALYSIS CLERK	3
ANALYTICAL ASSISTANT	4
ANALYTICAL ASSOCIATE	5
ANTENNA TECHNICIAN	2
ASSIGNMENT CONSULTANT	4
ASSISTANT TECHNICIAN	4
ASSOCIATE BUYER *	B
AUTOMATED SYSTEMS SPECIALIST *	A
BUILDING SPECIALIST *	A
BUILDING TECHNICIAN *	C
CAPACITY PROVISIONING SPECIALIST	4
CENTRAL OFFICE TECHNICIAN	1
CENTER SALES SUPPORT CONSULTANT	M
COE INSTALLATION TECHNICIAN	2
COIN COLLECTOR	6
COMPLEX TRANSLATION TECHNICIAN	1
COMPUTER OPERATOR	4
COMPUTER SPECIALIST	1
CREDIT CONSULTANT	M
CUSTOMER COMMUNICATIONS TECHNICIAN	1
CUSTOMER DATA TECHNICIAN	1
CUSTOMER PREMISES EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN	1
CUSTOMER RELATIONS SPECIALIST	M
CUSTOMER REPRESENTATIVE *	D
CUSTOMER SERVICE CONSULTANT	7
CUSTOMER SERVICE SPECIALIST	TCL
DATA ADMINISTRATOR	9
DATA APPLICATIONS ORDER SPECIALIST	4
DATA SPECIALIST		8
179
JOB TITLE	SCALE
ENGINEERING SPECIALIST	1
EQUIPMENT SPECIALIST *	B
FACILITIES ASSIGNMENT CLERK	6
FACILITIES SPECIALIST	2
FLEET SPECIALIST *	A
FLEET TECHNICIAN*	B
FRAME ATTENDANT	4
HEALTH BENEFITS COORDINATOR	1
INFORMATION SPECIALIST	7
INVENTORY SPECIALIST	4
INVESTMENT SPECIALIST	5
LOAD SPECIALIST	-	5
NETWORK TECHNICIAN	2
OFFICE CLERICAL ASSISTANT	II
OPERATIONS ATTENDANT *	F
OPERATIONS CLERK	7
OPERATIONS TECHNICIAN *	C
ORDER SPECIALIST	7
PUBLIC TELEPHONE TECHNICIAN	2
REPAIR SERVICE ATTENDANT	7
REPAIR TECHNICIAN	8
SALES CONSULTANT	«*
SALES AND SERVICE CONSULTANT	M
SALES SUPPORT SPECIALIST	6
SCHEDULE CLERK	4
SCREENING CONSULTANT	4
SECURITY ASSISTANT	5
SENIOR DATA ADMINISTRATOR	7
SERVICE ASSURANCE TECHNICIAN	1
SERVICE COORDINATOR	4
SERVICE DELIVERY COORDINATOR	4
SERVICE ORDER ADMINISTRATOR	6
SERVICE ORDER CLERK	8
SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE	M
SUPPLY ATTENDANT	4
SWITCH CONSULTANT	4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANT	4
TECHNICAL CLERK	6
TECHNICAL CONSULTANT	4
180
JOB TITLE	SCALE
TECHNOLOGIES DATA ANALYST	5
TECHNOLOGIES MAINTENANCE TECHNICIAN	1
TECHNOLOGIES REPRESENTATIVE	4
*	BRI TITLES SEE LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN
181
ADDENDUM 6
REASONABLE COMMUTING AREAS (RCA) WAGE ZONES
ARIZONA
RCA No.	CITY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 1	Benson	20
	Wilcox	20
RCA No. 2	Bisbee	20
	Douglas	20
RCA No. 3	Coolidge	20
	Casa Grande	20
RCA No. 4	Cottonwood	20
	Sedona	20
	Camp Verde	20
RCA No. 5	Flagstaff	20
RCA No. 6	Globe	20
	Hayden	20
	Kearney	20
	Superior	20
RCA No. 7	Grand Canyon	20
RCA No. 8	Page	20
RCA No. 9	Payson	20
RCA No. 10	Phoenix	20
	Apache Junction	20
	Avondale	20
	Black Canyon City	20
182
ARIZONA (continued)
RCA No.	C1TY/TOWN	.	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 10	Buckeye	20
(cont’d.)	Cave Creek	20
	Chandler	20
	Fountain Hills	20
	Gilbert	20
	Glendale	20
	Goodyear	20
	Litchfield Park	20
	Mesa	20
	New River	20
	Peoria	20
	Queen Creek	20
	Scottsdale	20
	Tempe	20
	Tolleson	20
	Youngtown	20
RCA No. 11	Prescott	20
	Yarnell	20
RCA No. 12	Safford	20
RCA No. 13	Sierra Vista	20
	Nogales	20
RCA No, 14	Tucson	20
	Catalina	20
	Green Valley	20
	Marana	20
	San Manuel	20
RCA No, 15	Wickenburg	20
RCA No. 16	Winslow	20
RCA No. 17	Yuma	20
183
COLORADO
RCA No.	CITV/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 18	Alamosa	20
	Monte Vista	20
RCA No. 19	Aspen	20
RCA No. 20	Boulder	20
	Fort Lupton	20
	Lafayette	20
	Longmont	20
RCA No. 2)	Colorado Springs	20
	Canon City	20
	Monument	20
	Security	20
	Woodland Park	20
RCA No. 22	Cortez	20
RCA No. 23	Craig	20
RCA No. 24	Crested Butte	20
RCA No. 25	Denver	20
	Arvada	20
	Aurora	20
	Bailey	20
	Brighton	20
	Broomfield	20
	Castle Rock	20
184
COLORADO (continued)
RCA No.	CITV/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 25	Centennial	.	20
(coni’d.)	Commerce City	20
	Englewood	20
	Evergreen	20
	Glendale	20
	Golden	20
	Greenwood Village	20
	Highlands Ranch	20
	Lakewood	20
	Littleton	20
	Morrison	20
	Parker	20
	Pine	20
	Thornton	20
	Westminster	20
	Wheatridge	20
RCA No. 26	Durango	20
RCA No. 27	Estes Park	20
RCA No. 28	Fairplay	20
RCA No. 29	Fort Collins	20
	Greeley	20
RCA No. 30	Fon Morgan	20
RCA No. 31	Glenwood Springs	20
	Rifle	20
RCA No. 32	Granby '	20
RCA No. 33	Grand Junction	20
RCA No. 34	Gunnison	20
185
I
COLORADO (continued)
RCA No.	CITY/TOWN	WAGE zone
RCA No. 35	Idaho Springs	20
RCA No. 36	Leadville	20
RCA No. 37	Limon	20
RCA No. 38	Loveland	20
RCA No. 39	Meeker	20
RCA No. 40	Montrose	20
RCA No. 41	Pueblo	20
RCA No. 42	Ridgway	20
RCA No. 43	Salida	20
	Buena Vista	20
RCA No. 44	Silverthorne	20
	Avon	20
	Breckenridge	20
	Dillon	20
	Dumont	20
	Vail	20
RCA No. 45	Steamboat Springs	20
RCA No. 46	Sterling	20
RCA No. 47	Telluride	20
RCA No. 48	Trinidad	20
	Walsenburg	20
186
IDAHO
RCA No,	CITY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 49	Boise	20
	Caldwell	20
	Eagle	20
	Emmett	20
	Meridian	20
	Nampa	20
RCA No. 50	Grangeville	20
RCA No. 51	Idaho Falls	20
	Rexburg	20
	Rigby	20
RCA No. 52	Kamiah	20
RCA No. 53	Ketchum	20
	Hailev	20
RCA No. 54	Lewiston	20
	Clarkston, WA	20
RCA No. 55	Montpelier	20
	Preston	20
	Soda Springs	20
RCA No. 56	Mountain Home	20
RCA No. 57	Payette	20
	Ontario, OR	20
RCA No. 58	Pocatello	20
	Blackfoot	20
	Chubbuck	20	'
	Lava Hot Springs	20
	McCammon	20
RCA No. 59	Twin Falls	20
	Burley	20
	Jerome	20
187
IOWA
RCA No.	C1TY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 60	Algona	20
	Humboldt	20
RCA No. 61	Burlington	20
	Fort Madison	20
	Keokuk	20
RCA No. 62	Carroll	20
	Atlantic	20
RCA No. 63	Cedar Rapids	20
	Anamosa	20
	Coralville	20
	Iowa City	20
	Marion	20
	Monticello	20
	Mt. Vernon	20
RCA No. 64	Council Bluffs	20
	Glenwood	20
	Missouri Valley	20
RCA No. 65	Davenport	20
	Bettendorf	20
	Camanche	20
	Clinton	20
	Maquoketa	20
	Muscatine	20
RCA No. 66	Decorah	20
	Calmer	20
	Waukon	20
	West Union	20
108
IOWA (continued)
RCA No.	CITY/TOWN	WAGEZONE
RCA No. 67	Des Moines	20
	Adel	20
	Altoona	20
	Ames	20
	Ankeny	20
	Boone	20
	Earlham	20
	Indianola	20
	Perry	20
	Stu an	20
	Waukee	20
	West Des Moines	20
	Winterset	20
RCA No. 68	Dubuque	20
RCA No. 69	Marshalltown	20
	Iowa Falls	20
RCA No. 70	Mason City	20
	Charles City	20
	Gamer	20
	Hampton	20
RCA No. 71	Ottumwa	20
	Oskaloosa	20
RCA No. 72	Sheldon	20
RCA No. 73	Shenandoah	20
	Red Oak	20
RCA No. 74	Sioux City	20
	Cherokee	20
	Correctionville	20
	Onawa	20
	South Sioux City, NE	20
189
IOWA (continued)
RCA No.	CITY7TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 75	Spencer	20
	Estherville	20
	Milford	20
	Spirit Lake	20
RCA No.76	Storm Lake	20
	Pocahontas	20
RCA No. 77	Waterloo	20
	Cedar Falls	20
	Independence	20
	Manchester	20
	Oelwein	20
	Waverly	20
RCA No. 78	Webster City	20
	Clarion	20
	Eaele Grove	20
190
MINNESOTA
RCA No.	C1TY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No, 79	Austin	20
	Albert Lea	20
RCA No. 80	Bemidji	20
RCA No, 81	Brainerd	20
RCA No. 82	Cambridge	20
	Isanti	20
	Mora	20
	North Branch	20
	Pine City	20
	Princeton	20
RCA No. 83	Detroit Lakes	20
	Park Rapids	20
RCA No. 84	Duluth	20
	Cloquet	20
RCA No. 85	Fergus Falls	20
	Wadena	20
RCA No. 86	Grand Marais	20
	Silver Bay	20
RCA No. 87	Hibbing	20
	Grand Rapids	20
RCA No. 88	Luverne	20
	Pipestone	20
RCA No. 89	Marshall	20
	Redwood Falls	20
	Tracy	20
191
MINNESOTA (continued)
RCA No.	C1TV/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 90	Minneapolis	20
	Anoka	20
	Blaine	20
	Bloomington	20
	Brooklyn Center	20
	Buffalo	20
	Burnsville	20
	Coon Rapids	20
	Crystal	20
	Eden Prairie	20
	Elk River	20
	Excelsior	20
	Fridley	20
	J Golden Valley	20
	Hamel	20
	Hopkins	20
	Plymouth	20
	Richfield	20
	Rockford	20
	Shakopee	20
	Soderville	20
	Spring Lake Park	20
	Wayzata	20
RCA No. 91	Morris	20
	Appleton	20
	Ortonville	20
RCA No. 92	Owatonna	20
	Faribault	20
	Northfield	20
	Waseca	20
RCA No. 93	Rochester	20
	Chatfield	20
	Red Wing	2fi
	St. Charles	20
	Stewartville	20
192
	MINNESOTA (continued)	
RCA No.	CITY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 94	St, Cloud	20
	Glenwood	20
	Little Falls	20
	Sauk Centre	20
RCA No. 95	St. Paul	20
	Arden Hills	20
	Cottage Grove	20
	Eagan	20
	Forest Lake	20
	Maplewood	20
	New Brighton	20
	North St. Paul	20
	Oakdale	20
	Shoreview	20
	Stillwater	20
	West St. Paul	20
	White Bear Lake	20
	Woodbury	20
RCA No. 96	St. Peter	20
	Gaylord	20
	Le Sueur	20
RCA No. 97	Thief Ri verFalls	20
	Crookston	20
RCA No. 98	Virginia	20
	Cook	20
RCA No. 99	Willmar	20
	Litchfield	20
	Montevideo	20
	Olivia	20
RCA No. 100	Windom	20
RCA No. 101	Winona	20
	Caledonia	20
	Wabasha	20
193
NEBRASKA
RCA No.	CITY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 104	Alliance	20
	Bridgeport	20
RCA No. 105	Broken Bow	20
RCA No. 106	Chadron	20
RCA No. 107	Crawford	20
RCA No. 108	Fremont	20
	Lyons	20
	Tekamah	20
	West Point	20
RCA No. 109	Fullerton	20
RCA No. 110	Grand Island	20
	Central City	20
	St. Paul	20
RCA No.lll	Holdrege	20
	Minden	20
RCA No. 112	Lexington	20
	Gothenburg	20
RCA No. 113	McCook	20
RCA No. 114	Norfolk	20
	Clarkson	20
	Wayne	20
RCA No. 115	North Platte	20
RCA No. 116	Omaha	20
	Bellevue	20
	Elkhorn	20
194
NEBRASKA (continued)		
RCA No.	CITY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 117	O'Neill	20
RCA No. J18	Schuyler	20
RCA No. 1)9	Sidney	20	;
	Ogallala	20
RCA No. 120	Valentine	20
	Ainsworth	20
South Sioux City, NE can be found in RCA No. 74 (Sioux City, IA)
195
NEW MEXICO
RCA No.	C1TY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 12]	Alamogordo	20
RCA No. 122	Albuquerque	20
	Bernalillo	20
	Edgewood	20
	Rio Rancho	20
	Tijeras	20
RCA No. 123	Belen	20
	Los Lunas	20
RCA No. 124	Clovis	20
	Portales	20
RCA No. 125	Deming	20
RCA No. 126	Farmington	20
RCA No. 127	Gallup	20
RCA No. 128	Grams	20
RCA No. 129	Las Cruces	20
	Anthony	20
RCA No. 130	Las Vegas	20
RCA No. 131	Raton	20
	Springer	20
RCA No. 132	Roswell	20
	Artesia	20
RCA No. 133	Santa Fe	20
	Los Alamos	20
RCA No. 134	Silver City	20
RCA No. 135	Socorro	20
196
NEW MEXICO (continued)
CITY/TOWN
WAGE ZONE
RCA No,
RCA No. 136	Taos	20
RCA No. 137	Tucumcari	20
197
NORTH DAKOTA
RCA No.	C1TY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 138	Bismarck	20
	Mandan	20
RCA No. 139	Dickinson	20
RCA No. 140	Fargo	20
	Casselton	20
	West Fargo	20
RCA No. 141	Hillsboro	20
	Mayville	20
RCA No. 142	Grafton	20
RCA No. 143	Grand Forks	20
RCA No. 144	Jamestown	20
	Valley City	20
RCA No. 146	Wahpeton	20
198
OREGON
RCA No.	CITY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 148	Astoria	20
	Seaside	20
RCA No. 149	Baker City	20
RCA No. 150	Bend	20
	La Pine	20
	Madras	20
	Prineville	20
	Redmond	20
	Sisters	20
RCA No. 151	Corvallis	20
	Albany	20
RCA No. 152	Eugene	20
	Cottage Grove	20
	Oakridge	20
	Springfield	20
	Veneta	20
RCA No. 153	Florence	20
RCA No. 154	Klamath Falls	20
RCA No. 155	Medford	20
	Grants Pass	20
RCA No. 156	Newport	20
RCA No. 157	Pendleton	20
	Hermiston	20
	Milton-Freewater	20
RCA No. 158	Portland	20
	Battleground, WA	20
	Lake Oswego	20
	Milwaukie	20
	Oregon City	20
	St. Helens	20
	Vancouver.WA	20
199
OREGON (continued)
RCA No.	CITY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 159	Roseburg	20
RCA No. 160	Salem	20
	Independence	20
	Woodburn	20
Ontario,OR can be found in RCA No. 57 (Payette, ID)
200
SOUTH DAKOTA
RCA NO.	C1TV/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 161	Aberdeen	20
	Glenham	20
	Redfield	20
RCA No. 162	Chamberlain	20
RCA No. 163	Deadwood	20
	Belle Fourche	20
	Spearfish	20
	Sturgis	20
RCA No. 164	Huron	20
	Miller	20
RCA No. 165	Madison	20
	Arlington	20
	Colman	20
	Flandreau	20
RCA No. 166	Milbank	2fl
RCA No. 167	Mitchell	20
RCA No. 168	Pierre	20
RCA No. 169	Rapid City	20
RCA No. 170	Sioux Falls	20
	Canton	20
RCA No. 251	Timber Lake	20
RCA No. 171	Watertown	20
RCA No. 172	Yankton	20
	Elk Point	20
	Vermillion	20
201
UTAH
RCA No.	CITV/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 173	Cedar City	20
RCA No. 174	Logan	20
	Brigham City	20
RCA No. 175	Ogden	20
	Clearfield	20
	Layton	20
RCA NO. 176	Park City	20
	Heber City	20
RCA No. 178	Provo	20
	American Fork	20
	Lehi	20
	Orem	20
	Pleasant Grove	20
	Santaquin	20
	Spanish Fork	20
	Springville	20
RCA No. 179	Richfield	20
RCA No. 180	Salt Lake City	20
	Bountiful	20
	Draper	20
	Holladay	20
	Kearns	20
	Magna	20
	Midvale	20
	Murray	20
	North Salt Lake City	20
	Riverton	20
	Sandy	20
	Tooele	20
RCA No. 181	St. George	20
	Hurricane	20
202
WASHINGTON
RCA No.	CITY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No, 183	Aberdeen	20
RCA No. 184	Renton	10
	Auburn	10
	Bellevue	10
	Enumclaw	10
	Federal Way	10
	Issaquah	10
	Kent	10
	Maple Valley	10
RCA No. 185	Bellingham	20
RCA No. 186	Bremerton	20
	Bainbridge Island	20
	Belfair	20
	Pt. Orchard	20
	Silverdale	20
	Winslow	20
RCA No. 220	Cie Elum	20
RCA No. 187	Colfax	20
RCA No. 188	Colville	20
RCA No. 189	Coulee Dam	20
RCA No. 190	Dayton	20
RCA No. 191	Longview	20
RCA No. 192	Moses Lake	20
	Ephrata	20
RCA No. 193	Olympia	20
	Centralia	20
	Chahalts	20
	Shelton	20
203
WASHINGTON (continued)
RCA No,	CITV/TOWN .	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 194	Omak	20
RCA No. 195	Othello	20
RCA No. 196	Pasco	20
RCA No. 197	Port Angeles	20
	Sequim	20
RCA No, 198	Port Townsend	20
	Pon Ludlow	20
RCA No. 199	Seattle	10
	Mercer Island	10
RCA No. 200	Spokane	20
	Deer Park	20
	Spokane! Valiev	20
RCA No. 201	Tacoma	10
	Bonney Lake	10
	Fort Lewis	10
	Lakewood	10
	Puyallup	10
	Spanaway	10
	Sumner	10
RCA No. 202	Walla Walla	20
RCA No. 203	Yakima	20
___________;__________._________। ■--------------------------
Battleground, WA cun lie found in RCA No. 158 (Portland, OR)
Clarkston, WA can be found in RCA No. 54 (Lewiston, ID)
Vancouver, WA can be found in RCA No. 158 (Portland, OR)
204
WYOMING
RCA No.	C1TY/TOWN	WAGE ZONE
RCA No. 219	Afton	20
RCA No. 204	Casper	20
	Douglas	20
RCA No. 205	Cheyenne	20
RCA No. 206	Evanston	20
RCA No. 207	Gillette	20
	Wright	20
RCA No. 208	Jackson	20
RCA No. 209	Kemmerer	20
RCA No. 210	Laramie	20
RCA No. 211	Lusk	20
RCA No. 218	Mammoth	20
RCA No. 212	Powell	20
	Cody	20
RCA No. 213	Rawlins	20
RCA No. 214	Riverton	20
	Lander	20
RCA No. 215	Rock Springs	20
RCA No. 216	Sheridan	20
	Buffalo	20
RCA No. 217	Wheatland	20
205
ADDENDUM 7
WAGES AND LUMPSUM PAYMENTS
LUMP SUM PAYMENTS
Each employee may receive a lump sum payment tied to the Company’s EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest Taxes Depreciation and Amortization) on a one-time basis in March of 2004 and on a one-time basis in March of 2005, In 2004, the lump sum payments for 2003 results shall be payable only if the Company’s EBITDA for 2003 is at least $3.961 billion. The payout percentages if this floor is met shall range between 1.0% and 3,0% of the employee’s W-2 compensation for the preceding calendar year, depending on the Company’s EBITDA for such preceding calendar year, as set forth on the attached schedule. In 2005. the lump sum payments for 2004 results shall be payable only if the Company's EBITDA for 2004 is at least $4.164 billion. Again, the payout percentages if this floor is met shall range between 1.0% and 3-0% of the employee’s W-2 compensation for the preceding calendar year, depending on the Company’s EBITDA for such preceding calendar year, as set forth on the attached schedule. For purposes of this lump sum payment, “W-2 compensation” shall be defined as the total of Box 1 (wages, tips, and other compensation) on the employee’s Qwest W-2 plus Box 12b (401k deferrals) but excluding proceeds from Short-Term Disability benefits, the exercise of anv stock options, imputed or non-cash income, income related to the Employee Stock Purchase Program, separation payments, and hiring bonuses, EBITDA will be calculated from the Company’s reported statements of operations according to the following formula: revenue less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses.
Employees in the titles set forth below who are on the payroll as of December 31“ of the relevant year are eligible to receive the Jump sum payment.
Employees are ineligible for the lump sum payment if they voluntarily or involuntarily terminate (for anv reason) prior to December 3la of the relevant year.
206
3% Bonus Opportunity, 2.0% Payout at 100% of Plan					
Grid Built on EBITDA Performance					
	2003			2004	
% Payout	EBITDA	Total Bonus Payout		EBITDA	Total Bonus Payout
3,00%	S 4,161	$43.5		$4,364	$43.5
	$ 4,144	$41.7		$4,354	$41.7
2.75%	S 4.128	$39.8		$4,344	$39.8
	$ 4,112	$38.6		$4,334	$38.6
	$ 4,096	$37.4		$4,324	$37.4
2.50%	$ 4,080	$36.2		$4,314	$36.2
	$ 4,064	$34.8		$4,304	$34.8
	$ 4,048	$33.3		$4,294	$33.3
	$ 4,032	$31.9		$4,284	$31.9
	$ 4,016	$30.4		$4,274	$30.4
2.00%	$ 4,000	$29.0		$4,264	$29.0
	$ 3,990	$25.4		$4,239	$25.4
	$ 3,980	$21.7		$4,214	$21.7
	$ 3,970	$18.1		$4,189	$18.1
1.00%	S 3,961	$14.5		$4,164	$14.5
					
*AII EBITDA and Payout numbers are in Millions.					
207
WAGES
Base wages shall be as follows for the term of this Agreement:
SCALE 1
Title List: Central Office Technician, Complex Translation Technician, Computer Specialist, Customer Communications Technician, Customer Data Technician, Customer Premises Equipment Technician. Engineering Specialist, Health Benefits Coordinator, Service Assurance Technician, Technologies Maintenance Technician
Pension Band:	Zone 10 121	Zone 20 121
	08/17/03	
ZONE	10	20
START	$383.50	$377.00
6	$424,00	$417.50
12	$469.00	$462,00
18	$519.00	$511.00
24	$574.00	$566.00
30	$634.50	$626.50
36	$702,00	$693.00
42	$776.50	$767.50
48	$859,00	$849.50
54	$950.00	$940.00
60	$1,050.50	$1,040.50
208
SCALE 2
Title List: Antenna Technician, COE Installation Technician, Facilities Specialist, Network Technician, Public Telephone Technician
	Zone 10	Zone 20
Pension Band:	120	119
	08/17/03	
ZONE	10	20
START	$383.50	$381.00
6	$423.00	$420.00
12	$466.50	$463.00
18	$514.00	$510.00
24	$567.00	$562.50
30	$625.00	$619.50
36	$689.50	$683.00
42	$760.00	$753.00
48	$838.00	$830.00
54	$924.00	$914.50
60	$1,019.00	$1,008.00
209
SCALE 3
Title List: Analysis Clerk
	Zone 10	Zone 20
Pension Band:	118	118
08/17/03
ZONE	10	20
START	$381.00	$377.00
6	$419.00	$414.50
12	$461.00	$456.00
18	$506.50	$501.50
24	$557.00	$551.00
30	$613.00	$606.00
36	$674.00	$666.50
42	$741.00	$733.00
48	$815.00	$806.00
54	$896.00	$886.00
60	$985.50	$974.50
210
SCALE4
Title List: Analytical Assistant, Assignment Consultant, Assistant Technician, Capacity Provisioning Specialist, Computer Operator, Data Applications Order Specialist, Frame Attendant, Inventory Specialist, Schedule Clerk, Screening Consultant, Service Coordinator, Service Delivery Coordinator, Supply Attendant, Switch Consultant, Technical Assistant, Technical Consultant, Technologies Representative
	Zone 10	Zone 20
Pension Band:	114	114
	08/17/03	
ZONE	10	20
START	$356.00	$355.00
6	S390.00	$388.50
I2	$427.00	$425.00
I8	$467.50	$465.00
24	$512.00	$509.00
30	$560.50	$556.50
36	$614.00	$609.00
42	$672.00	$666.50
48	$736.00	$729.00
54	$806.00	$798.00
60	$882.50	$873.00
211
SCALES
Title List: Analytical Associate, Investment Specialist, Load Specialist, Security Assistant, Technologies Data Analyst
	Zone 10	Zone 20
Pension Band:	112	112
	08/17/03	
ZONE	10	20
START	$347.00	$341.50
6	$379.00	$373.00
12	$414.00	$407.50
18	$452.00	$445.00
24	$493,50	$486.50
30	$539.00	$531.50
36	$588.50	$580.50
42	$642.50	$634.00
48	$701.50	$692.50
54	$766.00	$756.50
60	$836.50	$826.50
212
SCALE M
Title List: Center Sales Support Consultant, Credit Consultant, Customer Relations Specialist. Sales & Service Consultant, Service Representative
Pension Band:	Zone 10 112	Zone 20 112
	08/17/03	
ZONE	10	20
START	$358.00	$353.50
6	$389.50	$385.00
12	$424.00	$419.00
18	$462.00	$456.00
24	$502.50	$496.50
30	$547.00	$540.50
36	$595.50	$588.50
42	$648.50	$640.50
48	$706.00	$697.50
54	$768.50	$759.00
60	$836.50	$826.50
213
SCALE 6
Title List: Coin Collector, Facilities Assignment Clerk, Sales Support Specialist, Service
Order Administrator, Technical Clerk
	Zone 10	Zone 20
Pension Band:	111	111
	08/17/03	
ZONE	10	20
START	$339.00	$327.50
6	$378.50	$366.50
12	$422.50	$410.50
)8	$471.50	$459.50
24	$526.00	$514.00
30	$587.00	$575.50
36	$655.00	■	$644.00
42	$731.00	$721.00
48	$816.00	$807.00
214
SCALE?
Title List: Administrative Reports Clerk, Customer Service Consultant, Information Specialist, Operations Clerk, Order Specialist, Repair Service Attendant, Senior Data Administrator
	Zone!O	Zone 20
Pension Band:	110	109
	08/17/03	
ZONE	10	20
START	$330.00	$328.50
6	$367.00	$365.00
12	$408.50	$405.50
18	$454.00	$451.00
24	$505.00	$501.00
30	$562.00	$557.00
36	$625.00	$619.00
42	$695.00	$688.00
48	$773.00	$764.50
215
SCALE 8
Title List: Data Specialist, Repair Technician, Service Order Clerk
	Zone 10	Zone 20
Pension Band:	108	108
	08/17/03	
ZONE	10	20
START	$322.50	$319.50
6	$358.00	$354,50
12	$397.00	$393.00
18	$440.50	$436.00
24	$489.00	$484.00
30	$542.50	$537.00
36	$602.00	$595.50
42	$668.00	$660.50
48	$741.00	$733.00
216
SCALE 9
Title List: Data Administrator
Zone 10
Pension Band:	107
0	08/17/03
Zone 20
107
ZONE	10	20
START	$318.50	$315.50
6	$352.50	$349.00
I2	$390.00	$386.50
18	$431.50	$427.50
24	$477.50	$473.00
30	$528.50	$523,50
36	$584.50	$579.50
42	$647.00	$641.00
48	$716.00 (	$709.50
217
SCALE 10
Title List:		
	Zone 10	Zone 20
Pension Band:	107(A)	107(A)
	08/17/03	9
ZONE	10	20
START	$315.50	$314.00
6	$349.50	$347.50
12	$387.00	$385.00
18	$429.00	$426.50
24	$475.50	$472,00
30	$526.50	$522.50
36	$583.50	$578.50
42	$646.50	$641.00
48	, $716.00	$709.50
210
SCALE 11
Title List: Office Clerical Assistant
Pension Band:
ZONE START 6 12 18 24 30 36 42 48
Zone 10 101
08/17/03
10
$335.00
$354.50
$374.50
$396.50
$419.00
$443.50
$469.00
$496.00
$524.50
Zone 20 101
20
$332.50 $351.50 $371.50 $392.50
$414.50 $438.
$463.
$489.
$517,
SS3S
219
SCHEDULEA
Title List: Automated Systems Specialist, Building Specialist, Fleet Specialist
Pension Band:	119
08/17/03
Weekly	Hourly
START	704.00	17.60
6	762.00	19.05
12	826.00	20.65
18	898.00	22.45
24	973.00	24.32
SCHEDULE B
Title List: Administrative Specialist, Associate Buyer, Equipment Specialist. Fleet Technician
Pension Band:	113	
	08/17/03	
	Weekly	Hourly
START	596.00	14.90
&	647.00	16.17
12	704,00	17.60
IK	762.00	19.05
24	826.00	20.65
220
SCHEDULE C
Title List: Administrative Designer. Building Technician. Operations Technician
08/17/03
Weekly	Hourly
START	506.00	1165
6	550.00	13.75
12	596.00	14.90
18	647.00	16,17
24	704.00	17.60
SCHEDULED
Title List; Administrative Technician, Customer Representative
Pension Band;	106
08/17/03
Weekly	Hourly
START	467.00	11.67
6	506.00	12.65
12	550,00	13.75
18	596.00	14.90
24	647.00	16,17
221
SCHEDULE E
Title List: Administrative Representative
Pension Band:	102	
	08/17/03 Weekly	Hourly
START	397.00	9.92
6	431.00	10.77
		
12	467.00	11.67
		
18	506-00	12.65
24	550.00	13.75
SCHEDULE F
Title List: Administrative Attendant. Operations Attendant
Pension Band:
101
08/17/03
START
6
12
IS
24
Weekly
338.00
365.00
397.00
431,00
467.00
Hourly
8.45
9.12
9.92
10.77
11.67
Note: Weekly wage rates are official and will be used for all oav-alTecting calculations. Hourly rates are rounded and printed for information only.
222
TECHNICAL CAREER LADDER (TCL)
08/17/03
Customer Service Specialist
TOP SCHEDULE		
ZONE	10	20
HI* Pension Band	$1,241,50 129	$1,231,50 129
It* Pension Band	$1,183.00 127	$1,177.00 126
I Pension Band	$1,126.00 124	$1,118.50 124
	PROGRESSION SCHEDULETO ' TECHNICAL LADDER	
Promotion** 3 months	$947.50	$942.00
and 3 months	$870.50	$862.50
Market Range 3 months	$791,00	$783 JO
** Dollar for dollar to next highest rate
* The TCL review panel will determine when an employee will progress to Tier II and Tier 111 of the Technical Career Ladder, The decisions of the TCL review panel will be final and are not subject to grievance or arbitration.
223
ADDENDUM 8
PENSION BANDS
QWEST PENSION PLAN Effective July 1, 2003
WAGE SCALE		ZONE 10	ZONE 20
CSSII1	Band Band Rate	120 75.05	129 75.05
CSSII	Band Band Rate	127 72.14	126 70.68
cssi	Band Band Rate	124 67.75	124 67.75
i	Band Band Rate	121 63.42	121 63.42
2	Band Band Rate	120 62.00	119 60.56
3	Band Band Rate	118 59.08	118 59.08
4	Band > Band Rate	114 53.27	114 53.27
5	Band Band Rate	112 5037	112 5037
M	Band Band Rate	112 5037	112 5037
6	Band Band Rate	111 48.94	111 48.94
7	Band Band Rate	110 47.49	109 46.02
8	Band Band Rate	108 44.61	108 44.61
9	Band Band Rate	107 43.14	107 43.14
10	Band Band Rate	107(A) 43.99	107(A) 43.99
11	Band Band Rate	101 3438	101 3438
224
PENSION BANDS
QWEST BUSINESS RESOURCES, INC. IBRD
Effective July 1.2003
BRI WAGE SCHEDULE
A	Band Band Rate	119 60.56
B	Band	113
	Band Rate	51.85
C	Band	108
	Band Rate	44.61
D	Band	106
	Band Rate	41.64
E	Band	102
	Band Rate	35.86
F	Band	101
	Band Rate	3438
225
SALES CONSULTANTS
The formula used 10 determine the monthly pension benefit for Sales Consultants is;
Monthly pension factor for the average monthly earnings for previous five (5) calendar years X TOE.
Effective January 1, 2001, the determination period for the final five (5) years average earnings calculation will be based on average monthly compensation for the highest consecutive sixty (60) months in the last consecutive one hundred twenty (120) months prior to termination or retirement.
The average monthly earnings include base pay, sales incentives, overtime, and short term disability pay, as set forth in the Agreement.
Sales Consultants who are compensated by the CWA for two hundred eight (208) hours per year or more, on average, in the five (5) years preceding their retirement shall earn, at a minimum, the pension associated with Pension Band 112.
(See chart below for monthly pension factor.)
Monthly Pension Factors for Sales Earnings*Effective August_17i2003
Average Monthly Earnings	Monthly Pension Factor	Average Monthly Earnings	Monthly Pension Factor
$1,500 to $1,599	$21.40	$ 5,500 to $ 5,999	$81.30
$1,600 to $1,699	$22.80	$ 6,000 to $ 6,499	$87.80
$1,700 to $1,799	$24.10	$ 6,500 to $ 6,999	$94.30
$1,800 to $1,899	$25.30	$ 7,000 to $ 7,499	$100.80
$1,900 to $1,999	$27.60	$ 7,500 to $ 7,999	$107.30
$2,000 to $2,249	$30.90	$ 8,000 to $ 8,499	$113.80
$2,250 to $2,499	$34.20	$ 8,500 to $ 8,999	$120.30
$2,500 to $2,749	$37.40	$ 9,000 to $ 9,499	$126.80
$2,750 to $2,999	$40.70	$ 9,500 io $ 9,999	$136.50
$3,000 to $3,249	$43.90	$10,000 to $10,999	$149.50
$3,250 to $3,499	$47.20	$11,000 to $11,999	$162.50
$3,500 to $3,749	$50.40	$12,000 to $12,999	$175.50
$3,750 to $3,999	$55.30	$13,000 to $13,999	$188.50
$4,000 to $4,499	$61.80	$14,000 and above	$201.50
$4,500 to $4,999	$68.30		
$5,000 to $5,499	$74.80		
226
ADDENDUM 9
QWEST BUSINESS RESOURCES, INC, (BRI)
NOTICE TO EMPLOYEES FORMERLY COVERED BY THE SEPARATE BRI COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
The terms and conditions of employment for employees holding the tob titles of:
Administrative Attendant
Administrative Designer
Administrative Representative
Administrative Specialist
Administrative Technician
Associate Buyer
Automated Systems Specialist
Building Specialist
Building Technician
Customer Representative
Eouipment Specialist
Fleet Specialist
Fleet Technician
Operations Attendant
Operations Technician
are set forth in this Addendum to this Agreement. The parties agree that the following Articles or provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Communications Workers of America and Qwest Corporation do not apply to the titles set forth above (BRI):
Article 19.6(E)_____Elimination of Incidentals and Terms
Article 19.6(F)Elimination of Contractors
Addendum 3__________Letter of Agreement on Contracting of Work
227
ADDENDUM 10
BENEFITS
For information on the Qwest Pension Plan, the Qwest Savings and Investment Plan (OSIP), the Qwest Health Care Plan, the Qwest Disability Plan, and the Qwest Group Life Insurance Plan, employees should consult each Summary Plan Description ("SPD") contained in Your Qwest Benefits Handbook. The Handbook is updated from time to time to reflect benefit plan changes and it will be updated to reflect changes negotiated in the 2003 Collective Bargaining Agreement.
GENERAL PLAN MATTERS
Section A 10.1 Selection of Administrators; The Company will review with the Union the criteria to be used in the selection of a Plan Administrator or Administrators or any insurance company with which the Company contracts for insurance or administrative services to provide the benefits of the Plan prior to the selection thereof. The Company will notify the Union of any such selection and the reasons for such selection. In rhe event of a change in the Plan Administrator or Administrators or any insurance company, the Company will notify the Union of any such change at least sixty (60) calendar days in advance. The selection by the Company of a Plan Administrator or Administrators or any insurance company shall be conclusive and shall not be subject to any grievance procedure or arbitration under this or any other agreement between rhe Company and the Union.
Section AI0.2 Governmental Approval: All changes negotiated in collective bargaining regarding the provisions of the respective Plans are contingent upon and subject to continued approval of the Plans as necessary by the Internal Revenue Service as qualified and any such approval as may be necessary by the United Stares Department of Labor or any other applicable governmental authority.
BENEFIT PLAN GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION
Section A10.3 Except as provided in Section A10.4, there shall be no bargaining during the life of the Agreement upon changes in any of the following employee benefit plans ("Plans") as in effect on the date of this Agreement or as amended in accordance with Section A 10.2; pension, savings, health care, short term and long term disability, life insurance and long term care.
228
Section A10.4 During the term of this Agreement, if the Company proposes to amend any of the Plans in a manner that would affect the benefits or privileges thereunder for employees in the bargaining unit, it will, before doing so, notify the Union of its proposal and afford the Union a period of sixty (60) calendar days for bargaining on said proposal; provided, however, that no change shall be made without rhe consent of the Union in the Plans which would reduce or diminish the benefits or privileges thereunder for the employees within the bargaining unit. Any claim that the duty to give notice or to offer to bargain has been violated, or that u change in the Plans has resulted in such benefits or privileges being diminished or reduced, may be taken up as a grievance and, if necessary, submitted to arbitration, in accordance with Article 16 of this Agreement. In any such case, the terms of any proposed change tn the Plans shall not be subject to arbitration, and any decision or action of the Company shall be controlling, unless shown to have been arbitrary or in bad faith, and only the question of bad faith or arbitrary action shall be subject to the grievance procedure or arbitration.
Section A10.5 Nothing in Sections A10.1, A10.2, A 10.3, and A10.4 shall be construed to subject the Plans or their administration (including, without limitation, matters of eligibility) to grievance or arbitration, but such matters may be subjected to the claims and appeals procedure provided under each of the Plans and HMO contracts. Except as provided in Section A 10,4, neither the provisions of this Addendum, or the provisions of Part B of the Memorandum of Understanding, their interpretation, nor the performance of any obligation hereunder shall be subject to arbitration.
229
; ■ ■7;	WWJSffiSSl
■ i-.EVEIMG£J> ct(;r)N;£^s','li;H’‘^l^’^tA9,^CONSUMERi


ADDENDUM 11
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN
FOR
CONSUMER CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
EFFECTIVE:
August 17, 2003 - August 13,2005
230
SUMMARY
This document describes the Leveraged Compensation Plan (LCP) for Sales Consultants in the Consumer Centers for Customer Service. This plan is designed to recognize and reward individual and team achievements by providing incentive opportunities for results that support the Consumer organization's business strategies. This plan is also designed to provide latitude for organizations, as mandated by business/market changes, to customize offerings during the contractual period within the negotiated framework of the Plan.
Plan Objectives
The primary goal of the Consumer Centers for Customer Service is to respond to customer demand calls in a consultative manner by exceeding customer service expectations and optimizing sales. Sales Consultants impact the Qwest strategies of developing new revenue and building customer loyalties by providing excellent customer service and producing sales.
Specific objectives supported by this plan are:
•	increase Top Line Revenues.
•	Support product and business strategies through sales and service.
•	Protect the customer base from competitive inroads by providing quality and added-value products and services.
•	Provide fast and easy access to someone who can help.
•	Link LCP payouts to elements that can be directly influenced by the employees.
•	Provide a direct relationship between performance and reward.
Plan Type
The Leveraged Compensation Plan provides earnings potential in direct relation to the level of sales and service performance achieved by the individual and the team. Depending on the individual's level (i.e., Trainee, Entry, Fully Competent, Senior Sales Consultant or **Premier), the leverage is 100/0, 90/10, 80/20, 75/25, **70/30, respectively. Wages are leveraged at either 90%, 80%, 75% or **70% of an individual's target with an opportunity to earn three (3) times or more the amount at risk. The following describes the levels and associated leverage and upside opportunities:
231
Leverage	Upside	Level
**70/30	160%+	Premier
75/25	150%+	Senior Sales Consultant
80/20	140%+	Fully Competent
90/10	120%+	Entry
100/0	0%	Trainee
•Sales results in the Plan will have uncapped earning potential, ••Grandparented through the life of the Agreement.
Participating employees will be placed on an annualized base wage according to the following schedule;
Level	Annualized Base Wage	Target Rate
•* Premier	$39,700	$56,714
Senior Sales Consultant	$38,900	$51,867
Fully Competent	$36,500	$45,625
Entry	$29,300	$32,556
Trainee (wk 9-21)	$26,855	$26,855
Trainee (wk 1-8)	$24,400	$24,400
••Grandparented through the life of the Agreement
Compensation Elements
The Leveraged Compensation Plan is designed to reward the results that Sales Consultants can influence. Compensation can be earned on each component regardless of achievement in other components. Participants can earn compensation in two (2) ways. Sixty five percent (65%) of the total payout is based on individual monthly sales results. Thirty five percent (35%) of the total payout is based on the team meeting or exceeding the objectives established for customer experience. Compensation elements may be modified upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
Sales/Revenue Objectives
Objectives are set for each channel based upon organizational goals. Channel objectives are then allocated to individual Sales Consultants.
232
: i.(A i:ra<■ I I) < O\||>| \s \nos pi ax mu CONSUMER < rx h rs i or (|
CUSTOMER SHRVICT. SAI.CS < < >XS|. I I A X | s
Sales Crediting
Revenue results are based on orders rated in the CRIS or 1ABS billing systems and loaded into a sales tracking system daily. A system will provide detailed information to Sales Consultants on revenue credits for completed posted orders. Promotional credits will be detailed on payout printouts. Revenue from sales not billed through CRIS or TABS, such as telephone equipment, is added to the system at specific intervals throughout the month. Sales revenue credit is a combination of recurring (monthly) and non-recurring (one time) revenue.
Sales are credited by the sales system posted date, not the network completion date. The normal carryover cycle from completion date to the tracking system posted date is three (3) to five (5) working days. Orders do not post to the sales tracking system on Saturday or Sunday.
Posting Errors
When posting errors occur on Service Orders, the Consultant will notify his/her coach or Support Manager to assist with correction(s). As long as an adjustment is received before the final adjustment period shown on the Compensation Calendar, the adjustment will be worked in the current incentive payroll period. Once the final adjustment dale has passed, SCATS will no longer accept adjustments.
90 Dav Window
Consultants are responsible for their sales for ninety (90) days after the sales system posted date of the order. Outward activity on C and R orders flow through a sales database program that reviews the last ninety (90) days of order activity to see if the product (USOC) was posted within that time period. The mechanized process changes the sales code if the inward order was completed within the last ninety (90) days.
Component Matrices
An individual's payout is calculated by multiplying the appropriate payout percent by their amount at risk for revenue. For all payout calculations, fractional numbers will be rounded down to the nearest lower whole number. The charts below show payout percentages for levels of individual sales performance:
233
Individual Revenue - 65% For each 1% Objective Attained	% Payout to be Multiplied Against Risk
<75%	0%
75%	25%
75,1% - 100%	3% for each 1% attained
100.1%-200%	5% for each 1% attained
200% +	1% for each 1% attained
	— Uncapped —
Customer Experience - 35%
The Customer Experience Component is based on meeting or exceeding the stated service quality objectives.
Annual objectives for Customer Experience will be developed by the Company and reviewed by the Oversight Committee
________LEVEL__________________PAYOUT
< Threshold	0%
Threshold	50%
Target	100%
Excellence	200%
— Capped --
234
ANNUAL
Levels	Annual Base Wage	Annual Target	Leverage	Risk $$ at 100%	Breakdown of Component and Risk
Entry	$29,300	$32356	90/10	$3,256	Sales'-$2,119.00 CE* = $1,137.00
Fully Competent	$36,500	$45,625	80/20	$9,125	Sales* = $5,931.00 CE* = $3,194,00
Senior Sales Consultant	$38,900	$51,867	75/25	$12,967	Sales* = $8,429.00 CE* - $4,538.00
Sales ••Premier	$39,700	$56,714	70/30	$17,014	Sales* = $11,060.00 CE* = $5,954.00
* Sales Payout is uncapped.
"Grandpa rented through the life of the Agreement.
Dollars are rounded for table, actual dollars and cents will be used for payroll purposes.
MONTHLY
Levels	Monthly Base Wage	Monthly Target	Leverage	Risk SS at 100%	Breakdown of Component and Risk
Entry	$2,442,00	$2,713.00	90/10	$271.00	Sales*-$176.15 CE * = $94.85
Fully Competent	$3,042.00	$3,802.00	80/20	$760.00	Sales* = $494.00 CE*-$266.00
Senior Sales Consultant	$3,242,00	$4,322.00	75/25	$1,080.00	Sales* = $702.00 CE* = $378.00
** Premier	$3,308.00	$4,726.00	70/30	$1,418.00	Sales* = $922.00 CE* - $496.00
•Sales Payout is uncapped.
"Grandparented through the life of the Agreement.
Dollars are rounded for table, actual dollars and cents will be used for payroll purposes.
235
Advancement Through the Levels of the Leveraged Compensation Plan
There are four (4) levels in the Sales Consultant Leveraged Compensation Plan. The Premier level has been grandparented through the life of the Agreement:
I,	Trainee	3. Fully Competent
2.	Entry	4. Senior Sales Consultant
TRAINEE LEVEL
Company employees who transfer into the Sales Consultant title and fail to pass initial training will have retreat rights, unless they moved into the Sales Consultant title under the terms of Article 19. Any wage changes during training shall be negotiated with the Union.
Employees hired externally into the Sales Consultant title who do not successfully complete initial training will be dismissed.
TO MOVE TO ENTRY LEVEL, THE EMPLOYEE MUST SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE THE INITIAL TRAINING TAKEN AT THE TRAINEE LEVEL.
TO MOVE FROM ENTRY LEVEL TO THE FULLY COMPETENT LEVEL, THE EMPLOYEE MUST MEET THE FOLLOWING CRITERIA (Entry Level is normally a minimum of four (4) months):
I.	Perform at or above 80% of adjusted results for two (2) months; and have an 80% average for four (4) months of adjusted performance results.
OR
2.	Perform at 80% of adjusted results al the fourth (4'*') month and demonstrate continuous improvement three (3) out of the four (4) months. Three (3) of those months must be at or above 60% of adjusted performance results.
3.	Employees may be extended to a fifth (5lh) month of entry at management’s discretion if they are demonstrating the potential to perform the job at an acceptable level.
236
!’ 1?Sf^il(i)J’^^'^^QQ^S^MERCiIENTiERS FOR ccjNsijiVi'.yxis.
<t- ... .
4,	At the end of the fifth (541) month, employees must meet requirements for advancement to Fully Competent using the best four (4) months for the first criteria and the best three (3) months for the second criteria.
Objectives during Entry level will be ramped as follows: 80%, 85%, 90%, 100%,
EARLY MOVEMENT TO FULLY COMPETENT CAN OCCUR AFTER THE SECOND (2nd) MONTH OR THEREAFTER PROVIDING THE EMPLOYEE MEETS ONE (I) OF TWO (2) FOLLOWING CRITERIA:
I,	The employee meets 100% of the Fully Competent unadjusted revenue objective in the first (I11) and second (2nd) months.
2.	If movement occurs after the third (3ri) month, the Employee must meet 100% of the Fully Competent unadjusted revenue objective for two (2) of the three (3) months.
MOVEMENT FROM THE FULLY COMPETENT LEVEL TO THE SENIOR SALES CONSULTANT LEVEL IS STRICTLY VOLUNTARY.
TO MOVE TO THE SENIOR SALES CONSULTANT, THE EMPLOYEE MUST:
1. Perform at or above 125%, on average, of actual unadjusted sales results for the most recent six (6) months and be satisfactory tn performance.
NOTE: Employees may voluntarily opt to move to a lower level within this plan, but not below the Fully Competent level. Employees must remain at the Senior Sales Consultant level for at least three (3) consecutive months.
237
I
I
leveraged cumpensa tion plan for CONSUMER centers i-’or
CUSTOMER SERVICE. SALIC S CONSULTANTS
ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS
Payments
Incentive awards are paid on the last payroll in the month following the performance period. Payouts are made through the corporate payroll system.
True-Uos
Payout errors do occur and will always be corrected. If the error results in an underpayment of one hundred dollars ($100) or less, the error will be corrected with the next regular incentive check cycle (last payroll cycle in a month). If the error is more than one hundred dollars ($100), the error will be corrected with the next payroll cycle. In instances where an employee is overpaid, the overpayment will be deducted from the following month's incentive earnings until paid in full. In situations where the next incentive earnings do not cover the overpayment error, special arrangements will be made and documented with the individual to recover the money over several months.
Tax Liability
incentives earned in the Leveraged Compensation Plan are considered taxable income to the individual and assessed through the payroll process at the time the eamings are received. The federal tax on incentive payments is a flat amount and is not based on individual withholding tables.
Movement between Sales and Service Consultant and Sales Consultant
Sales and Service Consultants may elect to move to Sales Consultant. They must be at or above sales objectives, on average, for the most recent six (6) months. They will move effective the first day of the month following receipt of the written notification to their supervisor. They will move to the Fully Competent level with no testing requirements. Sales Consultants may request to move to the Sales and Service Consultant title after being in the SC title at Fully Competent for a minimum of three (3) months. In order for either movement to occur, office requirements for maintaining the adequate mix of SC's and SSC’s will be considered. A process for movement between the two titles con be found in the LCP Administrative Guidelines.
238
|lc— —:------------------—----— ;	■
i ' LEV l it SCI I) COM PENS A HON Pl. AN RIH CONSUMER < I NI EKS FOR
|! .	CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSUL I AMS ' 1
Regular Transfers
Employees who transfer from other titles will enter at the Trainee level base wage rate For transferees in a surplus status who take a downgrade, RPPA will be paid according to Article J 9.6 (A) (2) (a).
Sales Consultants who successfully complete initial training and are released to the desk after the fifth (5*) business day of the month, will be moved to the Entry level and given a reduced sales objective based on the number of days remaining in the month.
Sales Consultants who progress to Fully Competent or Senior Sales Consultant level will begin canting al the new base wage plus incentives at the beginning of the following month. As an example, a Sales Consultant who achieves Senior Sales Consultant level October 2 will have the opportunity to earn at the higher level on November 1.
A mechanized process has been established to notify both the Compensation Administration Staff and Human Resources when adding a Sales Consultant to the Leveraged Compensation Plan,
Force Adjustment
If during the life of this Agreement, the Company determines that it needs to implement a force adjustment under the terms of Article 19 with respect to the Sales Consultant job title, the Adjustment Group will be composed of Sales Consultants within the impacted RCA and organization.
If during the life of this Agreement, the Company determines that it needs to implement a force adjustment under the terms of Article 19 with respect to the Sales and Service Consultant job title, such employees may voluntarily move to the Sales Consultant job title and participate in the Leveraged Compensation Plan provided the employee has performed at or above ninety percent (90%), on average, with respect to adjusted sales objectives during the preceding six (6) months. If SSC’s have not been held to individual sales objectives at the time of the force adjustment, the Company and Union will meet to determine the appropriate eligibility criteria.
239
htver
A'GEi)O>MRENSATl'()5PLAN FOR CONSUMER CENTERS I' GUSTO .ME R^j- R.VICE SALES CONSUL TAM'S
Excused Non Pa id Time
J fan SC takes non-paid time in a month and attains one hundred percent (100%) or better of their Individual Revenue objective, the risk amount for all components is not reduced for non-paid time. If an SC takes non-paid time in a month and attains less than one hundred percent (100%) of their Individual Revenue objective, the risk amount for all components is reduced for non-paid hours.
Exiting the Plan
A Sales Consultant (SC) exits the Plan when they leave the eligible position through transfer, promotion, retirement, separation, voluntary resignation or dismissal. Compensation will be paid through the date an employee exits the Plan: last day on payroll, effective date of resignation or leaves the job. Incentives will be trued up based on percent of objective achieved at the date of departure, if an employee has been overpaid they will be expected to return the overpayment.
For the purposes of transfers, the Wage Scale M base wage top rate will be used to establish the money-io-money wage movement.
Objectives
Each year, reasonable sales objectives will be set for the Fully Competent and Senior Sales Consultant levels of the Sales Consultant job title. If individual sales objectives are altered, the employee wilt be notified prior to the beginning of the month in which the new objectives will take effect. Sales objectives will be based on revenue sales and will be higher for the Senior Sales Consultant. Employees are expected to perform at or above objectives.
240
The distinction between adjusted sales objectives and actual sales results (unadjusted sales objectives) is important. Adjusted objectives provide continual feedback to assist with the improvement of individual performance. Sales incentive objectives motivate excellence through monetary rewards. Therefore, we will pay for achievement of actual sales results on a monthly basis and will assess the employee sales performance on a three (3) month rolling average at the Fully Competent and Senior Sales Consultant levels. Adjusted sales objective results at the Entry level will be assessed on a monthly basis to determine eligibility to move to Fully Competent. Once at the FC level, performance metric measurements will begin in month one and assessment occurs on a rolling three (3) month average.
Time Off-Desk
Sales Consultants will be paid at base wage during periods of off-desk time such as excused time, vacation and personal days, training, employee involvement, or union time unless otherwise specified in this document. Absences as defined in Article 12 will be paid at the target wage rate. Since target wage is paid for Article 12 hours, they are not considered when determining the amount of monthly wage at-risk and calculating incentive compensation.
When a Sales Consultant is placed on a company-initiated special assignment for thirty (30) days or more, the employee will be paid at rhe target wage rate.
Objectives will be adjusted for up to five (5) days of vacation and/or personal days each calendar month with no adjustment of risk.
Benefits (short term disability) will be paid based on an Individual End-of-Year average hourly rate which includes base wage plus earned incentives. This rate will be set in December of each year and reset every six (6) months during the life of the contract. This average hourly rate will not fall below the base wage rate or exceed the target rate of the individual SC’s level within the Plan. For SC’s who do not have an End-of-Year average hourly rate or a minimum of six (6) months on plan, their average hourly rate will reflect the Fully Competent base wage until their individual average hourly rate can be established.
241
LEVERAGED COMI’ENS.a THIN PLAS K)K CONSUMER CENTERS K)H i CUSTOMER SERVICE S.A LES CONSUL TANTS	'
The SC’s sales objectives and salary risked is determined by the actual number of days worked during the month the employee is on benefits. After returning, the employee stays on their established average hourly rate until the first day of the month fallowing return; however, if the returning SC exceeds the full established SC objective for that month, they will be paid the difference between Target and actual incentive earnings.
For appraisal purposes: The employee's sales objectives will be adjusted by deducting up io five (5) days of vacation and/or personal days (no partial days), disability, union time, FMLA. jury duty, military leave and time off for death in family.
Employee Benefits
For Sales Consultants on a leveraged plan, Savings Plan, Life Insurance and Pension coverages are treated as follows:
Savings Plan
Base wage is eligible for savings plan deductions each pay period. When incentive compensation is paid, that amount is also eligible for a savings plan deduction. Incentive payments are also eligible for Company matching contributions.
Life Insurance
Life insurance coverage is based on the base wage and actual incentive earnings within a given calendar year. The incentive compensation portion is included when it is paid, but only for the remaining portion of the Plan year.
Pension
A Sales Consultant’s pension shall be calculated by multiplying the monthly pension factor for sales earnings, set forth in Addendum 8 of the Agreement limes the employee's TOE. The average monthly earnings include base pay, sales incentives, overtime and short-term disability as set forth in the Agreement.
242
iBSBSf

1 ,;lis''"“ iJ


Program Changes and Modifications
It is management's prerogative to establish reasonable objectives and design parameters within the negotiated framework of the Plan for the Sales Consultant title. For purposes of this compensation plan, the design parameters in this document are agreed to from January 1,2003, through August 13,2005.
At least annually, the weighting relationship between Customer Experience and Sales will be reviewed and may be modified if agreed to between the Company and Union.
Any changes in the Leveraged Compensation Plan for Sales Consultants that affect wages, hours or working conditions will be negotiated with the Union and communicated in writing to all Sales Consultants at least two (2) weeks (fourteen (14) days) prior to the effective date of the change.
Plan Disputes
The Oversight Committee will review disputes regarding the administration of the Leveraged Compensation Plan. This committee will be comprised of CWA and Qwest representatives.
243
ElRAGED compensation plan for GENERAL BUSINESS CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
ADDENDUM 12
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR
GENERAL BUSINESS CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
EFFECTIVE:
August 17, 2003 - August 13,2005
244
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
SUMMARY
This document describes the Leveraged Compensation Plan (LCP) for Sales Consultants in the General Business Centers for Customer Service. This plan is designed to recognize and reward individual and team achievements by providing incentive opportunities for results that support the Genera) Business organization's business strategies. This plan is also designed to provide latitude for organizations, as mandated by business/market changes, to customize offerings during the contractual period within the negotiated framework of the Plan.
Plan Objectives
The primary goal of the General Business Centers for Customer Service is to respond to customer demand calls in a consultative manner by exceeding customer service expectations and optimizing sales. Sales Consultants impact the Qwest strategies of developing new revenue and building customer loyalties by providing excellent customer service and producing sales.
Specific objectives supported by this plan are:
•	Increase Top Line Revenues.
•	Support product and business strategies through sales and service.
•	Protect the customer base from competitive inroads by providing quality and added-value products and services.
•	Provide fast and easy access to someone who can help.
•	Link LCP payouts to elements that can be directly influenced by the employees.
•	Provide a direct relationship between performance and reward.
Plan Type
The Leveraged Compensation Plan provides earnings potential in direct relation to the level of sales and service performance achieved by the individual and the team. Depending on the individual's level (i.e., Trainee, Entry, Fully Competent, Senior Sales Consultant or ’’Premier), the leverage is 100/0, 90/10, 80/20, 75/25, or ”70/30, respectively. Wages are leveraged at either 90%, 80%, 75% or ”70%, of an individual's target with an opportunity to earn three (3) times or more the amount at risk. The following describes the levels and associated leverage and upside opportunities:
245
LEVERAGED compensation plan for GENERAL BUSINESS CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
Leverage Upside Level
••70/30	160%+	Premier
75/25	150%+	Senior Sales Consultant
80/20	140%+	Fully Competent
90/10	120%+	Entry
100/0	0%	Trainee
*	Sa les results in the Plan will have uncapped earning potential.
••Grandparented through the life of the Agreement.
Participating employees will be placed on an annualized base wage according to the following schedule:
Level	Annualized Base Wage	Target Rate
** Premier	539,700	$56,714
Senior Sales Consultant	$38,900	$51,867
Fully Competent	$36,500	$45,623
Entry	$29,300	$32,556
Trainee (wk 1-8)	$24,400	$24,400
*	• Grandparented through the life of the Agreement
Compensation Elements
The Leveraged Compensation Plan is designed to reward the results that Sales Consultants can influence. Compensation can be earned on each component regardless of achievement in other components. Participants can earn compensation in (2) two ways: Seventy five percent (75%) of the total payout is based on individual monthly sales results. Twenty-five percent (25%) of the total payout is based on the team meeting or exceeding the objectives established for customer experience. Compensation elements may be modified upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union.
Sa les/Revenue Objectives
Objectives are set for each channel based upon organizational goals. Channel objectives are then allocated to the individual Sales Consultant.
246
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS
CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
Sales Crediting
Revenue results are based on orders rated in the CRIS or IABS billing systems and loaded into a sales tracking system daily. A system will provide detailed information to Sales Consultants on revenue credits for completed posted orders. Promotional credits will be detailed on payout printouts. Revenue from sales not billed through CRIS or LABS, such as telephone equipment, is added to the system at specific intervals throughout the month. Sales revenue credit is a combination of recurring (monthly) and non-recurring (one time) revenue.
Sales are credited by the sales system posted date, not the network completion date. The normal carryover cycle from completion date to the tracking system posted date is three (3) to five (5) working days. Orders do not post to the sales tracking system on Saturday or Sunday.
Posting Errors
When posting errors occur on Service Orders, the Consultant will notify his/her coach or Support Manager to assist with correction(s). As long as an adjustment is received before the final adjustment period shown on the Compensation Calendar, the adjustment will be worked in the current incentive payroll period. Once the final adjustment date has passed, SCATS will no longer accept adjustments.
90 Dav Window
Consultants are responsible for their sales for ninety (90) days after the sales system posted date of the order. Outward activity on C and R orders flow through a sates database program that reviews the last ninety (90) days of order activity to see if the product (USOC) was posted within that time period. The mechanized process changes the sales code if the inward order was posted within the last ninety (90) days.
Component Matrices
An individual's payout is calculated by multiplying the appropriate payout percent by their amount at risk for revenue. For all payout calculations, fractional numbers will be rounded down to the nearest lower whole number. The charts below show payout percentages for levels of individual sales performance:
247
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS
CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
Individual Revenue — 75% For each 1% Objective Attained	% Payout to be Multiplied Against Risk
<75%	0%
75%	25%
75.1% * 125%	3% for each 1% attained
125.1% - 150%	5% for each 1% attained
150.1% - 200%	2% for each 1% attained
200.1%+	1 % for each 1% attained
	— Uncapped —
Customer Experience - 25%
The Customer Experience Component is based on meeting or exceeding the stated service quality objectives on a monthly basis for overall Sales Consultant satisfaction. Annual objectives for this component will be developed by the Company and reviewed by the Oversight Committee.
________LEVEL________________PAYOUT
< Threshold	0%
Threshold	50%
Target	100%
Excellence	200%
— Capped —
248
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS
CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
ANNUAL
Levels	Annual Base Wage	Annual Target	Leverage	Risk $$ at 100%	- Breakdown of Component and Risk
Entry	$29,300	$32,556	90/10	$3,256	Sales* = $2,442.00 CE = $8I4.OO
Fully Competent	$36,500	$45,625	80/20	$9,125	Sales* = $6,769.00 CE = $2,281.00
Senior Sales Consultant	$38,900	$51,867	75/25	$12,967	Sales* - $9,725.00 CE=$ 3.242.00
*• Premier	$39,700	$56,714	70/30	$17,014	Sales*-$12,761.00 CE = $4,253.00
•Sales Payout is uncapped.
**Grandparented through the life of the Agreement.
Dollars are rounded for table, actual dollars and cents will be used for payroll purposes.
MONTHLY
Levels	Monthly Base Wage	Monthly Target	Leverage	Risk $$ at 100%	Breakdown of Component and Risk
Entry	$2,442.00	$2,713.00	90/10	$271,00	Sales* = $203.25 CE - $ 67.75
Fully Competent	$3,042.00	$3,802.00	80/20	$760.00	Sales* = $570.00 CE = $190.00
Senior Sales Consultant	$3,242.00	$4,322.00	75/25	$1,080.00	Sales*-$810.00 CE =$270.00
** Premier	$3,308.00	$4,726.00	70/30	$1,418.00	Sales*-$1,064.00 CE = $354.00
•Sales Payout is uncapped.
••Grandparented through the life of the Agreement.
Dollars are rounded for table, actual dollars and cents will be used for payroll purposes.
249
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
Advancement Through the Levels of the Leveraged Compensation Plan
There are four (4) levels in the Sales Consultant Leveraged Compensation Plan. The Premier level has been grandparented through the life of the Agreement:
1.	Trainee	3. Fully Competent
2.	Entry	_ 4. Senior Sales Consultant
TRAINEE LEVEL
Company employees who transfer into the Sales Consultant title and fail to pass initial training will have retreat rights, unless they moved into the Sales Consultant title under the terms of Article 19. Any wage changes during training shall be negotiated with the Union.
Employees hired externally into the Sales Consultant title who do not successfully complete initial training will be dismissed.
TO MOVE TO ENTRY LEVEL, THE EMPLOYEE MUST SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE THE INITIAL TRAINING TAKEN AT THE TRAINEE LEVEL.
TO MOVE FROM ENTRY LEVEL TO THE FULLY COMPETENT LEVEL, THE EMPLOYEE MUST MEET THE FOLLOWING CRITERIA (Entry Level is normally a minimum of four (4) months):
1.	Perform at or above 80% of adjusted results for two (2) months; and have an 80% average for four (4) months of C1P adjusted results.
OR
2.	Perform at 80% of adjusted results at the fourth (4lh) month and demonstrate continuous improvement three (3) out of the four (4) months. Three (3) of those months must be at or above 60% of C1P adjusted results.
250
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS
CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
3.	Employees may be extended to a fifth (5*) month of entry at management’s discretion if they are demonstrating the potential to perfomi the job at an acceptable level.
4,	At the end of the fifth (5,h) month, employees must meet requirements for advancement to Fully Competent using the best four (4) months for the first criteria and the best three (3) months for the second criteria.
Objectives during Entry level will be ramped as follows: 80%, 85%, 90%, 100%,
EARLY MOVEMENT TO FULLY COMPETENT CAN OCCUR AFTER THE SECOND (2nd) MONTH OR THEREAFTER PROVIDING THE EMPLOYEE MEETS ONE (1) OF TWO (2) FOLLOWING CRITERIA:
1.	The employee meets 100% of the Fully Competent unadjusted revenue objective in the first (Ist) and second (2nd) months.
2.	If movement occurs after the third (3rd) month, the employee must meet 100% of the Fully Competent unadjusted revenue objective for two (2) of the three (3) months.
MOVEMENT FROM THE FULLY COMPETENT LEVEL TO THE SENIOR SALES CONSULTANT LEVEL IS STRICTLY VOLUNTARY.
TO MOVE TO THE SENIOR SALES CONSULTANT, THE EMPLOYEE MUST:
!. Perform at or above 125%, on average, of actual unadjusted sales results for the most recent six (6) months and be satisfactory in performance.
NOTE: Employees may voluntarily opt to move to a lower level within this plan, but not below the Fully Competent level. Employees must remain at the Senior Sales Consultant level for at least three (3) consecutive months.
251
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS
CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS
Payments
Incentive awards arc paid on the last payroll in the month following the performance period. Payouts are made through the corporate payroll system.
Truc-Ups
Payout errors do occur and will always be corrected. If the error results in an underpayment of.one hundred dollars ($100) or less, the error will be corrected with the next regular incentive check cycle (last payroll cycle in a month). If the error is more than one hundred dollars ($100), the error will be corrected with the next payroll cycle. In instances where an employee is overpaid, the overpayment will be deducted from the following month's incentive earnings until paid in full. In situations where the next incentive earnings do not cover the overpayment error, special arrangements will be made and documented with the individual to recover the money over several months.
Tax Liability
Incentives earned in the Leveraged Compensation Plan are considered taxable income to the individual and assessed through the payroll process at the lime the earnings are received. The federal tax on incentive payments is a flat amount and is not based on individual withholding tables.
Movement between Sales and Service Consultant and Sales Consultant
Sales and Service Consultants may elect to move to Sales Consultant. They must be at or above sales objectives, on average, for the most recent six (6) months. They will move effective the first day of the month following receipt of the written notification to iheir supervisor. They will move to the Fully Competent level with no testing requirements. Sales Consultants may request to move to the Sales and Service Consultant title after being in the SC title al Fully Competent for a minimum of three (3) months. In order for either movement to occur, office requirements for mainiaining the adequate mix of SC's and SSC’s will be considered, A process for movement between the two titles can be found in the LCP Administrative Guidelines
252
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS
CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
Regular Transfers
Employees who transfer from other titles will enter at the Trainee level base wage rate. For transferees in a surplus status who take a downgrade. RPPA will be paid according to Article 19.6(A)(2)(a).
Sales Consultants who successfully complete initial training and arc released to the desk after the fifth (5,h) business day of the month, will be moved to the Entry level and given a reduced sales objective based on the number of days remaining in the month.
Sales Consultants who progress to Fully Competent or Senior Sales Consultant level will begin earning at the new base wage plus incentives at the beginning of the following month. As an example, a Sales Consultant who achieves Senior Sales Consultant level October 2 will have the opportunity to earn at the higher level on November I.
A mechanized process has been established to notify both the Compensation Administration Staff and Human Resources when adding a Sales Consultant to the Leveraged Compensation Plan.
Force Adjustment
If during the life of this Agreement, the Company determines that it needs to implement a force adjustment under the terms of Article 19 with respect to the Sales Consultant job title, the Adjustment Group will be composed of Sales Consultants within the impacted RCA and organization.
If during the life of this Agreement, the Company determines that it needs to implement a force adjustment under the terms of Article 19 with respect to the Sales and Service Consultant job title, such employees may voluntarily move to the Saks Consultant job title and participate in the Leveraged Compensation Plan provided the employee has performed at or above ninety percent (90%), on average, with respect to adjusted sales objectives during the preceding six (6) months. If SSC’s have not been held to individual sales objectives at the time of the force adjustment, the Company and Union will meet to determine the appropriate eligibility criteria.
253
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS
CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
Excused Non Paid Time
If an SC takes non-paid lime in a month and attains one hundred percent (100%) or better of their Individual Revenue objective, the risk amount for all components is not reduced for non-paid lime. If an SC takes non-paid lime in a month and attains less than one hundred percent (100%) of their Individual Revenue objective, the risk amount for all components is reduced for non-paid hours.
Exiting the Plan
A Sales Consultant (SC) exits the Plan when they leave the eligible position through transfer, promotion, retirement, separation, voluntary resignation or dismissal. Compensation will be paid through the date an employee exits the Plan: last day on payroll, effective date of resignation or leaves the job. Incentives will be trued up based on percent of objective achieved at the dale of departure. If an employee has been overpaid they will be expected to return the overpayment.
For the purposes of transfers, the Wage Scale M base wage top rate will be used to establish the money-to-money wage movement.
Objectives
Each year, reasonable sales objectives will be set for the Fully Competent and Senior Sales Consultant levels of the Sales Consultant job title. If individual sales objectives are altered, the employee will be notified prior to the beginning of the month in which the new objectives will take effect. Sales objectives will be based on revenue sales and will be higher for the Senior Sales Consultant. Employees are expected to perform at or above objectives.
The distinction between CIP (adjusted sales objectives) and actual sales results (unadjusted sales objectives) is important. CIP objectives provide continual feedback to assist with the improvement of individual performance. Sales incentive objectives motivate excellence through monetary rewards. Therefore, we will pay for achievement of actual sales results on a monthly basis and will assess the employee sales performance on a three (3) month rolling average at the Fully Competent and Senior Sales Consultant levels. CIP results at the Entry level will be assessed on a monthly basis to determine eligibility to move to Fully Competent, Once at the FC level, CIP starts over in month one and assessment occurs on a rolling three (3) month average.
254
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS
CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
Time Off-Desk
Sales Consultants will be paid at base wage during periods of off-desk time such as excused time, vacation and personal days, training, employee involvement, or union time unless otherwise specified in this document. Absences as defined in Article 12 will be paid at the target wage rate. Since target wage is paid for Article 12 hours, they are not considered when determining the amount of monthly wage at-risk and calculating incentive compensation.
When a Sales Consultant is placed on a company-initiated special assignment for thirty (30) days or more, the employee will be paid at the target wage rate.
Objectives will be adjusted for up to five (5) days of vacation and/or personal days each calendar month with no adjustment of risk.
Benefits (short term disability) will be paid based on an Individual End-of-Year average hourly rate which includes base wage plus earned incentives. This rate will be set in December of each year and reset every six (6) months during the life of the contract. This average hourly rate will not fall below the base wage rate or exceed the target rate of the individual SC’s level within the Plan. For SC’s who do not have an End-of-Year average hourly rate or a minimum of six (6) months on plan, their average hourly rate will reflect the Fully Competent base wage until their individual average hourly rate can be established.
The SC’s sales objectives and salary risked is determined by the actual number of days worked during the month the employee is on benefits. After returning, the employee stays on their established average hourly rate until the first day of the month following return; however, if the returning SC exceeds the full established SC objective for that month, they will be paid the difference between Target and actual incentive earnings.
For appraisal purposes (CIP): The employee's sales objectives will be adjusted by deducting up to five (5) days of vacation and/or personal days (no partial days), disability, union time, FMLA, jury duty, military leave and time off for death in family.
255
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS
CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS
Employee Benefits
For Sales Consultants on a leveraged plan. Savings Plan, Life Insurance and Pension coverages are treated as follows:
Savings Plan
Base wage is eligible for savings plan deductions each pay period. When incentive compensation is paid, that amount is also eligible for a savings plan deduction. Incentive payments are also eligible for company matching contributions.
Life Insurance
Life insurance coverage is based on the base wage and actual incentive earnings within a given calendar year. The incentive compensation portion is included when it is paid, but only for the remaining portion of the Plan year.
Pension
A Sales Consultant's pension shall be calculated by multiplying the monthly pension factor for sales earnings, set forth in Addendum 8 of the Agreement limes the employee's TOE. The average monthly earnings include base pay, sales incentives, overtime and short-term disability as set forth in the Agreement.
Program Changes and Modifications
It is management's prerogative to establish reasonable objectives and design parameters within the negotiated framework of the Plan for the Sales Consultant title. For purposes of this compensation plan, the design parameters in this document are agreed to from January 1,2003, through August 13, 2005.
Al least annually, the weighting relationship between Customer Experience and Sales will be reviewed and may be modified if agreed to between the Company and Union.
Any changes in the Leveraged Compensation Plan for Sales Consultants that affect wages, hours or working conditions will be negotiated with the Union and communicated in writing to all Sales Consultants al least two (2) weeks (fourteen (id) days) prior to the effective date of the change.
256
LEVERAGED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR GENERAL BUSINESS CENTERS FOR CUSTOMER SERVICE SALES CONSULTANTS

Plan Disputes
The Oversight Committee will review disputes regarding the administration of the Leveraged Compensation Plan. This committee will be comprised of CWA and Qwest representatives.
257
QWEST INDEX
A
Absent Time
Death in Family............................................46
Jury and Witness Duty......................................47
Leaves of Absence........................................  89
Sickness Payments the First Week of Absence................45
Union Activities...........................................51
Access Allowance.............................;.........................19 ,
Administrative/Training Differential.................................... 18
Adoption Assistance...................................................  176
Agency Shop......................................................      .-48
Alternative Dispute Resolution.........................................  57
Arbitration..........................................................    59
Assignment for Training................................................  28
Assignment of Equivalent Work Week...................................    65
Assignment of Hours and Days of Work..........................      .....14
Assessment of Abilities Evaluation.......................................92
Auto Pay........................................................      .-168
Award Programs.....................................................    -.95
B
Basic Wages...........................................................  206
Basic Work Week..........................................................14
258
Benefits
228
Board and Lodging......................................................32
Building Specialist Certification........................-.............110
Bulletin Boards........................................  -.............54
Business Disruption..............................................      I?
Business Resources. Inc. IBRD.........................................222
C
Call for Work..........................................................25
Care of Newborn, Adopted or Foster Child Leave.........................123
Career Developmenl/Training Programs..................................148
Child Care Resource and Referral Services.............................175
Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve Premium.................-.............24
Classification of Employees....................................        64
COBRA..................................................................79
Committee on Substance Abuse..........................................112
Community Relations Representative Differential.......................114
Compliance with the Law...............................................   97
Contracting of Work......................................-.............116
Court Appearance/Witness Duty.........................................    47
259
D
Daily Overtime Premium.....................................................21
Daylight Savings Time.....................................................105
Death in Family.......................................  ...................46
Dedicated Traveling Crews..............................................    37
Definitions.............................................................    7
Differentials and Allowances Access......................................................................19
Administrative..............................................  18	’
Bilingual-Multilingual Differential..........................20
Community Relations Representative..........................114
Night....;...................................................18
Split Tour...................................................15
Training..................................................  .18
Disability Plan.........................................................  228
Discipline.................................................................63
Diversity Committee.......................................................156
Downgraded Jobs Medically Restricted........................................................93
New or Changed Jobs........................................  26
Dues Deduction.........................................................    48
Duration Clause.....................................................  .....99
E
Elder Care Resource and Referral Service..................................175
Electronic Data Gathering...................................................118
Electronic Funds Transfer.............................................    101
260
Employee Classifications Equivalent Work Week...................................................65
General..........................................         67
Incidental..............................................  66
Regular Full-Time........................................ 64
Regular Part-Time........................................ 64
Regular Term..............................................67
Seasonal..................................................64
Employee Development Using Call Recording and Observing...............120
Employee Involvement..................................................123
Enhanced Compensation Plan............................................121
Equivalent Work Week Assignment......................................  65
Executive Work Council................................................125
Extended Medicat/Demal/Vision Coverage.................................79
F
Family Care Leave.....................................................174
Family and Medical Leave Act Options...............................    90
Family and Work Development Fund....................................  177
Family Issues....................................................    .173
First Week	of Absence, Sickness Payments............................45
Fleet Specialist & Fleet Technician Certification.....................128
Flexible Work Arrangements Flex Time..............................................................14
Split Tours.............................................  15
Variable Work Week Schedules............................  15
261
Force Adjustment and Force Reductions Adjustment Group............................................................69
Contracting From Call Centers................................75
Contracting Within the RCA...................................74
Discretionary Job Offers.....................................71
Elimination of Contractors.................................  74
Elimination of Incidentals and Terms.........................73
Expanded Voluntary Separation Payment	Program (EVSPP).........73
Follow Your Work....................................  -......70
Force Adjustment Decisions...................................68
Formal Surplus Declaration.................................  69
1SPP Table...................................................78
Layoff Procedures..........................................  76
Layoffs Not Constituting a Break in Service..................81
Post and Bid ................................................70
Reassignment.............-...................................70
Reassignment Pay Protection Allowance........................70
Recall Rights........................................■-......80
Reduction of Hours,..,.....................................  68
Relocation...................................................71
Separation Payment Method....................................79
Surplus Resolution Provisions..............................  69
Surplus Transitional Leave of Absence (STLA).................72
Voluntary Separation Payment Program (VSPP)..................71
ZIPP Voluntary Separation Payment Program (Z1PP VSPP).........68
Full-Time Employee Classification..........,..,......................      64
G
Greater Length of Service...........,....,............................    130
Grievance and Arbitration Process All Other Grievances....................................................    59
Alternative Dispute Resolution Process.......................58
Arbitration.,.,....,.,.....................................  59
BenefitPlan..........................................  .....228
Discipline...................................................57
General....................................................  56
Grievance Format.........................................    57
Group Life Insurance Plan...............................................  228
262
H
Health and Wellness Advisory Committee.................................132
Health Care Plan.......................................................228
Holidays Payments............................................................  .44
Recognized................................................44
Saturday and Sunday.......................................44
Scheduling Process.......................................-44
Home Garaging/Motor Vehicle Usage Program...............................38
Hours and Days of Work Basic Work Week........................................................14
Business Disruption...................................    17
Flexible Work Arrangements................................14
Temporary Tour Coverage............................    ...16
Tour Selection..,.......................................  16
Work Schedule Changes.....................................15
Work Schedule Posting.....................................15
I
Immediate Family........................................................46
Incidental Employee Classification....................................  66
Independent Medical Evaluation .........................................92
Involuntary Separation Payment Program (ISPP)...........................78
J
Job Titles.............................................................179
Job Titles and Job Briefs.............................................  10
263
Jobs, New or Changed........................................................26
Job Search Process..........................................................92
Job Swap Guidelines............................................            135
Jury Duty...................................................................47
K
L
Labor-Management Forums....................................................137
Lateral Force Rearrangements Outside a Reasonable Commuting Area..............................  .........83
Within a Reasonable Commuting Area..............    ,.,..,.,,82
Leaves of Absence
Care of Newborn, Adopted or Foster Child....................173
Family Care.................................................174
Family and Medical Leave Act Options.......................  90
Military.....................................................89
Surplus Transitional.........................................72
Union Business...............................................52
Letters of Agreement
Building Specialist Certification....................110
COE1T................................................Ill
Committee on Substance Abuse................  ,.,..,.112
Community Relations Differential.....................114
Contracting of Work..................................116
Electronic Data Gathering............................118
Employee Development Using Call Recording And Observing.......................................120
Employee Involvement.................................123
Enhanced Compensation Plan...........................124
Executive Work Council ............................  125
Expectations Regarding Occupational Dress............127
Fleet Specialist & Fleet Technician Certification....128
264
Greater Length of Service........................ 130
Health and Wellness Advisory Committee......,...132
Job Swap Guidelines...........................  135
Labor-Management Forums.......................  137
Leveraged Compensation Plan -Reasonable Objectives............................B9
Local Agreements..............................  141
Local Agreements on Overtime Administration in the Network Organization.....................142
Lump Sum Pension Option.........................143
National Public Policy Common Issues Forum.......144
Occupational Safety and Health Committee........146
PATHWAYS To The Future.........................148
Payroll Policies.............................   151
Pension Band 120..............................  152
Priority Personal Days........................  154
Qwest/Comm unications Workers of America Diversity Committee.............................156
Qwest - Organization Structure...................158	■
Qwest Uniform Program...........................159
Retiree Health Care.............................161
Student Classification..........................163
Supplemental Payment Cities....,................165
Tax-Exempt Trust................................167
Telephone Concession Service....................168
Union Representation Rights for Occupational Employees......................................  170
Leveraged Compensation Plan Consumer........................................................   230
General Business-................................................244
Letter of Agreement..............................................139
Local Agreements.....................................................141
Local Agreements on Overtime Administration in the Network Organization........................................  142
Lump Sum Payments.............................................  206
Lump Sum Pension Option..............................................,143
265
M
Medically Restricted Employees.........................................91
Mileage Allowance Rate...............................................  37
Military Leave of Absence..........................................    89
Motor Vehicle Usage Program............................................38
Movement of Work.......................................................10
Moving Reimbursement.................................................    106
N
National Public Policy Common Issues Forum....,...................,.,.—	144
New or Changed Jobs................................................    26
New Year's Eve and Christmas Eve Premium...............................24
Night Differential...................................................  18
Non-Discrimination..................................................   55
O
Occupational Dress................................................ 127
Occupational Relocation Expense Plan..............................    106
Occupational Safety and Health	Committee..............................146
Organization Structure................................................158
Organizing and Neutrality..............................................12
Overnight Assignments.............. ...............................  -.33
266
Overtime
Christmas EveZNew Year’s Eve..............................24
Daily.....................................................21
Forty Hour Premium......................................  22
Forty-Nine Hour Premium...................................22
Holiday...............................................    24
Sunday....................................................24
P
Part-Time Employee Classification.....................................  64
PATHWAYS to the Future Program.........................................148
Payroll Deduction of Union Dues.......................................  48
Payroll Policies.....................................................  151
Pension Bands..................................,...................    224
Pension Band 120.....................................................  152
Pension Plan...,...................................................    228
Per Diem................................................................33
Personal Days Company Designated.....................................................41
Entitlements......................................   .....41
Scheduling................................................42
Priority Personal Days..................................  43
Personnel Records...................................................    96
Post and Bid Process Application............................................................84
Eligibility Requirements................................  84
Part-Time Employee Provisions.............................86
Release Provisions..................................      86
267
Retreat Provisions......................................  86
Selection...............................................  84
Temporary (Short Duration) Assignments....................86
Time-ln-Tille/Location....................................85
Placement Of Management Into the Bargaining Unit..........88
Preamble...............................................................6
Premium Payments Christmas Eve/New Year's	Eve...........................24
Daily....................................................21
Forty Hour...............................................22
Forty-Nine Hour........................................  22
General..................................................21
Holiday..................................................24
Sunday...................................................24
Primary Reporting Place (PRP).........................................31
Priority Personal Days (Letter of Agreement).........................151
Q
Qwest Savings and Investment Plan (OSIP).............................228
R
Reasonable Commuting Areas (RCA)...............................................182
Recognition and Responsible Relationship........................................10
Recognized Holidays.............................................................44
Referral Services Child Care Resource............................................................ 175
Elder Care Resource........................................  ,...175
268
Relocation Expense Plan...................  -......................  106
Responsible Union-Company Relationship................................13
Retiree Healthcare...................................................161
S
Savings Plan.......................................................  228
Sickness Absence......................................................45
Special Customer Agreements...........................................98
Split Tour Differential...............................................15
Student Classification.............................................  163
Substance Abuse Committee...................................  -......112
Successorship...........................    -.........................13
SundayPremium.........................................................24
Supplemental Payment Cities..........................................165
T
Tax-Exempt Trust.....................................................167
Technical Career Ladder............................................  223
Telephone Concession Service..............................    -....  168
Temporary Living Expense Provisions.........-.....................    32
Temporary Tour Coverage.............................................  16
269
Temporary Work or Training Assignment Trave) Expense Allowance...........................................  .,,,,32
Time and Mileage............................................36
Trip Home Entitlement.......................................35
Overnight Assignment...........................„„..........,..,33
Time-In-Location......................................................   85
Time-In-Title............................................................85
Time Off for Union Activities............................................52
Titles..................................................................179
Tour Selection.........................................................  16
Training and Work Assignment Selection...................................28
Training Differential....................................................18
T ransportation........................................................  32
U
Uniform Program.........................................................159
Union Company Relationship Agency Shop...............................................................48
Bulletin Boards.........................................    54
Excused Paid Time.............................................51
Excused Non Paid Time.......................................52
Non-Discrimination..........................................55
Payroll Deduction of Union Dues.............................48
Recognition and Responsible Relationship....................10
Time Off for Union Activities...............................52
Union Activity on Company Premises..........................54
Union Leaves of Absence................................................. 52
Union Representation Rights of Occupational Employees...................170
Upgraded Jobs,.,........................................................27
270
V
Vacation Buy Back.............................................................  43
Entitlements............................................  39
Illness or Accident During................................40
Increments................................................41
Leaves of Absence.........................................39
Payment in Lieu of..............................................40
Scheduling/Posling........................................42
W
Wage Administrative Practices..........................................100
Wage Credit............................................................103
Wage Payments........................................................  100
Wage Scales........................................................    208
Wage Zones...........................................................  182
Wage Zone and Wage Scale Changes...................................    101
Wages and Working Conditions.........................................    5
Witness Duty .........................................................  47
Work Assignment Selection.............................................  28
Work Schedule Changes...................................................15
Work Schedule Posting.................................................  15
X
Y
Z
271