Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see http://diqitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -http://diqitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation, the Southern New England Telephone Company, SNET Diversified Group, Inc., Woodbury Telephone Company, and SNET America Inc., (Hereinafter Referred to Individually and Collectively As "SNET, "SBC East" and Communications Workers of America (CWA) Local 1298 (2004)
K#: 5764
Employer Name: Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation, the Southern New England Telephone Company, SNET Diversified Group, Inc., Woodbury Telephone Company, and SNET America Inc. (Hereinafter Referred to Individually and Collectively As "SNET, "SBC East"
Location: CT
Union: Communications Workers of America (CWA)
Local: 1298
SIC: 4813	NAICS: 517110
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 6000
Effective Date: 04/04/04	Expiration Date: 04/04/09
Number of Pages: 269	Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.comell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.comell.edu/

2004
LABOR AGREEMENTS
gw
Lcxy'l
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
- AND-
SBC EAST
2004
Labor Agreements
Communications Workers of America
and
SBC EAST
Wage and Working Practices Binder
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Subject	Page No.
Basic Contract ................................... 3
Supplemental Agreements...........................33
-	Appendix A - List of Bargaining Unit Job Titles and Wage Maxima.....................................  61
-	Appendix B - Wage and Working .................65
-	Appendix C - Cost of Living Agreement......   193
-	Appendix D - Wage Progression Schedules...... 194
-	Appendix E - New Job Titles .............     228
*****
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
-	Part 1 - Transfer Procedure	230
-	Part 2 - (Reserved)
-	Part 3 - Military Memoranda	237
INDEX	251
1
BASIC CONTRACT
(C)
BASIC CONTRACT between SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION, THE SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELEPHONE COMPANY, SNET DIVERSIFIED GROUP, INC., WOODBURY TELEPHONE COMPANY, AND SNET AMERICA INC., (HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLECTIVELY AS “SNET, “SBC EAST”, OR THE “COMPANY).
and
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article No.	Subject	Page No.
■ 1	Purpose	4
II	Bargaining Unit Employees	4
III	General	4
IV	Wage anil Working Practices	5
V	Hours	5
VI	Wages	5
VII	Force Adjustments	6
VIH	Reserved For Future Use	18
IX	Reinstatement of Employee Veterans	18
X	Transfers and Promotions	19
XI	Dismissals and Penalties	20
XII	Union Representation	20
XIII	Grievances	21
XIV	Joint Conferences	23
XV	Collection of Dues	24
XVI	Agency Shop	25
xvu	Promotions and Transfers of Union Officers	25
XVIII	Union Activities	26
XIX	Federal or State Laws	26
XX	Amendment	.	27
XXI	Arbitration	27
XXII	Expedited Arbitration	28
XXIII	Non-Discrimination Clause	30
XXIV	Reserved For Future Use	30
XXV	Reserved For Future Use	30
XXVI	Reserved For Future Use	30
XXVII	Miscellaneous	31
XXVIlt	Duration and Basis of Reopening	31
2
BASIC CONTRACT
CONTRACT between SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION, THE SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELEPHONE COMPANY, SNET DIVERSIFIED GROUP, INC., WOODBURY .	TELEPHONE COMPANY, AND SNET AMERICA INC,,
(C) (HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO INDIVIDUALLY AND COLLECTIVELY AS “SNET, “SBC EAST”, OR THE “COMPANY).
and
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (CWA)
(C)	This Contract is entered into, effective this 4111 day of April, 2004, by
and between The Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation, The Southern New England Telephone Company, SNET Diversified Group, Inc., Woodbury Telephone Company, and SNET America, Inc., (hereinafter referred to individually and collectively as “SNET”, “SBC EAST” or the “Company”) and the Communications Workers of America (CWA), (hereinafter the “Union").* ■ -•
Whereas, the UmouJjas been designated and selected by the majority of the bargaining unit employees of the Company as the exclusive bargaining agent for all such employees for the purpose of negotiating with the Company relative to rates of pay, wages, hours and all other conditions of their employment, and
Whereas, the Company, in pursuance of the National Labor Relations Act, has agreed to full acceptance of the Union as the sole bargaining agent in all matters pertaining to rates of pay, wages, hours and working conditions for all its bargaining unit employees,
Now, therefore, in consideration of the promises and of the covenants and agreements herein set forth, the Company and the Union agree as follows:
3
BASIC CONTRACT
ARTICLE 1
PURPOSE
1.	The purpose of this Contract is to stipulate those items already fixed by mutual agreement, outline the method of procedure in approaching agreement on controversial questions and to secure prompt and fair disposition of alleged grievances.
2.	The Company and the Union agree that every effort possible will be made to reach mutually satisfactory conclusions on controversial matters.
ARTICLE II
BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES
I.	The Company and the Union mutually agree that bargaining unit employees shall be those with the job titles listed in Appendix A of this Contract. It is further understood that job classincat ions set up during the life of this Contract which are hot management jobs shall be considered to be included in the bargaining unit.
2.	The Company will inform the Union monthly of bargaining unit job titles that have been changed or discontinued and of new job > classifications up to and including the first line of management. Such notification will also include a statement of the essential duties of the new jobs, indicating those considered by the Company to be properly management. The final classification of new jobs as management or bargaining unit will be by mutual agreement. The Union will determine the eligibility of employees to membership in the Union.
ARTICLE III
GENERAL
I.	Both parties will arrange to have their respective representatives meet to discuss matters of mutual interest, upon request and reasonable advance notice from either party to the other. Each party shall determine and designate the number and personnel of its own representation.
2.	Union Representatives shall have full freedom of speech and action and are hereby guaranteed full protection from discrimination on account of any action taken in good faith in the performance of their duties. No discrimination of any character whatsoever shall be exercised against any employee because of membership in or action on behalf of the Union.
4
BASIC CONTRACT
3.	The Company will not negotiate as to matters within the provisions of this Contract, with individual employees or groups of employees,
4,	Such Company records or true copies thereof as are not deemed
confidential shall be furnished promptly to the Union upon request.
ARTICLE IV
WAGE AND WORKING PRACTICES
], The wage and working practices as are applicable to bargaining unit employees within each of the various departments are incorporated herein as Appendix B. Such wage and working practices are subject to the terms and conditions of this Contract and shall not be changed during the period by this Contract without prior negotiations and mutual agreement. The applicable section of the wage and working practices that applies to all bargaining unit employees is designated in Appendix A.
ARTICLE V
HOURS
1.	A forty-hour or thirty-seven and one half hour week shall be the normal work week and an eight-hour or seven and one half hour day shall be the normal work day, subject to exceptions and conditions set forth in the WAGE AND WORKING PRACTICES of the Company.
ARTICLE VI
WAGES
1.	Wage maxima, cost-of-living agreement and wage schedules are incorporated herein as Appendix A, Appendix C and Appendix D respectively.
2.	Job Evaluation Plans as negotiated and agreed upon between the parties are incorporated herein by reference; New Job Titles, is incorporated herein as Appendix E.
3.	Reduction in the wage of individual employees will not be made except for one or more of the following reasons or conditions:
5
BASIC CONTRACT
a.	Transfer to an occupation having a lower maximum;
b.	Transfer to an occupation in which a training period is required in order to qualify for the rate received in the former occupation;
c.	Reduction in the number of hours worked per week;
d.	(J nsatis factory performance o f duty, unsatis fac tory persona I
conduct or action which can be proven to be detrimental to the interests of the Company.
4.	Wage rates under conditions (a) and (b) above will be appropriate to the new assignment, whether the reassignment is caused by failure of the employee to perform satisfactorily in the former assignment, or by request of the employee.
5.	When a reassignment results from reduction in work load which is not of short duration, wage rates under conditions (a) and (b) above will be appropriate to the new assignment.
ARTICLE VII
FORCE ADJUSTMENTS
1.	Whenever the Company deems it necessary for any reason to make force adjustments in any Company-defined entity (as defined in Policies and Procedures, Part 1, Attachment l-Transfer Plan, Paragraph l,E),such adjustments shall be effected in the following order:
6
BASIC CONTRACT
a. When a surplus condition exists (defined at the job title level within a company-defined entity when the Company determines there are more people on a job title in an entity than are needed to perform the work of that particular job title in the entity) the Company shall (i) notify the Union; (ii) identify the impacted job title, the company-defined entity and the number of surplus employees in the job title and (iii) inform the Union as to whether the Company intends to layoff bargaining unit employees to relieve that surplus.
When the Company has jobs available to offer to surplused employees and therefore notifies the Union that it does not intend to layoff bargaining unit employees, the Company wilt proceed as follows:
(C)	(1) For the remaining life of the current Contract (April 4, 2009), the
Company will offer an Enhanced Voluntary Severance Plan1 (EVSP) to incumbents in the impacted job title within the company-defined entity. The offer may be accepted by incumbents in the impacted job title, in seniority order, up to the number of surplus declared for that job title. The offer will be available for one calendar week, and employees who accept the offer must be off the payroll within 10 weeks from the date of the notification to the Union of the surplus.
(2)	If at the end of that week a surplus still exists at the job title level
(C) 1 Enhanced Voluntary Severance Plan (EVSP) - in effect for remaining life of current Contract (April 4,2009):
• Includes 6 ino.’s continuation of Company contribution to Medical Coverage (as long as employee continues to pay their portion of premium, if appropriate)
* Lump Sum Severance Payment as follows:
Completed Yrs. of NCS	Amount of Lump Sum Payment (in weeks of Base Pay)
20 and over	52 weeks
19	46 weeks
18	42 weeks
17	40 weeks
16	38 weeks
15	36 weeks
14	34 weeks
13	32 weeks
12	30 weeks
11	28 weeks
10	26 weeks
9	20 weeks
8	18 weeks
7	16 weeks
6	14 weeks
5	12 weeks
4	8 weeks
3	6 weeks
2	4 weeks
I	2 weeks
7
BASIC CONTRACT
within a company-defined entity, the Company will extend an offer of the EVSP to incumbents, in seniority order, in the impacted job title, in other company-defined entities. The offer may be accepted, in seniority order, up to the number of surplus remaining in that job title. The offer will be available for one calendar week, and employees who accept the offer must be off the payroll within 9 weeks from the date of the notification to the Union of the surplus. Incumbents within the “surplused” job title in the company-defined entity will be offered, on a senior volunteer basis, any positions vacated, in their job title, as a result of EVSP. Any positions remaining vacant (i.e., not selected by incumbents in the surplused job title . within the company-defined entity) will be made available to the Transfer
Bureau.
(3)	If a surplus still exists at the job title level within a company-
defined entity following the offer of the EVSP, the Company will notify the Union of its intent to initiate an Involuntary Re-Deployment Process to move “surplused” employees2 to available jobs3 for which they are qualified. The notification will include a listing of surplused employees arranged in seniority order. The date of this notification will serve as the start date of an 8-week Involuntary Re-Deployment Process.
(C)	(4) For the remaining life of the current Contract (April 4,2009), the
Company and the Union will jointly sponsor Pre-Test Training Workshops to be offered to surplused employees. The Company will arrange for the bargaining unit employees, who are designated by the Union as trainers for this workshop, to be released from their normal duties to conduct the workshops. The Company will continue to pay these employees their basic wages. The Union will “train the trainers” and provide the training facilities and associated supplies and equipment needed to conduct these workshops. The Union and the Company will encourage surplused employees to avail themselves of the Pre-Test Training Workshops and once scheduled for a workshop, to fully utilize the services provided to prepare themselves and to take the required test(s) administered by the Transfer Bureau.
(5)	The Involuntary Re-Deolovment Process will be implemented in the following manner:
^Surplused” Employee is defined as an employee who has been selected, in inverse-seniority order, in the surplused job title within a company-de fined entity, as being within the scope of the surplus identified by the Company.
3 A vailable Jobs - In establishing the list of available jobs, the Company and Union will discuss work being done by Temporary employees and/or contract labor. The Company will extend every effort to make some of these positions available as Regular positions to the Transfer Bureau and to the available jobs listing for qualified “surplused” employees.
8
BASIC CONTRACT
(a)	"Surplused” Employees will have residency time requirements waived on their current title.
(b)	“Surplused” Employees will be offered, on a priority placement basis4, in seniority order, all available positions’ for which they are qualified that are at or below the wage maximum established for the surplused title (lateral or downgrades). Employees must meet all applicable requirements of the position (e.g„ must qualify on required tests) in order to be offered re-deployment to the position.
(c)	‘Surplused” employees will not be involuntarily re-deployed (C) to a Customer Information Services position through this process.
(d)	An employee who is offered a position will have 24 hours from the time of offer within which to accept the job offer to any available job. If the employee declines the job offer to any available job, the employee will no longer be eligible for transfer, voluntarily or involuntarily, to another position and will be required to accept the EVSP offer and must be off the payroll within 8 weeks from the date of notification to the Union of the initiation of the Involuntary Re-Deployment Process.
(e)	An employee's surplus status will be removed once he/she has either accepted a reassignment through this process or accepted a normal transfer.
4 Priority Placement Basis - Surplused employee will have priority for lateral and downgrade positions in the Transfer Bureau before other transfer requests are considered for the available positions.
J The Company will endeavor to ensure that surplused employees will have available positions, from which to select, which would entail a one-way commuting distance of no more than 50 miles further than his/her current one-way commuting distance.
9
BASIC CONTRACT
(f)	For “surplused” employees who declined to participate in the EVSP and are unable to meet the basic qualifications of any of the available positions that are at or below the wage maximum established for the surplused title (lateral or downgrades), and for the (C)	remaining life of the current Contract (April 4.2009), the Company
will extend a Guaranteed Job Offer * 6.
(g)	Employees who have been re-deployed through this process and have been re-deployed into a position with a wage maximum below that of their surplused title will have their wages treated in accordance with the Wage & Working Practices, General Section, (C)	Paragraph 3,12, Wage treatment in accordance with Paragraph 3.12
will cease if pursuant to a subsequent surplus declaration the employee selects a position under Article Vil paragraph i.i, however the employee will receive transition pay as appropriate.
(h)	Employees who have been re-deployed through this process into a position with a wage maximum either at or below that of their surplused title will continue to have access to and may accept the provisions of the EVSP until which ever of the fol lowing occurs first:
(I) they accept another position through the Transfer Bureau; or (2) a.) Three (3) years from the effective date of their re-
(C)	deployment for employees with ten (10) or more years or
b.) for employees with less than ten (10) years of service on the effective date of their re-deployment, the lesser of three (3) years from the effective date of their re-deployment or the period of time between the effective date of their redeployment and the expiration date of the 2004 Labor Agreements (April 4, 2009).
(i)	The title of employees re-deployed will be changed to conform to the title on the new position, and such employees will be subject to the working practices prevailing for other employees in that position.
(j)	There will be no retreat back to the surplused position within the normal six-month retreat period.
(C)* Guaranteed Job Offer [in effect for the remaining life of the current Contract (April 4,2009)] will consist of a bargaining unit job in the Slate of Connecticut for -which the employee is qualified (must meet the basic qualifications, including passing the appropriate tests). An employee who is offered a Guaranteed Job Offer will have 24 hours from the time of offer within which to accept the position. If the employee declines the position, the employee will no longer be eligible for
Guaranteed Job Offer or transfer, voluntarily or involuntarily, to another position and will be required to accept the EVSP offer and must be off the payroll within 8 weeks from the date of notification io the Union of the initiation of the Involuntary Re-Deployment Process.
10
BASIC CONTRACT
(k)	Residency time requirements on the new title to which the employee has been re-deployed will be waived until the employee transfers to a subsequent position.
r
(I)	Re-deployed employees will not have any priority consideration in the Transfer Bureau, and any transfer requests will be processed in the normal manner by the Transfer Bureau, except in the following circumstance; If as a result of accepting a Guaranteed Job Offer, the surplused employee is placed into a job title specifically created by the Company to meet the Guaranteed Job Offer commitment, the employee will receive "priority placement" preference in the Transfer Bureau for the next available position for which the surplused employee applies and is qualified and which is at or below the maximum wage rate of the surplused title the employee left. An employee who transfers from a job title specifically created by the Company to meet the Guaranteed Job Offer commitment will not be allowed to retreat back to that title.
(m)	If a re-deployed employee subsequently transfers to another position, all of the normal Transfer Bureau rules will apply to any subsequent transferor transfer request (e.g., must meet residency requirements of the new position).
(n) All employees re-deployed under the Involuntary ReDeployment Process will have two additional transfer requests automatically placed in the Available File7: 1.) Original title, same location; 2.) Original job title, any location. Residency time requirement on their new title will be waived and these automatic requests will be in addition to the contractual agreement of ten. Automatic requests will remain in the Available File until the employee returns to their former title or is advanced to a level higher than their former title.
(o) If a vacancy arises in the surplused employee’s former title (or successor title) and location, the order of priority in filling that vacancy will be as follows:
7 Available File is maintained by the Transfer Bureau, and includes employees who have "recall” rights to a job title from which they were laid off or redeployed and receive consideration for that job title before other employees.
11
BASIC CONTRACT
(C)	(1) Recalls from layoff or re-deployment (‘‘Article VII Recall
Rights”) are honored in the following order
(a) First: Combined seniority for “Recall From Layoff’ (b) Second: Combined seniority for “Recall From Involuntary Redeployment” and “Buyback Rights”,
(2)	Employees declared surplus (not yet placed).
(3)	Employees in the MIT Program.
(4)	Normal transfer requests.
(p)	Fulfillment of either of the automatic transfer requests will remove the employee from the Available File. This will have no effect on any other transfer requests the employee has on file in the Transfer Bureau. If the employee had fulfilled all residency
' requirements prior to re-deployment, no new residency requirements will be required for a subsequent transfer. If the employee had not met residency requirements prior to re-deployment, the employee will be required to complete any remaining residency requirement. The time spent in any job(s) between the dale of re-deployment and the date of recall from re-deploytnenl will be counted for the purposes of meeting residency requirements.
(q)	The effect of declining an automatic transfer request will be as follows:
(1)	Original title - Original Location:
- Employee is removed from the Available File. If his/her pay is above the maximum for the present title, it will be reduced directly to that maximum.
(2)	Original title - Any Location:
- Employee will be removed from the Available File for any locations to which they refuse an automatic transfer. They will remain in the available file for all other statewide locations.
When the Company has an insufficient number of jobs available to offer to surplused employees and notifies the Union that it does intent! to layoff bargaining unit employees, the Company will proceed as follows:
12
BASIC CONTRACT
b.	The Company and the Union shall meet and jointly agree upon the definition of the groups (herein after referred to as “pools”) within which layoffs are to be effected should it be necessary to introduce layoffs. At a minimum, pools will be defined as an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Job Group within an entity. Should the Company elect to combine EEO Job Groups across the Company for purposes of establishing layoff “pools", the Company may retain up to ten percent (10%) of the employees slated for layoff in the “pool” based on criteria such as special skills or licenses.
c.	In order to relieve the surplus, the Company shall first implement a voluntary exit incentive program, which will encompass either the payment provisions delineated in paragraph five (5) of this Article or a replacement negotiated voluntary termination program, within the impacted entity “pool(s)"or on a wider basis if the Company deems that it is appropriate. The voluntary exit incentive program will remain available to impacted employees for a minimum of fifteen (15) days.
d.	If, at the conclusion of the voluntary exit incentive program, further force adjustments are deemed necessary by ihe Company, the Company shall provide the Union with formal written notification as to (i) the existence of a surplus condition by title and entity; (ii) its intent to implement a voluntary re-deployment process to relieve that surplus and (iii) its intent to introduce layoffs no earlier than thirty (30) days from the date of notification should voluntary re-deployment efforts fail to relieve the surplus condition.
e.	The Company will initiate a voluntary re-deployment process to last a minimum of fifteen (IS) days. This process will be available to all incumbents in surplused Titles. This process will make open positions? available to qualified employees identified for surplus on a seniority basis. Employees accepting positions in this voluntary re-deployment process will not have “retreat” rights to their original title. The Company will terminate any Temporary employees or Contract Labor performing the work of bargaining unit employees in the impacted “pool”.
g. The Company and the Union are committed to jointly explore all possible alternatives to layoff prior to the Company initiating layoffs. To that end, as soon as can be mutually arranged after the issuance of the forma] written notification, the Company and the Union shall convene a joint committee of representatives to explore all alternatives to achieve the underlying cost reductions associated with the planned layoff. These options may include, but are not limited to changes to wage rates, benefit provisions and in work rules, changes in compensation practices relative to overtime and differential payments, changes in reimbursement practices or implementation of furloughing and/or part-timing work scheduling arrangements. This committee shall not formulate policy or arrive at
8 "Open Positions”: any positions available in the Transfer Bureau will be closed to normal Transfer Bureau candidates in order to be made available co either the Voluntary Re-deployment process or to employees designated for layoff
13
BASIC CONTRACT
binding decisions or agreements, but rather shall be charged with the responsibility to develop recommendations to the Company and Union bargaining representatives during the notification period.
h.	In the event there still remains the need to initiate layoffs, the Company will do so in accordance with the fonna) written notification referenced in paragraph (I). The Company will terminate contract labor and Temporary employees performing services that employees designated for layoff are qualified to perform and that can be performed at comparable costs.
i.	Based upon the “pools’ agreed upon in paragraph (b) above, surplused titles will be grouped with other titles in the same EEO Job Group and all incumbents on titles within the “pool” will be arranged in seniority order. The Company, if appropriate, will identify employees to be retained and then in inverse seniority order within the “pool" designate employees for layoff to the extent necessary to relieve the surplus condition. Within each “pool” more junior employees in the surplus titles will be offered, in seniority order, the positions of the most junior (non-retained) employees slated for layoff from the “pool". Employees selecting positions of mote junior employees in the “pool” must meet Basic Qualifications of the position selected. If the position selected is at a lower rate of pay than that of the employee’s current position, the employee’s pay will be reduced to the new rate at the time of transfer; however, the employee will continue to receive a supplemental partial payment of their severance pay (“Transition Pay”), to maintain their former rate of pay, for a period of time equivalent to the number of weeks called for in the layoff payment table based upon their (C) completed years of net credited service. Residency time requirements on the new title for employees selecting positions in this process will be waived until the employee transfers to a subsequent position. Employees selecting positions in this process will have “buyback” rights9 to their original title should a vacancy arise in that title within the Company-defined entity from which they were originally declared surplus.
9 “Buyback Rights" - AU employees surplused in the "layolT' process and who “bump” into a position which has been designated for layoff will have two additional transfer requests automatically placed in the Available Pile ■ I.) Original title, same location; 2.) Original job title, any location. Residency time requirement on their new title will be waived and these automatic requests will be in addition to the contractual agreement of ten. Automatic requests will remain in the Available File until the employee returns to their former title or is advanced to a level higher than their former title. Fulfillment of either of the automatic transfer requests will remove the employee from the Available File. This will have no effect on any other transfer requests the employee has on file in the Transfer Bureau. The effect of declining an automatic transfer request will be as follows:
(I) Original title - Original Location:
Employee is removed from the Available File.
(2) Original title - Any Location:
Employee will be removed from the Available File for any locations to which they refuse an automatic transfer. They will remain in die available file for all other statewide locations.
14
BASIC CONTRACT
j.	Employees electing not to select a position of a more junior employee in the “pool”, may alternatively accept the provisions of the voluntary exit incentive program in effect at the time. If, at the conclusion of the above steps, further force adjustments are deemed necessary by the Company, the employees designated for layoff will be given a last voluntary
(C) opportunity to select from available open positions10 or accept the provisions of the voluntary exit incentive program in effect at the time. The Company will then initiate layoffs for all remaining identified employees.
2.	In the event of an emergency or unusual peak work load conditions, the Company will attempt to utilize employees laid off under the provision of this article before engaging other contingency labor sources. Employees laid off by SNET will be given preferential consideration for engagement as a Temporary employee if they are so registered.
(a)	Temporary needs in titles and entities which have been subject to layoff shall be filled as follows:
(1)	The Company shall contact former employees who have “recall” rights (as defined in Paragraph 3 of this Article) to that title and entity, in seniority order, in order to offer them the temporary assignment (regardless of prior application status).
(2)	All provisions of the Temporary employee classification will be applicable; except, wage rates for these employees will be equivalent to the going rate for regular employees holding that title and contractual work rules applicable to these employees will be consistent with those applicable Io regular employees holding that title.
(3)	Acceptance of a Temporary assignment will have not impact on “recall” rights or any previous severance payments.
(b)	Temporary needs in titles and entities which have not been subject to layoff shall be filled as follows:
(1)	Preference shall be given to laid off employees who have applied for Temporary employment. All provisions of the Temporary employee classification would apply to these employees, should they accept the assignment; such acceptance will have no impact on “recall" rights or any previous severance payments.
(2)	Select from remaining Temporary applicants.
10 “Open Positions’’: any positions available tn the Transfer Bureau will be closed to normal Transfer Bureau candidates in order to be made available to either the Voluntary Re-deployment process or to employees designated for layoff.
15
I
BASIC CONTRACT
3.	If a vacancy should arise in a title for successor titles) and organizational unit which has experienced layoffs, the Company will offer employment in order of seniority to employees who have been laid off from that title (or successor titles) and organizational unit, before initiating the Transfer Plan (Policies and Procedures, Part 1). These “recall rights'" will remain in effect for laid off employees provided that:
(a)	Each such employee’s service at the time of layoff exceeds one (!) year and
(b)	The period of layoff does not exceed:
-	two years for employees with less than six (6) years of seniority net credited service at the time of layoff, or
-	four years for employees with six (6) or more years of seniority net credited service al the time of layoff, and
(c)	Such employee is still qualified to perform the duties of the available work and
(d)	Such employee keeps the Company informed of the address at which the employee can be reached and reports for duty within four (4) weeks after notification of re-employment by registered mail.
An employee who declines an offer of employment to their former title (or successor titles) and organizational unit (at a location 50 miles or less from their former work location) will no longer have “recall rights" to their former title (or successor titles) and organizational unit.
4.	Seniority, for the purpose of this article, shall be based on seniority net credited service as defined in General 1.14 (b).
5.	Layoff Payments
(a) Except as otherwise specified below a regular employee with one or more years of continuous service since the latest dale of engagement or reengagement who is laid off under the provisions of this article, shall receive a payment for each completed year of seniority net credited service as defined in General i. 14 (b), as follows:
16
BASIC CONTRACT
Completed Years of Net Credited Service	Amount of Payment
1	2 wks
2	3 wks
3	4 wks
4	5 wks
5	7 wks
6	9 wks
7	11 wks
8	13 wks
9	15 wks
10	17 wks
11	20 wks
12	23 wks
13	26 wks
14	29 wks
15	32 wks
16	35 wks
17	38 wks
18	41 wks
19	44 wks
20	48 wks
21 & over	52 wks
NOTE: Except as otherwise specified below and in the absence of a replacement negotiated voluntary exit incentive program, a regular employee with one or more years of continuous service since the latest date of engagement or re-engagement who voluntarily elects to leave the Company under the provisions of this article, shall receive a payment for each completed year of net credited service as noted in the above table, except the following maximum benefit amounts (i.e., voluntary exit incentive program) shall apply:	■
(C)	- If the participant’s basic bi-weekly wage rate is $1,914.20 (effective
6/22/03)* or less, his/her maximum benefit shall be $26,000.
(C)	- If the participant’s basic bi-weekly rate is greater than SI ,914.20 (effective
6/22/03)*, his/her maximum benefit shall be S28.000.
* The amount will be increased whenever there is an adjustment to the wage progression schedules
(b)	The employee's basic weekly wage plus any fixed differential shall be used as the basis for computing the amount of the layoff payment.
17
BASIC CONTRACT
(c)	A regular part time employee whose employment is terminated pursuant to this article shall receive a layoff payment as provided in (a) above, except that pay for each week shall be based on the employee's average basic weekly wage during the highest four (4) weeks during the twelve (12) months immediately preceding the week before the layoff. The average weekly pay shall not exceed the basic weekly pay for five normal tours or their equivalent per week.
(d)	When an employee who has received a layoff payment is re-engaged as a regular employee and the number of weeks since the layoff is less than the number of weeks upon which the payment was based, the amount paid to the employee for the excess number of weeks shall be considered as advance pay and repayment shall be made in one lump sum or through payroll deductions at the rare of 10% of the current basic weekly wage until the excess amount is paid in full.
(e)	A reengaged employee who has received a layoff payment and who is again laid off shall be paid the difference between the computed payment to which the employee is entitled and the amount of any payment which the employee retained as a result of any previous layoff.
(f)	The layoff payment provided for above shall be in addition to any payment in lieu of vacation allowance to which the employee may be entitled as of the layoff date.
(g)	Layoff payments shall be made in one lump sum less any deductions required by law.
ARTICLE VIII
(Reserved for Future Use)
ARTICLE IX
REINSTATEMENT OF EMPLOYEE VETERANS
I.	Employees who have been in military service on leaves of absence shall be reinstated in their former or equivalent positions in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)	Application for reinstatement is made within ninety (90) days after release from military service, or from hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more than (1) year;
18
BASIC CONTRACT
(b)	Military service has been satisfactorily completed as indicated by discharge papers;
(c)	They are still qualified to perform the duties of such positions;
(d)	When employees are unable immediately to return to work because of disability they will be reinstated as of the date of discharge from military service and will be eligible to sickness benefits in accordance with their net credited service,
2.	Any employees reinstated in accordance with the above provisions shall be returned to the payroll at the rate of pay they would have received, if they had been continuously on duty with the Company during the absence, in the job classification they were in at the time they left.
ARTICLE X
TRANSFERS AND PROMOTIONS
I.	, ft is agreed that personnel placement is based upon the fitting together of people and jobs through consideration of the abilities, interests, personality, capacities, experience, training and physical qualifications of the individual and the requirements of the job. Recognizing that there will be a need for transfers from one occupation to another the Company will maintain a procedure to enable an employee to make known a desire to be considered for another position.
2.	Selection of employees for transfer to other jobs will be made in accordance with the Transfer Procedure identified as Policies and Procedures Part 1 of this Contract.
3.	In making promotions, Management shall select the employee with seniority provided the qualifications of the individuals considered for the position are judged by Management to be reasonably equal. In the event that a person with less service than other candidates is chosen, the following rule should apply. The greater the difference in length of service the more highly qualified must the person selected be to override that seniority.
4.	For the purpose of this article seniority shall be based on seniority net credited service.
5.	The promotion of an employee to a management job shall not be subject to arbitration as prescribed in Article XXI of this Contract.
19
BASIC CONTRACT
6.	Insofar as practicable, the Company will notify those employees who were candidates for the position of the reasons for the final selection before announcement is made of the employee selected. Any interested employee shall be informed of the reasons by initiating an interview with the supervisor.
ARTICLE XI
DISMISSALS AND PENALTIES
1.	Dismissals or other penalties shall be effected for just cause only and not for purposes of discrimination against any member of the Union. In any action taken on account of unsatisfactory work or minor misdemeanor subsequent to the trial period, the Company agrees to make a definite effort to provide another opportunity for further trial of the employee before final dismissal is effected.
2.	In all cases of dismissals or other penalties, the employee's supervisor will
(C> notify the appropriate Chief Steward, or a higher level union officer if the Chief
Steward is unavailable, prior to such action. If circumstances make this prior notification impossible, the supervisor will notify the Chief Steward immediately
(C) following such action and will inform the Chief Steward of the reason prior
notification was not possible. In addition, the Director-Labor Relations shall notify the Union office in writing of any such action as soon as practicable with the exception of those releases which occur during the trial period. The withholding of a scheduled wage increase will be reported to the Union office by the DirectorLabor Relations.
ARTICLE XII
UNION REPRESENTATION
1. At any meeting between a representative of the Company and an employee in which discipline (including warnings which are to be recorded in the personnel file, suspension, demotion or discharge for cause) is to be discussed a Union representative will be present ifthe employee so requests.
20
BASIC CONTRACT
ARTICLE XIII
GRIEVANCES
1. In the event differences arise between the Company and any of its employees or the Union as to the application, interpretation and administration of matters subject to the provisions of this Contract, the parties hereto agree to make a prompt and earnest effort to settle such differences io the satisfaction of all parties concerned, in the minimum number of steps in the following procedure:
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE Union	Management
Informational Meeting
Steward or designee	I ” Level Management
Aggrieved A meeting shall be scheduled with the employee's Supervisor to discuss the facts and attempt to resolve the issue. If not resolved after such discussion and the Union wishes to proceed further, a formal request for local resolution will be submitted by the Union defining the Grievance, identifying the aggrieved employee or employees involved and the parties listed below shall 'meet within 5 working days and attempt to settle.
ChiefSteward or designee Steward If not settled then the folio	Local Resolution , Chairperson wing parties shall meet within 10 request for department resolution	2nd Level Management (Department) Is* Level Management working days of the Union’s t. ? 1
	Department Resolution	
Department V.P. or designee Business Agent Chief Steward	Chairperson	Director (Department) Director (Labor Relations) or Designated Labor Relations Manager and 2nd Level Management (Department)
If not settled then the following parties shall meet within 10 working days of the Union’s request for Corporate resolution.		
CWA International Staff Rep. or designee Executive Vice President Departmental VP
Corporate Resolution
Chairperson
Vice President - Labor Relations
Director (Department) Director (Labor Relations) 2nd Level Management (Department)
21
BASIC CONTRACT
Representation of the parties at each step will be generally as indicated but may vary at the discretion of the Chairman of either party and with advance notice.
If not settled then either of the parties may request arbitration as prescribed in Article XXI of the Contract.
(C) NOTE: A. All grievances will be filed within 180 days from the date of the action to be grieved or the date the Union became aware of the action to be grieved. Time limits for local resolution, department resolution and corporate resolution shall be waived upon request of either party.
(C)	B. Those employees of the Company including the aggrieved
employee(s) and the employee representativc(s) designated by the Union, who shall suffer no loss in pay for time consumed in, and necessarily consumed in traveling to and from grievance meetings, shall not be more than three (3) at the Local Resolution step, no more than four (4) at the Departmental Resolution step and no more than three (3) at the Corporate Resolution step of the grievance procedure. Representation of the parties al each step will be generally as indicated but either party may vary it by advance notice to the other party.
C.	At the conclusion of any step in the grievance procedure, the grievance shall be considered as finally and satisfactorily settled unless taken to the next step within forty-five (45) days.
D.	If the Company denies the grievance at the Department Resolution step, the Company (Labor Relations) shall provide written notice of such denial to the appropriate CWA District One International Official.
E.	At the Corporate Resolution Step, the Company (Labor Relations) shall provide final disposition of the grievance to the appropriate CWA District One International Official.
2.	Grievances arising out of the application, interpretation and administration of matters subject to the provision of this Contract ordinarily shall be processed in accordance with the above procedure.
3.	The employee or employees initiating the case may accompany their Union Representative at any of the proceedings in the case. However, any individual employee or group of employees has the right at any time to present grievances to the Company and to have such grievances adjusted, without the intervention of the Union, as long as the adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of this Contract, and provided the Union has been given opportunity to be present at such adjustment.
22
BASIC CONTRACT
4.	The Company wi II permit aggrieved employees and their Union Representatives such necessary time off as conditions of the business permit, without pay, for conferring and preparing the employee's case.
5.	If dismissed employees are subsequently cleared of charges preferred
against them, the Company shall reinstate such employees and they shall receive full compensation for any loss of wages, less any amount received by them for their services elsewhere and as unemployment insurance benefits during the period of dismissal. If an employee suffers a penalty other than dismissal and is subsequently cleared, the Company shall fully compensate the employee for any loss of wages sustained while such penalty was in effect. In either case the Company shall restore the employee to the same status the employee would have attained if the dismissal or penalty had not been in effect.
6.	A confidential written report of the proceedings at each step of the grievance procedure shall be prepared and signed by both panics promptly after each step.
Such report shall include:
a.	Dates of meeting, department, exchange
b.	Names of those attending
c.	Statement of grievance
d.	Management's position
e.	Union's position
f.	Conclusion reached
A signed copy of such minutes shall be furnished to both parties.
ARTICLE XIV
JOINT CONFERENCES
I.	Joint conferences between Union and Company representatives shall be held upon request of either party, providing reasonable advance notice with a statement of the subjects proposed for discussion, shall be given to the other party. Reasonable advance notice shall ordinarily be interpreted as a period of not less than one (1) week nor more than two (2) weeks, the exact period in each case to be determined by mutual agreement. Joint meetings to discuss grievances or emergency matters shall be held with a minimum of delay. The Executive Board, the President of the Union or their duly authorized representatives may meet with officials of the Company as occasion demands.
2,	The Director-Labor Relations shall make the necessary arrangements for holding the conference on the date specified in rhe notice if acceptable to the other party, or some other mutually satisfactory date if the date specified cannot be met, and shall notify the immediate supervisors of those employees expected to attend. Because of scheduling requirements, the Director’s office
23
BASIC CONTRACT
shall be notified by Thursday of the week preceding the specified date. The Union office or appropriate Company Representatives shall be advised, by the Director-Labor Relations, of the date and proposed subjects of the conference. Exceptions to this method of arranging for joint conferences shall be made when one Union representative wishes to meet with one Company representative other than his/her own supervisor; in such cases, the Union representative shall arrange with his/her immediate supervisor for the necessary time off.
3.	The Company wil I pay Union representatives for time off during scheduled working hours to attend joint conferences including any necessary time spent during scheduled working hours in traveling to and from such conferences. Union representatives shall return to regular duty at the conclusion of any joint conference which terminates a reasonable time prior to the completion of scheduled working hours. The Company will not pay transportation and meal expenses.
4.	Minutes of joint conferences shall be recorded by a person employed by the Union and shall be approved in writing by a designated Company representative and a designated Union representative. The Company may also have its representative present to record minutes when it so desires and shall furnish a copy of such minutes to the Union. In return for the Union providing secretarial service, the Company will assume the cost of printing the minutes of joint conferences and will furnish the Union office up to thirty-five (35) copies of such minutes. Upon request, copies in excess of thirty-five (35) will be furnished to the Union at cost.	.
5.	The Union chairman shall be the chairman of joint conferences between Union and Company representatives.
ARTICLE XV
COLLECTION OF DUES
1.	Upon written order signed by a bargaining unit employee, the Company will deduct from that employee's wages and pay over to the Union the amount specified in said order. The Union will reimburse the Company for the cost of making the transaction.
2.	The Union agrees that at its own expense it will defend, indemnify, and save harmless the Company from and against all claims, demands, suits, damages, or expenses, of any kind whatsoever, arising out of or in any manner, except for the Company’s own willful misconduct, incident to any action taken by the Company in complying with Section 1 of this Article XV.
24
BASIC CONTRACT
ARTICLE XVI
AGENCY SHOP
1.	Each employee who is a member of the Union or who is obligated to tender Io the Union amounts equal to periodic dues on the effective date of this agreement, or who later becomes a member, and all employees entering into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this agreement, shall as a condition of employment pay or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members for the period from such effective date or, in the case of employees entering into the bargaining unit after the effective date, on or after the thirtieth day after such entrance, whichever of these dates is later, until the termination of this contract.
2.	For purpose of this Article, "employee" shall mean any person entering into the bargaining unit. Each employee who is a member of the bargaining unit on or before the effective date of this Agreement and who on the effective date of this Agreement was not required as a condition of employment to pay or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members, shall, as a condition of employment, pay or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members for the period beginning 30 days after the effective date of this agreement, until the termination of this agreement.
3.	The condition of employment specified above shall not apply during periods of formal separations* from the bargaining unit by any such employee but shall reapply to such employee on the thirtieth day following return to the bargaining unit.
*The term "formal separation" includes transfers out of the bargaining unit, removal from the payroll of the Company, and leaves of absence of more than one month duration.
ARTICLE XVII
PROMOTIONS AND TRANSFERS OF UNION OFFICERS
1.	In the event of a proposed promotion, advancement or transfer of a
Business Agent, Chief Steward or Executive Board member, the Company wilt give two (2) weeks written notice to the Union as well as notifying the individual involved.
25
BASIC CONTRACT
ARTICLE XVIll
UNION ACTIVITIES
1.	No employee shall engage in any Union activity, except joint meetings with the Company's representatives, during work periods. Incidental activities associated with the functions of locals may be performed outside of such work periods, provided such activities are performed by Union members who are also employees and are carried on in space where no Company operations or administrative work is performed, or where such activities do not interfere with the operations of the Company or the use of the space by other employees for the purpose for which the space intended. In case of emergency, supervisors may excuse Union representatives from duty without pay, to carry on such activities.
2.	Insofar as requirements of the business permit, employees will be excused from duty, without pay, when required to do Union work. Union representatives shall make arrangements with their immediate Supervisors in advance of such absences giving at least one (1) week's advance notice of the requested absence.
3.	Conditions of work permitting, employees shall be excused from their normal tour of duty in periods of half days or whole days unless part of such periods can be used for productive work.
4.	Union meetings shall not be held on Company property,
ARTICLE XIX
FEDERAL OR STATE LAWS
1.	Should any Federal or State law or regulations, or the final decision of
any court or board of competent jurisdiction, affect any practice or provision of this Contract, the practice or provision so affected shall be made to comply with the requirements of such law, regulation or decision for the localities within the jurisdiction; otherwise all other provisions of and practices under this Contract shall remain in full force and effect. Any changes made under this article shall be discussed and agreed upon jointly by the Company and the Union before written revisions are issued.
26
BASIC CONTRACT
ARTICLE XX
AMENDMENT
1.	This Contract shall be subject to amendment by mutual agreement of
the parties hereto at any time. The specific terms of such amendment shall be committed to writing and signed by a duly authorized Company representative and a duly authorized Union representative. Any announcement of such amendment shall be worded identically when issued separately by the Union and the Company.
2.	It is expressly understood that this Contract does not cover all working conditions now existing or which may arise in the future. Both parties reserve the right to bargain regarding any working conditions not specifically covered in this Contract
ARTICLE XXI
ARBITRATION
1.	In the event that any dispute or controversy concerning the true intent and meaning of a provision of this Contract, or a question as to the performance of any obligation here under, or any grievance as defined in Article XIII arises and cannot be satisfactorily settled by negotiation between the Union and the Company, with the exception stated in paragraph 5 of Article X of this Contract, the matter shall be arbitrated upon written request of either party to the other in the following manner.
a.	After the filing of the request, the Union shall appoint one person to serve as arbitrator; the Company shall appoint one and the Union and the Company shall jointly appoint a third person who shall serve as Chairman.
In the event that an agreement cannot be reached on the appointment of a third person, that person shall be designated by the American Arbitration Association. The rules and regulations of the American Arbitration Association which are in force at the date of the submission of the matter to arbitration shall govern all arbitration proceedings.
b.	After the appointment of this committee, hearings shall be started, carried to conclusion as expeditiously as possible-
27
BASIC CONTRACT
c.	The decision of the majority of this Arbitration Committee shah be final and the Union and the Company agree to abide by such decision.
2.	The compensation and expenses of the Union and the Company appointees shall be bome by the respective organizations choosing them while those of the Chairman and the general expenses of the arbitration shall be bome by the Union and the Company equally.
ARTICLE XXII
EXPEDITED ARBITRATION
1.	In lieu of the procedures specified in Article XXI of this Agreement, any grievance involving the suspension of an individual employee, except those which also involve an issue of arbitrability, contract interpretation, or work stoppage (strike) activity and those which are also the subject of an administrative charge or court action shall be submitted to arbitration under the expedited arbitration procedure hereinafter provided within fifteen (15) calendar days after the filing of a request for arbitration. In all other grievances involving disciplinary action which are specifically subject to arbitration under Article XXI of this Agreement, both parties may, within fifteen (15) calendar days after filing of the request for arbitration, elect to use the expedited arbitration procedure hereinafter provided. The election shall be in writing and, when signed by authorized representatives of the parties, shall be irrevocable. If no such election is made within the foregoing time period, the arbitration procedure in Article XXI shall be followed.
2.	As soon as possible after this Agreement becomes final and binding, a panel of three umpires shall be selected by the parties. Each umpire shall serve until the termination of this Agreement unless his/her services are terminated earlier by written notice from either party to the other. The umpire shall be notified of the termination by a joint letter from the parties. The umpire shall conclude his or her services by settling any grievance previously heard. A successor umpire shall be selected by the parties. Umpires shall be assigned cases in rotating order designated by the parties. If an umpire is not available for a hearing within ten (J 0) working days after receiving an assignment, the case will be passed to the next umpire. If no one can hear the case within (10) working days, the case will be assigned to the umpire who can hear the case on the earliest date.
28
BASIC CONTRACT
3.	The procedure for expediting arbitration shall be as follows:
a.	The parties shall notify the umpire in writing on theday of agreement or date of arbitration demand in suspension cases to settle a grievance by expedited arbitration. The umpire shall notify the parties in writing of the hearing date.
b.	The parties may submit to the umpire prior to the hearing a written stipulation of all facts not in dispute.
c.	The hearing shall be informal without formal rules of evidence and without a transcript. However, the umpire shall be satisfied himself or herself that the evidence submitted is of a type on which he or she can rely, that the hearing is in all respects a fair one, and that all facts necessary to a fair settlement and reasonably obtainable are brought before the umpire.
d.	Within five (5) working days after the hearing, each party may submit a brief written summary of the issues raised at the hearing and arguments supporting its position. The umpire shall give his or her settlement within five (5) working days after receiving the briefs. He or she shall provide the parties a brief written statement of the reasons supporting his or her settlement.
J
e.	The umpire's settlement shall apply only to the instant grievance, which shall be settled thereby. It shall not constitute a precedent for . other cases or grievances and may not be cited or used as a precedent in other arbitration matters between the parties unless the settlement or a modification thereof is adopted by the written concurrence of the representatives of each party at the third step of the grievance procedure.
f.	The time limits in (a) and (d) of this Section'may be extended by agreement of the parties or at the umpire's request, in either case only in emergency situations. Such extensions shall not circumvent the purpose of this procedure.
g.	In any grievance arbitrated under the provisions of this Section, the Company shall under no circumstances be liable forbackpay formorc than six (6) months (plus any time that the processing of the grievance or arbitration was delayed at the specific request of the Company) after the date of the disciplinary action. Delays requested by the Union in which the Company concurs shall not be included in such additional lime.
29
BASIC CONTRACT
h.	The umpire shall have no authority to add to, subtract from, or modify any provisions of this Agreement,
i.	The decision of the umpire will settle the grievance, and the Company and the Union agree to abide by such decision. The compensation and expenses of the umpire and the general expenses of the arbitration shall be bome by the Company and the Union in equal parts. Each party shall bear the expense of its representatives and witnesses.
j.	The time limit for requesting arbitration under this provision shall be the same as in ex isting procedures.
ARTICLE XXIII
NON-DISCRIMINATION CLAUSE
1.	In a desire to restate their respective policies neither rhe Company nor the Union shall unlawfully discriminate against any employee because of such employee’s race, color, religion, sex, age, or national origin or because he or she is handicapped, a disabled veteran or a veteran of the Vietnam era.
ARTICLE XXIV
(Reserved for Future Use)
ARTICLE XXV
(Reserved for Future Use)
ARTICLE XXVI
(Reserved for Future Use)
30
BASIC CONTRACT
ARTICLE XXVII
MISCELLANEOUS
1,	The Union may use space on Company bulletin boards for posting
notices and bulletins tn consideration of an annual rental rate mutually agreeable.
2.	The Company will furnish the Union office bi-weekly with a list of employees engaged, transferred and released during each week. The Union will reimburse the Company for the cost of this service.
3.	The Company will regularly furnish the Union office with copies of the following:
a.	Wage and Working Practices
b.	Wage Maxima Sheets
c.	Wage Progression Schedules
d.	Job Descriptions
e.	Transfer Practices
f.	Monthly Report No. 1 - Condensed Summary of Reports of The Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation
4.	Company representatives at or above director level shall address all communications to and conduct business relations with the Union through the Di rec tor-Labor Relations.
ARTICLE XXVIII
DURATION AND BASIS OF REOPENING
1.	This Contract shall commence and be binding upon the parties hereto (C) from the 4th day of April, 2004, and shall continue in force and effect until
11:59 PM on April 4,2009.
(C)	If not terminated on said 4lh day of April, 2009, by either party giving sixty
(60) days prior notice in writing of its election to so terminate, it shall be a continuing Contract until terminated by similar sixty (60) days notice from one party to the other. Subject only to the provisions of any applicable law, it is mutually agreed that after April 4, 2009, either party on reasonable notice to the other may reopen negotiations on matters covered by this Contract.
31
BASIC CONTRACT
2. This Contract supersedes and revokes a prior Contract dated
(C) February 1,2001, and constitutes the full and complete agreement between the Company and the Union on all bargainable issues and neither party shall be required to negotiate or bargain upon any issue until after April 4,2009.
THE SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
(C) By: Kevin Zupkus
AVP - Labor Relations - SBC East
By: Robert F. McCorkle, III
Director - Labor Relations - SBC East
(C) COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA
By: Dennis G. Trainor
CWA Area Director Downslate New York and Connecticut
By: Patricia M. Telcsco
CWA International Staff Representative
By; Paul J. Hongo, Jr
Prcsident-CWA Local 1298	,
32
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN
THE COMPANY AND THE UNION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Subject	Page No.
Team Performance Award Plan (TPA)	34
Commitment of Employment Security	36
(C) Memorandum of Agreement Concerning Evolving Technologies and Traditional Telecom Work	39
Contract Labor Letter (Porter)	43
Joint Committees	44
Increase Available Family Care Funds	47
Team-Based Incentive Plan	47
MOA Employment Opportuni ty/Enhanced Retirement Benefit	48
Agreement Regarding Movement of Work
From SNET (Connecticut)	49
(C)	Pre-Test Training Workshops	50
(C)	Home Dispatch Program Trial	50
‘ (C) Memorandum of Understanding Regarding Regulated and Competitive Operator Services	52
(C)	Union Assistance Program	58
(C)	Network Customer Service Center -	Scheduling	59
33
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN
THE COMPANY AND THE UNION
TEAM PERFORMANCE AWARD PLAN (TPA)
(C) A. In order to reward employees for their contributions toward the achievement of the Company's financial goals and the satisfaction of customer expectations, eligible employees will receive payments in February of 2005, February of 2006, February of 2007, February of 2008 and February of 2009, for performance years 2004,2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, if the Company meets its goals and expectations, using the criteria established for payout of the Management Team Award (MTA) under the SBC Management Compensation Plan applicable to SNET. The payments will be calculated as follows:
(C)	2004 MTA % X $350 = February 2005 Payment
2005 MTA % X $350 = February 2006 Payment
2006 MTA % X S350 = February 2007 Payment
2007 MTA % X $350 = February 2008 Payment
2008 MTA % X $350 - February 2009 Payment
EL [n order to link employee compensation to the financial returns of SBC shareowners, the Company wilt make lump-sum payments in accordance with the Stock Appreciation Table below, subject to the following conditions:
STOCK APPRECIATION TABLE
PERCENT APPRECIATION	PAYMENT					
(C)	2005	2006	2007	2008	2009	
Less than 2%	0	0	0	0	0	
2% but less than 4%	$175	$175	$175	$175	$175	
4% but less than 6%	$200	$200	$200	$200	$200	-
6% but less than 8%	$250	$250	$250	$250	$250	
8% but less than 10%	$300	$300	$300	$300	$300	
10% but less than 15%	$350	$350	$350	$350	$350	
15% but less than 20%	$400	$400	$400	$400	$400	
20% or more	Add fifty ($50.00) dollars for each					
	incremental increase of five (5%) full					
percentage points.
34
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
(C)	1. Eligible employees will receive payments in February of 2005, February of2006,
February of 2007, February of 2008 and February of 2009, based on SBC stock appreciation in the performance years of 2004, 2005, 2006,2007 and 2008, respectively, in accordance with the following:
(C) a) The February of 2005 payment will be based on each full percentage point increase of the 2004 stock price over the 2003 stock price. The February of 2006 payment will be based on each full percentage point increase of the 2005 stock price over the 2004 stock price. The February of 2007 payment will be based on each full percentage point increase of the 2006 stock price over the 2005 stock price. The February of 2008 payment will be based on each full percentage point increase of the 2007 stock price over the 2006 stock price. The February of 2009 payment will be based on each full percentage point increase of the 2008 stock price over the 2007 stock price.The stock price for each calendar year shall be the average of the closing prices of the shares on the New York Stock Exchange for the last five (5) trading days of that year.
bl The stock price will be adjusted proportionally to reflect any stock split that occurs during the annual period for which an increase is calculated.
c) Eligible regular part-time employees will receive prorated payments, based on their part-time classification on December 31 of the performance year.
C. To be eligible for payments described in A and B above, employees must be regular employees who have at least one year of Continuous Service on December 31 of the performance year preceding the February payment date. If an employee is separated from employment for any reason, other than for cause, the payments will be prorated. An employee who is separated for cause will not be eligible for any payment. Payments will also be prorated to exclude any continuous periods of absence exceeding thirty (30) days in the performance year except for absences as a result of an on-the-job injury.
(C) D. Payments described in A and B above, if applicable, will be combined into a single TPA payment in February of 2005, February of 2006, February of 2007, February of 2008 and February of 2009. In no case will the February of 2005, February of 2006, February of 2007, February of 2008 and February of2009 TPA payout be less than three hundred and fifty (3350) dollars.
E. Payments described in A and B above, if applicable, will be considered as eligible pay under the provisions of the SNET Pension Plan and the SBC Savings and Security Plan.
35
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
COMMITMENT OF EMPLOYMENT SECURITY
Introduction:
The Company and the Union recognize that through the normal course of business, change is inevitable and that some of these changes such as technological changes in equipment, organization or methods of operation may affect job security, the nature of work to be performed and the skills necessary to work in a new environment. As has been a long standing practice, the Company is committed to meeting with the Union up to six months in advance or as early as practical in the planning process of those major technological changes that may affect employees represented by the Union, to provide Ihe Union with information and to discuss the potential impact and effect of such changes on employees.
Employment Security Commitment:
In response to CW A and employee concents regarding employment security, the parties agree that if the Company:
-	has informed the Union of the necessity for force adjustments and
-	has begun the implementation ofthe provisions in Article VII of the Basic Contract and
-	has concluded the voluntary re-deployment process outlined in Paragraph 1 (e) of Article VII and
-	has provided the Union with formal written notification as to the necessity for further force adjustments and its intent to introduce layoffs no earlier than fifteen (15) days from the date of notification as outlined in Paragraph I (fl of Article VII (the “force disposition date”):
(C)	1. The Company will provide a Guaranteed Job Offer for surplus declarations
declared after ratification to qualified regular employees who have been designated for layoff subject to the conditions and provisions contained below. The Guaranteed Job Offer will not apply to employees hired on or after the date of ratification excluding employees rehired as a result of recall from a layoff prior to the date of ratification of this contract,
(C)	2. Any eligible regular employee who, after the ratification date of this
Agreement, has been designated for layoff pursuant to Article VII, Paragraph I (i), shall, prior to involuntary layoff, be offered a bargaining unit job in the State of Connecticut for which he/she is qualified.
36
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
(C)	3. The Guaranteed Job Offer shall be made to those qualified employees who
have been designated for layoff, pursuant to Article VII, Paragraph 1 (i), in accordance with the following procedure:
a.	The Company will compile a list of all available bargaining unit jobs for all locations within the state of Connecticut and likewise the Company will prepare a seniority listing of all employees who have been designated for layoff.
b.	Employees who have been designated for layoff must be qualified or become so qualified, by meeting the basic qualifications, including passing the appropriate tests, for the Guaranteed Job Offer positions for which they wish Io be considered.
c.	Beginning on the sixteenth (16th) day after surplus notification (or on the day following the anticipated force disposition date) the employees who have been designated for layoff will be offered, in seniority order, the opportunity to select a position from the list of available jobs for which they have met the basic qualifications, which is cither at or below the rate of pay for their current job.
d.	An employee to whom a Guaranteed Job Offer has been made has one (1) working day to accept the offer after which it will be considered rejected. The Company and the Union will jointly address individual employee circumstances where the one-day acceptance period may require adjustment.
e.	Rejection of a Guaranteed Job Offer voids this Employment Security Commitment, and shall be considered an election by the employee to terminate employment with Layoff Payments as outlined in Paragraph 5 of Article VII.
4.	The force surplus conditions contemplated and dealt with in this Commitment are those which occur in the normal course of business for reasons including technological change. The Company retains the right, however, to suspend or cancel at any time the application of this Commitment when a force surplus is declared because of any significant external impact that affects the (Q Company. The Company shall not suspend or cancel the application of this
Commitment for the life of the 2004 Contract.
37
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
5.	Wage treatment, including "Transition Pay" treatment, will be administered to eligible employees who accept or receive jobs under rhe provisions of this Commitment in accordance with Paragraph 1 (i) of Article VIL
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement and the provisions of Article VII of the Basic Contract, the provisions of this Memorandum of Agreement shall control.
(C) This Agreement shall become effective with ratification of the 2004 Contract and apply to surpluses declared on or after that date. All provisions of this Agreement shall expire and will not apply to force surplus declarations occurring on or after 11 ;59 p.m. on April 4, 2009. All provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to the grievance procedures set forth in Article Xlll, Grievances, of the Basic Contract, and any grievance shall initially be filed al the third step with the Vice Preside nt-Labor Relations and shall not be , delegated.
38
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
(C) MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT CONCERNING EVOLVING TECHNOLOGIES AND TRADITIONAL TELECOM WORK
Evolving Technologies and Traditional Telecom Work: FTTP, VoIP, WiFi fand other wireless data technologies)
Much of the work related to the evolving technologies of the telecommunications industry are extensions of traditional telephone work or copper cable switched technology. The new technologies referred to here are Fiber to (he Premise (FTTP), WiFi and other data services, and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). Traditional telephone work has been installation, maintenance, network construction &. surveillance, repair, customer premise work, billing, operator services, sales and service, customer service, and technical support. Since the work supporting the new technologies is functionally related to the work required in the public switched telephone network (PSTN), the new work will be performed by workers covered by the collective bargaining agreements.
Fiber to the Premise (FTTP)
Both parties recognize that most FTTP work today is done under the core contracts. The parties agree that all non-management FTTP work which falls mto the comparable categories of traditional telephone work now performed on the switched network including construction, repair, customer service, billing, sales, technical support, terminations, splicing and testing will be performed under the core contracts. Construction work that is similar to work that is currently done in the circuit network will continue to be performed as it is under the core contracts. For example, the parties recognize that trenching is work that is traditionally contracted.
Fiber to the premise shall be CWA bargaining unit work as described below. The assignment of fiber to the premise work shall be made just as it is for the copper switched network today. As the network evolves to a packet-switched fiber network, the core bargaining unit will continue to perforin the type of work that was previously bargaining unit work in the circuit switched network.
CWA shall be recognized for construction, splicing, testing, terminations of fiber to premise/neighborhood or node work and all associated equipment required to make fiber operational. Aerial drops to the premise shall be CWA-represented work. All other service drops in the fiber network shall be done as they are in the circuit-switched network. When ihe customer premise work is performed by SBC, SBC CWA employees will do it under the core contracts or DataComm contracts. If in the view of the Company, the nature of some of the customer premise work and interacting with the customer and the required set of skills to perform that work require a different craft title, the parties agree to meet to bargain an appropriate rate.
39
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
This includes testing, splicing and termination at the interface device as well as installing associated equipment to make the fiber functional as communications cable at the premise.
WiFi
Currently, WiFi (and other wireless data technologies) consists of DSL (and highspeed internet) lines installed by SBC CWA-reprcsented employees from and including the central office to the customer premise termination including the interface device or protector. Terminal equipment is installed on the customer premise. As the WiFi business grows, SBC expects to expand the work performed by SBC employees. If SBC performs the customer premise work, SBC will utilize core or DataComm employees for CPE installations. Outside the SBC footprint, SBC may use contractors to perform this work. Within the SBC footprint contractors may be used on a temporary basis under unusual circumstances. SBC and the Union will discuss at the President's Council the best way to meet service and installation commitments and grow the Business. These SBC non-management employees shall be represented by CWA or eligible for card check recognition. All DSL customer service work associated with WiFi (and other wireless data technologies) shall be done by CWA-reprcsented employees.
VoIP
To the extent that routers and servers go into the network owned by SBC, SBC shall assign that work to the CWA bargaining unit since they perform related work in the circuit world, VoIP is an evolution of the PSTN and comparable work performed today by CWA-represented employees shall be performed for VoIP technology. VoIP work in the network and at the premises will be performed under the DataComm contracts. As the work transitions from the circuit switched network, the current core technicians will transition with the work. The Company will make training available io enable their transition.
Customer Service
Tier 1 DSL customer service work is besl performed bundled with other SBC services. CWA-represented employees will perform this work as well as all customer service work for all SBC services. This work shall include billing, selling and servicing. This includes Tier 1] customer service work. Currently, EchoStar employees will deal with TV and satellite service quality issues and other technical support issues.
The Union and SBC share similar views about utilizing SBC service reps to interface with the customer. CWA-represented employees shall do all customer service work of SBC products,
SBC-reprcscnted employees shall sell DSL (and other high-speed internet services), VoIP, long distance, and video and service SBC customer accounts which include these services.
40
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
The parlies will discuss expanding outbound telemarketing jobs within the bargaining unit at the President's Council.
It is understood that the Company will continue to use sales agents and multiple sales channels, e.g., Radio Shack, Best Buy.
Global Services/DataComm
Global Services/Datacomm work done today by bargaining unit employees will continue per applicable CBA. SBC will not remove work from existing CWA bargaining units to non-reprcsented worksites, centers, or contractors.
No bargaining unit employees currently performing Datacomm associated work as defined in the FCC Ol&M order shall be laid-off.
SBC concurs that card check applies to non*management employees performing work within Global Services/Datacomm including Premier Care, Customer Care Centers, and Dedicated Support & Services.
Where there are mixed units of non-reprcsented and represented DataComm employees, SBC shall be neutral in any accretion petition filed by the Union at the NLRB provided SBC concurs as to which bargaining agreement will be applicable to any accreted employees.
Tier 1 and 2 Customer Contact/Technical Support
Technical support work today is contracted work through Accenture. At the conclusion of the contract (without extension) SBC prefers that its employees perform this work. In order to facilitate moving this work to SBC employees, in 2006 SBC shall perform cost studies to determine the potential wage, benefits, and procedures to perform this work by SBC employees. It is the mutual goal of the parties to have this work performed by CWA represented employees. This will be discussed at the President’s Council. CWA represented employees shall do all Tier 11 customer contact/technical support work.
Buried Service Wire
In order for SBC to compete in buried service wire, it is in both parties' interest to negotiate and reach an agreement which will make this business a success.
The Company and the Union agree that they will meet for the purposes of negotiating a nationwide collective bargaining agreement.
In the event the parties are unable to reach final agreement on any element of the collective bargaining agreement stated above, the disputed issues will be submitted to the Presidents Council for resolution. The Council, at its discretion, may submit the issues to a neutral third party for mediation.
Any and all Buried Service Wire work currently performed in any of the core bargaining units will continue to be performed by that unit under the terms and conditions of the relevant collective bargaining agreement.
41
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
Video
Any and all video work currently performed in any of the CWA bargaining units will continue to be performed by that unit under the terms and conditions of the relevant collective bargaining Agreement.
It is in both parties’ interest to negotiate and reach an agreement which will make this business a success. The parties recognize that this is a competitive business and that a competitive cost structure will be required to succeed. .
SBC shall recognize the Union as the exclusive representative for all nonmanagement employees performing work associated with video provided the work is performed at an overall cost structure that is competitive.
Work required to be done by other companies through present or future partnerships or alliances with SBC will also continue to be done by such other companies if required by contract. Such work will transition to CWA-represented employees if permissible and the President’s Council shall review its progress.
Sunset Provision	'
This agreement supplemental agreement shall terminate at 11 ;59 PM on April 4, 2009.
Dispute Resolution on Jobs of the Future
If there is no mutual resolution of any dispute at the President’s Council CWA shall have the right to enforce the terms of this agreement through any lawful means (other than the grievance or arbitration process), including, but not limited to recourse to the National Labor Relations Board, recourse to any court of competent jurisdiction, or a combination of any such actions.
42
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
William KPaitor
Fr#sirfrnr teterReJafionj
310 Orange Street 5*1 Fkxx
New Haven. CT 065W
Phone 203.771.S242
December 17,2000
Mr, Dennis Trainor
International Staff Representative
CWA
193 State Street
North Haven, CT 06473
■?
Dear Dennis and Pauli
Mr. Paul J. Hongo. Jr. President
CWA Local 1298
3055 Dixwcll Avenue
Hamden, CT 06518
In making decisions regarding contracting of work consistently performed by bargaining unit employees, it is management’s objective to consider carefully the interests of both customers and employees along with all other considerations essential to the management of the business. For various reasons including but limited to law, regulations, changing industry structure, economic and business conditions, it is not possible to make specific commitments on contracting out work, elements of the business.
You can be assured, it continues to be our general policy that traditional telephone work consistently performed by bargaining unit employees will not be contracted out if it will currently and directly cause layoffs or part-timing of employees. In this context, you can also be assured that the company will make every effort, consistent with the needs of the business, to use bargaining unit employees, rather than outside contractors, to perform bargaining unit telecommunications work expected to be of extended duration, including telecommunications work requiring application of new technologies.
However, prior notice of the decision to contract out such work will be provided in those cases in which it is anticipated that the contracting out is not of an occasional nature. As a part of such notice, information regarding the purpose, scope and expected duration of the work will be discussed along with the reasons for the decision. Al that time, the union will be given a full opportunity to discuss their views and review the impact that the decision may have on their members regarding such things as the availability of overtime. In addition, the company will update the union on the progress of the work and any circumstances that might require modification to the original plans and also, provide a semiannual report outlining the number of contract people currently employed in the above work functions.
We will agree that should disagreements arise out of the use of contract labor that by mutual agreement the parties may submit such disagreement for discussion to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, with the intent of reaching a mutually satisfactory resolution. Should this process fail in reaching an agreement, binding arbitration, in accordance with Article XXI of the Labor Contract, can be requested by either party.
Sincerely,
William H. Porter
43
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
JOINT COMMITTEES
1.	The Company, CWA District One and CWA Local 1298 will establish a Senior Leadership Forum, This Forum will provide a framework for communication and discussion between the leaders of the Company and the leaders of the Union on business developments of mutual interest and concern to the parties and their constituencies, including regulatory and legislative issues.
The Forum will consist of key Union and Management persons. It is anticipated that Management members of the Forum will include the President/CEO of SNET, the Vice President - Consumer Operations, the Vice President - Operations, the Vice President -Business Sales, and the Vice President - Labor Relations. Union members of the Forum would include the Vice President - CWA District One, the CWA International Staff Representative for SNET, the President of CWA Local 1298, and the Executive Board of CWA Local 1298.
Meetings will be convened by the parties at mutually agreeable places and limes, but no less than three (3) times a year unless mutually agreed.	.
2.	The Company and CWA Local 1298 will establish a Strategic Alliance Initiative.
The Strategic Alliance Initiative will do its work through two components: an Executive Council and Standing Joint Committees.
The Executive Council will be co-chaired by the Vice President - Labor Relations and the President - CWA Local 1298 and the CWA International Staff Representative for District One. The Council will be comprised of key senior members from operating units, as well as CWA Local 1298 officials.
Executive Council Resnonsibilities
The Executive Council will be responsible for developing a strategy to foster greater cooperation between the Company and the Union in addressing workplace issues and working to strengthen the Company’s competitive position in the marketplace. The Council will work primarily with standing joint committees and will commission Ad Hoc Joint Problem-Solving Teams, as appropriate, to accomplish the goals of the Strategic Alliance Initiative. Standing joint committees will include Employment Security, Joint Health Care Cost Containment, Family Care Committee, and Training Advisory Board.
The Executive Council may also create Ad Hoc Joint Problem-Solving Teams to work on critical issues impacting working conditions and the Company’s position in the competitive marketplace which are not addressed by standing joint committees. Membership on these teams, as well as the time frame in which they operate, will be determined by the Executive Council.
44
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
In carrying out its mission, the Executive Council will:
a.	Identify and prioritize issues of concern to the Company and the Union.
b.	Create Ad Hoc Joint Problem-Solving Teams when needed.
c.	Review status reports from standing joint committees on a semi-annual basis.
Initiatives undertaken by the Strategic Alliance Initiative will be viewed as a supplement to the collective bargaining process. The Union and the Company expressly reserve the right to reopen, by mutual agreement, negotiations at any time during the life of the 2001 Agreements for the purpose of implementing changes resulting from recommendations from joint committees/teams commissioned by the Executive Council.
Standing Joint Committees
In order to support the Strategic Alliance Initiative, the following standing joint committees would be formed and called upon to focus their activities in the near term as follows:
■	Employment Security
The telecommunications industry continues on a path of unprecedented growth in competition and innovation in all segments of the market place. Achieving the parties’ mutual goals of competitive excellence and employment security presents ever-increasing challenges. The Employment Security Committee will continue to address mutually-agreed upon issues that influence these goals, and to recommend Union and Company actions to minimize negative impacts and enhance opportunities in the workplace. For example, contracting out issues would be appropriate for this Committee.
■	Joint Health Care Cost Containment Committee
In recognition that the problems of cost and quality of care are complex problems requiring comprehensive solutions, the Joint Health Care Cost Containment Committee will address mutually agreed-upon health care issues and will develop joint Union and Company recommendations.
■	Family Care Committee
Functioning as a Standing Joint Committee of the Strategic Alliance, the Family Care Committee will consist of a proportionate number of management and bargaining unit employees. The Family Care Committee will address family care issues in the workplace and develop ways to help employees resolve some of the problems they may encounter. In an effort to help employees meet family and work commitments,
45
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
the committee will focus on such areas as childcare, eldercare and education loans. Other programs may be initiated as the need arises.
■	Training Advisory Board (TAB-)
A Training Advisory Board as set forth below will assist and advise the Company concerning training and retraining initiatives to prepare employees in the development . of skills for job progression or job changes.
The Training Advisory Board will be structured as follows:
(C)	- It will be co-chaired by one (I) Senior Management Person and one (1) Executive
Board Member from CWA Local 1298.
-	Its additional members will consist of four (4) Senior Management from SBC and four (4) Union officials.
-	It will meet periodically, but no less than quarterly.	’
The Training Advisory Board will be responsible for the following;
-	To furnish advice to the Company on personal or career development and job retraining courses and curricula.
-	To develop and propose programs which offer additional training opportunities to employees to allow them to develop new skills and pursue new career paths.
-	To review and make recommendations regarding available training delivery r systems (e.g. technical schools, community colleges, home study programs, online training, etc.) to be used by the Company.
-	To evaluate the effectiveness of such training programs and courses and the delivery systems utilized in meeting Company and employee needs. r
-	To educate and communicate to employees about the necessity for and the reality of change and to encourage employees to seek out and take advantage of personal and career development training.
46
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
■ Ad Hoc Joint Problem Solving Teams
Upon its formation and at its earliest convenience, the Executive Council shall commission:
- An Ad Hoc Joint Problem-Solving Team to address issues related to the use of “Department Select" in the Transfer Bureau's selection process. The Executive Vice President of the Union and the Director - Labor Relations will chair this Ad-Hoc Joint Problem-Solving Team; the Co-Chairs will select additional members.
This team will review and recommend rec lassi Heat ion, if warranted; of “Department Select" bargaining unit jobs which have a residency of twenty-eight (28) months. The team will report its findings and recommendations to the Executive Council within six (6) months of its commission date.
INCREASE AVAILABLE FAMILY CARE FUNDS
The Company will replenish the Family Care Fund to the extent necessary to (C) provide a pool of up to $300,000 which may be expended during the term of the
Contract. The Joint Family Care Committee will continue to administer the Fund.
TEAM-BASED INCENTIVE PLAN
From time to time, the Company may implement team-based incentive pay linked to service, productivity and/or other business-related standards set by departments up to ten (10%) percent of annual basic wage rates. These non-benefit affecting payments may be paid monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually. Teams shall be at director level or manager level. The director or manager, as appropriate, will meet with the local Union offtcial(s) to solicit input and review the details of any team-based incentive pay plan prior to its implementation. Neither this provision nor any team-based incentive pay plan will be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures.
47
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
MOA EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY/ENHANCED RETIREMENT BENEFIT
In response to the Union’s concern for its members’ employment security and its expressed interest in removing impediments to movement between the various SBC (C) Companies, the parties agree, effective April 4,2004, to the following provisions for employee movement among CWA-represented bargaining units in SBC Companies, except the wireless companies (Participating Companies).
1.	There will be pension portability among all Participating Companies.
2.	Any CWA-represented employee covered by this labor agreement may express an interest in moving to a CWA-represented bargaining unit in any other Participating Company, and may receive priority consideration before off-street hires for any bargaining-unit job for which he/she qualifies, subject to all applicable qualifications and selection criteria at the receiving Company. Employees who continue employment with a Participating Company under the terms of this paragraph will not receive any separation payment from their former Companies.
3.	Any CWA-represented regular employee covered by this labor agreement whose work is moving outside CWA District 1 to a CWA-represented bargaining unit in any other Participating Company, may follow the work, subject to all applicable qualifications and selection criteria at the receiving Company. Employees who select this option in lieu of any separation payment pursuant to Article VII of this Labor Agreement, and who are placed at, and report to, the receiving Company, will receive a $10,000 Relocation Allowance in addition to any other relocation benefit otherwise applicable under the terms of the collective bargaining agreements at their former Companies. This Relocation Allowance will not be paid where 1) the employee does not relocate his/her home residence as a result of following the work; or 2) the employee’s new place of reporting is within fifty (50) miles of the home residence the employee had prior to following the work.
4.	Employees selected to fill vacancies in accordance with the terms outlined in Items 2. and 3. above, will be subject to all applicable receiving Company practices, policies, benefit plans, and collective bargaining agreement provisions, including provisions related to Net Credited Service.
5.	Any retirement eligible (Rule of 75 or Modified Rule of 75, whichever is applicable) CWA-represented employee covered by this labor agreement, whose work is moving outside CWA District 1 to a CWA-represented bargaining unit in any other Participating Company and who has not refused a lateral job offer at a location within fifty (50) miles of the employee’s current reporting location, may, in lieu of the Enhanced Voluntary Severance Plan (EVSP) offer outlined in paragraph (1 ,)(a)( 1.) of (C) Article VII of the 2004 Labor Agreements between the CWA and SNET, elect to retire and receive a pension benefit enhanced by an amount equivalent to 120 percent of the otherwise applicable EVSP.
48
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
	6. The Union agrees that it will not seek to alter any existing Bargaining Units in any SBC Company on the basis of any movement or transfer of employees between said companies as a result of this Agreement. Further, the Union will not, on the basis of this Agreement or change in operations or practices made by Participating Companies as a result of this Agreement, in any pleading, petition, complaint or proceeding before the National Labor Relations Board, an arbitrator or panel of arbitrators, or any court, assert, claim, charge or allege that such companies are a single or joint employer or enterprise, alter egos, accretions or successors of one another, or that any bargaining units of said entities represented by or sought to be represented by the Union are a single bargaining unit, or are or should be otherwise altered in their scope or composition. This commitment on the part of the Union will survive the expiration of this Memorandum, unless and until such time as this commitment is terminated by the mutual written agreement of the parties.
(C>	7. This Agreement is effective for the duration of the 2004 Labor Agreements, providing the following Communications Workers of America (CWA) Districts and SBC Companies: District I and Southern New England Telecommunications (SNET); District 4 and Ameritech (AIT); District 6 and Southwestern Bell Telephone (SWBT); and District 9 and Pacific Bell/Nevada Bell (PB/NB), all execute a corresponding Memorandum of Agreement Employment Opport uni ty/Enhanced Retirement Benefit. AGREEMENT REGARDING MOVEMENT OF WORK FROM SNET (CONNECTICUT) Preamble Since the merger in 1998 with SBC, the number of regular full time CWA workers at SNET has grown by ) 0.3% or more than 600 employees. This significant increase is the result of a business strategy focused on revenue growth and the ability to invest in resources to fuel that growth. The Connecticut marketplace continues to present many opportunities for our business, and the Company remains committed to making the investments in Connecticut to capitalize on these opportunities. Key to the Company’s ability to make these investments is the ability to operate in an efficient manner, taking full advantage of the unique strengths which exist in various parts of the thirteen state SBC wireline territory. While the Company remains committed to growth, it must retain the ability to organize its operations in the most efficient manner possible. While the Company cannot make a commitment that no jobs will move from Connecticut, the Company will commit to meeting with the CWA in advance of any movement of jobs from Connecticut which result in an employee surplus. The purpose of the meeting would be to discuss the Company’s rationale for the move and to allow the Union to give input regarding the Company’s plans.
49
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
To implement this, the parties agree to the establishment of a Presidential Council to discuss the state of the business and the movement of work among SBC Communications, Inc. regions as follows:
PRESIDENTIAL COUNCIL
Council membership will include the following positions:
Communications Workers of America (CWA) SBC Communications. Inc.
President - CWA
Vice President - CWA District 1
Vice President - CWA District 4
Vice President - CWA District 6
Vice President - CWA District 9
Sr. Executive Vice President - HR Sr. Vice President - Labor Relations President & CEO - SNET President & CEO - Ameritech President & CEO - SWBT President & CEO - PB/NB
The Council will meet semiannually, or as otherwise mutually agreed, to exchange information and review the major concerns of both parties.
(C) PRE-TEST TRAINING WORKSHOPS
For the remaining life of the Current Contract (April 4,2009), the Company and the Union will jointly sponsor Pre-Test Training Workshops to be offered to employees in the Medically Initiated Transfer (MIT) Process. As part of this joint sponsorship, the Company will treat the time of the Union trainers delivering the Pre-Test Training Workshops and the time of MIT candidates attending the workshops as Company-paid. The Union will provide facilities and materials as well as trainers to deliver the Pre-Test Training Workshops.
In addition, the Company will treat the time of the Union trainers delivering the Pre-Test Training Workshops to employees impacted by the “layoff path” (paragraph I, b*j) of Article VII as Company-paid time. Employees attending' such Pre-Test Training Workshops will do so on their own non-work time.
(C) HOME DISPATCH PROGRAM TRIAL
1.	A Home Dispatch Program Trial will be conducted in at least one administrative work unit within Network Services - Consumer, Network Services - Switching, and ASI. The Home Dispatch Program Trial will provide to employees who participate an assigned motor vehicle for use in their work and for traveling between their work locations and places of residence or other designated places for the vehicle storage. An administrative work unit will be defined as a manager group by title by home station(s). The Company and the Union will meet within 45 days of contract ratification in order for the Company to solicit the Union's input on the locations and administrative units for the trial. The Home Dispatch Trial may be extended
50
________________________________________________________I
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
to additional administrative work groups upon mutual agreement or the Company and the Union, The Company and the Union shall meet every six (6) months to discuss any issues related to the trial.	,
2.	The Home Dispatch Program Trial will be implemented only within administrative work units where some or all of the employees normally use a Company-provided motor vehicle in order to perform their work. The decision to continue the trial within any such administrative work unit will be within Management’s sole discretion.
3.	When the Home Dispatch Program Trial is introduced within an administrative work unit, all employees within that unit who: live within the service area of their reporting location; normally use a Company-provided motor vehicle in the performance of their work assignment; and meet the participation requirements will be eligible to participate. Participation by any such employees will be on a voluntaiy basis and employees may be removed from the Home Dispatch Program Trial at the discretion of the Company. Volunteers may elect to cancel their participation with thirty (30) days written notice provided to their supervisor.
4.	Employees who participate in the trial will be expected to provide normally secure and legal storage for the vehicle at their places of residence subject to management’s approval.
5.	The vehicle is to be used solely for Company business and travel between the employee's residence and his/her first and last work Locations. Only properly authorized persons may ride in or operate the vehicle. Personal use of the vehicle is prohibited and may result in discipline up to and including termination.
6.	Operating and maintenance costs will be at the Company’s expense. The Company will make arrangements for maintenance of the vehicle; however, it will be the responsibility of the employee to whom the vehicle is assigned to assure that the vehicle is properly maintained.
7.	For employees who participate in the Home Dispatch Program Trial, a Work Reporting Area (WRA) will be established on a local basis in conjunction with the Network Dispatch Center before implementation. Such WRA will be designed to serve the interests of the customer base and, reasonably accommodate the employee. The Company may establish the Work Reporting Area based on either a geographic area or a commute from home timeframe of thirty (30) minutes. Commute time of thirty (30) minutes or less in each direction will not be considered work time for pay purposes. Time spent in excess of 30 minutes driving to the first work location and in excess of thirty (30) minutes driving home from the last work location in excess of thirty (30) minutes will be considered work time for pay purposes.
51
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
8.	When employees are using a Company vehicle in compliance with the terms of this Supplemental Agreement, the Company will indemnify and hold
, harmless from liability employees who are determined to be liable to others to the same extent that the Company would indemnify them and hold them harmless from liability if they were driving their Company vehicle on actual working time.
9.	A Union representative, upon request, may meet with a Company designated representative and the HDP trial volunteers within an administrative unit on a quarterly basis to discuss any issues.
After the initial six (6) month trial period, the trial will continue until either the Company or the Union provides thirty (30) days notice to terminate the trial or the parties agree to implement the voluntary Home Dispatch Program on a statewide non-trial basis.
(C) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING REGARDING REGULATED AND COMPETITIVE OPERATOR SERVICES
This agreement is entered into by and between SBC East (“the Company”) and CWA Local 1298 (“the Union") and sets forth the compensation and working practices for Regulated Operator Services (“ROS") and Competitive Operator Services (“COS"). This agreement will become effective on April 4, 2004 and supersedes any prior promises, statements, policies, descriptions or agreements regarding Regulated Operator Services and/or Competitive Operator Services, whether written or oral.
As a result of the continuing decline of call volumes in ROS, the Company and the Union have agreed to consolidate Operator Services Field and the Competitive Operator Services Contract into a new section of the 2004 Contract entitled, Customer Information Services, subject to the following terms and conditions:
1.	Definitions
a)	The titles Operator (BOO935) and Operator - Spanish Center (B00936) in Regulated Operator Services will herein after be referred to as "Operators” collectively.
b)	The titles Competitive Operator Services Specialists (B09092) and Competitive Operator Services Specialists- Bi-Lingual (B09093) will herein after be referred to as “Competitive Operators” or “COSSs”, collectively.
c)	The “Contract" refers to the 2004 Labor Agreements between the Company and the Union.
52
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
d)	The following new titles are incorporated into this agreement and comprise the Bargaining Unit in Customer Information Services:
Customer Information Specialist
Customer Information Specialist - Bi-Lingual
General Office Associate - Customer Information Services Results and Financial Assistant - Customer Information Services Senior Associate - Data Base Administration - Customer Information Services
Service Assistant Aide - Customer Information Services
Specialist Centralized Administrative Group - Customer Information Services
Support Technician - Customer Information Services
2.	General
a)	The Operator Services Field departmental section of the 2001 Labor Agreements pertaining to Regulated Operator Services will be deleted from the 2004 Contract, and will be replaced in its entirety by the new “Customer Information Services” section of the 2004 Contract,
b)	The Competitive Operator Services Contract, included in the 2001 Labor Agreements between the Company and the Union, will be deleted from the 2004 Contract and will be replaced in its entirety by the new “Customer Information Services” section of the 2004 Contract.
c)	All Customer Information Specialists and Service Assistant Aides-CIS shall have the ability to provide assistance on both Regulated and Ele-Regulated calls.
3.	Titles: - Effective with the first effective payroll date following ratification of the 2004 contract:
a)	All Regulated and Competitive Operators, including the bi-lingual titles, will move to the new titles of “Customer Information Specialist,” and “Customer Information Specialist - Bi-Lingual,” respectively. For purposes of this transition, all incumbents shall be considered test qualified for the new titles. The Job Briefs for the Operator, Operator -Spanish Center, COSS and COSS-Bi-Lingual will be archived in the Bargaining Unit Job Evaluation System (BURS) and will no longer be active titles. The Company will provide the Union with new Job Briefs for the new titles.
53
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
b)	All Service Assistant Aides will move to the title of Service Assistant Aide - Customer Information Services. The Job Brief for Service Assistant Aide is already deactivated in BURS, and the Company will provide the Union with a new Job Brief for this title. This successor title will not be available for transfer requests.
c)	Employees on the titles of Administrative Associate — Operator Services Center (OSC) and General Associate - Competitive Operator Services will move to the title of General Office Associate - Customer Information Services. For purposes of this transition, all incumbents shall be considered test qualified for the new title. The Company will archive these titles in BURS and provide the Union with a Job Brief for the new title.
d)	Employees on the title of Results and Financial Assistant - Force Management System (FMS), formerly under Headquarters, will move to the title of Results and Financial Assistant — Customer Information Services. The Company will archive the Job Brief in BURS for this title and provide the Union with a Job Brief for the new title.
e)	Employees on the titles of Administrative Assistant - Centralized Administrative Group (CAG), and Database Assurance Specialist - 411 (formerly under Headquarters), will move to the new title of Specialist-Centralized Administrative Group - Customer Information Services. For purposes of this transition, all incumbents shall be considered test qualified for the new title. The Job Briefs for the former titles will be archived in BURS and the Company will provide the Union with a Job Brief for the new title.
1) Employees on the title of Support Technician - Operator Services Position System (OSPS), formerly under Plant, Switching Systems and Support Services, will move to the new title of Support Technician - Customer Information Services. The Job Brief for the former title will be archived in BURS and the Company will provide the Union with a Job Brief for the new title.
g) Employees on the title of Senior Associate - Database Administration will move to the new title of Senior Associate - Database Administration -Customer Information Services. The Company will archive this Job Briefs in BIJRS and provide the Union with a Job Brief for the new title.
54
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
4. Wages -
a)
Employees in the following former ROS titles will receive negotiated General Wage Increases (GWIs) in lump sum payments for years 2004, 2005 and 2006 of this Contract:
Administrative Associate- CAG Administrative Assistant - OSC Database Assurance Specialist — 411 Operator (Steps 8-10)
Operator - Spanish Center (Steps 8-10) Results & Financial Assistant - FMS Service Assistant Aide
Support Technician - OSPS (Step 10)
The lump sum GWIs will be included for pension calculations and are non-benefit affecting.
b)	On July I, 2005, July 3, 2006 and March 1, 2007, former ROS employees on the titles listed below who are on the active payroll will receive a lump sum transition payment as indicated below:
Net Credited Service *	July 1,2005	July 3, 2006	March 1, 2007
			
0-10 years	$ 500.00	$ 500.00	$250.00
11-19 years	$1000.00	$1000.00	$500.00
20+years	51500.00	$1500.00	$750.00
			
*Net Credited Service (NCS) shall be based on an employee’s completed years of NCS as of the payroll effective dates of the payout of the transition pay.
Former ROS Titles: Administrative Associate - CAG Administrative Assistant - OSC Database Assurance Specialist-411
Operator
Operator - Spanish Center
Results & Financial Assistant - FMS Senior Associate - Database Admin. Service Assistant Aide Support Technician - OSPS
c)	Former ROS Operators at Steps 8,9 and 10 of the VR wage schedule will be placed on the W1 Wage Schedule and will be pay protected at their hourly rate for a period of three years from the effective payroll date following ratification of this Contract at which time their basic wage rate shall be changed to Step 7 of the W1 wage schedule.
55
SUPPLEMENTAL agreements
d)	Former ROS Operators in wage progression below Step 8 on the VR wage schedule will be placed on the WI wage schedule on the wage step closest to the employee’s base wage upon the effective payroll date of this Contract. Operators who have not reached the wage Maximum of the W1 wage schedule will continue normal wage progression.
e)	Former ROS Service Assistant Aides will be will be placed on the W7 Wage Schedule and pay protected at their hourly rate for a period of three years from the effective payroll date following ratification of this Contract at which time their basic wage rate shall be changed to Step 7 of the W7 wage schedule.
f)	Former ROS employees on the title of Administrative Assistant - Operator Services Centers (OSC) will be placed on the WF Wage Schedule and will be pay protected at their hourly rate for a period of three years from the effective payroll date following ratification of this Contract at which time they will be placed on the appropriate step of the WF wage schedule.
g)	Former ROS employees on the title of Results and Financial Assistant -Force Management System (FMS) will be placed on the WF Wage Schedule and will be pay protected at their hourly rate for a period of three years from the effective'payroll date following ratification of this Contract at which time they will be placed on the appropriate step of the WF wage schedule.
h)	Former ROS employees on the titles of Administrative Associate -Centralized Administrative Group (CAG), Database Assurance Specialist -411, and former Network Services employees on the title of Support Technician - Operator Services Position System (OSPS) on Step 10, will be placed on the WG Wage Schedule and will be pay protected at their hourly rate for a period of three years from the effective payroll date following ratification of this Contract at which time they will be placed on the appropriate step of the WG wage schedule. Former Support Technicians-OSPS in wage progression below Step 10 on the VH wage schedule will be placed on the WG wage schedule on the wage step closest to the employee’s base wage upon the effective date of this Contract.
i)	Former ROS employees on the title of Senior Associate - Database Administration will be placed on the appropriate step of the WJ wage schedule on the first effective payroll date following ratification of this Contract.
j)	Former COSSs will receive GWIs as negotiated for the life of this Contract,
56
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
k)	Former COS employees on the titles of General Associate - COS will be placed on the WF wage schedule on the first effective payroll date following ratification of this Contract.
5*	Working Terms and Conditions
a)	Former ROS employees will be entitled to Excused Work Days (EWDs) as indicated below:
2004 -four (4) EWDs and one(l)EWX
2005 - three (3) EWDs
2006 - two (2) EWDs during this calendar year and for each subsequent calendar year,
b)	Former ROS employees will receive normal pay for short periods of time off duty occasioned by personal sickness as indicated below effective on the employee’s next service date:
During the first year of net credited service (NCS):
None
After one year of NCS:
Up to Five working days during each service year, provided that payment to eligible employees for each incidence of absence will begin after one day of absence for employees with more than one year and less than five years of NCS; and on the first day of absence for employees with five years or more of NCS.
Part-time employees who are absent will be paid only for the time scheduled to work on that day.
c)	Residency will be continuous for former ROS titles and former COS titles moving to Customer Information Services (CIS),
d)	The Customer Information Specialist and CfS-Bilingual residency requirement shall be fourteen (14) months. Employees who have met a minimum of eight (8) months of initial residency shall be eligible to submit requests for title-to-title transfers.
6. Miscellaneous Provisions
a)	During the second half of 2004, all Customer Information Specialists (“CIS” and CIS Bi-Lingual) will be canvassed, on a one-time basis, for preference of location (“post and bid"). Employees shall be granted their preference of location based on seniority and a vailability of equipment in
57
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENTS
the location. No employee will be "bumped” from his/her permanent home station; however, every effort will be made to accommodate as many employee requests as possible. Residency on title and location will be continuous; this will not be considered a title-to-title location change, and will not affect any pending Transfer Requests in the Transfer Bureau.
b)	Following the “post and bid" canvass process and relocation of employees, the Company agrees to analyze weekend coverage to determine the feasibility of closing some Customer Information Services Centers (CISCs) for weekends on a rotational basis as early as 2005. The Director of the Department will notify the Union in writing of the Department’s findings.
c)	The Company and the Union have agreed to form a Task Force to address Monitoring Policies and Procedures within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this Contract. This task force will be co-chaired by the Director -Customer Information Services and the Vice President - Operator Services CWA Local 1298. The Task Force will be comprised of key operations managers and representatives of CWA Local 1298, not to exceed a total of eight (8) participants.
d)	The Company and the Union have agreed to a six (6) month trial to gather data regarding the provision of EWD flex time. The purpose of the trial is to assess the feasibility of increasing the percentage of permitted flex time. If the data from the trial is inconclusive, the administration of flex time will default to the Contract language in CIS, Section 8.02 B. The trial will begin on January 1,2005, and will last for a period of six (6) months.
e)	The Company agrees to assess the feasibility of Ad Hoc Rewards and Recognition Programs and provide feedback to the Union within sixty (60) days of the ratification date of this Contract, but reserves the right to implement the program(s) thereafter in its sole discretion.
f)	The Company agrees to install telephones in the break rooms in the Customer Information Services Centers in a final attempt to accommodate employees in this regard. Phones that arc removed from the break room will not be replaced by the Company. Employees may use their personal cellular telephones outside of the building.
(C) UNION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The Company recognizes the value of the Union Assistance Program (UAP) to all bargained for employees of SBC East. In recognition of this program’s value, the Company has agreed to pay one half(1/2) of the basic wages for up to two (2) Union-designated “Union Assistance Persons” and the Union agrees to pay 100% of any overtime due to the Union Assistance Pcrson(s) under the Contract or applicable Law. This UAP designation will not alter the active employment status
58
supplemental agreements
of the employees so designated. Both the Company and the Union have acknowledged that employee acceptance of UAP assistance is strictly voluntary and will not protectan employee from disciplinary action.
(Q NETWORK CUSTOMER SERVICE CENTER - SCHEDULING
This Agreement covers understandings between the Company and the Union concerning the work scheduling administration process in Network Customer Service Center (NCSC) to be sensitive to employee's personal responsibilities while better meeting customer service requirements and business needs.
The parties agree to continue a Joint Study Team on Work Scheduling for the Network Customer Service Center (NCSC). Both parties recognize and agree that continued change is necessary to improve the administration of work scheduling in the NCSC call center environment. It will be the responsibility of the Committee to make . recommendations for a work scheduling process in the future which better meets the needs of our employees and our customers.
The Joint Study Team will look at all options regarding adjustment for seasonality of call volumes, fluctuations in call volumes, re-canvassing feasibility during a schedule, vacation scheduling, alternate work schedules (AWS) and the length and variability of the schedule. The Joint Study Team will recommend trials of scheduling options.
The Joint Study Team will continue to meet and provide a status report to the Steering Committee of the Joint Study Team by June 12,2004. The Company and the Union agree to trial scheduling options. By September 1,2004, the Joint Study Team will complete their review and trials to formulate a recommendation to the Steering Committee that addresses customer service requirements, business needs and employee preferences. If agreement on a recommendation is not reached by the Steering Committee by November 1,2004, the Director - Network Operations Centers and the CWA Vice President - Plant #1- Local 1298 will develop a recommendation based on the committee’s work, with the understanding that those recommendations would be implemented with the January 2005 schedule.
The Steering Committee will consist of the Director - Network Center Operations, Area Manager - NCSC, Director - Labor Relations, CWA Vice President - Plant #1 - Local 1298, Business Agent - Plant North and an additional designated union official.
While the Company cannot guarantee that the NCSC will not move from Connecticut, the Company and the Union are Jointly committed to increasing the customer service effectiveness and cost efficiency to make the Connecticut NCSC operations a more attractive location to process this work.
59
NOTES
60
APPENDIX A
DEPARTMENT/JOB TITLE	JOB CODE	EEO	SAL grade	Bl-WKLY SCHEDHRS	RESID.	DEPT.
ADVANCED SOLUTIONS INC						
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	BOT720	EJ7	vs	75	10 Mo's	(1)
SUPPORT SPEOSS	BO1360	C12	wo	80	28 Mo's	(3)
SVC DELIV TECH -BUS _>	BO 1207	FIQ	WN	80	28 Mo's	(3)
BUSINESS COMMUNICATION SALES						
ALL DISTANCE SPEC	B00043	E16	VJ	75	16 Mo's	(2)
BILLING SVCS REP	B00219	El 6	VI	75	16 Mo's	(2)
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	B00720	E17	vs	75	16 Mos	(1)
SVC CONSULTANT	BQI205	D14	VN	75	28 Mas	
SVC 0 RDER REV] EWER	BOI230	EI6	VI	75	16 Mo's	t2)
SVC REP	B012*15	E18	VK	75	28 Mo's	(2A1-BSG)
SVC REP PAYPHONE SVC	B08890	E16	VI	75	16 Mo's	(2)
TELE ASSOCIATE	BO1420	DI5	VH	75	16 Mo's	(2)
TELEPHONE SALES SPEC	BO 1445	DM	VL	75	28 Mo's	(2)
TOLL ASSOCIATE	B09998	D15	VG	75	16 Mo's	(2)
CONSUMER CROUP						
ALL DISTANCE SPEC	BCMXM3	EI6	VI	75	16 Mos	(2)
BILLING SVCS REP	B00219	El ft	VI	75	16 Mo's	(2)
CASHIER	B002J5	E17	VD	75	16 Mos	(2)
COMPUTER RPTS ADMIN	BO035O	EI6	VI	75	16 Mo's	(1)
CONS &PROF OFC ASSOC	B003 70	EL7	VG	75	16 Mo's	(2)
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	B007J0	E17	vs	75	16 Mo's	(1)
SALES ASSOCIATE	BOU 2 5	D15	VH	75	16 Mo's	(2}
SR SILLING SVCS REP	BQI183	E16	XF	75	28 Mo's	(2}
SVC ORDER SPECIALIST	BOI 240	E17	VH	75	16 Mo's	(2)
SVC REP	BO 1245	EIS	VK	75	28 Mo's	(2)
SVC REP-SPANISH CTR	BO127I	EIS	VK	75	28 Mo+s	(2)
TELE SPEC-SPAN	B01436	DIS	VI	75	16 Mo's	(2)
TELEMKTNC SPEC	BD1425	D15	VI	75	16 Mo's	(2)
CUSTOMER INF OILMATION SERVICES						
CUST INFO SPEC-Bl	B08021	E16	W|	80	14 Mo's	(4)
CUST INFO SPECIALIST	303020	E16	W|	80	14 Mo’s	(4)
GNL OFC ASSOC-CIS	BO8O23	E16	WF	80	16 Mo's	(4)
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	BOG72O	E17	vs	75	16 Mo's	(1)
RES & FIN ASST-CIS	B08024	E16	WF	80	16 Mo's	(4)
SPECIALIST CAG - CIS	BO8O25	E36	WG	80	16 Mo's	(4)
SR ASSOC-DB ADMN-CIS	B08027	E16	WJ	80	28 Mo's	(4>
SUPPORT TECH - CIS	B08026	E16	WG	80	16 Mo's	(4>
SVC ASST AIDE - CIS	B0BO22	E16	W7	80	16 Mo's	M>
GLOBAL MARKETS						
GNLOFC ASSOCIATE	B00720	E17	VS	75	16 Mo's	(l)
SVC CONSULTANT	BC1205	DI4	VN	75	28 Mo's	(2)
SVC REP	B01245	EIS	VK	75	28 Mo's	(2)
(l| Efcadquortas
(2k Coal / Mutetug .
(31 PhiitSwhSyTkSwS'ra
(4| CuHMter EtfocTMuaServket
61
APPENDIX A
DEPARTMENT/JOB TITLE	JOB CODE	EEO	SAL GRADE	BJ-WKLY SCHEDHRS	RESID.	DEPT.
HUMAN RESOURCES						
ADMIN TRAINING ASST	BOO 120	EI7	VG	75	16 Mos	(1)
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	B00720	EI7	VS	75	16 Ma's	(1)
placement ASSISTANT	B 00995	El 7	VH	75	16 Mo’s	(I)
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY						
ADMIN ASST-IVR	B00049	E17	VH	75	16 Mo's	(1)
ADMIN SVCS REP-ITC	B 00(195	E17	VS	75	16 Mo's	(1)
BALNCG admin rep-rpc	B00193	BI7	VH	75	16 Mo’s	(1)
BILL PVT PROCESS-RPC	000200	EI7	VD	75	16 Mo’s	(1)
BILLING INVEST REP	000210	EI6	VI	75	16 Mo’s	(1)
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	0QO72O	EL7	vs	75	16 Mo's	(1)
SPEC SVCS REP-CORP T	BOI J10	Bl 6	VK	75	28 Mo's	(1)
SVC CONSULTANT	B01205	D14	VN	75	28 Mo's	<■>
SVC NEG ANALYST	B01220	E16	VJ	75	28 Mo’S	(2)
SVC ORDER REVIEWER	B01230	El 6	VI	75	16 Mos	<l>
TREAS BOOKKEEPER.RPC	BOI470	E16	VI	75	16 Mos	(1)
NETWORK SERVICES						
ACCESS SVC REQ'COORD	BOOOOl	El 6	VL	75	28 Mo’s	(U
ASSIGN administrator	000140	Bl 6	XI	75	28 Mo’s	(31
ASSOC TELE SPEC-COND	000160	CL2	vx	75	28 Mo's	(l>
AUTO MESSENGER	B00 185	E17	WF	80	16 Mo's	(31
CENTRAL OFC ATTEND	BOD26O	F09	ZH	80	16 Mo's	(3>
CIRCUIT DIES TECH-SD	B00262	C12	XU	T$	28 Mo's	(l>
COMPUTER SYSTEM SPEC	000355	E(6	VM	75	28 Mo’s	(J>
CONDUIT INSPECTOR	B00360	FID	vv	75	28 Mo’s	(1)
CONSTRUCTION OFC ADM	B00365	EI6	XG	75	16 Mo’s	(3)
CUSTOMER EQPT REP	B00390	EI6	VI	75	16 Mo's	(3,
CUSTOMER SVC TECH	B00405	FOB	WN	80	28 Mo’s	(Jl
data ASSURANCE TECH	B00760	El 6	VI	75	16 Mo's	(3)
DATAASURSPEC’EOII	B00630	El 6	VI	75	16 Mo's	(1)
EMERGENCY POWER TECH	BOOJ15	FOB	WO	80	28 Mo's	<3>
ENGRG AIDE-CURTG	B00519	E16	XF	75	28 Mo's	(I)
FACILITIES ASSIGNOR	B006J5	E16	ZJ	80	J 6 Mo's	(3)
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	B00720	BIT	VS	75	16 Mo’s	(1)
instalurepairtech	BOO747	FH	W2	80	28 Mo’s	(3)
INVEST ASST-DBAC	B00425	El 7	VH	75	16 Mo’s'	(II
INVEST CONTROL SPEC	B00746	El 6	VM	75	28 Mo's	(11
MAINT ADMIN	B00800	El 6	ZE	80	28 Mo's	(31
MAINT A DM IN-SPANISH	BOO 401	El 6	ZE	80	28 Mert	(3)
NTWK ADMIN ASSOCIATE	B008T5	E16	XI	75	28 Mo’s	(l>
NTWK CONTROL ADMIN	BOOSTS	E17	WH	80	16 Mo's	(3)
NTWK DELIVERY TECH	BOOBSI	FID	WN	80	28 Mo's	(3)
NTWK DEPLOYMENT TECH	B00882	FIO	WN	80	28 Mo’s	(3)
NTWK TECH-ELECTRONIC	000895	F08	WN	80	28 Mo’s	(3)
NTWK TECH-MINI COMP	B00900	FOB	WO	so	28 Mo's	(3»
NTWK TECH-RADIOAfID	B00910	CI2	WO	SO	28 Mo's	(3}
NTWK TRANSLATOR	B00915	El 6	XII	75	28 Mo's	(If
(I) Headquirttfa
P) ComVMklR
I J) Hwt. Swifch Syct, Sq>p Svc»
(4) Onsttmo htfonn***) iovica
62
APPENDIX A
department/job title	JOB CODE	EEO	SAL GRADE	BLWKLY SCHEDHRS	RESID	DEPT*
NETWORK SERVICES (€>nt'd						
OUTSIDE NTWK DESIGN	B00950	C12	VW	75	28 Mo's	(l>
OUTSIDE PLANT TECH	BOO955	FIO	zc	80	28 Mo's	0>
PACKET SWITCH SPEC	BOO960	Cl2	wp	80	28 Mo's	(3)
PLT ANAL Y-CABLE,C£M	BOI DIO	FJO	XA	75	28 Mo's	(3)
PLT ANALY-CORR PRQT	B0LUI5	FIO	XA	75	28 Mo’s	(3)
FLTANALY-IND INTER	BO1020	FIG	XA	75	28 Mo's	(3)
pltanaly-trans	B0102 5	FIO	XA	75	28 Mo’s	(3)
SCHEDULING ADMIN	BO]140	EI7	VH	75	16 Mo's	(1)
SITE ACQUISITION AGT	BOI287	EI6	VM	75	28 Mo's	(1)
SR FRAME ATTENDANT	BO1195	F09	ZF	80	28 Mo's	(3)
STAT ASSISTANT	B0L350	E17	VF	75	16 Mo’s	(1)
SUPPORT SPEC-SS	BO 1360	CI2	WO	80	28 Mo's	<31
SVC CONSULTANT	BOL 205	D|4	VN	75	28 Mo’s	(t)
SVC DELI V TECH-BUS	BO 1207	FIO	WN	80	28 Mo’s	(3)
SVC ORDER REV-DBAC	BO 1233	EI6	VI	75	16 Mo’s	(I)
SVC ORDER REVIEWER	BO1230	E16	VI	75	16 Mo's	(1)
SVC REP	HO1245	E18	VK	75	28 Mo's	(1)
SVC REP-OCC	BOI 260	E18	VK	75	28 Mo's	(1)
SYS DESIGN A TRAN SP	BO 1367	C12	VO	75	28 Mo’s	(1)
TECH ANALYST-NOC	BO 1370	C12	wo	SO	28 Mo's	(3)
TECH ASST-CPC	BO1375	E16	XG	75	16 Mo's	(O
TECH ASST-INE	BDI38O	E16	XG	75	16 Mo’s	<0
TECH ASST-ONE	BO J 395	EI6	XG	75	16 Mo's	<))
TECH ASST-PICS/DCPR	BDI400	EI6	XG	75	16 Mo's	(I)
TELECOMM speccspe	B0U19	C12	VX	75	28 Mo's	(1>
TELECOMM SPEC ONE	B0141S	C12	vx	75	28 Mo's	(1)
TELECOMM SPEC-SW	BONUS	C12	vx	75	28 Mo’s	(I)
TELECOMM SPEC-T/PT	B014I4	02	vx	75	28 Mo's	<*)
PAYROLL						
PAYROLL SERVICES REP	B00980	E16	VI	75	16 MO's	(O
PURCHASING						
AUTO MESSENGER	BOD185	EI7	WF	BO	16 Mo's	(3)
LOG ACT ANALY-PIE	B00770	E16	VI	75	16 MOfl	(1)
LOG SPT ASC-DATA SVC	B0078D	E16	VL	75	28 Mo's	(1)
MAIL SVC MESSENGER	B00795	E17	VQ	73	16 Mo's	□ )
MATL & LOGISTIC ASST	B00S35	EI7	VH	75	16 Mo's	P>
MATL DIST DRIVER	B00815	G13	WJ	60	16 Mo's	(3)
MATL HANDLER	B00820	G13	WH	80	16 Mo's	(3)
MOTOR EQPT 1NSP-MADM	B00855	FLO	WM	80	28 Mo’s	*3)
PLUG-IN ADMIN SPEC	BOI 032	CI2	VM	75	28 Mo’s	(I)
PURCHASE ANALYST	BOI 076	EL6	VI	75	16 Mo’s	(I)
SUPPLIES ATTENDANT	B0I358	GI3	ZD	80	16 Mo's	(3)
TECH ASST-ONE	BO 1395	E16	XG	75	J 6 Mo's	(l>
(I)	Headquarters
p) Can l/Mktj
(J)	Plant Swiich Sjrt, Supp Sws
(4) Customer Infanmliori SCJVKII'
63
APPENDIX A
DEPARTMENT/JOB TITLE	JOB CODE	EEO	SAL GRADE	Bl-WKLY SCHED HRS	RESID,	DEPT.
REG AFFAIRS & PUB POLICY						
Fl N ANCIA L ASSISTA NT	B 00665	E17	VH	75	16 Mos	<0
REG OFFICE ASSOC	BOI 036	EI6	VH	75	16 Mo's	(1)
SBC TELECOM, INC. (SBCT1 j						
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	B00720	E17	vs	75	16 Mo's	())
MA1NT ADMIN	BOOK 00	E16	ZE	SO	28 Mo's	O)
SVC REP	601245	EIB	VK	75	28 Mo's	P)
SNET FINANCE						
ACCOUNTANT	B00005	El 6	VL	7$	28 Mo's	(1)
accounting assistant	Booaio	E16	VJ	75	28 Mos	(1)
accounting associate	BOWL	El 6	XF	75	28 Mo's	(1)
accts invest ref	B00020	El 6	VI	75	16 Mo's	(1)
BILLING invest REP	800210	Bl 6	VI	75	16 MoT	(1)
SR accountant	801160	El 6	VN	75	28 Mo's	(1)
SNET PAYPHONE SERVICES						
COIN TEL COLLECTOR	800295	G13	VU	75	16 Mo's	(2)
COIN TEL CONTACT IED	600290	E17	VH	75	16 Mo's	(2)
COIN TEL TELLER	B00300	E17	VF	75	16 Mo's	(2)
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	800720	E17	VS	75	16 Mo's	(1)
OFFICE ASST-COIN TEL	800925	GI3	VY	75	16 Mo's	(2)
PAY TELEPHONE TECH	800973	ELI	WK	SO	16 Mo's	(2)
PUB COMM CONSULT PCS	801047	El6	VL	75	16 Mo's	(2)
SNET REALESTATE						
BUILDING MECHANIC	800225	FOB	wo	80	28 Mo's	<3)
ENGRG ASST41LDG&R.E	800542	02	VM	75	28 Mo's	
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	B00720	El 7	VS	75	16 M^S	(1)
SENIOR REPORTS CLERK	DOL 196	FOP	VI	75	28 Mo's	(31
STRATEGIC MARKETING						
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	000720	£17	VS	75	16 Mo's	(1)
OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR	BOOTH	Bl 7	VH	75	16 Mo's	(1)
WHITE PAGES						
01 RECTORY COMPOSER	B00448	El 6	VJ	75	28 Mo’s	(1)
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	B00720	BI 7	VS	75	16 Mo's	
SVC REP ’ DMU	BOI 248	EIS	VK	75	28 Mo's	<2)
WOODBURY TELEPHONE						
BILLING SVCS REP	B002I9	EL6	VI	75	16 Mo’s	(2>
GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	B00720	EI7	VS	73	16 Mo's	(I)
SVC CONSULTANT	B01205	DI4	VN	75	28 Mo's	(2)
SVC REP	BOI 245	EIS	VK	75	28 Mo's	(2)
(I] ]1e*dqu«iUn
(*) CrtD l/Mbx
(5) Pianl, SwiKft Syix, Supp Sv»
(4) Cundmer hiorrmridfl Servieci
64
TABLE OF CONTENTS
DEPARTMENTAL SECTION	Page No.
General - All Departments ............................... 66
Headquarters - All Departments,,,.,..................110
Commercial and Marketing Field.......................    122
Plant, Switching Systems and Support Services - Field and District ................................. 134
(C) Customer Information Services .............................. 156
Common Throughout Departmental Sections
Section
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Subject
Definitions
Work Time and Scheduling
Wage Practices
Holiday Practices
Vacations
Sickness and Accident Absences
Expenses
Excused Absence
Miscellaneous
65
GENERAL
1.	DEFINITIONS
1.01 Employee
An “employee” is defined as any person rendering service to the Company under the terms of employment which permits the Company to exercise direction or control with respect to the manner in which services are performed, and who receives from the Company for such services a regular and stated compensation other than a retainer including those whose compensation is ordinarily computed on other than a time basis, even though the individual may be:
(a)	Currently employed and classified on the SNET payroll system as a regular full-time or part-time employee;
(b)	Currently employed as a Temporary employee (full or part-time);
(c)	On vacation or other approved absence with or without pay, or
(d)	Absent on account of illness or injury under either the Employees’ Benefit Plan or other approved basis.
This definition shall not include:
Any contractor or any individual performing specific work or service for the Company and responsible to it only for the results.
1.02 Regular Employee
A regular employee is an individual whose employment is expected to continue for longer than a year although it may be terminated earlier by action on the part of the Company or the employee.
1.03 Reserved for Future Use.
1.04 Part-Time Employee
A part-time employee is one who is employed and normally scheduled to work less hours per average month than a comparable full-time employee in the same job title, classification and work group working the same normal daily tour.
66
GENERAL
CLASSIFICATION AND TREATMENT OF PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
I.	Except for payment for overtime hours worked, all hours worked by a parttime employee in Customer Service Centers, Bell Phone Booths (Kiosks), DM/DR (Direct Marketing/Direct Response) Centers and any equivalent retail sales or service centers operation, and any employee who is transferred to or employed by any new unregulated subsidiary or affiliated entity shall be paid at the equivalent basic hourly rate for a comparable full-time employee working a normal daily tour in the same job title, classification, and work group. Payment to a part-time employee for hours worked in excess of an equivalent normal daily tour or work week for a comparable full-time employee shall be at the applicable overtime rate for a comparable full-time employee based on such part-time employee’s basic hourly rate. Any regular employee who is on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31,1980, and continuously thereafter, and who works part-time on or after January 1, 1981, shall thereafter continue, during the current term of employment, to be paid on the same basis as was applicable to such a part-time employee on December 31, 1980.
2.	The classification of a part-time employee is based on the employee’s “part-time equivalent work week” which shall be determined prospectively by dividing the employee’s total normally scheduled hours per month by 4.35 and rounding the result to the next higher whole number. (Illustration: 68 hours per month divided by 4.35 equals 15.6, rounded to a "part-time equivalent work week” classification of 16).
3.	The "part-time equivalent work week” classification of each part-time employee shall be reviewed by the Company no less often than every six (6) months on April 1 and October 1 of each year and adjusted on a prospective basis, if appropriate. In determining whether such adjustment is appropriate, the Company will consider the actual average number of hours worked per month during the preceding six (6) month period. Any hours worked which are paid at the overtime rate shall not be counted in computing the average number of hours worked.
4.	For employees, who are hired on or after January 1,1981, and who work as regular part-time employees, payments to a regular part-time employee for sickness benefits, accident benefits, or death benefits under the “SNET Pension Plan” and “Sickness and Accident Benefit Plan", vacations, holidays, anticipated illness leave, sickness absence (not under the “Sickness and Accident Benefit Plan”), or termination allowance (or its equivalent) shall be pro-rated based on the relationship of the individual part-time employee’s “parttime equivalent work week” to the normal work week of a comparable full-time employee in the same job title, classification and workgroup. A part-time employee shall not be paid for absence due to sickness (not under the “Sickness and Accident Benefit Plan”) unless such absence due to sickness occurs on a
67
GENERAL
day of the week on which the employee is normally scheduled to work. Regular employees who are on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31, 1980,and continuously thereafter, and who work part-time on or after January 1, 1981 shall thereafter continue, during the current term of employment, to receive payments for the benefits and other items, except holidays, listed above on the same basis as was applicable to a part-time employee on December 31, 1980. (For holiday pay treatment see Departmental Section 4.)
5.	Employees who are hired on or after January I, 1981, and prior to April 1, 1995, and who work as part-time employees shall, if otherwise eligible to participate under the terms of such plans, be eligible for coverage under the Medical Plan, Dental Plan, and Vision Plan, as follows:
(a)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is sixteen (16) hours or less shall be eligible by enrollment and payment of 100% of the premiums for such coverage;
(b)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is seventeen (17) through twenty-four (24) hours shall be eligible by enrollment and payment of 50% of the premiums for such coverage;
(c)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is twenty-five (25) or more hours shall be eligible for such coverage on the same basis as a regular full-time employee;
(d)	Regular employees who are on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31, 1980, and continuously thereafter shall continue to be eligible for such coverage on the same basis as a regular full-time employee regardless of classification.
6.	Effective March 31,1995, employees hired or re-hired on or after that date who work part-time and less than 30 hours per week will be eligible for a percentage of the Company contribution for full time employees hired or rehired onorafter March 31, 1995. The amount of the Company contribution will vary based on actual hours, and calculated on a retrospective basis using a six month's average during a calendar year. For individuals on an approved, unpaid Leave of Absence (L.O.A.) the contribution level will be determined based on the six (6) months worked prior to the effective date of the L.O.A. The Company contribution will be towards the cost of individual coverage for medical, dental, and vision benefits. Individuals will be offered the opportunity to purchase coverage for eligible Class 1 dependents at group rates.
68
GENERAL
Regular Part-Time	Percentage * of Company Contribution
Equivalent	towards Individual
Work Week	Coverage for Full Time Reeular Employees
24 - 29 hours	75%
17-23	50%
9-16	25%
8 or less	0%
* tn 1997, percentages will be prorated for each hour between 8 and 30
7.	Effective January 1,2002. the Company will amend the SNET Active Bargaining Unit Employee Health Plan (which includes medical, HMO, dental and vision benefits) to provide that all regular part-time bargained-for employees who were hired or rehired on or after January 1, 1981 shall receive the following level of Company contributions toward the cost of employee and eligible dependent coverage, based on the employee’s normal scheduled work hours as shown below:
Normal Weekly Scheduled Work Hours
25 or more hours per week
17 through 24 hours per week
16 or less hours per week
Company Contributions Towards Employee & Eligible Dependent Health Coverage*
100%**
50% 0%
*	Employee pays the remaining cost of coverage, including all HMO premiums ihal exceed the SNET Medical Plan costs.
*	* Working Spouse contributions will continue to apply for employees hired on or after April I, 1995 who arc eligible for 100% of the Company contribution for coverage.	'
8. Regular part-time employees, regardless of classification, shall be eligible for Excused Work Days on a pro rata basis based upon the ratio of any such part-time employee’s equivalent work week to the norma! work week of a comparable full-time employee.
1.05 Temporary E mployee
(a)	A “Temporary” Employee is one who is engaged on a Temporary basis for a period of not more (han one year. A Temporary Employee's employment may be terminated at any lime, with or without cause, and for such reasons as completion of the work assignment for which he/shc was engaged. A Temporary Employee must
69
GENERAL
be separated from SNET upon reaching one year of service. A Temporary Employee who has been separated from SNET for any reason must remain separated for at least ninety (90) days before being eligible for re-engagement as a Temporary Employee.
(b)	Bargaining unit positions that are filled by a Temporary Employee(s) for twelve (12) consecutive months shall be considered a job vacancy and filled through the Transfer Procedure utilizing all Regular Employee requests. If no qualified candidate can be identified in the Transfer Bureau, the employer may offer the vacancy to the Temporary Employee or utilize other means to fill the vacancy.
(c)	Temporary Employees may not be returned to the same job title in the same location unless it is in another department. Temporary employees can return to a different work location in the same job title after a six month period. Temporary employees hired under the College Summer Hire program may return to the same job title that they previously held in the same department in the same location, or a different location.
1.06 Reserved for Future Use
1.07 N on-Exempt Employee
“Non-exempt” employees are subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and regardless of their basic weekly going rates, will be paid time and one-half for overtime worked as defined in departmental working practices. .
1.08 Reserved for Future Use
1.09 Home Station
(a)	Home Station, within Connecticut, is the exchange area to which an employee is regularly assigned. Exchange area boundaries are indicated on the map at end of General Wage and Working Practices section.
(b)	Home Station, outside Connecticut, is an 18 mile radius from the reporting center as designated by the Company.
1.10	Reporting Center
Reporting center is any one of the places indicated below at which an employee is authorized to report for duty or is relieved of duty:
(a)	the office or work place at which an employee usually works or reports for work or any Company office within the employee’s home station;
70
GENERAL
(b)	the garages within the employee’s home station at which Company cars are stored for use;
(c)	a railroad passenger station or centrally located bus station within the home station when an employee is required to travel by train or bus; or
(d)	a location near an employee’s home which is mutually agreed upon between the supervisor and the employee when traveling as a passenger in a bus or Company car to or from a job away from the employee’s home station;
(e)	a location within the area where an employee is authorized to board when assigned to work away from the home station.
i.ll	Session
That part of a day that a Regular full-time employee is scheduled to work will be divided into two equal parts regardless of when the meal period is scheduled. (Parttime employees scheduled to work either 7'A or 8 hours per day are included.)
1.12	Immediate Family
The following relationships to the employee constitute the immediate family;
Father Mother Husband (C) Wife Sister	Brother	Grandfather	Step Grandparents Child	Grandchildren	Step Grandchildren Father-In-Law	Step parents	Registered Domestic	Partner* Mother-In-Law	Step children	Registered Domestic	Partner’s Grandmother	Step brothers &. sisters	- Father - Mother
- Child
•Registered Domestic Partner, defined as an individual with whom an employee has entered into a domestic partnership that has been registered with a governmental body pursuant to state or local law authorizing such registration. The Registered Domestic Partner must;
■	Live in common residence with the employee.
■	Participate in a mutual and exclusive commitment with the employee.
■	Be financially interdependent with the employee, sharing common assets and debts.
■	Be of legal age for marriage.
■	Not be married nor have another domestic partner.
•	Not be a close relative whose marriage to the employee would be barred by the state of residence.
71
GENERAL
1.13	Immediate Household
A person who lives in the employee’s home as one of the family shall be considered as a member of the employee’s immediate household.
1.14	Net Credited Service
(a)	Where the term “Net Credited Service’’ is used under the Company’s Health, Welfare and Retirement (“Pension”) Plans or for the establishment of an employee’s “Seniority" under this collective bargaining agreement, Net Credited Service is the period of continuous service from the date on which an employee’s latest employment as a regular or temporary employee started.
(b)	Where there has been a break in service a Net Credited Service Date will be established under the following “bridging-of-breaks-in-service" provisions to recognize all periods of previous service determined to be eligible for recognition in accordance with the terms of the SNET Pension Plan and the Mandatory Portability Agreement (“previous service”):
(1)	for pension purposes only: previous service shall be credited immediately upon re-employment as a regular or temporary employee; or
(2)	for all other non-pension purposes: previous service shall be credited to reemployed employees as follows:
(a)	if a regular employee who left the service of the Company is subsequently re-employed within six (6) months as a regular employee, previous service shall be credited immediately; or
(b)	if a regular employee who left the service of the Company as a result of a layoff is subsequently re-employed as a regular employee within the time periods outlined for “recall rights” under Article VII, previous service and up to six (6) months of service credit for the period of layoff shall be credited immediately; or '
(c)	if a regular employee who left the service of the Company and was reemployed as a regular employee on or before 12/31/1999, or if a regular employee who had been laid off was subsequently re-employed as a regular employee after the time periods outlined for “recall rights” in Article VII, but on or before 12/31/1999, previous service shall be credited upon the employee’s completion of four (4) years of continuous regular and/or temporary employment; or
72
GENERAL
(d)	if a regular employee who left the service of the Company and was reemployed as a regular employee on or after 1/1/2000, or if a regular employee who had been laid off was subsequently re-employed as a regular employee after the time periods outlined for “recall rights” in Article VII and on or after 1/1/2000, previous service shall be credited upon the employee’s completion of five (5) years of continuous regular and/or temporary employment.
(C)	(c) Where an employee’s Net Credited Service Date is used to determine seniority
for such events as vacation selection, transfers, work schedules or trick schedules, and there are two or more employees with the same Net Credited Service Date, the selection will be made by an automated system, if available. In cases where an automated system is not available and for surplus, layoff or lateral force rearrangement events, a lottery-like drawing will be conducted witnessed by a Union officer. Tie-breakers will be conducted for each individual event.
1.1S	Permanent Transfer
(a) Regular Employee - A change of home station ofa regular employee shall be considered to be a permanent transfer:	<
(1)	when the change is made because of the needs of the business and the duration of the assignment is expected to be 12 months or more;
(2)	when the change is necessitated because of inability to meet the requirements of the occupation or because of lack of work in the occupation, regardless of the length of the period; or
(3)	when the change is made at the employee's request.
. (b) Temporary Employee - A change of home station of a Temporary employee shall be considered to be a permanent transfer regardless of the length of the period.
1.16	Temporary Transfer
An assignment of a regular employee to a location other than the home station for a period expected to be of less duration (one year or less) than that required for a permanent transfer is considered a temporary transfer.
1.17	Extended Temporary Transfer
(a)	For temporary assignments ofa regular employee expected to be over one year, but less than two years, the following conditions will apply:
(1)	When qualifications are substantially equal, the senior seniority net credited service employee will be selected by volunteers, and inverse seniority if there are no volunteers.
73
GENERAL
(2)	The temporary assignment duration will be reviewed by local management and the Chief Steward at ten months in order to extend the assignment out to eighteen months.
(3)	The temporary assignment duration will be reviewed a second time by local management and the Chief Steward after eighteen months in order to extend the assignment out to twenty-four months.
(4)	Employees on temporary assignments will receive wage treatment according to General Section 3.11.
(b)	Assignments beyond twenty-four months will be considered permanent and the normal transfer bureau process will apply.
(c)	Consecutive extended temporary assignments cannot be used as a means of circumventing the transfer bureau. Extended temporary assignments must be separated by a minimum period of six months.
2.	WORKTIME AND SCHEDULING
See 3.17 of these Practices for minimum work time.
2.01 General
(a)	Normally, employees shall be relieved from duty promptly at their scheduled time. However, they shall be expected to work overtime when the business requires ' it. The Company shall determine the necessity for such work. Employees, other than Plant, Switching Systems and Support Services, will not be required to work more than a total of eight (8) hours of overtime in any payroll week except in case of emergency, long term service difficulties, or unless the employee consents to such overtime. All holiday hours worked shall be counted toward the administration of the overtime limitation. (For Plant, Switching Systems and Support Services overtime hour limitations,see the Work Time and Scheduling provisions in that section).
(1)	An “emergency” is an event of national importance, fire, explosion, or other catastrophe, severe weather conditions, major cable and equipment failures, or an act of God.
(2)	The parties recognize that service difficulties for an extended period may develop from time to time during which suspension of the above overtime limitations would be appropriate. In the event such service difficulties develop, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the problem and determine how to deal best with the situation.
74
GENERAL
(b)	Work lime shall include:
(1)	all authorized lime spent at the reporting center or on the job;
(2)	time spent in authorized travel between the reporting center and the job, and from one job to another;
(3)	all scheduled time spent in attendance at joint Union-Company meetings or in traveling to or from such meetings during scheduled working hours.
As used in this section, “job” means any assignment to work, to wait, or to attend a training class or meeting on Company business.
2.02 Travel Time
(a)	A regular employee assigned to report directly from home, which maybe located in or outside the home station, to a job outside the home station, work time shall include time in excess of thirty minutes in each direction spent traveling between home and the job. 1
(b)	A regular employee notified after the normal tour of duty ofanassignmentto report for duty on a day other than a scheduled working day or on a Company recognized holiday on which the employee is not expected to work, time not to exceed thirty minutes in each direction spent traveling between home and the reporting center shall be classed as work time.	-
(c)	A regular employee called from home for duty on a scheduled working day for a period not continuous with the employee's scheduled working hours, al! time spent traveling between home and the job shall be classed as work time.
(d)	A regular employee called from home to the reporting center for duty prior to the employee's scheduled working hours and the work continues into the scheduled working hours, time spent traveling between home and the reporting center shall not be classed as work time.
(e)	A regular employee called from home for duty on a day other than a scheduled working day or on a Company recognized holiday on which the employee is not expected to work, all lime spent traveling between home and the reporting center or the job shall be classed as work time.
(f)	A regular employee called to the home station from a place at which visiting away from home, and outside the home station, the travel time in both directions shall be classed as work time except that if the return trip is not to the point at which the employee was visiting, the travel time not to exceed thirty minutes in each direction shall be considered as work time.
75
GENERAL
2.03 Scheduling
See Section 2. of the departmental Wage and Working Practices.
3.	WAGE PRACTICES
3.01 Tria] Period
The first six months of an employee's service shall be considered as a trial period in order that the employee’s qualifications as to workmanship, character and personal conduct can be determined. Where the formal training period is greater than two weeks or does not begin within the first month of employment the trial period will be automatically extended by the length of the formal training period. When a case warrants an extension of the trial period the employee and the Union shall be notified of such action. Individuals shall be released at any time during the trial period if found to be lacking in the proper qualifications.
3.02 (Reserved for Future Use)
3.03 (Reserved for Future Use)
3.04 Temporary Assignment to a Higher Maximum Wage Rate
Employees who are temporarily assigned to work for a full work day or longer on a title carrying a higher maximum wage rate shall be paid at the higher rate for the period of the assignment in accordance with General 3 J I, All overtime hours will be paid at the appropriate overtime wage rate for their regular title.
3.05 Establishment of Wage Progression Schedules
Wage progression schedules shall be established for the various occupations which indicate the periods of time between each wage increase consideration and the amounts of the increases for regular full-time employees who are making the usual and satisfactory improvement in job performance.
3.06 Application of Wage Progression Schedules
(a)	General - The wage increases indicated in the wage progression schedules shall not be automatic, but the Company shall give consideration al the specified periods as to whether or not employees have merited increases.	'
76
GENERAL
(b)	Regular Full and Part-time Employees - Wage progression schedules are designed primarily for wage treatment for regular full-time employees but shall be used in determining wage treatment for regular and part-time employees eligible to such treatment by applying the provisions for bi-weekly starting rates, maxima, and amount of wage increases proportionately, e.g., an inexperienced employee engaged to work half-time, starts at one-half the minimum starting rate, and receives at the end of the first consideration period, one-half the weekly increase specified on the schedule at the end of this period. This employee progresses to one-half the maximum. On certain schedules increases are on an hourly basis and in such cases the same increase in rate per hour applies to part and full-time employees.
3.07 Awarding Increases
(a)	At such limes and in such amounts as are indicated on the wage schedules, the Company shall increase the rates of pay of regular employees who progressively acquire additional job knowledge and demonstrate improved ability to perform work until the maximum for the occupation is attained.
(b)	Employees who demonstrate unusual and outstanding progress in their occupation shall receive an increase earlier than indicated in the schedule or in an amount larger than indicated, or both. In such cases, the length of the next consideration period shall be the period indicated in the schedule for the new wage level.
Note: See 3.11 for increases in connection with advancements.
3.08 Deferring Increases
(a)	When a continuous period of absence results from a sickness or accident, leave of absence or temporuty layoff, the consideration period shall be extended as follows:
Number of Months in	Consideration Period
Consideration Period	Will Be Extended
Up to 6 Inclusive	By Time Lost Less One Month
In such cases, the extended period shall be shortened if the improvement in job performance by the employee has been greater than usual during that period.
(b)	When an employee’s performance or conduct does not warrant giving an increase in accordance with the consideration period indicated in the schedule, the increase shall be withheld and the employee shall be informed in advance of the reasons therefor. The increase shall be given as soon as the employee has adequately demonstrated consistently satisfactory improvement. In such cases, the length of the next consideration period shall be the period indicated on the schedule for that wage level. This period shall be shortened if the improvement in job performance by the employee has been greater than usual during that period.
77
GENERAL
(c)	When an employee with seniority service of two years or less has not merited a wage increase for two full consecutive consideration periods, the employee shall then either be transferred to other work for which qualified, if available, or dismissed after final notice has been given.
(d)	When an employee with more than two years of seniority service does not develop the ability to meet completely the requirements of an occupation but performs work assigned well enough to be retained, wage treatment appropriate to performance shall be granted but the employee shall not receive the maximum wage. If qualified to progress in other work, the employee shall be transferred if an opportunity becomes available.
3.0	9 Wage Reduction Other Than Transfer
The basic wage rale of an employee shall be subject to reduction for unsatisfactory performance of duty, unsatisfactory personal conduct or action which can be proven to be detrimental to the interests of the Company.
3.10	Transfer To An Occupation Having the Same Wage Maximum (See paragraph 3.13 for transfer due to disability)
(a) All regular employees transferred to other occupations having the same wage maximum shall be placed on the new wage schedule at the wage rate paid when transferred with full credit for the number of months al that rate.
3.11	Advancement to an Occupation Having a Higher Wage Maximum
(a)	All employees who are advanced to an occupation having a higher maximum will receive a promotional increase. The method of determining this increase will normally be in accordance with the following procedure:
(I)	Determine where the employee’s current pay falls on the wage progression guide of the job to which they are being advanced. The promotional increase is the amount shown as the next full step on the wage guide but not to exceed the maximum of the new job.
(b)	An employee may be accorded additional treatment to the above, depending upon the circumstances of the individual case.
78
GENERAL
3.12	Transfer To An Occupation Having A Lower Wage Maximum (See paragraph 3.13 for transfer due to disability)
(a)	For Reasons Other Than A Surplus Condition - When any employee is transferred to an occupation having a lower maximum for any reason other than a surplus condition, the case shall be treated on its merits and an appropriate adjustment may be made after a careful appraisal of the individual’s value in the new position.
(b)	Due To A Surplus Condition - When it is necessary because of a surplus condition to transfer an employee to another occupation, the Company will endeavor to make the transfer to an occupation with a maximum which is not below the employee’s basic wage rate. Where this can be done there shall be no reduction in the employee’s basic wage rate but the employee's progress on the new wage schedule shall be appropriate to experience and value in the new occupation. When an employee is transferred to an occupation with a wage maximum lower than the employee’s basic wage rate, adjustments shall be made as follows:
(1)	Less Than 10 Years of Seniority Service - If the employee’s basic wage rate does not exceed the new wage maximum by more than the amount of the last step on the new wage schedule, a reduction to the new wage maximum shall be made four weeks after the transfer. However, if the employee’s basic wage rate exceeds the new wage maximum by more than the amount of the last step on the new wage schedule, the employee’s rate shall be reduced by the amount of this step four weeks after the transfer and thereafter by a like amount at the end of each six months until it coincides with the new wage maximum. Even though the last reduction to be made is less than the full step, it shall not be made until six months following the date of the previous reduction.
(2)	10 or More Years of Seniority Service - There will be no reduction in pay for an employee with ten (10) years or more of seniority net credited service for a period of thirty-six (36) months following the effective date of such downgrade. Thereafter adjustments shall be in accordance with (bX 1) above.
3.13	Transfers For Reasons of Disability
(a)	When it is necessary because of physical disability as indicated by medical authority to transfer any employee to another occupation, the Company will endeavor to make the transfer to an occupation with a maximum which is not below the employee’s basic wage rate. Where this can be done there shall be no reduction in the employee's basic wage rate but the employee’s progress in the new wage schedule shall be appropriate to experience and value in the new occupation.
79
GENERAL
(b)	If it is definitely established that regular employees are incapable of performing the duties of their job classification because of an injury sustained in the employ of the Company or that regular employees having twenty (20) or more years of seniority service are incapable of performing the duties of their job classification because of a disability or infirmity arising from natural causes, and are assigned to a job with a lower wage maximum within their ability to perform, there will be no reduction in their basic rate of pay.
(c)	When the transfer does not meet the conditions described tn Paragraph (b) above, the basic wage rate shall not change as long as the employee's basic wage rate exceeds the maximum rate of the job to which transferred.
(d)	Computation of overtime and differential rates shall be based on the employee's basic wage rate.
3.14	Changes In Rates of Pay
(C) Effective January 1,2005:
Changes in employee rates of pay shall become effective on the date that the change is scheduled. However, no change in rate of pay for wage progression shall be made when an employee is absent at the beginning of the scheduled work week because of a sickness or accident benefit case under the Employee’s Benefit Plan, or a leave of absence. In such case an increase shall become effective on the date the employee returns to work, full or part time. Refer to Paragraph 3.08 for possible extension of date due to extended absence.
3.15 Pay Day
(C) Effective January 1,2005:
(a)	Employees shall be paid every other Friday for services rendered the previous two weeks.
(b)	When a Company-recognized holiday falls on Friday, employees shall be paid on the preceding Thursday.
3.16	Reserved for Future Use
3.17	Minimum Work Time
(a)	Initial Call-Outs - When an employee is called out initially for duty during nonscheduled hours not continuous with the employee’s regular schedule of hours and such call-outs occur:
(I)	between 6 A.M. and midnight, the minimum work time paid for shall be two hours at the appropriate overtime rate.
80
GENERAL	.
(2)	between midnight and 6 A.M., the minimum work time paid for shall be two hours at the appropriate overtime rate plus two hours at straight time.
(b)	Holiday Call-Outs - When an employee is called out initially for duty on a Company-recognized holiday, within the employee’s schedule for the week and such call-outs occur:
(1)	Within that which would ordinarily be the employee’s normal working hours the minimum work time paid for shall be two hours at the rate of time and one-half in addition to the normal day’s pay for the holiday.
(2)	Beyond those hours normally considered the employee’s normal working hours, the minimum work time paid for shall be two hours at the rate of double time and one-half. If such call-outs occur between midnight and 6 A.M., the minimum paid shall include an additional two-hours at straight time.
(c)	Subsequent Call-Outs which terminate within the two-hour period paid for as a minimum, shall be considered as compensated for by payment for the initial call-out. That part of any such call-out which extends beyond the period paid for as a minimum shall be compensated for at the straight-time, time and one-half, double time or double time and one-half rate, as appropriate. The provisions for minimum payment again apply when a subsequent call-out occurs after the expiration of the two-hour period paid for as a minimum.
(d)	N on-scheduled day - When an employee is assigned to work on a non-schcduled day or on a Company-recognized holiday the minimum work time paid shall be four (4) hours at the appropriate overtime rate.
3.18	Bi-Lingua) Differential (All Titles)
Employees on bi-lingual titles of:
Service Representative - Spanish Center	'
Telemarketing Specialist - Spanish Center
will receive a fixed differential in the amount of five ($5.00) dollars per day,
3.19	Differentials for Evening and Night Work - Regular Employees
(C) (a) Eligibility - A ten percent (10%) differential1' shall be paid to all employees who, as part of their basic work week, work regular or rotating evening or night assignments any part of which falls between the hours of 7:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M.
11 Differential calculation is 10% of either the weekly basic wage rate ("Fixed") or the daily basic wage rate ("Nightly”).
81
GENERAL
(C) (b) Regular Night Assignment - Any eligible employee who is scheduled to work a basic work week composed of at least five (5) evening or night sessions for a period of three (3) or more consecutive months is deemed to be working such sessions as a regular night assignment under Paragraph (a) and will be eligible to receive a weekly (or “fixed”) differential.
z
(C) (c) Rotating Night Assignment - Any eligible employee who is scheduled to work a basic work week composed of at least one (1) but less than five (5) evening or night sessions, or who is scheduled to work a basic work week composed of evening and night sessions for a period of less that three (3) consecutive months, is deemed to be working a rotating night assignment under Paragraph (a) and will be eligible to receive a nightly differential.
(d)	Time Off, Illness, Vacation
(I)	When eligible employees, who are on regular night assignments have time off, they shall receive the differential,
(2)	When eligible employees on a rotating night assignment basis or those on '	special assignments are off by permission or because of illness or vacation, they
shall not receive the differential. Such employees shall be entitled to the differential when excused from duty on a Company-recognized holiday.
(e)	Temporary Changes tn Assignments
(1)	Change to Night Assignment - An employee temporarily assigned to a night session to take the place of one previously so assigned who is off duty, , shall receive regular overtime treatment at the rate of time and one-half for the first night so worked; and if assigned to work continuously thereafter for a period of one night or more, shall receive the nightly differential for each night so worked,
(2)	Change to Day Assignment - When the needs of the business require that an employee regularly assigned to a night session be temporarily assigned to day sessions, night differential shall be continued for a period not to exceed two weeks of the assignment.
3.20	Out of State Differential
Regular employees who are required by the Company to attend out-of-state training, conference sessions or assigned to work where overnight lodging is required will be paid a twenty dollar ($20.00) differential for each overnight.
82
GENERAL
3.21	Differential Overtime
When a regular employee works overtime and in the same week is paid a differential for working evenings or nights, an additional amount representing differential overtime will be paid. This is computed by 1) dividing the amount of differential by the normal hours in the work week, 2) multiplying this result by the premium portion of the overtime hours. This results in the following formula:
Amount of Differential normal hours in work x premium portion of overtime for week.
3.22	Performing Support Functions
The Company may, if business needs require, designate a qualified bargaining unit employee to perform support functions such as distributing work, coordinating work activities and carrying out administrative duties in addition to their normal work functions and work schedules. The assignment will be made on a rotational basis by seniority from those employees who volunteer and who the Company determines are qualified and available for such assignment.
Employees will be assigned for no less than one full session nor more than sixty-five (65) work days per assignment. In no case shall an employee be assigned for a total of more than sixty-five (65) work days in a twelve (12) month period regardless of the number of assignments, inclusive of any assignments to peer training - in Headquarters, Commercial and Marketing Field, and Plant.
In no event shall such assigned employee have any involvement in discipline, or progression increases, performance evaluations or ma king judgments regarding other employees’ performance, nor shall such assigned employee have access to personnel folders, payroll records or other personnel-related documents or repons.
An employee so temporarily assigned will receive a special compensation payment of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per session.	-
3.23	Service Termination Payments
(a)	Services Terminated by the Company - The Company shall give two weeks notice or wages in lieu of notice to regular full or part-time employees with more than six months of seniority service, whose services are to be terminated only in those cases in which the employee is terminated for unsatisfactory work or minor misdemeanor subsequent to the trial period. Wages in lieu of notice shall be paid as follows:
(1)	Two weeks’ pay if less than one week’s notice is given by the Company.
(2)	One week's pay if one week but less than two weeks’ notice is given by the Company.
83
GENERAL
(b)	Wages in lieu or vacation shall be paid if services are terminated prior to a vacation assignment only in those cases in which wages in lieu of notices are not paid and in which the employee is terminated for unsatisfactory work or minor misdemeanor subsequent to the trial period. If an employee is eligible for either wages in lieu of notice or wages in lieu of vacation, the larger amount shall be paid.
(c)	Services Terminated by Employees - Regular full or part-time employees with more than six months of seniority service are expected to give two weeks' notice when voluntarily terminating service with the Company, Employees who resign after two weeks' notice shall receive wages in lieu of unused vacation.
4.	HOLIDAY PRACTICE
4.01 Company-Recognized Holidays
(a)	The Company recognizes the following holidays which are to be observed on the day so designated by The Federal Government:
(C)
New Year’s Day President’s Day Good Friday Memorial Day Independence Day
Labor Day
Columbus Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day After Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
(b)	When a Company recognized holiday falls on Saturday, holiday treatment shall be accorded those regular employees who are scheduled to work on either the designated holiday or the recognized holiday but an employee will not receive holiday treatment for both days.
4.02 On Sunday
When a Company-recognized holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be considered as the holiday.
4.03 Holiday Worktime Period
Holiday overtime work is work time during any part of the twenty-four (24) hour period from midnight of the day preceding the holiday to midnight of the Company-recognized holiday other than the holiday tour hours.
84
GENERAL
4.04 Excused Absence Period
When work requirements permit an employee to be absent by permission without pay for not more than seven (7) consecutive calendar days and when such excused absence is adjacent to or includes a Company-recognized holiday, the employee will receive holiday pay.
4.05 Extended Sickness or Leave of Absence
An employee on extended sickness without pay, or leave of absence, during a period which includes a holiday will not be paid for the holiday.
5.	VACATIONS
5.01 Vacation Allowance
(a) Eligibility - A vacation with normal pay (basic weekly wage rate including any fixed differential) shall be given annually to each regular employee in accordance with the following allowances:
*( 1) One calendar week after completion of six months of continuous seniority service.
*(2)	Two calendar weeks after completion of twelve months of continuous
seniority service, provided that if terms of employment of six months and twelve months are both completed in the same calendar year, only two weeks of vacation will be granted, with the second week to be taken after completion of twelve months of continuous seniority service. The first week may be taken anytime after completion of six months of continuous seniority service.
(3)	Three calendar weeks during the calendar year in which seven years of seniority net credited service are completed, and during each subsequent calendar year, until the year in which fifteen years of service are completed.
(4)	Four calendar weeks during the calendar year in which fifteen years of seniority net credited service are completed, and during each subsequent calendar year, until the year in which twenty-five years of service are completed.
(5)	Five calendar weeks during the calendar year in which twenty-five years of seniority net credited service are completed, and during each subsequent calendar year.
85
GENERAL
*If an employee becomes eligible for a vacation week under (I) or (2) above, on or after December 1, such vacation week may be taken in the following calendar year, provided it is completed prior to April 1, and prior to the taking of any of the current year’s vacation.
Note: The calendar year, for purposes of determining vacation allowance, shall begin on December 31 and end on the following December 30.
(b)	In Calendar Weeks or Less - Generally, employees are required to take vacations in calendar weeks. Under special circumstances, full-time employees shall be allowed to take vacations, subject to work requirements, in periods of less than a calendar week or to start vacations other than at the end of the scheduled work week. In such cases, the allowance is the number of work days in the employee’s normal work week (usually five) for each calendar week of vacation.
(c)	No deduction shall be made from the vacation allowance because of time off during the current year for any of the following reasons: Leave of absence, time off by permission, temporary layoff, or absence due to accident or sickness.
(d)	A Comoan v-recognized holiday shall not be classed as a day of vacation when:
(1)	Such holiday occurs during an employee’s schedule for a calendar week which is taken as vacation.
(2)	A vacation period of less than a calendar week is adjacent to such holiday within an employee's work schedule for that week.
(e)	Sickness or Accident Absences
(1)	During Vacation Period - If an employee becomes incapacitated by reason of sickness or accident during a vacation, no extra vacation period will be allowed.
(2)	Immediately Prior to Vacation - When an employee is absent on account of sickness or accident disability on the last scheduled working day prior to the vacation assignment, the employee shall be given a vacation after recovery, subject to work requirements. Such rescheduling shall be in the calendar year. However, when such scheduled vacation, of one week or more, is in November or December and it is not possible to reschedule the vacation in the current year because of a sickness or accident absence continuing to the end of the year, the unused vacation may be rescheduled in the first two months of the following calendar year. In such rescheduling, the employee loses seniority in the assignment of the new vacation period.
86
I
GENERAL
(f)	Accumulations - Employees shall not be permitted to omit a vacation in one year for the purpose of having additional vacation allowance in a succeeding year, except as provided in paragraph 5,01 (g) and (h).
(g)	Dav-At-A-Time - Employees who are eligible for two weeks or more of vacation may use two weeks to be taken on a day-at-a-time basis. Eligible employees may designate two weeks in the current year or through the first fill) calendar week, of May of the following year as the reserved week for day-at-a-time. Single vacation days prior to the reserved week may be granted to employees on the basis of the earliest request, subject to work requirements, as determined by the supervisor. Employees will have the option to utilize vacation days, previously scheduled as part of their “reserve week’’, in one-half (1/2) day increments subject to availability.
The full week or portions of the week that have not been used on a day-at-a-time basis by the time the reserved week occurs must be taken during the reserved week as scheduled.
(h)	Vacation Carry-Over - Employees who are eligible for two (2) or more weeks of vacation in any calendar year may schedule in the following calendar year, by full week(s), a part of the vacation for which they are eligible in the current calendar year, subject to the following terms:
(1)	In no case shall an eligible employee schedule less than one week of vacation in any calendar year.
(2)	Any week or weeks of vacation “carried over” from one calendar year into the next must be scheduled and taken no later than the first full calendar week of May of the year into which the week or weeks are carried over.
(3)	For all weeks of vacation "carried over” from one calendar year into the next, at least a like number of weeks of vacation for the calendar year into which the “carry-over” is shifted must also be scheduled and taken no later than the first full calendar week of May of the same year.
(i)	Equivalent In Wages - An employee continuing in the employ of the Company shall not receive the equivalent of the vacation allowance in wages. .
87
GENERAL
5.02 Scheduling Vacations
(a)	Selection
(1)	All vacations are subject to work requirements.
(2)	Vacations shall be scheduled by vocational groups or groups which must be worked in combination. A maximum number of people shall be allowed to schedule their vacations at one time consistent with work requirements.
(3)	The controlling factor in the selection of two weeks of the vacation shall be seniority based on seniority net credited service provided the vacation is in calendar weeks except as provided in 5.02 (a)(7).
(4)	For employees eligible to three or four weeks vacation, the third week shall be scheduled in accordance with seniority after other employees have been scheduled for lesser vacation allowances to which they are eligible.
(5)	For employees eligible to four weeks vacation, the fourth week shall be scheduled in accordance with seniority after other employees have been scheduled for lesser vacation allowances to which they are eligible.
(6)	For employees eligible to five weeks vacation, the fifth week shall be scheduled in accordance with seniority after other employees have been scheduled for lesser vacations to which they are eligible. In such cases, it is expected that one week will be scheduled during January, February, March, April, November or December.	■
(7)	At any time during the selection of vacation, employees may designate to carry over weeks in accordance with 5.01 (h). The week(s) carried over from the current calendar year shall be considered in consecutive sequence as the first, second, third, fourth, fifth week selection of the current year’s vacation allowance depending upon the number of weeks, if any, that have already been scheduled in the current year and the number of weeks selected for carry-over. The weeks matched with those carried over shall be considered in consecutive sequence as the first, second, third, fourth, fifth week selection of the following year’s vacation allowance depending upon the number of weeks matched.
(8)	At any time during the selection of vacation, employees may designate two weeks to be reserved if they wish to take vacation on a day-at-a-time basis in accordance with 5.01 (g) and 5.02 (a) (1 )-(6).
88
GENERAL
(9)	At any time during the selection of vacation, employees may elect to schedule in advance up to two full weeks of vacation for the year immediately subsequent to the one under consideration. The week(s) may be scheduled through the first full calendar week of May. The advanced week(s) scheduled shall be considered as the first week(s) selection for the following year.
(10)	Not more than two weeks of the vacation allowance shall be taken consecutively unless work requirements permit.
(11)	Vacations shall be allowed during entire year dependent on the conditions previously outlined.
(12)	It will not be necessary for an employee to take ail or part of a vacation prior to the granting of any excused absence.
(13)	Scheduling of vacations will begin by November 1“ and will be completed by December 30th.
(b)	Vacations At End of Year - Vacations scheduled during the entire week in which December 31 occurs on a week day, Monday through Friday, may be charged against the vacation allowance for cither the current year or the following year.
(c)	Additional Dav for Holiday Within Vacation Period - When an additional day of vacation is allowed because of a Company recognized holiday occurring in an employee’s scheduled vacation, it may be taken with due consideration for work requirements and the vacation selections of other employees.
(d)	Transferees - An employee transferred within the Company shall retain seniority commensurate with length of service except that during the calendar year of transfer selection of vacation shall not interfere with vacation choices recorded by other employees in the group up to time of transfer.
5.03 Vacation Pay - Regular Part-Time Employees
For employees who were hired on or before December 31,1980 and who work as regular part-time employees weekly vacation payments shall be based on the average of the weekly amounts paid to them during the third through sixth weeks’ period prior to the vacation period including any basic wage rate increase in effect at the time of the vacation week, but the total weekly pay shall not exceed their pay for 371/2 or 40 hours, as appropriate, at their current basic wage rate. For employees hired or rehired January 1, 1981 and after, the provisions of General, Paragraph 1.04 will apply.
89
GENERAL
6.	SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT ABSENCES
6.01 Short Period Sickness
(a)	General - A supervisor shall be notified of absence due to sickness no later than the start of the day’s scheduled work time whenever possible.
(b)	A regular full or part-time employee (except Plant and Operator Services as outlined in 6.01 of Departmental Wage and Working Practices) shall receive normal pay for short periods of time off duty occasioned by personal sickness as indicated below. (Also sec par. (c) which follows).
During the first year of seniority net credited service -
None
During the second year of seniority net credited service -Five working days
After two years of seniority net credited service -Ten working days during each service year.
In the case of a pan-time employee, the length of the schedule on the absent days involved shall be considered as constituting a working day and payment shall be based on the length of the schedule on the particular days for which payment is to be made. However, in no case shall short period sickness payments be made for that portion of the absence which extends one full day or more beyond seven consecutive calendar days.
(c)	Consideration of Payment For Absence Beyond Ten Davs - It is understood (hat consideration will be given to payment for necessary incidental sickness absence beyond ten days in a service year, where the circumstances warrant. Important factors in such cases would be the past record of attendance, length of service and the number and duration of Benefit Plan absences.
(d)	A Company-recognized holiday is classed as a day of sickness when:
(1)	the holiday falls on a scheduled working day on which the employee is required to work and is absent because of sickness on that day.
(2)	the holiday falls on a scheduled working day on which the employee is not required to work and is absent because of sickness on the entire afternoon or session of the scheduled working day preceding and the entire morning or session of the scheduled working day following the holiday.
90
GENERAL
(e)	No deduction shall be made from the short period sickness allowance of an employee for sickness on a Company-recognized holiday, temporary layoff, excused absence, or leave of absence during the year; but a change shall be made in the service year on which it is computed, in cases where all or part of the absence is not credited.
6.02 The SNET Disability Benefits Plan
Employees must refer to the SNET Disability Benefits Plan Summary Plan Description (“Disability Plan SPD”) for the specific eligibility requirements that must be satisfied for disability benefit payments for each medically-necessary absence due to sickness or accident (on-the-job or non-job-related), the maximum duration of benefits, relapse provisions, and any other specific terms and conditions of the Plan.
(a)	Subject to the terms and conditions of the SNET Disability Benefits Plan, payments to eligible regular employees whose illness or injury arises out of or in the course of employment shall begin on the first day of absence; payments to employees whose illness or injury docs not arise out of or in the course of employment shall begin on the eighth calendar day of absence as follows:
(1)	If term of employment has been less than 6 months of benefits net credited service - no payment.
(2)	If term of employment has been 6 months but less than 2 years of benefits net credited service - full pay 4 weeks, half pay 48 weeks.
(3)	If term of employment has been 2 but less than 5 years of benefits net credited service * full pay 8 weeks, half pay 44 weeks.
(4)	If term of employment has been 5 but less than 15 years of benefits net credited service - full pay 13 weeks, half pay 39 weeks.
(5)	If term of employment has been 15 but less than 20 years of benefits net credited service - full pay 26 weeks, half pay 26 weeks,
(6)	If term of employment has been 20 but less than 25 years of benefits net credited service - full pay 39 weeks, half pay 13 weeks.
(7)	If term of employment has been 25 years or more of benefits net credited service - full pay 52 weeks.
91
GENERAL
Pay is defined as the employee’s regular base pay, and fixed differentials (including bilingual), and does not include such things as payments for overtime, incentive awards or commissions. Benefit payments will be offset by workers’ compensation benefits paid. In addition, because Workers’ Compensation payments are not subject to income tax, an additional offset will be made during periods of full-pay benefits so that the employee’s total payment after taxes is equal to the total level of after-tax income from base pay and fixed differentials (including bilingual) the employee was eligible to receive before the on-the-job illness or injury.
An employee hired under the “Temporary” employee classification will not be eligible for benefits under the SNET Disability Benefits Plan.
(b)	Successive Periods of Absence Due to Disabling Medical Conditions:
I fan employee returns to work after receiving sickness or accident benefits, the employee will again be eligible for the full 52 week period of sickness or accident benefits once he/she has been back to work on their normal work schedule with no SNET Disability Benefits Plan or Workers’ Compensation payments for a period of 26 consecutive weeks.	■
If the employee returns to work and is absent again due to a disabling medical condition - whether related or not to a previous disabling medical condition — during the first 26 weeks after returning to work, the employee will be eligible only for the period of disability benefits remaining under the original 52 week period,
(c)	Illness Other Benefits (IOB)
Payments may be available for medically-required time off duty associated with a part-time return to work following an absence due to extended illness of at least three months duration. If approved, IOB payments may be payable for time not worked based on the employee’s eligibility for full or half pay disability benefits. Such disability payments will be counted towards usage of 52 weeks of Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit payments.
(d)	Special Sickness Disability Benefits
Payments may be available when it is anticipated that a full-time employee will be totally disabled in the near future (such as for scheduled surgery or delivery of a baby) and must work on a part-time basis because of a temporary and partial disability. If approved, special sickness disability benefit payments may be payable for time not worked based on the employee’s eligibility for full or half pay disability benefits. Such disability payments will be counted towards usage of 52 weeks of Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit payments.
92
GENERAL
6.03 Reserved for Future Use
6.04 Classification of Company-Recognized Holiday - Employees’ Benefit Plan Cases
A Company-recognized holiday is classed either as a day of sickness or a day off duty occasioned by an accident when:	,
(a)	the holiday falls on a scheduled working day on which an employee is required to work and is absent because of a sickness or accident disability on that day;
(b)	the holiday falls on a scheduled working day on which an employee is not required to work and is absent because of a sickness or accident on the entire afternoon or session of the scheduled working day preceding the holiday.
7.	EXPENSES
7.01 Meals
(a)	General
(I)	Entertaining Other Than Company Employees - When an employee is required by the Company to incur meal expense in entertaining other than Company employees, reimbursement shall be made for all such expenses.
(2)	Attending Other Than Company Meetings - An employee shall not be reimbursed for meal expenses incurred by reason of attendance at meetings of organizations such as service clubs, chambers of commerce, etc., except when the Company desires the employee to attend. If the Company requests attendance, reimbursement will be for actual meal expense incurred; if attendance is optional with the employee, reimbursement will be for one-half the meal expenses incurred.
(3)	Medical Examination or Treatment Away from Home Station - An employee shall be reimbursed for meal expenses incurred when required by the Company to make a trip away from the home station for medical examination or treatment in accident or sickness cases.
(b)	Declared Emergencies - When the Company declares an emergency as defined in Section 2.01 (a) (1), designated employees will be determined by title and organization by the Company. All designated employees except those employees working in locations where meals are provided by the Company will receive the following meal allowance:
93
GENERAL
(I)	Noon Lunch - $4.00
(2)	Supper $15.00 when working 2 hours or more overtime beyond the end of the regular schedule.
7.02 Lodging
See 7.02 of the Departmental Wage and Working Practices.
7.03 Transportation
(a)	Selection of Means of Transportation - When transportation is required in the
course of Company business, the supervisor shall determine the means of transportation which is in the best interest of the Company from the standpoint of availability, adequacy and economy. Employees shall be:
(1)	assigned to ride as passengers in a Company ora personal car already scheduled to make the trip.
(2)	assigned to use public transportation service (use of a personal car in lieu of public transportation service is covered in a subsequent paragraph).
(3)	assigned to use a Company car provided they possess a Company motor operator’s certificate.
(4)	authorized to use their personal car at a milcage rale; or
(5)	authorized to use their personal car at a flat monthly allowance.
No person other than an employee or another directly or indirectly engaged in Company business shall be carried in a Company car, or in a personal car for which an allowance is paid at a mileage rate, a flat monthly rate, or a public transportation rate, without the permission of the supervisor.
(b)	Direct to Job Within Home Station - When an employee reports directly from home to a job at some point within the home station but away from the reporting center or returns directly home from such a job, reimbursement shall be for authorized transportation and parking expense in excess of the normal expense, not to exceed the first fifteen (15) work days of the assignment.
(c)	Direct to Job Away from Home Station - When an employee reports directly from home to a job away from the home station, or returns directly home from such a job, reimbursement shall be for expenses for authorized transportation in excess of that normally incurred between the home and the regular reporting center.
(Also see 7.03 of the Departmental Wage and Working Practices.)
94
GENERAL
(d)	During Performance of Work - An employee shall be reimbursed for transportation expense incurred during the performance of the work if authorized by the supervisor, but under normal conditions such expense shall not be authorized for a distance of less than one-half mile.
(e)	Use of Persona] Car - When the use of a personal car is authorized at a mileage rate, compensation shall be at the following rates:
(1)	Prevailing IRS allowable reimbursement rate for use of personal car for business purposes when not more than two employees or persons (including the driver) engaged on Company business are carried.
(2)	Three cents a mile additional for each additional person when more than two arc carried.
When it has been determined that public transportation should be used and an employee chooses to use their own automobile for personal reasons, the supervisor may permit them to do so. However, compensation shall be limited to the lesser of the amount calculated to be reimbursed on actual mileage or the cost of public transportation.
(f)	Parking and Overnight Storage - In the operation of a Company car, or a personal car for which a mileage rate or a monthly allowance is paid, an employee shall be reimbursed for necessary parking charges and for the actual cost of overnight storage when it is necessary to remain away from the home station. Employees shall not be reimbursed for parking charges or overnight storage in the operation of their car in lieu of public transportation.
(g)	Medical Examination or Treatment - An employee shall be reimbursed for transportation expenses incurred when required by the Company to make a trip for medical examination or treatment in accident or sickness cases at the rate described in paragraph (e) above.
(h)	Overtime Work - When overtime work requires an employee to incur expense for transportation for an extra trip on a scheduled day or a trip on a non-scheduled day, reimbursement shall be as follows:
(1)	For a trip between the home and the job or reporting-center within the home station or a trip from home directly to a job away from the home station:
(a) the employee shall be reimbursed the actual expense of the extra trip (also see par. (3) below).
(2)	Trip from Place of Visitation - For a trip from a place at which the, employee is visiting away from home and outside of the home station, to a location within the home station:
95
GENERAL
(a)	if the employee returns to the place at which visiting, reimbursement shall be for the actual transportation expense in both directions;
(b)	if return is not to the place at which visiting, reimbursement shall be for the transportation expense in each direction. However, if obliged to use a different means of transportation from the distant point than had originally been planned, reimbursement for any additional transportation expense incurred thereby shall be paid.
(3)	Added Expense Due to Unusual Hours - When no extra trip is required, but the employee is obliged because of unusual hours to incur additional transportation expense, reimbursement shall be for the additional expense only.
(i)	When as a result of a permanent closing of a Company facility employees are permanently assigned to another Company location they shall be paid an allowance for the mileage in excess of their original commute, at the rate described in paragraph (e) above, for a period of four (4) months from the date of reassignment, or its equivalent if the period is extended by any paid absence period.
(j)	Company-Recognized Holiday - When working on a Company-Recognized Holiday, the employee shall be reimbursed the actual expense for a trip between the home and the job or reporting center within the home station or a trip from home directly to a job away from the home station.
7.04 Liability in Case of Accidents
(a)	The Company shall be liable for all claims directed against the Company or against an employee for injuries to and property damage of others resulting from an accident involving a Company automobile.
(b)	The Company shall also be liable for claims directed against the Company
resulting from an accident involving an employee’s personal automobile which has been authorized to be used on Company business and paid for on a mileage or monthly allowance basis.
(c> When c laims are directed against an employee for injuries and property damage to others resulting from an accident involving a personal car which has been authorized to be used on Company business and paid for on a mileage or monthly allowance basis, the Company shall be liable for the amount of such claims which are in excess of the liability insurance carried by the employee.
96
GENERAL
7.05 Reimbursement for Loss Sustained Through Damage to a Personal Car Used on Company Business
The Company will reimburse employees for financial loss sustained through damage to their personal car when used on Company business, provided:
(a)	such loss does not result from gross negligence of the employee, and
(b)	the use of the personal car is authorized and paid for on a mileage or monthly allowance basis, and
(c)	the form used in reporting accidents to Company cars is prepared and given to the supervisor, and
(d)	the loss does not result from a fire or theft of the employee’s car.
7.06 Responsibility For Infractions Of The Rules Of The Road
(C) Employees are responsible to comply with rules of the road, State laws or municipal ordinances. The Company will furnish a bond if required and legal assistance for an employee in the event of arrest for infractions of the rules of the road, State laws or municipal ordinances, while using a Company or personal car which has been authorized to be used on Company business and paid for on a mileage or monthly allowance basis. It will also pay the fine and costs imposed when circumstances justify such action.
7.07 Moving
(C) 1. Regular Employees - An employee who is involuntarily placed into a long commute position under the provisions of Policies & Procedures, Part I E (Lateral Intradepartmental Force Rearrangements) or voluntarily accepts a long
7	commute position under the provisions of Article VII, paragraph i and who relocates his/her permanent residence within six (6) months of the payroll effective date of the placement into that position and the resulting commute to the new work location is less than 55 miles, shall be entitled to a lump sum payment of $5,000. Any employee accepting this payment will forfeit any return, recall and/or buyback rights hc/she may have to the position and/or location from which they moved.
2.	For purposes of this section, a position shall be considered as a long commute
if the distance from the employee’s permanent residence to the new work location is greater than that from the employee’s permanent residence to the former work location and the actual one-way commuting distance from the employee’s permanent residence to the new work location exceeds fifty-five (55) miles.
97
GENERAL
3.	Computation of commuting distance shall be based on the Mileage Guide published by the State of Connecticut Department of Transportation (March 1994). As specified, the distance will be expressed as whole miles between towns within the State of Connecticut.
4.	The Company may request reasonable documentation to satisfy itself that the employee has in fact permanently and legitimately changed his or her permanent address before making any lump sum payment under this section.
8.	EXCUSED ABSENCE
8*01 General
Employees shall make arrangements with their supervisor in connection with all absences.
8.02 Sickness in Family
A regular full or part-time employee absent because of emergency illness in the employee’s immediate household shall be paid for that part of a day necessary to secure help for the disabled person. An employee who elects to remain off duty to care for the disabled person instead of securing help shall not receive pay. (See 1.13 for definition of “immediate household.”)
8.03 Death In Family
A regular foil or part-time employee absent because of death in the immediate family or immediate household shall be paid for time off duty for three (3) days related to funeral or memorial services. (See 1.12 for definition of “immediate family” and 1.13 for “immediate household.’’)
8.04 Death of Co-Worker or Member of Co-Worker’s Immediate Family or Immediate Household
(a)	A regular foil or part-time employee shall be excused from duty with pay when selected to act as a pallbearer for a deceased co-worker or a member of the immediate family or immediate household, or one who was closely associated in the business. Pay for such absence shall not exceed one-half day.
(b)	Conditions of work permitting, a reasonable number of other employees may be excused from duty with pay to attend the funeral of a co-worker, member of the immediate family or immediate household, or one who was closely associated in the business. Pay for such absence shall not exceed two hours.
98
GENERAL
8.05 After Working Substantial Part of Twenty-Four Hour Period
(1)	Employee maybe excused from duty for a portion of the succeeding day in their schedule for the purpose of obtaining needed rest when in the judgment of the supervisor it would be desirable from a health and safety standpoint under the following circumstances:
(a)	when the employee has worked a substantial part of the twenty-four hour period prior to the starting time for the next scheduled reporting period.
or
(b)	when such work time in (a) above has seriously interfered with the employee's normal sleeping time.
(2)	When in the case of a continuing emergency it is necessary in the supervisor's judgment to excuse an employee for needed rest, the employee shall receive pay for that part of the excused time which is common to both the normal schedule and the rearranged hours of work.
The amount of such excused absence will not count in considering requests for excused absence with pay for other reasons.
(C) 8.06 Reserved for Future Use
8.0	7 Quarantine
A regular full or part-time employee quarantined by health authorities because of a contagious disease shall be paid during the period of quarantine.
8.0	8 Medical Examinations
(a) A regular full or part-time employee required by the Company to make a trip away from the home station during scheduled working hours for a medical examination or treatment in an accident or sickness case shall be paid for the necessary time off duty.
(b> A regular full or part-time employee required by the United States Government to report al a United States Veterans’ Hospital for a medical examination in connection with service disability shall be paid for the necessary time off duty.
8.0	9 Court Witness Duty
A regular full or part-time employee subpoenaed for court witness duty shall be paid for the necessary time off duty.
99
GENERAL
8.10	Principal in Court Action
A regular full or part-time employee will be allowed the necessary time off duty to be a principal in a court action. Payment for such absence will be determined on an individual basis and will be granted to employees who have had little time off duty with pay because of sickness or excused absence within the last twelve months.
8.11	Jury Duty
A regular or temporary full or part-time employee on jury duty shall be paid their normal basic pay during the absence. Employees are obligated to pay to the Company all monies received as jury fees. An employee shall not be required to report for work any part of a day that the employee reports for jury duty.
8.12	Armed Forces Duty
(a)	Training and Emergency Duty - Time off with difference in pay shall be
granted to regular employees who are members of the National Guard or the Military Reserve of the Armed Forces under the conditions specified below. Difference in pay shall be based on the employee’s regular basic wage, including any fixed differentials, less military pay and any deductions required by law. In the event that an employee participates in more than one of the training periods referred to below, the aggregate pay treatment shall not be applied to more than two weeks in any one year.
(1)	Annual Military Training - Employees who are members of the National Guard or the Military Reserve of the Armed Forces and are called and expected to participate in annual military training shall be excused with difference in pay for a period not to exceed two weeks in any one year.
(2)	Voluntary Training Periods - Employees who are members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces and volunteer for annual military training, shall be excused with difference in pay for a period not to exceed two weeks in any one year. The reservist should make every attempt to arrange for a training period at a time convenient to the Company.
(3)	Special Training Courses - Employees who are members of the National Guard or the Military Reserve of the Armed Forces and volunteer for specialized training programs conducted at regular service training installations shall be granted the necessary time off for such purposes as called for under valid orders. When an employee is excused for such purposes a leave of absence covering the entire period, with difference in pay for the first two weeks, shall be granted. The reservist should make every attempt to arrange for a training period at a time convenient to the Company.
100
GENERAL
(4)	Emergency Duty - Employees who are members of the National Guard or the Military Reserve of the Armed Forces and are ordered out for temporary emergency duty shall be excused with difference in pay for periods up to a total of two weeks in any one year. Absence for such duty will not affect the eligibility of these employees for treatment with respect to the training programs outlined above.
(b)	Occasional Celebrations - A regular full or part-time employee required to participate in occasional celebrations such as parades as a member of an active military unit shall be allowed the necessary time off duty, but not to exceed one day with pay on each such occasion.
8,13	Veterans’ Organization
A regular employee shall not be paid for time off duly to attend conventions as a member of a veterans’ organization, A regular full or part-time employee shall be allowed the required time off duty, subject to work requirements, to participate in special local celebrations or parades as a member of a veterans’ organization, but not to exceed one day with pay on such occasion,
8.14	Blood Donors
A regular employee shall be allowed time off duty with pay to act as a volunteer blood donor:
(a)	to a member of the immediate family, other employees or members of their immediate family;
(b)	in case of emergency at the request ofa physician and other facilities are not available.
All other cases shall be treated on their merits,
8.15	Work Certificate
When it is necessary for a new employee to take time off duty to secure a work certificate, such time off duty shall be without pay.
8.16	Other Excused Absence With Pay
(a)	A regular employee shall be allowed time off duty with pay not to exceed one day when responsible for making the funeral arrangements for a relative other than those in the immediate family, (See 8.03 for immediate family or household.)
101
GENERAL
(b)	When in the judgment of the Company conditions of work permit, regular employees who have had little time off duty with pay because of sickness or excused absence within the last twelve months, may be allowed the necessary time off duty with pay not to exceed one (I) day per occasion:
(I)	to attend the wedding of a member of the immediate family;
(2)	to attend the funeral of a relative or intimate friend not in the
immediate family or household;
(3)	to attend to other important personal mailers,
8.17	Reserved for Future Use
8.18	Excused Work Days
(a)	Each regular employee who has at least six months of seniority net credited service on January 1 of a calendar year shall be eligible for four Excused Work Days with pay and one Excused Work Day without pay during the year.
(b)	Employees who do not work on their paid Excused Work Day shall be paid for the day as if for a normal or standard day worked (excluding any wage incentive or productivity payments) provided they are on the active payroll of the Company on that Excused Work Day.
(c)	One paid Excused Work Day in each calendar year may be designated by the Company for employees in an administrative work group (as designed by the Company) or in any larger group, including the entire Company. Employees in any such group for which an Excused Work Day is designated by the Company and who are not otherwise eligible for a paid Excused Work Day shall be excused and paid for such designated day as set forth in Paragraph (a), provided they are on the active payroll of the Company on the designated Excused Work Day,
(d)	Employees who are on vacation or absent with pay on their paid Excused Work Day for reasons other than having observed it as an Excused Work Day shall have their paid Excused Work Day rescheduled if a vacation day would have been rescheduled under the same circumstances.
(e)	Employees who are required to work on their Excused Work Day shall have that day rescheduled. All hours worked during the employee’s normally scheduled hours for that day shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half; all hours worked outside of the normal schedule will be treated at the appropriate overtime rate.
102
GENERAL
(C) (f) Effective January 1,2005:
Employees who are eligible for Excused Work Days will select, in vacation seniority order, from the time available, their choice of days. These days will be selected after all full vacation weeks have been scheduled. Eligible employees may schedule the Excused Work Days as “reserve time" through the first full calendar week of May of the following year. This “reserve time” is a block of work days equal to the total amount of eligible Excused Work Days not specifically scheduled. Employees will have the option to utilize Excused Work Days, previously scheduled as “reserve time”, in one-half (1/2) day increments subject to availability. Any time off not taken by the employee prior to the scheduled “reserve time" must be taken during the scheduled "reserve time": selected by the employee.
(g)	Employees may utilize two of their existing excused work days in a flexible manner so as to permit them to have the ability to take time off in minimum one hour intervals due to dependent care and other personal needs. In Outside Craft work groups, excused work time in one hour intervals must be taken at the beginning or end of the tour. Such time should be scheduled in advance, whenever possible, and will precede the granting of unpaid excused absence (AX).
(h)	In addition to the two (2) Excused Work Days referenced in 8.18 (g), employees may use a third excused workday to take time off in minimum one hour intervals to attend to dependent and personal needs if the employee has given supervision at least forty-eight (48) hours advance notice and the needs of the business allow the time to be taken. In Outside Craft work groups, excused work lime tn one (1) hour intervals must be taken at the beginning or end of the tour.
8.19 Leave of Absence - Other Excused Absence Without Pay
Employees must refer to (he SNET Leave of Absence Policy Summary Plan Description (“Leave of Absence SPD”) for the specific eligibility requirements that must be satisfied for each type of leave, the maximum duration of the leave, the amount of net credited service that will be granted for the period of the leave (if any), the continuation of benefit coverage provisions, and job reinstatement provisions (if any) that are associated with each type of leave, and any other specific terms and conditions of the leave. SNET leaves of absence that are covered by state or federal FMLA legislation will run concurrently with the FMLA leave.
(a)	Departmental Leave - A regular employee shall be allowed lime off duty without pay to the extent that work requirements permit but not to exceed one month. In certain instances the period of such excused absence without pay may be extended beyond one month in which case the total period of absence shall be considered as a Leave of Absence under paragraph (b) or (c) below.
(b)	Non-Discretionary Leaves - A regular employee shall be allowed time off duty without pay for the following purposes, provided all requirements described in the Leave of Absence SPD have been met.
103
GENERAL
(1)	FamiiyCare Leaves:
(a)	Anticipated Disability, for an employee who provides medical certification of a condition for which medical treatment or surgery has been scheduled or the birth of child anticipated to occur during the requested Leave period. The leave will end the earlier of: (a) twelve months from the start date; or (b) the day prior to the anticipated medical treatment, surgery, birth of the child, or the onset of a certified disability that is related to the condition for which the leave was requested. Employees granted such Leave are guaranteed reemployment to the same job or one of similar status and pay at the end of the Leave.
(b)	Care of Newborn Children, for an employee who has either given
birth to a child or is the natural father of the child, or effective beginning January 1 > 2002 is the registered domestic partner of the natural parent of the child. Leave must begin prior to the child’s 4th birthday. In instances of multiple births (e.g., twins, triplets), only one such leave will be granted. Guaranteed reinstatement to the same job or one of similar status and pay for up to 6 months following birth of the baby or the leave commencement date whichever is later. Reemployment after that date will be guaranteed for up to 12 months from the leave commencement date, but not necessarily to the employee’s former job, similar status, or pay level.
(c)	Care of Adopted Child - for an employee who provides evidence of direct association (father or mother, or effective beginning January 1,2002 the registered domestic partner of the adoptive parent) with an adoptive child under 18 years old (minor child) on the day prior to the leave commencement date. Leave must begin prior to the child’s 4* birthday, or within one year from the date of custody if later. Guaranteed reinstatement to the same job or one of similar status and pay for up to 6 months from the leave commencement date. Reemployment after that date wilt be guaranteed for up to 12 months from the leave commencement date, but not necessarily to the employee’s former job, similar status, or pay level.
(d)	Care of Seriously III Child - for an employee who provides evidence that they have a minor child with a serious health condition. Effective beginning January 1,2002, this leave is also available for an employee who provides evidence that their registered domestic partner’s minor child has a serious health condition. Guaranteed reinstatement to the same job or one of similar status and pay for up to 6 months from the leave commencement date. Reemployment after that date will be guaranteed for up to 12 months from the leave commencement date, but not necessarily to the employee’s former job, similar status, or pay level.
104
GENERAL
(e)	Care of Seriously Hi Family Member — for an employee who provides evidence that they have a member of the immediate family with a serious health condition, with a maximum leave period of 12 months within any two year period. Effective March 25,2001 this leave is available for a registered domestic partner. Guaranteed reinstatement to the same job or one of similar status and pay for up to 6 months from the leave commencement date. Reemployment after that date will be guaranteed for up to 12 months from the leave commencement date, but not necessarily to the employee’s former job, similar status, or pay level.
The following provisions apply to all Family Care Leaves:
■	An employee must return io work for a minimum of six (6) months between successive Family Care leaves; except that this requirement shall not apply for Care of Newborn Child leaves which commence following an Anticipated Disability leave.
■	Transitional part-time employment for otherwise full time employees will be available for up to three (3) consecutive months following all Family Care leaves, subject to the following conditions:
>	Work time will be scheduled based on departmental policy and business needs;
>	Upon return to work, the employee must work a minimum of 20 hours; and
>	Employee will be paid based on actual (part-time) hours worked, but will be classified as full time for al) other purposes.
(2)	Military or Public Health Services Leave - in accordance with Policies and Procedures - Part 3 of this Contract and ail related legislation including the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994.
(3)	On-the-Job Accident Disability Leave - for an employee who has been injured on (he job and provides medical evidence to substantiate that they are likely to recover sufficiently to perform all of the essential functions of their job within a six-month period following their receipt of the maximum 52 weeks of accident disability benefits under the terms of the SNET Disability Benefits Plan.
(4)	Public Office Leave - in accordance with state legislation, for employees to serve as an elected member to full-time municipal or state office, and full-time members of the state’s general assembly, and
(5)	Union Business - for employees to attend to union business matters on a full-time basis.
105
GENERAL
(c) Discretionary Leave - an Employee may request a leave of absence without pay for the following reasons, and to the extent work requirements permit such leave shall be granted provided all requirements have been met.
(I)	Expiration of Sickness Disability Benefits (for illness or off-the-job injuries) - for an employee who provides medical evidence to substantiate that following their receipt of the maximum 52 weeks of sickness disability benefits under the terms of the SNET Disability Benefits Plan, they need a short additional period of time to recover sufficiently to perform all of the essential functions of their job.
(2)	Ineligibility for Sickness Disability Benefits (for illness or off-the-job injuries) - for an employee whose disability absence extends beyond a period of one month, in cases of ineligibility for sickness benefits under the SNET Disability Benefits Plan; and
(3)	Personal/Other Reasons - for an employee who requests relief from duty and whose services the Company desires to retain.
9.	MISCELLANEOUS
9.01 Training
Training is covered in the Departmental Sections.
9.02	Reserved for Future Use
9.03	Reserved for Future Use
9.04 Official and Employee Residence Service
An active employee is required to select SNET as his or her provider for local, intrastate, and interstate service in order to be eligible for Official Residence Telephone Service or Employee Residence Service.
(a)	Official Residence Telephone Service
Local exchange telephone service, including Totalphone, and up to $35.00 in intrastate toil shall be furnished without charge to active employees with 25 or more years of net credited service. In addition, 20% discount will be extended for usage of interstate toll service, international toll service, and other wireline services such as Caller ID and Message Works.
(b)	Employee Residence Telephone Service
Local exchange telephone service will be discounted at 50% for active employees with less than 25 years of net credited service, (n addition, a 20% discount will be extended for usage of intrastate toll service, interstate toll service, international toll service, and other wireline services such as Caller ID and Message Works.
106
GENERAL
9.05 Solicitation of Contributions
(a)	Company-Initiated Solicitation For Welfare Purposes - The Company will not initiate the solicitation of contributions among bargaining unit employees, except for the Red Cross and local Community Chests. Such solicitations shall be made by " employees designated by the Union.
(b)	Employee-Initiated Solicitations For Welfare Purposes - If employees desire to make solicitations for charitable or similar welfare purposes among bargaining unit employees during hours of work, permission shall be secured through the supervisor. If the purpose of the solicitation is approved, the solicitation shall be handled by employees designated by the Union. Sealed containers shall generally be used when cash contributions are secured.
(c)	Solicitation For Gifts To Supervisors - Employees shall not solicit funds for gifts to supervisors or for presents in connection with service emblem awards to supervisors.
9.06 Sale of Tickets and Merchandise
(a)	Tickets for raffles, entertainment, or for other purposes shall not be offered for sale during hours of work.
(b)	Orders for candy, Christmas cards, silverware, turkeys, etc., shall not be solicited during hours of work, and merchandise for sale shall not be displayed on Company property. Deliveries of merchandise purchased by a group of employees on such sales made out of hours may be only to the House Service department or in the smaller exchanges, to the Business Office.
9.07 Employment Outside of the Company
An employee shall obtain the approval of the Company before engaging in any other business or work for compensation, including professional or semi-professional athletics.
9.08 Habitual Tardiness
Employees who are habitually tardy shall be subject to disciplinary action.
9.09 Health Standards
Employees shall be responsible for maintaining reasonable standards of physical and mental health. Incapacitated employees must take proper care of themselves and have proper treatment. Failure to cooperate with the Company in this respect may result in disciplinary action.
107
GENERAL
9.10	Use of Intoxicating Beverages or Controlled Substances
An employee shall not drink any intoxicating beverage nor unlawfully use (or possess) any illegal or controlled substance during working hours, report on the job or drive a car on Company business while impaired due to such use, nor drink or use said substance on Company property. An infraction of these rules shall make the employee subject to disciplinary action.
9.11	Employee Identification
As may be required by law, governmental agencies, or in the public interest, the Company shall take necessary steps for the identification of employees as follows:
(a)	Require authoritative evidence of the place and date of birth and citizenship of the employee and the employee’s parents, and spouse.
(b)	Require a swom statement that an employee is not affiliated with any society or party banned by law.
(c)	Require the photographing and fingerprinting of employees.
(d)	Issue identification cards or badges which employees shall be required to cany with them at all times when engaged on Company business. A penalty of $2.00 may be levied in each instance where a card or badge is lost or becomes mutilated due to causes other than wear from normal use.
9.12	Return of Company Property
Whenever an employee leaves the service of the Company, all Company property shall be returned. In some instances, cash may be collected if the articles have been lost or retained.
108
HEADQUARTERS
1. DEFINITIONS
1.01 Overtime
Overtime for employees is:
A,	work time on a day that is not a scheduled working day;
B.	work time outside scheduled working hours on a scheduled working day;
C.	work time outside scheduled working hours on a Company-recognized holiday which fells on a scheduled working day,
D.	work time on a Company-recognized holiday that does not fell on scheduled working day,
1.02 Tours
A.	Tour of duty means the working hours that an employee is scheduled to work in a day,
B.	Holiday Tour means a tour commencing on a Company-recognized Holiday.
1.03 Basic Work Week
Basic work week means the working hours that an employee is scheduled to work in a week,
2.	WORK TIME AND SCHEDULING
See 3,17 of General Wage and Working Practice for minimum work time.
2.01 Working Hours
A.	General - For employees hired on or after January 1,2002, the normal tour of duty shall be seven and one-half (7 l/i) hours per day, with a scheduled lunch break of not less than one-half (1/2) hour, nor more than one (1) hour. The basic work week for these employees will be thirty-seven and one-half (3 7'/i) hours, which will generally be divided into five (5) tours, including holiday tours, on any five (5) days of the week. Prior to implementing expanded hours, the Company will meet with the Union to review the business strategy and discuss scheduling options which will maximize the ability to provide for volunteers for such hours. For employees hired prior to January 1,2002, the scheduled working hours generally are between 8:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M. Monday through Friday with from one-half to one hour for lunch but not exceeding a total of seven and one-half (7 'A) hours daily with the following exceptions:
110
HEADQUARTERS
1.	In the Information Technology Department where other hours may be
scheduled but not exceeding the total of seven and one-half (7 'A) hours daily or thirty-seven and one-half (377:) hours weekly.
2.	In the Remittance Processing Center where other hours may be scheduled but not exceeding a total of seven and one-half (7 7i) hours daily or thirty- seven and one-half (377:) hours weekly,
3.	In the Support Services Department, Administrative Services Division where other working hours from Monday through Saturday are scheduled between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and Midnight, but not exceeding the total of seven and one-half (7 'A) hours daily or thirty-seven and one-half (377:) hours weekly.
4,	For Retail Sales, Centralized Retail Sales Support and Network Marketing and Sales employees where the scheduled working hours each day are composed of two (2) sessions not to exceed a total of seven and one-half (77i) hours duration which is exclusive of a scheduled lunch period of not less than a one-half (1/2) hour nor more than one hour, and where the scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) working days, Sunday through Saturday, between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and Midnight, but not to exceed a total of thirty-seven and one-half (377:) hours of work, A retail sales employee is one who works in a Customer Service Center, Direct Marketing/Direct Response Center (DM/DR) and any equivalent wireline retail sales operation, A centralized retail sales support employee is one whose job functions provide direct support to retail sales operations.
5.	In Area Operations, Minicomputer Maintenance and Operations Center where other hours from Sunday through Saturday are scheduled between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and Midnight, but not exceeding the total of seven and one-half (77:) hours daily or thirty-seven and one-half (37 7:) hours weekly,
6.	For Computer Systems Specialists in the Network Services Data Base Administration Center (DBAC) where other hours from Monday through Saturday are scheduled between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and Midnight, but not exceeding the total of seven and one-half (7 7:) hours daily or thirty-seven and one-half (37 7:) hours weekly.
7.	The scheduled work hours for Network Administration Associates and Network Translators will be from Sunday through Saturday between the hours of 6:00 A.M. and 12:00 A.M. not to exceed a total of seven and one-half (7 7:) hours per day, or five (5) days per week.
8.	For Business Support Group employees who work in support of customer service activity, i.e., the Select Account Center, where other work group working hours from Monday through Friday are scheduled between the hours of 7:00 A.M. to 7:00 P.M., but not exceeding the total of seven and one-half (77:)
111
HEADQUARTERS
hours per day, or five (5) days per week, such employees’ hours may be scheduled to be compatible with the other work group,
9.	General Office Associate employees who support-work groups where other working hours are scheduled from Sunday through Saturday, but not exceeding the total of seven and one-half (7 'A) hours daily or thirty-seven and one-half (3 7'A) hours weekly, such employees’ hours may be scheduled up to 9:00 P.M. to be compatible with the hours of the work group they support,
10.	For Investigative Assistants - DBAC in the Network Services Data Base Administration Center (DBAC) where other hours from Sunday through Saturday, including holidays, are scheduled between ihe hours of 7:00 A.M. and 11 ;00 P.M., but not exceeding the total of seven and one-half (7’A) hours daily or thirty-seven and one-half (37lA) hours weekly.
11,	For Service Order Reviewers - DBAC in the Network Services Data Base
Administration Center (DBAC) where other hours from Monday through Friday are scheduled between the hours of 7:00 A.M, and 7:00 P,M., but nor exceeding the total of seven and one-half (7 'A) hours daily or thirty-seven and one-half (37'A) hours weekly,
B.	Scheduling of Basic Work Week and Tours for Full Time Employees:
1.	Basic work weeks will be assigned to regular full-time employees, giving careful consideration to the following: individual preference consistent with work requirements, the provision of coverage as required, including coverage on Company-recognized holidays and vacations to minimize the amount of overtime required. The basic work weeks remaining after assignment of those basic work weeks mutually agreed on by employees and supervision shall be by rotation among the remaining employees in the work group in order to provide a fair distribution of undesirable basic work weeks. The provisions of this paragraph will apply to all Headquarters employees except the following:
2,	In the Remittance Processing Center:
a)	A tour of duty may be scheduled on any day of the week depending on job requirements.
b)	Basic work weeks will be assigned giving consideration to individual preference based on seniority consistent with work requirements.
c)	Four times each year management will prepare a schedule of basic work week assignments for the ensuing three (3) months, for employees in each work group.
Note: Sunday work hours are not anticipated at this time. Should there be a need for Sunday hours, the Company will notify the Union prior to implementing.
112
HEADQUARTERS
3.	For employees in Retail Sales and Centralized Retail Sales Support, the above hours would be on a voluntary basis only for employees on the payroll and covered by these departmental practices prior to August 10,1980. For Network Marketing and Sales and Network Service Center employees who work in support of customer service activity, i.e. the Select Account Center, scheduled hours will be on a voluntary basis or rotation among all employees in the work group to provide a fair distribution of hours. Careful consideration will be given to individual preference consistent with work requirements.
4.	For Computer Systems Specialists in the Network Services Data Base Administration Center (DBAC), work weeks will be assigned to regular full time employees, giving careful consideration to individual preference, on a seniority basis, which is consistent with work requirements.
5.	For Network Administration Associates and Network Translators, scheduling will be done as follows:
Management for each work group will utilize historical and forecasted data and customer service demand to determine coverage requirements to develop workweek schedules. When coverage requirements are determined, workweek schedules will be assigned to qualified employees, as determined by management using one of the following methods;
a)	For each six (6) month period, employees in the work group will select, by seniority, a fixed work week schedule or they will be assigned to a fixed work week schedule by inverse seniority; or
b)	The majority of the employees in the work group will decide on one of the following two coverage options:
(1)	Rotating of weekly coverage requirements among all group members; or
(2)	A six (6) month fixed work week schedule selected by seniority, with the remainder of coverage requirements shared on a rotating basis.
Employees may swap daily and/or weekly schedules with other qualified employees in the same work group with management approval.
Employees who are working under previous contract language Alternate Work Schedule (A WS) rules at the commencement of this agreement may continue to work those schedules for as long as:
■	Management determines a need for such coverage hours; or
>	Until the employee wishes to participate in the normal assignment of workweek schedules as described in 2,01 (b) (5) (a) and (b).
113
HEADQUARTERS
Employees who are working under previous contract language Alternate Work Schedule (AWS) rules at the commencement of this agreement and who elect to return to normal workweek assignment schedules as described in 2.01 (b) (5) (a) and (b) will do so at the conclusion of the current six months schedule.
6.	For Investigative Assistants - DBAC in the Network Services Data Base Administration Center (DBAC)., work weeks will be assigned to regular full time employees based on a process that best meets business needs with consideration to employee feedback.
C.	Changes in Scheduled Hours or Davs - Where the needs of the business require, working hours or days other than the above may be scheduled within the week but not to exceed the total daily or weekly working hours under the present schedule. Notice of such change shall be given before the close of the previous week.
D.	Saturday Before Vacation - All employees except those assigned to a fixed work week schedule will be granted the Saturday off before their scheduled vacation, if so desired. Employees on a fixed work week schedule may swap their scheduled Saturday before their vacation with another qualified employee in the same work group to obtain the Saturday off before their vacation.
E,	Lodging Away From Home Station - Employees assigned to lodge away from the home station on an overnight basis shall adhere to the Headquarters scheduled working hours.	'
2.02 Changes in Basic Work Week and Tour Assignments
A.	Changes in Basic Work Weeks
1.	When it is necessary to make changes in the assignment of basic work weeks to individual employees from the posted schedule, such changes shall be arranged and the employees affected notified as far in advance as possible. In no case shall notice ofa change of basic work week assignment be given later than the close of the first day of the preceding week.
2,	No change in basic work week assignments shall be made for periods other than one week or multiples thereof.
B.	Changes in Tours
1.	Employees may be changed from day tours to evening or night tours (or from evening or night to day tours) to cover regularly assigned tours within the basic work week when the needs of the business require. Whenever possible 48 hours notice shall be given. (For compensation in such cases see 3.03(B).)
(C)	2. In the event of a surplus declaration which results in a loss of employees,
the Company shall re-evaluate the tour schedule and determine the need to fill vacated tour assignments by the remaining employees in the work group. The
114
HEADQUARTERS
Company shall first seek volunteers to cover the tours; and in the absence of such, shall equitably distribute the necessary tours among the remaining employees on the tour schedule.
2.03 On-Call Practice
The Company may designate Service Representatives and Service Consultants in Business Communications Sales to be available on an “on-call" status to provide services which may be required. An employee assigned to “on-call" on any day, including any Company designated holiday, will receive twenty dollars ($20.00) for each such designated day. Employees on-call shall not be required to remain on premises, at home or at any specific location, but, shall be readily available by telephone and/or other means approved by supervision. Employees designated as on-call who are called out to provide services shall receive wage treatment in accordance with Paragraph 3.17, Appendix B, Wage and Working Practices, General.
3.	WAGE PRACTICES
See Section 4, for holiday wage practices.
3.01 Overtime
A, Compensation
1.	No compensation shall be allowed for overtime of five (5) minutes or less in any day.
2,	For employees authorized overtime of more than five (5) minutes worked in any one day shall be compensated for as follows:
a.) First eleven hours in a week (except overtime on a Holiday). Pay at time and one-half.
or
b.) Hours in excess of the first eleven overtime hours in a week (except overtime on a Holiday). Pay at double time.
or
c.) Overtime on a Holiday. Pay at double time and one-half. (See paragraph 4.02 for instructions on compensation for time Worked on a Holiday).
3.	For part-time employees, authorized overtime in excess of 7-1/2 hours in any one day or 37-1/2 hours in anyone week shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate as provided in paragraph 3.01 A.2.
4.	Temporary employees will receive payment at time and one-half for overtime hours worked after thirty seven and one half (37 1/2) hours.
115
HEADQUARTERS
B. Computation - When overtime is to be paid for at lime and one-half, double time or double time and one-half, as appropriate, it shall be expressed to the next higher quarter of an hour after computation, for example: time worked, 45 minutes x 1 1/2 ■. equals 67.5 minutes and should be expressed as 1.25 hours to be paid for; lime worked, 75 minutes x 1 - 1/2 equals 112.5 minutes and should be expressed 2 hours to be paid for.
3.02 Sunday Work
Regular employees shall be paid time and one-half for scheduled hours worked on Sunday. Employees who are excused with pay during scheduled hours on Sunday shall be paid at straight lime for the excused absence.
3.03 Differentials for Evening and Night Work
A.	Differentials for evening and night work shall be paid in accordance with Paragraph 3.19 of the General Wage and Working Practices.
B.	Temporary Changes in Assignments
1.	Change to Evening or Night Tour - An employee temporarily assigned to
an evening or night tour of duty, shall receive time and one-half for the changed tour for the first evening or night so worked, and if assigned to work continuously thereafter for a period of one evening or night or more shall receive the nightly differential for each evening or night so worked.
a.) In the Comptrollers Operations Division of the Comptrollers Department, an employee who is temporarily changed from day to evening or night tours of duty without the notice required for a basic work week change to take the place of one previously so assigned, shall receive time and one-half for the changed tour the first night and if assigned to work continuously thereafter for a period of one night or more shall receive the nightly differential for each night so worked. During such a period there shall be no compensation for hours not worked within the normal tour of duty,
b.) In the Comptrollers Operations Division of the Comptrollers Department, an employee who is temporarily changed from day to evening or night tours of duty without the notice required for a basic work week change because of unforeseen work load, special assignment, etc., shall receive time and one-half for hours worked outside of the normal tour for each tour changed; when the total hours worked within and outside the normal tour exceed seven and one-half, overtime treatment shall apply. During such a period there shall be no compensation for hours not worked within the normal tour of duty.
116
HEADQUARTERS
2.	Change to Day Tour - When the needs of the business require that an employee be temporarily changed from an evening or night tour to a day lour of duty, without 48 hours notice, shall receive time and one-half for hours worked outside of the normal tour for the first tour changed.
a.) In the Comptrollers Operations Division of the Comptrollers Department, an employee who is temporarily changed from an evening or night tour to a day tour of duty, without notice required for a basic work week change to take the place of one previously so assigned, shall receive lime and one-half for hours worked outside of the normal tour for the changed tour the first day.
b.) fn the Comptrollers Operations Division of the Comptrollers Department, an employee who is temporarily changed from an evening tour to a day tour of duty without the notice required for a basic work week change because of unforeseen work load or special assignment shall receive time and one-half for hours worked outside of the normal tour for each tour changed.
C.	Christmas and New Year's Eves Differentials - Employees scheduled to work on Christmas or New Year's Eves (i.e,, December 24 and 31) shall be paid in accordance with these Practices and in addition, shall be paid a differential of one hour's straightlime pay for each hour worked between 6:00 P.M. and 12:00 midnight.
3.04 -Peer Training
The Company may, if business needs require, designate a qualified bargaining unit employee to assist in or conduct formal classroom training or provide other special training conducted apart from normal working activities. An employee so designated may also, if possible, continue to perform their usual work funciions during such assignments. Management will assign employees to be Peer Trainers from a list of solicited volunteers whom the Company determines are qualified based on job knowledge within a specific skill set and who are available for such assignment. In no event shall such employees assigned as Peer Trainers have any involvement in discipline, progression increases, performance evaluations or making judgments regarding other employees’ performance, nor shall such assigned employees have access to personnel folders, payroll records or other personnel-related documents or reports.
Employees assigned as Peer Trainers will be assigned for no less than one (I) full session nor more than sixty-five (65) work days during a twelve (12) month period, inclusive of any assignments to Performing Support Functions, regardless of the number of assignments. An employee assigned as a Peer Trainer will receive a special compensation payment of no more than a total of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per session.
117
HEADQUARTERS
4.	HOLIDAY PRACTICES
4.0	1 General
When a Company-recognized holiday falls on a scheduled working day, all regular employees shall be given the day off with pay provided unusual conditions do not require that they work on that day. When the holiday falls on a day that such employees are not scheduled to work, they shall be assigned a day off with pay, on some other day, generally within their schedule for that week except, that if the holiday falls on Saturday, the preceding day, Friday, shall be designated as the holiday. The assigned day off will then be considered as the holiday and if such employees are required to work on that day, compensation shall be in accordance with paragraph 4.02. All part-time employees shall receive holiday pay.
4.0	2 Compensation For Time Worked
A.	Full-Time Employees - Full-time employees whether scheduled or called in to work during their normal working hours on a Company-recognized holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for time worked in addition to the normal day's pay for the holiday. Time worked outside of normal working hours shall be paid at the rate of double time and one-half whether scheduled or called in. Minimum work time shall apply as provided in 3.17 of the General Wage and Working Practices.
B.	Part-Time Employees - All part-time regular employees shall receive holiday pay.
1.	Part-time employees hired prior to January 1,1981, shall receive
holiday pay treatment as follows:
a.) If the Company-recognized holiday falls on a day on which the employee is normally scheduled to work, the employee shall receive holiday pay equal to their normal scheduled hours. If required to work on that day the employee shall, in addition, be paid holiday premium for the hours worked.
b.) If the Company-recognized holiday falls on a day on which the employee is normally not scheduled to work, the employee shall receive holiday pay equal to l/5th of their "part-time equivalent work week."
2.	Part-time employees hired on or after January 1,1981, shall receive holiday pay treatment equal to 1 /5 th of their "part-time equivalent work week." If required to work on that day the employee shall, in addition, be paid holiday premium for the hours worked.
118
HEADQUARTERS
5.	VACATIONS
See Section 5, of General Wage and Working Practices.
6.	SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT ABSENCES
See Section 6. of General Wage and Working Practices.
7.	EXPENSES
7.01 Meals
A.	Full-Time Employees - A full-time employee shall be reimbursed for expense of the following meals under the indicated conditions. (Also see 7.01 (a) of General Wage and Working Practices.)
I.	Morning Meal
Not to exceed two dollars and twenty-five cents ($2.25) — When an employee whose tour begins at or prior to 8:00A.M. is required to work two (2) hours or more of overtime prior to the start of the tour.
2.	Noon Lunch
a.) Not to Exceed $4.00 - When working away from the home station at noon on Company business and returns the same day.
b.) Actual Expense - When working at the home station and notice of Iwo or more hours of afternoon overtime is given on the some day the overtime is to be worked.
c.) Nol to exceed four dollars ($4.00) - When an employee whose tour ends at or after 8:00P.M. is called out or assigned to work overtime two (2) hours or more before the start of the tour.
3.	Supper - Not to Exceed $9.00 when work time extends two hours or more beyond the regular schedule closing at the end of the day.
4.	All Meals - Actual Expense - When away from the home station overnight on Company business.
B.	Part-Time Employees - (Effective February I, 1990) - Supper - Not to exceed $9 when overtime work extends for two (2) hours or more beyond the tour of duty, which does not contain a meal break of at least 20 minutes, and work ends at 7 p.m. or later.
119
HEADQUARTERS
7.02 Lodging and Commutation
A.	General
I.	In connection with overnight assignments away from the home station, an employee shall lodge or commute as determined by the supervisor based on work requirements, cost to the Company and the distance to be traveled.
2.	An employee assigned to lodge away from the home station on an overnight basis or during a temporary transfer shall be reimbursed for lodging expense.
B.	Lodging With Relatives or Friends - An employee working away from the home station who elects to lodge with a relative or friend in the working area, in preference to a hotel or boarding house, shall be reimbursed for lodging expense incurred but not to exceed 75% of the regular rates prevailing in that locality and for all actual meal expense incurred.
7.03 Transportation
An employee called from home for duty at the reporting center for a period not continuous with scheduled working hours, shall be reimbursed for transportation expense. (See 7.03 of General Wage and Working Practices.)
8.	EXCUSED ABSENCE
See Section 8. of General Wage and Working Practices.
9.	Miscellaneous
9.01 Training by Seniority
Ail training will be done on a senior volunteer basis. In the absence of senior volunteers, inverse seniority will apply by work group.
A.	work group will be defined as: Manager group, by title, home station, or job function.
B.	when all job holders arc to receive the same training over a limited period of time, seniority may be waived after discussion and mutual agreement is reached between management and the appropriate business agent.
120
NOTES
12!
COMMERCIALS MARKETING
I.	DEFINITIONS
1.01 Overtime
Overtime for employees is:
A.	work on a day that is not a scheduled working day;
B.	work time outside scheduled working hours of a scheduled working day;
C.	work time outside scheduled working hours on a Company-recognized
holiday which falls on a scheduled working day;
D.	work time on a Company-recognized holiday that does not fall on a scheduled working day.
1.02 Tours - Retail Sales and Centralized Retail Sales Support Personnel only.
A.	Tour of duty means the basic hours that an employee is scheduled to work in a specific day, evening or night.
B.	Holiday tour means a tour commencing on a Company-recognized holiday.
C.	Sunday tour means a tour commencing on Sunday.
1.03 Basic Work Week - Retail Sales and Centralized Retail Sales Support Personnel only.
Basic Work Week means the full work week that an employee is scheduled consisting of basic days and total basic hours with day, evening or night designations.
122
COMMERCIAL & MARKETING
2.01 Working Hours
A.	General - For employees hired on or after January 1,2002, the normal tour of duty shall be seven and one-half (7 ’A) hours per day, with a scheduled lunch break of not less than one-half (1/2) hour, nor more than one(l) hour. The basic work week for these employees will be thiny-seven and one-half (37 ‘A) hours, which will generally be divided into five (5) tours, including holiday tours, on any five (5) days of the week. Prior to implementing expanded hours, the Company will meet with the Union to review the business strategy and discuss scheduling options which will maximize the ability to provide for volunteers for such hours. For employees hired prior to January 1,2002, the scheduled working hours each day are composed of two (2) sessions not to exceed a total of seven and one-half (7 'A) hours duration which is exclusive of a scheduled lunch period of not less than a one-half (1/2) nor more than one hour. The scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) work days Monday through Friday between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 7:00 P.M. not to exceed a total of thirty-seven and one-half (37 lA ) hours of work except:
1.	For Service Representatives and Service Order Specialists in the Consumer Services Group, the scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) work days Monday through Saturday between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 9:00 P.M. Monday through Friday and between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M. on Saturday not to exceed a total of thirty-seven and one-half (37 'A) hours work effective June 1, 1987.
Assignments to evening or Saturday tours will be made in the following order:
a)	Volunteers
b)	Temporary Employees
c)	Employees going to title October 26, 1986or later
2.	For Service Representatives in the Emerging Product Center (EPC), and Advanced Solutions Incorporated (ASI), as well as the All Distance Specialists in the All Distance Specialist Group, the scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) work days Monday through Saturday between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 9:00 P.M. Monday through Friday and between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and
*	5:00 P.M. on Saturday not to exceed a total of thirty-seven and one-half (37 ’A)
hours of work, excluding an unpaid meal break of up to one hour per day.
3.	Saturday as a Normal Day (SAND) - All employees in the Business Service Centers (BSCs) in Business Communication Sales (BCS) can volunteer for SAND scheduling. The scheduled working hours are between 7:00 A.M. and 7:00 P.M. Monday through Friday and 8:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M. on Saturday.
123
COMMERCIAL & MARKETING
4.	Retail Sales, Centralized Retail Sales Support Personnel and Service Representatives in SBC Telecom, Inc.: The scheduled working hours each day are composed of two (2) sessions not to exceed a total of seven and one-half (7‘A) hours duration which is exclusive of a scheduled lunch period of not less than one half-hour (1/2) or more than one hour. The scheduled work week shall consist of five (5) work days Sunday through Saturday, between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and Midnight, not to exceed a total of thirty-seven and one-half (37 'A) hours of work. A retail sales employee is one who works in a Sales and Service Center, Marketing Response Center (MRC), Telemarketing Center and any equivalent retail sales operation, A centralized retail sales support employee is one whose job functions provide direct support to retail sales operations.
B,	Scheduling of Basic Work Week and Tours for Full Time Employees:
1.	For Service Representativesand Service Order Specialists in the Consumer Services Group:
a)	An updated seniority list will be posted in each office.
b)	The employees will prepare a preference card to indicate their choices. Alt cards must be submitted before the 1st of the previous month, including changes.
c)	Tours will be assigned to the senior employee first, based on company net credited service (and then in turn) in order of seniority as close to the indicated choice as possible.
d)	Swapping of tours will be permitted on a daily and/or weekly basis.
e)	All employeeswill be granted the Saturday off before their scheduled weekly vacation, if so desired.
f)	Schedules will be posted no later than the 15* of the month for the following month.
g)	On a voluntary basis by seniority employees may select one of the following Alternate Work Week Schedule (AWS) tours:
(1)	Four (4) day work week
(2)	Six (6) day work week
(3)	Split day tours, on a daily or weekly basis
2.	For Service Representatives and Service Order Reviewers in Business Communications Sales, the above preference of hours process will be followed except that schedules will be posted four (4) times annually.
124
COMMERCIAL* MARKETING
3.	SAND Scheduling - All SAND schedules will be scheduled according to office requirements by net credited service date, most senior volunteer first and will rotate to the least senior volunteer for a period of no less than three (3) months or no more than twelve (12) months. All SAND schedules will include a Saturday. The Saturday before a scheduled vacation week will be scheduled off, if so desired.	S
4.	For Retail Sales, Centralized Retail Support Personnel and Service Representatives in SBC Telecom, Inc., scheduling and assigning basic work weeks shall be done as follows:
a) In order that the necessity of adequate coverage may be met as uniformly as possible in all cases, basic work weeks are established based on the requirements of the business. Basic work weeks arc set up on charts showing the days of the week and the hours of the day comprising each basic work week.
(C) b) Management shall prepare a schedule of basic work week assignments for the ensuing three (3) months for employees in that work group at a minimum of four times each year. Quarterly schedules will be posted no later than the I5'h of the month preceding the new quarter. Schedules may be developed and posted more frequently based on local guidelines and mutual agreement between the Company and the Union. On ihe preparation of schedules and the assignment of basic work weeks to employees, careful consideration shall be given to individual preference which is consistent with work requirements and agreeable to the employee group involved as well as the following:
(I)	The provision of coverage as required, including Saturdays, Sundays, company-rec ognized holidays and vacations without resorting to overtime. •
(2)	The provisions of a sufficient force to care for peak workloads with a minimum of overtime.	.
(3)	The rotation of basic work weeks among employees in each group to provide a fair distribution of desirable and undesirable working hours within the group.
■	(4) The selection of basic work week assignments for weeks in which a
Company-recognized holiday falls on any day from Monday to Friday inclusive, so that a regular tour of duty on the holiday is scheduled for each employee.
(5) All employees will be granted the Saturday off before their scheduled weekly vacation, if so desired.
125
COMMERCIAL & MARKETING
C. Changes in Scheduled Hours or Davs:
Where the needs of the business require, working hours or days other than the above may be scheduled within the week but not to exceed the total daily or weekly working hours under the present schedule. Notice of such change shall be given before the close of the previous week. -	-
2.02 Changes In Basic-Work Week and Tour Assignments
A.	Changes tn Basic Work Weeks
1.	When it is necessary to make changes in the assignment of basic work weeks to individual employees from the posted schedule, such changes shall be arranged and the employees affected, notified as far in advance as possible. In no case shall notice of a change of a basic work week assignment be given Jater than the time specified in the following:
a)	In the case of changes necessitated by absences due to sickness or accident, or to sickness or death in the immediate family or household, or to authorized meetings of employee representatives, each employee whose assigned basic work week must be changed shall be notified not later than the close of the Thursday of the basic work week immediately preceding.
b)	In the case of changes necessitated by unforeseen peak workloads, vacations, etc., the employees whose assigned basic work week is to be changed shall be notified not later than the close of the first day of the basic work week immediately preceding.
2.	No change in basic work week assignments shall be made for periods other than one week or multiples thereof.
B.	Changes In Tours	.	‘
Employees may be changed from day tours to evening or night tours (or from ■ evening or night to day tours) to cover regularly assigned tours within basic work weeks when the needs of the business require. Whenever feasible, 48 hours notice shall be given. (For compensation in such cases see 3.03.)
126
COMMERCIAL & MARKETING
2.03 On-Call Outside of Normal Scheduled Hours
The Company may designate Service Representatives and Service Consultants in Business Communications Sales and Global Markets as well as All Distance Specialists in the Consumer Services Group to be available on an “on-call” status to provide services that may be required. An employee assigned to "on-call" on either a daily basis or on a Company designated holiday wilt receive twenty dollars ($20.00) for each such designated day. Employees on-call shall not be required to remain on premises, at home or at any specific location, but, shall be readily available by telephone and/or other means approved by supervision. Employees designated as on-call who are called out to provide services shall receive wage treatment in accordance with Paragraph 3,17, Appendix B, Wage and Working Practices, General,
3. WAGE PRACTICES
See Section 4, for holiday wage practices,
3.01 Overtime
A. Compensation
1,	No compensation shall be allowed for overtime of five (5) minutes or less in any day.
2,	For employees authorized overtime of six (6) minutes or more worked in any one day shall be compensated for as follows:
a)	First eleven hours in a week (except overtime on a Holiday), pay at time and one-half.
or
b)	Hours in excess of the first eleven overtime hours in a week (except overtime on a Holiday), pay at double time.
or
c)	Overtime on a Holiday, pay al double time and one-half. (See Paragraph 4.02, for instructions on compensation for lime worked on a Holiday.)
3.	For part-time employees. Authorized overtime in excess of 7 1/2 hours in any one day or 37 1/2 hours in anyone week shall be paid for at the appropriate overtime rate as provided in3.01 A 2 above.
4.	Temporary employees will receive payment at time and one-half for overtime hours worked after thirty-seven and one-half (37 1/2) hours of work time as appropriate in any one week.
127
COMMERCIAL & MARKETING
3.02 Sunday Work
Employees shall be paid time and one-half for scheduled work on Sunday. Employees who are excused with pay during scheduled hours on Sunday shall be paid at straight time for the excused absence.
3.03 Differentials for Evening And Night Work (The provisions under this paragraph do not apply to part-time retail personnel hired on or after January 1, 1981.)
A.	Differentials for evening and night work shall be paid in accordance with Paragraph 3.19 of the General Wage and Working Practices.
B.	Temporary .Changes In Assignment
1.	Change to Evening or Night Tour. An employee temporarily changed to an evening or night tour of duty, shall receive lime and one-half for the changed tour for the first evening or night so worked, and if assigned to work continuously thereafter, for a period of one evening or night or more, shall receive the nightly differential for each evening or night so worked.
a)	An employee who is temporarily changed from day to evening or night tours of duty without the notice required for a basic work week change to take the place of one previously so assigned, shall receive time and one-half for the changed tour the first night and if assigned to work continuously thereafter, for a period of one night or more, shall receive the nightly differential for each night so worked. During such a period there shall be no compensation for hours not worked within the normal tour of duty.
b)	An employee who is temporarily changed from day to evening or night tours of duty without the notice required for a basic work week change because of unforeseen workload, special assignment, etc., shall receive time and one-half for hours worked outside of the normal tour for each tour changed; when the total hours worked within and outside the normal tour exceed seven and one-half, overtime treatment shall apply. During such a period there shall be no compensation for hours not worked within the normal tour of duty.
128
COMMERCIAL & MARKETING
2.	Change to day tours - When the needs of the business require that an employee be temporarily changed from an evening or night tour to a day tour of duty, without 48 hours notice, that employee shall receive time and one-half for hours worked outside of the normal tour for the first tour changed.
C.	Time Off, Illness, Vacation
1.	Regular Assignments - When the employees who are on regular evening or night assignments have time off by permission or because of illness or vacation, they shall receive the differential if the lime off is paid for. If the time off is not paid for, the differential for that week will be paid on a nightly basis, in accordance with the table under Paragraph (c,2) below for the nights on which the employee works.
2.	Rotating or Temporary Assignments - When employees on a rotating evening or night assignment or those on a temporary assignment arc off by permission or because of illness or vacation, they shall not receive the differential. Such employees shall be entitled to the differential when excused from duty on a Company-recognized holiday.
Table of Payments
For employees receiving a basic	The amount of nightly differential
weekly salary of	shall be (For eligible part-time
employees, adjust in proportion to scheduled hours)
$90.00 or less	$1.80
Over $90.00	10% of basic daily wage rate.
D,	Christmas And New Year’s Eves Differentials
Employees scheduled to work on Christmas or New Year's Eves (i.e., December 24 and 31) shall be paid in accordance with these Practices and in addition, shall be paid a differential of one hour’s straight-time pay for each hour worked between 6:00 PM and 12:00 midnight.
3.04 Peer Training
The Company may, if business needs require, designate a qualified bargaining unit employee to assist in or conduct formal classroom training or provide other special training conducted apart from normal working activities. An employee so designated may also, if possible, continue to perform their usual work functions during such assignments. Management will assign employees to be Peer Trainers from a list of solicited volunteers whom the Company determines are qualified based on job knowledge within a specific skill set and who are available for such assignment. In no event shall such employees assigned as Peer Trainers have any
129
COMMERCIALS MARKETING
involvement in discipline, progression increases, performance evaluations or making judgments regarding other employees’ performance, nor shall such assigned employees have access to personnel folders, payroll records or other person ne I-related documents or reports.
Employees assigned as Peer Trainers will be assigned for no less than one (I) full session nor more than sixty-five (65) work days during a twelve (12) month period, inclusive of any assignments to Performing Support Functions, regardless of the number of assignments. An employee assigned as a Peer Trainer will receive a special compensation payment of no more than a total of seven dollars and fitly cents ($7.50) per session.
4.	HOLIDAY PRACTICE
4.0	1 General	'
When a Company-recognized holiday falls on a scheduled working day, all regular, full-time employees shall be given the day off with pay provided unusual conditions do not require that they work on that day. When the holiday falls on Saturday and such employees are not scheduled to work on that day, the preceding day, Friday, shall be assigned as the day off with pay. The assigned day off will then be . considered as the holiday and if such employees are required to work on that day, . compensation shall be in accordance with 4.02 below. All part-time employees shall ' receive holiday pay.
4.0	2 Compensation
A.	Full-Time Employees - Full-time employees, whether scheduled or called in to work during their normal working hours on a Company-recognized holiday shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for time worked in addition to the normal day's \ pay for the holiday. Time worked outside of normal working hours shall be paid at the rate of double time and one-half whether scheduled or called in. Minimum work time shall apply as provided in 3.17 of General Wage and Working Practices.
B.	ParvTime Employees ^All part-time employees shall receive holiday pay,
1.	Non-Retail and Retail part-time employees hired prior to January 1, 1981, shall receive holiday pay treatment as follows:
a)	If the Company-recognized holiday falls on a day which the employee is normally scheduled to work, the employee shall receive holiday pay equal to their normal scheduled hours. If required to work on that day the employee shall, in addition, be paid holiday premium for the hours worked.
b)	If the Company-recognized holiday falls on a day on which the employee is normally not scheduled to work, the employee shall receive holiday pay equal to 1 /5 th of their "part-time equivalent work week.”
130
commercials marketing
2.	Non-Retail and Retail part-time employees hired on or after January 1, 1981, shall receive holiday pay treatment equal to l/5lh of the "part-time equivalent work week." If required to work on that day the employee shall, in addition, be paid as follows:
a)	Non-Rctail Employees - holiday premium for hours worked.
b)	Retail Employees - one(l) hours pay (straight) fdr each hour worked.
5.	VACATIONS
See Section 5. of General Wage and Working Practices.
6.	SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT DISABILITIES
See Section 6. of General Wage and Working Practices.
7.	EXPENSES
7.01 Meals
t /	;
A. Full-Time Employees - A full-time employee shall be reimbursed for expense
> of the following meals under the indicated conditions: (Alsosee7.0l (a)ofGcnerol j Wage and Working Practices.)
I.	Noon Lunch
a)	Not to exceed $4,00 when working away from the home station at noon on Company business and returns the same day.
b)	Actual Expense
(1)	When working away from the home station and work time extends one hour or more beyond the day's schedule ending with the morning session.
(2)	When working at the home station and notice of two or more hours of afternoon overtime is given on the same day that the overtime is to be worked.
c)	When an employee whose tour ends at or after 7:00P.M. is called out or assigned to work overtime two (2) hours or more before the start of the tour.
131
COMMERCIAL & MARKETING
2.	Supper - Not to exceed $9,00 when work time extends two hours or more
beyond the regular schedule closing at the end of the day.
3.	All Meals - Actual Expense - When away from the home station overnight on Company business.
B. Part-Time Employee - (Effective February 1,1990) - Supper -
Not to exceed $9 when overtime work extends for two (2) hours or more beyond the tour of duty, which does not contain a meal break of at least 20 minutes, and work ends at 7 p.m. or later.
7,02 Lodging and Commutation
A.	General
I.	In connection with overnight assignments away from the home station,
an employee shall lodge or commute as determined by the supervisor based on work requirements, cost to the Company and the distance to be traveled.
2.	An employee assigned to lodge away from the home station on an overnight basis or during a temporary transfer shall be reimbursed for lodging expense.
B.	Lodging with Relatives or Friends - An employee working away from the home station who elects to lodge with a relative or friend in the working area, in preference to a hotel or boarding house, shall be reimbursed for lodging expense incurred but not to exceed 75% of the regular rates prevailing in that locality and for all actual meal expense incurred.
7,03 Transportation
A. An employee called from home for duty al the reporting center fora period not continuous with scheduled working hours, shall be reimbursed for transportation expense. (See 7.03-7.07 of General Wage and Working Practices.)
8, Excused Absence
See Section 8. of General Wage and Working Practices.
9. Miscellaneous
9.01 - Training by Seniority
All training will be done on a senior volunteer basis. In the absence of a senior volunteer, inverse seniority will apply by work group.
132
COMMERCIAL & MARKETING
A,	work group will be defined as: ’Manager group, by title, home station, or job f function.
B.	when all job holders are to receive the same training over a limited period of time, seniority may be waived after discussion and mutual agreement is reached between management and the appropriate business agent.
9.	02 Reserved for Future Use
133
Plant, Switching Systems and Support Services -
Field and District
PLANT
1.	DEFINITIONS
1.01 Reserved for Future Use
!
1.02 Craft Employees
The term "craft employees" as used in these practices applies to all employees in titles previously covered by the CS Wage Progression schedules, and additionally to the title Maintenance Administrator.
1.03 Holiday Pay
Holiday pay is straight-time pay for a holiday tour irrespective of any compensation for work time.
1,04 Overtime
Overtime for employees is work time outside of a tour or trick. For employees classed as temporary employees, overtime is work time in excess of forty hours of work time in one week.
1.05 Tours
(a)	Tour of duty means the basic hours that an employee is scheduled to work in a specific day, evening or night,
(b)	Holiday Tour means a tour commencing on a Company-recognized holiday.
(c)	Sunday Tour means a tour commencing on Sunday.
1.06 Trick
Trick means an employee’s scheduled work week.
134
PLANT
(C)
2.	WORKTIME AND SCHEDULING
See 3.17 of General Wage and Working Practices for minimum work time.
2.01 Construction, Equipment and Switching Field Forces
Employees will not be required to work more than ten (10) hours of overtime per week from June 1 through October 31, in any payroll week except in case of emergency, long term service difficulties, or unless the employees consent to such overtime. The remainder of the year employees will not be required to work more than eight (8) hours of overtime in any payroll week except in case of emergency, long term service difficulties, or unless the employees consent to such overtime.
Part-time employees shall be required to work a prorated percentage of the mandatory requirement as indicated below:
24 - 29 hours/week 75%
17-23 hours/weck	50%
9—16 hours/week	25%
8 or less hours/week	0%
(a)	Tours and Basic Work Weeks — General - The normal tour of duty for construction, equipment and switching systems craft field forces and Maintenance Administrators shall be eight (8) hours, and for office and clerical employees shall be seven and one-half (7 Vi) hours.
Forty hours or thirty-seven and one-half as appropriate, divided normally into five tours for any five days of the week, shall constitute a basic work week for these forces. However, in order to secure adequate coverage over the entire week to safeguard the service under normal conditions, it is necessary to arrange the hours of work for certain occupations in fixed basic work weeks covering more than five days of the week, but such basic work weeks shall not be for more than forty, or thirty-seven and one-half hours, as appropriate, nor shall any tour of such basic work weeks be for less than four or three and one-half hours respectively.
(b)	Scheduling and Assigning Basic Work Weeks
(I)	Cable Splicing, Equipment and Switching Systems Forces - In order that rhe necessity of adequate coverage may be met as uniformly as possible in all cases, basic work weeks are established for all equipment, switching systems and cable splicing forces, based on the requirements of the business.
Equipment and switching systems force basic work weeks vary with exchanges and are set up on charts, Form 1969, showing the days of the week and the hours of the day comprising each basic work week to be applied in each exchange. Basic work weeks for cable splicing forces are set up on a chart, Form 2022.
135
PLANT
(2)	For equipment and switching systems forces the local supervisor shall designate the basic work week to be worked. For cable splicing forces the immediate splicing supervisor shall designate the basic work weeks to be worked. Twice each year the supervisors responsible shall prepare a schedule of basic work weeks assignments for the ensuing six months for each labor group under their direction. In the preparation of schedules and the assignment of basic work weeks to employees, careful consideration shall be given to individual preference which is consistent with work requirements and agreeable to the employee group involved, as well as to the following:
(a)	The provision of coverage as required, including Saturdays, Sundays, Company-recognized holidays and vacations without resorting to overtime.
(b)	The provision of a sufficient force to care for peak workloads with a minimum of overtime.
(c)	Work Schedules
(C)	(1) Basic work week schedules will be developed by each work
group utilizing historical and forecasted data to determine coverage requirements. Once coverage requirements arc known, work week schedules will be assigned to qualified employees by management using one of the methods set forth below. Voluntary trick study teams may be used to develop the work schedule to meet the coverage requirements that have been determined by management. Historical and forecasted data will be made available to the Vice Presidents Plant-CWA Local 1298 as soon as practical.
(a)	For each six (6) month period, employees in the work group will select, by seniority, a fixed work schedule, which may include Alternative Work Schedules (AWS), or they will be assigned to a fixed work week schedule by inverse seniority; or
(b)	The majority of the employees in the work group will decide on one of the following two (2) coverage options;
■ Rotatingofweeklycoveragerequirements among all group members; or
Selecting by seniority from the available six (6) month fixed work week schedules, which may include Alternative Work Schedules (AWS),
136
PLANT
based on coverage requirements, with the remainder of the coverage requirements shared on a weekly rotating basis.
(2)	Employees in all work groups may swap daily and/or weekly schedules with other qualified employees in the same work group.
(3)	Employees hired or transferred into plant job titles between August 8,1992 and September 17,1998 who were assigned or who selected a fixed work week schedule can choose to remain on that schedule unless they transfer or, they may change their current schedule by participating in the regular scheduling process used by their work group as described above.
(d) The selection of trick assignments for weeks in which a Company-recognized holiday falls on any day from Monday to Friday inclusive, so that a regular tour of duty on the holiday is scheduled for each employee.
(3)	The scheduled trick for Plant Equipment, Switching Systems and ' Construction Craft field occupations not covered by published trick charts shall be eight hours per day between 7:30 A.M. and 5:00 P.M, from Monday to Friday inclusive unless notice of a change is given as prescribed in 2.05,
(4)	Office and Clerical Employees in Plant Equipment and Switching Systems organizations shall be scheduled for seven and one-half hours per day from Monday to Friday inclusive unless notice of change is given as prescribed in 2.05.
(C)	(5) Alternate Work Schedules (AWS) may consist of a compressed work
week or an expanded work week. AWS options will take into consideration both customer and employee needs, as well as departmental staffing and scheduling requirements.
(c) Lunch Periods
(I)	Generally, tours of duty of seven and one-half or eight hours duration, as appropriate, shall be divided into two equal sessions, with a one-half hour unpaid lunch break between sessions. When it is impractical to divide the tour, because of the necessity for continuous coverage, employees may be required to eat on the job during the assigned tour and in such circumstances they will be paid for working through lunch and will be given two 15 minute paid breaks.
(2)	Employees scheduled to work a tour ending after 8:00 PM will work 7 1/2 or 8 hours, as appropriate, and will be allowed a one half hour paid meal break.
137
PLANT
2.02 Division and District Offices
(a)	Normal Hours - Tricks for employees connected with Division and District Offices shall be as follows:
(I)	District Construction Offices
(a)	General Salaried Employees - 7:45 A.M. to 4:45 P.M. with one and one quarter hours for lunch from Monday to Friday inclusive.
(b)	Office and Clerical Employees - 7:45 A.M. to 4:15 P.M. with one hour for lunch from Monday to Friday inclusive.
(2)	District and Division Equipment and Switching Systems Offices - Office and Clerical Employees - 7 1/2 hours daily from Monday to Friday inclusive between 8:00 A.M. and 5:00 P.M., with not less than one-half hour for lunch, unless notice of change is given as prescribed in 2.05.
(b)	Saturday and Additional Daily Coverage - As in the case of field forces, it may be necessary due to the needs of the business, occasionally to arrange for Saturday coverage; likewise, if needs of the business require, it may be necessary to arrange for coverage of District Construction Offices until 5:00 P.M. daily.
2.03 Support Services
Tours and Tricks - Working hours for full-time field forces are arranged in tricks of forty hours, or thirty-seven and one-half hours forthose Office and Clerical employees covered by the Wage Progression Schedules. Tricks are divided into five tours of eight hours each, or seven and one-half hours each as appropriate for the clerical forces, for any five days of the week.
2.04 Network Services
Tours and Tricks - The tour of duty for the title of Plant Analyst covered by the Wage Progression Schedules shall be seven and one-half hours generally scheduled between 8 AM and 5 PM. Management may designate tricks which will be divided into five tours of seven and one-half hours each for any five days of the week.
2.05 Changes in Trick and Tour Assignments
(a)	Changes in Tricks
(1)	When it is necessary to make changes in the assignment of tricks to individual employees during the six months' schedule, such changes shall be arranged and the employees affected notified as far in advance as possible. In
138
PLANT
no case shall notice of a change of trick assignment be given later than the time specified in the following:
(a) In the case of changes necessitated by absences due to sickness or accident, or to sickness or death in the immediate family or household, or to authorized meetings of employee representatives, each employee whose assigned trick must be changed shall be notified not later than the close of the last day of the trick for the week immediately preceding.
In the case of changes necessitated by unforeseen peak workloads, vacations, etc., the employee whose assigned trick is to be changed shall be notified not later than the close of the first day of the trick for the week immediately preceding.
(C)	(c) In the event of a surplus declaration that results in a loss of
employees, the Company shall re-evaluate the trick schedule and determine the need to fill vacated trick assignments by the remaining employees in the work group. The Company shall first seek volunteers to cover the tricks; and in the absence of such, shall equitably distribute the necessary tricks among the remaining employees on the trick schedule.
(2)	No change in trick assignments shall be made for periods other than one week or multiples thereof.
(b)	Change in Tours
In crafts and clerical jobs having established evening or night lours, employees with those titles, in any location, may be changed from day roues to evening or night tours (or from evening or night tours to day lours) within the assigned trick when the needs of the business require. Whenever possible, 48 hours notice shall be given. For compensation in such cases see 3.01 (e). Compensation for evening or night assignments involving crafts and clerical jobs not normall y scheduled for such assignments is covered in 3.01 (f).
2.06 Work in Inclement Weather
In inclement weather work under shelter shall be assigned so far as possible.
Regular employees shall not lose pay provided they report for duly and perform such work as may be assigned to them. Temporary employees shall be compensated provided they arc assigned to work.
139
PLANT
2.07 On-Call Practice
The Company may designate employees, on a weekly basis, (Tuesday 8:00 A.M. to Tuesday 8:00 A.M.), to be available in an “on-call" status to provide services which may be required. An employee designated as “on-call” shall receive one hundred forty ($140.00) dollars for each week so designated. An employee assigned to “on-call” on either a daily basis or on a Company designated holiday will receive twenty ($20.00) dollars for that day.
Employees “on-call” shall not be required to remain on premises, at home or at any other specific location, but, shall be readily available by telephone and/or other means approved by supervision.
Employees who are excused from “on-call” or who are absent because of illness will have their “on-call” allotment reduced by the appropriate rate for each day or Holiday that they are unable to perform the “on-call" duty.
Employees who have secured supervisory approval to substitute for employees unable to perform the “on-call” function because of excused absence or illness will receive the appropriate rate for each day or Holiday they are on an “on-call” status.
Employees designated as "on-call” who are called-out to provide services shall receive wage treatment in accordance with Paragraph 3.17, Appendix B, WWP, General.
2.08 Overall Overtime Administration
The Company will distribute overtime as fairly as practicable over the course of a year using the following administration process:
a.	Scheduled overtime will be assigned based on a current year to date department/manager overtime list, which will show the number of total overtime hours, including callout hours, by each employee. Scheduled overtime is work assigned in advance to be done on an overtime basis. In such situations, the nonscheduled employees on the list who have the lowest cumulative overtime hours will be asked first to do the overtime work, provided the employee has the ability, as determined by the supervisor.
b.	Unscheduled overtime (end of day) will be handled first by employees who are already on duty and have the ability, as determined by the supervisor.
c.	Call outs - The procedure described above for scheduled overtime (a) will be followed; however, only those employees who have indicated their availability (C) for the week will be called.
(C) d. The Company shall not use employees from job titles outside the Plant section of the contract to perform job functions regularly assigned to employees within the Plant section of the contract without prior discussion between the Company and the Union.
140
PLANT
EXCEPTIONS:	There are current exceptions to using the overtime list
including the following; Property or life threatening (i.e. Pole on vehicle), Fire alarms in the central office, fiber restoration and job continuity. Other exceptions may include procedures agreed to locally such as work assignment by a crew and/or area. (i.e. Splicing/Consl ruction).
NOTE: There is no change to existing overtime lists or selection processes within Network Switching.
3. WAGE PRACTICES
See Section 4, for holiday wage practices.
3.01 Differentials for Evening And Night Work
(C) (a) Differentials for evening and night work shall be paid in accordance with Paragraph 3.19 (a), (bl fc) and fd) of General Wage and Working Practices.
(C) (b) See (a) above.
(C) (c) See (a) above.
(C) (d) See (a) above.
(e)	Temporary Changes in Assignment - Non-Exempt Employees
(1)	Change to Evening or Night Tour - An employee who is temporarily changed from day to evening or night tours of duty without the notice required for a trick change to take the place of one previously so assigned, shall receive time and one-half for the changed tour the first night and if assigned to work continuously thereafter for a period of one night or more shall receive the nightly differential for each night so worked. During such a period there shall be no compensation for hours not worked within the normal tour of duly.
(2)	An employee who is temporarily changed from day to evening or night tours of duty without the notice required for a trick change because of unforeseen workload, special assignment, etc., shall receive time and one-half for hours worked outside of the normal tour for each lour changed; when the iota! hours worked within and outside the normal tour exceed eight, or seven and one-half for Plant Equipment and Switching Systems Office and Clerical employees, overtime treatment shall apply to the hours exceeding eight or seven and one-half as appropriate. During such a period there shall be no compensation for hours not worked within the normal tour of duty.
141
PLANT
(3)	Change to Day Tour - An employee who is temporarily changed from an evening or night tour to a day tour of duty, without notice required for a trick change to take the place of one previously so assigned, shall receive time and one-half for hours worked outside of the normal tour for the changed tour the first day,
(4)	An employee who is temporarily changed from an evening or night tour to a day tour of duty without the notice required for a trick change because of unforeseen workload, or special assignment shall receive time and one-half for hours worked outside of the normal tour for each tour changed,
(f)	Employees in Jobs Not Having Established Evening or Night Tours - When employees in positions other than those with established evening or night tours are required to work tours of duty any part of which falls between the hours of 7:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. fora period of more than one week, and the duration of the assignment is known before the start of the job, they shall receive the nightly differential for each night worked. If the assignment is for one week or less, or the duration of the assignment is not known to be beyond one week at the start of the job, time and one-half shall be paid for the hours outside the normal tour of duty. When the total hours worked within and outside the normal tour exceeds eight, or seven and one-half, appropriate overtime treatment shall apply to the hours exceeding eight or seven and one-half, as applicable. During such a period there shall be no compensation for hours not worked within the normal tour of duty.
(g)	Christmas and New Year's Eves Differentials - Employees scheduled to work on Christmas or New Year's Eves (i.e., December 24 and 31) shall be paid in accordance with these Practices, and in addition, shall be paid a differential of one hour's straight-time pay for each hour worked between 6:00 P.M. and 12:00 midnight.
3.02 Holiday Tours
For work time during holiday tours non-exempt employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half.
3.03 Overtime
(a) Full-Time Regular Employees.
(C)	(1) Compensation - For all Plant job titles except Maintenance
Administrators in the Network Customer Service Center - No compensation shall be allowed for overtime which does not exceed fifteen minutes. When overtime extends beyond fifteen consecutive minutes it shall be compensated for as indicated in paragraph 2(a),(b),(c).
142
PLANT
(C)	(2) Compensation ~ For Maintenance Administrators in the Network
Customer Service Center — No compensation shall be allowed for overtime of five (5) minutes or less in any day. For employees authorized overtime of six (6) minutes or more worked in any one day shall be compensated as follows:
(a)	First eleven overtime hours per week - Pay at time and one-half except on holidays pay at double time and one-half,
or
(b)	In excess of eleven overtime hours per week - Pay at double time, except on holidays pay at double lime and one-half.
or
(c)	On a Holiday - Pay all overtime at double time and one-half.
(3)	Computation - When overtime is to be paid for at time and one-half, double time or double time and one-half, as appropriate, it shall be expressed to the next higher quarter of an hour after computation, for example: time worked 45 minutes X 1-1/2 equals 67.5 minutesand should be expressed as 1.25 hours to be paid for; time worked, 75 minutes X 1-1/2 equals 112.5 minutes and should be expressed as 2 hours to be paid for.
(4)	After Reporting Off Duty - When an employee is required to work overtime after reporting off duty but before leaving the premises or the adjacent thoroughfare, payment shall be at the appropriate overtime rate from the time the employee reported off duty until the end of the overtime assignment. However, if the employee has left the premises or the adjacent thoroughfare, the conditions relating to minimum work time as provided in 3.17 of the General Wage and Working Practices shall apply.
(b)	Part-Time Employees - Overtime compensation shall be paid to part-time employees as follows:
(1)	Up to seven and one-half, seven and three-quarters or eight hours of work time in one day, as appropriate, or thirty-seven and one-half, or forty hours of work time in one week (excluding holidays) - pay at straight time.
or
(2)	First eleven overtime hours in excess of seven and one-half, seven and three quarters or eight hours of work time in one day, as appropriate, or thirtyseven and one-half, thirty-eight and three-quarters or forty hours of work time in one week (excluding holidays) pay at time and one-half.
143
FLANT
. or
(3)	In excess of eleven, time and one-half or double time and one-half hours of overtime work in one week - pay at double lime, (See 4 below,)
or
(4)	On a holiday - Overtime beyond seven and one-half, seven and three-quarters or eight hours of work time, as appropriate, pay at double time and one-half.
(c)	Temporary employees will receive payment at time and one-half for overtime hours worked after forty (40) hours of work time in any one week,
3.04 Special Compensation
(a)	Performing Support Functions - See 3.22 of the General Wage and Working Practices,
(b)	Outside Plant Technician Acting As Head of Construction Gang - When a construction unit of more than three Outside Plant Technicians is to be without a supervisor for a session, an Outside Plant Technician shall be assigned to act as the responsible head of the unit during this absence. On such occasions this Outside (C) Plant Technician shall be paid special compensation of seven dollars and fifty cents
($7.50) per session for such duty.
(c)	Craft Employees Assigned As Instructor - When a Craft employee other than one normally engaged in training other employees is assigned as an instructor in an approved plant school held in quarters separate from those in which normal plant operations are being performed, a special compensation of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per session shall be paid for such duty.
The assignment to instructor will be made on a rotational basis by seniority from those employees who volunteer and who the Company determines are qualified and available for such assignment.
Employees will be assigned for no less than one full session nor more than sixty-five (65) work days per assignment. In no case shall an employee be assigned for a total of more than sixty-five (65) work days in a twelve (12) month period, inclusive of any assignments to Performing Support Functions, regardless of the number of assignments.
In no event shall such assigned employee have any involvement in discipline, progression increases, performance evaluations or making judgments regarding other employees’ performance, nor shall such assigned employee have access to personnel folders, payroll records or other personnel-related documents or reports.
144
PLANT
(C) (d) Maintenance Administrator and Assignment Administrator in Consumer Center Operations assigned as a Job Coach: When a Maintenance Administrator and an Assignment Administrator in the Consumer Center Operations is assigned as a Job Coach, a special compensation of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per session shall be paid for such duty. The assignment to Coach will be made on a rotational basis by seniority from those who volunteer and who the Company determines are qualified and available for such assignment. Every six (6) months, the Company will canvass for additional qualified employees to add to the list of employees who are qualified and available for the Job Coach assignment.
Employees will be assigned for no less than one full session nor more than ninety (90) work days per assignment. In no case shall an employee be assigned for a total of more than ninety (90) work days in a twelve month period inclusive of any assignment to Performing Support Functions and/or Craft Employee Assigned as Instructor, regardless of the number of assignments.
In no event shall such assigned employee have any involvement in discipline, progression increases, performance evaluations or making judgment regarding other employees’ performance nor shall such assigned employee have access to personnel folders, payroll records or other personnel-related documents or reports.
3.05 Reserved for Future Use
3.06 Reserved for Future Use
3.07 Sunday Tours
For work time during Sunday tours, employees shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half. Employees who are scheduled to work a Sunday tour but who are excused with pay shall be paid at straight lime.
4.	HOLIDAY PRACTICES
4.01 Regular Full-Time Employees
(a)	Holiday Falling On Any Day Monday Through Friday - Trick assignments for weeks in which a Company-recognized holiday falls on any day from Monday to Friday inclusive, shall provide for a tour of duty on the holiday for each regular fulltime employee. The holiday shall be the equivalent of the longest tour in the employee's trick for the holiday week. All such employees shall be paid holiday pay, but only those necessary to meet the needs of the business shall be required to work. However, if an employee is absent without permission on the scheduled working day immediately preceding or following such a holiday, the employee shall not be paid for the holiday, unless the circumstances are such as to warrant a recommendation by the supervisor for payment.
145
PLANT
(b)	Holiday Falling on Saturday - When a Company-recognized holiday falls on Saturday, holiday treatment shall be accorded those employees who are scheduled for coverage on that day. For all other eligible employees, the preceding day, Friday or Thursday for such employees scheduled Sunday through Thursday shall be the designated holiday. Should an employee be required to work on the designated holiday, compensation shall be in accordance with paragraph (c) which follows:
(c)	Work on Holiday Within Trick - When according to the needs of the business a regular employee is scheduled to work the tour of duty on a holiday which falls within the assigned trick for the week, the employee shall receive pay at time and one-half for work time within the tour in addition to holiday pay, and double-time and one-half for work time outside of the tour. If, after reporting for duty, an employee desires to be excused for any part of a tour, such time shall be granted without pay, conditions of work permitting. If it is subsequently necessary, at any time within the lour, to recall an employee so excused, compensation shall be as follows; time and one-half for the actual time worked after being recalled, during hours within the tour, and double time and one-half for the actual time worked outside of the tour. In such cases minimum time shall not apply as in the case of a callout, nor shall the travel time occasioned thereby be classified as work time. However, if called out at a time beyond the normal tour, the conditions relating to minimum work time as provided in 3.17 of General Wage and Working Practices shall apply.
4.02 Reserved for Future Use
4.03 Reserved fur Future Use
4.04 Part-Time Employees
All part-time employees shall receive holiday pay.
(1)	Part-time employees hired prior to January 1,1981, shall receive holiday pay treatment as follows:
(a)	If the Company-recognized holiday falls on a day on which the employee is normally scheduled to work, the employee shall receive holiday pay equal to their normal scheduled hours. If required to work on that day the employee shall, in addition, be paid holiday premium for the hours worked.
(b)	]f the Company-recognized holiday falls on a day on which the employee is normally not scheduled to work, the employee shall receive holiday pay equal to 1/5,Tof their "part-time equivalent work week.”
146
PLANT
5.	VACATIONS
See Section 5. of General Wage and Working Practices.
5.01 Vacations
All employees except those assigned to a fixed work week schedule which includes Saturday as part of the basic work week will be granted the Saturday off before their scheduled vacation, if so desired. Employees on a fixed work week schedule which includes Saturday as part of the basic work week may swap their scheduled Saturday before their vacation with another qualified employee in the same work group to obtain the Saturday off before their vacation.
6.	SICKNESS AND ACCIDENT ABSENCES
See Section 6. of General Wage and Working Practices.
6.01 Short Period Sickness
(a)	Regular Full-Time Employees shall receive payment for time off duty occasioned by short period sickness in accordance with Paragraph 6.01 of General Wage and Working Practices.
(I)	Regular Part-Time Employees shall receive payment for time off duty occasioned by short period sickness under the conditions specified below. (Also sec paragraph 6.01 (c).)
(a)	More Than One But Less Than Two Years' Service - Shall receive normal pay for five scheduled working days during their service year; in each case of sickness, payment to begin after the second consecutive full day of absence due to sickness on scheduled working days.
(b)	Two But Less Than Five Years' Service - Shall receive normal pay for ten scheduled working days during their service year; in each case of sickness, payment to begin after the first full day of absence due to sickness on scheduled working days.
(c)	Five or More Years’ Service - Shall receive normal pay for ten scheduled working days during their service year; in each case of sickness, payment to begin on the first day of absence due to sickness on scheduled working days.
147
PLANT
In no case shall short period sickness payments be made for that portion of the absence which extends one full day or more beyond seven consecutive calendar days. Such absence shall be classified as extended illness. (See 6.02 of General Wage and Working Practices.)
(b)	Payments Based on Scheduled Hours - short period sickness payments for absence due to illness on a scheduled working day will be based on the number of work hours scheduled for that day.
(c)	Consideration of Payment For Absence Beyond Ten Davs - It is understood that consideration will be given to payment for necessary incidental sickness absence beyond ten days in a service year, where the circumstances warrant.
Important factors in such cases would be the past record of attendance and the length of service.
(d)	A Company-recognized holiday is classed as a day of sickness when:
(I)	the holiday falls on a scheduled working day on which the employee is required to work and is absent because of sickness on that day.
(2)	the holiday falls on a scheduled working day on which the employee is not required to work and is absent because of sickness on the entire afternoon or session of the scheduled working day preceding and the entire morning or session of the scheduled working day following the holiday.
(c) No deduction shall be made from the short period sickness allowance of an employee for sickness on a Company-recognized holiday, temporary layoff, excused absence, or leave of absence during the year; but a change shall be made in the service year on which it is computed, in cases where all or part of the absence is not credited.
7.	EXPENSES
7.0	1 Meals
(a)	Craft Full-Time Employees (Refer to 7.01 (b) for Full-Time Employees other than Craft and 7.01 (c) for part-time employees; also see 7.01 (a) of General Wage and Working Practices).
Meal expenses are not an allowance but are intended only to reimburse employees for such expenses incurred up to amounts indicated below. Meal expenses shall not be granted in any case when employees are allowed sufficient time off duty to go home for their meals. When meals are paid for, time off duty occasioned thereby shall not be paid for.
148
PLANT
(1)	Noon Lunch - Not to Exceed $4.00
(a)	When overtime work extends for two hours or more beyond the day's schedule which was to end with the morning session.
(b)	When notified after the normal tour of duty of the preceding day that they will be required to work on a day on which they are scheduled not to work.
(c)	When an employee whose tour of duty includes a lunch period of one hour or more and who normally goes home to lunch when working at the home station, is assigned to work away from the home station,
(d)	When assigned to and participating in off the job (away from the normal reporting center) formal training where the schedule includes a lunch period. In addition, reimbursement will be allowed at an employee’s regular reporting center when the training is being concurrently attended by employees from other reporting centers.
(e)	When an employee whose tour ends at or after 8 P.M. is called out or assigned to work overtime two (2) hours or more before the start of the tour.
(2)	Supper - Not to Exceed $9.00.
(a)	When overtime work extends for two (2) hours or more beyond the end of the tour of duty.
(b)	When overtime worked on a non-scheduled day is ten (10) or more hours and work ends at 7 P.M. or later.
(3)	Midnight Lunch - Not to Exceed $1.00 - When assigned to a day tour and required to work overtime from the end of the normal tour continuously beyond midnight.
(4)	Morning Meal After All Night Overtime - Not to Exceed $2.25 - When assigned to a day lour and required to work overtime from the end of the normal tour continuously beyond'midnight and the work is to continue beyond 6:00 A.M.
(b)	Full-Time Employees Other Than Craft (Refer to 7.01 (a) for Full-Time Craft Employees and to 7.01 (c) for part-time employees; also see 7.01 (a) of General Wage and Working Practices.)
Meal expenses shall not be granted in any case when employees are allowed sufficient time off duty to go home for their meals. When meals are paid for, time
149
PLANT
off duty occasioned thereby shall not be paid for. Employees other than craft shall be reimbursed for reasonable meal expense incurred subject to the conditions and limitations indicated below.
(1)	Noon Lunch
(a)	When working at their home stations, only in case of overtime work extending for two hours or more beyond the day's schedule which was to end with the morning session and notice of such overtime is given during the morning session.
(b)	When working away from their home stations at noon not to exceed $4.00.	.
(c)	When an employee whose tour ends at or after 8:00 P.M. is called out or assigned to work overtime two (2) hours or more before the start of the tour.
(2)	Supper - Not to Exceed $9,00 - When overtime work extends two hours or more beyond the tour of duty.
(c)	Part-Time Employees - (Effective February 1, 1990) - Supper- Not to exceed $9 when overtime work extends for two (2) hours or more beyond the tour of duty, which does not contain a meal break of at least 20 minutes, and work ends at 7 P.M. or later.
7.0	2 Lodging and Commutation
(a)	Selection of Commutation or Lodging Plan - When employees (except Temporary) are assigned temporarily away from their home stations to work or attend a training class, the supervisor shall estimate the cost of lodging and commuting and shall authorize either of the Plans, as covered in paragraphs (b) and (c) following, after careful consideration of the needs of the business and economy.
(b)	Commutation Plan - When employees are authorized to commute daily, they shall be entitled to:
(1)	Meal Expense - In accordance with 7.01 of these Practices;
(2)	Transportation Expense - In accordance with 7.03 of General Wage and Working Practices;
(3)	Travel Time - In accordance with 2.01 (b), (2) and 2.02 of General Wage and Working Practices.
150
PLANT
(c)	Lodging Plan - When employees are authorized to lodge away from their home stations they shall be entitled to:
(1)	Cost of lodging at the assigned location;
(2)	Cost of meals at the assigned location not to exceed $30.00 per day for three meals when arrangements are not made by the Company. When unusual circumstances prevail, appropriate treatment shall be given;
(3)	Transportation expense at the beginning and end of the assignment;
(4)	Travel time at the beginning and end of the assignment;
(5)	Travel time and travel expense for a trip to the home station and return to the job on weekends when the assignment is for more than one week and the Company prefers that lodging and meal expense shall cease over weekends;
(6)	The following expenses when, at their own initiative, they return to their homes at weekends and holidays, provided they return io the job prior to the starting time on the next work day and the board and lodging expense ceases during their absence:
(a)	Supper at the close of the last work day before the weekend or holiday and breakfast the beginning of the next work day provided these meals are procured at the board location. (Meals on the way from and to the board location shall not be paid for by the Company);
(b)	An allowance for transportation at public utility fare rates, from the job to home and return, but not in excess of the fare from job to home station and return.
(7)	Authorization to return to their homes daily in preference to lodging if they so prefer and the conditions of work permit, provided the cost of travel time will not exceed the cost of the lodging plan. If the cost of travel time is less than the cost of the lodging plan the difference shall be applied toward reimbursement for expenses as provided in the commutation plan, reference 7.02 (b), but no expense shall be paid in excess of this amount,
(8)	The privilege of electing to lodge with a relative or friend in the area in which they are working in preference to a hotel or boarding house. In such cases employees shall be reimbursed for lodging expense incurred but not to exceed 75% of the regular rate prevailing in that locality, and for actual meal expense not to exceed $25.00 per day for the three meals.
151
PLANT
(9)	Continuation of board and lodging expenses when absent from duty because of accident or sickness disability for a period not to exceed one week. If the disability continues for a longer period than one week:
(a)	employees shall return to their home station if possible and board and lodging expenses shall cease;
(b)	if the disability is of such a character that employees ate unable to return to their home station, board and lodging expenses will continue until the employees are able to return home or resume regular duties.
8.	Excused Absence
See Section 8. of General Wage and Working Practices.
9.	Miscellaneous
9.01 Accident Prevention
(a)	Teaching Safety In Perfonnance of Work - The safety of the employee is of first importance to the Company and every employee, particularly new employees, shall be taught the safe way to perform their work, not only by the supervisor, but also fellow employees.
(b)	A Safety Guide has been prepared to give employees a thorough knowledge of the causes of accidents and the manner in which they may be avoided. A copy of this Guide shall be furnished to each Plant employee and they shall familiarize themselves with the rules relating to their occupation as quickly as possible.
(c)	Safety Guide Questionnaire
(1)	Operating Groups - A Safely Guide Questionnaire is required of certain employees connected with operating groups. All such employees must acquaint themselves with the contents of the Safety Guide, particularly the instructions pertaining to their work, and be prepared to pass an examination as outlined in the questionnaire.
(2)	Non-Operating Groups - A Safety Guide Questionnaire shall not be required of employees connected with non-operating groups, but they shall be instructed to read the Safety Guide and their attention shall be called to the paragraph dealing with report of unsafe conditions.
152
PLANT
(d)	Pole Climbing - Employees who are required by the nature of their job to climb poles shall be instructed in safe methods of climbing regardless of whether their assignment requires work aloft steadily or only occasionally. Employees shall not be assigned to work aloft until they have demonstrated ability to climb before a qualified instructor, who shall certify the fact to the office of the Plant Supervisor -Training.	. -	1
(e)	Resuscitation Training - All Craft and Service employees shall pass tests on resuscitation before they become permanent employees.
(f)	Outside Work in Severe Weather Conditions - Certain work directly concerned with service to the public, such as repair and appointment installation work, must be done even when weather conditions are sufficiently severe to stop other types of
(C) work. Severe weather conditions will be determined by the Company. The Company will consider heavy rain and/or heavy snow and/or excessive cold/hot weather. However, the Company will not require employees to be exposed to prolonged periods of extreme cold without sufficient warm-up time. Outside work will not be assigned when conditions are so severe that the work cannot be done safely. When assigned to such work in wet weather employees will be supplied with coats, hats, and boots, if required.
9.02 Tools
(a)	Issuance of Tools - Tools used by individual employees, including mechanics, shall be issued directly to and signed for by them; other tools, such as those usually used in common by groups of employees, will be issued to and signed for by the supervisor.
(b)	Lost Tools - An employee generally shall not be expected to reimburse the Company for lost tools, provided the facts are reported immediately to the supervisor and the loss did not result from undue negligence.
(c)	Employees shall reimburse the Company for the present value of lost tools if:
(I)	the loss results from undue negligence;
(2)	the employee's record indicates a frequent loss of tools in the past;
(3)	the loss has not been reported promptly upon discovery.
(d)	The present value shall be determined by the immediate supervisor and approved by the director. Ordinarily one-half the original cost of the tools shall be collected; however, if it is the opinion of the local supervisor that circumstances warrant doing so, an increase or reduction in this amount may be recommended.
153
PLANT
9.0	3 Work Clothes
The Company will provide for furnishing and laundering work clothes for Motor Equipment Inspector-Maintainers and Garage Attendants.
9.0	4 Training
I.	All training courses will be designated as cither required Core training or Specialized training.
Core training will be designated for all training which, based on work load volume requires greater than 75% of the employees in a work group to be trained. All other training will be designated as Specialized. Changes in technology and market demand may move training courses from Specialized to Core training and vice versa.
2.	All company required Core training will be done on a senior volunteer, inverse seniority basis by work group.
(a)	A work group will be defined as a manager group by title by home station.
(b)	For an employee to be eligible for training being offered any required prerequisite training should be successfully completed.
(c)	Training will be completed on a pass/fail basis. An employee who docs not meet the passing requirement or elects not to attend a training course will go to the end of their respective training seniority list for the course.
(C)	(d) When all job holders are to receive the same training over a limited
period of time, seniority may be waived after discussion and mutual agreement is reached between management and the appropriate Chief Steward.
3.	Specialized training will be scheduled for employees based on business needs, work assignments, customer requirements and reporting center.
Supervisors will select employees for specialized training based on established selection criteria and make an effort to distribute Specialized training within the work group in a fair and equitable manner consistent with the above requirements. In a situation where Specialized training is limited and a choice must be made between two or more employees who meet the selection criteria equally, the selection will be made on the basis of seniority.
154
PLANT
For job til les in which Specialized training is designated, the selection criteria for specialized training will be established and communicated to the employees on that job title.
4.	For each employee in a job title in which Specialized training is designated, a Training and Development review will be conducted annually in February and
(C) reviewed with appropriate Chief Steward upon completion.
(C) 5, On an annual basis in work groups in which Specialized training is designated, the responsible Director-Network Services/Managcrs, Business Agent(s)-Plant/Chicf Stewards as appropriate will meet to review and discuss Core versus Specialized training curricula, and selection criteria for Specialized training.
9.05 Reserved for Future Use
155
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
PART ONE - BASIC
PREAMBLE
This Memorandum of “Agreement” is entered into by and between Customer Information Services (the “Company”) and CWA Local 1298 (the "Union”), and as such represents bargaining unit employees in Customer Information Services (CIS) on the titles listed below:
■	Customer Information Specialist
■	Customer Information Specialist - Bi-Lingual
■	General Office Associate - CIS
■	Results and Financial Assistant - CIS
■	Senior Associate Database Administration — CIS
■	Service Assistant Aide — CIS
■	Specialist Centralized Administrative Group - CIS
■	Support Technician - CIS
Customer Information Services (CIS) and the Union recognize the need for a new approach to union-management relations and the more effective use of human resources if Customer Information Services is to be successful and competitive in both a regulated and unregulated environment.
I MISSION
The mission of Customer Information Services is to maintain the SBC Customer Information Services’ tradition of high quality service by being a “Best in Class” provider of value-added customer information services while meeting all corporate, financial and human resource objectives.
•	Maximize Operating Efficiency
o Deliver services at a competitive price
o Provide a cost effective solution to customer needs
o Optimize technology
•	Maintain Service Quality
o Exceed customer expectations by providing service in a timely, courteous and efficient manner.
156
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
II RECOGNITION
The success of Customer Information Services is fully dependent on its people. Hiring dedicated personnel is essential. As a result, it is agreed that the Union is recognized as the sole bargaining agent for all Customer Information Services.
Ill UNION MEMBERSHIP
A.	COLLECTION OF DUES
1.	Upon written order signed by a bargaining unit employee, the Company will deduct from that employee’s wages and pay over to the Union the amount specified in said order. The Union will reimburse the Company for the cost of making the transaction.
2.	The Union agrees that al its own expense it will defend, indemnify, and save harmless the Company from and against all claims, demands, suits, damages, or expenses, of any kind whatsoever, arising out of or in any manner, except for the Company's own willful misconduct, incident to any action taken by the Company in complying with Section I of this Article.
B.	AGENCY SHOP
1.	Each employee who is a member of the Union or who is obligated to tender to the Union amounts equal io periodic dues on the effective date of this agreement, or who later becomes a member, and all employees entering into the bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this agreement, shall as a condition of employment pay or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members for the period from such effective date or, in the case of employees entering into the bargaining unit after the effective date, on or after the thirtieth (30lh ) day after such entrance, whichever of these dates is later, until the termination of this contract.
2.	For purposes of this Article, “employee” shall mean any person entering into the bargaining unit. Each employee who is a member of the bargaining unit on or before the effective dale of this Agreement and who on the effective date of this Agreement was not required as a condition of employment to pay or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to
157
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
members, shall, as a condition of employment, pay or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members for the period beginning thirty (30) days after the effective date of this agreement, until the termination of this agreement.
3.	The conditions of employment specified above shall not apply during periods of formal separations* from the bargaining unit by any such employee but shall reapply to such employee on the thirtieth day following return to the bargaining unit.
*The term “formal separation” includes transfers out of the bargaining unit, removal from the payroll of the Company, and leaves of absence of more than one month duration.
IV	CURRENT BASIC CONTRACT
Unless otherwise expressly incorporated into this Agreement, no other provisions of the Basic Contract shall apply. In the event situations arise which have not been addressed, Customer Information Services may elect to follow practices set forth in the Basic Contract and may elect to incorporate those practices into this Agreement upon written agreement by the parties.
V	CONSENSUS GUIDEL1NES/CONSULTATION
PROCEDURE
In all cases of penalties and dismissals or other penalties, the employee’s supervisor will notify the appropriate Chief Steward, or a higher level union officer if the Chief Steward is unavailable, prior to such action. If circumstances make this prior notification impossible, the supervisor will notify the Chief Steward immediately following such action and will inform the Chief Steward of the reason prior notification was not possible. In addition, the Director - Labor Relations shall notify the Union office in writing of any such action as soon as practicable with the exception of those releases which occur during the trial period. The withholding of a scheduled wage increase will be reported to the Union office by the Director - Labor Relations.
158
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
VI	GRIEVANCE PROCESS
I, In the event differences arise between the Company and any of its employees or the Union as to the application, interpretation and administration of matters subject to the provisions of this Contract, the parties hereto agree to make a prompt and earnest effort to settle such differences to the satisfaction of all parties concerned, in the minimum number of steps in the following procedure:
Union
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
Informational Meeting
Management
Steward ordesignee	I” Level Management
Aggrieved
A meeting shall be scheduled with the employee’s Supervisor to discuss the facts and attempt to resolve the issue. If not resolved after such discussion and the Union wishes to proceed further, a formal request for local resolution will be submitted by the Union defining the Grievance, identifying the aggrieved employee or employees involved and the parties listed below shall meet within 5 working days and attempt to settle:
	Loral Resolution Chairperson	2nd Level Management
Chief Steward or designee Steward	(Department) 1” Level Management
If not settled then the following parties shall meet within 10 working drys of the Union’s request for department resolution.
	Deportment Resolution
Deportment V.P. or designee Business Agent Chief Steward	Chairperson	Director (Department) Director (Labor Relations) or Designated Labor Relations Manager and 2“* Level
'	Management (Department)
If not settled then the following parties shall meet within 10 working days of the Union’s request for
	Corporate resolution.
CWA international Staff Rep. or designee Executive Vice President Depart menu I VP
Corporate Resolution
Chairperson
Vice President - Labor Relations
Director (Department)
Director (Labor Relations) 2nd Level Management (Department)
159
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
Representation of the parties at each step will be generally as indicated but may vary at the discretion of the Chairman of either party and with advance notice.
If not settled then either of the parties may request arbitration as prescribed in Article XXI of the Contract.
NOTE:
A.	All grievances will be filed within 180 days from the date of the action to be grieved or the date the Union became aware of the action to be grieved. Time limits for local resolution, department resolution and corporate resolution shall be waived upon request of either party.
B.	Those employees of the Company including the aggrieved employee(s) and the employee representativefs) designated by the Union, who shall suffer no loss in pay for time consumed in, and necessarily consumed in traveling to and from grievance meetings, shall not be more than three (3) at the Local Resolution step, no more than four (4) al the Departmental Resolution step and no more than three (3) at the Corporate Resolution step of the grievance procedure.
Representation of the parties at each step will be generally as indicated but either party may vary it by advance notice to the other party,
C.	At the conclusion of any step in the grievance procedure, the grievance shall be considered as finally and satisfactorily settled unless taken to the next step within forty-five (45) days.
D.	If the Company denies the grievance at the Department
Resolution step, the Company (Labor Relations) shall provide written notice of such denial to the appropriate CWA District One International Official.
E.	At the Corporate Resolution Step, the Company (Labor Relations) shall provide final disposition of the grievance to the appropriate CWA District One International Official.
2.	Grievances arising out of the application, interpretation and administration of matters subject to the provision of this Contract ordinarily shall be processed in accordance with the above procedure.
3.	The employee or employees initiating the case may accompany their Union Representative at any of the proceedings in the case. However, any individual employee or group of employees has the right at any time to present grievances to the Company and to have such grievances adjusted, without the intervention of the Union, as long as the adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of this Contract, and provided the Union has been given opportunity to be present at such adjustment.
160
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
4.	The Company will pennit aggrieved employees and their Union Representatives such necessary time off as conditions of the business permit, without pay, for conferring and preparing the employee's case.
5.	If dismissed employees are subsequently cleared of charges preferred against them, the Company shall reinstate such employees and they shall receive full compensation for any loss of wages, less any amount received by them for their services elsewhere and as unemployment insurance benefits during the period of dismissal. If an employee suffers a penalty other than dismissal and is subsequently cleared, the Company shall fully compensate the employee for any loss of wages sustained while such penalty was in effect, tn cither case the Company shall restore the employee to the same status the employee would have attained if the dismissal or penalty had not been in effect.
6,	A confidential written report of the proceedings at each step of the grievance procedure shall be prepared and signed by both parties promptly after each step.
Such report shall include:
a.	Dates of meeting, department, exchange
b.	Names of those attending
c.	Statement of grievance
d.	Management's position
c. Union’s position
f. Conclusion reached
A signed copy of such minutes shall be furnished to both parties.
VII	ARBITRATION
A.	In the event that any dispute or controversy concerning the true intent and meaning of a provision of this Contract, or a question as to the performance of any obligation hereunder, cannot be satisfactorily settled by negotiation between the Union and the Company, the matter shall be arbitrated upon written request of cither party to the other in the following manner.
1.	After the filing of the request, the Union shall appoint one person to serve as arbitrator; the Company shall appoint one and the Union and the Company shall jointly appoint a third person who shall serve as Chairperson.
161
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
In the event that an agreement cannot be reached on the appointment of a third person, that person shall be designated by the American Arbitration Association. The rules and regulations of the American Arbitration Association which are in force at the date of the submission of the matter io arbitration shall govern ail arbitration proceedings.
2.	After the appointment of this committee, hearings shall be started, carried to conclusion as expeditiously as possible.
3.	The decision of the majority of this Arbitration Committee shall be final and the Union and the Company agree to abide by such decision.
B.	The compensation and expenses of the Union and the Company appointees shall be bome by the respective organizations choosing them while those of the Chairperson and the general expenses of the arbitration shall be bome by the Union and the Company equally.
VIiI	RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION
The Customer Information Services organization desires people who can fully commit to the philosophy and effectively contribute to its mission. The transfer, recruitment and selection process as outlined below will be followed:
A.	Transfer out of Customer Information Services
1.	Customer Information Services employees may utilize the SBC East Transfer Plan by submitting transfer request upon completion of fourteen (14) months on title.
2.	Customer Information Services employees electing to use the Transfer Plan must qualify on all required tests associated with the SBC East Transfer Plan.
B.	Transfer/Rccruitment into Customer Information Services
1.	Customer Information Services will list all open bargaining unit positions within the organization via the Job Line. External candidates may be considered concurrently with internal Customer Information Services and/or SBC East candidates. Applicants must qualify on all required tests associated with Customer Information Services.
2.	Selection of qualified candidates will be on the basis of interviews as well as such things as previous attendance and work performance, related job experience, special skills and education.
162
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
3.	In cases where qualifications among internal candidates are judged by management to be substantially equal, management will select the candidate with greater seniority.
4.	In cases where the external and internal candidate qualifications are judged by management to be substantially equal, management will select the internal candidate.
5.	Interviewswill cease upon the successful selection of the requisite number of qualified candidates.
6.	On the request of a supervisor of an employee not selected, arrangements will be made for the employee to speak with the < appropriate Customer Information Services representative to discuss the selection process.
7.	Retreats will be handled as follows;
a.	If within six (6) months (exclusive of any formal training) after r placement in the new job the employee elects to return to the former job, or is disqualified by the Company on the basis of unsatisfactory performance in the new job, the employee may return to the former job or an equivalent job. The employee may not apply for transfer again until nine (9) months from the date of return.
b.	The six-month period within which retreat may be exercised may be extended by supervision, up to three (3) months to take into consideration a period of extended excused absence.
IX	JOB BRIEFS
Job Briefs of the overall responsibilities of titles within Customer Information Services will be provided to the Union and made available to employees.
X	LAYOFF PROVISION
Customer Information Services recognizes that people are the most valuable asset of the organization. It is the people who develop new ideas and provide the quality service for the customers. However, faced with the highly competitive nature of the business, should Customer Information Services require a reduction of its workforce, in an effort to facilitate any moves to SBC East, or its affiliated companies, Customer Information Services employees may submit transfers to
163
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
SBC East, regardless of whether they have met the residency requirement of their particular title.
A.	A force reduction shall be affected in the following order:
1.	Customer Information Services will give the Union at least thirty (30) days’ notice of its intention to introduce layoffs, including the approximate number of employees to be affected.
2.	The Union and Customer Information Services will mutually agree upon the job titles to be affected.	■
3.	Temporary employees as defined in Part II, Section 1.03 of this Agreement will be released.
4.	Layoffs will be made in inverse order of seniority and dependent on the needs of the business.
B.	Rehiring after layoff will proceed as follows:
1.	Only Customer Information Services employees who are laid off will have recall and rehire rights to Customer Information Services.
2.	Employee was performing work under the same job title.
3,	The employee’s service at the time of layoff exceeds one year.
4.	The period from layoff does not exceed one year.
5.	The employee is still qualified to perform the duties of the work.
6.	The employee keeps the company informed of the address at which the employee can be reached.
7.	The employee is able to report to work within two weeks of notification.
8.	Employees will be recalled in seniority order as long as they meet the provisions above.
164
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
XI LAYOFF PAYMENTS
In the event of a layoff in Customer Information Services, the Company will follow the layoff payment schedule as outlined in Article VII of the Basic Contract.
When an employee who has received a layoff payment is re-engaged and the number of weeks since the layoff is less than the number of weeks upon which the payment was based, the amount paid to the employee for the excess number of weeks shall be considered as advance pay and repayment shall be made in one lump sum or through payroll deductions at the rate of 10% of the current basic biweekly wage until the excess amount is fully paid. Customer Information
-Services will attempt to honor the employee’s preferred method of repayment.
A re-engaged Customer Information Services employee who has received a layoff payment and who is again laid off shall be paid the difference between the computed payment to which the employee is entitled and the amount of any payment which the employee retained as a result ofany previous layoff.
The layoff payment shall be in addition to any payment in lieu of vacation allowance to which the employee may be entitled as of the layoff date.
Layoff payments shall be made in one lump sum less any deductions required by law.
XII EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
The mission of Customer Information Services shall be in full and complete compliance with the legal requirements and moral principles of equal opportunity in employment. Accordingly, Customer Information Services employees pledge to treat all persons equally without regard to their race, color, religion, age, sexual orientation, national origin, disability or veterans’ status. Our strength is our people. Our employees will be our greatest asset. They will comprise the best skills and talents available and will truly reflect the diversity of our population.
XIII DURATION OF AGREEMENT
See Article XXVIII, paragraph I of the Basic Contract.
165
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE COMPANY AND THE UNION
TEAM PEFORMANCE AWARD
(C) A. In order to reward employees for their contributions toward the -achievement of the Company's financial goals and the satisfaction of customer expectations, eligible employees will receive payments in February of 2005, February of 2006, February of 2007, February of 2008 and February of 2009, for performance years 2004,2005,2006,2007 and 2008, respectively, if the Company meets its goals and expectations, using the criteria established for payout of the Management Team Award (MTA) under the SBC Management Compensation Plan applicable to SNET, The payments will be calculated as follows:
(C)	2004 MTA % X $350 = February 2005 Payment
2005 MTA % X $350 = February 2006 Payment
2006 MTA % X $350 = February 2007 Payment
2007 MTA % X $350 = February 2008 Payment
2008 MTA % X $350 = February 2009 Payment
B. In order to link employee compensation to the financial returns of SBC shareowners, the Company will make lump-sum payments in accordance with the Stock Appreciation Table below, subject to the following conditions:
STOCK APPRECIATION TABLE
PERCENT APPRECIATION	PAYMENT				
(C)	2005	2006	2007	2008	2009
.Less than 2%	0	0	0	0	0
2% but less than 4%	$175	$175	$175	$175	$175
4% but less than 6%	$200	$200	$200	$200	$200
6% but less than 8%	$250	$250	$250	$250	$250
8% but less than 10%	$300	$300	$300	$300	$300
10% but less than 15%	$350	$350	$350	$350	$350
15% but less than 20%	$400	$400	$400	$400	$400
20% or more	Add fifty ($50.00) dollars for each				
	incremental increase of five (5%) full				
	percentage points.				
166
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
(C)	1. Eligible employees will receive payments in February of 2005, February of 2006,
February of 2007, February of 2008 and February of 2009, based on SBC stock appreciation in the performance years of 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, in accordance with the following:
(C)	a) The February of2005 payment will be based on each full percentage point
increase of the 2004 stock price over the 2003 stock price. The February of 2006 payment will be based on each full percentage point increase of the 2005 stock price over the 2004 stock price. The February of 2007 payment will be based on each full percentage point increase of the 2006 stock price over the 2005 stock price. The February of 2008 payment will be based on each full percentage point increase of the 2007 stock price over the 2006 stock price. The Fcbniaiy of 2009 payment will be based on each full percentage point increase of the 2008 stock price over the 2007 stock price.The stock price for each calendar year shall be the
- average of the closing prices of the shares on the New York Stock Exchange for the last five (5) trading days of that year.
b)	The stock price will be adjusted proportionally to reflect any stock split that occurs during the annual period for which an increase is calculated.
c)	Eligible regular part-time employees will receive prorated payments, based on their part-time classification on December 31 of the performance year.
C. To be eligible for payments described in A and B above, employees must be regular employees who have at least one year of Continuous Service on December 31 of the performance year preceding the February payment date. If an employee is separated from employment for any reason, other than for cause, the payments will be prorated. An employee who is separated for cause will not be eligible for any payment. Payments will also be prorated to exclude any continuous periods of absence exceeding thirty (30) days in the performance year except for absences as a result of an on-the-job injury.
(C) D. Payments described in A and B above, if applicable, will be combined into a single TPA payment in February of 2005, February of 2006, February of 2007, February of 2008 and February of 2009. tn no case will the February of 2005, February of 2006, February of 2007, February of 2008 and February of 2009 TPA payout be less than three hundred and fifty ($350) dollars.
E. Payments described in A and B above, if applicable, will be considered as eligible pay under the provisions of the SNET Pension Plan and the SBC Savings and Security Plan.
167
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
PART II - WAGE AND WORKING PRACTICES
1.0 DEFINITIONS
1.01 Employee-An “employee” is defined as any person rendering service to the Company under the terms of employment which permit the Company to exercise direction or control with respect to the manner in which services are performed, and who receives from the Company for such services a regular and stated compensation other than a retainer including those whose compensation is ordinarily computed on other than a time basis, even though the individual may be:
A Currently employed part-time (Regular or Temporary)
B.	On vacation or other approved absence with or without pay, or
C.	Absent on account of illness or accident under the Employees’ Benefit Plan or other approved basis.
This definition shall not include -
Any contractor or any individual performing specific work or services for the Company and responsible to it only for the results.
1.02 Regular Employee -
A regular employee is an individual whose employment is expected to continue for longer than a year although it maybe terminated earlier by action on the part of the Company or the employee.
1.03 Temporary Employee-
A.	A “Temporary” Employee is one who is engaged on a Temporary basis for a period of not more than one year. A Temporary Employee’s employment may be terminated at any time, with or without cause, and for such reasons as completion of the work assignment for which he/she was engaged. A Temporary Employee must be separated from SBC East upon reaching one year of service. A Temporary Employee who has been separated from SBC East for any reason must remain separated for at least ninety (90) days before being eligible for reengagement as a Temporary Employee.
168
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
B.	Bargaining unit positions that are filled by a Temporary Employee(s) for twelve (12) consecutive months shall be considered a job vacancy and filled through the Transfer Procedure utilizing all Regular Employee requests. If no qualified candidate can be identified in the Transfer Bureau, the employer may offer the vacancy to the Temporary Employee or utilize other means to fill the vacancy.
C.	Temporary Employees may not be returned to the same job title in the same location unless it is in another department. Temporary employees can return to a different work location in the same job title after a six month period. Temporary employees hired under the College Summer Hire program may return to the same job title that they previously held in the same department in the same location, or a different location.
1.04 Part-Time Employee
A part-time employee is one who is employed and normally scheduled to work less hours per average month than a comparable full-time employee in the same job title, classification and work group working the same normal daily tour,
CLASSIFICATION AND TREATMENT OF PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
1.	Except for payment for overtime hours worked, all hours worked by a parttime employee in Customer Service Centers, Bell Phone Booths (Kiosks), DM/DR (Direct Marketing/Direct Response) Centers and any equivalent retail sales or service centers operation, and any employee who is transferred to or employed by any new unregulated subsidiary or affiliated entity shall be paid at the equivalent basic hourly rate for a comparable full-time employee working a normal daily tour in the same job title, classification, and work group. Payment to a part-time employee for hours worked in excess of an equivalent normal daily tour or work week for a comparable full-time employee shall be at the applicable overtime rate for a comparable full-time employee based on such part-time employee’s basic hourly rate. Any regular employee who is on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31,1980, and continuously thereafter, and who works part-time on or after January 1, 1981, shall thereafter continue, during the current term of employment, to be paid on the same basis as was applicable to such a part-time employee on December 31, 1980.
2.	The classification of a part-time employee is based on the employee’s
“part-time equivalent work week’’ which shall be determined prospectively by dividing the employee’s total normally scheduled hours per month by 4,35 and
169
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
rounding the result to the next higher whole number. (Illustration: 68 hours per month divided by 4.35 equals 15.6, rounded to a “part-time equivalent work week" classification of 16),
3.	The “part-time equivalent work week” classification of each part-time employee shall be reviewed by the Company no less often than every six (6) months on April 1 and October 1 of each year and adjusted on a prospective basis, if appropriate. In determining whether such adjustment is appropriate, the Company will consider the actual average number of hours worked per month during the preceding six (6) month period. Any hours worked which are paid at the overtime rate shall not be counted in computing the average number of hours worked.
4.	For employees, who are hired on or after January I, 1981, and who work as regular part-time employees, payments to a regular part-time employee for sickness benefits, accident benefits, or death benefits under the “SNET Pension Plan” and “Sickness and Accident Benefit Plan”, vacations, holidays, anticipated illness leave, sickness absence (not under the “Sickness and Accident Benefit Plan”), or termination allowance (or its equivalent) shall be pro-rated based on the relationship of the individual part-time employee’s "parttime equivalent work week” to the normal work week of a comparable full-time employee in the same job title, classification and work group. A part-time employee shall not be paid for absence due to sickness (not under the “Sickness and Accident Benefit Plan”) unless such absence due to sickness occurs on a day of the week on which the employee is normally scheduled to work. Regular employees who are on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31, 1980,and continuously thereafter, and who work part-time on or after January 1, 1981 shall thereafter continue, during the current term of employment, to receive payments for the benefits and other items, except holidays, listed above on the same basis as was applicable to a part-time employee on December 31, 1980. (For holiday pay treatment see Departmental Section 4.)
5.	Employees who are hired on or after January 1,1981, and prior to April 1, 1995, and who work as part-time employees shall, if otherwise eligible to participate under the terms of such plans, be eligible for coverage under the Medical Plan, Dental Plan, and Vision Plan, as follows:
(a)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is sixteen (16) hours or less shall be eligible by enrollment and payment of 100% of the premiums for such coverage;
(b)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is seventeen (17) through twenty-four (24) hours shall be eligible by enrollment and payment of 50% of the premiums for such coverage;
(c)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is twenty-five (25) or more hours shall be eligible for such coverage on the same basis as a regular full-time employee;
(d)	Regular employees who are on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31,1980, and continuously thereafter shall continue to be
170
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
eligible for such coverage on the same basis as a regular full-time employee regardless of classification.
6.	Effective March 31,1995, employees hired or re-hired on or after that date who work part-time and less than 30 hours per week will be eligible for a percentage of the Company contribution for full time employees hired or rehired on or after March 31, 1995. The amount of the Company contribution will vary based on actual hours, and calculated on a retrospective basis using a six month's average during a calendar year. For individuals on an approved, unpaid Leave of Absence (L.O.A.) the contribution level will be determined based on the six (6) months worked prior to the effective date of the L.O. A. The Company contribution will be towards the cost of individual coverage for medical, dental, and vision benefits. Individuals will be offered the opportunity to purchase coverage for eligible Class I dependents at group rates.
Regular Part-Time Equivalent Work Week 24 - 29 hours 17-23 9-16 8 or less	Percentage * of Company Contribution towards Individual Coverage for Full Time Regular Employees 75% 50% 25% 0%
* In 1997, percentages will be prorated for each hour between 8 and 30
7.	Effective January 1,2002, the Company will amend the SNET Active Bargaining Unit Employee Health Plan (which includes medical, HMO, dental and vision benefits) to provide that all regular part-time bargained-for employees who were hired or rehired on or after January 1,1981 shall receive the following level of Company contributions toward the cost of employee and eligible dependent coverage, based on the employee's normal scheduled work hours as shown below:
Normal Weekly Scheduled Work Hours
25 or more hours per week
17 through 24 hours per week
16 or less hours per week
Company Contributions Towards Employee & Eligible Dependent Health Coverage*
100%**
50%
0%
* Employee pays the remaining cost of coverage, including all HMO premiums that exceed the SNET Medical Plan costs.
** Working Spouse contributions will continue to apply for employees hired on or after April 1,1995 who are eligible for 100% of the Company contribution for coverage.
171
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
8.	Regular part-time employees, regardless of classification, shall be eligible for Excused Work Days on a pro rata basis based upon the ratio of any such part-time employee’s equivalent work week to the normal work week of a comparable full-time employee.
1.05 Session -
That part of a day that a Regular full-time employee is scheduled to work will be divided into two equal parts regardless of when the meal period is scheduled. [Part-time employees scheduled to work eight (8) hours per day are included.]
1.06 Immediate Family -
The following relationships to the employee constitute the immediate family:
Father	Father-In-Law	Step-brothers
Mother	Mother-In-Law	Step-sisters
Husband	Grandmother	Step-grandparents
Wife	Grandfather	Step-grandchildren
Sister	Grandchildren	
Brother	Step-parents	
Child	Step-children	
Registered Domestic Partner*
Registered Domestic Partner’s - Father
Registered Domestic Partner’s — Mother
Registered Domestic Partner’s - Child
*Registered Domestic Partner, defined as an individual with whom an employee has entered into a domestic partnership that has been registered with a governmental body pursuant to state or local law authorizing such registration. The Registered Domestic Partner must:
• Live in common residence with the employee.
• Participate in a mutual and exclusive commitment with the employee.
* Be financially interdependent with the employee, sharing common assets and debts.
• Be of legal age for marriage.
• Not be married nor have another domestic partner.
• Not be a close relative whose marriage to the employee would be barred by the state of residence.
172
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
1,07 Immediate Household -
A person who lives in the employee’s home as one of the family shall be considered as a member of the employee’s immediate household.
1.08 Net Credited Service -
New Customer Information Services employees will establish a service date effective with their date of hire. Previous SNET service will be honored in accordance with the SBC East service bridging rules and policies for benefit plan and seniority purposes. In those unusual situations where employees are equal in all other respects, the seniority service date will be determinative. In cases where employees are equal in all other respects including identical seniority service dates, the selection will be made by an automated system, if available. In cases where an automated system is not available and for surplus, layoffs or lateral force rearrangements, a lottery-like drawing will be conducted witnessed by a Union officer. Tie-breakers will be conducted for each individual event referenced above,
1,09 Trial Period -
The first six (6) months of an employee’s service shall be considered as a trial period in order that the employee’s qualification as to workmanship, character and personal conduct can be determined. When a case warrants an extension of the trial period the employee and the union shall be notified of such action. Individuals shall be released at any time during the trial period if found to be lacking in the proper qualifications.
2.0 SCHEDULING OF HOURS
2.01 General -
The Customer Information Services philosophy emphasizes equality among all employees and the shared sense of belonging to a successful operation in which everyone has common needs and goals. A collaborative approach will be used in the scheduling of hours. Except in abnormal weeks, the Company shall post a schedule no later than 11 A.M. on Thursdays of each week, showing the tours assigned to each employee for the following week.
173
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
2.02 Basic Work Week -
A.	A basic work week shall consist of any forty (40) hours from Sunday through Saturday for full time employees.
B.	A normal tour of duty shall be no longer than eight (8) hours in length.
C.	A differential of 10% shall only be applicable to the hours worked after 6:00 P.M. or ending before 7:00 A.M. There shall be no application of differentials in the calculation of overtime compensation.
2.03 Tours -
A.	Tours of duty are the hours scheduled for an employee to work, which are normally divided into two (2) sessions.
B.	Tours will be assigned, subject to the requirements of the business, training needs, special assignments, and by the services employees are trained to provide. They arc assigned by seniority and preference of hours.
C.	Employees will complete preference cards and indicate their choices. Choices may be different for Sundays, Holidays, Weekdays and Saturdays. Cards will be completed by employees when they have finished their training.
D.	Changes to preference cards may be made by the employee by completing a new card and submitting it before Monday noon of the week of the hours posting for the following week’s schedule.
E.	Changes of hours and days off between employees will be allowed as long as these changes do not adversely affect service or incur additional costs to the Company.
F.	Employee seniority is determined by their net credited service date.
G.	All-night employees are those employees who are regularly assigned to work exclusively, or one who is assigned to work at least three, all-night tours each week.
2.04 Tour Limitations -
A.	Tours of 8-hour duration will have a meal period of not less than one-half (1/2) hour.
B.	Tours ending between 12 midnight and 7:00 A.M. will not have a meal period longer than one-half (1/2) hour unless acceptable to the employee involved.
174
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
C.	No more than thirteen (13) hours shall elapse from the beginning of the tour to the end of the tour.
D.	Tours commencing before 7 A.M. shall not be scheduled unless acceptable to the employee concerned.
E.	No less than eight (8) hours shall elapse from the end of one tour to the beginning of the next tour unless acceptable to the employee involved.
F.	Meal periods shall not be scheduled prior to 11 A.M. (except all-night tours) unless acceptable to the employee.
G.	No meal period shall be scheduled less than two and one-half (2 '/i) hours or more than five (5) hours after the start of the tour.
H.	No evening session shall exceed four (4) hours or be less than four (4) hours.
2.05 Relief Periods -
A.	Relief periods are fifteen (15) minutes of paid time for the purpose of relaxation. Each eight (8) hour tour will have two fifteen (15) minute relief periods. Employees are not allowed to leave Company property while on relief period.
B.	During an eight (8) hour tour, no part of a relief period shall be less than one hour from the beginning or the end of a session,
NOTE: Sessions for the purpose of assigning hours only are defined as the hours worked before and after a meal period.
3.0 COMPENSATION SYSTEM
3.01 Genera) -
The compensation system in Customer Information Services will recognize certain critical elements including the mission and philosophy, the necessity that Customer Information Services be profitable, and the principle of risk and reward.
3.02 Base Compensation
The following changes will be made across the board to wages on the following dates as reflected in the attached Appendix D for Customer Information Services:
175
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
The “general wage increases" during the term of this Agreement shall be as follows:
•	1% lump sum payment in 2004, of the employee’s weekly or biweekly wage rate at the time of ratification, annualized (52 weeks), without differentials, paid on or before the second pay check after ratification.
•	2% increase to base wages effective 4/4/04. The wage schedules for each job title will be modified to reflect this increase, across the board. The retroactive wages from 4/4/04 to the date of ratification will be paid as soon as practicable after ratification.
» 2.5% increase to base wages effective 4/3/05. The wage schedules for each job title will be modified to reflect this increase, across the board.
•	$250 lump sum payment, paid by 4/14/06 and a 2.5% increase to base wages effective 4/2/06. The wage schedules for each job title will be modified to reflect this increase, across the board.
*	$375 lump sum payment, paid by 4/13/07, and a 2.25% increase to base wages effective 4/1/07. The wage schedules for each job title will be modified to reflect this increase, across the board*.
•	$375 lump sum payment, paid by 4/11/08, and a 2.25% increase to base wages effective 4/6/08. The wage schedules for each job title will be modified to reflect this increase, across the board*.
*COLA at 36 and 48 months will be calculated as follows:
a)	the amount of the April 1,2007 adjustment shall be 0.7 times the increase above two and one-quarter percent (2.25%) in the U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics "CPI-W" (1982-84 = 100) for December 2006 over December 2005. It will be applied to the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on March 31,2007.
b)	the amount of the April 6,2008 adjustment shall be 0.7 times the increase above two and one-quarter percent (2.25%) in the U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics "CPI-W" (1982-84 = 100) for December 2007 over December 2006. It will be applied to the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on April 5, 2008.
176
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
3.03 Pay Day -
Employees shall be paid every other Friday for services rendered the previous two (2) weeks. When a Company recognized holiday falls on a Friday, employees shall be paid on the previous Thursday.
3.04 Overtime Compensation •
Employees working in excess of forty (40) hours per week will receive payment at the rate of time and one-half for all overtime hours worked. Personal time off with pay or vacation days shall be considered hours worked for purposes of computing overtime. Sick days and all nonworked, non-paid lime will not be considered as hours worked when computing overtime. Employees may utilize up to two (2) hours of . Company-offered unpaid absence time (AX) without reducing any overtime hours worked in that weekly work schedule.
3.05 Start Rates and Progression -
New hires will be paid at the entry rale specified in the Wage Progression Schedules in Appendix D; however, an applicant with advanced cducalion or previous experience, either of which would be helpful in the occupation for which they are engaged, may be paid a higher starling rate. At Ihc steps indicated on the Wage Progression Schedules, the Company shall increase the rates of pay of Customer Information Services employees who progressively acquire additional job knowledge and demonstrate improved ability to perform work until the maximum for the occupation is attained. The wage increases indicated in the wage Progression Schedules shall not be automatic, but the Company shall give consideration at the specified periods as to whether or not employees have merited increases.
Employees who, in the judgment of the Company, have demonstrated outstanding progress in customer service skills, average work time and attendance will be considered for a merit increase. The next consideration period will be in accordance with the steps indicated in the Wage Progression Schedules.
3.06 Bi-Lingual Differential -
Employees on rhe title of Customer Information Specialist - Bi-Lingual will receive a fixed differential in the amount of five dollars ($5.00) per day.
177
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
3.07 Performing Support Functions -
The Company may, if business needs require, designate a qualified bargaining unit employee to perform support functions such as distributing work, coordinating work activities and carrying out administrative duties in addition to their normal work functions and work schedules. The assignment will be made on a rotational basis by seniority from those employees who volunteer and whom the Company determines are qualified and available for such assignment.
Employees will be assigned for no less than one full session. In no event shall such assigned employee have any involvement in discipline, progression increases, performance evaluations or making judgments regarding other employees’ performance, nor shall such assigned employee have access to personnel folders, payroll records or other personnel-related documents or reports.
An employee so temporarily assigned will receive a special compensation payment of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per session.
3.08 Peer Training -
The Company may, if business needs require, designate a qualified bargaining unit employee to assist in or conduct formal classroom training or provide other special training conducted apart from normal working activities. An employee so designated may also, if possible, continue to perform their usual work functions during such assignments. Management will assign employees to be PeerTrainers from a list of solicited volunteers whom the Company determines are qualified based on job knowledge within a specific skill set and who are available for such assignment. In no event shall such employees assigned as Peer Trainers have any involvement in discipline, progression increases, or performance evaluations or making judgments regarding other employees’ performance, nor shall such assigned employees have access to personnel folders, payroll records or other personnel-related documents or reports.
An employee assigned as a Peer Trainer will receive a special compensation payment of no more than a total of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per session.
3.09 Service Assistant Aide Differential - CIS
A seven dollar and fifty cents ($7.50) differential shall be paid for each session to all employees performing this function (including present SA/SAA - CIS jobholders).
178
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
3.10 Service Termination Payments -
Services Terminated by the Company - The Company shall give two (2) weeks' notice or one (1) week’s pay in lieu of such notice to regular full or part-time employees with more than one (I) year of net credited service, whose services are to be terminated only in those cases in which the employee is terminated for unsatisfactory work or minor misconduct subsequent to the trial period.
Wages in Heu of unused vacation shall be paid if services are terminated prior to a vacation assignment only in those cases in which wages in lieu of notice are not paid and in which the employee is terminated for unsatisfactory work or minor misconduct subsequent to the trial period. If an employee is eligible for either wages in lieu of notice or wages in lieu of vacation, the larger amount shall be paid.
4.0 HOLIDAYS
Customer Information Services employees will have paid holiday treatment as follows:
4.01	Company-Recognized Holidays -
The Company recognizes the following holidays which are to be observed on the day so designated by the Federal Government:
New Year's Day Presidents Day Good Friday Memorial Day Independence Day
Labor Day
Columbus Day
Thanksgiving Day Day After Thanksgiving
Christmas Day
4.02 On Saturday -
When a Company-recognized holiday falls on a Saturday, holiday treatment shall be accorded those employees who are scheduled to work on cither the designated holiday or the recognized holiday but an employee will not receive holiday treatment for both days.
4.03 On Sunday -
When a Company recognized holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be considered as the Holiday,
179
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
4.04 Holiday Pay Treatment -
Employees who work on a Company-Recognized Holiday shall be paid at the rate of one and one half times their normal rate for the hours worked in addition to the normal day’s pay for the holiday.
5.0 VACATIONS
5.01 Customer Information Services employees will receive vacation as follows:
A.	Eligibility - A vacation with normal pay (basic weekly wage rate including any fixed differential) shall be given annually to each regular employee in accordance with the following allowances:
1.	One calendar week* after completion of six months of continuous seniority service.
2.	Two calendar weeks* after completion of twelve months of continuous seniority service, provided 1 hat if terms of employment of six months and twelve months are both completed in the same calendar year, only two weeks of vacation will be granted, with the second week to be taken after completion of twelve months of continuous service. The first week may be taken any time after completion of six months of continuous service.
3.	Three calendar weeks during the calendar year in which seven years of net credited service are completed, and during each subsequent calendar year, until the year in which fifteen years of service are completed.
4.	Four calendar weeks during the calendar year in which fifteen years of net credited service are completed, and during each subsequent calendar year, until the year in which twenty-five years of service are completed.
5.	Five calendar weeks during the calendar year in which twenty-five years of net credited service are completed, and during each subsequent calendar year.
•If an employee becomes eligible for a vacation week under (1) or (2) above, on or after December 1, such vacation week may be taken in the following calendar year, provided it is completed prior to March 1, and prior to the taking of any of the current year’s vacation.
180
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
B.	In Calendar Weeks or Less - Generally, employees are required to take vacations in calendar weeks. Under special circumstances full-time employees shall be allowed to take vacations, subject to work requirements, in periods of less than a calendar week or to start vacations other than at the end of the scheduled work week. In such cases, the allowance is the number of work days in the employee’s normal work week (usually five) for each calendar week of vacation.
C.	No deduction shall be made from the vacation allowance because of time off during the current year for any of the following reasons: Leave of absence, time off by permission, temporary layoff, or absence due to accident or sickness provided that the remaining vacation allowance is taken by the end of the first frill calendar week of May of the following year.
D.	A Company-recognized Holiday shall not be classed as a day of vacation when:
1.	Such holiday occurs during an employee’s schedule for a calendar week which is taken as vacation.
2.	A vacation period less than a calendar week is adjacent to such holiday within an employee's work schedule for that week.
E.	Sickness or Accident Absence
1.	During Vacation Period —if an employee becomes incapacitated by reason of sickness or accident during a vacation, no extra vacation period will be allowed.
2.	Immediately Prior to Vacation - when an employee is absent on account of sickness or accident on the last scheduled working day prior to the vacation assignment, the employee shall be given a vacation after recovery, subject to work requirements. Such rescheduling shall be in the calendar year. However, when such scheduled vacation of one week or more is in November or December and it is not possible to reschedule the vacation in the current year because of disability continuing to the end of the year, the unused vacation may be rescheduled in the first two months of the following calendar year. In such rescheduling, the employee loses seniority in the assignment of the new vacation period.
I8l
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
F.	Accumulating - employees shall not be permitted to omit a vacation in one year for the purpose of having additional vacation allowance in a succeeding year, except as provided in paragraphs (g) and (h).
G.	Dav-At-A-Time - Employees who are eligible for two weeks or more of vacation may use two weeks to be taken on a day-at-a-time basis. Eligible employees may designate two weeks in the current year or through the first full calendar week of May of the following year as the reserved week for day-at-a-time. Single vacation days prior to the reserved week may be granted to employees on the basis of the earliest request, subject to work requirements, as determined by the supervisor.
The full week or portions of the week that have not been used on a day-at-a-time basis by the time the reserved week occurs must be taken during the reserved week as scheduled.
H.	Vacation Carry-Over - Employees who are eligible for two (2) or more weeks of vacation in any calendar year may schedule in the following calendar year, by full weeks(s), a part of the vacation for which they are eligible in the current calendar year, subject to the following terms:
1.	In no case shall an eligible employee schedule less than one week of vacation in any calendar year.
2.	Any week or weeks of vacation “carried over" from one calendar year into the next must be scheduled and taken no later than the first full calendar week of May of the year into which the week or weeks are carried over.
3.	For all weeks of vacation “carried over" from one calendar year into the next, at least a like number of weeks of vacation for the calendar year into which the “carry-over” is shifted must also be scheduled and taken no later than the first full calendar week of May of the same year.
I.	Saturday Off/Sunday Off Before or After Vacation — Whenever work requirements permit, the Company will attempt to accommodate, on a first come, first served basis, individual requests to be scheduled off on the Saturday before and the Sunday following a scheduled full week of vacation consistent with preference of hours scheduling requirements.
J.	Scheduling of vacations will begin by November Ist, and will be completed by December 30lh.
182
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
6.0 PERSONAL ABSENCE
Absenteeism and tardiness affect the commitment to Customer Information Services and places an unnecessary burden on fellow team members.
Accordingly, programs will be implemented to encourage attendance and discourage absenteeism and tardiness.
6.01 Short Period Sickness
A General - A supervisor shall be notified of absence due to sickness no later than the start of the day's scheduled work time whenever possible.
B.	A regular full time or part-time employee of Customer Information Services shall receive normal pay for short periods of time off duty occasioned by personal sickness as indicated below;
During the first year of net credited service (NCS):
None
After one year of NCS:
Up to five (5) working days during each service year; provided that payment to eligible employees for each incidence of absence will begin after one day of absence for employees with more than one (I) year and less than five (5) years of NCS; and on the first day of absence for employees with five years or more NCS.
Part-time employees who arc absent will be paid only for the time scheduled to work on that day.
C.	A Company-recognized holiday is classed as a day of sickness when:
1.	The holiday falls on a scheduled working day on which the employee is required to work and is absent because of sickness on that day.
2.	The holiday falls on a scheduled working day on which the employee is not required to work and is absent because of sickness on the entire afternoon or session of the scheduled working day preceding and the entire morning or session of the scheduled
* working day following the holiday.
183
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
6.02 Benefits
Customer Information Services employees are eligible to participate in the Company’s Disability Benefits Flan as outlined in Appendix B, General, 6.02 of the Basic Contract.
7.0 EXPENSES
A.	Customer Information Services employees working away from the work location and returning on the same day will be expected to provide for or bring their own meals.
1.	Employees who at the request of Customer Information Services must lodge away from home overnight outside Connecticut shall be entitled to the cost of lodging and transportation. They shall also be entitled to the cost of meals not to exceed forty-five ($45.00) dollars per day.
2.	The employee must submit actual receipts for reimbursement.
B.	An employee who works any part of both sessions of a tour which has a meal period of two (2) hours or more between sessions shall be paid a carfare allowance of three ($3.00) dollars.
C.	When scheduled overtime work (W days) requires an employee to incur an expense for transportation for an extra trip, reimbursement shall be at the prevailing IRS allowable reimbursement rale to and from the reporting center and the employee’s home.
8.0 EXCUSED ABSENCE
Customer Information Services employees shall be afforded excused absence as follows:
8.01 General
Employees shall make arrangements with their supervisor in connection with all absences.
184
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
8.02 Excused Work Days
A.	Each regular employee who has al least six (6) months of net credited service on January I of a calendar year shall be eligible for two (2) Excused Work Days with pay during the year. Employees who do not work on their paid Excused Work Day shall be paid for the day as if for a normal or standard day worked (excluding any wage incentive or productivity payments) provided they are on the active payroll of the Company on that Excused Work Day.
B.	Employees may utilize their Excused Work Days in a flexible manner so as to permit them to have the ability to take time off in minimum one (I) hour intervals, due to dependent care and other personal needs. Effective January 1,2005, the Company will allow a maximum of 2% of the statewide scheduled work force to utilize Excused Work Days in such a manner. The Company will allow additional employees to take excused work time in a flexible manner when possible, based on the business needs. Such time should be scheduled in advance, whenever possible, and will precede the granting of unpaid excused absence (AX).
8.03 Sickness in Family
A regular full or part-time employee absent because of emergency illness in the employee's immediate household shall be paid for that part of a day necessary to secure help for the disabled person. An employee who elects to remain off duty to care for the disabled person instead of securing help shall not receive pay. (See above definition of “immediate household")
8.04 Death in Family
A regular full or part-time employee absent because of death in the immediate family or immediate household shall be paid for time off duty for three (3) days related to funeral or memorial services. (See above for definition of “immediate family” and “immediate household")
8.05 Death of Co-Worker or Member of Co-Worker’s Immediate Family or Immediate Household
A.	A regular full or part-time employee shall be excused from duty with pay when selected to act as a pallbearer for a deceased co-worker or a member of the immediate family or immediate household, or one who was closely associated in the business. Pay for such absence shall not exceed one-half (1/2) day.
B.	Conditions of work permitting, a reasonable number of other employees may be excused from duty with pay to attend the funeral of a co-worker, member of the immediate family or immediate household, or one who was closely associated in the business. Pay for such absence shall not exceed two hours.
185
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
8.06 Medical Examinations
A.	A regular fiill or part-time employee required by the Company to make a trip away from the home station during scheduled working hours for a medical examination or treatment in an accident or sickness case shall be paid for the necessary time off duty.
B.	A regular full or part-time employee required by the United States Government to report al a United States Veterans' Hospital for a medical examination in connection with service disability shall be paid for the necessary time off duty.
8.0	7 Quarantine
A regular full or part-time employee quarantined by health authorities because of a contagious disease shall be paid during the period of quarantine.
8.0	8 Court Witness Duty
A regular full or part-time employee subpoenaed for court witness duty shall be paid for the necessary time off duty.
8.0	9 Principle in Court Action
A regular full or part-time employee will be allowed the necessary time off duty to be a principal in a court action. Payment for such absence will be determined on an individual basis and will be granted to employees who have had little time off duty with pay because of sickness or excused absence within the last twelve months.
8.10	Jury Duty
A regular full or part-time employee on jury duty shall be paid their normal basic pay during the absence. Employees are obligated to pay to the company all monies received as jury fees. An employee shall not be required to report for work any part of a day that the employee reports for jury duty.
8.11	Armed Forces Duty
A.	Training and Emergency Duty-Time off with difference in pay shall be granted to regular employees who are members of the National Guard or the Military Reserve of the Armed Forces under the conditions specified below. Difference in pay shall be based on the employee’s regular basic wage, including any fixed differentials, less military pay and any deductions required by law. In the event that an employee participates in more than one of the training periods referred to below, the aggregate pay treatment shall not be applied to more than two weeks in any one year.
186
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
1.	Annual Military Training - Employees who are members of the National Guard or the Military Reserve of the Armed Forces and are called and expected Io participate in annual military training shall be excused with difference in pay for period not to exceed two weeks in any one year,
2.	Voluntary Training Periods — Employees who are members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces and volunteer for annual military training, shall be excused with difference in pay for a period not to exceed two weeks in any one year. The reservist should make every attempt to arrange for a training period al a time convenient to the Company.
3.	Special Training Courses - Employees who are members of the	.
National Guard or the Military Reserve of the Armed Forces and volunteer for specialized training programs conducted at regular service training installations shall be granted the necessary time off for such purposes as called for under valid orders. When an employee is excused for such purposes a leave of absence covering the entire period, with difference in pay for the first two weeks, shall be granted. The reservist should make every attempt to arrange for a training period at a time convenient to the Company.
4.	Emergency Duty - Employees who are members of the National Guard or Military Reserve of the Armed Forces and are ordered out for temporary emergency duty shall be excused with difference in pay for periods up to a total of two weeks in any one year. Absence for such duty will not affect the eligibility of these employees for treatment with respect to the training programs outlined above.
B.	Occasional Celebrations - A regular full or part-time employee required to participate in occasional celebrations such as parades as a member of an active military unit shall be allowed the necessary time off duty, but not to exceed one day with pay on each occasion.
8.12	Veterans’ Organization
An employee shall not be paid for lime off duty to attend conventions as a member of a veteran's organization. A regular full or part-time employee shall be allowed the required time off duty, subject to work requirements to participate in special local celebrations or parades as a member of a veteran's organization, but not to exceed one day with pay on such occasion.
187
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
8.13	Blood Donors
A.	An employee shall be allowed time off duty with pay to act as a volunteer blood donor:
1.	To a member of the immediate family, other employees or members of their immediate family;
2.	In cases of emergency at the request of a physician and other facilities are not available;
B.	All other cases shall be treated on their merits.
8.14	Leave of Absence - Other Excused Absence Without Fay
Employees must refer to the SNET Leave of Absence Policy Summary Plan Description (“Leave of Absence SPD”) for the specific eligibility requirements that must be satisfied for each type of leave, the maximum duration of the leave, the amount of net credited service that will be granted for the period of the leave (if any), the continuation of benefit coverage provisions, and job reinstatement provisions (if any) that are associated with each type of leave, and any other specific terms and conditions of the leave. SNET leaves of absence that are covered by state or federal FMLA legislation will mn concurrently with the FMLA leave.	■
(a)	Departmental Leave - A regular employee shall be allowed time off duty without pay to the extent that work requirements permit but not to exceed one month. In certain instances the period of such excused absence without pay may be extended beyond one month in which case the total period of absence shall be considered as a Leave of Absence under paragraph (b) or (c) below.
"k
(b)	Non-Discretionary Leaves - A regular employee shall be allowed time off duty without pay for the following purposes, provided all requirements described in the Leave of Absence SPD have been met.
(I)	Family Care Leaves:
(a)	Anticipated Disability, for an employee who provides medical certification of a condition for which medical treatment or surgery has been scheduled or the birth of child anticipated to occur during the requested Leave period. The leave will end the earlier of: (a) twelve months from the start date; or (b) the day prior to the anticipated medical treatment, surgery, birth of the child, or the onset of a certified disability that is related to the condition for which the leave was requested. Employees granted such Leave are guaranteed reemployment to the same job or one of similar status and pay at the end of the Leave.
(b)	Care of Newborn Children, for an employee who has either given birth to a child or is the natural father of the child, or effective beginning January 1, 2002 is the registered domestic partner of the natural parent of the child. Leave
188
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
must begin prior to the child’s 4lh birthday. In instances of multiple births (e.g., twins, triplets), only one such leave will be granted. Guaranteed reinstatement to the same job or one of similar status and pay for up to 6 months following birth of the baby or the leave commencement date whichever is later. Reemployment after that date will be guaranteed for up to 12 months from the leave commencement date, but not necessarily to the employee's former job, similar status, or pay level,
(c)	Care of Adopted Child - for an employee who provides evidence of direct association (father or mother, or effective beginning January 1,2002 the registered domestic partner of the adoptive parent) with an adoptive child under 18 years old (minor child) on the day prior to the leave commencement date. Leave must begin prior to the child’s 4lh birthday, or within one year from the date of custody if later. Guaranteed reinstatement to the same job or one of similar status and pay for up to 6 months from the leave commencement date. Reemployment after that date will be guaranteed for upto 12 months from the leave commencement date, but not necessarily to the employee’s former job, similar status, or pay level.
(d)	Care of Seriously ll! Child - for an employee who provides evidence that they have a minor child with a serious health condition. Eflectivc beginning January 1,2002, this leave is also available for an employee who provides evidence that their registered domestic partner’s minor child has a serious health condition. Guaranteed reinstatement to the same job or one of similar status and pay for up to 6 months from the leave commencement date. Reemployment after that date will be guaranteed for up to 12 months from the leave commencement date, but not necessarily to the employee’s former job, similar status, or pay level.
(e)	Care of Seriously HI Family Member - for an employee who provides evidence that they have a member of the immediate family with a serious health condition, with a maximum leave period of 12 months within any two year period. Effective March 25,2001 this leave is available for a registered domestic partner. Guaranteed reinstatement to the same job or one of similar status and pay for up to 6 months from the leave commencement date. Reemployment after that date will be guaranteed for up to 12 months from the leave commencement date, but not necessarily to the employee's former job, similar status, or pay level.
The following provisions apply to all Family Care Leaves:
■ An employee must return to work for a minimum of six (6) months between successive Family Care leaves; except that this requirement shall not apply for Care of Newborn Child leaves which commence following an Anticipated Disability leave.
189
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
■	Transitional part-time employment for otherwise full time employees will be available for up to three (3) consecutive months following all Family Care leaves, subject to the following conditions:
>	Work time will be scheduled based on departmental policy and business needs;
>	Upon return to work, the employee must work a minimum of 20 hours; and
>	Employee will be paid based on actual (part-time) hours worked, but will be classified as full lime for all other purposes,
(2)	Military or Public Health Services Leave - in accordance with Policies and Procedures - Part 3 of this Contract and all related legislation including the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994.
(3)	On-the-Job Accident Disability Leave - for an employee who has been injured on the job and provides medical evidence to substantiate that they are likely to recover sufficiently to perform all of the essential functions of their job within a sixmonth period following their receipt of the maximum 52 weeks of accident disability benefits under the terms of the SNET Disability Benefits Plan.
(4)	Public Office Leave - in accordance with state legislation, for employees to serve as an elected member to full-time municipal or state office, and full-time members of the state’s general assembly; and
(5)	Union Business - for employees to attend to union business matters on a fulltime basis.
(c) Discretionary Leave - an Employee may request a leave of absence without pay for the following reasons, and to the extent work requirements permit such leave shall be granted provided all requirements have been met,
(1)	Expiration of Sickness Disability Benefits (for illness or off-the-job injuries) -for an employee who provides medical evidence to substantiate that following their receipt of the maximum 52 weeks of sickness disability benefits under the terms of the SNET Disability Benefits Plan, they need a short additional period of time to recover sufficiently to perform all of the essential functions of their job.
(2)	Ineligibility for Sickness Disability Benefits (for illness or off-the-job injuries) - for an employee whose disability absence extends beyond a period of one month, in cases of ineligibility for sickness benefits under the SNET Disability Benefits Plan; and
(3)	Personal/Other Reasons - for an employee who requests relief from duty and whose services the Company desires to retain.
190
CUSTOMER INFORMATION SERVICES
9.0 MISCELLANEOUS
9.01 ORIENTATION
Customer Information Services and SBC East may jointly administer the orientation programs for new employees of Customer Information Services.
9.02 TRAINING
The success of Customer Information Services in meeting its mission in a competitive environment is dependent upon the continuous development and implementation of new tools, methods and technology. Training and education provide the tools necessary for al! Customer Information Services Team members to meet these ongoing challenges, and programs to meet these goals will be developed and administered.
w daylight saving time
In changing from and to Daylight Saving Time, no change in schedule shall be made. In changing to Daylight Saving Time, no deductions shall be made because the all-night tour is reduced by one hour. In changing from Daylight Saving to Standard Time, the all-night employees shall receive overtime compensation, if appropriate, for the additional hours.
191
NOTES
192
COLA
Cost-of-Living Allowance (COLA)
(C) 1. The amount of the April 1,2007 adjustment shall be 0.7 times the increase above two and one-quarter percent (2.25%) in the U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics "CPI-W" (1982-84 = 100) for December 2006 over December 2005. It will be applied to the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on March 31,2007.
2. The amount of the April 6,2008 adjustment shall be 0.7 times the increase above two and one-quarter percent (2.25%) in the U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics "CPI-W" (1982-84= 100) for December 2007 over December 2006, It will be applied to the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on April 5,2008.
193
WAGE SCHEDULES

JOB CODE	IQBHTL&	SALARY GRADE	PAGE	4ORCODF,	JORVrTLR	SALARY GRADE	PAGE
BOOOOI	ACCESS SVC REQ-COORD	VL	203	B00705	□NLASST-ID BUREAU	VE	L98
BOOMS	ACCOUNTANT	VL	203	BCSO23	GNL OFC ASSOC-C1S	WF	217
BOOT10	ACCOUNTING ASSISTANT	VI	2/J2	8tn?ao	GNL OFC ASSOCIATE	vs	206
BOOTH	accounting associate	XF	212	B00747	INST ALL/RE PAIR TECH	W2	222
BOT020	ACCTS INVEST RHP	VI	JOL	BOOU5	INVEST ASST-DBAC	VH	200
BdOC4?	ADMfl<ASST4VR	Vj I	2W	B00746	INVEST CONTROL SPEC	VM	203
BJKjOTS	ADMD$ SVCS REP-TIC	VS	1W>	BW77O	lcgactanavy-p^	VI	101
B00120	ADMIN TRAINING aS ST	VG	J«	Booiao	LOG SPT ASC-D AT A SVC	VL	103
BOOtM)	ALL DISTANCE S PEC	VJ	2112	BOQ79O	MAIL ADMIN ASSISTANT	VF	198
BOO140	ASSIGN ADMINISTRATOR	XI	214	BOO795	MAIL SVC MESSENGER	VQ	205
BOOTW	ASSOC TlikX SPECCOND	VK	1W	DQUROQ	MAINT ADMIM	ZE	224
30018J	AUTO MESSENGER	WT	217	MOBOL	M Al NT ADMIN-SP ANIS) 1	2E	224
BOT193	BALNCG aDXUN REPRPC	VK	200	M0B3S	MATL& LOGISTIC ASST	VH	200
BOO SOT	BILL FYT PROCESS- RPC	VD	197	8OT8IS	NATL DIET DRtVHR	WJ	219
BOOZlO	BILLING INVEST REP	VI	2OT	BDO8S5	MOTOR LQFT 1MSP-MA1N	WM	220
B002L9	B IDLING $VCS REP	VI	201	boost;	NTftX ADMEN ASSOCIATE	XI	214
B00225	BUILDING MECHANIC	wo	221	BOTK7S	NTWK CONTROL ADMIN	WH	218
B00335	CASHIER	VD	197	B00881	NTWK DELIVERY TECH	WN	221
BOO260	C ENTRAL 0 FC ATTEND	Zfl	213	800882	NTWX DEPLOYMENT TECH	WN	22)
B0C262	CflUTj/T DCS 7ECH-SD	Ai		BOT895	N7W TtCH^LECTRONK	WN	£21
BOOTS!	COIN TEL ASST-KEY	VF	19K	0DOTOO	NTWK TECIbMINl COMP	WO	221
BOO295	COIN TEL COLLECTOR	vu	707	BOOTH)	N7WK TECH-RADtOrVlD	WO	221
	COIN TEL CONT-SCHED	VH	200	BOOT 16	NTWK TRANSLATOR	XH	2)3
BOOT 00	COIN TEL TELLER	VF	198	B00917	OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR	VH	200
B00360	computer rpts admin	VI	201	B00925	OFFICEASST-COIN TEL	VY	209
BOO355	COMPUTER SYSTEM SPEC	VM	203	BOO95O	OUTSIDE NTW K DESIGN	VW	208
BOOT 60	CONDUIT INSPECTOR	vv	208	BOOT! S	OUTSIDE PLANT TECH	ZC	223
B0OT7Q	CONS ftPROF OFC ASSOC	VG	199	B00960	PACKET SWITCH SPEC	wp	222
BOT36S	CONSTRUCTION OFC ADM	XG	213	BOOT 7 8	PAY TELEPHONE TECH	WK	219
BOS02I	CUST INFO SPEC'Hl	WJ	227	BOOTED	PAYROLL SERVICES REP	VI	201
B08020	CUST INFO SPECIALIST	AVI	227	BOT995	P LACEM ENT ASSISTANT	VH	200
B00390	CUSTOMER LQPT REP	VJ	201	BOI010	PLT ANALYC AB LE£&M	XA	2IO
BOMOS	CUSTOMER SVC TECH	WN	221	BOI 015	PLT ANALY-CORR PROT	XA	210
EMO 7 60	DATA ASSURANCE TECH	VI	201	B0JQ20	PLTANALY-W INTER	XA	2J0
900631)	DATA asur SPEC-E91I	VI	201	B01025	P LT AN ALY-TX ANS	XA	210
800448	directory composer	VJ	im	B01032	PLUG-IN ADMIN SPEC	VM	203
8OT5J3	EMERGENCY POWER TECH	wo	nt	HOT&72	FRDCES SUPT CN7R ADM	Zt	23S
BOT51M	ENGRG AIDE-CLZRTG	XF	212	ROHMS	PRGV ASST-DFCC	VG	199
800 SQ	ENGRG ASST-BLDG&RE	VM	203	B0HM7	PUB COMM CONSULT PCS	VL	2 03
BOTOTJ	FACILmES ASSIGNEE	ZJ	126	BO1076	PURCHASE ANALYST	VI	201
B 00663	FINANCIAL ASSISTANT	VH	200	B01086	RCO OFFICE aRSOC	VH	200
194
WAGESCHEDULES
jOft coni:	JOB TITLE	SALARY GRAPH	PAGE	JOBCOPE	JOP TETI E	SALARY CRAPE	PACE
B0S034	RES ARN A$$T<IS	WF	21?	B0J426	TELE SPEC-SPAN	VI	JOI
00)125	SALES ASSOCIATE	VH	200	80)4J9	TEUXOMM SP):C<SPE	vx	JOQ
061140	SCHEDULING ADMIN	VU	200	BOH JI	TELECOMM SPEC-QNE	vx	209
06) 196	SENIOR REPORTS CUiftK	V)	201	80)416	TELECOMM SPEC-SW	vx	209
06)Jft7	SITE ACQUISITION ACT	VM	203	8014)4	TELECOMM SPEC-T/P/T	vx	209
BOJ3IO	SPEC SVCS REP-CORP T	VK	202	001423	TELEMKTNG SPLC	VI	201
BOSO25	SPECIALIST CAG-C1S	WG	21?	001443	TELEPHONE SALES SPEC	VL	203
00)160	SR ACCOUNTANT	VN	2W		TOLL ASSOCIATE	VG	1W
L»MU27	SR ASSOC-DB ADMN-CtS	WJ	219	061-170	TREAS OOOKKEliPER-RK!	vr	201
BOI 113	SR DILLING SVCS REP	XP	212			VA	196
801)1$	SR CLAIMS R):P	VI	202			V0	196
Ml 19$	SR FRAME ATTENDANT	ZF	224			vc	197
001350	STAT ASSISTANT	VF				vp	203
MUSS	SUPPLIES ATTENDANT	ZD	223			VR	206
Mt 3(0	SUPPORT SPUC-SS	WO	221			vr	J07
Boiiujo	SUPPORT Tli Ct LC IS	WG	2)7			XB	210
0W2	SVC ASST AIDE-CtS	W7	22?			xc	211
BO 1203	SVC CONSULTANT	VN	204			XD	211
BO»207	SVC DELIV TliCH’BUS	WN	221			WA	21-4
BO)220	SVC NEO ANALYST	VJ	202			WB	215
	SVC ORDER REV-D8AC	VI	201			wc	ZU
BOIJJO	SVC ORDER REVIEWER	VI	201			WD	216
Ml240	SVC ORDER SPECIALIST	VII	2 OU			W1!	216
00)24$	SVC REP	VK	202			W1	2ia
IMI24X	SVCREP-DMIJ	VK	202			WL	220
0080*0	SVC REP PAYPHONE SVC	VI	201			ZG	223
001260	SVC REP'OCC	VK	201				
B0I27I	SVC REP-SPANISH CTR	VK	202				
WlM?	SYS OESKjN & IRAN SP	VO	204				
HO1370	TECH ANALYST-NOC	WO	221				
B0t3?3	TECH ASST-CPC	XG	SH				
BO 13??	TECH ASST-GTAS	X?	212				
BOBKO	TECH ASST-INE	XG	213				
BQ]3**J	TECH ASST-ONE	XG	213				
B0J*W	TECH ASST-PICSTCFR	XG	213				
0OM2O	TELE ASSOCIATE	VH	200				
195
WAGE SCHEDULES
WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULES - Effective 4/4/04
Salary Grade - VA							
Slep	Duration of Cenitdernlion Fertal	CUFHOl Wazr Hefted	Application rfGWI				
			4/4/2044 2.0%	4/3/2065 2.8%	4/W006 2.5%	4/I/2W7 2.15%	4W2008 2.25%
Entry		5 580,00	5 591.60	5 606.40	$ 621.60	£ 63560	$ 64990
Step .S	ft month!	$ 644,40	$ 65730	S 672.70	S 690.5ft	S 7060ft	£ 721.90
Step 1	ft month!	5 725.90	S 740.40	£ 758,90	S 777,00	$ 79540	£ 813,30
Step 2	ft monthi	$ 762.00	S 777.20	$ 796.60	$ 816,50	$ 834,90	5 853.70
Step 3	ft monchi	S 80030	S 81630	S 836,70	3 85760	£ 876,90	$ 896,60
Step 4	ft month!	5 84OJO	S 057,10	S 878,50	S 900,50	£ 920,80	S 941.50
Steps	ft months	S 882.10	S 899.70	S 922.20	S 94530	5 966 .60	$ 988,30
Step 4	ft month)	$ 926.20	$ 944,70	8 968.30	5 902,50	S LOI 4,80	S 1,837.60
Step 7	ft months	S 972.60	S 992.10	8 LOI 6 90	$ I .042.30	$ L065 K0	S 1.1189.80
Step 8	ft montbt	5 1.020,9ft	5 1,04130	$ LO67JO	$ 1.(194 00	$ 1.118.60	S 1,143.80
Step 9	ft month!	$ 1,071,90	S 1.093.30	$ 1,120.60	S LI 48.60	$ LI 74.40	$ L2DO8O
Sup 10	ft month!	$ 1,171,20	$ 1.194.60	£ 1324.50	$ 12SJ.10	S L28330	$ 1312,20
JOB COPE JOB TITLE
Salary Grade-VB							
	thirallonof		A		pptlcntton ♦(GW)		
	Consideration	Cnrrenl	■W2W	4/3/2005	4/2/2006	4/1/2067	4/6/2068
Step	Pcriad	Wane Srhed	1.9%	2.5%	1.5%	J.25%	2.25%
Entry		$ 580.00	1 591.60	5 606.40	$ 621.60	5 635 60	S 649.90
Step .8	ft month!	£ 666.90	$ 680.20	$ 69730	$ 714.60	S 73070	£ 747.10
Step t	ft months	$ 751,00	$ 766,00	$ 785.20	$ 804.80	S 822.90	£ 841.40
Step 2	6 ma nibs	S 788,40	S 804.20	£ 824.30	S 844.90	5 863.90	S 88330
Step 3	ft month*	£ *27.90	S 844.50	1 865.60	S 88720	S 907.20	J 927,60
Step 4	ft month*	S 869,40	S 856.80	S 909.00	$ 931.70	5 952,70	£ 974.10
Step 5	ft month*	5 912.90	$ 931.20	S 954.50	£ 978.40	S IjOW.4O	S 1,022.90
Step 6	6 month*	8 958.80	S 978.00	5 13302.50	£ 1J)27.6O	$ 1,050,70	£ 1.074.30
Step 7	ft maath*	S L006.50	£ 1,026.60	$ L052.30	8 L078.60	S L 102.90	S 1.127.70
Step K	ft CKMitta	I L057.IO	£ L07B.20	5 LI 05.20	S 1J 32.80	S IJ5830	S 1,184.40
Step 9	ft month*	S 1,110,10	S LI 32.30	$ Id 60.60	8 L18960	$ 1.216,40	S 1,243.80
Step 10	6 months	£ L212-40	S L236 6Q	S 1,26730	1 1399.20	$ 1328,40	S 1.358.30
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
196
’ WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - VC							
	Dnrifca of		A		pplkatioa ol GW]		
	Consideration	Carre at	4/4/ZttM	43/2 005	4/2/2006	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	Period	Woce Scbed	2.0%	2,5%	2.5%	235%	2.25%
EdIt}1		£ 580.00	5 591,60	$ 606.40	£ 621.60	$ 635j6C	S 649.90
Step .5	4 months	£ 691.70	S 705,50	£ 723.10	£ 741.20	£ 757.90	£ 775.00
Step 1	6 men tin	ft 778.90	$ 794 50	5 814.40	$ 834. B0	£ 833.60	S 872.80
Step!	h month*	ft 817,70	£ 834 )0	£ 855.00	ft 876.40	5 896.10	S 9L6J0
Step 3	iuWJx	5 858.70	S 875 90	ft 897,80	S 920.20	£ 940,90	£ 96230
Step 4	4 (Maths	5 901,70	ft 919.70	S 942.70	S 966.30	ft 988.00	ft 1,010 20
Step 5		$ 947.20	5 966.10	ft 99030	$ U15J0	£ 1,037.90	5 1.061.30
Step 6	4 maths	5 994.00	5 1,0)3.90	ft 1,039.20	£ 1,065.20	$ 1,089.20	ft 1J 13.70
Step 7	4 mnrfcs	$ 1,043.80	5 1X164.70	ft 1,09130	$ 1J 18.60	£ 1,143.80	ft IJ69.50
Step ft	4 maths	$ 1,096.20	5 1,118.10	S 1J46.lt>	$ 1J 74.80	£ 1,201.20	$ U29.2O
Step 9	4 km nr hi	£ 1458.60	S LIHLSO	5 UH.30	5 1,241,60	ft 1,269.50	S 1,298,10
Step 10	6 (Moths	ft 1,257.90	£ IJB3.L0	I 13I5.3&	£ 1348.10	£ 1378.40	£ 1,409,40
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
Salary Grado - VD							
Step	DantJofl of ConiMerailoo Perfed	Current Wake Behed	Appllcatlen ofGWI				
			4/4/2004 2,0%	4/3/2005 1,5%	4/2/2006 2J%	4/1/2007 2,25%	4/6/2008 2.25%
Entry		$ 580.00	£ 591.60	£ 606.40	$ 621.60	£ 635.60	ft 649.90
Step .5	4jnontfet	$ 718.80	£ 733.20	£ 751.50	$ 770.30	£ 707.60	ft 805.30
Step L	htnoaihi	£ 809.90	S 82610	£ 846.80	£ 868.00	S 887,50	5 W7.50
Step 2	6 mulhs	£ 850.40	5 867.40	5 889.10	£ 911.30	£ 931.80	ft 952.80
Step 3	6 mmhs	£ 893.00	£ 910.90	S 933.70	£ 957.00	£ 978.50	ft LOOO. 50
Step 4	6 matte	£ 937.40	£ 956JO	J WXH	£ 1,(04, SO	S 1,027JO	S 1.050.20
Step ft	a mantis	£ 98430	£ 1.004 00	S 1,029.10	ft 1.054.80	S 1.078.50	£ 1,102.80
Step 6	6 mantte	5 1,031.50	£ 1,054 20	$ 1,08060	ft LJG7.6O	£ 1,132.50	ft 1,158.00
Step 7	6 (Moths	5 L085J0	S 1,10680	£ IJ34.50	5 IJ62.90	S 1.18940	£ 1,215.90
Step B	hanntta	$ IJ39.00	£ 1J61.SC	$ IJ 90.80	£ U20.60	£ L248J0	ft 1J76.20
Step 9	6 (Maths	£ 1,19630	ft 1,22040	£ 1,250,90	S UK 2.20	ft 1,31 LOO	ft 1,340.50
Step 10	6 RMflEhs	£ 1.307.10	£ 1333,20	S 1.366.50	£ 1,400,70	ft 1,432.20	ft 1.464.40
JOB CODE	JOB TITLE
HD0200 0 QO235	BILL PYT PROCESS* RPC CASHIER
197
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - VE					
Daratkn of	A		ppJkfldon of <iWI		
CeoalderatiM	Currt-bt	4W2OM	473/2009	4/2/1006	4/I32OD7	416/2008
Step	Period	Wixe Scbrd	2.0%	13%	13%	24$%	2.15%
Entry	5 580,00 ,	S 591.60	5 60640	S 621.60	S 635.60	5 649.90
Step .5	6 Moftita	$ 749.00	S 7*4.00	5 783,10	S 802,70	S 820.80	3 BJ930
Step 1	* iambi	S 843.60	S 8W.50	$ 881.00	5 90440	$ 924.40	S 945.20
Step 2	* walk,	$ 885,30	$ W3.50	$ 926.10	J 94930	5 970,70	5 9’2,30
Step J	4 mamba	$ 929.90	t 948,50	S 972J0	S 996,50	$ L018.90	S L04I.80
Step 4	6 mftBita	5 976.50	S 996.00	S 1.020.90	J L046.40	$ 1,069.90	S L094.00
Step 5	5 1,025-50	S 1,04600	5 1,072,20	5 t.099.00	S 1,123.70	$ 1,149,00
Step 6	4 «iihi	$ 1,076.80	I 1.098 JO	$ IJ25.8O	S 1,153.90	$ L 179.90	$ 1206.40
Step 7	4 Kxrttba	$ |.l)D,6(i	1 t,)53.20	$ 1.192.00	t 1,2)1.60	S ) ,235.90	S 1,266.80
Step 8	6 dm t ba	S 1J 86.80	£ 1,210.50	S 1,240.80	$ 1,271.80	$ 1 JOO .40	$ IJ29.7O
Step 9	b months	$ 1,246.40	$ 137130	s ijw.io	$ 1.335.70	1 ),365.80	S 1,306,50
Step 10	4 months	$ 1,361.50	S IJ88.70	S 1.423.40	S 1.45900	S 1,49130	5 1325.40
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
BOO705 GNL ASST4D BUREAU
Salary Grade - VF							
	Dvretlon of		A		pplicntlon •( GW|		
	ComMernlta)	Current	4/4/1004	4/3/1005	4/2/2006	4/1/200?	4/6720M
Step	PttW	WiB?Scbri	2,0%	1,5%	2,5%	2,25%	2.25%
Entry		2 580.00	$ 59160	5 606.40	$ 621.60	$ 635.60	5 640.90
Step 3	6 montbi	3 782.00	5 797.60	S a 17.50	S 837.00	J 856,80	$ 876.10
Step 1	6 montbi	5 880.60	5 898,20	S 920.70	$ 943.70 %	S 964.90	S 986.60
Step 2	6 IDODtbl	$ 924.80	$ 943.30	$ 966.90	5 99140	5 1,013,40	S 1,036.20
Step 3	6 montba	S 97130	5 990,70	S 1,015.50	$ 1,040,90	5 1,064.30	S 1,088,20
Step 4	6 monflu	5 L0I9.4G	5 1,039,80	$ 1,065.80	$ 1,092,40	$ 1,117.00	$ t442,IO
Step 5	dmonrlif	S 1,070.70	$ 1,0924 0	$ 1,119.40	$ 1,147>4O	$ 1,173.20	3 LI 99.60
Step 6	bmoDlb*	S 1,123.90	$ t.146,40	$ 1,17540	8 1,204,50	S 1,231.60	$ 1,259.30
Step 7	6 MMblO*	$ 148030	S 1,203.90	$ 1334.00	8 1,264.90	S IJ93.4D	3 1,322.50
Steps	6 tuMlbi	S 1,230.70	S 1.264.50	5 1.296.H)	8 1,328.50	S 1.355.40	3 1,389.00
Step 9	6 moMlta	S 1,301.80	$ 1327.80	$ 1361.00	S 1,395.00	S L426.40	S 1,458.50
Step 18	6 mombi	$ 1,421.90	$ 1,450.30	$ L486.60	S L523J0	S L55840	$ 1,593.20
JOB CODE	JOB TITLE	job com;	JOBTITLE
000285	COIN TEL ASST-KEY	B00790	MAIL ADMIN ASSISTANT
000300	COIN TEL TELLER	B01350	STAT ASSISTANT
193
WAGESCHEDULES
Salary Grade	-VG						
	Dvrachn of		A		ppltatfan of GWl		
	Cq oifdrradM	Ctirrmt	J/4/20W	4/3/3005		4/J/2W7	W2DM
Step	ftrtod	WnpS<hcd	2.0%	2.5%	2.5%	2.25%	2,25%
Eotry		S 58000	S 591.60	£ 606.40	£ 621.60	$ 63560	S 649.90
SUp .5	4 tnatuhs	$ 818.40	& 834.80	£ 853.70	£ 877.10	£ 896.80	5 9)7.00
SUp 1	6 month'	£ 92L90	£ 940.30	£ 963 SO	S 987.90	£ 1,010.10	S 1.O32.H0
Sup 2	6 month*	S 96W	£ 98740	£ 1,012,10	S 1,037,40	£ 1,060,70	S 1,084.60
Step 3	6 UMBltw	£ 1,016.60	S 1,036.90	£ 1,062.80	£ 1.089.40	5 1,113.90	S IJ 39.00
Sup 4	6 montbi	S 1.067.20	$ I.0SS 50	$ LI 15.70	$ LH 3.6ft	S M69.30	5 1.195.6ft
Step 5	6 moathi	S L 120,70	£ 1J43IQ	S IJ7L7O	$ 120 LOO	£ U2B.OO	£ U35.60
Sup 6	6 itwntbi	S ),176.20	$ 1,199.70	S 1.229.70	$ 1.260,40	S UKS.HO	$ UI 7.8ft
Sup 7	6 tnMlbt	S 1 £35.30	£ 1 £60.00	S 1,20 LSD	5 1J23.B0	S U53.6O	5 L3H4.I0
Step IV	6 dMDlbt	£ 1,297.10	5 1423.00	$ 1.356.10	S 1.390,00	£ 1,421.30	S M 53.30
Step 9	6 mttufa*	S 1,362.20	$ 1,389.40	$ 1,424.10	£ L459.70	S 1,492.50	S L526.I0
Sup 10	6 month*	S L4R8.80	S MIS60	£ 1456,60	S L59S.50	S L63L4O	S L66S.10
iHJP.QJDE	JOB TITLE			JOB CODE	JOB TITLE		
BOO J 20	ADMIN TRAINING ASST				RIjS & FIN ASST-FMS		
130037D	CONS &. PROF OFC ASSOC				wwrf in	Sr«J»6		nr/eetoifrtf to
M104 5	PROV ASST-DFCC				AES 4 mUJWCff - EjTrtT*’* ?// W}		
				BD999B	TOLL ASSOCIATE!		
)99
WAGESCHEDULES
SalaryGradt-VH							
Step	Dur*lLMt of CAMfateratton Period	Curr«< Wage $€>»«j	Application ofGWI				
			4/43004 2.0%	43/2005 23%	4/2/2006 23%	4/1/200? 2,15%	WZOtt 235%
Entry		5 597.00	S 608.90	S 624.L0	S 639,70	S 654-10	5 66830
Slep ,5	6 niMtkv	S 85830	$ 875.50	$ 897.40	S 919.30	S 940.50	S 961.70
Step L	6 onitth*	$ 966.60	$ 985,90	$ i.flio.jo	J 1.OJ5.80	S 1,059.10	5 1.082,90
Step 2	6 nwatbi	$ ld0L 5.00	S 1,03530	S 1,061.20	S 1.087,7(1	$ 1,112.20	S L1J7.20
Step J	6 tuudlhi	S 1,065.90	$ 1,08120	$ 1,114.40	S 1.142.30	t 1.168.00	S IJ9430
Step 4	6 raotub*	S 1,119.40	J LJ4L.80	S 1,17030	S 1499.60	$ 1,22660	S 135430
Step 5	6 muuthi	$ 1,175.00	S 1,198.50	$ 1,228.50	5 1359.20	$ 1,28750	S 1316.50
Step 6	6 munibi	$ 1,234.20	J 1358 90	S 1390,40	$ 132230	S 1352.50	S 1382-90
Step 7	6 muDtbi	$ 1,29560	S 1J2I30	5 1,334.50	S 1388.40	S L419.60	$ L45I30
steps	b a)PDCbt	$ 1360.60	J 1JS7.KI	I 1.422.50	S 1,458.1(1	S 1,490.90	S 1J24.40
Step 9	4 moDtkt	S 1,428.60	S 1.457,20	S L49J.6O	5 1330.90	S 1365.30	£ L6G0.50
Step IO	6 montta	$ 1361.10	S 1J9230	$ 1,632.10	S L 372.90	S L710.50	5 L 349.00
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
ADMIN ASSOCIATE-CAG /PtMiJnH ntrm/Ai rdtj/y H-'G. «WOJJ. ffOUST CJff OS ■	7/1 MW/
BD0049	ADM1NASS1MVR
BOO 193	B Al-NCG ADM IN REF*RFC
BD0290	COIN TEL CONT- SCU ED
B0O66S	FINANCIAL ASSISTANT
B00425	INVEST ASST*DBAC
BOO83 5	MATL & LOG ISTIC ASST
B009L7	OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR
JOB-CODE miLILE
BD0995 PLACEMENT ASSISTANT
BO 1086	REG OFFICE ASSOC
BOL 125	SALES ASSOCIATE
BOL 140	SCHEDULING ADMIN
SUPPORT TECH-OSPS fAtiinui jwHtf	MG, flWif cAwijeTtf/u
BO 1240 SVC ORDER SPECIALIST B01420 TELE ASSOCIATE
200
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grad* - VI					
Durstlop of	A		ppUcaliMi of <7WI		
CMrfdcrttlo*	CurrtM	4W2 OM	4/3/2005	4/2/2006	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	Period	Wifte Srhed	2j0%	2.5%	2,5%	2.15%	2.25%
Entry	$ 627.50	$ 64040	5 656.10	$ 672 50	5 681.60	J 703.10
Step J	* awiute $ 902.80	i 920.90	$ 943.90	S 967.50	s 969,30	$ 1*011.60
Step 1	4 sMita S 1,016 80	S 1.031.10	5 1.063.00	S 1,089,60	$ 1.1)4.10	5 1,139,20
Step]	enwoitit S 1^)67.50	S 14)88.90	S 1.116.10	$ 1,144.00	S 1,169.70	$ 1J 96.00
Step 3	tiinwtfe 5 IJ 20.90	$ LJ43J0	$ 1.17 LOO	£ 1101.20	5 1*228.29	£ 1,235.80
Step 4	OmcwiM $ 1,176 50	$ IJOT.OO	S 1,230.00	5 L260.80	5 1*289,20	£ 1,318,20
Step S	6v»sib S 1^235.50	I U60.20	3 1,291.70	£ U24.OO	S L353.BG	£ 1*384.30
Step 6	domthv S 1,297,40	J 1.323 JO	S IJS6.40	S UWJ0	£ 1,421.60	£ L453.6O
Step 7	Atnoatb*	$ 1+362.40	5 1389.60	S 1,424.30	S 1.459,90	5 1,492.70	$ L526J0
Step 8	inwmihi 5 1,430 50	$ 1,459.10	J 1,495.60	J 1,53300	5 IJ67.50	J 1.602.00
Step 9	4swoih» $ 1402-10	£ 1,532.10	5 1.570,40	$ 1,609.70	$ 1/45.90	$ 1,682.90
Step 10	6 nwaih*	$ 1,640.90	$ 1.673.70	S 1.715,50	S 1,758.40	S 1,798.00	5 1,838.50
JOB CODL	joHrrn.K	JOBCHOE	wb Tim:
B00020	ACCTS iNVIiST RliP	001076	PURCHASE ANALYST
B002L0	BILLING INVEST REP	B0L196	SUN LOR REPORTS CLERK
B002L9	BILLING SVCS REP	001233	SVC ORDER REV-DBAC
B00350	COMPUTER RPTS ADMIN	B0I230	SVC ORDER REVIEWER
B00390	CUSTOMER EQPT REP	B0S890	SVC REP PAYPHONE SVC
BQ076Q	data assurance tech	Bl) 1426	TELE SPEC-SPAN
B0Q63D	data ASUR SPEOE911	1WI425	TELEMKTNG SPEC
			TREAS BOOKKEEPER-
BOT770	LOG ACT ANALY’PIE	B01470	RPC
B00980	PAYROLL SERVICES REP		
201
WAGESCHEDULES
Salary Gride - VJ
Step	Duration of Caatidernlwa Period	Current WaEt-Sehed	Application of fiWI				
			4/4/2004 2.0%	4/3/2 OftJ 2.5%	4/2/2006 2.5%	4/1/2M7 2.25%	4/6/2008 2.25%
Eolrj		S 661.30	£ 674.50	£ 691.40	5 708.70	£ 724.60	S 740.90
StspJ	6 ttrtniha	$ 950.90	$ 969.90	S 994.10	S L019.00	$ 1,041.90	S 1,065.30
Step 1	6 xnnutht	S 1,070.90	$ 1,092.30	£ 1,119.60	5 1,147.60	$ 1,173.40	$ 1,199.80
Step 2	6 tticBth*	5 1,124.10	S LU6.60	S 1,175,30	£ 1204,70	5 1231,80	S 1259.50
Step 3	6 months	$ L18050	$ 1204.10	$ 123420	$ 1265.10	£ 1.293.60	£ 1,322.70
Step 4	6 ttMiatte	1 1.239.90	£ 1,264.70	S 1296 30	S 1228 JO	S 1,358.60	S 1,380.20
Step 5	9 months	£ 1.302.00	$ 1,328.00	$ 1361.20	£ IJ95.2O	$ 1/426.60	$ 1,458.70
Step 6	6 mouths	£ 1,367.1ft	5 1,394.40	5 1,429.30	S 1,465.00	S 1,498.00	S 1,531.70
Step 7	6 months	£ L4J5.60	5 1,464.30	£ L500.90	£ 1,530.40	£ 1.573,00	£ 1,60340
Step 8	6 months	S 1,507,40	5 1.537,50	J 1,575.90	$ 1,615.30	$ 1,651.60	$ 1,688.80
Step 9	h mouths	£ 1,582.60	S 1,6100	£ 1,654.70	S 1,696,10	S 1,734.30	S 1,773.30
Step 10	b months	S 1.729,40	£ 1,764 00	£ 1,809.10	S l,853<30	S U95OO	£ 1,937.60
4QR£QIl£	^JB-LLlXh	JOB <7QDE	JPP Title
DOOOlD	ACCOUNTING ASSISTANT		SR ASSOC-DATA A D MIN (Patton
B00CM3	ALL DISTANCE SPEC		w w/nj7£ru4? H7	XWA
0OM48	DIRECTORY COMPOSER	BOI 185	SR ASSQC-na At)MN~CfS, Effirtv* 771 i 4MJ SR CLAIMS REP
		BO! 220	' SVC NEG ANALYST
Salary Grade - VK							
Step	Duration of CnnddrrattaTi Period	Current Wane Sched	Application of ftWl				
			4/4/2004 2.0%	4/3/2005 2J%	4/2/2006 2.5%	4/1/2007 2.15%	4/6/2008 2.25%
Entry		S 698.40	S 712.40	$ 730,20	S 748.50	S 765.30	S 782.50
Step J	6 month?	£ 1,044.90	S 1,065.80	£ ],092T40	S 1,119.70	5 1,144.90	S 1J 70JO
Step 1	6 tnonth»	S 1,177 20	S >200 70	£ 1,230.70	S IJ6150	£ 1289.90	£ 1,318.90
Step!	6 mouths	$ 1236.10	$ 1260.80	£ 1292JO	S 1,324.60	S 1,354,40	S 1,304.90
Step J	6 months	$ 1297.80	$ 1323.80	$ 1,356.90	S 1J90.80	$ 1,422.10	S 1,454.10
Step 4	6 month!	S 1,362.40	S 1.389,60	S 1,424.30	£ 1,459.90	£ 1,4 92,70	3 1.52630
Step 5	6 months	$ 1.430.50	$ 1,459,10	S 1,495.60	£ 1533.00	S 1,567.50	S 1,602.80
Step 6	6 month*	S 1,501.70	$ 1,531.70	S 1,570 00	S L6OT3O	S 1,645.50	S L682 5O
Step 7	6 months	S 1,577x00	$ 1,608.50	$ i.548.70	S 1,689.90	S 1,727,90	S 1,766.80
Step 8	6 month*	$ 1,656.00	$ 1,689.10	S 1,731.30	£ 1J74.6O	£ LHM.50	S 1,855.30
Step 9	6 months	S 1,738.60	S L773.4O	3 L8I7.70	£ 1,863.10	£ 1.905,00	3 1.947.90
Step 10	6 months	£ 1,899,00	5 1,937.00	S 1,985.40	£ 2/J35.00	£ 2.080.80	S 2,127.60
JOB CODE	JOB TITLE	JOB CODE	JOB TITLE
B013L0	SPEC SVCS REP-CORP T	B01260	SVC REP-OCC
B01245	SVC REP	B0I271	SVC REP-SPANISH CTR
BOI 248	SVC REF-DMU		
202
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - VL							
	Ourifke «f		A		p plica dan ofGWI		
	Confldmtkm	Curmt	4/4/MKM	4/3/ZOtrt	4/2/2006	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	Periad	U’nr Sched	2,0%	2.5%	2.5%	2.25%	2,25%
Horry		$ 73930	S 754.10	S 773.00	S 792.30	S SiOlO	£ K28JO
Strp >5	4(DM||hf	$ ] ,06340	S 1.084.70	$ 1,111.80	5 1,139.60	S LI65JQ	£ LJ91.4Q
Step 1	9 nxMlhi	£ Id 97.60	£ 1.221.60	£ 1,252,10	S 1,283.40	£ 1.312.30	£ 1.341 80
Step 2	ItHMUh*	£ 1,257.60	£ LJ82.S0	£ L3J4.9O	5 1,347.80	S 1J7H.ID	£ 1.409. LG
Step 3	tawidu	5 1,320.40	£ 1346.80	$ 1,380.50	S 1,415.00	$ 1,446.80	5 1,479.40
Step 4	4nwMihB	$ 1.386.50	S 1,414.20	S 1,449.60	S 1,485.80	£ 1,519.20	£ 1.553.40
Step 5	6 mamba	5 1.45530	£ 1,484.60	£ 1,521.70	£ 1.559.70	S L 594,80	£ 1.630.70
Step 6	trooaihv	S 1.528J0	S 135940	£ 1,598,10	5 1.638 10	£ 1,675 00	£ 1,712,70
Step 7	trpaolha	$ 1,604.90	£ 1 £37.00	J 1,677,90	£ L719.B0	£ L75B.5O	£ 1,798,10
Step K	4 mMl ha	5 1.684.90	S 1,718.60	£ 1.761.60	5 1,80560	S 1,84520	£ 1,887.70
Step 9	4<ns«1li3	5 1,769 JO	S 1,804.70	5 1,849.80	5 1.8 WOO	£ L93B.70	S L982.30
Step |Q	itBMltn	5 1,933.20	£ 1,971.90	I 2,021,20	£ 2.071.70	£ 2JI830	£ 2J 66.00
■FOR CODE	JOB TITLE			JOBCODE	TITLE		
BOOTO!	ACCESS SVC RFiOCOORD			BO1O47	PUD COMM CONSULT PCS		
B00005	ACCOUNTANT			BO1445	TELEPHONE SALE’S SPEC		
B00780	LOG SPT ASO DATA SVC						
Salary Grade	- VM						
	DurtHun df		A		p plica tton of GW|		
	Camfcfc ration	Current	4/4/2004	4/3/2005	4/2/2006	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	Period	Wane Sehed	1,0%	Z.5%	23%	2,25%	2,25%
Entry		5 784 20	5 799.90	S 819,90	S 840.40	$ B59JO	£ 878.60
Step .5	* month)	$ lTt27.70	S 1,150.30	S IJTQdO	5 MO 8.60	£ 1J35.80	S L 263.60
Step 1	9 months	£ 1.270JD	S 1,295.50	5	1,327.90	$ U61.10	£ M9L70	5 1,423.00
Step 2	4 month)	S IJ34JO	$ IJ60.80	$ 1.394.80	5 1,429,70	$ M6L90	£ L494.B0
Step 3	fr months	$ 1,400.80	s lazBJto	S 1,464.50	S IJOldO	£ 1,534.90	£ 1^69.40
Step 4	& month)	$ 1,470.70	5 1,500,1(1	£ 1,537,60	S 1,576.00	& L611.50	S L647.80
Step 5	9 n»nch>	$ 1,544,60	5 1,575,50	S 1,614.90	S 1,655.30	£ 1,692.50	$ L73U.6O
Step 6	6 month*	5 1,621.70	£ 1,6544(1	5 1,695.50	S 1,737.00	£ 1,777.00	5 L817.00
Step 7	h month*	5 1.703,70	$ L736.8U	$ 1.780.20	£ 1,824,70	£ 1.865.80	5 L9O7.8O
Step 9	9 tDantku	£ 1,787.70	£ 1,823.50	£ 1,86940	S 1,915,80	£ 1,958.90	£ 2,003.00
Step 9	6 month*	£ LB77.I0	5 1.914,60	S 1,962,50	S 2,0)1.60	5 2.05690	S 2,103.20
Step 10	6 month*	£ 1050.70	£ 2.091.70	5 2.144.00	S 2.197.60	£ 2,247.00	S 2,297.60
JOB CODE JOB TFTLK BOO3 5 5	COMPUTE R SY STEM SP EC B00542	ENGRG ASST-BL1JG & RE B00746	INVEST CONTROL SPEC	JOB CODE JOB TITLE BOI032 FLUOJN ADMIN SPEC B012 H 7	S ITE ACQUIS FT1ON AGT
203
WAGESCHEDULES
Salary Grade - VN							
	Ihtradon of		A		ppUcitbon of GWI		
	Contitkrotion	Curnnl	4/4/20W	4/3/1005	4/2/2006	4/1/1007	4/6/2048
Stea	Fertal	W*£eSthrd	2.0%	2.5%	23%	2.25%	125%
Entry		$ S3 3.70	S 850.40	S 871.70	S 89150	$ 913,60	S 934.20
Step J	4 mofllfe*	S 1,198,90	5 1322,90	$ 1,253.50	3 1,284. B0	3 1313,70	S IJ413O
Step 1	6 manlh*	S 1,35030	$ 137730	$ 1^411.70	S 1,447.00	S 1,479,60	$ I3H9O
Step I	6 month*	S 1,417,40	5 1,445,70	$ 1.481,00	$ I3IW	S 1.553.00	S I5S7.9O
Step 3	6 nunlJi*	I lt48B.7O	5 1,51830	£ 1356.50	S 139140	8 133130	$ 1668.00
Step 4	6 montk*	$ 1.562.90	8 1,594-20	I 1/134,10	S 1,675.00	S 1,712.70	£ 1751.20
Sicp S	6 oeotht	5 lt64L2O	5 1,674.00	S L7J5.90	5 1,758.80	£ JJ98.40	S U3B.9O
swp*	6 manti*	S 1,723.60	S 1.758-10	S U02.10	S 1.847,20	S 1.888.80	£ 1.931.30
Step?	6 manti*	S 1,809.50	5 1.045.70	$ 1,891,00	5 IXW-tO	$ 1,982,70	$ 2.027.30
SlepS	1 moafli	$ 1,900.00	5 1,938.00	$ 1,98630	5 2,036,20	S 2.082,00	S 2.128.80
Step 9	6 month*	i 1,995-00	S 2.034,90	3 2,083,00	$ 2.137.90	$ 2,186,00	t 2,135.20
Step 10	$ RMOtbs	$ 2,179.90	S 2223.50	$ 2,27910	S 2326,10	S 2.388.70	S 2.442-40
JWILUL'L JOB TITLE
BOI 160	SR ACCOUNTANT
BOI 203	SVC CONSULTANT
Salary Grade - VQ							
Step	Doration gf ComlderaltM Period	Cttrreol Schrd	Application of GWI				
			4/4/2004 2X1%	4/3/2005 2.5%	4/2/1006 1-5%	4/1/2007 245%	4/6/ZOOB 235%
Entry		5 888,10	$ 905.90	5 92830	J 95L70	S 973.10	$ 995.00
Step 3	6 mooltH	$ 1.27730	$ 1,303.10	$ I.3J5 7O	1 1369.10	S 1399,90	S 1,431.40
Step 1	6 monlli	5 1,439.00	S I367.HO	S 1,50430	S 134110	S 1376.80	£ 1,61230
step:	6 bwiMM	$ 1,510.70	$ 1340.90	5 1379.40	1 1,618.90	S IJS5SJ0	S l.W.SO
Step!	6 moniti*	5 1386.30	£ 1318-00	5 1,658.50	S 1,700.00	$ IJ3KJ0	5 1,777.40
Step 4	A months	5 1,665,60	S 1.698.90	S 1,741.40	S 1.78490	£ 1,825.10	5 1,866.20
Step 5	emoiub*	S 1,748.80	$ 1.78330	5 1,828.40	$ 1,874.10	$ 1,91630	J (.959.40
Step 6	4f»nlbf	£ 1336.10	$ 1.87230	S 1,919.60	S 1,967.60	S 2,011.90	5 2.057,20
Step?	htoanths	S 1,927,90	S 1.966.50	$ 2.015,70	S 2.066.10	$ 2,112.60	S 2.)«).IO
StepH	6 months	$ 2,024.40	$ 2,06490	5 2.11630	S 2 J 69.40	S 2,218.20	S 2368,10
Step 9	6 months	S 2.125 30	S 2,167.80	S 2.222.00	S 2,277.60	$ 232B.80	£ 2J8I.2O
Step 10	4 month*	$ 2322.10	$ 236830	$ 2.427.70	$ 2,48840	S 2344.40	$ 2301.60
JOB COPE JOB TITLE
BO 1367	SYS DESIGN & THAN SP
204
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - VP							
Step	Dara'tetf CmisMrrsilon Perted	CvrrtNt W»e« Sehed	Application of GW1				
			4/4/1004	4/3/20W 1.5%	4/2/1006 1.5%	4/1/2007 1.25%	4/6/2008 2.15%
Entry		5 948.00	£ 967.00	S 991.20	$ 1,01600	5 1.038.90	£ 1.062.30
Step J	4 moatta	£ 1,363.30	£ 1,390.60	S 1,425.40	£ 1,46100	5 1.493.90	J IJ27.JO
sop i	♦» nwWtn	J (,535 JO	£ 1,56620	£ 1.605.40	S 1,645.50	$ 1.68250	S 1,720.40
Step J	* imcta	$ 1,612.40	£ 1,644.60	S 1.685,70	$ 1 J27.8O	S 1,7d6.10	$ 1.(06,50
Step J	* moatlti	$ I.692.70	$ 1.726.60	£ 1,769.80	$ 1,814.00	S 1,854.80	S 1,896.50
Step 4	* MCtfe	£ IJ77JJ0	$ LJ13.4U	S 1.858.70	£ 1,905.20	S 1.948.10	S 1,991,90
Step 5	* DKWlta	£ 1.866.60	£ 1,903.90	5 1,951.50	$ 2,00030	£ 2,045.30	£ 2,091.30
Step 6	6 mOStta	£ 1,960.00	$ 1,999.20	S 2,049.20	$ 2,100/40	£ 2,147.70	$ 2,196.00
Step 7	fi imnlta	£ 2.05840	$ 2,09930	£ 2.151.80	£ 2.205,60	£ 2.255.20	S 2,305,90
Step*	4 IMMkt	S 2d 60.90	S 2,20440	£ 2,259.20	£ 2,215.70	$ 2J67.80	£ 2,421.10
Step 9	trim olta	£ 2.268.80	£ 23)4.20	S 2.372.10	S 2.431.40	S 2,486.10	t 2,542.00
Sten 10	fr atoiilta	£ 2,47S.8O	S 252S.ro	S 1501.60	£ 2.656,40	£ 2,71620	£ 2,77730
JOB CODE JiMJULE
Salary Grade - VQ									
Step	Durtaten nf CoaildrrtalMa rcrknJ	Current WnxtSrtri	Atmlkniioe tf GWI						
			4/4/2004 2,0%		4/3/2005 15%	4/2/2906 2J%	4/1/2007 2.25%		4/6^008 U5%
Entry		I 580.00	J	$91,60	£ 60640	$ 621.60	S	635.60	5 649,90
Step 3	6 momta	£ 718,80	s	733,20	£ 751 JO	£ 770.30	s	787.60	S 805JQ
Step t	6 months	£ 809.90	$	826.10	S 846.80	£ 868.00	s	887J0	5 907JO
Step!	6 IDOMbl	S 830.40	J	H67.4O	1 889.10	£ 9(1 JO	$	931.80	£ 952.80
Step 3	6 months	S 893X10	$	9)0.90	£ 933.70	$ 957,00	s	978 JO	£ (,000.50
Step 4	6 months	£ 937.40	t	936.10	S 980.00	£ 1,004.50	s	1,027.10	£ 1,050.20
Step 5	6 months	£ 98430	8	1,004 00	£ 1,02440	£ 1,054.80	$	)/)78.$0	£ MOW
Slept	6 months	$ 1,033 JO	s	1,054.20	5 1,080.60	$ td 07.60	$	Id 32.50	£ 1,158.00
Step 7	6 months	£ L0R5.L0	£	Id 06.80	S 1.(34,50	$ 1,161.9(1	J	1189.10	$ 1,215.90
Step 8	6 no nt ha	$ 1,13900	J	1,161.HO	$ 1,(90,80	£ 1,220.60	$	U48.1O	£ M76.20
Slept	6 months	£ Id 96 JO	£	(J10.40	£ 1,250.90	$ 1,282.20	£	1,3(1.00	£ 1,340.50
Step It	6 tnontbi	£ 1.27720	£	(,302.70	£ 1.3 35.30	S 1,368.70	J	uw.so	S 1.431. CXI
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
BOOTH MAIL SVC MESSENGER
205
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade- VR							
	Duration af		A		ppIJcattoa oTGWl		
	Consideration	Current	4/4/2 DM	4/3/2005	4/2/2006	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	PerW	Wsge Schcd	2.0%		2.5%	2.25%	2.25%
Entry		S 600 00	$ 612.00	5 62730	J 643,00	$ 65730	S 672.30
Step J	6 months	S 797.70	£ B 13.70	S 834 00	$ 854.90	S 874.10	5 893.80
Step 1	6 moat hi	$ 898.20	S 916,20	$ 939.10	3 962.60	$ 98430	5 1 *006,40
Step 2	6 mouths	S 9+3.30	£ 962.20	$ 986.30	$ L011,00	S 1.033.70	1 L05 7.00
Step J	6 months	S 990.70	£ L010.5D	£ 1,035,80	S 1,061.70	5 1,085,60	£ LI 10,00
Step 4	6 cnonthi	S 1,039.80	£ 1,060.60	$ 1,087.10	$ 1,114,30	S 1,139.40	$ 1,165.00
StepS	6 tnorth!	S 1,092.10	S 1,1 13.90	S 1,141.70	S L 170.20	$ 1J 96.50	S 1,223.40
Step 6	6 mart hi	5 1,144.40	S 1,169.30	£ LI 98.50	5 L228.50	5 1,256*1 D	S 1,284.40
Step?	6 mart hi	S 1,20190	$ 1,228.00	£ 1,258.70	5 1,290.20	£ t,319.20	$ 1,348.90
Step 8	6 ma nt hi	$ 1164.50	S 1,289.80	S 1,322.00	3 1.355,10	5 U85,60	S 1,4 IMO
Step 9	4 month>	$ 1,327.80	$ 1,354.-10	$ 1,388.30	I 1,423.00	S 1,455.00	S 1,487.70
Step 10	4 month*	£ 1,427.60	£ 1,43620	$ 1,492.60	$ 1,529.90	$ L 5 64.30	S 1,599.50
JOB COTIE JOB TITLE
OPtiRATO R	(ArtiHEM .wwfrffe Joli/T grafp H'f. Ufftthpifwf tt	Cuu	Sptf - ijJrtUW M MW
OPER' SPANISH CENTER	(AaMox awm/to fn^- Mt d* to JtSWA Cta/ Jty>	- yrrfftr A1/AW J
Salary Grade-VS					
Duration ot	A		ppltallon of GWI		
CnstlderatlM	Carnot	4/4/2004	43/2005	4/1/200*	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	Period	WiRf *khcd	1.0%	2.5%	2^%	2,25%	2,25%
Entry	£ 580,00	S 59160	3 606.40	S 62160	$ 635.60	3 649.90
Step .5	6m*rth>	$ 782.00	£ 797.60	S 817.50	£ 837,90	£ 856.80	£ 876.10
Step 1	6 months	S 880.60	£ 898.20	S 920.70	S 943.70	S 96490	£ 986^0
Step 1	tmoertu	$ 924.80	J 943.30	£ 966,90	S 991,10	£ 1,013.40	£ 1,036.20
Step 3	imtfihs	S 971,30	£ 990.70	S L015.50	S 1,040.90	£ 1,064,30	S 1,088.20
Step 4	daanatli!	$ 1,019.40	£ 1,03980	$ 1,065,80	S L092.40	S 1,117.00	$ 1J42.N
Step 5	tnwailH	5 1,070.70	$ 1,092.10	$ 1,119.40	£ 1,147.40	£ 1,173.20	$ 1,199.60
Step 6	*mdtln	£ 1,123.90	5 1,146.40	5 1,175.10	S LJO4.5O	S 1,231.60	£ 1.259.30
Step 7	duwntfci	$ 1,18030	S 1,20390	5 IJ34.00	S 1.264.90	£ 1,293.40	S 1,322.50
Steps	6 morthi	S 1239*70	S 1264.50	S 1,296.10	S 1.328.50	J 1J58 40	S L389.OO
Step 9	6 nantha	S 1J01.80	5 1,327.80	£ 1,361.00	£ 1.39500	£ 1,426.40	5 1,458.50
Step ID	6w»n<ha	$ 1,430.90	S 1,459 50	£ 1,496,00	S 1,533.40	£ 1,567 90	5 1,603.20
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
B00095	ADM tN SVCS REP 1TC
B00720	□ NL OFC A SSOCI ATE
206
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - VT					
Duration of	A		PpUcerion dfCSWl		
Ccmiidmrtion	CnrrrDl	4/472 MM	4/3/2005	4/2/2006	4/I/2007	4/4/2008
Seep	Period	W««efehcd	2.0%	2.5%	2,5%	2.15%	2.25%
Entry	3 5iODO	5 59J.60	S 606.40	S 621.60	5 635 60	£ 649.90
Step <5	6 omoIIu	$ 782.00	$ 797.60	5 817.50	S 837.90	$ 856.80	5 876J0
Step 1	tmailu	S 880.60	£ 89820	S 920.70	£ 943,70	£ 964 90	5 986.60
Step 2	fruiMIto	S 924.B0	$ 943.30	$ 9t.fi,00	5 991.10	S 1.013.40	$ 1.036.20
Step 3	bmniln	£ 971.30	$ 990.70	S 1,015.50	£ 1,040.90	£ 1,064.30	5 1,088.20
Step 4	6nMHtn	S 1.01940	5 1.039.80	S 1,065,80	5 1.092.40	5 1,117.00	5 1.142.10
Step 8	6 on bi hi	S 1,070.70	$ 1,09210	S 1,119.40	5 1,147.40	S 1,173.20	5 1.199.60
Step 6	tnwaita	S 1,123,40	£ 1.146.40	5 1.175J0	S 1,204.50	5 1,231,60	£ 1,259.30
Step 7	Antonifai	5 1J 80.10	£ 1,203.90	S 1,224.00	S 1,264.90	J 1,293.40	S U22.50
Step ft	Omantfei	S 1,239.70	S 1264.50	S 1,296.10	S 1,328,50	5 1,358 40	S 1,389.00
Step*	tmoalhs	$ 1.301.80	S 1,327.80	S 1,361.00	$ 1,395.00	$ 1.426,40	5 L458.50
Step 10	b iwiBiha	S 1,454.30	S 1,483.40	S 1,520.50	S 1,558 50	5 1,59360	S 1,629.50
JOB CODE JOJI TITLE
SERVICE ASST AIDE
JWMWd » Mtn F&if »T	*5 MwJZ CjUTT.WfC# - J£r2*f ?/> tiWi
Salary Grado • VU							
Step	UktUIod of Confidential! Period	Curml Wage Schrd	Application of (AVI				
			4/4/1004 2,0%	4/3J2M5 23%	4/2/2006 2-5%	4/1/2007 2,25%	4/6/2 OOH 2J5%
Entry		$ 597-00	5 608.90	5 624,10	$ 639,70	S 654,10	$ 668*0
Step .5	6 wnlta	$ 858,30	$ 875.50	J 897.40	S 919.80	S 940J0	S 961,70
Step 1	tmenlln	S 966,60	£ 985.90	1 1J))OJO	£ 1.0J5.80	S 1,039.10	5 L082.90
Step 2	ttnoitfhi	$ 1,015.00	£ 1,035 30	J 1,061.20	£ 1,087.70	S 1,112.20	S 1.137.20
Step 3	IfflOBlhl	£ 1.065.90	£ 1,087.20	S 1,114.40	£ 1,142,30	S 1,168.00	S 1.194.30
Step 4	6 moBlht	£ I,119.40	£ 1,141.80	S 1,170.30	$ 1,199.60	J 1,226.60	£ 1.254.20
Step 5	* monlbs	$ 1,175.00	£ ],19B,5O	S 1.228.50	$ 1J59.2U	S L287JO	3 1^16.50
Step 6	6 OKWltlS	$ 1,234.20	S 1^5B.9O	3 1,290.40	S 1,322.70	J 1.352-50	$ 1,382.90
Step 7	6 Bonlfa	£ 1,295.60	£ 1321.50	S IJ54.50	5 1,388.40	S 1,41960	5 L45L50
Step 8	6 caoalta	S 1,360.60	J 1^87.80	6 1^22.50	5 1,458.10	£ 1,490.90	£ 1.524,40
Step 9	6 walki	$ 1,4 28.60	£ 1,457.20	S 1,493.60	£ 1.530.90	£ 1,565.30	5 1,600.50
Step 10	6 DMtUhl	S 1,669.90	£ 1.703.30	S 1,745.90	£ 1,7*9.50	5 1,829.80	5 1,871.00
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
B 00295	COIN TEL COL LECTOR
207
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade- VV					
Dumtlon of	A		pplteation of GWT		
Coiuldiration	Carnal	4/4/2004	4/3/2005	4/2/2006	411/2007	4/6/2008
Slop	Period	W*^ Scfctd	2.0%	2,5%	2.5%	2*25%	2,25%
Entry	S 833.70	$ 350.40	$ 871.70	£ 893.50	$ 913.60	S 93420
Step .5	*nwnr*i(	5 7,l9S.9t)	S !^22r90	5 1,253.30	£ 1,28480	1 1,31170	J 2.J4JJO
Sup 1	$ L35QJ0	$ 1*377.30	£ 1,4)1.70	$ 1.447.00	$ 1 *479.60	5 1.512.90
Step 2	^months	S 1*417.40	S 1^445.70	S 1.481,80	£ 1.518.80	J 1,553.00	£ t ,587.90
Sup 3	tnath	S 1*488.70	S 1,510.50	S 1,556.50	S 1.595.40	S 1*631.30	£ 1,668.00
Step 4	tnwutta	& 1*562.90	5 1*59420	S 1*614.10	£ 1,675.00	$ 1,7)2.70	5 1,751.20
Step 5	6 nwitta	£ 1*641,20	S 1*674.00	S 1,715,90	£ 1,758 80	S 1,798.40	S 1,838.90
Step 6	ftimatlB	S 1*723.60	S 1.75810	£ 1,802,10	5 1.847.20	£ 1,888.80	S L93L30
Step 7	* nwitta	s l.mso	S 1*845.70	£ 1,801.80	$ 1,939)0	£ 1,982.70	£ 2,027.30
Step 8	6 mantta	$ 1,900.00	S 1,938.00	S 1,986.50	S 2.036.20	S 2,082.00	£ 2,128.80
Step 9	»Beetle	J 1,995.00	$ 2*034.90	£ 1085,80	£ 2,137.90	$ 2,186.00	S 2,235.20
Step >«	* nerntbs	S 2.234.60	$ 2*279.30	S 2,336.30	£ 2.394.70	S 2,448 60	5 2,503.70
JOB CODE JOBTITLE
B00360	CONDU IT INSPHCTO R
Salary Grade - VW							
Step	PuFHtlonef CansUc radon Period	Current Wage Schgd	Application of GWI				
			4/4/2004 2.0%	4/3/2095 2,5%	4/2J2006 2.5%	4/1/2007 2.25%	4^6/lOOfl 2.25%
Entry		£ 833.70	S 850.40	S 87170	S 89350	S 9IW	£ 934 20
Step ,5	O KMIthS	J 1498.90	$ 1,222.90	S 1,253.50	$ L, 384.80	£ ),3 I3.7O	£ [,343,30
Step 1	6 maths	S 1*350.30	S 1,377.30	£ 1,411.70	£ 1,447.00	S 1,479.60	S 1,512,90
Step Z	4 months	I 1.417.40	$ 1,445.70	$ 1*481.80	£ 1,518x80	$ 1,553.00	$ l*5H7.90
Step J	6 maths	S 1*4K8.7O	$ 1,518.50	£ 1,556.50	S 1,595.40	$ 1,631.30	£ 1,668.00
Step 4	6moMhs	$ 1.S62.W)	S 1,594.20	S L634.10	£ 1,675x00	S 1,712.70	$ L75L2O
Steps	6 aOSlhi	J 1*641.20	£ L6T4.00	£ 1,715.90	5 1,758.80	£ 1,798.40	S 1*838.90
Step 6	fr maths	S 1,723.60	£ 1,758.10	£ l,8O2.!O	S 1,847.20	S i,B8W	S 1.931,30
Step 7	6soalhs	S 1,809.50	$ 1,845,70	5 1*891,80	5 1,939.10	£ 1,982.70	£ 2*027.30
Step 8	6 tMtllbt	S 1,900.00	$ 1,938.00	S 1.986.50	S 2,036.20	£ 2,082.00	S 2.128,80
Step 9	fr moMbt	$ 1.995.00	S L034.90	£ 2,085.80	5 2,137.90	£ 2,186,00	$ 2^35,20
Step !0	6 mauhs	$ 2302.50	& 2348.60	£ 2.407.30	$ 2*467.50	£ 2,523.00	S 2,579.80
jobcot>e job title
B009J0	OLfTSID E NTWK DESIGN
208
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - VX							
Step	ttaraitannt Consideration Period	Current Wise Scbed	Application of GWI				
			4/4/2004 10%	4/3/2 MS 2,5%	4/2/2006 2.5%	4/1/2007 2*25%	44/20M 1.15%
Entry		S 948.00	$ 967.00	t 991,20	J 1,016.00	$ L0J8.90	S 1*06230
Step J	6 month)	$ 136130	$ 1,390.60	S 1,425.40	5 1,461.00	$ 1,493.90	$ 1.527.50
Step f	4 hk n til r	J L53159	$ 1,566,20	3 1,605.4ff	J / *64 536	5 1*60230	$ 1*720.40
Siej> 2	4 mentis	S 1,612.40	$ 1,644.60	$ 1,685 70	$ 1,727,80	5 1,766,70	$ 1*806.50
Step 3	6 month!	S 1,692.70	5 L726.60	5 1,769.80	S 1,814.00	S 1,854.80	S 1.896,50
Step 4	6 nKnjlh»	S 1,777. BO	S 1,813.40	$ 1,858 70	S 1,905.20	S 1,948.10	$ 1*991.90
Step 5	4 n»ath»	$ ) ,86660	5 1,903,90	5 1,951.30	S 2,00030	5 2,04530	S 2*09 L 30
Step 6	6 month)	S 1*960.00	S 1,99920	5 2,049.20	5 2,100,40	$ 2,147.70	$ 2*196.00
Step?	6 month)	S 2*058.10	S 2,099,30	S 2,151.80	S 2,205.60	S 2,255,20	S 2*305.90
StepS	4 month)	$ 2*16090	S 2,204.10	$ 2.259,20	$ 2,315.70	5 2*367,80	$ 2*421.10
Step 9	6 month)	$ 2*2600	S 2,314.20	£ 2*372.10	$ 2,431.40	S 2*486.10	S 2,542.00
Step 10	& moutha	S 2,551.30	$ 2,602.30	S 2.667,40	£ 2/734.10	5 2*795 60	$ 2,858.50
JOB CODE	JOB TITLE	EdtSQPX	JOB TITLE ’
BOO J 60	ASSOC TELE SPEC-COND	BO1436	TELECOMM SPEC-SW
B0M19	TELECOMM SPEC-CSPI;	JMM414	TELECOMM	SPtiC-T/P/T
BOU! 8 TELECOMM SPEC’ONE
Salary Grade-VV							
Step	Duration nf Corntderatfon ftefcd	Current WiigeSebed	Appllcntton of GWI				
			4/4/201M 10%	4/3/2OTS 2.5%	4/2/2006 23%	4f1/2MT 2*25%	4/6/2008 2.25%
Entry		S 597jW	S 608.90	S 624.10	5 6J9.70	$ 654J <3	S 66B.8O
Siep J	6 month)	$ 85830	$ 875.50	S 897.40	S 919.80	S 94030	$ 961.70
Step 1	6 month*	S 96660	S 985.90	S 1*010.50	S 1*035.80	S 1,059.10	S 1,082.90
Step!	6 month)	$ 3*015.00	$ 1*035.30	$ 1<M51.2O	$ 1*087,70	S 1*112.20	S 3,137.20
Step 3	6 month)	S 1*065.90	$ 1*087,20	$ 1J 14.40	$ 1.14230	5 1*368.00	S 1,19430
Step 4	6 month)	J 3*119.40	5 1*14130	$ 1,17030	5 1,199,60	S 1,226.60	S 1,254.20
StrpS	6 month)	S 1*175.00	S 1*198.50	S 1*228.50	S 1359,20	5 1.287.50	S 131630
Step 6	6 month)	S 1,234.20	S 1*258.90	$ 1,290.40	1 1,322,70	S 1*352.50	J 1,382.90
Step 7	6 month)	S 1395.60	5 1321.50	S 3,354.50	S 1388,40	S 1*419.60	S 1*45130
Step 8	6 month)	$ 1*360.60	5 1383.80	$ 1.J22.SO	$ 1,458.10	S 1,490.90	S 1324.40
Step 9	6 month!	S L42B.60	$ 1.457.20	S 1,493,60	S 1*530,90	S 136530	S 1,600,50
Step 10	6 month)	$ 1.793,70	S 1,829.60	S 1*875.30	$ 1,922.20	5 1*965,40	5 2,009.60
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
B0092S OFFICE ASST-CO1N TEL
209
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - XA							
	Duration of		A		ppUcatlon oigwi		
	C<wid«rHfca	Current	4/4/2004	40/2005	4/2/2 DM	4/1/2007	4/6/20M
Step	Period	Wage Sched	2.0%	2,5%	15%	2.15%	2,28%
Entry		$ 888.13	$ 905.90	5 92850	$ 951.70	$ 973.10	5 995,00
Step ,5	ft months	£ 1,277 50	S 1,303.10	3 1,335.70	S 1*369,10	S 1,399.90	S 1,431.40
Step 1	ft month*	$ 1,439.00	S 1,467.80	£ 1.504.50	J 1*542.10	$ 1,576.80	$ 1.612.30
Step 2	ft month*	£ 1,510.70	$ 1,540.90	S 1,579.40	$ 1,618.90	5 1,655.30	S 1,692.30
Step 3	ft months	£ 1.5tSfi.3O	S 1,618.00	S 1,558,50	J 1,700,00	3 1,738.30	$ L777.40
Step 4	ft month*	$ 1,665.60	$ t ,698.90	£ 1,741.40	S 1.784.90	$ 1*825. 10	£ 1,86620
Step 5	ft months	I 1,748.80	$ 1,783.80	$ 1.828.4 it	S 1.874,10	5 1*910,30	S 1,959.40
Step 6	ft month*	$ L, 836.10	$ 1,872.80	S 1,939.60	$ 1,967.60	$ 2,0 IL 90	$ 2,057,20
Step 7	ft months	S 1*927.90	5 1.966.50	S 2,015.70	£ 1066.10	5 1112,60	S 2,160.10
Step 8	0 RMELtte	$ 2,024.40	$ 1064.90	$ 2,116.50	$ 1169.40	5 2,218.20	$ 2,268,10
Step 9	ft months	$ 2,125.30	S 2*167.80	$ 2,222.00	$ 2*277.60	£ 2*328.80	$ 2,381.20
Step 10	ft months	S 2,43130	1 2*480.90	S 2,542.90	£ 2.606,30	£ 1665.10	S 1725.1ft
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
BQ 1010	PLT ANALY-CAB LE.C&M
BO 1015	PLT ANAL Y-CORR PROT
JOB CODE J0B[1TLE
BO]020 PLVANALY-IND INTER
BO ] 02 5	PLT AN AL Y-TRAN S
Salary Grade - XB							
Step	Durartaa nf Consideration Period	Current Wane&hed	Application of GWI				
			4/4/2 0 W 2,0%	4/3/2005 2.5%	4/2/2006 2.5%	4/1/2007 2.25%	4/6/2008 2.25%
Entry		5 833.70	S 850.40	5 871.70	S 893*50	£ 913.60	S 934.20
Step J	fa months	S 1*198.90	S 1*222.90	S 1153.50	S 1184.80	£ 1*313.70	S 1*343.30
Step 1	6 nontbs	S 1*350.30	S 1*377.30	£ 1*411*70	5 1*447.00	£ 1.479-60	S 1*512.90
Step 2	fa moolbi	S 1*417.40	$ 1,445 70	$ 1*481.80	S 1,518.80	£ 1.553.00	S 1*587.90
Step 3	6 months	£ 1*488.70	£ 1*518.50	S IJ55.J0	£ 1*595.40	$ 1.631.30	$ 1*668.00
Step 4	ft atoolbs	£ 1*562.90	S 1,594.20	S 1,634 1 0	$ 1*67500	£ J.7J2.70	£ 1,751.20
Step 5	fa Deaths	S 1*641,20	S 1.674.00	S 1*715.90	S 1*758.80	£ 1798.40	£ 1,838.90
Step ft	ft months	5 t *723.60	S 1,758.10	5 1*802.10	£ 1*847.20	$ 1.888.80	5 1,931.30
Step 7	fa Deaths	S 1*809,50	S 1,845*70	J 1,891.80	S 1*939.10	$ 1,982.70	S 1027.30
Slep 8	fa months	$ 1*900.00	$ 1,938.00	S 1,986.50	$ 2*036.20	$ 2,082.00	£ 2*128.80
Slep 9	fa nxmthi	£ 1,995.00	5 2,034.90	£ 2,085.80	J 2*137.90	$ 2,186.00	S 2,235 20
Slep 10	fa man ths	S 2,551.30	£ 2.602.30	£ 1667.40	£ 2*734.10	S 2,795.60	£ 2.858 50
JOB CODE	JOB TITLE
210
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade-XC					
Dnrtilo&M	A		ppIicBtiou <*f GWI		
C«Biidfr*dM 1998 Cwrert	4/4/20M	4/3/2005	4/2/2006	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	period	J/15/2WH	2,0%	JJ-%	2.5%	2,25%	2J5%
Entry	i 833.70	5 85040	5 871.70	5 89J.5O	3 913.60	3 934,20
Step .5	* DMfitkt	$ 1,198,90	3 1,222,90	5 1,253,50	3 1,284,80	5 1,313,70	3 1.343J0
Step 1	S 1,35030	3 1377 JO	5 1,411.70	£ 1,447.00	S 1,479.60	3 LJ 12.90
Step 2	* nmtki	3 1,417,40	* 1,445.70	5 lp48J,80	5 1,5 IMO	$ IJ53.MI	3 1,587.90
Step 3	9 moat hi $ 1,488,70	$ 1,518.50	$ 1.536,50	3 1,595.40	5 1,631,36	5 1,668.00
Step 4	♦■wnt hx	J 1,562.90	S 1J9420	$ 1,634.10	£ 1,675,00	S 1,712.70	S 1,751.20
Step 5	6 ■noth* $ 1,641.20	S 1,674.00	5 IJ 15,90	$ 1,758.80	$ 1,798,40	3 1.83890
Step 6	fciMBtbi	$ 1,723.60	S 1,758.10	& 1,802 JO	S 1,847.20	$ 1,888.80	5 L93r,30
Step 7	tnmrthi	$ IJO9.5O	3 1,845.70	5 U91.80	8 1,939.10	I 1,982.70	5 2.027J0
Step 8	tniMthi	5 1,89980	$ 1,937.80	S 1,986.20	$ 2,035.90	$ 2hOR1.70	$ 2,128.50
Step 9	inMth	3 1,995,00	3 2,034.90	5 2,085,80	£ 2,137.90	5 2.18600	3 2.235.20
Step 10	9 nwntha 3 2,271X70	$ 2316,10	S 2,374.06	$ 2,433,40	S 2,488.20	$ 2.544.20
JOB COOK JOB TITLE
Salary Grade- XD					
Duration M	A		ppilciffen oPGWI		
CoBiidernUo*	Current	4/4/2004	4/3/2005	4/2/20M	4/U2007	4/6/2MR
Step	Prrlod	WiiEe Scbfd	2.0%	1.5%	2.5%	1.2S%	2.15%
Entry	S 948.00	S 967.W	5 991.20	3 1,01600	S >.038.00	3 1.062.30
Step ,5	* oMtht	$ I.36J JO	3 IJ90.60	$ 1,425,40	3 1,461.00	3 1,493,90	3 l.527_50
Slept	tinMita	$ 1x535.50	5 1,566.20	S 1,603.40	3 1,645.50	3 1,682.50	$ 1,720.40
Step 2	4«*atJn $ 1.612,40	5 1,644.60	3 1,685,70	S 1.727.80	$ 1,766.70	S 1,806.50
Step 3	6 twmttea J 1,692.70	3 1,726.60	$ 1,769,80	S 1J 14.00	I 1.834,60	3 1 J96.50
Step 4	4 matin 1 1,777,80	S 1 Ji 3,40	S 1.858.70	3 1,905,20	3 1,948,10	3 1,991.90
Step 5	6 mot tei	3 1,866.60	S 1,903.90	$ 1,951.50	3 2,000.30	1 2.043.30	3 2,091.30
Step 6	a Mauth*	S t,96G.G0	3 1,999.20	X 2,049.20	3 2,100,40	J 2.M7.70	3 2JW.W
Step 7	6 HMnthi 3 2,058,10	S 2,099.30	S 2,151.80	$ 2,205.60	I 1^55.20	$ 2,305,90
Step 8	AnMutht	S 2,160.90	S 2JQ4.10	S 2.259.20	I 2.3I5.TO	I 2.367.80	S 2,421.10
Step*	*«Mk>	$ 2.26880	$ 2J 14.20	$ 2J72.IO	3 2,431.40	S 2,486.10	$ 2.542.00
Step IO	4owttkt $ 2.440,40	3 2,489.20	S 2JSL40	3 2,615.20	S 2,674.00	S 2,734.20
JOB COOK JOB TITLE
2tl
WAGESCHEDULES
Salary Grade *XE							
Step	Damtnnnf CnnUderntlnn Ptrfal	Current Wage Sehrt	Application of GWI				
			4/4/2604 2.0%	4/3/1005 1x5%	4/2/1006 2.5%	4/1/200? 1,15%	4/6/2008 it.15%
Entry		$ 833.70	£ 8 50.40	5 871.70	£ 893,50	S 91360	£ 93420
Step J		$ 1,198,90	£ 1322-9Q	S 1,253,50	£ 1.284.80	5 UI 3,70	S 1.34X30
Step 1	« month*	$ 135030	S 1J77.3O	S MJ 1,70	£ 1.447.00	S 1,479,60	£ 1,512.90
Step I		t 1,417,40	S 1,445,70	£ 1,481.80	$ 1,518.80	S 1,553.00	5 1,587.90
Step 3	4 months	$ 1,488.70	S 1,518.30	S 1,556,50	J J.595.40	S 1,631,30	$ I.66W
Step 4	6 nnnths	$ 1,562.90	$ 1,59420	S 1334.10	$ L675OO	£ 1,712.70	5 1,751.20
Step 5	*M»thf	£ 1,641.20	S 137400	S 1,715,90	£ 1,758.80	$ 1.798,40	5 1,838.90
Step*	6 rtKMlfhs	J L72J.60	5 2,758.10	£ 1,8(1230	J 1,847.20	s	5 L9J130
Step?	* rrrtmhi	S 1309,50	J 1,845.70	$ 1391.80	£	1,939.1 0	£ 1,982.70	£ 2,02730
Step 8	6 moBtbi	I 1,900.00	£ L938.00	£ 1,986.50	$ 2,036.20	$ 2,082,00	$ 2,128,80
Step*	6 fflMthi	I 1,995.00	t 2,1)34.90	$ 2,085.80	S 2JJ7.W	I 2.186.00	£ 2,235.20
Step 1*	* mc«Uhi	1 2,440.40	£ 23S9.2U	£ 2,551.40	$ 2,615.20	$ 2,674.00	S 2.734.20
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
B00261 CIRCUIT DES TECH-SO
Salary Grade -XF							
Step	Duration of Comldr ration Ptrted	Current Wise Scfwd	Application of GW|				
			4/4/2004 2.0%	4/3/1005 13%	4/2/2006 1,5%	4/1/2M7 235%	4/6/2MS 2.25%
Entry		& 698.40	5 712.40	£ 730.20	£ 748.50	1 7dS30	S 782.50
Step ,5		$ 1,004.60	$ 1,024.70	£ 1.05030	£ 1,076.60	$ 1.10080	3 1 3 25.60
Step 1	tHWHIfte	£ U3I.8O	£ 1,154.40	£ 1,183.30	£ 1312.90	$ 1.240120	S 1,268.10
Step!	6«RM1k>	$ 1,188.60	£ IJI140	£ 1.242.70	£ 1273.80	5 1.302.50	S 133L.R0
Step 3	6	£ 1347.90	£ 1372.90	£ 1,304.70	S 1337.30	S U67.40	S 1.398.20
Step 4	6 HWUh	5 IJ10.00	S 1336,20	£ 1,369.60	S 1,403.80	S 1,435 40	$ 1,467.70
Step 5	6 awaitu	£ 1375.50	£ 1.403.00	£ 1.438.10	£ 1,474.10	S U01.3O	£ 1,54130
Step 6	6 mmhi	£ 1,444.00	$ 1/4 72.90	S 1309.70	£ 1.547,40	S 148220	S 1,617.80
Step 7	6 owtuhi	S 131650	S 1346.80	S 1.585.50	$ 1,625.10	4 L061.70	£ 1,699,10
Step 8	6 rttUDChj	£ 1392.30	£ 1424.10	S 1.664,70	S 1.706.30	S 1,744.70	S L784.00
Step 9	6 coDtnhi	£ 1,671 ,80	i t.70S. 20	£ 1,747.80	S 1,791.50	£ 1,831.80	£ l,B73.00
Step Id	6 montta	$ 1,82630	£ 136260	£ 1.909,20	S 1.956 00	l 2.000.90	£ 2,045.90
JOB CODE	JQB T ITLE	JQB CODE	JOB TITLE
BOOH IJ	ACCOUNTING ASSOCIATE	B01183 BOOS 19	ENGRG Al DE-CL/EtTG	B0137 7	SB BILLING SVCS RI-P TECH ASST-GTAS
2)2
WAGE SCHEDULES
Sa/ary Grade - XG								
Step	Cmitoid CnnUderfttlM Period	Currnt Were Sched		Application of GWI				
				4/412904 2.0%	4/3/2003 2/%	4/1/2006 2,5%	4/1/2007 2,25%	4/6/2008 2.25%
Entry		S	627.50	S 640.10	$ 656.10	5 672.50	5 687/0	$ 703.10
Step J	4 mnnto*	5	934.70	$ 953-40	3 977J0	J 13301.60	$ 1,024.10	S 1,047.10
Step 1	6 knontfes	5	1,032.70	S 1,073/0	I 1,100.60	t 1.128.10	$ 1.153.50	$ 1.179,50
Slrp 2	6t»Dtkl	5	1,105.30	S IJ27.40	S 1.135.60	5 1,184/0	S l.2l 1-20	$ 1.238,50
Step J		s	1J 60.40	S MSJ.60	S 1,2)3.20	5 1,243.50	5 1,271/0	I 1,300.10
Step 4	Omoeibt	s	1,218,00	5 1/42.40	$ 1,273,50	5 1/05,30	$ IJS4.7U	$ 1.364,70
StcpS		$	1 >279.10	S 1304.70	$ 1.337.30	5 1,370,70	$ 1/01 .M	$ 1,4 33.00
Step 6	6 moMba	s	1,34), 10	S 137000	5 1.404,30	I 1,439.40	$ 1/71/0	S 1,304.90
Step?	* iMMba	s	1,410.50	S 1,438.70	$ 1.474,70	$ 1,511.60	5 1/45.60	S 1/80.40
Step A	0 iDoalba	$	1.481,00	S 1/1060	5 1,548,40	I 1.587,10	5 1/22,80	£ 1/59/0
Step 9	* WHkib*	s	1,535.10	S 1 >586 20	S 1,625.90	1 1,666.30	J 1,704,00	5 1,742.30
Step 10		s	1,698,90	S 1,732.90	$ 1.776.20	t 1/20.60	S L&6L60	$ 1,903.50
JOII CODE JOB TITLE
BOOMS CONSTRUCTION OFC ADM
U0I175 TECH ASST-CPC
801)80 TECHASST-INE
Wiicypi; JOB TITLE
BOBOS TECHaSST-ONE BO 1400 TECH ASST-P1CS/DCPR
Salary Grade - XII					
OinriMtl	A		K’llcatlon arGWI		
Coarideratta*	Current	4/4/2404	443/2005	4/2/2M6	4/1/2007	4/6/2MS
Step	Pcriad	Wane Scfced	2,0%	2,5%	2,6%	2J5%	2.25%
Entry	$ 698,40	$ 712.40	S 730,20	8 748,SO	S 765JO	s 782,50
Step .5	6 DMthi	$ 1,040.00	S 1,060.80	5 1,00730	S 1,114,50	5 1,139.60	S 1.165.20
Step!	bnmatht	S 1,171.80	S 1.195,20	S 1-225.10	S U55.70	S 1,284.00	S 1,312.90
Step!	tmwbt	S 1/30/0	5 1/55.10	$ U86.50	S IJL8.7Q	£ 1348,40	S 1J 78.70
Step?	tmoathi $ 1 >291,90	$ L) 17.70	5 1,350.60	5 1J84.4Q	$	1,4 IS,so	S 1,447.30
Step 4	6mntb>	S 1,356.30	S 1/83,40	5 1,418.00	5 1,453.50	S 1/86.20	5 1/19.60
Step 5	6 month)	S 1.424,00	5 1/52.50	S 1,488.80	5 1,526.00	6 1/60.30	5 1.595.40
Step 6	tnwDthf	S 1,494.90	5 1,524.80	5 1,562.90	5 1/02.00	S 1/38,00	S 1/74.90
Step 7	6 tMStha	$ 1,570.00	S 1.601.40	S 1,641.40	$ 1/82,40	6 1,720.30	S 1.759.00
Siep 8	6 Doatta	$ 1,648,50	S 1.681 .SO	S 1.723,50	S 1,766.60	$ 1/06,30	5 1,846.90
Step 9	6 twoatki	$ 1,730.80	S 1.765.40	S 1,809.50	J 1.854.70	S 1/96 AO	$ 1,939.10
Step 10	b oMfliki	S 1,890.40	$ 1.928.20	5 1,976.40	5 2.025.80	S 2/7 LAO	8 2,118.00
■ion CODE JOB TITLE
80001 s nt wk translator
213
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - XI					
Duration of	A		ppIkatloD af GW1		
CoatMenttioa	Carrtni	W/10W	4/3/2005	4/2/2006	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	PerM	Wap Scfced	2.0%	2.5%	2.5%	235%	W%
Entry	$ 66130	S 674.50	S 691*40	3 708.70	$ 724.60	$ 740,90
Step .3	6 Boitki	$ 984.50	S 1*004.20	S 1,029.30	£ 1,055.00	3 L078.70	$ 1,103.00
Strpl	tmaatta	$ 1,108.70	£ 1J 30,90	5 1,159.20	S 1,188.20	S 1*214,90	5 1,242.20
Step 2	4 DODtbi	$ 1,163.70	$ 1*187,00	S 1,216.70	5 1,247 10	3 1*275 20	3 1,303.90
Step 3	* montta	3 1.222.20	£ 1*246.60	£ 1,277.80	$ 1.309.70	J 1*339.20	3 13 69 JO
Step 4	* months	$ 1,2B3.7O	3 1309.40	5 1,342.10	$ 1.375.70	3 1*406.70	3 1,438.40
Step 5	taMEta	3 1,348.00	3 1375.00	S 1,409.40	S 1,444.60	3 1,477.10	3 131030
Step 6	tnwhs	5 1,415.40	£ 1,44170	$ 1,479.80	3 1*516,80	3 1.550,90	3 1.585,80
Step 7	6n»athi	5 1,486.20	3 1*515,90	S 1.553.80	3 1392.60	3 1,628.40	3 1,665.00
Step 8	beuathi	S 1,560.60	£ 1391,80	5 1.631*60	3 1*672.40	3 1*710,00	3 1,74150
Step 9	frmaaths	$ 1,638.40	£ 1*671,20	S 1,713,00	3 1,755.80	3 1*795,30	3 1,835.70
Slep tO	tnoatta	S I.IM.JO	£ 1*826.20	$ i,B7J.9O	$ 1*918.70	3 1*961.90	$ 2,006.00
JOB CODE	JOB TITLE
BOO140 ' BQO875	ASSIGN ADMINISTRATOR NTWK. AD MIN ASSOCJ ATE
Salary Grode - WA							
	Duration nt		A		ppUcitbn of GWI		
	Conrlderatton	Current	4/4/2004	4H/2MS	4/2/2006	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	Fertal	Wage *Sched	2,0%	2*3%	L5%	2,25%	2*25%
Entry		3 580.00	$ 591.60	$ 606.40	$ 621.60	8 635.60	$ 649,90
Step *5	6 months	3 687.20	3 700.90	3 718.40	3 73640	3 75300	3 769.90
Step 1	6	3 774.20	S 789.70	3 809.40	$ 829.60	5 84830	5 867.40
Step!	6 months	3 812,80	3 829.10	£ 849.80	£ 871.00	3 89060	£ 910.60
Step 3	6 months	3 85330	S 870.60	S 892.40	S 914.70	5 93530	£ 956.30
Step 4	6 months	3 89630	3 914.10	£ 937.00	£ 960.40	S 982.00	£ 1,004.10
Step 5	b months	3 941.10	S 959.90	S 983.90	S 1,008*50	S 1031,20	£ 1,054.40
Step 6	6 months	3 98830	$ 1,008.10	£ 1,033.30	3 1,059.10	3 1,082.90	$ 1,107.30
Step?	6 me nth*	3 1*037.50	5 1,058.39	$ 1.084 80	3 1,111.90	£ 1,136,90	S 1*162.50
StcpS	6 months	3 1*089.30	$ 1,111*10	$ 1,138.90	3 1,16740	S 1,19330	3 1*220.60
Step 9	6 months	3 1*14400	5 1,166.90	S 1,196.10	3 1,226.00	£ 1,253.60	£ 1,281.80
Step 10	6 months	3 1,249.70	J 1,274.70	3 1*30660	3 1.339,30	S 1,369.40	£ 1*400 20
JOB COPE JOB TITLE
214
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - WB							
Step	Darittoa of C<m«lcknd« hrW	Current W«e» Scbed	Applknltan «f G Wl				
			4/4/2004 1.0%	4/J/J005 2.5%	4/1/2006 2.5%	4/1/2007 2.25%	+/6/20W 2.15%
Entry		$ 580.00	S 5*1,60	5 606.40	I 621,60	£ 635.60	I 649.90
Step .5	ft nwBCb)	£ 7)1.40	$ 725 60	5 743.70	$ 762.30	£ 779.50	$ 797,00
Step I	* BMthl	£ 801.50	5 KI 7.50	S 037.90	£ 858.80	S 878.10	£ 897.90
S<rp 1	4 mvntbt	£ 841,60	$ R58 40	$ 079.90	£ 901.90	$ 922.20	£ 942,90
Step 3	ftmcntbi	£ 881^0	£ 901.20	£ 923.70	S 94680	$ 968.10	£ 989,90
Step 4	ftmeutbi	S 927.60	5 946,20	S 969.90	S W4J0	S 13716.50	S 1.039.40
Step 5	ft months	S 91+30	5 993.80	5 LOI 0.6(1	S 1344.10	£ 1.067.60	£ L09L60
Step ft	ft months	5 1.022.90	$ 1.04140	t 1.069.50	5 1.096211	$ 1J 70.90	$ >.146.10
Step?	A nwnrtb	S 1.073.60	5 1JW5.10	5 1.12150	5 1350.60	S 1376.50	$ 1,20100
Step S	A noalht	S 1,127.50	5 1,150.10	S 1,178.00	£ 1308.40	5 1,235.60	£ 1363.40
Step 4	ft nsonft*	£ 1J 6830	5 1,191.60	£ 1,221.40	S U5I.W	5 1380.10	S 1,308.90
Step 10	ft nNMHhi	S 1^3.411	5 1,31930	5 1.35230	£ 1356.10	$ 1,41730	£ 1,449.20
jobcope joHtnih,
Salary Grade - WC								
Step	htrfttion ef CaedderMlnn Period	Orresi Wine Sched	Application «r GWI					
			4/4/J0M 2,0%	4/3/2005 13%	4/2/2006 2,5%	4/1/2007 235%	4/6/2008 2.25%	
Entry		S 5H0.00	$ 591.60	S 606.40	$ 621.60	£ 635.60	£	649.90
Sup .5	ft DM Bl hi	S 737.90	5 752.70	S 771.50	£ 790.80	$ 808.60	£	826,80
Step 1	ftmoftUu	S 83110	$ 847.90	£ 869.10	£ 890.80	£ 9I0.8D	$	93t30
Step 2	ft nmihi	S 872.40	£ 890,40	£ 912.70	£ 935.50	£ 456.50	£	978.00
Step 3	ft rnoBih*	$ 916.10	£ 934.40	S 957,80	£ 981.70	£ LDO1BD	£	LO26-4O
Step 4	ft ■Ddlfti	S 462.50	£ 981,80	£ 1,00630	S 1,031.50	£ 1.054.70		LO70.4O
Stq>5	ft HNftlta	S 1.0)0,50	5 t ,030,70	£ 1,056.50	£ 1,082,90	£ 1.10730	£	LB2.2O
Step 6	ft ■tMllfat	$ 1,060,60	5 L08I.80	£ 1,108.80	$ LI 36,50	£ 1,162.10	£	1,18830
Step 7	ft n»Dllh	S 1,113.70	£ 1.136,00	$ 1.164.40	S 1,19330	£ 1.220.40	1	1.247,90
Step H	ft	S Id 6960	£ Id93.00	£ 1322.80	£ 135 J .40	£ 1381,60		tJL0.40
Sup 9	ft months	S U27.WI	S IJ52.5O	£ 1,28180	t 1,315.M>	S 1.345.50	5	1375.80
Step 10	ftmoWH	$ 1341.60	£ 1368.40	$ L+02,60	$ 1,437,70	£ 1.470.00	i	L50M0
MBCTnit MMimt
215
WAGE schedules
Salary Grade -WD							
Step	Damtloaaf Consideration PerM	Carrtnt W*e* *idied	Appticatboo *rcwi				
			4/4/20*4 2.0%	44/2046 1S%	4/2/2006 2.5%	4/1/2007 2.25%	4/6/200H 2,25%
Entry		$ 5xo.no	£ 591.60	£ 606.40	S 62160	£ 635 60	£ 649,90
Step -5	6 nwalki	5 767.00	$ 782.30	£ 801.90	S 821.90	£ 84040	£ K59J0
Step 1	6 mo albs	$ 863.70	$ 881.00	£ 903,00	$ 925 60	t <M6.J0	5 967.70
Slepi	6 nwnlbs	$ 90730	£ 925.40	£ 948.50	S 972.20	£ 994.10	5 1.016,50
Step 3	6 *w»oth$	£ 95240	5 971.40	S 995,70	£ 1,020.60	£ 1.043 60	£ 1,067,10
Step 4	A ajanthi	$ 1,00000	S L020.00	£ 1JM5.5O	£ 1,071.60	S 1.095-70	$ 1,120.40
Step 5	6 CWMtrht	$ 1,050-20	$ 1J07I.20	£ 1,098,00	5 1,125.50	£ 1J50.80	£ 1,176,70
Step 6	6 maathi	$ 1,102.70	S 1,124.8(1	£ 1,152,90	£ 140L70	S 1.208,30	£ 1.235.50
Step?	♦ nwatbi	£ 1,137.60	$ 1,180.80	£ 1,210.30	S 1.240.60	S 1,268.50	£ 1.29700
Step S	6 maaihi	£ L2I5.5O	S 1,239,8(1	5 1,270,80	S 1.303, Mi	S 1.331,90	£ IJ61.90
Step 9	a njaniJli	$ U76.4O	J 1,301.90	£ 1434.40	£ 1367.80	S 1.398.60	£ L430.10
Step 10	6 month!	$ 1J94J0	£ 1,422.40	$ 1,458.00	£ L49430	S 1.528.10	S 1.562,50
job cope JQRJJTLE
Salary Grade- WE							
Step	D«raOM«< Consideration Period	Catrcbt Wire Scked	Application of GWI				
			4/4/2044 2,0%	4/3/2005 2.5%	4/2/2006 2.5%	4/1/2007 2.25%	44/ZMU 2.25%
Entry		$ 580,00	1 391. Mi	£ 606.40	S 621.60	$ 63560	£ 649.90
Step J	6 monlb*	$ 799.40	£ 815,40	£ 835.80	5 856.70	£ 876-00	5 895,70
Step I	frmoiMkt	£ 900.20	J 91S.30	S 941,20	S 964,70	£ 986.40	5 1.008.60
Step 2	6 fnaaibi	£ 94520	$ 964.10	S 988,20	£ 1.0)2,90	S 1.035.70	S 1,039,00
Step 3	6 manlbt	1 W2.40	S 1.012.20	£ 1,037.50	£ 1,063.40	S LQ87,30	£ 1JL1.80
step 4	6 aMutha	£ I.Q42JQ	S 1,062,90	£ 1,089,50	$ 1.116.70	£ 1J4I.KO	S 1.167,30
SiepS	6 vaarha	£ 1.094.30	£ 1.116.20	£ 1.144.10	$ 1,172.70	5 1,199.10	S 1,226,10
Step 6	6 twiaths	£ 1,148.80	3 IJ7I.80	S 1,201.10	$ 1.231.10	S 1.2500	£ L.2M7.I0
Step 7	6 HMBlha	£ 1,206.10	S 1230.20	£ 1.261.00	$ LJ92.50	5 1,321.60	S 1,351-30
Step 8	6 month!	5 1,266.40	5 1,291,70	£ 1,324.00	S 1357.10	£ 1,387.60	£ L418.80
Step*	6 miiolb!	5 1,329.60	S 1,356.20	S U90.J0	S 1,424.90	$ 1.457.00	I 1,489,80
Step 10	6 mnnlhi	£ M52.W	$ 1,482.00	S 1.5L9.J0	S 1,557.10	S 1.592,10	£ 1,627,90
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
216
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grady. WF							
	Damtion of		A		ppi (cation of GWI		
	CoBvIderftJM	f?WFrrtJ	4/4/2 904	4/3/2005	42/2006	4/JZ2M7	4/6/2m
Step	Period	Wane Sched	2.0%	23%	23%	2.25%	2,25%
Entry		$ 580OT	£ 591,60	£ 606,40	£ 621,60	$ 635.60	£ 649.90
Step .5	i DQWtbl	$ 83410	$ 850.90	$ 87220	$ 894.00	£ 914,10	£ 934.70
Step 1	fcMWtbi	$ 9J9.90	£ 958.70	£ 982.70	S 1,007.30	£ 1,03 0.00	S 1.053.20
Step 2	tonite	£ 987.00	5 1,006.70	$ 1,031.90	$ 1,057,70	£ 1,OB1JO	S I.I05.KO
Step 3	4 tpaiilhs	$ 1,036,20	£ 1,056.90	S 1,08130	S 1,11040	£ 1,135.40	S 1,160.90
Step 4	d mo lit be	$ 1,087.90	£ 1,109.70	£ 1,13740	£ 1,165.80	£ IJ 92.00	$ 1,218.80
Step 5	0 month	S 1,142.50	$ 1,165.40	S 1,194.50	$ 1,224.40	£ 1,251.90	£ 1,280.10
Step 6	• BMMitta	£ 1,199,30	£ 1223.30	£ 1,253.90	£ 1,285.20	S 1,314.10	1 1,343.70
Step 7	bamotln	5 1,259.20	S 1284.40	£ 1J16.50	£ 1,34940	£ 1,379.80	£ 1,410.80
Step $	OoMfftfrr	J 1,322.20	S J 343.60	J U 32.30	£ J,4|6.9O	£ 1,448.80	J MS 1.40
Step 9	boo nth	$ Mafl.oo	$ 1,415.80	£ 1,451-20	$ 1,487.50	$ 1,521.00	$ 1 .sjj.io
Step 1*	0 month	$ 1,516.70	$ 1347.00	I 1,585.70	$ 1,625.30	£ 1,661.90	$ 1,699.30
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
800185 B08O23 808024	AUTO MESSENGER GN L OFC ASSOC-C S	fXew tide - tjSfwfrr f/i Mty H.I-S & FIN ASST-CIS	nut»(jjirctrw
Salary Grade - WG							
Step	[htritbaa «f ComMeralian PerM	Current Witte Scbed	Application of GW|				
			4/4/2 OM 2.0%	4/3/2005 2J%	4/2/2006 25%	4/1/2007 2.15%	4/6/2008 2.25%
Entry		$ 607.10	$ 6)9.20	$ 634.70	$ 650.60	£ 665.20	£ 680.20
Step .5	Bawnlbr	£ 873.40	£ 890.90	£ 913.20	5 936.00	£ 957.10	5 978,60
Step 1	6 nwnth	$ 983.50	$ 1/XH.2Q	£ 1,028.30	$ 1,054.00	$ 1,077.70	£ 1,101,00
Step 2	a ma kt bl	£ 1,032.60	£ 1,053.30	S 1,079.60	£ 1,106.60	£ 1,131,50	S Id 57.00
Step 3	b month	£ 1,084.10	£ 1,105.80	£ 1,133.40	£ 1,161.70	£ 1,187.80	$ 1,2)450
Step 4	frmMibi	£ 1,138.20	S 1,16100	£ 1,190.00	S 1,219,80	S 1,247,20	S 1,275,30
.step 5	t oral hr	£ 1,195.50	£ 1,219.40	£ 1,249,90	£ Jr28]JO	£ 1,309.90	£ 1,339.40
Step 6	4 maafh*	S 1,254,90	£ 1280.00	S 1,312,00	S 1,344.80	£ 1,375.10	£ 1,406.00
Step 7	6 month	£ 1,317.90	S 1344,30	$ 1,377.90’	£ 1.412.30	£ 1.444.10	£ 1,476.60
Step 8	6 month	£ 1,383.70	£ 1,411.40	$ 1,446.70	$ 1,482.90	£ 1,316,30	S 1,550.40
Step 9	6 Rmitta	£ 1,453.00	S 1482.10	$ L5J9JO	$ 1,557.20	£ 1,592.20	£ 1,628.00
Step 10	inwnlh	£ 1,587.40	£ 1,619.10	£ 1,659.60	5 L 701.10	£ 1,739.40	£ L778.50
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
B08025 SPECIALIST CAG-C1S	Q&vfiiilr
B08O26 SUPPORT TECH’CIS	7//MW
217
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade ■ WH							
	Daratica flt		A		pplication of GW1		
	Cntllideraticn	Current	4/4/2004	4/3/2065	4/2/20M	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	Period	Wage Sfhtd	2 0%	2.5%	2.5%	2,25%	2.25%
Entrv		J 636.70 r	$ 649-40	S 66560	$ 6B2.20	5 69750	£ 713.20
Step *5	6 mouths	£ 915.70	3 934.00	S 957.40	S 981.30	3 1,003X0	S 1,026.00
Step 1	6 month*	£ 1,03140	$ 1,052.00	$ 1*07830	$ 1,105.30	£ 1,130.20	£ 1,155.60
Step 2	6 month!*	S 1,08300	5 1,104.70	S 1,132,30	S 1,160.60	S 1,186.70	3 1,213X0
Step 3	6 aoalhs	J 1*137.20	$ 1,159.90	$ 1*188.90	$ 1,218.60	$ 1,246.00	£ 1,274.00
Step 4	6 month*	S 1,193.50	$ 1,217.40	£ 1*247.80	$ 1,279.00	S 1,307.80	£ 1,337.20
Steps	6 month 1	$ 1*253.40	5 1,278.50	S 1,310.50	S 1,343.30	S 1,373x50	S 1*404.40
Step 6	6 months	S 1,31630	S 1,342.60	$ 1,376.2ft	£ 1,410-60	$ 1,442.30	£ 1,474.80
Step 7	6 cmMhs	S 1*381.90	3 1,409.50	S 1,444.70	£ 1,480.80	3 1,514.10	S 1,540.20
Step 8	6 moalhs	S 1,450.90	3 1,479.90	£ 1*51690	$ 1,554.80	5 1,589.80	£ 1,625.60
Step 9	& month*	$ 1*523.80	£ 1,554.30	£ 1,593.20	5 1,633.00	£ 1,669.70	S 1,707.30
Step 10	6 mortfhi	S 1,664 60	S 1,697.90	3 1,740 30	$ L7D.80	S 1,823.90	£ 1*864.90
JOB CODE	JOB TITLE
BM878	NTWK CONTROL ADMIN
Salary Grade - Wl							
	Deration of		A		pplle*lloP ofGWI		
	Ceaslde ratio*	Current	4/4/JOM	4/3/2005	4/2/2006	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	F tri nd	WikieSchtd	1A)%	2,5%	2.5%	1.15%	1,15°/-
Entry		£ 669.50	$ 682.90	S 700JXJ	£ 717.50	$ 733.60	S 750t0
Step ,5	6 months	S 963.00	5 98230	£ 1,006.90	S 3,032.10	S 1,055.30	J 1,079.00
Step 1	6 months	$ 1,084.7ft	$ 1,106.40	$ 1,134.10	$ 1,162.50	$ 1*188.70	S 1*21540
Slep 2	6 months	S 1,133.60	$ 1,161.40	5 Lr 190.40	£ 1*220,20	S 1*247,70	S 1,275.80
Step 3	ij month*	S 1,196.10	S 1,320.00	£ 1,250.50	$ 1281.80	S L3W.60	$ 1,340.10
Step 4	6 months	$ 1,255.50	£ 1,280,60	S 1,312.60	$ 1,345,40	£ t,375,70	S 1,406,70
Step 5	6 muntha	$ l,318J0	£ 1,344.70	£ 1,378.30	S 1*412.80	£ 1*444.60	$ 1*477.10
Step 6	6 months	S 1,384,20	£ 1,411.90	$ 1,447.20	$ 1,483.40	£ 1*516.80	S 1*550.90
Step 7	6 months	J 1,453.40	£ 1*482.50	S 1,519.60	S 1*557.60	S 1,592.60	£ 1,628.40
Step&	4 months	£ t.526.20	£ 1,556.70	£ 1,59560	S lj635.5Q	S 1.67130	£ 1,709 90 1
Step 9	6 months	£ 1,602.30	S 1,63430	S 1,67520	S 1,717,10	S 1*755.70	S 1,79520
Step 10	6 months	S 1,750.60	S 1,785.60	$ 1,830.20	S 1*876.00	£ 1*918.20	$ 1*961.40
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
218
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - WJ							
Step	Crntfdr ratten Period	CurrrtU WreeSrhed	Application of GWI				
			4/4/2W4 10%	t/J/JW 2*5%	4/2/2006 23%	4/1/2007 2.25%	4/5/2008 7,25%
Enlrv		5 705,40	$ 719,30	3 737.50	S 755.90	£ 772.90	S 790.J0
Step .i	4 nontta	S 1,014.50	S LUJ4.80	$ 1,060.70	S 1.087,20	£ 1,11170	S IJJ6.70
Step I	4 MM*ths	$ 1,143.10	$ 1,166.00	S 1*195.20	S 1*225.10	S 1*252.70	S 1.230.90
Strpl	4 rnnthi	S 1,199.90	£ 1,213.90	£ 1*254.50	$ 1*285.90	$ 1J 14.80	S I.JLLJD
Step 3	fr motto	$ 1,259,70	5 1*234.90	5 1317,00	$ 1*349.90	$ 1,380.30	S 1,411.40
Step 4	6tnonlto	S 1.322.90	5 134940	3 1.383.10	J 1*417,70	$ 1,449.60	S 1*482.20
Strp 5	fcnualht	5 1.383.80	5 1,41660	3 1.45100	3 1*488.30	£ 1.52180	S 1*556.00
Step 6	6 mofflta	S 1.458.80	S 1,488.00	$ 1,52120	£ 1*563.30	S 1.598.50	$ 1*634.50
Strp 7	6 motto	£ 1,531.60	$ 1,562,20	$ 1*601.30	$ 1*641 JO	S 1.678.20	S 1*716.00
Strp 8	6 matto	5 1,6000	£ 1,640.20	1 1*681.20	S 1*723.20	$ 1,762.00	S 1*801.60
Step *	tnwntto	£ 1*688.10	S 1*721.90	I 1,761,90	S 1,809.00	S 1,849.70	S 1.391.30
Strp IQ	4 monlto	5 1.844,30	$ 1.88)20	$ i.m.20	1 1.976,40	S 2,020.90	S 2,066.40
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
BOOSIS MATL DIST DRIVER
B0S027	SR ASSOC-DB AD MN-C1S	(lUnrHH,.	VI IW
Salary Grade-WK							
	Dttrallwltf		A		pplfctoton nf GWI		
	Contlderatlon	Ctorrnt	4/4/2M4	4/3/200$	4/2/20M	4/1/2007	4/6/1008
Step	Petted	WfrttSched	2x0%	2.5%	Z.5%	2,25%	2*25%
Entry		$ 74110	X 76000	$ 779.00	$ 798.50	£ 816.50	i sjj.vo
Strp .5	6 months	£ 1.071.50	S 1,392,90	S ), 120,20	$ 1*148 20	5 1*174.00	S 1 *200.40
Step 1	6mntb«	$ 1.206.90	3 1,231.00	S 1*261.80	£ 1^93.30	S 1,322.40	£ 1*352.20
Strpl	6 months	3 1,267.20	$ 1,292.50	£ 1,324,80	$ 1*357.90	S 1,388.50	5 1*419.70
Step 3	6 months	3 1,330.40	3 1357.00	J U90,90	S 1*425.70	S 1*457.80	S 1*49060
Step 4	6 mnntto	3 IJ97JD	£ 1.425.00	$ 1,460.60	£ 1.497,10	S 1430.80	$ 1.565,20
Sfep J	6 MMfto	J 1.46150	5 1,495.80	5 U3120	£ 1*571,50	S 1*606.90	$ 1.643.IU
Step 6	6 MMItto	£ 1.540,20	3 1,571.00	S 1,610.30	£ 1*65060	£ L6K7.70	S 1*725.70
Step 7	6 months	S 1.6)7,311	3 1,649,60	8 1,690.80	$ 1*733.10	S 1,772.10	S 1*812*00
Step 8	6montto	3 1*698.00	£ 1,732,00	£ lt775JO	£ 1*819,70	£ 1,860.60	S 1,902.51)
Step 9	6 montha	3 1*783.10	S IJD8.B0	S 1*864,30	£ 1*910,90	S 1*953.90	$ 1*997,90
Step 10	6 montta	S 1,948.00	£ 1,987.00	S 2,036.10	$ 2,087.60	£ 2*134.60	$ 2.182.60
JOB CODE JQB TITLE
B00978 PAY TELEPHONE TECH
219
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - WL							
Step	Duration nf ComM nation Period	Current W^SchMl	Application of GWI				
			4'4/2004 1.0%	4/3/2 MS 2.5%	4/2/2066 2,5%	4/1/20Q? 2.25%	4/6/2008 2.25%
Entry		S 78860	S 804.40	5 824.50	S 845.10	$ 864.10	$ 883.5O
Slfp .5	4 months	£ IJJ4.10	$ 1J 56. B0	S 1 JB3.7O	3 1J1530	S 1,242,60	$ 1,270. Mi
Step 1	4 owmbi	S 1,277,20	5 1,302.70	$ 1.335-30	S 1,368.70	£ 1,399.50	S 1.431,00
Step 2	4 maerirt	£ 1,341.20	$ 1368.00	$ ] ,402.20	$ 1,437.30	£ 1,469,60	£ 1,502,70
Step 3	Amoathi	S 1,408.40	£ 1.436.60	$ j.mjo	$ 1,509.30	S 1,543.30	5 L578.OO
Step 4	6 months	S M7N.6O	$ JJ08.20	S J .545,90	£ 1,584,50	S 1,620.20	J 1,656.70
Step 5	6 months	S 1,552.80	$ 1,583.90	£ 1,623,50	$ 1.664.10	£ 1,701.50	$ 1,739.80
Step 6	6 months	$ 1,630.40	S 1,663.00	$ 1,704.60	S 1,747.20	£ 1,786.50	5 1.£26,70
Step?	4 (WMttbs	$ 1,711.90	5 1,746,10	£ 1,789.80	3 1,834.50	S 1,875.80	S 1,91800
Step#	A months	S 1.797.40	£ 1,833.30	£ U79.J0	S 1,926.10	3 1,969.40	S 2,013.70
Step $	A months	S 1M7.50	$ 1,925.30	$ 1,973.40	S 2,022.70	S 2,068.20	S 2J 14,70
Step 10	4 months	$ 2J06I.W	S 2.1U3.IO	S 2,155.70	£ 2^209.60	S 2,259.30	$ 2JLO.LO
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
Salary Grade - WM							
Step	Duration •/ CensidmtiDn Period	Cnrrcnl Wft£c Sehed	A		pplicatiotiof GWI		
			4/4/2004 2.0%	4/3/209$ X5%	4/2/2006 2*5%	4/1/2007 2.15%	4/6/2008 2,25%
Enlry		£ 836.50	£ R53.2O	S 874.50	3 896,40	$ 916.60	$ 937.20
Step .5	6 menths	S 1.245.50	£ 1,270.40	$ 1.302.20	£ 1,334.80	£ 1,364.80	S 1,395.50
Step 1	6 months	S 1,402.90	£ 1,431.00	S 1466.80	£ 1,503.50	J 1.537.30	S 1,571,90
Step!	b rwontbi	$ 1,473.20	S 1.502.70	£ 1,540.30	£ 1,578.80	£ 1,614.30	£ L65O.6D
Step 3	4 mo al hi	$ 1.546.60	S 1,577.50	5 1,616.90	J 1,65730	£ 1,694.60	S 1.732.70
Step 4	fr months	S 1,624.20	£ 1,656.70	S 1,698 10	£ 1,740.60	£ 1,779.80	J 1,819,80
Step 5	6 months	S 1,705.20	S 1,739.30	£ l,782,SO	$ 1,827.40	S 1,868.50	S 1,910.50
Step 6	6 mnntha	£ 1,790.40	5 1,826.20	$ I.R7L.9O	S 1,918.70	5 1,961.90	S 2,006 00
Step 7	6 months	J 1,879.90	5 1,917,50	£ 1,965,40	£ 2,014.50	£ 2,059.80	£ 2d0610
Step 8	6 months	S 1,973 60	S 2JJ13.I0	& 2.063.40	S 2,115,00	3 2,162.60	$ 2.21130
Step 9	6 months	S 2,072.50	$ 2.114.00	S 2J66.90	£ 2,221.10	£ 2*271.10	S 2J22.2O
Step th	6 moat hi	S 2.264.30	S 2,309,60	S 2,367.30	£ 2.426.50	£ 2,481 -10	S 2,536.90
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
B0085S MOTOR EQPT 1NSP-MAIN
220
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - WN
Step	BvratfoD of Ceadderntlaa Peried	Current WagtSchcd	Applkafton of G Wl				
			4/4/2004 to%	4/3/2005 23%	4/2/2166 2.S%	411/2007 1.25%	4/6/1008 2,25%
Entry		S 889.20	S 907,00	3 929.70	3 952.90	$ 97430	3 99620
Step .$		$ 1,278.70	3 1304.30	3 1,336.90	3 UTOJO	3 1,401.10	3 1,432.60
Step ]	hmmxli*	$ 1,440-10	$ L468.90	1 1,505,66	3 1.543.20	J I.577.W	3 1.613,40
Step 1	frnotiii	3 1312.40	3 I.342.6O	$ 1,581.20	3 1,620.70	3 1,65720	3 1,694.50
Step J	frm*nrfB	s tjsm	£ 1.619,66	3 L660.I0	3 1,761.60	£ 1.739.90	3 1,779.06
Step 4	4 month*	3 1,467.20	3 1,700.50	3 1,743.00	S 1,786.60	3 1.826.80	3 1.867.90
Step 5	4 month*	3 1,750.90	S 1.785,90	S 1.830.50	S 1,876,30	3 1.918,50	3 1,961.70
Step 6	4 month*	3 1.838.40	3 1,873,20	3 1,92210	5 1,970,20	3 2.014,50	3 2,059J<0
Step?	4 month*	3 1MJO	3 1.968.90	3 2,01840	3 2,068.60	3 2415.10	3 2J 62,70
StepM	4 month*	3 2,026.60	3 2,06740	S 2,118.80	3 2J7),8O	3 2.120,70	$ 2,270,70
Step 9	4 months	$ 2,127.90	3 2,170,50	3 2,224.80	3 2310.40	3 2331.70	3 238430
Step 10	4 mmKh*	3 2,325.10	3 2371.60	3 2,430.90	3 2.491.70	5 2,547.80	3 2,605,10
JOB CODE	JOB TITLE.	JOB CODE	JOB TITLE
B00405	CUSTOMER SVC TECH	B00895	NTWK TECH-ELECTRONIC
B0088I	ntwk delivery TECH	BOI 207	SVC DELIVTECH-BUS
B00882	NTWK DEPLOYMENT TECH		
Salary Grade-WO								
	DorhllM of		A		pplicaliun ef GW|			
	ConUderalton	Cnrrrnl	4/4/2004	4/J/2005	4/2/2006		4/1/1007	4W2M*
Step	Period	Wise SOed	2,0%	2.5%		1,5%	2.25%	2,15%
Entry		3 947,30	3 966.20	3 990.40	3	1,015.20	£ 1,038,00	S 1,061.40
Step 3	6 months	3 1,362.60	3 1489.90	S 1,424 60	$	1,460,20	3 1,493.1(1	3 1326,70
Step 1	6 wmitet	3 1,534.80	$ 1,565,50	3 1.60460	3	1,644.70	S 1,681.70	3 1,71930
Step 2	6 mowlh*	3 1.611,80	3 1,644.00	3 1,685,10	3	LS1.20	3 1.766,10	J Wi.no
Step 3	6 IMMltH	3 1,692.00	$ 1,725.80	S 1,768.90	£	1,813.10	3 1.853.90	£ 1+89S.6O
Step 4	6 monlhs	3 1.776,80	3 1,812.30	3 IJ57.60	3	1,904.00	3 1,946.80	1 1,990.60
Step 5	imwiJht	5 1,865.20	3 1.9DX5O	5 1,950.16	£	1,998 90	£ 2.043.90	3 2,089.90
Step 6	6 mnntha	3 1.958 50	£ 1,997,70	S 2.Q47.MI	3	2,098.80	3 2J46oo	S 2,194.30
Step 7	*(DOJltb»	3 2,056-50	3 2J)97,6O	$ 2,150.00	$	2,203.80	£ 2353*0	3 2,304.10
Step a	dnwnlha	3 2,15930	£ 2302.50	$ 2,257.60	£	2,314.00	3 2366. |Q	$ 2^19.30
Step 9	6 month*	3 2,267.40	$ 2312,70	3 2.370.50	3	2,429.80	£ 2,484.$o	$ 2,540.40
Step Hl	* month*	3 2,47700	3 2J26.5O	3 2.389.70	S	2,654.40	£ 2,7I4.|O	3 2,775.20
JOB CODE	JOB TITLE			JOB CODE	JOB TITLE			
B00225	BUILDING MECHANIC			BOO? 10	NTWK TECH-RADIO/VId			
BOOS 15	EMERGENCY POWER TECH			BOf.W	SUPPORT SPECSS			
B00900	NTWK TECH-MINICOMP			BOI 370	TS2CJJ ANALYST-NOC			
221
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade * WP							
Step	Dnrnttonor CeMMenlioa Prrtal	Current Wife ScM	Application of GW]				
			4/4IJ0M 2,0%	4/3/2005 2,5%	4/2/lOtt 2.5%	4W2W 215%	4/6/2008 2,25%
Enlry		$ 1,011.30	$ 1,031.50	S 1,057.50	S 1,083,70	£ 1,108.10	£ 1,133-00
Step >5	ttMUlfa,	5 1,454.40	S 1,483 JO	$ U20.60	S 1.338.60	S 1,593,70	I 1,629,60
Step 1	4 MBBlhv	S 1,637.90	£ 1,670.70	3 LJ Q.W	S 1,755.30	S 1,794.80	J 1,835-20
Step!	froxwrbt	5 1,719,50	£ 1.754,20	S 1.798.10	£ 1,843.10	£ 1,88460	S [,927.00
Step 3	6 wnths	S l,K05.M	£ 1,841.90	£ 1,887,90	£ 1,935,10	S 1,978.60	£ 2,023.10
Slep 4	4 tttfctbs	$ 1.8 WAD	J 1,934.30	S 1,982.70	£ 2X132.30	£ 2,078.00	£ 2,124.80
Step 5	6 month*	S L99I.OO	£ 2,030.80	5 2.001,60	S 2,133.60	S 2 J 81,60	S 2,230.70
Step 6	4 manila	$ 2,090.40	$ 2d 132.20	S 2,185.50	£ 2140.10	£ 2,290.50	5 2,342.00
Step?	tmealhi	S 2,195,10	1 2,239.00	$ 2,295.00	J 2.352.40	£ 2,405,30	S 2,459,40
Steps	4 most ha	£ 2,3D5.1O	£ 2J5I.20	5 2.410,00	£ 2.470.30	£ 2,325.90	£ 2,582.70
Step*	4 months	1 1,920.40	$ 2.468.80	£ 2.530.50	S 2,593.80	£ 2.652.20	S 2,711.90
Step 10	* month*	$ 2,644.40	i 2.6W.3O	$ 2.76470	S 2,833.80	£ 2J97.6O	$ 2,962.80
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
B009W PACKET SWITCH SPEC
Salary Grade - W2							
Step	ChtnOoa of Co«lden»fieii ftriad	Current WaeRSciied	APtHfcftiton rf GWI				
			4/4/2004 2.0%	4/3/1005 Z-5%	4/2/2006 2£%	4/1/2007 1.25%	4/6/2008 2J5%
Entry		£ 806.00	S 822.10	S 84170	S 863.80	S KS3.2O	1 903.10
Step J	knotlfai	£ 1,159.30	S 1,182.50	S 1,212,10	S 1,242.40	£ L 270.40	£ 1,299.00
Slep 1	6mo*1Ik	$ 1,305.70	S 1331.80	S 1,365.10	£ U99.20	5 1,430,70	£ 1,462.90
Step 2	6 montbi	$ 1,370.70	£ 1398,10	S 1,433,10	S 1,468.90	5 1,502.00	£ J.535-8D
Step 3	6 month*	5 1.439.40	£ 1,468.20	S IJ04.90	£ 1,542.50	£ 1,577.20	S 1,612,70
Step 4	6 menitu	$ 1,511.50	£ IJ41.7O	S 1.50	$ 1,619.70	£ 1,656,10	S 1,693.40
Step 5	6 DODlhl	5 1.586.9(1	£ 1,618.60	S 1,659.10	£ 1,700.60	£ 1,738.90	S 1,778.00
Step 6	tmanth*	S 1,666.40	$ 1,699,70	£ 1,742,20	£ L785.80	S 1,826,00	S 1.867.10
Step 7	6 months	$ 1,749.60	£ 1,784.60	$ 1^29,20	£ 1,874.90	£ 1,917.10	£ L96020
Step 8	6mamh$	S IJ37.20	S 1,873,90	$ 1.920.70	J L96S.TO	£ 2,013,00	S 2.058.30
Step 9	6 month*	$ 1,929.00	S 1,967.60	£ 2,016,80	£ 2,067.20	S 2,113,70	£ 2,161.30
Step ID	6 manlhs	£ 2,107.80	S 2,150.00	S 2^203.80	S 2,258.90	5 2,309.70	£ 1361,70
JOB COPE JOB TITLE B«i7J7	INSTALL® BPAIR TECH
222
WAGE SCHEDULES
Sator;'Grade- ZC							
Step	Durafr*a*l CaMldrrtdfltt Period	Current Wp^e Sched	A		ppllrntion cfGWl		
			4/4/20M 2.0%	4/3/2005 1.5%	4/2/2006 2.5%	4/1/2007 2*25%	J/&TZOOB i.15%
Entry		1 850.00	$ 857.00	$ 888.70	£ 910.90	5 931,40	J 952,40
Step 5	j	6 nrttuH	£ 1,222.30	3 1,246.70	S 1,277.90	S 1,309.HD	£ 1339.30	S L 369.40
Step 1	6 moiklbt	$ 1,376.90	3 1,404*4(1	S 1,439-30	3 1,475.50	$ 1,508.70	J t.542.40
Siep 2	6 maathi	3 1,443.70	3 1,474.60	£ 1.511,50	$ 1,549.30	$ 1,584.20	S I.6I9.S0
Strp J	6 montb*	S I.5IW	J t.548.40	5 M8ZW	3 1,626.80	J J ,663.40	5 1,700.80
Step 4	6 maotbi	5 1,594.00	S 1,625.90	3 1.666.50	S L 708,20	£ 1,746.60	S 1,785.90
Step 5	6 month*	J 1,673.00	3 1,707,10	3 L749.80	£ L 793.50	3 1,833.90	5 1,875.20
Step 6	6 eno pl hi	1 I. T 57.30	1 1,792.40	£ 1,837.20	S 1,883.10	3 1,925*50	$ 1.968,80
Step 7	6 month*	$ L845.J0	5 1,882.00	S ],929dO	3 1,977.30	3 2*021.80	$ 2.067J0
Slips	6 munlti*	$ 1,937.40	3 1,976.10	$ 2,02530	£ 2.076.10	$ 2,122,80	S 2,170.60
Slep*	4 mom hi	3 2,034.40	3 2.075.10	S 2,127,00	3 2,180.20	3 2,229.30	5 2.270,50
Step IS	6 month*	$ 2,222.50	$ 2,267,00	3 2J23.7O	5 2,381.80	£ 2,435.40	S 2,490.20
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
B00955 OUTSIDE PLANT TECHNICIAN
Sator}' Grade-ZD							
Sicp	Duration af Consider* tian Period	Current Wane Sc bed	A		ppUcnddnofGWl		
			4/4/2004 2.0%	4/3/2005 25%	4/272006 1.5%	4/1/2007 1,25%	4/6/1008 2-25%
Entrv		$ 636.70	S 649.40	5 665.60	3 682.20	$ 69730	S 713,20
Step .5	6 tnontht	J 915.70	3 934.00	5 957.40	£ 981.30	£ LOO3.4O	$ 1,026.00
Step 1	6 month*	S 1,031.40	£ 1.052.00	$ 1,078,30	S 1,105.30	£ 1,13020	S 1,153.60
Slip 2	6 month*	S 1/183.00	S 1,104.70	S LI323O	£ 1,160 60	£ 1.186,70	S UJ3.40
Sup 3	6 month*	$ 1.137.20	S 1*159.90	$ 1,1 88,90	£ 1,218,60	3 1,246.00	S 1,274.00
Step 4	6 month*	S 1,193.50	S UI7.40	S U47.80	S 1,279.00	3 1307-80	S L337J0
Step 5	6 *DO/?Lb>	$ L25A40	J fJM.M	$ 1,3/030	S ij4330	5 J. 3 73.50	3
Step 6	4 months	J 1.31S.3O	J 1,342.60	$ 1,376.20	S 1,410.60	5 1,442.30	£ 1,474.80
Step 7	6 months	£ 1,381.90	$ 1,409.50	5 1,444.70	$ 1^80.80	$ L.514J0	i 134S.10
Step 8	6 munch*	£ 1,450.90	£ 1,479.90	£ 1,516.00	$ 1,554.80	5 1,589.80	S 1,625.60
Step 9	6 months	5 1,523.80	5 1,554.30	S 1,593.20	S 1,633.00	£ U669.70	S 1,707*30
Step 10	6 ma nib*	$ 1.623.80	3 1.556,30	3 J.697,70	£ 1.740.10	£ L779.30	S L8L9J0
JQftCObE JOB TITLE R0]J!8 SUPPLIES ATTENDANT
223
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - ZE							
Step	Dumtonof Cemldcretton Period	Current Wane Scbed	Application of GWI				
			4/4/2004 2.0%	4/3/2005 2_S%	4/1/2006 2.3%	4/1/2007 2.25%	■1/6/2008 2.15%
Entr,-		$ 6*9.50	$ 682.90	1 700.00	S 717.50	S 733,60	S 750.10
Step .5	6 nuiaths	S 997.00	S 1.016.90	S 1,04230	3 IJ168.40	$ 1.092.40	$ 1,117.00
Step 1	6 ntaQfbt	S 1,122.90	$ 1,145.40	S IJ74.00	S IJ03.40	$ 1.2J0.50	$ U5B.2O
Step 2	6 moolbt	S 1J 78,70	$ I.2O2.JO	J 1.232.40	S 1.263,20	1 1,291,60	E 1,320.70
Step 3	6 rtiuHlhi	f 1.238.30	5 IJ63.1O	S 1,294.70	$ 1.327.10	S 1,337.00	f 1,387.50
Step 4	6 month*	$ 1.299.90	S 1,325.90	S 1,3 59.00	5 1.393.00	5 1,424.30	5 1,45630
Step 3	4 monthi	S L364.80	5 1.392.10	5 1,426.90	5 1,462,60	J 1,495,50	1 1,529.10
Step 6	4 mo at fee	J 1,433.10	5 1.461,80	S 1.498.30	$ 1,535.80	S 1,570.40	J 1,605.70
Step 7	4 moat ba	S 1.504,80	S IJ34.90	$ 1.573.30	$ 1,612.60	5 1.648,90	S 1,686.00
Step V	4 meal ba	1 1,580.00	5 1,611.611	S 1,651,90	S 1,69 J JO	5 1,731.30	5 1,770.30
Step V	6 atom hi	S 1,658,90	3 1,692, ID	$ 1.734.40	$ 1,777.30	S 1.817,80	S M5K.7D
Step 10	6 RMMlb*	J 1,857.00	$ 1.894.10	$ 1.941.50	$ 1,990.00	S 2,034.80	S 2.080 60
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
BOD8OO	MA1NT AOMIN
BOOKOl	MAINT ADMIN-SPANISH
Salary Grade • ZF					
i)ur«l|o« of	A		pplicatiofi of GWI		
CMSUfcrattefi	Current	4/4/2004	4/J/2OO5	40/2006	4/1/2007	4/6/2008
Step	Period	Wane Sched	2.0%	2,5%	2.5%	2.25%	125%
Entry	$ 705.40	5 719.50	S 73750	S 755.90	5 772.90	$ 79030
Step 3	6 swath*	S 1,014,50	$ 1,034.80	S 1.060,70	S 1,087.20	$ LI1I.7O	£ 1,136.70
Stepl	6 nnath»	S 1,143.10	5 1,166.00	S L 195.20	J IJ25.1O	S 1,252.70	S IJ80,90
Step 2	6 munthi S 1,199.90	S 1.223.90	I 1,254.50	5 IJB5.9O	S 1,314.80	S IJ44.4O
Step J	6 mouth*	S 1J59.70	5 1.284.90	$ UI 7.00	5 IJ49.90	5 1,380.30	$ 1,411.40
Step 4	6 month* 1 1,322.90	S 1,349.40	$ 1,383.10	$ 1,417.70	S 1.449,60	S 1,482.20
Step S	6 month*	5 1J88.8O	5 1,416,60	S L452.00	$ 1,488,30	$ 1.521,80	$ 1.536.00
Steph	6 month*	$ 1,458.80	5 1,488,00	$ 1,525.20	5 1,563.30	5 1,598,50	S 1,634.50
Step 7	6 month* S 1,531.60	$ 1.562,20	t 1.601.30	5 1,641.30	5 1,678.20	S 1,716.00
StcpS	4»nlb>	5 1,608.00	5 L640J0	S 1,681 JO	$ 1,723JO	$ 1,762.00	S L8OL60
Step 9	hmotMba	S 1,688.10	$ 1,721,90	S 1,764.90	S 1,809.00	5 1,849.70	$ 1.891,30
Step Id	hmwih* $ 1,973.10	J 2.012.60	$ 2,062.90	$ 2.114.50	S 2.162.10	5 2JI070
JOB CODE JOB TITLE
BO ] 195 SR FRAM E ATTENDANT
224
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - ZG							
Slep	Duration of ConiderettM Period	Correal WnecSebed	Application of GWl				
			4/4/2W 2.0%	4/3/2005 23%	4/20006 2,5%	4/1/2007 2X5%	4/6/2008 2X5%
Entry		$ 74540	S 760.00	S 77960	S T9S.J0	S 81650	S 834,90
Slrp .5	6 Doiithl	S 1*071.50	S 1.092.90	S 1,120.20	S 1448.20	5 1J74.00	£ 1.200.40
Slep 1	6 months	£ 1,106.90	$ U31.M	5 L 261.80	i 1X9230	$ 1.32240	$ 1,35X20
Step 2	i month*	£ 1X67X0	$ 1,292,50	$ L524.80	£ L357.90	£ 1.388,50	$ 1,419.70
Step 3	4 monilH	$ JJ5H40	$ 1,357.00	$ 1390,90	S 1.425.70	S 1.457.80	S 1*490.60
Slep 4	6 month*	5 1.397.10	£ 1,425.00	£ 1,460.60	S 1*497.10	£ 1.530,8 ij	S 1*565.20
Slep 5	4 month*	$	1.466,50	S 1,495.80	S 1,533.20	$ 1.57),5®	5 1,606,90	$ 1*643*10
Slep 6	4 month*	5 1,540 20	S 1,571.00	S 1,610 30	$ l,6J0.M	$ 1,687.70	S 1*725-70
Step 7	6 month*	S 1.617.30	$ 1,649.60	5 L690.00	S 1,73 J. 10	$ 1.772,10	5 1,812.00
Slep S	6 month*	$ 1*698.00	$ LJ32.O0	S 1,775.30	S 1,819.70	$ 1.860.60	5 1,902.50
Step 9	6 manlh*	S L7W.J0	S f.ffifcW	£ LflH.JG	5 L910.90	£ 1.953,90	£ IMW
Step 10	4 montbi	5 1.985.20	S 2,024.90	S 2,075.50	S 2.I27.J0	$ 2,175.30	$ 2X24.20
■Iff SCOPE JOB TjTLE
Salary Grade - ZH					
Damtlon of	A		ppllcalion of GWI		
Cam Ider* 6m	Current	44/2M4	4/3/2005	4/2/2006	4/1/2007	4/6/3008
Step	Period	WazeStbed	231%	2,5%	2.5%	2X5%	2.25%
Entry	5 669.50	5 682.90	5 700X0	$ 717.50	$ 73360	S 750.10
Step ,5	6 Wntbi	S 997.00	£ 1,016.90	5 1,042X0	S 1,068.40	S 1.092.40	S 1,117.00
Step 1	6 ran n Uh	S 1,122.90	S 1.14140	S 1.174.00	S 1.203.40	5 L2JOXO	S IXSBXO
Step 2	6 month*	$ 1.178,70	£ 1X0230	S 1,232.40	$ 1X63.20	$ 1,291.60	$ 1320,70
Step 3	6 month*	5 1,238.30	S IJ63.1O	5 1,294.70	S 1.327.10	5 1,357.00	S IJ87J0
Step 4	6 month*	$ 1.299.90	$ 1,325.90	S 1,359.00	S 1J93.OO	S 1,424X0	S 1*4 J 6 JO
StepS	6 rnonth*	$ 1,364, BO	$ 1,392.10	$ 1,426.90	S 1,462.60	S 1.495,50	S 1*529.10
Step 6	6 month*	1 1,433.10	$ L46L80	S 1.498.30	$ 1.535.M	5 M70 40	S 1,60570
Slep 7	6 month*	S L5G4.8O	S i £34.90	S 1.573.30	5 1,612.60	5 t .64890	I 1.686.00
Step 8	tmun'lH	S 1.580X0	$ 1X11.60	$ 1,651,90	S 1,693.20	$ 1.72130	$ 1*770.20
Step 9	6 nwciih*	£ 1,658.90	$ 1,69110	$ 1,734.40	S 1,777.80	S 1,817,80	S M58.70
Step 10	6 month*	S 1,812.30	S 1,848.50	$ 1,894.70	S 1.942.10	S 1,935,80	S 2*030.50
JOB COPE JOB TITLE BO02M CENTRAL OFC ATTEND
225
WAGE SCHEDULES
Salary Grade - Zl							
Step	Darattoeof Coo$Men*tlon Period	Carr ent Ww Sctad	Appllratfoo of GW]				
			4/4/2004 2.0%	4/3/2005 23%	472/2006 2,5%	4/1/2007 2,15%	4/W2008 2,25%
Efttry		$ 745,10	$ 760.00	5 779.00	S 793.50	5 816.50	$ 334.90
Step J	frmulta	S IJ 09.30	5 1,131,50	S 1J 39,80	S 1,188.80	£ 1,215.50	5 1,242.80
Step I	4 HkHtlha	5 1,24940	5 1,274.40	5 1,306.30	$ IJ 39.00	S 1,369.10	5 1,399.90
Step 2	4 ooolta	J 1312.00	5 1J38.2O	S 1,371,70	5 1,406,00	S 1,437,60	5 1*469*90
Step 3	4 Malta	5 1,377.30	$ 1304.80	5 1,439.90	5 1,475.90	5 1,509.10	5 1,543.10
Step 4	4 owalta	$ 1,446.40	$ 1,475.30	$ 1,512.20	t I.55O.OO	£ 1384.90	S 1,620.60
Step 5	4 nwolta	5 1,518.20	$ 1348.60	S 1,587 JO	S 1,627.00	$ 1,663.60	5 1,701.00
Step,	4 nwolta	$ 1.594.60	S 1,626 50	5 1,667.20	t 1,708.90	5 1,747,40	S 1,786.70
Step 7	4 owaita	£ 1*674.40	$ 1,707.90	S 1,750,60	5 1,794.40	5 1,834.80	$ 1,876,10
Step 8	4 uwnita	5 1,757.90	£ 1,793.10	S 1,837.90	S 1,883.80	5 1,926.20	$ 1,969.50
Step 9	4 aw olta	S 1346.00	S t ,882.90	5 1,930,00	5 1,975.30	S 2,022 80	$ 2,068,30
Step It	4awnlht	S 2,016.80	$ 2,057.10	$ 2*IOR,$0	5 2.161.20	$ 2,209.80	$ 2,259.50
JOB CODE	JOB TITLE
BQ0802 PROCESS SUPT CNTR ADM
Salary Grade - ZJ							
SteD	Pvr>tlM«f CoHlideratkM FeeM	Carrent WwScbed	AppOmloe of GWI				
			4/4/2004 2,0%	4/3/2005 2.5%	4/2/2106 2.5%	4/1/2007 ZJ5%	4/6/2MX 2,25%
Entry		2 705.40	£ 719.50	£ 737.50	£ 755.90	£ 772.90	$ 79030
Step 3	6 montta	$ 1,05030	$ 1,071.30	S 1,098-10	5 1,125.60	£ 1,150.90	S 1,176.80
Step 1	6 montta	5 1,183.50	S 1 *207.2(1	S 1,237.40	£ 1,268.30	£ 1,296.80	£ 1,326.00
Step 2	6 moatta	£ 1,242.30	S 1267.10	S 1,298.80	£ 1,33130	5 1.361,30	S 1,391.90
Step 3	6 montta	$ 1304.20	£ 1,330 30	S 1,363,60	I 1,397.70	$ 1,429,10	S 1,461.3(1
Step 4	6 KDOutta	£ 1369.60	$ 1,397,06	5	1.431.SMI	5 1.467.70	5 1,560.70	I 1.534.50
Step 5	tCMOfta	$ 1,437.90	£ 1,466.70	$ 1.503,40	5 1*541.00	$ l ,575*70	£ L6IIJ0
Step 6	trnoMta	£ 1,510.20	S 1,540.40	S 1.578.90	£ 1,618.40	£ 1*654.80	$ 169200
Step?	tUMMta	S 1,585.70	£ 1*617.40	£ 1,657,80	S 1*699.20	S 1*737,40	S 1J76J0
Steps	frCMChl	5 1,664.80	£ 1,698.10	S 1,740,60	S 1*784.10	$ LB24 20	S 1*865,20
Step 9	tinMtta	$ 1,747.70	£ 1,782,70	$ 1,827.30	S 1,873,00	$ 1,915.16	5 1,958.20
Step 10	6 moMta	J 2,042,70	£ 2,083-60	S 2,135,70	S 2,189,10	S 2,238,40	3 2,28S.8O
JOB CODE JOB TITLE B00635 FACILITIES ASSIGNER
226
NEW JOB TITLES
1.	General
Whenever the Company determines it appropriate to create a new job title in the Bargaining Unit or restructure an existing Bargaining Unit job title, it shall notify the Executive Vice President of the Union in writing. Restructure, for purposes of this Appendix, shall be limited to those situations in which the duties of an existing Bargaining Unit job title are so significantly changed by the Company that the associated job specification document (“Job Spec”) no longer reflects the major functions of the restructured job. The notification shall include the job title, the new job spec for the job title, and the initial Wage Schedule for the job title. The initial Wage Schedule shall be classified as temporary until finalized as described below.
2.	Staffing
Following the notice to the Union, the Company may proceed to staff the Bargaining Unit job title.
3.	Review and Finalization
The Union shall have the right, within thirty (30) days from receipt of notice from the Company, to initiate negotiations concerning the initial Wage Schedule established as temporary by the Company.
a)	If negotiations are not so initiated within thirty (30) days as outlined above, the temporary designation shall be removed and the Wage Schedule will be final. If negotiations are so initiated, and agreement is reached between the parties within sixty (60) days following the receipt of notice from the Company, at the beginning of the next bi-weekly payroll period the agreed upon Wage Schedule shall replace the Wage Schedule designated as temporary.
b)	If negotiations are so initiated and the parties are unable to reach agreement within sixty (60) days following receipt of notice from the Company, the issue of an appropriate Wage Schedule shall be subject to a binding mediation process. A mediation conference shall be held as soon as possible following the conclusion of negotiations but no later than ninety (90) days from receipt of notice from the Company.
I)	If agreement is reached in the mediation process, at the beginning of the next bi-weekly payroll period the agreed upon Wage Schedule shall replace the Wage Schedule designated as temporary.
228
NEW JOB TITLES
2)	If no agreement is reached in the mediation process, each party shall submit a final proposed permanent Wage Schedule to the mediator at the conclusion of the mediation conference. The mediator shall determine which of the final submissions is appropriate, taking into account the facts, discussions and arguments presented by the parties during the conference. At the beginning of the next bi-weekly payroll period the Wage Schedule designated by the mediator shall replace the Wage Schedule designated as temporary. Retroactive payment will be made if required.
c)	The mediator used in the mediation processes referred to in Paragraph b) above shall be selected by mutual agreement of the parties from a list of mediators compiled by the American Arbitration Association. Such individuals on the list shall possess acknowledged expertise in the area of job evaluation. The parties will split the cost of the mediator.
229
Policies and Procedures
Part 1
TRANSFER PLAN
TRANSFER PLAN
I.	General
A.	This Transfer Plan specifies procedures to be followed in the handling of bargaining unit advancements, laterals and downgrades to jobs in the same or different departments within the Company and its subsidiaries. An advancement is considered to be a move to another bargaining unit job title with a higher maximum basic rate of pay than the employee's present job. A lateral move is a move to the same job title in a new location or a different job title with the same maximum basic rate of pay. A downgrade is a move to another job with a lower maximum basic rate of pay.
B.	Employees shall be informed of all bargaining unit jobs within the Company, the qualifications required for these jobs, and how to request and process transfers
C.	1. All employees may make requests for consideration to any bargaining unit job in any location provided they have met minimum residency* on their present title and location and have not been moved at their own request. The maximum number of requests on file by any employee is ten (10).
2.	Employees will be permitted to submit Transfer Requests for a specific title in a defined geographical area or statewide basis. Each such request will count as one request, not multiple requests. However, if any employee is die successful candidate for a vacancy on that title and refuses the opportunity, then that geographical area or statewide request is removed for that title in accordance with Paragraph V.A.3. Further, no request for that title at any specific location will be accepted in accordance with the provisions in V.A.3.
3.	Title to title location changes may be requested prior to fulfilling the residency requirement. The minimum length of time on location is twelve (12) months fora sixteen (16) month residency requirement, and fourteen (14) months for a twenty-eight (28) month residency requirement. For purposes of this section only, movement between the title Service Representative (BOI 245) and the title Service Representative - Spanish Center (B01271) shah be considered as "title to title” location changes and shall be subject to the residency provisions of this paragraph.
* Residency is sixteen (16) or twenty-eight (28) months depending on Job Classification in Appendix A.
4.	Upgrade request(s) on file will be considered after six (6) months for employees who have met the residency requirement for that title and subsequently changed location title to title. New requests will be considered after 12 months.
230
TRANSFER FLAN
D.	There shall be a 1-week “posting” of open vacancies for all Company-defined entities, except for SNET Cellular, Inc., in the Transfer Bureau process. This “posting” period will allow additional bargaining unit employees to submit transfer requests for open jobs before candidate lists are drawn by the Transfer Bureau to fill the vacancies. The “posting” period will run from Wednesday to Wednesday on a weekly basis. Key process elements of this “posting” process will be as follows:
I.	On Wednesday of each week (late afternoon) the Transfer Bureau will “post” the job vacancies received over the previous seven days (since the prior Wednesday) on a dial-in, toll-free, Job Posting number.
2.	Jobs will be “posted” for one calendar week — until noon of the following Wednesday.
3.	Employees may call in to the dial-in, toll-free, Job Posting number during the week and may submit transfer requests, through supervision, for “posted" open positions.
4.	Employee transfer requests for "posted” jobs will be accepted by the Transfer Bureau up until noon on Wednesday.
5.	Each Wednesday evening the Transfer Bureau will draw candidate lists for all of the vacancies "posted” for the prior week. The candidate lists will be comprised of transfer requests already on file and employee transfer requests for “posted” jobs submitted by Noon of that day (Wednesday).
6.	The dial-in, toll-free, Job Posting number replaces the current job listing and faxworks.
7.	Responsibility to stay current on "posted” jobs will rest with the employee (there will be no other postings of these vacancies).
8.	Transfer requests submitted for “posted jobs” will be counted towards the contractual limit of ten that the employee may have “active” in the Transfer Bureau at any one time.
9.	Employees will be responsible for securing supervisory approval for Transfer requests submitted for “posted jobs”.
10.	If supervisory approval is not available during the mandated timeframes, the employee may directly submit the Transfer Request form (F. 1904) to the Transfer Bureau and must provide his or her supervisor with a copy of the submitted Transfer Request form. The Transfer Bureau will accept these "unsigned” Transfer requests from employees, subject to verification of supervisory approval of the requests via receipt of supervisor-signed form. All other normal Transfer Bureau rules will remain in place (e.g., residency, seniority, qualifications, selection procedures, etc.).
231
TRANSFER PLAN
E.	To enable entities, such as Business Units and Departments to effectively utilize their existing forces, lateral intradepartmental force rearrangements may be made, on a permanent transfer basis, senior volunteer or inverse seniority based on the seniority net credited service date anywhere within the following Company defined entities:
Business Communication Sales
Consumer Group
(C) Customer Information Services
Global Markets
Human Resources
Information Technology
Network Services
Payroll
Purchasing and Logistics
Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy
SBC Advanced Solutions, Inc. (ASI)
(C) SBC Telecom, Inc. (310 Orange Street, New Haven, CT 06510) SNET Finance
SNET Payphone Services
SNET Real Estate
Strategic Marketing White Pages Woodbury Telephone
F. Employees who have been moved under l.E. above, will have priority in returning to the original reporting center on a seniority basis when a vacancy occurs. If the return occurs in less than one year, the original move will be considered as having been a temporary move, and the appropriate treatment under Wage &. Working Practices, Appendix B General all departments 2.02(a) and 7.03(c) will apply retroactively.	-	,
II.	Transfer Requests
A.	An employee who wishes to be considered for another job and/or location should inform supervision. Supervision will evaluate the employee’s current job performance and attendance. Quantity and quality of work will be evaluated as either Satisfactory or Unsatisfactory. Attendance will be evaluated as either Satisfactory or Unsatisfactory. Aspects of the present performance that are deemed less than satisfactory should be noted so the Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) can determine if the deficiency would adversely affect performance on the new job. The evaluation is to be covered with the employee before it is submitted to the Placement Office (Transfer Bureau).
232
TRANSFER PLAN
B.	All requests must be forwarded to the Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) within one week after the employee submits it to supervision.
C.	To assure that transfer information (employee's desires, job performance, attendance, additional training, etc.) is current, the employee will be notified at the , end of a year to provide for updating.
D.	If during the year an employee gains additional training or experience that could bear on determining additional factors according to the Job Specification, it will be the employee's responsibility to update the request.
E.	Should the employee's performance rating change during the year, it will be supervision's responsibility to advise the employee and notify the Placement Office (Transfer Bureau).
III.	T ransfer Qualifications
A.	The Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) will determine if the employee meets the basic qualifications for the particularjob being requested and also if the employee has additional factors which indicate job related qualifications in addition to the basic qualifications. Following this review, the Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) will rate the employee as:
a)	Qualified with additional factors
b)	Qualified
c)	Not qualified
B.	The Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) will notify supervision of the status of a transfer request within two weeks of its receipt.
C.	Employees who are qualified are notified by supervision that their request will remain active unless terminated by successful selection for any job or by employee request.
D.	If the employee fails to meet the basic qualifications for the particular job being requested, the Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) will so notify the supervisor, giving the reasons for not qualifying. The supervision will inform the employee and will give advice regarding the deficiencies. When the employee feels the deficiency has been corrected, a request may be resubmitted.
IV,	Vacancies
A.	After lateral intradepanmental force rearrangements take place, including those returning from military, anticipated disability, care of newborn children, adoptive children care leaves, and lay-offs, an Employment Requisition is forwarded to the Placement Office (Transfer Bureau).
233
TRANSFER PLAN
B.	Generally the Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) will consider candidates for filling vacancies in the following sequence:
(C)	1. Honor employee or former employee “Article VU recall rights” to
the vacancy’s title and location in the following order, “Article VII recall rights” include “recall from layoff”, "recall from involuntary re-deployment” and “buyback rights”:
a)	First: Combined seniority for "Recall From Layoff”.
b)	Second: Combined seniority for “Recall From Involuntary Redeployment" and “Buyback Rights”.
2.	Concurrent consideration of advancement, lateral and downgrade requests from anywhere in the company.
3.	Consideration of qualified employees with either less than or more than the residency requirements on the job or location.
q. Employees may sei f-identify for job opportunities within their entities as expressed in Part 1, Paragraph E(l) after completion of the 6 months period described in Part V, Paragraph D(I).
4.	New hires.
(C) C. If needs of the business dictate, steps 2 through 4 may be considered concurrently.
V. Selection
A.	General
1.	Upon receipt of an Employment Requisition, the Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) will secure the list of the applicants for the job in the Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) as of that date.
2.	When qualifications are substantially equal, the senior employee, determined based on the seniority net credited service dale, will be selected.
3.	If an employee declines a job offer their transfer request will be canceled and the employee will not be able to make the same transfer request for one (1) year from the date of declination. A new request for another job title may be substituted in its place.
234
TRANSFER PLAN
B.	Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) Selected Jobs
1.	The Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) will maintain a list of those bargaining unit jobs designed as Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) Selected Jobs.
2.	The Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) will make the selection for these jobs.
C.	Department Selected Jobs
1.	All bargaining unit jobs not listed as Placement Office Selected jobs will
be filled through hiring supervision.
2.	The Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) will forward to hiring supervision a list of applicants for the position.
3.	Hiring supervision shall notify the appropriate Business Agent before announcement of the selection is made.
4.	The Placement Office (Transfer Bureau) on request of the supervisor of an employee not selected, reports the appropriate information concerning the selection received from hiring supervision. The Placement Office (Transfer Bureau), on request of the supervisor, also arranges for an interview with the hiring supervisor for an employee not satisfied with this information.
D.	Retreats
1.	If within 6 months (exclusive of any formal training) after placement in the new job the employee elects to return to the former job, or is disqualified by the Company on the basis of unsatisfactory performance in the new job, the employee may return to the former job or an equivalent job. The employee may not apply for transfer again until nine (9) months from the date of return.
2.	The six month period within which retreat may be exercised may be extended by supervision, up to three months to take into consideration a period of extended excused absence.
VI. Procedural Exceptions
A.	If an employee's condition, as indicated by medical authority and concurred in
by the Company's medical group, is such that a change of job is necessary, transfer to a job with the same or lower maximum shall have priority over requests in the Placement Office (Transfer Bureau).
235
TRANSFER FLAN
B.	Nothing in these policies shall be construed in such a way as to prevent the Company from establishing limitations from or into any work force group where required for the safe and efficient operation of the business.
C.	If SNET identifies a need to limit the movement of internal resources to the SBCTI job titles of Customer Service Technician, General Office Associate, Maintenance Administrator or Process Support Center Administrator, the parties agree that before SNET imposes a "freeze” on the Transfer Bureau, SBCTI may elect to fill the jobs by selecting candidates in alternating order as follows:
1.	Title to title transfers
2.	Any other qualified Transfer Bureau candidates or, if none are available, other qualified candidates not in the Transfer Bureau
D. From time to time the Company may grant ‘Tight Labor Market” (TLM) wage credits to new hires into specific job titles and work locations. TLM wage credits will only be granted during a competitive labor market that makes it difficult to attract and produce sufficient flow of qualified individuals even after rigorous recruiting efforts and the use of other types of wage credit (i.e., for relevant work experience and/or education). TLM wage credits may be authorized by the hiring department for a maximum of six (6) months and up to a maximum of 8 steps on the wage progression schedule. Application of the TLM wage credit may be in combination with other types of wage credits granted to new hires in accordance with Staffing Office guidelines.
The Company will notify the Union, in writing, whenever TLM wage credit is authorized. Notification will include the job title, the work location, the amount of wage credit authorized, and the expected duration. The Company also agrees to discuss with the Union what impact, if any, such TLM authorization has on incumbent employees in the same job title and location.*2
l!At a minimum, and if necessary, the Company will adjust the pay rates of a!) incumbent employees in the same job title and location up to the level of the TLM authorized wage credits granted to a new hire into that job title and location.
236
Policies and Procedures
Part 3
MIL1TARY/PUB. HEALTH SVC.
MEMORANDUM RELATING TO ABSENCES DUE TO MILITARY OR PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE
1. General
1.	The provisions of this memorandum apply to necessary absences of employees entering the Armed Forces or the Public Health Service on or after June 30, 1967 (the effective date of the Military Selective Service Act of 1967).
2.	For the purposes of this memorandum:
a,	"Armed Forces" means the Army, Air Force, Navy, Coast Guard and Marine Corps of the United States, membership in which requires the usual form of military induction or enlistment and subjects the individual to full time active duty under military regulations and carries military pay. It also includes Commissioned Officers of the Public Health Service entering on active duty with that organization.
b.	"Employee" means a regular employee.
c.	"Dependents" are those defined in the "Career Compensations Act of 1949.”
11.	Leaves of Absence
Leaves of absence will be granted to employees entering the Armed Forces or the Public Health Service who:
a.	are inducted under selective service regulations;
b.	enlist or volunteer for active duty; or
c.	are ordered or called to active duly.
Such leaves of absence will be effective on the date of entry into the Armed Forces or Public Health Service.
Ill,	Status Under the Benefit Plans
1.	Employees who are granted leaves of absence to enter the Armed Forces or
Public Health Service and who make application for reinstatement within the period required by law upon release from active duty:
237
MILITARY/PUB. HEALTH SVC.
a.	will receive upon reinstatement, full service credit for the period of absence
b.	will be eligible to sickness benefits in accordance with the provisions of the Sickness and Accident Disability Plan if totally incapacitated and unable to work. Inability to work will be determined by the Employee's Benefit Committee on the basis of facts in each case. Benefits under this Plan will be computed on the basis of benefits net credited service and the rate of Company pay in effect at the time the leave of absence is terminated,
c.	will be eligible to “make up” the contributions they could have made during the leave if they had remained actively at work, and receive Company matching contributions to their Savings Plan account, in accordance with the terms of the Plan and applicable laws.
2.	Employees who are granted leaves of absence to enter the Armed Forces or Public Health Service will be eligible to death benefits in accordance with the provisions of the SNET Pension Plan. Death benefits, where payable, will be computed in accordance with Benefit Plan provisions. In addition, such employees will have the option of continuing or suspending Retirement Savings Plan loan repayments while on this leave.
IV,	Pay Treatment
1.	Except as indicated in Part VIII of this memorandum, employees who arc granted leaves of absence to enter the Armed Forces or Public Health Service will receive compensatory pay to the difference between their Company pay and Government pay as follows:
a.	those with one year or more of service, without dependents - 3 months compensatory pay; with dependents - 6 months compensatory pay
b.	those with less than one year of service, without dependents - 2 weeks compensatory pay; with dependents - 3 months and 2 weeks compensatory pay.
2.	For this purpose, government pay will include basic pay, pay for special or hazardous duty and the difference between quarters allowances established for members of the Armed Forces or Public Health Service with dependents and quarters allowances established for members of the Armed Forces or Public Health Service of equal rank without dependents.
3.	Government pay will be determined in accordance with Paragraph 2 of this Section al the time of entry into the Armed Forces or Public Health Service. Company pay will include the employee's regular basic wage and any fixed differential. The rates so determined will be used in computing on a per diem basis, the compensatory payments to be made by the Company in accordance with Paragraph 1 of this Section. Such payments, less deductions required by law, will be made in one lump sum prior to entering the Armed Forces or Public Health Service except in cases covered by the second part of Paragraph I (a) where two payments
238
M1LITARV/PUB, HEALTH SVG
will be made. The first payment covering difference in pay for the first three months will be made prior to entry into the Armed Forces or Public Health Service and the second payment will be made three months later.
4.	The pay treatment, for those employees who are ordered into active duty more than once, in order to fulfill the regulations of their respective reserve components, shall be the difference, if any, between the compensatory pay received for the initial period of duty and that amount eligible to be received, as of the subsequent period of active duty. Official and Employee Rate Service and vacation treatment will be in accordance with paragraphs VI and Vil below and will be determined upon each entry into active duty.
5,	In the event that the employee does not actually enter the Armed Forces or Public Health Service, the entire amount of the compensatory payment shall be returned to the Company. If the employee is discharged or released from the Armed Forces or Public Health Service prior to the expiration of the period covered by the compensatory payment then a pro-rata portion of the compensatory payment shall be returned to the Company.
V.	Re-employment
All employees who, on or after June 19, 1951, are granted leaves of absence to enter the Armed Forces or Public Health Service, and who make application for reinstatement within the period required by law at the time of release from such Forces or Service, will be reinstated in accordance with the provisions of the "Memorandum Relating To Reinstatement of Employees Returning From Military or Public Health Service Leaves of Absence" dated January 6, 1969 and in accordance with all applicable laws, including the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERA) regulations.
VI,	Official and Employee Rate Service
Official and employee rate service of employees granted leaves of absence to enter the Armed Forces or Public Health Service will be continued in this Company's territory in accordance with the following:
a.	for those without dependents - to the end of the third billing period after the date the leave begins;
b.	for those with dependents - the full period of the leave, except as indicated in Part VI11 of this memorandum.
239
MILITARY/PUB, HEALTH SVC.
VH. Vacation
Except as indicated in Part Vil I of this memorandum, employees granted leaves of absence to enter the Armed Forces or Public Health Service will receive a lump sum payment in lieu of any unused vacation to which (hey may be entitled as of the date the leave begins.
VIII. Reenlistments and Voluntary Reentries Into the Armed Forces or Public Health Service
Employees who have been granted leaves of absence under the terms of this memorandum, have been reinstated and who rcenlist or voluntarily reenter the Armed Forces or Public Health Service during the same emergency period will not be entitled to the treatment provided in Parts IV, Vl(B)and Vil of the foregoing provisions. The following will apply instead:
a.	Pay Treatment - no compensatory pay.
b.	Official and Employee Rate Service - will be continued to the end of the third billing period after the date the leave begins.
c.	Vacation - no payment for unused vacation.
240
MJLITARY/PUB. HEALTH SVC.
MEMORANDUM RELATING TO REINSTATEMENT OF EMPLOYEES RETURNING FROM MILITARY OR PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE LEAVES OF ABSENCE
I. General Policy
1.	The Company intends to live up to and beyond the spirit of legislation covering the reinstatement of its employees returning from military or Public Health Service.
2.	The Company earnestly desires to reinstate each employee, who has been in military or Public Health Service on leave of absence, as soon as released and upon notification of desire to be reinstated.
3.	The Company is now reinstating all such returned employees regardless of length of service prior to induction, and will continue to do so unless circumstances beyond its control compel it to do otherwise.
4.	Provisions will be made to expedite adjustments to the job, including retraining, and special arrangements for physical rehabilitation where indicated. In line with Company policy, consideration will be given so far as practicable to the value of usable military or Public Health Service experience in determining future treatment and placement.
5.	It should be understood that each employee is entitled not only to consideration for a job, but also is entitled after reinstatement to benefits under the Benefit Plans, in accordance with service credited under terms of this memorandum.
6.	An interdepartmental committee will coordinate the general procedures involved in reinstatement.
IL Reinstatement
General
1.	Employees will be placed in their former or equivalent positions in accordance with the following provisions:
a.	Application for reinstatement is made within 90 days after release from military or Public Health Service, or from hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more than one year
b.	Military or Public Health Service has been satisfactorily completed as indicated by discharge papers
c.	They are still qualified to perform the duties of such positions.
241
MILITARY/PUB. HEALTH SVC.
Determination of Physical Condition to Aid in Placement
I.	Physical examinations will be required of all employees returning from military or Public Health Service leaves of absence in order to insure that they may be properly assigned. Employees may be examined by the Company's physicians or by any physician acceptable to the Company. The Company will pay the cost of the examinations.
2.	Employees who return from military or Public Health Service leaves of absence partially disabled will be reinstated initially as covered in Section V below. Special consideration will then be given to the assignment of duties which they may adequately perform and appropriate adjustments will be made after a careful appraisal of their value in the positions.
III.	Extension of Military or Public Health Service Leaves of Absence
1.	Employees granted leaves of absence for military or Public Health Service will, under the conditions stated below, be entitled to have such leaves extended for a period up to ninety days beyond the date of discharge from military or Public Health Service or from hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more than one year. Such extensions will be subject to the same conditions with respect to eligibility to benefits and credit for service as apply to iheir original military or Public Health Service leaves.
a.	Cases not involving total disability
(1)	If employees make application for reinstatement and are reinstated within ninety days following discharge from military or Public Health Service - the absence between discharge from military or Public Health Service and reinstatement will be covered by an extension of the military or Public Health Service leave of absence subject to the same provisions with respect to eligibility to benefits and credit for service.
(2)	If employees make application for reinstatement within ninety days following discharge from military or Public Health Service but due to reasons acceptable to the Company, reinstatement occurs more than ninety days after discharge - the first ninety days of absence subsequent to discharge from military or Public Health Service will be covered by an extension of the military or Public Health Service leave of absence subject to the same provisions with respect to eligibility to benefits and credit for service. An application shall be made to the Benefit committee for a personal leave of absence to cover the absence between the expiration of the ninety-day period and the date of reinstatement. Personal leaves will be subject to such conditions as the Benefit Committee deems proper.
242
MILITARY/PUB. HEALTH SVC.
b.	Hospitalization continuing after discharge from military or Public Health Service
(1)	If employees arc hospitalized for not more than one year immediately following discharge from military or Public Health Service, a military or Public Health Service leave of absence will be extended to cover:
(a)	the period from date of discharge up to ninety days after release from hospitalization if they are ineligible to benefits, or
(b)	the period extending from the expiration of sickness benefits under the Sickness and Accident Disability Plan up to ninety days after release from hospitalization.
(2)	If such hospitalization should continue for more than one year, the leave will terminate one year after the date of discharge from military or Public Health Service.
2.	If employees delay application for reinstatement for more than ninety days following discharge from military or Public Health Service or from hospitalization continuing after discharge for a period of not more than one year, the effective dale of separation from the Company will be considered as having been the date of discharge from military or Public Health Service or the end of the ninety day period following hospitalization. However, where such employees are able to show that the delay in their application for reinstatement was due to circumstances beyond their control, the appropriate treatment under 111. I .a.(2) above and/or IV below will be extended.
IV.	Treatment Under the Benefit Plans
I.	Net Credited Service
a.	Employees reinstated within the time specified by law will be allowed full service credit under the Benefit Plans for a period of absence covered by the military or Public Health Service leave.
b.	Employees who are not reinstated within the period after discharge specified by the law but who are subsequently engaged shall receive service credit for the period of absence covered by the military or Public Health Service leave as follows:
243
MILITARY/PUB. HEALTH SVC.
(1)	Those with two years or less of net credited service on the effective date of the leave will receive credit for service for any total period of absence up to Iwo years. Those with more than two years of net credited service on the effective date of the leave will be credited with service for a period of absence equivalent to one year for each year or fraction thereof of such net credited service.
2.	Death Benefits
a. Death Benefits, where payable, will be computed in accordance with the Benefit Plan provisions.
3.	Sickness Benefits
a.	Employees will be eligible to sickness disability benefits if totally	' ■
incapacitated and unable to work upon release from military or Public Health Service. Inability to work will be determined by the Employees' Benefit Committee on the basis of facts in each case.
b.	Benefits under the Sickness and Accident Disability Plan will be computed on the basis of benefits net credited service at the termination of the leave of absence and at the rate of Company pay provided for in connection with wage treatment in Section V below.
c.	For employees totally incapacitated and unable to work at time of discharge, the first day absence on account of sickness disability will be the day afterdate of discharge from military or Public Health Service.
d.	In the event employees become unable to work subsequent to discharge from military or Public Health Service.
(I)	If totally incapacitated within ninety days after discharge, the first
day of absence on account of disability will be the day afterdate of expiration of the ninety-day period, or the date of reinstatement when such date has been established.
(2)	If totally incapacitated subsequent to the expiration of the ninety-day
period after discharge from military or Public Health Service, but within a period covered by a personal leave of absence continuous therewith, sickness benefits under the Sickness and Accident Disability Plan will be determined in accordance with the terms of the personal leave.
244
M1LITARYZPUB. HEALTH SVC.
V. Wage Treatment
1.	Any employee reinstated in accordance with, these practices shall be returned
to the payroll at the rate of pay they would have received, if they had been continuously on duty with the Company during the absence, in the job group they were in at the time they left.
VI. Vacation Treatment
1.	Employees returning from military or Public Health Service leaves of absence
will be given vacation treatment in accordance with General Wage and Working Practices based on total net credit service, provided that a vacation or vacation allowance has not already been given in the same year.
A. W. VAN SINDEREN
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
245
MILITARY/PUB. HEALTH SVC.
PROCEDURES FOR REINSTATING EMPLOYEES RETURNING FROM
MILITARY OR PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE LEAVES
I.	Company Policy
As has been previously slated, the Company intends to live up to and beyond the spirit of legislation covering the reinstatement of employees reluming from the service. It expects to reinstate, after honorable discharge, all employees who want to return to the Company and who are able to resume their old jobs or similar work, regardless of their length of service before induction.
Provisions will be made to expedite adjustments to the job, including retraining, and special arrangements for physical readjustment. In line with Company policy, consideration will be given so far as practicable lo the value of usable military or Public Health Service experience in determining future treatment and placement. Each returned employee is entitled after reinstatement to benefits under the Benefit Plans in accordance with credited service under the terms of the Memorandum
Relating to Reinstatement
An interdepartmental committee will coordinate the general procedures involved in reinstatement.
Detailed procedures covering the return of employees will be developed by the various departments.
11.	Planning for the Return of Employees by Departments
Through the use of the forecasts of business, planned construction, and force requirements, plans will be developed and kept current by the departments for the placement of employees returning from military or Public Health Service, and for reassignment of those active employees affected by the return of veterans.
III.	Reinstatement
A.	Initial Contact
It is expected that returning employees will contact their supervisor upon their release from the services. The opportunity should be provided for a welcome by the employees' ranking departmental supervisor in the locality and by fellow employees. Supervisors should take the initiative, if necessary, to get in touch with employees, when it is known that they have been discharged from military or Public Health Service.
246
M1LITARV/PUB. HEALTH SVC.
B.	Physical Examination
Physical examinations will be required of all employees returning from military or Public Health Service leaves of absence in order to insure that they may be assigned properly. The appointment for the physical examination should be made through the Medical Office at the time employees apply for reinstatement.
C.	The Reinstatement Interview
The reinstatement interview will be carried out 1) to secure pertinent information from the employee, and 2) to inform the employee of the general policies and plans of the Company as well as specific information in regard Io reinstatement.
I.	Information to be secured * such as:
Date employee wishes to return to work
General physical condition
2.	Information to be discussed with the employee - such as:
General policy in regard to reinstatement
Employee's status upon reinstatement Review of Company payroll allotment plans, income tax, etc.
3.	Method of Conducting the Interview
The interview should be conducted in an unhurried atmosphere so that the employee will have the opportunity to tell of past experience and express plans for the future, tn some cases the interview may be completed at one meeting with the employee but often it may require more than one.
4.	Time of Reinstatement
Whenever possible, the date of return to work should be planned to suit the wishes of the employee. If this should be prior to the receipt of a report from the physical examination, the employee should be given a temporary assignment. If there is any question in the supervisor's mind as to the assignment, the case should be discussed with the departmental personnel representative who will check, as necessary, with the Medical Department.
D.	Job Placement
1.	All placements should be made in conformance with the policy of the Company as stated in the Memorandum Relating to Reinstatement.
247
MILITARY/PUB. HEALTH SVC.
2.	The objectives in placement will be best accomplished through careful attention to such factors as (a) the individual's past experience, (b) experience in military or Public Health Service, (c) the force requirements of the business, (d) Selective Service Act requirements, (e) interest and abilities, (f) physical condition.
3.	In the event a circumstance arises in which there is no immediate suitable job for an employee, the case should be referred for further consideration through the lines of organization.
E.	Particular Consideration of Disabled Employees
1.	Treatment of totally incapacitated employees
In accordance with the Memorandum Relating to Reinstatement, Section IV. Treatment Under the Benefit Plans, employees totally incapacitated and unable to work may be eligible to sickness benefits under the terms of the Sickness and Accident Disability Plan. Supervisors will aid those who return unable to work due to injury or illness through recognizing the circumstances promptly and initiating action under the Sickness and Accident Disability Plan, through careful placement and training upon their recovery and return to the job, and through a personal interest in their progress,
2.	Placement of partially disabled employees
It is recognized that some employees may return partially disabled and unable to perform the duties of the job which they left. In this event, the objective will be to place these employees in a job which they can adequately perform and which is not hazardous to themselves or fellow employees.
3.	Training of partially disabled employees
In some instances of partial disability, special training should be planned on the job or through Company facilities. In other instances training may be most advantageously secured through the government's facilities or those of public agencies. Each case will present different circumstances and will require individual analysis and treatment.
4.	Follow-up of partially disabled employees
A plan for a "follow-up" in such cases should be designed to check the suitability of the placement from the viewpoint of the employee's health and safety, interest in and success on the job, and possibilities for progress.
248
MIL1TARY/PUB. HEALTH SVC.
F.	Records
1.	Central Military or Public Health Service records
A central record of the military or Public Health Service and experience of our employees will be established and maintained in the Personnel Relations Department, to be available to all departments as a complete record of military or Public Health Service information, and to serve as a history of the experience of our employees in World War II, Korea and Vietnam and a record of their treatment on their return,
2.	Military Service Record Card, Form 605
The Military Service Record Card, Form 605, should contain such information as the employee's status at the time of entry into military or Public Health Service, etc.
IV.	Training or Returning Employees
A.	Reinduction
Reinduction of employees should be planned in order that they will be able to bridge the gap in Company affairs between their departure and return. Typical information should include a short history of Company experience during the war, a review of organization and personnel changes, the experience of other employees during the war, and an opportunity to meet and talk with personnel in the locality.
B,	Job Training
In addition to regular Company training courses for employees assigned to new jobs, refresher courses should be designed for employees who return to the same job after a long absence.
C.	Specialized training for handicapped employees
Specialized training may be necessary and should be arranged in some cases involving the adjustment to handicaps.
V.	Follow-Up
All supervisors should be alert to observe the returned employee's adjustment to the work situation as well as civilian life. If difficulty is being experienced by the employee in making an adjustment, an analysis of the facts in the situation by the supervisor will be helpful in determining how best to aid the employee.
249
MILITARY/PUB. HEALTH SVC.
VI	Clearing House of Information
Assistance should be offered to returning employees concerning such matters as government insurance, educational benefits, etc. The Personnel Relations Department will set up a clearing house of such information which will be available through the Personnel Coordinator. Contacts with government agencies generally should be made through the Personnel Relations Department.
250
INDEX
Subject	Page No.(s)
A Absence - Short Period Sickness Accident Prevention Acting as Head of Const. Gang - Special Conap. Ad Hoc Joint Problem Solving Teams Administration of Overtime Advancement to Occupation with Higher Max. After Working Substantial Part of 24 Hr. Period - Excused Absence Agency Shop - Article XVI Agreement Concerning Evolving Technologies Alcohol - Use of Intoxicating Beverages Amendments to Contract - Article XX American Arbitration Association Annual Military Training Anticipated Disability- Leave of Absence Appendix A - Bargaining Unit Titles Appendix B - General All Departments Appendix C - COLA Appendix D - Wage Schedules Appendix E - New Job Titles Application of Wage Progression Schedules Arbitration - Article XXI Arbitration - Expedited Arbitration - Mgt. Promotion From BU Arbitration Expenses Armed Forces Duty - Excused Absence Article I	- Purpose Article II	- Bargaining Unit Employees Article HI - General Article IV - Wage and Working Practices Article IX	- Reinstatement of Employee Veterans Article V - Hours Article VI - Wages Article VII - Force Adjustment Article VIIJ - Reserved For Future Use Article X	- Transfersand Promotions	90, 183 152 144 47 140 78 99 25. 157 39 108 27 27 100, 185 104, 188 61 66 193 194 228 76 27, 161 28 19 28 100, 185 4 4 4 5 18 5 5 6 18 19
251
INDEX
Subject	Page No.(s)
Article XI	- Dismissals and Penalties	20
Article Xll	- Union Representation	20
Article Xlll	- Grievances	21, 159
Article XIV	- Joint Conferences - Time Off (UTM -Paid)	23
Article XV	- Collection of Dues	24,157
Article XVI	- Agency Shop	25, 157
Article XVII	- Promotions and Transfers of Union Officers	25
Article XVHI - Union Activities	26
Article XIX	• Federal or State Laws	26
Article XX	- Amendments to Contract	27
Article XXI	- Arbitration	27
Article XXII	- Expedited Arbitration	28
Article XXIII	- Non-Discrimination Clause	30
Article XXIV	- Reserved for Future Use	30
Article XXV	- Reserved for Future Use	30
Article XXVI	- Reserved for Future Use	30
Article XXVI)	- Miscellaneous	31
Article XXVIII - Duration and Basis of Reopening	31
Assigned as Instructor - Special Comp,	144
Assignment Adm /Maintenance Admin Assigned as Job Coach	145
Athletics - Professional, Semi-Pro	107
Authorization - Excused Absence	98,184
Auto Accidents - Liability in Case of	96
Automatic Transfers -Recall From Re-Deployment	11
Awarding Wage Increases	77
B
Bargaining Unit Employees - Definition - Article II	4
Bargaining Unit Job Title Changes	4
Basic Work Week	110,122,174
Basic Work Week - Changes In	114, 126, 138
Bi-Lingual Differential	81,177
Blood Donors - Excused Absence.	101,185
Bridging Previous Service	72,173
Bulletin Board Usage by Union	31
Bumping within Layoff "Pools"	14
Bureau Selected Jobs	235
252
INDEX
Subject	Page No.(s)
Buried Service Wire	41
Buyback Rights r"’	14
Call Outs - Pay Treatment Call Outs - Transportation Expense Call Outs on Holiday - Pay Treatment Care of Adopted Child - Leave of Absence Care of Newborn Children - Leave of Absence Care of Seriously III Child - Leave of Absence Care of Seriously Ill Family Member - Leave of Absence Carry Over Vacation Changes In Basic Work Week and Tour Assignments Changes In Rate of Pay Chief Steward - Notif. of Dismissals & Penalties Chief Steward Notification • Discipline Christmas & New Year's Eve - Differentials Closing of a Company Facility -Transportation Expense COLA Collection of Does - Article XV College Summer Hire Commercial and Marketing Field Commitment of Employment Security Commutation and Lodging Company Business - Transportation Company Communications With the Union Company Property - Union Meetings Company Property Return Company Provide Reports to Union Company-Defined Entities Company-paid attendees at Grievance Meeting Company-Recognized Holidays Consensus Guidelines / Consultation Procedure Concession - Telephone Construction Gang - Acting as Head Consultation Procedure / Consensus Guidelines	BO 120 81 104, 189 104, 188 104, 189 105, 189 87, 182 114, 126, 138 80 20 20 117,129,142 96 176, 193 24, 157 70 138 36 120,132, 150 94 31 26 108 31 230 22, 159 84,179 158 106 144 158
253
INDEX
Subject	Page No.(s)
Contract Amendments Contract Duration & Basis for Reopening Contract Effective Date Contract Labor (Porter Letter) Contract Labor during force adjustment Contract Purpose Contribution Solicitation Controlled Substances Core Training Cost-of-Living Allowance (COLA) Court Action - Principal in - Excused Absence Court Witness Duty - Excused Absence Craft Assigned as Instructor - Special Comp. Craft Employee - definition CUM -Unpaid Excused Absence. - Paid by Union Customer Information Services	27 31 3 43 13 4 107 108 154 176, 193 JOO, 185 99, 185 144 134 22 156
Customer Service n	40
u Day-At-A-Time Vacation Daylight Saving Time Death in Family - Excused Absence Death of Co-Worker or Member of Co-Worker's Family Declared Emergencies - Meals Declination of Recall Offer Deferring Wage Increases Department Selected Jobs Differential - Ei-Lingual Differential Overtime Differential Payments Differentials - New Year's Eve & Christmas Eve Differentials - Nights Differentials - Temp. Changes in Assignments Differentials for Evening and Night Work Differentials for Out of State Travel Discipline - Union Representation	87, 182 191 98,185 98, 185 93 12 77 235 81 S3 116,128, 141 117,129, 142 81 116, 128, 141 81 82 20
254
INDEX
Subject	Page No.(s)
Discretionary Leave Dismissals and Penalties - Article XI Downgrade - Wage Treatment Downgrade as Result of Surplus - Wage Treatment Dues Collection	106,190 20 78 79 24, 157
Duration and Basis of Reopening - Article XXVIII	31
IL Emergency Conditions Emergency Military Duty Emergency Work Load after Layoff Employee - Definition Employee Identification Employment Opportunity / Enhanced Retirement Benefit Employment Outside of the Company Employment Security - Standing Joint Committee Employment Security Commitment Enhanced Voluntary Severance Plan (EVSP) Equal Employment Opportunity Equivalent in Wages for Vacation Evening and All-Night - Differentials Evolving Technologies Agreement EVSP - Enhanced Voluntary Severance Plan EWD’s Exchange Map - Home Station Excused Absence ■ Other Without Pay (Leave of Absence) Excused Absence - Sickness in Family Excused Time Off -Joint Conferences (UTM) Excused Work Days Executive Council Expedited Arbitration - Article XXII Expenses Expenses for Medical Exam Expenses for Medical Treatment Expiration of Sickness Disability Benefits - Discretionary Leave Extended Temporary Transfers	74 101,185 15 66, 168 108 48 107 45 36 7 165 87,182 81 39 7 102, 185 109 103 98,185 23 102, 185 44 28 184 95 95 106,190 73
255
INDEX
Subject	Page No.(s)
F	
Family Care - Standing Joint Committee	45
Family Care Leave Program	104, 188
Family Care Fund	47
Federal or State Law Changes - Impact on Contract	26
Federal or State Laws - Article XIX	26
Fiber to the Premise	39
Flexible Excused Work Days (EWD's)	103, 185
Force Adjustment * Article VII	6
Force Movement Activity Report	31
Force Rearrangements - Lateral Intradepartmental	230
Full / Half Pay Benefits	91
Full Time Employees- Overtime	115, 127
G	
General - All Departments	66
General - Article III	4
General Wage Increases	176
Globa] Services/DataComm	41
Grievance Filing Timeframe (180 days)	22, 159
Grievance Meeting - Company-paid attendees	22, 159
Grievance Process - Article XIII	21
Guaranteed Job Offer	10
H	
Habitual Tardiness	107
Half Day Vacation	87,182
Headquarters - All Departments	110
Health Standards	107
Holiday Call Outs - Pay Treatment	81
Holiday Compensation - Full and Part Time	118, 130, 180
Holiday- Excused Absence Period	85, 181
Holiday- Extended Sickness or Leave of Absence	85, 181
Holiday Falling on Any Day Monday Through Friday	145
Holiday on Saturday	84,118, 146, 179
Holiday on Sunday	84,179
Holiday Pay for Part-Time	146
256
INDEX
Subject______________________________________________________
Holiday Tours
Holiday Within Trick
Holiday- Worktime Period
Holidays - Company-Recognized
Home Dispatch Trial
Home Station
Home Station - Exchange Map
Hours - Normal Work Wcek/Work Day - Article V
Hours of Work
1
Identification - Employee
Illness Other Benefits (JOB)
Immediate Family
Immediate Household
Inclement Weather
Inclement Weather - Outside Work
Increases - Awarding
Ineligibility for Sickness Disability Benefits - Discretionary Leave
Informational Meeting - Grievances
Infractions of Rules of Road - Responsibility
Intoxicating Beverages
Involuntary Re-Deployment Process - Surplus Placements
J
JL Process
Job Briefs
Job Coach - Maintenance Admin / Assignment Adm
Joint Committees
Joint Conferences - Time OfF(UTM -Paid) - Article XIV
Joint Health Care Cost Containment - Standing Joint Committee
Jury Duty - Excused Absence	.
L
Lateral Intradepartmental Force Rearrangements
Layoff
Layoff "Pools" - Bumping
Layoff Payments
Page No.(s) 142 146 84 84 50 70, 109 109 5 110, 122
108 92 71, 172 72, 173 139 153
77 106
21,159 97
108 8
234 163
145 45 23 45 100, 185
232 12 14 16,17,164
257
INDEX
Subject	Page No.(s)
Layoff Payments to Part Time Employees	18
Layoff Provision	163
Leave of Absence	103,188
Leave of Absence - Military	237
Leave of Absence - Public Health Service	237
Liability in Case of Auto Accident	96
Location Changes - Title to Title	230
Lodging and Commutation	120,132,150
Long Term Service Difficulties	74
Lost Tools	153
Lunch periods	137
M	
Maintenance Admin / Assignment Adm Assigned as Job Coach	145
Mandatory Overtime	74, 135
Meal Periods	174
Meals	93, 119, 131, 148
Meals - Expenses	93
Meals - State of Emergency	93
Medical Coverage with EVSP	7
Medical Examinations - Excused Absence	99, 185
Medically Initialed Transfer (MIT)	79, 235
Memorandum of Agreement Concerning Evolving Technologies	39
Merchandise Sale	107
Mgt. Promotion From BU - Not Subject to Arbitration	19
Miscellaneous - Article XXVII	31
Midnight Lunch	149
Mileage Rate for Personal Car Usage	95
Military - Leave of Absence	237
Military - Reinstatement from Leave of Absence	241
Military or Public Health Services Leave of Absence	105, 237
Minimum Work Time ■ Holiday	81
Minimum Work Time- Call Outs	80
Mission	156
Morning Meal	119
Morning Meal after All Night Overtime	149
258
INDEX
Subject______________________.__________________________
Movement of Work from SNET
Moving Costs • Regular Employees
N
NCSC - Scheduling Net Credited Service
Network Customer Service Center - Scheduling
New Job Titles - Appendix E
New Year's Eve & Christmas Eve - Differentials
Night Differential
Non-Discrimination Clause - Article XXIII
Non-Exempt Employee
Noon Lunch
Normal Work Week I Work Day
O
Official Residence Telephone Service
On-Call Practice
On-the-Job Accident Disability Leave
On-The-Job Injury
Order of Recall
Other Excused Absence With Pay
Out of State - Differential
Outside Plant Technician - Acting Head of Const. Gang
Outside Work in Inclement Weather
Overtime
Overtime - Full Time Employees
Overtime - Mandatary
Overtime - Part Time Employees
Overtime - Temporary Employee
Overtime - Time and One Half & Double Time
Overtime Administration - Plant
Overtime Applied to Differential
Overtime Computation
Overtime on a Holiday
P
Pallbearer for Deceased Co-Worker / Immed. Family or Hshld.
Page No.(s) 49
97
59
72, 173
59
226
117, 129, 142
Bl
30
70
119, 131, 148 5
J 06
115, 127, 140
105,190
92
11 101
82
144
153
110, 122,134
115, 127, 142 74,135
115,127, 142 115, 127,142 115, 127,142
140
83 116, 143 115, 127, 142
98,185
259
INDEX
Subject_________________________________________________-______________Page No.(s)
Parking and Overnight Storage	95
Part Time Employees - Layoff Payments	18
Part-Time EIigibiIity for Health Benefits	68,171
Part-Time Employee	66,	169
Part-Time Employee Health Plan Contributions	69,	171
Part-Time Equivalent Work Week	67,170
Pay Day	'	80,177
Pay for Short Period Sickness	90, 183
Pay for Short Period Sickness beyond 10 days	90
Pay Treatment - Call Outs	80
Payments - Layoff	16, 17, 164
Payments - Voluntary Exit Incentive Pgm.	7
Peer Training	117,	129, 178
Penalties and Dismissals	20
Performing Support Functions	83,178
Permanent Closing of a Company Facility -Transportation Expense	96
Permanent Transfers	73
Personal Car - Reimbursement For Loss Through Damage	97
Personal Car Usage (Mileage Rates)	95
Personal/Other Reasons - Discretionary Leave	106
Plant, Switching Systems and Support Services - Field and District	134
Pole Climbing Instructions - Accident Prevention	153
Policies and Procedures - Part 1 (Transfer Plan)	230
Policies and Procedures - Part 3 (Public Health / Military Absences)	237
Portability - Employee Movement to Other SBC Companies	48
Posting of Open Jobs	231
Posting of Schedules	135
Presidential Council	50
Pre-Test Training Workshops	8,50
Principal in Court Action - Excused Absence	100, 185
Priority Placement - Surplus Process	9
Probation Period	76
Promotion io Mgt. - Not Subject to Arbitration	19
Promotional Increases	78
Promotions and Transfers - Article X	19
Promotions and Transfers of Union Officers - Article XVH	25
260
INDEX
Subject_____________________________________________________________Page No.fs)
Protections for Union	Representatives	4
Public Health Service	- Leave	of Absence	237
Public Health Service - Reinstatement from Leave of Absence	241
Public Office Leave	105,	190
Public Transportation	94
Q Qualifications for Transfer	231
Quarantine - Excused Absence	99, 185
R
Recall - Order of Recall	II
Recall From Layoff	16
Recall From Re-Deployment	11
Recall Offer Declination	12
Recognition Clause	3, 157
Recruitment and Selection	162
Reduction in Wages - When Allowed	5
Registered Domestic Partner	71, 172
Regular Employee	66, 168
Regular Employees - Moving Costs	97
Regulated Operator Services	52
Rehiring After a Layoff	16
Reimbursement For Loss Through Damage to Personal Car	97
Reinstatement - Grievance Settlement	22
Reinstatement of Employee Veterans - Article IX	18
Relief Period- Scheduling	175
Relocation Allowance	48
Reporting Center	70
Reports Provided to Union	31
Requests for Transfer	232
Reserve Time - Vacation Scheduling	88,182
Residency Requirements - Transfer Plan	230
Responsibility for Infractions of Rules of Road	97
Rest/Sleep Time	99
Resuscitation Training - Accident Prevention	153
Retreats	235
261
INDEX
Subject Page No.(s)
Return of Company Property	108
Rotating Differential	82
S	
Safety Guide - Accident Prevention	152
Safety Guide Questionnaire - Accident Prevention	152
Sale of Tickets and Merchandise	107
Saturday Before Vacation	114,147
Saturday Holiday	84, 118, 146, 179
Schedule Changes	114, 126
Scheduled Work Hours	110, 123, 135, 173
Scheduling Vacations - Selection	88. 182
Selection for Transfer	234
Senior Leadership Forum	44
Senior Volunteer or Inverse Seniority	232
Seniority & Net Credited Service	72, 173
Seniority & Net Credited Service Tic Breakers	73,173
Seniority vs. Qualifications in Transfers and Promotions	19
Service Assistant Aide Differential - CIS	178
Service Difficulties - Long Term	74
Service Termination Payments	83,179
Session	71, 172
Settlement of Grievances	22,159
Severe Weather Conditions	153
Short Period Sickness	90, 147, 183
Sickness - Pay for Short Period Sickness	90, 147, 183
Sickness - Pay for Short Period Sickness beyond 10 days	90, 147, 183
Sickness* Short Period	90, 183
Sickness and Accident Absence	90, 183
Sickness in Family * Excused Absence	98, 185
Sleep Time	99
SNET Disability Benefits Plan	91, 184
SNET Disability Benefits Plan - Maximum Benefit Period	91
Solicitation of Contributions	107
Special Compensation	144
Special Sickness Disability Payments	92
262
INDEX
Subject__________
Specialized Training
Standing Joint Committees
Start Rates and Progression
State of Emergency - Meals
State of Emergency Conditions
Step I - 111 Grievances
Step Parents, Children, etc.
Stock Appreciation (TPA)
Strategic Alliance Initiative
Sunday Holiday
Sunday Work - Wage Practices
Supper
Supplemental Agreements
Support Services - Tours & Tricks
Surplus - Wage Protection
Surplus Declaration
Surplus Definition
Surplus Downgrade - Wage Treatment
T
Table of Contents ( Basic Contract)
Tardiness
Teaching Safety - Accident Prevention
Team Performance Award Plan (TPA)
Team-Based Incentive Plan
Telephone - Official Residence Service
Telephone Concession
Temp, Changes in Assignments - Differentials Temporary Assignment to a Higher Maximum Temporary Employee
Temporary Employee - Overtime
Temporary Needs after Layoff
Temporary Transfers
Temporary Transfers - Extended
Termination Payments
Tickets - Infractions of Rules of Road - Responsibility
Page No-(s)
154
45
177
93
74
21,159
71, 172
34,166
44
84, 179
116, 128 1)9,131,148
33
138
10,91
7, 13
7
79
2
107
152
34, 166
47
106
106
116, 128,141
76
69
115,127,144
15
73
73
83, 179
97
263
INDEX
Subject____________________________________________________________Page	No.(s)
Tickets-Sale	107
Tie Breakers - Seniority & Net Credited Service	73, 173
Tier 1 and 2 Customer Contact I Technical Support	41
Tight Labor Market Wage Credits	236
Time Off (CUM) -Notice Requirements	26
Time Off (CUM) -Unpaid -	26
Time Off (UTM) -Paid - Joint Conferences	23
Timeframe for Grievance Filing (180 days)	22,159
Title to Title Location Changes	230
Tools	153
Tour Limitations	174
Tours	110, 122,134,
174
TPA	34, 166
Training	191
Training - Plant	154
Training Advisory Board - Standing Joint Committee	46
Training by Seniority	120,	154
Transfer - Selection	235
Transfer Bureau - Vacancies	233
Transfer Bureau Selected Jobs	235
Transfer Plan	230
Transfer P la n - Residency R equ ircments	230
TransferQualificaiions	233
Transfer Requests	232
Transfer to Occupation at Same Wage Max.	78
Transferring to Other SBC Companies	48
Transfers	19,73
Transfers I Promotions - Definition	19
Transfers and Promotions - Article X	19
Transfers for Reasons of Disability	79
Transfers to Lower Wage Maximum - Wage Treatment	79
Transition Pay Treatment (with Guaranteed Job Offer)	38
Transportation Expense for Call Outs	120
Transportation Expense When Working on Company Recognized 96
Holiday
Transportation Expense When Working Overtime	95
Transportation Expenses	94
264
INDEX
Subject	Page No.(s)
Transportation. Authorization	94
Trave] Time	75
Trial Period	76,173
Trick	134
Trick Schedules	135
U	
UAP	58
Union Access to Company Records	5
Union Activities - Article XVIII	26
Union Assistance Program	58
Union Business Leave	105,190
Union Meetings on Company Property	26
Union Membership Eligibility	4
Union Officer Leave of Absence / Union Activity	42
Union Representation - Article XI]	20
Union Representation - Discipline	20
Union Representatives - Protections	4
Union Usage of Bulletin Board	31
Unpaid Excused Absence. - Paid by Union (CUM)	26
Upgrades -Transfer Requests	230
Use of Intoxicating Beverages or Controlled Substances	108
Use of Personal Car	95
UTM -Joint Conferences	.	23
V	
Vacancies - Transfer Bureau	233
Vacation - Sickness or Accident Absences	86,181
Vacation Allowance / Eligibility	85,180
Vacation al End of Year	89	•
Vacation Carty Over	87,182
Vacation Pay-Regular Part-Time Employees	89
Vacation Scheduling - Selection	88,182
Vacation Scheduling - Transferees	89
Veterans - Reinstatement of Employee Veterans - Article LX	18
Veteran's Conventions, Parades, Celebrations - Excused Absence	101,185
Veteran's Organization - Excused Absence.	101, 185
265
INDEX
Subject_______________________________________________________Page No.(s)_______
Video	42
VoIP	40
Voluntary Exit Incentive Program	7, 13,17
Voluntary Re-Deployment	Process	13
W
Wage and Working Practices - Article IV	5
Wage Credits for Tight Labor Market	230
Wage Increases - Awarding	77
Wage Increases - Deferring	77
Wage Progression Schedules	76,194
Wage Progression Schedules - Application	76
Wage Protection - Surplus	10,91
Wage Reduction - When Allowed	5
Wage Reduction Other Than Transfer	78
Wage Schedules - Appendix D	192
Wages - Article VI	5
Wages in Lieu of Vacation	87,182
Wet Weather Clothing ■ Accident Prevention	153
WiFi	40
Witness for Court Duty - Excused Absence	99,185
Work Certificates - Excused Absence	101
Work Clothes	154
Work Day - Normal	.	5
Work Schedules - Plant	135
Work Time - What is Included	75
Work Week - Norma)	5
Workers' Compensation	92
Working Hours	110, 123, 135, 175
266