
Memorandum of agreement between Alabama Power Company and the following local unions of International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
No. 345 - Mobile
No. 833 ■ Jasper No. 904 -Tallassee
No. 39.1 - Gadsden
No. 801- Montgomery
No. 841 - Birmingham
No. 1053 • Demopolis
. No.796-Dothan
h No. 2077 -'Wilsonville
Covering employees in distribution, metertest, garage, supply . chain, appliance repair, and Z field service representatives, M with certain exceptions H
4
target
POWER
Dated June 27,2014

Made and Printed in the U.S.A.
MEMORANDUM Of AGREEMENT BETWEEN
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
and
The Following Local Unions of
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
No. 345 - Mobile
No. 833 - Jasper
No. 904-Tallassee
No. 391 - Gadsden
No. 801 - Montgomery
No. 841 - Birmingham
No. 1053 - Demopolis No. 796 - Dothan No. 2077-Wilsonville.
Covering Employees in Distribution, Meter Test, Garage, Supply Chain, Appliance Repair, and Field Service Representatives, with Certain Exceptions
DATED June 27, 2014
Bold print reflects changes in the contract language.
"There can be no operating condition which justifies our employees taking the slightest chance in performing their work. We want them always to take the safe way, even though our service may suffer thereby, or our costs be increased."
-J. M. BARRY
ii
CONTENTS
Article I	Scope	2
Article II	Tenn - Extension Modification	3
Article III	Bargaining - Representation -
No Discrimination	4
Article IV	Management	9
Article V	Promotions - Demotions - Reductions	10
Article VI	Grievances	31
Article VII	Arbitration	36
Article VIII	General Working Conditions	37
Article IX	Wages and Classifications	105
Article X	Loyalty and Efficiency	105
Article XI	No Strikes or Lockouts	106
Article XII	Safety	107
Article XIII	Special Rules - Distribution and
Instrument Service Center	108
Article XIV	Text	Deleted	119
Article XV	Text	Deleted	120
Article XVI	Text	Deleted	120
Article XVII	Text	Deleted	120
Article XVIII	Co-Operative Student Training Program 120
Article XIX	Employee Training	121
Article XX	Posting Rules	121
Exhibit A	Hourly Wage Schedules	125
Exhibit B	Current Memoranda of Agreement	177
Exhibit C	Text Deleted	272
Exhibit D	Meals	273
Exhibit E	Travel Expense	284
Subject Index	287
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into the 27th day of June, 2014, by and between ALABAMA POWER COMPANY, a public utility corporation of the State of Alabama, its successors or assigns, hereinafter called the Company, party of the first part, and LOCAL UNION NO. 345, LOCAL UNION NO. 833, LOCAL UNION NO. 904, LOCAL UNION NO. 391, LOCAL UNION NO. 801, LOCAL UNION NO. 841, LOCAL UNION NO. 1053, LOCAL UNION NO. 796, and LOCAL UNION NO. 2077, of the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, hereinafter collectively called the Brotherhood, party of the second part;
WITNESSETH THAT:
WHEREAS, the Company is engaged in the business of supplying electric service to the public in the larger portion of the State of Alabama and for that reason all employees of the Company, including those covered by this agreement, are charged with special obligations and responsibilities that do not exist in the case of the ordinary business enterprise; and
WHEREAS, the efficient operation of the transmission and distribution properties of the Company is a necessary step in the performance
1
of its duty to continue to supply adequate and dependable service to the public;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and for the purpose of facilitating fair, orderly, and prompt adjustment of any disputes that may from time to time arise and of promoting harmony and efficiency in the operation of the transmission, and distribution properties of the Company, the parties hereto contract and agree with each other as follows, to-wit:
ARTICLE I
Scope
This agreement covers the distribution, meter test, garage, supply chain, appliance repair employees and the field service representatives of the Company except supervisors, clerks, and professional employees; that is, those employees who are engaged in the operation and maintenance of the distribution properties of the Company, including any extensions or additions which maybe put into operation during the term of this agreement, but exclusive of supervisors and assistants, foremen, chemists, results engineers, doctors, nurses, and clerks. All employees presently covered by this agreement are included in the classifications set forth in the wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A and
2
the words "employee" and "employees" as used in this agreement will refer only to employees included in such classifications.
The individual Memoranda of Agreement covering (1) Power Generation, (2) Distribution and Support and (3) Power Delivery Transmission are to be considered as one Agreement for the purposes of contract ratification vote; contract extension, modification or termination; and other administrative purposes.
ARTICLE II
Term - Extension - Modification
(a)	This agreement becomes effective on June 27, 2014.
(b)	This agreement will remain in effect through August 15, 2019, and will continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter from August 15 of each year through August 15 of the next year, unless changed or terminated as provided in paragraph (c) of this Article II.
(c)	Either party desiring to change or terminate this agreement will notify the other party in writing of such desire at least sixty (60)
3
days prior to August 15, 2019, or the expiration date of any yearly extension thereafter. However, changes may be made at any time by mutual consent and it is understood that such changes will be made from time to time as may be necessary to comply with the applicable provisions of all Federal and State laws. The Company and the Brotherhood further agree that, upon due written notice from either, they will meet to amend the agreement to conform to the appropriate laws.
During the term of this agreement, the Business Manager or President of the Local Union, Construction Representative or System Council U-19 and the appropriate level of local supervision can mutually agree to develop work rules and/or procedures for a specific situation or location that may vary from those established in this agreement. Should no mutually agreeable change be made, the rules and procedures established in this agreement will remain in effect.
ARTICLE III
Bargaining - Representation - No Discrimination
(a)	The Company recognizes the right of its employees to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing; and
4
recognizes the Brotherhood as the exclusive representative of the employees covered by this agreement for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, working conditions, and other conditions of employment herein provided for.
(b)	Employees will have the right to join or not to join the Brotherhood as they individually prefer, it being agreed that there will be no discrimination for or against any employee by reason of membership or non-membership in the Brotherhood; no attempt to coerce any employees into joining or not joining the Brotherhood against their will and no interference with any employees on account of joining or refusal to join the Brotherhood either on the part of the Company or the Brotherhood or any employees who are members of the Brotherhood.
(c)	The Company and the Brotherhood affirm the continuation of their policy and practice that there will be no discrimination for or against any employee in matters covered by this agreement because of the employee's race, color, religion, sex, age, disability or national origin; no employee will be coerced, threatened, or intimidated either on the part of the Company or the Brotherhood because of race, color, religion, sex, age, or national origin or for protesting any alleged discriminatory treatment
5
in matters covered by this agreement. When the male or female gender is used, it will apply to both sexes.
(d)	In the event Act No. 430 of Acts of Alabama adopted August 28, 1953, is modified, repealed, rendered inoperative by Alabama or Federal legislation or declared invalid by the Supreme Court of Alabama or the Supreme Court of the United States so as to permit the operation under the laws of Alabama of paragraph (c) of Article III of the agreement between the parties hereto, dated April 11, 1947, as amended, such paragraph will become a part of this agreement and will be in full force and effect as if made a part hereof with respect to all employees who are members of the Brotherhood on the date of such modification, repeal or invalidation of such Act.
(e)	The Company agrees to deduct dues to the Brotherhood from the pay of each employee, either a present or future member of the Brotherhood, who files with the Company a written authorization for such deduction; it being understood that the Company will continue to deduct such dues from any employee who is promoted or transferred out of the bargaining unit unless such employee withdraws the deduction authorization. Such deduction will be made and remitted in accordance with said
6
authorization, which will be in the following form:
PAYROLL DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION For Dues to INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Local Union No.
1,, a member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, hereby authorize and request Alabama Power Company to deduct from any wages due me on the second payday in each calendar month the sum specified by the Financial Secretary of the above Local Union and to pay the same to the Financial Secretary of the above Local Union for me, and in my behalf, as my monthly dues to said Local Union. This payroll deduction authorization shall remain in effect unless and until withdrawn by me by notice in writing to the Company.
Date
Signature
Witness
(f)	The Company agrees to deduct from the pay of an employee voluntary contributions to the Brotherhood's Committee on Political Education fund, if such employee files with the Company a written authorization for such
7
deduction. It is understood that such deductions will continue to be made by the Company until the employee withdraws the deduction authorization. Such deductions will be made and remitted to each local union in accordance with said authorization, which will be in the following form:
PAYROLL DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION FOR VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO I.B.E.W.
COPE FUND
Employee #L.U. #
S.S.#_____________
I, , a member of the I.B.E.W., hereby authorize and request Alabama Power Company to deduct from any wages due me on the second payday in each calendar month the sum of, and to pay the same to the Financial Secretary of the above local union in my behalf as my voluntary contribution to the COPE fund of said local union. This payroll authorization shall remain in effect unless and until withdrawn by me by notice in writing to the Company.
8
DATE SIGNATURE
WITNESS_____________________________
(g)	The Company agrees to notify the System Council Business Manager when current monthly dues which are authorized by an employee are not deducted and the reason such dues were not deducted. The Brotherhood will hold the Company free and harmless from any claims or damage from any party whatsoever arising out of making or failing to make such deductions as identified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this Article III and will indemnify the Company against any and all such claims and damage.
ARTICLE IV
Management
The right to hire and discharge employees and the management of the properties are reserved by and will continue to be vested exclusively in the Company. The Company will have the right to determine how many employees it will employ or retain, together with the right to exercise full control and discipline in the interest of proper service and the conduct of its business. In making promotions as provided for in Article V hereof the Company will be the judge of competency. The provisions of this article will
9--
not abridge the rights of employees as set forth in any applicable provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE V
Promotions-Demotions-Reductions
(a)	Vacancies and new jobs covered by this agreement will be filled on the basis of seniority and competency. Competency being sufficient, seniority in the various units as hereinafter defined will prevail, except that vacancies or new jobs in the classification of laboratory instrument technician I, laboratory instrument technician II, meter tester, assistant meter tester, and assistant telecommunications electrician will be filled on the basis of competency, and in filling such vacancies or new jobs, seniority will be considered only if competency is equal. Seniority will be reckoned by the following units:	(1) Instrument Service Center as a
separate unit; (2) Appliance Service; (3) Telecommunications Electricians; (4) the Birmingham geographic Division, including the Materials Distribution Center, General Garage and Corporate Fleet Services as a group; (5) Eastern geographic Division; (6) Southern geographic Division; (7) Western geographic Division; (8) Mobile geographic Division; (9) Southeast geographic Division and (10) Supply Chain. To effectuate the seniority provisions of this agreement, new seniority lists will be
10
prepared and distributed by the Company dated December 31 and June 30 of each year, the midyear list being limited to employees' names and seniority. Such lists will include all employees to whom any seniority had accrued as of that date, arranged according to the foregoing ten (10) units. Such lists will be revised semiannually and will determine seniority of employees therein. In making such revisions the position of the employees in their respective lists will be rated according to the added time which has accrued to them in their respective unit.
For the purpose of determining seniority, service with the Company will be deemed to be continuous unless it has been interrupted for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months. Seniority will not accrue during layoffs due to lack of work. Seniority will accrue during interruptions in service because of illness; leave of absence for Union business; leaves required by law under the Family Medical Leave Act; during periods of suspension due to disciplinary reasons; leave required by law for military service; brief absences for personal business; or any mutually agreed upon reasons. Any employee who voluntarily resigns from the service of the Company or who has been rightfully discharged will forfeit all previous seniority rights. In the event two (2) or more employees are employed on the same date,
11
seniority of such employees will be determined by the date of birth of such employees.
Service with the company will continue to accumulate during disciplinary layoff or suspension with respect to an employee's eligibility for vacation.
(b)	When vacancies or new jobs occur in any unit, to fill which there are no available qualified employees in such unit, and employees are transferred from other units into such unit to fill such vacancies or new jobs, their seniority in the new unit to which they are transferred will be that which accumulates during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit.. After twelve (12) months in the new unit, their seniority will be their seniority in their former unit plus seniority accumulated in the new unit. When vacancies or new jobs are filled by transferring employees from other departments or jobs not covered by this agreement, their seniority in the unit to which they are transferred will be that which accumulates during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit. After twelve (12) months in the new unit, their seniority will be based on the length of their continuous service with the Company, if this continuous service began in a classification covered by the bargaining unit, plus seniority accumulated during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit. When employees are transferred to the Instrument
12
Service Center from another unit to their former seniority unit, their seniority will be the same as in the unit from which they were transferred. Seniority of all employees laid off for lack of work will not be lost unless their respective employment is interrupted for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months during which such employees do not work for or make time with the Company unless they are offered employment in their former or equivalent classification at locations designated by the employees and they fail to accept the same and report for work within a period of two (2) weeks. When it is necessary to increase forces of the Company in the classifications covered by this agreement, former employees whose employment was discontinued by the Company through a reduction of forces and whose seniority has not been lost will be offered reemployment on the basis of seniority at the locations designated by the employee provided they are available and competent. In the event a vacancy or new job is not filled as set forth above, preferential consideration will be given to former employees whose seniority has been lost. However, refusal of temporary employment will not constitute grounds for interrupting seniority. An interruption of employment due to leave of absence will not cause employees to lose their seniority, but seniority will not accumulate except as provided for in this Article V (a). Any employee who voluntarily resigns from the
13
service of the Company, or who has been rightfully discharged, will lose all previous seniority rights and other rights growing out of previous continuous service with the Company.
(c)	Competency for filling a job will be construed as requiring of the employee:
1.	The necessary mental and physical qualifications of the individual to do the job satisfactorily.
2.	The necessary training and experience to perform the essential duties of the job, either immediately or after a brief breaking-in period [two (2) to three (3) weeks] at the new location or job; it being understood that a new worker in a job would not usually display the same proficiency as one who had been in the job longer.
3.	For promotions to any classification above that of utility assistant, the necessary ability to progress within a reasonable time to the next higher classification in the particular line of work and to
14
fill such classifications satisfactorily, and ultimately to progress to the classification of journeyman. For promotion to subforeman, lead lineman or lead cable splicer, the necessary ability to progress to and substitute for foreman.
(d)	A classification will be deemed to be "higher" if the maximum schedule rate of pay is higher.
(e)	Vacancies or new jobs in any classification except that of utility assistant will be filled on the basis of seniority and competency by promoting or transferring employees unless there are no qualified employees available and except as otherwise provided herein. In the event of such vacancy or new job, the Company will promptly post notice on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected [except as set out in sub-paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) below], and will promptly mail copies of such notices to the representatives of the Brotherhood designated to receive such notices in the respective units. Vacancies within line crews will be posted by location and not by supervisor or crew. When the new employee arrives at the new location, a selection process at that location by seniority will determine which employee fills the vacant position. This process will continue until all
15
vacancies are filled. A good faith effort will be made to communicate all permanent jobs posted from all seniority units across the Company. The Company's failure to comply with this provision will not be subject to the grievance procedure. All notices will clearly identify vacancies or new jobs as to location. Exchange of the position of employees in the same classification between crews in the same line of work at the same location may be arranged by agreement between a Local Union representing such employees and the Company, however, nothing herein will be construed to prevent temporary transfers of employees between crews. Notices of job vacancies will be sent only to the President of each Local affected and to the System Council U-19, with the understanding that any employee who. so desires may make application for such job vacancies and such applications will be considered in the event the job is not filled from within the seniority unit. The Company will likewise post notice as promptly as possible in the event any job becomes vacant and is to be discontinued. The Company may fill a vacancy or new job temporarily with any available qualified employee. In filling any such vacancy or new job temporarily at any location the Company will endeavor to utilize local employees, taking into account seniority and competency; it being understood that they must be able to perform the necessary duties of the job. Time spent in filling
16
any such vacancy or new job temporarily, and experience gained while thus employed, will not militate against any other employee of greater seniority who may make application for the jobs as provided for later in this Article V. Such employees filling vacancies or new jobs temporarily will be paid at the minimum rate of pay for the vacancies or new jobs while so temporarily employed, unless their regular rate of pay is higher, in which event they will continue to receive their regular rate of pay. For a period of ten (10) days after the notice is posted any employee in the unit affected may apply for transfer to the vacancy or new job. Application blanks for this purpose will be provided by the Company at each local office, and crew headquarters; or application may be made by letter. One (1) copy will be sent to the respective Company representative of the unit affected as follows: Manager-Metering Services/Testing for the Instrument Service Center; Manager-Fleet Services for Fleet Services; Manager-Supply Chain for Supply Chain and the Distribution Managers for the respective geographic divisions. One copy will be retained by the employee. No application will be considered unless it reaches the above-named Company representative of the unit affected within ten (10) days after the notice of vacancy or new job is posted. Within twenty-five (25) days after the notice of vacancy or new job is posted, the Company will designate an employee
17 .
from the qualified applicants, if any, to fill the vacancy or new job and will promptly post notice on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected (except as set out below) of the employee so designated. A copy of such notice will be sent only to the President of the Local Union of the location affected and to the System Council U-19. Applicants from the unit to whom a job is awarded will have five (5) days within which to accept or decline such job after the date when such award is posted and will promptly notify their respective immediate supervisor in writing of their decision to accept or decline such job, but if no such notice is given the. supervisor, the employees will be deemed to have accepted the job awarded them. Employees may’ decline no more than one (1) vacancy or new job awarded them during a calendar year. If the employee to whom the job is awarded declines the job, the Company will proceed promptly to fill same from the remainder of the list of bidders, if any be qualified, without reposting the vacancy subject to the same conditions governing the original award. If the vacancy or new job is filled by an applicant from the unit but is not filled according to seniority, the filling will be considered as temporary for a further period of fifteen (15) days after the notice of the filling of the vacancy or new job is posted, during which time it may be made the basis of a grievance. In cases where no applications are received from qualified employees within the
18
unit, applications received from employees in other units will be considered and notices will be posted on the same basis as set out above. In cases where no applications are received from qualified employees, the vacancy or new job will be filled from any available source and notice to the effect will likewise be posted company wide within twenty-five (25) days after the notice of the vacancy or new job has been posted. Where notice that the vacancy or new job will be filled from any available source is posted applicants who have not been awarded the job shall have fifteen (15) days from the date of posting such notice during which time their failure to receive the job may be made the basis of a grievance. Applications received as a result of any available source postings will be considered, however, the filling of such vacancy by any available source will not be made the basis of a grievance. If the job is not filled within ninety (90) days after posting as above outlined then the vacancy or new job will be reposted as required for bidding under the initial above procedures. When such job is filled, copies of notices of fillings will be sent to Brotherhood representatives authorized to receive original vacancy notices. The successful applicant for a vacancy will be moved to such vacancy within thirty (30) days from date of job award notice, except in the case of jobs created in connection with the staffing of new plants, units, or crews and new operations, in which case, the successful applicant will be transferred
.19
within thirty (30) days from the anticipated date of such staffing which date will be specified on the job notice. The following will constitute exceptions to the method of posting notices described above:
1.	TEMPORARY JOBS - Notices of vacancies or new jobs in classifications covered by this agreement which are temporary, that is, expected to last ninety (90) days or less, will be posted only at the respective local offices or crew headquarters where such vacancies or new jobs occur. However, if any such temporary, new job lasts for more than ninety (90) days, it will be discussed with the local committee of the Brotherhood and if it appears that it will become permanent, it will be posted on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected, and treated as a permanent new job as described above under this paragraph (e).
Whenever a temporary job is filled by the Company, notice of such filling will be promptly posted at the respective local office or crew headquarters where filled.
20
Whenever job vacancies created by employees bidding and receiving temporary vacancies or new jobs are posted, such resulting vacancies will be posted as temporary vacancies. Whenever the employees filling the initial temporary vacancies or new jobs returns to their former permanent jobs, or bid into other permanent jobs, temporary jobs which resulted from such initial temporary vacancies or new jobs will be terminated.
Employees who bid and receive temporary jobs or vacancies will, upon the termination of such temporary jobs or vacancies, be returned to their former jobs provided such jobs have not been abolished or occupied by senior employees as a result of a reduction of forces. In the event of a reduction of forces while employees are filling temporary jobs or vacancies, such employees will be considered as filling their former jobs for the purposes of such reduction of forces.
2.	Text Deleted.
3.	INSTRUMENT SERVICE CENTER - Notices of vacancies or new jobs at the Instrument Service Center will be posted on all bulletin boards, but only
21
those employees who have had experience in electronic instrument testing and repair, instrumentation and control, or meter test work or the equivalent will be considered for such vacancies.
(f) Employees in the classification of apprentice, who have attained competency to advance to journeyman, but who after accumulating four (4) years in apprentice classifications have not been promoted to journeyman will be offered advancement to the classification of journeyman at locations in their respective seniority unit where the services of an additional journeyman can be utilized to best advantage. In the event an employee in the apprentice classification is offered advancement to the journeyman classification under the provisions of this paragraph (f), and is subsequently advanced to journeyman at a location where no journeyman vacancy exists, the Company will retain the option for a period of one year to place a journeyman from that same crew into a vacancy of the same classification at that same location which may subsequently be created or become vacant.
Vacancies in journeyman classifications may be held open for a maximum of twenty-one (21) days prior to the date on which such employees' four (4) years combined accumulated
22
service is completed during which time it may be filled by such employees. Also, the assignment of such employees to a definite location may be delayed for a period not in excess of twenty-one (21) days if it is anticipated that vacancies in the journeyman classifications for which they are eligible may occur during that period.
If a position of local operations lineman or service installer is created or held open to provide for promotion of an apprentice under the above provision, it will be made available to all employees in the unit under the usual bidding procedure, and the first journeyman job other than lead lineman or troubleman so vacated will be offered to the apprentice for whom the job was created or held open. However, if this bidding does not result in a journeyman vacancy for which the apprentice is qualified, then the award, if any, to the successful bidder for the job created or held open will be cancelled, as well as any succeeding awards that resulted and the job created or held open will be offered to the apprentice who is eligible for promotion under the provisions of this paragraph (f).
In the event an employee is determined not physically qualified due to an injury, but is otherwise deemed competent for advancement under the provisions of this paragraph, the Company will re-evaluate the employee's competency within one hundred eighty (180)
.23
days from the date of initial eligibility for advancement. If the employee is determined competent, the employee will be advanced in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, effective on the date of advancement.
In case apprentices elect to decline advancement so offered at another location but elect to remain at their then present location, they will continue to retain the classification of apprentice during future employment unless promoted or transferred on application made by them and considered in the manner prescribed for applying for and filling vacancies and new jobs which are thereafter posted.
Employees who have attained the journeyman classification but are displaced from such journeyman classification and moved into a lower classification due to a rollback caused by the settlement of a grievance, an employee's return from a leave of absence, a reduction in forces, or incompetency, will not be eligible to advance to the journeyman classification until their combined accumulated service as a journeyman and/or as an apprentice equals four (4) years provided such employees do not elect to progress to journeyman under the terms and conditions of the bidding procedure as outlined in this Article V. At the time the employees’ individual combined accumulated service as a journeyman and/or as an apprentice equals four
24
(4) years and provided the employees are competent to advance to journeyman, they will be offered advancement to the classification of journeyman at a location in their seniority unit where the services of an additional journeyman can be utilized to best advantage.
Employees who have attained the journeyman classification but who choose of their own free will to bid into a lower classification will not be eligible for progression from apprentice to journeyman under the provisions of this paragraph or paragraph (k) of this Article V, until they satisfy the original requirement for apprentice progression, that is, until their respective accumulated service in the apprentice classification is equal to four (4) years after bidding out of the journeyman classification.
When, as a result of reduction of forces, journeymen whose respective combined accumulated service as journeymen and/or as apprentices equals four (4) years or more move into a lower classification other than apprentice, they may when an apprentice opening is available bid on the apprentice job in accordance with the bidding procedure as outlined in paragraph (e) of this Article V; and if awarded such available apprentice job will immediately be promoted to the journeyman classification in that line of work. If they are not able to perform
25
such work at the journeyman level, they will be demoted as set out in paragraph (i) of this Article V and will not be permitted any future claim to progression from apprentice to journeyman under the provisions of this paragraph.
(g)	When employees are transferred and raised from a classification to a higher classification or if employees are transferred permanently from one location to another by the Company without application or request from the employees, the Company will pay their moving expense to the new place of residence in the general vicinity of their new location. Employees who are transferred to another location in their unit to avoid being laid off, will pay their own moving expenses.
Relative to the movement of mobile homes, the Company agrees to apply the terms and conditions of this paragraph to include certain expenses incurred as a result of moving mobile homes. Such expenses will be limited to escorts for mobile homes fourteen (14) feet in width or wider; disconnecting of utilities; taping of windows as necessary; and other preparations necessary to secure the internal portion of the mobile home for movement.
In addition to the expenses normally reimbursed for the movement of a mobile home under this paragraph, the Company will agree to
26
pay the expenses associated with the movement of a heat pump(s) and/or a central air-conditioning unit(s).
(h)	If, in filling a vacancy or new job in a classification covered by this agreement, employees are transferred upon their request and application to a lower classification, their rate of pay in the lower classification will be at the minimum of such classification unless their training and experience justify a higher rate in that classification.
(i)	When job awards are made under the seniority provisions of this agreement and displacements are made due to incompetency during the first twelve (12) months following the job awards, employees will be returned to their former job and other employees awarded jobs in the sequence will also be returned to their former jobs. Employees displaced on account of incompetency will pay their own return moving expenses.
(j)	The Company has the right to lay off or discharge any employee for sufficient and reasonable cause, but the employee will be advised of the reason or reasons for such layoff or discharge; and the Brotherhood will, upon request, be advised of the reason or reasons for such layoff or discharge.
27
(k)	The Company will endeavor to provide the Union with reasonable notice in the event of a reduction in forces. In case of reduction of forces or displacement from classifications due to incompetency, except as provided for in paragraph (i) of this Article V, it is agreed that such reduction of forces or displacements will be made in reverse order of seniority, except as provided below, in each of the separate seniority units as defined in paragraph (a) of this Article V. Employees so displaced may roll into existing vacancies or new jobs which are of equivalent or lower classification rather than displacing other employees, or employees may have the option to return to any job classification in their seniority unit, provided they had formerly held such classification in that seniority unit and are competent, and if their seniority will allow such return. The Company, will agree to coordinate the application of rolling into a vacancy by identifying existing vacancies within a seniority unit and providing this to the Union at least three (3) work days prior to the commencement of a reduction in forces or displacement. The Union will determine the desire and seniority of employees who might want to move to such vacancies under the provision of Article V, paragraph (e) of the Contract. Employees laid off as a result of a reduction of forces or demotion will initially designate locations or, subsequent to layoff, additional locations where reemployment is
28
desired for the purpose of recall from layoff. Locations so designated will be any of the six (6) geographic divisions, any generating plant, Power Delivery Transmission, and/or the General Services Complex. Vacancies not filled through the initial posting or vacancies in the utility assistant classifications at the respective locations as designated will be offered to employees on layoff who are subject to recall as set forth in paragraph (b) of this Article V. In the event of a reduction of forces, employees in the classification of utility assistant who have been displaced as a result of such reduction of forces will have the option of taking a layoff rather than displacing another employee.
In case of reduction of forces journeymen whose combined accumulated service as a journeyman and/or as an apprentice equals four (4) years or more will retain their journeyman classification provided there is either a journeyman or apprentice in their seniority unit with less seniority whose job they are competent to perform and whom they choose to displace. In the event a journeyman displaces an apprentice and retains the journeyman classification as provided above, the Company will retain the option for a period of one year to place a journeyman from that same crew into a vacancy of the same classification at that same location which may subsequently be created or become vacant.
29
It is understood that the employees retained as a result of the reduction of forces will result in classifications and competency sufficient for the work to be done and that no employees will be retained to fill a job for which they are not qualified, and it is further understood that layoffs in the reverse order of seniority will be worked out promptly with representatives of the Brotherhood, and will usually result in laying off employees with the least seniority in the particular units.
In the event of reduction of forces in the Instrument Service Center, transfers will be made in reverse order of length of service at Instrument Service Center; and such employees will be transferred back to the units from whence they came with total seniority accumulated up to the time of such transfers from the Instrument Service Center, for all the purposes of this agreement.
In the event that a reduction of forces or staffing adjustment may be necessary, the Company and Union may agree to apply any such severance or early retirement plan as may be approved and in effect at the time.
30
ARTICLE VI
Grievances
(a)	The Company agrees to meet and treat with the duly accredited officers and committees that are elected or selected by the Brotherhood upon all questions and grievances that may arise between the parties hereto during the life of this agreement. Every effort will be made by the parties hereto to settle disputes promptly and at the location where they arise. A local Union/Company committee will be formed as needed to discuss disputes for resolution using the mutual gains process before a formal grievance is filed. It being the desire of the parties to settle grievances promptly, the Brotherhood will endeavor to provide the available information as to date of occurrence, facts and circumstances giving rise to the grievance, contract provisions allegedly violated, employees involved, and remedy sought. Such information will be furnished to the Company prior to the first step of the grievance procedure, but may be amended prior to any subsequent step of the grievance procedure as may be necessary to reflect new information. It is understood, however, that failure to provide such information as set forth above, will not prejudice the position of the Brotherhood in any grievance.
31
As necessary for settlement, grievances will be reduced to writing and handled in two successive steps at the locations/departments as indicated:
Operating Divisions, General Garage, Fleet Garage, Instrument Service Center and Supply Chain:
Step 1 i Between the aggrieved employee and/or representatives of the Brotherhood acting in the employee’s behalf, and the employee’s immediate supervisor and supervisor in general charge of the operation in which the grievance arose.
Step 2. Between the aggrieved employee and/or	representatives of the
Brotherhood acting in the employee’s behalf,	and the Manager-Labor
Relations, together with the Vice President in charge of the operation in which the grievance arose or their designated representatives.
In the event any grievance is not settled by any of the preceding steps of the grievance procedure, it may be submitted to arbitration. The Brotherhood will have a maximum of ninety (90) days from the date of the Company's written decision in the final step in which to give written notice to the Company that a grievance is not
32
satisfactorily settled and that the Brotherhood desires to submit the grievance to arbitration as provided in Article VII of this agreement.
The Company's decision will be reduced to writing and a copy furnished to the Brotherhood as soon as possible after the conclusion of each grievance step.
If a stenographic report is made of the proceedings of any such meeting by the Company or the Brotherhood, a typewritten copy will be furnished to the other party within five (5) days.
(b)	It being the desire of the parties hereto to settle grievances promptly, it is agreed that no grievance will be considered unless it is brought to the attention of the Company as a grievance in the manner provided for herein within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of the facts giving rise to the same or within fifteen (15) days of filling a vacancy as provided in Article V (e). It is further agreed that a maximum of ten (10) days will be allowed from the time of receipt of such notice that a grievance exists until such grievance will be handled as provided in Step 1 of this Article VI, paragraph (a). Upon completion of Step 1 as provided in this Article VI, paragraph (a), the Brotherhood will have a maximum of twenty-one (21) days from the date of the Company's written decision in which to
33
give notice to the Company that such grievance is not satisfactorily settled, and that the Brotherhood desires to proceed to the next higher step. Upon receipt of the notice that the Brotherhood desires to proceed to the next higher step as provided in this Article VI, paragraph (a), the Company will have a maximum of ten (10) days to complete such step. Failure to comply with the time limits as set forth above will serve to terminate the grievance, and such grievance, if terminated, cannot be brought up the second time. However, should the Company fail to comply with such time limits as set forth above, the grievance may be moved to the next succeeding step. Notwithstanding the provision of this Article VI, paragraph (b), time limits as specified herein may be extended by mutual agreement.
(c)	Employees who have been suspended or discharged will have the right to have their respective case taken up as a grievance by the officers or committees of the Brotherhood with the duly accredited officers of the Company; and in such cases where it is found that such employees that have been suspended or discharged were unjustly suspended or discharged, they will be reinstated to their former position and other employees’ affected will be displaced pursuant to Article V, paragraph (i) where such reinstatement is within twelve (12) months of the employee's discharge
34
otherwise the terms and conditions of Article V, paragraph (k) will apply with respect to other employees affected. Further they will be paid the wages to which they would have been entitled had they continued in the Company's employment during the period of suspension or discharge.
(d)	Disagreements with respect to Workers' Compensation and similar issues which are also controlled by Local, State or Federal Laws, are not subject to the grievance process.
If for whatever reason a Workers' Compensation claim which was initially disallowed is later accepted, the following will apply:
1.	All employee benefits will be fully restored.
2.	The Company will not request any reimbursement from the employee for the difference between what the employee was paid and Workers' Compensation.
(e)	The Company will pay reasonable travel expenses for Company employees involved in the grievance process.
35
ARTICLE VII
Arbitration
In case of a dispute concerning the interpretation of any of the provisions of this agreement that cannot be settled by the Company and local representatives of the Brotherhood, they will refer the dispute to a board of arbitrators composed of three (3) members. Each of the parties hereto will select one (1) member of this board, and the third member will be selected jointly by the parties through the American Arbitration Association, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS), or any other like organization approved by mutual agreement of the parties to provide this service. If the parties cannot mutually agree on FMCS or another like organization, the American Arbitration Association will be the default provider. The parties will have ten (10) working days from the receipt of any valid panel provided by the approved service to identify their selections for the third member. In the event the two (2) members of the board of arbitration fail to select a third member, the parties will jointly request the provider to appoint a third member. Both parties will be bound by such appointment. In the event one of the parties refuses or fails to join in such request, the party in default will forfeit its case. The decision of any two (2) members of the board in agreement on the matter
36
in dispute will be binding on both parties hereto. When the dispute involves interpretation of wage schedules, any decision rendered will be retroactive to the date on which the dispute originated. Each of the parties hereto will pay the compensation and expense of the member of the board appointed by it; and the expense, and also the compensation, of the third member of the board will be borne equally by the parties hereto.
The board of arbitration will be governed wholly by the terms of this agreement and will have no power to add to or change its terms.
ARTICLE VIII
General Working Conditions
(a)	New employees will be on probation for the first nine (9) months of their employment. During the trial period the Company may, at its option, transfer, lay off, or dismiss such employees, but they will enjoy all other rights and benefits provided for in this agreement. In filling any job from among probationary employees, competency being equal, the length of service of the employees in the probationary period will prevail and upon the completion of the nine (9) months probationary period the seniority of such employees will commence and
37
will be dated back to the date of their employment. However, the Brotherhood may discuss with the Company any cases of discrimination respecting such employees.
(b)	Each new full-time employee will be allowed a maximum of one (1) week [i.e., forty (40) hours] sick leave with pay upon the first day of employment, if such sick leave is necessary because of the employee's own sickness.
Each full-time employee will be allowed an additional maximum of one (1) week [i.e., forty (40) hours] sick leave with pay upon completion of the initial six (6) months of continuous employment with the Company following such probationary period if such sick leave is necessary because of the employee's own sickness.
Thereafter, the Company will allow two (2) weeks [i.e., eighty (80) hours] sick leave with pay per calendar year to each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an immediately prior continuous period of six (6) or more months if such sick leave is necessary because of the employee's own sickness.
Sick leave may also be used for absences from work due to doctor’s appointments,
38
dental appointments, eye examinations, or other routine physical examinations, upon management approval.
Employees may use a maximum of 40 hours per calendar year accumulated basic sick leave for unavoidable absences caused by disability or sickness in the family, defined as a parent, spouse or child (including a step-child who resides in the household or is a legal dependent of the employee’s spouse) or qualified domestic partner.
. Employees will be allowed forty (40) additional hours sick leave in any calendar year following a year in which the employee did not use any sick leave.
An employee may accumulate unused sick leave up to a maximum of one thousand forty (1040) hours, including sick leave for the then current year. Under no circumstances will an employee be entitled to more than one thousand ) forty (1040) hours sick leave with pay in any calendar year.
, Unless it is impossible to do so, employees or members of their immediate family will notify ; their respective immediate supervisors of such sickness and its probable duration as much in advance of the starting time of their shift as may be possible. Repeated failure to report for work
39
without giving such notice will be grounds for disciplinary action or discharge. Should employees fail to notify supervision before the end of the second day of such absence, they will not qualify for sick leave with pay unless it can be shown that it was impossible for them to give or cause such notice to be given to their supervisors. In the event of absence due to sickness, supervisors may make such reasonable investigations as they deem desirable, and the Company may require a doctor's certificate as to the nature of the sickness causing such absence from work. Failure to give notice as required or to supply a doctor's certificate if required will forfeit all rights of sick leave with pay during the particular absence from work. The Brotherhood will cooperate with the Company to prevent or eliminate abuses of sick leave privileges.
Employees who are laid off due to a reduction in forces, but who return to the employ of the Company in a permanent job within a period of twenty-four (24) months from the date of such layoff, will retain any unused accumulated sick leave to which they were entitled at the time of their layoff; and will be eligible for such unused accumulated sick leave upon re-employment in a permanent position.
(c)	The number of vacation days eligible, full-time employees accrue during the first calendar year of employment (or during the
40
calendar year in which they are rehired or returned to work following a leave of absence) will be prorated based upon the quarter in which employees are hired (or rehired or returned to work following a leave of absence):
Employees hired, rchired or returning to work in this quarter:	Wil! receive this amount of vacation for that calendar year:	Or this percentage of the amount the employee would have accrued if he or she had been hired on January I of that year: (for employees who are rchired or hired with credit for prior, non-Southern Company experience)
T' Quarter (Jan. I through Mar. 31)	80 hours	100%
2"J Quarter (Apr. I through June 30)	64 hours	80%
3rd Quarter (July I through Sept. 30)	48 hours	60%
4,h Quarter (Oct. I through Dee. 31)	32 hours	40%
When determining how much vacation a newly hired employee should receive, managers
41
have the discretion to recognize certain prior, 'y non-Southem Company experience.
Each full-time employee will be eligible for the following accelerated vacation accrual at the beginning of the calendar year in which the service is accumulated:
Accredited Vacation Accrual
After their first calendar year of employment, full-time active employees will be eligible for vacation hours on an accelerated basis, dependent upon years of service (so long as such service was not broken by resignation or discharge for cause) as follows:
*	1 up to and including 2 years of service — 80 hours;
•	3 up to and including 4 years of service — 96 hours;
*	5 up to and including 9 years of service— 120 hours;
*	10 up to and including 14 years of service — 136 hours;
•	15 up to and including 19 years of service — 160 hours;
*	20 up to and including 24 years of service — 176 hours; and
•	25 or more years of service — 200 hours.
42
Each full-time employee will accrue j) vacation on January 1st. Except as stated above, the employee must have been employed for at least a continuous period of one (1) year and must be employed on January 1st in order to accrue the vacation.
Vacations will not be cumulative; however, employees will be allowed to carry from one (1) calendar year to the next up to eighty (80) hours vacation. Vacations may be arranged in advance of March 15 with their respective supervisors giving full weight to seniority provided that the ■ frill vacation allowance is scheduled on consecutive days. However, employees who choose to select vacation periods which are not consecutive will be entitled to exercise their seniority in the selection of the first such \ vacation period. Subsequent selections of vacation periods will not be made until all other employees have had an opportunity to make selections under the same conditions. Vacations will be taken at such time as will not unduly 'S interfere with the efficiency of operations. Employees who have not selected their vacations on or before March 15 will have to select periods that are untaken after that date and such periods will then be selected and scheduled in order of requests made. Employees will not be required to take their vacations in units of less than one (1) week [i.e., seven (7) consecutive days].
43
Employees scheduled for vacation will not be subject to being called out on their off days which are continuous with their vacation period. If employees are scheduled for vacation, which is less than five (5) consecutive days, on a day continuous with their off days, such employees will be subject to being called out during such off days. It is agreed that the Company currently recognizes holidays which are continuous with scheduled vacation days to meet the requirements as set forth in this Article VIII, paragraph (c), with regard to call out. Nothing contained in this paragraph will prevent an employee from being called out in an emergency situation.
Should employees be recalled for emergency duty while on vacation, the Company will defray any extra expenses which they may incur as a result of such recall including transportation and other reasonable expense back to the place from whence they were recalled, or to any equivalent point. If they desire to resume their vacation at the conclusion of the emergency, additional vacation time will be granted them in lieu of time lost as a result of such recall, including time spent in traveling incidental to such recall.
If a holiday occurs during the employees’ vacation, they will be allowed an additional day
44
off with pay at the beginning or end of their vacation.
In the event of a death in the employees’ immediate family while such employees are on vacation, Article VIII, paragraph (t) of this agreement will apply, provided the employees’ respective supervisor is promptly notified. Such employee will be allowed to reschedule that portion of their vacation covered by the above mentioned Article VIII (t), consistent with the terms and conditions of this Article VIII, paragraph (c).
If employees leave the service of the Company and they are eligible for a vacation as above stated, they will be paid for same, provided such employees have not been discharged and provided in case of resignation they have given two (2) weeks' notice of their intention to resign from the Company.
In the event employees resign from the employ of the Company, they will be paid only for that unused vacation to which they were eligible as of the date the notice of resignation is received.
Vacation Bonus in Milestone Service Years
Bonus hours of vacation are added to regular full-time and regular part-time employees’ accrued vacation
45	.
time every fifth anniversary starting with the year employees reach their 30th service anniversary (referred to as a “milestone service year”) and is based on the employee’s Service Date.
Amount of Bonus Hours
The amount of bonus hours will vary for full-time and part-time employees as follows:
Full-Time Employees Will be Eligible for This Many Bonus Hours	Part-time Employees Regularly Scheduled to Work 20 to 29 Hours per Week Will be Eligible for This Many Bonus Hours	Part-time	1 Employees Regularly	1 Scheduled to Work 30 to 39 Hours per 1 Week Will be Eligible for This ' Many Bonus Hours (
40 Hours	26 Hours	34 Hours
Milestone Service Years
Beginning in 2013, bonus hours will be awarded on January 1 of the calendar year in which the employee completes 30,35,40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65 years of service.
Purchasing Vacation
46
This provides employees flexibility to purchase additional paid vacation time.
Eligibility for Vacation Purchase All active, regular, beneflts-eligible employees of the Company who are eligible for vacation are eligible to purchase vacation if they participate in the Flexible Benefits Plan by enrolling in that Plan during the annual benefits enrollment period. Employees may not purchase vacation to be used in their first calendar year of employment.
Purchase Information
During the annual benefits enrollment period, regular, full-time employees may choose to purchase up to 40 hours of additional vacation, on a pretax basis, for the following year. New hires who are hired in November or December after the annual enrollment period ends will still be eligible to purchase vacation for the next calendar year at the time they enroll in their benefits for that year. Regular, part-time employees may choose to purchase up to 24 hours of additional vacation, on a pretax basis, for the following year.
, .. 47
A minimum of eight hours of vacation may be purchased and purchase must be made in eight hour increments. Deductions for the cost of vacation purchases will be spread over 24 pay periods based on an employee’s pay as of the date of election of purchased time off. Once a purchase of vacation is made during the annual benefits enrollment period, the purchase cannot be revoked or changed.
Using Purchased Vacation Federal regulations require that purchased vacation be used last, after current year vacation accruals, and vacation carried over from the prior year. All Company-provided vacation accruals must be exhausted before purchased vacation time will be used.
Unused purchased vacation cannot be carried over to the following year.
Federal regulations require that purchased vacation not used or paid by year-end be forfeited. To prevent employee forfeitures, employees are encouraged to only purchase vacation time they are confident they can
48
utilize. The Company will not pay unused purchased vacation back to employees at the end of the year, except in the following cases:
•	If employee was by year-end unable to take purchased vacation due to extraordinary situations where work demands have prevented the employee from using that purchased vacation and with the approval of the senior officer of the Company or business unit;
•	If employee terminates employment (whether voluntarily or involuntarily) during that calendar year;
•	If employee transfers to a position or moves to an employment status that is not eligible to participate in the Vacation Standard.
In these instances, IRS regulations require that the employee be reimbursed during the benefits year for which the vacation was purchased and this reimbursement must be
49
included no later than in the last paycheck during that year.
Purchased vacation may not be donated to another employee.
Termination or Transfer of Employees Who Purchased Vacation
If an employee who purchased vacation terminates employment (whether voluntarily or involuntarily) prior to the end of the period of time when deductions are being made for the cost of the vacation purchase, any remaining cost of the vacation purchase will be deducted from any amounts owed to the employee, subject to applicable law. If an employee who purchased vacation transfers to a position that is not eligible to participate in vacation purchase during the calendar year, the purchased vacation will be reconciled at the time of transfer.
Carry Over Into Following Year
Except as provided elsewhere in this article (i.e. with respect to vacation bonus hours or purchased vacation), employees may carry over up to 80 hours of vacation from one
50
calendar year to the next. Any accrued vacation above that amount will be forfeited. In extraordinary circumstances where urgent work requirements prevent an employee from using his or her accrued vacation, the senior company or business unit officer (or his or her designee) may decide to permit that employee to cash out any vacation in excess of the amount to be carried over to the following year.
Donation of Vacation
Employees are permitted to voluntarily donate available vacation to another employee with a medical emergency, subject to certain conditions. Donation of vacation must be approved by management.
Eligibility for Vacation Donation To be eligible to donate vacation, the donating employee must have accrued vacation available for the current year and the donation must be approved by the donating employee’s manager.
To be eligible to receive donated vacation time, the receiving employee must meet the following criteria:
51
•	Be absent as a result of a medical emergency involving the employee or his or her parent, spouse or child requiring a prolonged absence from work, including intermittent absences that are related to the same illness or condition.
•	Have no remaining applicable paid time off available for use, i.e. vacation, banked holiday, parental leave, dr sick time.
•	Not be eligible for long term disability.
•	Have the absence approved by business unit management.
If the employee receiving the vacation donation is absent as a result of a serious health condition.of the employee or a family member as defined under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), the applicable disability management department will assist management in the determination of whether the employee is eligible to receive a vacation donation under this Standard.
Management should not request any medical information from the
52
employee other than that required under the FMLA.
Limitations on Vacation Donation
Certain limitations apply to the donation of vacation benefit time:
•	Both employees must be employees of the Company.
•	Individual employees may donate a minimum of four (4) hours and up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per calendar year to one or more eligible employees. Vacation time must be donated in 4-hour increments. All time is donated on an hour-for-hour, not dollar-for-dollar, basis.
•	Once donated, the donating employee cannot reclaim the vacation time.
•	The total amount of vacation time donated to any employee by all employees may not exceed the number of scheduled workdays remaining in the year. The total amount of vacation time donated to any employee by all employees
53
also may not exceed 80 hours. If more than one employee wants to donate time to an employee, these donations will be accepted on a first come, first-served basis, up to the maximum described above.
•	All donated hours must be used within the current year, and cannot be carried over to the subsequent calendar year.
•	Any vacation donated to an employee and not utilized for the intended reason cannot be otherwise used by, or “cashed out” by, the receiving employee.
•	Purchased vacation may not be donated to another employee.
Documentation of Vacation Donation All transfers of vacation must be documented on the Vacation Donation Authorization form by the donating employee and approved by management of both the donating employee and the receiving employees. The original signed Vacation Donation Authorization form must be provided to the HR Direct Service Center prior to the beginning of the pay period in which
54
the receiving employee will be allowed to use the donated vacation.
The original documentation must be maintained in accordance with applicable timekeeping documentation and retention procedures. The HR Direct Service Center will retain the original copy.
Approvals for Vacation Donation Donation of vacation time must be approved by management of the donating and receiving employees.
Sick Leave During Vacation
If an employee becomes sick during vacation, that time will be charged to either vacation or sick time at management’s discretion, depending on whether the illness meets the requirements for the use of sick time, and the circumstances surrounding the sickness incurred while on vacation.
Parental Leave
Standard Statement
The Parental Leave Standard provides for a consistent period of paid leave for mothers and fathers upon the birth or adoption of a
55	_
child to allow for the parents to bond with the child.
This paid leave is in addition to existing sick time and vacation time. It will run concurrently with leave taken under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and/or applicable state family medical leave laws and the Maternity Leave Standard.
Eligibility
All active, regular full-time and regular benefits-eligible part-time employees who have been employed by Alabama Power Company (the “Company”) for at least 12 consecutive months at the time of the birth or adoption of their own child are eligible for parental leave for that birth or adoption. If both parents are employees of the Company, both employees are eligible for parental leave. Temporary, leased and co-op employees are not eligible for parental leave.
Parental leave is only available for the birth of the employee’s own child or the adoption of an unrelated child. Parental leave is not available for the birth or adoption of a grandchild, niece, nephew, or other relative. Parental leave is also not available for the adoption of a stepchild or a child of the employee’s domestic partner.
56
Parental leave is only available for the birth or adoption of a child that occurs on or after January 1, 2011.
Amount of Parental Leave
After the birth or adoption of a child, full-time employees may take up to take 80 hours of parental leave. Eligible part-time employees will have 80 hours of parental leave available but that time will be prorated based on the number of hours the part-time employees are regularly scheduled to work.
The leave must be taken within twelve months after the birth or adoption and must be taken in weekly increments. Leave time is granted per birth and/or adoption event. (Note: A multiple birth, e.g., twins or triplets, is considered a single birth event);
Coordination with Other Time Off Parental Leave will run concurrently with maternity leave, as described in the Maternity Leave Standard.
Requesting Parental Leave
Employees must notify their supervisor, complete the Parental Leave Request form and submit the form to the HR Direct Service Center at least 30 days prior to their leave. If the employee cannot provide 30 days notice, the employee must submit the form as soon as
■57
is practical. This generally means notifying the company the day leave begins or the next business day after leave begins. In addition, employees must comply with the call-in procedures for their workgroup.. Unless unusual circumstances prohibit an employee from following these notice requirements, their failure to comply may result in the delaying or denying of leave by management until proper notice is provided. In addition to completing the Parental Leave Request form, an employee requesting parental leave should complete the FMLA packet, if applicable.
Employee Benefits During Leave Employees bn parental leave will continue to accrue service time and may choose to continue health care coverage, life, accident, LTD, and Tax Saver plans on the same basis as coverage exists before taking parental leave. Seniority accrual while on parental leave shall be governed by the applicable labor agreement. Accrual of accredited service while on parental leave shall be governed by applicable pension plan documents. The Company will continue to pay its share of the medical and insurance premiums for those employees electing to continue coverage while on leave. Employee premium contributions will continue to be
58
payroll deducted while the employee is on parental leave.
Return to Duty
The Parental Leave Standard does not guarantee employees job restoration at the conclusion of their parental leave. However, other leave Standards (such as the FMLA Standard) may provide job restoration rights to such employees.
In the event that the employee’s scheduled return-to-work date changes, employees must notify their manager of the new return-to-work date as soon as practicable, and discuss any questions or special requirements. Employees must notify their manager and timekeeper on their first day back to work.
Effect of Terminating Employment
Employees will not be paid for any unused parental leave upon the termination of their employment (regardless of whether the termination is voluntary or involuntary).
Adoption
Standard
In the same way that Alabama Power Company (“the Company”) provides
59
financial support through medical coverage for the birth of a natural child, the Company offers financial assistance to those employees who incur expenses in the process of adopting a child. The Company will reimburse an Eligible Employee up to $5,000 per Eligible Child for Qualified Adoption Expenses associated with the Eligible Adoption of that child.
Each of these terms is explained in more detail, below.
Eligible Employees
Expense reimbursement is available only to employees who meet ALL of the following criteria as of the date of the Eligible Adoption:
•	Must be an active, regular, benefits-eligible employee (and not a temporary, leased, or co-op employee);
•	Must have been employed by a Southern Company entity for at least 12 consecutive months;
•	Must be actively employed; and
•	Must document that they are the adoptive parent.
If both parents are Eligible Employees, they are only eligible to receive a combined total of
60
$5,000 for the Eligible Adoption of their Eligible Child.
Eligible Child
Expense reimbursement is available for the Eligible Adoption of a child who is under age 18, (or a child who is 18 or over and is physically and/or mentally incapable of caring for himself or herself), except for a child who is:
•	A stepchild of the employee; or
•	Already a relative of the employee, regardless of whether the child is a blood relative (such as a niece, nephew or grandchild) or a legal relative (such as a niece or nephew of the employee’s spouse); or
•	A child of the employee’s domestic partner.
Eligible Adoptions
Eligible employees will only be reimbursed for expenses associated with an adoption that is finalized or a failed adoption that occurs:
•	On or after January 1, 2011, and
•	After the employee meets all of the eligibility requirements described above.
61.
For purposes of this Standard, a “failed adoption” is defined as one that ends before the adoption is completed and which is not the fault of the prospective adoptive parent(s) (i.e., it is outside of their control).
Reimbursable Adoption Expenses Employees will only be reimbursed for Qualified Adoption Expenses as defined in Section 137 of the Internal Revenue Code. The following table indicates generally which expenses are reimbursable and which are not reimbursable:
Reimbursable Expenses	Non-Reimbursable Expenses
Public or private agency fees	Donations made to adoption organizations
Legal fees associated with adoption or guardianship	Citizenship costs for adoptive child
Court fees	Advertisement fees
Immigration costs	Adoption network fees
Parental counseling	Costs incurred for surrogate parent, including related formal adoption fees
Transportation expenses for retrieving the child, both domestically and internationally	Hotel and/or meal costs for travel required for the adoption procedure
62
Once all of the eligibility conditions listed above are satisfied, any Qualified Adoption Expenses relative to the Eligible Adoption of an Eligible Child will be reimbursable to an Eligible Employee, regardless of the date those expenses were incurred. Therefore, if an employee incurs adoption expenses prior to January 1, 2011 or prior to satisfying the 12-month service requirement described above, those expenses will still be reimbursed as long as the adoption is finalized or fails after January 1, 2011 and after the 12-month service requirement is met (and the other conditions of this Standard are satisfied).
Application for Reimbursement Expense reimbursement through the Adoption Reimbursement Standard, an Adoption Assistance Reimbursement Request form must be completed and submitted with copies of all eligible receipts.
Application for all reimbursable expenses must be submitted:
•	After the adoption is: (a) legally finalized; or (b) the formal notification of a failed adoption is issued; and
•	Within six months of the adoption being finalized or formal notification of a failed adoption is issued (where
.63
the failed adoption is not the fault of the prospective adoptive parentfs]); and
•	In increments of $1,000, except for the final submission of expenses for a particular adoption, which may be for any amount.
Qualified Adoption Expenses will be reimbursed to the employee as soon as administratively possible.
Tax Information
Employees may be eligible for a federal tax credit and/or exclusion for adoption-related expenses if their income falls within the limits set forth by the Internal Revenue Code (see IRS Instructions to Form 8839 for more detail). Reimbursements may be subject to state taxes, depending on the employee’s state of residence.
The tax consequences of an adoption, including reimbursed and non-reimbursed amounts, are the responsibility of the employee, not the company. Employees should consult with competent tax counsel or financial advisors, to determine how they individually are affected by both federal and state tax laws.
64
Effect of Going on Leave
Employees are entitled to reimbursement of adoption expenses if they are on an approved, paid leave of absence at the time reimbursement is requested, but not if they arc on an unpaid or unapproved leave of absence.
Effect of Terminating Employment If an employee terminates employment (whether voluntarily or involuntarily), he or she is no longer entitled to reimbursement of adoption expenses, regardless of whether the expense was incurred prior to the termination. However, if an employee terminates employment after the employee has submitted a request for reimbursement but before the reimbursement is paid, the employee will receive the reimbursement.
Confidentiality
All reimbursement forms will be kept confidential and shared only as necessary with need-to-know personnel and external legal counsel or tax advisors as necessary.
65
Maternity Leave
Standard Statement
The Maternity Leave Standard provides a 6 or 8 week period of unpaid leave for the adequate physical recovery of a new mother following the birth of her baby and defines the sequence in which the leave will be counted against existing Standard providing paid time off. This Standard does not otherwise extend or provide any additional paid time off to employee, nor does it cover time-off beyond the recovery period of 6 or 8 weeks. Leave provided under this Standard runs concurrently with any leave provided under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and/or applicable state family medical leave laws.
Eligibility
All active, regular, benefits-eligible female employees who have been employed by Alabama Power Company for at least 12 consecutive months at the time of the need for leave are eligible for maternity leave for the birth of their baby. Temporary, leased and co-op employees are not eligible for maternity leave.
66
Amount and Timing of Maternity Leave After the birth of a child, an employee is eligible to take six weeks of leave for a vaginal delivery and eight weeks of leave for a Caesarean Section (C-Section).
An employee’s maternity leave begins on the documented delivery date. If an employee needs to take additional time off before delivery or beyond the six or eight weeks of maternity leave (whether for medical or nonmedical reasons), the maternity leave Standard will not apply. However, the employee may be eligible for additional time off under applicable vacation, sick time, or FMLA Standards, provided that the requirements of those Standards are met.
Pay During Maternity Leave Maternity leave provided under this Standard is unpaid. However, an employee may be eligible to receive pay during maternity leave under other applicable Standards.
If an employee who is covered under this Standard is requesting maternity leave, the leave will be counted against the following programs/benefits that provide paid time off in the following order:
•	Paid sick leave
•	Parental leave
•	Banked holidays (if applicable)
•	Vacation time
•	Unpaid time
67
Requesting Maternity Leave
An employee must notify her supervisor at least 30 days prior to the scheduled start of her leave indicating their expected due date and/or planned Caesarean date. If the employee cannot provide 30 days notice, the employee must contact her manager as soon as is practical. This generally means notifying the Company the day of the birth or the next business day after the birth. In addition, the employee must comply with the call-in procedures for her workgroup and contact her manager as soon as practical after delivery. Unless unusual circumstances prohibit an employee from following these notice requirements, failure to comply may result in the delaying or denying of leave by management until proper notice is provided. An employee requesting maternity leave should complete the FMLA packet and Parental Leave Request Form, if applicable.
Certification of the Leave
The employee will need to provide . certification of the needed length of leave from her health care provider following the birth of her child.
Employee Benefits During Leave
68
Employees on maternity leave will continue to accrue service time and may choose to continue health care coverage, life, accident, LTD, and Tax Saver plans on the same basis as coverage exists before taking maternity leave. Seniority accrual while on maternity leave shall be governed by the, applicable labor agreement. Accrual of accredited service while on unpaid maternity leave shall be governed by applicable pension plan documents. The Company will continue to pay its share of the medical and insurance premiums for those employees electing to continue coverage. Employee premium contributions will continue to be payroll deducted as long as the employee is on paid leave. While on unpaid maternity leave, employee contributions for medical and insurance premiums will not be collected, but will be paid by the Company on the employee’s behalf. The full amount of premiums in arrears and employee premium contributions paid by the Company on the employee’s behalf will be deducted on the employee’s first and subsequent paychecks, where necessary, after return from leave. If an employee does not return to work following maternity leave, the Company may require repayment of the Company’s share of premiums paid for medical and insurance coverage during maternity leave, as well as the employee’s share of any premium
69
payments missed by the employee and paid for by the Company, or employee contributions paid by the Company on the employee’s behalf (unless the employee fails to return from leave due to circumstances beyond the control of the employee).
Return to Duty
The Maternity Leave Standard does not guarantee employees job restoration at the conclusion of their maternity leave. However, other leave Standard (such as the FMLA Standard) may provide job restoration rights to such employees.
In the event that the employee’s scheduled return-to-work date changes, the employee must notify her manager of the new return-to-work date as soon as practicable and discuss any questions or special requirements. Employees must notify their manager and timekeeper on their first day back to work.
(d)	Insofar as possible without interfering with the necessary operations of the various units, the following holidays will be observed and granted without loss of pay: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day , Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day (or such other national holiday as may be established in lieu thereof), Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve Day,
70
and Christmas Day. Except for shift employees, when a holiday falls on an employee's scheduled off day, the holiday will be observed in the following manner: (1) If a holiday falls on an employee's first scheduled off day, the preceding work day will be observed as the holiday; (2) If a holiday falls on an employee's second scheduled off day, the following work day will be observed as the holiday. For shift employees the holiday will be observed on the day which it occurs. As much notice as possible will be given to employees required to work on holidays; however, schedules as posted will constitute notice to shift employees who are required to work on holidays. When employees work on a holiday they will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked on the holiday, and in addition thereto they will receive pay for eight (8) hours at their regular straight time rate. When a holiday falls on employees’ respective off-day they will be allowed a day off in lieu thereof within thirty (30) days, or, if the Company concludes that it will not be able to grant time off in lieu of such holiday, it will pay for the same at regular straight time rates. If a holiday falls on the employees respective off-day and it is necessary to call out or to prearrange the employees to perform work, they will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked, and in
71
addition thereto, they will receive pay for eight (8) hours at their regular straight time rate.
If a holiday occurs during the employees’ vacation, they will be allowed an additional day off with pay at the beginningvor end of their vacation.
If a holiday falls on a regular scheduled workday and the employee works eight (8) hours or more, the employee may be paid eight (8) hours at the straight time rate and request the holiday be banked. If more than eight (8) hours are worked, all hours over eight (8) hours will be paid at one and one-half (1 '/?) time. Employees working shifts other than eight (8) hours per day will be allowed to bank the entire shift, hour for hour, if they work their regular scheduled hours or more on a holiday and are paid at the straight time rate for such regular scheduled hours worked. However, if a holiday falls on a regular scheduled workday and the employee is paid straight time wages for time missed during the regular scheduled work period as a result of the rest period as set out in this paragraph, for the purpose of holiday banking only, such time will be considered as time worked. Should an unpaid meal period cause the employee to have worked less than a full work period, the employee will be allowed to request the holiday be banked. If a holiday falls on a regular scheduled workday and the employee works the entire shift at the
72
overtime rate as a result of the rest period as set forth in this paragraph, the employee may request the holiday be banked. If the employee works part of the work period at the overtime rate as a result of the rest period and is off with pay at the straight time rate for part of the work period due to the rest period as provided herein, the employee will be allowed to bank the holiday. All hours worked outside regular scheduled hours will be paid at one and one half (1 !6) time. Holidays that occur on an employee’s off day may only be banked as eight (8) hours. For holidays that occur on a regular scheduled workday and are not banked, all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours will be paid at one and one half (1 '/a) time. An employee may bank up to five (5) holidays (effective January 1, 2010, ten (10) holidays). Should employees change to a longer schedule, they must use dock time or vacation to make up the difference when taking a banked holiday. If they change to a shorter schedule, they will be paid for the difference or have the option of taking the excess hours off as if it were vacation.
Banked holidays can be carried over from year to year, but at no time can an employee have more than five (5) days banked (effective January 1, 2010, ten (10) days). Banked holidays must be taken in blocks of hours equal to the regular scheduled workday, arranged for like a day of vacation. Employees may request
73
payment for banked holidays in blocks of hours equal to the regular scheduled work day, with payment made at the current straight time rate in the employee’s regular paycheck.
At least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the beginning of a holiday each supervisor will make known if the needs and conditions are such that members of the work group may volunteer to work on the holiday and thus bank the holiday for future use. If more ask to work than are needed then seniority will be the basis for selecting those asking to bank a holiday.
It is not the Company's intention to change schedules on a temporary basis to avoid paying for more than eight (8) hours.
(e)	The Company will continue its present policy of carrying group life insurance at its own expense on all full-time employees so long as such insurance continues to be available to the Company at substantially the present rates and under substantially the present conditions.
Employees returning from layoff as a result of reduction of forces within twenty-four (24) months of such layoff will be entitled to the amount of non-contributory group life insurance to which they were entitled at the time of layoff.
74
Spouses of deceased pre-retirement employees may continue to participate, or enroll within 60 days after the date of death, in the APC medical benefits plan at employee cost until they are covered by a non-APC sponsored medical plan.
The Company adopted a Pension Plan covering certain of its employees, including those now represented by the Brotherhood, on July 1, 1944. Such Pension Plan has been amended from time to time since its adoption and the Company has entered into supplemental pension agreements with the Brotherhood relating to such plan.
(f)	Employees performing jury duty will be paid their regular rates for time lost from their regular work while so serving. Employees who are permanently discharged from such jury duty will be expected to report such discharge as soon as practicable to their respective supervisors. The Company agrees to allow sufficient time off with pay for voting, not to exceed two (2) hours, to those employees whose work on election day does not otherwise permit sufficient time to vote.
(g)	Employees who are members of the Brotherhood's committees representing the Local Unions above-mentioned will be allowed time off to attend meetings with Company officials. They will give their respective supervisor, or in
■/ / ■	' ' ..75 .	y.
the supervisor's absence the supervisor’s designee, reasonable notice in advance of their desire to attend such meetings. The number of representatives of the Brotherhood in attendance at such meetings on Company time will be limited to the number reasonably necessary to transact the business at hand. The Company will pay such employees at their regular rates of pay for time lost from their regular work as a result of attending such meetings.
Officers and authorized delegates not to exceed four (4) from each Local Union, who are called upon to transact business for the Local Union or the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, which temporarily requires their absence from duty, will, upon written request to their department or division supervisor, be allowed sufficient time for such business without pay. It is understood, however, that except for the foregoing there will be no transaction of Brotherhood business, including solicitation, on Company time or on any property of the Company where employees are on duty.
The company agrees to pay covered employees who take time off during regular working hours for straight time spent transacting Union business. The Local Unions, in turn, agree to reimburse the
76
Company for payment of such time, as well as, payroll adders, taxes and benefits as billed by Alabama Power Company on a quarterly basis. This will replace the practice of docking covered employees for time associated with Union business.
(h)	Should employees become Business Manager in Alabama for the above-mentioned Local Unions or accept a full-time position with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or the Alabama Labor Council, the Company agrees that they will be given a leave of absence for the period of this agreement, or any extension thereof, and that they will retain and accumulate seniority and service just as though they continued to work for the Company, and that they will be permitted to return to their former or an equivalent classification with the Company immediately upon conclusion of their term as such, and provided they are competent to fill the position. It is understood, however, that any necessary demotions made in carrying out the provisions of this paragraph (h) will not be made the basis of any grievance.
Service time will accrue for employees who are on a Union Leave of Absence. Employees who have returned from a Union Leave of Absence will be eligible for retroactive accrual of service time for purposes of vacation, service awards and retirement plaques.
77
(i)	Employees who are required to work outside in the rain will be furnished raincoats or rain suits (as agreed on locally) and rain hats. Employees required to work in water will be furnished rubber boots. The Company will endeavor to provide a reasonable assortment of sizes of such equipment. Such equipment will remain the property of the Company, will not be devoted to personal use, and will be turned in when not actually required. If any employee desires such individual equipment for their own use, upon written request, the Company will supply it at thirty percent (30%) of the cost to the Company (including cost of handling), but in that event such equipment will be kept readily available by the employee to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph. The Company will also make replacements of such individual equipment at thirty percent (30%) cost at reasonable intervals.
(j)	Text Deleted.
(k)	Paragraphs 1 through 12, inclusive:
1.	When employees are designated by their supervisor to temporarily relieve or substitute for another employee of a higher covered classification than their own, the employee will be paid at the minimum rate for the higher classification only for those hours worked in that
78
classification. The employee will not suffer any reduction in rate while thus temporarily relieving or substituting. When employees temporarily relieve or substitute for an employee in a lower classification, they will continue to receive the pay of their own classification.
2.	Whenever substitution is made under a provision of this paragraph, the senior competent employee available in the respective crew or shift will be designated to work in the higher covered classification. The Company will designate the lead lineman, lead cable splicer or subforeman to perform the duties of a supervisor.
3.	Where no foreman, lead lineman or lead cable splicer is available in a crew, a journeyman will be designated by the supervisor to take charge of the crew and be paid as a lead lineman or lead cable splicer while in charge of the crew.
If a foreman is available to exercise general supervision but is removed from the vicinity of the job, the senior available journeyman in the crew will be designated to take charge and will act and be paid as a lead lineman or lead cable splicer while in charge of the crew.
If a foreman is absent, i.e., not available to exercise general supervision, a journeyman will be designated to take charge of the crew and be
79
paid as a lead lineman or lead cable splicer while in charge of the crew.
4.	Text Deleted.
5.	Text Deleted.
6.	Text Deleted.
7.	Text Deleted.
8.	Text Deleted.
9.	Text Deleted.
10.	Text Deleted.
11.	When a lead lineman is absent, a journeyman will be designated to substitute for such lead lineman provided the unit to which the lead lineman is assigned requires the services of a lead lineman as provided under Article XIII, paragraph (b) of this agreement.
12.	When both the foreman and subforeman are absent for one-half (1/2) work period or shift or more on a regular work day from the geographic division garage, a utility fleet technician I will be designated by the supervisor to substitute for the absent subforeman provided there is available at that garage a utility fleet technician 1 competent to perform the duties of the absent subforeman. The subforeman or utility fleet technician I substituting for the absent subforeman will continue to perform work as a utility fleet technician I while in charge of the garage.
80
At locations where there is no subforeman and the foreman is absent for one-half (1/2) work period or shift or more on a regular work day, a utility fleet technician I will be designated to take charge of the work group and be paid at the subforeman rate of pay while in charge of the work group, provided there is available at that garage a utility fleet technician I competent to perform the duties of a subforeman.
(1)	When an employee is offered a promotion by the Company and for any reason fails to accept it, such failure will not affect the employee’s seniority or status, except as provided in paragraph (e) of Article V.
(m)	Any employee who is called for work while off duty will be given as much notice as possible.
(n)	Where it is practicable to do so, employees who are unable to report for work will send word to or notify their respective supervisor of such inability and its probable duration. Such notice will be given as much in advance of the starting time of their shift as may be possible. Repeated failure to report for work without giving such notice or without good and sufficient reason will be grounds for disciplinary action or discharge.
81
(o)	Employees will keep their supervisors informed of their correct home or living quarters address.
(p)	The Company will not use superintendents, assistant superintendents or foremen to displace employees in classifications covered by this agreement; however, nothing in this agreement shall be construed to prevent them from doing such work in emergencies, in training employees, or in the inspection and adjustment of equipment, and performing incidental tasks which contribute to the obvious efficiency of the crew or work group, but will not displace a covered employee. It is not the parties' intent for these classifications to become working classifications that can perform routine bargaining unit work without limitations.
Such classifications' primary responsibility is to supervise work being performed. The above referenced incidental tasks do not include the foremen doing routine switching or using tools.
(q)	When employees are recalled for work and report for duty after a regular work period or on one of their regular off-days, they will be paid for actual time spent working or standing by, plus an additional amount equal to their overtime rate of pay for one hour for the inconvenience involved in such recall, but in no event will they
82
I
receive less than two (2) hours pay at their overtime rate.
If employees are enroute to or are already at ' their assigned work location to begin a shift, and respond to a trouble call prior to starting time, _•	they will have the option of being paid the actual
।	overtime worked prior to starting time, at a
minimum of one half (1/2) hour, or have their schedule for that shift advanced for this time.
Employees who are provided Company vehicles for the purpose of such recalls and respond to the recalls from their homes, will not be eligible for the one hour at the overtime rate to compensate for the inconvenience of the recall. Such employees will be paid for the actual time spent working or standing by but in no event will they receive less than two (2) hours pay at their overtime rate.
When employees are recalled for work and report for duty while they are off duty during > their regular scheduled lunch period, they will receive overtime pay for the actual time worked j at a minimum of one half (1/2) hour up to the \ length of their scheduled lunch period and will be allowed adequate time to complete eating '' their meal.
> When employees are required to report for work on a scheduled workday after having been
I
■ ■ 83
released on one of their scheduled workdays and were notified to this effect before the end of their last scheduled work period, they will be paid the equivalent of three (3) hours at the overtime rate or the actual hours worked, whichever is greater, except as set out below.
When employees are required to report in advance of the normal starting time on one of their scheduled days of work, and were notified to this effect before the end of their previous scheduled workday, they will be paid at their overtime rate for all time worked prior to their normal starting time.
When employees are required to report for work on one of their off-days and were notified to this effect before the end of their last previous scheduled work period hours or in the event a prearranged overtime assignment begins on a regular work day and extends into an off-day or begins on an off-day and extends into another off-day, they will be paid the equivalent of four (4) hours at the overtime rate or the actual worked, whichever is greater. A regular off-day will consist of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours commencing with the end of the preceding regular work day [as defined in paragraph (v), Article VIII] or a preceding regular off-day.
(r)	When employees are ordered to stand by subject to call, a definite place and period of
84
time will be designated by their supervisor. Time thus spent standing by will be considered as hours worked.
(s)	So far as may be practicable and consistent with the efficient performance of work to be done, the Company will distribute overtime work equitably among the employees covered by this agreement over reasonable periods of time in the various units, locations and lines of work therein; the various lines of work corresponding generally to the principal journeyman classifications and being: (1) line work - including construction, operation and maintenance, (2) handling trouble calls (larger operations only), (3) appliance repairing, (4) tree trimming, (5) meter testing, (6) automotive work, (7) warehousing, and (8) meter reading.
In consideration of differences in work locations, overtime issues will be handled by mutual local agreements. Once established these local agreements will serve as the definition of “equitable” distribution of overtime and will outline the policy to be followed in each local area.
These agreements will address as a minimum the following interests:
-	on call arrangements such as A & B lists, crew on call, etc.
85
-	the need for timely response, particularly on a holiday and weekends
-	consequences clearly stated for either party not adhering to agreement
-	a sunset provision
Should no mutual agreement be reached, the existing overtime procedures will be utilized.
Records showing the distribution of overtime in accordance with the above will be made available for inspection by designated representatives of the Brotherhood at division and district offices as the case may be. Lists of overtime at intervals of four (4) weeks accumulated from beginning to end of each year will be posted at district and division headquarters.
(t) In the event an employee has a personal need and is unable to work on a regular workday, subject to approval of supervision and without loss of efficiency or payment of overtime, the employee may make it up without loss of pay by working immediately before or after any regular scheduled work period in the same workweek, working an off day in the same workweek , using a day of vacation, or using a banked holiday.
86
If employees are absent from work because of a death in their immediate family, they will be allowed time off with pay as follows:
(1)	Five (5) days bereavement leave will be granted, as deemed necessary by the employee in the event of the death of the employee’s spouse/domestic partner, child, or stepchild.
(2)	Three (3) days bereavement leave will be granted, as deemed necessary by the employee in the event of a death of the employee's parents, stepparents, grandparents, great grandparents, grandchildren, brothers or sisters, half-brothers or half-sisters, daughter-in-law or son-in-law, or the spouse/domestic partner's parents, stepparents, grandparents, great grandparents, brothers or sisters, half-brothers or half-sisters, or any relative regularly residing in the household of the employee concerned.
Time off as stipulated in (1) & (2) above must be taken within thirty (30) days of the death.
87 ■"
(u)	Shift employees may elect to work rotating or nonrotating schedules by functional operating groups, and the preferences of such employees will also be regarded, by seniority, in scheduling shifts and off-days upon request to the supervisor in general charge of the operation. "Shift employees" are those employees in jobs at the Materials Distribution Center, General Garage, Division Garages, and Fleet Service which are regularly staffed one (1) or two (2) shifts per day, five (5) days per week, or those operating employees in jobs which are regularly staffed seven (7) days per week, regardless of the number of shifts per day scheduled for such jobs.
A shift differential in addition to the rates set forth in wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A will be paid to shift employees who work on regular scheduled shifts or to employees rescheduled to work in jobs which are temporarily or regularly staffed two (2) shifts per day, five (5) days per week, or in jobs which are temporarily or regularly staffed seven (7) days per week, regardless of the number of shifts per day scheduled for such jobs, and in accordance with the following:
Evening Shift - Where the majority of the scheduled hours worked are between 3 p.m. and 11 p.m., 900 per hour for all hours actually worked.
88
Night Shift - Where the majority of the scheduled hours worked arc between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., $1.05 per hour for all hours actually worked.
No shift differential will be paid for any time not actually worked.
(v)	The regular workweek will consist of seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods starting immediately after Friday midnight, or at the shift change nearest Friday midnight in the case of shift employees, as defined in paragraph (u) above. See Article VIII (w) last sentence. The regular daily work period will consist of a continuous period including eight (8) scheduled hours of work, plus scheduled time for a meal. However, it is understood that the commencement of the meal period may be advanced or delayed thirty (30) minutes by the Company so long as the meal period is not reduced or extended. In cases where the commencement of a meal period is advanced or delayed more than thirty (30) minutes by the Company, time spent working during the regular scheduled meal period will be paid for at the overtime rate and the employee will be allowed sufficient time for the meal and if any part of this time falls outside their regular scheduled meal period it will be considered time worked. The regular workday will consist of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours commencing
89
with the starting time of the work period; except that no workday will carry over from one regular workweek to the next.
(w)	All employees will be paid at the rates shown for their respective classifications in the wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A for all time worked during their scheduled hours of work. In general, all non-shift employees will be scheduled to work five (5) regular daily work periods in each workweek on consecutive workdays, except when scheduled to work Tuesday through Saturday when the work periods will be split between two work weeks. Shift employees will be scheduled to work five (5) regular daily work periods in each workweek on consecutive workdays, as far as may be practicable. Except for shift employees, the five (5) daily work periods will be scheduled between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. either Monday through Friday or Saturday through Friday. Sunday and Monday off-days will be consecutive except in the case of periodic changes of shifts or when daily work periods are changed by giving at least thirty (30) days notice as provided for in this paragraph (w). The various employees will be notified of their regularly scheduled work periods by posting notices in the respective substations, crew headquarters, and local offices. The Company may change such regularly scheduled five (5) consecutive daily work periods by giving at least
90
thirty (30) days prior notice of such change. On 'l	a temporary basis work periods may be
\	advanced or delayed one (1) hour for not more
than two (2) days in a workweek by giving notice no later than the end of the previous work \ period. This advance or delay may not extend 1	more than one (1) hour outside of the 6:00 a.m.
A	to 8:00 p.m. time frame, and will not result in
any overtime. Except as described above, i employees may be rescheduled for temporary periods upon at least thirty-six (36) hours prior 7 notice stating the probable duration but, except ) for shift work, such rescheduled work periods will be for five (5) consecutive days between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., and will not include j Sunday and will be limited to that reasonably necessary to render and maintain continuous and ) adequate service. Employees will be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times the rates shown for the respective classifications in the wage i schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) in any 1 regular workweek and for all hours worked in > excess of eight (8) in any regular workday and <	for all hours worked outside of those	regularly
j	scheduled; provided, however, that	overtime
\	rates will not be paid for hours worked	in excess
1	of eight (8) in any workday brought	about by
periodic changes of shifts or by granting requests of individual employees; and, provided further, /	that overtime rates will not be paid more than
,	once for the same hours worked. ✓ Employees
91
may be allowed to work schedules other than eight (8) hours as specified in applicable Memoranda of Understanding.
(x)	Employees may be rescheduled to work on a two (2) or three (3) shift per day basis to handle prearranged or emergency repair jobs which will require more than five (5) days for completion on a rush basis, by giving at least thirty-six (36) hours prior notice, it being understood that their respective normal off-days will remain the same.
(y) Employees who are instructed to report for duty before they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty since the end of their last scheduled work period and who so report will be paid at the overtime rate for all hours worked thereafter until they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty. Employees who are instructed to report for duty six (6) hours or more before their next regular scheduled starting time following an off day will continue to be paid at the overtime rate for all time worked until they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty. However, in either instance at the completion of the work for which the employee so reported, the Company may at its discretion continue the employee at work or give them eight (8) hours off duty and if any part of the eight (8) hours off duty falls within or overlaps into the employees’ next regular scheduled work
92
'i
period, they will be paid for all such hours off ) duty within their regular scheduled work period \ at the straight time rate.
Any employee continuing to work beyond their regular scheduled work period will be paid at the overtime rate for all hours worked j thereafter until they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty and if any part of / such eight (8) hours off duty falls within or overlaps into the employees’ next regular J scheduled work period, they will be paid for all i such hours off duty within their regular scheduled work period at the straight time rate.
In those instances where travel time is applicable in applying the terms and conditions )	of the eight (8) hour rest period provision, such
‘-i	travel time will be considered as a portion of
such rest period provision.
(z) Employees who may be temporarily incapacitated by a lost-time accident and who ) recover to the extent that the Company Medical Director certifies them for "light duty," or any } employee who suffers or develops a temporary physical disability to the extent that they are no ' longer competent to perform satisfactory work in ' their respective classification may be placed on any work which is available (including their / regular job) and which they can perform without prejudice to their physical condition. Such
\.	‘	93.
employee will be paid at the proper rate for the classification to which they are assigned.
In the event employees are determined by the Company Medical Director to be permanently or indefinitely physically disabled so that they can no longer satisfactorily perform their work in their respective classification, the Company will undertake to mutually agree with the Brotherhood upon the assignment of such employees to any classification without regard to the provisions of Article V, paragraph (e), and such employees will be paid at the rate of the classification to which they are assigned.
In the event employees are determined by the Company Medical Director to be permanently or indefinitely physically disabled so that they can no longer satisfactorily perform their work in their classification, the employee will be given the option of exercising rights covered in Article V, paragraph (k) of this agreement, provided there are classifications available that the employee can perform without prejudice to their physical condition and further provided that the employee will not be precluded from exercising other available options.
Permanently disabled employees electing to exercise the roll rights given under this paragraph, who are subsequently determined to be incompetent to perform the duties of their
94
new classification during the first 12 months following the roll back, will be demoted under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (k). The ensuing roll back will be conducted under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (i).
1.	Permanently disabled employees electing to exercise roll rights given under the above, may be considered for rolling into classifications which are filled on the basis of competency.
2.	Permanently disabled employees eligible to exercise VIII (z) roll rights, who elect to go on LTD when eligible, will not be eligible to exercise roll rights.
Employees on disability, extended disability, or long term disability leaves of absence will be granted service credit, not to exceed twenty-four (24) months, upon return to work, effective September 2, 1992.
(aa) Subject to the orders of their supervisors, employees are responsible for the proper discharge of their respective duties within the scope of their training and experience, and any negligence or failure in this respect will constitute grounds for disciplinary action or discharge after proper investigation.
95
(bb) When employees are required by the Company to work temporarily at some location other than the place where they regularly work, the Company will pay any reasonable and necessary traveling and living expenses required by such temporary employment.
If the Company provides overnight traveling accommodations, it will pay only for time spent in traveling during regularly scheduled hours on scheduled workdays or off-days just as though such time were worked. If the Company provides traveling accommodations other than by Company car or truck, it will pay for all time spent in traveling just as though such time were worked. In such cases, if employees desire to provide their own transportation or to determine their own mode, route, and time of traveling to and from such temporary employment, they will make mutually satisfactory arrangements with their respective supervisor in advance as to the time and expense to be paid for by the Company and as to the time and place where they will report.
If traveling is by Company car or truck the Company will pay for all time spent traveling just as though it were time worked. If in lieu of utilizing a Company car or truck, which will make the trip in any event, employees desire to provide their own transportation, they will pay their own transportation expense but will receive
96
time as if they had traveled by such Company car or truck.
In the event employees who are working temporarily at some location other than the place where they regularly work and who would normally have their room and board paid for at the temporary location as provided for in the first sentence of this paragraph (bb) or the first sentence of Article XIII, paragraph (a), choose to return to their home after each day's work, the Company will provide their evening and morning meals at the temporary location and at the option of the employee the Company will allow such employees for traveling or transportation expenses the amount that would otherwise be paid by the Company for the employees’ lodging.
Each day that employees are instructed by management to pack clothes for emergency work, they will be paid one hour overtime for the time spent packing.
(cc) When employees are required to incur any extra expense by reason of being required by the Company to work before, after, or in excess of their scheduled hours of work in any day, such reasonable and necessary extra expense will be defrayed by the Company.
97
Meals will be provided or paid for as set forth in Exhibit D, entitled Procedures Relating to Providing or Paying for Meals.
Travel expense will be paid for as set forth in Exhibit E, entitled Memorandum of Agreement-Payment for Travel Expense for Employees Required to Work Overtime.
(dd) Employees will have a permanently assigned headquarters which will also be the employees’ usual reporting place; provided, however, that this provision will not require employees to report to such assigned headquarters if instructed by their supervisor to proceed to discharge their duties without reporting to such headquarters. Employees will not be permanently transferred from one such assigned headquarters to another except through the operation of the provisions for filling vacancies or hew jobs provided for in Article V hereof, provided, however, that notwithstanding this paragraph, the Company retains the right to change the assigned headquarters of troublemen in the suburban area of Birmingham without going through the bidding procedure of Article V in situations where a new district office is established in or adjacent to the area or locality in which the employee regularly works. The first sentence of this paragraph will not be construed to require employees to report each date to their assigned headquarters if in the
98
normal performance of their duties such reporting is not necessary, unless the employees are instructed to report to such headquarters by their respective supervisor.
Where employees are required to report or quit at some headquarters or reporting place, the Company will pay for time spent in traveling between the job and such headquarters or reporting place, plus any time spent working at such headquarters or reporting place.
(ee) Along with their paycheck for each pay period the Company will furnish to all employees a statement showing the number of hours for which they are paid at straight time rates; the number of hours for which they are paid at overtime rates; and the number of hours worked in substitution during the payroll period covered by such paycheck; together with the respective rates of pay.
(ff) Work in rain, sleet or snow will be held to such minimum as is reasonably necessary for the protection and preservation of the property of the Company and for the rendition of safe, economical and satisfactory service to the public. It is understood that routine work, excluding performing work on energized lines or equipment, will be performed during periods of light rain.
99
(gg) The Brotherhood will be permitted to use space on bulletin boards of the Company in operations where members of the Brotherhood are employed, under the terms of this agreement, for posting official notices of the Brotherhood to its membership.
(hh) When the Company requires any employee to have a telephone, it will notify such employee in writing of this requirement. In such case, the Company will pay the telephone bill of the employee (except personal long distance charges) until the requirement is canceled in writing. No employee's telephone number will be listed under the Company's name in the telephone directory.
(ii) In the event a report of commendation, or a disciplinary notice summary letter is placed in the personnel file of an employee a copy of the document will be furnished such employee.
In case a disciplinary notice is given, the employee concerned will be given a letter summarizing the discussion. If the employee chooses, a representative from the Brotherhood may be present at the time of such discussion. If the employee thinks unfair treatment is given, a grievance may be initiated and such discussion, by mutual agreement, may be considered the first step of the grievance procedure. The letter summarizing a disciplinary notice will not be
100
'	made a part of the official files of the Company
)	until the outcome of the grievance has been	,
>	determined.
' (jj) Employees who are instructed to climb a steel radio tower over 100 feet in height and ,/ believe that due to their physical or mental limitations or their lack of skill they cannot perform the job safely and so inform their j	supervisor, will not be required to climb such
:	tower.
j (kk) The following is the Company's new Tool Policy in its entirety: The Company will y pay to eligible employees 70% of the reasonable receipt for approved personal tool purchases. Employees will be furnished a list of tools
) authorized to be purchased based on their
\	classification.
A When an employee is awarded a permanent job, the employee will be responsible for ' purchasing, within a reasonable time frame, the > tools necessary for that classification. During work schedules, the employee must have these
J tools available for use at the work site. Prior x management approval is necessary to purchase ■' or replace authorized or approved tools.
Tools, except for specialty tools stocked by !■ the Company, will be acquired by the employee through direct purchase from outside vendors.
'■	;■ i1'
101
The employee will be responsible to ensure purchased tools meet current ANSI Standards. Reimbursement will be made through the expense account procedure with reimbursement on the employee's paycheck.
Employees will be responsible for replacing tools under warranty. The Company will not replace tools which are not under warranty when the tool is available in a brand that is under warranty. However, worn or broken tools acquired prior to September 14, 2004, may be replaced on a case by case basis. Broken or worn tools which are not available with a warranty may be replaced at the 70/30 split.
Lost or stolen tools may be replaced at the Company's expense on a case-by-case basis.
Employees will have ownership of personal tools and will be responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of these tools.
(11)	Uniforms
1.	All employees in the classifications covered by this Agreement will be included in the Uniform Program.
2.	Effective August 15, 2014, employees with FR requirements will receive $800 annually, and employees with
102
Non-FR requirements will receive $550 annually shown in the table below. Beginning in 2015, the uniform allowance will be provided on June 1st of each year. Effective June 1,2015, the allotment balance will be capped at $1600 for the FR Program and $1100 for the Non-FR Program.
FR	Non-FR
Lead Lineman	Materialman
LOL	Utility Assistnnt-SC
Lineiunn	Utility Fleet Tech I & II
Appr Linemnu	Supply Chain Snbforeinau
Utility Assistant- PD	Appliance Serviceman
Asst & Meter Tester	Utility* Fleet Siibforeinan
FSR	Utility Ascivtnut- Fleet
Asst & Telecom Electrician	
Street Lgt Mniut Man Lend Cable Splicer	
Cnble Splicer	
Appr Cnble Splicer	
Ttuubleinnn	
Lnb InGtru Tccli I & 11	
In the event requirements or regulations change for job duties, the Company agrees to discuss FR requirements and allotments for each classification.
3.	Employees will be responsible for the care and maintenance of these uniforms and will be expected to maintain them in a presentable condition.
103 .
4.	The Company will be solely responsible for the design and implementation of the Uniform Program. Employees in the Program will deal with a vendor as part of the Company designated Program. The Program will consist of shirts, jackets, jacket liners, coveralls, pants, and hats.
5.	Employees will have the option of having “IBEW” added to the uniform shirts or jackets. For manufacturing reasons, the “IBEW” logo for the heavy FR jacket will be added to the chest.
6.	For those in the Uniform Program, the Company will provide a cold weather wear allowance of $250 on January 1,2016 and $250 on January 1, 2018.
7.	Effective August 15, 2014, the Company will reimburse employees a maximum of $250 per year for work boots meeting all requirements purchased from a vendor of the employee’s choosing.
104
ARTICLE IX
Wages and Classifications
Salaries to be paid the various classifications of employees will be at the rate set forth in salary schedules attached hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit A provided, however, that no individual employee's salary will be reduced because it is above the rate shown in such salary schedules for the classification in which they are regularly working when this agreement becomes effective. All permanent regular employees covered by this agreement will be paid on an hourly wage basis. In all cases the hourly rates for the respective classifications will be used in computation of overtime, time lost and time worked in substitution for employees in higher classifications.
ARTICLE X
Loyalty and Efficiency
Employees of the Company, members of the Brotherhood, agree that they will perform loyal and efficient work and service; that they will use their influence and best endeavors to
105
protect the property of the Company and its interests; and that they will cooperate with the Company in promoting and advancing its welfare and prosperity.
ARTICLE XI
No Strikes or Lockouts
In view of the grievance and arbitration provisions of this agreement, the Brotherhood agrees that during the term hereof it will not authorize, instigate, support or encourage any strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees, and the Company agrees that during such term there will be no lockout of employees. The Brotherhood will not be liable to the Company on account of any strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees not authorized, instigated, or encouraged by it and participation by any employee in any such strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees will constitute grounds for immediate discharge.
106
ARTICLE XII
Safety
(a)	Both parties agree to cooperate in promoting safety throughout the various operations of the Company covered by this agreement.
(b)	It will be the duty of supervisors to see that a sufficient number of experienced workers, equipped with the customary safety devices necessary for the safe performance of the job, are available for any work which is undertaken in any operation of the Company covered by this agreement.
(c)	Violation of safety rules of the Company after a warning has been given will be deemed sufficient reason for disciplinary action or discharge of offending employees.
(d)	Whenever an investigating committee is appointed by the Company to investigate an accident affecting employees, it will include at least two (2) members of the Local Union affected familiar with the line of work in which the accident occurred, to be selected from an adequate list supplied by the Brotherhood for each unit covered by this agreement. The
107
Company agrees to investigate promptly accidents involving employees upon written request from the Brotherhood.
(e)	In the event a report of any investigating committee is deemed unfair to an employee, this may be taken up by the Brotherhood as a grievance as provided for in Article VI.
(f)	In emergencies all employees are expected to perform to the best of their ability consistent with safety; but employees not working under direct supervision will request additional competent assistance when confronted by work which would be dangerous for them to undertake by themselves.
ARTICLE XIII
Special Rules - Distribution and Instrumc".-1’ Service Center
(a)	Each line, maintenance, and tree trimming crew will have a definitely assigned headquarters and the Company will pay the reasonable and necessary board and lodging expenses of employees in such crews when they are required to work away from such headquarters. Headquarters of tree trimming
108
crews may be changed from time to time as required by location of the work to be done, but such changes of headquarters will not be made more than once in three (3) months for any one (1) crew, and in event of such change the Company will pay, for the first thirty (30) days in each location, the reasonable and necessary board and lodging expense of any employees who may be transferred.
(b)	Paragraphs 1 through 3, inclusive:
1.	Line crews of four (4) employees or more, exclusive of foremen, will include at least two (2) journeymen; and line crews of three (3) employees, exclusive of foremen, will include at least one (1) journeyman. In each of the crew headquarters locations consisting of line or underground crews, the regular full strength ratio of apprentices to journeymen will not exceed one apprentice to each two journeymen. In line and underground crews where apprentices are utilized there may be more than one apprentice to each two journeymen as long as the ratio is maintained at the crew headquarters location. Nothing herein will be construed to require the Company to promote apprentices to the classification of journeyman unless they are competent to perform the essential duties of such classification.
109
2.	At their regular full strength, underground crews and line crews of seven (7) employees or more, exclusive of foremen, will include a lead cable splicer or lead lineman who will be considered as a journeyman in computing the ratio of apprentices to journeymen.
When line or underground crews are split and operating separately in small groups, each group of three (3) or more employees, exclusive of the foreman, will be under the direct supervision of a foreman, lead lineman or lead cable splicer, or a journeyman designated to act and be paid as a lead lineman or lead cable splicer. A lead lineman or lead cable splicer or a journeyman designated to act as a lead lineman or lead cable splicer may work at their discretion when practical to do so while maintaining the safety and efficiency of the crew.
A lead lineman or lead cable splicer or a journeyman designated to act as lead lineman or lead cable splicer will not be considered as the second journeyman on the job for the purpose of Article XIII (e) if the number of employees supervised exceeds four (4) [five (5) including the designated employee]. It is understood, however, that if the number of employees supervised does not exceed four (4) [five (5) including himself] such lead lineman or lead cable splicer or journeyman designated to act as lead lineman or lead cable splicer will be
110
considered the second journeyman on the job for the purpose of Article XIII (e).
If the foreman is absent, i.e., not available to exercise general supervision in such a crew, and a journeyman is designated to act as a foreman, the journeyman may work at his discretion when practical to do so while maintaining the safety and efficiency of the crew.
3.	A line crew will be considered as a mechanized crew when regularly equipped with two (2) or more pieces of major equipment composed of line trucks equipped with derricks and/or trucks equipped with aerial lifts in any combination under the supervision of one (1) foreman.
Personnel in mechanized crews will be regularly assigned to work units corresponding generally to each major piece of equipment assigned to that crew. However, personnel may be transferred from one (1) unit to another either on a permanent or a temporary basis when required due to the nature of the work to be done or due to the absence of one (1) or more crew members.
Derrick trucks in line crews will be operated by employees in the truck driver classification or higher.
111
Whenever it is necessary to call out three or more line crew employees outside their regular scheduled hours and such employees are not under the supervision of a foreman, an effort will be made to include a lead lineman in the group. In cases where there are no classified lead lineman or when classified lead lineman are not available, whenever it is necessary to call out three or more line crew employees outside their regular scheduled hours and such employees are not under the supervision of the foreman, a lineman competent to act as a lead lineman will be designated to act and be paid as a lead lineman for hours worked outside scheduled hours of work.
Upgrading of a lineman to lead lineman under these circumstances will not be evidence of competency for other purposes. The Company is willing to apply this understanding provided some satisfactory arrangement can be worked out with regard to the distribution of overtime between linemen and lead linemen. This understanding supersedes the understanding contained as Item 7, Memorandum of Understanding - Operating Agreement 1965 Negotiations dated January 7, 1967.
(c)	Apprentices in line or substation crews will have worked on energized lines or equipment in excess of 600 volts before being promoted to the classification of journeyman.
112
Apprentice linemen must be able to climb and work on standing poles within thirty (30) days after being so classified or else be demoted. During the first year of apprenticeship, apprentices engaged in line and substation work will work under the direct supervision of journeymen or other employees of higher classification. Apprentices will not work on energized lines or equipment unless accompanied by a journeyman or lead lineman except that after the first year of apprenticeship they may work on lines or equipment of less than 600 volts under the general supervision of a journeyman or other employee of higher classification.
(d)	Journeymen must be skilled in safely handling all phases of the work on which they are employed, with only general supervision. Experience elsewhere than with the Company in the same line of work will be accepted as qualifying a journeyman for this classification after full and satisfactory verification.
An employee must be in the apprentice classification for a minimum of one (1) year to be eligible for advancement to journeyman or for full substitution as a journeyman. The employee must be qualified through CK.&S prior to advancement or for full substitution. Limited substitution may be made based on the employee's ability to safely perform the work at
113
hand. Limited substitution will not deem an employee to be qualified for full substitution nor for advancement.
An employee holding the apprentice classification may take the appropriate journeyman CK&S written and skills tests on a "request" basis prior to the end of the one year outlined above. If the employee passes these tests, he will be "prequalified" for the journeyman classification; however, he may not be fully substituted nor awarded a journeyman job until the passage of one year as outlined above.
An employee holding the apprentice classification may not take the CK&S tests for journeyman on a "demand" basis until he has satisfied the one year requirement outlined above.
In no case will an employee with less than one (1) year, (singular or combined) experience as an apprentice and/or journeyman be awarded a journeyman job.
(e)	Where it is necessary for employees to work on energized lines or equipment in excess of 600 volts, there will be at least two (2) journeymen on the job unless in extreme emergency involving immediate hazard to life or property. When it is necessary to work on lines
114
of 4,000 volts or over during storms, the section to be worked on will be deenergized and isolated by opening any switches available for this purpose and will be temporarily grounded and work will not proceed until safety precautions customary under the circumstances have been taken.
(f)	Truck drivers will be in charge of and responsible for their trucks under the direction of their respective supervisors and when not so engaged will work as utility assistants. In the absence of a truck driver, the foreman will assign some member of the crew to operate the truck and be responsible for same, except as may be required in emergencies or the absence of a qualified person. If drivers of trucks are required to report before the beginning, or to work after the end of the regular work day for their respective crews, they will be paid for such excess time at their respective rates of pay and such time will be taken into account in computing overtime.
(g)	When a cable splicer is working on or near exposed parts energized at fifty volts or more in a pullbox, manhole, or vault, it will be at the discretion of the journeyman if additional journeymen are needed. When clean-up work is being performed in a vault, two (2) journeymen will not be required.
115
When switching within a manhole, vault or other enclosed space, it will be at the discretion of the journeyman in charge of the work to determine if it is necessary to have the assistance of another journeyman, lead cable splicer or foreman within the manhole, vault or other enclosed space.
(h)	When a manhole or vault is open and employees are working in same, an employee will be stationed at such opening instructed not to leave the opening except with the permission of the employee in charge of the work in the vault or manhole; and such employee will assist the employees in the vault br manhole by passing tools or materials to them, or otherwise as they may direct. If the opening is on the street or sidewalk it will be protected by a suitable portable guard of the customary type and by one or more warning signs.
(i)	Telecommunications electricians must have a working knowledge of all types of communication systems used by the Company, and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of telecommunications work with only general supervision. Employees must have obtained a General Radiotelephone Operator License issued by the Federal Communication Commission or a Certificate of Competency issued by a national certification agency recognized by the Company for a level of
116
ability equal or superior to a General Radiotelephone Operator License. Also see Exhibit B, Telecommunications Electricians Shared Work MOU dated May 11, 1994.
(j)	Utility assistants must be able to do unskilled work in connection with line, underground, and substation jobs as such; and must display aptitude for their work and ability to acquire the necessary skill to qualify them for promotion.
(k)	Text Deleted.
(1)	Whenever an employee is transferred above the classification of utility assistant into meter testing in any of the six (6) geographic divisions, the employee will be classified initially as an assistant meter tester; but in the event of satisfactory progress, the employee will progress through the classification of assistant meter tester into the classification of meter tester. Selection of employees for promotion to meter tester or to assistant meter tester will be based on competency.
(m)	Whenever an employee is promoted or transferred into the classification of Local Operations Lineman, Troubleman, Telecommunications Electrician, Assistant Telecommunications Electrician or Service Installer, such employee will, within six (6)
117
months of the promotion or transfer, relocate to a residence not more than forty-five (45) road miles from the employee’s headquarters unless the employee presently meets such qualification. Failure to meet this requirement will subject the employee to removal from the classification under the conditions of Article V, paragraph (i), of this agreement.
(n) Whenever an employee is transferred above the classification of utility assistant to the Instrument Service Center, the employee will be classified initially as a Laboratory Instrument Technician II, but in the event of satisfactory progress, the employee will progress through the classification of Laboratory Instrument Technician II into the classification of Laboratory Instrument Technician I. Employees who bid in to the Laboratory Instrument Technician II classification must work a minimum of six (6) months in the top pay step of that classification to be eligible to be promoted to Laboratory Instrument Technician 1. Upon passing the CK&S tests, the employee will be promoted to the Laboratory Instrument Technician I classification. The promotion of a Laboratory Instrument Technician II to a Laboratory Instrument Technician I by any means may, at the sole discretion of the Company, eliminate the Laboratory Instrument Technician II classification vacancy created by the promotion. Selection of employees for
118
promotion to Laboratory Instrument Technician 1 or II will be based on competency.
(o) Meter Readers will be routinely utilized to perform all functions of metering work which includes: meter reading, meter rereads, read ins/read outs, initial meter sets, meter sets for new customers where service exists, disconnects, connects, reconnects, meter changes, removes, reseals, and all duties associated with the Field Service Representative classification.
Meter Readers will be utilized on straight time and overtime, to perform all functions relative to metering work. Existing practices with respect to utilizing Local Operations Linemen, Troublemen or Service Installers for call out will not be changed.
Meter Readers whose jobs will be eliminated by implementation of AMI will be reclassified as Field Service Representatives at the top step of the rate range effective at the beginning of the first pay period following ratification on May 29, 2009.
ARTICLE XIV Text Deleted
119
ARTICLE XV Text Deleted
ARTICLE XVI Text Deleted
ARTICLE XVII Text Deleted
ARTICLE XVIII
Co-Operative Student Training Program
Recognizing the responsibility of the Company for the training and development of engineering personnel to meet future needs and objectives of the Company, the parties agree that, notwithstanding the seniority provisions of this agreement, the Company will have the right to utilize co-operative student employees to fill new jobs or vacancies in classifications below that of apprentice, provided such student employees are competent to fulfill the duties of the job. The Company will undertake to agree with the Brotherhood on a guiding principle concerning the placement of co-op students in bargaining unit classifications.
120
ARTICLE XIX
Employee Training
Recognizing the need for training employees for advancement to certain classifications and the improvement in skill of certain other employees in classifications they already hold, discussions will be held between representatives of the Company and the Brotherhood in an effort to develop plans for such training.
ARTICLE XX
Posting Rules
The rules in regard to hours and working conditions as set forth herein will be posted in the respective substations, local offices, and crew headquarters to which they apply and the rules so posted will be observed until changed as provided for in this agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Brotherhood have each caused these present to be executed in their respective names and on their respective behalves by their proper officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the day and year first above written.
121
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY By Steve R. Spencer Executive Vice President
Approved For:
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
Mark A. Crosswhite
President & Chief Executive Officer
Attest:
Ceila Shorts
Corporate Secretary
122
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Local Union No. 345, Mobile, Alabama
By Russell L. Cube
Local Union No. 833, Jasper, Alabama
By Keith L. Gilliland
Local Union No. 904, Tallassee, Alabama
By Robert D. Ford
Local Union No. 391, Gadsden, Alabama
By Tommy R. Mann
Local Union No. 801, Montgomery, Alabama
By Keith C. Williams
Local Union No. 841, Birmingham, Alabama
By Mark L. Adkins
Local Union No. 1053, Demopolis, Alabama
By Richard M. Stokes
Local Union No. 796, Dothan, Alabama
By Anna D, Jerry
Local Union No. 2077, Wilsonville, Alabama
By Vincent K. Pickett
Approved For:
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF
ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Edwin D. Hill
International President
Attest:
Casey Shelton
Business Manager, System Council U-19
123
EXHIBIT A (2014)
DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2014 - August 14, 2015
125
127
EXHIBIT A (2014) DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15,2014 to August 14,2015 Distribution, Meter Readers, Supply Chain and Instrument Service Center
	Job No.	Classification			Minimum to Maximum		
1.	LINE PERSONNEL						
	004097	Lead Lineman	S36.756	$	s	S	S
	008634	Switchman B	33.721				
	004123	Local Oper Lineman	35.224	35.284	35.413		
*	004129	Troubleman	35.127	35.187	35.315		
	004122	Lineman-Pwr Delivery	34.094	34.204	34.257	34.422	
	005668	Equipment Oper Trans	33.593	33.759	33.941		
M	004142	Earth Borer Operator	29.638	29.725	29.880		
	004168	Materialman	29.466	29.688	29.952	30.017	30.122
			30.224				
	004152	Appr Lineman-Pwr Del	24.962	25.063	25.548	25.997	26.479
	004140	Trk Driver A-Pwr Del	24.252	24.357	24.495	24.564	
♦	004171	Explosive Handler	23.389	23.527	23.635	23.717	23.790
			23.994				
	007780	Utility Assistant	15.981	16.414	16.902	17.140	17.399
			17.917	18.174	18.419	18.798	19.264
			19.955	20.817			
EXHIBIT A (2014) - CONTINUED
128
	Job No.	Classification	Minimum to Maximum				
2.	STREET LIGHTING PERSONNEL						
*	004129	Troubleman	$35,127	$35,187	$35,315	$	$
*	004172	Street Lgt Maint Man	24.721	24.838	24.926	25.357	
	007780	Utility Assistant	15.981	16.414	16.902	17.140	17.399
			17.917	18.174	18.419	18.798	19.264
			19.955	20.817			
3.	UNDERGROUND PERSONNEL						
	004100	Lead Cable Splicer	$36,477	$	$	$	$
	004128	Cable Splicer	34.088	34.180	34.273	34.343	
	008633	Switchman A	32.159	32.245	32.333	32.399	
	004154	Appr Cable Splicer	24.962	25.063	25.548	25.997	26.479
			26.742	27.261	27.816	28.367	
	007780	Utility Assistant	15.981	16.414	16.902	17.140	17.399
			17.917	18.174	18.419	18.798	19.264
			19.955	20.817			
EXHIBIT A (2014) - CONTINUED
		Job No.	Classification			Minimum to Maximum		
	4,	SERVICE PERSONNEL						
		004129	Troubieman	S35.I27	S35.187	S35.3I5	S	8
		004130	Service Installer	32.073	32.177	32.227	32.382	
		004176	Climbing Field Service Rep	27.549	27.672	27.739	27.878	27.966
		004175	Field Service Rep	26.861	27.067	27.134	27.218	27.325
		004155	Appr Installer	24.962	25.063	25.548	25.997	26.479
		006711	Appliance Serviceman I	23.527	24.048	24.564	25.099	25.753
Jd				26.429	27.103	27.775	28.793	29.828
				30.846	31.849	32.124	32.382	
		004139	Appl Serviceman	21.153	21.830	22.508	23.185	23.860
				24.539	25.216	25.894	26.572	27.248
				27.926				
		007780	Utility Assistant	15.981	16.414	16.902	17.140	17.399
				17.917	18.174	18.419	18.798	19.264
				19.955	20.817			
EXHIBIT A (2014) - CONTINUED
130
	Job No.	Classification			Minimum to Maximum		
5.	TREE TRIMMING CREWS						
	004177	Head Tree Trimmer	$24,838	$24,912	$25,013	$25,099	$
	004144	Truck Driver-Chipper	22.198	22.287	22.426	22.545	
	007780	Utility Assistant	15.981	16.414	16.902	17.140	17.399
			17.917	18.174	18.419	18.798	19.264
			19.955	20.817			
6.	METER TEST PERSONNEL						
	004131	Meter Tester	$33,850	$34,180	$34,549	$34,874	$35,220
			35.532				
	004132	Asst Meter Tester	27.930	28.051	28.119	28.241	28.309
			28.412	28.498	28.588		
	007780	Utility Assistant	15.981	16.414	16.902	17.140	17.399
			17.917	18.174	18.419	18.798	19.264
			19.955	20.817			
EXHIBIT A (2014) - CONTINUED
Job No. Classification	Minimum to Maximum
7. METER READERS
*	004173 004174	Sp Meter Reader Meter Reader	S28.018 25.272	$ 25.548	$ 25.980	$ 26.413	$ 26.913
8.	INSTRUMENT SERVICE CENTER						
	004093	Lab Instrument Tech I	$33,885	$34,005	$34,075		
	004094	Lab Instrument Tech II	32.177	32.266	32.333	32.469	
9.	SUPPLY CHAIN						
	004095	Sub foreman	S33.627	$33,729	$33,784	$	$
	004165	Warehouseman - General	31.345	31.397	31.434	31.469	31.505
			31.592				
	004168	Materialman	29.466	29.688	29.952	30.017	30.122
			30.224				
	008658	Utility’ Assistant - Supply Chain	15.981	16.414	16.902	17.140	18.374
			18.807	19.301	19.794	21.028	21.523
			22.016	23.250			
EXHIBIT A (2014) - CONTINUED
	Job No.	Classification			Minimum to Maximum		
	10. SUPPORT SERVICES						
	008305	Subforeman Utility Fleet	$33,627	$33,729	$33,784	$	$
	008306	Utility Fleet Tech I	32.073	32.177	32.227	32.382	
	008307	Utility Fleet Tech 11	27.375	28.203	29.034	29.862	30.693
	004127	Telecom Elecn-Pwr D	33.742	34.233	34.731	35.220	35.716
GJ	008308	Asst Telecom Electrician	24.962	26.128	27.375	28.617	29.862
NJ	004168	Materialman	29.466	29.688	29.952	30.017	30.122
			30.224				
	007780	Utility Assistant	15.981	16.414	16.902	17.140	17.399
			17.917	18.174	18.419	18.798	19.264
			19.955	20.817			
r
EXHIBIT A (2014) - CONTINUED
Applicable to Birmingham Division only.
This classification applicable in the operation of self-contained hole digging units only.
(1)	Truck Driver A drives winch trucks.
(2)	The classification of Utility Assistant listed in the Service Personnel will be utilized in the Appliance Repair Department.
EXHIBIT A (2014) Continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When an employee is not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate the employee is being paid, but in no event will the employee be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in classifications in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if employees have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior
134
classification, increases in the new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
(4)	Text Deleted.
(5)	Text Deleted.
(6)	Text Deleted.
(7)	When Utility Fleet Technician I or Subforeman-Utility Fleet voluntarily complete and maintain certain Master Level certification requirements they will be paid an additional $1.75 per hour.
135
EXHIBIT A (2015) DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2015 - August 14, 2016
137
139
it
EXHIBIT A (2015) DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15,2015 to August 14,2016 Distribution, Meter Readers, Supply Chain and Instrument Sendee Center
Job No. Classification	Minimum to Maximum
1. LINE PERSONNEL
004097	Lead Lineman	S37.951	$	S	$	S
008634	Switchman B	34.817				
004123	Local Oper Lineman	36.369	36.431	36.564		
* 004129	Troubleman	36.269	36.331	36.463		
004122	Lineman-Pwr Delivery	35.202	35.316	35.370	35.541	
005668	Equipment Oper Trans	34.685	34.856	35.044		
'* 004142	Earth Borer Operator	30.601	30.691	30.851		
004168	Materialman	30.424	30.653	30.925	30.993	31.101
		31.206				
004152	Appr Lineman-Pwr Del	25.773	25.878	26.378	26.842	27.340
004140	Trit Driver A-Pwt Del	25.040	25.149	25.291	25.362	
* 004171	Explosive Handler	24.149	24.292	24.403	24.488	24.563
		24.774				
007780	Utility’ Assistant	16.500	16.947	17.451	17.697	17.964
		18.499	18.765	19.018	19.409	19.890
		20.604	21.494			
EXHIBIT A (2015) - CONTINUED
Minimum to Maximum
140
Job No. Classification
2. STREET LIGHTING PERSONNEL		
* 004129	Troubleman	$36,269
• 004172	Street Lgt Main! Man	25.524
007780	Utility Assistant	16.500
		18.499
		20.604
3. UNDERGROUND PERSONNEL
004100	Lead Cable Splicer	$37,663
004128	Cable Splicer	35.196
008633	Switchman A	33.204
004154	Appr Cable Splicer	25.773
		27.611
007780	Utility Assistant	16.500
		18.499
		20.604
$36,331 25.645 16.947 18.765 21.494	$36,463 25.736 17.451 19.018	$	26.181 17.697 19.409	$	17.964 19.890
$	$	$		$	
35.291	35.387		35.459		
33.293	33.384		33.452		
25.878	26.378		26.842		27.340
28.147	28.720		29.289		
16.947	17.451		17.697		17.964
18.765	19.018		19.409		19.890
21.494					
EXHIBIT A (2015) - CONTINUED f
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
4. SERVICE PERSONNEL
	004129	Troubleman	$36,269	$36,331	$36,463	$		$	
	004130	Service Installer	33.115	33.223	33.274		33.434		
	004176	Climbing Field Service Rep	28.444	28.571	28.641		28.784		28.875
	004175	Field Service Rep	27.734	27.947	28.016		28.103		28.213
	004155	Appr Installer	25.773	25.878	26.378		26.842		27.340
	006711	Appliance Serviceman 1	24.292	24.830	25.362		25.915		26.590
			27.288	27.984	28.678		29.729		30.797
			31.848	32.884	33.168		33.434		
	004139	Appl Serviceman	21.840	22.539	23.240		23.939		24.635
			25.337	26.036	26.736		27.436		28.134
			28.834						
	007780	Utility Assistant	16.500	16.947	17.451		17.697		17.964
			18.499	18.765	19.018		19.409		19.890
			20.604	21.494					
5.	TREE TRIMMING CREWS								
	004177	Head Tree Trimmer	$25,645	$25,722	$25,826		$25,915	$	
	004144	Truck Driver-Chipper	22.919	23.011	23.155		23.278		
	0077S0	Utility Assistant	16.500	16.947	17.451		17.697		17.964
			18.499	18.765	19.018		19.409		19.890
			20.604	21.494					
EXHIBIT A (2015) -CONTINUED
	Job No.	Classification			Minimum to Maximum			
6.	METER TEST PERSONNEL							
	004131	Meter Tester	$34,950	$35,291	$35,672		$36,007	$36,365
			36.687					
	004132	Asst Meter Tester	28.838	28.963	29.033		29.159	29.229
			29.335	29.424	29.517			
	007780	Utility Assistant	16.500	16.947	17.451		17.697	17.964
			18.499	18.765	19.018		19.409	19.890
			20.604	21.494				
7.	METER READERS							
*	004173	Sp Meter Reader	$28,929	$	$	$		$
	004174	Meter Reader	26.093	26.378	26.824		27.271	27.788
8.	INSTRUMENT SERVICE CENTER							
	004093	Lab Instrument Tech 1	$34,986	$35,110	$35,182	$		
	004094 .	Lab Instrument Tech II.	33.223	33.315-	33.384.		33.524	
EXHIBIT A (2015) - CONTINUED
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
9.	SUPPLY CHAIN						
	004095	Subforeman	$34,720	$34,825	$34,882	$	$
	004165	Warehouseman General	32.364	32.417	32.456	32.492	32.529
			32.619				
	00416S	Materialman	30.424	30.653	30.925	30.993	31.101
			31.206				
	008658	Utility Assistant - Supply	16.500	16.947	17.451	17.697	18.971
		Chain	19.418	19.928	20.437	21.711	22.222
			22.732	24.006			
10.	SUPPORT SERVICES		$34,720	$34,825	$34,882	$	$
	OOS3O5	Subforeman Utility Fleet					
	008306	Utility Fleet Tech I	33.115	33.223	33.274	33.434	
	008307	Utility Fleet Tech 11	28.265	29.120	29.978	30.833	31.691
004127	Telecom Elecn-Pwr D	$34,839	$35,346	$35,860	$36,365	$36,877
008308	Asst Telecom Electrician	25.773	26.977	28.265	29.547	30.833
EXHIBIT A (2015)-CONTINUED
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
(CONTINUED)			S 30.653	$ 30.925	$ 30.993	$31,101
004168	Materialman	$ 30.424				
		31.206				
007780	Utility Assistant	16.500	16.947	17.451	17.697	17.964
		18.499	18.765	19.018	19.409	19.890
		20.604	21.494			
*	Applicable to Birmingham Division only.
*	This classification applicable-in the operation of self-contained hole digging units only.
(1)	Truck Driver A drives winch trucks.
(2)	The classification of Utility Assistant listed in the Service Personnel will be utilized in the Appliance Repair Department.
EXHIBIT A (2015) Continued
C-Notes: Applicable to ail classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When an employee is not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate the employee is being paid, but in no event will the employee be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in classifications in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if employees have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior
145
classification, increases in the new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
(4)	Text Deleted.
(5)	Text Deleted.
(6)	Text Deleted.
(7)	When Utility Fleet Technician I or Subforeman-Utility Fleet voluntarily complete and maintain certain Master Level certification requirements they will be paid an additional S1.75 per hour.
146
EXHIBIT A (2016)
DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2016 - August 14, 2017
NOTE: These wages arc the minimum for 2016. They may increase based on language in the 2014 Memorandum in Exhibit B.
147
.149
EXHIBIT A (2016) DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15,2016 to August 14,2017 Distribution, Meter Readers, Supply Chain and Instrument Service Center
Job No. Classification	Minimum to Maximum
1. LINE PERSONNEL
004097	Lead Lineman	s	38.710	S	$	$	S
008634	Switchman B		35.513				
004123	Local Oper Lineman		37.096	37.159	37.295		
004129	Troubleman		36.994	37.057	37.192		
004122	Lineman-Pwr Delivery		35.906	36.022	36.078	36.252	
005668	Equipment Oper Trans		35.378	35.553	35.745		
004142	Earth Borer Operator		31.213	31.305	31.468		
004168	Materialman		31.032	31.266	31.544	31.612	31.723
			31.830				
004152	Appr Lineman-Pwr Del		26.2S9	26.395	26.906	27.379	27.886
004140	Trk Driver A-Pwr Del		25.541	25.652	25.797	25.870	
004171	Explosive Handler		24.632	24.777	24.891	24.978	25.054
			25.269				
007780	Utility Assistant		16.830	17.286	17.800	18.051	18.324
			18.869	19.140	19.398	19.797	20.288
			21.016	21.923			
EXHIBIT A (2016) - CONTINUED
Job No. Classification	Minimum to Maximum
2. STREET LIGHTING PERSONNEL
*		004129	Troubleman	$	36.994	$	37.057	$	37.192	$	$
	*	004172	Street Lgt Maint Man		26.035		26.158		26.251	26.705	
		007780	Utility Assistant		16.830		17.286		17.800	18.051	18.324
					18.869		19.140		19.398	19.797	20.288
					21.016		21.923				
o											
	3.	UNDERGROUND PERSONNEL									
		004100	Lead Cable Splicer		$38,416		$		$	S	$
		004128	Cable Splicer		35.900		35.997		36.095	36.168	
		008633	Switchman A		33.868		33.959		34.051	34.121	
		004154	Appr Cable Splicer		26.289		26.395		26.906	27.379	27.886
					28.163		28.710		29.294	29.875	
		007780	Utility Assistant		16.830		17.286		17.800	18.051	18.324
					18.869		19.140		19.398	19.797	20.288
					21.016		21.963				
EXHIBIT A (2016) - CONTINUED
	Job No.	Classification			Minimum to Maximum		
	4. SERVICE PERSONNEL						
	004129	Troubleman	$	36.994	S 37.057	$	37.192	$	S
	004130	Service Installer	33.778	33.887	33.940	34.103	
	004176	Climbing Field Service Rep 29.013		29.143	29.213	29.360	29.452
	004175	Field Service Rep	28.289	28.506	28.576	28.665	28.777
	004155	Appr Installer	26.289	26.395	26.906	27.379	27.886
	006711	Appliance Serviceman I	24.777	25.326	25.S7O	26.433	27.122
			27.834	28.544	29.251	30.323	31.413
Ui			32.485	33.542	33.831	34.103	
—*■	004139	A ppi Serviceman	22.277	22.990	23.704	24.417	25.128
			25.843	26.556	27.270	27.984	28.696
			29.410				
	007780	Utility Assistant	16.830	17.286	17.800	18.051	1S.324
			18.869	19.140	19.398	19.797	20.2S8
			21.016	21.923			
EXHIBIT A (2016) - CONTINUED
152
Job No.	Classification	Minimum to N	laximum
5. TREE TRIMMING CREWS			
004177	Head Tree Trimmer	$	26.158	$	26.236 $	26.342	$	26.433	$
004144	Truck Driver-Chipper	23.378	23.472	23.618	23.743
007780	Utility Assistant	16.830	17.286	17.800	18.051	18.324
	18.869	19.140	19.398	19.797	20.288
	21.016	21.923	
6. METER TEST PERSONNEL			
004131	Meter Tester	S35.649	$35,997	$36,385	$36,728	$37,092
	37.421		
004132	Asst Meter Tester	29.414	29.542	29.614	29.742	29.814
	29.922	30.013	30.107	
007780	Utility Assistant	16.830	17.286	17.800	18.051	18.324
	18.869	19.140	19.398	19.797	20.288
	21.016	21.923	
EXHIBIT A (2016) - CONTINUED
153
Job No. Classification
7. METER READERS
Minimum to Maximum
004173	Sp Meter Reader	$29,507 26.615	$ 26.906	$ 27.361	$ 27.817	$ 28.343
004174	Meter Reader					
INSTRUMENT SERVICE CENTER					
004093	Lab Instrument Tech I	$35,686	$35,812	$35,886	$	
004094	Lab Instrument Tech II	33.887	33.981	34.051	34.195	
SUPPLY CHAIN					
004095	Subforeman	$35,414	$35,522	$35,580	$	$
004165	Warehouseman General	33.011 33.271	33.066	33.105	33.142	33.179
004168	Materialman	31.032 31.830	31.266	31.544	31.612	31.723
008658	Utility Assistant -					
Supply Chain	16.830	17.286	17.800	18.051	19.351
	19.807 23.186	20.327 24.486	20.846	22.146	22.667
EXHIBIT A (2016) - CONTINUED
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
154
10. SUPPORT SERVICES
008305	Subforeman Utility Fleet	$35,414	$35,522	$35,580	$	$
008306	Utility Fleet Tech I	33.778	33.887	33.940	34.103	
008307	Utility Fleet Tech II	28.830	29.702	30.577	31.449	32.324
004127	Telecom Elecn-Pwr D	$35,535	$36,052	$36,577	$37,092	$37,614
008308	Asst Telecom Electrician	26.289	27.517	28.830	30.138	31.499
004168	Materialman	31.032 31.830	31.266	31.544	31.612	31.723
007780	Utility Assistant	16.830	17.286	17.800	18.051	18.324
		18.869	19.140	19.398	19.797	20.288
		21.016	21.923			
•Applicable to Birmingham Division only.
••This classification applicable in the operation of self-contained hole digging units only.
(1)	Truck Driver A drives winch trucks.
(2)	The classification of Utility Assistant listed in the Service Personnel will be utilized in the Appliance Repair Department.
I
EXHIBIT A (2016) Continued
.)
, C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in ''	the amount shown by the steps above and
will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When an employee is not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will '	be equal to the difference between the
step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate the employee is being paid, but in no event will the employee be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in j	classifications in which they have had no
experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if employees have had previous experience /	in that classification or a related
’■	classification, they will start at a higher
/	rate (within the range of rates for the
classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a z	classification with scheduled range of
rates overlapping their immediately prior
155
classification, increases in the new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
(4)	Text Deleted.
(5)	Text Deleted.
(6)	Text Deleted.
(7)	When Utility Fleet Technician I or Subforeman-Utility Fleet voluntarily complete and maintain certain Master Level certification requirements they will be paid an additional S1.75 per hour.
156
EXHIBIT A (2017)
DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2017-August 14, 2018
NOTE: These wages arc the minimum for 2017. They may increase based on language in the 2014 Memorandum in Exhibit B.
157
159
EXHIBIT A (2017) DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15, 2017 to August 14, 2018 Distribution, Meter Readers, Supply Chain and Instrument Service Center
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
LINE PERSONNEL								
004097	Lead Lineman	S39.484	S		S	S		S
008634	Switchman B	36.224						
004123	Local Oper Lineman	37.838		37.903	38.041			
004129	Troubleman	37.734		37.798	37.936			
004122	Lineman-Pwr Delivery	36.624		36.742	36.799		36.977	
005668	Equipment Oper Trans	36.086		36.264	36.460			
004142	Earth Borer Operator	31.838		31.931	32.097			
004168	Materialman	31.653		31.891	32.175		32.245	32.357
		32.467						
004152	Appr Lineman-Pwr							
	Del	26.815		26.923	27.444		27.926	28.444
004140	Trk Driver A-Pwr Del	26.052		26.165	26.313		26.387	
004171	Explosive Handler	25.125		25.273	25.389		25.477	25.556
		25.775						
007780	Utility Assistant	17.167		17.632	18.156		18.412	18.690
		19.247		19.523	19.786		20.193	20.694
		21.436		22.362				
EXHIBIT A (2017) - CONTINUED
160
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
2.	STREET LIGHTING PERSONNEL						
*	004129	Troubleman	$37,734	$37,798	$37,936	$	$
*	004172	Street Lgt Maint Man	26.556	26.681	26.776	27.239	
	007780	Utility Assistant	17.167	17.632	18.156	18.412	18.690
			19.247	19.523	19.786	20.193	20.694
			21.436	22.362			
3.	UNDERGROUND PERSONNEL						
	004100	Lead Cable Splicer	$39,184	$	$	$	$
	004128	Cable Splicer	36.618	36.717	36.817	36.892	
	008633	Switchman A	34.546	34.638	34.733	34.803	
	004154	Appr Cable Splicer	26.815	26.923	27.444	27.926	28.444
			28.727	29.284	29.880	30.472	
	007780	Utility Assistant	17.167	17.632	18.156	18.412	18.690
			19.247	19.523	19.786	20.193	20.694
			21.436	22.362			
EXHIBIT A (2017) - CONTINUED
161
Job No.	Classification		Minimum to Maximum				
SERVICE PERSONNEL							
004129	Troubleman	S37.734	$37,798	$37,936 $		$	
004130	Service Installer	34.453	34.565	34.619	34.785		
004176	Climbing Field Service Rep	29.593	29.726	29.798	29.947		30.041
004175	Field Service Rep	28.854	29.076	29.148	29.238		29.353
004155	Appr Installer	26.815	26.923	27.444	27.926		28.444
006711	Appliance Serviceman I	25.273	25.833	26.387	26.962		27.664
		28.390	29.114	29.836	30.930		32.042
		33.135	34.213	34.508	34.785		
004139	Appl Serviceman	22.723	23.450	24.178	24.906		25.631
		26.360	27.087	27.816	28.544		29.270
		29.998					
007780	Utility Assistant	17.167	17.632	18.156	18.412		18.690
		19.247	19.523	19.786	20.193		20.694
		21.436	22.362				
TREE TRIMMING CREWS							
004177	Head Tree Trimmer	S26.681	$26,761	$26,869	$26,962	$	
004144	Truck Driver-Chipper	23.845	23.941	24.090	24.218		
007780	Utility’ Assistant	17.167	17.632	18.156	18.412		1S.690
		19.247	19.523	19.786	20.193		20.694
		21.436	22.362				
EXHIBIT A (2017) - CONTINUED
162
	Job No.	Classification	Minimum to Maximum							
6.	METER TEST PERSONNEL									
	004131	Meter Tester	S36.362		$36,717	$37,113		$37,462		$37,834
			38.169							
	004132	Asst Meter Tester	30.003		30.133	30.206		30.337		30.410
			30.521		30.613	30.710				
	007780	Utility Assistant	17.167		17.632	18.156		18.412		18.690
			19.247		19.523	19.786		20.193		20.694
			21.436		22.362					
7.	METER READERS									
*	004173	Sp Meter Reader	$30,097	$		$	$		$	
	004174	Meter Reader	27.148		27.444	27.908		28.373		28.910
8.	INSTRUMENT SERVICE CENTER									
	004093	Lab Instrument Tech 1	$36,400		$36,529	$36,604	$			
	004094	Lab Instrument Tech II	34.565		34.661	34.733		34.879		
163
v.	.	... ' . .. - " ? EXHIBIT A (2017) - CONTINUED						
Job No.	Classification		Minimum to Maximum				
SUPPLY CHAIN							
004095	Subforeman	S36.123	$36,232	$36,291		S	$
004165	Warehouseman General	33.671	33.727	33.767		33.804	33.843
		33.937					
00416S	Materialman	31.653	31.891	32.175		32.245	32.357
		32.467					
008658	Utility Assistant - Supply	17.167	17.632	18.156		18.412	19.738
	Chain	20.203	20.733	21.263		22.589	23.120
		23.650	24.975				
SUPPORT SERVICES							
008305	Subforeman Utility Fleet	$36,123	S36.232	$36,291	$		$
008306	Utility Fleet Tech 1	34.453	34.565	34.619		34.785	
008307	Utility Fleet Tech II	29.407	30.296	31.189		32.078	32.971
004127	Telecom Elecn-Pwr D	S36.246	$36,774	$37,308		$37,834	$38,367
008308	Asst Telecom						
	Electrician	26.815	28.067	29.407		30.741	32.078
004168	Materialman	31.653	31.891	32.175		32.245	32.357
		32.467					
007780	Utility Assistant	17.167	17.632	18.156		18.412	18.690
		19.247	19.523	19.786		20.193	20.694
		21.436	22.362				
EXHIBIT A (20I7)-CONTINUED
Applicable to Birmingham Division only.
This classification applicable in the operation of self-contained hole digging units only.
(1)	Truck Driver A drives winch trucks.
(2)	The classification of Utility Assistant listed in the Service Personnel will be utilized in the Appliance Repa Department.
EXHIBIT A (2017) Continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When an employee is not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate the employee is being paid, but in no event will the employee be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in classifications in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if employees have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience.
■ 165
When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in the new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
(4)	Text Deleted.
(5)	Text Deleted.
(6)	Text Deleted.
(7)	When Utility Fleet Technician I or Subforeman-Utility Fleet voluntarily complete and maintain certain Master Level certification requirements they will be paid an additional $1.75 per hour.
166
EXHIBI T A (2018)
DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2018 - August 14, 2019
NOTE: These wages arc the minimum for 2018. They may increase based on language in the 2014 Memorandum in Exhibit B.
167
169
EXHIBIT A (2018) DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15, 2018 to August 14, 2019 Distribution, Meter Readers, Supply Chain and Instrument Service Center
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
LINE PERSONNEL									
004097	Lead Lineman	S40.273	S		S		S		S
008634	Switchman B	36.948							
004123	Local Oper Lineman	38.595		38.661		3S.802			
004129	Troubleman	3S.489		38.554		38.695			
004122	Lineman-Pwr Delivery	37.357		37.477		37.535		37.716	
005668	Equipment Oper Trans	36.808		36.990		37.189			
004142	Earth Borer Operator	32.474		32.570		32.739			
004168	Materialman	32.286		32.529		32.818		32.890	33.005
		33.116							
004152	Appr Lineman-Pwr Del	27.351		27.461		27.993		28.485	29.013
004140	Trk Driver A-Pwr Del	26.573		26.688		26.839		26.915	
004171	Explosive Handler	25.627		25.778		25.897		25.987	26.067
		26.290							
007780	Utility Assistant	17.510		17.985		18.519		18.7S0	19.064
		19.632		19.913		20.182		20.597	21.108
		21.865		22.809					
EXHIBIT A (2018) - CONTINUED
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
2. STREET LIGHTING PERSONNEL
» 004129	Troubleman	$38,489	$38,554	$38,695	$	$
* 004172	Street Lgt Maint Man	27.087	27.215	27.311	27.784	
007780	Utility Assistant	17.510	17.985	18.519	18.780	19.064
		19.632	19.913	20.182	20.597	21.108
		21.865	22.809			
170
UNDERGROUND PERSONNEL									
004100	Lead Cable Splicer	$39,968	$		$		$	$	
004128	Cable Splicer	37.350		37.451		37.553	37.630		
008633	Switchman A	35.237		35.331		35.427	35.499		
004154	Appr Cable Splicer	27.351		27.461		27.993	28.485		29.013
		29.301		29.870		30.478	31.082		
007780	Utility Assistant	17.510		17.985		18.519	18.780		19.064
		19.632		19.913		20.182	20.597		21.108
		21.865		22.809					
EXHIBIT A (2018) - CONTINUED
	Job No.	Classification		Minimum to Maximum			
4.	SERVICE PERSONNEL						
	004129	Troubleman	$38,489	$38,554	$38,695	S	$
	004130	Service Installer	35.142	35.256	35.311	35.481	
	004176	Climbing Field Service Rep	30.185	30.320	30.394	30.546	30.642
	004175	Field Service Rep	29.432	29.657	29.731	29.823	29.940
	004155	Appr Installer	27.351	27.461	27.993	28.485	29.013
	006711	Appliance Serviceman I	25.778	26.349	26.915	27.501	28.217
			28.958	29.697	30.433	31.548	32.682
			33.798	34.897	35.198	35.481	
	004139	A ppi Serviceman	23.177	23.919	24.662	25.404	26.143
			26.887	27.629	28.372	29.115	29.856
			30.598				
	007780	Utility Assistant	17.510	17.985	18.519	18.780	19.064
			19.632	19.913	20.182	20.597	21.108
			21.865	22.809			
5.	TREE TRIMMING CREWS						
	004177	Head Tree Trimmer	$27,215	$27,296	$27,407	$27,501	$
	004144	Truck Driver-Chipper	24.322	24.420	24.572	24.702	
	0077S0	Utility Assistant	17.510	17.985	18.519	18.780	19.064
			19.632	19.913	20.182	20.597	21.108
			21.865	22.809			
EXHIBIT A (2018) - CONTINUED
172
	Job No.	Classification	Minimui	n to Maximum
6.	METER TEST PERSONNEL			
	004131	Meter Tester	$37,089	$37,451	$37,855	$38,211	$38,590
			38.932	
	004132	Asst Meter Tester	30.603	30.735	30.810	30.944	31.018
			31.131	31.225	31.324
	007780	Utility Assistant	17.510	17.985	18.519	18.780	19.064
			19.632	19.913	20.182	20.597	21.108
			21.865	22.809	
7.	METER READERS			
*	004173	Sp Meter Reader	$30,699 $	$	$ $
	004174	Meter Reader	27.690	27.993	28.466	28.941	29.489
8.	INSTRUMENT SERVICE CENTER			
	004093	Lab Instrument Tech I	$37,128	$37,259	$37,336 $
	004094	Lab Instrument Tech II	35.256	35.354	35.427	35.579
\ EXHIBIT A (2018) - CONTINUED
173
10.
Job No.	Classification		Minimum to Maximum			
SUPPLY CHAIN 004095	Subforeman		$36,845	$36,957	$37,017 $	$	
004165	Warehouseman General	34.345	34.402	34.442	34.480	34.520
004168	Materialman	34.615 32.286	32.529	32.818	32.890	33.005
008658	Utility Assistant-Supply	33.116 17.510	17.985	18.519	18.780	20.132
	Chain	20.607	21.148	21.688	23.040	23.583
SUPPORT 008305	SERVICES Subforeman Utility Fleet	24.123 $36,845	25.475 $36,957	$37,017 $	$	
008306	Utility Fleet Tech I	35.142	35.256	35.311	35.481	
008307	Utility Fleet Tech 11	29.995	30.902	31.812	32.720	33.630
004127	Telecom Elecn-Pwr D	36.971	37.509	38.055	38.590	39.134
008308	Asst Telecom Electrician	27.351	28.628	29.995	31.356	32.720
004168	Materialman	32.286	32.529	32.818	32.890	33.005
007780	Utility Assistant	33.116 17.510	17.985	18.519	18.780	19.064
		19.632 21.865	19.913 22.809	20.182	20.597	21.108
EXHIBIT A (2018) - CONTINUED
* Applicable to Birmingham Division only.
'* This classification applicable in the operation of self-contained hole digging units only.
(1)	Truck Driver A drives winch tnicks.
(2)	The classification of Utility Assistant listed in the Service Personnel will be utilized in the Appliance Repair Department.
174
EXHIBIT A (2018) Continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When an employee is not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate the employee is being paid, but in no event will the employee be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in classifications in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if employees have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior
. \ '	.175.
classification, increases in the new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
(4)	Text Deleted.
(5)	Text Deleted.
(6)	Text Deleted.
(7)	When Utility Fleet Technician 1 or Subforeman-Utility Fleet voluntarily complete and maintain certain Master Level certification requirements they will be paid an additional $1.75 per hour.
176
EXHIBIT B DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT OUTSTANDING MOUs
The consolidation of MOUs from 1960 - 2014 is an attempt to clean up outdated language and publish as many MOUs as possible.
If by chance, MOUs or language have been deleted and should not have been, the Company and Union agree that these MOUs and language will be applicable.
NEGOTIATIONS
1960-1961
9.	The Company will issue appropriate instructions or requests to contractors in order to prevent such contractors from disconnecting or removing meters belonging to the Company on the premises of the Company's customers.
1974
7.	Based on present and future needs and conditions, the Company will reorganize the Alabama Power Company Stores. Such reorganization shall be as follows:
(a) The Company will, where practicable and efficient to do so, convert the "charged out" storerooms in the operating divisions to accountable storerooms. Where it is not practicable and efficient to make this change, the storerooms will remain in the "charged out" status. Where a storeroom is unattended and is changed from a
177
"charge out" to an accountable storeroom, the first employee at the facility will be a non-covered, operating employee. Where the volume of work dictates, a second employee at each such location will be added and will be a covered employee in the classification of materialman.
1982
1. Effective June 1, 1983 and consistent with the provisions of Article VIII, paragraphs (i) and (ff), employees in classifications regularly assigned meter reading and collections work, and employees prearranged to relieve or substitute for absent employees in such classifications, will be furnished adequate rain gear to assure the continuance of meter reading and collections work during rain, sleet or snow conditions. It is understood, however, that such employees will not be expected to work in any severe weather condition. It is further understood that employees assigned to supplement meter reading and collections efforts (i.e., not relieving or substituting for an absent employee) will not be required to continue reading and collections work during rain, sleet or snow conditions.
1986
21.C.	Vacancies for the helper-general
classification will not be filled by posting as set out in Article V, paragraph (e) of the Operating
178
1995
12.
16.
Agreement. Vacancies within each seniority unit may be filled in the following manner and at the Company's option:
(1)	The Company shall maintain a list of employees in the classification of helper-general by seniority unit who desire to work in particular work groups. As vacancies in work groups occur, the Company may fill these vacancies from this list by seniority.
(2)	The Company may transfer helpers-general for training without regard to seniority, except for those employees who were above the utilityman classification on the effective date of this agreement.
It is the Company's intent that vacancies will be filled by C. (1) above when such filling is consistent with efficient operation.
The Union recognizes the cost savings associated with direct payroll check deposit and agrees to encourage its membership to utilize this convenience.
The Company can agree to remove all written disciplinary records from the employee's personal file except as noted below as of the effective date of this agreement providing that the Union agrees to withdraw all pending arbitration cases involving discipline that did not result in
179 . .
termination, and further providing that such employee has no legal action pending against the Company.
The Company cannot agree, however, to remove discipline issued for violations of the Company's Drug and Alcohol Policy. In addition, the Company cannot agree to remove any written discipline resulting in multiple day suspension issued under the old progressive discipline policy after January 1,1995.
All discipline issued after June 1, 1995, under the Nonpunitive Discipline System, will be removed according to the policy's guidelines.
17. The Company will administer a Drug and Alcohol random testing program to the entire employee population including those now covered by the Department of Transportation regulations covering the commercial drivers license.
The procedures now in effect for the testing program for employees with Commercial Drivers Licenses will be extended to all employees with the exception that the non-CDL group will be tested at a rate of 10% of that population per year. Employees covered under this agreement (other than those with CDL's) will be combined with other non-covered Company employees to form the non-CDL testing pool.
180
Implementation of post-accident drug and alcohol testing will be applicable to all employees including those currently under the Department of Transportation testing program as follows: a) Vehicular accidents -any accident meeting one or more of the following criteria 1) human fatality 2) one or more vehicles towed away from the scene of an accident 3) injury or injuries immediately treated away from the scene of an accident 4) Alabama Power Company driver receives a traffic citation relating to the accident; b) Non-Vehicular accidents -all doctor attention cases.
Upon an employee’s request, a split sample will be tested and the Company will pay for the additional test at a laboratory designated by the Company.
27.	The Company will implement remote site job reporting for all work normally performed in division operations with provisions set forth below:
a.	Designate all crews or crew units of two or more einployees-no job posting.
b.	Employees will have permanently assigned headquarters.
c.	Crews or units of two or more employees may report to different work locations/headquarters within 40 road miles of their permanent headquarters.
d.	Employees will be paid excess mileage when traveling farther than their normal commute.
181
e.	Minimum of 36-hour notice will be given to change a reporting location within the 40 road miles except when the change is from the remote site to their permanently assigned crew headquarters. This return notification will be done prior to the end of the previous workday.
f.	Remote site reporting will not be required more than 90 days per calendar year unless an extension is mutually agreed to between the Company and Union.
g.	When reporting in excess of 40 road miles the employee will be reimbursed for the equivalent of the excess travel time, to be accrued on a weekly basis, along with the corresponding excess mileage, provided the new reporting location requires the employees to exceed their normal daily commute.
h.	For purposes of this particular proposal, Article VIII, paragraph (bb) and Article XIII, paragraph (a) or any other provision of the contract dealing with travel time or expenses will not add to or limit the application of remote site job reporting procedures.
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS
The Company has decided to make the following changes based on concerns voiced by our employees during these negotiations. The decision to change these items follows the principles outlined in the current memoranda of Agreement which reaffirm the Company’s right to exercise full control and discipline
182
in the conduct of its business and to be the judge of competency.
32. Those sections of existing CK&S Testing Procedures which reference three (3) year and/or five (5) year time limits on maintaining competency to hold or substitute in a tested classification will change to remove these time limits for employees presently qualified (by job or CK&S) as of January 1, 1995 or thereafter.
1998
13.	Pay Calculations and Delivery
a.	The Company may take advantage of technological advances in performing future pay calculations. Rounding will no longer be an issue.
b.	The Company and Union recognize the cost savings associated with direct payroll check deposit and we jointly agree to use our best efforts to convince our fellow employees to participate. This might include a prize drawing for participants.
14.	Job Bids
“Job Net” or any other bid system available in the future may be used for posting jobs at any time the following parameters can be maintained:
a.	Bid Security
b.	Bid Confirmation
c.	Existing method of Bid input used for the Contract Bid System (CBS)
d.	Compliance with Article V of the contract
.183
20.	In recognition of the competitive nature of warehousing functions, the parties agree that the following changes will be made:
a. Grandfather in their present classification all Warehousemen at Building #1 for any present and future wage increases.
c. Helpers duties will include those that are presently being performed by Stockman at Building #1.
e. The filling of future jobs at Building #1, the Hub, and the Reclamation Center will be filled by either Sub-foremen, Materialmen, or Helpers.
25. To provide maximum efficiency in line crew work
a.	The company may at its discretion implement roving crews to perform work within line construction, operation, and maintenance. The first roving crew in each division will result in a net addition to the established crews. Any subsequent roving crews must be mutually agreed on by both parties.
b.	The roving crews will be utilized to perform the kinds and types of work normally performed by line crews including all types of distribution and transmission line work.
c.	All provisions of the basic memorandum of agreement shall remain effective-except to the extent clearly modified by specific provisions enumerated below. The parties through local agreements may negotiate deviations from the provisions below.
1.	The roving crews will be assigned a permanent headquarters but may be
184
assigned to temporary headquarters within a 25 mile radius without additional expenses. The permanent headquarters will be defined prior to the creation of the roving crew and may not be changed without mutual consent.
2.	Additional expenses will be paid to an employee required to report to a job site or headquarters located outside the 25 mile radius of the permanent headquarters at the standard company mileage rate then in effect for mileage beyond the boundary of the 25 mile radius. The company may, at its option, provide lodging in lieu of travel expense reimbursement.
3.	The roving crews will work without additional compensation or expense reimbursement when headquartered within the defined 25 mile radius and working scheduled work hours.
4.	Temporary headquarters and scheduled daily work periods may be changed by giving at least thirty - six (36) hours prior notice.
5.	Roving crews will be subject to callout by the location in which the crews are headquartered only after the permanently assigned personnel in that location have been called.
6.	Temporary job postings for a roving crew will be posted only within the bid unit of that roving crew.
185
2004
8.	Telecommunication electricians and assistant telecommunication electricians who were in the classification on September 14, 2004, will not be required to meet the proximity requirement of XIII (tn) as long as they do not bid to another location.
9.	The Company will reimburse Telecommunications Electricians the cost of any Company required communications license	. Telecommunications
Electricians with an existing F.C.C. license will not be reimbursed for any license renewal not specifically required by the Company.
2009
4.	When performing storm restoration work off the Southern Company system, employees will be paid a premium for such off-system work as follows:
a.	If an employee is lodged in a hotel or similar accommodations, a premium of 10% will be added for all time worked while so assigned.
b.	If an employee is lodged in a facility such as a trailer, tent or other similar lodging with common sleeping quarters, a premium of 15% will be added for all time worked while so assigned. Employees will be paid at least 16 hours per day. Employees will be paid at 2 times the straight time rate for all hours worked over 16 in a day. Time spent traveling and eating
186
<1
will be considered as time worked, except that time spent eating shall not extend beyond one hour if at the double time rate. Time paid but not worked will constitute “rest” as it applies to the rest period provisions of the applicable contracts.
6. Commercial Drivers License During the term of this agreement, the Company will continue to reimburse employees required to hold a Commercial Drivers License (CDL), the entire cost of the initial CDL and thereafter, the.cost of renewing such license above the cost of a private drivers license and the Company will pay for the first medical examination required for license renewal.
OTHER AGREEMENTS
The Company and the Union agree to work together to delete unnecessary language, to correct errors in the language, to update language and perform editing of the Agreement as needed, without changing the intent of the Agreement.
187
2014 Memorandum of Agreement
1.	The following general wage increase adjustments will be made over the five year term of this contract.
All classifications will be increased as shown below:
August 15, 2014	3.00%
August 15, 2015	3.25%
Increases August 15, 2016 and subsequent years will be the average merit increase received by Company non-covered employees, but in no case will the increases be less than the following:
August 15, 2016 August 15, 2017 August 15, 2018	2.00% 2.00% 2.00%
2.	PPP
All APC IBEW covered employees will participate in the Company’s PPP plan or other short term incentive plan that is in effect and for which they are eligible from January I, 2014 and beyond, with the first payout under this agreement occurring in March of 2015. The incentive target for employees covered by this agreement will be ten (10) % for each year. Any such plan will be designed and implemented solely by Company Management and participation will be subject to the same provisions as all other
188
participants. The plan will not be subject to the grievance and arbitration process.
3.	Benefits
The Company is committed to offering quality and economical benefit programs on a cafeteria-style basis. This method is particularly suitable for accommodating increased employee diversity, evolving family structures, and changing family needs. The Company is also committed to evaluating ~ current' bcnefitproviders-at-a-Soutliern.
Company system-wide level because of our increased buying power and exploring opportunities with these and other vendors to get a better value or product.
The Company will continue to offer a choice of health care plans and will appropriately share in the cost of medical premiums.
189
a.	During 2014, the choices and monthly premium contributions are as follows:
190
b.	During 2015, the choices and monthly premium contributions are as follows:
191
c.	During 2014 through 2019, the Company's monthly premium contributions and Core Plan selection will be as follows: The Core Plan will be determined annually by the Company. Criteria for selection of the Core Plan will include requirements for the quality of healthcare products and services to be comparable to the current Core Plan.
For 2014, the Company will select the Core Plan and contribute a dollar amount up to 74% of the total premium of family medical coverage or 89% of the total premium for single medical coverage based on the Core Plan. For any plans with premiums greater than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute a dollar amount up to 74% for family coverage, or for single coverage, 89% of the Core Plan. The balance of the premium will be paid by the employee. However, for plans with total premiums less than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute no greater than 100% of the total premium of such plans.
192
For 2015 through 2019, the Company will select the Core Plan and contribute a dollar amount of 78% of the total premium of family medical coverage or 89% of the total premium for single medical coverage based on the Core Plan. For any plans with premiums greater than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute a dollar amount of 78% for family coverage, or for single ~coverage789%-of-theCore.Plan._The_ balance of the premium will be paid by the employee. However, for plans with total premiums less than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute no greater than 100% of the total premium of such plans.
d.	During the term of this contract, the Company will meet with the Union semiannually to discuss trend data, the APC medical reserves, and premium-to-cost ratios to communicate premium estimates for years 2014 through 2019.
e.	Spouses of deceased pre-retirement employees may continue to participate, or enroll within 60 days after the date of death, in the APC medical benefits plan at employee
193
cost until they are covered by a non-APC sponsored medical plan.
f.	For all participants in any APC medical plan, the Company agrees to provide an integrated Employee Assistance Program (EAP)ZManaged Mental Health Plan as a part of the medical plans offered. During 2014, the vendor will be ValueOptions. The current plan design aspects will include:
•	Inpatient/Outpatient Mental Health
•	Inpatient/Outpatient Chemical Dependency
Mental health and chemical dependency benefits mirror medical benefits coverage; refer to specific medical plans.
EAP services (up to 6 visits in 2014) are available to all employees and their family members at no cost -whether they participate in the company-sponsored medical plan or not. Certain mental health and substance abuse treatments are covered under the medical plan rather than the EAP. EAP services
194
include legal referrals, financial counseling, marital counseling, childcare referrals and elder care referrals.
g.	The Company will continue to offer LTD insurance with premiums as set forth below:
1.	The provider will be MetLife with the following monthly rates
“for the year-2014:—-------------
96 cents per $100 of covered pay for 60% Base Salary coverage (48 cents per $100 covered by the employee and 48 cents per $100 by the Company).
60 cents per $100 of covered pay for 50% Base Salary coverage (12 cents per $100 covered by employee and 48 cents per $100 by the Company).
2.	The provider will be MetLife with the following monthly rates for the year 2015:
81 cents per $100 of covered pay for 60% Base Salary coverage (40.5 cents per $100 covered by
.195.
. \ ■ .... ..
the employee and 40.5 cents per $100 by the Company).
50 cents per $100 of covered pay for 50% Base Salary coverage (9.5 cents per $100 covered by employee and 40.5 cents per $100 by the Company).
3.	During the remaining term of this agreement, the premium for the 60% coverage option will be shared equally (50% Company and 50% employee). The same company contribution will be made for the 50% Base Salary coverage option.
h.	The company will continue to offer Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance as a benefit option.
For the year 2014 and 2015, the vendor will be MetLife with the rates as follows:
196
Covtragt Option	You Only	Yon* ctuM(rn)	i'on* IJNffit	Yon*-family
SS'3,000	$1.15	$130	51.S3	$150
5100,000	$2.30	$250	$3.69	$350
$2,10,000	$4.60	$5.20	$7.20	$730
5300,000	$650	$7.00	J10.SG	$10.83
$400,000	$9.20	110.40	$14.40	$144)
5500,000	$1150	<13.00	sia.oo	$18.00
i.	-During.the.term of this contract, the company will offer an enhanced—-— dental insurance plan as a benefit option. For the plan year 2014 and 2015, the vendor will be Delta Dental.
l.For the year 2014, the following plans and monthly rates will be offered:
	Schedule	
Category	Option Lot Option	High Option
Etnp.Orlv	I12J’	S1M6	3? 152
Ecp.+Lunik	SJ«J	S5.W	JSW
197
2.	For the year 2015, the following plans and monthly rates will be offered:
	Schedule
Carejsrr	Option	Low Option HlghOprioa
E tap. Only	512,56	517.01	S32.00
Emp. r Family	.539.77	555,89	SS7.35
4.	Pay for unused sick leave
The Company commits to research paying for unused sick leave.
5.	All MOU’s/MOA’s that were set to expire August 15, 2014, will continue to be in effect throughout the term of this agreement.
198
MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT
GUIDELINES FOR TRAINING AT ALABAMA POWER COMPANY July 24, 2014
As result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certairFmatters'which-areset— forth herein:
This MOA will apply to training at a centralized location for IBEW covered employees at Alabama Power Company. This MOA will replace the “Guidelines for Training at Alabama Power Company” Memorandum of Agreement dated September 24, 2013.
1.	Each employee attending the training session may elect to commute to the training location each day, using his or her personal vehicle, and will be reimbursed at the Company’s prevailing rate for actual mileage unless the employee qualifies for lodging (see below).
199 .
2.	Training should be scheduled whenever possible such that employees shall travel during normal working hours to and from the training location.
3.	Mileage will be computed by determining the most direct round trip route between the employee’s permanent residence and training location. If the training commute is less than the normal commute, no mileage reimbursement will be made.
a.	Permanent Residence is less than 50 miles from training location (Not Eligible for Lodging): i. Compensated for travel time and mileage to and from the training location if the training commute exceeds the normal work commute.
ii.	The Company will furnish or pay for lunch.
b.	Permanent Residence is 50 miles or greater from training location (Eligible for Lodging):
200
i.	Each employee attending the training session whose permanent residence is 50 miles or greater from the training location is entitled to lodge (single occupancy when available) paid for by the Company.
ii.	Employees who choose to lodge at the training location will be eligible for travel time and mileage reimbursement for one round trip between his/her permanent residence and the training/lodging location for each week of training. Daily mileage from the lodging location to training location will be compensated. Total travel time between lodging location and training location will be paid if it exceeds the normal work commute.
iii.	If an employee who qualifies for lodging but elects to
201
commute daily to and from the training location, s/he will not be provided lodging, but will be reimbursed for mileage up to 250 miles roundtrip per day. Employees will be compensated for travel time and total mileage for one roundtrip from permanent residence to training location per week.
iv.	The Company will furnish or pay for breakfast, lunch and dinner if the employee is lodging.
c.	Employees on Per Diem i. The per diem provisions outlined under the Power Delivery Transmission Agreement will apply to covered employees who live 45 miles or more from the training location as follows:
Employees may elect to continue per diem if their crew location is 45 miles or less than
202
the training location. For crew locations greater than 45 miles from the training center, employees may elect to continue per diem when mutually agreed upon by management and the employee. Employees will be reimbursed for daily mileage from the travel trailer or temporary ______lodging location to the training location.
4.	This MOA applies to any training situation away from the employee’s normal work location, with the exceptions noted below:
For training purposes, the Company will not pay for lodging for the following:
a.	Training employees permanently headquartered at Gorgas Steam Plant on training assignment at Miller Steam Plant.
b.	Training employees permanently headquartered at Miller Steam
203
Plant on training assignment at Gorgas Steam Plant.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future. Any provisions of the agreements not specifically referenced will remain unchanged.
This Agreement is entered into this 24th day of June, 2014 and became effective August 2, 2014.
204
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING UTILITY FLEET August 15,1998 September 14, 2004 February 8, 2006 September 17, 2013
The Company will implement the following changes for all Fleet Services operations as soon as is practicable to do so:
a.	Subforeman-Garage and Subforeman-Equipment Maintenance will be retitled to Subforeman-Utility Fleet;
b.	Auto Mechanic I, Auto Mechanic Construction I, Auto Mechanic A, Auto Mechanic B, Auto Mechanic Construction II, and Auto Mechanic A Construction will be retitled to Utility Fleet Technician I. All existing mechanics in the classifications of Auto Mechanic A, Auto Mechanic Construction II, Auto Mechanic A-Construction, and Auto Mechanic B will immediately be placed in the bottom step of the Fleet Technician I rate range. NOTE: This is the range for the existing Auto Mechanic I;
c.	Utility Fleet Technician II. Entry into this classification will require successful completion of CK&S testing.
205
There will be a four step progression as defined below:
$ 16.500, $17.000,$ 17.500,$l8.000, $18,500
d.	While a Utility Fleet Technician II, the journeyman must pass certain certification requirements and skills assessments within 48 months. Based on present needs and circumstances, these requirements are:
•	ASE Air Brake Certification and Skills Exercise
•	ASE Air Conditioning Fundamental Certification and Skills Exercise
•	Basic Hydraulic Training (to include written and skills exercises)
•	Specialized Electronic Training Course
•	ASE Hydraulic Brake Certification and
Skills Exercise
•	Welding Courses I, II, and III
•	ASE Steering and Suspension Certification
•	ASE Basic Engine Certification and Skills Exercise
Should technology or the Company fleet change, the required certifications and skills tests may be modified to reflect the changed circumstances. Should this be the case, the required certifications will be changed only after
206
consultation with the Union. It may also be appropriate to replace the above certifications with certain certifications specific to a location (e.g. Electric Vehicles). This will only be done after consultation with the Union. After successful completion of all certification and skills exercises, the Utility Fleet Technician II will immediately be advanced to Utility Fleet Technician I. Employees in the Utility Fleet Technician II classification wiirSFallbwed^-chances-to-pass-any. two categories of tests. All remaining test categories must be successfully completed within two attempts. Should the employee be unable to complete the requirements of the Utility Fleet Technician II program within 48 months, the employee will leave the program under the provisions of V (k). It is understood that the employee must be making progress toward the required certifications throughout the 48 month period;
e.	Employees entering the Utility Fleet Technician II classification should possess a minimum set of tools. The company will loan an employee any tools lacking through the first 6 months in the classification. After 6 months,
■ 207 /
the employee will be eligible for the y regular tool purchase program as presently outlined for an Apprentice Mechanic;
f.	All vacancies or new jobs for Utility Fleet Technician I will be dual posted as a Utility Fleet Technician I/Utility ! Fleet Technician II. Should there be no competent bidder for Utility Fleet Technician I or Utility Fleet Technician ' II within the bid unit, applications received from employees in other units will be considered. Should no applications be received from qualified employees, the vacancy or new job will be filled as a Utility Fleet Technician II from any available source;	J
g.	All existing Apprentice Auto Mechanics will be grandfathered in their present Apprentice Auto Mechanic classification. They will be eligible to bid to, or automatic progress to, the Utility Fleet Technician I classification. When all existing Apprentice Auto J Mechanics have left the apprentice classification,	all fleet	apprentice
classifications	will be eliminated;
h.	In order to encourage additional self development and to increase the
208
employee’s value to the Company, any Utility Fleet Technician I or Subforeman-Utility Fleet can voluntarily attain a $1.75 premium over their existing wage rate by completing certain master level certification requirements. This $1.75 premium will be included in the base rate for any overtime or benefit calculations. Certifications must be maintained for the employee to continue to receive the premium. Based on present needs and ~circumstances~master-level-certification-requirements are:
•	Fluid Power Certification
•	ASE Master Truck with Diesel Certification
•	Critical Welds Certification
•	Unit Specific Skills Exercises
Should technology or the Company fleet change, the certification requirements and skills tests to obtain the Master level premium may be modified to reflect the changed circumstances. This will be accomplished after consultation with the Union.
Effective February 8, 2006, anyone in the Utility Fleet Tech II program who is required to leave the program under paragraph (d) of the program will not be allowed to re-enter the program unless management determines such a
209	•'
re-entry is warranted. Management will determine who will be allowed to re-enter the program on a case by case basis. Review of the employee’s performance while in the program and any additional education and/or training since leaving the program will be considered for re-entry for a minimum of twelve (12) months, and until the employee re-qualifies for job entry under CK&S.
210
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING TELECOMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIAN TRAINING PROGRAM
August 15,1998
In order to broaden opportunities for our employees to enter the telecommunications field while recognizing the lengthy training period to become proficient on the Company’s unique communications systems, the Company agrees to establish a Telecommunications training program-as-follows:
1.	Establish Assistant
Telecommunications Electrician classification.
2.	Establish a 4-step wage progression for Assistant	Telecommunications
Electrician, with the first step corresponding to the first step of the Apprentice Lineman classification.
15.045	15.750
16.500	17.250
18.000
3.	Drop the first two steps of the Telecommunications Electrician classification. Result:
211
19.187
19.750
20.310
19.468
20.029
Note: Any Telecommunications Electrician in the first two steps would immediately be moved to $19.187.
4.	Selection procedures for Assistant
Telecommunications Electrician:
a.	All vacancies or new jobs will be dual posted as Assistant Telecommunication Electrician s/Tel ecommunication Electricians.
b.	Should a Telecommunications Electrician bid on the job, and he is the senior bidder, the Telecommunications Electrician job will be awarded to him.
c.	Should no existing Telecommunications Electrician bid on the job, the job will be filled as	an	Assistant
Telecommunications Electrician.
d.	The Assistant Telecommunication Electrician/Telecommunication Electrician job will be posted
212
internally using existing rules in place for job postings.
e.	Before being allowed to take the written or skills test for Assistant Telecommunications Electrician, the candidate must possess a FCC license or equivalent.
f.	Job awards to the position of Assistant Telecommunications Electrician will be filled based on competency. The following language will be added to Article V(a) of the D&S Agreement and the Power Generation Agreement:
“Competency being sufficient, seniority in the various units as hereinafter defined will prevail, except that vacancies or new jobs in the classification of, laboratory instrument technician I, laboratory instrument technician II, meter tester, assistant meter tester, and assistant telecommunications electrician will be filled on the basis of competency, and in filling such vacancies or new jobs, seniority will be considered only if competency is equal.”
213
g.	As resources are available, employees who hold an FCC license can be administered the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician written and skills test before vacancies exist. Employees will also be allowed to take these tests at the time vacancies or new jobs are posted. Should these tests be passed, the results will remain valid until such time as the test is revised due to a change in the technical competence requirements.
h.	Should an employee fail the test for Assistant Telecommunications Electrician, timeframes applicable for retesting will be consistent with other CK&S tests.
5.	a. The written exercise for Telecommunications Electrician may. be administered to an Assistant Telecommunications Electrician after the employee has completed at least 24 months of satisfactory job performance in the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician classification. Should the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician qualify for Telecommunications Electrician on
214
both the written and performance exercises, the employee will be progressed to Telecommunications Electrician.
b. Based on management’s assessment of the successful candidate for Assistant Telecommunications Electrician skills and previous work experience, management may allow the employee to immediately attempt the tests for Telecommunications Electrician. If successfully completed, the employee will be awarded a Telecommunications Electrician job. If not, the employee will not be retested until having completed the requirements of 5.a. above.
6.	If an Assistant Telecommunications Electrician fails the written and/or performance exercise, the employee will be subject to the following retesting provisions:
a.	Should an Assistant Telecommunications Electrician fail the written exercise for Telecommunications Electrician, a minimum of six (6) months must
215
elapse prior to the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician being re-administered the Telecommunications Electrician written exercise. If an Assistant Telecommunications Electrician fails the performance exercise for Telecommunications Electrician, the employee must wait a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to being re-administered the performance exercise for Telecommunications Electrician.
b.	A candidate will be allowed a maximum of three (3) attempts to qualify on a written exercise, after which a minimum of eighteen (18) months must elapse prior to retesting.
c.	An Assistant Telecommunications Electrician who does not qualify for Telecommunications Electrician after having been in the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician classification for 48 months, will be displaced from the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician classification.
216
d.	Under this displacement, if the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician has been an employee of Alabama Power Company prior to being awarded the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician job, the employee will be allowed to return to his previous bid unit under the provisions of Article V(k). Otherwise, the employee will be terminated.
7.	Written and skills tests for Telecommunications Electrician will be developed as soon as practicable for the Client Services line of work and the Field Services line of work. The Assistant	Telecommunications
Electrician will choose which test to take based on the line of work performed as an Assistant Telecommunications Electrician. Once qualified as a Telecommunications Electrician, there will be no restriction on which telecommunications jobs he can hold based on the test he chose to take.
.217
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING CABLE SPLICER TRAINING PROGRAM August 15,1998 August 29, 2006 (Amended)
1.	The purpose of this memorandum is to recognize that the Cable Splicer training program is no longer a pilot program as defined in the April 19, 1996 MOU, but rather is a program which has been successful and should be continued. Also, this MOU makes certain changes from the original MOU which should further enhance the Program.
2.	The parties recognize the cost associated with this Training Program and highly encourage everyone entering the Program to make a sincere commitment to complete the Program.
3.	The Company will withdraw the CK&S testing requirement to qualify for advancement to Cable Splicer should the participant, or senior bidder for a job successfully complete the testing associated with the first six modules of the training.
4.	Should an employee be awarded a Cable Splicer job prior to finishing the Training Program, the employee will be expected to continue the program to completion.
5.	When an employee successfully completes the 48 month Program, the employee will be advanced to the Cable Splicer classification.
218
6.	Apprentice Cable Splicers may continue to autoprogress according to the Basic Operating Agreement.
7.	All Apprentice Cable Splicers will be required to attend.
8.	Classifications other than Apprentice Cable Splicer may attend the Training Program, as necessary, based on availability, need, and seniority. These employees will not be a part of the 48 month Program.
9.	For future entry into this 48 month Training Program, vacancies for Apprentice Cable Splicer jobs will be posted based on present needs and conditions and will be filled by the senior, competent bidder (must pass CK&S for the apprentice classification).
10.	Assuming the employee is the senior, competent bidder, a Lineman, Local Operations Lineman, Service Installer, or Substation Electrician can be awarded an Apprentice Cable Splicer job and maintain their existing rate of pay (and any scheduled step increases, assuming satisfactory progress) for up to 24 months. Should the employee pass the necessary tests to qualify for Cable Splicer within 24 months, the employee will be awarded a Cable Splicer job, will be placed in the step of the Cable Splicer job closest to, but greater than, his/her existing step, and will be eligible for his/her regularly scheduled step increases, assuming satisfactory progress. Should the
.219
employee be unable to pass the tests within 24 months, the employee will choose to either leave the program under Article V(k) or be placed at the top step of the Apprentice Cable Splicer classification. Should the employee choose to assume the Apprentice Cable Splicer classification and later pass the appropriate tests for Cable Splicer, the employee will be awarded a Cable Splicer job. Otherwise, the employee will continue in the training program under the same rules as outlined in this MOU.
11.	Assuming the employee is the senior competent bidder, a Lead Lineman or Lead Substation Electrician can be awarded an Apprentice Cable Splicer job. Upon accepting the job, the employee will be placed in the top step of the Cable Splicer classification. Should the employee pass the necessary tests to qualify for Cable Splicer within 24 months, the employee will be awarded a Cable Splicer job, retaining the top step of the Cable Splicer classification. Should the employee be unable to pass the test within 24 months, the employee will choose to either leave the Program under Article V(k) or be placed at the top step of the Apprentice Cable Splicer classification. Should the employee choose to assume the Apprentice Cable Splicer classification and later pass the appropriate tests for Cable Splicer, the employee will be awarded a
220
Cable Splicer job. Otherwise the employee ). will continue in the Training Program under the same rules as outlined in this MOU.
>	12. Any employee entering the Program under
j	paragraph 10. or 11. above will be assessed
(	as to where in the Training Program the
employee will start. As with other employees, once awarded a Cable Splicer job, the employee will continue the Program ' to completion.
13.	Candidates entering this Training Program will undergo a needs assessment to j determine where in the Program the employee will start, unless the Company or the employee and the Company mutually agree that the employee should enter the Program earlier (i.e. refresher training). The 1 needs assessment should be jointly conducted by the Training Center and the •	involved Division	and	reviewed	with	the
'	employee.
14.	Should, as a result of there being no x	qualified bidders,	an	Apprentice Cable
<	Splicer job is awarded	to a new	hire,	the
new employee will be classified as a Helper General for the 6 month probationary period and will be required to enter an additional 6 month training module not required of existing employees. Following the completion of the 6 month training module, • the new hire must pass the CK&S test for Apprentice Cable Splicer. If the CK&S test
221
is passed, the new hire will become an Apprentice Cable Splicer and continue in the Training Program. If the CK&S test is not passed, the new hire will be terminated as a probationary employee under the terms of Article V(a) of the Basic Operating Agreement.
15.	Trainees will be tested at 6 month intervals during the Program to determine progress.
16.	Following two failures of one test, the Trainee will be counseled and reassessed by the Training Center and the Division. Following this reassessment, the individual will be tested a third time. Both the second and the third try must be taken within 30 days of the time when the employee is informed of the reason for the first failure. The employee will not be required to test again on modules already passed. If the employee fails a third time, the employee will leave the Program.
17.	Should an employee have to leave the Program due to unsatisfactory progress, the employee will be removed from the Program by the terms of Article V(i) or Article V(k) of the Basic Memorandum of Agreement.
18.	Should forces outside of the Company's control disrupt training schedules during the 24 month qualifying periods in items 10 and 11 above, the 24 month qualifying period may be extended to allow trainees to
222
complete the Program. Trainees must be making satisfactory progress to receive this additional time.
FARLEY NUCLEAR PLANT ISSUES November 19,1991
7. Company/Union Business:	Southern
Nuclear Operating Company agrees to allow time off for the President of Local 796, or the Local’s designated representative, to handle Company/Union business (including pension negotiations) at Alabama Power Company.
11.	Telecommunications: There will be no change in the handling of telecommunications work at Farley Nuclear Plant as a result of the transfer to Southern Nuclear Operating Company.
223
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM August 2,1994
1.	The purpose of this program is to assist
children of employees fatally injured at work in continuing their education by providing financial support for tuition and other educational expenses.
2.	The Company defines "fatally injured" as it is defined by Alabama Worker's Compensation Law. That means that the employee's death must occur within three years of an injury caused by an accident that occurs in the course of employment.
3.	Participation and/or application under this program obligates the student to follow the various provisions and/or amended provisions as they may apply.
4.	The Program will be administered by Alabama Power Company's Human Resources Department through local Human Resources Representatives.
5.	Alabama Power Company may change or terminate the total program or any provision thereof. Human Resources
224
will resolve any controversy involving this program or its application within its sole discretion. Such decisions will not be subject to appeal or challenge.
This Memorandum of Agreement is entered into and becomes effective on this, the 2nd day of August, 1994.
225
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIANS SHARED WORK May 11,1994
As a result of discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are embraced in this memorandum of agreement, effective May 11, 1994.
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
1.	The purpose of this agreement is to provide guidelines to improve productivity, to increase efficiency, and to operate more economically, the Telecommunications and Information Resources Organizations through "work sharing."
2.	Work sharing is the assignment of work areas of Information Resources to IBEW	Telecommunications
Electricians. Work sharing assignments shall be made at the discretion of the Company, in the spirit of the agreed purpose, and shall in no way imply the permanent assignment of Information Resources work to IBEW
226
telecommunications personnel, nor the right of the IBEW to claim exclusivity of this work as defined in this MOU. It is acknowledged that nothing contained within this supplemental agreement shall abridge the Company's right to subcontract.
3.	The definition of "traditional telecommunications work," that is, work which in the past has been in part performed by Telecommunications Electricians or other IBEW employees, is work consisting of the installation and maintenance of hardware on the following telecommunications systems:
A)	Two-way radio systems.
B)	Analog and digital microwave systems, and fiber optic systems.
C)	Analog and digital microwave and fiber optics multiplex systems.
D)	Engine generator systems, telecommunications building air conditioning and electrical systems, communications towers, antenna systems, and inside and outside plant wiring systems.
227
E)	Maintenance and installation of hardware on IR Data Networks and modems, excluding Corporate Headquarters and Plant Farley.
F)	Maintenance of hardware on division telephone switches, excluding Corporate Headquarters and Plant Farley.
4.	Training shall be provided to IBEW Telecommunications Electricians for non-traditional Information Resources systems based on the existing needs as determined by the Company.
5.	Overtime assignments for non-traditional Information Resources work shall be made at the discretion of the Company.
6.	The definition of Information Resources work is work which is not referenced in paragraph 3 as "traditional telecommunications work".
7.	While the Company cannot guarantee job security for Telecommunications Electricians (TE), it does commit in good faith that there are no plans to reduce the current number of TE's, as of
228
the effective date of this MOU, based upon projected needs.
8.	Consistent	with the	terms and
conditions set forth and agreed to by both the	Company	and	Union
representatives at the initial meeting on November 13, 1989, any and all conversations, proposals, and comments, both written and oral, made during these discussions on the subject of "work sharing" shall not be used in any way without the expressed consent of both parties. This MOU shall not be used during its term nor thereafter as the basis or support for any labor related action on behalf of either party.
9.	Both parties agree to attempt to settle disputes arising from this MOU through direct meetings between Company and Union management at the affected locations, and will utilize the grievance procedure as a last resort.
This Memorandum of Agreement is entered into and becomes effective on this the 11th day of May, 1994, and will continue in effect for a period of two (2) years from effective date and thereafter indefinite until canceled by a thirty (30) day written notice from either party.
229
EQUIPMENT OPERATOR -TRANSMISSION
July 14,1993
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company, the System Council U-19, and the nine local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed to certain matters as set forth below.
1.	Based on present needs and conditions, the Company will establish a new classification of Equipment Operator -Transmission under Exhibit A, Section 2 of the Operating Agreement, with the following rates of pay:
$3000	$3015	$3030
2.	The job duties of this classification shall primarily be operating heavy equipment, including but not limited to: Crawler Tractors, Commander II and larger Derricks, Transmission type Aerial lifts, and all equipment associated with Transmission work. Employees holding this classification shall also be proficient in loading, securing, hauling, and unloading miscellaneous units of equipment. This classification will include limited climbing duties in cases when the job
230
does not require duties associated with heavy equipment and may be routinely assigned any duty performed by a lower classification within the transmission line crew.
3.	This classification will be posted as provided for in Article V, paragraph (e) and filled on the basis of seniority and competency. An employee must have at least one (1) year experience in an apprentice or higher classification within a transmission line crew or at least two (2) years experience in an apprentice or higher classification in a distribution or substation crew prior to being awarded an Equipment Operator -Transmission job. This experience requirement will be eliminated after a Craft Knowledge and Skills Test (CK&S Test) is developed and implemented for this classification.
4.	The Company agrees not to eliminate a Truck Driver-A classification within a transmission crew in order to post an Equipment Operator - Transmission classification within that same crew if, and only if, the employee holding the Truck Driver-A classification in the crew was holding such Truck Driver-A
231
classification as of the effective date of this agreement.
5.	The establishment of this classification in no way precludes the use of apprentices, truck drivers or linemen from operating any equipment. When employees holding the classifications of truck driver or apprentice lineman operate any of this equipment due to necessity or convenience, there will be no upgrades or substitutions. When employees holding the classification of Helper-General are required to operate this equipment for purposes of training, convenience, or necessity they will be upgraded to Truck Driver A. An employee must satisfy the CK&S or experience requirements as set forth in paragraph 3 above before being considered for upgrade or substitution to the Equipment Operator classification.
This memorandum of agreement is entered into this the 14th day of July, 1993.
232
12 HOUR SCHEDULE August 14,1995 May 29, 2009 (Amended)
This agreement will be applicable to employees, work groups, and crews not presently covered by a 12 hour schedule.
Prior to implementing a 12 hour schedule the Company will notify the appropriate union official of its intent to place an employee, work group, or crew on a 12 hour schedule. Such Union Representative will determine the interests of such employee, work group, or crew in being rescheduled to a 12 hour schedule. Provided a majority of affected employees are in favor of cooperating with the Company, such schedule will be implemented with at least a seven (7) day written notice from the date the Union notifies the Company of its concurrence with the schedule.
While on such twelve (12) hour schedule, the following will be applicable:
SCHEDULE
The regular daily work period will be consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (v) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that the parties agree that during those periods that the agreed upon schedule is in effect, "twelve (12)" will
.233
be inserted in lieu of "eight (8)" where it appears in the second sentence of such paragraph.
The Parties agree to waive the requirements as set forth in the second sentence of Article VIII, paragraph (w). Accordingly any reference to the word five is to be disregarded. The agreed upon schedule will determine what the daily work periods will be.
No overtime or meals will be paid for work performed within an employee's regularly scheduled hours while on the twelve hour schedule.
VACATIONS
Vacations will be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (c) of the Memorandum of Agreement, except that vacation will be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e.g., an employee scheduled for a twelve (12) hour work period would be charged twelve (12) hours vacation).
234
HOLIDAYS
The terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d) will apply when the agreed upon schedule is in effect, except as set forth below. Effective January 1,2010, employees will receive holiday pay for the number of hours normally scheduled for the holiday. When a holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled off day, the employee will receive the regular scheduled hours holiday pay for the week in which the holiday is observed, or be allowed a day off in lieu thereof consistent with the terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d). Should a holiday fall on an employee’s regular scheduled work day and the employee works on that day, the employee will receive pay at one and one/half times the applicable rate for all hours worked plus straight time pay for the holiday for the number of hours scheduled, unless the employee chooses to bank the holiday, in which case the hours worked will be at the normal rate of pay.
235
SICK LEAVE and VACATION
Sick leave and vacation will be taken consistent with the Memorandum of Agreement except that sick leave and vacation will be considered by hours and charged accordingly.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Bereavement leave will be taken consistent with the Memorandum of Agreement.
JURY DUTY
The provisions of Article VIII, paragraph (f), will apply relative to time off to perform jury duty.
RETURN to REGULAR SCHEDULE
It will be at the discretion of the Company to determine when twelve (12) hour work schedules should end and same will be accomplished by giving at least thirty-six (36) hour notice.
236
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
10 HOUR WORK SCHEDULES DIVISION OPERATIONS, GSC, AND CORPORATE SERVICES
May 10,1994 May 29, 2009 (Amended)
As a result of discussions which began during the 1992 negotiations and continued subsequent to those negotiations and the implementation of a trial one year agreement, the Company and Union agree to implement temporary work schedules of ten (10) hour work periods scheduled four (4) days per week, as set forth below:
This agreement will be applicable to employees, work groups, and crews not presently covered by a prior agreement to work temporary four day, ten hour schedules.
Prior to implementing a temporary four day, ten hour work schedule, the company will notify the appropriate Union Representative of its intent to place an employee, work group, or crew on a temporary four day, ten hour schedule. Such Union representative will determine the interests of such employee, work group, or crew in being rescheduled to the temporary four day, ten hour schedule. Provided a majority of affected employees are in favor of cooperating with the Company, such temporary schedule will be implemented with at least a seven (7) day written
237
notice from the date the Union notifies the Company of its concurrence with the schedule. While on such four day, ten hour schedule, the following will be applicable:
SCHEDULE
The regular daily work period shall be consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (v) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that the parties agree that during those periods that the proposed schedule is in effect, “ten (10)" shall be inserted in lieu of "eight (8)" where it appears in the second sentence of such paragraph.
The parties agree to waive the requirements as set forth in the second sentence of Article VIII, paragraph (w). Accordingly, any reference to the word "five (5)" following the third sentence of Article VIII, paragraph (w) shall be considered as "four (4)" when such schedule is in effect.
No overtime shall be paid for work performed within an employee's scheduled hours of work while working the temporary schedule.
238
VACATIONS
Vacations shall be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (c) of the Memorandum of Agreement, except that vacation shall be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e.g., an employee scheduled for a ten (10) hour work period would be charged ten (10) hours vacation).
HOLIDAYS
The terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d) shall apply when the proposed schedule is in effect, except as set forth below.
Effective January 1, 2010, employees will receive holiday pay for the number of hours normally scheduled for the holiday. When a holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled off day, the employee will receive the regular scheduled hours holiday pay for the week in which the holiday is observed, or be allowed a day off in lieu thereof consistent with the terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d). Should a holiday fall on an employee's regular scheduled work day and the employee works on that day, the employee will receive pay at one and one/half times
239
the applicable rate for all hours worked plus straight time pay for the holiday for the number of hours scheduled, unless the employee chooses to bank the holiday, in which case the hours worked will be at the normal rate of pay.
SICK LEAVE
Sick leave shall be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (b) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that sick leave shall be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e.g., an employee eligible for sick leave and absent due to illness who is regularly scheduled to work ten (10) hours, will be charged ten (10) hours sick leave).
JURY DUTY
The provisions of Article VIII, paragraph (f) shall apply relative to time off to perform jury duty.
240
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Bereavement leave shall be granted consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (t) of the Memorandum of Agreement.
It will be at the discretion of the Company to determine when such temporary work schedule should end and same shall be accomplished by giving at least thirty-six (36) hour notice.
Distribution crews or work groups may be split if such split is clearly communicated to the appropriate Union representative prior to the Union's determination of the affected employee's interest in such temporary schedule.
This agreement does not affect those temporary work schedule agreements that are currently in place.
Unless specifically referenced above, the terms and conditions of the Basic Memorandum of Agreement shall apply.
241
This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into this 10th day of May, 1994.
May 19, 1994
Temporary Work Schedules Division Operations, GSC and Corporate Services - Includes language to make permanent our previous trial agreement and the last paragraph on page two (2) allows the splitting of crews or work groups if a schedule is presented to the Union for selection of schedules prior to determination of the affected employees interest in subject schedule (i.e. Work group agrees with split and is allowed to select individual schedules prior to implementation).
RE:	Memorandum of Agreement:
Temporary Work Schedules Division Operations, GSC and Corporate Services
As requested at the delivery of subject agreement, we are providing the following explanation of the last paragraph contained on page two (2) of the agreement.
This provision allows the splitting of crews or work groups if a schedule is presented to the Union for selection of
242
schedules prior to determination of the affected employees' interest in subject schedule (i.e. Work group agrees with split and is allowed to select individual schedules prior to implementation). This provision allows the splitting of work groups by work day schedules and by work hour schedules (i.e. 4-1 O's and/or 5-8's scheduled Monday thru Saturday).
243
10 HOUR WORK SCHEDULES GARAGE OPERATIONS - GEOGRAPHIC DIVISIONS
April 14,1989
May 29, 2009 (Amended)
I.	SCOPE
The temporary schedule of ten (10) hour work periods scheduled four (4) days per week may be implemented in division garage operations as deemed necessary by the Company in each of the six (6) respective geographic divisions on a trial basis with at least seven (7) days written notice, stating the schedule and probable duration. If such temporary schedule is deemed satisfactory by the Company at the end of the trial period, it shall be available to be put into effect on a regular basis as required. The Company reserves its right to change such schedule consistent with the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement between the parties.
244
II.	SCHEDULE
A.	The regular daily work period shall be consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (v) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that the parties agree that during those periods that the proposed schedule is in effect, "ten (10)" shall be inserted in lieu of "eight (8)" where it appears in the second sentence of such paragraph.
B.	The parties agree to waive the requirements as set forth in the second sentence of Article VIII, paragraph (w). Accordingly, any reference to the word "five (5)" following the third sentence of Article VIII, paragraph (w) shall be considered as "four (4)" when such schedule is in effect.
C.	No overtime shall be paid for work performed within an employee's scheduled hours of work while working the temporary schedule.
245
III.	VACATIONS
Vacations shall be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (c) of the Memorandum of Agreement, except that vacation shall be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e.g., an employee scheduled for a ten (10) hour work period would be charged ten (10) hours vacation).
IV.	HOLIDAYS
The terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d) shall apply when the proposed schedule is in effect, except as set forth below.
Effective January 1, 2010, employees will receive holiday pay for the number v of hours normally scheduled for the holiday. When a holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled off day, the employee will receive the regular scheduled hours holiday pay for the week in which the holiday is observed, or be allowed a day off in lieu thereof consistent with the terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d). Should a holiday fall on an employee's regular scheduled work day and the employee works on that day, the employee will
246
receive pay at one and one/half times the applicable rate for all hours worked plus straight time pay for the holiday for the number of hours scheduled, unless the employee chooses to bank the holiday, in which case the hours worked will be at the normal rate of
pay.
V.	SICK LEAVE
Sick leave shall be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (b) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that sick leave shall be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e.g., an employee eligible for sick leave and absent due to his own illness who is regularly scheduled to work ten (10) hours, will be charged ten (10) hours sick leave.)
VI.	JURY DUTY
The provisions of Article VIII, paragraph (f) shall apply relative to time off to perform jury duty.
247
VII.	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Bereavement leave shall be granted consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (t) of the Memorandum of Agreement.
Unless specifically referenced above, the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement shall apply.
248
10 HOUR WORK SCHEDULES GEOGRAPHIC DIVISIONS
August 23,1984
May 29, 2009 (Amended)
I.	SCOPE
The temporary schedule of ten (10) hour work periods scheduled four (4) days per week shall be implemented for crews in division operations as deemed necessary by the Company on a trial basis with at least seven (7) days written notice, stating the schedule and its probable duration. If such temporary schedule is determined to be satisfactory by the Company at the end of the trial period, it shall be available to be put into effect on a regular basis as required. The Company reserves its right to change such schedule at a later time consistent with the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement between the parties.
II.	SCHEDULE
A.	The regular daily work period shall be consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (v) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that the
/	249
parties agree that during those periods that the proposed schedule is in effect, "ten (10)" shall be inserted in lieu of "eight (8)" where it appears in the second sentence of such paragraph.
B.	The parties agree to waive the requirements as set forth in the second sentence of Article VIII, paragraph (w). Accordingly, any reference to the word "five (5)" following the third sentence of Article VIII, paragraph (w) shall be considered as "four (4)" when such schedule is in effect.
C.	No overtime shall be paid for work performed within an employee's scheduled hours of work while working the temporary schedule.
III.	VACATIONS
Vacations shall be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (c) of the Memorandum of Agreement, except that vacation shall be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e.g., an employee scheduled for a ten (10) hour work period would be charged ten (10) hours vacation).
250
IV.
HOLIDAYS
The terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d) shall apply when the proposed schedule is in effect, except as set forth below.
Effective January 1,2010, employees will receive holiday pay for the number of hours normally scheduled for the holiday. When a holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled off day, the employee will receive the regular scheduled hours holiday pay for the week in which the holiday is observed, or be allowed a day off in lieu thereof consistent with the terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d). Should a holiday fall on an employee's regular scheduled work day and the employee works on that day, the employee will receive pay at one and one/half times the applicable rate for all hours worked plus straight time pay for the holiday for the number of hours scheduled, unless the employee chooses to bank the holiday, in which case the hours worked will be at the normal rate of pay-
251
V.	SICK LEAVE
Sick leave shall be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (b) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that sick leave shall be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e.g., an employee eligible for sick leave and absent due to illness who is regularly scheduled to work ten (10) hours, will be charged ten (10) hours sick leave.)
VI.	JURY DUTY
The provisions of Article VIII, paragraph (f) shall apply relative to time off to perform jury duty.
VIL	BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Bereavement leave shall be granted consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (t) of the Memorandum of Agreement.
Unless specifically referenced above, the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement shall apply.
252
Memorandum of Understanding Commercial Drivers License Medical Examinations April 21, 2008
The following agreement between Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) Local Unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers is entered into by the parties as a result of discussions between the Union and the Company. The provisions of the agreement will be as follows:
1.	The purpose of this agreement is to provide for an additional medical examination for those employees who hold a Commercial Drivers License (CDL), within the limits set out below.
2.	Under Exhibit B, in paragraph 6 of the 2004 Memorandum of Agreement of the current Distribution and Support (D&S) Memorandum of Agreement, the parties have agreed that "The Company will continue to reimburse employees required to hold a Commercial Drivers License, the cost of renewing such license above the cost of a private drivers license and the Company will pay for the first medical examination required for license
253,
renewal." and under Exhibit B, in paragraph 6 of the 2004 Memorandum of Agreement of the current Power Delivery Transmission (PDT) Memorandum of Agreement, the parties have agreed to the same language except in the beginning sentence which reads "During the term of this agreement, It is not proposed to change this existing contract language, but to supplement it through this MOU.
3.	In most locations, the Company has contracted with a medical provider to perform the first	medical
examination required in Note 2. above. Based on present needs and conditions, the Company may provide an additional medical examination. The timing of this examination will be managed by the Company and will be performed by a medical provider contracted by the Company and will be on Company time and at Company expense.
4.	Employees who do not receive the first medical examination, nor desire to have the additional medical examination, by the Company's contracted provider, as referenced in Note 3. above, must have their CDL medical examinations, first
254
and additional, on their own time and at their own expense. If problems arise from these examinations, administrative or otherwise, the employees must correct them on their own time and at their own expense. The Company requires a current medical card for CDL purposes and employees, whose jobs require a CDL, may be restricted from work until they possess a current medical card.
5.	Depending on the availability of the contracted medical provider, the Company may allow medical examinations to be performed by other available medical providers, including employees’ personal medical providers, on Company time and at Company expense. This will be at the sole discretion of management.
6.	The Company can agree to reimburse Lavon Pittman $50.00 for his CDL medical examination in 2007. This will settle grievance number SEA-07-004.
Unless specifically addressed in this MOU, the terms and conditions of the current D&S and PDT Memoranda of Agreement will apply. This MOU will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future.
255
This Memorandum of Understanding may be terminated by the Company based on the availability of contracted medical providers and will be subject to negotiated changes, if any, in the August 15, 2009, contract negotiations.
256
Memorandum of Agreement Qualifications for Employees Entering Assistant /Telecommunications Electrician Classifications
April 21, 2008
The following agreement between Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine Local Unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers is entered into by the parties as a result of discussions between the Union and the Company. The provisions of the agreement will be as follows:
1.	The purpose of this agreement is to provide additional time for employees entering the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician (ATE) classification to obtain certain licensing or certifications.
2.	The requirement to posses this licensing or certification is found in Article XIII, paragraph (i), which states, in part, that "Employees must have obtained a General Radiophone Operator License issued by the Federal Communication Commission or a Certificate of Competency issued by a national certification agency recognized by the
257	*
Company for a level of ability equal or superior to a General Radiotelephone Operator License." Also, paragraph (e) of Exhibit B, Memorandum of Understanding Telecommunications Electrician Training Program, dated August 15, 1998, states "Before being allowed to take the written or skills test for ATE, the candidate must possess an FCC license or equivalent.” .These references are found within the Distribution and Support Memorandum of Agreement (D&S MOA) dated September 14, 2004.
3.	A candidate for ATE must meet all employment requirements for these classifications, according to the D & S MOA, except they will be allowed to take the Craft Knowledge and Skills (CK&S) tests (written and skills) without holding the required licensing or certification in Item 2 above. Upon satisfactory completion of the employment requirements, the successful candidate will have up to six (6) months from the job award date to satisfy the licensing or certification requirement in Item 2 above.
4.	Successful candidates who fail to satisfy the licensing or certification
258
requirement within the first six (6) months in the job, and who were hired externally, will have their employment terminated. Successful candidates who were awarded a job through internal sources, will leave the job according to the terms and conditions of Article V(i) of the current D & S MOA.
5.	Unless specifically addressed in this Memorandum of Agreement, the terms and conditions of the current D & S MOA will apply.
6.	The Company may end this Agreement with a sixty (60) day notice to the Union. In this event, the terms and conditions of the current D & S MOA will apply.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future.
259
MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT Union Dock Reimbursement January 1, 2009
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are set forth herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
Article VIII (g) of the Distribution and Support and Generation Agreements and Article VII (g) of the Transmission Agreement provide for time off for employees to handle Union business. Historically, employees have been docked for these absences. Alabama Power Company can agree to pay covered employees who take time off during regular working hours for straight time spent transacting Union business. The local unions, in turn, agree to reimburse the Company for payment of such time, as well as, payroll adders, taxes and benefits as billed by Alabama Power Company on a quarterly basis. This will replace the current practice of docking covered employees for time associated with Union business.
260
This Agreement does not change any other practice or contract language between the parties regarding Union business or other issues.
261
Memorandum of Understanding Supply Chain Seniority
March 4, 2010
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and the nine (9) Local Unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (Union) with regard to certain provisions of the Distribution and Support (D&S) Agreement and the Transmission Agreement, relative to the seniority and pay of employees in the Supply Chain Organization, the parties agree to the following:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
1.	The parties agree to reestablish the Supply Chain seniority unit with state wide bid and roll rights for Supply Chain positions, except as set out below. The Supply Chain seniority unit will be populated as provided for in this agreement.
2.	Employees in the classifications of Materialman and Utility Assistant- Supply Chain as of the date of this agreement, will have the option of (1) electing to remain in the current geographic seniority unit or General Shops seniority unit, as applicable, or (2)
262
being placed in the reestablished Supply ) Chain seniority unit. Such decision will be
made within 30 days of the effective date of this agreement.
3.	Any employee in the classification of Utility Assistant -Supply Chain who is placed in a job in the classification of Utility Assistant, will be moved to the corresponding step of the Utility Assistant rate range (e.g. an employee in the 8'11 step of the Utility Assistant - Supply Chain will be placed at the 8th step of the Utility Assistant classification). Should an employee classified as a Utility Assistant -Supply Chain leave that classification for any other classification and subsequently return to the classification of Utility Assistant in the Supply Chain Organization, it will be in the classification and pay of a Utility Assistant and not a Utility Assistant - Supply Chain. Any employee classified as Utility Assistant -Supply Chain who is placed in a temporary assignment as a Utility Assistant, will not be affected by this provision and therefore will not have his or her pay reduced.
'	4. Any employee in the classification of Utility
Assistant — Supply Chain will continue to be paid at the rates set forth in the Labor Agreement for that classification until such time as the employee leaves that classification.
.263
5. Due to their unique status, William Derek Largin will be given the option of selecting among the Supply Chain, Birmingham geographic Division and the General Shops seniority units, and James Daniel Brown will be given the option of selecting among the Supply Chain, Eastern geographic Division and the Birmingham geographic Division seniority units.
6.	For future vacancies in the Materialman classification, except as noted below, employees in both the geographic division seniority unit of the vacancy and the Supply Chain seniority unit will be considered as primary bidders.
7.	For the purpose of filling Materialman jobs at the General Shops, primary bidders will include only employees in the General Shops seniority unit.
8.	Future entry level jobs filled in the Supply Chain Organization will be filled as Utility Assistant, not Utility Assistant— Supply Chain, and will be in the applicable geographic division seniority unit.
264
Memorandum of Agreement (“MOA”) Related to Retirement Benefits Negotiations
Between the Operating Companies of Southern Company and their Respective IBEW Locals and IBEW UCC-1*
In order to settle and resolve the ongoing Retirement Benefits negotiations between Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company and Southern Nuclear Operating Company (“Southern Operating Companies or “SOCs” or “Company”) and those IBEW locals with which each SOC has a collective bargaining agreement, as represented collectively through the IBEW UCC-1 (“IBEW”), the SOCs and the IBEW and its member locals agree to the following:
1.	The current “Pension Plan Agreements” collectively and individually, which were effective from January 1, 2002 through December 31,2011, will be extended effective January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2021, subject to the following provisions:
(a)	For the term of the MOA, covered participants will be offered the same Retirement Benefits, including any changes, as provided to all other noncovered participants. Following an educational session on any proposed
265 .
changes during the term of this MOA, the IBEW locals, through the UCC-1 (“IBEW”) will have 30 days to accept or reject such changes as a package.
(b)	In the event the IBEW rejects any such Company offered changes between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2014 or where the Company has otherwise not offered any such changes during this same period, the IBEW will have the right to initiate Retirement Benefits negotiations with the Company as of January 1, 2015. The same right for the IBEW to initiate Retirement Benefit negotiations, subject to the same conditions as above, may also be exercised as of January 1, 2018 and January 1, 2021. The existing negotiated Retirement Benefits, including the pension plan, will remain in effect pending any mutually agreed upon changes.
(c)	In addition, regardless of whether the IBEW exercises its rights set forth in Sections 1 (a) and (b) of the MOA, on or about July 1, 2013 and effective every 18 months thereafter the IBEW and SOCs will have a one-
266
V
day meeting to exchange and share views and input on Retirement Benefits.
2.	This Agreement is negotiated in good faith and predicated upon the following approvals:
•	The certified bargaining representatives who have selected the UCC-1 as their representative for pension negotiations.
•	The Chief Executive Officers of the SOCs
267
Accepted:
International Brotherhood of Electrtenl Workers
Doyle llonnrd
Chairman, l’CC-4 flud BusIum* Maongrr.
Loral 84
Casey Shelton
Bmlness Manager, System Council I.'-19
Richard Malfoy
Business Manager, System Council U-21
Kenneth .Moody
Business Manager. Loral 1055
j,	Accepted:
Southern Company
•ii' ■
ChrlstopberMiller
it];,	Vice President, Employee Relations
r ■ ■
<	Clen Grizzle
Labor Relations General Manager. Georgia Power Company
B. Andretr Wnllare Industrial Relations General Manager. Alabama Power Company
Mark Wolfe Labor Relations Manager. Southern Nuclear Operating Company
Norman Collins
Employee Relations Manager, Mississippi Power Company
Anulhony Reeves Labor Relations Manager, Culf Power Company
268
Memorandum of Agreement Wellness Incentive
June 24, 2013
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are set forth herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
Wellness Incentives that are approved each year by Company Management will be also apply to all employees covered under the Collective Bargaining Agreement. These plans will be designed and implemented solely by Company Management and participation will be subject to the same provisions as all other participants. The plans may be changed or discontinued at any time as determined by management. The plans will not be subject to the grievance or arbitration process.
This agreement is entered into this 24th day of June, 2013.
269
MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT Probationary Period Increase Extension July 24, 2014
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are set forth herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
The Probationary Increase Extension Memorandum of Agreement dated January 3, 2014 will be extended and terminate on August 15, 2019.
Either party may end this agreement with a thirty (30) day notice in writing to the other party. This agreement will not impact any other language in the referenced articles.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future. Any provisions of the agreement
270
not specifically referenced will remain unchanged.
This agreement is entered into this 24,h day of July, 2014.
271
EXHIBIT C
Deleted
272
EXHIBIT D
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT DEPARTMENTS
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT PROCEDURES RELATING TO PROVIDING OR PAYING FOR MEALS
STATEMENT OF POLICY
The Company will defray the reasonable extra costs incurred by or for employees for meals resulting from their being required to work overtime outside their scheduled or rescheduled hours and days; or as an alternative, at its option the Company will provide such meals at Company expense.
GENERAL PRACTICES UNDER THE POLICY
1.	In general, the Company will reimburse employees a $14.00 meal allowance for breakfast, lunch, late night meals and $18.00 for dinner meals due under the provisions of this agreement. However, the Company intends to continue its long-standing policy of providing meals in the event of long hours of continuous work and in emergency situations when meals are unavailable elsewhere.
273
2.	In general the Company will not pay for time spent eating meals unless employees are required to remain at work or standby at some definite location.
3.	In cases where the Company is to provide meals the obligation is on the supervisor in charge to see that they are provided, if available, and that they are adequate as to quality, quantity and timing. Timing is understood to mean that meals will be made available at, or as nearly as practical at the normal regular mealtimes and approximately each six (6) hours thereafter until released from duty. However, it is recognized that during emergencies, outages, and extended cases of trouble it may not be possible to stop and eat at these six (6) hour intervals. In the case of long continued emergency work every reasonable effort is to be made to get meals or refreshments as necessary to maintain strength and morale.
274
4.	In cases where employees are directed by the Company to purchase and to be reimbursed for meals the obligation rests on them to request reimbursement through the proper channels and to present satisfactory vouchers or receipts for payments made for such meals to the responsible supervisors. Employees are not to purchase meals for reimbursement except as directed by the Company.
5.	The intent and provisions of these practices will be interpreted and applied in accordance with the following general and specific procedures:
GENERAL PROCEDURES
A.	WITH RESPECT TO ALL EMPLOYEES COVERED
1.	When employees work only their scheduled hours and days in the usual manner at or from their assigned headquarters or reporting places (i.e., places to which they report, from which they start work, and to which they return) they will provide their own meals immediately before, immediately after and between scheduled working periods in the same day at their own expense.
275
2.	When employees are required to spend one or more nights away from their regular headquarters or reporting place while working either or both scheduled or unscheduled hours and days, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals occurring between departure from and return to headquarters which they are unable to eat at their homes or at their regular eating places.
3.	When employees are prearranged to work on an off day, midshift meals will not be provided or paid. Otherwise, when employees are required to work outside their regularly scheduled or rescheduled hours and days of work either at or away from their assigned headquarters or reporting places as described below, the Company will provide or pay a meal allowance for all usual meals which are eaten during such periods.
4.	Except as described below, if between periods of work in the same day outside their regularly scheduled or rescheduled hours and days employees prefer to eat any usual meals which occur during that day at their homes or at their
276
regular eating places, and if they can be and are released for the time necessary to do so, the Company will pay a meal allowance for such meals.
SPECIFIC PROCEDURES
B.	WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEES ON NON-SHIFT WORK
1.	Early Start: In case employees on nonshift work are required to start work one hour or more before their regular starting time, and are notified to this effect before the end of their last scheduled work period, the Company will pay a meal allowance for their breakfasts and if such employees normally bring their lunches, the Company will pay a meal allowance for their lunches if not brought from home.
2.	Working After Regular Quitting Time: In case such employees are required to continue work more than two hours beyond their regular quitting time, the Company will pay a meal allowance for their suppers.
3.	Call-Outs: If such employees are called out and as a result are unable to eat any usual meals which occur during such periods at their homes or at their regular
277
eating places, the Company will pay a meal allowance for such meals obtained elsewhere. If such employees are called out any time prior to their normal starting time and as a result were unable to eat their breakfasts at their homes or at their regular eating places, or were unable to make their usual arrangements for lunches, the Company will pay a meal allowance for the breakfasts and/or lunches obtained elsewhere. If such employees are called out on their off-days, time, required for eating meals occurring during the period of such call-out will be counted as time. worked unless circumstances are such that the usual regular hours for meals can be observed and the employees are permitted to obtain meals in a manner and at a place of their own discretion.
4.	Off-Day Work: For prearranged work assignments on an employee’s off day, midshift meals will not be provided or paid.	Otherwise, if employees are
required to work on their off-days and have	not been prearranged,	the
Company will pay a meal allowance for all usual meals which occur during such periods when the employees are working at their overtime rates. If work
278
starts and stops at the usual time employees will provide their own breakfasts and suppers, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
5.	Continuous Work: In case such employees are required to work for long periods, the Company will provide for extra meals or pay a meal allowance for all meals eaten at reasonable mealtime intervals of approximately six (6) hours from the last usual mealtime and approximately each six (6) hours thereafter until released from duty. However, it is recognized that during emergencies, outages, and extended cases of trouble it may not be possible to stop and eat at these six (6) hour intervals. Time required for eating meals occurring during such periods will be counted as time worked unless circumstances are such that the usual meal periods can be observed and the employees are permitted to obtain meals in a manner and at a place of their own discretion. If such work continues without break into the following day, whether it be a scheduled or unscheduled day, the Company will pay a meal allowance for all usual meals which occur during such periods.
279
6.	Call-Out on Holiday: If such employees are called out to work on a holiday which occurs on the employees regular scheduled work day, the Company will pay a meal allowance for all usual meals which occur during such periods. If work starts and stops at the usual time, employees will provide their own breakfasts and suppers, otherwise (1) and/or (2) will apply.
SPECIFIC PROCEDURES
C.	WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEES ON SHIFT WORK
1.	Early Start:
Breakfast: In case employees on shift work are required to start work one hour or more before their regular starting time, and are notified to this effect before the end of their last scheduled work period, the Company will pay a meal allowance for their breakfasts and if such employees normally bring their lunches, the Company will pay a meal allowance for their lunches if not brought from home.
Dinner and Supper: In case employees on shift work are required to start work one hour or more before their regular starting time, and are notified to this
280
effect prior to the end of their last previous scheduled work period and as a result were unable to eat their usual meals at their homes or at their regular eating places, the Company will pay a meal allowance for the meal or meals obtained elsewhere. In cases where the Company pays a meal allowance under the provisions of this paragraph and such employees usually bring their lunches, the Company will also pay a meal allowance for a meal or meals which occur during the shift.
2.	Working Beyond Shift Quitting Time: In case such employees are required to continue work more than two hours beyond their regular shift quitting time and as a result are unable to be at their regular eating places at mealtimes, the Company will pay a meal allowance for the meals obtained elsewhere.
3.	Doubling-Over: When employees are required to double-over and work continuously through the next succeeding shift, the Company will pay a meal allowance for meals which occur during the extra shifts.
281
4.	Call-Outs: If such employees are called out and as a result are unable to eat any usual meals which occur during such periods at their homes or at their regular eating places, the Company will pay a meal allowance for such meals obtained elsewhere, and the time required for eating meals occurring during the period of such call-out will be counted as time worked unless circumstances are such that the usual meal periods can be observed and the employees are permitted to obtain meals in a manner and at a place of their own discretion. If employees are called out any time prior to their normal starting time and as a result were unable to eat their usual meals at their homes or at their regular eating places or were unable to make their usual arrangements for meals to be eaten during the shift, the Company will pay a meal allowance for the meal or meals obtained elsewhere.
5.	Off-Days: For prearranged overtime assignments on an employee’s off day, midshift meals will not be provided or paid. If an employee doubles on an off day, the Company will pay a meal allowance for meals for the second shift. Otherwise, if employees are required to work on their off-days and
282
have not been prearranged, the Company will pay a meal allowance for all usual meals which occur during such periods when the employees are working at their overtime rates. If work starts and stops at the usual shift times, employees will provide their own meals immediately before and following such periods, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
6.	Premium Pay Shift: Employees who are working regularly scheduled shifts which are part of their normal forty (40) hour work week but who are working at an overtime rate for hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a twenty-four (24) hour work period will provide their own mid-shift meals.
7.	Cali-Out on Holiday: If such employees are called out to work on a holiday which occurs on the employee's regular scheduled work day, the Company will pay a meal allowance for all usual meals which occur during such periods. If work starts and stops at the usual shift times, employees will provide their own meals immediately before and following such periods, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
283
EXHIBIT E ALABAMA POWER COMPANY DISTRIBUTION AND SUPPORT DEPARTMENT MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT PAYMENT FOR TRAVEL EXPENSE FOR EMPLOYEES REQUIRED TO WORK OVERTIME
Subject to the limitations and provisions set forth ii paragraph 2 below in respect to work on a call-out basis, the Company proposes the following to applj when employees are required to work on < prearranged basis on their off-day or on a work day when the overtime worked does not run into or is no a continuation of work beyond their regular schedule- ’
1.	The Company will reimburse employee: who live five miles or more from their headquarters measured by the shortes, traveled route for travel expense as follows:
a.	If travel is by public conveyance, th< Company will reimburse the employee the actual expense incurred.
b.	If travel is by personal automobile, the Company will pay for use of car at the current rate per mile. This payment wil' be made to only one employee in the
284
event several employees ride in the same car.
c.	Deleted
d.	In each case, involving travel expense to be paid by the Company, the employees will be expected where practicable to reach an understanding with their respective supervisors as to the mode of travel and the expense involved, and the supervisors, at their option, may provide Company or other transportation rather than have the employees incur expense for which they would otherwise be reimbursed.
2.	The Company will not pay travel expense when overtime work is on a call-out basis that does not extend into the next regular work period. However, the Company will reimburse employees for the travel expense in excess of their normal travel expense where they are required to work overtime on a call-out basis which extends into the next regular work period; provided they do not receive pay for inconvenience time in excess of the two-hour minimum for the call-out.
In no case will the Company utilize the callout as a means of eliminating travel expense
285
for which the employee would otherwise be reimbursed.
286
SUBJECT INREX			Page
Subject	Article	Paragraph	
Absences Illness	VIII	(b)	38
Jury Duty	VIII	(D	75
Voting	VIII	(0	75
Making up excused absences	VIII	(I)	87
To Meet with Company officials	VIII	(g)	75
To attend to Union business	VIII	(g)	75
Leave of absence	V	(a)	10
Business Manager	VIII	(h)	77
Alabama Labor Council	VIII	(b)	77
Death-Immediate Family	VIII	W	87
Accidents Investigating Committees	XII	(d)	107
Adoption Standard	VIII	(c)	59
Apprentices Progression of	V	(0	22
Qualifications of Distribution	XIII	(c)	112
Arbitration	VII		36
Bargaining Agent	III	(a)	4
Bulletin Boards-Usc of	VIII	(gg)	100
Call-Out- Noticc of	VIII	(m)	81
Time Allowance	VIII	(q)	82
Chcck-Off-Payroll Ducs Deduction	III	(e) & (g)	6,9
COPE Fund	III	(f)& (g)	7,9
Commendation Report	VIII	(ii)	100
Competency-Definition of	V	(c)	14
Continuous Service-			
287
Subject	Article	Paragraph	Page
Definition of			
for Determining Seniority	V	(a)	10
Co-Operative Student Training			
Program	XVIII		120
Crew			
Composition of	r	XIII	(b)	109
Headquarters	XIII	(a)	108
Ratio-Apprentices to			
journeymen	XIII	(b)	109
Death-Immediate family	VIII	(0	86
While on Vacation	VIII	(c)	40
Demotions Account of incompetency	V	(>)	27
At employee's request			
- bid down	V	(h)	27
Disabilities-			
Permanent, temporary	VIII	(z)	93
Discharge or Suspension-	V	(i)	27
Appeal	VI	(c)	34
Discipline	VIII	(aa)	95
	VIII	(i>)	100
	V	(j)	27.
Disciplinary Notice	VIII	(ii)	100
Dues Deduction	III	(e)	6
Duty-Responsibility for			
discharge of	VIII	(aa)	95
Early Start	VIII	(q)	82
Efficiency	X		105
Emergency Work	XII	(0	108
Energized Circuits-			
Working On	XIII	(e)	114
Equipment	VIII	(i)	78
Extension of Agreement	II	(b)	3
Extra Expense - Overtime	VIII	(cc)	97
Four-Year Progression
288
Subject	Article	Paragraph	Page
Provision Grievances Duc lo Suspension or	V	(0	22
Discharge	VI	(c)	34
Procedure for Handling Report, Accident	VI	(a)	31
Investigating Committee Result of	Xll	(e)	108
Disciplinary Notice Time Limitation on	VIII	(ii)	100
handling Vacancy not filled according	VI	(b)	33
to seniority	V	(e)	15
Headquarters	VIII	(dd)	98
Higher Classification-	XIII	(a)	108
Definition of	V	(d)	15
Holidays Inconvenience Pay	VIII	(d)	70
Call-out	VIII	(q)	82
Lunch	VIII	(q)	82
Prearranged	VIII	(q)	82
Increasing Forces Former cmployecs-	V	(b)	12
consideration of Former journeymen with combined service of four (4) years as journeyman	V	(b)	12
and/or apprentice Insurance	V	(0	22
Life	VIII	(e)	74
289
Subject	Article	Paragraph	Page
Journeyman Qualifications of	XIII	(d)	113
Acting as lead lineman	XIII	(b)	109
	VIII	(k)	78
Substituting for lead lineman	XIII	(b)	109
	VIII	(k)	78
Acting as subforeman	XIII	(b)	109
Jury Duty	VIII	(f)	75
Lay Offs	V	(i)(k)	27,21
Lead Cable Splicer	XIII	(b-2)	110
Lead Lineman in charge of unit	XIII	(b-2)	110
Requirement for	VIII	(k)	78
When absent	XIII	(b-3)	111
Light Duty	VIII	(z)	93
Lockouts	XI		106
Loyalty	X		105
Management Retained rights	IV		9
Right to lay off or discharge	V	(!)	27
Maternity Leave	VIII	(c)	66
Meal Period	VIII	(V)	89
Meals - Provided For	Exhibit D		273
Mechanized Crew	XIII	(b)	109
Assignment Personnel	XIII	(b)	109
Meter Reader	XIII	(o)	119
Meter Tester	XIII	(1)	117
Modification of Agreement	II	(c)	3
MOUs	Exhibit B		177
1 O-Hour Work Schedules Geographic Divisions	Exhibit B		244
Garage Operations	Exhibit B		249
Div. Oper. GSC &
290
Subject	Article	Paragraph	Page
Corp. Services	Exhibit 13		237
12-Hour Schedule	Exhibit B		233
2009 Negotiations	Exhibit B		186
2014 Negotiations	Exhbit B		188
Cable Splicer Training	Exhibit B		218
CDL Medical Exams	Exhibit B		253
Educational Assistance	Exhibit B		224
Equipment Operator			
Transmission	Exhibit B		230
Earley Nuclear			
Pension Ncgiotiation	Exhibit B		265
Plant Issues	Exhibit B		223
Probationary Period Incr	Exhibit B		270
Supply Chain Seniority	Exhibit B		262
t '■	Telecomm. Electrician			
Shared Work-	Exhibit B		226
Telecomm. Training	Exhibit B		211
Telecomm Qualifications	Exhibit B		257
Training MOA	Exhibit B		199
Union Dock Reimburse.	Exhibit B		260
Utility Fleet	Exhibit B		205
Wellness Incentive	Exhibit B		269
Moving Expense			
In event of demotion	V	(i)	10
,.	In event of promotion	V	(g)	26
Reduction of forces	V	(g)	26
No Discrimination	III	(b) & (c)	5
Nonrotating Shift	VIII	(u)	88
>	No Strike Clause	XI		106
Notice			
.T ■	Of absence to supervisor	VIII	(n)	81
Of change of address to			
supervisor	VIII	(o)	82
291
Subject
Article Paragraph Page
Of job vacancies	V	(e)	15
Of recall to employee	VIII	(m)	81
Of rescheduling	VIII	(w)	90
Of standby Off-Day	VIII	(r)	84
Definition of	VIII	(q)	82
Prearranged work Overtime	VIII	(q)	82
Distribution	VIII	(s)	85
Hours and exceptions	VIII	(w)	90
Meals	Exhibit D		273
Travel Expense When eight (8) hours off	Exhibit E		284
duty is not given	VIII	(y)	92
Packing Pay	VIII	(bb)	96
Parental Leave	VIII	(c)	55
Pension Reference	VIII	(e)	74
Pension Negiotiation	Exhibit B		265
Physical Exam- Routine Physically disabled	VIII	(b)	38
employee.	VIII	(z)	93
Posting Rules	XX		121
PPP Exhibit B Prearranged Work-			188
Off-Day	VIII	(q)	82
Work-Day	VIII	(q)	82
Probationary employees	VIII	(a)	37
Probationary Period Incr Progression Through Pay	Exhibit B		270
Schedule	Exhibit A		125
Promotions Declined	VIII	(i)	81
Radio Tower - Work on	VIII	(ii)	101
Raincoats and Rain Equip Rates of Pay	VIII	(i)	78
Hourly basis	IX		105
292
Subject	Article	Paragraph	Page
Rate Schedules	Exhibit A		125
Ratio -			
Apprentices to journeymen			
Transmission, Distribution,			
Shops	XIII	(b)	109
Reduction in forces -			
Basis of	V	(k)	28
Employees in			
temporary jobs	V	(c)	15
Relocation of Employees			
Temporary	VIII	(bb)	96
Remote Site Reporting	1995 MOU	27	181
Rescheduling			
Regular periods	VIII	(w)	90
Rescheduling			
Temporary periods	VIII	(wj	90
Emergency work	VIII	(x)	92
Rest Period	VI11	(y)	92
Rotating Shifts	VIII	(U)	88
Safety			
Equipment	XII	(b)	107
Investigating Committees	XII	(d)	107
Prccautions-			
Of Cable Splicer	XIII	(g)	115
Safe performance of job	XII	(b)	107
Working in manhole or			
vault	XIII	(h>	116
Promotion	XII	(a)	107
Rulcs-Violation of	XII	(c)	107
Hours	VIII	(w)	90
Scope-Employees and			
departments covered	I		2
Seniority			
Basis of reckoning	V	(a)	10
293
Subject	Article	Paragraph	Page
By operating units	V	(a)	10
During disciplinary			
suspension	V	(a)	10
Increasing forces	V	i(b)	12
In event of transfer	V	(b)	12
Interruptions in	V	(b)	12
Lists, preparation of	V	(a)	10
Of returned service men	V	(a)	10
Termination of	V	(b)	12
Shift Employees -			
Definition of	Vlll	(u)	88
Shift Differential	VIII	(u)	88
Sick Leave	VIII	(b)	38
Standby-			
Notice and			
time allowance	VIII	(0	84
Statement of Hours and Pay			
Earned	VIII	(ee)	99
Strikes	XI		106
Substitution - Temporary for			
another employee	VIII	(k)	78
Supervisors - Working	VIII	(P)	82
Supply Chain Seniority	Exhibit B		262
Telecommunications			
Electrician,			
Qualifications of	XIII	(>)	116
Telephones	VIII	(hh)	100
Temporary Jobs	V	(e)	15
Tenn of Agreement	II		3
Tool Policy	VIII	(kk)	101
Training - Employee	XIX		121
Training iMOA	Exhibit B		199
294
Subject	Article	Paragraph	Page
Travel Expense -			
Overtime	Exhibit E		284
Between job and			
headquarters	VIII	(dd)	98
To temporary relocation	VIII	(bb)	96
Truck Drivers			
Duties	XIII	(0	115
Underground work	XIII	(g)&(h) 115,	
Uniforms	VIII	(ID	116 102
Utility Assistants-Qualifications of Distribution,	XIII		(j)	117
Vacancies Awarding	V	(e)	15
Basis for filling	V	(e)	15
Bidding for	V	(e)	15
Instrument Service			
Center	V	(e-3)	21
Outside of unit	V	(e)	15
Posting notices	V	(e)	15
Time limit of transfer	V	(c)	15
Vacations	VIII	(c)	40
Vacation Accural	VIII	(C)	42
Vacation Donation	VIII	(C)	51
Vacation Bonus Milestone	VIII	(C)	46
Vacation Purchase	VIII	(C)	47
Voting - Time allowed	VIII	(0	75
Wellness Incentive Work Day - Definition	Exhibit B VIII	(V)	269 89
Work in Rain, Sleet, or Snow	VIII	(if)	99
Work - Off-day	VIII	(q)	82
Work Schedules	VIII	(w)	90
Work - Temporary location	VIII	(bb)	96
Work Week - Definition of	VIII	(v)	89
295
Every day, every job, safely.