"We have come here to stay, and...it is up to us, as to no one else in Georgia, to do all we can to build up the territory we serve. We want to be considered a citizen wherever we serve."
—Preston Arkwright
& Of 7
// o<>
MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT
Covering Employees in Distribution
between
GEORGIA POWER
COMPANY

and
LOCAL UNION No. 84
of the
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD
OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Effective July 1, 2002 through June 30, 2005
CONTENTS
Covering Employees in DISTRIBUTION
Page
General, Memorandum of Agreement.......................1
Article I	- Bargaining - Representation................1
Article II	- Scope.....................................2
Article III	- Management...............................4
Article IV	- Loyalty and Efficiency....................4
Article V	- Safety.....................................4
Article VI	- Benefits..................................5
Article VII	- Definitions.............................11
Article VIII	- Seniority - Promotions - Demotions -
Layoffs............................................11
Article IX	- Hours and Working Conditions.............24
Article X	- Wage Rates................................32
Article XI	- General..................................36
Article XII	- Right of Appeal.........................37
Article XIII	- Grievance..............................38
Article XIV	- Arbitration............................ 39
Article XV	- Strikes or Lockouts.....................40
Article XVI	- Posting Rules...........................40
Article XVII	- Legality...............................40
Article XVIII	- Non-Discrimination....................41
Article XIX	- Terms - Extension - Modification........41
Exhibit “A" - Wages Schedules.........................45
Wage Schedules Effective 07/01/02..................48
Wage Schedules Effective 07/01/03..................55
Wage Schedules Effective 07/01/04..................62
Exhibit “D” - Merger of the Servicemanclassification into Section I, Exhibit “A”...............................69
Exhibit “E" - Policies and Practices Relating to “Barehand" . and 25KV Work.......................................70
CONTENTS (continued) Covering Employees in DISTRIBUTION
Page
Exhibit "F" - General Guidelines to be Followed for the Assignment of Overtime.............................72
Exhibit “I" - General Guidelines for Temporary Promotions 75
Exhibit “J-1" - Memorandum of Understanding Remote "Show-Up...........................................77
Exhibi “J-2" -	Memorandum of Understanding.........79
Exhibit “J-3" - Memorandum of Understanding Remote
Show-Up..........................................81
Revised Exhibit “K"................................83
Exhibit “L" - Route Selection by Field Service
Representatives and Sr. Field Service Representatives (“FSR'S")........................................84
Exhibit “M” - Section lll-A (Substation Maintenance Crews) 4/10 Agreement.....................................85
Exhibit “N” - Uniforms.............................88
Exhibit “P" .......................................89
TOPICAL INDEX......................................91
GENERAL
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into by and between the GEORGIA POWER COMPANY, a corporation of the State of Georgia, herein after called the "Company and/or Management" party of the first part, and Local No, 84, of the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, hereinafter called the "Union," party of the second part. This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
WITNESSETH: That for the purpose of facilitating the peaceful adjustment of all disputes which may from time to time arise, and to establish a standard of conditions under which the employees covered by this Agreement shall work for the Company during the term of this Agreement, and to provide for rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment for such employees, and to promote harmony and efficiency in the departments of the Company where members of the Union are employed, the parties hereto contract and agree with each other as follows, to wit:
ARTICLE I
BARGAINING - REPRESENTATION
1.	The Company recognizes the right of its employees to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing, and recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative of the employees in the sections covered by this Agreement for the purpose of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, working conditions and other conditions of employment herein provided for. It is agreed that representatives of the Union and the representatives of Management will deal with each other in such manner as to inspire confidence and respect.
1
ARTICLE II
SCOPE
2,	This Agreement shall only apply to regular, full-time monthly salaried employees of the Company, except as provided for in Paragraph 5 hereinafter, working in the sections listed below in the classifications in Exhibit "A," Wage Schedules, attached hereto and made a part hereof.
SECTIONS:
I. Line Maintenance and Construction Crews
X. Metermen
XIV.	Materials Department
XV.	Field Service Representatives
XVI.	Fleet Services
XVII.	Building Service
3.	All new employees hired to fill any of the classifications covered by this Agreement will be considered as on trial for the first six (6) months of their employment. If at the end of this first six months an employee has not worked within a given section and/or location for a period of at least three months as a result of requesting and receiving a transfer or a promotion, the employee’s trial period will be extended to nine months. Employees not receiving a transfer or a promotion will not have their trial period extended beyond six months. During this trial period, such employees must show an aptitude for the work in which they are engaged. During this probationary period, Management may, at its option, transfer, lay off, or dismiss such employees without being required to state the reasons for the action. Upon completion of the trial period, the employee shall be immediately credited with the seniority which accumulated during the trial period.
5.	Management shall have the right to assign to sections covered by this Agreement Student Engineers and Coop Students as a part of a training period. Summer Students shall be assigned as supplemental help. While so employed, such Student Engineers, Co-op Students, and Summer Students shall neither be affected by provisions of this Agreement, nor by their employment shall they affect the status,
2
or prevent the employment or promotion of others who are covered by this Agreement.
6.	The Company agrees that it will during the life of this Agreement honor written voluntary individual membership dues check-off requests of regular full-time employees in the classifications covered by this Agreement, until such check-off request is revoked in writing by the employee. Such check-off request shall authorize the Company to deduct current membership dues and membership dues in arrears which shall be certified to by the Union. Dues in arrears shall not be deducted at the rate of more than one month's dues, in any one month. The Company will remit the dues so deducted to the Union.
7.	If the present Federal and State statutes which prohibit modified union shops and irrevocable check-offs should be repealed or amended so as to permit the type of modified union shop and check-off in effect between the parties under contracts in force prior to the enactment of such statutes, Management agrees that it will upon written request from the Union meet with the Union within 30 days after the receipt of such request and negotiate an appropriate provision embodying the principles of previous agreements between Management and the Union containing modified union shop and check-off provisions. Such provisions, when negotiated, if otherwise legal, shall become effective on a date agreed upon by the parties but in no event shall be retroactive beyond such date.
8.	Any and all employees working in any of the classifications of the sections under Paragraph 2 shall have the right to join the Union as they individually prefer. It is agreed there shall be no discrimination for or against any employee of the Company on account of membership in the Union or interference with any such employees in joining or desiring to join the Union. Likewise, no employee of the Company shall be discriminated against for non-membership in the Union. Neither the Union nor any employees of the Company, members of the Union, shall attempt to coerce any employees of the Company into joining the Union against their will or interfere with them in any way because of failure or refusal on their part to join the Union.
3
ARTICLE III
MANAGEMENT
9.	The right to hire, discipline, and/or discharge employees for reasonable or sufficient cause, and the full right of management of the properties is reserved to and shall be vested exclusively with the Management of the Company, Such rights shall include, but not be limited to, the right of Management to determine at any and all times how many employees it will employ or retain, together with the right to exercise full control and discipline in the interest of proper service, operation, and efficient and economical conduct of its business, subject to the other provisions of this Agreement. The foregoing rights shall be subject to arbitration under the provisions of Article XIII only to the extent that they are modified or limited by other specific provisions of this Agreement,
ARTICLE IV
LOYALTY AND EFFICIENCY
10.	Employees of the Company, members of the Union, agree that they will perform loyal and efficient work and service; that they will use their influence and best endeavors to protect the property of the Company and its interest; and, that they will cooperate with Management in promoting and advancing the welfare and prosperity of same at all times. No employee of the Company shall at any time be discriminated against because of membership or non-member$hip in the Union.
ARTICLE V
SAFETY
11.	In the handling of all work, Management is required to see that sufficient qualified employees, equipped with the necessary safety devices, are on the job to properly and safely handle the work to be done. The safety of the employees is a matter of paramount importance, and safety shall receive first consideration. No employee shall take any undue risk in the performance of job duties which is considered unsafe (by the employee or the employee’s supervision) to either the employee
4
or co-workers. Both the employee and supervision shall use good faith in administering this portion of the contract.
12.	Accident Investigating Committees appointed by Management to investigate accidents involving employees covered by this Agreement shall include an equal number of employees currently in the Bargaining Unit. If a report by such an Accident Investigating Committee is deemed unfair to an employee, this issue may be taken up as a grievance as provided for in Article XIII.
ARTICLE VI
BENEFITS
13(a). New regular full-time employees in classifications covered by this Agreement, who have been continuously employed full time since their last employment date, shall be entitled to their first vacation after they have actually worked 130 regularly scheduled work days. Included in days worked are holidays, days served on jury duty, and days served as subpoenaed witness. After the first vacation, all regular full-time monthly salaried employees in classifications covered by this Agreement who, on December 31, of any calendar year, have completed one year or more of continuous service with the Company shall be granted a vacation with pay during the following calendar year, provided they have actually worked 1,560 hours (to include overtime) during the previous calendar year. Included in hours worked are holidays and vacation days, days served on jury duty, days served as subpoenaed witness, time lost due to on-the-job injury not to exceed 60 days, and up to 10 paid sick days in excess of the first 20 paid sick days during the previous calendar year.
The length of vacation shall be determined by years of service indicated below:
two weeks after one year of continuous service. An employee will be eligible to take one week of the initial two-weeks vacation after completing 130 continuous workdays.
three weeks during the calendar year in which the employee completes seven or more years of accumulated service.
5
four weeks during the calendar year in which the employee completes 15 or more years of accumulated service.
five weeks during the calendar year in which the employee completes 25 or more years of accumulated service?' '
Time off for vacation will be paid at an employee’s straight-time, hourly rate. A vacation may not be waived by an employee and extra pay received for work during the vacation period except by mutual consentx of the employee and Management. An employee who is eligible for a vacation may, with Management approval, carry over up to 40 hours of vacation into the next calendar year.
Should an employee covered by this Agreement be recalled for emergency duty while on vacation, the employee shall receive vacation pay, and in addition thereto, the employee shall be paid at 1% times regular straight time rates for the time actually worked during such vacation period, or, at the employee’s option, the employee will be granted additional vacation time in lieu of the vacation time lost as a result of such recall. In the event of such recall, the Company will pay all reasonable expenses which the employee may incur as a result of the recall.
An employee who is eligible for a vacation under the above conditions, who has not had a vacation during the current calendar year, and who is laid off due to lack of work before the employee’s scheduled vacation begins shall be entitled to vacation pay. In the event such an employee is recalled to work, the employee shall be eligible for a vacation in the year in which the employee is recalled, provided the employee had worked 1,560 hours during the previous calendar year and provided the employee had not received vacation pay in the calendar year in which the employee is recalled.
Employees recalled from lay off, returned from sick leave (including long-term disability), Workers’ Compensation leave and leave of absence (including returned from holding Union office) who did not receive pay for vacation and are not eligible for vacation in the year of their return shall be eligible to take one week of vacation after they have actually worked 130
6
regularly scheduled work days. Included in days worked are holidays, days served on jury duty, and days served as subpoenaed witness. If such employees do not work 1,560 hours in the calendar year of their return, they shall be eligible to take another week of vacation after they actually work an additional 130 regularly scheduled work days.
If one of the days observed as a holiday specified in Paragraph 13(c) of this Agreement occurs while the employee is on vacation, the employee shall be granted an additional day off at some mutually convenient time within 60 days, or at Management's option, the employee shall be granted an additional day's pay in lieu of such holiday. Shift employees shall be allowed to take their vacations in periods of one week (seven days, Saturday through Friday), two weeks, three weeks, four weeks, or five weeks if eligible. However, the selection of vacation periods must be made during the time the vacation schedule is posted for such purpose or the vacation periods will be assigned. While every effort will be made to accommodate the desires of the employees, vacations will be scheduled by the department heads during any of the 52 weeks in the calendar year. However, the number of employees scheduled to be off on vacation at any one time may be limited so as to interfere as little as possible with the service. For vacation selection, only accumulated service with Georgia Power Company will be used. Selection is based on the employee's classification and latest employment date. Employees whose permanent job location or classification is changed for any reason before their scheduled vacation begins, shall have their vacation period or periods assigned by supervision at the new location or in the new classification. However, consideration will be given to the employees' desire insofar as the vacation schedule will permit.
13(b). In the case of a personal illness or non-occupational injury where the employee is unable to report for duty, the employee shall be paid one working day for each day of accrued sick leave during such absences. Accrual of sick days will be as follows:
1.	No days for the first six months of continuous employment
7
2.	Five days upon completion of six months of continuous employment
3.	Five additional days on the anniversary date of the first year of continuous employment for a maximum of 10 days for the first year of continuous employment
4.	Thereafter, 10 days per calendar year to be credited January 1 of each year following completion of the first year of continuous employment, not to exceed the total days as provided in this sub-paragraph.
Unused sick leave may be accrued at the rate of 10 days per calendar year to a total of 140 working days. Employees who are away from work due to personal illness or non-occupational injury shall not be entitled to use their accrued sick leave once they have been away from work the number of days required to satisfy the waiting period for the Company’s Long Term Disability Plan. Employees who return from long-term disability with accrued sick days shall be given credit for these days. Under no conditions shall an employee be entitled to more than 140 days' allowance, including allowance for the current year except when an employee with over five years' service with the Company exhausts all accumulated sick leave. An employee may be considered for additional pay for time not worked due to sickness or non-occupational injury if the employee's past attendance record is satisfactory.
Up to five days {or 40 hours) per calendar year of an employee’s accrued sick leave can be used for the medically necessary care of an immediate family member. Immediate family members are defined as the employee’s spouse, children, and parents (not in-laws).
Sick report shall be made promptly in the event of absence from work due to personal illness or non-occupational injury. The employee or member of the employee’s immediate family shall advise the employee’s immediate supervisor of such inability to report for work before the start of the employee's work schedule or shift. Failure to do so shall forfeit the employee's right to sick leave with pay unless it can be shown that it was impossible for the employee to give or cause such
8
notice to be given to supervision. In the event of absence due to personal illness or non-occupational injury, Management may make such reasonable investigation necessary, and Management shall have the right at its option to require certification by a legally licensed physician as to an employee's illness if an employee is away from work due to illness or non-occupational injury for more than three consecutive days. Failure to supply a doctor's certificate as required shall forfeit all rights to sick leave with pay during absence from work.
An employee who leaves the job due to personal illness after starting work at the employee’s regularly scheduled starting hour will have sick leave charged in increments of not less than one hour. An employee may be docked for such time not worked or have the option of substituting sick leave to offset dock time. In no case shall an employee be paid more than eight hours of sick leave per day.
Employees desiring to use sick leave for doctor’s appointments (including routine physical examinations, dental appointments, or eye examinations) must give reasonable notice to supervision.
The Union will cooperate with Management to prevent or eliminate abuses of sick leave and care of an immediate family member privileges. Any employee abusing sick leave, care of an immediate family member or non-occupational injury privileges shall be subject to discipline by Management.
A full-time active employee on the payroll as of July 1, 1977, shall be entitled to receive credit for up to 10 days per calendar year for each of the last five years as accumulated sick leave. Such accumulated sick leave shall be reduced by each day of sick leave for which an employee was paid up to a maximum of 10 days per calendar year.
The Company will continue its established practice on occupational injury leave and funeral leave.
13	(c) New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday, Good Friday, National Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving, Friday after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day shall be specified observed holidays for all
9
regular full-time monthly salaried employees under this Agreement. Employees shall be entitled to pay for such holiday in accordance with the provisions set forth herein, provided they work their last scheduled work day before and their first scheduled work day after the day observed as such holiday, unless previously excused by their supervisor. Except for shift employees, whenever any of these holidays shall fall on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday, and whenever any of these holidays shall fall on Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be observed as the holiday. When consecutive holidays fall on Friday and Saturday or on Saturday and Sunday, the holidays will be observed on Friday and Monday. When consecutive holidays fall on Sunday and Monday, the holidays will be observed on Monday and Tuesday. For shift employees, the day to be observed as the holiday will be the calendar day on which the holiday falls.
Should the day observed as a holiday fall on an employee's scheduled work day, the employee shall receive regular pay (not to exceed eight hours at straight time rate). Should the employee be required to work on such holiday, the employee shall receive, in addition to regular pay, pay for the time actually worked, or at the employee's option, the employee will be granted additional time off, on some mutually agreeable .date, within 60 days in lieu of the time actually worked on such holiday. Payment for time worked on such holiday for all employees covered by this Agreement, will be at T/z times regular straight time rates.
Should the day observed as a holiday fall on the employee's scheduled off day, the employee shall be granted another day off in lieu of the holiday, or if within 10 days Management concludes that it will not be able to grant time off in lieu of such holiday, the employee shall be notified that payment will be received for the holiday (not to exceed eight hours) at regular straight time rates. Should the employee be required to work on such holiday, in addition, the employee shall receive pay for the actual hours worked at the rate specified in Article X, or at the employee's option, the employee will be granted additional time off on some mutually agreeable date within 60 days in lieu of the time actually worked on such holiday.
10
ARTICLE VII
DEFINITIONS
14.	Employees hired in beginning classifications will not necessarily when first employed have any previous experience in the type work for which they are employed. However, new employees should be qualified mentally and physically and have the aptitude and desire for advancement to higher classifications.
15.	Apprentices, when first placed in this classification will not necessarily have much experience, and will require considerable supervision. People employed in or promoted to an Apprentice classification shall be qualified to learn to do the work of a Journeyman. If an Apprentice completes the first two years of continuous employment as an Apprentice and is not by that time competent to become a Journeyman, then the Apprentice may be demoted or discharged in order that another Apprentice may be assigned and trained.
17(	a). Journeymen must be skilled In safely handling all phases of the work in which they are employed, with only general supervision.
ARTICLE VIII
SENIORITY - PROMOTIONS - DEMOTIONS - LAYOFFS
18. "Divisions" as referred to in this Agreement are as follows:
Geographic Operating Division
Materials Department
19(a). Promotions to higher classifications in the respective sections, except as qualified in (c) and (d) below, shall be based on seniority and competency. Competency being sufficient, seniority within respective classifications in the respective sections and divisions shall prevail, subject to the provisions of Paragraph 20, with the following exceptions:
(1) For promotion to the position of Apprentice in the Line Maintenance and Construction Crews, Equipment Operator (Light), Winch Truck Operators, Truck Operators, and Helpers in the
11
same section and division shall be considered as one classification for that purpose.
(6)	For promotion to the position of Equipment Operator (Light) in Line Maintenance and Construction Crews, Apprentices, Winch Truck Operators, Tractor Operators, Truck Operators, and Helpers in the same section and division shall be considered as one classification for that purpose.
(7)	For promotion to the position of Journeymen classifications in all sections, with the exception of The Repair Shop, from the classifications of Equipment Operator (Light) or Equipment Operator (Heavy), employees must return to the appropriate Apprentice classification, assuming only the previously acquired seniority in that Apprentice classification.
(10)	Employees in Section XIV in the Geographic Operating Division (Region Operations) and at the Materials Department at Forest Park will be considered as one bid group.
(13)	Journeymen in Sections I and XVI will be considered for promotions, demotions, or transfers on the basis of their total section seniority within their respective sections, competency being sufficient, for all classifications except Crew Leader, Senior Cable Splicer and Senior Ductline Mechanic which shall be competency being equal.
19(b	). Demotion from a higher classification to a lower classification in the respective sections shall be based on seniority, with time spent in the higher classification plus the time spent in the lower classification considered as seniority in the lower classification, with the following exceptions:
(1) Time spent in the classifications of Equipment Operator (Light) or Equipment Operator (Heavy) will not be considered as time in the Apprentice classifications.
12
(3) Any employee covered by this Agreement, who is demoted after January 1, 1992, because of a lay off due to lack of work, may use former classification seniority for promotion back to the previous classification. Employees, in the section where a vacancy occurs, will be considered first before crosssection bids will be allowed.
19(c). Seniority will govern in promotions to the classification of Crew Leader, Senior Cable Splicer and Senior Ductline Mechanic, competency being equal. In accordance with this provision, promotions to the position of Crew Leader in Sections I and XVI will be made from the Journeymen in their respective sections. Troublemen, Lead Linemen, and Linemen in Section I, shall be considered as one classification and it is understood that a Lineman can refuse promotion to Troubleman without affecting seniority for promotion to Crew Leader. Also in accordance with this provision, promotions to the position of Senior Cable Splicer and Senior Ductline Mechanic in Section I will be made from the Journeymen in their respective routes of progression.
19(e). Except as provided in (a)(13), (c) above, (f) below, and except as provided for in the Statewide Seniority Agreement and/or the Systematic Development Agreements, competency being sufficient, vacancies shall be filled by lateral transfer (a voluntary demotion will also be considered as a lateral transfer) as provided hereinafter or by promotion of the senior employee from the next lower classification in the respective section and division who desires the promotion. Management shall offer the vacancies to the competent employees bidding in the respective sections and respective divisions in the order of their seniority, except as provided in (a)(13) and (c) above, and except as provided for in the Statewide Seniority Agreement and/or the Systematic Development Agreements. Employees covered by this Agreement may file a request in writing with their immediate supervisor for two lateral transfers during each one year period, January 1 to January 1, to another job in the same classification in the same section and division in which they are located, when such job becomes vacant. Lateral transfers to staff new headquarters or to staff new jobs which are created at an existing location will not be counted in this limitation. Any
13
employee who is displaced by another employee with greater seniority and who has had two such lateral transfers during the current one-year period shall be entitled to another lateral transfer during that current period. When such vacancy occurs, before it is filled by promotion, it will be filled by lateral transfer of employees by seniority, competency being sufficient. Except as qualified in 19(f) below, requests for transfer and bids for promotion must be filed in writing (and if sent by mail, postmarked) within seven calendar days from the date notice of such vacancy is posted. Such request for transfer or bid for promotion may not be withdrawn later than the time the employee receives personal notification of having been awarded the vacancy. Journeymen will be given preference by seniority, competency being sufficient for Linemen assigned to cut-in and cut-out work, Linemen assigned to sky lifts not working in crews, and transfers into but not out of 'such preference jobs will not be considered as lateral transfers. However, transfers from one preference job to another preference job will be considered as a lateral transfer. Upon mutual consent of Management and the Union, an employee with a verified on-the-job physical disability will be given preference, without regard to seniority, for any job in the employee's own section when a vacancy exists for which the employee is sufficiently competent. Any employee waiving a promotion shall retain full seniority rights for advancement to the next higher classification.
19(f). The provisions of Paragraph (e) above shall apply to Sections I, X, XIV {excluding generating plants), XV, XVI and XVII with the following exceptions:
(1)	Bidding and transfer procedures. All newly created jobs and vacancies (jobs) will be posted for seven calendar days. Normally, jobs will be posted on Tuesdays and awarded seven days later on Tuesdays, unless noted on the bid sheet.
(2)	Winch truck operators will be given preference by seniority, competency being sufficient, for sky lifts and hole diggers.
(3)	Jobs will become effective the first Saturday immediately following the job award, and the
14
reporting date will be Monday following the effective date. Employees who move 100 miles or more between bid locations may at their option request and receive a one week extension of their reporting date. The distance is defined by the shortest public thoroughfares. Any pay changes will take effect on the day the employee reports to the new location. Seniority for all jobs will be the effective date originally posted on the awarding notice. When employees are awarded jobs at a new location and are held over by Management at their old location beyond the reporting date of their new assignment, the Company will reimburse these employees for reasonable personal living expenses incurred as a result of being held over at the old location. Any pay changes will be effective on the original reporting date. Travel expense will be reimbursed at the current company mileage allowance rate.
(4)	Each employee desiring to compete for jobs will fill out and sign a bid form and submit it to a member of management. Management will sign this form, give the employee a copy and be responsible for faxing this form to the Bid Center, Labor Relations, Corporate Headquarters.
(5)	Employees will continue to bid by headquarters (or work group) depending on the practice at the assigned work location. (Jobs moved permanently from one work group to another work group will be bid).
(6)	Employees may have two lateral transfers per year (January to January).
(7)	Employees may turn down two job awards per calendar year (January to January). After an employee turns down a second job, any subsequent job the employee bids on, where the employee is (or becomes) the senior qualified bidder, is awarded automatically.
(8)	Employees who bid on a job, who are not at work for any reason, after 8:00 a.m. on Tuesday, (or
15
award date) and who have not left signed-written notice with their supervision that they will accept the job they bid on will have their bid voided, and they shall be charged with one turndown. However, if an employee has already been charged with two turndowns during any calendar year, then the employee shall automatically be awarded any subsequent job for which that employee is or becomes the senior qualified bidder.
Bids may be withdrawn up to 4:30 p.m. on the last day of the posting period.
Any job awarding must be contested within 90 days of the award date or the award will be final.
Seniority lists will be made available on the Company's computer network.
AWARD PROVISIONS
(1)	The job awarding period for Tuesday (or award date) will be between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. only. Employees working the evening or night shift on Tuesday (or award date) are not actively at work between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Therefore, they must leave signed-written notice with their supervision to accept the job they bid on. Otherwise, their bid will be voided, and they shall be charged with one turndown. However, if the employee has already been charged with two turndowns, then the employee shall automatically be awarded the job.
(2)	When a job is offered, it must be either accepted or rejected at the time it is offered. If an employee declines to accept or reject a job, the employee’s failure to communicate a decision will be treated as having rejected the job, and the employee shall be charged with one turndown. However, if the employee has already been charged with two turndowns, then the employee shall automatically be awarded the job.
16
19(g). When a vacancy is filled in the classification of Troubleman in locations which have fixed shifts, all vacant shifts will be selected according to the seniority of the employees already in the Troubleman classification and the last vacant shift will be filled by promotion or lateral transfer. When calculating Troubleman seniority for purposes of shift selection, only time actually worked in the Troubleman classification will be utilized. Troublemen in the area previously identified as Atlanta Division will be considered as one location.
19(h). Any employee unable to accept a promotion vacancy because of verified physical disability due to an illness or on-the-job injury at the time vacancy occurs, will upon becoming physically qualified within 24 months from the date of first vacancy during period of disability, be permitted to fill said vacancy, competency being sufficient, provided the employee indicated by a bid within the bidding period (if the employee is on the job or as soon as physically possible if off the job) the employee’s desire to take the promotion upon becoming physically qualified. Such employee, upon assuming the duties of the higher classification will be credited with seniority in the higher classification dating from date vacancy was temporarily filled during the employee's period of disability, and the person temporarily promoted to fill the vacancy will be displaced. However, the employee will retain the seniority accumulated while temporarily serving in the higher classification.
19(i). When a vacancy is filled by promotion of any employee who is not the senior employee in the classification, such employee cannot bid on a vacancy in a lower classification during a 31-day period following the promotion.
19(1). Jobs subject to barehand work shall carry such notation on the bid sheet. Employees shall bid on these jobs as outlined in Paragraph 19 of the Memorandum of Agreement. Employees who express a desire to no longer perform barehand work may bid on any vacancy not subject to barehand work.
19(m).An employee awarded a cross-section and/or cross-division transfer will be considered on probation for the first six months. During this trial period, the employee must demonstrate an ability to perform the work in the new classification. If the employee is not qualified at the completion
17
of the six-month period, the employee shall be declared incompetent. The employee will have the right to return to the classification formerly held by rolling the most junior employee in the employee’s old section and division/region, provided the employee has seniority over said employee.
20.	An employee's seniority for promotions, for demotions from lack of work, and for layoff from lack of work shall be based on length of service in the employee’s respective classification in a respective section and division. If the seniority of two employees within the same classification in a section is the same, the senior employee will be determined by seniority in lower classifications in the same section and division, division time, bargaining unit time, employment date, then date of birth.
21.	When a vacancy occurs for which competent employees are not available in the section and division, it may be filled by transfer from another section and/or division. In cases where an employee in the section in which the vacancy exists bids on the vacancy and is not considered sufficiently competent, the vacancy may be filled by a cross-section or cross-division transfer upon mutual consent of Management and the Union, and such consent by the Union must be submitted to Management within 10 calendar days from the closing date of the bid. Transfers in such cases will be considered temporary for the first 31 days after the Union and the employees bidding on the vacancy have been notified by letter in order that the Union may have the opportunity to take up with duly accredited officers the reasons why such transfer was made. Mutual consent of the Union will not be required for cross-section and cross-division transfers when no one in the section in the division in which the vacancy exists bids on the vacancy. Such vacancy shall be awarded to the employee with the most bargaining unit time in the classifications covered by this Agreement, provided said employee has met or will meet the current pre-employment test requirement for the section and division into which this employee desires to transfer prior to bidding. An employee currently in the same route of progression as the desired job will not be required to retest. Any employee employed before January 1, 1976, shall be exempt from the pretest requirement. When a cross-section transfer is made, the employee so transferred shall retain the
18
seniority accumulated from the former section and division at the time of such transfer. Seniority retained in a former section may not be used in an employee’s present section for any purpose; however, in case of layoff due to lack of work in an employee’s present section, such retained seniority may be used in the former section as the employee's protection against layoff except as qualified in 19(b)(3). Upon returning to the former section by means of another cross-section transfer, or layoff due to lack of work in the employee’s present section, the retained seniority may, thereafter, be used in that section for any and all purposes provided for in this Agreement. An employee shall be limited to one cross-section and/or division transfer, initiated at the employee’s request, per calendar year, beginning January 1, not including any such transfer resulting from layoff due to lack of work. Sections and divisions, as referred to in this paragraph, are as listed in Paragraph 2 and Paragraph 18.
22(a). When a promotion is made, or a vacancy is filled by transfer, within any of the classifications covered by this Agreement, Management will notify the Union within 30 days and will give the Union the name of the person selected for such promotion or transfer. If the senior employee bidding on a promotion or transfer is not awarded the job, the senior employee will be told, if practicable before the job is filled, the reason or reasons why and such conversation confirmed by letter to the employee with a copy to the Union. Promotions or lateral transfers not made according to seniority of those bidding for such vacancy within their own section and division before the expiration of the posting period will be considered temporary for the first 31 days after the Union and the employee have been notified by letter in order that the Union may have the opportunity to take up with Management the reasons why the promotion or transfer was not made according to seniority.
22(b). Management will notify Local Union #84, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, as promptly as possible in the event any job is to be discontinued.
23.	Any employee temporarily relieving or substituting for another employee in a higher classification covered by this Agreement shall be paid on the schedule of the rate of such higher classification for the time the employee actually works in the higher classification, provided the employee works in the
19
higher classification for one hour or more at any given time. In the event an employee is paid at a higher rate for relieving in a higher classification the last scheduled work day before and the first scheduled work day after a holiday, this employee shall receive pay for the holiday at the higher rate, if, during the period an employee is being paid at a higher rate for relieving in a higher classification, a rainy day occurs, this employee will receive pay for the rainy day at the higher rate. When an employee temporarily relieves or substitutes for an employee in a lower classification, the rate of pay for the employee who temporarily relieves or substitutes shall not change.
While it may be necessary to promote employees to lead Journeyman or Crew Leader to fill temporary needs in addition to relieving or substituting as provided above, such practices will be kept at a minimum at each location. The application of the provisions of Paragraph 23 will be in accordance with Exhibits "A" & "1" of this Memorandum of Agreement. Temporary promotion to the position of Foreman shall be handled under the terms of Exhibit "A" and will require two hours of work in the Foreman's position to qualify for higher pay.
24.	When an employee is promoted to the classification of Troubleman, this employee shall be assigned to work with an experienced Troubleman for a period of not more than 30 days.
26(a). In case of a layoff or demotion due to lack of work, such layoff or demotion shall be based upon seniority, where the competency of the senior employee is sufficient in the respective section and division, except as provided in Paragraphs 20 and 21. When an increase in employees is necessary in any section of a division, regular employees who have been previously laid off in such sections with more than five years of continuous service will be given preference for vacancies within the same section and division from which they were laid off during the first two years of such layoff, and regular employees with from one to five years of continuous service will be given preference for vacancies within the same section and division from which they were laid off during the first year of such layoff, provided they are available for work, competent to fill the job that is open and pass the physical examination required by the Company's employment policy. Such employees who are re-employed in the sections and divisions
20
from which they were laid off shall not lose any seniority under this Agreement.
26(b).
(1)	If an employee with recall rights as provided herein has received notice of layoff due to lack of work and subsequently transfers to another section either before or after the actual layoff occurs, such employee will retain seniority accumulated while in the former section for purpose of recall. Such employee accepting a promotion in either a new section or another cross-section transfer will forfeit recall rights to the former section.
(2)	An employee with recall rights as provided herein who is laid off due to lack of work may request a cross-section and/or cross-division transfer and will receive the same consideration as a full-time employee. Such request must be in writing and renewed every 90 days to remain valid during the period in which recall rights are in effect. An employee accepting a promotion in the new section or another cross-section transfer will forfeit recall rights to the former section.
27(a). When a demotion is made on account of incompetency due to physical disability, the employee shall be demoted to the classification in which the physical disability will permit the employee to safely perform the required duties. However, the employee will continue to accrue seniority in the classification from which the employee was demoted for a period of time not to exceed 24 months. When such employee becomes competent to work in the classification from which the employee was demoted, the employee may reclaim the old job in the same manner as an employee who has been absent from work due to illness or injury. When a demotion is made on account of incompetency for reasons other than physical disability, the employee demoted shall go to the bottom of the list of seniority for the particular job from which the employee is demoted, but the employee retains all other seniority rights.
27(b). Any employee who is absent from work due to an on-or off-the-job injury or illness shall continue to accrue
21
seniority for a period of 24 months in the classification, section and division in which this person was employed. Upon expiration of such 24 month period of absence, an employee will discontinue accruing seniority and shall retain only the seniority accrued up to the expiration date of the 24-month period.
When such employee becomes competent to work in the classification from which this employee was absent, this employee may reclaim the old job. If this results in an employee being displaced, the displaced employee will exercise seniority.
27(c). Employees demoted for incompetency shall not be demoted below the classification from which last promoted, competency being sufficient, except as provided in Paragraph 21.
27(d). In case of a demotion due to loss of driver’s license, the employee will be demoted to a job that can be performed without a requirement of driving, provided this person is sufficiently competent and based on seniority. If the lost license can be recovered within 12 months, the employee can reclaim the old job, provided this employee has seniority over the employee who occupies the old job. The old job will be posted as a job subject to be reclaimed within the next 12 months. If the employee is unable to recover the lost license in 12 months, rights to the old job will be forfeited. An employee can exercise this right one time due to losing a driver's license. For the first 12 months that an employee is demoted due to loss of a driver's license, the employee will continue to accrue seniority in the former classification; similar to demotion due to physical disability.
28.	Other conditions under which an employee shall lose seniority are:
(a)	Voluntary resignation
(b)	Discharge for sufficient and reasonable cause
(c)	Transfer to a classification not covered by the Agreement, except as qualified in Paragraphs 31 and 32.
22
29.	It is understood that Federal regulations relating to returning armed forces' veterans will be complied with.
30.	Management has the right to suspend, discharge, or demote any employee for sufficient and reasonable cause. Employees will be furnished the reasons for any of these actions within seven calendar days. Failure by Management to provide written notification to the employee within seven calendar days will result in the action being revoked. Such notification shall be given to the employee by either of the following methods:
a.	In person
b.	Certified mail. Mailed to the employee at the employee's last known address, per Paragraph 46.
Proof of certification with the Post Office or other carrier will fulfill the notification requirements of this paragraph.
31.	Any regular employee of the Company, a member of the Union covered by this Agreement, who has been or who may in the future be elected to or appointed to a full-time office in the Union (Local Union, or International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers), shall (upon retirement in good standing from said office) be reinstated with full accumulated seniority rights in the same classification (or its equivalent), in the same section of the Company in which this person was formerly employed (competency being sufficient), provided the employee applies for reinstatement within 30 days from the date of retirement from said office, and provided the medical examination does not indicate that this employee is physically or mentally unable to perform the work required.
32.	Any regular employee of the Company working in the sections and classifications covered by this Agreement who has been (or who may in the future) be promoted to or assigned to a managerial, supervisory, or engineering position or promoted to a staff position requiring job knowledge of and the work performed is closely associated to the work performed prior to being promoted shall (upon retirement in good standing from said position) be reinstated with full accumulated seniority rights in the same classification (or its equivalent), in the same section of the Company in which this employee was formerly employed
23
(competency being sufficient), provided this employee applies for reinstatement within 30 days from the date of retirement from said position, and provided the medical examination does not indicate that this employee is physically or mentally unable to perform the work required. Any employee promoted (or assigned) to, an engineering, managerial, supervisory, or staff position shall retain seniority rights in the former section for two years.
ARTICLE IX
HOURS AND WORKING CONDITIONS
33.	Except in emergencies and except as provided in Paragraph 37 hereinafter, the regular work period for Troublemen shall be 8 consecutive hours in any consecutive 24 hours, or 40 hours per work week. These employees shall work five (5) days of 8 consecutive hours per day per work week and be off two days. Where reasonably possible, these two days off shall be consecutive days.
34.	Except in emergencies and except as provided in Paragraph 37 hereinafter where the job requires staffing in addition to the regular work period specified in Paragraph 36 below, the regular work period for certain Metermen, certain employees covered by this Agreement in Fleet Services, certain employees covered by this Agreement in the Materials Department and Building Service Attendants, shall be eight continuous hours, plus time out for meals, in any consecutive 24 hours, or 40 hours per work week. These employees shall work five days of eight continuous hours per day per work week, and be off two days. Where reasonably possible, these two days off shall be consecutive days.
36(a). Except in emergencies and except as provided in Paragraphs 36(b), 36(c), and 37 hereinafter, the regular work period for all other employees covered by this Agreement shall be the scheduled and posted working day of eight continuous hours, plus time out for meals, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. or 40 hours per work week, Mondays to Fridays inclusive.
36(b). The regular work period for Field Service Representatives shall be the scheduled and posted working day
24
of eight continuous hours plus time out for meals between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. or 40 hours per work week, Mondays to Fridays inclusive.
36(c). The regular work period for employees in Section I who work a Saturday and/or Sunday shall be 40 hours per seven-day work week between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. plus time out for meals.
Jobs that are staffed Saturday and/or Sunday as part of a regular work schedule will be bid in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement. The bid notice will include the scheduled work days and off days.
Any employee who works either Saturday and/or Sunday as part of a regular schedule will work a four-day/10-hour work schedule and will receive a premium of $1.50 for each regularly scheduled hour on Saturday and/or Sunday.
Employees who work a Saturday and/or Sunday schedule will not have their schedule changed more than twice per calendar year, unless by mutual agreement.
37(a). When, as and if necessary, some employees may be rescheduled for duty on temporary or permanent shift (or shifts) working outside of their regular work period (and/or working days); if possible, they will be given at least 36 hours notice in advance of the time they are to begin work on such new schedule. In case the employee is not given 36 hours advance notice of such rescheduling, the employee shall be paid in accordance with provisions of Paragraph 52(d). Such notice shall not be required when change in schedule is made necessary by the absence of an employee. However, if such rescheduling because of the absence of an employee results in an employee working more than eight hours in the first 24 hour period beginning at the time of day the employee began the last regular scheduled work period, the employee will be paid in accordance with provisions of Paragraph 52(e). Except for shift operations, work on Saturdays, Sundays, nights and holidays shall be kept at such a minimum as is consistent with the proper operation and maintenance and construction of the Company's facilities in efficiently and economically providing continuous and satisfactory service to the public. Non-shift employees who are rescheduled to work on Sunday shall not be required to take
25
time off to offset such Sunday work. When an employee’s work week is rescheduled in accordance with this paragraph, the employee shall be told the new work periods and corresponding off days, and the resulting off days shall not be considered to be days laid off to offset overtime. Except in emergencies, employees shall not be rescheduled to work 16 continuous hours.
37(b). "Shift Employees" are those employees permanently or temporarily assigned to jobs which are now or which must be staffed seven days per week regardless of the number of shifts per day scheduled for such jobs.
38.	The work week shall be seven consecutive days (calendar days) beginning at 12:01 a.m. on Saturday and ending at 12:00 midnight on Friday; except that for shift operations requiring continuous work, the work week shall end with the end of the shift ending nearest to midnight on Friday, and the succeeding work week shall begin immediately thereafter.
39.	With the consent of their immediate supervision, shift employees shall have the privilege of exchanging shifts or parts of shifts or off days within the same work week, by individual arrangement, provided the change can be accomplished without additional cost to the Company and without resulting in any employee working more than 16 continuous hours (excluding shift turnover time) or more than 40 hours in any one work week.
40.	Shift employees as defined in Paragraph 37(b) and employees working on jobs permanently staffed two shifts per day at least five days per week may by majority vote, in secret ballot, through an election conducted by the Union, determine whether rotating or fixed shifts, chosen by seniority, shall be practiced at their particular location. Shift employees who work on jobs that are staffed three shifts per day shall be the only employees allowed to vote on selection of type shifts for these jobs. Employees on jobs staffed two shifts per day will be allowed to hold separate elections for selections of type shifts to apply only to their jobs.
Even though the majority may vote for fixed shifts chosen by seniority, there may be instances where some employees
26
may not at that time be competent to operate the shift they might choose, and until they are (in the opinion of Management) competent to operate such shift, Management reserves the right to assign such employees to some other shift.
During the life of this Agreement, elections to determine the type of shift at any location shall be held in the month of October. A shift selection will be completed by October 31 to become effective in January. Any associated selections will be complete by December 15. Elections to determine the type of shift at newly established locations shall be held at the time the shift assignments are to be made. The following schedules are to be used for the above shift selections:
Rotating No. 1-20 week schedule, Night-Day-Evening.
Rotating No. 2-10 week schedule.
Fixed No. 1-7 week schedule (Relief) Night-Day-Evening.
Fixed No. 2-7 week schedule (Relief) Night-Evening-Day.
Fixed No. 3-7 week schedule (Relief) Day-Night-Evening.
Fixed No. 4-4 week schedule (Relief) Night-Day-Evening.
Fixed No. 5-4 week schedule (Relief) Night-Evening-Day.
Fixed No. 6-4 week schedule (Relief) Day-Night-Evening.
Fixed No. 7-4 week schedule (Relief) Day-Night-Evening.
When a new employee or employees arrive at a location that is using a shift from Paragraph 40, a shift selection will be made in that classification when the employee or employees become qualified to perform the duties of this job.
42.	Upon approval of Management, the Company will pay for expenses in a reasonable amount for meals under the conditions listed below, provided it is necessary that such meals be eaten away from home. Employees who are allowed to go off duty by 5:00 p.m. shall not have the meal after quitting time paid for unless the employee is required to stay away from headquarters overnight.
(1) When employees who are assigned to regular headquarters are required to stay away from such headquarters overnight, the Company will pay for reasonable board, including the first meal away from such headquarters and, where necessary, for reasonably satisfactory lodging. Except in emergency situations, employees who have been designated to share motel accommodations will
27
be provided separate lodging when abnormal, exceptional, or unique circumstances exist. Abnormal, exceptional, or unique circumstances will be based on the subjective determination of management on a case-by-case basis.
(7) The following provisions apply to all employees covered by this agreement
An employee who works 1 1/2 hours beyond his scheduled, rescheduled, or prearranged work day or who works 12 1/2 continuous hours will qualify for a meal allowance and an additional allowance every six hours thereafter until released from duty. To be considered as prearranged overtime work, employees should be notified before the time they leave their headquarters to report for work outside their regular work period at some time after midnight of that same day or if they have left the headquarters, a minimum of 12 hours advance notice is required.
Any employee who is called out will qualify for a meal allowance after six hours of continuous work and an additional allowance every six hours thereafter until released from duty.
It is understood that employees will be allowed time for meals during extended overtime assignments. If employees continue to work during this meal time, they will be paid for the time spent eating.
During extended storm duty assignments and other similiar situations, management may elect to furnish meals, in which case an allowance will not be paid.
All meal allowances will be $14 and included on the pay check.
(9) When employees are awarded jobs at a new location and are held over by Management at their old location beyond the reporting date of their new assignment, the Company will reimburse these employees for reasonable personal living expenses incurred as a result of being held over at the old location. Travel expense will be
28
reimbursed at current company mileage allowance rate.
43.	Non-shift employees shall not be required to work outside when it is raining, sleeting or snowing, except when necessary.
44.	Employees of the Company, members of Union's Committee representing Local #84, will be allowed time off to attend meetings with company officials. They shall give Management notice of their desire to attend such meetings as soon as practical after the fact is known to them. The Company will pay these employees at their regular straight time rates for the time lost from their regular work, not to exceed a maximum of eight hours in any day, when attending such meetings, and such hours shall be counted as "hours worked." Brief absences without pay for the transaction of Union business may be permitted provided the employees arrange for such absence with their immediate supervisors sometime in advance of the date of such absence, and such absences will not be considered in calculating the days absent during a calendar year to determine eligibility for vacations. It is understood, however, that, except for the foregoing, nothing shall be done which will interfere with the regular work of any company employee.
With respect to the wage and contract negotiating committee, the Company shall not be obligated to pay for more than 16 employees representing Local 84.
As part of the orientation program for new employees, the Union designated shop steward will be allowed up to one hour to meet with newly hired covered employees on company time.
45.	Employees unable to report for work shall, where possible, notify their supervisors as soon as the fact is known or at least before the starting time of their shift of such inability to report for work; also, employees should notify their supervisors when they are able to return to work. Employees are expected to work their regular work schedules unless they have a reasonable excuse for not working.
29
46.	All employees covered by this Agreement shall keep their working headquarters informed at all times of their correct home or living quarters address so that they may be reached promptly in the event of an emergency requiring their services.
It is agreed that the.employees may choose their places of residence, without hindrance by Management, but the parties hereto recognize that, because of the nature of the service rendered, employees should be available and accessible in times of emergency. Jobs subject to this provision will carry such notation in the advertisements for bids on vacancies.
Local availability agreements (subject to approval of 90% vote of the affected employees at the location) may be established. Prior to implementation, local agreements must be reduced to writing and endorsed by Management and the Union Business Manager (or designee). Local availability agreements will last for one calendar year or the remainder of a year and can be discontinued by mutual consent at any time or with 30 days written notice by Management or the Union. Otherwise, the other provisions of this paragraph shall prevail.
Should a local availability agreement be turned down by either party, it shall be reviewed by the Vice President (or designee) and the Business Manager of Local 84 (or designee) and the reasons for non-approval will be communicated in writing to both local management and the Shop Steward at the affected , location.
47.	Raincoats or rainsuits, and rain hats or hard hats, shall be made available for those employees who are required to work outside in the rain. Rubber boots, four-buckle overshoes, or regular overshoes shall be made available for those employees required to work in water. Employees in certain sections and classifications will be issued two pair of work gloves. When those gloves are worn out, employees can } receive substitutes by turning in their worn gloves. Such equipment shall remain the property of the Company, shall not be diverted to personal use, and shall be turned in or kept on the trucks when not actually required on the job.
48.	When Management requires any employee to have a telephone, it shall notify such employee in writing of this requirement. In such case, the Company shall pay the
30
telephone bill (except personal long distance charges) of such employee until the requirement is canceled in writing.
49.	So far as may be practicable and consistent with the efficient performance of work to be done, Management will distribute overtime work equitably among the employees covered by this Agreement within a given classification, section and location.
No employee will be required to work overtime if there are other qualified employees in such classification, section, and location who desire the overtime work. In the event no employees desire the overtime work, it shall be assigned to the employee, or employees, who have the least overtime hours on the overtime equalization records. Good faith consideration will be given to valid reasons advanced by each individual employee requesting to be excused from working overtime.
In the event the employee with the least overtime cannot be contacted, Management will make a "good faith" effort to contact the employee with the next least overtime, repeating this procedure until sufficient employees are contacted. In determining overtime hours worked, the actual hours of overtime that have been worked shall be used.
The Overtime Preference List shall be used to make overtime assignments. Monday through Thursday of each week, employees shall be given the opportunity to indicate in writing on an Overtime Preference Form provided by the Company their desire not to work overtime on any day or days of the following week. Employees not signing the list will be considered as being willing to work overtime.
When assignments are made for storm teams and nationally televised events, qualified employees with the most hours of overtime worked, exclusive of storm team hours, will be offered the assignment, A storm team is defined as an assignment where employees are selected using the stormteam selection method. If an employee is a non-volunteer on the day the assignment is made, all volunteers will be considered before this employee.
31
The application of the provisions of Paragraph 49 will be in accordance with Exhibit "F" of this Memorandum of Agreement.
The foregoing provisions pertaining to the selection of employees for overtime work shall not apply when there is an emergency condition that did or could result in loss of service, adequate generating capacity, danger to life or loss of property. During such conditions, all employees that are required will be expected to work. Management and the Union agree that each party will use "good faith" in administering the provisions of this paragraph.
ARTICLE X
WAGE RATES
50.	For all employees of the Company covered by this Agreement, wages at the rates shown in Exhibit "A," attached hereto and made a part hereof, shall be the base rates paid for 40 hours work per work week, hereinafter called regular rates. Shift differentials applicable to shift employees are detailed in the preamble to Exhibit "A." Wages shall be paid bi-weekly.
51.	For all employees of the Company covered by this Agreement who are on a monthly rate of pay, the monthly rate, multiplied by 12 (months in the year) and divided by 52 (weeks in the year) and the resultant weekly rate divided by the regular number of hours per week (40 hours) determine the regular rate of pay per hour.
52.	Wages at 1!4 times the regular rate of pay shall be paid for hours worked as follows:
(a)	Any hours worked in excess of 40 hours worked per work week for which 1 % times the regular rate of pay per hour has not already been earned.
(b)	Any hours worked outside of the regularly scheduled, work period, except as provided herein after in this paragraph.
(c)	Any hours worked in excess of eight hours in the 24 hour period beginning at the time of day the
32
employees begin their regularly scheduled, work period provided: (1) they have not been rescheduled and given 36 hours prior notice of change of schedule; (2) the excess hours worked in the 24 hour period mentioned above are not incidental to scheduled periodic changing or relieving of shifts; (3) such excess hours worked are not worked on an exchange basis between shift employees as provided for in Paragraph 39 herein before, and (4) such rescheduling is not due to the absence of an employee as provided in subparagraph (e) herein after.
(d)	Any hour(s) worked on a temporary or permanent shift (or shifts) where the employee has been rescheduled in accordance with Paragraph 37 herein before, until 36 hours have elapsed from the time notice is given by Management of such new schedule, except in the case where such rescheduling is due to the absence of an employee.
(e)	Any hours worked in excess of eight hours in the first 24 hour period, beginning at the time of day the employee began his (or her) last regularly scheduled work period, when an employee is rescheduled due to the absence of an employee without 36 hours prior notice.
(f)	Any employee who:
(1)	Continues to work beyond scheduled working hours and has not had at least eight consecutive hours off duty, or
(2)	Is recalled for work on a scheduled work day and actually works a minimum of two hours outside his (or her) regular schedule and has not had at least eight consecutive hours off duty, or
(3)	Is recalled for work on a scheduled off day more than eight hours before the employee’s next regularly scheduled, starting time and actually works at least two hours in the eight hour period immediately prior to that starting time,
33
will be paid at the overtime rate for all hours worked until the employee has eight consecutive hours off duty. Off duty is the period between the time an employee quits work at a designated headquarters or quitting place and the time the employee starts work at a designated headquarters or starting place. No pay is to be allowed for the off duty period except when an employee is directed to take time off to rest because of fatigue due to long hours of work and such off duty period falls within or overlaps into the employee's next regularly scheduled, work period. The employee will be paid for such hours off duty within the employee's regular scheduled work period at straight time rates.
(g)	Any hours worked on Sunday by employees other than shift employees, employees who work the expanded work schedule in accordance with Paragraph 36(c) and Building Service Attendants.
(h)	Any hours worked on a day observed as a holiday.
(i)	Any hours worked on a day an employee is recalled for emergency duty while on vacation.
There shall be no compounding or duplication of payment for any hours worked. Such employees shall not be required to take time off to offset overtime hours worked except when in the opinion of Management they should take time off to rest because they are unfit to continue to work, in which event they shall be paid at their straight time rate for all off duty hours that fall within or overlap their next regular scheduled work period as provided by the provisions of Paragraph 52(f) herein before, such hours to be allowed as "hours worked." When work is rescheduled in accordance with Paragraph 37 herein before, the resulting off days shall not be construed to be days off to offset overtime.
53.	"Hours worked" shall only include the time actually at work (or on duty), including the time required to stand by (prepared to go to work) at a specified place in a given locality, and also time as specified in Paragraphs 44, 52, 54, and 55.
34
54.	If an employee covered by this Agreement is called out for work at a time other than the employee’s regular work period, including call outs on holidays, the employee shall be allowed time as “hours worked" as follows:
(a) For the area previously defined as the Atlanta Division including its Materials Department, the time actually worked plus one hour as “hours worked," with a minimum allowance of three hours as “hours worked" for each such call out, except that if the employee works eight hours or more on such call out the extra one hour will not be added.
(c) For all other locations, a minimum of three hours as "hours worked" for each such "call out."
Except that if any employee is called out before the employee’s regular starting time and works through the regular work period, then only the time actually worked shall be allowed.
A minimum of two (2) hours will be allowed for call outs which overlap pay for prior call outs.
When employees are notified after being released from duty (and no further compensation is due the employee such as minimum time for callouts, prearranged overtime or rest time) and Instructed to report to work with their bags packed for storm duty and If the employees are not used for storm duty, such employees will be paid an allowance of $25.
55.	If an employee is instructed to report for prearranged work at a time other than on the employee's scheduled working hours and if for any reason the work cannot be done, the employee shall be allowed three hours as "hours worked," provided that notification to the contrary has not been given to the employee at least one hour prior to the time assigned to begin such prearranged work. If the prearranged work is completed in less than three hours, the employee shall be allowed three hours as "hours worked' except that in cases of prearranged work where the employee works into the employee's regularly scheduled work period. Then, only the time actually worked shall be allowed.
35
ARTICLE XI
GENERAL
56.	The classification of all employees is determined by the length of service, the ability of the employees, and by the nature of the work to be done. Employees may be working in lower classifications who are competent to handle work in higher classifications; however, the number of jobs in each classification is limited by the amount and nature of the work to be done, and promotions to higher classifications can only be made when vacancies occur or when additional employees are required in the higher classifications due to expansion of work.
58.	Each Line Maintenance and Construction Crew in Section I consisting of five or more employees shall include a Foreman who shall be in charge. Such crews shall include at least two Journeymen and not more than one Apprentice. Training crews established in accordance with the Lineman Development Program may include up to four Unassigned Apprentice Linemen.
On crews working under general supervision the following will apply:
When performing overhead line work, a Crew Leader shall be a part and in charge of any four-employee crew which shall include one additional Journeyman and not more than one Apprentice and when performing URD work a Crew Leader shall be a part of and in charge of any four-employee crew which shall not include more than one Apprentice.
A Lead Journeyman will be in charge of and part of any three-employee crew which will not include more than one Apprentice. Supervision shall assign such crews to work they can safely perform.
Two-employee crews will work under general supervision.
For brief periods of absence of the Foreman, Crew Leader or Lead Journeyman (or any other members of a crew), the remaining members of the crew will be
36
assigned to such work as they may safely perform or they may be temporarily assigned to another crew. Trouble crews are not subject to the above provisions and will work under general supervision.
For the purpose of training Apprentices in the Line Maintenance and Construction Crews in Section I, an additional Apprentice may be assigned to these crews. The number of Apprentices will not exceed the number of Journeymen.
59.	Helpers in the Line Maintenance and Construction Crews Section will not be allowed to climb poles, trees, or structures except for the purpose of learning to climb. However, they will be encouraged to learn to climb on company time under competent supervision but not to do productive work.
62.	If an employee is required by Management to have a physical examination, Management will designate the physician and this examination will be on company time at company expense.
ARTICLE XII
RIGHT OF APPEAL
63.	Any employee who is suspended, demoted, or discharged who wishes to appeal such disciplinary action must make a written request of appeal to Management within 20 days of such action. If the employee does not make a written request, the right to grieve such action shall be forfeited. The grievance will be taken up by the officers or committees of the Union with the duly accredited officers of the Company or their designees. If Management and Union agree that an employee was suspended, demoted, or discharged without sufficient and reasonable cause, the employee shall be reinstated to the employee's former position and paid the regular wages and benefits to which the employee would have been entitled had the employee not been suspended, demoted, or discharged.
When an employee is talked to by supervision in regard to some form of disciplinary action, the employee shall have the right to request Union representation. Nothing herein shall
37
abridge the right of Management to relieve or discharge employees from duty because of lack of work.
All personnel records kept by Management on an employee which may affect the conditions of such employee's employment shall be subject to the employee’s inspection at reasonable intervals.
In the event a report of commendation, warning, or reprimand is placed in the personnel file of an employee, a copy of the report will be furnished to such employee at the time it is placed in the employee’s file.
ARTICLE XIII
GRIEVANCE
64.	Management agrees to meet and treat as promptly as reasonably possible with the duly accredited officers and committees that are elected or selected by the Union upon all questions and grievances that may arise between the parties hereto during the life of this Agreement. Employees and their immediate supervision will use good faith to resolve any disputes that arise. The grievance may be carried through the following steps until settlement is reached:
(First) Representatives of Management and representatives of the Union will hear this step. Management will provide the Union with a written answer to the grievance.
(Second) If the grievance is not settled at the first step and the Union desires to carry it further, the grievance shall be reduced to writing and carried to the designated company officer (or designee) to hear the second step in a timely manner.
Within 60 days of receipt of the decision at the second step, any grievance subject to arbitration under the provisions of this Agreement not settled by the foregoing procedure may be carried to arbitration.
Either party may waive the first step of the grievance process in a case involving the discharge of an employee.
38
ARTICLE XIV
ARBITRATION
65.	If the representatives of Management and the Union are unable to reach an agreement in the case, and the matter is one which is subject to arbitration under the terms of this Agreement, if either party desires, it shall be submitted immediately to an Arbitration Board of three members, one of whom shall be designated by Management and one by the Union, and the third by agreement between the other two members, if the two members appointed by the parties hereto fail to agree upon the third member within ten days after their first meeting, the parties hereto shall apply to the American Arbitration Association to designate a panel of seven people, residents of Southeastern United States. From this panel, the third member of the Arbitration Board shall be selected by mutual agreement or by Management and the Union eliminating six of the people by alternate strikes.
This Arbitration Board shall hear all evidence and arguments on the points in dispute, and the written decision of a majority of the members of such Board shall be final and binding upon the parties hereto. The Arbitration Board shall not interpret this Agreement in any manner so as to amend or supplement this Agreement.
Each party hereto shall bear the expense of preparing and presenting its own case and the expense of its own arbitrator and shall pay one-half of the expense of the third arbitrator. Provisions herein shall not be construed to prevent further conferences between the parties hereto for the purpose of settling the dispute at any time before the decision of the Arbitration Board. When the dispute involves scales of wages set out in the Agreement, any decision rendered shall be retroactive to the date on which the dispute originated.
39
ARTICLE XV
STRIKES OR LOCKOUTS
66.	It is expressly understood and agreed that the services to be performed by the employees covered by this Agreement pertain to and are essential to the operations of a public utility and to the welfare of the public dependent thereon, and tn consideration thereof, and of the Agreement and conditions herein by Management to be kept and performed, the Union and its members agree that during the continuance of this Agreement there shall be no authorized or sanctioned strikes, walkouts, sit-downs, or other concerted cessation or delay of work of any kind by the Union or its members. Management on its part agrees that during the continuance of this Agreement there shall be no lockouts of the Union or its members, it being the mutual desire of both parties hereto to provide uninterrupted and continuous service. Nothing herein, however, is intended to prevent the resignation or discharge of individuals, discharges being subject to review under the conditions and in the manner herein before provided for.
ARTICLE XVI
POSTING RULES
67.	The rules in regard to working conditions in the various sections of the Company, as outlined in Article IX, shall be posted in the sections of the Company affected, in conspicuous places, and these rules so posted shall be observed until changed by mutual agreement between the parties hereto or, in event of dispute, unless and until changed by arbitration in the manner herein before provided for.
ARTICLE XVII
LEGALITY
68.	The parties hereto have entered into this Agreement believing it is entirely legal. Should any provisions of this Agreement be held by proper authority to be in conflict with any State or Federal Statute, such provisions shall be inoperative, but all other provisions shall continue in full force and effect.
40
ARTICLE XVIII
NON-DISCRIMINATION
69.	Management and the Union, acting in its own behalf and in behalf of the employees it represents, agree that the provisions of this Agreement shall continue to apply to all employees covered by this Agreement without discrimination, and that in carrying out the respective obligations under this Agreement, there will be no discrimination against any qualified employee or applicant on account of race, creed, color, sex, age (40 and over), national origin, disability or status as a veteran.
ARTICLE XIX
TERMS - EXTENSION - MODIFICATION
70.	This Agreement, when signed by Management and the Union, subject to approval by the International President of the LB. of E.W., shall be in effect July 1, 2002, through June 30, 2005, and from year to year thereafter, from July 1 to July 1, unless changed or terminated in the following manner: Either party desiring to change or terminate this Agreement after June 30, 2005, must notify the other party in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to July I of the year in which such termination or changes are desired to become effective. Whenever notice is given for changes, the nature of the changes desired must be specified in the notice, and until the parties have agreed upon such changes, the provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. Any change in wage rates agreed upon in such new Agreement shall be retroactive to the expiration date of this Agreement for the employees covered by this Agreement. Changes in other terms and conditions provided for in such new Agreement shall become effective on the date the approved new Agreement is received by Management. Effective July 1, 2002, the rates of wages will be increased by 3.0% applied to each step of each classification with final monthly amounts rounded off to the nearest dollar. Effective July 1, 2003, the rates of wages will be increased by 3.0% applied to each step of each classification with final monthly amounts rounded off to the nearest dollar. Effective July 1, 2004, the rates of wages will be increased by 3.0% applied to each step of each classification with final monthly amounts rounded off to the nearest dollar.
41
This Agreement shall be subject to amendment at any time by mutual consent of the parties hereto.
42
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Management and the Union have each caused these presents to be executed in their names and behalf by their proper officials, hereunto duly authorized this 9th day of October 2002.
GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
By:	Mickey A. Brown
Senior Vice President
Attest: Janice G. Wolfe
Corporate Secretary
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF
ELECTRICAL WORKERS
LOCAL UNION NO. 84
By:	Andy Frazier
President
By:	Doyle W. Howard
Business Manager / Financial Secretary
By:	Terry Rayburn
Recording Secretary
43
APPROVED:
Edwin D. Hill
International President
These signatures represent agreement on a single Memorandum of Agreement covering all Georgia Power Company employees represented by I.B.E.W., Local #84.
44
EXHIBIT "A" - WAGE SCHEDULES
New employees, or employees promoted to a higher classification, shall be paid at the minimum rate of the classification to which they are assigned or promoted, unless their qualifications and previous experience in such classification entitles them to a higher rate than the minimum, in which case they may be paid such higher rate between the minimum and maximum of such classification as their qualifications and experience entitles them to, provided, however, that a thirty day trial period at the minimum rate of the classification may be used to determine their qualifications and experience.
Any employee in the Equipment Operator (Light) or Winch Truck Operator classification who has been in either of these classifications a total of four or more years will become eligible to receive steps nine through 14. For the purpose of qualifying for these extended wage increases, any employee demoted from a higher classification into the Equipment Operator (Light) or Winch Truck Operator classifications will be given credit only for previous time spent in the respective classification up to a maximum of four years, and time spent in the Winch Truck Operators classification will not accumulate as time spent in the Equipment Operator (Light) classification and vice versa. Employees in these classifications will not be prevented from promoting into higher classifications, competency being sufficient, except as qualified for Equipment Operator (Light).
Management will determine which employee will be temporarily promoted to supervisor. In cases where senior employees are bypassed, they will be informed of the reasons. Any employee covered by this Agreement who is temporarily promoted to supervisor for periods of two consecutive hours or more at any given time shall be paid at a base rate of $4632 per month (subject to the general increase) for the time the employee is temporarily promoted to supervisor. The employee shall be subject to the overtime provisions of this Agreement.
EXHIBIT "A" - WAGE SCHEDULES (Continued)
Increases in pay for the minimum to maximum rate in the classifications shown shall be made at intervals of six months provided the employee actually works 100 regularly scheduled work days (vacations and holidays included) during that interval and dependent on satisfactory performance of duties. Satisfactory performance is to be assumed unless the employee is informed by supervision of deficiencies at least 30 days prior to the date the increase would have been due. The amount of increase shall be equal to the difference between employee's present rate and the next higher step in the wage schedule, except where the employee is not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase shall be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate the employee is being paid, but in no event shall the employee be paid at a rate above the maximum rate in the classification.
When employees are promoted to a higher classification, they shall receive a $5.00 per month increase, but in no case shall they be paid less than the minimum rate of the classification to which they are promoted.
Promotions to higher classifications can only be made as vacancies occur or as additional employees are required in the higher classification. Employees in entry level classifications may be promoted to vacancies in higher classifications if and when they meet the established minimum educational and employment test requirements for the classification for which they seek promotion by
EXHIBIT "A" - WAGE SCHEDULES (Continued)
bid on the basis of seniority within their respective sections or on the basis of a cross-section transfer as provided in Paragraph 21, Article VIII, competency being sufficient.
Employees in the Utilityman classification will work as Cement Finishers, Sand Blasters, Duct Layers, Jack Hammer Operators, and operate a company vehicle on company property, a tractor-drawn lawn mower or other motorized or power equipment requiring a similar level of skill.
A shift differential will be applicable to shift employees, as defined in Paragraph 37(b), and (in addition) those employees working on jobs permanently staffed at least two shifts per day at least five days per week. Basis of payment of the shift differential shall be: (1) if 50% or more of such employee's regular straight time scheduled shift falls between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m., generally referred to as Evening Shift, the employee shall receive a shift differential of 650 per hour for all hours actually worked during the regular straight time scheduled shift hours, or (2) if 50% or more of such employee's regular straight time scheduled shift falls between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., generally referred to as Night Shift, the employee shall receive a shift differential of 750 per hour for all hours actually worked during the regular straight time scheduled shift hours. Any overtime premium paid to these employees between the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. will be 1% times the hourly rate, including shift differential pay.
When Journeymen are temporarily or permanently promoted to "Lead" classifications, they shall be paid at the appropriate incremental step in the higher classification.
SECTION I — LINE MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION CREWS
2002
CLASSIFICATION		MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES									
	Senior Cable Splicer (d)	4371	4397	4423	4450	4476	4502				
	Crew Leader (f)	4371	4397	4423	4450	4476	4502				
	Cable Splicer (d)	4228	4253	4279	4296						
	Troubleman	4219	4234	4253	4269	4290					
	Troubleman (g)	4371	4391	4410	4430	4450					
	Lead Lineman (f)	4150	4180	4199	4224						
	Lead Underground Mechanic (d)	4127	4155	4186	4199						
	Senior Ductline Mechanic (d)	4127	4155	4186	4237						
	Lineman* (f)	4057	4081	4109	4124						
	Ductline Mechanic (d)	4036	4067	4084	4109						
00	Underground Mechanic (d)	4036	4067	4084	4109						
	Equipment Operator (Heavy)	4036	4067	4084	4109						
	Equipment Operator (Light)** (a)	3306	3328	3357	3357	3357	3357	3357	3357	3364	3372
		3378	3386	3392	3510						
	Apprentice Cable Splicer (d)	3213	3254	3289	3327	3366	3406		3484		
	Apprentice Ductline Mechanic (d)	3192	3265	3339	3413						
	Unassigned Apprentice Lineman-1 (e)	2236	2582	2995	3011	3041	3066	3066	3066	3066	3066
		3072	3081	3088	3095	3101	3224				
	Un assigned Apprentice Une man-2 (e)	3161	3388	3614	3842						
	Winch Truck Operator** (a)	2995	3011	3041	3066	3066	3066	3066	3066	3072	3081
		3088	3095	3101	3224						
	Truck Operator"	2588	2606	2636	2657						
	Helper (b)	2431	2457	2507	2546	2582					
	Helper (c)	2238	2323	2407	2495	2582					
	Utilityman (When Used) (b)	1959	1979	2011	2029	2053	2110	2140	2188	2255	2327
	Utilityman (When Used) (c)	1805	1856	1907	1956	2004	2088	2140	2188	2255	2327
SECTION I — LINE MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION CREWS
*	Linemen used on cut-in and cut-out work must be able to satisfactorily perform the duties for such work.
*	* These employees shall work as Truck Operators and Helpers. Employees below the classification of Winch Truck Operator shall not be used to operate bole digging machines and sky-lifts. Employees below the classification of Truck Operator shall not be used to drive trucks on three-employee crews.
(a)	Employees must be in these classifications a total of four or more years to become eligible for steps nine through 14.
(b)	For employees who were employed on or prior to 5-2-80.
(c)	For employees who were employed after 5-2-80.
(d)	Journeyman Development Program.
(e)	Lineman 2000 Development Program
(f)	Employees will be paid an hourly premium when actually performing barehand work at a rate based on $l43/month,
(g)	This wago schedule may only be used for Troublemen who work 50% or more of their regular scheduled straight-time hours between the hours of 3 p.m. and 7 a.m. on fixed shifts that start at 3 p.m. or later.
SECTION X — METERMEN
CLASSIFICATION
MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Meterman A	4036	4067	4084	4109						
Apprentice Meterman	3520	3599	3679	3764	3655					
Meterman B	3306	3345	3388	3427	3467	3508				
Utilityman (When Used) (1)	1959	1979	2011	2029	2053	2110	2140	2188	2255	2327
Utilityman (When Used) (2)	1805	1856	1907	1956	2004	2088	2140	2188	2255	2327
(1)	For employees who were employed on or prior to 5-2-80.
(2)	For employees who were employed after 5-2-80.
s
SECTION XIV — MATERIALS DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFICATION
MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Senior Storekeeper (2)	3188	3302	3418	3535	3648	3763	3878	3991	4109
Truck Operator (1)	2588	2606	2636	2657					
Helper (2) (3)	2431	2457	2507	2546	2582				
Helper (2) (4)	2238	2323	2407	2495	2582				
Utilityman (When Used) (3)	1959	1979	2011	2029	2053	2110	2140	2188	2255	2327
Utilityman (When Used) (4)	1805	1856	1907	1956	2004	2088	2140	2188	2255	2327
(1)	These employees shall work as Truck Operators and Helpers.
(2)	Employees filling jobs within this section may be required to work a seven-day. maintenance schedule at (hose plants which have adopted such schedule. Employees working such schedule will receive the following differential: Senior Storekeeper * $35 per month; Helpers - $20 per month.
(3)	For employees who were employed on or prior to 5-2-80.
(4)	For employees who were employed after 5-2-80. .
SECTION XV	— FIELD SERVICE REPRESENTATIVES
CLASSIFICATION	MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Sr. Field Service Representative (1)	2943	3022	3101	3186	3265	3345	3425	3508
Field Service Representative	2407	2497	2588	2674	2761
(1)	Promotion to Senior Field Service Representative upon completion of 2% years as a Field Service Representative and satisfactory performance of duties.
SECTION XVI	— FLEET SERVICES
CLASSIFICATION	MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Crew Leader (i)	4371	4397	4423	4450	4476	4502				
Fleet Mechanic (1)	3052	3078	3095	3123	3306	3328	3357	4036	4067	4084
	4109									
Fleet Mechanic D/P (1)	3052	3078	3095	3123	3306	3328	3357	4036	4067	4084
	4109									
Sr. Storekeeper*	3188	3302	3418	3535	3648	3763	3878	3991	4109	
nfnper	2238	2323	2407	2495	2582					
This classification will be a part of and in charge of any group consisting of three or four Mechanics at sub-garages which do not have a Foreman at
* the location at all times.
" This classification applicable to the Corporate Garage at Forest Park and Metro Division only.
"■ Helpers are not guaranteed entry into the Fleet Services Development Program, dated February 6,1992.
(1)	Employees in these classifications win receive the foOowing premiumfs) for National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (N1ASE) certification in these areas;
Master Automobile Technician - $20/month
Master Heavy Duty Truck Technician ~ $20/month
Body Repair Technician - $15/month
Employees must keep certification in these areas current in order to receive the premium.
SECTION XVII	— BUILDING SERVICE
CLASSIFICATION	MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Building Service Attendant A (1) (2)	2331	2394 Building Service Attendant B (2)	1805	1856	2457	2512	2582 1907	1956	2004	2088	2140	2188	2255	2327
Employees in this section are eligible for promotion to jobs in any other section when a vacancy exists, provided they meet the current test requirements for the classification for which they have applied by bid on the basis of a cross-section transfer as provided in Paragraph 32, Article Vlii,
(1)	Promotion to Building Service Attendant A win be by vacancy only.
(2)	Employees in these classifications win perform all duties historically performed by the previous classifications in Sections XVII and XVIII.
2
SECTION I — LINE MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION CREWS
2003
CLASSIFICATION	MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Senior Cable Splicer (d)		4502	4529	4556	4584	4610	4637				
	Crew Leader (I)	4502	4529	4556	4584	4610	4637				
	Cable Splicer (d)	4355	4381	4407	4425						
	Troubleman	4346	4361	4381	4397	4419					
	Troubleman (g)	4502	4523	4542	4563	4584					
	Lead Lineman (f)	4275	4305	4325	4351						
	Lead Underground Mechanic (d)	4251	4280	4312	4325						
	Senior Ductline Mechanic (d)	4251	4280	4312	4364						
	Lineman' (f)	4179	4203	4232	4248						
	Ductline Mechanic (d)	4157	4189	4207	4232						
tn	Underground Mechanic (d)	4157	4189	4207	4232						
	Equipment Operator (Heavy)	4157	4189	4207	4232						
	Equipment Operator (Light)" (a)	3405	3428	3458	3458	3458	3458	3458	3458	3465	3473
		3479	3488	3494	3615						
	Apprentice Cable Splicer (d)	3309	3352	3388	3427	3467	3508	3547	3589		
	Apprentice Oudlino Mechanic (d)	3288	3363	3439	3515						
	Unassigned Apprentice Lineman-1 (e)	2305	2659	3085	3101	3132	3158	3158	3158	3158	315B
		3164	3173	3181	3188	3194	3321				
	Unassigned Apprentice Lineman-2 (e)	3256	3490	3722	3957						
	Winch Truck Operator" (a)	3085	3101	3132	3158	3158	3158	3158	3158	3164	3173
		3181	3188	3194	3321						
	Truck Operator"	2666	2684	2715	2737						
	Helper (b)	2504	2531	2582	2522	2659					
	Helper (c)	2305	2393	2479	2570	2659					
	Utility man (When Used) (b)	2018	2038	2071	2090	2115	2173	2204	2254	2323	2397
	Utilityman (When Used) (c)	1859	1912	1964	2015	2064	2151	2204	2254	2323	2397
SECTION I — UNE MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION CREWS
*	Linemen used on cut-in and cut-out work must be able to satisfactorily perform the duties for such work.
**	These employees shall work as Truck Operators and Helpers. Employees below the classification of Winch Truck Operator shall not be used to operate hole digging machines and sky-lifts. Employees below the classification of Truck Operator shall not be used to drive trucks on three-employee crews,
(a}	Employees must be in these classifications a total of four or more years to become eligible for steps nine through 14.
(b)	For employees who were employed on or prior to 5-2-80.
(c)	For employees who were employed after 5-2-80.
(d)	Journeyman Development Program.
(e)	Lineman 2000 Development Program
(f)	Employeeswill be paid an hourly premium when actually performing barehand work at a rate based on $143/month.
(g)	This wage schedule may only be used by Troublemen who work 50% or more of their regular scheduled straight-time hours
2! between the hours of 3 p.m. and 7 a.m. on fixed shifts that start at 3 p.m. or later, m	r
SECTION X — METERMEN
CLASSIFICATION
MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Meterman A	4157	4189	4207	4232						
Apprentice Meterman	3626	3707	3789	3877	3971					
Meterman B	3405	3445	3490	3530	3571	3813				
Utilityman (When Used) (1)	2018	2038	2071	2090	2115	2173	2204	2254	2323	2397
Utilityman (When Used) (2)	1859	1912	1964	2015	2064	2151	2204	2254	2323	2397
(1)	For employees who were employed on or prior to 5-2-80.
(2)	For employees who were employed after 5-2-80.
SECTION XIV — MATERIALS DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFICATION
MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Senior Storekeeper (2)	3284	3401	3521	3641	3757	3876	3994	4111	4232
Truck Operator (1)	2666	2684	2715	2737					
Helper (2) (3)	2504	2531	2582	2622	2659				
Helper (2) (4)	2305	2393	2479	2570	2659				
Utility man (When Used) (3)	2018	2038	2071	2090	2115	2173	2204	2254	2323	2397
Utilityman (When Used) (4)	1859	1912	1964	2015	2064	2151	2204	2254	2323	2397
(1)	These employees shall work as Truck Operators and Helpers,
(2)	Employees filling jobs within this section may be required to work a seven-day, maintenance schedule at those plants which have adopted such schedule. Employees working such schedule will receive the following differential: Senior Storekeeper - $35 per month; Helpers - $20 per month.
(3)	For employees who were employed on or prior to 5-2-80.
(4)	For employees who were employed after 5-2-80.

SECTION XV — FIELD SERVICE REPRESENTATIVES
CLASSIFICATION	MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Sr. Field Service Representative (1)	3031	3113	3194	3282	3363	3445	3528	3613
Field Service Representative	2479	2572	2666	2754	2844
(1) Promotion to Senior Field Service Representative upon completion of 2'A years as a Field Service Representative and satisfactory performance of duties.
SECTION XVI — FLEET SERVICES
CLASSIFICATION
MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Crew Leader* (1)	4502	4529	4556	4584	4610	4637				
Fleet Mechanic (1)	3144	3170	3188	3217	3405	3428	3458	4157	4189	4207
	4232									
Fleet Mechanic D/P (1)	3144	3170	3188	3217	3405	3428	3458	4157	4189	4207
	4232									
Sr. Storekeeper"	3284	3401	3521	3641	3757	3876	3994	4111	4232	
Helper*”	2305	2393	2479	2570	2659					
This classification will be a part of and in charge of any group consisting of three or four Mechanics at sub-garages which do not have a Foreman at o> * the location at all times.
°	“ This classification applicable to the Corporate Garage at Forest Park and Metro Division only.
Helpers are not guaranteed entry into the Fleet Services Development Program, dated February 6, 1992.
(1)	Employees in these classifications will receive the following premium(s) for National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (NIASE) certification in these areas:
Master Automobile Technician - $20/month
Master Heavy Duty Truck Technician - $20/month
Body Repair Technician - $15/month
Employees must keep certification in these areas current in order to receive the premium.

C3333@3T@!l[D®

SECTION XVII — BUILDING SERVICE
CLASSIFICATION
Building Service Attendant A (1) (2)
Building Service Attendant B (2)
MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
2401	2466	2531	2587	2659
1859	1912	1964	2015	2064	2151	2204	2254	2323	2397
Employees in this section are eligible for promotion to jobs in any other section when a vacancy exists, provided they meet the current test requirements for the classification for which they have applied by bid on the basis of a cross-section transfer as provided in Paragraph 32, Article VIII.
(1)	Promotion to Building Service Attendant A will be by vacancy only.
(2)	Employees in these classifications will perform all duties historically performed by the previous classifications in Sections XVII and XVIII.
	SECTION 1 — UNE MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION CREWS									2004	
	CLASSIFICATION	MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES									
	Senior Cable Splicer (d)	4637	4665	4693	4722	4748	4776				
	Crew Leader (f).	4637	4665	4693	4722	4748	4776				
	Cable Splicer (d)	4486	4512	4539	4558						
	Troubleman	4476	4492	4512	4529	4552					
	Troubleman (g)	4637	4659	4678	4700	4722					
	Lead Lineman (f)	4403	4434	4455	4482						
	Lead Underground Mechanic (d)	4379	4408	4441	4455						
	Senior Ductline Mechanic (d)	4379	4408	4441	4495						
	Lineman* (f)	4304	4329	4359	4375						
	Ductline Mechanic (d)	4282	4315	4333	4359						
	Underground Mechanic (d)	4282	4315	4333	4359						
ro	Equipment Operator (Heavy)	4282	4315	4333	4359						
	Equipment Operator (Light)” (a)	3507	3531	3562	3562	3562	3562	3562	3562	3569	3577
		3583	3593	3599	3723						
	Apprentice Cable Splicer (d)	3408	3453	3490	3530	3571	3613	3653	3697		
	Apprentice Ductline Mechanic (d)	3387	3464	3542	3620						
	Unassigned Apprentice Lineman-1 (e)	2374	2739	3178	3194	3226	3253	3253	3253	3253	3253
		3259	3268	3276	3284	3290	3421				
	Unassigned Apprentice Lineman-2 (e)	3354	3595	3834	4076						
	Winch Truck Operator” (a)	3178	3194	3226	3253	3253	3253	3253	3253	3259	3268
		3276	3284	3290	3421						
	Truck Operator”	2746	2765	2796	2819						
	Helper (b)	2579	2607	2659	2701	2739					
	Helper (c)	2374	2465	2553	2647	2739					
	Utilityman (When Used) (b)	2079	2099	2133	2153	2178	2238	2270	2322	2393	2469
	Utilityman (When Used) (c)	1915	1969	2023	2075	2126	2216	2270	2322	2393	2469
LWAGEISCHEDU11ES]

SECTION I — LINE MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION CREWS
*	Linemen used on cut-in and cut-out work must be able to satisfactorily perform the duties for such work.
*	* These employees shall work as Truck Operators and Helpers. Employees below the classification of Winch Truck Operator shall not be used to operate hole digging machines and sky-lifts. Employees below the classification of Truck Operator shall not be used to drive trucks on three-employee crews.
(a)	Employees must be in these classifications a total of four or more years to become eligible for steps nine through 14.
(b)	For employees who were employed on or prior to 5-2-80.
(c)	For employees who were employed after 5-2-80.
(d)	Journeyman Development Program.
(e)	Lineman 2000 Development Program	r
(f)	Employees will be paid an hourly premium when actually performing barehand work at a rate based on $143/month.
(g)	This wage schedule may only be used by Troubiemen who work 50% or more of their regular scheduled straight-time hours
O) between the hours of 3 p.m. and 7 a.m, on fixed shifts that start at 3 p.m. or later.
SECTION X — METERMEN
CLASSIFICATION
MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Meterman A	4282	4315	4333	4359						
Apprentice Meterman	3735	3818	3903	3993	4090					
Meterman B	3507	3548	3595	3636	3673	3721				
Utilityman (When Used) (1)	2079	2099	2133	2153	2178	2238	2270	2322	2393	2469
Utilityman (When Used) (2)	1915	1969	2023	2075	2126	2216	2270	2322	2393	2469
(1)	For employees who were employed on or prior to 5-2-80.
(2)	For employees who were employed after 5-2-80.
[SCHEDUUES]

SECTION XIV — MATERIALS DEPARTMENT
CLASSIFICATION
Senior Storekeeper (2)	3383	3503	3627
Truck Operator (1)	2746	2765	2796
Helper (2) (3)	2579	2607	2659
Helper (2) (4)	2374	2465	2553
Utilityman (When Used) (3)	2079	2099	2133
Utilityman (When Used) (4)	1915	1969	2023
MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
3750	3870	3992	4114	4234	4359	
2819						
2701	2739					
2647	2739					
2153	2178	2238	2270	2322	2393	2469
2075	2126	2216	2270	2322	2393	2469
(1)	These employees shall work as Truck Operators and Helpers.
(2)	Employees filling jobs within this section may be required to work a seven-day, maintenance schedule at those plants which have adopted such cn schedule. Employees working such schedule will receive the following differential: Senior Storekeeper - $35 per month; Helpers - $20 per month.
(3)	For employees who were employed on or prior to 5-2-80.
(4)	For employees who were employed after 5-2-80.
SECTION XV —FIELD SERVICE REPRESENTATIVES
CLASSIFICATION
MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Sr. Field Service Representative (1) Field Service Representative
3122
2553
3206
2649
3290	3380	3464	3548	3634	3721
2746	2837	2929
(1) Promotion to Senior Field Service Representative upon completion of 2% years as a Field Service Representative and satisfactory performance of duties.
SECTION XVI — FLEET SERVICES
CLASSIFICATION
MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Crew Leader* (1)	4637	4665	4693	4722	4748	4776				
Fleet Mechanic (1)	3238	3265	3284	3314	3507	3531	3562	4282	4315	4333
	4359									
Fleet Mechanic D/P (1)	3238	3265	3284	3314	3507	3531	3562	4282	4315	4333
	4359									
Sr. Storekeeper*	3383	3503	3627	3750	3870	3992	4114	4234	4359	
Helper*"	2374	2465	2553	2647	2739					
This classification will be a part of and in charge of any group consisting of three or four Mechanics at sub-garages which do not have a Foreman at
■ the location at all times.
" This classification applicable to the Corporate Garage at Forest Parte and Metro Division only.
•" Helpers are not guaranteed entry into the Fleet Services Development Program, dated February 6, 1992.
(1) Employees in these classifications win receive the following premium(s) for National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (NIASE) certification in these areas:
Master Automobile Technician - $2Q/month
Master Heavy Duty Truck Technician - $20/month
Body Repair Technician ~ $15/month
Employees must keep certification in these areas current in order to receive the premium.
SECTION XVII — BUILDING SERVICE
CLASSIFICATION
MINIMUM TO MAXIMUM MONTHLY RATES
Building Service Attendant A (1) (2)
Building Service Attendant B (2)
2473
1915
2540
1969
2607	2665	2739
2023	2075	2126	2216	2270	2322	2393	2469
Employees in this section are eligible for promotion to jobs in any other section when a vacancy exists, provided they meet the current test requirements for the classification for which they have applied by bid on the basis of a cross-section transfer as provided in Paragraph 32, Article VIII.
(1)	Promotion to Building Service Attendant A will be by vacancy only.
(2)	Employees in these classifications will perform all duties historically performed by the previous classifications in Sections XVII and XVIII.

[schedules;

EXHIBIT "D'
MERGER OF THE SERVICEMAN CLASSIFICATIONS INTO SECTION 1, EXHIBIT 'A'
Effective July 27, 1981 the classifications of Serviceman A, B and C, formerly referenced in Paragraph 19(d) and Section IX Exhibit “A", are abolished in accordance with the following provisions:
1,	Effective July 27, 1981, grandfather all Journeymen Linemen and Servicemen A in their present positions.
2.	Change Serviceman A classification to cut-in/cut-out Lineman and provide for cut-in/cut-out Lineman to perform all duties historically performed by Serviceman A.
3.	Provide for seniority earned as a Serviceman B to be credited as Apprentice Lineman seniority.
4.	Provide for training all Servicemen B to become Apprentice Linemen.
5.	Abolish all Serviceman B jobs and re-post as either cut-in/cut-out Linemen or Linemen. These new Journeyman jobs will be filled from qualified personnel from within the section.
6.	Reclassify existing Serviceman C jobs as Apprentice Lineman jobs. Existing Servicemen C will use *C" classification time as WTO time in competing for jobs within the section.
7.	Revise lines of progression to reflect these changes,
8.	Delete all references to Servicemen and Appliance Repair Classifications.
69
EXHIBIT ”E'
POLICIES AND PRACTICES RELATING TO "BAREHAND" AND 25KV WORK
The parties agree to the following general policies pertaining to overhead line work:
1.	Section "0" will continue to control all construction and maintenance work.
2.	No employee will be required to perform work which either the employee or Management believes to be unsafe or for which the employee is not qualified, trained, and/or equipped. The Journeyman in charge of the work is responsible to raise and resolve safety issues before commencing work.
3.	All employees assigned to "barehand" or gloving work will be properly trained. Employees initially assigned to this type of specialized work will be given the standard five-day training program involving proper procedures for performing this work. Refresher training will be provided at appropriate intervals. All training will include special emphasis on proper coverup procedures, rigging, clearances, job planning and the use of other hot line equipment.
4.	All first-line supervisors who direct barehand work will be required to participate in initial and refresher training programs.
5.	The employee in charge of barehand work will always meet with other employees performing the work to discuss each job. Employees assigned to the barehand work will conduct a visual inspection of the job and discuss the clearances and procedures to be used in completing the job.
Journeymen and Apprentices, who glove 25KV in Sections I, and Journeymen and Apprentices, who "barehand" in Section I, will be called upon to perform all duties normally associated with the construction and maintenance of the system for which they have been trained, qualified, and equipped. The
70
parties agree and acknowledge that specific conditions and practices are prerequisite to certain construction and maintenance activities as follows:
1.	Staffing and training requirements for all line work performed under this Agreement will be determined with due regard to all applicable safety requirements and practices.
2.	Management will maximize use of Georgia Power employees in Section I to perform distribution line work. In the event personnel reductions are required due to lack of normal projected base workload, Management agrees to release distribution contract crews before any cutbacks in distribution crew personnel. This principle will not affect Management's rights to relocate crews due to shifting workload requirements.
4.	No employee will be required to glove 25KV during the hours of darkness.
71
EXHIBIT "F'
GENERAL GUIDELINES TO BE FOLLOWED FOR THE ASSIGNMENT OF OVERTIME
In an effort to establish guidelines to determine who should work overtime, the following factors should be considered:
(1)	The qualified volunteer with the least overtime should be contacted. In contacting the qualified volunteer, good faith and a reasonable effort will be exerted.
(2)	If the volunteers with the least amount of overtime make a reasonable request not to work and other volunteers are available and desire to work, the overtime should be assigned to those who desire the overtime.
(3)	After a reasonable attempt to contact the qualified volunteer or the number of qualified volunteers needed has been made and after determining that the volunteers contacted have made reasonable requests not to work, the volunteers with the least amount of overtime will be required to work absent a valid reason.
The low volunteers who do not have a valid reason for not working will have the option of finding qualified employees to work in their places provided the qualified employees notify their supervisors that they will replace the low volunteers assigned the overtime work.
In this situation, it will not be considered a violation of the Agreement if substitute employees are not the low employees on the overtime list. In this instance, the employees being excused and the substitutes will be charged with the amount of overtime worked by the substitutes. After being notified of the substitutions by the qualified employees, the supervisor will excuse the low volunteers from the assigned overtime. Until notified of the release, the low volunteers are responsible for working the assigned overtime. The
72
provisions of this paragraph will only apply to a specific situation where the low volunteers do not have a valid reason for not working.
(4)	An employee who volunteers for overtime will be considered as a volunteer for a full shift (eight hours).
(5)	If there are no volunteers, the low non-volunteer will be assigned the overtime absent a valid reason for not being able to work.
(6)	Each supervisor should be reasonably aware of all employees' total overtime and the list used to equalize overtime should be updated at least every two weeks and posted. The list will be updated and posted weekly consistent with the implementation of the Southern Time and Attendance Reporting System (STARS).
(7)	If an employee changes classification, changes section, or transfers to a new location, the employee should be assigned a number of hours on the overtime list which represents the average overtime worked during the current year by employees in the same classification and section at that location.
(8)	If a member of supervision, while making a good faith effort to assign overtime in accordance with these provisions, erroneously assigns the work to an employee who is not low, an equal amount of overtime work will be made available at a mutually agreeable time for the employee who was overlooked. This procedure will return the employee to the rightful place on the overtime list.
(9)	Consistent with the Memorandum of Agreement, it is Management’s and the Union’s desire that a good faith effort should be made to assign the overtime to those employees who desire to work it.
(10)	For employees in Sections I and X, the following provisions will apply:
73
Local overtime agreements (subject to approval of 90% of the affected employees at the location) may be established. Prior to implementation, local agreements must be reduced to writing and endorsed by Management and the Union Business Manager (or designee). Local agreements will last for one calendar year or the remainder of a year and can be discontinued by mutual consent at any time or with 30 days written notice by Management or the Union. Otherwise, the other provisions of this exhibit shall prevail.
74
EXHIBIT -I'
GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR TEMPORARY PROMOTIONS
Temporary promotion (blueslipping) is defined as relieving, substituting, or working in a higher classification. It is desirable that all eligible employees have blueslipping experience in order that they may be prepared for permanent promotion to a higher classification covered by the Memorandum of Agreement. No employee should request to be excused from temporarily working in a higher classification for trivial or frivolous reasons. Blueslipping is an important and necessary phase of the work. There may be temporary justification for excusing an employee from blueslipping, and there also may be cases where, for various serious personal reasons, an employee requests to be excused from any blueslipping for relatively long periods of time. Opportunities for blueslipping will be available on a seniority basis among eligible qualified employees at each location. In the districts, an assignment of less than a full week will be offered to the senior qualified person in the crew, and for a week or more, the assignment will be offered to the senior qualified person in the headquarters. While every effort will be made to tender blueslipping opportunities to the senior employee, it is recognized that this may not always be practical in every instance.
The policy to be followed concerning blueslipping is now summarized as follows:
1.	Employees will be expected to bluesiip when directed by supervision. If they have compelling and sufficient reasons, they may be excused by supervision from this temporary duty. It is intended that each tender of opportunity for blueslipping and subsequent excuse be considered as a separate individual incident and not prejudice or preclude consideration for bluesfipping opportunities in the future. If there is no qualified employee who desires to be blueslipped, the junior qualified employee will be required to blueslip, absent a valid reason. A valid reason may be defined as an unexpected or personal need that would cause serious personal or financial harm to the individual if not attended to immediately.
75
2.	Employees may have valid personal reasons for not working in a higher classification. They may feel not qualified to work in a higher classification or might fear the greater responsibility. An employee having these or similar feelings may, upon request, be excused from consideration for blueslipping for a definite period of time. Employees may withdraw their request at any time.
3,	Employees who are called out between paid blueslip assignments will be paid the blueslip rate for the call out.
NOTE: Provisions of this understanding supersede Side Letters 6, 7, 11, and 12 on this subject. These Side Letters are a part of the "Side Letter Book" in effect on July 1, 1993, consisting of 34 letters.
76
EXHIBIT "J-1
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON REMOTE SHOW UP
This memorandum outlines the conditions for employees reporting to a location other than their permanent bid headquarters. However, it does not apply to employees eligible for per diem or attending school.
1.	When a crew is chosen for remote show-up, employees on the crew who are unable to work the assignment will be allowed to find a substitute in the same classification who is qualified. If an employee has an emergency during a remote show-up assignment, the employee can exchange assignments with another qualified employee at the regular headquarters.
2.	Employees will be notified of the expected duration of assignments for remote show-up. Work assignments will be expected to last for at least one week. If the work lasts for more than 4 weeks, employees will have the opportunity to be removed from the assignment.
3.	Employees assigned to remote show-up will be allowed to work four days/10 hours per day on consecutive days, Monday through Friday if at all possible. The specific working conditions for the work schedule will be the same as described in Exhibit “M." If the assignment ts completed in the middle of a week, employees will report to their permanent headquarters for the remainder of the week and will remain on 4/1 O's for that week.
4.	The temporary location for reporting can be up to 30 miles, one way, from the permanent headquarters. The distance is defined by the shortest public thoroughfares. Employees will provide their own transportation and travel on their own time. Where the temporary location is a distance further than 30 miles, volunteers will be utilized.
5.	Employees will be reimbursed at the current company mileage rate for the increased incurred mileage resulting from the change in reporting locations. For example, if the employee normally travels 40 miles round trip to work and
77
now travels 66 miles round trip, the employee will be reimbursed for the additional 26 miles per day at the current company mileage rate.
6.	When employees are assigned to report to another headquarters, they will not be included on the new reporting headquarters overtime preference list. Overtime assignments and temporary promoting at the reporting headquarters will follow the current guidelines and be offered first to permanent employees of the headquarters before being offered to temporary assignees.
7.	Crews assigned to remote show-up will attend regular safety meetings on company time and at company expense.
8.	No employee will be required to work more than 80 days on remote show-up in a calendar year.
9.	When show-up sites are established at locations other than GPC locations, arrangements for security of employees’ vehicles, bathroom facilities, job posting notices, water and other necessary items will be provided where reasonably possible. It is understood that the Company will reimburse employees for stolen personal tools if these tools were locked in a designated secure area for the night.
78
EXHIBIT "J-2"
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON REMOTE SHOW-UP
This memorandum outlines the conditions for employees at Network Underground (Atlanta), The Repair Shop, and Materials (General Warehouse and in the Regions) reporting to a location other than their permanent bid headquarters. It does not apply to employees who are attending school.
1.	When an employee or a crew is chosen for remote show-
up, an employee or crew member who is unable to work the assignment will be allowed to find a substitute in the same classification who is qualified. If an employee has an emergency during a remote show-up assignment, the employee can exchange assignments with another qualified employee at the regular headquarters.
2.	Employees will be notified of the expected duration of assignments for remote show-up. If the work lasts for more than 4 weeks, employees will have the opportunity to be removed from the assignment.
3.	Employees assigned to remote show-up will be allowed to work four days/10 hours per day on consecutive days, Monday through Friday if at all possible. The specific working conditions for the work schedule will be the same as described in Exhibit "M." If the assignment is completed in the middle of a week, employees wilt report to their permanent headquarters for the remainder of the week and will remain on 4/10's for that week.
4.	The temporary location for reporting for Network Underground (Atlanta) and Materials (General Warehouse and in the Regions) can be up to 45 miles, one way, from the permanent headquarters. The distance is defined by the shortest public thoroughfares. Employees will provide their own transportation and travel on their own time.
5.	Employees will be reimbursed at the current company mileage rate for the increased incurred mileage resulting from the change in reporting locations. For example, if the
79
employee normally travels 40 miles round trip to work and now travels 66 mites round trip, the employee will be reimbursed for the additional 26 miles per day at the current company mileage rate.
6,	When employees are assigned to report to another headquarters, they will not be included on the new reporting headquarters overtime preference list. Overtime assignments and temporary promoting at the reporting headquarters will follow the current guidelines and be offered first to permanent employees of the headquarters before being offered to temporary assignees.
7.	Employees assigned to remote show-up will attend regular safety meetings on company time and at company expense.
8.	When show-up sites are established at locations other than GPC locations, arrangements for security of employees’ vehicles, bathroom facilities, job posting notices, water and other necessary items will be provided where reasonably possible. It is understood that the Company will reimburse employees for stolen personal tools if these tools were locked in a designated secure area for the night.
80
EXHIBIT "J-31
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON REMOTE SHOW-UP
This memorandum outlines the conditions for employees in Sections I and lll-A bidding into remote show-up positions. However, it does not apply to these employees attending school.
1.	Remote show-up positions will be bid at locations determined by management.
2.	Employees who bid to remote show-up positions will work four days, 10 hours per day. The specific working conditions for the work schedule will be the same as described in Exhibit "M" with the exception that employees who bid on remote show-up positions are volunteering for a 4/10 work schedule.
3.	The temporary location for reporting can be up to 45 miles, one way, from the permanent headquarters. The distance is defined by the shortest public thoroughfares. Employees will provide their own transportation and travel on their own time.
4.	Employees will be reimbursed at the current Company mileage rate for the increased incurred mileage resulting from the change in reporting locations. For example, if the employee normally travels 40 miles round trip to work and now travels 66 miles round trip, the employee will be reimbursed for the additional 26 miles per day at the current Company mileage rate.
5.	When employees are assigned to report to another headquarters, they will not be included on the new reporting headquarters overtime preference list. Overtime assignments and temporary promoting at the reporting headquarters will follow the current guidelines and be offered first to permanent employees of the headquarters before being offered to temporary assignees.
81
6.	When show-up sites are established at locations other than GPC locations, arrangements for security of employees’ vehicles, bathroom facilities, job posting notices, water and other necessary items will be provided where reasonably possible. It is understood that the Company will reimburse employees for stolen personal tools if these tools were locked in a designated secure area for the night.
7.	The temporary location for reporting can be up to 45 miles, one way, from the permanent headquarters. However, if the reporting location is more than 30 miles one way, employees will receive one $14 meal allowance per day to be included on their paycheck in addition to any meal allowances provided by Paragraph 42 of the MOA. The employee will be eligible for a total of no more than 3 meal allowances per day.
8.	Remote show-up crews will have on-site access to a telephone.
9.	Employees assigned to remote show-up will attend regular safety meetings on Company time and at Company expense.
10.	Management agrees not to abolish jobs and force employees into these remote show-up positions.
11.	Upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union or upon 21 days' written notice by either the Manager of Labor Relations or the Business Manager/Financial Secretary of Local 84, this exhibit may be discontinued. Working conditions will then be as outlined in the Memorandum of Agreement.
82
EXHIBIT "K1
Memorandum of Understanding on Section I
A.	The Parties agree to the following stipulations in Section I:
1.	The classifications of Utilityman, Helper, Truck Operator (TO) or Winch Truck Operator (WTO) may be used as entry -evel positions into Section I. It is understood that people employed into these classifications will not enter the Development Programs in Section I unless a vacancy is created as an Unassigned Apprentice Lineman (UAL) 1 or 2 in Section I.
2.	The parties agree to the following interpretations as they pertain to the development programs for Section I:
B.	For employees in Section I - In the event of a lav off due to a lack of work
1.	An employee whose job is abolished in the Crew Leader classification must exercise section seniority rights in the Journeyman (i.e., Lineman, Troubleman and Lead Lineman) or UAL2 classifications first. When a Journeyman is displaced, the Crew Leader will assume the classification of the Journeyman. When an UAL2 is displaced, the Crew Leader will become a Lineman. If there is not an UAL2 position available, the Crew Leader may exercise section seniority over any employee in Section I and become a Lineman.
2.	Employees displaced or whose job is abolished in Journeyman classifications must exercise section seniority rights in the Journeyman or UAL2 classifications first. When an UAL2 is displaced, the Journeyman will become a Lineman. If there is not an UAL2 position available, the Journeyman may exercise section seniority over any employee in Section I and become a Lineman.
3.	Employees displaced in the Utilityman, Helper, TO, WTO, UAL1 and UAL2 classifications may (if their seniority is sufficient) exercise seniority either in their own classification or tn a lower classification and retain their classification.
83
EXHIBIT “L’
ROUTE SELECTION BY FIELD SERVICE REPRESENTATIVES AND SENIOR FIELD SERVICE REPRESENTATIVES ("FSR’S”)
Management and Union (the "Parties") agree to allow FSR’s to select their areas and/or routes by Section Seniority. Areas and/or route selection will be completed by October 31, 1996, and every other year thereafter to be effective the following January 1. When hired or transferred to a different location, FSR’s will be assigned existing vacant areas and/or routes and work these areas and/or routes until new selections are made.
Appropriate and positive identification, including any uniforms furnished by the Company, must be worn at all times by all FSR’s while on duty except when called out for other emergency duty.
The Parties also agree to discontinue Side Letter 17 of the Side Letter Book in effect on July 1, 1996, consisting of 34 letters.
84
EXHIBIT *‘M’
SECTION lll-A (SUBSTATION MAINTENANCE) 4/10 AGREEMENT
The parties agree to the implementation of a work schedule of a 10-hour work period scheduled four days per week for Section lll-A as outlined below.
I.	SCOPE
A schedule of a 10-hour period, four days per week shall be implemented from the date of this agreement for employees in Section lll-A. The Company reserves the right to change such schedule at a later time consistent with the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement.
II.	WORK SCHEDULE
The regular work schedule for these employees, except in emergencies and except as provided in paragraph 37 of the Memorandum of Agreement, shall be four consecutive days of 10 continuous hours, plus time out for meals between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. or 40 hours per week, Mondays to Fridays inclusive. An exception to this provision will be that when employees are assigned to the Skills Development Center or other locations for training purposes, the regular work period for these employees may be as specified in paragraph 36(a).
In addition, employees rescheduled in accordance with paragraph 37(a) of the MOA shall be allowed to work a 10 hour work schedule four days per week.
85
III.	COMPENSATION
Pay
Employees working a 10-hour per day, four-day week schedule, will receive 10 hours' pay per day at the regular straight time rate.
Overtime
The overtime provisions of the Memorandum of Agreement will apply with the exception that reference to "8 hours" in paragraph 52(c) and 52(e) should be changed to "10 hours."
IV.	VACATION/SICK DAYS
Vacation and sick days shall be earned and charged in hours, i.e., an employee scheduled for a 10-hour work period shall be charged either 10 hours' vacation or sick if he is off for either reason.
V.	HOLIDAYS
Holidays will be observed on the calendar day on which they fall with the following exceptions:
While assigned to the new four-day per week schedule, upon mutual agreement between management and employee, holidays may be shifted to another day during the same working week with the understanding that all regular scheduled hours worked on the day originally scheduled as the holiday will be at the straight time rate (not to exceed 10 hours). When administering the holiday pay provisions of paragraph 41, any reference to "eight" hours should be changed to "10" hours.
86
VI.	EMPLOYEES TEMPORARILY RELIEVING AND SUBSTITUTING ON 4/10 CREW
1.	An employee who is working a five-day, eighthour schedule who is temporarily relieving or substituting in a crew for two weeks or less will be paid eight hours at the straight time rate and two hours at the overtime rate for all days worked on a 4/10 crew. The employee will be paid at the straight time rate for the regular 10-hour work day after the initial two-week period.
2.	An employee who is working a five-day, eighthour schedule and who is temporarily relieving or substituting in a crew for more than two weeks will work the same schedule as the 4/10 crew. The employee will be paid at the straight time rate for the regular 10-hour work days after the initial two-week period.
VIL TERMS
The 10-hour/four-day work schedule shall be voluntary with voluntary status being determined by 100% of the crew agreeing to work the 4/10 schedule. The Company reserves the right to determine which crews or employees may volunteer. Upon mutual agreement between the Company and the Union or upon 21 days’ written notice by either the Manager of Labor Relations or the Business Manager/Financiai Secretary of Local 84, this agreement may be terminated. Working conditions will then be as outlined in the Memorandum of Agreement.
Unless specifically referenced above, the terms and conditions of the Memorandum of Agreement shall apply.
Revision of the March 22, 1993, Section lll-A (Substation Maintenance) 4/10 Agreement
87
EXHIBIT ‘‘N’
UNIFORMS
A.	Management will continue the uniform program for the next contract period beginning in 2002 designed to support product branding.
B.	The uniform program will be for Distribution and Transmission employees in the following Sections: I, III-A, lll-B, lll-C VI-A, Vl-B, X, XIV, and XVII.
C.	For employees entering the uniform program for the first time, an allowance credit of $440.00 will be provided for the initial purchase of the uniform (shirts, jacket, cap) through the Company’s uniform supplier.
D.	On January 1, 2003, 2004 and 2005, employees participating in the program will be provided with an allowance credit of $250.00 for replenishment of uniform components.
E.	Management will be solely responsible for the design, implementation, and administration of this program.
F.	Employees participating in the uniform program will be responsible for cleaning and maintaining all uniforms in a presentable condition. After employees receive the uniform, they will wear the uniforms any time they are performing work for the Company. The uniform will not be worn for any other use.
G.	Uniforms damaged on the job will be considered for replacement on a case by case basis. Jackets that need replacement as a result of normal wear may be replaced soley at the discretion of management.
88
EXHIBIT “P"
THE CREATION OF SECTIONS lll-A AND lll-B
1.	Rename Section III, Substation Maintenance, to Section lll-A, Substation Maintenance.
2.	Create a new Section, Section lll-B, Transmission Line Maintenance.
3.	Allow the current Section I employees one, one-way lateral transfer to Section lll-B when jobs are posted (those employees who are in Section I on July 1, 2002).
4.	Section I seniority for those employees who are in Section I on July 1, 2002 will be treated the same as Section lll-B seniority when awarding jobs in Section lll-B.
5.	Section I seniority will transfer to Section lll-B when Section I employees bid to Section lll-B.
6.	The current Section I Journeymen who transfer to Section lll-B will retain one, one-way transfer back to Section I using their combined Sections I and lll-B seniority after working in Section lll-B for a minimum of two years.
7.	Allow the Section Vl-B employees one, one-way lateral transfer to Section lll-B when jobs are posted.
8.	Section Vl-B seniority will be treated the same as Section lll-B seniority when awarding jobs in Section lll-B.
9.	Section Vl-B seniority will transfer to Section lll-B when Section Vl-B employees bid to Section lll-B.
10.	The current Section Vl-B journeymen who transfer to Section lll-B will retain one, one-way transfer back to Section Vl-B using their combined Sections Vl-B and lll-B seniority after working in Section lll-B for a minimum of two years.
11.	Affected employees in either section transferring to
Section lll-B may combine seniority accumulated from Sections I and Vl-B to compete for Jobs In Section lll-B. Such combined accumulated seniority will transfer to Section lll-B.
12.	Transmission employees In Section I will remain in Section I until they choose to bid to Section lll-B.
89
13.	Employees in Section Vl-B will remain in Section Vl-B until they choose to bid to Section 1II-B.
14.	In the event of a layoff and/or job abolishment, employees in Section lll-B will retain their accumulated Section seniority (applicable to employees from Section 1 and Vl-B only) and may use this seniority to exercise seniority over employees In Section I or Vl-B (whichever is applicable), pursuant to the terms of Exhibit "K” in the Memorandum of Agreement.
15.	Employees in Section lll-B may use their combined seniority to exercise seniority over employees in Section lll-B.
16.	Management agrees to not abolish jobs for the purpose of forcing employees to move from either Section I or Vl-B to Section lll-B.
17.	Section lll-B may consist of the following classifications at the same wage scales listed in the Memorandum of Agreement:
•	Crew Leader
•	Lead Lineman
•	Lineman
•	Apprentice Lineman
•	Equipment Operator (Heavy)
•	Equipment Operator (Light)
•	Winch Truck Operator
•	Truck Operator
•	Helper
•	Utilityman
90
TOPICAL INDEX
Covering Employees in DISTRIBUTION
Paragraph	Page
Accident Investigation..........................12......................5
Address - Employees Notifying Company...........46.....................30
Agreement - Effective and Expiration Dates......70.....................41
Agreement - Scope and Sections...................2......................2
Amendments to Agreement.........................70.....................41
Appeal Right of Employees.......................63..................37,38
Apprentice Qualifications.......................15.....................11
Apprentice to Journeyman Ratio (Line Crews)....58 ..................36,37
Arbitration.....................................65.....................39
Attendance Issues/Pay for
Time Off......................13(a), 13(b), 13(c)...........5,6,7,6,9,10
Availability....................................46.....................30
Barehand..........................19(1), Exhibit *E"................17,70
Bargaining - Items Covered.......................1......................1
Bidding Procedure - Power Supply
and Power Delivery.......................19(f)...............14,15,16
Blueslipping (temporary promotion)..............23..................19,20
Bluesipping (temporary promotion)
to Foreman.........................Exhibit "A’...............45,46,47
Call Back During Vacation....................13(a)..................5,6,7
Call Out - Time Allowed.........................54.....................35
Care for Immediate Family....................13(b)......................8
Certification
(Fleet Mechanics).......Exhibit "A" Section XVI....................60
Check-off of Union Dues........................6,7......................3
Co-ops and Student Engineers.....................5....................2,3
Crew Leader Qualifications...................19(e)..................13,14
Crew Makeup.....................................58	 36,37
Demotion due to Incompetency...........27(a), 27(c).................21,22
Demotion due to Lack of Work.................26(a)..................20,21
Demotion from a Higher Classification........19(b)..................12,13
Discharge for Lack of Competency................15.....................11
Discharge for Reasonable Cause.............9,30,63.............4,23,37,38
Discharge Grievances.........................63,64	 37,38
Divisions.......................................IB.....................11
Dues Check-off (Paying Membership).............6,7......................3
Eight Hour Break.............................52(f)..................33,34
Employees Covered by Agreement...................2......................2
Expenses (Overnight).........................42(1)..................27,28
Expiration Date.................................70..................41,42
Field Service Representative (FSR) Route
Selection..........................Exhibit 'L'.....................84
Gloving 25KV...........................Exhibit *E’....................70,71
Grievance Procedure............................64.....................38
Grievance Time Limits..........................64.....................38
Helpers, Garage.............Exhibit ‘A’ Section XVI..............53,60,67
Helpers, Overhead Line Crews...........59,Exhibit "K*...............37,83
Holiday Occurring during Vacation............13(a)......................7
Holiday Pay for Working on Holiday.13(c),52(h),54 .............9,10,34,35
Holidays.....................................13(c)...................9,10
91
TOPICAL INDEX (Continued)
Covering Employees in DISTRIBUTION
Paragraph	Page
Incremental Increases..................Exhibit “A"................45,46,47
Journeyman Qualifications..........17(a),19(a),19(e)..............11,12,13
Jury Duty....................................13(a).......................5
Layoff Due to Lack of Work................20.26(a)................18,20,21
Layoff or Discharge -
Management's Rights.....................9,30,63..............4,23,37,38
Leave of Absence to Take Other Jobs..........31,32...................23,24
Legality Clause (Legality of the Contract)......68......................40
Line Crew Classification Make-up................58...................36,37
Loss of Driver’s License.....................27(d)......................22
Loyalty and Efficiency..........................10.......................4
Management’s Rights..............................9.......................4
Meals Furnished by Company...................42(7)......................28
Meal Guidelines..............................42(7)......................28
Medical Examinations............................62......................37
Meetings - Time Off for Union...................44......................29
Nationally Televised Events.....................49......................31
New Employee Qualifications..................14,15......................11
New Employee Trial Period........................3.......................2
Non-Discrimination Clause.......................69......................41
Off Duty (Defined)...........................52(f)......................33
Overtime Distribution................49,	Exhibit “F"............31,32,72
Overtime Pay....................................52................32,33,34
Pay - Packing Bags..............................54......................35
Pay - Regular rates..........................50,51......................32
Pay - Wage Schedules...................Exhibit “A”...................48-68
Pay - While Employees on Union Business.........44......................29
Pay - Work in Higher or
Lower Classification................23,Exhibit T............19,20,75,76
Positions Not Covered by Contract...............32...................23,24
Posting Rules...................................67......................40
Plant Operator Selection System (POSS) Test ... 19(a)................11,12
Prearranged Work - Definition................42(7)....................  28
Prearranged Work - Cancellation.................55......................35
Promotion....................................19(a)...................11,12
Promotion - Conditions under which made.........56......................36
Promotion Not Made by Seniority..............22(a)..................... 19
Promotion - Pay Increase...............Exhibit "A” ...............45,46,47
Promotion to Crew Leader...........19(a), 19(b), 19(c)............11,12,13
Promotion to Lead Lineman  ..................19(e)...................13,14
Promotion to Sr. Cable Splicer.....19(a)(13),19(c).................11,12,13
Promotion to Sr. Ductline
Mechanic........................19(a)(13),19(c)................11.12,13
Promotion - Unable to Accept
Due to Disability.........................19(h)......................17
Promotion Waived by Employee.................19(e)...................13,14
Rain - Working in............................43,47	 29,30
Rainsuits, Gloves, etc. Furnished...............47	   30
Rate of Pay - Regular........................50,51......................32
Rates - Increases within Ranges........Exhibit “A”...................45-68
Recall from Vacation.........................13(a).....................6,7
TOPICAL INDEX (Continued)
Covering Employees in DISTRIBUTION
Paragraph	Page
Re-employment after lay-off..................26(a)..................20,21
Remote Show-up...........Exhibits"	J-1",‘J-2" &’J-3"...........77,79,81
Report for Work, Inability to...................45.....................29
Representation of Employees......................1......................1
Request for Transfer...................19(e),19(f)............13,14,15,16
Rescheduling Work Period, Right to
and Notice Required.......................37(a)..................25,26
Route Selection for Field Service Reps.Exhibit “L".....................64
Safety..........................................11....................4,5
Saving Clause - Legality of Agreement...........68.....................40
Scope of Agreement...............................2....................2,3
Section III 4-10’s Agreement...........Exhibit “M"...............85,86,87
Sections.........................................2......................2
Sections - Wage Schedules..............Exhibit “A"..................45-68
Seniority for Transfers................19(e),19(f)...............13,14,15
Seniority for Shift Selection...................40..................26,27
Seniority for Vacation Selection.............13(a)..................5,6,7
Seniority of Journeymen in Sections I
and XVI...............................19(a)(13)..................11,12
Seniority for Lack of Work......................20.....................18
Seniority for Lay-off and Re-employment......26(a)..................20,21
Seniority Loss..................................28.....................22
Servicemen - Merger of Classifications
into Section I......................Exhibit ”D".....................69
Shift Differential.....................Exhibit "A"...............45,46,47
Shift Employee Defined.......................37(b).....................26
Shift Exchange by Employees.....................39.....................26
Shift Selection...........................19(g),40...............17,26,27
Sick Leave...................................13(b)..................7,6,9
Stand-by Defined................................53.....................34
Storm Duty.............................42(1),42(7),49.........27,28,31,32
Strikes or Lockouts.............................66.....................40
Sunday Work - Pay for Non-shift Employees....52(g).....................34
Sunday Work - Reschedule to Work.............37(a)..................25,26
Telephone, Employees Required to Have...........48..................30,31
Temporary Promotion (Blueslip).........23,Exhibit T..............19,20,75,76
Temporary Promotion (Blueslip)
to Foreman..........................23,Exhibit "A”......19,20,45,46,47
Transfer - Lateral and Cross-Section.......19(e,f)............13,14,15,16
Transfer - Request for.......................19(e)..................13,14
Trial Period of Employment.................3,19(m)................2,17,18
Troubleman Shift Selection...................19(g).....................17
Trouble Training Period.........................24.....................20
UAL-1 & UAL-2...................................*
Uniforms...............................Exhibit *N".....................88
Union Activity on Company Property..............44.....................29
Union Business during Regular Work Periods.....44......................29
Union, Employees Right to Join...................8......................3
Union Notified Regarding Vacancies.....19(e),22(b)...............13,14,19
Vacancy Filled by Promotion..................19(a)..................11,12
Vacancy Filled by Transfer.............19(e),22(a)...............13,14,19
TOPICAL INDEX (Continued)
Covering Employees in DISTRIBUTION
Paragraph	Page
Vacation.....................................13(a)..................5,6,7
Veterans Rights.................................29.....................23
Wage Rates...........................50, Exhibit “A".............32,45-68
Wage Rates - Hourly Equivalent..................51.....................32
Weekend Line Crews...........................36(c).....................25
Work Hours Defined..............................53.....................34
Work in a Higher or Lower Classification.................23,Exhibit T...............19,20,75,76
Working in the Rain..........................43,47..................29,30
Work on Saturday, Sunday, Nights.......36(c),37(a)..................25,26
Work Period.......................  33,36(a)(b)(c)..................24,25
Work Period Rescheduling.....................37(a)..................25,26
Work Week.......................................38.....................26
•See Lineman 2000 Development Program Agreement