Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref(o)cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: KeySpan Energy and Utility Division, Transport Workers Union of America (TWU), AFL-CIO Local 101 (2001)
K#: 6043
Employer Name: KeySpan Energy
Location: NY
Union Utility Division, Transport Workers Union of America (TWU), AFL-CIO
Local: 101
SIC: 4924	NAICS: 221210
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 1350
Effective Date 10/16/01	Expiration Date: 10/15/05
Number of Pages: 267	Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
W=

Agreement
between
Key Span Energy
t^and
Local 101,
Utility Division, Transport Workers Union of America,
AFL - CIO
October 16, 2001
to October 15, 2005
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT INDEX
Article	Subject	P«ge
I	Union Recognition and Purposes of Agreement.	3
II	Union Security......................................... 4
111	Discrimination......................................... 6
IV	Job Security................................
V	Temporary Employees................................... 10
VI	Business Process Improvements......................... 12
VII	Veterans.............................................. 14
VIII	Strikes and Stoppages................................. 15
IX	Grievance Procedure and Arbitration................... 16
X	Wages................................................. 18
XI	Gainsharing Award Program............................. 27
XII	Hours of Work and Overtime............................ 29
XIII	Sunday and Holiday Work............................... 31
XIV	Pay for Change of Schedule and Call-In......	32
XV	Holidays and Personal Days............................ 33
XVI	Vacations............................................. 34
XVII	Leaves of Absence..................................... 37
XVIII	Disabled Employees.................................... 38
XIX	Pensions.............................................. 39
XX	Employee Savings Plan................................. 41
XXI	Employee Benefit Plan................................. 41
XXII	Group Life Insurance.................................. 42
XXIII	Health Insurance...................................... 44
XXIV	Same Sex Domestic Partner Benefits.................... 51
XXV	Existing Benefits..................................... 52
XXVI	Facilities in Aid of Agreement........................ 52
XXVII	Work by Outside Contractors............................ 53
XXV	] Il	Management Trainees................................ 55
XXIX	Safety and Safety Committees.......................... 55
XXX	Incentive Pay Committee................................ 57
XXXI	Pilot Programs........................................ 57
XXXII	Syneigy Savings....................................... 6°
XXXIII	Electric Storm Restoration............................ 60
XXXIV	Scope of Agreement.................................... 61
XXXV	Federal or State Laws................................. 61
XXXVI	Duration of Agreement................................. 61
XXXVII	Notice................................................ 62
Appendix 1	 63
Appendix 2	 66
Appendix 3	 67
2
AGREEMENT made as of this 15th day of October, 2001, between KEYSPAN ENERGY, a New York corporation having its principal office at One MetroTech Center, Brooklyn, New York (the “Company”) and LOCAL 101, UTILITY DIVISION, TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO, having its office at 5724 Second Avenue, Brooklyn, New York (“Local 101” or the “Union”), The panics agree as follows;
Article I
UNION RECOGNITION AND
PURPOSES OF AGREEMENT
1,	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agency for wages, hours and other conditions of employment for all of the employees of the Company in the bargaining unit set forth in the certification of the National Labor Relations Board, dated February 1, 1961 in Case No. 2-RC-11131. Such bargaining unit covers and applies to all employees for the work usually performed by them in the classifications and job titles set forth in appropriate schedules and made a part hereof. The Union is also recognized as the bargaining agency for employees in new classifications hereafter established by mutual agreement and covered by this agreement.
2.	The Company agrees that if it creates a separate business to perform work which is currently being performed within KeySpan Energy (e.g., appliance service), the separate business will recognize Local 101 as the collective bargaining representative for all physical service, maintenance and operations employees and clerical employees (to the extent permitted by law) performing that work in Brooklyn, Queens, Manhattan and the Bronx utilizing collectively bargained compensation rates, systems and work rules required to assure the success of the new business.
3.	The following classifications of employees shall not be deemed to be included in or covered by the terms of this agreement. Those employed as executives, superintendents, heads of Areas, forepersons, or in a managerial or supervisory capacity, certain skilled technical employees in the chemical laboratories other than those who have by mutual agreement heretofore been included in the bargaining unit and employees engaged in confidential capacities. The Union shall not accept for membership any of the employees in these classifications, or their successors.
3
4,
The committee established of Company and Union representatives io address and resolve matters related to unit accretion for all job titles created since July 1986 shall be continued.
The Company agrees to provide the Union with information related to new management positions created since July 1986 including but not limited to a listing of jobs and job descriptions.
The Union agrees that during the term of this agreement, the Union waives its right to have any third party, agency, board or court resolve any unit determination and/or related issues.
5.	The purposes of this agreement are to make provision for the terms and conditions of employment for the employees in the bargaining unit, to establish an orderly collective bargaining procedure between the Company and the Union, and to secure a prompt and fair disposition of grievances.
The Company and the Union realize that the services performed by them are pertinent and essential to the operation of a public utility and to the welfare of the public dependent thereon. It is the further purpose of this agreement to eliminate interruptions of work and interference with the efficient operation of the Company’s business.
Article II
UNION SECURITY
1.	It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the Company covered by this agreement who are members of the Union in good standing on the effective date of this agreement shall remain members in good standing and those who are not members on the effective date of this agreement shall, on or after the thirtieth day following the effective date of this agreement, become and remain members in good standing in the Union, It shall also be a condition of employment that all employees covered by this agreement and hired on or after its effective date shall, on or after the thirtieth day following the beginning of such employment become and remain members in good standing in the Union.
2.	The Company, upon the written request of the Union, shall discharge any employee who shall fail to fulfill the condition aforesaid, but it assumes no obligation to discharge any employee if it has reasonable grounds for believing either that membership in the Union
4
was not available to the employee on the same terms and conditions generally applicable to other members, or that membership was denied or terminated for reasons other than failure of the employee to tender the periodic dues and the initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.
3,	The Company may hire whomever it chooses and nothing in this Article contained shall be construed to affect the probationary status of employees during the first twelve (12) months of their employment, or to limit in any respect the Company’s prerogatives herein to discharge or take any other action towards such employees during said period in its sole discretion. Nor shall anything in this Article contained be construed to affect the temporary status of employees during the period they are carried on the payroll as such or to limit in any respect the Company’s prerogatives herein to discharge or take any other action towards such employees during said period in its sole discretion-
4.	Should any employee whose discharge from the Company is sought by the Union pursuant to this Article claim that the employee has been discriminated against by the Union or claim such discharge to be a violation of law, or in the event the Company shall question the legal propriety of such discharge, the Company may refuse to discharge the employee; whereupon the propriety of the discharge sought by the Union shall be subject to arbitration as herein provided.
5.	The Company will make payroll deductions of current dues of members of the Union and will pay such dues so deducted to the Union, provided that no deductions shall be made hereunder except as permitted by law, in pursuance of an authorization signed by the individual employee in the form or forms agreed to by the parties.
6.	The Company will make payroll deductions of One dollar and Fifty cents ($1.50) per week per member of the Union and will pay such amounts to the Union for its Strike/Lockout Fund, provided that no deductions shall be made hereunder except as permitted by law in pursuance of an authorization signed by the individual employee in the form or forms agreed to by the parties.
7.	a. The Union and the Transport Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO, (the ’‘International”) represent to the Company that the Transport Workers Union Political Contributions
5
Committee (also known as the Committee on Political Education or “COPE”) is a separate segregated fund to be utilized for political purposes as defined by the Federal Election Campaign Act, as amended, 2 U.S.C. ^44lb(by2).
b.
The Company agrees to provide individual employees who are members of the Union the opportunity to authorize and direct the Company to make payroll deductions in increments of $0.25 from their weekly wages to be assigned and paid over to the Transport Workers Union Political Contributions Committee by the Company on a weekly basis. Any employee who authorizes and directs that such wage deductions be made shall be required to execute a written authorization in a form acceptable to the Company.
c. The Union and the International agree that the funds collected pursuant to this section wilt not be used for purposes which are directly adverse to the Company.
Article III_____
DISCRIMINATION
1.	The Company agrees that it will not interfere with, restrain or coerce employees because of membership or lawful activity in the Union, nor will it, by discrimination in respect to hire, tenure of employment or any term or condition of employment, attempt to discourage membership in die Union.
2.	The Union agrees that neither the Union nor its members will intimidate or coerce any employee in respect to the employee’s right to work, and further that there shall be no solicitation of employees for Union membership or dues on Company time. The Union shall not discriminate in any way as to admission to or membership in the Union, or otherwise, against any persons who are now or may hereafter be employed or be restored to, or reinstated in employment by, the Company.
3.	The Company and the Union agree that neither the Company nor the Union will discriminate against any employee because of such employee’s race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation or citizenship status.
6
Article IV_______________________________________________________________
JOB SECURITY
1.	The Company agrees that it will not lay off any member of Local 101 who was a full-time regular employee of Brooklyn Union on March 18, 1997 in connection with the merger between Brooklyn Union and LILCO. This will not preclude transfers of employees pursuant to the terms of this agreement, or the offering of targeted voluntary severance programs to such employees.
2.	In case of demotions, layoffs or transfers preferred consideration will be given to those employees having the necessary qualifications who are senior in service with the Company,
3.	In all cases of promotion of employees from one classification to another within the bargaining unit, the following factors shall be considered:
a.	Length of continuous	service;
b.	Knowledge, training,	ability, skill and efficiency;
c.	Physical fitness; and
d.	Attendance record.
Where factors b, c, and d are relatively equal, the length of continuous service shall govern.
4,	In case of promotion, the Union shall be consulted by the Company and may present recommendations which will be considered by the Company prior to final action by it. In cases where time does not permit such prior consultation the Company shall take temporary action.
5.	In any case in which it shall be contended that the Company has failed to fulfill its obligations to consult with the Union and to consider its recommendations, the Union may present the matter as a grievance and it shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of Article IX and subject to the limitations of this agreement.
6.	it is not the intent of the foregoing paragraph to affect the undertaking of the Company under prior agreements to consult with the Union and consider its recommendations, if any, with respect to demotions, layoffs or transfers (except transfers at the request of
7
I
I
the employee) and the provisions of the foregoing paragraph are without prejudice to the position of either party under prior agreements as to arbitrability of any matters affecting promotions, demotions, layoffs or transfers.
7.	The Company shall, fully consult with the Union respecting any transfers made necessary by reason of technological improvements or centralization of facilities and shall exert every possible effort to effect such transfers with a minimum of detriment to employees.
8.	a. In computing seniority, credit shall be allowed for aggregate service for all employment whether or not continuous, and including periods of absence on approved leave, except as provided below.
b.	Where a “Temporary Employee” is employed as and attains the status of a “Regular Employee” the aggregate of the temporary periods of employment shall not be added to the period of regular employment in determining the employee's length of service, but the employee’s service shall date from the beginning of the employee’s most recent employment.
c.	The status of an employee with respect to length of service after absence from the Company’s payroll shall be determined upon the employee’s reemployment and made a condition of reemployment.
d.	A regular employee laid off by reason of lack of work who is reemployed within six (6) months of the date of such layoff shall be given credit for continuous service.
9.	a. Employees shall be discharged or disciplined only for just and proper cause. The Union shall have the right to challenge the propriety of such discharge or disciplinary action, and any such discharge or disciplinary action shall be considered a . dispute or grievance to be dealt with in accordance with the grievance and arbitration procedure hereinafter set forth, except as hereinafter provided as to probationary and temporary employees.
b.	It is understood that in case of wrongful discharge or disciplinary action the arbitrator may order reinstatement of the employee with back pay and without the loss of any rights, provided that the Union shall have submitted the
8
grievance in accordance with the grievance and arbitration procedures hereinafter provided.
c.	The Company may layoff, discharge or discipline any probationary or temporary employee in its discretion and such action shall not be the subject of arbitration hereunder. A probationary employee is a new employee who may be required by the Company to serve a probationary period of twelve (12) months. A full-time “Temporary Employee’’ who has been employed by the Company for at least twelve (12) consecutive months and who attains the status of a full-time “Regular Employee” shall be on probationary status for six (6) months from the date of employment as a “Regular Employee.” A temporary employee is an employee hired or carried on the Company payroll as such.
10.	The right to select and hire, promote, discharge or discipline for cause, to maintain discipline and efficiency of employees, to determine schedules of work, is the sole responsibility of the Company. Should any question arise as to the reasonableness of any new schedules of work, the Company shall upon request of the Union, consult with the Union with respect to any such question.
11,	The parties will cooperate in order to assure employees laid off for lack of work after May 1, 1961 a maximum opportunity for reemployment by the Company and will establish a procedure to accomplish this purpose.
12.	In the case of employees on the payroll of the Company on July 15, 1977, each such employee who has experienced a break in service shall be credited with 75% of the employee’s service before such break.
13.	In the case of employees on the payroll of the Company on October 15, 1998, employees who have experienced a break in their service with the Company shall be credited with 100% of their service before such break for purposes of computing Company seniority and years of service if they left the Company and returned to its employ by October 15, 1998 and informed the Company of it by December 31, 1999. This credit for prior service will not apply for purposes of the Employees Retirement Plan for Local 101 Members, which is governed by the rules applicable to that Plan. Moreover, the employee’s most recent
9
i
hire date will determine the applicable retirement health insurance and life insurance coverage.
I
1	Article V_____________
1	TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
I.	a. As of March I, 1998, the Company agreed that no more than 5% of its workforce who are members of Local 101 shall be employed as full-time temporary employees. That percentage shall be calculated using a total Local 101 workforce denominator which does not include summer employees, parttime temporary employees and temporary meter readers employed pursuant to an agreement dated April 4, 1997.
b. Should the Company’s full-time temporary workforce who are members of Local 101 exceed the percentage agreed to in paragraph 1 (a), the Company shall reduce the number of fulltime temporary employees until the percentage is reduced to the applicable percentage specified in paragraph 1(a).
2.	The parties recognize that full-time temporary and part-time temporary employees are currently being utilized in a number of different physical and clerical positions in a number of different areas of the Company, and that some of these positions are regular (more permanent) positions. The parties also recognize that by choosing ceilings on the overall numbers of temporary employees in paragraphs 1 and 4 instead of listing specific positions, the parties intend to accord the Company flexibility in its use of full-time and part-time temporary employees in both current and additional areas of the Company. However, nothing in this Article shall be considered as a concession by Local 101 that temporary employees may be utilized to fill “permanent” positions or that they can be utilized in areas and in positions, without union consent, where they were never utilized before, nor be considered or cited in any way as a narrowing of the Company’s rights to utilize temporary employees provided for in other Articles of this Agreement.
3.	a. Any temporary employee employed for more than twelve (12) consecutive months as a full-time temporary employee shall become a full-time regular employee in the same job classification with all rights and benefits attendant to a newly hired probationary employee; except that any benefit already earned as a temporary employee, such as paid vacation, shall not be forfeited.
10
b. Full-time temporary employees employed as “shotgun riders” in Customer Field Services who become full-time regular employees as per paragraph 3(a) shall be promoted, at a minimum, to a new position which shall be called Field Force Apprentice. This position shall have a fixed (pegged) rate of pay of $354 per week as of September 1, 1997; this pegged rate shall be increased by the rates of the general wages increases, but shall not receive any other pay increases. Employees placed in other full-time regular positions shall receive the appropriate pay rate of those positions.
a.	As of September 1, 1997, the Company agreed that the number of Local 101 members employed as part-time temporary employees shall not exceed 54,
b.	As of October 16, 1998, the Company agrees that the number of Local 101 members employed as part-time temporary employees shall not exceed 70.
c.	As of October 16, 1999, the Company agrees that the number of Local 101 members employed as part-time temporary employees shall not exceed 80.
d.	As of October 16, 2000, the Company agrees that the number of Local 101 members employed as part-time temporary employees shall not exceed 85.
e.	No full-time regular employee shall be replaced by two or more temporary part-time employees as a means of eliminating regular full-time jobs. However, the parties recognize that the Company may deem it appropriate, in certain circumstances, to utilize temporary part-time employees in place of full-time positions (e.g., to meet peak periodic or seasonal work loads; for scheduling flexibility; or to accommodate employees who request a change from fulltime to part-time status).
f.	Part-time temporary employees who work an average of 40 hours or more per week on a regular basis shall be considered full-time temporary employees and shall be subject to the terms of paragraphs 1 and 3 above.
11
5.	Should the Union agree io experimental projects which temporarily increase the number of temporary employees for a limited period of time above the ceilings set forth in Paragraph 1, employees employed in such projects shall not be counted for purposes of paragraphs 1,2 or 3 and do not receive any of the benefits prescribed by this Article.
6.	Effective January 1, 2002, full-time regular employees who were formerly employed as full-time temporary employees and who were hired as regular employees pursuant to an agreement between the parties made on or about August 31, 1997 will receive credit for service time actually accrued subsequent to their initial twelve months of full-time temporary employment for purposes of seniority and benefits, subject to the terms of the Employees Retirement Plan of KeySpan Energy for Local 101 Members. An employee must be employed as a full-time regular employee of the Company on January 1,2002 in order to receive credit for prior service. Such service credit shall affect seniority and benefit accruals on a prospective basis only and shall not entitle any employee to retroactive benefits, except as to pension accruals, which are subject to the terms of the Employees Retirement Plan of KeySpan Energy for Local 101 Members.
Article VI
BUSINESS PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS
1. Increased competition and uncertainty in the natural gas industry require, more than ever before, that the Company and the Union work together with a cooperative spirit. With this in mind, the Union and the Company commit to work collaboratively to achieve the Company’s objective of becoming the premier energy company in the Northeast, To this end, the Union and the Company agree to work together to enhance the Company’s ability to grow by enhancing productivity through innovation, efficiency and cost containment, providing flexibility and reshaping the Company to meet the demands of a changing marketplace. The Union and the Company recognize the need for employee involvement in this process and for an enhanced labor-management relationship which emphasizes communication, cooperation and problem solving in a professional and mutually respectful manner.
12
The Union agrees to cooperate with the Company to achieve the successful completion of the Company’s Business Process Improvement (BPI) objectives, including but not limited to such items as the conducting of experimental projects to realign job responsibilities around re-engineered processes, in an effort to improve customer satisfaction, improve productivity and promote growth. The Company affirms its commitment to conducting any projects which it proposes as part of its BPI program in a fair, nondiscriminatory manner. The Company further affirms that the employment terms and conditions will be fully reviewed with the Union prior to the commencement of projects and prior to the permanent implementation of changes in its operations resulting from such projects. Any permanent changes proposed by the Company which substantially change the jobs of the Union’s members will be the subject of good faith negotiations between the parties, and are subject to the terms of this agreement, including the grievance procedure, the arbitration clause and Article IV. Should the Company determine to initiate a BPI project involving the Union’s members, the following procedure shall apply, to the extent practicable:
a.	The Company will review Ute components of a BPI project at least 30 days prior to its implementation at a meeting of the joint Union-Company BPI Committee.
b.	BPI projects will be scheduled for definite periods of time, to be discussed with the Union, although projects may be extended as necessary. The parties will meet as appropriate to discuss the status and progress of BPI projects, and to review changes which are necessary and appropriate to the projects,
c.	Participation by employees in BPI projects will be based on appropriate employees volunteering for a project, and where additional employees are needed, the Company shall make appropriate selection of qualified employees on an as-needed basis, taking into account, when possible, employee seniority and the special needs of involuntary participants. No additional compensation shall be paid for such participation,
d.	After completion of a BPI project, should the Company choose to permanently implement a change in operations which substantially changes the jobs of Union members, the parties will negotiate the terms and conditions of
13
employment for affected members. Should they be reach agreement concerning wage rates । implementation, these issues shall be resolved unde procedures covered by the terms and conditions agreement, and shall be subject to the grievance procet^^^^^™ arbitration clause and Article IV.
e.
The joint Union-Company BPI Committee will have me from each party including the Union President and annro
Union officers, and Company officers and appro^^^^"
members. The Committee will be responsible for discus-------------
BPI projects, exploring appropriate applications for incen
compensation or other reward systems, and discussing or proposals for improving operating efficiencies and qualr including technological advances.
f. Nothing in the BPI Committee process is intended to affect th Company’s management rights to design, implement and stat new projects, consistent with this agreement.
Article VII
VETERANS
The Company will continue its present policy towards employees who are inducted or who enlist in the Armed Forces of the United States except that such policy will not be continued in the case of employees hired after April 1, 1963. The Company further agrees to accord the same rights to any veteran who may be reemployed, whether or not such veteran is entitled to reemployment by statute, provided the veteran was in the employ of the Company at the time of enlistment or induction, and provided further that within ninety (90) days of an honorable discharge, the veteran makes application for reemployment and is reemployed. Nothing herein shall be construed to requite the reemployment of any veteran who is not entitled to reemployment by law. In effectuating such policy, the personnel adjustments reasonably required as a result thereof shall be made as follows: All employees having temporary status shall be demoted, transferred or laid off before any regular employees are affected, the order of demotion, transfer or layoff of such employees having temporary status to be determined on the basis of seniority.
Should any question arise as to the administration of the provisions of the foregoing paragraph, the Company shall upon request of the Union consult with the Union with respect to any such question.
14
Article VIH_____________
STRIKES AND STOPPAGES
The Company and the Union being in agreement that the way to preserve job security, increase jobs and improve the welfare of the workers is to increase the good will and prosperity of the business and that this is accomplished in large part through prompt, courteous, interested, loyal and complete service to the public on the part of employees, and it therefore being to the mutual interest of the Company, the Union and the employees, that the business of the Company shall continue without inconvenience to the public, the Company and the Union agree as follows:
1.	The Union agrees that there shall be no strikes, walkouts, stoppage or slowdown of work, boycotts, secondary boycotts, refusal to handle any merchandise, picketing, sitdown strikes of any kind, sympathetic or general strikes, or other interference with any of the operations of the Company during the term of this agreement, so long as the grievance procedure for which provision is made herein is followed by the Company and the Company abides by the result of arbitration therein provided.
2.	The Company agrees that there shall be no lockout during the term of this agreement so long as the grievance procedure for which provision is made herein is followed by the Union and the Union abides by the result of arbitration therein provided.
3.	a, in connection with the undertaking of the Union contained in Subdivision I of this Article, the Company agrees that the Union shall not be responsible for the acts or declarations of employees who are neither members, officers, trustees, stewards nor delegates of the Union.
b.	In the case of its members, the Union shall not be responsible for their acts or declarations in violation of Subdivision 1 of this Article unless such acts or declarations shall have been authorized, instigated or condoned by it.
c.	The right of the Company to discipline its employees for violation of Subdivision I of this Article shall remain unimpaired.
15
Article IX_____________________________________________________________
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE AND
ARBITRATION
Should any dispute arise in the application of any provision of this agreement or as to any facts calling for the application thereof, either the Company or the Union may submit such dispute for determination by compliance with the procedure hereinafter provided, except that, as to matters reserved to the Company by Article IV, 9, the only matter therein contained which shall be subject to arbitration is the discharge or discipline of any employee.
In the event that either the Company or the Union considers the other party to have violated any of the provisions hereof, the party which considers itself aggrieved shall give timely notice to the other party, setting forth in detail its grievance and the parties agree that they will meet and endeavor to adjust and settle amicably the dispute, misunderstanding or grievance complained of as hereinafter provided.
The parties agree to discuss concepts to improve the current grievance and arbitration procedure.
Grievance Procedure
1.	A grievance shall be submitted to the immediate supervisor of the employee within fourteen (14) days after occurrence of the events giving rise to the grievance.
2.	If no satisfactory result follows from the submission aforesaid, the grievance shall, within twenty-one (21) days after the occurrence of the events giving rise to the grievance, be submitted to local management to be taken up at the local grievance committee meeting, such meeting to be held within five (5) days after the submission of the grievance.
3.	If no satisfactory result follows from the submission aforesaid, the grievance shall within thirty (30) days after occurrence of the events giving rise to the grievance, be submitted to the major grievance committee meeting, such meeting to be held within seven (7) days after the submission of the grievance,
4.	If no satisfactory result follows from the consideration of the grievance by the major grievance committee, it may be referred to arbitration as hereinafter provided.
16
5.	In case of a dispute of a general nature, as distinguished from grievances affecting individual employees, any such dispute shall be submitted for consideration at the major grievance committee meeting by the Company or the Union, as the case may be, within thirty (30) days after the dispute arises, or, in the event the dispute is one, submission of which to the local grievance committee meeting may appropriately be required, said dispute shall be submitted in the first instance at the local grievance committee meeting within fifteen (15) days after the dispute arises.
6-	All submissions, except those made to the immediate supervisor, shall be in writing.
7.	Failure to present disputes or grievances as in this Article provided shall result in a waiver of all rights involved, except in the case of continuing situations when failure to present the dispute or grievance shall result in a waiver of the rights involved only up to the date of the presentation of the dispute or grievance.
Arbitration Procedure
1. The party desiring arbitration, the Company or the Union, as the case may be, shall within thirty (30) days after submission of the grievance or dispute to the major grievance committee, give to the other party written notice that the matter is to be submitted to arbitration and shall specify the question or questions to be arbitrated. The period within which notice of arbitration is required to be given hereunder may, however, be extended by written stipulation of the parties.
.2. In a dispute as to whether or not an employee has been discharged for just and proper cause, either party shall have the option to give notice of arbitration, without exhausting the grievance procedure, and the parties shall cooperate to bring the matter to arbitration.
AU such disputes and grievances, and all disputes arising out of or in any manner connected with this agreement which the parties are unable to adjust or settle among themselves (except such as are not subject to arbitration hereunder), shall be submitted to arbitration by an arbitrator mutually agreeable to the parties.
17
I
3.	It is distinctly understood and agreed that the arbitrator shall have no power to alter or modify the terms of this agreement. No action in । abrogation of this agreement or contrary to any of its terms shall be taken by any party hereto unless the party against whom such action is to be taken shall have failed or refused to abide by the terms of this Article.
4.	The administrative costs of arbitration, including the arbitrator’s fees and expenses, are to be shared equally by the Company and the Union. All other costs of arbitration shall be borne by the party who incurred such costs.
Procedural Requirements
ft is distinctly understood (hat no conduct by either party in the handling of grievances or in connection with the submission of disputed matters to arbitration shall be regarded as a waiver by either of any of the procedural requirements of the grievance or arbitration procedure, except that such technical requirements may be waived in writing in individual cases.
Article X
WAGES*
1. Wages
a.	General Wage Increases Genera] wage increases will be made in amounts equal to the specified percentage of the wages being paid to the particular employee on the day prior to the effective date of each increase except as otherwise specified below: 1.	Effective October 16,	2001,	3.5%; 2.	Effective October 16,	2002,	3.5%; 3.	Effective October 16,	2003,	3.75%; 4.	Effective October 16,	2004,	3.75%.
^Retroactive payments, if any, are to be made in accordance with past practice of the Company.
18
b. Adjustments to Wages and Job Responsibilities
I.	Gas Business Unit Career Path
A modified career path structure is established for certain Gas Business Unit (“GBU”) (formerly Engineering Customer Field Services) physical job classifications, and various wages will be aligned across several areas, providing career opportunities for employees and flexibility for the GBU. A chart showing die new career path structure is attached as ■	Appendix 2.
a.	(1) Effective October 16, 2001, the wage progression schedule for the job classification Meter Reader Post 98 (#2689) is extended from 24 months to 36 months, from a minimum weekly wage rate of $398.52 to a maximum weekly wage rate of $541.73 (before application of the general wage increase), and adjusted accordingly.
(2) Effective October 16, 2001, employees in the job classification Meter Reader Post 98 (#2689) will not be eligible for transfer or promotion to any other job classification until they have accrued 24 months of active service in the classification Meter Reader Post 98. For purposes of this paragraph, full-time regular employees who are in the job classification Meter Reader Post 98 (#2685) on October 15, 2001 will be credited for active service that they have already accrued in that job classification.
b.	Effective October 16, 2001, the job classification Field Force Apprentice (#2268) has a 12-month wage progression schedule, from a minimum weekly wage rate of $385.00 to a maximum weekly wage rate of $412,04 (before application of the general wage increase), and with progression intervals set in accordance with existing practice. Employees who are in the job classification Field Force Apprentice (#2268) on October 15, 2001 will be eligible
19
for their next progression step on the new wage progression schedule six months after October 16, 2001.
c.	A new Field Operations Inspection career path is established, which consolidates the existing Paving Inspection, Construction Inspection, Main and Service Inspection and Survey career paths. The following new job classifications and corresponding minimum and maximum hourly wage rates are established (before application of the general wage increase):
Field Ops Inspector “A” Field Ops Inspector “B” Field Ops Inspector "C”
Minimum
$23,54
$21,90
$19.37
Maximum
$25.03
$22.36
$20.53
d.
e.
The wage progression schedule for each new job classification is 60 months, and progression intervals set in accordance with existing practice.
The following job classifications will be eliminated: Construction Inspector (#2851), Construction Inspector “B” (#2854), Construction Inspector “A” (#2852), Paving Inspector (#2717), Paving Inspector “B” (#2718), Paving Inspector “A” (#2720) and Inspector Paving (#2386). Employees who are in foe job classifications Construction inspector “A” (#2852) or Paving Inspector “A” (#2720) on October 15, 2001 will be placed in the job classification Field Operations Inspector “A” at their cunent wage rate (before application of the general wage increase).
The job classifications Survey Person (#2806) and Survey Person Post 98 (#2691) will be eliminated, and the responsibilities of those job classifications assumed by employees in the job classification Field Operations Inspector “B”.
20
f. Effective October 16, 2001, the job classification Service Person C Mtr & Appl Post 92 (#2726) is retitled Service Person C Post 98,
2.	Client Services Career Path
A modified career path is established for the Customer Relations Group job classifications, and various wages will be aligned across several areas, providing career path opportunities for employees and flexibility for CRG. A chart showing the modified career path is attached as Appendix 3
a.	Effective October 16, 2001, the job classification Associate Customer Service Representative Post 01 is established, with a wago progression schedule of 48 months, from a minimum weekly wage rate of $395.00 to a maximum weekly wage rate of $750,00 (before application of the general wage increase), and with progression intervals set in accordance with existing practice. Employees who are in the job classification Associate Customer Service Representative (#2739) on ' October 15,2001 will remain at their current weekly wage rate and their current wage progression schedule (before application of the general wage increase).
b.	Effective October 16, 2001, the job classification Customer Service Teller Post 01 is established, with a wage progression schedule of 36 months, from a minimum weekly wage rate of $398.00 to a maximum weekly wage rate of $545,00 (before application of the general wage increase), and with progression intervals set in accordance with existing practice. Employees who are in the job classification Customer Service .	Teller (#2247) on October 15, 2001 will remain at their
current weekly wage rate and their current wage progression schedule (before application of the general wage increase) and in their existing career path, insofar as they will retain the opportunity for promotion to the job classification Associate Customer Service Representative (#2739) with the preOctober 16, 2001 wage progression.
c.	(1) Effective October 16, 2001 the job classification Voicelink Representative (#2632) is retitled Customer Service Assistant and has a 36-month wage progression schedule, from a
21
minimum weekly wage rate of $395,00 to a maximum weekly wage rate of $425,00 (before application of the genera! wage increase), and with progression intervals set in accordance with existing practice. Employees who are in the job classification Voicelink Representative (#2632) on October 15, 2001 are increased to the new minimum weekly wage rate of $395.00 (before application of the general wage increase) effective October 16,2001.
(2) Effective October 16, 2001, the job classification Voicelink Rep P/T (#2652) is retitled Customer Service Assistant P/T.
3.	The Company may hire persons in the entry level job classifications at any prescribed rate above the minimum provided that all employees in such classifications receiving less than the rate at which such hiring takes place shall be increased to such rate.
4.	Employees holding unit accretion jobs on or before July 15, 1986 will be paid at the wage rates for that position which include the general wage increases given in the October 15, 1986 agreement (called “pre” wage rates). Employees entering into a unit accretion job after July 15, 1986, will be paid at the wage rates applicable to the “post” position.
5.	Appropriate schedules will reflect the above provisions relating to wages,
6.	Wage progression
Wage progression schedules reflect the changes in wage rates.
7.	Career Pathing Committee
a.	The Company and Union recognize the importance of providing employees with the opportunity to advance within the Company. The Company and Union agree to establish a Career Pathing Committee to examine and explore career pathing structures, to give employees greater job flexibility and opportunities for growth and development in the various areas of the Company while at the same time enhancing Company productivity, flexibility and efficiency in a rapidly changing marketplace. The Committee will also
22
examine wage progression issues related to career patting.
b.	The Company and the Union agree that a career path will be established to allow utility employees to transfer to KHES. The parties agree to establish a joint Career Pathing Committee with representatives of KHES to explore and promote career growth opportunities in KHES, including granting preference in hiring to utility employees.
8.	Shift Differential
Pay practices regarding payment of shift differential shaft be as follows:
a.	Shift differential will be paid to employees normally scheduled to work on a shift which has hours between 6:00 p.m. and 6.00 a.m. only, in accordance with the following rules:
i.	Employees normally scheduled to work on a shift shall receive a differential of 7 1/2% per hour for the actual hours worked between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight.
ii.	Employees normally scheduled to work on a shift shall receive a differential of 8% per hour for the actual hours worked between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
b.	Employees hired after October 15f 1998 who are normally scheduled to work on a shift shall receive a fixed shift differential of $ 0.75 per hour for the actual hours worked between 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
9.	Wage Progression Plan
a.	The Company and the Union have agreed to a plan for making wage increases within tbe wage rate ranges applicable to the classifications set forth in appropriate schedules which also reflects the stipulated Progression Points and Progression Intervals applicable to the plan.
23
b.	Increases to Progression Point
Employees below the Progression Point of their classification shall be considered for progression increases to the amounts and at the intervals set forth in appropriate schedules. Increases up to the Progression Point may be withheld only for good and sufficient cause, and the Union shall be notified at the time of such withholding.
c.	Increases from Progression Point to Maximum
Employees at the Progression Point shall be considered for a progression increase to the maximum set forth in appropriate schedules. Increases above the Progression Point shall be determined at the discretion of the Company, hot shall be subject to appeal through the grievance and arbitration procedure in case of any claim that the Company has acted in an arbitrary or capricious manner in its determination of such increases.
d.	Effective Dates of Increases
Effective dates of all increases under this plan will be the beginning of the week following the completion of the applicable intervals.
10.	The Company will confer with the Union should any dispute arise as to the classification of any individual employee, and, should the parties be unable to agree, the matter shall be considered a grievance subject to the procedure herein provided for the adjustment thereof.
11.	In the case of the promotion of any employee from one rating to another, the maximum of which is more than the maximum of the employee’s former rating, such an employee shall be entitled to a minimum increase in compensation of $6.00 per week except in the, event that such increase would result in a rate in excess of the established maximum in which case the employee shall be paid the maximum rate. If the minimum increase above provided results in a rate above the nearest applicable progression rate as set forth in appropriate schedules, then the rate for such employee shall be increased to the next higher applicable progression rate. Employees who are informed that they have been selected for a promotion shall receive the rate of the classification to which they are
24
promoted no later than thirty (30) days after the date they are so informed.
12.	Temporary Assignments
a.	Employees temporarily assigned to a higher classification shall receive at least the minimum rate of pay of such higher classification while so assigned in accordance with existing practice; employees temporarily assigned to lower ■ classifications shall receive the regular rate of the higher classification while so assigned.
b.	Unless the parties have agreed to a temporary assignment for a longer period before such assignment is made, no such assignment shall continue for more than three (3) months. ■	However, in any case after an employee has been temporarily
assigned, the Company may seek the approval of the Union for an extension of the temporary assignment beyond such three-month period and the approval of the Union shall not be unreasonably withheld.
c.	In any case in which a temporary assignment continues for more than a week, the affected employee shall for the duration of said assignment receive holiday pay on the basis of the higher rate and, should the assignment be further continued, sick benefits may be adjusted to meet the equities of the individual case.
d.	A clerical employee while temporarily assigned for more than two (2) weeks to a higher classification, when the maximum of the employee's classification is equal to or greater than the minimum of the higher classification, shall receive a minimum increase in compensation of $6.00 per week, commencing with the third week of such assignment and for as long as such assignment shall continue.
25
J 3. Summer Employees
Wage rates for summer employees will be increased by the general wage increases as follows:
a.	Clerical Effective October 16,2001,	$299.70 per week; Effective October 16, 2002,	$310.19 per week; Effective October 16,2003,	$321.05 per week; Effective October 16,2004,	$332.29 per week.
b.	Physical Effective October 16,2001,	$8.15 per hour; Effective October 16,2002,	$8.44 per hour; Effective October 16,2003,	$8.74 per hour; Effective October 16, 2004,	$9.05 per hour.
14.	Direct Deposit of Wages
a.	The Company will no longer issue paper pay checks to employees, but will instead directly deposit the wages of every employee directly into the bank account or accounts specified by the employee for that purpose.
b.	This direct deposit of an employee’s wages shall not cause any employee to be subject to an administrative, processing or other fee by their bank. However, the Company does not guarantee that a bank or automatic teller machine network will not charge a transaction fee for other transactions. The Company agrees that it will endeavor to arrange for employees to have access to a free personal checking account at a local bank or financial institution, at no cost to the Company.
c.	The practice of providing salary advances to employees has been discontinued, except that the Company will provide salary advances, for vacation pay only, by direct deposit upon timely request by an employee. Vacation pay advances shall be provided by direct deposit not earlier than the regular pay day immediately preceding the employee's vacation.
d.	In accord with the parties’ Agreement regarding the direct deposit of wages, the Company and the Union agree to
26
eliminate all prior practices of providing employees with additional paid or unpaid time off during the work day to cash or deposit payroll checks or otherwise obtain cash from the employees’ personal bank accounts.
e.	Due to the substantial benefits to both the Company and the Union and its members with respect to their agreement regarding the direct deposit of wages, including the savings realized by both the Company and the employees in eliminating paper paychecks and bank teller transactions and their associated fees, the benefit to employees in having their wages available earlier in the payday than under present payroll practices, and in consideration of other benefits secured by the Union under this Collective Bargaining Agreement, the Union expressly intends the direct deposit agreement to be a knowing and voluntary waiver of the provisions of Section 192 of the New York State Labor Law and any similar statute or regulations, and it is the understanding and intent of the parties that such waiver is valid and enforceable with respect to and on behalf of the individual members of the Union who are employed by the Company.
Article XI__________________________________________________________
GAINSHARING AWARD PROGRAM
The Company and the Union agree to continue an annual Corporate Gainsharing Award Program, whereby regular full-time employees and, effective calendar year 1999, temporary full-time and temporary part-time employees who are members of the Union will be eligible for monetary awards for their contributions to achieving employee and corporate financial goals. Goals for the program will be set by the Company each plan year and must be approved by the Company’s Board of Directors for each year. Goals will be communicated to employees as soon as practicable after approval.
The structure of the gainsharing award program for calendar year 1999 includes corporate and group performance goals, with certain financial triggers.' The awards range from 0% to 5% of an employee’s actual annual base wages. Awards will be calculated based on an employee’s actual base wages earned during the fiscal year and the Company shall use its best efforts to distribute the awards as soon as practicable following the end of the plan year. An employee must be employed with the Company at the time of distribution of awards to be eligible to receive an award.
27
Effective calendar year 1999, in the instances set forth below, gainsharing awards will be prorated as follows:
a.	Regular full-time and temporary full-time employees who have been employed for the full plan year are eligible for a full potential award.
b.	Temporary part-time employees who have been employed for the full plan year and who worked an average of at least 20 hours per week ate eligible for a gainsharing award in the amount of 50% of what a temporary full-time employee in the same job classification would receive.
c.	Full-time, temporary full-time and temporary part-time employees who have not been employed for the full plan year are eligible for a gainsharing award in accordance with the following schedule:
Employed before January 31:
Employed between February 1 and June 30:
Employed on or after July 1:
Eligible for full potential award
Eligible for 50% of potential award
Not eligible for award
Amounts received under this Program shall be included in the employee’s regular rate for purposes of computing daily and weekly overtime pay for the applicable fiscal year and will be treated as compensation for purposes of the Company’s Retirement Plan benefit calculations in the year the payments are actually received. However, amounts received under this program after retirement or death will not be treated as compensation for purposes of the Company’s Retirement Plan benefit calculations. Amounts received under this Program shall not be included in the determination of any other benefits or compensation.
The parties agree that the administration of this Program, including modifying the structure of the Program, the setting of goals, the determination of whether goals have been met, and the computation of awards, if any, under this Program is in the sole discretion of the Company and shall not be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure or review by any third party, court or agency.
28
Article XII_______________________________________________________________
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
1.	The Company shall be free to fix the hours of work for each employee, provided that a normal workday shall consist of not more than eight (8) hours, and except in the case of certain clerical ratings for employees hired before October 15, 1986, as hereinafter provided, a normal workweek for each employee shall consist of not more than forty (40) hours. Such hours shall be exclusive of the daily lunch period of not more than one (1) hour, but shall include rest periods as now or hereinafter permitted by the Company under its rules and regulations or as provided by law.	'
2.	The normal workweek for employees in clerical ratings who were hired before October 15, 1986, and who formerly had a normal workweek of less than forty (40) hours has heretofore been established at thirtyseven and one-half (37.5) hours. Employees working in said ratings shall be compensated for all time worked in excess of thirty-seven-and one-half (37.5) hours in the particular week at straight time rates, and for time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in the particular workweek as herein generally provided. Miscellaneous vacation days and holidays shall be counted as days worked for the purpose of computing weekly overtime and for the purpose of the payment provided in Subdivision 2 of Article XIII.
3,	For employees hired after October 14, 1986, the normal workweek for all clerical ratings shall be forty (40) hours, and such employees shall be paid at the rate of pay specified in the agreement.
4.	Hours of employment during each day, shall, with the exception of luncheon or supper recess, be continuous, except as in accordance with present practice.
5.	a. Any work performed in excess of eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week shall be considered overtime and shall be paid for at the rate of one and one-half (1 1Z2) times the regular rate; provided however, that no employee shall be permitted to work overtime or receive any payment for overtime unless said overtime shall, prior to the beginning thereof, have been approved by the Company’s supervisor or with the supervisor’s authority, and further provided that in the case of an employee who receives overtime or premium
29
compensation for work on a particular day, the hours worked on such particular day shall not be considered for the purpose of computing weekly overtime compensation to be paid to such individual, except as in accordance with existing practices of the Company.
b.	Overtime work shall be equalized among employees as far as is practicable.
c.	Should any of the holidays recognized in Article XV hereof occur during the workweek, such holidays shall be deemed time worked (eight hours or seven and one-half hours, as the case may be) for the purpose of computing weekly overtime (i.e., time in excess of forty (40) hours) and for the purpose of the payment provided in Subdivision 2 of Article XIII.
6.	A shift employee required to work continuously through two successive shifts shall be afforded a meal not later than two (2) hours after the end of the first shift or a meal allowance in lieu thereof. Employees other than shift employees shall be afforded a meal or a meal allowance in lieu thereof when required to work continuously two (2) hours or more overtime. Any employee, who by reason of an emergency call-in, is required to report to work two hours or more prior to the start of the employee’s scheduled working time, and is required to continue to work through the employee's normal work day, shall be afforded a meal, not later than four (4) hours after the time the employee started working, or a meal allowance in lieu thereof. It is understood that time off for meals is not compensable.
7.	The meal allowance is as follows:
a.	October 16, 2001 through December 31,2001 .........$	9.00
b.	January 1,2002	through December 31,2002 ..........$	9.25
c.	January 1,2003	through December 31,2003 ......... $	9.75
d.	January 1,2004	through October 15, 2005 ..........$10.00
8.	a. The Union agrees to cooperate with the Company in the creation of 10 hour and 12 hour shifts in those areas of the Company where the Company deems it appropriate. These shifts will be structured so that they will not cost
30
the Company more, including overtime costs, than would an 8 hour shift.
b.	The Company will solicit employees to voluntarily work 10 hour and 12 hour shift schedules, and the Union will not discourage employees from volunteering for such shifts.
c.	The parties agree that if the number of volunteers in any Area falls below the 10 and 12 hour shift schedules' staffing requirements, as determined solely by the Company, then such shifts shall be staffed, after notice to the Union, first with employees (in inverse seniority order) hired after October 15, 1995 (such employees having been hired with the understanding that such shift work is a required condition of employment), then with employees (in inverse seniority order), who transfer into the subject department after October 15, 1995 (such employees having transferred with the understanding that such shift work is a required condition of the transfer). Should such shifts still not be fully staffed, the Union and the Company will meet in an effort to find a way to bring about sufficient staffing. The Company reserves the right to determine if it has a sufficient number of employees to proceed with a shift, and to discontinue a shift upon seven days’ notice.
Article XIII______________________________________________________________
SUNDAY AND HOLIDAY WORK
I.	A premium of thirty percent (30%) shall be paid for straight time worked on Sunday. An employee entitled to overtime (including call-in) compensation for Sunday work shall not be eligible for such premium, it being understood that the payment of such premium is limited to straight time only.
2.	Employees (whether or not called in) required to work on a day on which they are not scheduled to work and when such day represents their seventh consecutive day of work shall be paid two times the regular rate for work on such day.	.
3.	Employees required to work on a holiday referred to in Article XV hereof shall receive their regular day’s pay and in addition time and one-half their applicable rate for work on such day.
31
Article XIV_________________________________________________________
PAY FOR CHANGE OF SCHEDULE
AND CALL-IN
1.	In rhe case of a change in an employee’s regular working schedule, unless the employee is given twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of said change, the employee shall then be entitled to compensation at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular rate for the first eight (8) hours worked by the employee, pursuant to said change of schedule.
It is understood that this premium in the case of a change of schedule without proper notice, shall not be payable with respect to time worked by an employee for which the employee is entitled to additional compensation pursuant to Paragraph 3 of Article XIII with respect to holidays.
2.	An employee, called in on any day on which the employee is not scheduled to work (excepting Sundays and holidays recognized by this agreement), and when the employee is not entitled otherwise to time and one-half for work on such day, shall receive compensation at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular rate for work on such day.
3.	An employee called in to work on a Sunday on which the employee is not scheduled to work and when the employee is not entitled otherwise to overtime pay for work on such day, shall be at one and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular rate for work on such day.
4.	An employee called in to work on a holiday recognized by this agreement on which the employee is not scheduled to work and when the employee is not entitled otherwise to overtime pay for work on such day, shall receive compensation at one and one-half (1 1/2) the regular rate for work on such day in addition to the employee’s regular day’s pay.
5.	An employee (whether or not called in), required to work on any day on which the employee has not been scheduled to work, shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours pay, any allowed time (as distinguished from time worked) to meet this minimum to be at the employee's regular rate.
6.	An employee will be deemed to be called in to work if, on the last working day prior to the day on which the employee is
32
requested to report, the employee is asked to report tor work on any day when the employee is not scheduled to work, provided such request be made after the employee has left the Company premises, or (if employed elsewhere than at a plant or office of the Company) such request be made after the employee has quit work and left the employee’s particular place of employment, wherever that may be.
Article XV______________________________________________________
HOLIDAYS AND PERSONAL DAYS
I.	With respect to the following:
*	New Year’s Day
Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Birthday
President’s Day
Memorial Day
Independence Day
Labor Day
Thanksgiving Day
Day after Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Eve
Christmas Day
An employee shall receive pay for each of the above, provided that the employee shall have worked a full day upon the employee’s last scheduled working day preceding such holiday, and also upon the employee’s first scheduled working day succeeding such holiday, unless the employee’s absence on either of such days occurred with the express consent of the employee’s supervisor.
2.	Should any of the holidays recognized above fall on an employee’s scheduled day off, or on a Saturday in the case of an employee whose normal workweek is five (5) days, Monday to Friday, such employee shall not be deprived of the employee’s holiday rights if eligible therefor pursuant to the proviso in Subdivision I above. It is agreed, however, that the Company shall have the right to determine whether or not such a holiday is to be celebrated by giving time off to the particular employee, but in any event such holiday rights (pay and/or time off) will be accorded on the next preceding or the next succeeding working day when feasible, and if this is not feasible, within two (2) weeks before or after the date on which such holiday occurs.
33
3.	If a holiday falls on a Sunday and it is celebrated on Monday, Monday shall be considered the regular holiday. If a holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday before or the Monday following shall be considered the regular holiday at the election of the Company.
4.	The provisions hereof are subject to applicable state and federal legislation changing the date on which any of such holidays shall be celebrated.
5.	a. An employee shall receive pay for two personal days in a calendar year.
b.	The Company through its Employee Benefit Plan for Local 101 Members, will provide recipients of Perfect Attendance Awards with a floating personal day in lieu of these recipients receiving cash payments or savings bonds. This floating personal day must be taken during the calendar year in which it was awarded, and will be based upon perfect attendance in the previous year. Perfect Attendance Awards will be awarded to employees who have actually worked the entire previous twelve months without any unexcused absences, or absences due to sickness or injury, absences due to sickness in family or absences due to disciplinary suspensions during that twelve month period.
c.	Personal days shall be granted and scheduled on a calendar year basis at the request of the employee in accordance with the Company’s needs. The Company will use Its best efforts to grant personal days requested by an employee for purposes of religious observance.
Article XVI_______________________________________________________________
VACATIONS
1.	Vacations with pay shall be granted in accordance with the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth as follows: (a) one (1) week to employees hired on or before September 30 of the preceding calendar year; (b) two (2) weeks to employees hired on or before September 30 of the second preceding calendar year; (c) three (3) weeks to employees who have completed four and one-quarter (4 1/4) years of service as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year; (d) four (4) weeks to employees who have completed thirteen and three-quarter (13 3/4) years of service as of December 31 of the preceding
34
calendar year; (e) five (5) weeks to employees who have completed twenty-three (23) yean of service as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year; (f) six (6) weeks to employees who have completed thirty-three (33) years of service as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year.
With respect to Subdivision 1(a), employees hired on or after October 1 of a calendar year will receive no vacation in the next calendar year and one (1) week in the subsequent calendar year.
2.	Hourly-paid employees entitled to vacations of one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4), five (5) or six (6) weeks shall receive forty (40), eighty (80), one hundred twenty (120), one hundred sixty (160), two hundred (200) or two hundred forty (240) hours’ pay, as the case may be.
3.	Should any of the holidays recognized by this agreement be celebrated during a vacation period, the particular employee shall be entitled to an additional day off with pay (eight (8) hours in the case of hourly-paid employees), which shall not necessarily be contiguous to the employee’s vacation period.
4.	An employee shall receive vacation pay at a rate higher than the employee’s regular rate in the following instances: (a) in case the - employee has worked in a higher rated position for a period of at least three (3) months prior to the employee’s vacation and it is reasonable to assume that the employee would have continued on such assignment had the employee not gone on vacation, or (b) in case, at the time the employee takes vacation, the employee is regularly assigned as a relief person in higher-paid jobs on a definite schedule, or (c) in case the employee is a utility person regularly assigned on shift to cover absenteeism; in each such case an employee’s vacation rate will be based on an average rate, exclusive of overtime and premium pay, computed for the three (3) months immediately preceding the vacation period. In every other case, the rate of pay for vacation purposes shall be the regular rate at which the particular employee is then being carried on the payroll (as distinguished from the rate at which the employee may actually be compensated on temporary assignment) during the normal workweek immediately preceding the vacation period.
5.	Whenever practicable, the Company shall grant vacations on a consecutive basis and at the time desired by the employee; but vacations must be taken within the twelve month period
35
following the date upon which they become due and may not be accumulated.
6.	Employees shall not be permitted to forfeit their vacations for additional pay from the Company except (a) in case of retirement under the Employees' Retirement Plan for Local 101 Members on other than January I of any year, such an employee shall have the option of taking vacation in the usual manner or receiving pay in lieu of vacation, or (b) in case of an employee otherwise entitled to a vacation, who was on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31 immediately preceding retirement and who is retired under the Employees’ Retirement Plan for Local 101 Members on January 1 of any year, such an employee shall receive pay in lieu of vacation for the year in which the employee retires, or (c) in any other case as the Company, in its discretion, may determine.
7.	Vacation rights vest hereunder on December 31 of the particular year, but only in qualified employees having the requisite prior service with the Company who are on the payroll and (except for those employees who retire January 1 under the Employees’ Retirement Plan for Local 101 Members) who are actually employed by the Company on December 31.
8.	Vacation rights vested as above provided shall not be divested by reason of the death of a particular employee; in such a case payment will be made to the executors or administrators of such employee or to other persons pursuant to the decedent estate law.
9.	In addition to the rights provided in Subdivisions 6 and 7 above, employees retiring under the Employees’ Retirement Plan for Local 101 Members shall be entitled to a pro-rated vacation in the year of retirement, e.g.: employees retiring on February 1 would be entitled to one-twelfth of their vacation rights; employees retiring on December 1 would be entitled to eleven-twelfths of their vacation rights. Similarly, in the case of a deceased employee, vacation benefits will be pro-rated and paid to the spouse or estate of a deceased employee, in addition to the payment specified in Subdivision 8 above.
10.	Full-time temporary employees who have been employed by the Company for at least twelve (12) consecutive months immediately preceding December 31 of any calendar year will be allowed one week of vacation with pay in the immediately following calendar year.
36
11.	Part-time employees who have been employed by the Company for at least twelve (12) consecutive months for an average of at least twenty (20) hours per week immediately preceding December 31 of any calendar year will be allowed twenty (20) hours or vacation with pay in the immediately following calendar year. ■
12.	Effective October 16, 2001, employees will not be eligible for vacation pay advances.
Article XVII_______________________________________________________________
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
1.	Leaves of absence may be granted at the discretion of the Company for not more than six (6) months and extended for a similar time, and when so granted or extended the employee shall be assured of a return to employment without loss of standing. Applications for leaves of absence or extension thereof must be made in writing to the Human Resources Division of the Company and the granting of such leaves of absence or extension thereof must be in writing from the Human Resources Division.
2.	Any employee elected or appointed to an office in the Union which requires a continuous and extended absence from the employee’s regular work, shall, upon written application therefore, as herein above provided, be granted such leave of absence without pay and without loss of seniority for such time as such office is held, but in order to maintain the employee's service record with the Company said leave of absence must expire within thirty-six (36) months after the same is granted, but may, at the discretion of the Company, be extended.
3.	The Company’s family leave policy shall include parental leave of up to three (3) months for fathers and adoptive parents of children under school age with a reimbursement of those costs for health insurance which normally would be paid by the Company, if the employee returns to work after the leave to full time active duty status for a period of six (6) months.
4.	If you are a member of the reserves, you may receive full pay for two (2) weeks only of military leave each year.
5.	The Company and the Union agree to establish a joint committee to explore strategies to reduce sick leave usage.
37
Article XVIII____________________________________________________________
DISABLED EMPLOYEES
1.	In the event an employee shall become unable to perform the employee’s normal duties because of a mental or physical disability, the Company will attempt but shall not be required to provide the employee with work. In any such case, an employee having fifteen (15) years or more of service but less than twenty (20) years shall not be subject to a reduction in compensation in excess of 10% of the rate of the employee’s compensation at the time the disability was incurred, in any such case, an employee having twenty (20) years or more of service shall not be subject to any reduction in the rate of the employee’s compensation at the time the disability was incurred. In its attempt to provide such a disabled employee with work, the Company will not confine itself to employment opportunities in a particular area, but will seek to find a place for the employee throughout the Company.
2.	Should any disabled employee become aggrieved by reason of any change of status suffered in connection with any such disability, the matter shall be handled as a grievance under the grievance procedure prescribed in this agreement but shall not be subject to arbitration hereunder.
3,	The Long-Term Disability (LTD) Insurance Plan will be provided to employees and administered by the Company through a payroll deduction. The Company agrees to offer this insurance as part of its Flexible Benefits Program, the full cost of which will be paid by the employee through an after-tax payroll deduction.
4.	The Company values the work of its employees and recognizes their valuable contributions to the continuing success of the Company. When an employee is unable to perform the full duties of the employee’s job because of injury, the well being of both the Company and the employee are adversely affected.
38
To this end, the Company and the Union agree to form a Workers’ Compensation Committee to expedite the review and processing of employee claims and treatment in connection with injuries sustained by employees while on the job and to return the employee to work as soon as possible.
Article XIX____________________________________________________________
PENSIONS
1.	Pension benefits are provided in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Employees’ Retirement Plan of KeySpan Energy for Local 101 Members and nothing herein contained shall modify or change such Retirement Plan in any respect, except as follows:
a.	The early retirement allowance has been improved by eliminating the 2% per year early retirement reduction for employees who retire at or after the age 55 and before age 60 and whose ages and years of credited service combined equal at least 85.
b.	Effective January 1, 1991, upon the death of an employee in active service, the surviving spouse shall receive a retirement allowance equal to the greater of (1) the spouse’s benefit as currently calculated under the Retirement Plan, which benefit is the employee’s retirement allowance actuarially reduced to take into consideration the employee’s age at death if it is less .	than age 60 and the payment of a 50% survivor’s benefit or
(ii)	the amount calculated as if the employee retired on a disability retirement immediately before dying and selected a 50% survivor’s benefit.
c.	Commencing on or after January 1, 1990, the disability retirement allowance payable on or after a Plan member’s normal retirement date shall equal the disability retirement allowance payable prior to the member’s normal retirement date, reduced by One Dollar ($ 1.00) per month.
2.	The Union agrees that it will pay the Company One Hundred dollars ($ 100.00) each month on behalf of each Union officer participating in the Plan who is on a leave of absence from the Company due to his or her position as a Union officer.
39
3.	Effective April 1, 2002, the Employees’ Retirement Plan of KeySpan Energy for Local 101 Members (“Plan”) will be amended with respect to disability retirements as follows:
a.	If an employee with fifteen (15) or more years of service at age 45 or over becomes disabled, as determined by the longterm disability carrier or the Social Security Administration, the employee may retire as early as age 55 and will receive continued service accruals under the Plan to age 65, with benefits calculated using the employee’s current salary for each year until retirement
b.	If an employee with at least ten (10) years of service becomes disabled, as determined by the long-term disability carrier or the Social Security Administration, the employee may retire as early as age 55 and will receive two (2) years added to the employee’s service accruals under the Plan
c.	All employees with ten (10) or more years of service who are eligible for disability retirement under the Plan will be eligible for retiree medical, dental and life insurance benefits.
4.	Effective December I, 2001, the Employees’ Retirement Plan of KeySpan Energy for Local 101 Members (“Plan”) will be amended to add a new level income benefit option, which may be elected as early as age 55 and which would provide the retiree approximately 50% of the social security benefit that would be paid at age 62, in addition to the pension benefit, so that the retiree’s income would remain approximately the same before and after reaching age 62, when social security benefits would begin.
5.	The Company will provide a new Cash Balance Retirement Plan for employees who are members of Local 101 and who are hired on or after October 16, 2001. Employees hired on or after October 16, 2001 are not eligible to participate in the Employees’ Retirement Plan of KeySpan Energy for Local 101 Members, except for persons who are employed by the Company as full-time temporary employees on October 15, 2001 and who are subsequently hired by the Company in its sole discretion as regular employees.
40
Article XX___________________________________________________________
EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN
As described in detail in the KeySpan Energy Employee Savings Plan for Local 101 Members, the Company shall make a matching contribution to the Savings Plan equal to one-third of the first Thirty Dollars ($30,00) of Deferred Cash Contributions made by a member to the Savings Plan each week, which the member invests in the Company Common Stock Fund, The Company’s matching contribution will be used to purchase Company Common Stock for the member’s account under the Savings Plan and such Common Stock will be purchased at the prevailing discount under the Savings Plan. The complete Savings Plan documents contain the vesting schedule for these matching contributions and other aspects of the Savings Plan.
Article XXI__________________________________________________________
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN
1.	The Company will maintain a Flexible Benefits Program for employees
who are members of the Union.
2.	To encourage stress-free timely commuting, as well as provide a benefit to commuting employees, as soon as practicable after January 1, 1999, the Company will implement an employee-paid pre-tax Transitchek Program.
Transitchek is a voluntary program open to all regular full-time employees who have completed three months of continuous service and enables employees to deduct up to $65,00 a month ($780 per year) from their wages before taxes to purchase Transitchek vouchers. Transitcheks will be distributed on a quarterly basis.
Employees will be made aware that the employee’s participation in the program reduces the amount of his or her wages that are subject to federal, state and local taxes, including FICA, and that this will reduce an employee’s Social Security benefits.
3.	The Company agrees to reintroduce on a one-year trial basis an Employee Suggestion Program to reward employees for the implementation of their ideas that result in productivity improvements or cost savings. The Company will discuss with the Union the details of the Employee Suggestion Program before its introduction. The' Company reserves the right to discontinue this Program at any time.
41
The Union agrees that the Company’s administration, modification and/or discontinuance of this Program is in the Company’s sole discretion and is not subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this agreement,
4.	The Company has established a smoke-free workplace policy throughout all of the Company’s facilities. However, at the request of the Union, the Company agrees to designate two rooms in the Greenpoint facility as “smoking areas.’* At the present time, these two locations are the LNG Control House Smoking Lounge and a room in the Fleet Services CSD Garage (formerly the Chauffeur’s room). The Company reserves its right to change the location of the two designated smoking rooms in the Greenpoint facility. The Union agrees not to contest the Company’s elimination of all other smoking rooms in all of its facilities, including its building at One MetroTech Center.
5.	Effective January 1, 2002, the Company will offer to employees a plan administered by The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife), through which employees may opt to purchase and pay for automobile and homeowners insurance for their personal cars, homes and other personal property through payroll deductions. The Company may modify or discontinue this plan in its sole discretion and such modification or discontinuance is not subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of this agreement.
Article XXII___________________________________________:__________________
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE
I.	a. Effective January 1, 1999, the Company shall maintain group life insurance coverage for its eligible employees to provide death benefits equal to two (2) year’s current compensation which shall be payable to the estates or designated beneficiaries of such employees.
b. The Company agrees to continue to offer additional life insurance to employees who are members of the Union and insurance to their spouses and dependents as part of its Flexible Benefits Program, the full cost of which will be paid by the employee through an after-tax payroll deduction.
42
2.	The Company shall also provide in the case of active employees, insurance coverage for accidental death or dismemberment equal to one (1) year’s current compensation,
3.	The Company shall provide* in the case of active employees, in addition to the above, Occupational Death Insurance with coverage of $50,000.00.
4.	a. For employees hired before October 15, 1986, there shall be no reduction in the coverage provided in Subdivision la. above for the first year following an employee’s normal retirement from the employ of the Company; but thereafter the amount of coverage shall be reduced ten percent (10%) each year commencing with the second year following retirement, except that coverage shall in no event be reduced more than fifty percent (50%). This paragraph did not become effective until June 1,1957.
b.	Effective January 1, 1994 (or such earlier date as the Company, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate), employees hired before October 15, 1986, there shall be no reduction in the coverage provided in Subdivision la. above for the first year following an employee’s normal retirement from the employ of the Company; but thereafter the amount of coverage shall be reduced ten percent (10%) each year commencing with the second year following retirement and five percent (5%) each year commencing with the sixth year following retirement, except that coverage shall in no event be reduced more than seventy-five percent (75%). The provisions of Subdivision 4a. and not the provisions of this Subdivision apply to employees who have attained the age of 60 before the actual effective date of this Subdivision.
c.	There shall be no reduction in the coverage provided in Subdivision la. and 1 b. above in the case of either disability or early retirement from the employ of the Company until the second year following the date of normal retirement for the particular individual whose coverage shall then be reduced as above provided as if the individual had been retired on the individual’s normal retirement date. This paragraph did not become effective until J une 1,1961.
43
d.	Employees hired after October 14, 1986, shall, upon normal retirement from the employ of the Company, have group life insurance coverage in the sum of $10,000.00.
e.	Employees who retire from the employ of the Company after age 65 will receive a cumulative reduction in the amount of life insurance in accordance with the applicable foregoing reduction schedule (Subdivision 4a., 4b., 4c. or 4d), based upon their age at retirement, in the year of retirement from the employ of the Company. Thereafter, these employees will be subject to the applicable annual reductions.
5.	Employees hired after October 15, 1989 must have completed at least 15 years of service with the Company at retirement from the employ of the Company at a minimum age of 55 to be eligible for retiree life insurance benefits in effect at the time of the employee’s retirement from the employ of the Company,
6.	Employees enrolled in the Company’s group long term disability or group universal life insurance plans as of April I, 2000 will receive a ' cash payment based upon the number of shares allocated by The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MetLife) for the insurance contracts held by the plans. These payments will be made to employees no later than December31, 2001.
Article XXIII_____________________________________________________________
HEALTH INSURANCE
1,	An eligible employee may elect the individual or family coverage offered to the Union members by Group Health Insurance (“G.H.L”) Medical and Hospital under the Premier or Standard Plan, and/or Group Health Preferred Dental Insurance.
2.	The health insurance coverage and carrier may not be changed in any manner without agreement between the Company and the Union.
3.	In case an eligible employee elects individual or family coverage available under any form of contract offered by G.H.L Medical and Hospital, or Group Health Preferred Dental Insurance, the Company shall establish and pay new monthly contributions commensurate with the costs of the modified medical plans to be offered to employees who are members of the Union, less the employee contributions set forth in Subdivisions 5,6 and 12, and subject to Subdivision 7, below.
44
4.
H.I.P. Plan
a.	Weekly employee pre-tax payroll contributions for employees currently enrolled in coverage with Health Insurance Plan (“H.I.P.”) will continue to be $1.00 for individuals and $2.00 for the family plan until December 31,2001.
b.	Effective January 1,2002, the H.I.P. Plan will be discontinued and will no longer be offered by the Company to any employee who is a member of Local 101.
5.	G.H.I. Premier Medical Plan
a.	Modifications
The Company will continue to offer the current Group Health Incorporated (“G.H.L”) health insurance plan (“Premier Plan’’) for employees who are Local 101 members and their eligible dependents, with the following modifications:
1.	Effective January 1, 2002, co-payments for high-tech radiology procedures will be $25.00 per procedure.
2.	Effective January I, 2002, dental insurance will be offered through the separate G.H.L. Preferred Dental Plan.
3.	Effective January 1, 2004, co-payments for office visits to G.H.l. participating doctors will be $12.00 ■ per visit.
b.	Employee Contributions
Weekly employee pre-tax payroll contributions for employees electing coverage under the existing G.H.l. Premier Plan, as modified, will be as follows (not including dental coverage):
45
Employee
c.
Period	Weekly Contributions	
	Individual Plan	Family Plan
10/16/01 - 12/31/02 01/01/03-12/31/03 01/01/04- 12/31/04 01/01/05- 10/15/05	$11.50 $12.00’ $13.50 $14.50	$19.75 $21.00 $24.00 $27.50
Prescription Drugs		
1.	Effective January 1, 2002, the co-payments for prescription drugs under the G.H.I. Premier Plan will be as follows;		
Retail (30-day supply) Generic	$ 0.00 Formulary '	$10.00 Non-Formulary	$ 15.00		Mail Order (90-day supply) $ 0.00 $20.00 $30.00
2.	Effective January 1, 2004, the co-payments under the G.H.L Premier Plan for Non-Formulary prescription drugs will be increased to $20.00 retail (30-day		
supply) and $40.00 mail order (90-day supply).
3.
Effective January 1, 2005, the co-payments under the G.H.I. Premier Plan for Formulary prescription drugs will be increased to $15.00 retail (30-day supply) and $30.00 mail order (90-day supply), and the copayments for Non-Formulary prescription drugs will be increased to $25.00 retail (30-day supply) and $50,00 mail order (90-day supply).
6.
G.H.I. Standard Medical Plan
a.
Initial Plan and Modifications
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company will offer a new
G.H.I. group health insurance plan (“Standard Plan”) for
46
employees who are Local 101 members and their eligible dependents.
1.	Effective January I, 2004, co-payments for office visits to G.H.l. participating doctors under the Standard Plan will be $25.00 per visit.
b.	Employee Contributions
Weekly employee pre-tax payroll contributions for employees electing coverage under the G.H.L Standard Plan will be as follows (not including dental coverage):
Employee Weekly Contributions
Period	Individual Plan	Family Plan
01/01/02-12/31/02	$0.00	$ 0.00
01/01/03-12/31/03	$1.50	$ 3.25
01/01/04-12/31/04	$3.00	$ 6.25
01/01/05- 10/15/05	$5.00	$10.50
c.	Prescription Drugs
The co-payments for prescription drugs under the G.H.I. Standard Plan will be as follows:
	Retail (30-day supply)	Mail Order (90-day supply)
Generic	$10.00 ■	$20.00
Formulary	$20.00	$40.00
Non-Formulary	$30.00	$60.00
7.	The Company contributions and employee contributions toward the cost of G.H.l, health insurance coverage are based upon an agreement by G.H.l. that the cost of its combined hospital and medical programs will not increase beyond certain capped percentages unless a) a government-initiated change above and beyond the normal trend (e.g., the New York Health Care Reform Act) occurs either on a Federal, State or local level which affects all of G.H.I.’s hospital or medical clients and the New York City metropolitan area marketplace as a whole; or b) the number of covered Local 101 members varies by 10% or more from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2003 and by 20% overall from January 1,2004 through December 31,2004.
47
Should such a government-initiated change occur or the number of covered Local 101 members vary to the extent which increases the premiums above the agreed upon GH1 caps, the employees and the Company shall share the additional premium expenses equally. However, should the Company establish a subsidiary which results in such a variation of Local 101 members which increases the premiums above the agreed-upon G.H.I. caps, the Company and Union will negotiate by whom the increase should be paid.
8.	G.H.I. has established a premium rate stabilization fund, which will remain in effect through November 30, 2005. The positive balance presently remaining in this fund as of October 15, 2001 shall be the sole property of the Company and shall be released to the Company by G.H.I. pursuant to the terms of the premium rate stabilization fund agreement. In addition, any dividends payable after October 15, 2001 shall aiso be the soie property of the Company.
9.	The Union agrees that the Company, in its discretion, may utilize alternate funding arrangements for the payment of G.H.I. premiums, such as a retrospective rate rider or other deferred premium arrangement, insured minimum premium or self-funded administrative services only arrangement.
10,	The Company and the Union agree to continue the joint Company -Union Health Insurance Committee of designated representatives from the Union and the Company. This Committee will monitor health insurance costs and explore cost containment methods, and has the authority to implement any additional modifications which both the Company and the Union deem appropriate at any time during this agreement.
11.	In any case of the death of an active employee having ten years or more of credited service who is survived by a spouse, the payments aforesaid shall be continued for a period of one year but only during the life of such spouse. A surviving spouse may continue participation in the health insurance program thereafter by paying the contributions necessary to maintain the coverage.
12.	G.H.I. Preferred Dental Plan
a.	Effective January I, 2002, the Company will offer a new G.H.I. Preferred Dental Plan.
48
b.	Employee Contributions
Weekly employee pre-tax payroll contributions for employees electing coverage under the G.H.L Preferred Dental Plan will be as follows:
Period	Employee Weekly Contributions	
	Individual Plan	Family Plan
01/01/02-12/31/02	$0.50	$2.25
01/01/03-12/31/03	$1.00	$4.00
01/01/04-12/31/04	$1.25	$4.50
01/01/05-10/15/05	$1.50	$5.00
13.	G.H.l.’s annual premium renewal dates for Medical, Hospital and Dental coverage is January I.
14.	The pooling level is $200,000 per individual,
15,	a. Effective January 1, 2002, employees will receive a $700,00
per year cash payment, less applicable withholding taxes, from the Company for each year that they elect not to enroll in any health insurance plan maintained by the Company, The cash payment and the employee’s election will be made in accordance with existing practice,
b. Effective January 1, 2002, employees will receive a $150,00 per year cash payment, less applicable withholding taxes, from the Company for each year that they elect not to enroll in the G.H.L Preferred Dental Plan. Employees who elect not to enroll in the dental plan will not be eligible to enroll in the plan for two (2) successive years, i.e., the year they opt out and the following year. The cash payment will be made in accordance with existing practice,
16.	The waiting period for eligibility for health insurance shall be waived for full-time temporary employees who have been employed by the Company for at least twelve (12) consecutive months and who attain the status of a full-time regular employee.
17.	The waiting period for eligibility for health insurance shall be waived for part-time employees who have been employed by the Company
49
for at least twelve (12) consecutive months for an average of at least twenty (20) hours per week and who attain the status of a full-time regular employee.
18.	The following rules will apply to health maintenance coverage for married couples when both spouses are full-time employees of the Company or its subsidiaries:
a.	Both spouses may elect individual plan coverage.
b.	One spouse may elect family plan coverage (if that spouse has a child or children) and one spouse may elect individual plan coverage. The spouse that elects individual plan coverage may not be a dependent under the family plan coverage of the other spouse and, therefore, will not be eligible to submit any nlniwn vi Ri > wr i W M	I i rt rl rt* 4 k A frt « 11 F nlnn
VICI 11113 JUI | VllJIVUIOVlilVlIl U11UV1 IHL 1LLJ1111J piuu VV ? VI ugv.
c.	One spouse may elect family plan coverage and the other spouse may elect to be a dependent under this family plan coverage. The spouse who elects to be a dependent (a) will be eligible to submit claims for reimbursement under the family plan coverage and (b) will not be treated as having opted out of coverage under Subdivision 15 of this Article and, therefore, will not be entitled to receive the cash payment described in that Subdivision.
19.	The Union’s share of the Escrow Accounting as of October 15, 2001 shall be released to the Company, and there shall be no further Escrow Accounting.
20.	The premium rates applicable to the Sponsored Children Group (children who are between the ages of 19 and 25 and are full-time students) are as follows:
a.	For the period October 16, 2001 through December 31,2001, the employee contribution for each sponsored child will continue to be the current contribution of:
G.H.I. medical/hospitai/vision H.I.P. medical/hospital/vision G.H.I. dental
$44.16 per month $ 0.00 per month $ 3.51 per month
50
b.	For the period January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002, the employee contribution for each sponsored child will be:
G.H.I.Premier	$51.45 per month
medical/hospita l/vision
G.H.I. Standard medical/hospital/vision	$45.45 per month
G.H.I. Preferred Dental	$ 8.55 per month
c.	For the period January I, 2003 through October 15, 2005, the employee contributions for G.H.I. coverage for each sponsored child will be 75% of the premiums, and the Company contributions will be 25% of the premiums.
Article XXIV_________________________________________________________________
SAME SEX DOMESTIC PARTNER BENEFITS
1.	Effective January 1, 1999, an employee with a same sex domestic partner meeting the criteria in subparagraph (b) will be eligible for medical and dental benefits, sick-in-family benefits, death-in-family benefits and family and medical leave for this partner. It is the intent of the parties that these benefits would be the same as, but not greater than, would be provided to a married employee or the spouse of an employee. The Company agrees to explore the availability of pension benefits for a same sex domestic partner, so long as this is lawful, does not disqualify the Company’s pension plan, and does not provide a greater benefit than would be provided to a married employee or the spouse of an employee.
2.	A same sex domestic partner is defined as one who shares a committed relationship with an employee that is meant to be of lasting duration that meets all of the following criteria: i) The parties live together and have been living together on a continuous basis; it) The parties maintain a close and committed personal relationship involving shared responsibilities; iii) Neither party is legally married to anyone nor has had another domestic partner within the prior six months; iv) The parties are not related by blood in a manner that would bar marriage in the state of their residence; v) Both parties are at least 18 years of age; and vi) The parties have registered as domestic partners by fifing a Domestic Partner Affidavit, and have not terminated their domestic
51
partnership by the filing of a termination statement, or by the marriage of either party.
3.	A Certificate of Domestic Partner Registration from the City of New York will be required for use by Key Span Energy for the sole purpose of determining eligibility for benefits. If the parties do not reside in New York City, a notarized Declaration of Same Sex Domestic Partnership, which can be obtained from HRD, will be required.
Article XXV_______________________________________________________________
EXISTING BENEFITS
Other existing benefits may not be withdrawn nor may provisions for the welfare of employees be changed for the life of this agreement or of any renewal thereof.
Article XXVI_________________________________;___________________________
FACILITIES IN AID OF AGREEMENT
1.	For the purpose of giving notice to its members of its meetings and making announcements to its members the Union shall have the right to make reasonable use of the regular bulletin boards of the Company, provided that all such notices shall be submitted to the Human Resources Division for approval and posting, and provided further that such notices and announcements shall be restricted to:
a.	Notices of meetings of the Union;
b.	Notices of its elections;
c.	Notices of its appointments to office and the results of its ' elections; and
d.	Notices of its social, educational or recreational affairs;
and provided further that such notices and announcements shall contain nothing political or controversial or reflecting upon the Company, any of its employees (or any labor organization among its employees), and the Company may refuse to post notices, announcements or other material which would violate any of the provisions of this paragraph.
52
2.	The Company will not make any promotion or transfer of any employee which affects the employee's existing status as an officer, delegate or steward of the Union, without first obtaining the consent of the .Union which shall not be unreasonably withheld. Such evidence respecting the identity of the officers, delegates and stewards of the Union, and respecting the extent of their authority, shall be supplied to the Company as it may reasonably require.
3.	Union delegates shall be given reasonable time off with pay to discuss grievances of employees on Company property and on Company time but only to such extent as does not neglect, retard or interfere with the work or duties of such delegate or with the work or duties of the employees.
Article XXVII
WORK BY OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS
1.	The Company shall not use outside contractors except that it may do so substantially to the extent followed in the period from April 1, 1963 through April 1, 1975.
The Company in any event shall not use outside contractors for the performance of work usually done by its regular employees, so as to result in the discharge or layoff of regular employees or in a reduction in their rate of pay. In any case in which it is proposed to use an outside contractor for work usually done by the regular employees of the Company which does not result in the discharge or layoff of regular employees or in a reduction in their rate of pay, the Union shall be given notice and an opportunity to be heard before the contract is let.
2.	The Outside Contracting Committee established to study and resolve outside contracting issues between the Union and the Company shall be continued. The Committee shall include and/or be responsible to a Company officer. The Union shall choose its own representative. The Company will provide cunent and future contracts involving work regularly performed by Local 101 bargaining unit members, and give the Union notice and an opportunity to be heard before such contracts are let. Disputes that cannot be resolved by the Committee shall be appealed to the Company Vice President responsible for the area whose work is being done by the contractor.
3.	The Union and the Company both recognize that the Company’s decision about whether to utilize the services of an outside
53
contractor is driven by the need of the Company to reduce the cost of its services, and provide those services as efficiently and expeditiously as possible while maintaining the quality of those services and increasing customer satisfaction. To this end, the parties agree that, for the one-year period ending on October 15, 2002, in any case in which the Company uses or proposes to use an outside contractor for work regularly performed by Local 101 bargaining unit members, the Union retains the right within 21 days of the date the Company gives notice to the Union to demand that a neutral factfinder make findings of fact with respect to the cost savings and efficiencies resulting from such contract. Such a fact-finding shall be scheduled within 21 days and the fact-finder shall issue a decision within one week.
The neutral fact-fmder shall be mutually agreeable to the parties. The neutral fact-finder shall have the authority to conduct hearings and receive evidence and testimony with respect to such contract. The neutral fact-finder shall render findings of fact only with respect to the cost savings and efficiencies resulting from the use of such outside contractor. The neutral fact-finder shall have no power to make recommendations with respect to the use of the outside contractor, to alter or modify the terms of the particular contract or to direct that either party take any action with respect to the particular contract. The administrative costs of any hearings, including the fee of the neutral fact-finder, are to be shared equally by the Company and the Union. Either party may present such written findings of fact to the Company Vice President responsible for the area whose work is being done by the contractor for his or her consideration in resolving any disputes.
4.	The Union agrees that during the term of this agreement, the Union waives its right to have any third party, agency, board or court resolve contracting out and/or related issues.
5.	Starting on or about March 1, 1999 and for a period of one year from the date it starts, the Company agrees to allow the Union to bid on work for which the Company proposes to use outside contractors, subject to the following.
i.	Bids must be submitted to the Company within deadlines established by the Company in its sole discretion.
ii.	The Union shall be given no less notice than any other potential bidder.
54
iii.	Employees must have the ability and equipment to perform the work in a cost competitive, efficient, and expeditious manner.
iv.	Employees must possess the requisite skills to perform the work at the time of bidding and will not receive training from the Company to perform such work.
v.	The Company reserves the right to add to or modify these parameters, after consultation with the Union.
6.	Without waiving any of its rights to use outside contractors for this work or any other work, the Company agrees to eliminate the use of outside contractors for its current “Phone for Success” Telemarketing Program,
This work will be distributed to employees who are determined in the Company’s sole discretion to be qualified to perform the work.
The wage rate for the telemarketing work performed by these employees will be equivalent to the minimum wage rate of the job classification Clerk House-Heating B 40 Hr (#2239) at the position’s new weekly minimum wage rate of $352,40 (before application of the general wage increases).
Article XXVIII
MANAGEMENT TRAINEES
The Company may continue the hiring and training of Management Trainees and shall at the Union’s request confer with the Union regarding the practice and entertain suggestions from the Union for the improvement thereof.
Article XXIX__________________________________________________________
SAFETY AND SAFETY COMMITTEES
1.	The Company will continue to exert every reasonable effort to provide and maintain safe and healthy working conditions and the Union will cooperate to that end and will encourage its members to work in a safe manner.
2.	Protective devices, wearing apparel and other equipment necessary for the proper protection of employees in any area from injury, shall be provided by the Company when in its judgment the use of
55
such equipment is appropriate in the light of the conditions existing at the time in the particular area. Any new device deemed necessary by the Company for the safety and health of the employees will be provided by the Company.
3.	The Company will welcome suggestions from the Union and its representatives for the better protection of the safety and health of the employees and every such suggestion will be carefully considered by the Company, The Company-wide Joint Safety and Sanitation Committee shall be continued. This Committee shall consist of three (3) representatives of the Union and three (3) representatives of the Company. The Committee shall meet at reasonable intervals upon the request of either the Company or Union.
4.	The Union may select representatives to serve on the various local Safety Comn*ittscs throughout the Company, by whom suggestions emanating from the Union for the protection of the safety and health of the Company’s employees, may be made. In any case in which the Union is dissatisfied with the disposition made of problems relating to safety and health, the Union representative may ask to be heard by the Company’s Executive Safety Committee which shall hold a meeting for this purpose to which the Union’s representative shall be invited and at which the Union’s representative shall be given an opportunity to make a full statement of the Union’s position.
5.	The Department of Transportation is in the process of issuing regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop, implement and maintain a written qualification program for employees performing certain tasks on pipeline facilities. The intent of the regulations is to ensure a qualified workforce and safe work place by reducing the probability and consequence of incidents caused by human errors.
The Union agrees to cooperate with the Company in implementing any programs, tests and evaluations which are necessary to comply with the Department of Transportation Pipeline Operator Qualifications Regulations,
6.	The Company and the Union agree that existing two-person areas will remain intact. The Company and the Union also agree to establish a joint committee to periodically review any issues regarding the safety of CFS service persons assigned to work in the field and where appropriate to consider and recommend measures such as temporary two-person areas; utilizing employees on light duty as the second
56
person in a two-person area; offering NYPD educational programs; and other measures as deemed appropriate by the Company in its sole discretion.
Article XXX	___________________________________________
INCENTIVE PAY COMMITTEE
The Union and the Company agree to form an Incentive Pay Committee to examine and evaluate Incentive Pay programs.
Article XXXI	___________________________________________
PILOT PROGRAMS
A.	Take Home Vehicle Pilot Program
1.	Asa means of increasing job efficiency and productivity, and as an
added convenience both to the Company and the Union and its members, KeySpan Energy, with the consent of the Union, has implemented a Take Home Vehicle Program on an experimental basis.
2.	In order to participate, employees must meet the eligibility requirements established by the Company in its sole discretion. The Union agrees to use its best efforts to encourage participation by its members.
3.	Work related travel includes travel to and from the employee’s first and last work assignment of the day and all travel incidental to the work day, which includes, but is not limited‘to, fueling the vehicles, transporting tools or supplies, etc.
4.	Incidental activities performed at the employees’ place of residence or during their commute to and from their first and last job sites of the day does not entitle the employee to compensation for such time.
5.	All employees will be compensated beginning from their first job of the day and ending with the completion of their last job of the day. Employees will not be compensated for commuting time from their home to the first job site at the beginning of their shift, and/or their last job site at the end of their shift to their home. If an employee is unable to garage the Company vehicle at the employee’s place of residence, the Company will provide the employee with a parking space for the Company vehicle at an
57
existing Company facility.
6.	All employees assigned a take home vehicle are required to be at their first job by their shift start time, regardless of where the Company vehicle is parked overnight.
7.	The Company has the right, in its sole discretion, to establish and modify guidelines in all aspects of the Take Home Vehicle Policy. The Company will consult with the Union on any substantial changes it makes to the program.
8.	Employees shall not be responsible for any costs associated with maintenance, repair and upkeep of the vehicle, or increased tolls incurred while commuting in the Company vehicles over and above what the employee would ordinarily pay if commuting in the employee’s own vehicle.
9.	Employees may not take home vehicles for any purpose other than for travel incidental to the work day. Any use of the take home vehicles for purposes other than work related travel must be preapproved by the employee’s supervisor.
10.	Employees will be required to follow the rules and procedures for use of take home vehicles promulgated by the Company. Unauthorized use of the take home vehicles or failure to comply with these rules and procedures will be grounds for discipline.
11.	The Union and the Company expressly intend that this take home vehicle program complies with the Employee Commuting Flexibility Act of 1996 and, as such, the Union and the Company agree that all travel and activities performed by employees which are incidental to the use of such vehicle for commuting shall not be compensable.
B.	Experimental Meter Reading Incentive Program
1.	As a means of improving meter reading efficiency, accuracy and productivity, as well as maintaining and enhancing customer satisfaction, effective August 17, 1998, the Company, with the consent of the Union, has implemented a Meter Reading Incentive Program on an experimental basis for an indefinite period. The Company will modify the program as described below as soon as practicable after October 16,2001.
58
2.	Employees who are performing meter reading work and who are paid less than $600 per week base wages (before application of the general wage increase) and who perform a complete regular meter reading route only (not a skip route or partial route) will be eligible for monetary awards for achieving meter reading goals established by the Company as follows:
a.	Each eligible meter reader who reads 3% more meters a route than the average productivity (number of meters read divided by number of meters) for that route shall receive an additional $15.00 for that day, and, if he maintains an average of such productivity over the course of a workweek, an additional $25.00 for that week.
b.	Each eligible meter reader who reads 7% more meters a route than the average productivity (number of meters read divided by number of meters) for that route shall receive an additional $20.00 for that day, and, if he maintains an average of such productivity over the course of a workweek, an additional $50.00 for that week.
c.	Each eligible meter reader who reads 10% more meters a route than the average productivity (number of meters read divided by number of meters) for that route shall receive an additional $25.00 for that day, and, if he maintains an average of such productivity over the course of a workweek, an additional $75.00 for that week.
d.	“Average productivity” for a route shall be based on the actual productivity experienced during the period October 1, 2001 to January 31,2002.
e.	The maximum sum of “per day” incentive payouts that may be received by an eligible meter reader in any week will be $125.00.
f.	The maximum “per week” incentive payout that may be received by an eligible meter reader in any week will be $75.00.
59
g.	To be eligible for the award, all readings must be achieved within the regular, eight (8) hour work day and cannot be performed during overtime,
h.	Monetary awards under the Program shall be payable weekly and are subject to applicable withholding taxes.
i.	The Company has the right to discontinue or modify any and all aspects of the Program, including the setting of goals, the determination of whether goals have been met, and the amount of incentive compensation.
Article XXXII________________________________________________________
SYNERGY SAVINGS
The Union agrees to work jointly with the Company to achieve savings in connection with the merger between KeySpan Energy Corporation and Long Island Lighting Company.
Article XXXIII_______________________________________________________
ELECTRIC STORM RESTORATION
On occasion, electric utility services on Long Island are disrupted by major storms, equipment malfunctions, accidents, acts of sabotage or other events. In order to facilitate efficient restoration of customer service on Long Island following such events and achieve maximum customer satisfaction, KeySpan Energy will, when necessary, be called upon to provide additional manpower, equipment or other emergency assistance in affected territories of LIPA. In accordance with KeySpan’s commitment to LIPA, KeySpan Energy shall establish an Electric Storm Restoration training and call out program for all employees who are members of Local 101. The Union agrees to cooperate and work jointly with the Company in providing emergency assistance for electric storm restoration purposes in areas outside of the Union’s jurisdiction in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed to in the Electric Storm Restoration Agreement (see Appendix 1).
60
Article XXXIV
SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
This agreement shall be binding on the Company and the Union, their successors and assigns and on the employees of the Company in the unit referred to for the term hereof and for the period of any renewal.
Article XXXV_____________________________________________________
FEDERAL OR STATE LAWS
Should any valid Federal or State Law or the final determination of any Board or Court of competent jurisdiction, render illegal any provision of this agreement, the provision or provisions so affected shall be made to conform to the law or determination and otherwise the agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
Article XXXVI________________________________________________________
DURATION OF AGREEMENT
1.	This agreement shall continue in effect until and including October 15, 2005 and from year to year thereafter as long as the Union continues to be the established and exclusive bargaining representative in the unit referred to, and unless and until either party notifies the other in writing not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of this agreement or any automatic yearly extension thereof, that either party elects to terminate this agreement.
The terms of this agreement shall not during the term hereof be modified or changed in any way other than by the mutual consent of both parties hereto evidenced in writing.
2.	This agreement settles and disposes of all matters which are the subject of collective bargaining between the parties for its term and for any extension or extensions thereof.
61
Article XXXVII______________________________________________________
NOTICE
For the purpose of giving notice required, or permitted to be given by this agreement, the Company may be addressed at its office at One MetroTech Center, Brooklyn, New York, attention of the Secretary, and the Union at its office at 5724 Second Avenue, Brooklyn, New York, attention of the President. Notices may be given by mail addressed as above and when so mailed, proper notice shall be deemed to have been given.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have signed this agreement as of the day and year first above written.
Local 101,
Utility Division, TWU Marsha Spinowitz President Michael Conigliaro Vice President Transport Workers Union International Michael O’Brien International Vice President	KeySpan Energy William G. Bo 11 bach Vice President, Employee & Labor Relations
62
Appendix 1
EMERGENCY ELECTRIC STORM RESTORATION
I.	In accordance with KeySpan Energy’s commitment to LIPA, Brooklyn Union shall establish an Electric Storm Restoration training and call out program for all employees who are members of Local 101.
On occasion, electric utility services on Long Island are disrupted by major storms, equipment malfunctions, accidents, acts of sabotage or other events. In order to facilitate efficient restoration of customer service on Long Island following such events and achieve maximum customer satisfaction, Brooklyn Union will, when necessary, be called upon to provide additional manpower, equipment or other emergency assistance in affected territories of KeySpan Energy.
2.	The Union agrees to cooperate and work jointly with the Company in providing emergency assistance for electric storm restoration purposes in areas outside of the Union’s jurisdiction.
3.	In order to accomplish the goal of having all Company employees who are members of Local 101 qualified to participate in electric restoration, the Union agrees that all of its members shall be trained to serve in the capacity of either Survey or Two Person Secondary Crews.
a.	To ensure that all employees are knowledgeable of and qualified to perform their assigned Emergency Restoration tasks, employees shall be trained as set forth below:
Assignment	Training Days
Survey	Three (3) days
Two Person Secondary Crew	Five (5) days
b.	All training days shall be comprised of an eight (8) hour day. Attendance at training shall be deemed time worked for payroll purposes.
4/ In the event of an Emergency Restoration Call Out, employees who serve in the capacity of Survey Person shall be compensated at their regular rate of compensation.
5.	In the event of an Emergency Restoration Call Out, employees who serve on a two person secondary crew will perform duties
63
commensurate with those of either a Senior Linesman (lead person) or Second Step Apprentice, Employees who are called upon to perform these duties will be compensated at the rate established for those duties, as indicated below, or the employee’s current wage rate, whichever is greater.
EDC	Feb. 14,1998 Min/Max Salary	Aug. 14,1998 Min/Max Salary	Feb. 14,1999 Min/Max Salary
. Senior Linesman I Lines woman	$24.62/ $25.88	$24.87/ $26.14	$25.49/ $26.79
2nd Step Apprentice Linesman/ Lines woman	$18.86	$19.05	$19.53
EDC	Aug. 14, 1999 Min/Max Salary	Feb. 14, 2680 Min/Max Salary	Aug. 14, 2000 Min/Max Salary
Senior Linesman / Lines woman	$25,74/ $27,06	$26.38/ $27,74	$26.64/ $28.02
2nd Step Apprentice	$19.73	$20.22	$20.42
Linesman/
Lines woman
6.	All employees who are called out to participate in an Electric Storm Restoration shall be compensated from the time the employee reports to a Brooklyn Union facility to pick up required vehicles until the time that the employee reports back to a Brooklyn Union facility and drops off any Brooklyn Union equipment and/or vehicles.
7.	Employees assigned to work in Nassau or Suffolk counties for electric storm emergency restoration purposes, and who are required to board away from home, shall receive straight pay at the rate two (2) hours for every eight (8) hours for the hours that they are idle. The Company will cover the costs of all lodging.
64
8.	Employees required to use their personal vehicle during their electric storm restoration assignment, who have completed a Company leasing form, shall receive full insurance coverage in case of any damage or accidents. Additionally, employees will be compensated fifty-one dollars ($51.00) per day for the first one hundred (100) miles and additional mileage costs for each mile thereafter.
9.	The use of Brooklyn Union employees for electric storm restoration purposes in Nassau and Suffolk is a new program. Accordingly, a) this agreement may not address all of the situations which may arise and all of the terms and conditions which should apply to Brooklyn Union employees performing this work; and b) the Company must reserve the right to modify the terms of this agreement as it deems appropriate. The Company and the Union will address and resolve any problems that may arise in connection with employees performing this work.
DATED: August J1,1998
THE BROOKLYN UNION GAS COMPANY LOCAL 101, Utility Division, Transport Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO
By;
/s/Marsha Spinowitz President
By;
/s/William G. Bollbach Chairperson, Negotiating Committee
By:
/s/Mtchael Conigliaro Vice President
65
NOTES
68
NOTES
69
NOTES
70
NOTES
71
NOTES
72
Schedule A
For All Employees Hired Before July 16,1980 And AU Employees Now in Non-Entry Level Job Classifications Hired Before July 16,1983
I I
I
I
i	Schedule A -1
October 16, 2001 - October 15, 2002
PAGE: 1
I
I
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A ■ t EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,2001 TO OCTOBER IS, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY H, 1WW AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, I9W
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
■2?»	ACCT EHGR SR POST	91838	1,170.47	1438,78	9)838	949,89	981 38	LG12 84	1 044J2	LOT579	L 107,29	1.13&.78	1.17047		
*2900	ACCTENGRSjtFRE	J .033.09	1,316.60	U80-99	1,033 09	1,068.45	1.105.93	LI 39.28	Ll 74.73	1,210.16	L 4*3.57	1280.99	1.316.60		
2212	ACCT ENCiR 37,5 HR	987,73	1,20023	1464.85	987.73	1,023,13	1,058.46	1,093.97	1,129.34	I.IM.IS	IJ00.23				
•2933	ACCTPOST	969 64	1.207 23	1,177.38	969.64	999 34	1,028,99		1,088.40	1,1)8,03	L1+741	1.177,33	120743		
’2984	ACCT POST 92 4&,0 HR	L090.70	1357.98	1424.42	1,090.70	lt114.12	1457.48	L190.B8	1,224.29	L237 65	U91 jW	1.32442	1357.98		
*1^2	ACCT PRE	1,090.70	1,357.98	1424A2	1,090.70	1.11472	1,157,48	149088	d 224.29	1057,6$	149103	1.32442	135798		
20!) I	ACCTREPJXSHR	849.17	946.49	923.98	84947	872.94	899,93	699.91	923.98	923,98	946 49				
20’0	ACCTQ ASST CORP 37.5HR	932 88	LQ27.51	1,007.62	9J2,88	W6.69	983,60	963.60	1,007.62	ljOOT.62	1,027.53				
2002	ACCTG ASST DlST 37.5 HR	893.UI	987.73	9613?	W3,<H	9)6,95	943.86	943.86	96787	967,87	987 73				
20J&	ACCTG ASST SR CORP 37.5HR	987.73	1J96.58	IJ2007	W7.73	1^14.24	1,040.63	1,067.15	1,093 56	1,13007	1,146,58				
20J0	ACCTG ASST SR CORP 40 HR	98173	] ,146,58	IJ JCL68		1,003-57	1,019.43	1,03537	1,05) 25	1,067.12	LO83.O2	LMO-91	LH4.79	1430,68	1J4658
2026	ACCTG ASST SR 37 J HR	931.88	1,027.53	1,00 7.62	93248	95669	983,60	98360	1,007.62	1,007 j62	1JOTT53				
2011	ACCTG ASST 37 J HR	893 01	987.73	967.87	89301	91695	943.86	943.66	967.87	967.87	487.73				
2062	ACCTG CLERK. 1 PT 31,5 HR	835,82	83582	WW											
2108	ACCTG CLERK 2 PT 40 HR	73343	73J.13	333.15											
2M0	ACCTG CLERK 3 PT 37.5 HR	321.79	321,9?	321.79	321.79	321.9?									
•2935	ADM ASST CSDPOST	860.1*5	1,095.92	3.066.42	86016	889,60	919,09	948.57	978,05	i .Off?	1.037,00	1,066 42	1/395,92		
*2903	ADM ASST CSD PRE	967.J2	143377	L199.S7	967.52	1,000.68	1.033 85	) .067.00	1,100.16	Li 3328	1,166.48	IJ99J7	LZ32.77		
*2957	ADM ASST MAT MOT POST 37.5 HR	89*44	L 145,61	1,11474	899.14	929.92	9607$	991.53	1,072.32	1.053-W	L083.95	U 14,14	1.U5.67		
*2915	ADM ASST MAT MGTPRE	LOH .39	1,288.7)	1,253 92	1,011.39	1,046.01	1,080,74	141545	1,149,97	LW.63	1419 28	143392	J.2MU3		
PAGE: 1
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - I EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It, JOOI TO OCTOBER 15,2W1 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16.1980 AND
ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY It, 19SJ
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MDS	5 MOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS	CMOS
*2971	Adm asst meter rep air post	9WA4	MS6.B	1,125.84	9t0,46	94U3	97L97	14G2.8O	1.03356	1/164.34	1,095,08	U25.04	1,156,73		
•2923	ADM ASST METER REPAJR PRE	1,624 16	I JOI.19	1J66.44	1424.16	1.058.72	1493.34	1,117.99	1,161,65	1397.13	Ull.TJ	1366.44	1J01.19		
•w	ADM ASST SYS SUP POST	89W	1,08492	1,06081	B93J3	917.26	94132	965.15	989.01	141248	103640	106051	1.08492		
*2920	ADM ASST SYS SUP PM		I J2O.39	1.193.26	1.004,87	1431.78	1,058.71	1.08544	1,112,52	1.(39.42	IJ6637	1,193.26	1J2O39		
•JMf	ADM ASST WORK COMP POST	saw	1,06832	I.OJ9.47	83852	867J7	895.96	924.68	953.34	98248	1JM0.77	1439.47	L06L32		
IMS	ART A PRODUCTION ASST POST	858.96	1,151.23	1,114.70	858.96	893.51	93243	968.53	1405.05	1441,55	1478.10	M 14.70	1JS1.23		
2739	ASSOC CUSTOMER SERVICE	mw	84W	77332	398.74	473.67	54858	623.49	69340	77332	84833				
2865	ASST CHEMIST	76549	961,96	92915	765)9	79796	83075	M3 52	M631	92915	961.96				
*M53	ASST EDITOR POST	WJ9	1,079.35	1,05038	84739	87624	90523	93435	963.31	99230	1,02130	),O5flL3t	1J7935		
2370	ASST HELD REP	95434	ljOW.59	1,07306	954 36	980 06	1.00579	1,03150	1.057 26	1473.06	1092.59				
2023	ATTEND GARAGE	16.M	2IJ9	2069	1654	16.99	17.88	18.86	19.75	2069	2159				
2022	ATTEND GARAGE ALTER FUEL	16 A?	21.99	21,06	16,94	U38	ma	19.23	20,14	21.06	21,99				
24U	AUTO MECH A FID TRAINER	28.22	2SJ22	2W											
2487	auto mechanic	2484	2642	2581	24.84	253]	25,81	25,81	26,42						
2489	AUTO MECHANIC A	27.14	27.14	27.14											
2631	AUTO TECHNICIAN	2822	2822	28 21	2822	2822									
2025	blacksmith w	25,33	2644	2632	2533	2584	2632	26,32	26.94						
2031	CARPENTER	24.M	26.36	2572	24 78	25 26	25 72	25,72	2636						
27U	CHAUFFEUR DISTRICT OPS	23.71	23L7t	23,7)	23.71	23,71									
2038	CHAUFFEUR. EXECUTIVE.	2423	2473	2433											
PAGE; 3
LOCAL 101 WAGE progression schedule SCHEDULE A - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER Ifi, 2001 TO OCTOBER 15, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, 1080 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P. P.	J MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	I. MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2040	CHAUFFEUR TkACTOft TRAILER	25.52	2552	25.52											
2D4J.	CHEMIST	1,018.50	1,17445	1,148.18	1,018.50	1,044.46	1.070.31	1,09631	1,122 17	1,148.18	1,174 05				
204?	CHEME^T SENIOR 37.5 HR	1,25928	1,259.28	IJ5928											
•2939	CHIEF CLERK GAS OPER POST	854 85	1,145.67	1,109-27	854 85	89) 24	927.55	963,92	1,000.24	1,036,61	1,07293	1.109,27	1,145.67		
2056	CLK ACCTO NO J ACCT 37.5 HR	849.17	946.49	923.98	849.17	872 94	899-91	399.91	923.98	923.98	94649				
3055	C1KACCTGNO 1 37.5 HR	S35.S2	933.37	910,78	835.82	859.Bl	886.77	886.77	910 78	910.78	933.37				
2057	CLK ACCTG NO 2 37.5 HR	792.94	884.54	859.81	792.94	mil	828.00	843 89	859,81	859.81	884.54				
2059	CLK ACCTG NO3 37.5 HR	635.43	835.82	802.35	652.21	668 84	70224	735.68	769.06	802.35	835.82				
2734	CLKACCTG NO. 1 ClAS	737.29	933 37	900 69	737.29	76*7.97	S02.65	£JS54	Abg.yt?	90069	933.37				
2T33	CLK ACCTG NO. 2 C1A5	561.75	702.20	678.93	561.75	585.18	608-37	632.00	655.40	678 53	702.20				
2725	CLK ACCTG NO2 ACC7G POST 92	558.24	884.54	807.57	558.24	684.M	807.52	884,54							
2116	CLK CNTL SR CUST ACCT 37 5HR	954.98	J.O49.M	1,029.94	954.98	979.04	1,002-84	1.002.8+	1,029.94	1,029.94	1,049,84				
2730	CLK COMM NO I 3 7.5 HR POST92	73729	933.37	815.76	737.29	776.51	815.76	815.76	815.76	815.76	933.37				
272£	CLK COMM NO.2 37.5HR FOSW	561.75	70(2.20	674.12	561,75	589.86	617.92	646.OL	674.12	70220					
2067	CLK C0MM1 ASST HD 37 J HR	94142	987.73	965.91	941.82	96591	98773								
2078	CLK COMML IND APPL 37 5 HR	933,75	1,031.21	b,008.67	933.75	957.58	98464	98444	1,008.67	1,000 67	1^31.21				
2069	CLKCOMMLNO1 37.5 HR	835.82	933,37	910.78	835.82	859.81	886-77	886.77	910.78	9IU.78	933J7				
2072	CLK COMML NO 2 TREAS 37.5 HR	638.62	884.54	8*3.43	638.62	679.59	720-55	76 LM	802.47	843.43	884.34				
2<ni	CLK.COMMLNCI2S7.SHK	792.94	£U,54	159.81	792.94	mil	Z2S.W	84W	ami	*59 It	ms+				
[ 2071	CLK COMMLNO 3 37.5 HR	589.89	835.62	794.84	610.40	631.OL	671 94	712.93	733.82	794.84	835 82				
FACE; 4
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,20#l TO OCTOBER IS, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, IMO AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1 MB
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 Mas	6MOS	6MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2052	CLK CONS AN ALYS 37 J HR	672.72	774.49	757,50	672.72	689.71	706.60	723jW	74034	757x50	72449				
2115	CLK CONTROL CUST SER 40HR	833.82	93337	910.7?	835,82	85981	886,77	886.77	910.78	910.78	93337				
2095	CLK CONTROL PROP MA INT 375	390.19	L062.ll	1.0U.47	89039	9)8.97	547.58	976)7	1,904*3	1,033.47	L062J1				
2074	CLK DEPOSIT 375 HR	86897	966.40	943.87	868 97	892-94	919,98	919,98	943.87	om?	96640				
7J0t	CLK EXECUTIVE 375 HA	731.12	95Q.OB	913.54	73)47	767.62	804.10	•40.59	877.05	9)3.54	950W				
2070	CLK GEN CUST SER 40.0 HU	9S3?9	W-7?	983.78	983,7?										
2089	CLK GEN MAILS MGT	6*3.J I	977.lt	92*61	707.71	73122	781 34	830.44	87933	928.61	977-81				
2081	CLK GEN NO 1 37 5 HR	835.82	933.17	910.7?	835 82	85981	886,77	886 7?	9)O.?8	910 78	933.37				
2004	OXGENNOl WKRPOSn?	51836	93337	891.85	518,36	559.88	601.35	642.86	684.34	72SJ7	767J7	WS.85	85034	891-85	933 37
1M3	CLK GEN NO 237.5 HR	66726	833.82	807.75	667.26	69533	723,41	75158	779.61	80775					
20*4	CLK G£N NO 3373 HR	351,88	TflM?	717,07	568.41	584,05	617,99	651.00	683.99	717377	750.18				
2363	CLK GEN NO] QCST	93536	988.62	979.77	935-56	944 A0	95325	96209	970.90	979.77	988-62				
2120	cut GEN TREASURY 375 HR	8TG.70	96823	94547	870.70	W4.«7	931.68	921.68	943.67	945.67	963 J3				
2076	CLK GEN ] MKT ADV 37.5 HR	*84.20	981.70	95944	884.20	908.02	935.12	935.12	959.14	959.14	98170				
2082	CLK GEN t PUR QC 373HR	874.59	97305	949,55	874,59	898.52	925J4	92554	949.55	949.55	97205				
203?	CLK GEN 2 MKT ADV 375 HR	693.78	163.3*	814.28	693.78	721.8?	749 95	77807	806.13	834.28	862.3?				
icra	CLK HD tLAIMISECTY 37.5 HR	954,98	1449.84	U029A4	95448	979.04	14302.84	l^02J4	1,029.94	1,029,94					
208$	CLK HD COMML 375 HR	95498	1449*4	1.039.94	934.98	979.04	1,002.84	1,002.84	1.02994	] .029.94	t ,049-84				
*293]	CLK HD SECTION ACCTQ POST	91838	1J 70.47	E 438.78	918J?	M9.S9	98)38	1.01W	1J0M32	M77S.79	U0729	U3S.78	1270,47		
*2901	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG PRE	1.033,09	13H.W	1380.99	L033.OT	1,068.45	1JO3 93	1,13928	1,174.73	1.11016	1.245.57	1280-99	1216-60		
PAGE: S
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - I EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER IS, 1001 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRV LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
								PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS							
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	i> MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2583	CLK HD URBAN AFFAIRS	934.98	1.049.84	1.029.94	954.98	979.04	1,00184	jjoojm	1J129.94	1429.94	1,049.84				
2117	CLK HEAD CONTROL 37.5	98773	1,146,58	1,12007	987.73	JJ0H24	1,040 63	1j067,l5	1,093,56	1,120.07	1,146.58				
208?	CLK HEAD CUST SVC 37,5 HR	94JJ2	987.73	965.91	941.82	965.9!	987 73								
2091	CLK HOUSE HEATING 37.5 HR	814.57	906.12	88137	814.5?	8311,67	84962	865-51	83137	841.37	906.12				
2099	CLK HOUSE HEATNG A 37.5 HR	596J2	90642	802.77	59622	64784	69934	751J3	802.77	802.77	906.12				
270$	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B POST 98	398.56	520.46	508.27	398 56	41074	422.93	435-U	447.32	4 $950	471,69	48348	496.08	508.27	520.46
2634	CLK. INV ENT CTL MMD 37.5 HR	940 00	IjOMM	1,01471	moo	96381	990,80	W0 80	1,0(4.71	COM. 71	L034.K?				
2724	CLK METER REPAIR SR	93516	1,015.78	1,001,98	935.16	948.59	962.03	973 50	988.92	1,00(58	LO 15.78				
2086	CLK MTR RPR HEAD 37.3 HR	893.01	987 73	967.87	893.01	916-9$	943,86	94L86	96787	96747	987,73				
2103	CLK PRICE MKT ADV 37.5 HR	83582	93337	910.78	835-82	859.81	886.77	886.77	910.73	910-78	933.37				
2109	CLK SPECIAL LEDGER 37.5 HR	835.82	957.96	937.63	835 82	856.18	876.60	89700	917.25	937,63	957,96				
2113	CLK STCK MAT MGT 37.5 HR	793.12	884 66	860.09	79312	809,14	82812	8*3,98	660,09	8W.09	834.66				
21 JI	CLK STCK MKT ADV 31$ HR	792,94	884,54	859 81	792,94	809,11	828.00	843.89	359.81	859.81	884.54				
ZJH	CLK STCK STNKTTRUCK OF 3 7.S	769.01	91857	86872	769.01	793.93	maa	M37J	868,72	868 72	91857				
206$	CLK TELLER PT 373 HR	849.1?	84947	849,17											
2131	CLK TELLER FT 40 HR	78510	78540	78540											
2092	CLK TELLER 37.5 HR	849.17	946.49	923.98	849.1?	87294	89991	89991	923.98	92398	946.49				
2736	CLK TELLER 375 HR POST92	631-98	842.60	789 95	631.98	68464	737.29	737.19	789.95	789.95	£42.60				
2119	CLK TRAFFIC 37.5 MR	1,067,33	IJ 62.38	1,142,36	1.067.33	1.094.45	1,118.36	1,11836	LI42J6	1,142,36	1,162,38				
2a2J	CLK TYPIST 37 5 HR	589 89	835.82	794 84	610.40	631,01	671.94	712.93	753,82	794,84	833.82				
PAGE: 6
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER If, 2001 TO OCTOBER IS, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY If, 19W AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
J															
TITLE DESCRIPTION		MIN	max	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	fMOS	6 MOS	fMOS	fMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	fMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2130	COLLECTION CONTROLLER	910*2	1,927.47	LOOSOJ	910.12	91031	949,72	9694*	9*85*	1,00*03	1427,47				
2)23	COLLECTOR	667,47		92**0	W471	**132	904,87	904.17	928,80	923.80	968.96				
2136	COMPUTER LIBRARIAN SR 37.5	941*7	1479.77	1,05611	941.17	964*6	987*6	141075	14*1*1	I.0S67L	1479,77				
2<H5	CORROSION m?H HELFER	1231	17.79	[6.J7	1231	13.21	14.12	1544	15.97	16.87	17.79				
	CORROSION TECHNICIAN	1*37	23.79	22.93	18.37	1926	10.16	2147	214*	22.93	23,79				
2810	CORROSION TECHNICIAN PRE 92	W3J2	1.102.72	14W7.W	953.12	978.00	1403.02	1427.91	1,052,85	1.077.ro	1402.72				
2650	CORROSION TECHNICIAN SR	2382	27.36	26.94	2182	2445	25.09	25.70	26.33	2694	27 S6				
2135	CREW LEADER	27.91	2938		27.91	28-06	2*J20	2*35	2*50	2*44	28.79	2*94	29,08	29.24	29.3S
2061	CUST INQUIRY REF FT 37 J HR	867,11	B67.ll	867.11											
2124	CUST INQUIRY REP F? 40 HR	SOI.68	8014*	*0IJM											
w	CUST SER V REP 37,5	88673	1,013.97	99261	886.73	907,96	929.08	950 31	971.64	9924*	1,013,91				
2276	CUST SERVICE REP 40 HR	58673	141107	1.001 J7	806.73	899.43	912.16	924®	93162	95032	963,06	97541	9*833	L00IJ7	1413-9?
2157	CUSTODIANS RECORDS ASST 375	*M,54	97919	9595*	8*454	90*49	935.38	935.38	959J4	959.34	979.19				
2153	CUSTODIANS RECORDS 37 J HR	987,73	Ll«3*	112007	9*743	(/HO*	IJM0A3	146745	1,093.56	1.120107	1.1463*				
2738	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC	30814	63198	008,60	30S.74	42247	445.39	468.72	492.04	515.37	53*70	56203	5*533	60846	611.9*
20?	DATA EXTRY COORD 31,5 HR	925,79	1,023.14	1.COO6S	92579	W9.66	916.66	97646	1,000.68	140048	E,<Q3.14				
2161	DELIVERER	18153	2110	18.53	1*53	21.10									
270*	DISPATCHER POST 9*	1,0*4,11	143013	LI 25.52	14*4.11	1.088.72	1,093.31	1,097.92	140251	140743	141 in	M1W3	1120.93	142532	inon
2179	DISPLAY ASSISTANT 37 J HR	177.75	975-20	952.60	*77.7$	901.74	92*.$2	928.52	952,60	952.60	975.30				
2161	DISPLAY ASS? APPRNT 3?S HR	667J6	*351*2	807.75	66126	605.33	723.41	751 58	779.61	807.7$	S35A2				
2160	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 37 J HR	1.083.31	1400,1*	LJ61J4	14*131	1402.74	L11223	M2U3	1,16124	1,161.24	120038				
PAGE: 7
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A ■ 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.20(11 TO OCTOBER 15, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, IW3
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p,p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	«MOS	6 MOS	«MOS
229)	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 40 0 HR		1,200 IB	1.16L24	LO83.31	1,102.74	1,122.23	1,122-23	1,16)24	1,161^4	I40OJ8				
2163	DISPLAY DESIGNER 37J HR	1.010-59	1,127.49	1,085,47	1.010-59	1.02464	1.0*9.62	1.C49.62	1^)85,47	1,085.47	(.12749				
2)82	DISPLAY PRSOK-CONST SNR 37.5	930 4$	1.047 87	1,015.36	950.48	966.67	982.93	982-92	L015-36	L<H$36	1.047-87				
217)	DISPTCH DISTR 37.5 HR	1,049 58	1XW5J3	1,07146	1XM9-58	IX77M6	IXI7L46	1,095.53							
2180	LHSPTCH DISTR4GHR	1,049.58	im$3	1,09088	1,049.58	1.054 19	LQ5874	LOW. 34	1.067.96	1,072 AB	LQ77.il	MUI.JO	1JJ862B	1,090.88	1,095.53
2)75	D1SPTCH ORDER	1,084.11	L 130.13	l,)M.t8	1.084.(1	1,106.18	1,106,18	1,130,13							
2174	DJSJTCH TRANSP 37-5 HR	H86.77	934,10	91049	886.77	9(0.49	910,49	934.16							
2172	DJSPTCH TRUCK DIST 37.5 HR	L01L77	1,057.71	1,033.69	1,01 L77	LO33.69	1,033.69	L0577I							
2lto	DRAFTING CLERK 37-5 HR	6S4.G8	833.25	825-17	6M-68	712 74	740 8$	769<W	797.07	K5J7	853 2$				
	DRAFTING TECH SR 37 5 HR	990 j66	1,07202	1.056JO	990j66	1.009.59 ।	1,033.50	1.033.30	LO56JO	1,056,30	IJ)72jO1				
2183	DRAFTING TECH 3?J W	3J85J	9)016	88549	815 51	634.59	B53J5	869.44	885,49	80549	910.(6				
2(91	DRIP PERSON	23,38	2405	23.38	23,38	24.05									
2197	ELECT	2449	26.74	26.36	24.49	24 90	25.29	26.10	26.36	26.56	2674				
2199	ELECT A GAS OPNS	27.74	2774	2774											
2)98	ELECT SYSTEMS SUPPORT	24 49	2609	25 49	2449	24 97	25.49	25.49	2609						
2205	ELECTRONIC TECH RADIO L1C	28.41	29.80	29 11	28.41	29 J1	2980								
•2941	ENGINEER AIDE GaS OPER POST	91629	[J92.S2	IJ60.63	936.29	9d8j>	L1W.3J	JJH2.42	1,064.47	iT09h6j	1.128.61	1.160 63	1J9282		
2270	ENGINEER ASSTTO 37.$ HR	987.73	1,213.42	1,175.93	98753	1,025.35	1,062.99	1,(00.61	14382$	L175 91	1,213.42				
1152	ENGINEER ASST TO 40.0 HR	987.73	! 2 B42	L17593	98773	W25.35	1,06299	1,100-61	L138.2S	1J7553	L213.42				
224$	ENGINEER HOIST LJC	24.64	27,90	27.50	26.64	27 02	27.50	27,90							
PAGE: 8
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER 15,2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	(MOS	(MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	61«OS	(MOS	6 MOS	(MOS
1251	ENGINEER L1C	27JB	2J.41	28,08	27.58	28,08	2944								
2743	ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYST 37 3	(>17334	130)41	1.29438	(,27334	1,28036	LJS737	1,29438	1301,41						
2175	EQUIPMENT MAINTAINER	24,14	24.1-1	24 14											
2657	FCM APPRENTICE	14.04	17.55	(638	14.04	15.21	1638	1735							
2658	FCM APPRENTICE SENIOR	■	1817	2281	21J9	(877	19,77	2U9	223)							
2656	FCM APPRENTICE TRAINEE	9.30	L13L	12.06	9,50	10.78	1206	13.31							
2373	FCM ELEOINSTRUMENT TECH	J J .86	3L8£	3186											
2653	FCM MECHANIC	23.52	25 27	73.18	23J2	23.81	24,13	24.41	24,72	25.18	2527				
2654	FCM MECHANIC A	23.08	27,7*	27,46	25.98	2628	16,57	26.86	27,15	2746	27,74				
27U	FCM MECHANIC FLD FACILITIES	2163	27.25	26.95	25.65	23.94	26,19	26.43	26,72	26.98	2725				
26K»	FCM MECHANIC SENIOR	28,43	301	29.90	2M3	28.72	29.01	29.32	2960	29,90	3018				
2606	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	24.23	25.9S	25,68	2423	24.50	24.82	25.12	2538	25.68	25J8				
2604	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A	26,69	2W	28,14	26-69	26lM	27.26	27.56	27Ji	28,14	28.43				
2602	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN SR	1935	30.91	30.61	29.15	19.44	19.74	3003	30.33	30.62	3091				
2014	FIELD OFERS INSPECTOR A	2436	25£l	2SJS	2436	2432	24 67	2443	24,98	25.13	2529	25,44	15j4O	25.73	25.91
2013	FIELD OFERS INSPECTOR B	22.67	23 14	2309	22j67	22.71	22 76	22.81	22-86	22,90	22.95	23.00	23.05	23.09	23.14
2000	FIELD OFERS INSPECTOR C	20.05	21J5	21,13	20.05	20.17	20,29	20.41	20.53	20.65	20.77	2089	21.01	2L13	2L25
2746	FIELD REF 40 HR.	1,13564	UW.W	1,177.76	1,135,64	1435,64	1.133.64	1,133,64	L 156,70	M 56.70	1J 77.76	L177.76	1,199,00		
2350	HELD REF*) HR POST 92	£46.74	1,084.93	[.065>*l	946.74	97239	998.17	1,023,83	1.049.60	LM5 41	L0M£3				
2368	FIELD REPRESENT	L 100.63	IJ 98 .83	LJ7899	U006J	1,127,74	M366O	1,136,60	M7899	1.) 78.99	1.198.83				
1W)	HELD REPRESENT OFFICE	IAHJ&3	LH0S3	1,09098	1JH263	1,039.70	106L84	TJrt3M	L090.9S	1.090.98	1,(1(183				
PAGE: 9
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A ■ 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER 15, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1900 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
TITLE DESCRIPTION		MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	I. MOS	(MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
267S	FJELD SERVICES APPRENTICE	412,47	73662	706.01	412.47	466.84	521.16	57537	629.90	706.01	73862				
•2569	FINANCIAL ASST POST 37.5 HR	860.16	L095.93	1,066,42	860.16	889.60	919J39	948.57	97805	1,007,48	1,037.00	l,066.*2	1,095,92		
2287	FITTER.	2137	24 16	23.52	22 57	2305	23.32	2332	24.16						
2290	FLD TR ELECTA1ECH GAS OPNS	2149	J8.J9	23,49											
2289	FLO TR IN STRUMENT JNSP	1,191.03	IJ9I.05	1,191.05											
2292	FLD TR SYS GAS OPER	29.) 8	29.38	29.3®											
2341	GATE GUARD	20,73	20.73	20,73											
23)8	GRAPHICS TECHN SR 373 HR	IJ323.59	1,10617	1,091.19	LD25.59	1,044.44	1,068.41	1,068.41	1/791.19	1,091.19	1,106.87				
3340	GRAPHICS TECHN 37-5 HR	853.47	94109	920l37	053.47	869.47	88831	904 36	92037	920.37	945.09				
2710	GSO DIST/STATLON FLD TRNR	27 76	29.38	29.14	27.76	28 04	28.37	28,60	28,86	29.14	29.38				
2712	GSO DIST'STATLON SR FLD TRNR	2890	J&S8	30.32	28.90	29.19	29.46	29,76	30,04	30.32	30.38				
noa	GSO DISTRICT ASSISTANT	17.05	21.41	20.70	17.05	17.76	18.47	1923	19.97	20.70	2141				
2706	□SO DISTRICT ASST TRAINEE	12.94	1554	12.94	12.94	15.54									
2363	GSU HOLDERPERSON	26,09	26.09	26.09											
2496	GSO MECHANIC PRESSURE	2565	27-25	2665	2565	26.14	26.65	26.65	27.25						
2709	GSO STATION a FJELD OPERATOR	26.33	27.8®	2761	2633	2660	26.83	27.08	27.35	2761	27,88				
2539	GSO STATION OPERATOR	26.66	2686	26.86											
2343	HELPER	I6H	21.59	20,81	17,31	17.71	1846	1M5	20.05	20,81	21,59				
2154	HFI PER DISTRIBUTION	15.63	20.65	14.95	13.63	17.29	18.93	20.65							
2333	helper mechanics	16,94	21-59	2081	17.31	17,71	1846	1925	20.05	20.81	21.59				
2333	HELPER OPERATORS	22.67	22.67	2267											
PAGE: 10
in
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A-1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER 15,2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1080 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
2356
2362
				PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
				FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
														
TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P*P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
HELFER PRESSURE	21.12	21.82	21.82											
HOLDER PERSON	24.50	24-50	24 50											
IND AFPL INSPECTOR POST *6HR	99195	IJILM	13n.ro	991,95	1,03169	1J8734O	1413.R	135287	1.192-62	133137	13711C	1311*4		
QW APPL INSPECTOR PRE	1J18.M	1357.98	L327JM	1,11803	1448.0)	137799	1307.97	1337,95	1367.92	1397.89	1J27.M	1J57.9B		
inspector eng post	1J374.9]	1302.7*	IJ7+J3	1,07493	IJO138	1331 79	1J603+	1.188.74	131749	(34171	137435	1J0174		
INSPECTOR ENO PRE	U0947	1,465.43	1X33,23	1309.17	1341,18	137345	i 305.22	1.33746	136949	1,401.28	1X3333	1X65.43		
INSPECTOR INSTRUMENT MTR RPR	96550	M 39.73	1,110.73	965,70	994.7+	1,023.69	1,05670	Ufll.72	1,110173	1339,73				
INVESTIGATOR B POST	916 37		1436-26	91637	94779	979,18	1,01057	1,0203	1.071+ 3	1304,81	1336,26	1367.79		
INVESTIGATE B POST ’W	91637	1367,79	133636	916.37	947,79	97948	1,01037	1.04203	L07J.4J	1,104(1	U3626	U67.79		
INVESTIGATOR B POST 95 40 HR	1,030, B0	131158	137R15	1,030.80	L066.14	140137	1,136,76	14 72.16	U07,+S	1342,00	1378,15	131338		
INVESTIGATOR B PRE	1.030. 80	131338	UTS, 15	1X3080	1,066.14	1 JOI.47	L J 16.76	1J72.16	1307+8	13*180	1378.15	13B3*		
INVESTIGATOR B PRE 40,0 HR	1.03080	1313.58	U7(15	1,030-80	1066,14	1,101+7	1,136,76	IJ72.16	L3OT,4(	1342,80	1378,15	131338		
MAINT FIRE EQ CAS OF SYS SUP	2558	27,70	27.22	25,78	2648	26,74	2U2	Z7.22	27.70					
MAINTAINER INSTRUMENT	24.49	26,09	2549	24.49	24.97	25.49	25*9	26.09						
MAINTAINER PERSON FIRE EQUIP	M	2161	23.61											
MAINTAINER PROVER INDICAT A	26.20	28,86	27.96	2640	27.09	27.96	MM							
MAINTAINER PROVER INDICATOR	2549	28 It	2635	25,49	2638	26,75	2841							
MECH	2449	26,74	26.36	24 49	14 90	25.29	3610	26.36	2636	26,74				
MECH AD1STOPNS	27,88	27.83	27.(8											
MECH APPLIANCE	2065	2267	21.95	2065	2110	2L.51	21.95	21.95	22.67					
MECH DI ST A	2715	2713	_	27.25											
1
PAGE: 11
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2001 TO OCTOBER 15,1002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16.1W AND
ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
TITLE DESCRIPTION		MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	« MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2508	MICH DIST A H.DTR	3058	30,58	30J8											
1306	MECH DlST A FLD TRAINER	29 38	29.38	29.38											
2731	MECH DISTAPOST93	2546	27.25	27,08	25 46	25.63	2582	23.99	26.19	*26,35	26.53	26.71	26.89	27.08	27.25
2305	MECH DISTB	22.78	23,27	22.78	22.78	2327									
2727	MECHDISTB POST98	21.75	23.27	23,11	21.75	21,91	22.06	2220	2236	22.51	22.67	22 Pl	2297	23.11	23 27
2491	MECH METER A	24.62	2609	25.31	24.62	25.31	26.09								
2495	MECH METER &	21.10	22,02	2156	21.10	21.56	22,02								
2499	MECH METER SPECIAL	26.75	28.11	2741	2675	27-41	28.11								
2484	MECH SVSTSUPFT	24.49	26,09	2549	2449	24 97	2S.49	23 49	26.09						
2509	MESSENGER 37,5 HR	551,88	75018	717.07	56841	584 97	617,99	65100	683,99	717.07	750,18				
2689	METER READER. POST 9&	4)2,47	560,69	484 83	4)2,47	436.39	460.70	484,83	508.94	525.98	56069				
2859	METReTEKTECH	27,88	28,86	2840	27.88	28.40	2886								
270)	OFER DIST C POST 92	19.65	19,65	19.65											
2719	O PER DLST C POST 98	16-85	1965	19,38	16.85	17.14	1742	17.70	17.98	18.26	1! 54	18J1	19.10	1938	19 65
2549	OFER DISTRIBUTION C	21.25	2125	21.25											
2609	ofer scrbenallbckhdejpayldr.	22.34	23.13	23 03	2234	2246	2160	22.72	22,85	23.03	23.13				
	OPER SLF-LDO YEH GVW 26000+	2234	23,13	23.02	22.34	2246	2160	22.72	22 85	23.02	23 13				
2*75	OPERATOR SR OFFSITE	31.01	31,01	31.01											
237$	OPNS ASST DlST	889.64	987,13	97728	889.64	899.38	909 09	918,89	928.59	938.36	948.09	957,35	967.52	977 28	987 13
25 H	OPNS ASST DIST	889,64	987,13	964.58	889.64	91360	94041	940.61	964.58	964.58	987,13				
2516	OPNS ASST GAS OPS	18.40	2331	2208	18-40	1962	2036	22.08	23.3)						
PAGE: 12
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER 15,2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 10, ION AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB Cl OSSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,19S3
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6MOS
2591	OFtAWSTOPNS	27.M	27.88	nw’											
2850	OPR ASSISTANT SNG	26.87	2687	26.87											
2715	OPRCTRAINEE POSTM	12.M	1544	1244	1194	1554									
2518	OPR CHIEF LNG	3125	3225	32.25											
2534	OPR CHIEF SNGTNC	33,95	3395	3195											
2528	OPR DATA PROC NO 3	38989	135.82	794.84	61040	63 LOI	671.94	712.93	753.82	794 84	835.82				
IMS	OPR DTSHKBUnON A	2715	1715	1735											
254?	OPR DISTRIBUTION B	21,82	21.82j	2LB2											
2723	CFR DlSTRIBUTKJNB K>ST 98	20*0	2J.RT	21.69	2ft6O	2072	2084	3R96	21.08	21.22	2JJ3	4L46	21^53	21.69	22 62
2522	OPR DUMP TRUCK 15T+	22,32	2237	2232											
2523	OPR HOIST CHERRY PCXERflJC)	1725	2S.51	2833	2723	2764	28.13	28JI							
2562	OPR LEAD DATA ENTRY 37J HR	835,82	933.37	91078	835 82	159.81	886.77	88677	910.78	91078	93337				
2537	OPR LEAD MICRO MACH 37,5 HR	923.79	1,023.14	1,00063	*23.79	*4966	97666	97666	1.00068	l«0.66	1XH314				
2558	OPR LEAD REPRO MACH 37.5 HR	923 79	1,02344	1,0006*	925.79	*4966	97666	97666	1.0006*	LOQO68	1,02344				
2364	OPR LEAD SYSTEMS 37,3 HR	1.03149	i 4*8.77	E, 11622	1415119	1J975.38	1.10131	L102 JI	1,12622	L 126.22	1.148.77				
2530	OPR LNG	29.21	29,21	2021											
2716	OPR LNG ASST	2520	2731	25.70	23.70	Z72C									
2532	OPR MAIL INSERT MAO1375 HR	79294	UM .54	859.81	79194	80911	82300	843.89	859.81	859*1	86444				
2340	OPR OFF -sire	24JJ3	24,05	24.05											
2335	OPR REPRO MACH SR 37.5 HR	87766	*75.40	952.84	877.86	901.85	928.86	92866	952.84	95284	97540				
2333	OPR REPRO MACH 37.5	58929	135,82	794 84	61640	631.01	671,94	712.93	753,81	794,84	835,82				
PAGE: 13
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2M1 TO OCTOBER IS, 2602 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16.1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
j															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2536	OPR SNG/LNG	32.25	3225	3225											
2541	OPR STATION A UC	26,71	26.71	26.71											
2543	OPR STATION &	24 58	24,58	24.58											
2566	OPR SYSTEMS A 37,5 HR	925,79	1.023,14	1,000.68	925.79	949.66	976.66	976.66	1X100,68	L-OT068	1.023,14				
2565	OPR SYSTEMS 37 3 HR	89017	987.73	965.15	89027	914.16	941,10	941.10	965-15	965.15	987 73				
2561	DPR. TELEPHONE NGHT 37.5 HR	6Q5.O6	884.54	83794	628.29	651,66	69827	744,83	791,34	837.94	884.54-				
2559	OPR TELEPHONE 37.5 HR	589 89	863.02	817 46	612.72	635.43	680.97	726.52	771.95	817.46	863,02				
2MB	OPR TELPHONE PT 37 J HR	29808	29892	298X38	298,08	298.92									
2521	OPR WORD PROCESS	571.03	933 37	87896	607.41	661.73	716.04	770.34	824.68	878,96	93337				
1567	PAINTER	21.6&	23.W	23.6)	22W	23.01	23.01	2338							
25W	PAINTER BODY TRaNSP	34.49	26.09	25.49	24,49	24 97	25.49	25.49	2609						
2572	PARTS PERSON TRANS	2266	23.35	23.33	22.66	22.90	23.12	23.33	23,55						
2576	PHOTOG ASST APPR 37 5 HR	589.69	83582	794.84	610.40	631.01	671,94	712.93	753.82	794,84	833.82				
2578	PHO TOG ASST 37^ HR	477.75	975.20	952 60	877.75	901,74	928,52	928.52	952.60	952,60	975.20				
2375	PHOTOG 37.5 HR	966 49	1.088,40	1/346.33	966.49	1,006.52	1.006.52	1,04633	1,04623	1,068.40					
2573	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON	20,0$	2120	20,63	20.0$	2063	21,20								
2574	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON SR	21.60	2276	22,18	21,60	22.18	22.76								
■2974	PUBLIC RELATIONS ASST POST	85144	1,143 69	(J07.11	851.44	887.95	924.47	960.99	997.5)	1,034X1(2	1,070.59	1,107,31	1,14369	000	
2594	READER METER	775-77	959X17	928.50	79101	806J4	836.79	867,39	897,92	928.50	959X17				
2598	READER METER (NIGHT SKIP)	775.77	959.07	928.50	791.01	80634	036 79	£6739	897.92	928.50	959.07				
2594	READER METER SCH B	412.47	738.62	6&24	461,69	486,84	S1U2	58738	637.9)	68874	73862				
PAGE: 14
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A ■ 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2601 TO OCTOBER IS, 2902 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
J															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	J MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6MOS	6 MOS	AMOS
2]ja	REP CAD 37.5 HR	910.82	J .027,47	1008,03	91012	930.3!	949.72	96938	98158	100801	1027,47				
2)56	REP CUST INQSR3Z5HR	94158	146626	1,04687	94958	969.09	988.52	1007,98	1,027.37	10461?	106626				
nsa	REP CUST ENQ 37.5 HR	886.73	10130?	992.68	886.73	90196	929.08	95031	971.64	99268	1.01397				
2273	REF CUST Eh+Q 40 HR	M6,7J	1013.97	100107	836,73	899.43	91236	92418	WI.62	950J2	963.06	975.81	9*8.53	100127	10130?
2066	REP LUST OFF PT 375 HR	886.73	886-73	886.73											
2132	REP DtST OFF PT 400 HR	829.14	129. M	82944											
2093	REP DIST OFF 37.S HR	RM.73	101307	992,63	886,73	907 96	929.08	95031	97164	992.68	1,013.97				
2094	REP DIST OFFICE SR 37,5HR	94843	1043.33	1027,55	9+8,48	96432	98032	995,94	LOI 1.73	1X127.53	1,04335				
3005	REP DIST OFFICE SR 40,0 HR	943.48	1M3J	1,027.53	943.48	964.32	980.12	995,94	LOI 1.73	1027.5$	1043-35				
2371	REF ENERGY CONSERV	70613	965.08	92183	70643	74930	Ttt.45	835.561	878,69	921.83	965.08				
2600	REP REGULATORY INQY 375 HR	94956	1066.26	1046.87	94958	969.09	988.52	1007.98	1027.37	1046.87	1.06126				
2160	REP SPEC LEDGER SR 375 HR	91002	142147	1008.03	9)0,82	930,31	949,72	969.18	988.5!	100803	1,027.4?				
27! L	SENIOR PHOTOGRAPH EH	851.96	1051^3	1021.99	858.96	188,19	9)7 42	946.63	973.86	1005.09	1.03433	106356	1092-77	1.12L99	1,15123
2669	SEPARATOR PERSON	23J4	23.14	23,14											
2692	SNOW REMOVAL L101	28.69	2849	28-69											
2693	SNOW REMOVALOT CALL N LlO)	4196	47,96	47.96											
*2939	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL POST	95556	1017.75	1,184.86	955,56	98806	102106	1.033.04	1.086 33	1,119.33	LI52.IZ	1,184.86	1017.75		
•2916	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL PRE	1074.87	1569,78	133180	107407	1,111-68	L14159	1.18346	1022 04	1059.10	1,293,98	L332.S0	LJ69 78		
*2914	SR ARTAPRODOCTlON ASST PRE	966 20	L 094.96	1053,86	96620	1007,32	1048-40	1089.47	UM32	L171.61	l«212.70	1,253.86	1094.96		
2694	STENO CLERICAL375 HR	589.89	884.54	835.32	61450	639.04	6U.06	73735	78636	835 32	M4.54				
2696	STENO SECRETARIAL 3?5 HR	71067	933,37	89625	729,16	747.70	784.86	822.01	859.08	896.23	933.37				
I
I
PAGE: 15
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, Z001 TO OCTOBER 15, MOI FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, 1080 AND
ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P, P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	(MOS	(MOS	(MOS	6 MOS	(MOS
2694	STOCK PERSON DATA PROCESSING	806,39	<76-62	851.45	806.39	822.28	838.27	857.4$	857.4$	87662					
2697	STOCK PERSON 37.5 HR	612,77	<35,91	798.78	631,48	650,02	687,22	722.4]	761.60	798.78	83591				
2698	STRKPR ASST MATMGT 315HR	940.00	1034.60	IXH4JL	94000	963.81	990 80	990 M	1,014.71	1,014.71	L034.BO				
2700	STRKPR ASST SR MAJ APPL	1,051 <2	1.152.83	1,142.70	1,05142	1,061,54	14)71.71	1J38I4U	1XW2,OO	1.102.11	), 112.27	1,122.44	1,132.56	L142.10	1452.83
2703	STRKPR ASST SR MATMGT 37.5H It	1,006.67	LIO 1.57	1,081.49	1,006,67	1,030.64	1.057.63	1,081.49	1,081,49	I.08L49	1,101.57				
2702	STRKPR ASST SR STNRY 3 7 $ HR	97747	1X172.31	1,052.22	97747	1XXJI.3S	1,02838	I.O2S38	1,052.22	1,052 22	1X02.31				
2551	SURVEY OPR TRUCK	22.67	2J,H	22.67	2267	23.14									
2722	SVC PERSON A COORD DF	28.90	30.58	3OJ2	28.90	29.19	29.46	29.76	3004	30.32	3058				
2681	SVC PERSON A FID TR	2842	29,38	28.94	2842	289*	29,38								
2682	SVC PERSON A FID TRN D/F	30,53	3058	30.58											
2671	SVC PERSON A GEN APPL‘	27,01	27.88	2742	27,01	27.42	27,88								
2673	SVC PERSON B APPL	2244	23,08	22.44	22.44	23 08									
2675	SVC PERSON C METER & APPL	21.99	22,44	21.99	21.99	22 44									
2726	SVC PERSON C POST 98	18.21	2106	18,27	18.27	2106									
2677	SVC PERSON D LOCK UNLOCK	21.59	21.59	21.59											
258J	SVC PERSON TRAINEE CSD	, 13,90	17,08	13.90	1390	17.08									
2670	SVC SPECIAL DIST 37,$ HR	<9961	997,17	97458	<99.61	923.59	950.60	950 60	974.58	974.58	997.17				
*2964	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	797 25	1.068.32	1,041.15	797.25	824.39	831.46	878.32	9O3.6J	932.74	959.84	986.93	1,01404	1,041,15	1,068.32
•2965	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	797^5	1.068.32	1.034-37	707-25	m.iti	864.99	89S_90	932,73	96663	1.000.54	1.034 37	1,068)2		
2807	SYS PROCESSOR DIST 37,5 HR	862.77	960.28	937,68	862-72	£86.69	91371	913.7)	937.68	93768	96028				
2494	SYS PROCESSOR DIST 40 HR	862.72	96018	950,40	862.72	87248	88221	891 95	901 69	|	911.43	921.18	930 90	040.65	930.40	M0.2S
PAGE: 16
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER !«, 2001 TO OCTOBER 15,2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY !«, 19B0 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,19S3
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2626	TECHNICIAN PROCESS A	29.38		29.38	2938	29J8									
3812	TELEPHONE SER V REP 37.5 HR	803J4	943,79	920J4	W3J4	826.81	858.15	87336	397.02	92034	94179				
2811	TELLER HEAD 375 HR	948,48	LO4JJ5	1J323.47	948.48	972,42	996.51	996 51	1,023.47	IA23.47	LW3J5				
2813	TTmEKEEP SYS SUPP 37.5 HR	862.46	960.02	93149	863,46	88661	91149	913.49	937.49	937.49	960.02				
2819	TOOL REPAIR PERSON	2479	25.90	25.35	24.29	24,83	25,35	25J5	25<'O						
2820	TOOL REPAIR PERSON A	25J06	26.72	26.15	2306	25.62	26J5	36.15	26.72						
2827	TYPIST STATISTICAL 37 J HR	792.94	88414	859.81	792,94	win	m.w	W.39	859.M	89981	88454				
2829	UPHOLSTERER	2190	nw	24,88	23.90	24,41	24 88	74.88	23.52						
2831	UPHOLSTERER A	26.93	26,93	26.93											
2835	UTUJTY PERSON SYS SUPP	2065	2M9	21.W	2065	21.10	21.10	21J9							
2837	UTILITY WAREHOUSE PERSON	15.63	20.65	19.75	16.46	17.18	17.99	18,89	19.75	20.65					
2849	WATCH GUARD	19,75	19,75	T9-75											
2853	WATCH GUARD 4 PORTER	704 32	806.39	790.48	723J0	73928	75530	77129	79QA8	8MJ9					
2815	welder	14.49	20.09	25.99	24A9	24.9?	25.49	25.49	26,W						
2857	WELDER A	27.43	2753	27.43											
2858	WEIDER A QUALIFIED	2936	29J6	29J6											
2707	WORK MEASUREMENT ANALYST	1,076.4$	1.115,68	LlJU.l)	1,082.05	1,087.66	1,093.25	1,098.90	IJM48	1,110.11	1,115.68				
2861	YARD PERSON	1153	21J1	20.07	18,53	20.07	20.07	2JJ1							
ALL TITLE CODES FROM 2900 - 2999 ARE UACCRET1ON TITLES
Schedule A-2
October 16,2002 - October 15, 2003
PAGE: 17
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A ■ 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER 15, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 10,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY IS, 1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MLN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	« MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	b MOS	«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
■2929	ACCT ENGR SR POST	95052	U 11.44	1J78.64	950.52	983.14	Loi vn	1.04829	1,08007	1413,44	1,146.05	1t1?8l64	Utt*44		
’2900	ACCT ENGR SR PRE	1069.25	J 362.68	1,325.82	1,069.25	1*10505	1,14237	1,179.15	1,215.85	1*25252	1*289.16	1*325.82	1*362.68		
2212	ACCT ENGR 37.5 HR	1,02230	1*24224	1*205.63	1*022*30	105BJH	109551	1,13126	1,16809	1^0502	t*24 L24				
'2933	Accrrosi	100338	1.249,48	1,21859	1003-58	1,034.32	I065W	1,095,74	1,12649	U57J6	1,18708	1,218.59	1449.48		
•2984	ACCT POST 92 40.0 HR	I.UM7	I.405.5I	1*370.77	1.12807	1,163.46	1,197*99	1*232,56	1*267.14	1,30101	[036*22	1370.77	l,4to*Jl		
*2902	ACCT PRE	1J2807	1.40531	IJ70.T?	142807	1,163,46	1,197.99	1,23236	1,261.14	1,30167	103622	1.37077	1*405.51		
MQt	ACCT REP 373 HR	£78,89	97962	95632	87809	903.49	931*41	931X1	956.32	R56J2	979.62				
2020	ACCTG asst CORP 3T5HR	96553	1063.49	1042.89	96553	990.17	101803	1018.03	1042.89	104209	1063X9				
2002	ACCTG ASST DIST 37.5 HR	92427	1332230	1001.75	92437	949.04	976.90	976.90	1,001.75	1001.75	1022.30				
2018	ACCTG ASST SR CORP 37.5HR	1,02130	L18671	1,159.27	1,02230	1,049.74	L07705	1.10450	1*13103	1,15977	1.186.71				
2010	ACCTG ASST SR CORP 40 HR	1,022 30	1,186.71	M 70.25	102230	1.038.69	1,055*11	1,071,61	1088.0*	1*104.47	1*120.93	t* 137.37	LL538I	1*170*25	1486.71
2026	ACCTG ASST SR 37,5 HR	96553	L 063.49	1,042.89	965 53	990.17	1018.03	1.018.03	1042.89	1,04209	[063.49				
2011	ACCTG ASST 37.5 HR	924.27	1,02230	t 001.75	92427	94904	976.90	97600	1001.75	t*00l*75	[022.30				
2062	ACCTG CLERK 1 FT 37.5 HR	863,07	86507	865.07											
2108	ACCTG CLERK 2 PT 40 HR	758.81	758.81	758.81											
2060	ACCTG CLERK 3 PT 375 HR	>3305	333.24	33305	335.05	33314									
*2935	ADM ASST CSD POST	89027	1,134 28	1.103*74	890.27	920.74	95126	981,77	101228	1042,74	1073JO	140374	1 J34.28		
•2903	ADM ASST CSD PRE	1,00138	147592	1*241.55	1001 38	1035.70	L,07003	1,104.35	1*138.67	1,17294	1*207.31	1*241.55	t .275,92		
*2957	ADM ASST MAT MGT POST 37,5 HR	930,61	1,185.77	1.153,7®	930.61	962.47	99438	1.02623	1058*10	1089.95	1421,89	[,153,76	1,183.77		
*2915	ADM ASST MAT MGTPRE	1046,79	[335.84	1*297.81	1046.79	1,082.62	1,11857	1.154.39	1,190 22	122609	1*261.95	1,29781	1.333.84		
PAGE: 18
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - Z EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PR OGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST	1			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
1	■															
TITLE DESCRIPTION		MIN	MAX	P.P,	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS i	6 MOS	6 MOS	« MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
*1971	ADM ASST METER REPAIR POST	94L33	IJ97 22	1,163.24	942.3J	97417	1005 99	1,037,90	1,069.73	1,101 59	] ,133,41	1,165.24	1,197.22		
*2922	ADM ASST MTTBR REPAIR PRE	1,06001	1346,73	1,310.77	1,060.01	1095,78	1J 31,61	1,167,47	1.20334	1,239.(3	1J24.88	U1077	1,346,73		
•2967	ADM ASST SYS SUP POST	92460	1,122.89	1,097.94	924.60	949.36	974,16	998.93	1,(03.63	1,048.43	1073,19	1,097.94	1,112.89		
’2920	ADM ASST $YS SUP PM	1040 0*	1363.10	1,23502	1,04004	1067.89	1095.76	L123M	1,151,46	L179J0	1207.19	1235.02	1,263.10		
•2947	ADM ASST ^ORK COMP POST	86787	LIO571	1075,85	867.87	897,52	927.32	957,04	986.71	101645	1046.15	1075,85	1,10571		
•295$	ART A PRODUCTION ASST POST	689,02	1,191.52	1,133,71	889.02	926.85	964,65	1,002.43	1,040,23	1078,00	1,115,83	1,133.11	1,191.52		
2739	assoc customer service	412 70	877.92	800J9	4R70	490.25	567,70	645.31	722.84	800.39	877.92				
2365	ASST CHEMIST	791,97	99563	961.67	791.97	825.89	859,83	893.74	92708	961.67	995,63				
	ASST EIMTUR. POST	876.84	1,117.n	1.085.14	876.84	906,91	936 91	966.95	997.03	102703	105705	1087.14	1,117.13		
2370	ASST HELD REP	987 76	1,130.83	M 10.62	987.76	1,014.36	1,040,99	1067 60	1094 26	1.11062	1.(30,83				
2023	ATTEND GARAGE	16.62	22J5	2141	17. J 2	17.58	18.51	19.52	20.44	2141	22.33				
2021	ATTEND GARAGE ALTER FUEL	1705	22,16	21.80	1753	17,99	18.97	I9 60	20.84	21.80	22 76				
2483	AUTO MECH A FLO TRAINER	2911	29.21	29,21											
2487	AUTO MECHANIC	2571	27,34	26.71	25.71	2620	2671	26.71	27.34						
2489	AUTO MECHANIC A	2S-W	28,09	2W											
2631	AUTO TECHNICIAN	29,21	29,21	2921	29.21	29.21									
M25	BLACKSMITH 'A'	2624	27.88	27.24	26.14	26.74	2124	21.24	27.88						
2031	carpenter	25,65	27,28	26.62	25,65	26.14	2662	26,62	27.28						
27U	CHAUFFEUR DISTRICT OPS	24.M	24.54	24.54	24,54	24.54									
2038	CHAU FFEUR EXECUTIVE	2508	2508	25.H8											
PAGE: 19
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A-2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	I
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	Max	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	SMOS.	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
20*0	chauffeur tractor trailer	26AI	264)	26.41											
20*5	CHEMIST	tJW13	t .2154*	I.18B37	1054.15	L081.02	1407.78	IJ34.68	1461.43	LJ 8SJ7	1,215.14				
20*7	CHEMIST SENIOR 373 HR	1J0335	130335	1J0J.35											
*2939	CHIEF CLERK GAS OFER POST	AM.77	MUTI		MAT?	911.43	960.01	997.66	1A35.23	1^72.89	1410.48	M4S.W	1JW,77		
2 DM	CLK ACCTG ND E ACCT 373 HR	ma9	979.62	93632	878,89	903.49	931.41	931.41	93632	956J2	979.0				
2055	CLK ACCTG NO I 373 HR	865.0?	<*60*	942.66	865.07	889.90	917.81	917.81	9*2,66	W.66	966,04				
2057	CLK ACCTG NO 2 37.5 HR	820,69	915.50	•89,90	820.69	•37,43	856.98	873,43	889,90	88990	915S0				
2039	CLK. ACCTG NO 3 37J HR	651.67	865.07	83043	675.04	69215	726.82	761.43	795.98	•30.43	MJ.M				
ZW	CLK. ACCTG NO 1 OAS	763 JO	966.04	93211	76340	796.97	830.74		898.38	932JJ	966.04				
2733	CLK ACCTG NO- 3 C1AS	581.41	726.78	702.59	5814!	603 66	629 87	654,12	678.34	702 59	72648				
272$	CLK. ACCTG NOJ ACCTG POST 92	577.78	915,50	•3178	577.78	708.60	835.78	915.50							
, 2)16	CLK CNTL SR CUST ACCT 31SHR	988.40		1JW599	988,40	1013.31	lj037.9*	1,03? .94	1.06590	1065.99	1,096.56				
2?3O	CLKCOMMNO1 37JHRFOSIR2	76340	966,04	84431	76340	W369	84431	8443 J	84431	84431	966.04				
2720	CLK COMM NO237JHR FOST92	581.4t	72638	697,71	5BI.4L	610.11	639.55	668.62	69771	726.78					
2067	CLK COMML ASST HD 3t5 HR	974 78	1,02230	999.72	974.78	999.72	UEJ.W								
3073	CLK COMML [ND APPt 375 HR	966.43	1,067.30	t ,0*3.97	966,43	99140	1019.10	MH 9.10	1,04397	LO43.9?	106730				
3069	CLK COMML NO 1 3X5 HR	865.07	WQ*	942.66	B65.O7	089.90	917.81	91701	M2l66	94266	96&09				
2072	CLK COMML NO 2 TREAS 37.5 HR	66097	915,50	87395	660.97	7O3.3B	745.77	788.19	830.56	872 95	915.50				
2071	CLK COMML NO 2 37J HR	EQ0.69	91550	BB9J0	820.69	837.43	856.98	873.43	889,90	•89,90	013.50				
2073	CLK COMML NO 3 37,5 HR	6HX54	865,07	82246	631.76	65310	695,46	73X88	78020	822,66	865.07				
PAGE: 10
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER IS, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	0 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2052	CLK CONS ANAL YS 37.5 HR	W6.27	801.60	784,01	646.27	713,35	73133	7+8-93	766,46	784,01	80160				
2)15	CLK CONTROL CUST SER 4fl[[R	865,07	966.Q4	HZ.66	865.07	889.90	917.81	917,81	942,66	942.66	966.04				
2095	CLK CONTROL PROP MAIN! 37,3	921.43	1,099.18	1J569.64	921.45	951.13	980.75	1,010.34		) ,069.61	1,099.28				
2074	CLK DEPOSIT 37,5 HR	899,38	1,000.22	976.9]	899.38	924.19	952 18	952 18	97691	976,91	1,000.22				
2101	CLK EXECUTIVE 37.3 HR	736.71	983.33	945.51	756.71	79449	83224	870.01	907.75	945.51	983.33				
2070	CLK GEN CUST SER 40 0 HR	1,01821	1,018 21	LOI 8.21	1,018.2]										
2009	CLKGEN MAILS MGT	7Q7.Q2	] ,01103	961.11	732.48	757.85	808.69	859 51	910,31	961,11	1.012.03				
2081	CLK GEN NO 1 37,5 HR	865.07	966C4	942.66	865.07	889.90	917.81	917.81	942.66	942.6$	966.04				
2004	CLK GEN NO 1 40 HR POST89	536 50	%6XU	923.06	536 50	57948	622,40	665 36	7Q8-39	75128	79+23	837.16	880-10	923.06	966.04
2083	CLK GEN NO 2 37.3 HR	690.6)	865.07	836.02	690.61	719 67	748.73	777.89	80690	936X12	865.07				
2084	CLK GEN NO 3 37.5 HR	S?U0	176.44	742.17	58830	605.44	639,62	673.79	707,93	742,17	776 44				
2863	CLK GEN KOI QCST	968.30	1,023.22	1,0(4.06	96830	977,45	986.61	995,76	1,00*38	14H4.06	1,023.22				
2120	CLK GUN TREASURY 37.5 HR	901.17	LDO2.L2	97877	901.17	925.98	953.94	9S33M	978.77	978,77	1,002.12				
207$	CLK GEN 1 MKT aDV 17,5 HR	9(5,15	1.016.06	992.71	915-15	939,80	967.85	967.85	992,7]	992,71	I,Q16.06				
2082	CLKGEN] PURQCJ7.5HR	905.20	1,00607	982,78	905.20	929.97	95793	957.93	982.78	982.78	1,00607				
2D88	CLK GEN 2 MKT ADV 37.5 HR	718.06	89256	863.48	713.06	747.14	776.20	805J0	834.34	863.43	89256				
2098	CLKHDCLALWSECTY 3?.3 HR	98840	1,086^8	1^65.99	988 4Q	1,013,31	14337,94	1,037.94	1.065,99	1,065.99	1,086.58				
2O8i	CLK HD COMML 37.5 HR	988.40	1,086.58	1,065.99	983.40	1,01331	1/337.94	L037.94	LO65.99	1,06559	1,086.58				
*2931	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG POST	, 950,52	Utl-44	1,178.64	950,52	983.14	13)1573	1,04829	1,080.87	1,113 44	1,146.05	1,17864	T21I44		
*2901	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG PRE	1,069.25	136268	1325-82	1,069-25	1,105,85	1.142.57	1,179,15	Ul 5.85	1252.52	L2B9.L6	1,325.82	IJ62.68		
PAGE: 21
I
I I
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
'	SCHEDULE A -2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It, 2CIO2 TO OCTOBER 15,2M3
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND
ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS	6 MOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS
23W	CLK HD URBAN AFFAIRS	98B.40	t/«6Jl	tk0M99	988.40	1,01331	1,03X94	1.037.94	1,065.99	1.065.99	1,086,35				
2H7	CLK HEAD CONTROL 37-5	1,022JO	1,186.71	1,I39J7	1/122 JO	1,049.74	1,077.05	1.104 50	IJ3I 83	1,159-27	1416.71				
WM	CUE HEAD CUST SVC J7J HR	97473	JO	W9.72	W4J8	999.72	1JJ2230								
2091	CLK HOUSE HEATING 37.5 HR		93X83	91122	84308	859.74	879.36	895.80	912,22	91222	93743				
2099	CLK HOUSE HEATNG A 37.5HR	617.09	937.83	83087	617.09	*70,51	724,02	777,42	830,87	83017	9JW				
2705	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B POST 98	41251	53868	536.06	411.51	42542	437,73	45036	462,98	47558	48840	50Q.B2	513.44	526.06	538.68
2634	CLK INVENT CTL MMD 2 7J HR	772.90	1.071.02	1.030 22	973.90	997.54	1,025-4*	1/E548	1/350122	1,05022	1,07)02				
2224	CLK METER REPAIR SR	967.19	1/I5L33	1,037,05	967,89	981,79	995,70	I.0WM	1/J2353	1.03705	1/81,33				
SOM	CLK MTR RPR HEAD 373 HR	92427	1.022 JO	1.001.75	92427	949.04	97690	97690	1/TOL75	1,001,75	1.022 JO				
2103	CLK PRICE MKT ADV 37.5 HR	86507	966.04	9*266	865,07	88990	917,81	917,81	942.66	94266	96604				
21«	CLK SPECIAL LEDGER 373 HR	465.07	991.49	9704S	865.07	81645	90728	928.40	94935	970,45	99149				
2113	CLK STCK MAT MOT 37 J HR	R2OS3	915.62	890 19	820.88	837.46	85740	873-52	890,19	89049	91562				
2111	CLK STCK MKT ADV 3X5 HR	820,69	9*550	M990	120.69	837.43	856.98	873.43	889.90	889.90	915.50				
2114	CLK STCK STNR V TRUCK OP 37.5	79593	95072	W9 13	795 93	821.72	M7.52	87326	89943	89943	950.72				
2065	CLK TELLER PT 37.5 HR	S7389	87889	87889											
2131	CLK TELLER FT 40 HR	812 58	81258	812 58											
2092	CLK TELLER 3X5 HR	878,89	979.62	95632	878.89	903.49	931,41	93141	95632	95637	979,62				
2734	CLK TELLER 37,5 HR POST 92	63410	872.09	11760	654 10	701.60	76340	76340	817.60	817.60	872.09				
2319	CLK TRAFFIC 37.5 HR	1JM69	J203C*	JJ«J4	JJM.69	IJ5J.76	JJ57.50	] ,157,50	1.1112,34	1J82.3*	1203,06				
2K23	CLKTYP1ST375HR	61054	86507	82266	63176	653 10	695.46	737 88	780.20	822,66	865.07				
PAGE: 21
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A ■ 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER t*. 2002 TO OCTOBER 15, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY It, 1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
			V												
! TITLE DESCRIPTION		MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	FMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2130	COLLECTION CONTROLLER	942.70	1M4J	1,04131	94270	96287	982.96	1.003.10	L023.18	1,043 J)	1JJ63.4J				
W3	COLLECTOR	697.83	1 ♦002.87	96131	897,83	914.24	93654	93654	961.31	961.31	L00187				
306	COMPUTER LIBRARIAN SR 37,5	974.84	1JI 7.56	1,093.69	974.84	99863	1,022.44	1,046.13	1069.99	1,0»j69	M 17,56				
2645	CORROSION TECH HELPER	12 74	LB.4)	17.46	12.74	13.67	1461	15.57	16.53	1746	184]				
2649	CORROSION TECHNICIAN		2VU	1YT5	M	VW		21,81	22.75	2373	24.W				
2810	CORROSION TECHNICIAN PRE 92	98648	1,14132	1,115.52	986.48	1,012.23	1,03813	1,063 84	1.089.70	1.115.52	L141.32				
2650	CORROSION TECHNICIAN SR	24.65	28-52	27.88	24.65	25.31	25 97	3660	27-25	27.88	28.52				
2735	CREW LEADER	2869	30.41	30.26	28.89	29,04	29.19	29.34	29.50	2965	29.80	29.95	3Q.10	WJ6	3041
2061	CUST INQUIRY REP FT 17 .5 HR	897.46	897.46	897.46											
2124	CUST INQUIRY REP PT 40 HR	829.74	829.74	829.74											
2687	CUST SERV REP 37.5	917.77	1,049.46	1J127.42	917,77	939,74	96160	983.37	1,005.65	1,027.42	1,049.46				
2276	CUST SERVICE. REF 40 HR	917 77	1,049.46	L936.3!	917.77	930.91	944.09	957.25	971144	983,58	996.77	1,009.96	1,023.13	1.036.31	1,049.46
2157	CUSTODIANS RECORDS ASST 37.5	915,50	1,013-46	992,92	915-50	9*0.29	968.12	968.12	992,92	992.92	1X113.46				
2155	CUSTODIANS RECORDS 37.5 HR	1,022.30	].186.71	1,1592?	1,022.30	1,049.74	LO77JM	LLO4 5O	LHLS3	1,159.27	1,186.71				
2738	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC	412.70	654,10	629.96	41270	436-84	46098	485.1J	509.26	533.41	557,55	58170	605^2	629.96	654.10
2137	DATA ENTRY COORD 37.5 HR	958,19	1,058.95	LO35.7O	958.19	98290	1,010.84	1,010,84	IJH5.7O	1,035.70	1,058.95				
2161	DELIVERER	19.18	21.84	19.18	19.18	2184									
2704	DISPATCHER POST 98	U 2205	1,169.68	1,164.91	1J22.05	1,126,83	1,131-58	U36J5	L14LJ0	1,145.88	1,130.63	J, 155.39	1,160-16	1,164.91	1,169.68
2)7?	DISPLAY ASSISTANT 37-5 HR	90847	1,009.33	985,94	908.47	933.30	961.02	961.02	985.94	985.94	1,009.33				
2181	DISPLAY ASST APPftNT 37.5 Hit	690.61	86507	83602	690.61	719.67	748.13	777,89	BQ690	836 02	863.07				
2180	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 37.5 HR	IJ21.23	U42.T9	1,201,88	1,12123	LI4J-34	1,161.51	L16I.5J	1,201.88	1J0J.B8	1.242,19				
PAGE: 23
LOCAL IOI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - J EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 1«, 10W AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NOOLENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY IS,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULEIN YEARS	I
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MDS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2291	DISPLAY DESIGNER M 4M HR	MJI.23	LZ82J9	jjoi.ss	1,12123	L14L34			1,201.88	tjsun	1,242.19				
2163	DISPLAY DESIGNER 37J HR	JJ04596	U«.95	1,123.46	1,043.96	1.062*7	1,08636	L0MJ6	1.123.46	1,123.46	1,166,95				
21*2	DISPLAY PRSON-CONST SNR 37J		1084*5	1030*0	983.75	1,000*0	1JM733	IJH733	L.M0W	1,05040	1J(B4,55				
itri	DK9TCH BtSTR 37.5 HR	1W32	1*33*7		1,086.32	1.10896	1,108,96	1,133.87							
rao	EAKF1<JHD<STR40I<R	1JM632	1.13387		1JM6J1	1,09*09	IjOM.aO	1,10056	1,105 34	1,11002	l„L 14^1	1,119,56	£.12436	1,129-06	1,133*7
1175	DISTICH ORDER	1,12203	1.16968	L, 14490	1,122.03	1,144.90	1,144,90	t,16948							
2174	DISTICH TFANSP 3T3 HR	917*1	966.86	9*136	917*1	94236	9<2 J6	966,86							
2172	DLSPTCH TRUCK DtST 37* HR	1.047 18	1094.73	1.06W	1,047.18	1.06987	13169.87	1,094.73							
2IM	DRAFTING CLERK 37.5 HR	70864	883.11	154 (H	708.64	737.69	766 7B	79396	824.97	054.0$	893.11				
2189	DRAFTING TECH SR 37* MR	1,02*33	1,109.54	1.093 27	1,025.33	1^44.93	UM9.67	1.06967	)J93.27	1.09327	1,109,54				
21*3	DRAFTING TECH 37* HR	**7J6	9*2,02	91941	947.16	863*0	883,42	899.87	916.4*	916.48	94102				
2191	DRIP PERSON	1470	24S9	2420	2420	24»									
2197	ELECT	25 35	27.6*	2721	2325	25.77	26.18	27.01	27.28	212S	2768				
1199	electa gas opns	2871	28.71	28.71											
2m	ELECT SYSTEMS SUPPORT	23.35	27.00	26*8	2*35	25*4	26.38	2638	27,00						
220$	electronic tech radio uc	2940	36.84	30.13	29.40	30.13	3064								
•29*1	ENGINEER AIDE GAS OFER POST	9W06	1,234*7	1,201.25	969.06	1.00224	>43536	1,06835			1,168.11	1.201.2$	103**7		
2270	ENGINEER ASST TO 37.5 HR	1022*0	IJ55.89	1,21*09	£.012.30	L.06124	1.100.19	LJ39I3	1J78J79	1J17.O9	1,235*9				
2152	ENGINEER ASST to 400 HR	1JBL30	053*9	1,2)7.09	*022,30	1XI6C34	1,100.19	1,139.13	1,178.09	1,217.09	1055*9				
2245	ENGINEER HOIST UC	27*7	2*88	2446	27,37	27.97	28,46	28.88							
PAGE: 24
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER 15, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		fifth	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	Max	P. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
22S1	ENGINEER LLC	2155	29.44	29.06	28.52	29.06		o.w							
2742	ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYST 37,5	1,317,91	1,346,96	1.339.68	1^1751	1.325.17	1.33143	1,339.68	1J46.96						
2275	EQUIPMENT MAINTAINER	24.98	24.9b	24.98											
2657	FCM APPRENTICE	14.53	18,16	16.95	14.53	15.74	16.95	18.16							
2658	FCM APPRENTICE SENIOR	18.91	23,61	22,0*	18.91	20.46	22.04	23-61							
265b	FCM APPRENTICE TRAINEE	W	13,78	12,48	9.63	H.I6	12.46	13.78							
2375	FCM eleoinstrument TECH	32.98	32.93	32.98											
	FCM MECHANIC	24.34	26.15	26.06	2434	24M	24.97	25.26	25,59	2606	26.15				
2654	FCM MECHANIC A	26.89	28 JI	28.42	26.89	2720	2750	27.80	28.10	28.42	28.71				
2713	FCM MECHANIC FLD FACILITIES	26.55	2820	27.92	26.55	26l«S	27.11	2736	37 66	27.92	28,20				
2680	FCM MECHANIC SENIOR	29.43	31.24	30,95	29.43	39 73	3003	30.35	J0.64	30.95	3124				
2606	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	25.08	26.89	26.58	25.08	25.36	25.69	26.00	26.27	26.58	26,89				
2604	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A	27,62	29,43	29.12	27.62	27.92	2E,2l	28,52	1W	29.11	29.43				
2602	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN SR	30,17	31,99	3169	30.17	30.47	30.78	31,08	J1.39	31.69	31.99				
2014	FIELD OPERS INSPECTOR A	25 JI	26.81	2665	25-21	2SJ8	25S4	25,70	25.86	26,01	26.17	26.33	2649	26.65	26.81
2013	FIELD OPERS INSPECTOR B	23.46	23,95	23 90	2346	2351	23.56	23,61	ZJ.66	23.71	23.76	23.80	2385	23.90	23.95
2000	FIELD OPERS INSPECTOR C	20,75	21.99	21.87	20.75	20R7	21.00	21.12	21.25	21J7	21.50	2163	21.74	21.87	21 99
2746	FIELD REP 40 HR	1,175.39	1,240.97	1.218.98	1,175.39	1375-39	M7539	1,175.39	1,197-18	1.197,18	1.218,98	1.218.98	1,240.97		
2350	FIELD REP 40 HR POST 92		1,122.90	MW.TO	97m	1,00642	13133,11	1,O19 6E	1,08634	IJ-&2.T0	1,12290				
2368	FIELD REPRESENT	1,13915	1,240.79	1J20J5	1,139.15	1.167.21	1,176-38	IJ7&38	IJ20J5	1,220.25	1,240.79				
2369	HELD REPRESENT OFFICE	IJM&07	1,149-71	1,129.16	1.04807	1^76.09	1,101,07	1,101,07	1,129.16	1,129.16	1,149.71				
PAGE: 25
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A-2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER I6,2M2 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	~~l
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6MOS	6 MOS	«MOS
2671	HELD SERVICES APPRENTICE	426JI j	764.47	730,72	426-91	48338	539 46	595,71	651,95	730,72	76447				
•29ft	FINANCIAL ASST POST 37 J HR	890.27	1J34.2S	M 03,74	890.27	920.74	951.26	981.77	I.DI2.2B	1,042.74	1,07330	E 403.74	L134 28		
22*7	fitter	23,36	25.01	24J4	23.36	23.86	2434	24,34	25.0!						
2290	FLD TR ELECT/MECH GAS OFNS	19.49	29.49	29.49											
22ft	FLD TR INSTRUMENT JN5P	1,232,74	I.23W4	1.232,74											
2291	FLD TR SYS GAS OFER	3041	30.41	30.41											
2341	GATT GUARD	21.46	2k<6	21.46											
233%	GRAPHICS TECHN SR 37.5 HR	IjKlJW	I .U5.61	1.129.18	L061.49		1.105.60	1,105.80	1,11938		1345 61				
2340	GRAPHICS TECHN 37 J	88334	978.17	952 5B	80334	899.90	91961	9X01	95238	952.58	978,17				
2710	GSO EHST/STAT1ON FLD TRNR	10.73	30,41	30-16	23,73	29.02	29.31	29,60	29.87	30,16	30.41				
2712	GSO MST/STaTTON SR FLD TRNR	29.91	Ji.65	3138	29JJ	3021	30.49	3030	31,W	3138	31,65				
ZTtt	GSO DISTRICT ASSISTANT	17,65	22,16	2142	17,65	18 38	19,12	1990	20.67	21,42	22.16				
2706	GSO DISTRICT ASST TRAINEE	1339	16jD<	1339	1339	16.08									
2363	GSO HULDEKFERSON	27,00	27.00	77W											
2496	GSO MECHANIC PRESSURE	26.55	2830	2738	26-55	27.05	27.51	27,58	28.20						
2709	GSO STATION A FIELD OPERATOR	27,25	2886	2358	27-25	27.53	27.77	2503	28.31	2858	28,86				
2339	GSO STATION OPERATOR	27.80	27.80	2730											
2345	HELPER	17,53	22.33	21.54	17,92	18.33	J9,H	1992	20,75	2154	22.33				
2154	HELFER DISTRIBUTION	16.18	21-37	19.61	16.18	17,90	1961	2137							
2353	HELPER MECHANICS	1753	22.35	21 54	17.92	18-33	19.11	19.92	2075	2134	2235				
2355	HELPER OPERATORS	23.46	23,46	JM6											
PAGE: !«
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2002 TO OCTOBER IS, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		fourth		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
23$6	HELFER PRESSURE	2238	22.58	2238											
2362	HOLDER PERSON	2536	25.36	2536											
*2943	IND APpL INSPECTOR. POST 40HR	1/128,74	1357,75	13L6&											
•2908	IND APFL INSPECTOR PRE	1,157.16	}jW5.5I	137434	1J57.1&	1,188.19	141922	1,230.2$	I38L28	1312.30	1.343.32	IJ7434	1NO5.51		
’2936	INSPECTOR ENG POST	1J 12.53	134834	131875	141235	144200	1471,40	1300.9$	133035	1 259.19	1,38931	1318.75	1348,34		
•2904	inspector eno pre	1351.49	1316.72	1,48339	1,251.49	1,284.62	1317.71	1350-90	1,387,96	L417.IJ	1.4.'t>_32	1,48339	1,516.72		
2374	INSPECTOR INSTRUMENT MTU RPR	99950	1,179.62	1,149.61	999.50	1,02936	1,059 52	1093.68	1319.58	144961	1379.62				
*2951	INVESTIGATOR B POST	948.44	1308-66	1476.OJ	948.44	960.96	LOI 3.45	1,045,94	bOliuSO	1J1LW	1.1+3 aS	1376ZG	1308.66		
24W	INVESTIGATOR B POST *93	948.44	1,208.66	147605	943 44	9W96	1.01345	1045.94	1078.50	LU LOO	1,143.48	1,176.03	1 JOS.66		
2102	1NVE8T1GATOR B POST 95 40 H R	1.06633	1359 56	1,322.89	1O66.B&	IJO3.45	1340.02	IJ 7635	131339	1,249 74	1386.30	1 J22.89	135936		
"2912	INVESTIGATOR B PRE	1,06638	135936	1322-8?	I.G66M	1.1 WAS	1,140.02	1376 55	i ,21339	1,349,74	138630	1323-89	1359,56		
*2905	investigator B PRE 400 HR	I.066.W	1,359.56	1322 89	1,066.88	1J0345	1J40.Q2	1,176.55	131349	1,349.74	1,286.30	1322.89	1,159.56		
2422	MA TNT FIRE EQ GAS OP SYS SUP	2663	2837	2817	26.68	27.20	2768	2837	28 17	28.6?					
2425	maintainer instrument	2535	27.00	2638	2535	25.84	2638	2638	2700						
2424	MAINTAINER PERSON FIRE EQUIP	24+4	24.44	24,44											
2427	MAINTAINER PROVER INCHCAT A	27.12	29.87	28.94	2712	28.04	M.94	29.87							
2426	MAINTAINER PROV ER INDICATOR	it-.W	IS#	27	2638	27 20	Tttfi	29.09							
2431	MECH	2535	27.68	27.28	2535	25.77	26.18	2701	27.28	27.28	27 68				
2590	MECH ADISTOPNS	28.86	2836	28.86											
248J	MECH APPLIANCE	2137	2336	22 72	2137	21.84	22-26	22.72	22.72	2346					
250J	MECH DIST A	28.20	28.20	28.20											
PACE; 27
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1M2 TO OCTOBER IS, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1MJ
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	I
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	CMOS	CMOS	CMOS
2508	MECH D)ST A FLDTR QC	3155	31.65	31.65											
2M6	MECHDJSTA FLD TRAINER		30141	3P.41											
1731	MECH DIST A POST 9*	26.35	28.20	28.03	26.35	26.53	2672	26.90	27,11	27.27	27.46	27,64	27 A3	2803	2*20
2505	MECH urns	2351	Mjg	23.58	2351	24.0*									
mi	MECH DI5T D POST 9*	22 JI	24.08	23.92	22.51	22.6*	22.83	2298	23,14	23,30	23.46	23.61	23,77	23,92	24M
2441	MECH METER A	25.41	27.00	26-20	25.4*	2620	27,00								
2495	ME CH METER B	21*4	22.70	2ZJI	21-34	22.31	22.79								
2444	MECH METU SPECIAL	2754	29.09	a#		2S.37	I9.W								
24*4	MECH SYST SUPPT	25,35	27,00	263*	25.35	25.84	26.38	2638	27.00						
2509	MESSENGER 37$ MR	571-20	77644	742.17	5 ft* 30	605,44	639.62	673,79	707.93	742.17	776.44’				
2689	METER READER COST W	42*91	5«4>3l	501,80	426-91	451.87	476,82	3OL8O	526.75	554 74	58031				
1459	MH KU EK TECH	25,86	29.87	2939	T856	29 39	29,«7								
2701	OFER DIST C POST 92	20.34	2034	20.34											
2719	OFER DIST C POST 93	(7,44	20.34	2006	1744	17.74	1*03	18.32	1861	18,90	19.19	19.47	19.77	2006	2034
2549	OPER DISTRIBUTION €	2L9»	21-99	21.99											
2609	QPER SCREENALUBCKHCE/PAYLDR	23.12	23.44	23*3	23.12	232$	23 39	2152	23CJ	23,83	23.94				
2 Ml*	OPCR SU-LDC VEH GVW J600O+	2332	23,0*	2W	73.12	23 25	23 39	23,52	23.63	23.83	23.W				
2«5	OPERATOR SIL OFFSITE	3 J. 10	32.10	32.10											
237*	OPNSASST D1ST	?20-7S	1/121.68	U31L48	930.78	930.86	940,91	95U05	961.09	971.20	981,27	99157	10013*	IZH 1.4*	1.021*8
2514	OFN5 ASST DIST	92078	IXBT.6B	998.34	920.73	995.38	W3.5J	97353	99*34	99854	1.0216*				
2516	OPNS ASST GAS OPS	19.64	24 1?	22.85	19.04	20,31	2159	2255	24 13						
CAGE; 28
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,2002 TO OCTOBER IS, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 1*. 1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2591	OPR ADJSTDPNS	28,86	28.86	28 86											
2850	DPR ASSIST ANT SNO	27.81	27.8)	27.81											
2715	OPR C TRAINEE POST 98	13,39	1608	1139	1339	1608									
2518	DPR CHIEF UNG	33 38	33.38	33-38											
2554	OPR CHIEF SNOOIO	35,14	35,14	3514											
2528	OPR DATA PROC NO J	610.54	865.07	822 66	631,76	653.10	695 46	73188	78020	822-66	865X77				
2545	OPR DJSTRJBLnTON A	28.20	28.20	28,20											
2547	OPR DISTRIBUTION B	115*	21.58	22.58											
2723	OPR DISTRIBUTION B POST 98	21,32	22.58	22.45	21.32	21.4$	21,5?	21.69	21,82	21.96	22.08	2221	22,34	2241	22.53
2522	OPR DUMP TRUCK 1JT*	23,10	23,10	23.10											
2523	OPR HOIST CHERRY KXER(UC)	28 20	29,51	29.11	28.20	28.61	29.11	29,51							
2562	OPR LEAD DATA ENTRY 37,5 HR	863.07	966M	942.66	865.07	399.90	917,81	9)7.8)	942,66	94246	966,04				
2537	OPR LEAD MICRO MACH HR	958.19	1,058.95	1,035,70	953,19	982.90	1,0)0.84	1,0 O	IJM5J0	1,035.70	1.058.95				
255a	OPR LEAD RF-PRO MACH 375 HR	95819	1,058.93	1,035.70	958,19	982,90	l,Q)0.84	1,010^4	1JXJ5 7O	1,03570	1,058.9$				
2564	OPR LEAD SYSTEMS 37,5 HR	1,088.19	1,18898	1,165.64	1/188,19	1,113.02	1,140,89	1.140.39	1,165,64	1,165,64	1,188.98				
2530	OPR. LNG	3023	W23	3023											
2716	OFk LHC ASST	26.60	28.16	26.60	26,60	28 16	0.00								
2512	OPR MAIL INSERT MACH37.5 HR	820,69	915.50	889,90	820.69	83743	856,98	873.43	889,90	339,90	9)550				
2540	OPROFF^tTE	34.89	24.89	24-89											
2535	OPR REPRO MACH SR 37,5 HR	908.39	1,009.54	986,19	908,59	933.4)	961J7	961,37	986.19	986-19	JJXI9.S4				
2533	OPR REPRO MACK 37 3	6UJ.S4	%65.<n	%22.6b	631.76	653,30	6W.*6	737.88	l 78020	322.66					
PAGE: 29
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,20W TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,19N AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, ITO
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	~1
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
TITLE DESCRIPTION		MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	J MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2536	OPRSNG/LNG	33J8	33.38	3338											
254]	OPR STATION a Lie	27.64	27,64	27.64											
254J	opr station b	23,44	25,44	25.44											
2566	ora SYSTEMS a 3" J HR	9M19	1,048.93		958*19		1,010.84	1,010.84	L035.70	1,035.70	i,os»r5				
1565	OPR SYSTEMS 37J HR	921 A3	1AB30	991.93	921,43	946,16	974.04	474,04	998,93	998,93	1,02230				
2561	OPR TELEPHONE NGHT 37,5 HR	62624	9l3.50S	86127	65028	674.47	722,71	77030	81904	867,27	915.50				
2559	OPR TELEPHONE 37.5 HR	61054		346,07	634.17	657.67	704 80	751.95	79197	846Q7	89323				
2068	OPR TELPHONE PT 37 J HR	308 51	309,31	308.51	348.51	309.38									
3321	OPR WORD PROCESS	$91.02	966.04	909.72	62867	6M.89	74 rw	797.30	35354	909.72	966.04				
2367	painter	23,39	24,20	23 k	2339	23.«	23*82	24 JO							
ISiW	PAINTER BODY TRAN3F	2535	27,00	2638	25.35	25.84	2638	2638	27.00						
2572	PARTS PERSON TRANS	B45	24.31'	24.15	23.45		B53	2435	U3T						
2376	PHOTOG ASST AFPR 37 5 HR	610,54	46507	322.66	631.76	653.10	695,46	737.38	78020	82266	865.07				
2578	PHOTOG ASST W3 HR	W847	1J»9.33	985.94	90847	9333<l	961.02	961.02	mw	985L94	I.W35				
1375	PHOTOG 37,5 HR	1,000.32	1*126.49	1,082.95	IjOOOJl	1*041.75	1,041,75	1,082 95	1.082.93	1,126,49					
2572	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON	2075	31.94	2135	2075	21 Ji	2L9*								
257*	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON SR	22.36	2356	2296	2236	22 96	2336								
•2979	PUBLIC RELATIONS ASST POST	R8124	1*113,72	1*145.86	Ml*24	919,03	956,83	994,62	L03W	U7GJ1	1J0S06	1.145.86	1,183-72		
2399	READER METER	802.92	99164	961.00	818,70	83436	866.08	897.75	92935	961.00	992.64				
2598	READER METER (NIGHT SKIP)	•M.92	992-64	961.00	818,70	834-56	866.08	897,73	9&J5	961H0	99264				
2394	READER METER SCH B	426.91	764 47	712,33	477,85	503.88	556.02	603,15	66024	712,33	76447				
PAGE: 30
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2002 TO OCTOBER 15, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16.1980 AND
ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, 1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	I
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	Pk P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	* MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2138	REP CAD 375 HR	942.70	1.063.43	L043.3I	942 70	96287	932.96	1,003.10	1,023.18	1,043,31	1,06343				
2156	REP CUST JNQ SR 37 5 HR	952.62	1,103,58	1.083,51	982.82	1.003,01	1X723.12	1.043.26	1,063 33	I £83.51	1,103.58				
1158	REP CUST 1W? 57.5 HR	9P.77	1.049.46	1.027.42	917.77	939 74	961 .<>0	983.57	1X105.65	1,027.42	1,04945				
2273	REP CUST INQ40HR	917.77	1,049.46	L036 31	917.77	9W9)	94409	957.25	970.44	983.58	996.77	IXX79.96	1 £23.13	1£J6J1	L&49.46
2066	REP DIST OFF PT 37.5 HR	917.77	917.77	917.77											
1132	REP DIST OFF PT 400 HR	85816	8S8J6	858.16											
2W3	REP DLSTOFF37J HR	917.77	LCM9.46	1.027-42	91777	939,74	961.60	983.57	1,005.65	1X727.42	1,449.46				
2<W	REP DIST OFFICE SR 37.5HR	981.66	1XJ79.B7	1X763.51	981.68	998.07	1,01442	1 £30.80	LO47.I4	1 £63.51	1.079.87				
2005	REP DLST OFFICE SR. 40 HR	981.68	1,0 79.87	1X763.51	981.68	998.07	1,01442	I.O3O.8O	1.047 |4	1XJ6351	1X779 87				
2371	REP ENERGY CONSERV	7J084	998W	954.09	7JO.84	775J3	820.19	E64.&3	90944	9M XW	991.86				
2 W0	REP REGULATORY INQY 37.5 HR	962.82	1.103.58	1,083 51	982.82	1.003.0)	1,021 12	1.04326	1.063.33	1,083.51	1.10158				
2160	REP SPEC LEDCERSR 375 HR	942.7Q	1.063.43	1,043.31	942,70	962,87	982.96	1,003.10	1,023-18	LO43.31	1 £63 43				
2711	SENIOR PHOTOGRAPHER	saw	1.19L52	1,161,26	88902	919.28	949.5 J	979.76	1,010.02	1.040.27	1,070 53	L J 00.78	L13I.02	1J6L26	1,19152
2669	SEPARATOR PERSON	23.95	13.95	23.95											
2692	SNOW REMOVAL L LOI	29,69	2969	2969											
2693	SNOW REMOVAL GT CALL IN LI Q1	49.64	49.64	4954											
*2959	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL POST	989.00	1,260.37	1,226.33	989.00	1 £22.83	1.056.SO	1,090.72	1.1X61	L1585I	M 92.44	U26.3J	1.26Q37		
*2916	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL PRE	Uli 49	1,417.72	157945	1,112.49	1,150,59	1,188.79	t.22695	1465.02	IJO3.17	1341.34	1,379.45	L417 72		
*2914	SR ART&PRODUCTION ASST PRE	1,000 02	1.340.28	1.297 75	1.000 02	1,042.58	1.08509	1,127.60	1,17009	1,212-62	1^55,14	1.297,75	1,340128		
2694	STENO CLERICAL 37_5 HR	61054	91550	£64.56	636X11	661,41	712.U	762.95	813.88	864.56	915.50				
2696	STENO SECRETA RIAL 37.5 HR	735,54	966,04	927.63	754.68	773.87	812.33	85078	M9.1S	92762	966.04				
PAGE: 31
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - Z EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.IW2 TO OCTOBER IS. 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1M3
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS ~	~	~1
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	t MOS	6MOSL	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2499	STOCK PERSON DATA PROCESSING	834-61	907J0	88746	834,61	851.06	86741	887,46	88746	907.30	0.06				
269?	STOCK PERSON 37,5 HR	634 22	363-17	82674	653.58	672.77	711-27	7*7-69	788.26	826,7-*	ess.i’				
2698	STRKPR ASST MATMGT 37-5HR	972.90	1,071.02	1.050.22	972,90	99754	1.025,48	1,025.48	1,03042	1,050.22	LO71JO2				
2700	STRKPR ASST SR MAJ APPL	1,08822	1,193. 18	1,182.69	1,088,22	14W8.69	LL09J2	Li 19,70	1,13022	1,140.68	1,151.20	1,1*1.73	137220	IJ32.69	149318
2703	STRKPR ASST SR MATMGT 37.5HR	1.04(90	1.140,11	l.l 1934	1,0*1.90	1.066.71	IJ7H.65	1,119.34	1,119.54	1,119.34	M40.ll				
2702	STRKPR ASST SR STNRY 37 5 HR	1,011.63	1.109.84	1.08905	1^11.68	1,036.40	1,064,37	1,064,37	1,089.05	1,089.05	M09.84				
2551	survey OPR TRUCK	2346	2395	23,46	23.46	23-95									
nn	SVC PERSON A COORD DF	29,91	31.63	3138	29.91	30.21	30.49	30.80	3109	31 38	31.65				
2681	SVC PERSON A FID TR ,	29,4]	3041	29.95	2941	2X93	30,41								
2682	SVC PERSON A FLO TRN DT	31.65	31.65	31.65											
2671	SVC PERSON A GEN APPL	27,96	28-86	28J8	27,96	2*3#	2S.W.								
2672	SVC PERSON RAPP!	23.23	2189	2323	23.23	21.W									
2675	SVC PERSON C METER A APPL	22.76	23,23	22.76	22,76	23J3									
2726	SVC PERSON C POST 98	18.91	21-86	L89L	J8.9I	21.80									
2677	SVC PERSON D LOCK UNLOCK	22.35	11,35	2235											
2585	svc person trainee csd	14.39	J7.M	1439	14,39	17.68									
2670	SVC SPECIAL MST 37,3 HR	931.10	M132.OT	1.008.69	931.10	955.92	983.87	983.87	1.00849	1,008-60	IJ732J07				
•2964	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	825,15	1,105 71	IJH150	825,15	853.24	381.26	909 27	937.34	96539	993,4.1	1 JJ2I.47	1,04933	L 07739	LNU.71
'2965	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	825.15	1,105.71	1,070.57	825,15	86025	893.26	93036	96538	L000.46	1,015,56	1.(0037	1.105,71		
2807	SYS PROCESSOR D15T 31.5 HR	892.92	993,89	97030	89292	91X72	945,69	945.69	970.50	97030	pm?				
2494	SYS PROCESSOR MST40 HR	892.92	993,89	983.66	892,91	90302	91309	923.17	933,25	94333	95W	963,43	97337	483,66	»».w
PAGE: 31
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - J EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
5			!												
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2624	TECHNICIAN PROCESS A	30.41	2041	3D.41	30.41	30.41									
2*11	telephone serv m 37.5 hr	831.46	976-82	952.55	83).46	855.75	87*91	904.13	928.42	952-55	976.82				
2811	TELLER HEAD 37,5 HR	981,68	1,079 87	1059,29	981 68	1.006.45	1031.39	1031,39	1059.29	1.059,29	1,079.87				
2813	TIMEKEEP SYS SUPP I'M HR	892.6$	993.62	9TO30	$92.65	917.64	94546	945.46	97030	970.30	993.62				
2319	tool repair person	25.14	26.81	26.24	25.14	25.70	2634	2614	26.81						
2320	TOOL, REPAIR PERSON A	25.W	2706	27 07	2594	26,52	1W	27,07	27 66						
2827	TYPIST STATISTICAL 37. S HR	810 69	9)3.50	889,90	820.69	K74J	856.98	873,43	889.90	889.90	913.50				
2329	UPHOLSTERER	24,74	2641	25,7$	2414	25.26	25.7$	2$,7$	26.41						
2831	UPHOLSTERER A	27.87	27,87	2737											
ws	UTILITY PERSON SYS SLTP	21.37	22.35	21.84	21 n	21.84	21.84	2235							
	UTILITY WAREHOUSE PERSON	16.18	21J7	20,44	1704	17,78	1862	19,53	20.44	2137					
2B49	WATCH GUARD	20.44	20.44	2044											
	watch guard & porter	728.97	8X61	818.15	748.62	765.15	781.74	798.29	81815	814.61					
2355	welder	25 Ji	2700	2638	25.35	25 84	2638	2638	27,00						
2857	WELDER A	2839	28.39	28 39											
2S58	WELDER A QUALIFIED	30,23	3028	3028											
2707	WORK MEASUREMENT ANALYST	MU B	1.154.73	IA4M6	1,119.91	M 2573	1,131.31	IJ1736	I J 43.14	1,148,96	LI 54.73				
2861	YARD PERSON	19,18	22J6	2077	19.18	20.77	20.77	22,26							
ALL TITLE CODES FROM 2900 - 2999 ARE (/ACCRETION TITLES
Schedule A - 3
October 16,2003 - October 15,2004
PAGE: 53
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A -3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.2003 TO OCTOBER 15, 2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1W9 AND
ALL EMPLOYEES NOW LN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE~IN YEARS	I
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	CMOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	tMOS	6 MOS	tMOS	6 MOS
*2929	ACCTENGRSR POST	986.16	1*256-87	1422.84	986 16	1X20X1	1/353.82	1,087-60	112140	1,155,19	I.F89.03	1422.84	1456.87		
*2900	ACCT ENGBSRPHE	1,10935	L413.7&	1.375.54	1,10935	1,147.32	1183 42	1,22337	1461.-44	129949	1337.50	137534	1,413-78		
2211	ACCTEWR37.5WR	1.W2.64	1,283.82	145083	1060X4	1,098.65	L136.59	U 74.72	1.21472	IJSti.M	148882				
‘2913	ACCT POST	1,041-21	149634	1464.29	10*141	1,073.11	1,104,94	1.13643	J. 16843	1,200.55	1432.43	1464.29	1,29634		
*29M	ACCT POST 92 40.0 HR	1,171,20	1,4582?	1,422-17	1 J7I.20	1 J07 OT	144291	1478.78	1314.66	1,350148	138633	1422,1?	L45842		
*2902	ACCT PRE	1171.20	1458 22	1421-17	Ml L20		1442.91	347878	131466	1J50.4S	1386,33	1,422.17	1,458 22		
2001	ACCT REP 57 5 HR	911-85	1,016.36	992,13	911.85	93737	96634	966.34	992.18	992.18	1.016.36				
2020	ACCTG ASST CORP 37 5HR	1,001,74	1,103 37	1.082 00	1/30144	1,027 30	1,05641	1.05641	1,082.00	1,118’00	1J03.37				
2002	ACCTG ASST DIST 3TJ HR	953.93	1,060-64	1X1932	958.93	saw	1,01333	1X13.53	1,03932	1/13932	IM64				
2016	ACCTG ASST SR COR? 37.5HR	1.060-W	143121	1.202,74	1,06064	1.089.11	1,117.44	1,145.92	i, 174 27	1.202.74	I431JI				
2010	ACCTG ASST SR CORP 40 HR	1.060,64	1,231,2 k	1,214 J J	1060.64	1X77.64	1X94.68	i.111,80	1328.84	>,HS S9	1463.96	1130,02	1,197X8	1414.13	143121
2026	ACCTG ASST SR 37.5 HR	1,00174	1,10337	1X82-00	1,001 74	1.02 7J0	1X56.21	1.05641	1,082.00	],082.00	1,10337				
2011	ACCTG ASST 37.5 HR	953,92	1.060.64	1X3932	958.93	90403	1.DI3.53	1,01353	1X3932	1,03932	1X60.64				
2062	ACCTG CLERK 1 PT 37.5 HR	897,51	897.51	897.51											
2108	ACCTG CLERK 2 PT 40 J[R	787.27	78747	78737											
1060	ACCTG CliRK J PT 37.5 HR	345.J4	345.74	345.54	345-54	345.74									
’2933	ADM ASST CSD POST	923.60	11 76.82	1.145,13	923,66	955.27	986.93	1,01839	1,05024	1,081.84	1J1335	1145.3	1176-82		
'2903	ADM ASST CSD PRE	1,03893	1,323,77	1488.11	1 /338.9J	1,074.54	1.110.16	1,145.76	1,18137	1 J16-91	1152,58	i.mn	1323,7?		
*2957	ADM ASST MAT MGT POST JT5 HR	96533	1430.24	1197,03	96531	998.56	1X131,67	1.064.71	1,097,78	1J 30.82	1,163.96	1197X3	14W.M		
•2913	ADM ASST MAT MGTPRE	1/J86-04	1383.36	13464*	1.08404	1,123 22	1,160.52	1J97.6B	1.234,85	14710?	IJ09 27	1346,48	1383.86		
PAGE: 34
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A-3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2003 TO OCTOBER 15,2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	I
					first			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	b MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	FMOS
*297 r	ADM ASST MEIER REPAIR POST		»242.1?	1201,94	977,67	1X40.70	1/543.71	<076.82	1,109,34	1,142.90	L 175.91	120894	1242,(2		
*2922	ADM ASST METER REPAIR PRE	1,099.76	LJ97.23	1,359,92	I.D9O76	1436.87	L174.0S	Lail. 23	1148,47	1285.60	U2169	1359.92	1J97.23		
*2967	ADM ASST SYS SUP POST	9W27	LI 65.00	1,139.11	959 27	93496	1,010.69	L0J6.J9	<06202	1X«7,75	1,1)3.43	U39.ll	1465X10		
-292Q	ADM ASST SYS SUP PRE	1,079.04	121047	1,261 JJ	1.679.04	1407.94	1.136.85	1,165,73	1,194.64	1223,52	125246	128123	131047		
•2947	ADM ASST YVCMUC COMP POST	W042	1,147,17	1,116,19	90042	ML 18	96309	992,93	1/323.71	I4B4^7	1/13338	LI 16,19	1447,17		
*2955	ART & PRODUCTION ASST POST		123620	1,19697	92236	961.61	1.000.82	1,04002	1J07924	1,113.43	LI 5767	M96,97	I2J6.20		
2739	ASSOC CUSTOMER SERVICE	428.18	91024	63040	428.11	3086J	589 07	669.51	749.95	13040	910.84				
2665	ASST CHEMIST	821.67	1,032,97	997.73	121.67	85036	892.07	92726	96247	997,73	IJW2 97				
*2953	ASST EDITOR POST	90972	1,159X0	IJ27.M	909-12	940.92	97204	mi2i	1,03442	1.065.54	IXIW.69	1,127,91	IJ 59,02		
2370	ASST FIELD REP	1X04.80	LI7324	1,152,27	1.024,80	1,052,40	1JMQ.D3	<107.64	1J3S.29	LI 52-27	LI 73.24				
2023	ATTEND GARAGE	1724	23.19	2221	17,76	1824	19 20	2023	21.21	22.21	23.19				
2022	ATTEND GARAGE ALTER FUEL	1769	23.61	22.62	11,19	18.66	19.68	20.65	21.62	22.62	23.61				
3438	AUTO MECH A FLD TRAINER	3041	303)	3031											
	AUTO MECHANIC	26,67	28,37	27,71	26,67	27.18	27.71	27.71	28.37						
24M	AUTO MECHANIC A	29.14	B.W	29,14											
26 JI	AUTO TECHT'rtClAN	3031	JOJI	JOJI	3031	3031									
2023	BLACKSMITH 'A'	27.22	21-93	28.36	27-22	2T74	2826	2826	26.93						
2011	CARPENTER	26,61	2130	2762	26.61	27.1?	27 6?	2762	2830						
2714	CHAUFFEUR tXSTWCTOPS	25,46	25.46	25.46	25,46	25.46									
2038	CHAUFFEUR EXECUTIVE	2602	26,02	26.03											
PAGE; 35
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1003 TO OCTOBER 15,200* FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 10,1983
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	1										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	i> MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	« MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2040	CHAUFFEUR TRACTOR TRAILER	27.40	27,40	2740											
2M$	CHEMIST	1 £91.63	1260.71	1,232.93	1,093.68	1 J2L.se	1,149.32	1.177,23	1205.00	1,232.93	1260.71				
JIM?	CHEMIST SENIOR 375 HR	1.35221	1.352 23	135211											
*2939	CHIEF CLERK GAS OFER POST	917.95	1,23024	1,191.14	917.95	957,02	996,01	1.OM.07	1 £74.07	LJ13.L3	1,152,12	1,191-14	JJ3014		
2056	CLK ACCTG NO 1 ACCT 37,5 HR	911,85	1.016.36	992,18	911.85	937.37	966.34	966,34	992.13	992.18	1 £16.16				
2055	CUC ACCTG NO 137.5 HR	897.51	1,00(227	976.01	897.51	923.27	952.23	952.23	978.01	978.01	1JXQJT				
2057	CLK ACCTG NO 2 37.5 HR	851.47	949 83	92327	85J-47	868,83	M9J2	906.18	923,27	923.27	949.83				
2059	CLK ACCTG NO 3 37.5 HR	682,33	897.51	861.57	700.35	718-21	754.08	189.98	825.83	Ml.57	B97.5I				
27M	CLK ACCTG NO. 1 CAS	79172	l£02J7	967,17	79172	826,80	861,89	897,00	93207	96727	1.002.27				
2735	CLK ACCTG NO, 2 CLAS	603.21	734.03	728 94	603.21	628J7	65349	678,65	703.78	728.94	754.03				
2725	CLK ACCTG NO.2 aCCTG POST 92	399.45	949.83	867J 2	599.45	735,11	861.12	949.83							
2116	CLK CNTL SR CUST ACCT 37 5HR	1£25.47	U 27.33	1,105,96	1025.47	1,051.31	I £7616	I £76.86	U 05.96	1,105.96	1.127.33				
2730	CLK COMM NO J 37.5HR PQ5T92	791.72	) £02.27	873.97	791.12	833,83	87S.97	875.97	875.97	875.97	1.002 27				
2728	CLK COMM NO.2 37.5HR POST92	603.21	754.03	723 37	601.21	633>W	663.83	693 £9	713-8?	1S4.03					
206?	CLK COMML A$ST HD 37.5 HR	1 £11.33	1,06064	1,037.21	1,011,33	1 £37.21	1,060.64								
2078	CLK COMML INP APPL 37 J HR	L£0W	L J 0732	1,083.12	1£02 67	1£2 8.27	1,057.32	1,057.32	1,083.12	3.083.12	L 107.32				
2069	CLK COMML NO 1 37.5 HR	897,51	1,00227	97801	897.51	923.27	932,23	95223	978.01	978 01	1.MW				
2072	CLK COMML NO 2 TREAS 37.5 HR	685.76	949.83	90S .69	685.76	729.76	773.74	817.75	861.71	905.69	949.03				
2071	CLKCOMML NO2 31.5 HR	851.41	949.83	92327	851.47	868,83	889.12	906.18	92327	923.27	949,83				
2073	CLK COMML NO 3 37 J HR	633.44	897,51	853.51	|	655.45	677.59	721,54	765-55	809.46	| MJ JI	897,51				
PAGE; 36
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.2M3 TO OCTOBER 15, M04 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, fW
I
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	~1
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
1															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	Max	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 .MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6MO6	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2052	CLK CONS ANALYSTS HR	72238	431.66	813.41	71236	740.62	758.75	777.01	795.20	01141	831.66				
2115	CLK CONTROL CUST &ER40HR	B9751	100227	978.01	(9131	923 27	95223	95223	91MI	978.01	100227				
2095	cue CONTROL PROF MAIN? 373	95600	1.M030	1JD975	956.00		101753	L04B23	UW9.00	1J09.75	1,14030				
2074	CLK DEPOSIT 37.5 HR	933,11	1JQ07.73	1013.54	933.11	95885	981.69	987 89	1013,54	101354	1,031,73				
2101	CLKEXKVnVEJT.Sia	785.09	1020.26	986.97	763.09	824.26	66343	902.64	94L79	980.97	10N1O				
MW	CLK GEV CUST SER 40.0 HR	L 05639	L05634	1.05639	1056.39										
2X9	CLK (XN MAILS MGT	13353	1049.98	99743	75995	7W27	839,02	891,74	94445	997.15	1049.98				
3M1	CLK GEN NO I 37.5 HR	897 51	10022?	97801	W7.31	923.27	952,33	95223	97(01	978.01	100217				
20M	CLK GEN NO 140 HR POST#)	556.62	1002.27	95707	55662	601JI	645.74	69031	73485	779.45	824.01	(6&.3S	9IMO	957.6?'	1002 JO
20*3	CLK GEN NO 2 373 HR	716.51	(97-51	667.37	7 (ASI	746.66	776.81	807.06	837,16	861,37	897,5 k				
2034	CLK GEN NO J 37 J HR	592.62	805.W	770.00	61036	62114	663,61	699.06	734,48	770.00	80536				
2163	clkgennoiqcst	100461	(,061.59	1052.04	1004.61	1014.10	1.023.61	1,033,10	104156	1052.09	1061.59				
2120	CLK GEN TREASURY 373 HR	934,96	10W.7O	1015.4?	934,96	9W.70	9(9,71	989.71	1015.47	1013.41	1039.70				
2076	CLK GEN 1 MKT ADV 37,5 HR	9*9.47	1,054.16	1.029.94	949.47	975,04	1004.14	U004.L4	1029.94	10»04	1054.(6				
2092	CLK GEN 1 PURQC 37.5W	9W.15	10430*	(01903	93915	96484	993,85	99345	1019.63	1019.63	104300				
2W8	CLK GEN 2 MKT ADV 375 HR	744,99	9Z6.03	69566	744.99	77S.lt	80534	835.50	M5.63	895.86	92603				
am	CLK HDCLAIM/SECTY 37.5 HR	1025.47	L127J3	IJM.M	1.925.*?	10513)	1076.86	1,076-86	I.1W.W	l,H»96	1J27-33				
2035	CLK HDCOMML 37J HR	1025,47	1,127.33	1,105.96	1.025.47	105131	M76.B6	1,07686	1.105.96	1JO506	1(21.33				
*2931	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG POST	986.16	12507	1J2184	98616	MIMI	LW.S2	UM7M	LJ2J.40	JJJ&J9	1JS9.03	1,22284	1^5607		
*2901	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG PRE	IJ09.3S	M13.78	1375,54	1.10935	LJ47J2	1.(85.42	1323.37	1061.44	1,299.49	1J37.50	1,37554	14(3.18		
PAGE: 37
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.2W3 TO OCTOBER 15, 20H FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16.1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	« MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2581	CLK HD URBAN AFFAIRS	LOU 47	LJ27.33	L 105,96	1,025,47	1*051,31	LG76-86	1.076.86	1,105%	1,105.96	i, 12723				
2117	CLK HEAD CONTROL 37,5	I.W0.64	1231-21	120174	1.06064	LCft9.1l	UHM	M 45.92	1274-27	1*202.74	121121				
20£7	CLK HEAD CUST SVC 37.5 HR	1,01123	1,060.64	LO37.21	LOI 131	1.037.21	1.06064								
2091	CLK HOUSE HEATING 37.5 HR	874,70	973,00	946.43	874,70	891,98	91234	92929	946-43	94641	973.00				
2099	CLK HOUSE HEATNG A J7,5HR	6*023	973OQ	862,03	64023	693.65	75J.L7	80b 57	862.D3	86203	973.00				
2705	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B POST 98	427.98	558.88	545.79	427.98	441.06	454.14	467.7S	480.34	493.41	5D65I	519.60	532.69	543.79	558,88
2634	CLK IN VENT CTL HMD 37,5 HR	L ,00938	i J 11.13	1,089.60	1,00928	1,034-95	1,063,94	1.M3.94	1M60	1*089.60	LliL.IS				
2724	CLK METER REPAIR SR	1 XXH.19	IXW.M	1,075,94	1004.19	L018.61	1.033.04	1,047.50	1,061 91	1,075,94	1.090.75				
2086	CLK MTR RPR HEAD 37 j5 HR	<158.93	1*060.64	1.039.32	956.93	984.63	LG 1353	1.013.53	1*039-32	tj03922	1.060 64				
2103	CLK PRICE MKT A DV 17.5 HR	89751	1*002.27	978,01	89751	92327	932.23	932,23	978 01	978.01	1,00227				
2109	CLK SPECIAL LEDGER 37,5 HR	897,51	1,028,67	1,006.84	697.51	■ 9L938	94t 30	963.22	984 95	1*006.84	1,028.6?				
2113	CLK STOC MAT MGT 37,5 HR	851 66	919 96	921-57	851-66	868.86	' 88924	90618	91351	923-57	949.96				
211L	CLK STCKMKT ADV 17-5 HR	851.47	94983	92327	85L47	86383	889,12	906.18	92327	92327	949,83				
2114	CLK STCK 5TNRY TRUCK OP 37 5	825 78	9862?	932,85	825.78	852,53	87930	9060!	932.85	932.85	986.37				
2065	CLK TELLER PT J7,5 HR	011 85	911.85	911.85											
	CLK TELLER PT 40 HR	34305	843,05	843.05											
2092	CLK TELLER 37 5 HR	911.85	1,01626	992 16	9) 1,8$	937.37	966J4	966J4	992.18	99216	LOI 6.36				
27J6	CLK TELLER 37 J HR POST 92	678.63	904.79	84826	67863	7J5.17	791 72	7»i. n	B4826	84826	901.79				
2119	CLK TRAFFIC 37.5 HR	U46.ll	L24M7	L226-68	1,146.12	LH5 24	12(0,91	1200,91	1226.68	1J26.6E	1248,17				
2821	CLK TYPIST 37.5 HR	633.44	897.51	853.51	655.45	677.59	72154	765.55	80946	853,51	897,51				
PAGE: J8
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER IS,2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, f#W AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY It,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	tMOS	6 MOS	tMOS	6 MOS	tMOS	tMOS
213d	collection CONTROLLER	978,03	140131	] .082.43	978.05	978 98	1,019.82	1XM0.72	14*1.55	LO8143	1,103.31				
2)33	COLLECTOR	93130	1.040,48	997.36	931*0	94SJ2	971.66	971,66	*9756	99736	1.0«l48				
2136	COMPUTER LIBRARIAN SR 37^	UH 1.40	1.15947	L 134,70	UHl.ta	JJ076.OB	1JQW.74	1,085,36	(.110.11	1J 34.70	1459.47				
26*5	CORROSION TECH HELPER		19.10		nil	1446	1546	1645	17.15	18.11	19.10				
2649	CORROSION TECHNICIAN	19.72	25.54	24 62	19.72	2066	21.65	226J	23.60	24^2	25 54				
281*	CORROSION TECHNICIAN FRE91	1,023,47	1J8412	L157 J5	IJC3.4?	1,05019	14*77-06	1J03.79	1,130 56	IJS7J5	1,184.12				
2650	CORROSION TECHNICIAN SR	25 57	29*9	28.93	2557	26.26	26.94	27,60	2817	18,93	29.59				
2?35	CREW LEADER	2997	31.55	3149	29.97	3013	3ft 18	3044	»*k	30.76	10.02	31.07	31.23	3139	3135
2061	CUST ENQUIRY REP FT 37* HR	93111	931.11	93141											
2124	CUST INQUIRY RIP PT 40 HR	8604*	Stare	reore											
2687	CUST SERV REP 37.5	95219	1,08881	1,065.95	952.19	974,98	997.66	14*20.4$	1,043-36	1,065,95	1,088.81				
22?6	CUST SERVICE REP 4ft HR	M219	LW81	LOT5.1?	952.19	965 42	97949	993.11	1.006.83	L£ZftA6	IJIMAS	1JM7.83	LG6LM	3jO?S,l7	IJI88.H
2157	CUSTODIANS RECORDS ASST 37 J	949 83	1.051,46	IJB0.15	949.8J	975,55	1,004.43	14W42	1,030(5	1473045	1.051,46				
115$	CUSTODIANS RECORDS 37J HR	L060M	1231.21	1,20(2.74	1.060.M	1X1894)	1,11144	1J4J.92	1,17427	1402,74	L231.21				
;ns	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC	428.11	678.63	653*8	428.18	453 22	478.27	3O3J2	528 36	553 AI	57846	«R41	62854	653.58	62R63
2137	DATA ENTRY COORD 37.5 HR	9*4,12	1.09166	W454	99442	1,019.76	W.75	1,04873	1.074.34	LO74-54	1.098.66				
21<H	DELIVERER	1990	2266	1990	19.90	22.66									
2NM	dispatcher post m	146413	U1354	12^59	M64J3	L169O9	1474.01	147896	1483.89	1J<85	1493.78	LIWJ2	1203*7	E ,20859	IJ 13.54
2179	DISPLAY ASSISTANT 37.5 HR	942.M	1.04738	1,022.91	942.54	968.30	997.06	997.06	1,92291	14U2.91	14*47.18				
1181	DISPLAY ASST APFRNT 375 HR	71*51	89JJI	86727	716*)	7464*	776.81	807 06	83746	867,37	897.51				
21W	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 37.5 HR	1,16328	1288.77	1246.95	1463.18	US4.)4	1105.07	11M07	1J44-M	. 1446.93	UB8.7?				
I
PAGE:
LOCAL IOJ WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A ■ 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER 15,2«M FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 10,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 10,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	.
						FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
																
		TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p,p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	t-MOS	4 MOS	fiMOS	6 MOS	SMOS	6 MOS	4 MOS
	3291	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 40.0 HR	1,16348	i^aa.77	1146 95	1,163.28	1,18444	120507	140507	1246,95	12*6.95	1.288,77				
	2161	DISPLAY DESIGNER. 3?.S HR	5^548	1416.71	1,165.59	1,085.18	1.102.42	1,127-10	IJ17.10	1,16339	1465.59	121041				
	2182	DISPLAY PRSON-CONST SNR 37.3	L020.04	1,125.22	1,09031	1.07064	1,838.02	L055-45	1,055.48	1,09031	1,09031	1,12542				
	2171	DJSPTCH DISTR 37 5 HR	1427,06	1,176.39	i ,150 35	1427,06	1450,35	1J5055	1,11639							
	2288	DIS ETCH DLSTR 40 HR	1,127.06	1,176-39	147140	1427.06	1,132.01	1436.89	Lt 141,83	1J 46.79	L15L.65	1J 56.62	146134	1466.46	LJ71.4O	1476.39
	2173	DlSFTCH ORDER	IJM.ll	UB.54	1.18783	IJ64J3	1487-83	1,187-83	1413,54							
	2114	DISPTCH TRANSP 37.5 HR	952.23	1,003.12	977.70	952.23	977.70	977,70	1.003,12							
	2173	DISPTCH TRUCK DIST 37 J HR	1.086.45	1,135.78	1409.99	15)86-45	1.109.99	140999	1,135.78							
	2186	DRAFTING CLERK 37 J HR	7)521	9L613	88608	73521	76535	795.33	825.81	85591	886-08	9)623				
	2189	DRAFTING TECH SR 373 HR	1,063.78	1,151-15	1,134.27	1/363.76	L084.il	1,109.78	1409.78	1,13447	1434.27	JJ51-I5				
	218)	DRAFTING TECH 37,5 HR	878-93	977.33	950.85		896.19	91635	93362	9504,5	930.85	91135				
	2191	DRIP PERSON	25-11	2582	2541	2541	25 82									
	2197	ELECT	26-30	28.72	28 JO	26 30	26.7*	27.16	28.02	28.30	2830	28.72				
	2199	elect a gas opks	2979	2979	29,79											
	219?	ELECT SYSTEMS SUPPORT	26.30	28.01	27J7	26.30	26.81	2737	27.37	2801						
	2205	ELECTRONIC TECH RADIO LJC	30-50	315W	31.16	3050	3L16	32 tO								
	•2941	ENGINEER AIDE GA$ OFER POST	1,00544}	1,280.87	1446 JO	1.00540	1,039-82	1,07419	1,108-62	J, 143-04	1,177 45	1411.91	1346.30	1480.87		
	227U	ENGINEER ASSTTO37.5 HR	1,06064	l(302^9	1462.73	1,06064	LI 01.04	1,141.45	1J8185	1222.27	1261.73	1301.99				
	2132	ENGINEER ASST TO 4M HR	1,06064	1302.99	I J62.73	1 1,0606*	1401-04	1J41 45	JJ8L85	1-222,27	1262.73	1302.99				
	2245	ENGINEER HOIST DC	28.60	2996	29.51	28.60	2902	29.53	29.96							
PAGE: 40
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2403 TO OCTOBER 15,2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1M0 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1963
			
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	max
2251	ENGINEER LIC	29,62	30154
2741	ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYST 37,5	1,367.33	IJ97.47
227$	EQUIPMENT MAINTAINER	25W	25.92
1637	FCM APPRENTICE	L5.G7	18.84
	FCM APPRENTICE SENIOR	L9.A2	2450
2656	FCM APPRENTICE TRAINEE	10.20	14.50
2375	FCM ELECWSntUMENT TECH	3422	3422
2653	FCM MECHANIC	2515	27.15
2654	FCM MECHANIC A	2790	29.79
27(5	FCM MECHANIC FLD FACIUTTESi	2735	29.26
26M	FCM MECHANIC SENIOR	30J3	3241
2606	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	K.02	27.90
26W	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A	ja.u	3053
2602	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN SR	31,30	53,19
2014	FIELD OP ERS INSPECTOR A	26.16	27,92
2015	FIELD OFERS INSPECTOR B	24,34	205
2000	FIELD OFERS INSPECTOR C	2131	22.81
2746	FIELD REP 40 HR	UW-47	LJ075I
2150	FIELD REP 40 HR POST 92	1,016,63	1.16501
236«	FIELD REPRESENT	IJSt.S?	120752
2344	FIELD REPRESENT OFFICE	1.0*7.37	1,192.82
FIRST
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS _______________
"SECOND	THIRD | FOURTH	FIFTH
P.P. 3 MOS 3 MOS 6MOS 6MOS 6MOS 6MOS 6MOS 6MOS 6MOS 6MOS 6MOS
30,15 1389.92	29.02 1367 A3	30,1$ 1374.86	30.54 (382,40	tJS9,9Z	L 397.47
25.92					
1759	15-07	1633	17,39	10,8*	
2287	L9.63	21-23	22.87	24 3»	
1295	L(L30	11.58	LL95	HJO	
3422					
27.04	23.25	25.56	2541	26.21	2655
2949	27,90	2822	285 J	21.1*	29 15
28.97	27 JS	2736	28 13	28.41	28.70
3241	1055	3044	31.16		3L.79
27.58	26.02	2631	2665	ass	27.26
3021	1166	28.97	29,27	29,59	29JO
32,88	11.30	3L.61	31.93	3225	32.57
2765	2616	2633	26,50	26.66	26A3
24,80	2434	24,39	2444	24 30	24.55
22.69	21,51	2t45	21,79	21,9’	22.05
Q64.69	1,219,47	IJ1947	131947	1.219.4'’	IJ42.OT
|,L44.O5	1,01643	1.04416	1,071,85	1,099.42	LI 2708
1.26601	1,181.87	1.210198	1JM49		U660I
1,171.30	IJ387J7	1,116.44	LJ4136		LL71J0
27.04 29,49 28,97 32,11 27,58 3021 3288 26.99	27J 3 29,79 2926 3241 27.90 30i53 11. L9 2? Ji	2W	27.48	27j6S	2742
24,60	24.65	24.69	24.74	24.80	24.85
22,17	2231	22,43	2236	22.69	2241
1342,0?	U64.69	I^H.69	1,18751		
LJ440S	1,165.01				
1366.01					
1,171.50	1,19282				
PAGE: 41
LOCAL IOI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - S EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,2M3 TO OCTOBER IS, 1004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, 1900 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	f. MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2678	FIELD SERVICES APPRENTICE	442.92	793.14	75812	442.92	SOI 30	559.63	618 05	676.40	758.12	793.1'4				
W	FINANCIAL aSST POST 37J HR	923,66	1.176.82	1,145.13	92366	95527	986,93	13118,59	J .050-24	1,081,84	1.113.55	1.145,13	1.17682		
2287	fitter	24,24	25.95	25 IS	2424	14,75	25.25	25,25	25.95						
2290	FLD TR EU-CT/MECH GAS OPNS	30.60	30 60	30 60											
228?	FLD TR INSTRUMENTINSP	1.278,97	1.278,97	1.278.97											
2292	FLD TR SYS GAS OFER	31.55	31,55	31.55											
2241	GATE GUARD	2226	22.26	2226											
2338	GRAPHICS TECHN SR 37,5 HR	MOI .30	1,188.57	1.171,73	1,101 30	1,121 58	1,147,27	1,147,27	1,171.73	1,171.73	1,188 57				
2340	GRAPHICS TECHN 37.5 HR	916 47	1,014.85	938 30	916.47	933 65	954,10	971 n	988J0	988.30	L0I4.G5				
2710	GSO D1ST/STATION FID TRNR	2981	31.55	31-29	29.81	30.11	30141	30.71	30.99	3179	3155				
2712	GSO DI5TSTATLON SR FED TRNR	31 03	32.M	32,56	31-03	31,34	31.63	31,96	32.26	32.56	32.84				
2703	GSO DISTRICT ASSISTANT	IB 31	22.99	22.22	18.31	19.07	19.84	2045	21.43	2222	22-99				
270b	GSO district asst TRAINEE	13.89	16.68	13-89	13.89	16,68									
2363	GSO HOLDERPERSON	28.01	28.01	28.01											
2496	GSO mechanic pressure	27.55	29.26	28.61	27.55	28.06	23,61	284)	29,26						
2709	GSO STATION & FIELD OPERATOR	28.27	29W	29.65	2827	28 56	23,81	29.08	29.37	29.65	29,94				
2539	GSO STATION OPERATOR	28.84	23.84	23.84											
2345	HELPER	18.19	23.19	22 35	1859	1902	1983	20.67	21,53	23.35	23,19				
2154	HELPER DISTRIBUTION	16.79	22,17	20.35	16.79	18,37	20. J 3	2117							
21SS	HELPER. MECHANICS	U. W	2359	22J5	18.59	19.02	19.83	20.67	2173	22J5	23-1*				
2355	HELPER OPERATORS	24 J4	24.34	24J4											
PAGE.42
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A-3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.2003 TO OCTOBER 15,1004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16. IMO AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
I
I
PROGRESSION SCHEPULE1N YEARS - ~	~ I
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIK	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2J16	HELPER PRESSURE	2143	2341	2343											
2162	HOLDER PERSON	26.31	2631	26,31											
•2943	tND AFPL INSPECTOR POST 40HR	1*067.32	1.408.67	1365.W											
*2M&	APPt INSPECT OR PRE	120035	M58 22	1,425^8	1400.55	1,232.75	1.264 9*	1.29743	1329.33	JJ6L5I	149169	L425.18	1.45822		
•2916	INSPECTOR ENG POST	MS4.27	1398.90	13*8.20	1J5427		141531	*3*5.*	1276.49	1.307.03	1437.46	14«20	1J9&90		
*290*	INSPECTOR. ENG PR£	1298,42	1*173,60	1339.02	J 298.42	1.332-79	1,36742	1.401%	1,435 86	L47Q25	1,504.71	W39.02	C 573«		
2374	inspector instrument mtr RPR	1*036.98	122326	[492,72	1,036.98	1.D6K17	1,09925	1434.69	LJ61.56	1.192.72	122186				
‘MJ1	INVESTIGATOR B POST	9WJ1	3333,9ft	tWB	W.01	1,0^7,75	IJWJ.4S	1.08546	L,1tS>	1432,66	1.18436	U2Q.11	12539ft		
24W	INVESTIGATOR B POST V3	9M<H	1253.9B	1220.13	984.01	1017.75	1,05145	LO8J.16	1,118.94	1,15X66	1J86J*	1220.13	1253,98		
2102	INVESTIGATOR B POST W 40 HR	1.106.89	MI0-M	1372 50	1*106,89	1.144.83	148277	1220.67	1255.68	1296.61		1J12.30	L410.M		
*29Tj	INVESTIGATOR B PRE		MW.M	IJ7240	J .10689	I.144J3	LIS2.77	1,22167	1258.68	1296.61	t ,534.54	1372.30	f,41024		
• 2905	IN VESTTGATOR B PRE *00 HR	1,106.89	MJ0S4	1372.50	1406.89	U44 83	1483.77	1.220.67	145W	U96.61	143*34	147240	L410.54		
2422	MAINT FtfcE G AS OP SYS SUP	27.68	2W	2923	27.68	28.22	28.72	2923	29.23	29.75					
2423	MAINTAINER INSTRUMENT	26 30	28 01	27 37	2630	26 M	2137	27.37	25.01						
	MA5NT AKNER PERSON HRE EQUIP	2546	2546	2336											
2427	MAINTAINER PROVEX TNLHCAT A	28.14	30.99	3003	2334	29.09	30.01	3&99							
2426	MAINTAINER PROVER INDICATOR	2737	3O,t8	28.73	2737	28.22	28,73	3048							
248t	MECH	2610	28,77	».J0	26,30	2674	2746	21.02	28.30	28.30	28,72				
2596	MECHACHSF OPNS	29.0*	29.94	2994											
2W	MECH APPLIANCE	22 P	24 34	23 57	2247	22,66	2109	23.57	2137	24.34					
2501	mechdista	29J6	2926	2926											
PAGE: 43
LOCAL tOl WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A -3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER 15,2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIKED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
I I
I
PROGRESSION"SCHEDULE IN YEARS	~ ~
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
		■ ।													
TITLE DESCRIPTION		MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	fi MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
	MECH DIST A FLD TR (>C	3184	3184	32.84											
2506	MECH DIST A FLD TRAINER,	31.55	31,55	31,55											
rw	mech gist a post ys	27.J4	2916	2908	21,34	27 52	27.72	27.91	21.13	18.29	2849	28.68	28.87	29.08	1946
2505	MECH DLST B	24.46	24.98	24.46	14,46	24,98									
2127	MECHDISTBTOSTW	2333	24.95	24.82	23.35	23.33	2369	2J.S4	24,0!	24 J7	24J4	24,50	24.66	24 82	24.98
2491	MECH METER A	26,44	2801	27.18	26.44	27.18	28.01								
249S	MECH METER B	2266	2364	23,15	22,66	23.15	23.64								
2499	mech meter special	28.73	30.18	29.43	28.73	29.43	3018								
2484	MECHSYST SUPPT	26 30	ZS.W	27J7		26.81	27.37	27.37	2*01						
2 $09	MESSENGER 37,5 HR	592,62	80556	770 00	6(0.36	628,14	663,61	69906	7 >4,48	770.00	805.56				
26R9	METER READER POST 93	442.92	602.0?	520.62	442 92	468.82	494.70	520.62	5-16,50	573.54	603.07				
2459	METRETEKTECH	29.94	30l99	304?	29,94	3049	30,99								
2701	OPER DIST C POST 92	21.1(1	21,10	21,10											
2719	OPER WST C POST 9«	U.W	21.10	20.81	18.09	I8A1	18,71	19.01	19.31	19.61	19,91	2020	20,51	20,81	21.10
2349	OPER DISTRIBUTION C	2181	22.81	22.81											
2609	opes screeklawbckhoe^ayldr	23.99	24 84	24.72	33,99	1412	24.27	14.40	24.54	34.72	34.M				
2608	OPER SLFLDG VEH GVW JW00+	23.99	24-84	24.72	23.99	24.12	24.27	24,40	24.54	2472	24.84				
2875	OPERATOR SR OFFSITE	33X>	33,30	33,30											
2P&	OPNS ASST&1ST	953.31	]<059.99	1.O49AI	955,31	965,77	976,19	986.71	<■97.13	1.007.62	1,418.07	1,6128,55	1,038,93	1,049.4)	1^05999
7514	OPNS ASSTDiiT	955.3)	J .059,99	13)35.78	955,31	98 !<►*	1,010,04	1010JM		1,035.78	1/159.99				
2516	OPNS ASST GAS OPS	19.75	25,03	Z3.71	19.75	2107	22.40	2371	25.03						
PAGE: 44
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION schedule SCHEDULE A - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER IS, 2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1900 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			second		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN MAX P. P.					J MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
159) IMO 2715 2318 1334 2521 2545 2545 2723 2322 2323 23*2 2537 2558 25*4 253D 271* 2573 25*1 2333 1533	opradistopns OPR ASSISTANT SHO OPR C TRAINEE POST 96 OPR CHIEF LNG OPR CHIEF SNG/LNG OPR DATA PROC NO 3 OPR DISTRIBUTION A OPR DISTRIBUTION B OPR DBTMBUTIOW B POST 98 OPR DUMP TRUCK L.5T+ OPR HOIST CHERRY PCKER1TJC) OPR LEAD DATA ENTRY 37 5 HR WR LEAD MICRO MACH 37.5 HR OPR LEAD REPRO MACH J7J HR OPR LEAD SYSTEMS 3T5 HR oprlng OPR LNG ASST OPR MAIL INSERT MACH37.5 HR OPR OFF-SITE OPR REPRO MACH SR 37,5 HR OPR REPRO MACH 373	29X4 28X5 IW 34*3 3*4* *33,44 29-26 23.43 2XL2 2197 2926 89751 994,12 99412 1,129.00 3U* 27.60 851,47 2512 942** *33.44	2954 28.85 16*8 34*3 M.4* 89151 294* 23 43 13,43 23.97 3O,*2 1JM2.27 1X98*6 L098** U33J7 31.3* 2922 949 83 25.82 1 £47,40 897.51	29.94 28.85 13JJ9 34*3 3*4*| 853JI 292* 23,43 2W 23.97 30JO 978.0) i.m$4 1.074.54 LJD9.35 31.3* 27,60 9232? 25.82 LjttSlT 853,5)	1319 *55,45 u. u 2936 897.5) 99442 994.12 L12900 27*0 831,47 942,** *35.45	L*-*8 *7759 12.15 29*8 92327 Ml 97* 1,019.7* 14547* 2922 8*813 9*8A1 *7759	721J4 2238 3020 952.13 1,048,75 1.048 75 IJ83.67 88942 997,42 72)54	7*5-55 22 50 3062 95223 1,048,73 1,048.75 MS3.O 90*48 997.42 7*5.55	809 4* 22.64 978.01 L074J4 L074 54 IJ0935 923.27 1X13.17 809.4*	853J1 22.78 978.01 1,074.54 )X74.$4 IJ09J5 92327 1JW3.I7 053.51	897.51 22.91 L002J7 1X98.4* 1X98.** 1,233,57 949.83 LO47.4O 89731	23.O4	23.18	2JM	23.43
PAGE; 45
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A-3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.2003 TO OCTOBER 15, 2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,19110 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, t983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		third		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
TITLE DESCRIPTION		MIN	Max	p.p.	J MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	t MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2536	OPR SNG/LNG	MbJ	34.63	34-63											
13-1 i	OPR STATION A L1C	28.68	2868	2868											
IJiJ	OPR STATION B	26,39	26.39	16.39											
2366	OPR S YST EMS A 17 5 HR	994.12	1,u9S-66	IJJ74.54	994.12	1X119.76	1,048.75	1,048.75	1,074.5*	L474.54	1,098.66				
25*5	OPR SYSTEMS 37.5 HR	955,98	1,06064	1.036,39	955.98	98164	1,010.57	1.010.57	U136J9	1 .Q36J9	1,060.64				
2561	OPR TELEPHONE NGHTJ7 5 HR	649.72	949.83	899.79	67467	699.76	749.8)	79981	549 75	39979	9*9.83				
2559	OPR TELEPHONE 37.5 HR	633.44	926.73	877,30	657.95	682,33	731.23	780.15	*38.93	877.80	926.73				
2068	OPR TELPHONE PT 37 J HR	32008	32098	120.08	320.08	320,98									
252!	OPR WORD PROCESS	613 IS	1XM2.27	94J.83	65225	71057	768,89	827.20	885.55	943.83	1.002.27				
1567	PMKHsR	24.27	25,11	2471	24 27	24,71	24.71	25.11							
2569	fainter body tea nsp	26,39	28.0i	27.37	26.30	26.81	27.37	2727	28.01						
2572	PARTS PERSON TRANS	24.33	2528	25,06	24 33	2459	24J3	25,06	25.28						
2576	PHOTOS ASST APPR 3? J HR	633 44	897,51	853.51	635.43	677 59	721.54	765,55	80946	853-51	897,51				
2578	PJ1OTOG ASST 3 7.5 HR	942.54	K047.J8	1,022.91	942.54	96830	997.06	997.06	1,022,91	1,422,91	1,047.18				
2S75	PHOTOG 37.5 HR	1J13W	1,168-73	1,123.56	1.037,83	1,080.82	1,080,82	1.123.56	1.123.56	1.16873					
2573	plant protection person	21,53	22,76	21.15	21.53	22,15	22 76								
2574	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON SR	23.20	24.44	2W	23,20	23.82	24.44								
*2979	PUBLIC RELATIONS ASST POST	914 29	1,228 11	1458,83	914.29	953.49	992.71	1.031.92	1071,14	1,110.34	1,14961	!	1,228.11		
2599	READER METER	813.03	1,029 86	99704	849.40	865,86	898-56	931.42	96*20	997,M	1X119.86				
2598	READER METER <NIGHT SKJP1	S3J03	1,02986	997,04	849.40	865.86	898,56	931.42	964 20	997.0*	1,029.86				
2594	READER METER SCI 1 9	44292	795,14	739.04	|	495.77	522.78	576.8?	6X156	685.00	739M	793.1*				
PAGE: 46
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER 15.2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, IWO AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	1
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	tMOS	6 MOS	tMOS	6 MOS	tMOS	tMOS	6 MOS	tMOS	tMOS
21M	REPCAD37.5HR	978X5	L10353	1082.43	978.05	998,98	1,01982	LX*O72	ijrwi.55	1X82.43	M03JJ				
2156	KEF CUST INQ SR 373 HR	1X19.68	LI 44.96	UMM	1X19.68	L.O4O62	1.061.49	1,08238	M 03^0	E ,114.14	1,144%				
2158	REP CUSTJNQ 375 HK	95219	1X8881	1.065.9?	95219	97498	99766	1,020-45	1JKJ.36	1X6595	1,08881				
2273	REPOTSTINQ40HR	952,19	1X8881	1.075,17	952,19	965.82	979.49	9933 5	1,006 83	LO2U.46	1,034,15	1X47X3	IX6I.50	EX75.17	1.08811
2M4	SEP DEST OFF PT 37-S HR	95219	95239	95249											
2132	REP DtSTOFF PT4O0 HR	89034	890,34	890J4											
2093	REP DlST OFF 375 HR	952.19	LW8 81	1,065.95	M2 19	97*98	99766	LOM 45	LIM336	I,0M.M	1,08811				
2094	REP DIST OFF ICE SR JL5HR	1.01849	1,12037	1.10339	IXL&49	1X35,50	1.032.46	1X69,46	MK6.41	LI03J9	1.120.37				
2005	REP D1ST OFFICE SR 40.0 HR	1.01 149	1 >120.37	1.10339	1,01849	1,035.50	1X52.46	1X69.46	1X8641	1,1X3 39	1J2O37				
2371	REP ENERGY CONSERV	75825	I AM 32	98W	358-25	804,6)	850,95	?9?X3		989.87	1X3*32				
2»1	REP REGULATORY 1NQY 37.S HR	1X19.68	LI 4496	M24A4	L919.1A	LMO62	1,061.49	1,082 J8	1.10320	LI 24.14	1.144.W				
2140	REP SPEC LEDGER SR 375 HR	978.05	1,103,31	1,08143	973-05	998.98	1.01982		JJ36LS5	1X82.43	1J0331				
2711	SENIOR PHOTOGRAPHER	92236	1X3*20	1,204.81	922J*	953,73	985.14	1,016 50	1,047.90	1X79	1J 10.67	1,142X6	1,173.43	1X0441	1,23 6. Z0
2669	SEPARATOR PERSON	2455	24 85	24.85											
2W2	SNQW REMOVAL V 01	3UM>	30.80	30.80											
2693	SNOW REMOVAL OT CALL IN LUI 1	5130	51,50	51-50											
•2W0	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL POST	L026X9	1507.63	127232	L«26,09	1,061,21	1.096.43	LJ3L62	J.166,78	1.2OI .95	U37,I6	1X72,32	1JO7.63		
•2916	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL PRE	1,154.21	1,470.8#	L43LI8	L1S4.2E	1,193,74	1233.37	IJ72.96	M 12.46	145201	L39r.«4	1,431.18	1.470.88		
'2914	5R artaproductton asst pre	J .037.52	L39054	J. 346.42	1X37.52	1081,68	1,125.78	LK989	I.ZL3-9T	U58.09	3302.21	1J4632	),390.34		
2694	STENO CLERICAL JTJ HR	633.44	94953	896.98	659.86	686.2)	738.BS	791.56	84440	896X8	949.83				
2696	5TENO SECRETARIAL 375 HR	763,12	1X02X7	96241	782W	80289	H2.79	882.68	922-49	962.41	1,00227				
PAGE: 47
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,2003 TO OCTOBER IS, 2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,19 SC AND
ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	I
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	M.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	SMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2699	STOCK PERSON" DATA PROCESSING		94 <32	920.74	8659?	W2,9?	90015	920,7*	520,7-J	943.32					
2697	STOCK PERSON 37.5 HR	658,00	897.61	857.74	673.09	698.00	737.94	775.73	517.82	857.74	897.61				
2698	STRKPR ASST MaTMGT 37.5HR	1,009.38	141118	1,089.60	100938	1,034 95	1.063,94	1,063,9*	1.M960	1J089.6O	J411.I&				
2700	STRKPR ASST SR MAJ APPL	1429,03	1,217.92	1 127.04	1J 29 03	1,139.89	hl 50.82	1.161.69	1,172.60	1,183,46	1.19437	1,205.29	1.21646	L227.O4	1437.92
1703	STRKPR ASST SR MATMGT 37.5HR	L080.97	L48W	LI61J2	1,080.97	1,106,71	1,135 70	1.16132	1.16M2	U6L32	lt182.87				
2702	STRKPR ASST SR STNR V 3 7.5 HR	1,0*962	IJ5M6	i ,129,89	J/M9.62	1,07$ 27	1,10*	1JW.28	IJ3989	IJ29.89	1J5J46				
2551	SURVEY OPR TRUCK	2434	24.8$	24J4	24.34	24.85									
2722	JVC PERSON A COORD DF	3)03	32^4	32,56	31,03	314*	31,63	31.96	3216	3156	3X84				
2681	SVC PERSON A FLDTR	30.51	31.35	31.07	30.51	31.07	31.55								
2682	SVC PERSON A ELD TRN D/F	32.84	3184	32,84											
2671	SVC PERSON A GEN AFTL	296?	Z9,H	29,44	29.0J	29.44	29,94								
2673	SVC PERSON 8 APPL	24.10	24.79	24.10	24.10	24,79									
2675	SVC PERSON C METER A APPL	23.61	24,10	23,6)	23,61	24.10									
2726	SVC PERSON C POST 98	19.62	22,62	19.62	1962	22,62									
2677	SVC PERSON O LOCK UNLOCK	234*	23,19	23 19											
23S5	SVC PERSON TRAINEE CSD	14.93	18J4	14,P3	M.93	18.34									
2670	SVC SPECIAL COST 37.3 HR	966.02	1,070.77	1.046.52	966,02	991.77	15)20.77	1.020.77	1,046.52	1 JH6.52	1.070.77				
■2964	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	856.09	j.147,17	LI 18.00	856,09	885.24	914.31	943.37	972.49	L0OIJ9	1.030.68	1.059 78	L08B89	1418.00	144747
‘2965	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	85609	1,147.17	1.110,72	856 09	892,51	928.83	96535	1.00148	1.037.98	1.074 39	LI 10.72	1.147.17		
2807	SYS PROCESSOR DIST 37.3 HR	926,40	1,031,16	1.00649	926.40	952 13	98145	981.15	1J006.89	L006.S9	L03I.16				
2494	SYS PROCESSOR DJST4&HR	92640	1,031-lb	1,000.55	926.40	936.88		957.79	96815	978.70	98947	999.61	LO 10.08	1,020-55	1X33146
PAGE:
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER IS, 1003 TO OCTOBER H, 2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 14,19M AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 14,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P,	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS
2626	TECHNICIAN PROCESS A	31.55	3135	3135	31.55	31.53									
2812	TELEPHONE SERV REP 37.5 HR	862.64	1,0! 3.45	98327	862,64	S87.M	912,91	93*09	963,24	988.27	)j0t3.45				
2BII	TELLER HEAD 37 J HR	1,018.49	1J 20.37	1,099.01	LOI 8.49	J ,044.19	1*070.07	L ,070.07	1,09901	LW01	1,12037				
2313	TIMEKEEP SYS SUPP 37,5 HR	926.12	1JUR.W	1.00669	926,12	952.05	98891	»80i91	1,006,69	1,00669	]j030i,68				
2B19	TOOL REPAIR PERSON	26,08	27.82	27J22	26.0B	26 66	27 22	27.22	27.82						
2320	TOOL REPAIR PERSON A	26,91	28,70	2309	2691	273)	28.09	28.09	28,70						
2827	TYPIST STATISTICAL 37.3 HR	831.47	949.B3	923,27	851,4?	8688 J	889.12	90618	923.27	923.27	949.83				
2*29	UPHOLSTERER	25.67	27,40	26.72	25.67	26,2)	26.72	26.72	27,40						
2831	UPHOLSTERER A	28.92	23.92	23.92											
2335	UTILITY PERSON SYS SUPP	22,17	23.19	22.66	22.17	22.66	2266	23.19							
2837	UTILITY WAREHOUSE PERSON	16.79	22.17	21-21	1763	18,45	1932	20.28	2L2I	22.17					
2W	WATCH GUARD	21.21	21.21	21.21											
2853	WATCH GUARD & PORTER	736.31	365.91	843,83	776,69	793.84	811.06	828.23	848.83	363.91					
7855	WELDER	26.30	28.01	2737	2630	26.8)	2737	2737	28.01						
2357	WELDER A	29-45	29.4 J	29 45											
2833	WELDER A QUALIFIED	31.42	3142	3142											
270?	WORK MEASUREMENT ANALYST	1J 55.91	1498.03	LL92X15	1.161.92	1,167.94	L) 7394	LI 80.0)	1,18681	1492.05	J J 9803				
2861	YARD PERSON	19.90	23.09	21J5	19.90	21.55	2135	2J.W							
ALL TITLE CODES FROM 2900 - 2999 ARE UACCRET1ON TITLES
Schedule A - 4
October 16, 2004 - October 15, 2005
PAGE: 49
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2004 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			second		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	61MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
															
•2929	ACCT ENG5E SR POST	1.0234*		746*70	7422.14	IXUS.2S	J493.J4	142RW	lrltt,45	IJStJJ	f J316Z	rjM.70			
•2900	ACCT ENGR.SJL PRE	1.13095	146*40	(,427.12	1,150,95	1J90-34	1229,87	U69.25	1308.74	1,348.23	1487.66	1327.12	1,466.80		
2212	ACCT ENGR 37.5 HR	1,10041	1437.15	(497.74	[JQD41	143945	1J792L	Uit.n	1338.20	1 J97.74	1JJ7-1S				
•2913	ACCT POST	1,08046	1J44.95	1JII.70	1,080.26	M13-35	1,14648	M 79,4fl	LJL2.56	1445,5?	127S.«	1331,70	1JU.95		
•2984	ACCT POST 91 40.0 HR	lJt5.II	1412,90	J .475JO	1,215.12	IJ52.M	1,28951	1JM.W	1463.96	140*42	lh«8.32	L4153<r	1,51290		
•2902	ACCT PRE	1,2] 5.12	1J 12.90	(.475JO	IJHI2	1J52.M	1489,52	U26.73	IJ63.96	1,40142	1.438.32	L475J0	1.512.90		
a»i	ACCT REP P-5 HR	Q4b.M	1,054 47	1,02949	946,04	972 52	1.002 5*	(40758	(42949	1429-M	1,054.47				
2020	ACCTG ASST CORP 37.5HR	1.03931	1,144,75	1422.58	1,03931	(.065 82	1,095.82	1.095,82	M 22.58	1422.58	1,144.73				
20<H	ACCTG ASST BIST 373 UK	99*39	1,100.41	13)7849	998.89	(,02145	1451J4	1.051.54	147129	147BJ9	(,100.41				
2011	ACCTG ASST SR CORP 37.5HR	1.1004)	147738	(44784	1.109.41	1,129.95	1,159.34	1,18849	UI8J1	1,2«744	127738				
2010	ACCTO ASST SR CORP 40 HR	1100.41	1477.38	145966	1.KML4I	1,118.05	1433.73	1J 53.49	1,17147	1.18886	14064?	IJM27	1441.97	1459 66	1477 J>
202*	ACCTG ASST SR 37,S HR	1,039-31	1,(44.73	IJ 21.58	1439 31	1,065 82	1.09542	1495.82	1J 22.38	1.122.58	1.144,73				
WB	ACCTG ASST 31,5 HR	99449	IJM41	1,07*29	994 89	i.azl-JJ	l,O3)J4	1,051.54	1,07829	(,078.29	Et 100.41				
2062	ACCTG CLERK 1 PT 37 J HR	931,17	931.17	931.17											
HOB	ACCTG CLERK 2 PT 40 HR	8)6.79	81*79	816.79											
2060	ACCTG CLERK 3 FT 37.5 HR	158,50	338.71	358.30	358 JO	358.7)									
•2935	ADM ASST CSD POST	958.30	IJ20;9S	I.100O7	958,30	99149	1413.94	1.056 79	WW	(.122,41	1.155.31	1,18*47	1JW95		
•2903	ADM ASST csd PM	1.07749	IJ734I	U 36.41	1477.89	lt] 14 84	1.151.79	143*73	IJ?$i67	1462.56	iMsiS	133 6.4)	1473.41		
•2957	ADM ASST Mat MGT post 37 J HR	1,001.72	IJ76L37	1441.92	1401-72	1.03601	147036	1J04 64	M3K95	1473,23	1,397.61	1341.92	147637		
•2915	adm asst mat motive	(,126.77	1,435,75	(496,97	1,116.77	146534	1JO4O4	LJ42.S9	1481. (6	1419,77	1JJB.37	1496.97	M35.7J		
PAGE: SO
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A -4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2004 TO OCTOBER IS, 2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1081
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	I
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN MAX P. P.					3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	« MOS	6 MOS
															
“2971	ADM ASST METER REPAIR POST	L ,01433	(,20870	1,254.20	IJJL4.3J	1*048.60	1,082,85	1.117.20	IJSI 46	1.183,76	1,220,01	135428	1388.70		
•2922	ADM ASST METER REPAIR PRE	l,|4)E0	1,449.63	1*410,92	1,141,00	1,179.50	131808	1.256,67	1,29529	1,333-81	137329	1*410.92	1.449.63		
•2967	ADM ASST SYS SUP POST	995.24	1308.69	1*181.82	995,24	1,021,90	1,048 59	1,075.25	1,101,85	1,12834	1*155,18	1,181.83	1308.69		
•2920	ADM ASST SYS SUP PRE	IJ 19.50	1359.6]	L 32938	1,119.50	1.149.49	1,179.48	1309,50	1,239.44	1*269.40	1399.41	132938	1.35961		
•2947	ADM ASST WORK COMP POST	934,19	1,190.19	1,158.05	93449	96610	99817	1.030,16	1.062 10	1*094-12	1.126.08	1.158,05	1,190.19		
*2955	ART ft PRODUCTION ASST POST	956-95	1382 56	1,241,86	956,95	997,67	1*038.35	1,079.02	1,119,71	LI 60.37	1,201.08	1341.86	1382.56		
2739	ASSOC CUSTOMER SERVICE	444.24	945.00	861.54	44424	527.70	611,16		778327	861.54	945 00				
2865	ASST CHEMIST	8$2.48	1*071.71	1,035.14	852 48	888.99	925.52	962.03	998,56	L035J4	1*071.71				
•2953	ASST EDITOR POST	943,83	1,202 48	1,170.21	943.83	976.20	1,008 49	t/MO.83	1 073.21	1*105,50	1*137.82	1.170.21	130248		
2370	ASST FJELD REP	L063.21	1,21724	i, 195.48	1.06123	1,091417	hl 2(1,53	1.149.1 £	1 177.86	1*195,48	131734				
2023	ATTEND GARAGE	17,89	24.06	23,04	184$	18.92	19,92	21,01	22,01	23.04	24 06				
2022	ATTEND GARAGE ALTER FUEL	1835	24,50	23 47	13.87	1936	20.42	21,42	22.4J	23.47	24,$0				
2488	AUTO MECH A FLO TRAINER	31-45	314$	31,4$											
2487	AUTO MECHANIC	2767	29,43	28,75	27.67	2830	28.73	28 75	29.43						
2489	AUTO MECHANIC A	3033	30.23	30.23											
2631	AUTO TECHNICIAN	31,45	31,45	31.45	3145	31.45									
2025	BLACKSMITH 'A'	2834	30.01	29,32	28.24	2878	2922	29,12	30.01						
2031	Carpenter	27.61	2936	28.66	27.61	28,14	23,66	28.66	2936						
2714	CHAUFFEUR DISTRICT OPS	26,41	26,41	26,4]	26-41	26.4!									
2038	CHAUFFEUR EXECUTIVE	27,00	27,00	27.00											
PAGE: Si
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2004 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, IMO AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,19W
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	~	~|
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN MAX P.P.					J MOS	J MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	CMOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6MOS	6 MOS
															
2M0	chauffeur tractor TRAILER	2843	2843	28.43											
20*3	CHEMIST	M 34.69	1/07,99	1 ,279.16	1,334.69	1,16162	1,192 42	1.221/8	1150.19	1179 16	1/07,99				
2047	CHEMIST SENIOR 27,3 HR	LWjW	1,402.94	130234											
*2939	CHIEF CLERK GAS OFER POST	952/7	1176,37	1135/t	952,37	992.91	1/11.36	1,073.89	IJ 14.35	L 154.86	M95J1	1133.81	1176/7		
2056	CLK ACCTG HO 1 AOCT37J HR	946,04	IJW4.47	1XC939	946 jM	972.52	LXKQ/8			1/2959	1/54.47				
2053	CLK ACCTG NO 1 37 J HR	Ml.17	1/39/6	1/14 69	Ml,17	957/9	987.94	987.94	1,014.69	1/14.69	L039/6				
JOSJ	CLK ACCTG NO 2 37,3 HR	883.4ft	985.45	937/9	883.40	901.41	91146	W16	W7.89	957.89	9W.45				
M59	CLK ACCTG NO 3 37.5 HR	70792	9JL17	8M.S8	72661	745.14	782.36	619.60	85A3O	893.88	9131.17				
2734	CLK ACCTG NO I ClAS	821,41	t/39/6	1,003.44	821.41	B57.tl	89411	930.64	967,02	1/03.44	1.039,86				
273J	CLK ACCTG NO. 2 CIAS	62533	782.31	756/8	625/3	651.93	678.00	704.10	73017	75618	782JI				
2725	CLK ACCTG N02 ACCTG POST«	621/3	985,45	899,64	621.93	762.74	89964	985.45							
2116	CLK CNTL SR CUST ACCT 37JHR	1,063.93	IJ69.6C	M47.4J	L063/3	1/90.73	1/17.24	M 17.24	1,147,43	1,147.43	1.169 60				
273ft	CLK COMM NO. 1 3Z5HRPO5T92	871,41	1/39/6	908.82	821.41	MS40	9M/2	9M.t2	9W.S2	903.82	1/39/6				
2728	CLK COMM NO.2 37JHR POST92	633.0	782.31	731.(8	625,83	657.15	68841	719.70	75142	78231					
2067	CLK COMML ASST HD 373 HR		1.WCL4L	1.076,1]	J,04925	1/76.11	1,10041								
2078	CLK COMML IND A PPL 37.5 HR	T/40.27	1J48.B4	LJ 23.74	1.840 27	1/66/3	1/96.9?	1,096.97	L12X74	1,123.74	1,143.84				
2069	CLK COMML NO 1 373 HR	931J?	1/39.86	JXH4,69	931.17	957,89	987.94	987.94	1/14/9	1/14.69	1/39/6				
	CLK COMML NO 2 TREAS 373 HR	711.43	985.45	93963	71146	757.13	802.70	84842	894.02	939.65	98545				
3071	CLK COMML NO 2 37.3 HR	M3.40	983.45	957/9	883.40	901.41	922.46	940.16	957.89	957/9	985>5				
2073	CLK COMML NO 3 373 HR	657/9	931.17	M5J2	680.03	703.00	748.60	79416	839.81	885.52	931,17				
PAGE: 51
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,2(MM TO OCTOBER 15,IMS FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,190
I
I
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	I
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	J MOS	AMOS	6 MOS	AMOS	AMOS	6 MOS	AMOS	6 MOS	AMOS	6 MOS
															
	CLK CONS ANALYSE HR	749,47	Boias	841.91	7*9,47	768J9	787-20	806,15	82502	8+3,91	86205				
2,115	CLK CONTROL CUST SER 40HR	931-P	1,03986	1,01469	931.17	957.89	987,94	967.94	1,014.69	1,014.69	1039 86				
2095	CLK CONTROL PROP M AJNT 37.5	wixs	1,183.27	1,150?	991.85	1021.81	1,055+9	1087.54	1,119,46	L15137	1,183,27				
207*	CLK DEPOSIT 37 J HR	968,10	1,07664	LO5L55	96810	994.81	1024.94	L024.94	1051 55	105155	107664				
2101	CLK EXECUTIVE 37.3 HR	S14J3	L0M.46	1,011,76	814.53	855.19	895.83	93649	97741	1017,76	1058.46				
2070	CLK GEN CUST SER 40.0 HR	L096O0	1 £96.00	1,09600	1,096.00										
2089	CLK GEN MAILS MGT	76104	l£89.35	1,034-54	788.43	813.76	£70.48	92548	979.87	1.034.54	1,089.35				
2081	CLK GEN NO 1 17.5 HR	931.17	L039.86	1,014.69	931.17	957.89	987.94	987.9*	L0N69	1014.69	J 03*06				
2004	CLK GEN NO I 40 HR POST89	577.49	1,039-86	993.38	577.49	623.76	669,96	7)620	762+1	9OT68	854,91	90142	JM7.M	993,58	1,039.86
2083	CLK GEN NO 131.5 HR	7*338	93147	899,90	743,38	774.66	£05*4	837.32	868,55	899.90	931 17				
3084	CLK GEN NO 3 37 .5 HR	614.34	83S.77	798.88	63325	651,70	66S5O	725J7	76202	79808	835,17				
2863	CLKGENNOIQCST	I/J42.28	Ltl01.40	1,09154	LG42-J8	1 £52,13	LM2.OT	1071.34	1081,66	109)54	LI 01,40				
2120	CLK GEN TREASURY 37 5 HR	970.02	1,078,69	LO5345	97002	9%73	1,026.62	1,026.82	1,053.55	1033.55	LO7&.69				
2076	CLK GEN I MKT ADV 37.5 HR	98508	[,093.69	L06856	9S5OB	LW1.40	1,0+1.30	l,04J,&0	J.068.56	LO68-56	1091,69				
2082	CLK GEN 1PURQC37-JKR	97437	1,082.94	1,057,87	974,37	1001.02	1,03142	103142	1057 87	1057,87	108294				
2088	CLK GEN 2 MKT ADV 37 J HR	772,93	960.76	W9.4J	772.93	80+23	msi	866.83	89809	929.45	960.76				
2098	CLK HD CLAJM/SECTY 37 5 HR	1.06191	1469.60	1,147.43	1,063.93	1.090,73	1,117-24	1,117-24	LI 47+3	LI4743	1,169 60				
208^	CLK HD COMMLJ7.5 HR	(,06393	L Itfp+O	LMW	JJ163.93	1,09073	1,117 24	LI 17.24	1447,43	1447+3	1469 60				
•2931	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG POST	1,023.14	1204.00	! ,268.70	1,0234+	LD58.26	1,093.34	LI 26.39	1463.45	149851	1231+2		130400		
*2901	CLK KD SECTION ACCTG PRE		L+66,50	L427.J2	3,154X95	1,190.34	1,229,87	L269 25	1408,74	L348 22	1287.66	1,42742	1,466.30		
PAGE; S3
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14, 20M TO OCTOBER 15, ZOOS FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 14, IMO AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1M3
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	~|
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	J MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS
															
2583	CLK, HD URBAN AFFAIRS	106395	M69X0	1.147.43	1.06193	1*90,73	Mr?j4	I.U7J4	LJ47jO	M 47.43	M69.60				
211?	CLK HEAD CONTROL J7J	Ll«Ml	1J773B	U47 44	1J 004)	1,120.95	L 150.34	1J 88.89	ljl)83l	1.247.84	1277.38				
2M7	CLK HEAD CUST 5 VC J7 J HR	1.0*925	U00.41	1,076JI	1.049.25	L/176J)	LI00.41								
2091	CLK HOUSE HEATING 31* HR	907 50	1/104.49	981.92	90731)	923,43	946.55	964.24	981,92	98192	1,009,49				
XT*	CLK HOUSE HEATNG A 57.5HR	66*24	1/109.49	89456	664.24	721.74	T79J4		894 56	89436	1.00949				
2X1$	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B POST 98	444*3	529M	$66.26	444.03	457,60	471.17	484.77	mas	SI 191	$25JO	5390?	552*7	56626	579*4
2634	CLK INVENT CTL MMD374HR	1,04773	1,15X85	1,150.46	1.047.25	1,071,76	LJ03.H	t ,101*1	1.130.46	LI 30.46	M32.85				
2724	CLK METER REPAIR SR	L&41.85	M31.63	LI 16.29	IJX1.85	1/156,81	1/171.78	1.086, TO	MOI 73	U 16X9	U31.65				
n*6	CLK MTR RPR HEAD 37 5 HR	994*9	M 00.41	I/I78J9	99489	I AILS3	Lft$L5+	)/£L54	3.(17829	1.07829	M 00.41				
	CLK HUCK MKT ADV 37J HR	*11.17	J/H9.S6	1/114.69	931.17	95749	987.94	987,94	1/314.69	1,014*9	1/IW.<6				
2l»	CLK SPECIAL LEDGER 57 J HR	931.17	L«7X5	1.04440	93t.(7	95 IM	97660	mu	1,021,89	19*460	IA67J5				
JIB	CLK SICK MAT MGT 373 HR	88360	98558	958,20	883.60	901.44	922,39	94027	958.20	95820	98558				
2111	CLK STCX MKT ADV 373 HR	883.40	985.45	957.09	8X340	901.4!		940.16	957.89	957,89	915.45				
2H4	CLK STCK STNRT TRUCK OF 37.3	856.75	1,02136	967.83	836.73	884.50	91217	939.99	967.83	967.03	IA2336				
2M3	CLK TELLER FT 171 HR	94604	946,04	946-04											
2)31	CLK. TELLER PT 40 HR	874.66	<74 66	874 66											
2092	CLK TELLER $7* HR	9460*	1454-47	1/129.39	946.04	win	1/K12.58	1,00238	1,02919	1029.59	U&54.47				
2136	CLK TELLER 37 5 HR POST te	704.08	93872	880.07	704.08	762.74	821,41	82) 41	88007	88007	938.72				
2H9	CLK TRAFFIC 373 HR	L189J0	1294 98	I hZ72 At	L18*J0	14(931	1^45.9*	1,24194	1,27168	1X7X68	1X94 98				
2823	CLK TYPIST 373 RR	657.19	931.17	88332	68903	70300	74860	394.16	839*1	M5J2	Ml. )7				
PAGE: 54
local 101 wage progression schedule SCHEDULE A - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,20C4 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, 198*) AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	~ I
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	J MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS 1	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
															
2130	COLLECTION CONTROLLER	LU 14.73	i,r«68	M2J02	J ,014-73	1,036.44	1,058.06	L07975		1.123.02	1,144.66				
2113	COLLECTOR	%6,43	1J079 5O	1/334,76	966.4)	984,09	1.008,10	1,008,10	1.034,76	1,034.76	1.07950				
2136	COMPUTER LIBRARIAN SR 37.5	1,049,33	1202,95	1.177.25	1,049.33	1,074.93	tJOO.56	LI 26.06	1.I3L74	1,17725	1,202,95				
2645	CORROSION TECH HELPER	13.72	IW	18.79	1372	I4J1	15 73	16.76	17.79	13.79	1932				
2649	CORROSION TECHNICIAN	20.46	26.50	25.54	20-46	21.46	2146	23.48	2449	2554	26,50				
2B1D	CORROSION TECHNICIAN PRE 92	1.061-35	1,228.52	1200-75	1,06185	1,0*9.57	1,117,45	1.145.18	1,172.96	1200.75	1228 52				
2650	CORROSION TECHNICIAN SR	26.53	30.70	30,01	26.53	27.24	27.95	2864	2933	30.01	3079				
2733	CREW LEADER	3LO9	2253	32,57	3LO9	31.26	31.41	31.58	31,76	31.91	32,03	32.24	32.40	3257	32.73
206?	CUST 1HQUIK Y REP PT 3?. J HR	9663)3	966,03	96603											
2124	CUST INQUIRY REP FT 40 HR	893.U	89114	893.14											
2607	CUST SER VREPP 5	987,90	I.129j64	1.106,92	987.90	LOH 54	1.035.07	1J058.72	1/32,49	L105.92	1,129,64				
2276	CUST SER VICE REF W HR	W.M	M 29.64	J ,J 15A9	987 90	1.002-04	1,01622	M3B39	L<4459	LOSS 73	1,072.93	1JJ87J2	1,101.31	1,115,49	1,129,64
2157	CUSTODIANS RECORDS ASST 31.5	985.45	1X00 89	1.068.78	985.45	1.012,13	I/M2.09	1,042,09	1,06378	1,068.78	1.090,89				
2153	CUSTODIANS RECORDS 37 5 HR	1.100-41	1,27738	1,2*7#	1.10041	1.129-95	1J 59.34	L188.89	1,21831	1247.84	1277.38				
2738	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC	444 24	704.08	678,09	44424	47022	496.21	5ZM9	548.17	574.16	60045	626.14	652 U	67809	704,08
2137	DATA ENTRY COORD 37-5 HR	1,03140	IJ39.B6	hl 14#	1.O3L4O	13358.00	LQ&.OB	1,088.08	1,114#	1.114 84	1,139#				
2161	DELIVERER	2065	23-51	2065	20.65	2351									
2704	DISPATCHER POST 98	1207.78	M59.03	1253 91	1.207,76	121293	t,ZU(M	L22317	1,328,29	1.233.43	1,233-55	1241.6?	U48.81	1253,91	125905
2179	DISPLAY ASSISTANT 37,5 HR	977,89	45	1,06127	977,89	1,00461	1,034,45	1 <03445	1,361.27	1.06127	1/386,4}				
2181	DISPLAY ASST APPRNT 37.J HR	743 38	931-17	89990	743,38	774.66	80594	83722	86855	899,90	931,17				
2180	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 37,5 HR	1406.90	1,337.10	129171	L 20690	1,228.55	1250,26	125026	1.293,71	1293,71	1,337,10				
PAGE: 55
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A-4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, ZIMM TO OCTOBER 15, IMS FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	EMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
															
2291	DISPLAY DESIGNER SHO,0 HR	1206.90	U37.W	1293.71	1206.90	122855	1250>	(25026	1293,71	1295.71	1237.10				
2163	DISPLAY DESIGNER 37.5 HR	IJ2S.87	L 25641	120930	1,125.87	1443.76	1.16937	L ,16937	1,209.30	1209 30	>256.11				
2182	DISPLAY PRSON-CONST SNR 37,5	1.054.91	Id 6742	1J3I40	1,058.91	1/176,95	1,095 06	L095.06	1,131.20	1J3I20	M6742				
2171	D1SPTCH DISTR 375 HR	L16932	122030	1493.70	1,169.32	1,193,70	1.19370	122030							
22W	DEPTCHDHrrRWHR	1J6932	] ,220.30	■ 215J3	1J 6932	1,174.46	1,179.52	U 84.65	LI89.79	IJ94.84	1499.99	(205.10	121020	12(533	122050
2175	D1SPTCH ORDER	1207.78	1.259.03	1,2323?	1207,78	123237	123237	125905							
2174	MSFTCH TRANS? HR	987.94	[,040,74	1.GM36	987.94	I >01436	1,014.36	1,040.74							
3472	DKPTCH TRUCK (MST 37.5 HR	M2749	i,nt3T		VO	1,151,63	1J 51.61	1,17837							
2186	DRAFTING CLERK JT3 HR	76278	950,59	91931	761.78	794.03	875J6	856.7S	888.01	91931	950.59				
2189	DRAFTING TECH £R 37J HR	1403-67	1.L94J2	M7M1	1,103,6?	1,124.76	1351 40	1,15140	1,176.81	1476,81	[,194.32				
2183	drafting tech i M HR	911.89	I/H4.00	98631	911.89	92980	9 SO .92	968.63	986.51	986,5)	LO 14.00				
2191	DRIP PERSON	26,05	1679	26.05	2605	2679									
2197	ELECT	2729	29,80	29,36	Z7.29	27,74	2848	29.07	2936	29.34	29.M				
2199	ELECT A GAS OPNS	.	3091	3091	3091											
im	ELECT SYSTEMS 5UWORT	2729	nw	2840	2729	27.W	28,40	28.40	29.06						
2205	ELECTRONIC TECH RADIO LLC	31.64	3330	32.43	31.64	32.43	33 20								
*29*1	ENGINEER AEDE GAS OPER POST	LW3.W	(.328,90	U93.04	14W.I0	1,07431	1,114.47	1,150,19	i,L85J»	(211.60	1257 36	L293M	1228.90		
2270	ENGINEER ASST TO 37,$ HR	1.190.41	IJ5145	IJ LOOS	L 100.4 L	L U233	1,18425	1226.17	L268U	13W.<58	L35U5				
2152	ENGINEER ASST TO 4D 0 HR	1JW-41	135L25	J J10-08	1,1004]	1,142.33	LI 94 25	1226.17	126831	1310.08	1J5) JS				
2245	ENGINEER HOIST UC	29.67	31.OS	<	30.64	29.67	30.11	30.64	31.08							
PAGE: 54
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It, 2004 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN MAX P. P.					3 MOS	3 MOS	OIOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	GMOS	«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
															
2251	ENGINEER L1C	30,73	31.69	31.18	30.73	31.28	31 69								
2742	ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYST 37. S	1,4)860	1.44988	1.442.04	1.418.60	1.426.42	1.434.24	1,442,04	1, M9 88						
2275	EQUIPMENT MAINTAINER	26.3'J	26,89	26,89											
2657	FCM APPRENTICE	15.64	19,55	18.25	1564	1694	1825	19.55							
	FCM APPRENT ICE SEN LOR	2026	25,42	23.73	20.36	22,03	23,73	2542							
2656	FCM APPRENTICE TRAINEE	10,58	14.84	13.44	10.58	1201	13.44	14.84							
2375	FCM ELECTNSTRUMENTTECH	35.50	35 50	35 50											
2653	FCM MECHANIC	IM	28,15	28,05	26.20	26,52	26.B8	27.19	27.55	28.05	2S.I5				
2654	FCM MECHANIC A	28,95	30.91	Ml 60	28.95	29.28	29.60	29,92	3024	30,60	30.91				
27)3	FCM MECHANIC FLD FACILITIES	28.58	30 36	30.06	28.58	28-90	29,18	29.48	29,78	30.06	30.36				
26«ii	FCM MECHANIC SENIOR	31,67	33.63	33.31	31.67	32 00	32.33	3267	32 98	33.31	3363				
2«Ki	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	27.00	28.95	28.61	17.00	2730	27.65	27,99	23,28	2861	28,95				
2604	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A	29,73	31 6?	31.34	39.73	3006	30.37	30.70	31.02	31.34	31.67				
2602	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN SR	32.47	34.43	34.11	32.47	32.80	33.13	33.46	33.79	34.11	34.43				
20)4	FIELD DPERS INSPECTOR A	27.14	2886	28-69	27.14	27-32	27,49	27,66	27.84	28.00	28.17	28.34	2BJL	28.69	28.86
20)3	FIELD OPER5 INSPECTOR B	25 25	25.78	25.73	2525	25-30	25.36	25 42	25.47	25.51	25.57	15.62	25.67	2S.73	15.78
200<J	FIELD OPERS INSPECTOR C	12.34	23.67	23.54	22.34	22.4b	22.61	22-73	22,88	23,00	23.15	23.27	23.41	2354	33 67
2746	FIELD REP 40 HR	1.265.20	1,335.79	1.3)2.12	1,265.20	1,265,20	1265,20	1,265.20	1 288,65	1288.65	1,3)2.12	1,312.12	1J3S.79		
2350	FIELD REP 40 HR POST W	1,05475	] ,208.70	1J 86.95	1XU4.7S	1,083.32	1,112.04	1,14065	1.169J5	1,186.95	1.208.70				
2368	FIELD REPRESENT	1,226.19	1J3S39	] J 13.49	1,226.19	1,256.39	IJ66.26	1.266.26	1313.49	13)3.49	1,335,59				
23&9	FJELD REPRESENT OFFICE	1J28.15	1237.55	1,215,43	IJ23J5	1,15831	1,185.20	1.185.20	1215.43	1315,43	1.237.55				
PAGE: 57
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A >4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.2004 TO OCTOBER 15.2005 FDR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEESNOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
						FIRST		SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	F,P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	EMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	GMOS	EMOS	GMOS
															
267i	HELD SERVICES APPRENTICE	45933	anM	786.53	459,53	520.10	SSO62	641.23	701.77	78635	822.88				
'2969	FINANCIAL ASST POST 37,5 HR	958.30	U20.95	IJW.07	958J0	991,09	1023,94	1.056 79	lflW,62	1,122.41	1J53.3L	1J 88.07	1,22095		
2287	rij J er	15,15	26.92	2620	25,15	25.68	26.20	26.20	2092						
229(1	FLDTR ELECT/MECH GAS OPNS	31,75	31.75	31.75											
2299	FLD TX INSTRUMENT JNSP	1J16.93	1326.93	1316,93											
2292	FLDTR SYS GAS OFER	3273	32.73	3273											
1341	GATEGUARD	2309	23.09	23.09											
2338	GRAPHICS TECHN SR 37 5 HR	1J 42,60	1,233.14	UI547	1,142.60	U 63.64	1,190.29	1490.29	14)5.67	U15^7	1^33,14				
2340	GRAPHICS TECHN 3 7,5 HR	950.84	1,052,91	1,025,36	MOM	968.66	989.88	ijOOT.yj	1,025.36	1,02536	1/B2.91				
2710	GSO D1STZSTAT1ON FLDTRNft	JO93	32.73	32,46	30.93	31.24	31 55	31.86	32.15	32.46	3273				
2712	GSO D1SPSTAHON SR FLD TRNR	J2.19	34.07	33.78	32.19	32J2	32-82	33,14	33,47	33.78	34.07				
270g	GSO DISTRICT ASSISTANT	19.00	23-85	23.05	19.00	19.79	2058	2142	22.25	23.05	2385				
2706	GSO DISTRICT ASST TRAINEE	1441	17,31	14.4)	14.41	17JI									
2363	6 SO HOLDERPERSON	29.06	2906	29,06											
2496	GSO MECHANIC PRESSURE	2838	30,36	29.68	18.58	29.1*		2968	jaw						
2709	gso station r field operator	2933	3106	30.76	1933	29 63	29.89	30.17	39.47	30.76	3106				
2539	GSO STATION OPERATOR	29.92	29,92	29.92											
2345	HELPER	18.87	2406	13,19	t929	19 73	2057	2145	22.34	23.19	24 06				
2154	helper DISTRIBUTION	17,42	23.00	21.n	17.42	19J7	2Lt 1	23-00							
2353	HELPER MECHANICS	18.87	2406	23.19	19.29	19,73	20.57	2145	22.34	2119	2406				
2355	HELPER OPERATORS	2523	2525	25.25											
PAGE; 58
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A-4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2004 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16, I960 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	I
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN MAX P. P,				3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS
															
2356	HELPER PRESSURE	24.31	24,31	24-31											
2362	HOLDER PERSON	27.30	27 JO	27.30											
•29*3	IND APPL INSPECTOR POST 4QHR	1.107 J*	1,461.50	1,41721											
•2908	[ND APPL INSPECTOR PRE	1,243,57	1,512,90	1/79.35	1,245-57	1,278,98	LJ1238	1,3*5.77	1279,18	1,412,57	1,445.9$	L479.3S	1,51290		
	INSPECTOR ENG POST	1,19756	1.451J6	1,41951	1,197.56	1J29.26	1460.90	1,292:71	1: 24 36	1J5604	IJ87 82	1.419.51	1/5 U6		
•2904	INSPECTOR ENG PRE	1.347,11	1,632.61	1,596,73	IJ47.11	1J82.77	1,418.39	1,45* 12	1 ,<-89.70	1,525.38	1.561.14	1J96.73	1,632 61		
2374	INSPECTOR INSTRUMENT MTR RPR	1,075,87	1,269,75	1,237.45	1JO75 87	1.108,23	1,140 47	1,177,24	14:05-12	U37/5	1,269.75				
•295)	INVESTIGATOR 6 POST	1,020.91	1301 00	1J6S.&8	1,020.91	LQ53.92	1,090.38	IJ2S.S5	1, 60,90	1.195,88	1,230,85	1,265^8	1301,00		
243a	INVESTIGATOR B POST V8	1,020,91	J .301,00	1265-88	1,020,91	LO5592	1X190,88	1,125J5	1, 60.90	1,195.88	L^30J5	1J65.83	1JOLOO		
2102	IN VESTIO AT OR B POST 95 4£| HR	).! 48-40	1/63.44	1 <423.97	1.1*8.40	1.187,76	1 *227.12	UM,45	1,405 88	L34523	1,384.59	1/23.97	1,461.44		
•2912	INVESTIGATOR B PRE	1.148-40	1.463,44	1/2197	I,1 48,40	IJ 87 .76	1227.12	1.266.45	LJOS. 88	1,345.23	IJ84.59	1,423.97	1,463,44		
•2905	INVESTIGATOR B PRE *0.0 HR	1.148,40	1,463 44	1,423,97	1,148 40	1,187,76	1,227 12	1,26645	1J0SA8	1J4523	1JS4.S9	1,423.97	1,463.44		
2422	MA1NT FIRE EQ GAS OP SYS SUP	28.72	30.37	3033	28.72	29.28	29.80	3033	3033	30,87					
2423	MAINTAINER INSTRUMENT	27 29	29.06	25,40	27J9	27.82	28.40	2840	29.06						
2424	MAINTAINER PERSON FIRE EQUIP	I6JI	26 JI	2671											
2427	MAINTAINER PROVER INDICAT A	29.20	3245	31.16	29,20	30.18	31 16	32.15							
2426	MAINTAINER PROVER INDICATOR	28,40	31,31	29.81	28.40	29.28	29JI	JIJi							
2*81 2590	MECH MECHADISTOPNS	27 29 31,06	29.80 31.06	29J6 31,06	27.29	27.74	28.18	2907	29 36	29.36	29,80				
2483	MECH APPLIANCE	23.00	2525	24 45	23,00	23,51	23.96	2445	24.45	25,25					
[ 25111	MECHDISTa	30,36	30 36	3036											
PAGE: $9
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It, 2404 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FORALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1900 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY It, 1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	I
						FIRST		SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS	tMOS	6 MOS
															
25OJ	MECH DET A FLD TR QC	3407	14.07	MQ7											
2506	MECH DIST A FLD TRAINER	32.73	32-73	3273											
2731	MECHD1ST A POST 98	2837	30.36	3017	28.37	28.55	28.76	2896	29 18	29.35	29.56	29.76	29.9$	30.(7	3036
2505	MECH DIST B	1JJ8	25.92	25,38	25.38	2592									
2727	MECH D18T B POST 9g	24,23	25.92	25 73	24.23	24.4]	2456	24.73	24 91	25.08	25.25	25,42	25J8	25.75	25.92
2491	MECH METER A	17.43	29.M	28-20	27.45	28,20	29 06								
249$	MECH METER B	23.51	24.53	24,02	2351	24.02	2453								
2499	MECH METER SPECIAL	29.81	3131	3033	29 SI	3053	31-31								
2484	MECHSYCT SUPFT	2729	2906	28.40	27.29	2752	28.40	28.40	29.06						
2509	MESSENGER 3ZS HR	614,84	835.77	798.18	63315	65L70	68850	725.2?	762.02	798.88	835.77				
2689	METER READER POST 98	45953	62465	540.14	459.53	486.40	513.25	540.14	566.99	$97,12	634.65				
28S9	METRETEKTECH	31.06	32.15	31.63	31.06	3L63	32.15								
2701	OPER DIST C POST 92	21-89	21.89	2159											
2719	OratMSTCPOST98	1177	2149	21.59	IS.??	19.10	19.41	19.72	20.0a	2035	2t>.66	20.96	212S	2139	21.89
2549	OPCT DISTRIBUTION C	2367	23.67	23,67											
1609	OPER SCREENALUBCKHOE4>A YUffl	24.89	23.77	25,65	24.89	25.02	25.18	2532	2546	25,65	23.77				
2608	OPER SLF-LDG VEH GVW 26000*	24.19	25.77	2555	24 89	25.02	25 18	2532	25.46	25.65	25.77				
1115	OPERATOR SR. OFFSITE	3455	34.55	3455											
237g	OEMS ASST DIST	991.13	1JH9.74	1,083.76	991,13	1,001.99	1,01280	1.0237]	1,034.52	1^45.41	1,056.23	L067.12	1,077.89	1.08876	1.099,74
151*	OPNS ASST DET	99L13	1,099.74	lrW4jtt	991,13	1,01783	IJD47.92	1,047.92	L07462	14)74.62	1,099,74				
2516	OPUS ASST GAS OPS	2049	25.97	24.60	20.49	21.86	23.24	24 60	25,97						
PACE: 60
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1004 TO OCTOBER 15, 2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,19K0 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1S83
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN MAX P.P.					3 MOS	3 MOS	(MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	(MOS	(MOS	6 MOS	(MOS	(MOS
															
2591	DPR A DIST OPNS	21,06	3106	3106											
2850	OPR ASSISTANT SNG	29 93	29.9J	29,93											
2715	OPR C TRAINEE POST 98	1+41	17 31	1441	14.4 J	17.31									
	OPR CHIEF LNG	35-93	35,95	35,93											
155+	opr chief sng/lng	3783	37,83	37.83											
2526	OPR DATA PROC NO 3	657.19	931.17	885,52	68003	703.00	748.60	79416	B9 8I	88SJ2	931.17				
2545	OPR DISTRIBUTION A	30,36	30.36	3036											
2547	OPR DISTRIBUTION B	24.31	243]	24 JI											
2723	OPR DISTRIBUTION B POST 98	2295	24 Ji	24J6	22.95	23,08	2322	2334	2349	23.63	23,77	23.90	24.05	24.16	24.31
2522	OPR DUMP TRUCK l,5T+	24.8?	24 87	24,87											
2523	OPR HOIST CHERRY PCKERIUO	30,36	31 77	31 33	3OJ6	30.79	31.11	SITI							
1562	OPR LEAD DATA ENTRY 3’. 5 HR	931.1?	L0J9 86	1.014.69	931.17	957.89	987,94	987.94	1,(14.69	1.014.69	1,039.86				
1357	OPR LEAD MICRO MACH .‘7i HR	1,0314(1	LI3936	1'114.84	1.031+0	1,058.00	1,088.08	1.08608	LI14.B4	1JL4.M	1,13186				
2553	OPR LEAD REPRO MACH >15 HR	1,031.40	1,139,86	1414,84	1,031,40	1,058.00	1.088.09	1W08	1414-64	1,114.64	1439,86				
2564	OPR. LEAD SYSTEMS 37.5 l*R	1,17124	umj	1254.70	M7L34	1.198.06	1,228,06	I42BM	i; 54.70	1,254.70	IJ79.83				
2530 2716	OPR LNG OPR LNG ASST	32.54 28.64	32.54 30.32	32.54 28.64	28.64	3032									
2532	OPR MAIL INSERT MACHI"? 5 HR	883.40	985,45	957,89	883.40	90141	922.46	94016	S'57.89	957.89	985.45				
2540	OPR OFF SITE	2679	26.79	2679											
2535	OPR REPRO MACH SR 37 J HR	978.01	1,086.68	1.061,54	978,01	1 .DM,73	1.03+82	1,034.82	13'61.54	1,061.54	1086.68				
2533	OPR REPRO MACH 3 7^	65719	931.17	885.52	680.03	703.00	748.60	79416	1U9.B1	885 52	931.17				
PAGE: 61
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2004 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1903
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS	I
						FIRST		SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
															
2536	OPRSNGTJ4O	3593	35.93	3593											
2541	OPR STATON A UC	29.76	29.76	2976											
2543	OPR STATION B	27 38	27 38	27 38											
2566	OPR SYSTEMS A 37 J HR	1,031.40	[.139.86	1,114.84	1,00 1,40	1X58.00	1X88-01	1X88X8	1,114X4	1,114.84	IJ39X6				
2565	OPR SYSTEMS 31,5 HR	991.83	1,100-41	LXH25	99) 83	1.01845	lt4MM7	LOW 47	1X75 25	1,075.25	Id 0041				
2561	OPR TELEPHONE NGWT 37.5 HR	674X8	985.45	933.53	699.97	72600	777,93	829,80	831.61	933,53	985AS				
3559	OPR TELEPHONE 375 HR	657,19	961.48	910.72	682.62	707.92	75863	80941	860.01	910.72	96148				
ma	OFRTELFHONEFT373HR	332X1	333.02	332X8	332X8	333X2									
2521	OPR WORD PROCESS	636.17	1X39 86	979.22	676 7|	737.22	797.72	85822	91*76	979.22	IXG986				
2567	FAINTER	25.18	26X5	2564	25,18	25X4	25X4	2605							
2569	fainter body tra n$f	27J9	29.06	28.40	2729	27.82	28.40	21-40	29. M						
2572	PARTS PERSON TRANS	25,24	26.23	26X0	2514	2551	25,76	26X0	2623						
2576	PHOTOO ASST APPR 37.5 HR	657.19	931.17	885 52	680X3	703,00	748,60	794.26	839,81	883.52	93t.P				
2571	FHOTOG ASST 37 J HR	977 89	1X8645	1X61.27	977X9	l.MWM	L .034 43	1XM45	1X6 LIT	J.06U7	1X8645				
2575	PHOTOG37.5HR	l,076Ti	1,212.56	\ ,16569	1 SJJ6.T5	1A2L35	1,121,35	1,165,69	1,165,69	1,212,56					
2573	plant protection person	22.34	23.61	22,08	2234	22.98	23.61								
2574	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON SR	24.07	2536	24 71	24 07	24 71	25,36								
*2979	PUBLIC RELATIONS AS5T POST	94858	1*274.16	1*233.41	948.53	989 25	1,02994	1.07662	IJII. 31	L15L9B	1,192,72	[J33.41	1X74.16		
2599	REAPER METER	864,27	1X68,48	1X34.43	88125	89833	932.26	966.35	1X00.36	1X3443	1X6848				
2598	READER METER (NIGHT SKIP)	86427	1X68.48	1X0443	88125	89833	93226	966.35	1X0036	1X34A3	1,0684!				
2594	reader meter sch b	*59.53	82288	76675	514.36	542.38	5*8.50	6M62	7t069	766.75	82288				
PAGE: 61
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.2004 TO OCTOBER IS, 2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY >6, 19H0 AND
ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
TITLE DESCRIPTION		MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	J MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	<>MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	tiMOS
															
1138	REP CAD 37.5 HR	1.014.73	1,144.68	1,12102	1,014.73	1.03644	1,058.06	1 JD79.75	Li 0136	1.123-02	1,144.6!				
5156	REP CUST LNQ SR 37 J HR	ltMW	Limo	LI 6630	L057.92	1,079,64	M0I.3O	1J22.97	1/44.57	IJ66 30	1,187.90				
2158	REP CUST INQ J 7 .3 HR	967,90	1,12964	LI 05.92	987.90	LOI 1,54	1,035.07	1.058 72	• 1.1182 49	LI 05.92	1,129.64				
3273	REP CUST 1NQ 40 HR.	9S7 90	1.129-64	M 15.49	987.90	1.002.04	LOI 6.22	1.030.39	1/M4.59	1/158.73	1/372.93	1,08712	1.101 Ji	1,115.49	IJ19 64
2046	REP DIST OFF PT 37 5 HR	987,90	987.90	987.90											
1132	KEP DIST OFF PT 40 0 HR	923.73	923.73	923.73				•							
2093	REP DJSTOFFttS HR	987 90	1.129 64	1J 05.92	987.90	LOI 1.54	1,035,07	1,058.72	l,DB2.49	1,105.92	1.129.64				
2094	REP DIST OFFICE SR 37.5HR	L056,63	1.162,38	1444.77	1JM6.68	LW4.D	1.091.93	1.10956	1.127.15	1.144.7?	L 162,38				
200$	REP DIST OFFICE SR 40 0 HR	1.05663	1J 62 33	1444.77	1.056.68	1.07433	L09L93	1,109 56	1,127.15	1,144.77	IJ62 38				
1371	REP ENERGY CONSERV	786.63	L07$)i	1,026.99	786.63	834 78	SS2.M	930.88	778 92	1,026.99	1,075,18				
2600	REP REGULATORY [NQY 37 3 HR	1JD57 91	1,187,90	1J 66.30	1.057.92	1,07964	L10I 30	LI 22.97	1J44 57	1,16630	LI 87.90				
2160	REP SPEC LEDGER. $R 37.5 HR	1,014.73	L144.63	1J 23.02	1.014.73	14)36-44	1,03806	LOW. 75	1.10136	1,12302	L.144.68				
271)	SENIOR PHOTOGRAPHER	956.95	1.282.56	J .349.99	156.95	989.52	1,02208	1.054,62	1,187,20	1,11975	LI52 32	1.184.89	1.217,43	1,24999	1,282.56
2669	SEPARATOR PERSON	23.78	25.78	23.78											
2692	SNOW REMOVAL LI01	31.96	31-96	31.96											
1693	SNOW REMOVAL OT CALL TN LI 01	53.43	53.43	33.43											
*295?	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL POST	L0M57	1356 67	1420.03	1JQ64.S7	1,101.01	LU7.5S	LI 74 06	L2I05J	1247.02	U83 J5	t ,320.03	1.356.67		
*2916	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANA L PHE	1,1974?	JJ26-O+	1,484.85	1J97.49	1,23351	1279 62	1,320,70	1,361,68	U0L74	1,44W	1,484.85	1,526/34		
'2914	SR art&prdduction asst pre	1,076.43	1,442.69	1,396.91	1/176,43	J J 2224	1,168.00	I.2IJ.76	(.259.4?	1,30527	LJSr.04	f J96.9I	(.442.69		
2694	STENO CLERICAL 37,5 HR	657)9	985A5	930.62	684.60	711.94	766.56	821.24	876 0 7	930 62	985.45				
2696	STENO SECRETARIAL 37.5 HR	791.74	1.039^6	998.50	812,34	833-00	874 39	915,78	957,08	998-50	1.03? 86				
PAGE:
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A-4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1004 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
						FIRST		SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
															
16W	STOCK PERSON DATA PROCESSING		*16,62	05527	89838	9)6,08	933.91	K3.2?	955.27	976,62					
2697	STOCK PERSON 37 5 HR	682.68	931.27	889 91	703.51	724J8	76561	HM.tl	848.49	U9,9I	931.27				
	STRKPR ASST MATMGT 373HR	1.WT23	1.15215	[J 30,46	1,047.23	J .073.76	LJQ1JH	t,103.B»	1,130+6	U 30.46	1,152,43				
2700 1703	STRKPR ASST SR MAJ APPL STRKPR ASST SR MATMGT 37,5HR	IJ71J7 1,121.51	1.284 34 1227J3	M7J05 I.KHS7	1J71.37 1,121.51	1.182.64 1,14821	1,193,98 1.178.29	12051)	UI 6.37 MOW	1,227.8+ IJ04.07	IJJ9.16 1^27,23	U50+9	1,261.77	U73.05	U8434
2702	STRKPR ASSTSR STNRY 37,3 HR	1,088.98	1.194 64	1J 72.26	I.O8A.98	1,115.59	1,145-69	1.145.60	1,172.26	1,172.26	1,194 64				
3551	SURVEY OPR TRUCK	25.25	25,78	2525	25-25	25.70									
2722	SVC PERSON A COORD Of	32.19	34 07	33.78	32.19	32.52	32.02	33.16	33.47	33.78	34 07				
1631	SVC PERSON A FLO TH	31.65	32,73	3Z24	3Jj65	3224	32,73								
2602	SVC PERSON A FLD TRN &T	34j07	34.07	54.07											
3631	SVC PERSON A GEN Am	3W	31,06	30,54	30,10	305*	31,06								
2673	SVC PERSON H APPL	25,00	25.72	15.00	25.00	25.72									
2673	SVC PERSON C METER A APPL	24.50	25.00	2450	24 50	25.00									
2726	SVC PERSON C POST 99	20,36	23.47	20.36	20.36	23.47									
2677	5VC PERSON D LOCK UNLOCK	2406	24.06	24.06											
25M	SVC PERSON TRAINEE CSO	15*9	19.03	15,49	15.49	19.03									
2670	SVC SPECIAL MST37.5 HR	1,002.25	1.110.92	LOU. 76	1,002	1.02R96	13X5905	i.oiw	1,083.76	LO05.76	[JIOJ2				
*2964	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	mi9	1.190.19	1,159.93	»8.19	91844	94S6O	679.75	1,00896	1.039t5	MM9 33	1,099.52	Lt 29.72	1.I59.W	L190.19
•2963	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	888.19	1.190,19	L, 152.37	saw	925.98	963,66	W4J	1,039.14	1p076l90	M 14.68	1,15257	1,190.19		
2807	SYS PROCESSOR DT$T 37 J HR	961.14	1.069,83	1,044.65	96J 14	957,83	JXH7-94	1.017.0*	1,044.65	1.044,63	1^)69.83				
2<«44	SYS PROCESSOR DIST 40 HR	96LH	LOW A3	1555681	961.14	9726)	sms	993.7J	1.0CW36	1,015,40	1,026.26	1,037.10	1^47 96	J4S8.02	1^169^3
PAGE: 64
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE A-4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2004 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1980 AND ALL EMPLOYEES NOW IN NON-ENTRY LEVEL JOB CLASSIFICATIONS HIRED BEFORE JULY 16,1983
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
						FIRST		SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS
															
2626	TECHNICIAN PROCESS A	32,73	32.73	32.73	32.73	32.73									
2&I2	TELEPHONE SEK V REP 37 5 HR	894.99	1J>51.45	1,025.33	B94.99	921,13	947,14	973.21	99936	14325,53	1.051.45				
2311	TELLER HEAD J’-5 HR	1jM668	1,16238	IJ4O27	1.05668	1,081.35	1410.20	14 10 20	t 14022	1,140.22	1.162 38				
2813	TIM EKEEP SYS SURF 37,5 HR	960.85	1/169,54	1,044.44	960.85	987.75	j .017.69	1,017,69	1044-44	1,044.44	1.069.34				
1W	TOOL REP MR PERSON	rite	2386	2614	1X06	2>66	28.24	28.24	28,86						
2820	TOOL REPAIR PERSON A	27,93	29.78	29,14	27,92	28.54	29.14	29.14	29.78						
2827	TYPIST STATISTICAL 37,5 HR		985.45	957,89	8834Q	901.41	922.46	«4OI6	957.89	957.89	985.45				
2829	UPHOLSTERER	26.63	2843	27,72	26,63	27.19	27.72	27.72	28.43						
2B31 2835	UPHOLSTERER A UTILITY PERSON SYS SUPP	30.00 2300	3QJOO 24.06	30,00 23.51	23.00	2351	2331	2406							
2837	UTILITY WAREHOUSE PERSON	17.42	23-00	22.01	1834	1914	20,to	2104	22.01	23.00					
2M9	WATCH GUARD	22.0)	22.0)	22.0)											
2853	W ATO 1 GUARD A PORTER	784117	898 38	880.66	BOW	823.61	841 47	85929	880.66	89838					
2855	WELDER	2729	29.06	28 40	27.29	27.82	28.40	2840	29.06						
2857	WELDER a	3035	3055	30.53											
2858	WELDER A QUALIFIED	32.60	32.60	37W											
2707	WORK MEASUREMENT ANALYST	1.199.26	U4296	1.23675	1405 49	1411.74	1417.96	1424,26	1430.49	1436.75	1442.96				
_286]	YARD PERSON	2065	23%	2236	2065	22.36	2236	2396							
ALL TITLE CODES FROM 2900 - 2999 ARE UACCRETION TITLES
Schedule C/D
For All Employees Hired After July 15,1983 And Before October 15,1986
Schedule C/D -1
October 16, 2001 - October IS, 2002
PACE; 65
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D- 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It, 2001 TO OCTOBER 15,2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
								PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS							
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	tMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MQS
*1929 '	ACCT ENGR SR POST		” mtSm?	" "L14S716-	" 91(38	94359	' ’ 96K79	'	99199	‘ 1,019,16	1,044.38	L lmHT	L®4.75	LH9.9?	1.145.16	117(147
*1900	ACCT ENGR SR PRE	1JB3 w	1316.60	L288.14	1.033.(19	1.06140	1.089.77	1,118.10	L H6.4J	hl 74.77	1.203.13	1J31.47	1A39.83	1,288 14	IJIfctt
2212	ACCT ENGR 37 5 HR	987,73	1,20623	UJ7BJ7	987.73	LOOS.94	1,030 20	1,051.43	1.072.67	1.093.91	1,115,14	1,136.37	1.137.65	1.(78.87	1,200123
*2933	ACCT POST	969 64	1307.25	1,183.43	96964	993-40	1,017.14	LM0.92	1.064,6 j	i .088.42	1,11221	L135 94	1J5173	1.163.43	1.207.23
*2902	ACCT PRE	1.096,70	1357.98	1.331,23	IJWI70	LI 17.44	L144.14	LL70.B6	1.1973?	1*22433	1251.08	1^77.76	1*304.52	1.331.23	1,357.98
200]	ACCT REP 37 J	84* 17	946.49	936.62	04417	858.89	868.61	878.33	888.03	897.76	907.46	917,J|	926.90	936.62	946.49
2020	ACCTG ASST CORF 37.3HR	93J.8B	1,027,53	1,017.69	93216	942.34	951,77	961JI	970.64	980.10	989.54	99897	1,008A3	1J317.89	1.027.53
2002	ACCTG ASST DtST 37.5 HR	893 01	987,73	970.24	S9301	902 50	911,96	921.40	930.90	94Q.36	949.81	959.29	968.7J	97824	987,73
2018	ACCTG ASST SR CORP 37 JHR	"	9(7,73	1,146,58	1 ."130.68	987-73	ijxjxs?	1.019-43	1,03537	LOM.H	' 1,067.12	1,083.02	I49&91	LI 14.79	L130.68	1.14658
2026	ACCTG ASST SR 37.3 HR	932.88	J <027.53	1,017.89	932.88	942.34	931.77	961.21	97064	980.10	989.54	993.97	1,008,45	L01719	L027.53
2011	ACCTG ASST 37.5 HR	893.01	987 75	’ 973,24	asjjoi	902,50	911,96	921A0	930.90	940.36	949.81	959.29	968.73	97824	987.73
2062	ACCTG CLERK I PT 3 7 5 HR	7BI.SI	83582	827 99	788-51	796,45	804,28	812 19	.	82008	827.99	835.82				
2060	ACCTG CLERK 3 PT 37-5 HR	267.34	26754	367,34		267,54									
*2935	ADM ASST CSD POST	SMUG	t .095.92	LU72.29	860J6	883 70	907J1	930.89	954.41	478.00	1.00157	L025.I4	J<M8.71	1,072 29	1,095.92
•iwi	ADM A5STCTD PRE	967.52		J^MJ6	M7J2	994 M	1,020.54	1,047.14	(,073,56	Li00.il	M26.61	IJ 5J.J8	1,179 65	(*206.(6	(*232.77
*2957	ADM ASST MAT MGT POST 37,5 HR	899.14	LI 45.67	1,120.60	899.14	923,76	948.40	97308	997.72	1,022.34	1,046.97	1,071.65	L096.28	1.12018	1,145.67
*2915	ADM ASST MAT MGTPRE	1,01139	1.288.73	1,26090	1,011-39	1,03912	1,066.86	1,094.52	1.122 27	1349.99	1,177,73	1J05 46	1^3313	1,260,90	1,288.73
•2971	ADM ASST METER REPAIR POST	910.46	1,156,73	Jj 32.10	910.46	935-12	959.73	98435	1,008.98	1.033 59	1.(158,26	1,032.82	1,107,49	1.1W.1D	Lt 5673
*2922	ADM ASST METER REPAIR PRE	1.024.16	1,301.19	1J73.46	L024J6	LOS 188	1*07958	1,107.24	1*134.98	LtM-60	1JW37	UHjOT	1*245.13	1*27346	uoi.i?
*296?	ADM ASST SYS SUP POST	89333	1,084.92	1,063.67	89535	912,49	931.61	950 7J	969.89	989.CW	1,008,19	1,027.36	1.046.50	1.06567	1.084 92
I
PAGE:66
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1001 TO OCTOBER IS, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY IS, 1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		TH	IRD	FOURTH		FIFTH	
																		
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P,	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
‘2W7 ” ’2915Z 2739 2B65 _*2953 2370	ADM ASST SY£~sjjp PRE A DM ASST WORK COMP POST ART A PRODUCTION ASST POST2" ASSOC CUSTOMER SERVICE ASST CHEMIST ASST EDITOR POST ASST FIELD REP ' '				7(104.87 838J2 858.96’ 763 J 9 847,19 95436 ”9.47 __ 1647 26.64 2 _ 51’84 25.60 .J6/4, 2 23,71 22 85 24.03' t ,018,50 IJ 88.02 854.85 W9J7	_l,0<i832 7 1,151.21" 84L23 	9M.W 1.079 35 1,092.59 16.67 -J™?, 28.22 2642 2734 28.22 2694 . -A3* 23.71 ' ..24 2552 ufros. 1,259.28 1445'67 946.49	J 1498.70 j5*5 Jl’ j1?l.94~ 773.32 $42d£ 1,056 01 	L078.61 "15.88 ~ 2Jjf 27,95 _26J3 "" 26.89 _ 27.95 ’26.67 2 2^8" 23,71 25^7 L 158.45 U4742 U16A4' 936.62	judow 838.52 " 838.96 398,74: 765.19 847.19 21 95436 947 ..2 1847 26,<M _24,84 25.60 		26,6<f «35 24.78 ’	si£i§l2 S!§|S § [ FJ . — -J j » ' <?, \D | FJ i U. ‘ 'A , Q, ,	'	88445	”1,06949	' L 390 99	^2~i7j iziT 953.44	1,134.07 2 97640 '/wii 848.23 , _ 986.41 1 >037.17 13.80 19.70	2JJ35.63 999.3? 7/63,50	’ L17745 IJH2.35	ZTi?y.M" 1,043 33 7 2?4?3' "_LW6.0) 15BS 21 jf 26.13	2 Lwl.M 11 y 5i2£ _L079.3s' i.092.59 2 ibAt 2642
								907.44		33042 	 59840						
								917.39 548 58 Jw~5? "fiWJS ~ 981,97 2_ 27.15 / 'jSJ3 26.10 27 "IS" 25.63 25.06	1 i; i i i n u 1	■	«' »I4B 9- hj	— i« ~ f;J FJI* — V»'-p--1 A f VJ S>N		_ LOOSJtt TJ3.32					
									843,87 ' 940,00 12,36 mi 2_ 2W 25.43	S6jj£ $6330 j"]<oiT4 r 	1J_OT^ 19 16		jwz.89 1,00939 iMjoI' 1451 2 2024' ' 25~B8	922.61 [.ojfgf 2 _LOM 77 1S.14 20.77"		
2023 __2022 _ 2488 _ __24B7" 2489 2631 2025 2031 2714 2038" 2040 204$ 2047 2939 ~ 2056	ATTEND GARAGE ATTEND CARAGE ALTER FUEL. " AUTO MECH AJ-LD TRAINER AtfTOMECHANJC _ ’ " 		 AUTO MECHANIC A AtfrOjECKMClAN^ '	"22 BLACKSMITH ‘A1 CARPENTER	~'	— - CHAUFFEUR DISTRICT OPS 2” CHAUFFEUR EXECUTIVE	“ " ' CHAUFFEUR TRACTOR TRAILER CHEMIST	_ __ CHEMIST SENIOR3T5HR ' CHIEF CLERK GASjJPER POST _ ” CLK ACCTG NO 1 ACCT 37 J HR														
										27.95 25.36' ^26'89 26JD 240f	28.22 25J0'		2;' |j ' sj i ill t		
									2637 2743 25,78 ‘js-ir	2665 2~2_2™* 15.94		27.14 2__ 2R22 26,23 ~ ~~25.64	26?7		26.67 2 1_ 2AOB'	"iZ2^4 “ ___ 26,36
									25,35			25.78		_25-94 2^1/4189 926.90		
															
					_ 22,83 _	24_<kf 1,018 50 ^1,18842 854.85 " '849.17	2308	23,31	_733^ _ 24 Lp65-iO _ L223.64 94206 878.33^	23.76 	L235J3 971.1 r ”W8.W			M23 25^2 __ljH.8! _lj25M8 _ 1/39714 ’ W746	1^12756' ~H}5834 917,21		22 LI $84? 93662	M74££ ' 'jd45 ?7 ’ 94649
						2431 Tjow/f 1,199.87 ' 88390 858.89	_ 24 5_5 2' A04???. L2LL.79 9LL96 86R6f			25H |„0M37 _ 1.24742^ 1/10049 897,76					
PAGE: 67
I
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D- I EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,2001 TO OCTOBER 15,2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15, IW
					PROGRESS					ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS					
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS
															
2055	CLKACCTGNO 137,5 HR	835.82	93337	923,48	83542	845.58	85519	865.64	174.76	884,53	894.23	903.99	91173	923.4$	933.37
		_ 	 .						> > —	> 	 							
2057	CUC ACCTG NO 2 37,5 HR	792,94	884 54	875 37	792,94	802.07	81124	82038	529 59	833,74	847.89	857.06	866.20	875-37	184 54
															
1059	CLK ACCTG NO 3 37 5 HR	313.98	53623	J 13.88	313.9$	33622	358.41	38043	402.83	423.03	44723	46948	*91,67	51348	53623
															
1754	CLK ACCTG NO ) C1AS	737 29	933.37	913.75	73729	756.92	776 SI	796.11	815.76	833.34	854 93	. 874.55	894.15	912 75	933.37
2733	CLKACCTGNO 2C1A5	561.75	70220	688 15	561,75	575.80	53946	60347	617.92	631,98	64601	66dO7	674.12	683.15	702,10
2725	CLK ACCTG NO 2 ACCTG POST 92	55874	884 54	807,52	558,24	684 64	807,52	884.54							
															
21)6	CLK CNTL SR CUST ACCT 37JHR	954.9$	L049.84	IJM02J	954.98	964.46	973.92	98336	992.87	)X0230	1,01177	1,02130	1,030,76	1.04021	1.049.84
															
1730	CLK COMM NO, I 37.5HR POST92	73729	933.37	913.75	737 29	756.92	776.51	796.11	81 $.76	835-34	854.93	874.60	894.15	9)3.75	M3 37
															
1713	CLK COMM NOH 37JHR POST92	S6L75	702.20	688.IS	561.73	575.80	58946	603.87	617,92	631.98	646.01	66007	674.12	688J 5	702.2ft
															
2067	CLK COMML ASST HD 37 5 HR	9*1.82	987.73	98316	94142	9*639	950.99	955.58	96015	964.78	96937	973.94	978.51	983.16	987.73
															
2OT8	CLK COMML IND APPL 37J HR	933.75	1,031-2)	102138	933 75	94330	95349	962.94	972.70	93239	992-19	1,001.92	1.011,68	1421.38	1.03121
															
2069	CLK. COMML NO 1 37 J HR	835 82	93327	92148	83542	845J58	853,29	86504	174.76	884.33	89423	903.99	913.73	923.48	93JJ7
															
2072	CLK COMML NO 2 TREAS 57.5 HR	63862	834.54	85945	638 62	66315	687,75	71234	736.93	76J J2	786.12	110.66	83127	859.85	8M JM
107 J	CLK COMML NO 2 37 5 HR	792,94	884.54	8TJ J7	7929*	80207	811,24	820,38	129.59	83874	847,19	157.06	86620	87537	88434
	< < <		■ • 	 -		. ——											
2073	CLK COMML NO 3 37J HR	455,49	645 42	62643	45549	47450	493,49	512,4$	331.47	55046	569.46	5884*	607.42	616.43	645.42
2051	CLK CONS ANALYS 37^ HR	672.72	774.49	764.30	672 72	681.90	69343	TOG 26	71342	72360	73374	743.96	754.08	764 10	774 49
21 IS	CLK CONTROL CUST SER4QHR	835.82	93327	923.48	83581	MS 58	855.29	86504	174.76	88443	89423	903.99	913.73	921.48	933.37
															
2095	CLK CONTROL PROP MAINT37.3	8*62*	L06211	1.044,84	890 29	907.46	92444	94141	959 03	976.14	99334	1,01053	IJK7.67	1.044,84	1.062.1)
									.				 —— — — •		 . _ 	,.		
2074	CLK DEPOSIT 37.5 HR	868,97	966.40	95643	86897	87869	888,43	89810	907.90	91766	927.42	937.15	9*6,86	956.63	966.40
															
2101	CLK EXECUTIVE 37.5 HR	731 12	95008	928 15	711.12	753 01	774 9J	79679	118,67	840S9	862 48	88*39	90623	928,15	9K.G8
															
1070	CLK GEN CUST SER 40.0 HR	351.46	684.82	652 19	358.46	391.07	423.73	45637	489.00	521.65	55427	$86^4	6I9J7	652-19	684.82
															
2089	CLK GEN MATLS MGT	683.11	977.81	948,33	683.11	712 57	74244	77)33	100.98	830.48	859.92	88940	918.85	94833	977.81
PAGE: 68
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2M1 TO OCTOBER 15, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESS					ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS					
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	Max	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2081	CLK GEN NO 1 J7.5 HR	335K	933J7	91078	835.82	859.81	886.77	886.77	>10.78	910 78	93357				
2J&5	CLK OEM NO 1 JO HR	ats.sz	933,37	923.48	t3S.S2	WM	£55.29	86504	574.76	S84.53	894 23	903.99	913 73	923.48	933.37
W3	CLK GEN NO 2 37,5 HR	JZ6.IB	536.23	525.29	428.09	438^8	449.72	460.48'	471.28	482.11	492^9'	5 03.67	514-51	525.29	536.23
MM	CLK GEN NO 3 37,5 HR	232 33	481,26	45627	232,33	257,14	282.10	306.96	33184	356-72	381.64	406,51	431,38	456 27	48126
2863	CLK GEN NO) QCST	93556	988,62	933,31	935,56	940.87	946.16	951.47	956%	962.12	967 38	972.71	91W	983 Jt	9&S62
2120	CLK GEN TREASURY 37.S HR	879 70	M8J3	958.36	870 70	880.45	890.17	899.89	909-66	91940	929.11	938 87	948.64	95BJ6	968.23
2076	CLK GEN 1 MKT ADV 3 7.5 HR	884,20	981.70	971,87	88420	893.93	903.69	913 44	>23,18	932.90	942.64	9523£	962.13	971.67	981 70
2082	CLK GEN 1 PUR <K 37.5HR	m$9	972,05	96220	874 59	884.34	894138	903.80	>13.54	923JI	933.06	942.80	95251	96228	972.05
2088	CLK GEN 2 MKT ADV 37,5 HR	44109	553.29	542.45	44509	455.90	466.70	477.56		499.18	510i00	52D.&+	53L64	542.45	553.Z9
2098	CLK HD CLA1M/SECTY 37,5 HR	934.98	1,049 M	1,040.21	954.98	964.46	973.92	983.36	992.87	1,002 30	LOL 1.77	1,021 30	1.030.76	1,040.21	I.049.M
2085	CLK HD COM ML 37.5 HR	954,98	L&49.M	1,04021	954 98	964.46	973.92	983 36	992,87	1,002JO	1,011.77	1,021 JO	1^3076	1.04021	1,04984
2931	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG POST	91138	LI 70.47	1,14516	918,38	943.59	968.79	99J99	1.019,16	(.04438	1,069.57	1,094.75	1.II9.9?	1,145.16	1J 70.4?
2901	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG PRE		13)6.60	1A8&.14	1.033.00	1,06) 4&	1439.7)	LI 18.10	LW.43	1,174.7?	L2U3.13	L2JI.47	1^59.83	1,28814	1,3)6.60
2583	CLK HD URBAN AFFAIRS	954.93	LW984	1.0402)	954,98	964.46	973.92	983.36	99287	1.002.30	1,011.77	1,021 JO	1,030.76	1,040.21	1,949.84
2117	CLK HEAD CONTROL ?7.5	987,73	1.146 53	1,130.68	987,73	1.003.57	1,019,43	1.03537	1,05125	1.067.12	IJ033XQ	1,098,91	1.114.79	LI 311.68	1,146.58
2087	CLK HEAD CUST SVC J? 5 HR	941.82	987.73	963.16	941.82	946,39	950.99	955 58	96Q.15	964 78	969.37	973.94	978,51	983.16	987 73
2091	CLK HOUSE HEATING 17,5 HR	266.30	585 41	553.33	266.30	298,17	330.07	362.00	393.89	425,79	457,67	489.62	521.51	53338	58541
2099	CLK HOUSE HEATNG A 37.5HR	59622	906.12	875 04	596,22	627-20	658 17	689.14	72014	751-13	782,12	813-11	844 04	875 04	90612
2705	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B POST 98	398.56	52046	50827	3*3.56	410.74	422.93’	435.13	447 J2	459.50	411.69	483.38	496,08	508.27	520.46
2100	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B 37 J HR	298.84	585.41	556.71	298 84	327.51	356.15	384.81	41347	442.12	470.77	499.40	528 07	356.71	5SJ.4I
2634	CLK INVENT CTLMMO 37. S HR	moo	1,034-80	JJP35.16	940.00	949 42	958.67	96836	977,84	937,33	996,75	1,00623	JJ015.73	1,025,16	1J>MW
2724	CLK. METER REPAIR SR	847 51	934,6?	925.96	847,5)	85613	864.96	873.68	88J.39	891.12	899.82	90833	925.96	934.67	934.67
PAGE: 69
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE CID- 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER 15,2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS. 1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	(MOS	(MOS	AMOS	(MOS	4 MOS	(MOS	6MOS	(MOS
208b	CLK MTR RPR HEAD 37*5 IIR	’ ’		'”98173	'	97814	' 8930?	’ 902 50	' ’ 911 96	921.40	93090	L M0.36	w.si	’ 959-29	968.75	97844	J 9S7.7J
2103	CLK. PRICE MKT ADV 37.5 HR	835.82	933.37	923.48	835 82	845.58	85519	865.04	87476	88403	89443	903.99	91373	923 48	93337
2109	CLK SPECIAL LEDGER 37 J HR	835.82	957.96	945.72	E35R2	848.00	860124	872.47	38404	" 69687	909.05	921.29	' 93307	945,72	957,90
2113	CLK STCK MAT MGT 37-5 HR	612.42	683 10	676.02	61242	619.50	626.37	633.64	640 72	647.77	654.84	661.90	668.99	676 02	683.10
2111	CLK STCK MKT ADV 375 HR	79194	88454	87537	792.94	Iggff	811.24	82038	829.39	838,74	847,89	857,06	866.20	875.37	884.54
211*	CLK STCK STNftY TRUCK OP 37.5	769.01	91857	90302	769.01	783,96	79804	813.90	828,84	843,73	858.72	87106	888.63	90302	918.3?
2092	CLK TELLER 37,5 HR	849.17	946,49	936.62	849 17	858.89	86801	878.33	83803	897,76	907.46	917.21	926.90	93662	94649
2736	CLK TELLER 37 J HR POST 92	631.98	842.60	821.55	631.9®	633.02	674.12	695.17	71645	737 29	75838	779 41	800.50	82155	M2.6O
2H9	CLK TRAFFIC 5’.5 HR	1067,33	1J6138	1.152.76	1067 33	1,076.81	1086.34	1095.79	1105.29	LJ 14.79	IJ 24.27	1,133.76	1143.27	LI52 76	1,16238
2823	CLK TYPIST 37.S HR	342 62	64542	615.13	342.62	371911	403,15	433.44	46372	49401	524 29	55457	584,85	615,13	6+5.42
2130	COLLECTION CONTROLELR	910.82	1027 47	1015.60	910.82	92144	934.11	945.78	957.43	969.04	980.67	99136	] 003.97	101500	1027.47
2123	COLLECTOR	86707	W.96	95803	M7.47	877.62	MZ.72	397.37	907.97	91S.1S	92345	933.40	94307	95803	963,96
2136	COMPUTER LIBRARIAN SR 37,5	N117	1079.77	1,065.98	941.87	955.67	969.48	983.25	997.07	1010 81	1.024 61	1038. J8	].05120	1065.9S	1079.77
2645	CORROSION TECH HELPER	1131	17,79	1714	12,31	12,84	13.41	J304	14 48	15.04	15,59	16.13	' ' 16 69	1744	17.79'
2649	CORROSION TECHNICIAN	18.37	2379	23-26	18-37	189]	1947	20.01	2057	21,08	2161	22-16	22,70	23.26	23.79
2810	CORROSION TECHNICIAN PRE 92	953.12	1,102.72	LOT709	953.12	96887	983.01	997.96	101196	(027,89	10*236	1057.77	' 1.07J74	108769	1,102.72
2650	CORROSION TECHNICIAN SR	2W	27,56	27,19	23,82	2411	24.57	24.94	15.32	25 70	1607	26 44	2602	2719	27.56
2735	CREW LEADER	27,91	39,36	29.24	27,91	28.06	28.20	28.35	28.50	2365	18.79	28.94	2908	2944	’ 2938
2687	CUST SERV REP 37,5	886.73	1,013,97	1,001,27	886.73	89943	91216	924.8$	93702	950.32	963.06	975,81	988.53	L0DL27	1013.97
26S8	CUST SERVICE REP 40 HR	886.73	101397	L«H37	' 886.73	89943	’ 01116	924.88	93762	950.32	96306	975-8 i	988.53	] 00 L27	” 101397
215?	CUSTODIANS RECORDS ASST 37.5	834.54	979 19	969.70	884.54	893.97	90343	912.92	922.38	93107	941J4	93W	96030	969.70	979,19
2155	CUSTODIANS RECORDS 37*5 HR	987,73	1,146,58	1.130.68	987 73	1003.57	1019.43	1035.3?	1051,25	106?. 12	1033 02	1098.91	L J 14.79	1430.68	LL46.58
															
2738	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC	398.74	631,98	60866	398T4	42107	445,39	468.72	49204	515.37	538.70	562.03	585.33	60866	631.98
PAGE: 7l>
LOCAL JOI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE CZD - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER IF, 2001 TO OCTOBER 15,2(102 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,19S3 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,19S6
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		TH	1RD	FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2(37 L	DATA ENTRY COORD 37 J HR	925,79	1,023.14	1,01339	925.79	9JJ.52	94513	954.98	964.74	974.44	984.18	' 993.95	JXNlif	1,013.39'	L02114
2161	DELIVERER	18.53	21,10	20.76	M.53	(879	19.00	H26	19-53	19.76	20*3	2025	20.53	20.16	21 10
2704	DISPATCHER POST 98	1,08411	1,130,13	1.125.52	13)84,11	1.08872	1JJ933)	1,097.92	1,10251	L107-13	LIU.72	L116.32	1. 120l93	1425.52	1,130.(3
2179	DISPLAY ASSISTANT 37.5 HR	877,75	975.20	965,43	877,75	887,33	897.26	906.99	916.77	926,48	93614	945.96	95568	965.43	97520
21S1	DISPLAY ASST APPRNT 37.5 HR	338X18	645. Ji	614,7(1	338,08	368.81*	399.56	43D37	461.02	491.76	522.45	55320	58195	614.70	645.42
2160	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 37.5 HR.	1.083 31	1J00.16	1,1883)	1.08331	1,094.96	1,106.64	1.11831	1,129.9?	1,14164	LI 53.32	1.164 94	1,176 64	LU8.3J	1,200,18
2163	DISPLAY DESIGNER 37.5 HR	t ,010.59	1,127.49	LI 15.65	LOI 0.59	1,022.29	1,033.94	1,045 63	1.057.31	1,06897	1,08039	1.09229	1,103.99	LI 15.65	1,127 A9
2m	DISPLAY PRSQN-CONST SNR 37 5	950,48	Jj947,87	1.038,11	950.48	960,18	969.90	979.67	989 39	999.13	1.008.89	1.01664	1,028.38	L038.H	1,047 87
ini	DISPTCH DISTR 37.5 HR	LM9.5B	1,095.53	I.WO.88	l>9J8	1JM4J9	1,058,74	1X36334	LW796	1,072.48	1,077.(1	1.081-70	L086.23	1,090,88	1,095,53
2175	D1SPTCH ORDER	1,084.11	1,130 13	1. 123,42	IXft4.ll	L088.74	1,093.28	1,097.90	LI 02 JQ	1,107.03	1,111.66	1,) 1628	1,120.83	1,12542	LUOiB
2174	DISPTCH TRANSP 37,5 HR	88677	934,16	,	929J9	8B&77	891^	896.26	901.04	905.72	910.43	915.17	9)9.92	924.67	92939	934 16
2172	D1SFTCH TRUCK DIST 37.5 HR	L011.77	1,057.71	L0H06	1X111.77	1XH6.40	1,020.96	1XQ555	1,03047	1,034.72	1,039.32	1,043,89	1,048.53	1,053.06	1,057,71
2186	DRAFTING CLERK 37.5 HR	634.68	85335	83624	684 68	TOUT	71841	735.21	752, JO	768,93	1W.74	802 59	819,44	836,24	853 25
2189	DRAFTING TECH SR 37 5 HR	99066	1,072.02	1,063.71	990,66	998.76	1.00891	1.01501	1,023.10	L 031.24	1.039.37	LO47.5O	1X>55.58	1,063 71	1/172.02
2183	DRAFTING TECH 37-5 HR	632.(17	702 83	695.76	632,07	639.13	64622	65328	660.16	667.44	674.50	681.69	6&8.W	695.76	702.23
2191	DRIP PERSON	13.38	24.05	23,95	23.38	23.45	23,52	23 59	23.66	23,72	23.76	2)82	23.88	23.95	24,05
2197	ELECT	24,49	26.74	2637	24.49	24 74	24.92	25,15	2533	25.55	25.74	25.96	’ 2kl5	2637	26,74
2199	ELECT A GAS OPNS	26,14	27.74	27.48	26,14	26.41	26.69	26.94	27.20	27.48	27.74				
2198	ELECT SYSTEMS SU PPORT	24.49	263)4	25,82	24 49	24 65	24 8)	24.93	25,1 J	2523	25.37	25,53	" 25,65	' 25.82	26.09
2205	ELECTRONIC TECH RADIO L1C	28.41	29.80	29.54	28.41	2856	28.68	28.78	28,92	29,03	29.1»	29,29	29,43	2954	29,80
*2941	ENGINEER AIDE GAS OPER PQSt	936.29	L19282	U 67.03	93629	961.91	987.S6	1,013.20	103882	1.064 47	' 1X190.13	LB5.73	1.14L.4)	1.167-03	*1.192.82
2270	ENGINEER ASST TO 37.5 HR	9*7,13	1,21 W	liw.m	987,73	3JJ10 24	1,03186	LOS5.42	1,077.99	1,100.58	1,123.11	1,145^9	1,168.26	L190 84	1313 42
PAGE: 71
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER IC, 1001 TO OCTOBER 15,2001 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1M3 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS, 1986
					PROGRESS!					ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS					
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	CMOS	CMOS
' 2245 _	ENGINEER HOISTUC	’	’ ’ 26.64	.. _ .A*?.		" 26.64	. 26.74	2687	" 26,99		 2742	'37,25	2737	"	27.50	2760	' 2L75	P ~ 27,90
215]	ENGINEER LEC	27.58	2844	28.34	2768	27.68	27.76	27.85	27 92	2802	28 10	2846	2826	2834	28,44
2742	ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYST 37 J	l>73,34	JJ01.41	' 1796.71	1473.34	1.278.04	1282.71	L287.35	<29102	] .296.7)’	1,W|-4L				
2275	EQUIPMENT M AINTAINER	22,74	24.14	23.88	22.74	23,01	2332	21.44	13,68	23.88	2444				
" 265?	FCM APPRENTICE	H04	' " ' 17.55	16.38	’	14.04”	l^21	’ .J*#	17.55				—— —		__ -- — -	. — . —
	1	»	1	-	. rw	. ■. — •		2129					-. — *		. —. ... ~	•— 	 *		—. — . —. <	— . . M.	—
2658	FCM APPRENTICE SENIOR	18.17	22.81		18.27	19.77	21.29	22,8)							
26W	FCM APPRENTICE TRAINEE '	<50	tin	' ~ 12.06	9,50	' I O?7R'	12.06	~13.31				—”				• — ■		- •*— .
2273	FCM ELEOTNSTRUMENTTECH	JO07	31,87	3157	30.07	3037	30.66	30,97	31.26	31.37	3)87				
2653	FCM MECHANIC	'	2X52	25'27	2542	' " 23,52	23,71	' ’ 2346	’ 2405	' UZ3	" 24.41	’ “ ” 24 57	24,76	2492	2541	25.2T
2654	FCM MECHANIC A	25.98	27.74	27.56	25.98	26. H	26.34	2660	26.69	26.87	27.04	27,21	2747	27.56	27J4
2?I3	FCM MECHANIC FLD FACILITIES	25,65	" ' 2745'	27.11	2565	25.94	'	25.9S	26.13	"" 26J1	'	’26.45	2664	26.7?	26^4	27JT	27J5
2680	FCM MECHANIC SENIOR	28,41	30.18	3001	28.43	28.63	28.78	28.97	2945	29.32	29 30	29.6$	29.8$		30.18
2606	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	' 2473	' '' 25,98	256)	.	24.23	. 24^1 ’	24.57	’	24.76	’ ’ 24,92	' ' 2542	’	2527	J~ 25~4?	“	2562	2511	25.98
	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A ’	2669	K	—	_	. .. _											
26C4			28.43	2827	26 69	26.87	27.0*	27.2)	2739	27.56	2774	27 91	2840	2827	28.43
2602	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN SR	"	2945		30.71	_. 2?-15	29.32	29.50	—. 29 65_		'30XU	3048	'	3039	" ’j<dj	~ san’		30.9 f
2014	FIELD OPERS INSPECTOR A	14 36	25.91	25,75	24.36	24 52	24.67	24.83	24 98	25.13	25.29	2S.44	25 60	25.75	25.91
	HELD OFERS INSPECTOR B	JL&7	2344	23.09	22.67	22.7)	22 76	22.81	12,36	22.90	22.9$	13.00	23.05	23.09	23.14
2000	FIELD OPERS INSPECTOR C	2005	21.25	21,13	20.05	20,17	20.79	20.4I	20.53	20.65	20.77'	20.89	21.01	21.13	21.25
' 2746	FIELD REP 40 HR	)JJ5£4	M99.0b	’LL 77.76	L 43564	1,135,64	<135.64’	’1,13504	Ki 56,78'	LI 56.70	" " 1477,76	' 147776	1,199.00		
3330	FIELD REP 40 HR POST 92 _	946.74	1.084.93	i ,070.99	_946.?4	96048	974.30	_ 988.11	1001 93	1.015.74	1J029.56	_ ih(M333	1.05743	1670J9	1484.93
2368	FIELD REPRESENT	1.10063	1,198.83	1483 8)	140063	1.U0-44	Ll 2O.2O	1430,03	1J 39.81	1449,79	1459.46	1,16927	1,179-02	LL8&8I	1498,83
	■ ■ ■ ■ * < *		-	< M"	K	.	— —		. _ .. .									
2369	FIELD REPRESENT OFFICE	LOI2.63	1,110.83	LL00.8I	1 >017.63	1022.41	1032.21	L042.0J	1.051.63	Lh061.64	13X71.41	L >08111	1.090199	ijmi	1J 10.83
PAGE: 71
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE C/D - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER 15, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1933 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESS!					ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS					
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
*2949	FINANCIAL ASST POST 37-5 HR	860.16	1.095.92	1,072.29	86046	883-70	907 31	930.89	95441	97800	JjOOl.57	1,025.14	1,04171	J,072,29	1,09592
2287	FITTER	22J7	24.16	23-85	2257	22.69	22 £4	23.01	2343	23.27	23.43	2338	23.72	23.85	24.16
2290	FLD TR ELECT/MECH GASOPNS	26 88	28 49	2822	26 88	274 5	27.43	27.69	27.95	28 22	28.49				. _ .
2289	FLD TR INSTRUMENT 1NSP	Id 23,63	1,191.05	1,17982	1,123,63	1,13486	1,1*640	145733	1,168.60	1,179.82	1,191-05				■
2292	FLD TR SYS GAS OPER	27,79	29 J8	2944	27,79	28.07	2834	28.62	28.88	29.14	2938				
234|	GATEGUARD	1955	20 73	2057	19 55	19.74	19.95	2043	2032	'20.57	20.73	. _			' --
2338	GRAPHICS TECHNSR 37,5 HR	1,025.59	1,106.87	1,098.63	1,025.59	1,03172	1,041 83	1,049.92	J.O58O4	] ,06615	1074 29	1,082*1	JjMO.56	1.09863	1,106.87
2340	GRAPHICS TECHN 37.5 HR	853,47	945,09	935,89	85347	86257	871.75	880.91	890.08	899.20	90838	91J.58	926.71	935.89	945-09
2710	GSO DIST/STATION FLD TRNR	27.76	29.38	29.24	27,76	27.91	28.10	28 26	28.41	28.60	28.74	28.91	29.07	29.24	29.38
2712	GSO DIST/STATION SR FLD TRNR	28,90	30.58	30.36	28.90	29.05	29.24	2938	29.56	29.76	29.90	3009	30.23	30.36	30.58*
2708	GSOD1STR1CT ASSISTANT	17.05	21,41	20,96	17,05	17.47	17.88	1836	1880	19.23	1965	20 41	2057	20-96	21.41
2706	GSO DISTRICT ASST TRAINEE	12.94	15,54	12,94	12,94	I5J4									
2343	GSO HOLDERPERSON	23.20	26.09	13.49	23.20	23.69	2449	24.65	23.15	13.49	26.09				
2496	GSO MECHANIC PRESSURE	25.65	27,25	26:97	25.65	25,81	25.96	26.09	2626	26,38	26.53	2669	26~S2	26^97	2725
2709	GSO STATION & FIELD OPERATOR	26.33	2788	27 74	2633	26.46	26-65	26.78	26.94	2740	27,26	2743	27.57	27.74	27.88
2539	GSO STATION OPERATOR	2533	26.87	26.62	2533	2560	25 86	26.09	26.36	2662	2687		.		
2345	HELPER	ID2E	1028	1028	1028	10.28									—■
2154	HELPER DISTRIBUTION	8,53	13:24’	12.72	8.53	899’	946	9,93	io3T	10,87	11.31	11.78	12.28	12.71'	1334
2353	HELPER MECHANICS	16-94	2L59	2)02	16.94	1737	17.82	18.32	18.76	1939	19.65	20.12	20.60	21.02	' 21.59
2355	HELPER OPERATORS	21.39	22.67	2247	21 39	21.59	21.84	22.04	22.25	2247	22.67				
2356	HELPER PRESSURE	20.60	21.82	21.58	2060	2077	20.97	2120	21.37	21.58	2)82				
2362	HOLDER PERSON	23,13	24.50	24,28	2343	13.34	23.59	2)jf	24.05	'24.28^	2430		■■		
PAGE: 73
LOCAL lOt WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D-1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2M1 TO OCTOBER 15,1002 FDR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS
*2943	FND APPt INSPECTOR POST 40HR	1,019 79	131184	1081.32	1,019.79	1,025.74	1X157.52	L089.M	1,121-10	1,152 87	1484 68	121646	1248,24	U8U2	1311.84
*2903’									1J1J.98					U13J9	U57-98
	IND APPL INSPECTOR PRE		1357.98	1333.89	LI 18.03	IJ4103	1,16605	1.189.99		t ,237.96	1,26192	1.285 94	MM.92		
															
•29W	INSPECTOR ENO POST	1,074-W	1^02.74	1,27991	1.074.93	1,097.71	1.12048	1,143.27	1,16604	1,18880	1,2)159	1,234.36	1257.16	1,279.91	IJ02.74
2904	INSPECTOR ENG PRE	1J09.1?	1,465.41	1,439.74	1209.17	IJ34.80’	1.260J5	1236.01	1J11.65	133714	1,302-88	t.388.M	1,414,12	1439,74	' 1,465.43
															
2374	INSPECTOR INSTRUMENT MTR RPR	963.70	1,139 73	1,122.27	963.70	98106	1.00051	1,017.88	14733 24	IJB2.67	1417003	1,087.47	1.104,8?	1422.27	1.139.73
•2951	INVESTKiATOR B POST	9J6J7	t. 167.79	1,142.66	916.37	941.47	966.65	99179	1,016.92	1.042,09		1,092.3*	tjn.si	IJ4266	IJ6T.79
												■	■■	a	•	““	, “1a	■ a		I ■ IV	.
2912	INVESTIGATOR B PRE	L .030 80	1JI3J8	1285 JO	1,030.80	1,059.03	1,087.33	IJ 15.63	1,143.91	1472 19	1400.43	] ,228.73	1,257.02	IJ85.JO	IJ33J8
															
2422	MA1NTF1RE EQ GAS OP SYS SUP	25.73	27.70	27.48	25.78	25.97	26.15	26J5	26.53	26.72	26.92	2740	27.29	2748	27.70
2425	maintainer instrument	24,49	26 09	25.82	2449	24.65	24£l	24.93	25.11	2SJ3	J5J1	25,53	2565	25.82	26.09
J 2424	MAINTAINER PERSON FtftE EQUIP	22.27	23.61	23.37	2227	22.48	’ 22 69	’	2196	211$	’	23 37	2361	• ’		' - - —	a _	_	.	...
															
2477	maintainer prover indccat A	2620	2886	2865	2620	2646	26.74	27.02	2729	27.56	27,82	28.11	28,36	28.65	28.86
															
2426	maintainer prover indicator	13,49	28.1 J	27.73	25,49	25.71	25.96	2623	26.45	26.71	26 97	27.21	27,47	27,73	28,11
															
2481	MECH	24 49	26.74	26.37	2449	24.74	24.92	25.15	25.33	25.55	15.74	25.96	26,15	26-37	26.74
259o'	MECH A DIST OFNS	26.40	27.88	" “ 27.64	"	26,40	26.71	2691	27-15	’ 27.41	27.64	27.88	— - -■	. .....	- - — —-	
						.... _.... .					- . a 					
2483	MECH APPLIANCE	20.65	22-67	2232	20.65	20.81	21.00	21.22	2LJ7	21.56	21.79	2J.94	22.12	22.32	22.67
" 2503 ’	MECHDI5TA	 "	36,20	“ ' 2725	"" 2709	' 26.20	26J8	—26?55’	26. B	2<9T	' ' 2X09	2725	a	-			■ ■— • •
2503	MECH DIST A FLD TR Q/C	28.90	3<L58	" 3032	'	2890	29.18	29 46	29.76	' "'loo*	'	30J2	30-58	.	a. — - —	~ r		
1506	MECH DIST A FLD TRAINER '	27.91	29.38	29.17	” " 27.91	28.20	O	28.67	28,91	29.17	’	29.38	a	a	a		■ • ’	_ —• -
2731	MECH DIST A POST 98	25.46	27.25	27. M	25.46	25.63	25.82	25.99	26.19	26.35	2653	26.71	2689	27.08	27 J5
															
2305	mechdistb	22.78	23.27	2346	22.78	22.84	22.90	2295	22 99	23.02	1106	23.09	23,13	23.16	23.27
															
2727	MECH MSTBPOST98	2L75	23 27	2341	21.75	21.91	22.0&	2220	22 36	22.5)	2267	22.81	22.97	23.11	23.27
															
I 2491	MECH METER A	24 62	26.09	25.95	2462	24 79	24,92	25.06	2542	2536	35-52	2545	25.81	25.95	26.09
PAGE: 74
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1001 TO OCTOBER IS, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15, ISkiJ AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
						PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	H«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2495	MECH METER 13	21.10	22.02	21,87	21.10	21,21	21 27	21.35	21.43	21,52	21.59	21.71	21.80	2L87	22J02
2499	MECH METER SPECIAL	26.75	28,11	27.87	26.75	26.88	27.01	27,12	272$	27.39	27.50	27 61	27.76	27.87	2B.IL
.2484	MECH S V ST SUPPT	24.49	26,09	2$.K	24.49	24.65	24.81	24,93	25.11	25,23	' 25.37	25.53	' “25.65	25.82'	2609
2SO9	MESSENGER 37.5 HR	301.06	379.27	551.45	30106	32m	35667	384 53	4)2.35	44020	467,98	495.80	5DM	551.45	$79.27
26E9	METER READER POST 98	4U4T	56069	484 83	41147	436J9	460,70	484.83	50194	535.98	560.69	’ - -•			- — -
2859	METRTTEKTECH	27,88	28.8b	28.6$	27.88	27.98	28.06	2B.I4	28.22	28 JI	28.39	28.47	28,57	2865	28,86
2701	OPERD1ST C POST 92	I6.B5	19.65	19.41	16.85	17.14	17.42	17,70	17,98	1827	18-S4	1883	1910	19.41	19,65
2719	OPER DIST C POST 93	16,83	1965	1938	16.85	17.14	17,42	17.70	17.98	1816	18.54	18JI	19.10	19.38	19.65
2549	OPER DISTRIBUTION C	20,0$	21.2$	21.02	20 05	20,22	20,44	20.63	20.83	21.02	2).35			■ - 	 -	
2609	OPER SCREENALUBCKHQBPAYLDR	22,24	23.13	23,06	22.34	2141	22A8	22 58	22.6$	22.72	22.79	22.90	23.00	£106	23.13
2608	OPER SEF-LDG VEH OVW 26OTO+	22,34	23.1)	23X16	2234	2141	22.48	22J8	22.M	22.72	23 79	22.90	" 23.60	2106	23.13
2378	OPNS ASST DIST		987,13	977J8	M9.64	899.38	90909	91889	92859	938.36	W809	957.85	967,52	977.2S	987.13
2514	OPNS ASST DIST	S89A4	987,13	977.28	88964	899.38	909,09	918.89	92859	938.36	948.09	957.85	967,52	977,28	98713
2516	OPNS ASST GAS OPS	1840	23.31	22.68	18-40	18.89	19.38	19,82	2029	2077	21.26	21,76	22.22	22,68	23.31
2591	OPR A DIST OPNS	26.40	27,88	27.64	2640	26.7!	26.91	27.15	27 41	27 64	27,88				
2850	OPR ASSISTANT SNG	25 33	26.87	26.62	2533	25.60	25.86	26.09	26.36	26,62	26,87						— _
2SS4	OPR C TRAINEE DIST	11,49	16.16	13,49	13,49	16.16							’ -		■■ • -•••--
2715	OPR C TRAINEE POST 98	12.94	1554	12,94	12.94	15.54							-		
3518	OPR. CHIEF LNG	30.43	32.25	31,93	20.43	30.71	31.03	3LJ2	31.63	31.93	3225				■	L—
2534	DPR CHIEF SNGiLNG	32.05	33,95	3364	3205	32,35	32-67	33.02	3333	33,64	33,95			• - .	•-
2528	OPR DATA PROC NO J	298.92	645,42	610,78	298.92	333.58	36L22	40287	437.54	472.19	$06.32	541.48	$76-11	61&78	
2545	OPR DISTRIBUTION A	2620	2725	27.09	26.20	2638	26.53	26.73	26,91	27 09	27.25				
PAGE: T5
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D-l EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14, 2001 TO OCTOBER IS, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15.1984
					—	PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS									
						FIRST		SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6.MOS	«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
															
2547	opr wsnuBunow b	20.60	2)42	2L58	20.60	20.77	2097	21 JO	2147	21.58	21JI2						. —		- —	’ ’ *-
2723	OPR mSTRW^HON B POST 98	20.60	20.60	20.60	10,*0	20.72	20.84	20.96	2)08	21.22	21.33	” 21.46	21.58	21.69	31.82
2522	OPR DUMP TRUCK 15T+	21,03	22J2	22.10	21,03	2147	21.47	21.70	2190	22.10	ajf	—			—	• - —	• — 		 -'
2523	OPR HOIST CHERRY PCKER(UC) OPRLEADDATWrhtY375HR	27-25	_28M, 	93337	23,38		2725 83542	27 37	27.50	27,61	27.75	27.87	27.99	” 28.17	' 28J6	28.38	2851
2562				923.48		84548	855.29	865.04	8T4J6	8M.53	KH.23-	903.99	913.73	923,4$	933'n
2557 ~2558	opr lead micro Mach 37 5 hr OPR LEAD REPR0MACH 33,5 HR	925.74 925,79	_ Mj21l4 130314	IjOlW t^OLW	_ ??5J? 925,79	_ WL52 93542	945.23 mm!	954.98 ~~~ 954.98	964,74 96474	974,44 *' 974,44	984.18 ' "*»418	993.95	_ 1.003,65 1.003.65*	1,013,39 1JM3J9	1,023,14 " W J* ij 48.77
2564 , ' ZSO '	OPR LEAD SYSTEMS 37.5 HR OPR LNG r	J	LO5JJ9 27 jV	1.148,77 " ' 29,23	_ 1,139.09 28.93	lt«) .39 27J5*	’ '2743	1,070.82 28.1)	1.010.57 "28,38	1.09042 2867	_ L100-09 2891’	M0M1 ‘ 29Ji"	1,119.57	1.129.31	1J 39.0$	
2716 *2532	oprlngasst	__ 	 OPR MAIL INSERT MACH37.5 HR '	25.70 792.M		 27.21 884.54	_ 2707 87537	25.70 ' 792 94	25.8* 802.07		26.00 tifii	2614 82048	26JL K939		2644 838.74	26.62 847.69	26.75 85706	26.92 B66.2O		27^7 875J7		2711 8M.54
2540	OFROFF-SITE O^ KEPRO MACH^ 375 HR*	226ft ' S77M	24.05	23 81	22.68	22.94	23.14	2345	23 61	23.81	2405		— ——	—	
2535			V75A0	96552	877.06	SK7.6O	69738	907.11	916.85	92644	93631	<M6.04	955-75	96552	97540
aw	OHL REPRO। MACH 37.5	352.98	64542	616,19	352.98	382.23	411.43	440.70	469.97	499 22	528,43	557.70	586.96	"'616.1*	645.42
133i	OPRSNGA-NG	30.43	3255	31-93	3043	3071	31.03	31.32	31.63	3L93	32JJ						
2541	OPR STATION A LIC	25.21	2671	2645	2541	25.48	25.71	25.96	26.23	26.45	26.71			—	
2543_ 2566	OraSTATKWB		 OPR SYSTEMS A 37,5 HR~	J OPRSYSTTMSWHR	_ 2120 925.79		24.58 1,023.14	24.38 1J013J9		23.20 92^79		23 44 915.53	2368 945.23	2389 954.9ft		24.15 964 74	24.3ft 974,44		iijft 9B4LR	993.W	i7»3.6s’	” ”1.07359	~lj)23 M
2565		89027	98773	977.93	a*azj	90002	909.74	r 919.49		938.95	94872	951+6	968JJ	977,93	987,73
2561 _	OPR TELEPHONE NGHT 3? 3 HR	306,62	683.02	64539	30662	344.25	38192	419.54	4J7.19	494.83	532.47	570.09	607,72		683.02
25W	OPR TELEPHONE 37J HR	352,98	6M40	61643	352.W	384.32	415.70	448,00	47837	50970	54105	53237	603.71	616.55	666.40
206ft	OPR TELPHONE PT 37.5 HR	247.64	248J9	247M	247.64	248.39									
PAGE: 7*
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2061 TO OCTOBER IS, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY IS, lf83 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESS ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
		TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2521	OPR WORD PROCESS	493.38	71| 40	689-54	493,38	51549	536.98	558AQ	580.58		624.19	645.96	661,76	6&9S4	733.40
2567	PAINTER_	2260	23.38	23.15	2260	2166	22.72	22.78	22.84	2195	22.00	23.05	23.10	23,15	Z3.38
2569	FAINTER BODY TRANS.P	24,49	26,09	25.82	24,49	2465	24.8?	24.93	25.11	25,23	25.37	25,53	25,65	25,82	2609
2572	PARTS PERSON TRANS	22,66	B>!	23.42	2266	2174	22.83	22.95	' 23.02	23.09	23,16	23.25	23J3	23.42	23.55
2576	PHOTOG ASST APPR J3.5 HR	352,98	645.42	616.19	352.98	382.23	411 45	440 70	469.97	499.22	528.4J	557.70	58696	616.19	' 645.42"
_ 2578	PHOTOG ASST 57.3 MR	677,79	753.02	743 53	677.79	683.33	692 85	700.39	707 88	715.42	722.M	730.48	737.99	745.53	753,(12
2582	PHOTOG LAB TECHN 37.5 HR	790,11	97931	959 51	780.11	800.03	81995	83990	859	879.77	89972	919.63	939.57	95951	979.51
2575	PHOTOG 37.5 HR	966,49	1,088.40	i,<rwi6	966.49	978.68	990.80	1,003 02	lt013.20	1*02738	t ,03960	1*05 LEI	1,063.97	1,076.16	1,088.40
2573	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON PLANT PROTECTION PERSON SR	2D.O5	2120 22,76	20.96	20.05	20.14	20.24	2034	20.45	20.59		20.76	20.87'	2Q96	' 2120
2574		31.60		22,55	21.60	21,75	21.84	21,93	ZW	22.11	2224	UM	22.45	2235	2176
•2979	PUBLIC RELATIONS ASST POST	851,44	1,143,69	1,114 37	851-44	880.63	909.82	93907	968.31	997.52	l.llib.M	LO55.95	1.085.18	M 14.37	IJ43.69
2599	READER METER	412 47	738,62	7060!	412.4?	46484	521.16	573.57	62990	706.01	738.62	-	• - -	-H		
2595	READER METER (NIGHT SKI P)	412,47	738.62	706X11	412.47	46484	521.16	575 57	629.90	70601	738 62			• * r	
2138	REP CAD 37 j HR	910,82	1,027,47	1,01560	910.82	922,44	934.11	94JJ8	957.43	9W.04	W0.67		1X103.97'	■ 7JQ1S.6O	IXQ7.47
2156	REP CUST WQ SR 37 J HR	949J8	1.06626	1X64,60	949.58	96125	972.93	984.60	996.25	L007.93	IXH962	1,031.28	1,042.91	1,054,60	L066.26
2155	REP CUST 1NQ 37.5 HR	886.73	3,013,97	iXXJI .27	886.73	899.43	91216	924.88	937.62	950.32	963.06	975.81	988,53	LOOI-27	1.013.97
2093 ”1094 ’	REP DIST OFF 37,5 HR REP DI$T OFFICE SR 3Z5HR	886.73 948^8	1,013.97 1.W3J5	mi .27 L033.76	886.73 '	948 48	89943 957.98	912,16 967.47	924,88 " 976.96	9J7-62 99647	95032 995.90	963,06 1,005.36	975,81 L0I4.83	988.53 1.024,31'	1,001.27 1XH3.76	1,013.91 1,04535
2371	REP ENERO Y CONSERV REP REGULATORY INQYllJ HR	706.13	965.08	939.18	706.13	732.02	737.90	783.77	009.73	835.57	KL50	88T.J8	933.21	939.38	96508
2600		949.58	1,066 26	1,054.60	94958	961,25	972,93	98460	99625	1,007.93	1,01962	1,031 28	1,042,9]	1,054 60	1X166.26
2160	REP SPEC LEDGER SR 37.5 HR	91082	1,027.47	1.015.60	91082	922,44	934,11	945.7g	957.43	969,04	980,67	992J6	1J3O3.97	1,015.60	1.027.47'
2711	SENIOR PHOTOGRAPHER	858,96	USi.23	1.121,99	858.96	888.19	917.42	946 63	975.86	1.00x09	LX1M33	1,06156	1XN2.77	1,121.99	1,151.23
PAGE: 77
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - I EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2«H TO OCTOBER 15,2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,198J AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1786
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS											
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
											J				
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.tl	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	OIOS	AMOS
2669 2693 ‘ ‘*2959	separator person SNOW REMOVAL Liof" ” ' " SNOW REMOVAL OT CALL IN LI 81 SOCIAL WQUrRT ANALPOST	21,86 47.96 '	955.56	23.14 ~ 2869 47.96 121T75	23.96 Z.T ?*•*? 4196 1491*6	_ 2146 ' ’"WJ6		22,06 98L76	_ 2229 "mi	_ 2249 1,034,18	_ 22.70 " " Txiw.w		 22J* " tW.61	__ __ 23.1* 1,11212	' Lm oi	" LJ65.23	' -’U9M6	"’i2ii?5
*2916 2694 " “ 2696 2871 2699 ' 2697 * M« '	SPECIAL INQUTB V ANAL PRE SR ART*PROpUClfON ASST PRE STENOCLERiCAL 37,5 HR	_ STENO SECRET AMAL 373HR ' STOCK CLERK SNoT? 50 HR ' STOCK PERSON DATAPROCESSglG STOCK PERSON 37 JHR	"" SWCPR ASST MATMGT 3T5HR	1,074.87 SW-S^i $7iTJ ” 2151 80639 '	33222 “ 940 .00	1J69.7S _ 683.02 " JMW 	22.08 645.54 ' 1,03410	1340.22 ~637,54 2L51 ‘"”614-21 L025.16	1X04-87 ’ '96620 394 J3 '571 JR '	8D639 332.22 ” 'moho	LI 04.37 / 423 .36 J	*&5 98~ J 2J-5£ '	81333 '	36334 94942	_M318^ ' JtOjlM 432.25 _ 6W.96 2208 . _ '	394.88 958,87	LJ633£ , j'W'X 481.08 		 615,93 -T I27!*’ 42622 968 36	1,192.79 509.94’ ‘ "‘~M4.4j 45735 977JW	! i'1 . i ' i 1	1.251.77 1,163.46 567.64 ^84830 . _ ???■?? 99675	128126 Jd**-27 ” 59647 L_ 855.52 "15LS4 ' 1.00623	] 310.74 7.229.15 625.34 _690.74 ’ tei.si 58246 1XI] 5.73	134021 126103 ‘	637.54 K" * 869.50 61421 ” "lJW5.16	1.369.78 129496 "683.(1(2 . ._ -Z2?^ _ . J?^ 	645J4 1,03430
2700 2703 25_Ji _ 2713	STRKPR ASSTSRMAJ APPL STRKPR ASST SR MATMCT 37JHR STRKPR ASST SR STNRY 37,5 HR ‘ StSkVEYOPRTRUCK^ _ „ " SVC PERSON A COORD DF ’	"	1.051.42 1 ’*:«£** '	977.47" "	2247 28.W	M52.83 1,072,31 __ 2344 30,58’	I.M2-70 L 1,062’70 23.06 ~3(M3	105142 __3?0£67t ’ZL47 _	L06I.54 98A96 ’_ 22.70 ._ WXI3	’	L07I 7J_ ixflw 996.44 ' 22.75 I2924	1 <081.84 LOOSES _ _ 2938	1,092.00 ’ 1,0(533" J 22 84 29.36	IJ02.U M»WL83 f 22.90 29.76	IJ 1227 1,063.51 V0343D " 2990	122244 t.072,9^ 1,043.78 , 2**°. ’	30.09	1,132^6 1.06244 ’ "(.053.26 ‘ ‘ 302f	" I'HITO 1X19 Lif 1X162.70 "	30l43"	1.(5143 ijofji 1.072.31 _	23.14 ’ 3058
	26g t_ _ 2682 2671' "	SVC PERSON A FLD TR sy^reMaNAjuMRND/p SVC PERSONA CEbi APPL "	2841 ~~2fw	_ __2938 ’ ’ 30’58		J? .19	[7 - 28.42 _ _ 28,90	, -29 J 8	_ 28.62 2^46	_ 29,76	28,76 '	3004	_ 2A85 3032		28:9J 30.38	_I9J»	29.10		29.19	, ,	2938
		27,01	27,88	27.76	27.01	27.09	27.17	2725	2734	2743	27JI	27_5>	27,6?	27.76	27.M
2673 ' 2675	SVC PERSON BAPPL SVC PERSON C METER lAFPL ' "	22.44 17.99	2108 H44	mi 2J38	22.44 2LW	22.49 22.02	22.57 '22,07	. ‘ 22.10	22.68 2243	_ 2s73 22.13	" " 2279 ' ^2224	21.89 2129	„ 96 22J4	2301 '	2238	23.0$ ” 2244
PAGE: 78
LOCAL tOl WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - I EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER IS, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1»S3 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SEC	OND	THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	(MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2726	SVC PERSON C POST 98 SVC PERSON DLOCK <JMOCK_	_	18.37 .		 21-06 “2't'59’	20.77 / '*h?7	18.27	18.54	18.83 W-77.	19.10 20.97		1941 21,2?	1965 -21.37'	_ 1995 '21.W	20.21		__	20.77	21.06
2670 •2965 2807 ' “ 2494 ’ 2626" ' ’~2817~ ’	SVC SPECIAL DLST 37.5 HR SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST ~ SYSPROCESSOR DISTM J HR __ SYS PROCESSOR DIST 40 HR \ technician PROCESS A TELEPHONE SERVR^ 37,5 Hlf _	899.61 ._2?.7A 862/72 “ 86272 2L** M3,)i	mij 1,068,32 ‘ 2938 "941W	987.23 iwus 2 95040 . 19.27 929,67*	899.6) 797.25" JW.72 A6373 28.66 "603.34	909.33 82439. _ 87248 - ®V*® jl77 £17.37	919.08 7 “ 851.46 ~ ~ 882.21 28.90 831 41	_ 928# J 876 52 	891.95 ” 2^0^ ' “ 845.45	938,53 2 / 9M_M" 90)69 - 7 .J917 IS9J8	" J.32?7! _ _in 43 " 29,27 ' 87149’	1 I 1 ; i '	967.77 930 90 930.90 9Q154	_ 971,49 1j0l4i4 940.65 	M0l65_ 915,63	987.2J ' l\O41,15 950.40 ” 929.67'	997.17 "1 £68.32 	2.’W28 ” '943.79
28)1 ? 2813 £	TELLER HEAD 37.5 HR flMEKEEP SYS SUPP 375 HR	~	948.48 862.46	(£43.35 " 960.02	14)33,76 L .950 LQ	948,48 86146	957.98 " 872.19	96747 ’ “ 88L92	976.96 ' 89165	986.42 " ' 901,43	995.90 911.14	1,005.36 92090	1.014,83 ~	930.64	_ 1,014,31 940J6	13>33.76 “ ’ 950.10	1,(143,35 " 960.OZ
28)9 1820	TOOL REPAIR PERSON TOOL REPAIR PERSON a’	’	24.29 2506	2590	23.60 ’	W-37	24.29 25.06	24.44 '	2521	2457 ' 25.35	24.74 “ ’25.52	.. '	25.64’	25-00 25,18	25.17 ' ' 25.94	25.30 2b.O8	25.48 ' ■""m.h	25.60 ” 2637	25.90 “ 2672
2827 ""2829 ■ “ M3) 2835 "2837 “’2849 ” ' 2853 2855 “	TYPIST STATISTICAL 37.5 HR UPHOLSTERER '	■	- ■ UPHOLSTERER A UTILITY PERSON SYS SUPP ””” UTILITY WAREHOUSE PERSON WATQf GUARD watch guard* porter WELDER 	 ’	' -		J32.26	50449	499.18	45226	457,46	462.68	467,90	_ _4?3.14 _ 2<49 .1 13^J" ’ 9 24	478.38	483.59	488.83	494.04	499.18	504.49
		23.90 . . 2065 6,56	25,52 2*91 — ’ 2L59 13.24	_	35 J2 _ . 2**? - ?1?7 12,55	_ . 23 W. '	2540 "'■20.65 " 6.56	_ _25J* 25.65 7.25	_ 242L 25.92 20.80 7.92		24,37 ’ ilJ5 "" _zo.i/ 8.56		. - 24 “ _ 266/ “	11.03 9.88	_ 24.79 26.9? 	2j_n_ 10.58		2493 "" 11 23	_ 25.09 -2J^1 ' n,88		2512 1255		25.52 — 2159 13.24
		_ LR62 29446 ' ' 2<49	19.75 5)7.37 " 2609	. ~ ?*s* J 495.27 ”25 82	. _ l®'*2. 296.46 ' J4.49		I RM 318.54 " “ 34 6?	_ __iw 340.64 ' ” 2*81	19.19 362.14 ” 241f		)94£ " 38W ' ' 25.1)		19^56 406.89 25 3?		JV,75_ 426*8 ' 25.37	451^08 '	25.5?	“4’73’n ISA?	” ’ ~49S,27 2W	517.37 J ' " 26 09
2857	WELDER A	25 88	27.43	27.16	25.88	2612	26.37	Z6-65	26.91	27,16	27.43				
2858	WELDER A QUALIFIED-	27,64	29-26	28.98	27.64	27.9)	28(6	28.43	28.71	28.98	29.26				
PAGE; 79
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER IJ, 2001 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY IS, 1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS
2707 ’286) "	WORK MEASUREMENT ANALYST YARD	‘ 				1,076,45	M15.6S 2L51	21.17	1,016.45 16.53	1.079.52 ikw	I.OE205 I9.H’	” 19.43	1,088.66 O	1,09175 ».w'	_ I.OT633 2025	1JOO.W 20.59	1,10552 20-M	u io, n 2i .if	JJ15.68 21.ST
ALL TITLE CODES FROM 2900 - 2999 ARE UACCRETJON TITLES
Schedule C/D - 2
October 16,2002 — October 15, 2003
PAGE: SO
local 101 wage progression schedule SCHEDULE C/D -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER 15,2N3 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1085 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	tMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	(MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
															
*2929	ACCT ENGR SR POST	950,52	111144	1,16514	950/2	9?6.62	1002*70	1028*?B	1,054.83	1:080.93	1/07.00	M3JO7	1/59. (7	1/85 24	Utl.44
*2900	ACCT ENGR SR PRE	1069*25	1.362 68	1,33322	1 P69.?5	1,098 55	1,127.91	I.IS71J	1/8656	1215.89	(J4544	1*274,57	1303.92	(J33J2	LJ62.68
22)2	ACCT ENGR 375 HR	1,022,30	1142.24	iU0iL3	102230	1*044*2$	1,06616	1,088.22	1/1011	1*132,20	1/54.17	1*176.14	1/98.17	1,220/3	1242/4
’2933	ACCT POST	rooxsA	1149.48	I IMIS	1003.58	1,028,1?	(.052,74	1,077.15		1/26/1	1/51*14	1/75.70	1*200.32	L/24.85	L/4944
*2902	ACCT PRE	1/28.87	1,405-51	1377.82	1/28.87	1*136*55	1/84.18	1111,84	1JW43	1267.18	1/94 87	1*322.48	1/30/8	1377J3	1*40151
JiMf	ACCT REP 37.3 HR	878.89	979.62	96940	878 39	88895	89901	W.07	919 rt	929.18	93922	949J t	939W	969.40	97962
	. — —. - — . . . .			—	..	.M	.	■ । _.	* ■ ■ *	1 ■—	—Ml ■ <	* * * * ——	. —*^ *	..	.	—	—. k—■	-	M ■	—	r	r	^ — * - *		r—	•	.M.	—*	V .
2020	ACCTG ASST CORP 37,5HR	965.53	1 *06149	1053*32	963.53	975.32	985.08	994,85	1,064*61	1.014,40	1014,17	1*033.93	13X3.75	1,053,51	1063.49
2002	ACCTG ASST DJST 37.3 HR	9292?	1022 30	1,01248	924 27	934.09	943.88	953.65	96148	973.27	9H 05	9926?	1002 64	10(2.48	1022.30
'iota	ACCTG ASST SR CORP 17.JHR	1021/0	1/86.71	1,170.25	1,022.30	1038.69	1055,11	1,071 61	10B804	1,104 47	(/2O9J	1,137. )7	1/53,81	hl 7025	1/86.71
2026	ACCTG ASST SR 37.$ HR	965.53	1.063.49	1,053.52	965.53	975.32	985.08	994 8$	100461	1 £114 40	1,024.17	103393	I/H3.75	1,05352	1,063.49
2on	ACCTG ASST 31S HR "	924J7	1,022.30	1012/8	924.27	934*09	943.88	953£5	963.48	973-27	983.05	9W17	1/102,66	1012.48	1*022/0
2062	ACCTG CLERK 1 PT p,3 HR	«16.11	86)07	336.9?	816.11	82431	832.43	84062	848.78	85497	865.0?				
2060	ACCTG CLERK. 3 PT 375 HR	276.70	276.90	276.70	276.70	276.90									
*2935	ADM ASST CSDPOST	890 27	1,134 28	1,109.82	890.27	914.63	939 07	96347	997.81	1012 2}	(.03662	IO6IO2	1*085,41	(.109.8?	1/34.28
*■2903	ADM ASST CSD PRE	LOQl/S	1175,92	1,24818	1,011.38	1028 84	105626	1,083-79	1/11/6	1/38-61	1,166,04		(*22094		U?l»
*2957	ADM ASST MAT MGT POST 3?.$ HR	93061	1,105,??	1/60.11	930.61	95609	98LJ9	1.007 14	1,01264	1058 12	1,03361	1/09.16	1/34.65	(.160.(1	1/85.77
‘2935	ADM ASST MAT MGTPRE	I.OW.W	1133,84	1,30503	t ,04679	1075 49	1/04,20	1/3203	1/61.55	1,19074		1*24765	(-27629	1/0303	t/33 84
'2971	aDMASST METER REPAIR POST	942J3	1/97.22	1,171.72	942.33	967 85	993.32	1,018,80	104429	1,069.77	1,095,30	1/20.72	1/46.25	1/71.72	1/97.22
*2921	ADM ASST METER REPAIR PRE	(060,01	1.346,73	1.31803	L06O.OE	),08&70	1/17,37	1/4509	1,174 711	1/0338	1,232.0	1/60.70	L289JJ	1J18JD	1/46.73
-2967	ADM ASST SYS SUF POST	92460	1/22*89	1.102.97	924.60	944.43	964.22	984 03	1005*84	(023.66	1,043,48	1,063.32	1.083,13	1/02.97	1/22.89
PAGE: SI
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - J EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, J002 TO OCTOBER IS, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15. 19S6
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		Fl	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P,	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	« MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
‘2920	ADM ASST SYS SUP PRE	|'04Q,04	L2W.I0	1*340.65	1,04004	1,062 31	1,084.61	1,106.92	LI29J7	l 151,49	1.17176	1,196.08	1,218.35	1,240.65	UW.I0
*2947	ADM ASST WORK COMP POST	867.W	1,105.71	1,081.92	867.87	891.64	915.41	939 20	962,98	986,81	1,010.57	1,034 36	1,058.13	1,081,92	1,103.71
*2955	ART « PRODUCTION ASST POST	889.02	L19132	1 *161.21	889.02	91943	949 50	979.73	1,009.98	J .040.25	1,070.51	1,100.72	].l 30i95	M6I.21	1.191.52
2739	ASSOC CUSTOMER SERVICE	412.70	377-92	800 39	41270	490.25	367 78	64331	722 84	800,39	877.92				
2865	ASST CHEMIST	791.97	995 63	975.29	791 97	812.32	832.69	853.00	873 4)	893.73	914.11	934,49	954.90	97529	995.63
*2953	ASST BWTOR POST	87644	MI7JJ	1,092.97	376.84	900-85	924.86	94888	972.90	996.91	IA2O.93	1,044.93	1,068.96	),09297	1*1)7.13
2370	ASST FIELD REP	987,76	1,130.83	1,11636	987.76	1.WG0I	1,01634	13730.6]	1,044.89	1*05923	1,073,47	1,087.80	1.102,04	1J16.36	IJ 30.83
2023	attend garage	9.80	17.25	1644	9.80	10.58	11.29	12.05	12.79	13.55	14.28	15.02	15.77	1644	17.25
2022 “	attend garage alter fuel	17 05	22,76	22.07	17-05	17.65	18.16	18.71	19.26	1983	20.39	2055	21.50	22.07	2176
2488	AUTO MECH A FLD TRAINER	27,57	29.21	28.93	27.57	27 83	28.10	2839	2866	3893	29,21				
2Ai7	AUTO MECHANIC	25.71	27,34	27.04	25.71	25.83	26.01	26.15	26.32	26.45	26.60	26.79	26.91	27.04	27.34
2489	AUTO MECHANIC A	26,50	2809	27.83	26,50	2679	37 01	2729	27.58	27-83	28.69				
2631	AUTO TECHNICIAN	27.57	29.2J	28.93	27.57	27.83	28.10	2839	28.66	28,93	29,2 J				
202$	blacksmith ‘Ar	2624	27.38	27.60	26.24	26.40	2653	26.68	2b.85	26.98	27 15	2729	27.44	27.60	27 88
2031	carpenter	25,65	27.23	3699	15,65	25.79	25.94	2609	2624	2641	2634	26.68	26.85	26.99	27,28
27)4	CHAUFFEUR DISTRICT OPS	24.54	24 54	J4.54											
2033	chauffeur executive	23.65	25.08	24.85	23.65	23.89	24,13	24.36	24.59	24.85	25.08				
2040	CHAUFFEUR TRACTOR TRA ILER	24.92	26.41	26.15	24.92	25,16	23.41	25 68	25,90	26,15	26.41				
2<M5	CHEMIST	1,054.15	1,215.14	1JW00	1,054.15	1,07020	LWJ2	1,10233	IJ 18.49	1,13464	1,150 72	1J66J2	1,18289	1,199.00	1,215 14
2047	CHEMIST SENIOR 37.5 HR	1,229j6O	1,30335	1,291.08	1229.60	1,241,87		L 266.47	1278.77	1291,08	1,30335				
2939	CHIEFCLERK GAS OFER POST	384.77	1,185.77	1,155.56	884.77	914.84	944.9)	975,03	1,005.10	1,035,20	1,065.26	1,095,38	1,125.46	1,15556	1,185.77
2056	CLK ACCTG NO 1 ACCT 37 J HR	37869	979.62	969.40	878.89	888.95	899.01	9W.07	919.11	929.18	93922	949 31	959.34	969.40	979.62
PAGE: 82
I
I
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2002 TO OCTOBER 15, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1906
					PROGRESS ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P . P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2053	CLK ACCTG NO I J7.5HR ’	’ 86507"	“96604	‘ 955.M)	865.07	873.18	’ 'mu’	’ 895.32'	"903.38	’ 915.49	925.53	935.63	”MS,7l	955.80	966.0*
1057	CLK ACCTG NO 2 37.5 HR	820.69	915.SO	906.01	820 69	83044	839.63	M9O9	858,63	868.10	S77.3?	887,06	89652	90601	915.50
2059	CLK ACCTG NO 7 375 HR	32*97	555.00	531.87	324.97	341,99	370,95	393.95	*16.97	439.91	462J8	485.9!	5OS.88	531 £7	35500
2734	CLK ACCTG NO. 1 ClAS	763.10	966.04	945 73	76310	783A1	803.69	823.97	844.31	864 58	03W	90S. 16	92545	945.73	966.04
2733	CLK ACCTG NO, 2 Cl AS	581,4)	726.78	71224	581.41	595,95	410,51	62501	639,55	654,10	668.62	683.17	697,7)	712 J4	726.78
2725	CLK ACCTG NO.2 ACCTG POST 92	577.78	9LSJ0	835.78	577.78	708.60	833 78	91550							
2)14	CLK CNTL Sil CUST ACCT 37JHR	988 40	1,086.58	1,076,62	958-40	998^2	ixmoi	LOI 7.7*	1,027.62	IJB736	1,047.18	1,057,05	106604	L.076.62	1086.58
2730	CLK COMM NO 1 37.5HR POST92	763 10	964.04	945.73	763.10	783.41	803 69	823.9?	844 31	864.58	384.85	905.21	925 45	94SJ3	96604
2721	CLK COMM NOJ 375HR POST92	J8L41	726.78	71224	581.41	595.95	610-5)	62$-0(	639,55	654,10	668,62	68337	697-71	712.24	726.78
2067	CLKCOMML ASST HD J7-5 HR	974.78	1,022.30	1JH7.S7	974.78	979.51	984.27	989 03	993.76	998.55	10MJO	1.008.03	1.0)2.76	lk0l 731	1022JO
2078	CLKCOMML ND APPL 37.5 HR	96643	1,06730	1JB7J3	966-43	976,52	936,55	996-64	1.00674	1016.77	1,026,92	1036-99	L ,047.09	IJK7.13	1,067,30
2069	CLKCOMML NO I 37,5 HR	865-07	966 04	955.80	865 07	875.18	885,23	89532	903.38	913.49	925.53	935.63	945.71	955.80	966.04
1072	CLK COMML NO 2 TREA5 375 HR	660.97	91S.S0	88994	660.97	686,36	71182"	737-27	762.72	788.17	81363	839 03	864,50	8*9.94	915.50
						* . . . —, »— .	, ~ ~ _		—. - ——		. —... — .	.. . . —.	. ...		
2071	CLK COMML NO 2 31,5 HR	82069	915.50	906,01	820.69	830.14	839.63	849.09	858.63	868,10	ST7J7	887.06	896.52	9W.01	91530
2OT3	CLKCOMML NO3 37.3 HR	471.43	668.01	64836	471.43	491.Il	510.76	53042	550.07	569,73	58939	6O9.O4	628,68	64836	66801
2052	CLK CONS ANALYS 37,S HR	69627	801 60	791.05	69627	706.80	7)7.29	727.87	738.39	748.93	73942	770.00	780.47	791.05	801.60
' stir	CLK CONTROL CUST SER 40HR	865 07	966.0*	955.80	865.07	875.18	885.23	895-32	905.38	915.49	925.53	933-63	945 JI	955.80	966.04
				. *.*	. . .		.	*	r—.	. * * _				. 	 ..			
2095	CLK CONTROL PROP MaJNt 37.5	921,45	1,09928	1.08141	921.45	93922	95700	974 78	992.60	1,0)030	1028 11	1045,99	1,063,64	1,08)4)	1099.28
2074	CLK UETOS FT 37 J HR	899 J8	1,00022	990.11	899.38	90944	9)9 33	929.64	939.66	940.78	959.88	969.95	98000	9XUI	1.000.22
2IQ1	CLK EXECUTIVE 375 HR	756.71	98333	960.64	756.71	779.37	mr	82448	847,32	870,01	892.67	915.34	937,95	9606*	98JJ3
	M	* V *v *—	* r	* M	■		— —	—	—	M—M.							— — .					
2070	CLK GEN CUST SER 40 0 HR	37101	708.79	675.02	371.01	404.76	43836	47234	506.12	53991	573.67	60748	64) 25	675.02	708.79
														— .	.	 . ~		
2009	CLK GEN MAILS MOT	707.02	1,01203	981.52	70702	73751	768.01	798.53	829,01	859,53	890.02	920 53	95)01	98152	1012,03
I
PAGE: S3
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1001 TO OCTOBER 15,10(0 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESS					ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS					
					FIRST			SECOND		TH	■RD	FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
"" 2QB1 "	CLKOLN^io KW.’s HR**	'	863.07	966,04	" M2,66	““ ”865X7	’ 869-90L	~ *917,8 r	’ 917.8 r	'	M2.66	942,66	966X4				
2185	CLK GEN NO 1 40 HR	845,07	966X4	955.80	865.07	875,18	885.23	895 32	965.38	915.49	91553	935X3	945,73	955.80	966.04
2083	CLK, GEN NO 2 27,5 HR		$55.00												
		443,07		54X68	443.07	454.24	465 46	476X0	487.77	*9898	510.14	521.30	532X2	543.68	555,00
2084	CLK GEN NO 3 37 5 HR	240.46	498.10	472.24	240.46	266,19	291.97	317 70	34345	36921	"	395X0	420.74	446.48	4J2 24	498.10
2S63	CLKGSNNOI QCST	968X0	1X33,22	1X17,73	968W	973,80	979.28	984.77	990,25	995,79	1X0 L24	1X06.75	LOH 2$	1X17,73	L023 22”
2120	CLK OEM TREASURY 37 J HR	WJ 17	LOO2J2	991,90	901,17	91127	92133	931,39	941,50	951J8	961.6?	971,73	” 981.84	991.90	L002.12
. JL°7^	CLK GEN J MKT ADV 37$ HR	915.1$	LOI6O6	1,005,89	915,15	925.22	935 32	945.41	955.49	96555	973.63	985.71	995X0	1X05X9	1X16.06
3082 _	CLK GEN ] PUR QC 37.5HR	905 20	1,006.07	99596	90520	915 29	925,37	935,43	94$ JI	955X3	965 72	975.80	985.91	995.96	1.006X7
	CLK GEN 2 MKT ADV373 HR	*WX7	572,66	561.44	460,67	471X6	483X3	494.27	505.45	516.65	527.85	539.07	55X25	56L44	S72X6
2&S	CLK HDCLAIM/SECTY 37,5 HR	988 40	1X86X8	1.036.62	988.46	993.22	UM bl	1,017,78	1X27X2	1X3738	1X47 IS	1X57.05	1X66X4	1.076,62	L086X8
_ 2085_ 2931 '	CLK HD COMML 37,5 HR CLK HD SECTION ACCTG POST	_ 983,40 950X2	_LD&6,58 1,211,44	1.076,62 LI 85.24	988-40 950.52	998.12 976.62	1,00801 1,002.70	j JX17.78 1,028,78	IX2?X2 1,054.83		1X37,38 1X80.93	_LO47 18 L10700	' ' 1X57.05 1.13307	1,066X4 LI59.n	1,076.62 1,185.24	1X86-58 LZIL44
_ 2901	CLK HQ SECTION ACCTG PRE	L069.2S	. lJ62.68	1,333,22	1X6925	1X9855	1,127,91	1,157.23	L186X6	" UlTsF		' 7,274X7	1303.92	“ 1X33,23	1J62.68
2583	CLK HD URBAN AFFAIRS	98840	1,036,58	1.076.62	988.40	99822	hODEXI	1X17,78	1X27X2	1X37-38	1X47.18	1,057,05	L066.84	"1X76.62	LO86 58
_JBU7	CLK. HEAD CONTROL 31.S	1,912,30	L 186.71	LI 70.25	1X22X0	1X38,69	IX$Xl ।	1X71.61	1X8B.Q4	1,104.47	L 120.93	L137J7	L1538I	L170J5	”l186.7I
2087	CLK HEAD CUST SVC 37,5 HR	97478	L022JQ	1X17.57	974JS	979.51	984.27	989X3	993,76	998X5	IXW-30	1X08.03	1X12.76	1X17X7	1X22.30
2091	CLK HOUSE HEATING 37,5 HR	273 63	605.90	572,75	275.62	308.61	34162	374,67	407X8	4*0X9	*73.69	506,76	539.76	372,7$	605,90
2099	CLK HOUSE HEATNG A T?.5HR	617,09	937.83	905.67	617.09	649.15	681 21	713.26	745,34	777,42	809,49	84IJ7	873,58	905.67	937.83
2705	CLK HOUSE HEX TNG B POST 98	412,51	33868	536.06	412,51	425,12	437 73	4 $0X6	*62.98	47558	488.20	$00.82	546,55	‘ 5M M 576,19	«U»' 605,90
2100	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B 37 5 HR	30930	605.90	57619	309.30	338.97	368X2	39528	427,94	457X9	” 48735	516.88			
26M ’ 2729	CLK INVENT CTL HMD 37 5 HR CLK METER REPAIR SR	_	972,90 877 17	1X71,02 967.38	.061X4 953,37	972X0 877.17	. —W65 88620		99243 89523	1X02 25 90426	JX12X6 913 27	1,021X9 92231	1X3L64 931J1	UM L4 J 940,33	1X51.28 958 J 7	'1X61.04 967.38	.JX7JX2 967J8
PAGE: M
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,2002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15, IWO
r
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS
J2OB6 _ ’ 2103 " "aiTj	CLfcMTR RPR HEADnslw CLK. PRICE MKT ADV 37.5 KR OJC &PECML LEDGER Jp/£R ” CLK STCK MAT MGT 37 5 HR OX^CKMKTADVmiW _ CLK STCK STNR Y TRUCK OP 17 J	2” Wil 86507" mti? ” 633.85 795.93	\jl22.30 9660? 991,49 707,01	_ 1,0110 9S5J0 2?1*/2 699.68	92417 " " 865.07 633.85	_ 934.09 '875 J 8 — 871M '^641.18 811,40	” *ww "" 885,23 ■' 89OAS 64850 ' mJ	* 95165 " 89$ .32 J s*Mn 655.82 ’ "m9O9	J\W3.48 MS J8 " 915^60 663.IS 85W 85713 741,32^ U4198 479.95 990.94 1031.97 “ '~IA99 21.29 ”7,048-41	"”9?3.27 ” 915.49 J *92826 67044 "22 s^io 873.26 "	763.10 “2Jj$17i 511.30 L0M.96 *	9S0.32. LOtti? 15-37" 21-fcf 7,063,87	2 2S1W ' 925J3 940.87 677 76 “ 2 g77.57 888.78 2^2?^X 784.92 2 LJ_6W 542M 1,0(4.99 £ 960.74 L060.47 2 J6J4 22 37 “ >J^J36 26,98 ~ ’ 29,80	_ "99217' '935,0' P ’ ftS354 68507 904.24 222 W’Sl’ 806.69 2^17344 ^573« L02W '	971J4 1.074.72 22.94 niwjo 27.37 ’ 39.95’	' I3J2.66 ■ " 945,7') 2_2?^4 692 40 "^6.52 919.73 * 7$?J4 828J2 ~'j.J831f 60312 LO39.11 ” 9GL67 LM9O3 . 1?47' 2349 "LUbj9 27.76 _ L0ZLI3 993.9) ijiiai 60542	7Joil48 " 95540 978.82 ’	99601 93525 2 2 850.30 2 U9XU 63666 LO51.15	~ 1422.30' 9660* '2 991.49 707.01 " _ *15■»' _ 95072 2 979-62 871.09 JL2G346 668.01 1.06W ’looiTi LI (7.56 ~ 18/7 24.62 " L14132 28J2 30,77 1,049 46 1.049.46 1.0)3,46 654.10
2111			91330	। 1 t i	" 795.93										
2114			950,72				826.90 697.7?	842.39							
■ 1 1	CLK TELLER37.5 HR CLK TELLER 37.5 HR POST 92		87889 654.10	_ 97942 872 09		~ 6S4L0 M0449 354.61 942.70 “ “’(97.83 974.84 1174 1901 2 J** 48 2465 * "22 2189 91777 kt-tt 915.50	67588 2}T14 5O 335.95 954.73 " *963 3* 989.12 19.57 L00 L95 	25O£ _29-04 930 91		90907 ^71950 " 1J3414 W.6? 97888							
1 1 i 1 1 ; 1	CLK TRAFFIC 37 J HR CLK TYPIST 37 j HR COLLECTION CONTROLLER	L 104.69 354.61 942.70 ’ "tt9W 974.84 19.01 14 65 2M9	1JG3.06 66801 1,063.43 ^"loow J, 117.56 15_L 14 62 ’ Th (-32	636-66 1.051.15 ’’ mis’ LMDJ9 ~J7J* 24 07 ^M25.7J _ 28 M 30.26			LJ24.K 41736 966.80 ' 918 T9 1,00141 20 IS 14)74?								
	collector	_ COMPUTER LIBRARIAN Sft 573 CORROSION HCH HELPERCORROSION TECHNICIAN CORROSION TEOfNKiANPRE £7							_ 929-30 1/0 7 66 207! 1,03289						992.18 " L10S29 . ~ 17 84 14.07 ” UZ5J0 28.14 31L26 1/136.31 LOCUM LITOJS 629.96	
_2650 27	CORROSION TECHNICIAN SR CREW LEADER J _	~ ~ CUST SERV REP 375		£3-52 '	30.41				_ 2*43 L?-1* 944.09	2581 29,34 957.25 ~ 9+487 ~ 1J>7l-frC «$. 13	te 5 auf J 9 « 1 i W ' 5 । S6 L O. 1 fe’fe g.ki	3660 983.58 ^2^.^ ' ' 964,49 ~LJO647 53341					
		917,77 "917.77 9L5J0 1,022.30 " 4(2,70	1,04946 " 'm«.46' LOI 3*6	J .03631 ' 1,003.64 1,(70.25 629,96							996.77 _ ** 77 97429 ^L)20,93 557J5	1,009.96 tmo6^ 984. (U 7517.3?” 581,70			
2688 2157	CUST SERVICE REF 40 HR CUSTODIANS RECORDS ASST 37 J					930.91 92526 “ M»B.W "436.84	94409 ’ 933,05 1J03j.1T 460.9S								
	2155 2738 ’	CUSTODIANS RECORDS 37.5_HR_ CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC ' '		1,186.71 654,10		1.022JO 7(2.7?										
PAGE: 85
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER 15, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15, 1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15.1086
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		TH	1RD	FOURTH		Fl	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	TMOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS
2137	DATA ENTRY COORD 37,5 HR	958,19	1,058.95	“ IJM8.86	958.19	96826	97831	988.40	998 JI	1,008 55	LOI 8.63	' L028.74	L038.78	1,04886	1.058.95
2161	DELIVERER	19.18	21.84	2149	19.18	L9.45	L967	19.91	2021	10.4$	20.73	20,96	2L15	ii.w	21.84
2704	DISPATCHER POST 98	1.13X03	1,16968	1.164,91	1,12205	1.126.83	1.131,58	1,116.35	l.Mi.10	U45.U	1,15063	LI 5529	L160U	1,164.91	1,169 68
2179	DISPLAY ASSISTANT 37J H R	908.47	1,009.33	999.22	903.47	918.59	928.66	938.73	948^6	9$£5L	96901	979.07	989.13	W4.22	L0O9 33
2131	DISPLAY ASS r APfRNT 37.5 HR	34991	668,0 F	63621	J49.91	381.72	413,54	445.33	477.16	50897	54074	572.56	60439	636-21	
2130	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 37. S HR	IJ21-23	1.242J9	1,229.90	1,121.23	1.113 28	J.145.37	J.157.45	1.169.53	LISI .60	1,193,69	120521	U17.B2	1229-W	1,24139
2167	DISPLAY DESIGNER 37,5 HR	1,045,96	1,166.95	1,154,70	1.043.96	13)58.07	1,07013	L0B2.23	1.094.32	LI 06,38	1,118.4!	L130J2	L 142.63	L1547O	Lie* 95
2132	DISPLAY PRSON-CONST SNR 37.5	983.73	1.08455	1,07444	983.75	943.79	IM-ti	LO 11.96	LOKOl	L034.ll	1,044.20	LK4.39	1,064 3?	1,014,44	1,084.53
2 Hl	D1SPTCH DiSTR37,5tlR	' I.OSUl	1.13387	i J 2906	1,086,32	1.091,09	’ 1,095.B0	1,100.56	1.10534	1.110.02	Id 14.81	T J 19.36	LI24 30	1,124.06	1,13)87
2375	DiSFTCH ORDER	LI 12.05	L.169 6S	1.164.81	1,122X15	1,126 85	L 131.54	1,136.33	L141.09	1.145.78	LI 50.57	1.15535	1,160.06	LI64SI	Li 6968
2174	D1SPTCHTRANSP 37,5 HR	917,81	966.86	961.92	917^1	922.76	92763	932 58	937,42	942.30	94720	952,12	9574)3	96192	966 86
2H3	DT5FTCH TRUCK DLST 37.5 HR		1.094,73	1,089.92	1,047.18	1,05197	1,056.69	1,061.44	1,066,23	1.070 94	L073.70	L0B&43	1,085.23	L089.92	1X94.73
2)86	DRAFTING CLERK 37.5 HR	7S8 64	BRMl	us.st	708.64	72608	743.55	760M	773.42	795.84	813.24	S31I.6S	848,12	86551	883.11
2189	DRAFTING TECH SR 17 5 HR	1.025,11	1.10954	1400.94	L025.33	1,033.12	L041,l$	1,056 54	1JD5&.M	1.067,33	YJO75.75	1,034.16	1,092.53	LlEftH	1,109 54
2137	DRAFTING TECH 17.5 HR	6S4.19	727.43	720.1 J	654.19	661.50	66884	676 |4	68147	690.80	69?|J	705,4$	71179	710.11	727,43
2141	DRIP PERSON	2420	M89	24,79	24-20	24,27	24.34	14,42	24.49	2455	74,59	24.65	2472	24.79	34 89
2197	ELECT	2535	27.6B	27.29	25.35	25.61	25.79	26.03	26.22	26.44	26.64	26.87	27,07	27J9	27.68
2 J 94	ELECT A G AS OPNS	27 M	28.71	28.44	27.05	27 J3	27.62	27,88	28.15	28,44	28.71				
2m	ELECT SYSTEMS SUPPORT	25,35	2700	2672	25,35	25.51	25.68	25,80	15,99	16. Il	26.16	26.42	2655	26.72	*7.00
2205	ELECTRONIC TECH RADIO LLC	29.49	30 84	30.57	29,40	29.56	29.68	29.79	29.93	30.03	3D.2L	30J2	3046	30157	30.84
•29fll	ENGINEER AIDE GAS OPER. POST	969 06	1,234.5?	1,207.88	969 06	995.58	1.021)2	1448,66	1,075 )8	1,101.73	1,12828	LI 54 78	1,18136	1,207.88	]J34J>7
2279	ENGINEER AS5TTO 37,5 HR	L02230	1.255,89	L.2J2J2	1,022,30	1,045.60	L069X11	1.092J6	1,115.72	1,139 Id	LI 62.44	IJ&5 79	1209.15	L232S1	1.15589
PAGE: M
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D- 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER IS, 2O»2 TO OCTOBER 15. 2WB FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15.1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS, 1986
					PROGRESS ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	J MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	AMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	SMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
	ENGINEER HOIST LIC	” 27.5?	“	"28.88	" " 28.72	27.37	27.68	" " 27*81	27.93	2807	38-20	28.33	'	28.46	3857	28.72	28 88
2251	ENGINEER LLC	2855	29,44	29.33	2853	28.65	2873	28 82	2890	29 00	29 08	29.15	2925	2933	29.44
2742	ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYST 37.5	UP-PI	1,346,5*5	U42.G9	ijiiu	1322.77	I.327W	1.332,41	U37J4	M42.OT	I.346.M				
2275	EQUIPMENT MAINTAINER	23.54	24,98	24.72	23.54	23.82	24 03	2416	24.51	24.72	24.98				
3657	FCM APPRENTICE	1455	18,16	16.95	14.53	15.74	16.95	18.16							
2658	FCM APPRENTICE SENIOR	L&.9L	23.61	22.04	18.91	20.46	220*	23.61							
2656	FCM APPRENTICE TRAINEE ~~	983	13,78	12,41	983'	11 16	’	124®	D.7®							
2575	FCM ELEC1WSTRUMENT TECH	3112	32.99	3267	3in	3)43	3173	32.05	32.35	32.67	3299				
3653	FCM MECHANIC	24.34	'	26)3	26.W	24.34	'	24,54	24.70	24.89	25.0®	25.36	2543	2563	25.79	26,00	26,15
2654	FCM MECHANIC A	26.89	28.71	28.52	26.89	2? .05	27.26	27.43	27.62	27B1	27.99	28.16	2833	28.52	28.71
27IJ	FCM MECHANIC FLD f ACUITIES	26.55	O	38 06	26,55	26,85	26.89	27,04’	27.23	27.38	27 57	3771	27.W	2106	28,20
26M	FCM MECHANIC SENIOR	29.43	3114	31.09	29.43	29.63	29 79	29.98	31X17	30.35	30.53	3069	3089	31 09	21.24
2406	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	25-08	U.W	1671	25,OT	2526	25A3	25.63	""	25.79	2600	26 15	’	26,37	26.52	26.71	26,89
3604	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A	2762	29-43	29.24	27,62	27,81	27 99	28.16	28.35	28.52	2871	28.89	29.08	29.26	29 43
2602	PCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN SR	30.17	31.99	31.71	30.17	30.35	305 3	3069	30.89	31.09	3124	31.45	3|K>	3173	3199
2014	FIELD OPER5 INSPECTOR A	25.21	2681	26.65	35.21	25,38	25.54	25,70	25.86	26.01	26.17	2633	26.49	16.63	26.81
2015	FIELD OPER5 INSPECTOR B	23.46	23.93	23.96	23.46	23,51	23-56	23,61	23.66	23.71	23 ?6	23.80	23.85	23.90	2395
2000	FIELD OPERS INSPECTOR C	20.75	2199	21.81	20.75	20.81	1190	21.12	21.25	21.37	21.50	21.621	21.74	21^7	21.99
2746	FIELD REP 40 HR	1,175.39	1140.97	UI 8.91	IJ 73.39	’ 1J73J9	' 1475.39	1175.39	1,197.18	1,197.18	121698	L218,98	L2«>2		
2350	FIELD REP 40 HR POST 92	979.88	1,12290	HOM?	979.88	994.10	1.0(5840	13123.69	1,037.00	LOS 119	1,065,59	1J179 85	1,094.(3	1,10847	1.133.90
2366	FIELD REPRESENT	1,139.15	U«,T9	U30.42	t.139.15	1,(4931	! ,159.41	1,16958	1,179.70	M90'O3	1,20004	U10.I9	U2O29	1430.42	U 40.79
2369	FIELD REPRESENT OFFICE	I >048.07	L 149,71	1.139.M	1,048.07	1,058.19	1,068.34	1,078.50	13588.64	1.098 50	1,108.91	1,(1905	1,129.1?	113934	1,149 71
PACE; 87
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14, M02 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1583 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1588
								PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		TH	IRD	FOI	JRTH	FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
■2969	FINANCIAL ASST POST 37 5 HR	890.27	1.134J8	1J 09.82	89027	91W	939.07	963.47	987 81	1UI2.23	1J>3662	1461.02	1.083.41	1,109.82	1 J34.28
2287	fitter	23.36	25.01	24*8	23.36	23.48	23.M	23.82	23.94	24,08	24J<	24.41	24.55	24.68	25.01
1 1 s lai a a	FLDTR ELECT/MECH GAS OPNS fLoJ^t^TWlMENTlbiSP	_ 2782 LL62.96	29.49	29.21 142141	27.82 1J*2,%	2840 ’U14’SS	28,39		28.66 149784	2893 ' ijre.so		 29.3J^ 1,21) n	_	29.49 1,231.74		—		.	—	—
2292	FLD TR SYS GAS OPER	2&76	36,41	3016	2856	29-05	29.33	29.62	29,89	3046	" 3U4I				 .—		 ™_,	—
2341	GATE GUARD	2023	21,46	21,29	2023	20.43	20.65	20,83	21,03	21,29	21A6	. — — _	.—			’ -	’■ ”— • -
2338 Z34o"	GRAPHICS TECHN SR 37,5 HR GRAPHICS TECHN 37,5 HR	1.061.49 88334	1J45*1 97847	L1J7.0B 9686?	1.061,49 "883,34	L06990 892.76	lt078,29 902 26	1,086.67 ' ^91174	1,095,07 92L23	IJ 03,47 93067	1411.89 940,17	IJ2029' 949.70	LI2B73-96947	".inoi 968*5	IJ4561 ”$7847
diwh;* H । i ।	GSO DISTSTATEQN FLD TRNR GSO DiJt/STATION SRFLDTRNR- GSO DISTRICT ASSISTANT gso Dismn GSO holderperson GSO MECHANIC PRESSURE”	28.73 29.9? _ ,7W 1339 24-01 26,55	3041 ~~ Jl 65 22.16 i ~J6.08 27,00 28.20	30,26 3k42’ 21,69 J3?* 13,96 ’ ~2T9'1	28.73 2 * 29jr 17.65 ~ Jj3_39 24.01 2675	2849 _~30J7_ 18.08 	Jituh 24.52 26.71	29.08 2^30^6 J 8.51 25,04 26.87	29.25 19.00 ’ 25,51 27 00	29,40 30j9 _ 1946 26.03 ' ”27 j<	29*0 11?°^ 1990 13.96 27.3^	29 75 _ _JA-95 203^ 2700 “17,46	; ■ । ! > 1 a, i lE’XjlS,:	30,09 "31.29 21,29 217*6	3026 J~ JL42 21.69 ~ 2Z9l'	_ 3(UI ' Jjj*S 2246 28*20
rw>	GSO STATION k HELD OPERATOR	JT25	28,86	23 71	2725	27.39	27.55	27.72	27.58	2BO5	28.21	Zfi.39	2843	78?7I	28J6
J!5J9 _ w”s	GSO STA WNOPERATOR^ HELPER	M22 1064	27^1 10,64	_27,55 10.64	1 1 1 1 “ 1 u! i]fa‘	2650 10.64	_26.?7	^'00	27.28	27J5	27.81	—	- ’ - -	- - ~ -	
_2154 235j” ’ “Sis’”	HEUTR DISTRIBUTION 	 HELPER MECHANICS HELPER OPERATORS		W J753 22.14	13,70 22,3F 23 46		BJ7 	2L76 2326	8,83 J	J 7.53 2X44	’ ! !	1— 9 if 1844 ii'w	J 102E JK96 22,61	1942 23-W	IL25 19,86 2326'	nii 2034 23.46	12.19 2082	12.71 _ 2]j/	_ li 17* 21 76	J 3-70 2233
2356	HELPER. PRESSURE	2132	22,58	2254	21.32	21.50	21.70	2L«’	22.12*	22.34	2158	—	—			—	1 - — '
2362	HOLDER PERSON	23.94	25,36	25,13	21,94	2446	2442	2464	34,59	' 2543	25.36	-	- 	•—	— * , . ..	— — — _
PACE: SS
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE CZD - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER f«, 2002 TO OCTOBER IS, 2M3 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1*83 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS, 1986
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
						FIRST		SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		Fl	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
*2943	IND AM INSPECTOR POST40HR	1,055.48	1457.75	1426.17	1055.48	LW1.W	1094.53	1,127.43	L16034	1493,22	U26.I4	1^59.04	1491.93	141617	131115
	[ND APPL INSPECTOR PRE	L15740	1,405JI	1180.58	lt157.16	Lt 62.00	1.206-86	1,231.64	125647	IJ8t^9	1.30609	U30.95	1.355.77	IJ 80.58	1,40551
•2936	INSPECTOR ENG POST	LU 135	1,348,34	1J24.71	L11155	1436,13	1,159.70	148378	1,20605	1,230.41	UM.00	1,277.56	1,30146	U24.71	144834
29W	INSPECTOR ENG PRE	J *251.49	1318.11		1151.49	1.27102	1,30446	133102	IJ57J6	1J84.D4	1,410.58	L437.14	1/46361	1/490.13	131672
2374	INSPECTOR INSTRUMENT MTR RP	999 JO	1,179.62		W50	IJ0I7.47	1,035.53	1053.S1	1,071.47	L089J1	J ,107.48	1J25J3	1.14354	1J61.H	1,179.62
•2*51	INVESTIGATOR D POST	94844	i-Mj.w	14*265	948.44	974.42	1,000.48	102650	1,052.51	1,078.56	"t 10655	IJ30J7	1.156^2	IJ82.65	1.20866
2912	INVESTIGATORS PRE mainOire eqgas of aifS suT	[06688	L3S9.56	1,330 29	1,066. U	109610	1423.39	1454.6B	148395	1^13^2	1,242 45	1,271.74	MW.M	1,330.29	1459.56
2*22		26.68	2847	28.44	26.68	2648	27.07	27.27	27,46	Z7.66	27.86	28.05	2U5	28.44	266?
2425	MAINTAINER INSTRUMENT	is .35	27 00	26.72	2535	25.51	25.68	25,80	25.99	2641	2626	2642	2635	26.72	277)0
	MAINTAINER PERSON FIRE EQUIP	23JH	24.44	M19	23.05	2327	23.48	23.76	23,96	2449	2+44				
2427	MAINTAINER PROVER IND1CAT A	27,12	29,87	29 65	27.12	27-39	2768	27.97	28.25	28.52	2879	2609	2945	29.65	29.87
_ 2426	MAINTAINER PROVER INDICATOR	2638	29.09	28,70	26.38	26.61	2647	2745	2738	Z7,M	21.91	M.W’	28.4J	n.n	29.0*
2491	MECH	25 35	27W	27.29	2535	25.61	23.79	26D3	26 22	2644	266*	2687	27 07	27.29	27.68
2590	MECH ADISrOPNS	2732	2BJ6	2841	n»	2744	2703	28.10	ii.37	28,6)	2856				
2493	MECH APPLIANCE	21.3?	23.46	23.10	21.37	21.54	23-74	21.96	22,12	22.31	" 2153	2271	2249	23.10	2346
2503	MECHIMSTa	27. J2	2P20	210*	27J2	27JO	27.4S	I” 27.67	2745	23,04	2820					.—
2508	MECH DIST A FLD TR Q/C	29.91	3L65	3)38	29.91	3D.20	30.49	30.80	31.09	31.38	31 65				
2506	MECH DtSt A FLD TRAINER	28.89	30.41	30.19	2809	29.19	2939	29.67	29 93	30,19	30.4]				
2731	MICH DI ST A POST 91	26.35	2810	28.03	26.15	26 53	26.72	3690	27 II	27,27	27.46	2?.64	27.83	2803	2320
2505	MECH DISTB	2358	2*08	23.97	2358	2304	23.70	23.75	23.79	23-83	2.M?	23~90	23.9*	U.97	24,08
2727	MECH PI5TF POST W	22.it	2448	23,92	22.31	2248	22£J	2298	23.14	2330	23.46	23.61	23.77	23.92	14.0t
2491	MECH METER A	2l*5	27-00	26.86	25.48	25.66	25.79	25.94	2610	26.25	2641	2635	2671	Z6.B6	27M
PAGE; 89
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER ]«, 2002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,19M
							PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.r	SMOS	J MOS	6 MOS	SMOS	|>MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	<>MOS	6 MOS	SMOS	SMOS
2495	MECH METER B	21.84	2259	22.64	2144	21.95	22.01	22.10	2248	22,27	22 35	22,47	22.56	22.64	1179
2499	MECH METER SPECIAL	27.69	29.09	28.85	27.69	27.82	27.96	28.07	28.20	28,35	28,46	2858	2873	2885	2909
2484	MECH SV ST SUPPT	25 35	27XK>	2672	2535	25.51	25.6ft	2540	25.99	2641	26,26	26.42	26.55	26 72	2700
2309	MESSENGER 37.5 HR	311.60	599.54	57045	311,60	340.37	369.1$	397,99	42648	455.61	484 36	513.15	541.97	570.75	599.54
2lW	METER READER POST98	42&.9J	5ED.5I	$01.80	426.91	451-87	47612	50140	526.75	$54,74	580.31			- •	
2859	METRETEKTECH	2&M	29.87	2945	28 8b	28.96	29.04	29.12	2921	29.30	29.38	29 47	29.57	29 A3	2947
2701	OPER D1STCPOST92	17,44	20J4	20.09	17 44	17.74	18-03	18.32	1864	18.91	19.19	1949	19.77	20,09	2034
2719	OPER D)STC POST 98	17.44	2034	20.06	11.44	17.74	18,03	18.32	18.61	1890	1919	)9,«	19.77	20.06	2034
2W	OPER DISTRIBUTION C	20.75	21.99	21.76	20.75	20.93	2146	21.37	21 56	2176	2L99				
2609	OPER SCREENALUBCKHOBPAYLt	2342	23.94	23,87	23,12	23.19	23,2?	23.3?	23.44	23.52	23.59	23,70	23 81	2347	23/94
2608	OPER SUF-LDG VEHGVW 26000+	2342	23.94	23.87	23.12	23.19	23.27	13.37	23.44	2352	23.59	23.70	2381	”2347	23.94
2378	OPNS ASST DTST	920 78	1,021.68	1,011-48	920.78	930.86	94091	951.05	961.09	97120	981 27	99)37	1.001.38	1.011.48	1,021.68
2514	OPNS ASST DLST	920,78	1,021.68	1,01148	920.7&	930.86	940.9)	951,05	*6109	971.20	98)27	9913?	1100)38	1,01148	1,02168
2516	OPNS ASST GAS OPS	19.04	24.13	23.47	19.04	L9.5J	30.06	20 51	21.00	21.50	22.00	22.52	23.00	2347	24.13
2591	OPRADlSTOPNS	27.32	28,86	28,61	27,32	27,64	27.85	28, ID	2847	28.61	28.86				
2&5O	OPR ASSISTANT SNG	2622	27.8!	27.35	26.22	26.50	16,77	27.00	27.28	27,55	2741				
Z3W	OPR C TRAINEE BIST	11%	16.33	13.96	13.96	16.73									
2715	OPR C TRAINEE POST 98	13 39	16,08	1349	1339	1608									
2518	OPR CHIEF LNG	31.50	3333	33.05	313D	31.78	32.12	32.42	32.74	33.05	33,38				
2534	OPR CHIEF SNG/LNG	33 J?	3544	34.82	3317	33.43	33.81	34.18	34.50	34,82	3544				
2528	DPR DATA PROC NO 3	30938	66101	632.16	309.38	3*526	381,11	416.9?	45’45	488.72	524,56	560-43	$96.21	63246	66801
254$	OPR DISTRIBUTION A	27 )2	28.20	28.04	2742	27.30	27.48	27 67	27.85	28.04	28,20				
PAGE: 94
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,2002 TO OCTOBER 15,2M3 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS, 1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN							YEARS			
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	Max	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
	 ..		 ...		 . ...			 .															
2547	OPR DISTRIBUTION B	21,32	22.58	22 34	2)32	21,50	2170	21.94	22.12	22,34	22.58				
						. .* .			 —			. —			. — ■	
2723	OPR DISTRIBUTION B POST 48	21.32	2122	2132	21,32	2U5	21.57	21.69	21.82	21,96	22.08	22.21	22,34	22.45	22.58
1522	OPR DUMP TRUCK l-JT^	2tJ?	2340	22187	21.7?	22411	22.22	22,46	22 67	22-87	2340				
2523	OPR HOIST CHERRY PCKER(UC)	2820	29.51	2937	28 20	2833	28.46	28,58	28.72	2885	28-97	3940	2925	29.37	29.51
2562	OPR LEAD DATA ENTRY 37.5 HR	865.67	966.04	955.80	865.07	87548	885.23	895J2	905-38	’ ‘ 915-49	925.53	935.63	94571	93580	“966.04*
2557	OPR LEAD MICRO MACH 375 HR	9$8.19	1,05895	1,04886	95849	96826	97831	9tt.4Q	998,51	100355	1418,63	1.028,74	13338,78	1.048.86	1,058.95
2558	OPR LEAD REPRO MACH 37 J HR	95849	IJJ5B95	1.048.86	95849	96816	97831	988.40	998.51	1,00855	1,018.63	1,028 74	1,030.78	1/UM6	1,058.95
2564	OPR LEAD S TSTEMS 37.5 HR	1,08849	1488.98	1,17892	1D88I9	1JW.26	1JOT-30	1,11849	1,128.48	1,138,59	],M8-65	1,158 75	1468-84	1,178.92	1,188.98
2530	OPRLNG	28.51	3073	29.94	28.51	28.80	29.09	29.37	'	29.67	2994	30.23				
77L<	OPR LNG ASST	26 AO	2846	li®	2660	26.77	26,91	27,05	27-23	27.37	27,55	27,69	27,86	28-02	2846
2532	OPR MAIL INSERT MACH375 HR	82069	9*550	906.01	820.69	83044	83963	849 09	858.63	868.10	877.57	' 887.06	89652	906.01	915JO
2W	OPR OFF-SITE	23.47	24.89	24.64	13.47	23 74	2395	24 J?	2444	24,64	24.89				
2535	OPR REPRO MACH SR 37 J HR	90859	1.009,54	999JI	90829	9LB67	928.79	938.86	948.94	958 97	969.08	97915	" 939-20	999.31	L0D9.54
						)	M	.. ■ , —	. —_ —	— . >	—_ — >— —	— —	. — .	 .	_ . .		
2533	OPR REPRO MACH 3?-5	365J3	668.01	637.76	36523	395.61	425.85	4564 2	48642	51669	546-43	577.22	607-50	637,76	668.01
2536	OPRSNG/LNG	3U0	33,38	33,05	31-50	31.78	3242	3242	32.74	33.05	33.38				
2541	OPR STATION A LJC	26.09	27.64	27 J8	26.09	26.37	26.61	2687	27.15	27,38	27.64				
2543	OPR STATIONS	"	24.01	25,44	2573	24 0*	24.26	24.51	24.73	25JOO	2513					
2566	OPR SYSTEMS A 37,5 HR	95849	1,058.95	1.048,86	958.19	968.26	978.31	98840	998.51	1,008 55	1.018.63	1,028-74	LO38.78	1.04836	1^58.95
2563	OPR SYSTEMS 37 J HR	921.43	1,022 30	L0| 2.16	921,43	93152	941,58	951.67	961.77	971.81	” 981.93	WOJ	1,00243	LOI 2.16	L022.30
2561	OPR TELEPHONE NGHT 37.5 HR	.317.35	70693	667.98	J 17.35	3S63D	395.29	434 22	473.19	51245	35141	590.04	628.99	667.48	706,93
2 $59	OPR TELEPHONE 37.5 HR	36523	689.72	ttt.B	36533	397.77	43025	46568	’	495,11	’	52754	559,99	592 40	624.84	63843	" 689.72
20M	OPR TELPHONE PT 3 7 J HR	256JI	25708	256.31	236.11	257.08									
PAGE: 91
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,2002 TO OCTOBER 15, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY IS, 1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,19M
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS
1521	OPR WORD PROCESS	514.65	736.30	713.67	510 65	53322	555.77	57836	-500.90	623.46	646.04	66837	691.13	713.67	73630
1567	PAINTER	2339	2410	23 96	23.39	2345	23.52	23.58	23.64	23.75	23,8!	23.86	23 if	23'i>6	2420
256!)	painter body transf	2545	27.00	26 72	25,35	25-51	25-68	25.80	25.99	2611	1626	2642	2655	26.72	27/00
2572	PARTS PERSON TRANS	23.45	24.37	24.24	13.45	23.54	23.63	23.75	2383	2390	23^	2406	24,15	24.24	24.37
1576	PHOTOG ASST APPR 37.5 HR	365.33	66801	637.76	36543	395.61	425.85	456J 2	486.42	516.69	546.93	577.22	607.50	637,76	66801
25*ra	PHOTOG ASST 37.$ HR	701.51	77918	771,62	70151	709 32	? 17,10	724,90	732.66	740.46	74R24	756.05		763.82	771.61	779.38
2582	PHOTOO LAB TECHN 37.5 HR	80741	1,01379	993.09	80741	82803	848.65	869,30	889,94	9J056	931.21	951-82	972.45	993,09	1.013.79
					.	 — . - .			„ — .							
2575	PHOTOG 37.5 HR	L000.32	IJ 26-49	1.) 13.83	L/W0J2	L01293	1,025.48	1038.13	1,050.73	1XM3.34	1JJ75.99	1,098,62	1.101.21	1,113-83	1,12649
2575	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON	2075	21.94	21.69	20.73	20.84	20,95	21,05	21,17	2131	21.39	21.49	21-60	2169	21.94
2374 "	FLANT PROTECTION PERSON SB	~ 22.36	23-56	2334	2236	22.51	~ ’ 32.M	2270	22 79	2189	23.02	23.14	23.24'	23734'	2336
*2979	PUBLIC RELATIONS ASST POST	881.24	1.183-72	1,1533?	881.24	9U4J	941.66	971,94	1,00220	13)3143	1.062.66	1X192.91	L123.16	1,153 3?	1.183.72
2599	READER METER	426.91	764.47	730.71	426.91	483.18	539.40	595.7)	651,95	730.72	764.47				
259B	READER METER (NIGHT SKIP)	426,91	764.4?	730,72	426.91	483.18	$39.40	595.71	651.95	730.71	764.47					.	
— _	t- .	■ J .	.	.	■ .							'978.88	.. — ••	- ~ 					 . —		•_			
2138	REP CAD 37 J HR	942.70	L06J.43	1D5I.1S	942.70	95473	96680		990.94	1,002,96	UH 4.99	1,027X19	),039.11	1,051.15	1.063.43
2156	REP COST INO SR 37.5 HR	982,82	1,103-58	1,091 5)	982.82	994.89	1,00698	1,019 06	1 Dll .12	RD43.21	1,05531	1X167,37	1XJ79.41	1,091.51	1,103.58
2158	REPCLIST INQ37JHR	917,77	1,049,46	1,036.31	917.77	930.91	'M4.09	95725	970.44	983.58	996.7?	L009.96	''unxif	1,036.31	1X349X6
2093	REP DIST OFF 37.5 HR	917.77	1.04946	1.036.31	917.77	930.91	944.09	95725	970 44	*83 58	996.77	1.009.96	1,023,13	L03631	1,049.46
WM	REF DIST OFFICE SR J7.5HR	981,68	1,079.87	1.069.94	98 L.68	991.51	1.001,33	1,011,15	1020.94	1,030.76	1X340.55	1,050.35	1,060,16	L069.94	1,079,87
2371	REF ENERGY CONSERV	730.84	998.86	972.05	730,84	757.64	78443	8 mo	838X17	864.81	891.65	918.44	94523	972.05	99846
2WQ	REP REGULATORY 1NQY 37 J HR	98W	1,103.58	L091JI	M2.82	994 89	13)06.98	1,019.06	i.oji.ti'	L043?2l’	1,055-3)	I.D6Z37	1,079.41'	^“loti7$i"	1,10358
2)60	REP SPEC LEDGER SR 37.5 HR	942.70	1.063.43	1JK1.15	9*270	954.73	966.80	978.88	990.94	1.002.96	1,014 99	1.027.09	1,039.11	1,051.15	LO63.43
* * — —								 	 .	— 							 ..	~ - 				 					
271!	SENIOR PHOTOGRAPHER	889.02	LI 91.52	146126	88902	9)9 28	949,53	979,76	1.01002	IXH0.27	t .07043	1,100,78	L13L«2	L161.26	1491.52
PAGE: 92
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D-1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER 15, M03 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY IS, 1083 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,I9M
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN							YEARS			
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	FMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	FMOS	6 MOS	FMOS
i ! > . * : i , > i ‘	SEPARATOR PERSON	 SNOW REMOVAL L101	71 ' SNOW removal ot CALLJN LIO) SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL POST SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL	22,63	23.95 ” ~~»69	2376 2969	22.63	22.83	23.0?	23 28	23.49	23.76	23.9$				
		_	2969 49,64									—	—						
			49.64	4964		Loioif									
		989.00 1J 12-49	1360,37	1,233.16	989.00		1,043,27	1,070,38	1,097,50	1,1X64	J ,151.77	Lt 78.90	1,206.01	J433.16 1,387.13 659.85	T26037 " 1417.72 U4028 706 93
			J 417.72 706.91	1,387.13	1,11249 LWM2	1,143.02	1,173.52	L204A3 ’ 1)010?	1^34.54	J ,26504	1193.58 ’ “uxu	1^26-10 ^1238.14 61735 ' 6994?	1356.62		
	SR. ARTRYRODUCTlON ASST PRE STENO CLERICAL 37,5 HR	l^OO.CC 40834 591,02		1J06.22 659.85 724.04		1,03402 438.18	_ JLWM° 46BD8		I436.LI	1J70.12 557,63			1,273.17		
					408 34			497.92	527.79		587.51		647.23		
	STENO SECRETARIAL 37,5 HR		745.91		59).*2	606.49	621.99	_637.49	652.98	668,44	683.95		714.92	724.04	745.9!
	STOCK CLERK SNG 37.50 HR	22,26 'twar 343 85	_ 22,85	22.26	2126	2226 S41.M 9^6?	22.B5				~	£7B10				
	STOCK PERSON DATA PROCESStNC STOCK PERSON 37J HR		9O7JO 668,13	~ _2>*t93 635.71	834.61		14910	8564$	863,69	B70.9S $05.99		88146	892.73	899.93	907 JO 668.13
					343.85		_408J0 992.43	441 14	473.56		338.40	570.84	603.26	635.71	
2698	STRKMt ASSTMATMGT J7.5HR_ STRKPR ASST SR MAJ APPL STRK^A^sFMATMGTlviim STRKPR ASST SR StNRY 37 JHR SURVEY OPR TRUCK	J SVC PERSON A COORD Of	972.90	1,071.02	I,06L(M	972,90			L00225	1^12,06 M 30-22’	1.140,68	1,03164	JXH1.45	1,05128	L06L0*	
lliXl		108822 1.011 68 ^23.46 2991	1,193.18	118169	1,08822	1.098.69	1,109.22	M 19.70			IJ5L20	1J6L73	1,17120	t.182 69	1,193.18 LllW.84
__2?w 27ft?'" 2722 "" ' 2681 2682 _2673 2675			M40J2 1.109.84 '	239? 3L65	_M3OJ5 1,099,89	J ,041,90	1,051.73	_ 1.06L53 1X01 32 23?S5	| t 1 1 !	_ J.081.14 1,050 89 23.64	1,090.93	L 106.73	>41054	LI 20,33	t.llOJJ	
					IjO)) 68 2346 29.91 7~^2~9.<T 29.9)	1JD2L50				1,060.71)	ixno.M	LOWOl 23.8?	1.090.12	L.09W	
					23-87 31,50		23,49				13.70	23.75		2384	23 J7 3L50'	2195 31,65
						3007 — 30.20 ?*** 2318	_ 3016 30.49	30,41	30.59		30.80 29.86	30.95	31 W	31.29		
	SVC PERSON A FLDTR		 SVC PERSON A FLO TRNIW	 SVC PERSONA GEN APPL	_ SVC PERSON B APPt	29,41 29.91 23.13	31.65		302) 31 38				19.69 30,84	2977		29.94	20,02	30.12	3021	3041
									31,09	31-38	3165				28.86
			28-86 23.89	_ 28-73 23.82 ' 234?	__27.% 23 23 2176		28.12	28Jt	28J0 2347		2839 23,53	38.47	2835	28.64	28.73	
							23.36	23.42			23.59 23,02	2369	23.76	23.82	23.89
	SVC PERSON C METER * APPL	1176	23 23			2179	22.84	22.37	22.90	22.96		23.07	2'j.li	23.16	2323
I
PAGE: 93
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER IS, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY IS, 198 J AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		Fl	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P. P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	AMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	AMOS	AMOS	6 MOS	AMOS	AMOS
2726	SVC PERSON C POST 93	18,91	21,89	21 50	18,91	19.19	19.49	(9.77	20,09	20.34	20.65	20.92	21 24	21 50	21.80
2677	SVC PERSON D LOCK UNLOCK	21.07	2135	22.1Z	21.07	21.33	21.50	2L.7O	21.9$	2L12	22.35				
2670	SVC SPECIAL DIST 37,5 HR	931,10	1X13207	1X121,78	931,10	941.16	951.25	961.34	971.38	981.49	991.54	1,001.64	1,011,70	JJJ21.78	(.032 07
•296$	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	325 IS	1,105.71	1,077.59	425.15	85324	881 26	909.27	73734	96519	993,43	1.021.47	IXM9.53	1,077.59	1,105.71
2307	SYS PROCESSOR DJST 37 5 HR	39292	993.89	983.66	892,92	903.02	913.09	923.17	133.25	9033	95342	963 48	973.57	983,66	99189
2494	SYS PROCESSOR DfST 40 HR	89292	993.89	983,66	892,92	911302	9(3.09	923.17	>33 25	943.33	95342	963.48	973 J7	983.66	99359
2626	TECHNICIAN PROCESS A	29,66	3041	30,29	29.66	29.78	2991	3W	30-19	3019	30.41				
2812	TELEPHONE SERV REP 37.5 HR	81)46	976.82	96121	831.46	545.98	860.51	87504	38936	904.06	91860	933.09	947,63	962,21	976.82
2811	TELLER HEAD 37 J HR<	981.68	1,079.87	1,06994	981,68	991,51	1,00133	1,011.15	IJ2094	1.030.76	LXM&55	1.050.35	LOW, 16	1 X>69 94	1,079.87
2313	TIMEKEEP SYS SUPP 37-5 HR	892,6$	993.62	983.35	£9165	90172	912.79	922.86	93298	943.03	953.13	96311	973.27	983.35	993.62
2819	TOOL REPAIR PERSON	25,14	26.81	26,50	25,14	25,30	25.43	25.61	25.75	25.88	26.05	26.19	2637	26.50	26.81
2320	TOOL REPAIR PERSON A	25.94	27.66	27,29	25.94	16,09	16.24	26.41	26 54	26,68	26.8$	26-99	27.16	2719	27.66
2327	TYPIST STATISTICAL 37,5 HR	46809	522,15	$16.65	46309	473.47	478,87	484.28	489.70	495.12	50012	505.94	511.33	516.65	522.15
2329	UPHOLSTERER	24.74	26.41	2610	2454	24.90	2506	25.22	25.3$	25.49	25.66	25.80	25.97	26.10	26.41
2831	upholsterer A	26 29	27.67	27,61	26 29	26,53	26.83	27X17	27.33	27.61	2787				
283$	UTILITY PERSON SYS SUP?	2137	22,35	22,12	2137	21,4$	21.53	21,61	21.69	21.T7	21 91	21.97	22.06	22.12	23.35
2837	UTILITY WAREHOUSE PERSON	6.79	13.70	12,99	6.79	7.50	8.20	8.86	956	I0U	10.95	11.62	12.30	1299	13.70
2849	WATCH GUARD	19.27	2044	2024	1917	19.50	1965	(9.86	20.09	20.24	20.44				
2853	WATCH GUARD A PORTER	506,84	53548	512,60	306.84	32969	352.56	375.44	398 29	421.13	443.99	466.87	489.73	512.60	535 48
28$$	WELDER	15,35	2700	26,72	2515	2551	25-68	25,80	25.99	26.11	26,26	26.42	2fi.5$	26.72	27.00
2857	WELDER A	26,79	2839	28,11	26.79	27.03	27 29	27 58	27.85	28.11	28.39				
2858	WELDER A QUALIFIED	28.6)	30.28	29,99	' 2861	:«	29.15	29.43	29.71	29.99	3028				
PAGE: 94
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
. SCHEDULE CID -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2602 TO OCTOBER 15,1003
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15, t MJ AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1906
								PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS							
						FIRST		SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2707 2S6I	WORK MEASUREMENT ANALYST YARD PERSON	U hij nil	1,154,73 2226	I.MB.96 2L.*t	_ 1,1 14,13 iuF	1J1X30 “ )94<	M 19.92	1,123-62 MUl'	1,126,76 ' 203S	1,129,96 20.70	1,134.70 20-9*	L J 39.45 “juT	M44.21 2LS7'	1,145% ' 21’91	UM-73 22,36
ALL TITLE CODES FROM 2900 - 2999 ARE UACCRETION TITLES
I
Schedule C/D - 3
October 16,2003 - October 15, 2004
PAGE: 95
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSIONSCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D-3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER 15,20<M FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	F. F-	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	■ 6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
~*M29 “	acctengrsTfgst		~U5W		"	986J6	~ 101124’	LD40J0	7,067.36'	L0MJ9	“ 1,121.46	L14M1	1,173.56	ij02~64	' i.229.69	1036 87~
*2900	ACCT ENGJl SR PRE	1,10935	1,413.78	ijsJji	1,10935	1,139,75	IJ70JI	1.200,63	1J31.06	1261.49	1291,94	1.322J7	1.35282	1383.22	L413.73
2212	ACCT ENGR315 HR	! 06064	1,28832	UB»	1.06064	LoaiAt	L 106.24	1.12903	L15104	L1M.W	L 197.45	1.220,25	L243.10	1JU.88	MB®. 82
•2913	ACCT POST	1041.21	1.296.M	1410-78	1,04121	1,066.13	30*2-21	MVL75	14*513	34 6845		3 J 19.79	1,243,33	cntiis	1296J4
*2902	ACCT PRE	LI 71.20	1,458.22	1,429.49	1.17120	1.199.92	IJ2B.39	1.257.28	1,28596	1 JI 4.70	1J43.4J	IJT2.U7	1,4001	1,42949	L45022
2001	ACCT R6P 37.5 HR	911.85	101636	1,005-7$	911,85	922,29	932.72	94346	953J8	96402	974.44	984.91	995J2	L005.7J	1016,36
2020	ACCTG ASST CORP 370HR	1001.74	LiOl.17	109303	1,001,74	101109	1,022-02	1032.16	104228	1,052.44	L062J6	1072.70	1.082,89	109303	l.l®37
2002	ACCTG ASST DtST 373 HR	95893	106064	1050-45	95193	969 12	979.28	989AI	999A j	CAW 77	L019,«i	LOJO-tO	t.040^6	L030.4J	LM0.64
2018	ACCTG ASST SR CORP J7.SHR	1.060(4	1,23131	U1443	1,06064	107X64	10M.M	1,111.60	1428,84	LI 45.89	LL62.96	1,110,02	1,197.08	1 jl4B	U3I.21
2026	ACCTG ASST $R 373 HR	1001.74	1,10337	109303	1.001.74	10)189	KD22.O2	1.032.U	104238	1,052,44	LM238	L0T2.70	L082.89	J.09J03	U03J7
201 f	AOCTO ASST 573 HR	9J893	LM0.M	J03O.45	9HM	96ft 12	979,25	9894J	49961	1,009.77	1^19.91	1,030,10	1040^6	1050-45	106OL64
2062	ACCTG CLERK ] PT 373 HR	84671	897JI	88931	846.71	85322	863.63	872.14	88061	88941	897,51				
^2060	ACCTG CLERK 3 PT 375 HR	28708	287 28	28708	287,08	28728									
	admasstcsd POST	923.66	M 76.82	1353 44	923.66	948.93	974 29	999.60	1,024.85	L05019	1,075.49	1.IM81	IJ2611	IJ51.44	L176.82
•2903	ADMASST CSD PRE “	"	103803	' 1J23J7	' 1,295.19	i.mw	1067.42	' 1093.87	1,124.43.	' 1,15183	L181.31	1209.77	1.238,30	U66J3	' 129549	1323,77
■2957	ADM ASST MAT MGT POST 37 5 K	96551	1,23024	14W6I	96151	99L94	1018.40	1.04491	1,071.36	1.097,80	Ll 24.25	I.13O.7S	1,177.20	1005.61	1J3d24
•2915	ADM ASST MAT MG7PRE	I0B6.O4	1383.86	1,35197	1,086.04	1J1582	1,14501	M7531	1,205,11	1J34 87	1264 46	94-44	1.32445	LJ53.97	138336
•2971	ADM ASST METER REPAIR POST	977 67	L242 12	1215.66	977.67	L004J4	t .030,57	105701	i<4j	Li 09.89	LU6.27	JJW.73	Lt 89 23	12J5.W	Utt. 12
*2922	ADM ASST METER REPAIR PRE	1099.76	139743	1JS146	1,09976	1129,53	’ LL5927	1,188.96	UI 855	L248J1	1^782?	15*7.98	L337JM	1367.46	1397.23
*2967	ADM ASST SYS SUP POST	959 27	1,165,00	1,144.55	95927	979,35	1JQ0D.3&	102093	10*108	LOW 05	1,082,61	1.19319	1,12375	1.144 33	1.16500
PAGE: 96
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/l) - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, JM3 TO OCTOBER 15,2064 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS, 1986
						 PROGRESS ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	1 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	tMOS	tiMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6MOS	6 MOS
•29M *2947^	ADM ASST SYS SUP PRE ADM AS$T WORK COMP POST	L079.IM 90042	151047 ’1,147.17	1X87.17 IJIZV?	J JJQ79.O4 900.41’	1.102.15 925.08	1,123X8" 949.74	"j7l4M3' 974 42	7.1'71.5? 999 09	I.Q2W	un.Ti l XUS 47	" L24O?93 13)73,15	1764.04 1JNW	Wjj? 1,11X49	1310.47 1.HT.1T
*2955	ART & PRODUCTION ASST POST	922,16	1.236.20	1,204,76	922.36	9)3.75	985 JI		i.047^5	LO79.26	1J 10.65	1,14200*	U 73.36	1XW.76	1X36,20
2719	ASSOC CUSTOMER SERVICE	428.18	91084	830.40	428.18	308 63	30907	669.51	749,95	83040	9i<fy		—. -	' - - —			 — -■
28« *2953 "	asst chemist^ ASST EDITOR POST	B2U7 <W71	1.II3X97 U 59 .02	1JJ11 .86 1033.96	821,67 W972	£42.78 934.63	863.92 959.54	884.99 984.46	^9WJ6 ima*	932^1 L034J9	948.39 LOSPll"	96953 1,084.1 L	990.7) L J 09.0?	1 J)ll .16 1.133.96	1459.02
2370 2023	asstfield REP attend garage	1.024 80 10,17	1J 73.24 P,90	1.133X2 17-06	1,024 80 10, J7	ljM9j9 10.9a"	L054 4£ 11.71	1069.26 12J0'	1,084.07 "13 J7	LO98.95 14 06	1.21773 14.82	1.12R59 13 58	_ l,143.3?J 16 36	1.138X2 17.06	_ M7X24 17.90
2022	ATTEND garage ALTER FUEL	17.69	£3 61	22.90	17,69	14,29"	1884	19.4J	w’w	20.57	2115	21.74	2X31	22M	23.61
2488	AUTO MECH A FU> TRAINER	2R.CJD	30.31	KOI	28.60	28.87	29,15	29.45	29.73	30.01	30.31				
2467 248o"	AUrO mechanic auto mechanic A ”	36.67 27,49	_ 28,37 29.14		2£G5 28,37	26,67' 27.49	36.80 27.79	2699 2802	J7.il 2SJ1	__ JZ 3X 28.6)		27.44 2si?	_27.6O_ 29J4	£7 79*		2LW.	28.05	20.37
2631	AUTO TECHNICIAN	23.6fl	30J)	30.01	28,60	2887	2915	29.45	29.73	30.01	30JI	. -		■— ■	' - - - s
2025	BLACKSMITH 'A'	27,23	2893	28.64	23.22	22.39	27.52	27.68	27,86	27.99	28.1?	28,31	2847	28.64	2K9J
2031	CARPENTER	26.61	38.30	28.00	26.61	26.76	26.91	270?	27. Z 2	27.40	27,54	27,68	27.86	23-110	23-30
2714	chauffeur district ops	2546	25.46	25.46									-		” •' •
2035	CHAUFFEUR EXECUTIVE	24 54	2642	25.78		X79	~	25,03	25.27	a.si	2i?i	^2602		. —	• —,	—
2040	CHAUFFEUR TRACTOR TRAILER	23 85	27.40	27,13	2585	26.10	26. M	26,64	26,87	27.13	2740				
2045	CHEMIST	1.09568	1JW.71	1X4196	L093 68	uwji	U2?i	1343.72	L 160.43	L177.I9	1,193 87	121O.5&	1X27.25	1 J43.W.	’"7X60.71
2047 2939_ 2056	CHEMIST SENIOR 37.5 HR CHIEF CLERK GAS OPER POST CLK ACCTG NO 1 ACCT 3 7.5 HR	IJ75.7J 91755“ 911X5	1.152.23 " JXMU4 1.0)636	J 339.50 IJ 98.89 LOO5.75’	1275.71 91M?	1X88 44 949 JS "" 92129	1,301.23 980.34 932.72	_ 1,313,96 _L0iT.59 943.16	1326.72 	1542.79 	MISS'	1J39.50 — W4.o/ 96402	1.352,23 	J.lw'iT "9T4A4	M 36.46 984.91	U67.66 995.32	“ ja*5sJ9_ 1.W6J5	JX3R24 i.Olti.36
PAGE; 97
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D ■ 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2003 TO OCTOBER 15,2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	t MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
. i . J..-, j i ’ !	: ;	CLKACCTCNO I 37JMR ' CLK ACCTG NO 2 57,5 HR CLK ACCTG NO 3 31.5 HR ’ ’ CLK ACCTG NO 1C1AS CLK ACCTG NQ ZOAS^ CLK ACCTG NO 2 ACCTG POST 92 CLK CNTL SR CUST ACCT 37.5HR CLK COMM NO.l 37.5HR POST92 CLK COMM NO,2 37JHR POST92 CLK COMML ASST HD 37 J HR CLK COMML IND APPL 57,5 HR CLK COMML NO 1 J7-5HR CLK COMML NO 2 THEAS 315 HR CLK COMML NO 2 37J HR_ CLK COMML NO 3 37,5 HR CLK CONS ANALYS 37-5 HR CLK CONTROL CUST SER 40HR CLK CONTROL PROP MAINT J7 5 CLK DEPOSIT 37,5 HR CLK EXECUTIVE 373 HR CLK GDI CUST SER 40 0 HR c'lkgenmatls mgt	- -*97?1. 83147 791.72 " M3Ji 599.45 142141 79I.72 00111 1411.33 Looa^ 897.31 455, M 851,47 489 U Z22J8 89731 956.00 933. Il 384.92 '	73J.il'	y LW3,27 949,83 J ^75’81 140227 754 03 94943 1,127.33 L00227 ’	75443 1£60. W _ MOT.32 1,002.27 949-33, 94943 69346 831.66 140227 Ljfl0.50 1 £17.73 " 1 £16.20 735 37 144948	\ 991-64 93999 '	551-82 98)49 "	73895 86742 L J1649 98149 73095 1,055.73 J 1.096 Ti 99144 923.32 939,99 672.67 820,71 991.64 " 1421.w" 1,02724 Wi W _7003? 1,018.33	851.47 337,16 791.72 603.21 599 45 1.02547 791.72 603.21 141133 1 £92.67 897,51 685.76 851 47 48911 " 72238 897.51 95000 " 93341 715.09 3*4,92 733 53	_ '908,00 861,27 ' 361,04 81279 “ 618.30 735,17 1435.65 812.79 61830 1 £1624 l£)3.14 908.00 7124 0 K1.27 309.53 733 31 908.00 914.44 943.54 80860 419.94’ 765 17	918.43 871,12 _ 384.86 833.83 633,40 867,12 I £45.31 833 83 633.40 1421 18 I423J5’ 91843 739 871,12 529.91" 744.19 918,43 99229 . W01 832.15 45541^ 796.81	880 93 " 40872 854.87 648.45 94983 1455.95 854.87 648.45 1,026-12 1,034.01 928.89 "764,92 880,93 " L 55021 755,(7 92829 1411.33 964,50 855.61 490,05 828.47		939-33 B9023 ' 43250 875.97 "66353 LO6&16 875.97 663J3 1,031,03 1 £44.49 939.33 _79J 32 890.83 570110 766.08 _ 93933 1429.62 974.92 879.09 525,10 860.10	900.65 456.41 B97.0Q 678 63 1476.28 89740 67863 1,036,00 ' 1.054.90 949 82 *174 900.65 591.09 777.01 949^1' J' ih048']9 985.40 902M '	56OL6 891.78	_ 960.24 91048 91 £03 wfw' 1,08645 9^8.03 693.69 1440.92 1£«43 960.24 £44. W 91048 "	611.49 787.90 ‘	96024 1466.66 995.82 92615 595. IS 92340	_ 970172 920.32 _504,B ' 93940 708.79 J4M.69 939.16 708.79 1445.83 ijOTlM 970.72 870.49 920J2 63LB8 798 88 970.72 148542 1406.32 949.67 _ ’630.27 955?0$	930.M J 527.96 960.15 "723.87 1,106.85 ’ 9MH5 723.87 1450.74 148636 98147 930114 652.26 809 74 _ 98147 1.103.53 '' 1,01675 973.12 66530 98667	939.99 551-82 98119 738.95 98149 1,05573 / L^-ZZ 99164 939.99 672.67 " mil _99L64 " 1421.96 " 1,02724 99066 50di3i3~ 1418.33	9*9.83 _S75l? 1.002.27 ~ \54 OT JJ27J? L0OT.27’ 1.06064 ’14OT,32~ 1402,27 949.83 693.06 ’ 831.66 " 1,00127 L140.50 LOW 20 73547 1,049.98
PAGE: 98
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER IS, M(M FORALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 .AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	J MOS	3 MOS	* MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
20B1	CLK GEN NO 137.5 HR	897,51	1X02.27'	978X71	897,51	923 27	952,23	952.23	978.01	97B.0I	1,002,27'				. ,.
2185	CLK GEN NO 140 HR	897,51	1,002.27	991.64	897.51	WK00	918.43	92889	939.33	949.82	96024	970.72	98117	991,64	1X702.27
2083	CLK GEN NO 2 ITS HR	459,69	575,81	564.07	459.69	47117	462,91	494.47	506.06	517,69	529 27	54Q.B5	55249	564.07	575 81
20R4	CLK GEN NO 3 37-5 HR	24948	516,78	4 £9,95	249,48	276.17	302.92	329.61	35633	383.06	409.B1	43652	463J2	489.45	516.78
2863	CLK GEN NO 1 QCST	1.0QL6I	1.061 59	1,055.89	1,004.61	1XH032	1,016.00	1,021.70	1.92738	1.033.13	1,038.79	1JM4.S0	1.O5O.2I	1,055.69	1,061,59
2120	CLK GEN TREASURY 315 HR	934.96	1X739.70	1,029.10	934,96	945,44	95588	96632	976.81	987 26	997,69	1X708.17	LOL 8.66	1.02910	L039.70
2076	CLK GEN I MKT ADV 37,$ HR	9*9.47	1,055,16	1,043.61	949,47	959,92	970.39	980.66	991 32	) ,001.76	1/H2.22	1022 67	J 4733.14	1,043.61	7J354.16
2082	CLK GEN 1 PUR QC 37,$HR	939.15	1,043,80	1.033.31	939 15	949.61	960.07	97051	980,97	991.47	1,001,93	1,012,39	1,022 88	1,033 31	1XM3.8O
2088	CLK GEN 2 MKT ADV 37.5 HR	477.95	594.13	58249	47795	489,55	501.14	512.81	824 40	536.02	547.64	55929	$70.88	582.49	594,13
2098	CLK HD CLA1M/SECTY 37.5 HR	1.02547	1.127.33	1.116.99	1X05.47	1,03565	LMS.&1	1,055.95	1,066,(6	1.076.28	1X136,45	1,096,69	1,106 85	1,11699	1,127,33
20B5	CLK HD COMML 37.5 HR	13)25.47	1.127JJ	1J 16.99	1,<0547	1X735-65	J JM5.RI	1X155,95	1,066.16	1.076.28	1,086,45	1,096.69	1,106.85	1JI699	L 127.33
2931	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG POST	986 16	1,256,87	] ,229.69	986 16	1,013-24	1X54030	1,06736	1,094 39	1,121.46	1J4851	IJ75.56	1,202.64	1.229/69	1,256,87
2901	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG PRE	1.109,33	1,413.78	1.383.22	1. JO9.3S	1,139.75	14702)*	1,20063	1,231X76	1.261 49	1397,94	132X37	1,352.82	1,38122	1,413.78
2383	CLK HD URBAN AF FAIRS	1.02547	1.127-33	ltl 16.99	IXU5.47	1,03565	1,045.81	7.055-95	1,066,16	1,076.28	1X78645	1,096.69	1,106.85	LI 16.99	IJ27.33
2117	CLK HEAD CONTROL 37,$	1,06064	1,231.21	1,214,13	1,060,64	1XD7.64	1X794.68	1.111.60	1,128.84	1,14589	L 162,96	LI 8002	1.197,08	1,214.13	L231.21
2087	CLK HEAD CL ST SVC 37,5 HR	1,011,33	l.ObO.M	1X755 73	lt011.33	1,016.24	1,02118	1,026.12	JXI3I W	1,036X70	LOW 92	1X7*5,83	1,050.74	L05S.73	1/160.64
2091	CLK HOUSE HEATING 37.5 HR	285,96	62867	594.23	285.96	32018	354,43	388.72	422.97	457.22	49145	525 76	$60.00	594.23	628.62
2099	CLK HOUSE HEATNG A 37.5 HR	640,23	973.00	939.63	640.23	673 49	706.76	740.0 L	773.29	806.5?	839.83	873,13	90634	939.63	973.00
2703	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B POST 98	417.98	558-88	545,79	427.98	44)06	454 1 4	467,25	480,34	493.41	506,51	519.60	532.69	54579	55888
2100	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B 37,5 HR	32090	628,62	597 80	320,90	351.68	382.44	413.22	443 99	474.75	505 52	53636	567X6	597-80	628 62
2034	CLK INVENT CTL MMD 37,5 HR	! ,009.38	LULLS	1,100 83	1,009 38	1,0)9 50	LO29.65	1,039.83	1.05001	1/16031	1,07033	1,08050	1.090 70	1JW.83	LUI,18
2724	CLK METER REPAIR SR	91006	1,003 66	994,31	910.06	91943	928.80	938,17	947,52	95690	966,23	975.59	994JL	1XM366	IX»3.66
PAGE: W
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/P -3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER IS, 20M FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15.1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IS							YEARS			
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	J MOS	J MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS
2086	cue MTR RPR HEAD 37.5 HR	958.9J	1,060.64	” ' IAHMJ	958.93	" 969.12	979.28	'mmi1	999 61	1 4)09,7?	' 1.01991	1,030.10	LO4O26	1,030.45	1.06(16*
2101	CLK. PRICE MKT ADV 373 HR	m$i	1.M2 27	991.64	897,51	908.00	91843	928.89	93933	949.82	960.24	970.72	981,17	99J6*	1,002.2?
2109	CLK SPECIAL LEDGER 37.5 HR	897.51	1,028.67	1J>15 .53	897,51	91059	923.74	936.87	M9.M	963.07	976.15	989,30	1XWJ7	1,01533	L0Z36?
2H3	CLK STCK MAT MCI 31$ HR	W7.41	1JJ.5Z	725.92	657.62	66522	67782	68041	68802	W,A5	JWI8	710,76	7)837	725.92	73351
21H	CLK STCK MKT ADV 37.S HR "	851.47	949.13	939.99	851,47	86)2?	87 LU	880.93	890.83	900.65	91048	920J2	OMlU	939.99	9*9.83
2114	CLK STCK STNRY TRUCK OF 373	£25.78	966.3?	970.32	825.78	841.83	857,91	873.98	89002	906 01	92241	438-15	95422	970.32	986J7
2092	CLK TELLER 37 J HR.	911.85	L01636	1,005.75	911.85	92229	932.72	94316	953,58	964.02	974 44	984.91	99532	1,005,75	1XH6J6
			— —												
273b	C1K TELLER 37.5 HR POST 92	678.63	904 79	882.19	67863	701.23	72387	74648	769J 2	791,72	814J5	136-94	659.59	£82.19	90*79
2ll9~	CLKTRAFFtC37,m	1,146.12	L248.17	1,237 35	1,146.12	1.156.29	J,166.52	1,176.67	J.I86.B8	IJ97 08	1,20716	UI 7,44	UZ7.65		l^48J7
		. — . —	.— ..	.. — .—.		..	_ .		a.	..									
3823	CLK TYPIST 37.5 HR	367.91	693 06	66053	367.91	400.42	*32.91	46543	497.9$	530.47	$6199	59$50	62&O2	660.53	893.06
2130	COLLECTION CONTROLLER	978.05	IJ03.31	1,090.57	978.05	990J3	J.iMJ.06	1,015.59	1J728.10	1.040.57	J .£*53.03	J, Obi 61	1,078.08	1X»O.57	IJO3.31
2123	COLLECTOR		' IMAI	' 1101939	931.50	94240	9S3.24	9MA3	' 974 99	9%S56	99677			VQ29.39	1,0*0.44
2136	COMPUTER LIBRARIAN SR 3 25	1,011.40	2JJ9.47	IJMMi	I.DH.40	1X12621	1,041.04	1,055.82	1,07067	1.085.42	1,100 24	1.11502	1,129.87	t, 14466	1,159.47
2MS	CORROSION TECH HELFER	13.22	1910	(8JL	13-22	13.79	14.40	14.9?	15 55	1415	1675	17J2		1831	19.10
2M9	CORROSION TECHNICIAN	19.72	25J4	24.97	19.72	20.30	20,91	21.49	2209	22.6*	23 21	23 80	2437	24.97	2534
2810	CORROSION TECHNICIAN PRE 92	14)23,47	LJ84J2	1,167.98	1X123.47	1J13952	IJH3.S7	1,07162	1,087.73	1403,77	1J 19.84	1J 35.84	USL9J	IJ6798	Ltwii
2650	corrosion technician SR	25J7	29J9	'	29.20	25 57	26.00	26 38	26.78	27,19	27.60	27 99	2840	2880	2920	29J9
				. ——	. .—... . _ .	. . ._ —									
2755	CHEW LEADER	29,97	31.5$	31,39	299?	30.13	3ft28	M44	30,6?	30-76	3092	31.07	31.23	31.39	3U5
2687	CUST SER V REP 37 5	952.19	LOSS. 81	L075.1?	952 19	965.82	979 49	993.15	1,006,83	1.02046	L0J415	1,0*7.83	1.061 JO	1J>75,|7	L0S3 8)
2«8	custser Vicerepwhr '	M2.J9	2,088.81	1,075.17	952.19	965.82	979.49	993.15	1,006,83	1.020.46	1,03415	1,647.83	1.061,50	1.075,17	UWB.8J
2157	CUSTODIANS RECORDS ASST 37.	949.83	1,051,46	1^41.28	94983	959 96	970.11	988,30	990,46	1,00066	1.01083	l.*2l,00	1,031-18	L.O4LJ8	1,051.46
2155'	CUSTODIANS RECORDS 37.5 HR	IJtoCiM	1,231 2)	1,2)443	1.060.64	14)77.64	LJW4.68	1.111.80	1,128,84	1,145.89	1,162 96	1,180,02	1,197,08	U14,U	1,23171
		. _ . —	A — ■—	—	—	. ... * —											
273S	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC	42848	678,63	653-58	428.18	*53.22	478.27	$0132	528.36	553.41	578.46	603.51	62854	653.58	678.63
PAGE: 100
I
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER IS, 2(IM FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY jS 1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS, 1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
						1									
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
1137	DATA ENTRY COORD 37.5 HR	994 12	1,0986^	IXM8.I9	994.12	1,00457	1,015.00	‘ 1.025 47	1.035.95	L046J7	105681	1^67.31	l.m.73'	1,088.19	‘ L098.66
1161	DEXJVERtR	1990	22.66	22.30	19.90	20,18	2041	20 0*	20.97	21 22	21.51	21.75	22.05	22-30	2266
2704	DISPATCHER POST 98	1,164,13	1,21734	L2W.S9'	U64.13	1,169.09	Id 74.03	1,178.96	1,18389	1J 88.85	L193.7B	1,198.72	U03.67	1,208.59	12B.54
2179	DISPLAY ASSISTANT 37 .S HR	941.M	\,Crt7.18	W69	942.54	95104	963 48	971.93	984 44	994.87	IXNM35	IJH3.79	1,026.22	LO36.69	LO47.18
2131	DISPLAY ASST APPRNT37.5 HR	363XQ	693.06	660.07	'	363.01	396,03	429.05	.6203	495.05	528X16	36102	SM.C3	627.05	660-07	69306”
2130	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 37.5 HR	1,163.28	1.286.77	I >276 02	1,163.20	U75.73	1,188,32	1.20085	1213.39	122 5.91	1,23845	1 J50.92	1.263.49	M76.02	1,288.77
2163	DISPLAY DESIGNER 37.5 HR	L08S.18	1,210,71	IJ98 00	1 JOBS.18	1,097.75	LJ10 26	IJ2W	IJ3536	L 147.87	1J 60.35	IJ72.9I	1J85.48	1.198.00	MHL7)
2132	DISPLAY PWN-CONST SNR 3? ,5	1,020 64	M 25 22	Id 14.73	1,020.64	I.O3JO6	IJM1A9	I,<151,98	1,06242	Ltni.90	1,08336	1,09333	1,104 2$	Id 14.73	1A25.22
2171	D1SPTCH DISTR 37 $ HR	M 27,06	1,176.39	IJ 7140	1,127.06	1,132.01	1J 36.89	IJ4183	IJ46.79	1,151.65	1,136.67	IJ6134	1.166.46	1,17| .40	M76J9
2175	DISPTCH ORDER	id 64.13	1213.54	1208.49	1A64.1J	1J69.II	IJ 73 .97	IJ78.94	U 83.88	LJ8&.75	M93.11	1,198.68	1^03.56	1208-49	M13.S4
1114	WSPTCH TRAHSP 37.5 HR	952 23	I.OO3J2	997.99	95223	957 36	96242	967.55	972.57	977.64	982.72	987.82	992.93	997.99	1XJW.12
2171	DISPTCH TRUCK DtST 37.5 HR	1,086 45	1,135.78	IJ30 79	1,086.45	UN 1.42	1,09632	1,101.24	IJ06.21	IJH.I0	IJ 16.04	M 20-95	1,125.91	MW.79	MIS .78
2136	DRAFTING CLERK 37.5 HR	73511	9)6.23	897.9?	735 21	753.31	771.43	78948	807.61	825.68	843.74	861. SJ	879.92	897,97	916.23
2139	DRAFTING TECH SR 37.5 HR	1,063.78	1,151.15	1.142.23	1,063.78	1.07248	1,081.23	1,089.94	1,098.62	1,10735	Id 16.09	1.124.42	JJ33.50	Id 42.23	1,151.13
2183	DRAFTING TECH 37.5 HR	678,72	754,71	747 Al	€78.72	636.3)	693.92	701.50	709.10	71671	72429	731.90	739J2'	747.11	754.71
2191	DRIP PERSON	25)1	25.82	25.72	25.11	25.18	2525	25.34	25.41	25A7	25.51	25.57	23,65	25.72	23 82
2197	ELECT	2630	28.72	28 JI	2630	26.57	2676	17J&1	27.20	2MJ	27.64	27.B8	2809	28 31	28.72
2199	ELECT A GAS OPNS	28.06	29.79	29JI	28.06	28.35	2866	28.93	29.21	29 JI	29.79				
2193	ELECT SYSTEMS SUPPPKT	26JQ	28.01	27.72	26.30	26.47	26.64	26 77	2696	27,09	27.24	27.41	27,35	27.7?	28.01
2205	ELECTRONIC TECH RADIO LIC	3050	32,00	31.72	20 50	30.67	30.79	30.91	31 05	31.18	3LJ4	11M	31.60	31.72	32J3O
•2941	ENGINEER AIDE GAS OPERPOST	1,005.40	IW	1.253 IS	1405-40	1J032.91	1,060.45	1.087.98	1,115.50	1.14304	1,170159	M98J7&	1215.66	125348	M80.87
2270	ENGINEER ASST TO 33.5 HR	1.060.64	1.3W.99	] .278.74	1.06064	1.034,81	1,109.10	M33J2	1,157.56	1,16182	1206.03	L23D.26	125449	1,278.74	1,302.99
PAGE: 101
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER 13, 2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY IS, 1W3 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	J MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	€ MOS
224$	ENGINEER HOIST LIC		29.96	■M.W	U.K)	18.72	ms	18.9$	19.12	29.26	2929	»5»	29.64	29.80	29.96’
2111	ENGINEER LIC	2962	3054	3043	29 62	29 72	29.81	29 90	29.98	30.09	30.1?	30 34	5035	3041	30. $4
2742	ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYST 37.3	136733	1J9747	139242	1.36733	1,372J7	1J7739	1,38231	1JS7J9	1,39242	1,397.47				
2TJ5	EQUIPMENT MAINTAINER	24 42	25.92	2565	2*42	24.71	24.93	2517	23 43	25.65	#92				
2W7	FCM APPRENTICE	15,07	1844	17.59	150?	16.33	1739	1B.M							
2633	FCM APPRENTICE SENIOR	1962	24 SO	22.81	19.62	21,23	22, R7	24 W							
#56	FCM APFRtNTKE TRAINEE	1020	14 30	1295	10.20	11.SB	12.93	14.30							
237$	FCM ELECfiNSTRUMENT TECH	J2J9	34.23	33.90	32.29	JJ-6)	32,92	3325	33.56	31.90	34.23				
	FCM MECHANIC	25,2$	27,13	26 91	25.25	2346	25.63	25.82	2602	26.21	26 34	26.59	26.76	2698	27.13
26M	FCM MECHANIC A	27,«	29.79	29.59	27 90	28 06	2828	2846	20.66	28.83	29M	29 22	29L39	29 59	29.79
2713	FCM MECHANIC ELD FACILITIES	27S5	29.26	29.11 i	'	27.55	27.86	’ 27.90	28,0$	2825	28.41	28 60	"28.7$	28.93	29.H	29-26
zm	FCM MECIM NIC SENIOR	3033	3141	32.24	3053	30 74	3091	31 10	31.30	31.49	3)67	31.M	32.03	32.26	3241
2606	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	26.02	27.90	27.71	26.W	2621	2638	”26.59	26,76	26,98	27J3	27J6	27.51	27.71	27.90
2604	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A	2866	36.33	30 36	28.66	23 85	29<M	29.22	2941	29.59	29.79	29l9?	3&1?	30.36	30.53
2602	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN 5R	31 30	33.19	32-97	' 3130	- 31.49	31,67	31,04	32,05	32-26	3241	32.6J	12.79	32.97	33,19
20)4	FJELD OPERS INSPECTOR A	2616	27.82	27.63	26.16	1633	26.30	26.66	2683	Z6.99	27.13	2732	27.48	2765	27^2
2013	HELD OFERS INSPECTOR B	2434	24.85	24.80	24 J4	24.39	26.44	34.5(1	24.5$	24.60	’244$	24,69	24.74	24 811	24.$$
	FIELD OPERS INSPECTOR C	21 33	22.8)	22.69	21.$3	21.65	21.79	2141	22.05	22.17	22 31	22.43	22.56	22.69	22.81
2746	HELD REP 40 HR	1J 19.47	1,28751	] 364.69	1,21947	1,21947	L ,219.47	lii 9.47	L24107	1J4W	1,264 69	1.364^9	1.287.51		
2350	HELD REP 40 HR POST W	(.01661	M6J0I	M5004	1^1642	I4WJ.5S	1.04622	1,061-04	1,07519	1,090.71	1,105 55	1,120.34	1.135(6	1.15004	1,165.01
2368	FIELD REPRESENT	1JB1.87	U87J2	1376.34	1,18(57	IJ9241	1,202.89	1213.44	1,22194	1234.66	1,245.04	125S57	1,26605	U76S6	U87.32
2369	FIELD REPRESENT OFFICE	1.08737	1,192,82	1,182X7?	1318737	1J09W	1,108,40	1,118.94	1,12946	(,(4001	1,15049	U61.01	M2I.51	El 82 07	1,192 82
PAGE: 102
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER Id, 2003 TO OCTOBER 15,J(NM FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15, IW AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
						PROGRESS ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	dMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	dMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS
•2969	FINANCIAL ASSTPOST37.5 HR	923,66	IJ76R2	1351.44	935.66	94893	974,29	999.60	1,024.85	1,030.19	1,075.49	L100.BL	LJ26.I1	1.151.44	1,176.82
_ gB_7. _	FITTER	2424	25.95	25.61	24,24	24.36	2433 39.45		14.U	24.98	25.16	2543’	25,4?'	256F	25.95
	FLDIR ELECI7MECH GAS OPNS	28,86	30 60	303)	2886	29.15		2973	30.01	30JJ	30.60				
2259	FLD TR INSTRUMENT ENSP	1 jfl6-57	1^73,97	UW>90	1,21)6.57'	1,218,63	1230.69	1742.76	~ 1,254.86	1466,90	1J78.9?’		-	. 		.. - —
2792	FLDTR SYS GAS OPER	29.84	31.35	31,29	29.84	30,14	30.43	30-7 J	1L«1	3149	31,55				
2ML	GATE GU AR.D	20,99	2276	22.09	20,99	21.20	21,42	21,6]	2L82	22.09	' 22,26	—		— . . . .	•
2358	GRAPHICS TECHN SR 37,5 HR	1,101-30	I.I88J7	1,179,71	1.W	131002	1,11873	I.I2H2	1,136.14	1,144.85	1J53.S9	1,(62.30	1471,06	1179,72	1188.57
2540	GRAPHICS TBCHN 37 5 HR	91647	1,014.35	1,004.97	9 f 6.47	926.24	936,09	945,93	955.78	9t657	' 97543	98531	995 II	1,OW,97	1,014.85
27 tO	GSO OLSTfSTATIDN FLDTJtNR	298]	31,55	31 39	29,81	29.9?	30,1?	30,33	30 50	30,71	30.87	31.04	31.22	’ 3L.39	31.55
2712	GSO DIST/STAT1ON SR FLD TgNR	1103	3284	3160	31.03	3170	3139	31.55	31.74	31 96	3111	32.3t	32.46	J2M1	3284
2708	GSO DISTRICT ASSISTANT	18,31	22,99	22. SO	1831	16 76	1970	19.71	20.19	20.66	21.20	2159	22 09	22.30	22.99
2706	GSQ DISTRICT ASST TRAINEE	' 1W	16,68	13,89	IW	16.6S	. - .			’ - *	■ -	• — -		— . -	
2362	OSO HOLDERPERSON	24,91	2801	14.48	74.9)	25,44	25,98	26.47	27 DI	1448	2101			— _	
2496	GSO mechanic PRESSURE	27.53	29,26	28.96"	*7,55	27.71	' 27.88	2801	2820	'	2832	' 18.49	'	28j66	2880	28.96	' " 29.26
2709	GSO STATION & HELD OPERATO	2827	29,94	29.79	287?	2842	28,61	28 76	28.93	29.10	29 27	29,45	2960	29.79	29.94
2559	CSO STATION OPERATOR	27.20	2&,&TI	28.58	17,20	27,49	27,77	28.01	28J0	28.58	2835				
2345	HELPER	1104	11.04	11.0*	1)04	11 04						. —	■		..
2154	HELPER DISTRIBUTION	9.16	1471	1366	'	9.16	9.6$	1016-	10^7	11.14	Hj67	12,15	J 2.65	13,19		kii’
2353	HELPER MECHANICS	18 19	23 19	2158	JW	18.65	19.13	1W.	20,15	2060	21,JO	21 60	22.12	22 58	23,19
2355	HELPER OPERATORS	22.97	2474	3413	22,97	23.19	23.45	23.67	23^9	24.13	24.34				—, - • -
2356	HELPER PRESSURE	22.12	23,43	23-18	22.12	22,31	22,51	22-76	22.95	23.18	2343				
2JW	HOLDER PERSON		24.84	2631	2697	24 84	15.07	25,34	"	2556	‘ 2W	' 26?07	26.31		...		
PAGE: 103
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER 15,2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1903 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
								PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS							
						FIRST		SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6.MOS
ill'll i '	•	•	.	! .	■	i '	. f	!	'	.	. i	IND APPL INSPECTOR FOST40HR IND aPPL INSPECTOR PRE WSFECTOR ENG POST INSPECTOR ENG PRE ’ INSPECTOR INSTRUMENT MTR R INVESTIGATOR B POST	' INVESTIGATOR B PRE MAINT FIRE EQGaS OP SYS SVP MAINTAINER INSTRUMENT MAINTAINER PERSONHRE EQ4J1 MAINTAINER PROVER JNDTCAT f MAINTAINER PROVER INDICATE mech" "' l	- - • MECH AD ISTOFNS	' MECH APPLIANCE	~ " mechdesta ""	' * MECH DET A FLD TR QfC~ ~ MECH BEST A FLD TRAINER	’ MECH DIST A POST 98	” MECHWST D	J	' MECH DEST R POST 98 MECHMETERA	”	1,095.06 ' 1300iwj 145*27" 1,298.42 1,036.98 2 984 01 1,106.89 ’ 2763 26J0 '	23.01^ 28.14 2630 ~ " 2834 jut 31,03 	 &V7 27 34 24 46 2)35 ’ 26.44	1,4000? ’ 1,458,22 " un so _ J3U6G 1423.86 MIO.54 __ _29 ?$ 28.01 30.99 22 50.t¥ 2872 “ ’ 29.94 _2434 '	2926 32-84 29-26 ’ 24.98	8	.£!£ ,1S|h	S|S|S K	ftfR'81 $[8,"	K.Si.SjS S.K;8 —r —J p — । ~ । — ■ — , i i ' । J	t	; । ।	1 ■	1.095 06 1^0035 14 5427 1,298.42 1.036-^ I**"01 1406.89 	27-68 26.30 2 j)?1, 28.14 " ’ " 27 26.30 )SJ4 ’	2247 ^2<.I4 31 03 29.97 27,34 14.46 2335 '" " 26.44	M01.45 ’ 122633 1,17833 1323.95 1,055 63 t,010.96 1,137.20 '	27,89 26.47 ”2414 J ’27,fif 26.57 I L 22.35 2832 	 31.33 JIS 24-53 2353 ”	26.62'	1.135-57 1,252.12 1203.19 L'i?*’-7j)?4.36 . LOTO jo/ 1,16709 '	2809 2604 _24J6 20.71 ’iTM ”j8^ Z25£ ” 2A5) J 1,63 _ _ W 17 72 2<W9_ 23 69 26.76	1.169.71 ) ,27703 1,227,65 L3W.93 1,09/02' 1.064,99 1.197.98 2829 26.77 24.65 " 29-(l2 -2 2701 22.78 31.96 '	30.78 27.91 23.84	1,203 85 UOIW 1,232.1] L4O8.47 1,11103 _ ?’228J2. _ 2 s 49L 26.96 	 34.86 29.31 2ML 27,20 —’29,43' 1 J1*9* 32.26 _ M 13 24.01 5? 08	1,237.97 ^_L329.34 1,27635 ^35.94 IJ3D.37 mwi] 1,258.72 27.00 _ ^3.10 29J9 '	28.68 27A3 _ ~ 29.68 23.)/ . 2t’09 32.36 31,32 28.29 "	24 .72 24.17 “J" 2W	1,272.12 J M5S.O7' 1301 D3 1063.4T 1.149OI ’ JJ45.97 _ 1489.04 2^ -90 2724 29-87 28.96 27 64 29-94 "	13-4(l 29.26 " 32.84 31.55 *	2849 _24 77 2434 27.40	130625 ' 7300 86 1,325.47 '“mSloj' 1,167.74 ~ 1.172-97 13)9.43 . 2j4£ 37 41 _30lB 29.22 " 27.88 -23 56 28.68 24 50 '	'27.55	1,34038 ^7406*/ 1,349.95 _ 171850 1,186.42 1399.99 1,349.81 27.53 30.43 28.09 2373 28 87 ~2404 24.66 27~7]’	1J75.9O '1.432,3/ *37439 ' 15*601 Tiw.'ii 132700 IJSO. 18 ~ 27.72 3076 ’	2831 " 23.97 2908 24 87 24.82 JUT	L408.6T MSS-lT 139890 L573.W 132306 1253,98 1410.54 _	29 75 28.0) 3D.99 30.11 28.72 2434 29 26 ~	24.98 24 98 ” 28.01
I
PAGE: 104
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D ■ 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1«, 2003 TO OCTOBER 15, 2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND 1		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
			1												
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	J MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
249$	MECH METER B	22,66	23,64	23,49	22,66	22,17	22,84	22,93	23-01	23,11	23.19	23,11	23.41	23.49	2164
2499	MECH METER SPECIAL	2873	3018	29.93	28,73	28,66	29.01	29.12	29.26	29,41	29,53	19.65	29,81	29.93	30 18
2484	MECH SYST SUPPT	26,39	21.01	27.72	26.30	26,47	26,64	26,77	26.96	27.09	27,24	n.c 1	27,55	27,72	28.0]
2509	MESSENGER 37-5 HR	323.29	622,02	592,15	323-29	353.13	382,99	412,91	442,7g	47270	502-52	5JM’	562.29	592.15	622,02
2689	METER READER POST 9£	44192	602.07	520.62	442 92	468.R	494.70	520.62	546,50	575,54	602X17				
2859	METRETEKTECH	29 94	30.99	3076	29.94	30,05	30.13	3021	3031	3040	3048	30,58	30,68	30,76	31X99
2701	OPER DlST C POST 92	1809	2U0	20,84	18,09	1841	18,71	19.01	1931	1962	19.91	20.13	20,51	20,84	21.10
2719	OPER DIST C POST 98	18X19	21.10	20.81	18,09	18.41	18,71	1901	L93L	19,61	19.91	20 20	20-51	20.81	21.10
IMS	OFBR hlSTJUBUTMM C.	’ 2133	2181	2238	21,53	21,71	2195	22.17	22J7	12,58	22,8]				
2609	OPER SCREENALUBCKHOE/PaYL	23 99	24.84	24.77	23,99	24.06	24.14	24 25	24.32	24 40	24 47	24.59	24,20	24,77	24.84
2608	OFER SLF-LDG VEH 0 VW 2W0CH-	2399	24.84	24.77	23.99	24.06	24,14	24.25	24.32	24,40	2447	24 59	34,70	24,77	24,84
2378	OPNS ASST Dl$T	955,31	t .05999	LXK9.41	95531	965 7?	976.19	986.71	997.13	UW.62	1,018.07	1,028,5$	1,938.93	1,04944	1059,99
2514	OPNS ASST DIST	95531	1,05999	1XM9.4I	955.31	965.7?'	976.19	986.71	997,13	1,007.62	1,01807	1.O2E.S5	1X113-91	1,04941	JJ059-99
2516	OPNS ASST GAS OPS	19,75	25.03	24 35	19,75	20 28	20.81	2128	21 79	22.31	2283	23 36	23 86	24.3S	25,03
2591	OPR A DIST OPNS	28.34	29,94	29-68	28,34	28.63	2819	29.15	29.43	29,68	29,94				
2859	OPR ASSISTANT SNG	2720	28,8$	2838	27.20	27,49	27,77	28X11	28 30	28.58	28,85				
2584	OPR C TRAINEE DEST	14,48	17,36	14 48	14.48	17.36									
2715	OPR C TRAINEE POST 98	13,89	16.68	13,89	13,89	1668									
2518	OPR CHIEF LNG	3268	3463	34.29	32.68	32,97	33 32	33,64	33,97	34.19	3463				
2534	OPR CHIEF SNO*LNG	3441	3646	36.13	34.41	34,74	35.08	35 46	35.79	36,11	3646				
2528	OPR DATA PROC NO 3	329,98	693,06	655 87	3209?	358.2]	395,40	432.61	469,83	507.05	$44.23	sU.iS	618,61	655,87	693,06
2545	OPR DISTRIBUTION A	28,14	29,26	' 29.09	28.14	28.32	28.51	28,71	28,89	29.09	29.26				
PAGE: 105
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C<u- 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1003 TO OCTOBER 15,1004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1083 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS,1986
					PROGRESS					[ON SCHEDULE IN		YEARS				
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	«MOS
i *	■' ; : : i" ■ ! \ ■ ; ' ' ;■ kJ 1 kJ I kJ : kJ kJ p k.	kJ 1 JJ kJ ' kJ kJ kJ kJ 1 kJ E	.^s's	is S 5'S B.S Sli ,l ■ j ' 1 . 1 i i . i ' ;	■ . . :	OPR DISTRIBUTION B OPR DlSTRJBUnON B POST 98 OPR DUMP TRUCK. L JT+ OPR HOIST CHERRY PC KER [LIO OPR LEAD DATA ENTRY* 37.3 HR OPR LEAD MICRO MACHm HR OTO LEAD REPRO MACH 37.5 HR OPR LEAD SYSTEMS 37 J HR OPRj-NG 	L, " OPRLNG ASST QFJ&MAtL INSERT MA€H37,5jjjT OPR OFF-SITE OPR REPRO MACH $R 3VTHR " ’ OPR REPRO MACH 37.3 OPR SN&LNG OPR STATION A LbC OPR STATION B- OPR SYSTEMS A37.5 HR OPR SYSTEMS37-SHR	' OPR TELEPHONE NGHTJTJ HR OPR TELEPHONE 315 HR “ OPR TELPHONE PT37 J HR		23.43	~ 23J?	' - U.U	"" 22-3? 2223 22.84									13.43 30.62 100127
		2*2.12						22.51 22.38 ”	23.05	22,76 22.50 23J0		22.95 22.64 'JgJ2~ 29 £0 1,033.95 ’ iJtWkW-	23,18	23.43 il9)' 23.97 "jO.tti' 960,24	23.M			
		22.12 Z?7J9 29.26	22.12 23.97	22)2 23,73	22-12 2239					22.73 Z3J3"			23.18	23.29 30,47 Ml .64	
			30.62 1002,27 1098,66 109166 " U33.17 3L36	3047 99) 04	JU6 897.3’1" 994.11" 994.72	29.39 io&w i.omI?' 1,B9.44 29,83	29 53 91S>3 ' ijnsjoo L0J5.W	2965 ' f 928.09' LJD2547 "LG2547		2993 1,0+6.37 ” LW6J?		30.19 "97CL72	30,33 98L17		
		994.12 _994J2 1.129.00 2938		1083.19 2 ’ liWJO Q23B 31-06							1.056.83 L056.W’	J06732 IM232	1077,73 107X7?	1.088 19 I’088.79	1098.66 7098.66
					2959		1.14956 30. LB	1,160.33 3"(M7	1,17080 ’30.78	1.181.29 3106	L19L72 31 36	J.202^0	U1167	I1213’13	L .233.57 	 29.22 949J3
		2700 " — L4L 2+35	2922 949.8? 25-82 ~ 104700* moa 346? ma 26J9 1098.66	29.07 25-56	2700 24J5	27.77 ~ J^U7 24.63	2792 IZjzl12 24.W	23.06 880^3 25-60 ~ 974.07 47322 33.64 27 JO ,__m6 1,025.47	28J3 ^^890.83 _ 25.36 "wi’jY	28.40 J556 53607 28.41 26. L8 13X6,37 'lj»825	2858 Zjiai8 23.S2	2173 920.32	2890 ’930,14	2907 939.99 —1036.7? 661.68 19 105012	
		_ 94166 3790J jms' 27.07 - _ _ 994.12 329.13 37W 263.92		66168 	 2Ml_ 	'26.18 JjMB.i? 7,05012	94166' 379.03 2 "jia 27.W J40I 994.12	953,12 41045 32.9?1 27.36 " 1Sj? 1004-57 966.4$ 36966 4kTmT	J63k62 441.82 27,61 L lt01S 00				1005.42	1015.87	1026,30		__10*7.4O 69306 1098.66 733.44 ^71558
									504.66 ”	33’97^ is.17 " "j5.94 IJB 5,95		567.44 28.« _ W39 105683 1018,75	398J7 1.067.32 1,02921	6J0.28 1,077.73 652.58 “6485?		
					955.98		976.09	98736	997,84						
			733.44 * “ 71158	69303 66206	329.25 37903 26592			4KUI 44638	430.50 “*FjXT7		49093 513’^1	531.36 "54132	J7I.78 58099		 612 )7 siw		69303 66206	
			266.72	265.92		’	266.72									
PAGE: 106
LOCAL IOI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D-3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER 15,2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,I M3 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS,19S6
					PROGRESS!					ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS					
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	title description	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2521	OPR WORP PROCESS	529-80	763,9J	74043	529.80	55322	576-61	6O0.Q5	623 43	696,84	ftTQJI	693 64	717,05	740.43	763.91
2561	PAINTER	14.11	2S.ll	24,to	34,27	2443	24,40	24.46	24.53	24.64	24.70	"	24,7$	24.8?	24,86	25.11
2569	PAINTER BODY TRANSP	26.30	28-01	27.72	26,30	26.47	2664	26.77	26,96	21.09	2724	27.41	2735	2772	28.01
2572	PARTS PERSON TRANS	24.33	25.28	25,15	24.33	24,42	24,52	24.64	24,72	24.80	24 87	24.96	2506	25.1$	23J8
2576	PHOTOG ASST APPR 315 HR	379.03	693.06	661.68	379 03	410.4$	441.82	473.22	504 66	$36.07	567,44	598.87	630.2E	661.68	693.06
2J78	PHOTOG ASST 37.5 HR	727,82	8 0861	800.36	72 W	735,92	743.99	152.08	76013	1M.23	776J0	784.40	192.46	800.56	80BAI
2582	PHOTOG LAB TECHN 37.5 HR	83769	1/151.Bl	1,030,33	837.69	85908	8W47	90190	923J1	944,71	966.13	9P51	1,008,92	IJ0303J	1£51 ,Bl
2575_ 25?3	PHOfOGJTSHR _	__ PLANT PROTECTION PERSON	1,037,83 21.53	_U6B,7^ 2176	IJ55.6D 22,5(1	1,03743 71-53		hoso^ 21.62	1,06394 21,74	1/177.06 21.84	1,090.13 21,96	1.10322 22.1 f	1,116.34 22-19	1, L29.+4 2230	1,142 51 22,41	1,155.60 22.50	1J68.73 22.76
	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON SR	_	23,20	24,44	24,2?	25,20	213$	23.4$	23,55	23.64	33.75	23,88	2401	24.H	2422	“	'34.44
*2979	PUBLIC RELATIONS ASST POST	91429	1228,17	1,196.62	91429	945.63	976.97	1/MHJ9	1J039.78	)£71,15	1.10251	1,133-89	1J65.2B	1,196 62	LJ2B.11
2599	READER METER	442.92	793.14	758,12	44292	50(30	559.63	618.05	676 40	758.12	793.14			* ,	
2598	MADER METER (NIGHT SKIP)	442.92	793.14	758.12	442,92	SOI J0	559.63	618.05	676.40	758.12	793,14				-
2138	REPCAD 375HR	978.05	J ,1033£	_ 1,09057	97805	990.53	1,003.06	LOI559	1,028.10	1,040.57	i ,053.05	L£6561	1,078 M	1.09057	1,103.31
2156	REP CUST INQ SR 37.5 HR	1,019.68	1,144.96	LI3144	1,019.68	1,032,20	1.044-74	L ,05727	1,06919	I.0R2.D	1,094.88	U0?£0	1,119.89	1,13244	J J 44,96
1158	REP ClTsTJNQ 37.5 HEI	952,19	1,038-81	1,075.17	952,19	965.82	97949	993.13	1/0643	L02D.46	(£34.15	1,047.83	1,06150	L075.I7	
2093	REP D1ST OFF 37 J HR	M2.19	1,08841	LJ/75.17	952.19	965-82	979.49	993.15	1 £06.83	13120.46	1,034.15	1.047.83	1JJ6IJ0	1/J15.11	1/isa.aT
2094 _	REP DIST OFFICE SR 37.5HR	1,018,49	LI20J7	1,1(0.06	1,018.49	1.028.69	1,038.88	IJMW	1 JW9.2J	1 £69.41	1 £79,57	1,0051.74	I/W9.92	1,110,06	1,12037
2371	REP ENERGY CONSERV	758.25	1,036,32	1,008.54	15825	786.05	813.85	841.62	869 JO	897,24	925 09	95288	9B068	LM8 5D	J £16.32
2600	REP REGULATORY 1NQY 37,5 HR	1,019,68	1,144 96	1,132,44	1,01968	1.(132.20	1,044.74	J £57.27	1,069.79'	1/18233	1,094.88	1,107.40	Lt 19.89	1,13244	U44.96
2160	REF SPEC LEDGER SR 37.S HR	978 A5	1,101.11	l/WJI	918,05	990.53	1,003.06		1,028.10	1.M9.57	I ,O53JO5	1,065 61	1,072.08	1,090,57	1J03J1
2711	SENIOR PHOTOGRAPHER	922,36	1236,20	1,204.81	912.36	953.75	98S.14	1,016.50	1.047,90	t£7928	M 10,67	1,14206	1,173.43“	1,204.81	1^3620
PAGE: 107
LOCAL lot WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D -3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, Z003 TO OCTOBER IS, 2W4 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TTI1E description	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	«MOS	4 MOS	OIOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2669 ” 2692 “	separator person SNOW REMOVAL LI Of	- 23’4B " "jflLM,	24£^	24 JW	23.4g	7369	21,94	24.1$	H31	24.65	i486		■ -- ■■ ■	- - ■ ■	
2693 ""•2959 "	snow removal or call IN L U SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL POST ‘	5I.5U " 1,02609	31,50 1'307.63	51J0 " 1379,40	i,02b.o7	~ 1,05422'	1,082,39	' LliOJl^	"”U3M6	' ”146681"	149456	” 1J23JI	1451.24	’ U7940	1407.63
•2916 ’ "•2914”	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL PRE SRaRTAPRODUCTIONASST"’RE		L154JJ t ,03742	_ 1,470^ ~LJ9OM	1,419. IS L355J&	l.t 54.21 "" 1,037.52	J,185-88 "ixm.so	UI w " halls'		1^49-ia U43jf	/ 48084 "" LI78771	1312 48 UM4M)	14*4 16 ' L249.34	MZ51W ' UMJ7	1.407,49 ’ 1419,88	L439J3 " ij'sSJO	M70.BS ’ 13905*
1*1	STENO CLERICAL J7J HR STEN^K^ARLALn.5 HR	42165 643.18	73W " mH	664 59 75LW	423 65 613.18	454.61 629,13	48563 ~ MSJi'	5)6.59 ’	66L40	547.58 ’ 677*7	378.56 “ “693,51	60934 ’ 709.60	640.50 725.67	671 JO 741.73	6M59 ' 7JL1P	733.44 ’	77188
2878	STOCK. CLERK SNG 3750 HR.	2109	2371	2109	2309	23.09	23.71								
2699	STOCK PERSON DATA PROCESS^	665.91	Ml 52	933.64	865,91	873,42	W0.94	838-57	196.08	903.61	9H.13	918-66	92621	931«	941JJ
	STOCK PERSON 37J HR	356.74	6931S	639.33	356.74	390.37	424 03	457.68	491.32	524.96	55859	59225	62353	659J3	W M
ien	STRKPR ASST MATMGT 37,5HR	1,00938	1,111. IB	L.100J3	1.009,38	lTOL9.5O	1,02965	1,039,83	LOSO.OL	1.061)21	IJW0J3	14*80.50	1JW0.70	1.1WBJ	IJ1MB
2700	STRKPR ASST SR MAJ APPL	1.129.03	133792	L 427.0*	LI29.0J	LJ 39.89	1.150.82	1,161.69	Id 73 66	1483.46	1.19437	1405.29	141646	1427.04	1431.92
J1M	STMFR ASST SR MATMCT JUHI	1.08097	1,182.11	1J7153	1.0M197	1091.19	I.101J4	M1M3	LUl^a	1431.84	144201	1452-19	1,16134	i.in-Bi	LC&2.87
11W	STWR ASST SR STNRY J7J HR	1,0*942	1.111. *6	1,1*1,34	),049.62	1.059.81	)+069.99	1,08013	LOW,30	IJOO48	1410.64	LI2O.S2	1431,00	L ,141-14	1,151,46
2551	SURVEY OPR TRUCK	24.34	24.85	24.77	24,34	2437	24,43	24.47	24.53	24J9	14,64	24.70	24,73	24.77"	14.85
2722	SVC PERSON A COORD DF	31,03	32,84	32.63	3),Q3	31.20	31.39	31,55	31,74	3L96	32.11	32.31	32,46	3268	3104
MSt	SVC PERSON A FLD TR	30-St	31.55	3134	30J1	5062	30.73	30.80	3089	30.98	31.06	3115	31.25	3134	3M5
Z682	SVC PERSON A FLDTRNIVF	31.03	32.84	3156	3103	31.33	31,63	31.06	3226	32,56	32,M				
2671 26T3	SVC PERSON A GEN AFPL SVC PERSON B APPL	29.01 2416	29,94 24.79		 29A1 ~ 24,lT	29,01 2410	29,09 24.15	29,17 “* 24.24	__ _29J6 2A30	29J6 ” 24.35	_29,45 2441	_ 29,54 2447	29.62 2* si		797.1. 24 65	_ fo.81 " 24.71		29.9* 2*79
2675	SVCFERSDN C METER A APPL	2161	24.10	24,03	23.6)	2364	13.70	23 73	23.76	2JR2	13.88	23.94	23.99	24.03	24,10
PAGE: 108
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE C/D - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,1003 TO OCTOBER IS, 20M FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15.1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
								PROGRESS!		ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS					
						FIRST		SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2726 2677 _ 2670 ’ *296$ ~ 2807 2b2fc _ 2I12 28! I 2819 2820 2827 2829 283L 2835 28)7 2849 2853 ~2855 / 2857 2333	SVC PERSON C POST 98 svc person t> lockunlock SVC SPECIAL DUST 37,5 HR SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST SYS PROCESSOR DIST 37.5 HR SYS PROCESSOR DJST4OHR TECHNICIAN PROCESS A TELEPHONE SERV REP 37 J HR_ TELLER HEAD 37,5 HR ’ TIMEKEEP SYS SUPP 37J		 TOOL REPAIR PERSON TOOL REPAIR PERSON A TYRST STATISTICAL 37.5 HR UPHOLSTERER UPHOLSTERER A UTILITY PERSON SYS SUPP UTILITY WAREHOUSE PERSON watch GUARD WATCH GUARD A PORTER WELDER WELDER A WELDER A QUALIFIED	1962 21,86 966.U2 856.09 926 40 ** 926.40 30,77 86264 J <018.49 926 12 26,08 36.91' 485 64 25.67 27.28 22,17 7 04 19,99 1I8J3 ku' 27,79 29.63	22,62 23,19 1,070.77 JJ47.P LO3LI6 1,031.16 3155 L013,4> L120.37 1430.8? 37.82 541,73 2740 23,92 23.J9 1421 21,21' 555.56 28.01 29,45 3142	22.31 22.95 1,060.30 LlllOl) 1,020.55 W0,55 3143 998.29 El 10.06 l}>20.2l’ 2749 28JI 536,02 27.03 28.65 22.93 " 1348’ 21 00 531 82 29,16 "’K.u	1962 ' 21-86 966.02 " tow 92640 926.40 ' 30.^ 862,64 LOI 8-49 926-12 26,08 _ 2V1 48564 25.67' ~~2T2S " 22,17 7M __ 19 99 318.35 _ 2179 24.68	19.91 22.J3 976.45 >85.24 936 88 ' 936.8? 30.90 	877,70 L02869 >3657 26.25’ “ 27?07' 491 23 25.83 2745 “ ~_^2Z25 778 20,23 342.05 — 2647 28 04 29"97	2022 J-Pl. 986.92 947J3 947,33 31.fl? _ 892,78 L038.88 947,02 26.38 J722 496,83 '	2600 2784 22.34 6.51 2039 365.78 26.66 283! 3024	20.51 ” _ 12.51 997.39 943J7 957 79 ~ ~ 957T9 31,16 907,85 1JN9.0?" 26.57 ” 2740 50244 “	26~17 28,09 2242 9.19 ’20W 389 52 _ 26,77 28,61 " 3?53	2084 2277 1,007.81 '~97249 968.2S 31,32* 922.92 JJ15943 967 97' 26.72 27 j£ 50806 77^w _2W 22J0 9.92 ' ~ 2084 41323 28.89 '30.8?	2iao IXHgJQ LO01J9 978.70 31 43 937.96 1.069,41 978.39 2685 ^27,68~ Tilt? 26,4< LkgpW ZL59' 10.6) 436,92 J 2W 29,16	2141 23,19’ 1,028.72 _LU30^£ 989,17 9894 7 ’ 31-53 953,05 l.O^S?' 98887 17 JB 27.8ft 519,29 28.92 22.73* IL16 21-21 "460.64 “27.24 ”29,45 3142	21,70 L039 20 ” L115978 999,61 ?*'!£ 9M.QB 1,089.74 999 33 27 n “ 524,9) 12.79 12.06 484 J8 " 274?	22(w LJM9 64 ”l ,088,89 141008 ^141048 985.11 J 499,92 ’ 1.009,77 27.36 28,18 530.30 26JM 22.89 1276 ~ 50809 2LS5	22.31 I.O6OI? M1800 1,02055 ' loid3< £“998.29 ” J.H046 L02023 27.49 -2^-^ 336.02 27.06 22.95 13,48 531.82 2177	22.62 1470.7? __LH7~l7 1,031.16 1412,« 1,120.37 _ 1,030.8? 27.82 ~£ Z8 7O 541.73 27~40~ ~ 2349 14 2! '5>5_56 '££ 2?oi
PAGE: 109
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D-3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER 15,2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15, IMS AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1M6
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	C MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	CMOS	CMOS	CMOS
2707 " 2MI	WORK MEASUREMENT ANALYST yard person ~	1,135-91 W,9®	1,198.03 23.«	1,192,05 2253	1555 91	1,159,20 2012	1.101,92 2D.52	1,165,7* 2D.M	1,169.01 21,14	1,172.33 2L48	1J7L25 21,75	1.1&2.LB 22 JI	1,187.12 22,38	1,192-05 2273	’	23.09
ALL TITLE CODES FROM 2900 - 2999 ARE UACCREUON TITLES
Schedule C/D - 4
October 16, 2004 — October 15, 2005
PAGE: 110
I
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1«. 1WM TO OCTOBER 15, 2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15, IM3 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15, IWO
					PROGRESSIONSCHEDULE INYEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p,p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	»MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	tMOS	CMOS	i MOS	CMOS
	ACCT ENGR 5ft POST ’’ 7		t.304.00	U75io'	102344	UflLli	1079,3]!	IJOTJ9	IJJi5.43	~ 4.163-51	\l9l58			’ Tirsja	
*2900 " 2212 *2933	ACCTENGRSR PRE ACCT ENGR	_ ”7 J ACCT POST	M 50,95 ' 7doo.it J .080,26	1,466,80 1.344.95	L43509 JdUJS 1018*3	1450-95 1,08026	1,1 8249 J ‘ \,IW?3	1,214.09 U 4272 1,13348	■a 	1-; i i	I.2772Z _ \itt.03 IJ86-IO	1,308. B& jjlKTf 1^12.58	l>W 39 t ,239.10	L371.96 ’ 1 >3.53	1.403 55 ^U3972 " JJ02.O3	O “■ 1 S -;-i2 1 !	1,466.80 J^?d5i fJ44?9S
j *790(3	ACCT PRE	UIS11	1012.90	lk4SJ.J<1	1,21542	1444.02		td«43	133418	IdM-fW	U»,8l	1,42352	“ (.453-34	MH.W	1,512.90
2tM)J	ACCTREPJ75HB	9460*	1.054-47	1043*7	946 AW	9%.M	967.70	978.53	989.34	1,000.17	2,010.98	1,021.84	J.032.M	LM34?	1054.47
2020	ACCTG ASST CORF 175HR	1030.31	4,244.75	1JM02	1030-31	J 049 84	L060.35	1317087		WI.9)	1 J02.43	1412.93	1,12330	J.iiW	M44.W
2002 jois”	ACCTG ASST BIST 37,3 HR ACCTG ASST SR CORP J15HR	WS9 JJfKUl	1J 00.41 ” M77J0	1039*4 IJ59.66	994 89 i * L100141	13105,46 ’id L83H	1 J) 16385 ‘ ’iiSS’	I3H6.11 ’ * 1453.49'	wTi?	1 ,W.7.«4 ’* ld8S46~	1058.16 ' 1 J06.57	^060.13	1079.27	1.089.M ' 125906	X1D041 tjrijs
2016	ACCTG ASST SR 37 J HR	103931	1,144.7$	1,13402	I.MWl	1049*4	1060,35	13W7	ljOSl.3?	1.W.91	1,10243	1.112.93	1,12X50	1.134.02	1,144.75
2011	ACCTG ASST 37.5 HR	9M.89	1,100.41	108984	994.89	1.003 46	1,0 J 600	LOJ6 51	1,007.10	T047.64	t ,05846	1.068,73	403917	1089.M	tJW.4l
3*2	ACCTG CLERK 1 PT 37 J HR	87W	931d7	922,45	8?Bl46	M7J9	896,04	9<W85	91363	922,45	931.17				
low	ACCTG CLERK J PT 37,5 HR	2PT41	29805	297,85	297.85	298.05									
	ADM ASST CSD POST		7,220.95	1,194.62	95W	904251	1,01083	J 4137.09	1X163.28	1.089,57	1,113,82	U 4? 09	[,168.34	4,194.61	i<2&»
*29Q3	ADM ASST C$D PRE	tjtnw	1.37341	404JJ6	l,4TTM	1,307.45	1436.97	1,166,60	<196.96	1.325.61	U55.14	1,284.74	1J 14.23	' iMLTO	1,373.41'
•2937	AOM ASST MAT MOT POST 37'J MJ	1001 72	121* 37	1,246.7$	1.001-72	1029.14	1.05659	L<»4X)9	1JKJ4	M3S.97	146641	1,193,90	(,221.35	J^4K75	1.276.37
*2915	ADM ASST MAT MGTPRE	[,12477	1.4J3.7S	1,404.74	1,12677	Id 57,66	1488,57	U19J8	l«2M.3O	1,281.18	IJ11Q8	1,342 98	l,37X8t	[,4W74	IA3S-75
‘2971	At)M ASST METER REFAJI POST	L,QI A3 J	UCT. 70	1J6J.25	1014.33	1,04 LSG	1.06922	13)96 65	1J 24.08	1451.51	1,17898	1.206.35	J133-83	1,261,25	1.283.7D
*2»2	ADM ASST METER REPAfK PRE	LU1-W				M 27.89	IJUZ.74	1JJ3.S5	106445	1,295,33	L 326,16	U57P3	" 1,387.64	tXlS.M	1,449.63
*2967	aom ASST S VS SUP POST	995,2*	ure.69	1,181.24	995.24	1.016.5?	1,037.89	1/M9.2L	lXtt/,54	1,10188	1.123.21	1,14436	1,163 89	1.187-24	IJ08.69
PAGE: ill
I
I I
I
I
LOCAL iOI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2004 TO OCTOBER IS, 2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN							'EARS					
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	Max	p. p.	S MOS	J MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	(MOS
•2920	ADM ASST SYS SUP PRE	1J1950	U59X1	J ,335,44	1,119.50	1,143.48	1,16745	JJ91.5O	1.215.44	1,139-47	1,263,45	1.287,46	1^)144	1,335.44	1,359X1'
•2941	ADM ASST WORK COMP POST	934.19	1.190.19	1J64 58	934.19	95977	985.36	1X1096	>X3&56	IX6Z.21	1,087.79	1.113.39	1,138.98		L19019
•2955	ART A PRODUCTION A$£F POST	956.95	>>282.56	1,2499*	956 W	98952	1X22X5	1X54J9	IX87.U	M 19.73	1152.30	L184.B3	1217 J6	1,249 W	IJS2.$~6
2739	ASSOC CUSTOMER SERVICE	444.24	943.00	861,54	444.24	537.70	6)116	694,62	778,07	861-5*	945.00				
2865	ASST CHEMIST	£5248	LO7L71	1X19.80	W.4B	87438	W6.32	9)118	940.14	962.01	983.95	1X05X9	1,027.86	1X49-80	1 >071,71
•2953	ASST EDITOR POST	9*3.33	U2G2.4K	1J76-48	943,83	969.68	99552	1X21.38	1X47.23	1 >073.08	1.098.93	1,124.76	1>i50.64	kD6.4B	1J02.48
2370 '	ASST FIELD REP ’	1,063.13	1,217.24	1JLQ1.65	1.063.23	1,078.57	1,093,99	1,109.36	1,124 72	) >140.16	1,155,49	1,170 91	1,136.25	JJIHXS	1,21724
2023	ATTEND OARAGE	I&53	18-57	>7.70	10.5$	>1.39	12 .15	1297	13 7?	14.59	13.38	16 16	16.97	17.70	18J7
2022“	ATTEND GARAGE ALTER FUEL	I8J5	24,50	23 76	18,3$	18,9g	1955	2014	2073	21.34	21,94	22.56	23.15	23.76	2450
2488	ALTDMECH A FLD TRAINER	19 67	3L4J	3). 14	2967	29.95	30J4	30.55	30,84	31.14	3)45				
' 24P	AUTO MECHANIC	27.61	29,43	29.10	’ 27.67	21X1	28.00	28.15	28,33	2847	28 64	28X3	2897	29. X	2943
2489	AUTO MECHANIC A	28.52	30,23	2995	28.52	2W	29.07	29.J1	29,68	29,95	30.23				
2631	AVTO TECHNICIAN	2M7	31.45	31.14	29.67	199$	3024	30J5	30.84	31.14	31X5				
£325	BLACKSMITH'A'	23.24	30X1	29-71	28.24	28,42	2S.55	28,72	23.90	29X4	29.23	29J7	29.54	2911	3001
1031	CARPENTER	27,61	29.36	29XS	27.6)	27,16	27.92	2S.0V	282*	28.43	2857	23.71	28X0	2905	2936
2714	CHAUFFEUR DISTRICT OPS	2641	26A1	26.41											
2038	CHA UFFEUR EXECUTIVE	25.46	27.00	26.75	2546	25,72	2597	26.22	26,47	2675	Z?X0				
2W0	CHAUFFEUR TRACTOR TRAILER	2682	28.43	28.15	26.82	27.08	27.35	27. M	2788	23.15	28.45				
204J	CHEMIST	”	1,134.69	1,307.99	U99.6I	kJ 34.69	1,151.97	L16932	M86.6I		U21J3	123864	1255.9g	1.273 27	M 90.6]	1207,99
20*7	CHEMIST SENIOR 37 5 HR	UW.55	1,40294	1389.73	<-3#J5	133676	1350.03	1,363 23	1,376.47	1J39.73	1.402X4				
2939	CHIEF CLERK GAS OPER POST	952J7	1.276.37	1,243.85	952.37	m?4	7.0)7. ID	UN9J2	1,081 89	1,114 JO	t ,146.66	M79.08	1211,45	1^43^5	1,276.37
2056	CLK ACCTG ND I ACCT 37,5 HR	946.04	1,054 47	1X4347	946X4	9S6-88	967.70	978-53	989.34	IXM.17	1X10.98	IX21.W	IXU-M	1.043.47	1X54,47'
PAGE: 112
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE I7D- 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It, 2004 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY IS, 1W3 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
						PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
						FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
																
		TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	tMOS	6.MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
	2055	CLK ACCTG NO 1373 HR	' 93137	1,039.86	1.02883	931,17	94105	95247	963.72	' 974.55	985.44	996	t,«7J2	I JO 17,96	' 1,028.83	1409W
	2057	CLK ACCTG NO 2 37.5 HR	W1«W	w.jj	97524	883.40	893.57	903.79	9I3.96	92414	9302	944.62	954 83	965.02	975J4	935.45
	2W9	CLK ACCTG NO 3 373 HR	34980	597.40	572-51	349,80	374.58	39929	424Q5	448.78	47353	498.25	523.05	547.76	51251	597.40
	27J4	CLK ACCTG NO. 1C1AS		1 PJ9.W	1,611.9*	811,41	845.2?	865,10	886.93	W642	«Cu64	952.46	95442	996.16	1.017.98	LQJ936
	3733	CLK ACCTG NO. 2 C1AS	623.83	78231	766.66	625 83	64L49	65715	672 77	658.4)	704.01	7tl70	73537	151,02	766.66	18231
	2725	CLK ACCTG NO-2 ACCTG POST 92	621513	985.45	899.64	621.93	762.74	899.64	985.45							
	2116	CLK CNTL SR CUST ACCT 3 T4HK	1,063.93	L169.69	xiim	L«3_93	J.074.49	ixima	1.O95.SS	1,106.14	LI 16.64	1.127.19	1.13702	1J48.36	145888	1469-Ml
	2730	CLK COMM NO.l 373HR PO5T92	821,41	L .03986	1,01798	821.41	843 27	865,10	886.93	90882	93064	952.46	97438	996.16	1,017.98	1439.86
	2728	CLK COMM NO.2 37JHR POST?!	625.83	7K.J1	76666	625.83	641.49	65715	672.7?	658,41	704.01	719,70	73537	151,02	766.66	78231
	2067	CLK COMML ASST HD 375 HR	1,049.25	1400.4)	1,09532	1A49J5	1,05435	IJ559 47	1.064.W	1,069.69	1,074.85	1079.95	1,085.05	1JMQ.14	1.09532	1400.41
	2078	CLK. COMML IND AFPL 37.5 HR	1,040.27	1,148.84	1,137.90	13M0J7	1,051.13	LOS 1.93	1072.79	1083-66	1,094.46	(40538	I.IIW	1,12740	1.13?JO	J448.M
	2069	CLK COMML NO J J 75 HR	93?J7	1,03986		931,17	94205	952.81	963.72	974 55	985,44	996,25	1001,12	1017,96	1J2BJE3	L039.W
	2072	CLK COMML NO 2 TREAS 37 3 HR	7)1.48	985.45	937.93	71148	738 80	766 20	793 60	820,99	348.39	873.80	903.13	930155	95793	985,45
	2071	CLK COMML NO 2 375 HR	88340	985.45	97514	883.40	893.57	903.79	923.96	92*24	934,42	944.62	954.83	96502	975,24	985.45
	2073	CLK COMML NO 3 37,5 HR	5017,45	719.05	697,90	507 45	528.64	549.78	570.95	592,10	61336	634.42	655,58	676.72	697.90	' 1)9.05
	20SZ	CLK CONS ANALYS 37.3 HR	749 47	862.S5	851A9	749.47	760.81	772.10	783.49	794.81	805.(5	EE ?.4$	82884	840. U	851,49	862.35
	2115	CLK CONTROL CUST SER 40HR	931, n	1,039.86	1,02833	93) 17	942.05	95201	963.72	97455	985.44	996.25	1,00742	1/117.96	L02B83	1.039 86
	2095	CLK CONTROL PROP MAINT 37 5	991.85	1J 8317	146403	991 85	1,010.98	1,030.12	1049.25	1.06844	1087.50	1406 66	1425.61	1,14491	146403	1,18127
	2074	CLK DEPOSIT 37 $ HR	mro	1,076 64	UW.76	968.10	978.92	m?9	1,000,67	1,011.48	1,022.35	1033 23	1,044,06	I/154.BB	1,065.76	1.076 64
	2101	CLK EXECUTIVE 37.5 HR	814.53	1,03846	1,034.03	814.53	838.92	863.36	887.70	912.06	936.49	96008	985.28	1.009 61	1.03403	1/168,46
	2070	CLK GEN CUST SER *00 HR	39*35	76295	126.59	399 35	435.69	472.07	508-43	544.79	58Lt?	61730	653.39	690.25	726.59	762.95
	2089	CLK GEN MAILS MGT	761.04	1,08935	1,05652	76)04	793 86	826.69	859.54	892J S	92522	958.03	WO06	1,023.67	1.05632	1,08935
I
PAGE: 113
LOCAL fOl WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2d(M TO OCTOBER 15, XOOS FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS, 1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	€MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	« MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
	CLKGENNO L37.5 HR	”?3b17		UH4.69	" ~93M7	HIM	“	987*94	987?94	LO14,69	1.0)469	'IXU9-8				
2LSS	CLK. OEM NO 140 HR	931 A?	1.039-86	hOZW	931.17	942.05	95X87	963.7?.	974. S3	985.44	996JJ	W.I2	1,017.96	1XH28.83	1*039.8$
	CLK GEN NO 2 37.3 HR	47693	$97.40	585.22	476.93	48894	5OLO2	sta.o;	521(4	$37X0	$49X2	561,13	57321	385,22	59740
	CLK GEN NO 3 37.5 HR	258 84	53616	508.32	258.94	286,53	31428	34197	369.W	397.42	425,13	452,39	4 80.59	5M.32	536.16
2M3	CLK GEN NO1QC$T	1,047-28	1J0L.40	1.095 49	1,03228	IjMSXI	IjOM.LO	1,060.01	1,0659)	Wt 87	1,077.74	LO83.67	1.08959	L095.49	L10L4O
1 1 ill§ I 1	CLK. GEN TREASURY 37 5 HR CLK GEN 1 MJCT*ADV 375 HR ~	970,02	1,078.69 1X193.69	1,067.69 " LoSzJf	970.02	9M<9 ~995S2	991.73 ’Tween	1,002 Je 1.017.64	1J7L3.44 " ~Lft2<49	1.024 28 J ,039 J3	IX>33 10 “,050.18	1*045,98 1.061.02'	1X>56.86 L07L88'	1,067-69 1,082.75	1.078 69 1,093.69
2082	CLK GEN ) PUR QC 37 J HR	974.37	1,082-94	t.672.06	974 37	985.22	996.07	1.006.90	1X217.76	1.028 65	1.039,50	IJW.35	L06114	1,012.06	1,08254
2088	CLK GEN 2 MKT ADV 37.3 HR	495,87	616.41	60433	49587	$07.91	51993	532JM	$44X77	556,12	568.18	580 26	“592X9	6O4JJ	616.41
2098	CLK HD CLA1M/SECTY J7.5 HR CUfSo CQMML315HR	’	L06J.93	LIG9W IJ69 60	t.15888 Li$£88	1,063.93 1,063.95	1J>74,49 	1.074.49"	J .085.03 ixTssw’	1.095.5$ i.W5LM	LIO6.14 L106.14	1.116.64 ~Ln6?64	1,127-H 1X27.19	1J 37.82 J,L371j	1,148.36 ' L148J6	J J53 88 "7,istn	1*169.60 ■"l J (i960
2931	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG POST	1,023.14	L304.00	1X7580	1.02314	1.05114	IJQ79.M	110739	1.135.43	L 103,51	LI91 58	1,219.64	1,247.74	1X75.80	1*304.00
29D)	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG PRE	L 150.95	1,466-80	1,43509	1.150-93	1382.49	1.21409	1,24565	L277p2j'	1JQ8.BD	1*340.39	IJ7I.96	1.40355	1*43509	1/166.80
2$B3	CLK HD URBAN AFFAIRS	L06J.93	L169VJ	Lisw	1,063.95	L07A49	1.085.03	1*09555	1,106-14	1J 16.64	L127J9	1*137^2	1,148.36	M58 88	1,169.60
2117 2087	CLK HEADCONlgOL CLK HEAD CUST SVC 31$ RR	L 100.41 1,049,25	JJ7738 1,700.41	2.25966 1*095X2	1,049.25	1,11805 L0S4 35	, LI 35-73 " ij0594?'	LI 53.49 1*064.60	L171.17 1,069.69	_ija82K 1.074.8$	’ LMfijf L079.95	1224.fr' 1*085.0$	U4L97 1X190.14	1X59.66 1,095 32	1,10041
2091	CLK HOUSE HEATING J7.5 HR	29668	652.19	6J6.S1	"29668	332-19	167.72	41J110	«S»5	’47437'	" 5BMB	$45X8	581.00	616X1	652.19
iw	CLK HOUSE HEATNG A 37.5HR	66424	1,009-49	974,87	664X4	698.75	733,26	767.76	802.29	836^2	B7LJ4	905.87	940.33	974.87	1,00949
270$	CLK HOUSE H£ATNG B POST 98	444.03	J7084	566.26	444J03	4S7.W	41117	4*4.7?	498.33	511.91	52530	539’09	5$f67	"56626	’”579.84'
2100	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B 37,5 HR	33293	6SJ.19	630.22	332-93	36W	396,78	423.72	*M.M	492.53	524.48	556J7	58331	62022	65119
	2634 2724* *	CLK INVENT CTLMMD 37 J HR CLK METER REFAJR Sr" '	"	ljM7,2J 944 19	135X85 1,04 J. 30	LHJ.n )*O3t6O	LW723 944.19	1*057.73 953-91	1,063.26 96163	1,073.82 9733$	UH<39“ 983.05	1,09997 992.18	1,114X47 L00246	1.121.02 1,012.1?”	~L 13L60	1,041.30	1,152.85’ LO4I.3D
PAGE: 114
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/I> * 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER li. 2004 TO OCTOBER 1 S, 2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15, 1M6
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		TH	IRD	FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MDS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	AMOS	6MOS	6 MOS	6 MDS
			 . 																	
2086	CLK MIK RfR HEAD 373 KA	994 J9	1,100.4)	1089.84	994,89	1,005,46	I016.M	10265 L	IJ»7,l0	1,0*704	1»O58,I6	(068.73	1079.27	1089.84	1,1004)
										. — —	•_ _ _ _ , _	, 				
2)03	CLK PRICE MKT ADV 37X HR	931,17	1039.86	1.028.83	931,17	94205	952.87	963 72	974,55	915.44	996 2S	1007.12	t .017.90	102*83	1039.86
' ~2W»	CLK SPECIAL LEDGER J7.5 HR	93U7	106715	1.0531,1	' "931.17	' 944.74	MS 38	97200	915.56	999.(9	t,012.76	“IJ026AO	1039.98	1053.61	1,067X5
2113	CLK STCK MAT MGT 37 J HR	68228	761.03	75314	682. ia	690.11	698.03	70593	713,82	72L66	729.55	737,41	74531	753.14	76103
	■ *	**	*	W '	— 1 —	——1 .		— — • —					■ — .							
2HJ	CLK SICK MKT ADV 37.J HR	833.40	985-43	97524	833,40	893,57	903.79	913,96	924X4	934.	944.62	93W	96502	97524	58545
2H4	CLK STCK STORY TRUCK OP ST. J	856.75	1,013.36	1XW.71	85675	813.40	890.08	906.75	923,40	939.99	956.69	97333	990.00	1,006,11	1023X6
	’ “•	V ■	™ f	—	— —	< ■ Mi				—. . . > . —							•	.	L. .			
2092	CLK TELLER 37,5 HR	94604	1054.47	13*3,47	94604	95688	967.70	978.53	989X4	LOGO J 7	1,010.98	M21.S4	103204	1.043,4?	(054.47
2736	CLK TELLER 31,5 HR POST 92	70408	938 72	9(5X7	704.08	72753	751.02	774,4?	797,96	821.41	844.89	868.33	891 82	9(5X7	938.72
2H9	CLK TRAFFIC HR	1,189.10	1X94.98	JX84X7	LI 8910	1J99j65	U1H26	U 26.80	1.23139	1X41,97	U5253	1X63.09	IJ73.69	128427	UM.98
2023	CLK TYPIST 37,5 HR	381.7)	71905	685.30	381.71	415.44	449.14	48233	5U«2	550.36	584.10	617.83	651.57	685.30	719.05
	COLLECTION CONTfi OLLER	101473	JJ44.68	1J3J.47	L014.73	L02767	J.MW	L 053 67	1,066.65	J,07959	1,09254	130X57	1.11*3)	LUI-47	1,14*68
2123	COLLECTOR	966.43	t .979,50	(06709	966.43	977,14	988.99	1,00031	(01(55	102X93	1JO34.I5	t .045.45	1056,67	1,067.99	1079.50
2136	COMPUTER UWtARJAN SR 37.3	1,049 33	1202.95	M 87.58	1049.33	1.064 69	:moa	L095 4)	1,110.82	IJ36,12	1.14150	IJ 56.83	i, 17X24	1,187X8	129295
2W5	CORROSION TECH HELPER	13.72	19,82	19X0	(3.72	14,31	14.94	15,53	1613	16-76	' n’w	17.97	18.59	19X0	19.82
ZM9	CORROSION TECHNICIAN	2046	26,50	25.91	20.46	21,06	21.69	2230	22,92	23 49	24.08	24.69	25.28	2591	26,50
2810	CORROSION TECHNICIAN PRE 92	1061.85	1228X2	UH 78	1061.85	1,078,50	1.095.15	1.IIUI	1,128X2	1,145,16	LI6M3	L J 78.43	1,(95,13	(21L78	UK M
2650	corrosion technician sr	JMJ	3D. 70	30.30	26.53	26.98	27.37	27.78	28X1	2X64	29.04	29,47	29*8	30,30	3070
2735	CHEW LEADER	31.09	3X73	32 $7	3)09	31.26	3142	31.58	31.76	31.91	32,08	3224	3X40	3XST	3X73
2M7	CUST SERV REP 375	987.90	M 29.64	Lil 5.49	987,90	1,002.0	1016.22	L0M39	10*4.59	105*73	1,072.93	1,087.12	” 1,10131	LU 5.49	1,119.64
	CUST SERVICE KEP *> HR	987.90	M29.M	LIL549	987,90	1.60204	1016,22	1.030139	1,04+59	1058.73	1,07X93	LO87.12		LM5.4?	” 1,129-W
2137	CUSTODIANS RECORDS ASST 375	985-45	1090 89	1080.33	985 43	99596	100649	1.017.06	1.027 60	LO38.11	1,048.74	1059X9	1069,85	1080X3	LOM09
			. — — —*>	/->		 „ ,	-KA. —>		, * * — - —- -	* .. . V - —■ .								
2155	CUSTODIANS RECORDS 37 J HR	1J09,4|	1X7738	1459.66	IJ 00.41	i.ns-os	Lt35,?3	1.153-49	LR1.I7	LL88.B6	1,206.57	1X2417	U4U7	1X59*6	1X77X8
J 73$	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC	44424	71M.Mi	67809	444.24	470.22	496,21	52X19	548 17	57416	6OTJ5	62614	65X1)	67809	704.08
PAGE: 115
LOCAL IOI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D -4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2004 TO OCTOBER 15, MOS FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1083 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		Fl	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
213?’	DATA ENTRY COORD 37.5 HR	1,031-40	’ 143986	1429.00	1,031.40	1,042.24	1.033.06	1.063.93	1.074 80	1,083.61	1.09646	1.10734	1,1)814	1.12100	M39.86
2161	DELIVERER	20.65	23.51	23.14	2065	20-94	21.18	21.46	21.76	22.02	22.32	2257	22.88	2344	23,51
2704	DISPATCHER POST 98	I78	1359.05	1353.9)	1 Jin .76		uiw	WW	1428 29	1 J33.4 J	1438.55	1243.67	1248.81'	1,253.91	t.259,05
2179	DISPLAY ASSISTANT 37,5 HR	977.89	1,086,4$	1,075.57	97789	988-78	999.61	1,010.4$	J 4)2).36	IJJ32.18	1.043.05	1J153.S8	1064.70	L075.57	t.036.45
zi8i	DISPLAY ASST APPRNT 37.5 HR.	376.64	719.05	684 82	J 76.64	410.88	445.14	479.36	51161	$47.86	582.06	616,31	65016	684 82	719.05
2180	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 37J HR	1,20690	1337.10	132387	1406.90	1,219-87	1,232.88	1 ,245.8k	1458.89	1271.88	J.284.W	1297.83	UL0.87	1123.87	1437.10
2163	DISPLAY DESIGNER 37,3 HR	1,125,87	1,256 11	J 442.93	1,125.87	1,138.92	1J5I.89	1,164.92	).177.94	IJ9092	1403 86	141689	1X9.94	124293	1456.11
2182	DISPLAY PRSON-CONST SNR 37.5	1/138.91	1,167.42	14 56.53	1.05891	1,06972	1,080.55	1,091.43	1102.26	1,113.13	1,123.99	1134,8$	1,145.69	1J 56 53	1467.42
2171	D1SPTTH DISTR 37,5 HR	146942	IJM.lU	1,215,33	1,169,32	1474-46	1.179.52	Ll846:i	1489.79	1,194 84	1,199.99	1.205.10	1,21020	LJ15 33	1,220.50
2175	DLSPTCH ORDER	1,207,78	135905	1453.81	1,207.78	1412.95	1417.99	142315	122828	1,233.33	IJ 38 48	LJ43.63	124869	115381	145905
2174	DIS PT CH TRANSP 57, S HR.	987.94	1,040.74	1/135.41	987.94	993-26	998,51	1,003 83	1.009.04	1,01410	1/11917	1.02436	1.03045	1,035.41	1,040.74
2172	DISPTCH TRUCK DIST 37.5 HR	142739	147837	1,173,19	1,127,19	1,132-35	1.137.43	1.142.5-1	1,147.69	1,152.77	1,157.89	1,162.99	1,16£ IS	IJ73J9	1478J7
2186	DRAFTING CLERK 37.5 HR	762.78	950.39	93)64	76178	78JS6	80036	819/T>	837.90	856A4	87518	894.15	9)2-92	93164	950.59
2189	DRAFTING TECH SR 37 J HR	1,103.67	IJ94.32	1,18506	1.103.67	) J 12.70	1,121,78	1430,81	1,139,82	1,148.88	1457,94	1,167/10	1476OL	1,185.06	1,194.32
2183	DRAFT[NGTECH37,5HR	70447	783.01	775.11	704.17	71205	719.94	727.8,	735.69	74159	75145	75915	76725	775.13	783J01
2191	DRJF PERSON	26.05	26.79	26,68	2605	26 12	26.20	2639	26,36	2643	26,47	26 53	2661	26,68	26.79
2197	ELECT	27.29	29.30	29.37	27 29	2757	27.76	28,07	1841	28.46	28,68	28.93	WlZ	29 37	29.80
2199	elect a gas OPNS	29.11	30.91	30.62	29.11	29.41	29.73	30/H	301J	30.62	30.91				
2198	ELECT SYSTEMS SUPPORT	27.29	2906	28.76	27.29	27.46	27,64	27.7"	2797	28.11	28.26	2844	28-58	'	28.76	29.06
2205	ELECTRONIC TECH RADIO LtC	31.64	33,20	32.91	31.64	JI 82	31.94	3W	321)	32.35	32.52	32.64	32.79	32.91	33.20
"2941	ENGINEER AIDE GAS OPER POST	1,043 10	1X890	1400.17	1JM3.10	1,071.64	1.10042	1J28.7X	1,15713	1,185.90	1,214.49	1243.01	1271-62	1,300.17	1,328.90
2270	ENG INEER ASST TO 37.5 HR	1,100.41	1J5L85	1X6.69	1400,4)	1,125.49	1,150.69	1,175.8?:	1200.97	1X644	1451.26	IJ76.J9	1101.53	1426^9	1,351.85
PAGE: 116
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,20M TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN'							fEARS			
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		Fl	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P,	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS_	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2245	ENGINEER HOIST LIC		3100	" ' 30 W	~29.67	29.80	29.93	30.07	' 3021	3036		" ‘ 30.64	"	30.75	30^2	31,08
2251	ENGINEER LlC	30.73	31.69	31.57	30.73	30.83	30.93	31.02	31.10	3)22	1 l.jO	31.37	31.49	31^7	31.69
1741	ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYST 37,5	1,413,60	L449.88	),W.M	1,418.60	1,423,83	1,429.04	M3412	1,439.42	1,444 64	1.+4W4				
2271	EQUIPMENT MAINTAINER	25,14	26.89	2661	25.34	15.64	25.86	26. n	2638	26.61	1S.8S				
2657	FCM APPRENTWX	15-64	1953	1825	15.64	1694	1H-25	1955							
2658	FCM APPRENTICE SENIOR	20 36	25.42	23 73	20-36	2203	23.73	25.42							
2656	FCM APPRENTICE TRAINEE	10.58	14.84	13.49	ID.5R	1201	13.44	1484							
2575	FCM h Li INSTRUMENT TECH	33,50	35,31	35.17	3350	33,83	3415	34,50	34 82	35,17	33.51				
MJ3	FCM MECHANIC	26.20	28.15	27 W	261D	264)	26J9	1679	27.00	27.19	27.37	27.39	27.76	27.99	28.15
	—	-	-	™	d	.	■■ ■ —	_	.	<		— —L. “	.*												
2654	FCM MECHANIC A	23,95	30.01	10.70	2895	29,11	2934	29,53	29.73	29,93	»p	3032	30.49	30.70	30.91
1713	FCM MECHANIC FLD FACILITIES	18.58	30.36	30.20	2818	28.90	28.95	39.10	29.31	29.48	29.67	29.83	30.01	3020	3034
2680	FCM MECHANIC SENIOR	31.67	33.63	33.47	31.67	31,89	3107	3217	32.47	32.67	12.86	3303	3115	3347	1163
2606	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	27,00	20,95	18.75	27.00	27.19	17.37	2759	27.76	27.99	28,15	28.39	28.54	28.75	23.95
2604	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A	29.73	31.67	31.50	29.73	29.93	30.13	30.32	30.51	30 70	30.91	JI 09	31.30	3L50	31.67
2602	PCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN SR'	32.47	34.43	34.21	32.47	32.67	32,86	3303	33.25	3347	33 63	33.85	34.02	34 21	H4J
															. 	
2014	FIELD OPERS INSPECTOR A	27.14	28.86	28.69	27.14	27,32	27.49	27.66	27.84	28.00	28.17	28.34	28.51	28.69	28.86
2013	FIELD OFERS INSPECTOR &	25,25	J5.78	25,73	2525	25.30	25,36	2542	25.47	25.51	25 5?	25,62	2567	2513'	2578
2000	FIELD OFERS INSPECTOR C	22,34	23.67	2154	22.34	22.46	22.61	2273	22.88	23.00	23.15	2327	23.41	23.54	23.67
2746	FIELD REP HR	116510	1.335.79	1112 12	U6S20	116510	’ 116510	126520	1288.65	1188.65	1,312 12	1,312.12	1,335.79		
	. ■ . ... . _ _ . .		-	.	_	rd	.	. . . —.	d	S • d			—— _—.	,	-d-					* • —		
2350	FIELD REP 40 HR POST??	1,05475	1108.70	1,193.17	1,054.75	1.070 06	1,085.45	1,100.83	1,11624	1,131.61	1,147.01	1,162.35	1,177.73	1,193.17	1108 70
2368	FIELD REPRESENT	'	1126,19	1,335.59	1424,43	1126.19	1137.13	1148.00	115594	1269.84	1180.96	1191.73	1302.65	1113.53	1124.43	1335.59
* - 		— . ~ . .	. — — —	-	d.	. _* — — .......	-	—■ -. . m .	* . . —	* d	du d	. ——— . 			• — —.. —,.		> ——~ >	. ~ *		
2369	FIELD REPRESENT OFFICE	1.128,15	1137.55	1726.40	1,128.15	1J 39.04	1,144.97	1,160.90	1.171 81	1.182.76	1,193 63	1304,55	1115.44	1126 40	1137.55
PAGE; 117
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1004 TO OCTOBER 15,1005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 1$, 1003 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1086
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		Fl	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P, p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
*290	FINANCIAL ASST POST 37,5 HR	958,30	J 220.95	1,194 62	95830	984 51	1,010.83 ”	2145 30-55	1,037.09	1,063.28	1X189,57 2192	1,115.82	1.142.09 2628	1.16834 — ~26A1	1J 94,62 2657	1220.95 ~7~26^2
3287	FITTER	29,94	26.92 3)7?$	26J7 31,45	■ ZUS	25,27 3024		25.64	25.77		26.10 31.75				
2290	FLD TR ELECDMECH GAS OPNS				29.94 IJSLK			30,84 ~128936	31,14 1,30152 ~32,17	31 45					
2289 2292	FLD TR INSTRUMENT INSP	1251,82	1J26.93	. _yH_ii 32,46 ” ' 12.92		.J.jW-33 31.27	1276,84			14)4,41 32,46	1326.95		—	-	” L233-!?
	FLD TRSVS GAS OPER	30.96 2178	32,73 13.09		30,96		31,57	3t.M			3273				
1341	GATE GUARD				21,78	__ 2200 IJ5L65 960 9J 3L09 -iD 7 19,46	1 > i Lie! 1	> Lw I— 1 -3 1 <> 1 FJ , A । th Uh	t » ’ FJ 1 J w } "j e , w s Fj ।	22A2 1,169 70 ““tL40	_ 22_64 1,178,75 991,62 31,64 7_^ 32.93 20,95	22.92	1,196.85				
2338	GRAPHICS TECHN SR 37.5 HR	1,14160	1,233,14	J22396	) J 42,60 ^93RB4 3053 11 _3^19 19-00					L J 87.78		1.205.89	12)4 97 7,0314? 3239 22,92	1223.96 ' "LMX66	
2J4Q 2 _2JI2	 2708 "	GRAPHICS TECHN37J HR	 GSO DJST/STATION FLD TRNR GSO DjST/STATLON'SA FLD TRNR OSO DISTRICT ASSISTANT	95084 30,93 32.19 1900 14.41	LM29I 3173 34,07 23-85	1 1 ' 1 1 1 l	> —1 a ;s^ [& s&i						1,001.78 31,86 33J6 21,42	1.012.01 3203 21,89	1,022-26 "2.2O 22.40			1,052.91
								31,49 J17_l 2045						3257 2334	3113 34 07 23.85
2706 2363	GSO DISTRICT ASST TRAINEE GSO HOLDERPERSON		17JJ	14,41	14,41	17.31		27.46 J _29^ ’ 29.04 2906 H07 	 2041 _ 24.54 23,61 — 26T;	28.02						
		25,84	29.06	15 02	25,84 28'$8	26.39	26.95 2893 28’8?			15,02	29X16 29.56		29,88		
2496	GSO MECHANIC PRESSURE	23,5$ 29.33 2R22 ?L45 9,50 " 18.87	30J6	30.05			28.75 29.49 28?52			29.26 L" >Qf ^^2936 IL56 20,91	_ 29J8 "	30.19 1 111 r 21,37		29.73			3005 30.91 ' “l4,n 23 43	30,36
2709 2539*”	<330 STATION <ft FJELD QPERATOF GSO STATION OPERATOR ' *		31.06 2R93	30.91 ~~~ 2965 1145 14,17 23,43	29,33 77 1)45 ’Vso 1887 ~	23.03* "	22,95 ~ Tip'						30.37 L2A1' 27,89 212$ 24 31 27,30		3055 22.41	1 II I : 1 1 ' 1 |i4i i !^i । i ’S.S. 1 [St		3J.06 ’ ’ "14 74 24 JM
2345 2353 *	HELPER HELPERD1STR[BUTION_	 HELPER MECHANICS"		11,45 14.74 24.06 " ’ 2525			11,45 “ 7aof 19.35 24,06 2115 i«5i'	J ~ " 1014 1985								
2335	HUPEROPUtATQ^i __ HELPER PRESSURE HOLDERPERSON	’ * “	23,83			MJ '	24,05 2705			24.33 2135 26.29'			24 79 23,81 ” -26't9'	25.03 	 24,0i" 27.05				—				
2356 2362		22.95 ' * 25,7?	24,3) ” ~2720												
PAGE: 118
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D -4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It, 1004 TO OCTOBER 15,1005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIK	MAX	P. P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	« MOS	6 MOS	(MOS	6 MOS	(MOS
*2443	IND APH, INSPECTOR KIST 40HR	1.13*12	1,461.30	1,427.50		1.142.75	1,178 H	I J] 337	1*243.99	1.28439	I J] 9.82	1355.23	1390.64	1,42730	146130
•2901	END AFPL INSPECTOR PRE	1J4537	UU.W	1486.66	JJ45J?	1JW32	IJ99.O7	WW	13524?	'	19	>405.89	1432.6*	1,45936	1.48606	' U12.90
*2936	INSPECTOR ENO POST	1*197.56	1.451,3*	1425 9J	1.197 56	1222.93	13*831	IJ7J.69	1J99.O*	1 J24.42	1349 81	1.375-18	1,400.57	1>25l93	1451.36
290*	INSPECTOR ENG PRE	13*7. EL	U33.6E	140199	1J47.11	1,375.67	1404.13	1,432,71	1,461.29	1,48979	13183*	1,54694	tJ7S.**	l.ttB-99	1,63241
237*	INSPECTOR INSTRUMENT MTR RP	1J075-S-7	1.269,75	1,230,30	1JJ75J7	UJ95.22	1,1)4,65	14 34.01	1,15334	1,172.7*	1,192,10	IJL1.53	1,23091	IJ5O30	13*9.75
•2951	INVESTIGATOR B POST	U0ZO.9E	1301.00	1J7J.O1	1,020.91	1,04807	1,076.93	1,104,93	1,132.93	1,160197	1,18894	1.2169*	13*4.99	1 >73.<ll	IJOIM
2912	investigators prje	uaw	1.443.4*	MJ 1,94	1.1*840	1,1 79.85	13)137	1 *242.90	] 17*41	t .305.92	133738	1,368.91	1,400.43	143194	1.463,4*
2*22	MAINT FIRE EQ GAS OP SYS SUP	2B.72	30.87	30*2	a.,n	2894	29. H	2935	29J6	'	29.71	29.98	30.19	W41	joaT	' 30.87
2*23	MAINTAINER INSTRUMENT	27.29	29,06	28.76	27.29	27.4*	27.64	27.7?	27,97	28.11	21,26	28,44	28.58	28,76	29,0*
2424	MAINTAINER PERSON FIRE EQUIP	241!	2631	26.04	2*41	25.05	23.27	2537	25.79	26,04	2631				
2427	MAINTAINER PROVERINDICAT A	29.20	12,15	31.91	29 JO	29*9	29.8Q	3011	30*1	3d7<i	3099	31,31	31.59	3191	32,15
242*	MAINTAINER PROVER ENDKATOC	28 40	31J1	30.90	2840	28.65	28.93	29.23	29.48	29.76	30.05	30.32	30.61	30.90	3131
2481	MECH	2729	15.S0	29.37	27 J9	27.57	27.76	2802	28,22	2846	2868	28,93	29,14	2937	29,80
23W	MECHADISTOPNS	2940	Jl.Otf	30.79	29.40	29.76	29.97	30.24	30.53	30.79	31.06				
24S3	MECH APPLIANCE	23.00	25,25	24.87	2390	23.19	13.41	23 63	23,81	24 02	24.28	24*4	2464	2*37	25,25
2503	MECH BISTA	2920	30,3*	30.18	29.20	2938	29.58	29.79	29.97	30,18	30.36				
2508	MECH DIST A FLU TR OC	32)9	34 07	33.73	32.19	32,50	32.82	33.16	33*7	33.78	34.07				
2Wfr	MECH Dm A FLD TRAINER	31,09	32,75	32,49	31D?	31,42	31,63	31.93	32,20	32.49	32.73				
2731	MECH DIST A POST 98	28.37	303*	30.17	28-37	2835	28.76	289*	29)8	29 35	29.56	29.7*	2995	30.17	‘	303*
2505	MECHWSTB	2538	25,92	25.80	2533	2545	21 JI	25.56	25,61	25,65	25.70	25,73	" 25.77	2590	2592
2W	MECH DIST B POST 9g	24.23	IS 97	25.75	2*33	2441	24.58	2473	24.91	25.08	25.25	25*2	25.58	25.75	25-92
2491	MECH METER A	27.43	29,0*	28.92	2743	27.62	27.76	2792	28,10	28,25	2843	28,58	“ 28-75	2892	29.0*
PAGE: 119
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2004 TO OCTOBER 15,200S FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15.1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN							/EARS			
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	€ MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	€ MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
" 2495	MECH MEIERS	23.51	24 5 J	24.17	2351	23X2	23.76	23.*9	23.B7	23,98	24.06	24.18	2429	24,37	24J3
2499	MECH METER SPECIAL	29.81	3131	31-05	29.81	29.94	30IQ	30.111	3036	3031	30.64	30.76	30.93	31.03	31.31
2484	MECHSYST SUPPT	27 29	2906	28.76	27.29	2746	27.64	27?7	2797	28.11	28J6	28,44	28.58	28,76	2906
2309	MESSENGER 3X5 HR	] 35.41	64535	614.36	335.41	*	366.37	39735	42839	45938	490,43	521.36	552.35	383.38	614.36	645.35
2689	METER READER POST 98	459.53	634.65	54014	459.53	48640	51325	S40..4	566.99	597.12	624.65				
28J9	METRETEK TECH	31.06	32.15	31.91	31. Ofc	31.18	31 26	3LJ4	31.45	3134	31.62	31.73	31-83	31.9J	32.15
2701	OPER DIST C POST 92	18.77	21.89	21.62	18.77	19.10	19.4|	197'2	20.03	20,36	20.66	20.98	2I.2B	21.62	21.89
2719	OPER D1STC POST 98	18.77	21 89	21.59	18.77	19.10	19.41	19.72	20.03	20 35	20.66	20.96	21.28	21.59	21.89
2549	OPER DISTRIBUTION C	2234	23.67	23.43	2234	22.52	22.77	23+Xf	n ii	13.43	23.67				
2609	OPER SCREENALlVBCKHOaPA YL	24.89	2577	25.70	24.89	24.96	25.05	25.16	25.23	2532	2539	25 51	25.63	25.70	25.77
2608	OPER SLF’LDG VEH GVW 26000	24.89	25.77	25.70	24.89	24.96	25.05	25? 6	2523	25 J2	2539	2551	25.63	25.70	25.771
2*73	OPNS ASST DIST	991.13	)jM9.74	1.08876	991.J3	1.001.99	IJM2.8O	1,023. T	1,03432	LXW5.4I	1,05625	1,067.12	1.077.89	1,088.76	1X199.74
2514	OPNS ASST DIST	991.13	1JW9.74	1,088.76	991 U	1,001.99	1,012.80	L023/T	1,03432	1,043.41	1,056.25	1.06742	1*077.89	1.088.76	1,099.74
2516	OPNS ASST GAS OPS	20.49	25.97	25.26	2049	21.04	s 21 59	22.ttf	22.61	23.15	23.69	24 24	2*75	25.26	25.97
2391	DPR A DJST OPNS	29 40	31.06	30.79	29 40	29.76	29.97	3024	30153	30,79	31.06				
2850	OPR assistant sng	28,22	29-93	2965	2822	2832	28.81	29t>6	29 36	29.65	2993				
2584	OPR C TRAINEE DIST	15.02	1801	1SJD2	15.02	18.01									
2715	OPR C TRAINEE POST 98	1441	17,31	14-41	14-4]	1731									■ •
2518	OPR CHIEF LNG	3391	35.93	35,58	33.91	34.21	34.57	34.!*0	35.24	35X8	35.93				
2534	OPR CHIEF SNG/LNG	35.70	37.83	37-48	35.70	36X4	J 6.4(1	36,79	37.13	. 37.48	37.83				
2526	OPR DATA PROC NO 3	333.02	719.05	680,47	333.02	371.64	’ 4)0,23	448.1:3	487.45	526.06	564.64	603.25	641.83	'	68047	719-05
2545	opr distribution a	29 20	3036	30,18	29.20	29.38	29 58	29.79	29.97	30,18	30.36				
PAGE: 120
LOCAL lot Wage progression schedule SCHEDULE C/D - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER IS, 2004 TO OCTOBER IS, 2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS, 1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN							I'EARS			
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH			 FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	4 MOS	6 MOS
JsS'	OPR DISTRIBUTION B "	22,95	2431	24.M	22 95	”2345	” ’ 23.3?	23.61	23 81	2405	'	2431		■ -	■■	.. ..
2723	OPR DISTRIBUTION B POST 518	22.95	22.05	2293	32.95	23.08	2312	2334	23 49	23,63	23 7?	23.90	24 05	2446	24,3t
2522	OPR DUMP TRUCK IJTt-	23*4	24.87	24,62	21*4	2370	23-91	2447	2440	24.62	24.87				
2523	OPR HOIST CHERRY PCK£R(LLC>	3046	31.77	31.61	30.36	30.49	3D,64	30.76	30.92	31,05	31.19	31.32	3J49	31.61	31,77
2562	OPR LEAD DATA ENTR>'37.5 HR	93147	lh039.W	L028.83	931.17	942.05	95287	963.72	974.55	985.44	99625	14W7J2	L017.96	10.83	L034 86
255?	OPR LEAD MICRO MACH 37.5 HR	1,031.46	L13986	1,129.00	1,03140	1,042.24	1,051.06	1,06393	14174.80	1,085,61	1,096.46	1,107.34	141844	142900	1439,86
2558	OPR LEAD REPRO MACH 37 5 HR	1.031.40	1,139.86	1329.00	1,031.40	1,042.24	1,053.06		IJJ74.80	1.035.61	14196.46	1,107.34	141844	1429,00	1439,86
1564	OPR LEAD SYSTEMS 37.5 HR	1471,34	i2?w	1269,00	1J7134	J ,182.17	1,192.98	1303.84	111471	1,22549	1,23641	1J4718	1268.15	1269.60	127983
2530	DPRLNG	x>.w	JIM	32.22	3069	32.00	31JI	3? 6?		32.22	J2J4				
2716	OPRLNO AS$T	2864	3032	30.16	28.M	28.81	28.97	2941	29.31	29'47	’	29.65	29.81	29.98	30.16	3042
2532	OPR MAIL INSERT MACH3T5 HR	833.40	985.45	975.24	883.40	893.57	903.79	913.96	924.24	934 42	944 62	w.w	965.02	975 24	985,45
2540	OPR OFFSITE	25 26	26.79	26.52	25 26	255S	25.78	26112	26.31	26.52	26.79				
2535	OPR REPRO MACH SR 37.5 HR	978.01	L .086 68	t.07566	978.01	988.86	99976	1,010.60	14X21 45	1,032.24	LM3.12	1,053.97	1^64,79		1^86^8
2S33	OPR REPRO MACH 37.5	393.24	71905	68649	393.24	425,84	458.39	490.97	52158	55647	588,72	62L33	653.92	686 49	71905
2536	OPRSNQ/LNG	33.91	35.93	35.58	33.91	3421	34.57	3490	‘ 3524	35.58	35.93				
							—■ • .. -■	rr	*							
2541	OPR STATION A UC	28.09	29.76	29.48	28,09	28.39	28.65	28.93	29.23	29.48	29.76				
2543	OPR station b	25.84	2738	2746	25.84	2641'	2638	2662	26.91	2716	27,38				
2566	OPR SYSTEMS A 37.5 HR	1,03140	1J3944	1,12900	LWL40	1,04234	1,053.06	1,06393	LOT4.W	1,085.61	L096.46	1407.34	141844	1429 00	1439.36
2565	OPR SYSTEMS 17-5 HR	991.83	IJ«L41	LOW JO	99143	1,002.69	1,01152	1JIZ4.39	1,035.26	1,046.06	1456.95	Lh067^1	1,078^9	l,089«r	140041
2561	OPR TELEPHONE NGHT 37.5 HR	341.66	76OSM	719.02	341.60	383.52	425.49	46739	50954	551,39	59322	6354 3	677,05	719jW	760,94
2559	OPR TELEPHONE 373 HR	393.34	742 41	686.89	393.24	423.17	46342	49941	532.94	567.84	602.78	637.67	67158	6*6.89	74141
2068	OPR TELPHONE PT 37.5 HR	275.19	276.72	275.69	275.89	276.72									
PAGE; 121
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2004 TO OCTOBER IS, 2M5 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY IS, 1985 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER IS, 1986
						PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN ’ 'EARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FE	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6MCS	6 MOS
2521 ~2$67 2569 2572 2576	DPR WORD PROCESS PAINTER^ PAINTER BODY TRANSP P_ARTSPERS^TRANS^ *	54967 23.18 27.29 ’ 2524	79256 26.0$ ' ~ b'os' 	2623	768,20 25.79 28.76 26,09	_ 549.67 2S.I8 27.29 7_ 25.24	573.97 2 -Tj.5 24 27.46 ”” _25.34	59823 "1132 		27.64 25.44	622.55 _ 25?3? 27,77 _ 1SS_b	646.81 27.97 25.6$	67110 28J1 "	2573	25.63 ’	28?2b" " ■'25.(6’	719,65 ' _ ’ 2541 28*4 ’ ' '2500	743.94 _7^74 _ 25 55 26.00	768 20 72. 2 28.76 2609	792.56 	 2605 29.06 262?
	PHOTDG ASST APPR 37-5 HR PHOTCG ASST 37.5 HR.	'	391.24	719 05	686.49	393.24	425.84	458J9	*90.97	523,58	55617	588.72	621.33	653.92	686,49	71905
2578		755.11	E3893	8)0-58	755,11	76352	77189	780.28	. 75142	79744	805,4)	81342	822.18	830.58	838.93
2582 ~ 2575 " _?S72 _ _ 2574 *2979^ 2598 2D8”' 2156 2093 . J 23?f 2600 " 2160 2711 ”	PflOTOG LAB TECHN 37.5 HR PHOTOG ni HR-’	' PLANT PROTECTION PERSON PLAm VftOTECriON PERSON SR PUBLIC RELATIONS ASST POST READER METER ~	_	* READER METER (NIGHT SKIP) REP CAD 37.5 HR REP CUST 1NQ SR 37.5 HR REPCUyriNQ57 5 HR " “ REP DIST OFF 37 5 HR REP D1ST QFFJCE SR 37.SHR REP ENERGY CCNSERV	" REP REGULATORY 1NQY 37,5 HR- REP SPEC LEDGER SR 37.5 HR SEN IOR PHOTDGRA PHER	* ~	869 JO 1,076.75 2134 \ 24 9? 948.58 _ 45933 459 S3 LOH.73 1057 92’ 987.90 987.90 1,056,68 7«6fl’	1,091,25 7 U 12.56 23,6? 23.36 U74.16 7 81238 82188 ” 1J44.68 l,)37,90 ’ "|J29.64 M29,6* 1,162.38 1075.18	106807 1198.94 '	213* , __ 21P 1J4I49 ” 786 5$ 786.55 1.13147 1J74.9] J±JSW ' 1,115*9 1,15169 L04632	869,10 1076.75 22.34 24.07 "	948.58 459.53 ~ ”1414.73 1,05702 ’ 987.90 " 987,90 1056.68 786-6?	891.30 ” ’ 109OJ2 24 23 98109 _J20.IOJ ’ ' 52o"10 1.027,67 1,070.91 10O20? 1,002,04 ” 1067.27 815.53	9)3 49 i 10184 22.56 1,0)3,61 580.62 580.62 1083.92 ’'41622 1016.22 ’ 1477.84 8+4 37	935.72 ™ LH7-45 12.66 24.43 1,0*6,20 64123 1053.67 149642 j,O3W9 1030.39 ' 7’088 41 87118	957,93 "1.13141 22".7b' 3^^ 1078.77 _	701.2? 	 701,77 	1066 6? 1,109,91 1044-59 LO44~59 1,098.95 902.11	98044 IJ44J9 22.94 77 1,Hl.32 78?5? 786.55 77^^49 1,122.92 ~ 1,0587$" 1,058.73 L1^"1 " 93049	1,002,36 2342 7' 2<7B L)43.8S" 7j[22.*f . 81188 ’ UW.S4 1,135,94 J 07243_ 1,072.93 1,120.05 " 959.78	1024.54 L 171.79 	ZJ.M 24.91 1,176-41 140547 1,14803 * -]jM?’i2 108712 1130 6] 988,6?	1046.75 ’ UK 3? 2345 7—j$jl. 1,208.98 1161.89 U0I.3) 7M4L17 1417,46	1068.97 ”19804 23.34 _JJ4J.49 LJ31.47 " U74.91" 1,11549 1,115.49 ~ ”135169 1,046.32	J49! 25 ”iJlZSi _p*l 25.36 U74.16 ** 1,14468 1,187,90 JJZZfrf __U2904 7^1 J62.3? 1,075.18
		1057.92 1,014.73	M87,90 1,144.68	1,174.91 "ljjl-47	J3M7.92 1014.73	107001 " 1,027.67	1,040.67	109602 ~ 1,053,67	1,109.91 1,066-65	_ L122 92 1,079.59	1,135,94 1092.54	1,148.93 ""140557*	1,161.89 MI8.51	3,17441 M3M7	lt I87.9Q 1,14408
		956.95	1^32,56	1249.99	956,9$	989.52	1,0220?	1054.6?	1087,20	LI 19.75	1,152.32	1184.89	1,217,43	1,249.99	1,282 36
PAGE: 122
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D -4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It, 20M TO OCTOBER IS, JOOS FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN							If EARS			
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		Fl	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p,p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
266* ~'wT~ 2693 ' *2959	SEPARATOR PERSON SNOW REMOVAL LIDL	~~ SNOW REMQVALOT GALLIN LIO	24.34 	31.96	25.78 3196	25.37 ' ”31,96	2436	24.58	2484	15 06	25.28	25,57	25.78				
		53 43	53.43	53,43 132736	“l ,064,57	) 1 1 1				12(037					
	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL POST	1JM447	145647				1422,98	M5246	M*136 ' 132887 “ 1J229T		1,239,77	1068,98	1J9L16	U2738 ” M9313 " mw'w	IJ56-67 ” 1,52604 1,44169
*1*16 *1914	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL PRE SR ART&PRODUCTION ASST PRE	LL97.49 1JW6A?	1,526.04 “~U*4169	L493.12 ” T«6 .02	L197.49 UX76A3-		1463,19 l'wjT	I J96.OT ’ “lWJ6"		1,361 70 " lj5933	1.394.87 ij96,l9	M27.4J Mn.74	1,460 37		
16*4 26*6' ’ 287g ^2699 26*7	STENO CLERICAL 374 HR. STPfO^CRETAMAL JTrHR"" “ STOCK CLERK 5NO 37 JD HR. STOCK PERSON DATA PROCESSIN STOCK PERSON 37,5 HR mjCPR ASSTMAIWTJlSHR	439.54 " 636,17	76094	71026 ““779,36~	43934 ~^~636,|1 23.96 _ 370,12 MMT2f	471 66 23,96 Z fol1? 405.01	50384 66931	53596 ~	68620	568 11 702,88’	60016 ~ 719.52	63240 7»lf	664.52 _ j”**	696 68 ' 76944	710.26 “ 779,36	760*4 ’ 80190
		23.96 ~ 89838 370,12	24.60 ~976.62 _ 719,17 LJ52M	23,96 LZ9^.^ 69428			2460	’ ”*2189 474 84 yin.82							
								913.98 439.93			929.63 509,74 108959	93740 5446$ 1,099,97	945,30 579.54 1,1104?	953,1) 614,46 1J21 of	960.9* 649 35 " ’733160	968,69 6M.28 U4W	976.62 719 17 ^115185
2698		1XM7 23		1,142.11		1JD57.73	LO6816								
2700	STRKPR ASST SR MAJ APPL STRKtt asst SR MATMGT 374HR		1171,37 Mll.if	128434 7 IjgTp' 1.1946* 23.76 34 07^	1273X35	1,171,37	1,112,64	1,193.98	LJ0525	)J16,57 ‘ ” 746334	IJ27R4	1J3946	UW.49	1161,77	1473,05	1484,34
				ujsk i-i8;8|s	M3151	1,13111	j44164 IJ10J1 ~2535 “1237 "	31.88	1453 JI 1J2&« 32,73 31,96							
												1,195.40	W-43	U1650 UttB ’mcmT	142743
2702 LZ^Z 2722	STRKPR ASST SR STNRY 374 HR SURVEY OPR TRUCK	__ SVC PERSON A COORD DF svcpersona’flBtr^' “ ’ SVCPERSON A FLDTRNDT svc ferson'aoen AH>L~ “ J ~ SVC PERSON B APPL SVC PERSON C METER & APPL	SIRlai —'ll ' : I			1,088.98 Z_Z^t 3219 ’	 3119 ’ - Z311^ 25.00	1^9945 ZZ 32,37 Z _ JZZ 32.50 35.06			IJJLJ* 2T45	1441,73	11S2J9 ”25.56	2,16235	M73,43		1.194^
										25,51 "33,16" “ ’3114		15.63	25.66		25.78
									32.93		33.31	33.52	33-68	33,91	34.07
26M 2682 2672 2673			3L65 32.19 _	R]Si l«! " is! a 1 ! 1 i t ।	" 33,78 ZZ?*L 25.64					- -32--0* 33.47 30,46		3222	32,32	32,42	32J2	32.73 31,06
							32,82 ”	30,26"	33.16 30 36		33,73 3055	34.07 30165	ZZi^ 25.50	"’ 3042	30.93	
		25.00 24.50					2S45	25.2)	25 26	25,33 "2447	25,39 24.73		2547 2489	25.64	23.72
2675			15,00	24 93	2430	2433	2459	24.62	2433			24 84		24.93	25.00
PAGE: 123
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE C/D - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER IS, 2004 TO OCTOBER IS, 200S FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER JULY 15,1983 AND AND BEFORE OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
	1														
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	t> MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2716	SVC PERSON C POST 98	20,34	23j+7	23.15	2036	20 66	20.98	21.28	21.62	21.89	22.22	22.51	22.87	23.15	23.47
2677	SVC PERSON D LOCK UNLOCK	22,68	24.06	23.81	22.68	22.96	23 15	233J	23 62	23.81	2406				
2670	SVC SPECIAL DIST 37.5 HR	1.M2.25	1,110.92	1,099.85	1,002.25	1,013.07	1,023.93	1,034.75'	1,045.60	1/J56.49	1,06730	1,078.17	1,089.00	1,099.85	1,11092
*2965	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	88fl. 19	1,190.19	1,159.93	68849	913.44	948.60	97fl,7i	I.M8.96	1 JW9.B	1.069.33	1.099J2	1,129.72	1,159.93	1,190.19
2&O7	SYS PROCESSOR D1ST 37,5 HR	96114	1,069.83	L05882	96144	972,01	982.85	993.71	1,004.56	! ,015.40	1,026.26	1,037 ID	1,047.96	1,058.82	1,069.83
2494	SYS PROCESSOR D15T 40 HR	961.14	1,069,83	1,058 82	96144	97201	982.85	993.71	1,00456	LOI 5.40	1,026.26	1,037.10	1,0+7.96	1,058.82	1,069.83
	TECHNICIAN PROCESS A	31,92	32.73	32.61	3192	32.06	32,19	32.33	32.49	32.61	32,73				
2812	TELEPHONE SERV REP 37.5 HR	894-99	1/151.45	1/135.73	894.99	910.61	92626	9418<	957 53	973 13	98879	1,004.38	1,02009	1/135.73	1,051.45
2811	TELLER HEAD 37.5 HR	[ J>56.6fl	1,162,38	1J51 69	1,056.68	1,067.27	1/J77.8+	1,088.41	1,098.95	1,109.51	1,120.05	1,130.61	1,341.17	1,151.69	1,16238
2813	TIMEKEEP SYS SUPP37J HR	960.85	1,069.54	1,058.49	960.85	971.69	982.53	9935$	1,004.27	1,015.08	1X12595	1,036.80	1.047.64	1.05849	1,069.54
	TOOL REPAIR PERSON	27.06	28 .86	28.52	27.06	27.23	27.37	27.51	27.72	27.66	28.0+	28.19	2S.39	28,52	28.86
2820	TOOL REPAIR PERSON A	27,92	29.78	2937	27,92	28.09	2824	28.43	2837	28.72	28.90	29.05	29.24	2937	29.78
2827	TYPIST STATISTICAL 37 5 HR	503.85	562.0+	556.12	503.85	509.65	513.46	521.2$	527.11	532.95	538.76	544.59	550 39	536.13	562.04
2829	UPHOLSTERER	26,63	2843	28. IQ	26.63	2680	26.98	27.15	2729	27 44	27.62	27.77	27.95	28.I0	2843
2831	UPHOLSTERER A	2830	30.00	29.72	28.30	28.5A	28.88	29.14	29.41	29.72	30.00				
2835	UTILITY PERSON SYS SUPP	23.00	2406	23,81	23.00	23.08	23.18	23.26	2U4	23.44	23.58	23.64	2375	23 81	24 06
2S31	UTILITY W AREHOUSE PERSON	730	14.7+	13.99	7,30	8.07	8.83	9.53	1029	11.01	11.79	12-51	13.24	13.99	1474
28+9	WATCH GUARD	“	20.74	22.0]	21.79	20,74	20.99	21.15	2LJ7	21.62	21,79	22.01’				
2853	WATCH GUARD & PORTER	33O_»	37639	55176	310 29	334.88	379 50	404.12	428.73	453.30	477.91	502.5+	$27.14	551.76	376.39
2835	WELDER	2729	29.06	28.76	2739	27.46	27.64	27-77	27.97	28.11	2826	28.4+	28.58	28.76	29.06
2857	WELDER A	28.83	30.55	30.23	28.83	29.09	2937	29.6$	29.97	30 25	30.55				
2858	WELDER A QUALIFIED	30.79	32.60	32.28	30.79	31.09	31.37	3167	31.98	32.28	32.60				
2707	WORK MEASUREMENT ANALYST	1,199 26	1,242.96	1,236.75	1,19926	1,202.67	1,20549	1.209,4$	1J12.85	1216.29	1,221,40	1.226.51	1231.64	1,236.75	1,242.96
2861	YARD PERSON	20.65	2396	2153	20.65	20.98	21 39	21 64	21.93	22.29	22 57	22.94	23.22	23.58	23,96
Schedule E/F
For All Employees Hired After October 15,1986
Schedule E/F -1
October 16,2001 - October 15, 2002
PAGE: 12S
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2M1 TO OCTOBER 15, 3002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		fourth		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	Max	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
•2928	ACCT ENCiR SR POST	918.31	1J70.47	1,145.16	91838	943 59	968.79	99399	1419.16	1444.38	[ ,06937	1,094.75	1J 19.97	LJ45.L6	IJ70.47
2114	ACCT ENGR40HR	987.73	MOO 23	M73J7	987-73	1.008 94	IXBOJO	1451,42	1,072.67	i.W39]	LI 15 14	U36J7	IJ57.65	LI 7847	120013
*2W	ACCTPOST	96964	t-207,23	1483,43	96964	993.40	UH 7,14	14W.92	J.064,65	1,008.42	L11121	1J35.M	M 59.73	1383.43	120723
20M	ACCT HEP « HR	M9.17	946,49	936.62	849.17	858.89	868.61	878.33	888.03	897.76	90746	917-21	926.90	93642	94649
2t>U	ACCTG ASST CORP <0 HR	93241	J427J3	14(7.39	932,83	9*134	95L77	961.21	970-64	980,10	989.54	991.97	1408.45	14(739	1,02753
2006	ACCTG A$ST DIST 40 HR	893 Or	987.73	97814	8930)	M2.50	911.96	921.40	9J0 90	940.36	Wl	95919	96B.73	97824	987,73
	ACCTG ASST SR CQRP*0 HR	987,73	JJ465B	1.130168	987,73	1JXB3V	UH9.43	1,035,37	1/15115	1j067,I2	i 4*3,03	J.091.91	U 14.79		1.14638
2015	ACCTG ASST SR 40 HR	932.81	1427J3	1,0)7.39	932^8	94234	951.77	961 21	970.64	980.10	969.54	991.97	L00S45	1417^	142733
2007	ACCTG ASST 40 HR	893X1]	9S7.73	97814	893.01	90150	911.96	921.40	9W.90	940.36	949,81	95929	968.75	97824	987.73
212)	ACCTG CLERK 1 FT 40 HR	78B.51	835J2	831.15	788.51	793.28	79801	802.71	807.47	81220	81644	821^6	826.41	83LI5	835.82
2122	ACCTG CLERK 3 PT 40 HR	237.66	237,(3	237,66	237,66	237.83									
2897	ACTIVE SUB BARG EMPL		a	»											
	KDWASSXCSnpQCT	WA6			8WlU	WTO	wm	930.89		97800	U»L,37	1,025 14	1JM8.71	1,07229	1495.92
•2956	ADM ASST MAT MG POST 40,0 HR		1,145.67	t, 120.R	899,14	923.76	948.40	973,08	997.72	1.022.34	[,04697	1.071.65	1,09628	1,120188	1,145.67
*2970	ADM ASST METER REPAIR POST	910.46	)„ 156,73	1,132,1®	910,46	935.12	959.73	98435	IJXX.M	143359	1,058.26	i.WQK?	U07.49	L132I0	MM.73
•2966	ADM ASST SYS SUP POST	89333	1484.92	1465.67	893.33	912.49	931.61	95075	969 89	989.04	LOOS. 19	L027.36	1.04630	14»47	1484.92
•2946	ADM ASST WORK. COMP POST	83852	L0M32	1,045.33	83852	861,49	88445	907.44	930.42	953-M	97640	99938	(402.35	14*5 J3	146832
•29M	ART A PROD ASST POST	858.96	1,151.23	1,121.94	858.96	BI8.L9	917.39	946.60	975 83	1,005.07	14)34.31	1,063.50	1,092.7]	1J 21.9*	1,151.23
27J9	ASSOC CUSTOMER SERVICE	398.74	84823	77332	398,14	<13.67	54858	623.49	698-40	773,32	848,23				
2019	ASSOC CUST $VC REP POST 2001	40843	77625	59214	40843	454,75	500.68	546,61	59154	638.47	684 J9	73032	776.25		
2866	ASST CHEMIST	765.19	96136	942.31	765,19	71485	MH 53	>2415	>4107	W.M		902.89	9216]	4*131	96146
PAGE: 126
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F ■ 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.2001 TO OCTOBER 15, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	J MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
•2952	ASST EDITOR POST	847 19	1.079,35	1,056.01	847.19	870.39	893 58	916,79	940.00	963.20	98641	1,009 59	1,03281	1,456,01	1,019.3$
2370	ASST FIELD REP	934.36	L092.59	1,078.61	954 36	968.13	981.97	995.76	l,009J6	1423.50	1,037,17	L05L0I	1,064.77	1,078,61	1,992,59
2033	ATTEND GARAGE	9,47	16^7	1388	947	10-22	10.91	11.64	12^6	I3.O9	13.80	14 JI	1524	1588	1667
2022	ATTEND GARAGE ALTER FUEL	16 47	21.99	21.32	16 47	17.03	17,55	IB.08	L8.6L	19.16	19,70	20.24	20.77	2122	2L99
24S«	AUTO MECH A FLD TRA1NER	26-t>4	2322	28.06	2664	26.77	2694	27.10	2725	27.43	27.57	27.75	27.90	18.06	2821
2W	AUTO MECHANIC	24.84	36 42	26.13	24.84	24.96	25,13	2577	25.43	25.56	25.70	25.88	26-00	26,13	26.42
2489	A UTO MECHANIC A	15,60	27.14	26.99	25.60	25.74	25.93	26.06	26.23	26 37	26.52	2649	26.84	26.99	27 14
2218	AUTO MECHANIC APPRENTICE	11,48	J4J4	14.24	11,48	11.78	12.09	12.41	12.72	13B3	13.30	13.62	13.93	14.24	14.54
263)	AUTO TECHNICIAN	26,64	2822	28.06	26.64	26,77	26.94	27.10	27,25	27 43	27 57	27p75	27 90	28.06	28.22
2025	BLACKSMITH W	25 J5	26.94	26.67	25.35	25.51	25.63	25.78	23.94	26.07	26.23	2637	26.31	36.67	36.94
2031	CARPENTER	24,78	26,36	26.08	2478	24.92	2506	2521	25-35	25.52	25.64	25.7$	25-94	26.0ft	2636
2714	CHAUFFEUR DISTRICT OPS	23.71	23.71	23.71											
2033	CHAUFFEUR EXECUTIVE	22.35	24.23	241)9	22.85	23.01	23.13	2326	23.39	13.54	23.68	23.61	23.94	24.09	24,23
2(H0	CHAUFFEUR TRACTOR TRAILER	24XH	2552	23.37	24 08	24.22	24 37	2449	2465	24.81	24.93	25.09	25,23	25.37	25.52
2033	CHEMIST SENIOR 40 HR	IJ 88.02	1459.2B	1252.09	1,188.02	1.195.15	1.202.25	L 209 35	121647	1,223.60	1J30.76	I237.B5	1244.98	U52.09	125928
2029	CHEMIST 40 HR	1,01850	1,114.05	L158.4S	1,01 ft JO	1,034.01	L 0*9 58	1,065 10	1,080.67	L 096.27	1.111.81	L 127.36	1J42S9	1.158 45	1,174.05
’2938	CHIEF CLERK GAS OPER POST	854.85	1,145,67	I.U6.48	854.85	88390	912.96	942.06	971.11	1.000,19	1,029,24	1X358.34	1,087.40	1,11648	M45-W
2615	CLK ACCT NO 2 40 HR POSTB9	553,24	884 34	BS]_92	558.24	S90.84	623.48	656.14	68875	72138	7543)2	786.64	Bl 9.27	851.92	884,54
2104	CLK ACCTG NO 1 ACCT 40 HR	849 17	946-49	936.62	849.17	85889	868.61	87823	88803	897.76	90746	917.21	926.90	936.62	44649
2050	CLK ACCTG NO 1 40 HR	835.82	933.37	92348	835.82	845.58	855 29	865.04	87476	8M.5)	89*23	903,99	91373	923 48	933.37
2105	CLK ACCTG NO 2 40 HR	792.W	884 54	875.37	792 94	802.07	Bl 1.24	820.38	829 59	838.74	847.89	857.06	86620	B75J7	884,54
| 2734	| CLK ACCTG NO, 1 OAS	[	737.29	933 37	913.75	737.29	756,92	776J1	79611	815.76	835.34	854.93	874.55	|	894.15	913,75	93327
PAGE: 127
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHE DULE SCHEDULE E/F - I EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2H1 TO OCTOBER 15,2092 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTODER 15,19M
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	EMOS
2733	CLK ACCTG NO ! OAS	$61,75	702.20	688.15	56L75	$75.80	$8946	603.87	617.92	63 UB	64601	660.07	674,12		7O2JO
2725	CLK ACCTG NOJ ACCTG POST 92	55824	8M54	807.32	55814	684 64	8U7J2	884.54							
2256	CLK CNTL SR CUST ACCT 40 HR	95490	1.W9M	1XH0.21	954.M	964.46	973.92	983.36	992.87	1.00230	IJJILT7	LC1I.3O	1130.76	1.0*021	IXN9.S4
2732	CLK COMM NO I 40 0 HR POST92	73729	933.37	913.75	73729	73692	776,51	796,11	81176	835.22	854.93	874,60	894.15	913,7$	933J7
2739	CLK COMM NO2 40fl HR POST92	56M5	70220	688,15	561.75	$75,80	589.86	603.87	6J7-W	61968	64601	660,0?	674.12	68115	702 JO
2133	CLK COMML ASST HD 40 HR	Ml .82	987.73	98316	9+Lftl	9*639	950,99	955.58	960,11	964.78	96937	973,94	97831	983,16	987,73
2170	CLK COMML INDL ATM-40 HR	933.75	IjBUI	1.02 ITS	933.75	9*3,50	953.19	962.94	972,70	9®2,39	992.19	I.OOt ,92	1.0tl3«	1,02138	1^31JI
2141	CLK COMML NO 140 HR	83112	93337	923.48	835.82	845 58	855,29	86504	874 76	884.S3	89443	903,99	913.73	923,48	93337
2)47	CLK COMML NO 2TREAS40 HR	43W	8R4A4	859 .M	63862	663.15		71234	736,93	76L52	786,12	8)0.66	>3527	859.15	8X454
2144	CLK COMML NO 2 40 MR	792 94	M4 J4	875.37	792.94	802.07	811.24	820,38	829.79	>38.74	847.89	857.06	86620	B75J7	88434
214>	CLK COMML NO 3 40 HR	455.49	645,42	62643	455 49	474,$0	493.49	512.48	531,47	$30.46	569.46	588.44	607,42	62643	6*142
2034	CLK CONS ANAL YS 40 HR	672 72	774 49	764M	672.T1	682.90	66303	70326	713.42	723.60	7JJ.74	743.96	7 $4 0®	76430	774,49
21)5	CLK CONTROL CUST SER 40HR	835.12	93337	923.48	>35,82	845.58	855,29	86504	>74.76	>84.53	>94 23	993.99	913,73	923,48	933.37
2230	CLK CONTROL PROP MAEMT 44	890.29	1,062,11	1,044.84	89029	907.46	924.64	941,82	959.03	976.14	993.34	1,01153	1127.67	1,04414	1.062-11
2151	CLK DEPOSIT 40 HR	86897	96640	95W	86691	878.69	8W.43	8»20	907.90	917-66	927.4J	937,15	94686	95663	96640
2070	CLK GEN CUST SER 44),0 HR	358,46	68482	652.19	35846	391.07	423.73	456.37	489.00	521.65	354.27	516.94	619.57	652.19	684,82
2216	CLK GEN MATES MGT	683.1)	977.81	948JJ	683JI	7)157	742,0*	771.53	800.98	83148	559,92	81940	91843	94133	977,81
218$	CLK GEN NO 1 40 HR	835J2	933.37	92348	>35,82	84558	855.29	>65.04	87476	884,53	894.23	903.99	913.73	923.48	933J7
2416	CLK GEN NO 1 40 HR POSTN	518.16	93337	891.85	518.36	55988	601J5	642,86	68434	725.87	76737	8M85	85034	891,8$	933,17
2192	CLK GEN NO 246 HR	380J8	476.71	466.98	38038	390,17	399.75	409.36	41197	428,57	438.17	447.76	4$739	466.98	476.71
2195	CLK GEN NO 3 40 HR	206 52	427.86	405.66	306.32	12863	250.78	27150	295 03	317.12	339 25	361.39	38352	40366	42746
2864	CLK GEN HOI QCST 40 HR	W5J6	98842	983,31	935.56	940,87	94616	931.47	956,76	96242	967.38	972.71	97102	983J)	981.62
PAGE: 128
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER U>, 2W1 TO OCTOBER 15. W02 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,19M
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2261	CLK GEN TREASURY 40 HR	870.7Q	96823	958,36	870,70	680,45	890,17	899,89	90956	919-40	92911	938,87	448 64	95836	96823
2176	CLK GEN I CASHIER 40 HR	86345	960,73	95082	863.15	872.90	882.65	892.38	902.12	9)1.86	9ZI.63	931.30	94LQ7	950.8?	96O.7J
2it6	CLK GEN t MKT ADV 40 HR	884.20	981.70	971.87	88420	893.93	903.69	913.44	923.18	932.90	942.64	952.38	962 13	971 87	981 70
2190	CLK GEN 1 PUR QC 40 HR	S74J9	972.05	96228	874 59	864 34	894 08	903.80	913 54	92331	933-06	942.80	952.57	963J8	972.05
2215	CLK GEN 2 MKT ADV 40 HR	395.67	491.86	482.25	J95A7	40322	4 E4.94	424J2	434.17	443 72	45JJ9	46300	4726)	W25	491.86
2237	CLK 1 ID CLA1M/SECUR1TY 40 HR	934 98	1/4984	1,040.21	954,98	964.46	973 92	98336	992-87	1,002,30	1,011.77	1,02150	1,030.76	1,040.21	1.049 84
2202	CUC HD COMML 40 HR	954.96	1,0*981	I/M021	954.98	964 46	973,92	983.36	942.87	! .002,30	13)11,77	1/323.34)	L03056	1,040.21	1,049.84
*2930	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG POST	918.38	1,170.4?	IJ4JJ6	9/S.3S	JM3.59	96379	»3.W	J ,01936	1.044,38	1 *06957	L094.75	1,119.97	1.145.16	1,170.47
2583	CLK HD URBAN AFFAIRS	954.98	1,0*984	1,0*0.21	954.98	96446	973 92	98336	992,37	1,002,30	1,011.77	J ,021,30	1/130,76	1 *040.21	1,049 84
2579	CLK HD URBAN AFFAIRS 40HRS	954.98	1,049.84	1,0*021	954.98	964.46	973,92	983,36	992,87	) .002,30	1,0] 1,77	1/121,30	14)30.76	1/M0.21	1,049.84
2357	CLK HEAD CONTROL 40 HR	987.73	J 4 46.58	1,130.68	987.73	1,00357	L019.43	1.03537	1,051.25	1/167.12	1*083.02	1/198.91	1.) 14.79	IJJU.68	1,140.58
2211	CLK HEAD CUST SVC 40 HR	941.82	987.73	98336	941,82	946.39	950.99	95558	96015	W78	969 37	973 94	97851	983,16	987,73
2236	CLK NOUSE HEATNG A 40 HR	596.22	906.12	875.04	596.22	627.20	658 17	689 14	720.1-4	791*13	782.12	8B.ll	844.04	875 04	90612
nos	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B POST 98	398.36	520.46	5O8J7	396.36	410.74	422.93	435.13	44732	459.50	471.69	483.88	496-08	50827	52046
2239	CLK HOUSE HEATNG 0 40 HR	265*68	520.46	494.94	2«.M	291.17	316.64	342-10	367 54	39JO2	418.50	443 97	46946	494,94	520.46
2635	CLK INVENT CEL MM D 40 HR	94000	1,034.80	L023.16	940.00	949.42	958.37	96B36	977.84	987.33	996.75	1,006.23	1,01573	L023 16	1,034.89
2724	CLK METER REPAIR SR	847.51	934.07	925.96	84751	856.23	864.96	873,68	88239	S9IJ2	899.82	908.53	925.96	934 67	934 67
221(1	CLK MTR RPR HEAD 40 HR	893.01	987,73	978.24	893.01	902,50	911,96	921 40	93090	940.36	949.81	939*29	968 74	97824	957.73
2244	CLK SPECIAL LEDGER 40 HR	835.82	957 96	94572	835.82	84800	860.24	872.47	884.64	896.87	909.05	92119	933417	94572	957 96
2252	CLK STCK MAT MGT40 HR.	61142	683,10	676.02	6)2,42	61950	626.37	633TJ	640 72	647 77	654.8*	661.90	66899	676,02	683,10
2246	CLK STCK MKT ADV 40 HR	792.M	8M.51	875.37	792,94	WZ.07	SH.24	S20.3P	52959	838.74	847.89	857.06	866.20	875,37	884,54
2233	CLK STCK STN RY TRUCK OP 40	769.01	918.37	903 62	369.01	783.96	798.94	31390	828.84	843,73	858,72	873.66	88863	903,62	918.37
PAGE: I2»
LOCAL LOI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F- J EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It- 2001 TO OCTOBER 15,1W3 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15.IBM
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	tMOS	tMOS	6 MOS	tMOS	CMOS	tMOS	6 MOS
222)	CLK TELLER 40 W	84*47	946,4?	93642	(W47	35389	868.6J	878J3	88803	897 76	907.46	9L7ZL	926.90	9)6 61	946.49
2157	C1X. TELLER 40.9 HR POST 92	6JL 98	842 60	821.55	«l-W	65302	674,12	695 17	716.25	737-29	758,38	TW4)	80030	821,55	'	84160
2258	CLK TRAIT IC 40 HR	L06733	146238	1,152,76	1,067J)	t .076.01	1JW6.34	1,095.79	1,105,29	1414.79	IJ2A27	1,13376	U43J7	1,152.76	L46L38
254?	CLK TYPIST 40 HR	342.62	643.42	61543	34262	372.90	40345	43344	463.72	494.01	524.29	554 57	584.85	6)543	645,42
2264	COLLE CTO CONTROLLER « HR	910 si	1X07.47	1,013.60	91042	922.44	934,11	945.78	957A)	969.04	980.67	992 J6	1,003,97	13)15.60	LX127.47
212)	COLLECTOR	867,47	968.96	958.63	867 47	877.62	887.72	897,8?	907.97	918.18	92125	938.40	948.47	*5863	968.96
2645	CORROSION TECH HELPER	11.31	17,79	1724	1231	1284	13.41	13.94	14.48	J504	15.59	16.13	16.69	17.24	17.79
2649	CORROSION TECHNICIAN	1837	33,79	23.26	1837	)8.91	1947	20.01	30,37	21.08	21.61	22.16	22.70	23J6	23,79
2810	CORROSION TECMNKTAN PRE 92	9$3 12	1402,72	u»sw	953.12	968.07	9830)	997	1.01196	1,027.89	IJEMZ.«6	1^57,77	3JOT2.74	r,W7,6*	1,101.72
2650	CORROSION TECHNICIAN SR	23.82	77.56	27.19	23.82	24,21	24.57	2494	25,32	75.70	26.07	26A4	26.82	2749	2736
2W	CREATIVE SERVICES ASSOCIATE	0*44]	1,102.66	1,040.79	84441	863.70	893.29	917,87	942.45	967,04	991.61	1,0)6.20	1/M0.79	1,182.66	
273$	CREW LEADER	27,91	29.38	29,24	27.91	28.06	2»20	28.35	28.30	18.65	28.79	28.94	29 08	2914	2438
2124	CUST INQUIRY REP FT 40 HR	86741	867J1	867J)											
2652	CUST SERVICE ASSIST WT	9.90	9,96	996											
2632	CUST SERVICE ASSIST F/T	908,83	439.88	434 70	408 8J	414.00	419,18	424,35	419 53	434.70	439.88				
1216	CUST SERVICE REP 40 HR	88673	1311397	1.001^7	886.73	89943	912,16	924SB	93762	95032	963.06	975.81	9*8.33	I.00t,Z7	13)13.97
2688	CUST SERVICE REP 40 HR	886,73	1,013.97	) JDOl.IT	886.73	899.43	9)216	924.88	937 62	95022	963.06	975.8)	988,53	1,001.27	1,013.97
2733	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC	398.74	63(98	m.66	39854	42207	44539	46872	49204	51137	M8.W	36232)	585J3	6U.66	631.98
2661	CUST SVC ASSOC NO 1 POST 98	59176	848.23	(2248	593.76,	619.21	644.65	67040	695-55	720.99	746.44	783,20	797)3	822,78	848.23
2MO	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC KT	9.96	9.96	9.W											
2666	customer service rep post GJ	791.68	1,013,97	991,74	791.68	813.91	8)644	838,37	880.59	902.82	925.OJ	9472B	969.SL	WJ4	MH197
224?	CUSTOMER SERVICE TELLER	398.74	631.98	573.67	398.74	45106	51537	573,67	631-98						
2017	customer service teller pos	41L93	564.08	48890	411,93	4J729	46265	488,00	3)3.36	33872	564.08				
2161	DELIVERER	18.53	21.10	20.76	1853	18-79	19.00	1924	19.53	19.76	20.03	2075	2O5J	20.76	2T.10
2704	DISPATCHER POST 96	LOM.ll	1430-13	libs	1,084.11	1/188-72	1,09331	1,097,92	1402.5)	}, 107,13	1411.72	J J1632	[J 20.93	(425,52	1,13043
2J*6	DISPLAY ASSISTANT « HR	8T7.75	973.20	965.4)	877.75	887.53	897.26	90699	916.7?	926.48	93614	945,96	955.68	965,43	97520
PAGE: 130
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE EZF - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER 15, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST		SECOND			THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAN	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	FMOS	6 MOS	FMOS	6 MOS
23W	DISPLAY ASST APPRNT 40 HR	33KX>e	645.43	6IA70	338.08	36160	399,56	430.27	461.0?	49)76	82245	55)28	583,95	614,70	64542
2299	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 40 HR	I.0B3 3L	1300.18	IJ St J1	1,083.11	1,094.96	1,106,64	IJiRJi	1.129.98	1,14)64	L153.32	1,164.94	1,176.64	L188.31	1*200.18
2OT	DISPLAY DhslCKER 40 HR	LU 10.59	kill .49	1,115*5	1,010.59	1,02229	1,033.94	J.O-b^	L057J1	1^6897	1,08059	1^92-29	U 03.99	L115.6S	1J 27.49
2303	DISPLAY mON-OONSTRN SNR 4(1	950A8	1,047,83	1,038.11	9S1M8	960,18	969.90	979 67	989,39	99915	100889	L018.64	1.02838	1,038-11	J4M?,B7
1280	OISRTCH D1STRA0HR	1. 949 58	1JW5.53	(.090 ft?	T,<N9.JS	1,05419	1,058.74	1,063.34	1,067.96	1337148	LOT). LI	1,081.70	L086J8	IW.8B	1<O9W
2293	DISPTCH FUEL 40 HU	941.62	L026.03	1,017,47	94W	9S&23	958.62	9673)3	975 44	983,88	99229	LOGOS?	IW09	1,017-4?	LQ26.88
2175	DlSPTCtl ORDER	1,084 ft	M3O.I3	1,123,42	1084,11	1,088,74	1,09128	1,097,90	,,102.50	1.107J03	1,11)66	1.116.28	M 20.83	1,12542	1,130 13
1294	DISPTCH TRANSP 40 HR		934.] 6	929 39	886,77	891.56	896.26	901.04	905.72	910.43	9I5J7	919 M	924,67	92939	934.16
2283	DlSPTCH TRUCK DIST40 HR	1,011.27	1,057.71	1,053.06	LOI! ,77	1,01640	1.00096	L02SJ5	t ,030.17	L<H<72	1.03932	1.043 89	1JH853	LO53O6	L .057.71
2307	DRAFTING CLERK 40 HR	644 68	85325	83624	684-68	701,53	716.41	73521	7S2J0	268.93	785,74	802,39	819.44	836.24	853.23
J30j5	DRAFTING TECH SR 40 HR	99046	1,072.02	1,063,71	990.66	998.76	L0M.91	Mtsoi	>.02310	LUM 24	1,03937	LM7W	1.055.58	11)63,71	1,072,02
23Qi	DRAFTING TECH 40 HR	0W	702-83	695 76	632,07	639.13	646.22	633,28	66036	667 44	674,50	681.59	688 69	69576	702.83
219)	DRJP PERSON	13.38	2405	23.95	23.38	23.45	23.52	23 J9	23.66	23.72	23.76	23.82	23.88	23.95	24.05
2197	ELECT	24.49	26,74	26.37	2-1.49	24.74	24.92	2515	2533	25.55	25.74	25.96	2615	2637	26.74
2199	ELECT A GAS 0PN5	2614	2774	27.57	26. H	26J2	26,46	26.65	26.7g	26,94	27,10	27.26	27-43	27.J7	27,74
2198	ELECT SYSTEMS SUPTORT	14.49	26.09	25 02	14.49	24.63	24 81	24.93	25.11	25.73	25.37	25.53	25.65	25.82	26.09
2205	ELECTRONIC TECH RAftfG L1C	2S4t	29,80	2954	28.41	28.56	28.68	28,78	28.91	29,03	29,19	29.29	29-43	29 54	29.M
•2940	ENGINEER AIDE GAS OFER POST	93629	J, 192,82	L J 67.03	936.29	961.91	987.56	1,013.20	13)38.82	13)64.47	LOW. 13	Ml 5.73	1,141.41	1,167.03	LI 92.82
2315	ENGINEER. ASST TO 40 HR	#7.73	U13.42	1,190.84	987.73	1.DKU4	1,032.86	1,055.42	13)77.99	i,IO	1,32X13	L145.69	1,168.26	1,190.84	1213.42
224 5	engineer ikhstlic	26.64	2790	27,75	26.64	26,74	26.87	26,99	27,12	27,25	2737	2710	27 60	27.75	27.90
2251	ENGINEER LJC	27.58	18.44	28.34	27-58	27.68	27.76	27.35	2792	2802	2810	2616	28,26	28.M	28.44
22/5	EQUIPMENT MAINTAINER	22.74	24.14	24.00	2174	O	23.04	23-16	23J0	2344	23-59	23,72	2384	24 W	24.14
PAGE: 131
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F-I EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It, 2001 TO OCTOBER 18,2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15.1*86
					PROGRESS!					ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS					
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	5 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6MOS	6 MOS	6MOS
	FCM APPRENTICE	14.04	I7J5	16,38	14.04	13-Zi	1638	17,35							
2658	FCM APPRENTICE SENIOR	tS27	12,61	21,29	1827	19.77	21.29	22.81							
26%	FCM APPRENTICE TRAINEE		1331	1106	*so	10.78	T2.06	t33l							
2315	FCM ELECTNSTRUMENT TECH	30.07	3107	31,68	3QJJT	30.22	3042	30.62	30.78	30.98	31.14	3k3l	3tJl	31.68	3LJ7
1653	FCM MECHANIC	23.32	2S27	25.12	23.52	23,71	2336	UM	24,23	24.41	24.37	24.76	24.92	25.12	2527
26%	FCM MECHANIC A	2598	27.74	27 J6	23.98	26.14	2634	26.50	26.69	26.87	27.0<	2?^C	27J7	27*56	2X74
2713	FCM MECHANIC FLD F ACIUT1ES	23lW	2725	27.11	23.65	2594	25.98	26,13	26,31	26.43	266*	26.77	76.94	77*11	2723
2680	FCM MECHANIC SENIOR	28.43		3004	28.43	28.63	28.78	28.97	29.13	29.32	19 SQ	29.65	298$	30.04	3018
2604	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	24.23	25*98	25.8i	2423	24.41	2437	24,76	24.92	23112	25,27	25.48	25.62	2511	25*98
2604	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A	26-69	28*3	U27	26.W	2687	27.04	27.21	27.39	27-56	27.74	77.91	2810	28 27	28.43
1W2	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN SR	29.15		XJ.71	2913	2’.32	39.50	29.65	29.65	3004	3018	3039	3053	30,71	39.91
226B	FIELD FORCE APPRENTICE	398.48	42646	412.47	398,48	412.47	42646								
2074	HELD QPERS INSPECTOR	24.36	2591	25,73	24.36	24.52	2467	24.83	24.98	2S.13	23J9	25.44	23.60	25,75	25.91
2M3	FIELD OFERS INSPECTOR B	1W	23-14	2109	22-67	22.7]	22.76	2201	22.86	22.90	22.93	23.W	23.05	2309	23.14
JOOfl	HELD OFERS INSPECTOR C	20jW	2125	1U3	20.05	20.17	2029	20.41	2053	2005	20.77	2W	21.01	21*13	2US
1746	FIELD REP 40 HR	1,135.64	J, 199.00	L 177.76	1,135.64	1,135.64	1*135*64	LI 35.64	t.156.70	1.156.70	1,177.76	1,177 76	1,19900		
2330	FIELD REF 40 HR POST 92	9*6,74	1084-93	1,07009	■M6.74	MAt	974.30	98821	1001.93	1.015-74	1J0M.S8	[,0*3.3?	JJWTJJ	1.09?	[*084 93
2368	HELD REPRESENT	L LOT.63	JJ9883	1J88.81	1,100*3	lTt1tL44	M2020	1.130,03	1,139.81	1,149.79	1,159.46	[,169.27	1,17902	1*188.81	T J 96 83
2369	HELD REPRESENT OFFICE	1,012,63	1,110.83	1,100,81	1,012.63	IJB2-41	10322]	J ,0*203	LJQSI.M	1.061.64	l^ni.41	L0SJ2I	1090,99	MOORI	M19J3
2678	FIELD SERVICES APPRENTICE	417.47	738.62	70601	412.47	466.64	521*16	375.37	629.90	706.01	73862				
•1968	FINANCIAL ASST POST 40 0 HR	860.16	LJ&9S51	1OT229	SW16	KJ.M	907,31	930.89	954.41	978.00	UN 1.3?	101534	UM8.71	1,07229	1*09192
2287	nrrtR	22.37	24.16	23.85	22.57	22.69	22-84	23.01	2313	232?	23.43	23,38	23.72	1333	24.16
[
PAGE; 132
I
I
l
l
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE progression schedule SCHEDULE E/F • 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16. 2001 TO OCTOBER IS, 2002 FOK ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, 1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	J MOS	6 MOS	0 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
															
2240	FLD TR ELECT/MtCH GAS OPNS	26, £$	28.49	28,34		27.85	2720	27.37	27.52	2769	27.85	26.0J	28.16	2854	28,49
2289	FLD TR INSTRUMENT iNSF	IJ2363	L191.05	1,1*4.34	1,123.63	1,130,36	1,137,12	1,14385	LI 50.62	1,15736	1,164.11	M 70,83	L 177.60	1.18434	L] 91.05
2292	FLD TR SYS GAS OPER	17,79	29 33	29 2S	27.79	21,96	23.11	28^8	28.43	2862	2873	28.92	29,87	29.25	29 J8
2341	GATE GUARD	19.55	2073	20.62	1955	196$	19,71	19.94	20.03	20.13	20.24	2O.5S	20.46	20.62	20.13
2311	GRAPHICS TECHN SR 40 HB.	1,025 59	1,106.87	1,098.63	1,02559	1,033,72	!,M	)R04O92	L-M8.M	106615	1.81419	1,082.41	1,090.56	1098.63	1,106.87
2Jia	GRAPHICS TLCHN 40 HR	853.47	945W	935OT	853.47	862,51	871.75	830,91	890 88	89920	98838	91758	916.71	935.89	945.09
1110	GSO D1ST/STATIOW FLD TOR	2776	29.38	29.24	27.76	27 53	28.10	28.26	28AI	2860	28.74	28.91	29 07	29.24	2938
2712	GSO t>IST<STATKWSR FW TRNR	28.9D	30.58	30.36	28,90	29.0$	2934	29.38	29.56	29.76	29.90	3GO9	J&23	30 36	«|J8
1708	GSO DISTRICT ASSISTANT	11.8$	21.41	20.96	1785	17.47	17.88	1836	18.80	19 23	1P.65	2ftJ J	20.51	28.96	2141
2706	GSO DISTRICT ASST TRAINEE	1194	15.54	12 94	12,94	1554									
2161	GSO HOLDERPERSON	13.20	26.09	25 82	2320	23.49	2J.78	24.08	14_38	24.65	24.93	2523	15.53	25.82	26.09
2496	GSO MECHANIC PRESSURE	15,65	2? 2$	26-9?	25.6$	2581	25 96	2689	26.26	26.38	26,53	26.69	26,82	2697	27.25
2W	GSO STATION & FIELD OPERATOR	26 33	271*	37.74	26 33	26.46	2665	2618	26.94	27.10	2726	27.43	27.57	27.74	21.88
2524	OSO STATION OPERATOR	2533	26,8?	26.72	2533	25,51	25.64	25,81	25.96	2609	2627	2640	36-57	26.72	26,87
234$	HELPER	1028	HJ-2SL	1828	1028	10,28									
2588	HELPER CCSD	6.99	n.?7	1128	6.99	745	7,94	841	889	9.38	9.84	18,32	10.82	11.28	11.77
2154	HELPER DISTRIBUTION	7.56	11.77	11.30	756	7,9$	846	8.W	9.24	9,66	10.0$	10.47	10,90	1130	11.77
2353	HELPER MECHANICS	16,44	21 59	21.02	J6.O4	37.37	17.62	I8J2	1816	19,19	19 65	20.12	20,60	2102	2159
2355	HELPER OPERATORS	2134	22.67	2257	2LJ9	21.52	21.65	2)81	2L92	22,84	22.16	2231	22,44	22.57	22.67
2356	HELPER PRESSURE	2060	21.82	21,70	2060	20-?0	28.81	20.94	21.06	21.21	21.31	21.43	21.56	21.7®	21.62
264 J	HELPER TEMPORARY 40 HR	8.78	3 78	8.78	8,71	8.78									
2362	HOLDER PERSON	23.13	14,50	24.3S	23-13	2326	2339	2J£4	2?.<M	2381	23.95	14,09	24.23	24,36	24.50
PAGE: 133
LOCAL tOl WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F- 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER IS, 2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,19B6
					,	PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P,P,	3 MOS	3 MOS	6.MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	(MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	EMOS	6 MOS
	IND APPL INSPECTOR POST «HR	1.019,79	1311,84	1281-32	1,01979	1025.74	1,057.32	1J»S9,W	kill.10	1J5181	UM68	)^I646	IJ4824	128132	LJU.84
*2*63	INSPECTOR^ POST	1 *074.93	(302,74	1279.9)	1,074 93	t ,097.71	1320.48	JJ4327	IJ66.M	U88.il)	UHJ9	U34.36	1,257.16	127991	1,302.74
2374	INSPECTOR INSTRUMENT MTR RP	9*5.70	1,139.73	122227	WJ.M	9*306	LjMQ-51	ijon,w	1,03524	1JM2A7	1070103	iMJ.n	MOW	1,12227	1,139.73
•1*W	INVESTIGATOR B POST	9(6.37	LI 67.79	L, 142.66	9t6J7	94L47	96665	991.79	1^0)6.92	)JWL09	1JJ67.10	1,09234	lhlt7uS(	M42.M	1*167.79
2659	KES CALL CENTER REP -FT	9.96	9.96	9.9*											
2655	KES CALL CENTER REP- P<F	9.96	9.96	9.96											
2422	MAIN? RRE EQ GAS OR SYS SUP	15.78	27-70	27,48	25,78	25.97	26.15	2S.35	2653	26.72	2692	2U0	27,29	27.48	27,70
2425	MAINTAINER INSTRUMENT	24.49	26.09	13.82	2449	24.65	2481	14.97	25.11	25.23	2537	2333	25.65	2582	16.0*
2424	MAINTAINER PERSON FIRE EQUIP	2221	2161	23.47’	n#	2X*0	2233	£L«	22-79	2296	23.0?	23,20	23.33	23.47	2)61
2417	MAINTAINER PRQVERINDTCAT A	2*20	2B.M	23.65	26.70	26.46	16,74	17.02	27.29	27.56	27.82	28.11	28J6	28,65	18.86
2426	MAINTAINER PROVEM INDttATOB	25.49	lt.LL	21.73	ISJt*	25.71	23.9*	16.23	16.43	26.7)	26.97	27.21	37.47	27.73	M.U
24*1	MECH	2449	2674	26.57	24.^9	24 74	24.92	15.15	25)3	25.55	25.74	25,96	26.(3	2637	26.74
MWJ	MECH A MST OFNS	l*4fl.	nw	17.66	26.49	1655	16.70	1612	*16.97	2X11	2724	17.39	I7J2	27.6*	27,88
2483	MECH APPLIANCE	20,65	22.67	22 32	2065	20.81	2)jQ0	11,22	21.37	21.56	21.7*	11.94	23.11	2232	22.6?
1W3	MECHDISTA	16.10	2725	27,(4	26 30	26.32	26.40	16,3 J	26.6+	26.72	2682	26.93	27,<M	27.14	222S
MM	MECH DJST A FLO TR Q/C	28.90	30.5!	3Qi43	18.90	29,05	29.24	19.31	2956	29.77	29.91	30.09	3023	3043	3058
2506	MECH D4ST A FU) TRAINER	17.9)	2938	29,18	27.91	2807	28.18	18,34	28.48	28.63	ZB.75	2890	2901	29.)8	2958
2731	MECH DIST A POST 93	25,46	1725	27.0B	25,46	25.63	25.82	J5.99	26.19	2*55	2633	M.11	2689	2708	27.23
250$	MECH Df STB	22,78	2327	23.16	22.78	22.94	22.90	32,95	22.99	21®	2306	27 04	23.13	23.16	2357
2727	MECH MST B POST 98	2)75	1J27	23.11	21.75	11.9]	22.06	12.2(1	ns*	22.5)	22.67	218)	22.97	ait	2327
	MECH METER A	24,62	2609	25.95	14.62	24,79	24 92	15X16	2522	23 J6	2532	25 A3	2381	25,95	
2493	MECH METER B	21 )0	22.02	21.87	21.(0	mi	2117	1135	21.43	21,M	2)59	2) J]	2180	21.87	2202
PAGE: 134
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F - I EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1«, 2W1 TO OCTOBER IS, 2W2
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER If., 1586
								PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS							
					FIRST			SECOND		TH	1RD	FOURTH		Fl	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	AMOS	AMOS	AMOS	6 MOS	AMOS	AMOS	6 MOS
	MECH METER SPECIAL	26,75	28.11	27.87	26.75	2688	27.01	27.12	!?.2S	27 J9	27.30	27.61	27,76	27.87	28.11
2484	MECH SYSTSUPPT	24,49	2609	25.82	2449	24 65	24.81	24.93	'.15,11	2523	2537	25X3	25,65	25.82	2609
1373	MESSENGER 40 HR	301,06	579.27	551.45	301,06	328-86	356.67	384.53	412.35	44020	467.98	49580	52364	551.45	579.27
2689	METER READER POST 98	412,47	560 69	484S3	412.4?	436.39	460.70	484.33	5D8.94	535.98	56069				
2859	METRETEKTECH	27.88	28.86	28X5	17.88	27.98	28.06	28J4	28,22	2831	2839	2847	28 57	28.65	28.86
2701	OPER D15TC POST 92	1685	1965	19.41	1685	17 M	17.42	17,70	17.98	18.27	18,54	18,83	19.10	!9.4l	19 65
2719	OPER DJST C POST 98	16.85	19.65	1938	16,85	17.14	17 42	1770	17.98	1826	18.54	18.81	19.10	1938	19.65
2549	OPER DISTRIBUTION C	2005	2125	21.13	20.05	201S	2077	20,40	2P53	33.49	20,75	20.88	20-98	21,13	2125
2609	OPER SCREENALUBCKHD&PAYL1	22.34	23.13	23.06	22.34	22.41	22.48	22,58	22X5	22.72	22,79	22.90	23.00	23 06	23.13
2608	OPER SLF’LDG VEK GVW 26WXH	2234	23.13	23.06	22.34	2241	2248	2258	226J	22.72	22.79	ZL90	23DO	2306	2113
2378	QPNSASSTDlST	889.64	987 13	977,28	889.64	89938	90909	918.89	1 *28.59	938.36	94809	957,85	967.52	977.28	987.13
2516	OPNS ASST GAS OPS	18.44}	13.30	22.67	1840	18.89	19J7	19.82	M.W	20.78	2126	21.76	2222	22.67	23,30
2591	OPR A WT OPHS	26.40	a*	27,66	26.40	26.55	2670	26,82	26.97	27,11	27,24	27,39	27.52	2766	27,88
2850	OPR assistant sng	25.33	26,87	26,73	25,33	25.51	25.64	25,81	23.96	26.09	24,27	26.40	26.57	26-72	26.8?
2584	OPR C TRAINEE DJST	12.94	1534	1294	12.94	15X4									
3715	OPR C TRAIN EE POST 98	12.94	15.54	12.94	12.94	1554									
2518	OPR CHIEF LNG	3ft 43	3235	32.07	30.43	30.62	30.78	3098	31 14	3)J3	31-52	31.69	3189	3107	32.25
2514	OPR CHIEF SNOLNG	32.05	33.95	33.7?	32.05	3234	32.43	32,62	318)	33.1)2	33.19	33,39	3359	33,77	33,95
2394	oproataprocno r	7R2.94	933,3?	919.26	79194	80696	62101	835J>8	84912	863.13	!77,)7	891,24	90521	91926	933.37
2398	OPR DATA PROC NO 3	29892	64542	610.78	298.92	333.58	368.22	402.87	437 54	472,19	506 82	541.48	576.11	61078	64142
2390	OPR DATA PROC NO2	612.25	683.02	675-97	612,25	619.35	62643	638.11	M0.58	64767	654.75	661.78	66887	675.97	683.02
2M5	OPR DISTRIBUTION A	26-19	27,25	27,14	26.19	2632	264]	26.50	26.W	26.73	26.82	26.93	27.05	27 14	2725
PAGE: 135
LOCAL IOI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.2N1 TO OCTOBER 15,2002
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1W6
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	SMOS
2547	OFR DISTRIBUTION B	20.6#	1M2	21.70	2060	20.70	20.81	20*»	21,07	2310	213)	21.44	21.56	3L7Q	2J41
3723	opr wstwwjti w b post s®	20.60	2I.S2	2169	70.60	2072	28.84	2096	21JP9	21.21	21,33	21,46	3L58	21.69	2M2
2522	OPR tw TRUCK 1.5T+	21.03	2232	22.1?	21.03	It 40	2111	2L43	2)34	21,70	21.83	21.9)	2206	22J7	2232
2321	OPR HOIST CHERRY PCK£R(UC}	27 J$	28 JI	28.38	27J5	27,37	7750	27,6t	27,75	27.87	27.99	28,12	2»26	2838	2851
2391	OPR KEY PUNCH SR 40 HR	00849	89994	89066	808,49	8(7.59	826.75	mw	344.99	854.14	863 26	872.41	881.55	E90.«	0934
2430	OFR LEAD DATA ENTRY 40 HR	8)5,82	93337	923.48	835 82	845,58	855,29	865,04	8X76	88433	MX 23	903.99	913.73	923 M	mn
34(4	OFR LEAD MICRO MACH 40 HR	025.79	1,023 J 4	1,013.39	®5J9	935.52	94523	954-W	964,74	974.44	98418	993.95	1JW365	J.01339	1,023.14
24(6	DPR LEAD REPRO MACH 40	925.74	1,02144	1,0(339	925.79	91132 1	94513	954.98	96474	974,44	984.18	993-9$	IJML3.&	7,01539	1A23 14
2434	OPR LEAD SYSTEMS 40 HR	1.05139	1.146.7?	1539.06	1.051,39	1,061.12	1,070.82	l,(®a57	1,090.32	1,100,09	1JO98]	1,119,57	1,12931	1,13905	1,148.77
2530	ora LNG	27,55	29.21	29.02	27JS	27.73	27.88	28-05	28.20	28JB	2846	28.71	28.M	39 62	29JI
2716	ora LNG ASST	23.70	2721	27.U7	23.70	25,86	76-00	2614	36.31	26.44	26,42	26.75	36-92	27,07	2711
2399	DPR MAIL INS RT MAC 40 HR	79294	884.54	87537	792 M	802117	8 Lt 24	83038	W959			Ml .06	866-20	am?	8M.54
2246	ora ML 1NSRT MAC 40 HR POST *	324,31	69907	681.60	524.31	5*1,78	559 27	576,74	594.20	61L70	629.18	646,65	664.12	68L60	69907
2540	OPR OPPOSITE	23.68	24 05	23.90	22.68	12.81	22.99	2309	23.13	13.37	23.50	23 M	23,77	2390	J4.05
2M6	OTO REPRO MACH SR ■» I®	S77.M	975,40	965 52	877-86	88760	897-38	907.11	91085	926.54	95631	9U.W	955.75	M553	97540
2402	OPR REPRO MACH 40 HR	352.W	643.42	616.19	352,98	38223	41145	44070	46997	499.22	528.43	557.70	556.%	616.19	645.42
2336	OFRSNGiLNG	34143	3225	3207	30.43	3062	30-78		31,14	3133	31.52	31.0	$1-89	nm	J12J
2541	OPR STATION A LIC	25.21	26.71	26.55	1521	1S3S	15.51	2565	25,81	25.96	2609	26.27	16,40	26.55	26.71
2543	OFR STATION B-	‘	2320	14_58	2446	23 JO	2134	23.49	23.6$	23,76	23,89	34.05	24 JO	243$	34 A6	2658
2436	OPR SYSTEMS A 40 HR	925.7?	1.023.14	1,01339	92579	93532	945.23	954-98	964 74	974 44	904.18	993.95	1,00365	l,0t)39	LOU. 14
2433	OPR SYSTEMS 40 HR	09027	987.73	977.93	89027	90002	909.74	919-49	929.25	938.9$	948,72	951.46	968.23	97793	987,73
2423	OPR TELEPHONE NGHT40 HR	306.62	683.02	645.39	10662	34415	381.92	419.54	457-19	494.83	532.47	5X09	607,72	64539	683.02
I
PAGE; 136
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2001 TO OCTOBER 15,2092
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,19S6
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS
2418	OPR TELEPHONE 40 HR	352 98	666,40	61655	352.98	384 32	415,70	448,00	478 37	509 70	5410$	572.37	603,71	616,55	666J0
2431	OPR TELETV PE MACH 40 HR	298.92	645.42	6|0 78	298.92	333,58	368.22	402.87	437.54	47119	506,82	541,48	576.11	610.78	645,42
2140	OPRTELPHONE PT 40 HEI	22020	220,78	220-20	220.20	220.78									
2388	OPR WORD PROCESS	43859	632,43	6133)3	43$.5*	457.P9	47737	45*6.75	516,12	535 54	55490	$7427	39368	613,03	W143
2567	PAINTER	2260	23.38	23.13	22,60	2266	12.72	22.78	J2.84	22.9$	23,00	23.05	23.10	23.15	23,38
2569	PAINTER BODY TRANSP	24,49	2609	25 *2	24.49	24 65	24.8)	24,92		2523	2537	25-53	25 65	2W	2609
2372	PARTS PERSON TRANS	22.66	23J5	23 42	22.66	22,74	2283	22.95	23.02	23.09	23-16	23 25	2333	23.42	23 55
2440	PHOTOG ASST APPR 40 HR	352,98	M5.42	6L419	352.98	382,23	41145	+4070	46W	499J2	52843	$57.70	586*6	616.19	643,42
2443	Plioroc ASST 40 HR	67779	753 02	745 53	677.79	685 33	692 85	70039	7)7.88	715.42	722.94	730.48	73799	745,51	753,62
2445	PHOTOG LAB TECHN 40 HR	780.11	979,31	959JI	780,11	800.03	819,95	83990	S39.W	$79.77	$9972	91963	939,57	959.51	979,51
243*	PHUTOG40HR	966.49	1,083.40	1,076-16	966.49	97868	990.80	1,003.02	1.015.20	1.027.38	U>39.60	1J>$|81	1.063.97	1,076.16	13)88.40
2573	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON	20-05	21,20	20.96	20.05	20.14	20 24	2034	2045	20.59	20.67	2fc7t	20,87	2096	21.20
2574	PLAyrPROTECTiQN PERSON SR.	21.60	22,76	22,55	21.60	21,75	21.84	21,93	22.02	22,12	22.24	2236	22.4$	22J5	22.76
2*78	PUBLIC RELATIONS ASST POST	851,44	1,143,69	1,114,37	851 44	88063	909-82	93907	*68.31	997.53			1085-}$	1J14J7	1143.64
2599	READER METER	41247	738.62	706.01	411.47	466.84	521,16	575,57	<29,90	706.01	73862				
25*8	READER METER. {NIGHT SKIP)	412.47	738.62	706,01	412.47	466.84	$21.16	57557	<29.90	706,01	738,62				
2044	READER METER - TEMP	412 47	412,47	41247											
2267	REP CAD 40 HR	910.82	1X127.47	1.01560	91032	922 44	934.U	945.78	*<37.43	969.04	98067	9*2.36	IXK3.97	LO13.60	
2271	REP CUST JNQ SR 40 HR	NMi	JJC66J6	1,054.60	*49.58	961,25	972,93	984.60	'NtJS	L007.93	1,019.62	1.031,28	1,041 JI	1.054.60	1.066J6
2273	REP CUST 1NQ 40 HR	836.73	1,013.97	1 XNB.27	886.73	899.43	912 It	924 88	>37,62	950.32	963-06	975 81	988 53	LX»(.Z7	LOH. 97
2224	REP DtST OFF 40.0 HR	m?i		1.1)01.27	£86.73	8*9.43	912.16	924.88	>37.61	95032	963.06	975.81	988 53	1,001.27	1,01397
2227	REP DIST OFFICE SR	948,48	L043.35	1,033,76	948 48	957,98	967.47	976,96	>86.42	9*5,90	1,00536	1,014.83	Lt024.ll	1.033.76	1.O43J5
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F - 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 1001 TO OCTOBER 15,2002
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER J5,1986
PAGE: 1}7
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6M0S	CMOS	6MQS	6 MOS	«MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2571	REP ENERGY CONSERV	706.13	961OB		7OT.IJ	711.02	757.90	783.77	W73	833,57	861.50	887.38	91327	939-18	965.03
IfOl	RE? REGULATORY INQV 40 HR	94958	t ,96626	L«4.6#	M9.ft	«us	972.93	984AO	996.25	l.W7.«	IXH9«2	1.63 J,28	WJC	1X&4.W	1J6&26
1274	REP SR SPEC LEDGER 40 HR.	91C*A2	t ,#27.47	L015.60	9)0.82	922.44	934. E1	945.78	957.43	969.04	980.67	992,36	1,103.97	1,01560	1.027.47
»n	SENIOR PHOTOGRAPHER	85896	1 ,15(21	MIL**	*53.96	888,19	917+2	946,63	975.86	1X»5,M	ijOW 33	1,06356	1,092.77	L121-99	ijsvn
w	SEPARATOR PERSON	21,86	2374	23 03	2)86	11.97	22.99	Z2J3	22,38	2149	2263	22,74	22.99	23.03	23.M
2691	SHOW REMOVAL LiOl		2W	3869											
2693	SNOW REMOVAL GT CALL [N LlO1	47.96	47.96	47.96											
	SPECIAL	ANAL POST	95556	UI 775	L .191,46	955J6	981.76	LOT7.99	t.034 JR	L060J9	)^6.6I	tJI2R2	1.13903	1.165.23	L19L46	U17,7S
1466	STENO CLERICAL 44 HR	394.53	W3.O1	657.5+	594.51	42316	452,25	Mj.M	309.94	33859	567.64	59647	62134	637.54	64302
24*9	STtNG SECRETARIAL 40 HR	571.03	720.6+	W9J6	571,03	58JJ®	60096	615.93	6W.90	*45,M	660.82	67579	6ML74	69956	73)69
2699	STOCK PERSON DATA PROCESS^	89639	976.62	869JO	806.39	8UJ8	8203*	827.49	834.48	84J.50	M850	85552	86254	869,50	87662
2471	STOCK PERSON 40 HR	33221	645 34	61421	33222	36334	39481	426.22	457.M	488.88	£20119	35L34	582 06	6)421	645J+
1475	STRXPR ASST MATMGT40 HR	MOOT	1.934, OT	1,02116	940.00	949,42	958-tt	9W,36	977,84	987.33	996.75	1,006,23	L015,?3	L025.16	I3»4 8O
2492	STRKFR ASST 5R MATMGT 40 HR	[.00667	U0l_$7	tjWlJM	1/WA7	1016.18	1025.63	Ltas.n	1&W54	1-354*4	1,1165.31	1J071.99	1.08144	)X»L93	3 JO).37
2490	S7RKPR ASST SR STATNRY-W HR	9TL47	5,07231	1^62.70	977,47	98696	996.44	]flMl5.98	IXII535	1,034,83	1.034.30	1,04370	1&5326	1X162,70	1^723!
2610	SUMMER, CLERICAL 40 HR	299.70	299.70	299,70											
2631	SUMMER, PHYSICAL 40 HR	815	115	8.15											
2551	SURVEY OPRTRUCK	22.67	2114	23.06	2267	22.70	22.75	32.79	22 M	11.90	23.95	23,00	23.03	13.06	23.14
2722	SVC PERSON A COORD Of	28.9Q	3658	30t41	23.90	29.05	2924	29J8	2936	29,76	29.90	30A4	3013	30*3	3058
2681	SVC PERSON A FLUTE	2 M2	29.38	29. W	28.42	28.51	2862	28.69	28.76	2BJ5	J8L93	29OT	29.10	2919	29.38
	SVC PERSON A FLD TRN D/F	2&90	30.58	3043	28.90	2905	29.34	2918	29.56	29.77	29.91	30.09	KJ3	3043	TOSS
2671	SVC PERSON A GEN AJTL	17.01	Z7M	27,76	27.01	2709	27.17	27.25	77,34	27 43	27.5)	27	2167	27,76	27.88
I
PAGE: 138
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE EIF -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER !«, 24M»1 TO OCTOBER 15,2902 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2673	SVC PERSON B APPL	22.44	13.08	23.01	2244	22.49	22,57	2263	1268	22.73	22,79	22 89	22.96	2301	23,08
2615	SVC PERSOW C METER & APPL	21.99	22.44	2138	21.99	22.02	22.07	22.10	n 13	22.18	22.24	22.29	22.34	22 JS	22.44
2726	SVC PERSON C POST 98	IS. 27	2] .06	20,77	1327	1854	16,83	1910	19.4 J	1965	19.95	20.21	20.52	20.1?	21.06
2677	SVC PERSON D LOCK UNLOCK	2036	2159	11,47	2036	20,49	20.64	20.74	20 87	20,97	21,10	21.34	21 34	21,47	21.59
2585	SVC PERSON TRAINEE CSI>	13.90	iT.ca	1190	13.90	17.08									
2456	SVC SPECIAL WST40HR	899,61	997,17	987,23	899.61	9Q933	919.08	928.83	?3853	946,30	958-01	967.77	977.49	98W	997.1?
•2964	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	79725	1.068. Ji	1,041.15	797.23	824.39	851.46	878.52	#564	932.74	959,84	986.93	1,014,04	1J041.15	1,068,32
2494	SYS PROCESSOR DIST 4Q HR	662.72	96028	950.40	662.72	472.46	M2.23	091,95		*11.43	921.18	91090	940 65	930.40	960 28
2626	TECHNICIAN PROCESS A	3866	2938	29.32	2866	28-72	2876	26,88	2894	2901	2910	29,18	2915	29,32	2938
25S9	TELEPHONE REP TRAINEE CCC	396 74	701.79	59812	398.74	491.26	598 12	701.79							
35W	TELEPHONE MF TRAINEE CCC TE	39S-74	701,79	598.12	398.74	«u«	596 12	101.79							
2513	TELEPHONE S&RV REP 40 HR	80334	943,79	929.67	80334	817 37	831,41	845.45	859.48	873.49	887.34	901,54	915.63	929.67	943.7?
2502	TELLER HEAD 40 HR	943.48	1,043.35	1,033.76	948.48	95798	967.47	976.96	986.42	995.90	1^005.36	1,014.83	1.024.31	1,033.76	1,043.35
2542	TIMEKEEP SYS SUPP 40 HR	862 46	960.02	950 10	862,46	872,19	83192	891,6$	901.43	911,14	SC090	930,64	940.16	950,10	960.02
2819	TOOL REPAIR PERSON	24.29	23.90	25.60	2429	24.44	24J7	24.74	24.88	25.00	25,17	25.30	25,48	25,60	25,90
2820	TOOL REPAIR PERSUN A	2506	26.72	2637	25.06	2521	25 Ji	25.52	2564	25.78	2594	26.03	2624	26J7	26 72
2617	TRAINEE SSP 40 HR	12.94	15.54	12.94	12,94	1554									
2553	TYPIST STATISTICAL 40 HR	452 26	5 <14 49	499.18	432.26	457.46	462.68	467.90	473 )4	47B3&	483.59	4&KS3	494.04	499.18	504.49
2W	UPHOLSTERER	23.90	25,52	25,22	23,90	24.06	24 21	24.3?	24,49	24.63	24.79	24.93	25.09	25.22	25.52
2831	UPHOLSTERER A	2540	26.93	26.77	25.40	25.56	25.70	25,88	26.02	26,15	26-33	26.45	2664	26,77	26.93
28J5	UTILITY PERSON SYS SUPP	20.65	21.59	21.3?	10.65	20.12	20.80	20.88	20.96	21.03	21,17	2123	21.31	21.37	2159
2837	UTILITY WAREHOUSE PERSON	5,37	)l 77	11 17	W	645	7,03	7.62	8.21	6.60	940	9,97	10.58	llr17	11,77
PAGE: 139
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F- 1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER 15,2002 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	EMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2849	WATCH GUARD	1862	19.75	L9.6J	1862	JR 76	18-86	1^96	19.00	19,18	1952	)9.44	(9,53	19.63	)9.75
1!5J	WATCH GUARD * PORTER	26358	459.93	♦4027	26358	283,21	302.83	322.49	342.1)	361.74	38(36	40L03	420.63	44017	439.9)
2S55	WELDER	2449	26.W	25,82	2449	24,65	M.8L	24-93	23,n	25.23	25.37	25 53	25.65	25.82	2609
	WILDER A	25,90	77,43	2726	MM	2602	Z6J6	26J4	26.49	26.66	26 79	26,95	27JI	27-26	27.43
2a 5S	welder a quauhed	27,64	2926	29,08	27.64	2729	2796	28-11	28.30	28.43	28.63	2877	28.93	2900	29.26
1W1	wow. MEASUREMENT ANALYST	L0MJ5	M1S,68	MlW	1,076.45	l/f^-52	1,08205	1.085-61	1/188.66	1.09 IJ5	1.W6M	1.100.92	1,105.57	1.110.11	1J t3M
2861	YARD PERSON	18.53	21-51	21.17	18 55	14 83	W.ll	19.43	19.69	K00	20M	2059	20.84	21.(7	21-51
•	ALL TITLE CODES FROM 2900 - 2999 ARE UACCRETTON TITLES
I
Schedule E/F - 2
October 16, 2002 - October 15, 2003
PAGE: 140
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		nmi	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.p.	3 MOS	J MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	t.MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
*2928	ACCT ENGR SR POST	95052	120.44	1,18514	95032	976.62	1.00270	1,028.7*		1,080.93	1,107.00	1,133.07	L.1S9.17	IJ83J4	1JH.44
2314	ACCTENGR40HR	1,022.30	124114	1J10.13	1,02230	1JM4.25	1.06626	IJ188J2	L J1021	1,13220	1,154.17	1,176.14	1J 98.17	IJ20.TJ	U42.24
	ACCT POST	1*0015?	124949	IJ24.I5	1JN&-57	1.02SI7	1*052.74	1.07736	1.101,92	1J 26 51	IJ5JJ4	1J 75,70	1 JOO JI	1224 85	1*249.09
M0J	ACCT REP 40 HR	87889	979 62	969.40	R74.89	MS 95	*99.01	909.07	9L9.H	929.18	93922	949 JI	95934	9694ft	979.62
Wil	ACCTG ASST CORP « HR	96$J3	1,06149	1JO53-52	96553	975J2	9(5,0*	994*5	1*004.61	1J01440	IAH44T	1.0W.9J	1.043.75	1,053.32	1.063.49
2006	ACCTG ASST DJST 40 HR	92417	1*02230	1/112 48	92427	954 04	943 W	953.63	963.48	97m	963.05	992.M	1,002.66	1*012.41	1,01230
2010	ACCTG ASST SR CORP 40 HR	I.O2Z30	1,18671	1,170-2 J	1J022JO	1.038.69	UO55.LI		1.0W.W	1,104.47	1,120.93	1JJ7J7	r.i».*i	i.noji	1,186.71
1013	ACCTG ASST SR 40 HR	96533	1*06149	1453.32	965.53	97352	985.08	994.15	E0M 61	l,0t44Q	I4H4 17	MB3.93	LW.T5	ixrtjji	1,06149
2007	ACCTG ASST 40 HR	92427	I*(Q2JO		92*27	93409	943.88	953.65	9W,4«	97327	98305	992.87	1,062X6	1,012.41	E02ZJ0
2123	ACCTG CLERK 1 FT 40 HR	*16,11	365.07	*60.24	SI 6.11	321.04	825 94	830.80	835.73	M0.63	MS.33	83042	83533	860.24	865 07
2122	ACCTG CLERK 1 PT HR	245,93	24615	2«-98	245J8	246L1J									
2*97	ACTIVE SUB BARG EMPL		»	•											
-2SM	ADM ASST CSDPOST	S9017	MW 2*	1,109 82	89027	914.63	939.07	OftW	9(7.81	EO'UJ	IjsM.tt	I.W.W	1*0854)	1J0931	1.IM28
'2956	ADM ASST MAT MG POST 4M HR	930M	1/85,77	1,1*0.11	93 W	95609	9*1 J9	t.007.14	1.032.64	1.038,12	1*08361	1*109.16	U 34.65	1,160.11	M83.77
•2970	ADM ASST METER REPAIR POST	94213	MW22	1J7I 72	042JJ	W7.M	99332	IjOttOO	L.M4J9	1,009.77	t.09530	L120J2	M4US	LIT!.72	M9U2
“2966	ADM ASST SYS SW PQflT	924.66	1J2U9	1JO2.97	92460	9*4.43	964.22	984 83	1*003.84		1,04148	1.06332	IJH3.U	1,102.97	U22.V9
‘2M«	ADM ASST WORK COMP POST	66717	IJOT.71	IJML92	B67.tr	39164	913.41	939JO	962,9*	9*6.81	1,0)0 37	IjftWM	1*058*13	MML.92	U 0571
‘2954	ART A PROD AS ST POST	38902	LJ91-52		8S9XQ	9142*	949.50	979.73	I.W95*	t		1,1*0.72	1,130.95	1,161.21	1,191.52
2W9	ASSOC CUSTOMER SO VKE.	41170	t77.K>	*0019	412.70	49023	56178	645JI	722.84	80039	877.92				
2019	ASSOC CUST SVC REP POST 2i»l	423 H	*0142	«11.28	423,14	470^7	51*20	565.14	61328	660.82	7CW.34	755.W	803.42		
2M6	ASST CHEMIST	791,97	•9563	97519	791.97	81232	*32.69	853X0	873.41	893.73	914,1]	934X9	954.9C	973.29	995.63
PAGE: HI
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F- 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	AMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
•2952	ASST EDITOR POST	876-84	I.1J7J3	1,692 97	S7&94	900.85	924,86	948.8?	97: .90	996.91	1,020 93	1,04493	1.068.96	1 J)92.91	1.117,13
1370	ASST HELD RIP	687.76	1JN.33	LJ 16.36	987,76	1/MJ2.01	1.016 34	1.03061	1,04/39	1 >05932	1^73.47	1/387.BO	1,102.04	IJ 16.30	I,I 301*3
2021	attend garage	'>.811	17-15	1644	9.80	10.58	11.29	12.05	12.79	333$	14,28	15 02	15,7?	16,44	17,25
2022	ATTEND GARAGE ALTER FUEL	J 7.05	2276	2W	17,05	1763	13,16	18,71	19.26	19-83	20 39	2095	21 56	2207	22.76
2488	AUTO MECH A FLD TRAINER	27 5?	29.21	29.04	27 57	27.71	27.66	28.05	2L2O	2839	2853	28 72	28,88	29.04	14.21
2487	AUTO MECHANIC	2571	27,54	27//J	2571	25.83	26,01	26.15	25.32	26,45	26,60	26,79	2691	27-04	27.34
2439	AUTO MECHANIC A	26.50	28.09	27.93	26.50	2664	2684	16.97	27,15	27.29	2745	2762	27.78	27.93	28,09
2218	auto mechanic apprentice	11.88	15.05	14.74	11,88	1119	1151	1184	<3.17	3149	J177	14.10	14.42	14,74	15.0S
2631	AUTO TECHNTCiAN	27.5?	29.21	2904	27.57	27,7)	27,M	18JD5	2820	28 39	2853	28.72		29.04	29.21
2025	BLACKSMITH'A'	26.24	27,85	27.60	26.24	26.40	26,53	2668	2685	2698	27.15	27.29	27,4?	27 60	27.M
2031	carpenter	25,65	27-28	2699	2565	25,79	75.94	26.09	7624	26,41	26M	20-ftfc	26.8$	26.99	27 28
2714	CHA UFFEUR DISTRICT OPS	24.54	24.54	24 54											
w	CHAUFFEUR executive	23,65	25419	2493	23.65	23^2	23.94	24J37	.’421	2436	24,51	24.64	24.78	2493	25.08
2040	CHAUFFEUR TRACTOR TRAILER	24.92	2641	26.26	24.92	25.07	2512	25.35	15-51	25.68	25S0	25.97	2611	2626	26,41
2033	CHEMIST SENIOR 40 HR	1.229,60	1.303.35	1.295,91	1.229 60	1,236.98	1044.33	iJtSI 68	14 >9 03	1,26643	1,273,84'	1,281,17	I.2MJS	L2M.9)	1,50385
2020	CHEMIST 40 HR	1.054,15	1,21544	1,199 00	JJ54.L5	107010	1^8632	JJ 02-38	1.) 18-49	M34.64	M 50.72	1,16682	1,182.89	L199 00	1J15.14
’2W8	CHIEF CLERK GAS OPER POST	88477	1.135-77	1,155,56	884.77	914.84	9M.9L	975.03	IjO&S.lO	1,035.20	1,06526	1.095-38	1.125 46	LI 55-56	1,185.77
2615	CLK ACCT NO 2 40 HR POSTS*	577.78	91550	Ml. 74	577.78	61152	645.30	679.10	712.86	M6.6J	780,41	£1417	84794	881 74	91550
2KH	CLK ACCTG W I ACCT 40 HR		979-62	96940	878,89	888,95	899-01	9091)7	519.11	92918	939 22	949 31	959.34	969,40	979.62
2050	CLK ACCTG NO 1 40 HR	365.07	966.04	955 80	865 07	375.18	88513	89532	10538	915.49	92533	435,63	945.71	955.80	966.04
2106	CLK ACC70 NO 2 40 JIR	il20.f/9	915.50	906.01	820.69	830.14	839.6J	£49.09	>$8-63	868.10	877.57	887.06	696.52	906.0]	915.50
273-t	CLK ACCTG NO 1 HAS	763 10	96604	9*5,73	763.10	783,41	803.00	323.97	‘544,31	864.58	88*85	905.16	925 45	945 73	96604
I
PAGE; 142
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER <6,2M2 TO OCTOBER 15,2*03 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, IMS
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
27JJ	CtKACCTGNO.l CIAS	581.41	726.78	7)2.24	58UI	595,93	61031	625.01	639.55	654.10	66« 62	683.17	697.71	7)124	726.78
ms	CUt NTCTCWU hCCVS fCST'tl	in .78	05 50	8S5.T4	577.78	708.60	835.78	915.50							
2236	CLKCNTL SRCTJ5T ACCT40 HR	9S8.40	1,016-58	1,076A3	988.40	08.22	1,008.01	1XH7.7I	1,027.62	1,03738	1A47.lt	IXIS7.O5	1.G6614	1,0662	)XO6J8
zm	CLK COMM NO. 1 «B HR TOSTO	763.W	«6.(M	M3.73	763,10	783.41	803.69	83J.0	84431	864.45	884.85	903.21	925,45	945,73	966.04
2719	CLK COMM NO240.0 HR P0ST9Z	381.41	72t78	71214	581.41	39SA5	6103L	625.01	639.35	64137	668.62	683-17	697.71	71214	726.78
nil	CLK COMML ASST Ht> 40 Hfc	04 78	1,022^0	1X117.57	974 78	979.31	984.27	989,01	90 76	99855	(.00330	1XM.03	1-01276	1X1)7,57	1,022.30
2170	CLK COMML INDL AFPL 40 HR	06.43	1,067.30	IXB7-D	966.43	0632	98^55	99664	1,006.74	1,016.77	1,02692	1,036.99	1JM709	1X37.13	I4MU0
2141	CLK COMML NO 1 ft HR	863.0	966M	953,80	865.07	873.18	885.23	893.32	903,38	91549	925.53	935.63	945,71	955J0	966.04
2147	CLK COMML NO 2 TREAS 40 HR	660.0	915.50	M9S4	66097	68636	711.82	73717	762.72	788.17	81363	839.03	864 50	8W,94	91550
1144	CLK COMML NO 2 40 HR		9l5$0	9060)	820.69	830.14	83963	849.09	858,63	86810	877.57	887.06	89632	906.01	91350
2149	CLK COMML NO 3 40 HR	411.43	66BX>1	648J6	471.43	491JI	51076	53042	556.07	569.73	5W.W	609M	628.68	648.36	668.01
M34	CLK COMS AH ALYS 40 HR	69627	801.60	70 Xtf	6962?	706,80	717.29	727.8?	731,39	748,93	759.42	770,00	780.47	791.05	801.60
2175	CLK CONTROL CUST SER 40HR	865.0	966 04	955.80	863 07	875.10	885.23	89532	90518	915.49	K5J53	935.63	945.71	953JJ0	966. (M
1230	CLK CONTROL fRDF MAlNT W	921.45	1,09925	1,081.41	92145	93922	07,00	04.71	992 60	LXitOJO	LX12S.lt	1445190	L063.64	1J08M1	1,09*28
2151	CLK DEPOSIT 40 HR	999.38	1.000.22	990.11	899.38	909 44	919 33	92964	939.68	949.78.	959.M	969.93	980.00	0O.ll	L000.22
wio	CLK GEM CUST SMl 40 .0 HR	371J01	70879	67502	371.01	404,76	43836	47234	506.12	539.91	573.67	607.48	64115	675X12	708.3*
221<5	dKGENMATLSMGT	70702	1,0)2.03	981.52	707.02	7J7.51	76801	798JJ	U9XH	859.55		0DJ3	01.01	98IA2	)X)I2J33
ms	CLK GEN NO 146 HR	86107	966.64	935.80	865 07	875,18	88513	89532	90538	915.49	0553	935,63	M5.71	955A0	966.04
2616	CLK GEN NO t 4G HR POSTS*	536.50	96604	92306	S36JO	379,43	622.40	6M34	70819	75118	7W13	837.16	880.10	0306	96604
2)92	CLK GEN NO 2 49 HR	393.90	493.39	483J2	393.90	403.83	413.74	423,69	433.63	443.57	45J.5)	463.43	473.40	483.32	493.39
210	CLK GENNO 3 40 HR	213.75	442.84	4)986	713.75	21663	25936	282.45	36538	32812	35132	374 (M	396,94	419A6	44284
ttfr*	CLK CEM NO, QCST40HR	968,30	1,023.22	L017.73	968.30	03.80	97928	984,77	990.25	995.79	1,001.24	LA06.75	1,01225	1XH773	L0ZJZ2
PAGE: 143
- LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F- 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER IS, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1086
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	FMOS	FMOS	FMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	FMOS	FMOS	FMOS	6 MOS
2261	CLK GEN TREASURY 40 Hft	90117	1,002.1?	991.90	90), 1?	91)27	921.33	93U9	91150	Ml.38	961,63	971.73	981.8*	991.90	LOO2.L2
2176	CLK GEK I CaSKCER 40 HR	WJJ6	994 3^	984,10	893J«	903 45	913.54	923.61	913. M	943.78	95389	963.90	974 D|	984.10	994.36
2166	CLK GEN 1 MKT ADV 40 HR	mis	(-01600	L0QW	9)5.15	92522	935.32	945.41	955,49	96555	975,63	985,7!	995 JO	1,005.89	1.016,06
2!9O	CLK GEN I PUR QC 40 KR	903,20	i,006<r!	W,%	90520	9)5.29	925,37	935.43	9(5.$1	955,63	965.72	975 80	985,91	995.96	1,006.07
2215	CLK GEN 2 MKT ADV 40 HR	409,52		499,! 3	409.52	419.51	429.46	439J&	449.17	45930	469.26	479,21	489.15	499.13	511908
223?	CLK HD CLAIM^ECUfUTV 40 HR	W4(l		I/7W.62	988.4b	998 22	), 008.01	L017,7&	LO27.62	1.037.38	1.047,18	IJB7.05	1.066&4	1,076,62	13)86.58
2202	CLK HD COMML ■» HR	988.40	1.086S9	1X17662	988.40	998J2	L008.01	1,017,78	1 -CJ7.62	1,037.38	1.047.18	LO57J05	1,066.84	i .076 62	1,086.58
•2930	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG POST	950 52	L2i 1.44	L J S3 24	93052	976.62	1,002.70	1,028.78	Lt 54.83	J DM.93	1407,00	1,(3307	1.1M.17	1,18524	1^)144
25W	CLK HD ORBAN AFFAIRS	988.40	im.5«	1X176-62	988*0	998,12	L ,00801	1,017,78	LC 27.62	IJJ37,38	1,047.18	1,057.05	1.066J4	1,076.62	1X186.58
2579	CLK HD URBAN AFFAIRS 4DHRS	9S840	MJ86.5S	(,07662	9S8.40	99322	IX4&DJ	1.0)7,78	1,1-27 62	JX337.38	1,047.18	14*7.05	1JJ66.B4	1X176.62	L086.58
2257	CLK HEAD CONTROL 40 HR	1J322JG	1,186.71	1470 25	1,022JO	1,03849	Lt0S5.11	1,071,61	l.liSS.CM	1-101,47	1420.93	1,137,37	1J 53,81	L17Q.25	1,136,71
2211	CLK H BAD CUST SVC 40 HR	97471!	1-022,30	(,OI7J7	97478	979,31	984.27	989,03	'•93J6	99855	1,003JO	loow	JJ012-76	1XH7.S7	1,022JO
2238	CLK HOUSE HEATNG A 40 HR	617,09	937 8)	905.67	617.09	649.15	68) 11	7UJ6	f4S34	77742	809,49	B4L57	873.56	905.67	93W
2)05	CLK HOUSE HEATW B POST 98	412.51	538.68	526.06	412-51	<25.12	437,73	45036	■16298	475,58	4&8.2Q	50082	513.44	526,06	538.68
2239	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B 40 HR	274.98	53W	512.26	274.98	301.36	327.72	354.07	JBO40	406.78	433.15	459,51	485.89	51226	538.68
2635	CLK INVENT CTL MMD40 HR	972.90	13)71.01	1,061.04	97290	9S2.65	W143	1X302.25	L9WXJ6	1,021.89	1,031,6*	1,0*1.45	1,05).28	1.061.04	1,07 J.02
272*	CLK METER REPAIR SR	If 77-17	967.38	958-37	877 17	886,20	895 23	904.26	913.27	922 JI	93131	9*033	958J7	967J8	96738
2210	CLK MTR RPR HEAD 40 HR	924,27	1,022.30	1,012,48	924.27	93409	9(3.88	953,65	J63.43	973 27	98W	992,87	1,00166	1,012.48	1022,30
2244	CLK SPECIAL LEDGER 40 HR	865.07	991.49	97K,£2	865.07	877.68	B9GJ5	M3X11	915-60	92826	940 87	W3J4	966 14	978.82	991.49
2252	CLK STCK MAT MGT 40 HR	633 85	707,01	69968	633-8S	64(18	648.50	65J,82	663.15	67R44	677,76	685,07	692.40	699.68	7O7.OI
2248	CLK STCK MKT ADV 40 HR	& 20.69	915.50	906.01	820.69	830.14	839.63	849,09	858.63	£68 10	877.57	88706	896.52	90601	915.50
2255	CLK STCK STNRY TRUCK OP 40	795.93	950.72	935,25	795.93	811,40	826.90	*4239	857 85	K3.26	888,78	90424	’ 91973	935.25	950.72
PAGE: 144
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F-J EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,2002 TO OCTOBER IS, 2003
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2221	CLK TELLER 40 HR	878.89	979.62	96940	87BJ9	*8*95	999,01	90997	919.11	929.18	93912	94931	959.34	9694*	97962
2737	CLK TELLER 40.0 HR POST 92	65410	87209	85030	654.10	67588	697.71	719.50	741,32	7*3.10	7*4.92	*M69	82*^2	850i30	87209
2258	CLK TRAFFIC 40 HR	1J0469	1,203.06	U93.ll	1.10469	1,114 JO	1,12436	1,134.14	1J 43.9®	[,153,81	LJ63.62	r J 73.44	1,1*31*	M93.U	110306
2548	CLK TYMST 40 HR	3546)	668.01	636.66	354 61	31553	417.26	44B.4J	479.95	511.W	3*26*	573.9*	60532	636.66	66801
226*	00UECTN CONTROLLER 40 HR	9*2,70	1,063.43	U»M5	94170	934.73	966JO	978.80	99094	1.002,96		LOfcTOP	1439.11	IH51.I5	146343
2125	COLLECTOR	893*3	\,W2.87	992.1*	897,63	90834	918.79	929JO	939.75	950.32	960.74	9711*	9gl,67	992.1*	140(217
2645	CORROSION TECH HELPER	12,74	18 41	1744	1174	13,29	13J8	14.43	14.90	15.S7	16,14	I«l69	1717	17.84	18.41
26*9	CORROSION TECHNIC! AN	19.01	24.62	24.07	19.01	19.57	20.15	20.71	21.29	31.82	22.37	22.94	23.49	24.07	2*62
2810	OORROSm TECHNICIAN PRE M	98648	1.M1J1	1425,76	986.4g	1XH,95	1,017.42	R032J9	1,048,4)	im*7	I >79,36	1,DM,79		1,125,76	1J 41.32
2636	CORROSION TECHNICIAN SR	2465	2832	28.14	2465	25 06	25.43	25.11	26.21	26.60	26.9*	2737	27.76	28.14	28.52
2136	CREATIVE SERVICES ASSOCIATE	87366	1.141,25	1.077,22	87366	899,] 1	92455	949.99	975.44	1,00088	1.026,33	12)51.77	1477.22	1,14)15	
2735	CREW LEADER	28.89	30.41	34)26	2KB9	29 (M	29.19	2934	29.50	29.65	29.W	29.W	3OL0	3026	30.41
2124	CUST INQUIRY REP PT 40 HR	89146	897-46	SOT A6											
2652	CUST service ASSIST P/T	1OJ1	10.31	10.31											
2632	CUST SER VICE ASSIST F/T	423,13	455,27	449,9)	42313	428.49	433J5	43910	444 56	449.91	455,27				
2276	OJST SERVICE REF 40 HR	91177	1X9.46	1036.31	917.77	930.91	94409	957.25	970,44	9*3,58	996.77	I >09.96	1,004*	143631	1,049 46
im	CUST SERVICE REP 40 HR	917.77	1,049.46	LW31	917.77	93091	944.09	95725	970.44	9*3.58	996.77	1JD09.96	14# .13	1436^1	1X946
273*	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC	4)170	65410	62996	41170	436.84	460.98	485,13	509.26	533.4J	557,55	581.70	60512	629.96	654.10
2665	CUST SVC ASSOC NO \ POST 0*	6HJ4	877.91	*51.58	6143*	M6.88	667 11	693.45	719*9	74612	77136	W*34	8251*	*515*	877,92
MM	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC P/T	10.31	WJt	10,3!											
2666	CUSTOMER SERVICE REP POST 9B	819.39	1,049.46	J >26.45	819.39	842.40	865.40	58841	911.41	934.42	95743	980.43	1.003.44	1,026.45	1X9.46
2247	CUSTOMER SERVICE TELLER	412.70	654JO	59375	4(2,70	473.06	$33X1	593.75	654,10						
2017	CUSTOMER SERVICE TELLER POS	426.33	5*3.82	505.03	426.35	451.60	47884	50508	531 33	557.58	SS3.8J				
2161	DELIVERER	1918	2184	21.49	mg	19,45	19.6?	1993	2011	2045	2073	30.96	2115	21.49	JL84
Z7M	DISPATCHER POST 98	1.122.05	1,169.68	1,164.91	i .122.05	L 126.83	1J3I.58	1.136.35	1J4I10	ls.L4S.88	1,150.63	M55.39	116016	1,164.91	1J6968
2296	DISPLAY ASSISTANT 40 HR	908.47	L4M.33	999J2	908.47	91159	92*66	93873	94886	05B>]	969.01	97907	wl.ll	99912	1.00933
PAGE: 1«
LOCAL JOI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2001 TO OCTOBER 15, 2003
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, 1086
I
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		Fl	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	frMOS	6 MOS
2300	DISPLAY asst APPRNT « HR	349,91	66801	636.21	349.91	374-26	41154	445,33	477,16	508.97	340.74	572.56	604J9	636,21	66E0I
	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 40 HR	)J21 23	1.242,19	1,229.90	1421.23	1.133.28	1,143.37	1.157.45	LH9.53	L1RI60	1,193 69	1205,71	1.217,81	1,229,00	1.24249
2277	DISPLAY DESIGNER 40 HR	1.015.96	1,166.95	1.154.70	1.045 96	1.058.07	1.07(1.13	1,08223	1.054 32	1JO638	1J 18.41	1.13(1.52	1,142.63	L154.7O	1.166.95
2303	DISPLAY PRSDNXX3NSTRN SNR 4(	98375	1,084.55	1,074.44	983-75	993.79	1JXJ3B5	1/H3.96	1,014.02	t .014,12	1,0*4.20	1^54,29	1.064 37	1,074.44	1.084.55
2280	DISPTCH DISTH 40 HR	1,086.32	1433-87	LI29 06	1,08632	1,091.09	14)95.60	1J 00,56	14(5.34	1.110.02	U14^|	1,119 56	1,124.30	1.12906	LI33.B7
229S	D1SPTCH FUEL 40 HR	974.78	LWL99	1,05108	974.78	98149	992,17	1,00088	J ,019.58	LOI 832	1,027-02	L035.69	L044.41	1.053.08	1.061 99
217$ 1	DISFTCHORPER	1,122 05	LI69-68	1,164.81	1,122.05	1.126,85	3,131.54	1,136,33	LU 1.09	1.145.78	1,150.57	LI 53 35	1.160,06	L164$|	1469X18
1294	DISPTCH TRANSMO HR.	917.81	966.86	961.92	917.81	922.76	927.63	932.58	937.42	94230	947.20	952 12	957,03	961 92	966.86
±M3	DISPTCH TRUCK DIST 40 HR	1,0*748	1 JW4.7J	1,089.92	1,047.18	LOS 1.97	1,056,69	1,061.44	1,066.23	1.010.94	1,075.70	1,080.43	1.085.23	I.UB9.92	L094 73
2307	DRAFTING CLERK 40 HR	70864	883,11	865 JI	70864	726,08	143,55	760 94	7'h8.42	79J.M	81324	83068	*48.12	865.51	88341
2308	DRAFTING TECH SR 40 HR	LO25J3	1.109.54	1400.94	1JE3J3	1,033.72	1,042.15	1,050.54	1,05891	1JO67-33	1.075.75	1,084.16	1.092.53	1,100.94	1,109.54
2304	0RAFTING TECH 40 HR	W4.I9	72743	72041	65449	661-50	668,34	676.14	643-47	690.80	698.11	70545	71279	720.11	727.43
2tfl	MLP PERSON	24h24>	24 89	24.79	24.20	24.27	2434	3442	J-M9	24.55	24J9	34.65	24.72	24,79	24.89
2197	ELECT	25.35	27.68	27.29	25.35	25 61	25.79	26.03	.*6,22	26.44	2664	26.87	17.07	27.29	27,68
2199	ELECTA GASOPNS	27 05	16.71	28.53	27.05	27.24	27 39	2738	*7,72	27.88	28-05	28.21	2839	28,53	25,7]
2198	elect systems SUPPORT	25.35	27 00	26.72	P 25.35	25J1	25.68	25,80	*5,99	26.11	26.26	36.42	26.55	26.72	27,00
2205	ELECTRONIC TECH RADIO LIC	29.40	3084	30J7	2940	29.56	29.68	2949	29.93	30.05	30 JI	30j2	30,46	305?	W84
•2940	ENGINEER Al DE GAS OPER POST	969,06	1.234-57	1,207.83	W9O6	995J8	1,012,12	1.0*8-66	1.075.18	1,101,73	1.128,28	L.154J8	1,181,36	1^07 08	L234J7
2515	ENGINEER ASST TO 40 HR	L022.30	1,255 89	3.212,52	1,022.30	1,0*5.60	1.069.01	1.W2.36	1,133.72	1J 39.10	1J62.44	1,185.79	L 209,15	U32.32	h 255.89
2243	ENGINEER Ht»ST UC	27.57	2388	28.72	27.57	27.68	27.81	27,93	2807	2830	28.33	28.46	28,57	28.72	2888
2251	ENGINEER LLC	2K.55	2944	2933	26J5	28 65	28,73	28.82	28-W	29,00	29 08	29,15	29 J3	29 J3	29.44
2275	EQUIPMENT MAINTAINER	23J4	24.98	24.84	23 54	23.73	23.85	23.97	24 12	24.26	24.42	24.55	24.67	24 84	24 98
PAGE: 146
local ioi wage progression schedule SCHEDULE E/F - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, 1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		fourth		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 Mas	6 MOS
2*57	fcmawnuci		18,16	16,95	1453	15.74	16^5	IS, 16							
2658	FCM APHUNTICE SENIOR	18.41	23.61	2204	18.91	20.46	22.04	23.6J							
26%	FCM APPRENTICE TRAINEE	9.83	13,78	12.48	9,83	11.16	12.48	13,78							
2375	FCM ELECANSTR’UMENT TECH	31.12	32.99	32.79	31.12	31.28	31.48	31.69	31.36	32.06	32.23	32.41	32-61	31.79	3259
2633	FCM MECHANIC	MM	26.15	M J»	24.34	24_54	24.70	2419	25.08	25.26	7543	25^3	25.79	26.00	26.15
2654	FCM MECHANIC A		28.71	28-52	2619	27,05	27.26	27.43	27.62	27.81	27.99	28.16	21.13	28J2	23J1
2713	FCM MECHANIC FLO FACILITIES	26 SS	1U&	28.06	1655	26.85	26.99	2? JEN	27.23	27.38	27,57	27.71	27 J8	28.06	28.20
2680	FCM MECHANIC SENIOR	29,45	31,24	31,09	29.43	29.63	29.79	29.98	30.17	30.35	30.53	30.69	30J9	31.09	31.24
3W6	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	2508	2689	26.7)	25 03	2346	2SJ83	25.63	25.»	26.00	26.15	26J7	26.52	26.71	2609
2604	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A	27.62	2943	29.26	27.62	2.7.M	17.99	28.16	28 33	28.52	28.71	2889	29.08	29.26	29.43
2601	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN SR	J0J7	31.99	31.7S	30.17	3033	30.53	30.69	30.89	31,09	1124	11,45	51,60	3L78	3lJ»
2268	FIELD FORCE APPRENTICE	4)242	441.59	42690	4)2+2	426.90	441.39								
20)4	FIELD OFEKS INSPECTOR A	25.21	26.61	26.65	2321	25.38	2SJ+	2J.70	25.86	26.01	26-17	16)3	26.49	2643	26.81
2013	FIELD OPERS INSPECTOR B		23.95	23,90	2146	2151	2356	23.61	23 66	23.71	2376	23,80	23.85	23.90	13.95
2000	field opers INSPECTOR c	20.75	21.99	21.87	20.75	»37	2LW	2L12	21.23	2137	21J0	2)62	21.74	21,87	21,99
1746	FIELD REP 40 HR	IJ75J9	1^*047	1,2)8.98	1J75J9	UTSJ9	1,175.39	M75.39	kw.w	twm	UIS.9S				
2550	HELD REP 40 HR POST 92	979,88	LL22J90	1J4K.4I	919.18	99410	IJMJB.+O	LXO2-69	1,037.00	J.031JW	1/165^	)*O79$5	W.I3	Utt.47	1.122.90
23M	FIELD REPRESENT	U39.I5	1,24079	1030142	1,139)5	I.HWl	1,139.41	1,169.53	1,179,78	U9Q.»	1200.04	U IO 19	127029	1-23042	1(240.79
23»	HELD REPRESENT OFFICE	i.WW	1,149.71	IJ 39.M	1.04667	J ,058, J?	1,06834	]/)78.SO	1,088.64	1,898.80	1> 103.91	JJ 19.05	3J29.17	LI 39 34	1J495I
2678	FIELD SERVICES APPRENTICE	426.91	764.47	73(172	426-91	483,18	53940	595.7)	651.95	730 72	764.47				
	assi post wohr	flWiT	1,134,28	1,109,82	890,27	1714.63	039.07	963 47	987.31	1,01223	1,034.62	IJKL02	L<WS41	MOW	L 134.28
2287	FITTER	2336	2501	24.68	□3.36	23,48	23.64	2182	21.94	24.08	24.25	2441	2455	24 68	25.01
PAGE: 147
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15.1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	* MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2290	FLDTR ELECT/MECH GAS OPNS	27.82	29.49	29.33	27.82	28.00	28.(5	28.33	:a.48	28.66	2U2	29.01	29,15	2933	2949
1289	FU> TR INSTRUMENT INSP	JJ62.96	1,232,7*	1,225,79	1,162.96	IJ 69.92	MM1	1J83.88	lr 1*0.89	1,197.87	1204.85	1.211.81	1118.82	IJ25.79	1,232,74
Z29Z	FID TR SYS GAS DPER	26.76	30,41	W27	28 76	2894	29.10	2927	19,43	29.62	29.76	29.93	30.09	3027	3041
2*41	GATE GUARD	2023	21.46	21.34	20.23	20.34	20.46	20.61	30-73	2083	20 95	2LO6	21,20	21J4	21.46
1317	GRAPHICS TECHN $R 4q HR	1,06)49	U45.6)	L 137,0(8	L06L49	14)69.90	1,078.29	1,086 6?	ij0-)5O7	1,103.47	l.llkto	1J 20.29	1J 28,33	L J37JJ8	1,145.61
23 >1	GRAPHICS TECHN 40 HR	883J4	978.17	968.65	88JJ4	892.76	90226	91114	921,23	930 67	94017	949.70	959. J J	96845	97R17
2710	g$o djst/statkjn fld trnr	28.73	30.4)	30,26	28 73	23.49	29.08	29.25	29.40	29.60	29,75	29,92	30.09	30.26	30.41
2712	GSODISTSTAWN JR FLDTRNR	2991	31.65	31.42	29.91	30.07	3026	30i4l	3OJ9	3010	30.95	31.14	31.29	3142	31 65
1708	GSO DISTRICT ASSISTANT	1765	22.16	21,69	17,65	18 08	1851	(900	19.46	T9.90	2ttj4	20-81	2119	21.69	22,16
2706	GSO DISTRICT ASST TRAZNEH	1339	16.08	B.39	13.3?	16.08									
230	GSO HOLDERPERSON	24,01	27.00	26.72	24.0)	24JI	24.61	2492	25.23	25.51	JS-ffO	14h	2642	2472	27 00
2496	GSO MECHANIC PRESSURE	26.55	2820	27.91	26.55	36.7]	26.W	27.00	2718	73.30	27,46	27,«2	27.76	27.91	2820
2709	GSO STATION ft FIELD GPERATOf	27	28A6	2871	2725	27.39	27 58	27.72	27.88	28.05	28.21	28,39	28.53	28.71	28.86
2539	GSO STATION OPERATOR	26.22	27.81	27.66	2612	26.40	2654	26.71	2687	27.00	27.19	27 J2	27.50	27.86	27.31
2345	HELPER	10.64	1064	10.64	1064	10.64									
2588	helper ccsd	7.23	12.1 R	tl j67	713	7.71	812	8.70	9.20	9.71	(0.18	IG.68	11.20	1 J.67	12.18
2154	HELPER DISTRIBUTION	7.82	12.18	H.7®	7.82	8 26	8.69	9.(3	956	10,00	10.40	1084	11,28	11,70	12,18
2353	helper mechanics	17,53	22,3$	2176	17.53	17^8	18.44	18.96	1942	19.86	20J4	2W	21J2	21.76	22J5
2355	HELPER OPERATORS	2234	23.46	23.36	22.14	2227	22 <1	22.57	22,69	221J	22-94	2309	33.23	23.36	23,46
7356	HELPER PRESSURE	2)J2	2258	22.46	21.32	2141	2154	21,67	2130	21.95	22.06	22,18	22.31	22,46	22.53
2641	HELPER TEMPORARY 40 HR	9,09	90?	9,09	9.09	909									
2362	HOLDER PERSON	2394	15.36	25.23	23.94	24.07	24.21	24.36	24.51	24-64	24 79	2493	2508	25,23	25J6
PAGE: 148

2495
TITLE DESCRIPTION
tHD ATFL (NSPECTOft POST 44ttR INSPECTOR ENG POST
INSPECTOR INSTRUMENT WFR RI INVESTIGATOR 0 POST
KES CALL CENTER RE?-TH
KES CALL CENTER REP • F/T MAINT FIRE EQ GA$ OF SYS $UP MAINTAINER INSTRUMENT MAINTAINER PERSON FM EQVU MAINTAINER PROVER INDICAT A
MAINTAINER PftOVER MMCATtH MECH
MECHADISTOPNS
MECKAmiANCE MECHDTSTA MECH PKT A Ftp TR QC MECH WST A FLD TRAINER MECH DiST A POSTHS MECHD1STB
MECH D1ST B POST 98 MECH METER A
MECH METER E
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F- 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2M2 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,i486
			PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
			FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
													
MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	AMOS	OIOS	«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS
mm	135175	U26J7	1,053.48	LtO6l.M	1,094.53	1.127.4 J	t J 6034	1.193 J2	I436.M	l^SSLM	I.29L9J	1326.17	135775
Mij-Sj	134034	1334.71	M 12.55	1.136.13	J.IW.70	IJ 8328	1,206.83	1,230.4)	1334 00	1J97.56	1301.16	IJ247I	134834
999,50	1379.42	M6135	99930	1XH7A7	tJM.53	1JH3.51	1,0714?	IX&931	1.107 AS	[ J25.5J	1,14334	1,161.55	IJ79«
94RA4	130836	1382.65	94*44	974,42	I MM*	l#630	i#Z5l	(#836 1	),104.55	C 430.57	IJ5662	1,182.65	
1431	1031	1031											
JOJI	TOJI	iOJf											
26#	28*7	28,44	26&	26.88	27#	27.27	27.46	17.66	27.06	28 AS	1825	28.44	28.67
2535	27j»	16.72	2535	25.51	2568	25.80	25.99	26J|	2636	26.42	26.55	26.72	27,00
23.45	7444	2439	23.05	23.18	2332	23.45	23.59	23.76	233*	26.01	2415	24,29	24.44
27.12	2937	29 65	27.12	17.3?	2748	27.97	2825	28.52	28.79	29.09	2935	29.65	2937
2638	29.09	2(30	2638	2601	’	26.87	27.1 J	2738	27.64	n»i	28-16	2*43	28.7*	».O*
25.35	27.68	27.29	2535	25.61	2539	26.03	2621	26.44	26.64	26.8?	27.OT	2739	
2731	18*6	20.63	2732	27.48	27.64	1776	27.91	28.06	2*39’	2*35	7*4*	2863	2886
2137	23 46	23JO	2137	21,5*	21,74	21.96	22.12	2231	22.55	22.71	22.89	23.10	1X46
27,12	2820	2109	27.12	27.2*	2732	27.44	27J7	27,66	27,76	27.87	27.99	28#	'	2830
29,91	31,65	3I,»	29,91	30#	30.26	30.41	30.59	MSI	30.96	71.14	31.19	5136	>|A5
28.89	30Al	30JO	28.89	29X15	2947	2933	29.48	2963	29 76	29.91	3003	3020	M.*I
2635	2B20	2803	2635	2633	26.72	26.90	27.11	27.17	17.46	27.64	27.83	2S.0J	2* JO
23 St	24.CS	2397	2338	2364	23.70	23.75	23.79	2W	23.87	73.90	VM	2337	24.08
2231	24.CM	23#	22,51	22.68	22.83	2298	23.14	23.30	23.46	23.61	23 77	Z3.W	2408
ISA*	2700	2&86	25.48	2566	25.79	2534	26.10	16.25	26,41	M35	2631	26.86	274»
21,84	22,79	2264	2)34	2195	mi	11.10	2118	2227	2235	2247	2156	2264	2X79
PAGE: 149
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F • 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER id, 2002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
			I												
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	8 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2499	MECH METTA SPECIAL	27-69	29.09	28.85	27.69	27.82	27,96	2807	2320	2825	28,46	28.58	28.73	Utt	29.09
24B4	MECH $YST SUPFT	25.35	27 00	2672	25.35	25.5)	25,6?	25W	25.99	26 D	2626	26.42	26.55	26.72	27jM
2373	MESSENGER O HR	31! 60	599.54	570.75	311.60	340.37	369,15	397.99	426.78	455.6)	484 36	$13.15	541.97	570.75	599.54
2689	METER READER POST 98	426.91	S80.31	501.80	42601	451,87	47682	501.80	526.75	334.74	58013)				
2R59	METRETEKTECH		29,87	29,65	2886	2896	2904	29.12	29.21	2930	29 38	2947	29.5?	19.65	29.87
2701	OPER tllSTC POST 92	17.44	2034	20.09	17.44	17.74	18.03	18 32	18.6)	18.9)	19,19	1940	19.7?	20.09	2034
2719	OPER GIST C POST 9S	I7A4	2034	20.06	17.44	17.74	16.03	1BJ2	' 8.61	18.90	19-19	19.47	19,77	20.06	2034
2 $49	OPER DISTRIBUTION C	20.75	. 21,99	21,87	207$	2Q86	20.98	21.11	21.25	13.96	2146	21 61	21.71	21.S7	21.99
26<D	OPER SCREENaLUBCKHOE/PA YL	23.12	23 94	23.87	23.12	23.19	23.27	23.37	23 44	23.52	23,59	23,70	23.81	23.87	23.94
2608	OFER SLF-LDG VEH GVW 2600Q+-	23.12	23,94	23.87	23.12	23.19	23.27	23.37	13.44	23.52	1159	23,70	23.81	23.87	23W
2378	OPNSASSTD1ST	910.78	1,011.68	LON.48	920,78	93086	W.9I	MI-05	M1.O9	971.20	981.27	991.37	1.001,38	1.011.49	1.021.68
2516	OPNS ASST GAS DPS	19.04	24.12	23.47	1904	19 55	20 05	20,51	21.00	21,50	2200	21.52	2299	23.47	24.12
2S91	OPR A DIST O?N$	2732	28.86	2863	27T2	27,48	27,63	27 76	27.91	28.00	28.19	28.35	28.48	2B.63	28,86
2850	OFR ASSISTANT SNG	26.21	27.81	27.66	26.12	2640	26,54	26.7)	26,87	27,00	27,19	27.32	27.50	>7.66	77.81
2584	DPR C TRAINEE DIST	13,39	1608	1339	13,39	le-.iM									
1715	OPR C TRAINEE POST 98	1JJ9	1608	13.39	13J9	16.08									
2518	OFR CHIEF LNG	3LJ0	3338	33.19	31.50	31 69	31.86	3206	32,23	32.43	33.62	3180	3301	33.19	33,38
2534	OPR CHIEF SN&LHG	33.17	35U	34,95	33.17	33,37	33 J7	33.76	33.96	34.18	34.35	34.56	34.77	34,95	35,14
aw	opr Data proc Not	82069	966.04	951.43	820.69	833.22	849,75	864.31	J?W	SWJ4	907.87	922.43	936.89	951.43	96rf<W
2398	OPR DATA PROC NO 3	309.38	66801	632.16	30938	34526	381.11	4 J 6.97	132.85	488.72	524.56	560.43	59627	6)2.10	66801
2390	ops data proc no2	633.68	706.93	6(99,63	633.68	64103	64836	660 44	563.00	670.34	677.67	684.94	692,28	69963	706.93
2545	opr distribution a	27.11	28.20	28.09	27 LL	27.24	27J3	27.43	27.57	27.66	27,76	27.87	27,99	28,09	2810
PAGE: 150
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER Ms 2001 TO OCTOBER 15,1003
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,19M
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	EMOS
2M?	OPR DISTRIBUTION B	21.32	2239	2246	2)J2	21.43	21.5*	21.67	21,80	21.95	Z2M	22.19	22.M	22,44	22*9
2723	OPR DISTRIBUTOR B POST 9ft	2132	2250	22.45	2132	2145	11,57	21*9	21*2	21.95	2204	22,21	22*3	22*5	22*9
2522	OPR DUMP TRUCK 1.5T+	21,77	2310	22.95	2177	21.94	22.06	22.17	2229	22.46	22.59	22.70	22*3	22.95	23.10
2513	OPR. HOIST CHERRY PCKERjLlC)	20.20	293)	29.37	28.20	2833	28*6	28.58	W.71’	28,85	28.97	29,10	29,25	29,37	29*1
1591	OPR KEY PUNCH SR *0 HR	036,79	99144	921.03	« 36.19	8*621	855*9	865.13	874,56	884 03	893*7	902*4	9)2.40	921.0)	931,44
2430	OPR LEAD DATA ENTRY *0 HR	£6507	966.04	955.80	865*7	87538	885.23	89532	90538	915.49	925*3	935.63	9*5.71	955*0	966.04
2414	OPR LEAD MICRO MACH 40 HR	95119		),M8*6	958.19	96826	978.3)	98040	998.51	t.OOTJS	1*10,63	1*28.74	LD3S.7B	1*44*6	1*50.95
24 IC	OPR LEAD REPRO MACH,40	950.19	1,058.95	1*48*6	958.19	968,26	97831	988.40	998.5)	J*03*5	1*18.63	1.02(74	1*38.78	l£*M6	1*5895
3434	OPR LEAD SYSTEMSHR	1*8849	Mtt-98	1.178,92	1*88*9	Lt»826	1.10830	1*10*9	1328.48	1*38.59	M 48,65	1458-75	1,168 A*	IA789I	1.188,98
2530	OPRLNG	10,31	30.13	30*4	2831	2870	28.86	29.03	29.19	29*7	29*6	29,71	29*9	300*	30.23
221*	OPR LNG ASST	26.00	23.16	2802	26*0	26,77	26,91	27.05	2723	27.37	27.35	27*9	27.86	2802	20.16
2399	OPR MAIL IN5RT MAC 40 HR	820*9	915.30	906.01	830.69	830.14	839.63	049*9	858,63	060.1*	077 *7	887,06	896*2	906*1	91SJ0
2246	OPR ML WSRT MAC 40 HR POST ?*	541«	723.5*	705*6	M2.«6	560.74	57184	596,93	615,00	633,11	651 JO	469.28	607.36	703.46	723.54
2540	OPROFF-SHT	2147	24 89	24,74	23 47	1361	23.79	23.%	14,04	2M9	24.32	2448	2A60	24,74	34*9
2406	OPR REPRO MACH SR.40 HR		100954	999.31	90859	911-67	918.79	938.86	948.9*	933.97	969.08	979.15	949*0	999-31	1*09.54
2402	OPR REPRO MACH *0 HR	365*3	668.01	637.76	365*3	39561	423.85	456.12	486.42	5)6.69	546 93	377 21	6O7.5O	637.76	64S.O)
35M	OPRSNG/LNG	31-30	33*0	33.19	3L50	31.69	31.86	32JM	32,23	32.43	32.62	32.00	33.01	33,19	33*8
2M)	OPR STATION A UC	26.09	27,64	27.48	16.OT	26 24	26.41	2635	16.71	26.87	27.00	27.19	27.32	27.48	27.64
2543	OPR STATIONS	24.01	25.44	25.32	24.01	24.16	2431	24.48	24.59	24.73	2**9	25*5	2520	25*2	25,44
2436	OPR SYSTEMS A *0 HR	958.19	J *5* 95	1*48*6	938,19	96826	978.31	98840	998.5)	1*08.55	1*18-63	1*2874	1*3078	1*40.86	1 .QW93
2435	OPR SYSTEMS 40 HR	$21,43	1,022,30	1*12.16	921.43	931*2	94138	951.67	961,77	97181	9B1-93	992*1	1,W»2	t ,012,16	1*22*0
2*23	OPR TELEPHONE NGMT 40 HR	317-35	70693	667.98	31735	356.30	395.29	43432	*73.19	312.15	551.11	59004	620.99	66798	706.93
PAGE: 151
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER IS, 2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFFER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	max	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	ft MOS
24| ft	OPR TELEPHONE 40 HR	365,33	639.72	6J8.13	365,33	397.77	430 25	40368	493 11	527,54	559 99	592 40	624 84	633,13	689H
24jL	OPR TELETY PE MACE 1 40 HR	309.36	<6801	632 16	309.38	345.26	381 11	416.97	4J2.85	48872	524.56	560.43	396 27	632.16	668.01
2140	OPR TELPHONE PT 40 HR	22791		227,91	227.9J	228,51									
2388	OPR WORD PROCESS	453.94	654 57	634.49	453,94	474.02	494.08	514,14	3:4,18	55428	574J2	594 37	614,46	634,49	654 57
1567	PAINTER	13,39	24J0	23£6	13.39	23.45	23.52	23.58	:364	23.75	23 81	2386	23.9)	23.96	2420
2564	PAINTER BODY TRANSP	25,35	27,00	26 72	25,35	25,51	2568	25^0	£5.99	76 H	26.26	26-4?	2655	26,72	27,00
1572	PARTS PERSON TRANS	23»$	24,37	2424	23.45	23 54	23.63	23.73	113.83	23.90	23.97	24.06	24.15	24.24	24 J7
2440	PHOTOG ASST APPR 49 HR	36533	66801	637.76	365J3	395AL	425.85	456.12	4)6.42	11669	546.93	57722	607 50	637 76	668.01
2443	PHOTOG ASST 40 HR	701.51	779,38	77162	701 51	709.32	7)7,10	724 90	7)2.66	740,46	74324	756.05	763,82	77f.6Z	77938
2445	PHOTOG LAB TECHN 40 HR	807.41	l£13.79	99309	807Al	82803	848.65	869 JO	8)9.94	910.56	93121	931.82	972.45	993.09	1£I3.79
2439	PHOTOG 40 HR	1,000.32	1426,49	1J 13213	LOOOJ2	1,012.93	1,025.48	L£38 13	1,030 73	1,063,34	1 £75,99	t £38.62	1,10121	1,113,83	1,126.49
2573	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON	2075	2L94	21.69	20.75	20.34	20.95	21.05	21.L7	21.31	21.39	2149	21.60	21.69	21,94
2574	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON SR	22,3*	23,56	23.34	22.36	22.51	22.60	22,70	22.79	22.89	23,01	13.14	2324	2334	23 56
2978	PUBLIC RELATIONS ASST POST	881,24	1.183.72	1J 53.37	881.24	911,45	941.06	97194	J £02.20	J,O32,4J		)£92.9)	U23.16	1,153 37	1.183 72
2599	READER METER	426.9)	764 47	730 72	426.91	483.18	53940	595.71	(51 95	730 72	76447				
2593	READER METER {NIGHT SKIP)	42691	764,47	73072	426.91	483,18	539,40	595.71	<51,95	730,72	764.47				
2044	READER METER * TEMP	426.91	426,91	426.91											
2267	REP CAD 40 HR	94270	1,06343	1,051 15	942,70	954 73	966,80	978,88	<90.94	1 £02.96	1 £14,99	1 £2709	L039.11	1,051,15	1,063,43
2271	REP CUST 1NQ $R 40 HR	982 82	1. E03.38	J.091,51	982.82	994.89	1,006.98	1,019.06	1 £31.12	1,043 JI	1 £55.31	1,067.37	1 £79.41	1 £91.51	1,103.58
2273 L	REP CUST LNQ 44 HR	91777	1,049.46	1.03631	917.77	930.9 L	944.09	95725	<•70.44	983.58	996.77	1 £09.96	1£23.13	>£36JL	1,04946
2224	REP DiST OFF 40,0 HR	9)7,77	1 £49-46	1,03631	917,77	9J09L	944 09	95725	‘170.44	983.98	996,77	1 £09,96	1,02343	1,036.31	I £49.46
2227	REP DI ST OFFICE SR	981.68	14)79,87	1.069.94	981.68	991 it	(£0(J3	1 £11.15	1 £20.94	l.DJO.76	J .040.55	J.D5O35	1 £60.16	L £69.94	1 £79.87
PAGE: 1S2
LOCAL tot WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E7K - 2 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It, 2002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,19M
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	CMOS	SMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2371	REP ENERGY CONSERV		99886	97245	73014	757.64	78443	Bll _20	83847	864.81	891.65	915,44	915.23	972JW	99886
2601	REP REGULATORY INQY 40 HR		L 103.58	lOTJJi	082 82	954.89	13)06.96	1419.06	UBLJ2	1,043JI	1,06531	L06737	l<0?941	1^91.51	M0L54
227*	REP SR SPEC LEDGER 40 HR	942,70	t.063.43	I45L15	M270	9MJ3	M6.8G	9W8S	990,94	Lw.ro	13)14.99	1J027XW	tXIU9.ll	JJ06L15	
2711	SENIOR PHQTOGRAftfE*.	W4Q11	LWL52	L16L.16	839171	919,26	949.53	9ff9.76	1410.02	1.W0J7	I.OTOJ3	L100.78	UJ1.0Z	Lt]6L2fi	1,19)52
2669	SEPARATOR PERSON	2’63	23,95	23,84	2263	L 22.74	2286	noi	23.16	23.28	23,42	23 54	23.70	23,84	23.95
2692	SNOW REMOVAL U0I	2949	2969	29.69											
2W	SNOW REMOVAL OT CALL [N DO	49,64	49,64	*9,64											
•2958	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL POST	wm	1,260.37	1033 16	98?.*}	1 <016.12	I <043.27	13)7033	1,09750	LI 2*64	LI 51.77	LJ7B.ro	LJ060L	Utt. 16	U»37
2*66	STFNO CLERICAL 40 HR	44W.14	70693	659.15	408.34	438 18	46848	407,91	527,79	557,6$		657.35	W,23	689,85	706.W
	STENO SECRETARIAL 40 HR	39149	745.91	724,04	991.02	606.49	62199	637,49	652.96	668.44	683.95	699.44	71492	72404	745.91
2699	STOCK PERSON DATA PROCESSIN	434 61	907.30	W9.«	634.61	841.85	B49.I0	85645	86)69	870,95		88546	892J3	899Al	907 JO
1471	STOCK PERSON 40 HR	34)83	664 13	635.71	t 343.85	376J6	408.70	4*1,14	473J6	505.99	538.40	570.84	K3J6	635.71	66LIJ
2*75	STRKPR ASST MATMGT *0 HR		LOT L02	146144	972.W	98165	99143	M»2J5	141246	L<Ct.89	L03L64	1X141-45	1,051.28	146104	1471,02
2492	STRKPR ASST SR MATMGT 40 HR	MML90	1.140.12	L.13045		1451,75	1.061.33	1471.35	LOB 1,1*1	1.09093	LL00.73	Lt 10.54	1,120.33	U3Q45	1.144,11
2490	STRKPR ASST SR STATNRY 40 HR	M>)TM	1,109.84	1,099.89	1.01LM	MQ 1*50	1431J2	1,041 09	1450 39	1.06070	13)70.50	1,08031	i.MO.li	1,09949	L109-84
2620	SUMMER. CLERICAL 40 HR	310.19	3)019	310,19											
2621	SUMMER* PHYSICAL 40 HR	8.44	844	8.44											
2551	SURVEY OPR TRUCK	2J.46	23.95	2347	23.46	23,49	2355	23.59	23.64	23.70	23,7$	23.81	23.84	23 87	23,95
2722	SVC PERSON A COORD DF	29,0]	31.65	3IJQ	29.91	SLOT	3026	30,41	30.59	30.80	30,93	31.14	3LJ9	3IJ0	31.65
2M1	SVC PERSON A FLD TR	29-41	3041	30-21	29,41	29.51	W	29.«	2977	29.86	29.94	30,02	30.12	304)	30.41
2682	SVC PERSON A FLDTRN Dtf	29,91	31.65	31,50	29,91	30.07	3026	30.41	30.39	3081	50.96	31.14	3129	JUQ	31.63
2671	SVC PERSON AGEN APPL	27.961	71.86	78.73	27.96	28XM	28.12	28.20	2830	2RJ9	284?	28.55	286*	W73	2B.ro
PAGE: 1S3
I
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F -1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2002 TO OCTOBER 15,2003 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
MIS	SVC PERSON B APPL	23,23	23.89	23.82	2123	23.28	2136	23.42	23.41	2J5J	23.59	2369	23.76	23.82	2389
2675	SVC PERSON C METER & A FPL	2276	23,23	23.16	22.76	22-79	22 >4	22,87		2296	23,02	23.07	23 12	23.16	23-23
2716	S VC PERSON C POST 98	18.9!	21,80	21.50	L8.9)	19.19	19.49	19.77	:o.o&	20.34	20.65	20,92	21 24	21.50	21,80
26T7	SVC PERSON 0 LOCK UNLOCK	2)07	22.35	22J2	21.07	212)	21.36	11.47	:i.6o	21.J0	2184	2198	22.09	2222	22.3$
2585	SVC PERSON TRAINEE CSD	14.39	17.68	14.39	14.39	1768									
2456	SVC SPECIAL DIST 40 HR	93 LIO	1.03107	IJ52I.73	931.10	94146	95125	961J4	9'1.38	98149	991,54	L0DL64	Ijttil.TO	13)21.78	1 >032 07
-2964	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	825.15	1.105.71	1,077 59	825.15	853.24	881 .26	90927	9)7-34	965.39	993,43	1,02)41	1,049.53	1,077,59	1 JOS-71
2494	SYS PROCESSOR DlST 40 H ft	892,92	993.B9	983.66	892 92	903.02	913.09	923.17	913.25	Hl J 3	955.42	963.48	973.57	983,66	993.89
2626	technician process A	29.66	30.41	30.35	29.66	29.72	29.79	29,89	>9 95	30.03	3011	50.20	30.27	3035	3041
2589	TELEPHONE REP TRAINEE CCC	412,70	726.35	6190$	41270	508.45	61905	726.35							
2592	TELEPHONE REP TRAINEE CCC H	4t2,70	726.35	619 05	4)2.70	5DR45	61905	726.35							
2$l3	TELEPHONE SERV REP 40 HR	831-46	976.82	962.21	831-46	8*5.98	860 51	875.04	889.56	904,06	918.60	93309	947,68	962.21	976.82
2502	TELLER HEAD 40 HR	981,68	M79.87	! ,069,94	981.68	991 51	1,001.33	1,011.15	1,07094	1,030.76	),M0l55	1,05035	I.O6O.I6	1.069.94	1,079.87
2 $42	lTIMEKEEP SYS SUPP40 HR	892.68	993.62	983.35	892.65	902.72	912,79	922.S6	932.98	9410J	953 13	9612}	972.27	983 J5	993 62
2819	tool repair person	25,14	26.81	26,50	25.14	2530	25,43	25-61	25-25	25,88	26.05	26.19	26,37	26.50	26.8)
2JS20	TOOL REPAIR PERSON A	25,94	27.66	27.29	25,94	26.09	26.24	2641	2634	26.68	26.85	26.99	27.16	27,29	27.66
W7	TRAINEE SSP40HR	1339	16.08	13 39	13.39	164>8									
2553	TYPIST STATISTICAL 40 HR	468,09	$22.13	516.65	468.09	473-47	478.87	48428	<89,7q	493.12	500.52	50594	511.33	516,65	522.15
2829	UPHOLSTERER	24,74	26.41	26.10	24.74	24.96	25.46	25.22	25 35	2$.49	25.66	2580	25.97	26.10	2641
2831	UPHOLSTERER A	2629	27,87	27,71	26 29	2645	2660	26.79	26,93	27.07	2725	2738	27.57	27.71	27.87
2835	UTILITY PERSON SYS SUPP	11.37	22 35	21.12	11.37	21.45	21.S3	21.61	21.69	21 77	21.91	21.97	21.06	22.12	2235
2837	UTILITY WAREHOUSE PERSON	6.08	)118	H56	6.08	6.68	7.28	7.89	8.50	9ii	9.73	10.3?	10,95	11.56	12. J 8
2849	WATCH GUARD	1927	20,44	2OJ2	1927	19.42	19-M	1962	19.7J	1985	2(800	20,12	20.21	20.32	20.44
2353	WATCH GUARD & PORTER	272.81	476.03	455,68	272 81	293.12	31343	333 78	154.08	J74 40	394.71	415.07	435 35	455.68	476.03
2855	WELDER	25,35	27,00	26.72	2535	25.51	25,68	2580	25.99	26.11	26.26	2642	26.55	26,71	2700
2857	WELDER A	26.79	28.39	28.21	2679	26,93	27 08	27,26	27.42	27 59	27.73	27,89	2806	28.21	28.39
PAGE: 1S4
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F-1 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2W2 TO OCTOBER I5.2M3
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, 1984
				PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS									
				FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH	FIFTH	
													
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	min max	P.P,	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2S5»	WELDER A QUALIFIED	28.61	JQ,28	30 10	28,61	28,76	2894	29,10	29.29	29,43	29.63	29,76	29,94	30,10	3018
7707	WORK MEASUREMENT ANALYST	M 14,13	l,l<«	UW.13	141730	ltT)9S2	LJ23.62	J.IM76	K129JK.	IJ 34 70	1.139.45	1J4421	1,148,96	I.1MJ3
38*1	YARD PERSON	19,18	12,26	21,9)	19.18	1949	1978	20. JI	20,38	3017D	20,96	2131	21 .S3	21.91	22.26
ALL TITLE CODES FROM 2900 ■ 2999 ARE UACCRETION TITLES
Schedule E/F - 3
October 16, 2003 - October 15, 2004
PAGE: 155
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SC H EPULE
SCHEDULE E/F - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER IS, 2004
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, 19«6
					PROGRESSIONSCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	Max	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	«MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	«MOS
•2928	ACCT ENGR SR POST	986.16	1+236.87	1J2969	906-16	1+013.24	1040JO	1067J6	1+094.39	1,121.46	1448.51	1.17506	100204	1,229.69	105607
2314	ACCTENGR40KR	KOSn.M	1188,82	1,263,88	1+060.64	1+083.41	1,10624	LI 29,03	1451-84	1,174.66	1+197,43	1+220-25	U41.I0	L+26SJ8	1+28802
•2932	ACCTPOST	104110	IJ96J5	1.270.78	1.041.W	1+06651	1092.12	1417.76	1,14324	L168J3	1.HH.3E	1+2)9.79	1J45J2	1.27078	L+296J5
2 IMG	ACCT REP 40 HR	91103	1,016ft	I +005,75	91185	922.29	932,72	943,16	953-58	96402	974.44	984.9)	995J2	1005,75	I016J6
2012	ACCTG ASST CORP 40 HR	10OL74	1,10317	109101	1001.74	1+01L89	1022.02	103246	1,04228	1,052,44	1.06258	1072,70	1082,89	109303	1403,37
2006	ACCTG ASST DJST 40 HR	95893	1,06064	105O.4J	45893	969,12	979.28	989.4|	99961	1+009 77	1019,91	1030 10	L+O4DJ6	1+05045	106064
2010	ACCTG ASST SR CORP 40 HR	1060.64	1J311I	1+214.13	1+060.64	1+077,64	1+094.68	1,1)100	I.12R84	1+14509	1,162,96	1,180,02	1,197,08	12I4JJ	1+23121
2015	ACCTG ASST SR 40 HR	W.74	Mto-37	109W	1,001.74	1,OH,W	102202	1,032,16	1,04228	1052.44	1.062J8	1072.70	1082.89	109J03	1,103.37
2007	ACCTG ASST 40 HR	954.93	1,060.64	1+050.45	93803	969.12	97928	989.41	999.61	1,009.77	1,019.91	J+030,10	t .04026	1050.45	1060.64
2125	ACCTG CLERK 1 PT 40 HR	846.71	897.5 L	892 JO	846.71	831,83	856.91	86)96	867.07	87243	877,24	WJ1	887,40	892,50	897JI
2122	ACCTG CLERK 5 PT 40 HR	3 53JO	255.58	255.20	255-20	255.38									
2897	ACTIVE SUB BARG EMPL		*	■											
•2954	ADM ASST CSV POST	923,66	1476,82	1451,44	923,66	948.93	97429	999.60	1.024 85	1050,19	1.075,49	1,10001	I.L26LI	1451.44	1476 82
•29ft	ADM ASST MAT MG POST 400 HR	965JI	1430.24	1,2036)	965-51	991,94	1018.40	1044,91	] 07 J 36	1+09700	1 ,12405	1,150.73	1+17700	1+203.6)	1J30.24
•2970	ADM ASST METER REPAIR POST	977-67	UQI2	UI 5,66	97707	100444	L03O.37	1,057.0)	1085.45	1+TO909	1+I56J7	1,162.75	l+l 89.23	t JI 306	1042.12
*2966	ADM ASST SYS SUP POST	959J7	1J8S.W	1444.11	959.27	979.W		1,020.93	1.041 48	106205	1+D82.61	1+103)9	I + L237S	1+144J3	1,165.00
•2946	ADM ASST WORK COMP POST	900,42	144747	1422.49	90042	925,03	949-74	974,42	99909	1+02302	1048,47	1+07345	<00701	i J 2149	1+14747
•2954	ART * PROD ASST POST	922,36	1+23620	1+204 76	912.36	953.75	985.11	1016.47	1+047.85	L+079.26	U1005	1,14100	1+17336	1+204.76	M36JO
2739	ASSOC CUSTOMER SERVICE	428,18	91004	flft.40	428 IB	508,63	58907	669JI	749.95	830.40	91004				
2019	ASSOC CUST SVC REP POST 2001	439.01	R33J5	636.28	439,01	488.32	537 63	586.96	636J8	685.60	734.90	784.23	833.55		
2066	ASST CHEMIST	821,6?	1+03207	U0UJB6	821.67	ML78	863-92	884,99	90646	92724	94BJ9	96933	990,71	101106	1032.97
PAGE: 156
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F- 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1003 TO OCTOBER 15.3004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGFESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		TH	IRD	FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	(MOS	(MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	(MOS	(MOS	6 MOS	(MOS	6 MOS
•2952	ASST EDITOR POST	909.72	1J59O2	1 ,13196	909.72	91463	95954	984.46	U0WJ3	1,034.29	1X759 21	1,084.11	1,109.05	M 33,96	L 159.02
2170	ASST HELD REP	1,024.80	1,173,24	1,15822	LQ24.80	L<U?59	1,054-4$	1.069-26	K0HO7	1,099,04	1,113.73	1,128,59	1,143.37	1,158.22	1,17334
2023	ATTEND GARAGE	10.17	17,90	17,06	10.17	10.98	11,71	12.30	13.27	14.06	14.32	15.58	1636	17.06	17.90
2022	ATTEND GARAGE ALTER FUEL	1769	23.61	2290	17.69	18.29	1114	19,41	19.98	2057	21,15	21-74	22JI	22,90	23,61
2488	AOTO MECH A FLD TRAINER	28-60	3031	30.13	28,60	28,75	2893	29.10	29.26	29.45	Z960	29.80	29,96	30 13	30.31
2487	AUTO MECHANIC	26.67	28.37	28.03	26.67	2680	26.99	2733	27.31	27.44	27.60	27.79	27.92	2805	2837
24W	AUTO MECHANIC A	27.49	2914	28.98	27.49	27,64	27,85	2798	2817	28-31	28,48	2866	28.82	28,98	29,14
22JX	A UTO MECHANIC APPRENTICE	1213	L5.6)	1529	12.33	12.65	12,98	13.32	13.66	14,00	14.29	14.63	14.96	1519	15.61
2611	AUTO TECHNICIAN	28j6O	30.31	30.13	28.60	28.73	28.93	29.10	29.26	2945	29.60	29.80	29.96	30 13	3031
2025	BLACKSMITH'^ .	27 32	28,93	28.64	2732	27,39	2752	2768	2786	27,99	28,17	2831	2847	28,64	28.93
2031	CARPENTER	26,61	28.30	28.00	26.61	26.76	26.91	27.07	27.22	27.40	27.54	2768	27.86	28.00	2830
2714	CHAUFFEUR DISTRICT OPS	25.46	25.46	23.46											
2039	chauffeur executive	24 ,U	26 02	25,86	24.54	24.71	24.84	24.97	25.12	25,27	13.43	25,56	25,71	2186	26.02
2040	CHAUFFEUR TRACTOR TRAILER	25,85	2740	27,24	25.85	26.01	26.17	2630	26.47	26.64	26.7?	26.94	17.09	2734	27.40
2013	CHEMIST SENIOR 40 HR	1375.71	1,35233	1.344.51	1.273.71	11813?	I £90.99	1398,62	Q6.26	1J 13.92	1,321,61	1,329,21	1,336-87	1344.51	1352,23
202?	CHEMIST 40 HR	1,093,63	1,260,71	1.24396	1.093 68	1.111X33	1.127X16	1443.72	1,160.43	1,177.19	1,193.87	l£10.58	1,227.25	1.243.96	1 <260.71
•2938	CHI EF CLERK GAS OPER POST	517,95	1,230.24	1J9B.89	917.93	94913	980 34	1,011.59	1/42.79	1.074X32	1,105.21	LI 36.46	1,167.66	1.19889	1,23034
2615	CLK ACCT NO 2 40 HR POST89	$99.45	949,83	914.81	599.43	63443	669JO	704.57	’39 59	774 63	80968	844 70	87974	914.81	949.83
2104	CLK ACCTG NO I ACCT 40 HR	911 «5	1,01636	1,00575	911 85	922.29	932.72	943.16	933.58	964 02	974 44	984.91	993.32	1/105.75	1.016,36
2050	CLK ACCTG NO 140 HR	897.51	1,00217	991.64	89731	908.00	918.43	928,89	<>39,33	94W	96024	970 72	981,17	991,64	1,00327
210$	CLK ACCTG NO 2 40 HR	8514?	949.83	939.99	851.47	861 27	871.12	8B093	1590.83	90065	910.48	920J2	930.14	939 9?	949.83
2714	CLK ACCTG NO. 1CIAS	791,72	1,002.27	981.19	791.72	812.79	833.83	854 87	JI7S.97	897 00	918.01	939.10	960.1$	981-1?	1,002.27
PAGE: 157
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E7F - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER 15.2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOI	JRTH	FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	SMOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	SMOS	6 MOS	SMOS
2733	CLK ACCTG NO, 2 O AS	603,21	754 0J	738.95	603.21	6)8.30	633,40	MM5	66355	678,63	693.619	7M.7*	773.87	73L9S	754,03
2125	CLK ACCTG W2 ACCTG POST 92	59945	9*983	867.12	5W.4S	735 47	367.12	949.13							
2256	CLK CNTL SR CUST ACCT 40 HR	1.025.47	LJ17JJ	LI 16.99	1,025.47	1,035.65	(£45.8(	W5.9S	I £66(6	1 £76,28	(>086,45	1,095.69	1.ICKO5	14)6.99	L 123_)3
2732	CLK COMM NO.f 40.0 HR POST92	791.72	1,00227	981.19	791.72	812.79	833.83	354.87	875.97	89647	918.03	93946	960.15	981,19	1,002.27
17»	CLK COMM NCLl 400 HR POST92	66314	754.03	7M.9S	6M21	61330	633.40	M3.45	663.53	665*2	693.69	706 79	73337	73895	754.09
2133	CLK COMML ASST HD *0 HR	1,011.33	1.06064	1,053.73	LOH .33	]£16,24	1 £21.18	1.02642	1.031.03	1 £36.00	1.040.92	t,WS.83	IJHO74	:.<B3.73	IA6064
2170	CLK-COMML WDL APfLW HR	LWK.67	1JOTJ2	1 £96.77	L0Q267	1X113.14	)£23.«	1£34£)	1,0*4.49	l£5*,90	1.065*3	1XH75J88	1.08636	1£9677	L1OTJ2
2MI	CLK COMML NO 1 40 HR	897.51	1,00227	991.64	SR7.SI	90800	918.4J	923.19	93933	9*982	9W.24	9TO.72	98(47	.	991,64	1JMZJ7
2H7	CLK COMML NO 2 TREAS 40 HR	605.76	9*9.83	923.3)	<35,76	712.10	738.51	704.92	79U2	ML73	*44.(4	870,49	89692	M3.31	9*9.83
21*4	CLK COMML NO 2 40 HR	351.47	*49,83	939.99	Wl.tf	86127	87(42	88093	89083	900,63	91048	920.32	93044	959.99	949.83
2I«	CLK COMML NO 3 40 HR	4*941	693.06	672.67	4B9.fl	30953	529.91	5503)	570.70	591.09	611,49	631.83	652.26	67247	693.06
2034	CLK CONS ANAL VS 40 HR	722.33	01,66	320 71	712-3*	1TL31	74419	75547	76608	777,0)	787.90	798.38	B09.74	420.71	m.66
2115	CLK CONTROL CUST SER 4DHR	397J 1	1,00227	991.64	897.51	908,00	91343	91814	414 33	94911	960 74	990 72	98C47	99(64	U0U21
2230	CLK CONTROL PROP MAIN? 40	95600	1J-40J0	L121.96	956-00	974.44	992.89	L0H33	1,029.82	LO48.W	1,066.66	1JM5.12	M00J3	1421.96	144050
2131	CLK DEPOSIT 40 HR		1,03743	1,027.24	933.1)	9*3.54	954.01	964,50	97492	985.40	995.38	L006 32	1,016.75	l£2724	(£37.73
2070	CLK GEN OJST SER 40.0 HR	184-92	735.37	7003J	334.93	41994	455.01	490.05	51540	$60.16	595,(8	63026	66530	70033	7M3?
2216	CLK GEN MAILS MOT	73353	1.0*993	1.01S.33	73333	765.17	796,81	328.47	360.10	891.78	923.40	OSS .05	986.67	1JM8.U	1,0*998
11W	CLK GEN NO 140 HR	897J1	IXU227	991.64	89731	903.00	918*3	928.89	919.33	949.82	96024	970.72	98147	991,64	L0te_Z7
2616	CLK GEN NO? 40 HR POSW	55642	1,00227	95167	356.61	60121	645.74	690.31	734.85	77945	824.01	868J5	91340	957,67	1JMB.27
2192	CLK GEN NO 2 40 HR	40R67	511-89	501.4*1	403.67	418.97	42916	434 58	449.89		470,52	480.81	49145	50144	51L89
2195	CLK GEN NO J « HR	221.77	459 45	435.60	2ii:r>	24530	269.29	293.6*	316.93	M05J	36429	338 Sp	4H8)	*35,60	459.45
35M	CLK GEN NOI QCST 40 HR	1,004 61	1,961.59	1,055.39	L004Al	IjQlOJi	1,01600	1472)70	1.027.38	(£33.13	1.033.79	1.0*450	(£50.21	(£55^9	L06J.39
I
I
PAGE: I$g
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER It, 2WI3 TO OCT OBER IS, 2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, 1580
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	max	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
226!	CLK GEM TREASURY 40 HR	934.96	f .039,70	1,029. KJ	934.96	945.44	955.88	96632	9:6.8)	98726	997.69	1.008.17	1 >18.66	1 >29.10	1 >39.70
2176	CLK GEN 1 CASHIER 40 HR	926.86	1.031 65	1,021(10	926.86	937 33	Q47B0	958 25	9f'8,7O	979 17	989.66	l,0W.O5	1.01054	L021>0	1,03165
2166	CLK GEN I MKT ADV 4U HR	94947	1,054.16	LWJ/61	949,47	959.92	970.39	930.86	9*1,32	LOO 1.76	L012.22	1,022.67	1 >33 *J4	LO43-61	1,054 16
2190	CLK GEN 1 PUR QC 40 HR	939 IS	1,043.80	1*033.31	939 1$	94S.61	960.07	970.51	9ii0.97	991.47	JjXH.M	L0tW	L022.S8	LW3.31	1.043-80
22b	CLK GEN 2 MKT ADV 411 HR	424 38	528.17	517,85	424.38	435,24	+45,56	+55,86	4'&22	+76,52	48686	497,18	507,49	51785	528,17
2237	CLK HDCLAlM/SECURTTY 4OHR	1.025.47	1.127,33	LI 16,99	1,025,47	1,035.65	1.045.81	1.05595	1 >66.16	1*076.23	1.086.43	1.096.69	1.106.85	1,116,99	(J 27,33
2202	CLK HD COMML 40 HR	1,025.47	1.(27.33	LI 16.99	1*925.47	1.035-65	) >45-81	J *055-95	1 >16.16	LO76.28	I >86-45	1 >96.69	1.106,85	1*116.99	1*12133
•2930	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG POST	986.16	1*256,87	1,229,69	986.J6	1,011.24	1,040.30	1.067.36	l>M19	1,(21.46	Ll48.il	LI 75.56	1202.64	1*229.69	12 56 87
2583	CLK HD URBAN'AFFAIRS	1,025.47	L127.33	LI 16.99	1.025.4J	LO35.65	1.0+5 81	1*055.95	L016.16	LOT6.28	(.0864-5	L09&CA	1,106.83	1J 16.99	1,127.33
2579	CLK HD URBAN AFFAIRS 40HKS	1 >25.47	1.127.33	1,116.99	1,025.47	1*035,65	1,045,81	1,055,95	13)56*16	1*076,28	1,086 45	1,096 69	1.106.85	LI 16.99	1,127 J3
2257	CLK HEAD CONTROL 40 HR	1,06064	L2JL2I	UJ14.13	1,06064	1,077.64	1,094 68	1,111.80	LI 188+	1,1+5.89	1.162 96	1,160 02	l.|9?>&	1,214.13	1*231.21
2211	CLK HEAD CUST SVC 40 HR	LOI 1.33	13360,64	1,055.73	LOU 33	L0H.24	lXtti.18	1,026.12	I >3 LOT	L036O&	Ltwo.W	1.WW	1,030 74	LO5573	1*06064
2233	CLK HOUSE HEATNG A 40 HR	640,23	973(10	93963	64O.2J	673,49	70676	740OI	773,29	806,57	839,85	873,13	90654	93W	973,00
2705	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B TOST 93	437,93	553.83	545.79	427.98	441,06	454.14	467.25	430.34	49J.4I	506,5)	5)960	532.69	545.79	358.88
2239	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B 40 HR	28539	558.38	53147	285.29	312,66	340.01	367.35	394.67	422,03	449,39	+76,74	504.11	5JI 47	558.88
2635	CLK INVENT CTL MMD 40 HR	1.009,38	1.(11.18	1,10083	1,00933	LOIR 50	1,029,65	1>29.83	1*05001	1*060.21	1,070.33	1X130.50	1,090.70	1,100.83	1,11 US
2724	CLK METER REPAIR SR	moa	LW3 66	994.3)	9JD.O6	919.43	928.80	938.17	<47 52	956.90	966JJ	975JO	994 31	1,00366	1*00366
2210	CLK MTR. RPR HEAD 40 HR	95393	1.060.64	1,050 45	95393	969(2	979.28	989.41	<99-61	1,009.77	1,019,91	JjWO.lQ	1.040.26	l>50,45	1,060.64
224+	CLK SPECIAL LEDGER 40 HR	097.51	1*028.67	] .015,53	897.51	910.59	923.74	936.87	<49.94	96J07	976.15	989 30	1,002.37	l>(5.S3	L02B67
2252	CLK STCK MAT MGT 40 HR	657,62	733.52	725,92	657.62	665.22	672,82	6SWI	<188.02	695.58	703,13	7JIX76	7J8J7	725 92	733.52
2248	CLK STCK MKT ADV 40HR	851.47	949.83	939 99	851.47	861 27	871.(2	BB&93	:sW83	900 Ai	91448	920.32	930 14	939,99	949,83
2255	CLK STCK STNRY TRUCK OP <0	325,73	986,37	970.32	825.78	841.83	857.91	873.98	1(90.02	906.0)	922.11	938.15	954.22	97032	98637
PAGE: 159
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F -3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2043 TO OCTOBER IS, 2M4 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,19U
					PROGRESSION schedule in years										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		_ FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	Mils	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	« MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS
2211	CLK TELLER 40 WR	9ii.es	L0I636	1,005.75	911 8S	91229	93171	943.16	953-58	964,02	974.44	984 91	995.32	r/»5.75	1JI6J4
27JT	CLK TELLER 400 tilt POST 92	67W	904,79	<02.19	678.63	701.23	713X7	746.48	769(2	791.32		836.94	R5939	882.19	904.79
2258	CLK TRAFFIC 40 HR	1,14612	l;MM7	(<237,05	Lt4&t2	1.H629	IJ6W2	Id 76.67	1.18X88	1497.08	tX0T26	1^17,44	1427,65	<.23715	1448.17
2544	CLK TYPIST 40 HR	367.91	693.06	660.53	367.91	400.42	432.91	46543	49795	530 47	562.99	595.50	628.02	660X3	69306
EM	COLLECTS CONTROLLER 40 HR	97805	1,103 JI	1.09057	97J.M	900-53	IXMTOJ6	1.615.59	IXQR.tO	IdMW	1,053,05	l,065.6t	1.07X08	1,090.57	1,103.31
2113	COLLECTOR	931 40	L040.4S	1,029.39	931,50	942.40	953.24	964.15	974.99	W.«	996.77	1,007.66	LOIX43	LQ29.J9	1.04048
2645	CORROSION TECH HELPER	1122	19.10	!B5<	1342	13.79	14.40	14.97	JSJJ	16d$	16-75	1732	IW	tt,5i	19.10
2649	CORROSION TECHNICIAN	19.72		24.97	19,72	20 30	20.9)	21.49	22.09	22.64	2311	23 BO	14J7	14.97	2154
2610	CORROSION TECHNICIAN PRE 92	1,01347	LI 63.12	L167.9S	UHM?		14)5.57		Ifflfldl	1303,7?	M1914	td35,M	1451,93	1,167.9$	1384 12
26W	CORROSION TECHNICIAN SR	2X57	2959	29.20	25,57	26.00	2X38	2X78	27.19	27-60	17.99	28 40	2180	29.20	2959
2130	CREATIVE SERVICES ASSOCIATE	906.42	LIMOS	U17.62	906.42	932 03	959.22	965,61	L01202	1,033 41	t(OM82	L09U1	LI17.62	UU4J05	
2735	CREV LEADER		3L55	11 -39	29,97	30,11		30.M	306t	30.76	’ 30,92	31.07	31,23	31J9	3U5
211*	CUST INQUIRY REP PT 40 HR	931.11	M Lt I	93l.lt											
2652	CUST SERVICE ASSIST PjT	10.7D	10.70	10.70											
202	CUST SERVICE ASSIST F/T	43900	472,34	466.7$	439.00	444.56	450,12	455.67	46L23	466.7B	472J4				
2Z76	CUST SERVICE REF « HR	95249	148X81	1,075.17	952.19	96542	979.49	993.15	LWMJ	1/Q0.46	1,03415	1.047.0	LWL50	JjO7J.IT	LOM.Bt
	CUST SERVICE REP 40 HR	952.19	IJBB.H	1075.17	932,19	96S B2	979.49	993. J 5	L006 8J	13120.46	t ,034.13	t .047X3	Wil-IB	147117	1,081.81
273B	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC	41M4	678 0	653 54	42X18	43342	478.27	sow	528J6	553.41	578.46	«35l	6«,54	65358	67853
2665	CUST SVC ASSOC NO I POST 98	07-S9	91034	W,SL	637,59	664.91	69123	719X6	746.89	774J0	801,53	B3BX6	856,19	343.JI	916.04
2660	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC FT	IQ7D	10-70	I0.7D											
2666	CUSTOMER. SERVICE REP POST 98	BS0.12	1,988 81	1,064 94	85042	073.99	89U5	921.73	9*559	969.46	W3.3J	1.017.10	LWL07	1,064.94	<,088.81
2247	CUSTOMER SER VICE TELLER	428,16	67063	616.02	428.18	49080	553,4 i	616.02	67X63						
10)7	CUSTOMER SERVICE TELLER FOS	44234	60571	5241X2	44234	469,57	496,80	SX«2	551.25	578.49	605,71				
2563	ubuverer	19.90	22.66	22.30	19,90	20.18	20.4!	2048	2<k97	2L22	21X1	2t.75	JZ05	22.30	1266
270*	DISPATCHER post 96	1464-13	UJJ.M	140M9	U 64-13	1,169.09	1,174.01	Id 7X96	1,183-89	MB&85	1,193,78	U98.12	1403,67	1408,59	<41334
2296	P1SPLA Y ASSISTANT 40 HR	942.54	IJWLtt	L036.N*	W54	953.04	963.48	973.93	984.44',	9M.B7	J .005.35	1,015.79	IJU642	1.03669	IXM7.U
PACE: 160
I
i
I
LOCAL >O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F -3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER 15,1004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 1S, 1986
						PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
23W	DISPLAY ASST APPRtfT 40 HR	363 W	693 06	660 07	36303	388.29	429 05	462.03	495.05	£28.06	561.02	594 03	627,05	660.07	6932)6
iiM	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR. 10 UR	1,163-28	1288.1?	1*27602	1J63J8	1,175,78	1.188 32	1JOG.85	‘ 1,213.39	U25.9I	1238,45	IJ5092	1,263 49	1.276.02	1288.77
12V	DISPLAY DESIGNER 4Q HR	1,085.18	ijion	1J 9800	1.085 IS	1,097 75	[.(10.36	1J22.8I	1,135.36	1,147.87	1,160 35	1,172.91	1,185 48	1,19800	1.210.71
2303	DISPLAY PRSONONSTRN 5NR 4t	1.020.64	(J2522	1.114.73	1,02064	1,031.06	1,04149	1,051.98	1/6142	1/P290	I.Q83J6	1/193-83	1,104.28	1,114.73	M 25.22
2280	DISPTCH D4STR4OHR	JJ27D6	1.17*39	1,17140	1,127.06	1,132.01	1,136.89	1.14U3	1.146,79	1,151,63	1,156*2	1,16134	1,166.46	fJ7(/W	U76J9
2293 .	D1SPTCH FUEL 40 HR	1,011.3}	U01.8I	1,092.57	1/111.33	1,02037	1,029.38	1,038.41	1/47.44	1/15651	tWJJJ	1^74.53	LO83.58	L.092J7	1,101.81
2173	DISPTCH ORDER	1,164.13	1.213,54	1*208.49	1,164.13	U69.H	1J7397	7 J 78.94	1* M	1,188.75	1,193.72	1498,68	120J.56	1.30M9	1.21354
2293	DlSPTCH TRANSP 40 HR	952 23	1,003.12	99799	952.23	95736	962.42	967,55	J>72.57	977.64	982.72	987.82	992.92	997.99	1/103.12
1283	DISPTCH TRUCK D1ST40HR	1,086.45	1.135.78	1,130.79	1,086.45	1/191.42	1,096.32	1.10! 24	LJ0621	MIL 10	1416.04	1.120.95	[J 23.93	1,130.79	1,135.78
ZJO7	DRAFTING CLERK 40 HR	735 21	91623	897,97	735^1	753,31	771,43	78948	307,61	825.6$	£43.74	S6J.83	879.92	897 97	9I6J3
2W«	drafting TECH SR 40 hr	1,063,78	1,151.15	l.HJ.23	1,063.78	I/JT2.48	1/ML23	J, 039.94	LD98 61	iJOtf JS	1J 16,09	1,124.82	1,133.50	LL4223	1,151.15
2304	DRAFTING TECH 40 HR	678.72	754.71	747. n	678.72	686 JI	692 92	101-5(1	709,10	716.71	724 29	731.90	739.52	747 11	754 71
2191	ORtP PERSON	25,11	2582	25.72	25,11	25 18	25,25	2534	25.41	25.47	25.51	25.57	25.65	23.72	25.82
2197	ELECT	2630	2872	28 JI	26.30	26.57	26.76	27.01	27.20	2743	27.64	27.88	28.09	28.31	28.12
2199	ELECT A GAS OPNS	2s0b	29.79	29.60	28.06	28.2b	28.42	2W	28.76	28.93	2910	29 27	2945	29,60	29,79
2198	ELECT SYSTEMS SUPPORT	2630	28.01	27,72	2*30	26,47	26*4	26.77	2*96	27.09	27.24	27.41	27.55	27.72	2801
2203	ELECTRONIC TECH RADIO LJC	30.50	32.00	31.71	3050	30.67	30.79	30.91	311)5	31.18	3134	31.46	3l*6	31.72	32-00
‘2940	ENGINEER AIDE GA$ OPER POST	1.005,40	1,280-87	1,253.18	1,005,40	L/VJ291	1,060,45	1,037-98	1,115.50		IJ7O.59	JJ9BO8	1,223.66	1,253,18	1,280.87
2315	ENGINEER ASST TO 40 HR	1,060*4	1JO2.99	1 J? 8.74	1.060,64	I.0S4.81	1,109 30	J, 133.32	\ 157,56	LL8I82	1.206.03	1^3026	1,254,49	1*278.74	1302.99
2245	ENGINEER HOLST MC	2&«	2996	29.80	2R6O	28.72	28,85	28.98	29.12	29.26	29 39	2953	2964	29 80	29,96
2251	ENGINEER MC	29.62	3054	3043	29.62	29.72	29,81	29,90	29.96	30.09	3017	30 24	30.3J	30.43	30.54
2275	EQUIPMENT MAINTAINER	24.41	25.92	25.77	24.42	24.62	24,74	24 87	25.02	2547	2534	25.47	25.60	25.77	2592
PAGE: 161
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER IS, ZOM FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,198*
								PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS							
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FI	FTH
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	max	P. P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	AMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2637	FCM APPRENTICE	15.07	104	1739	15.07	16J3	17.59	IBM							
2658	FCM APPRENTICE SENIOR	19.62	Z4.M	2287	1962	2123	2187	24 50							
1656	FCM APPRENTICE TRAINEE	10.30	14.30	12.95	1020	11.58	12.95	14X0	ooo	o.oo	0.00	ooo	ooo	OOA	000
2375	FCM ELEOWSTRUMENT TECH	3129	34 23	14 42	32.39	32,45	3266	3188	■ 3305	33-26	33.44	33,63	33W	34.02	MX3
2653	FCM MECHANIC	25X5	27.13	26.98	25.25	25.46	2163	25.82	2602	26X1	2628	26.59	26.76	26,98	27.13
1«4	FCM MECHANIC A	27,90		29.59	77.!®	28X16	28,28	28.46	28.66	28,85	29.04	29,22	29J9	29 J9	29,79
2713	FCM MECHANIC FLD FACILITIES	27.55	Z».M	29.11	27.55	27.86	27.90	2105	ZEX5	18.41	28.60	».7S	;mj	29.1)	2W6
2650	FCM MECHANIC SENKXt	30.53	3X41	3216	3043	30.74	30.9)	3110	31.30	3149	31.67	31,84	32M	3226	32^1
2«6	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	26.02	27.40	27X1	26 07	26.21	36.18	3659	26.76	26 98	27.13	27.36	J7J|	27.71	27.90
2604	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A	2166	3033	M36	28.66	28.85	29.04	29X2	29.41	29,59	2979	39.97	30.17	3034	30,53
2602	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN SR	51.30	11.0	32.97	31.30	31.49	31.67	3184	3205	3246	33^41	3263	J2.79	32.97	33.19
22E&	HELP FORCE APPRENTICE	427.89	457,0*	442.91	427.89	442.91	457.94								
2014	HELP OFERS INSPECTOR A	26.16	27X2	2W	26.16	26,33	26.50	26.66	26.83	26,99	27.13	2732	27,48	27.65	27.82
2013	HELD OPERS INSPECTOR B	24,34	24&J	24.80	2434	24.59	24.44	2430	24 55	24,60	14,65	24.69	34 74	24,80	24 85
w	HELD OFERS INSPECTOR C	21.53	22.81	22.69	21.53	21.65	21.79	2191	22.05	22.17	27 JI	22.43	22.36	22M	23.81
2746	FIELD REP 40 HR	1 ,'219.47	1J87.5J	1464.69	IJ1947	1X1947	1X19.47	1X1947		1242 07	1X64 69	tX64.69	1X87 31		
2350	FIELD REP 40 HR POST 92	1,016,63	L J 65.01	1150104	IX»«^	IA3I38	L«6J2	1,06LO4	1075,89	1,090 71	1.105,53	Lt 30,34	1135.16	L150.M	116501
2368	FIELD REPRESENT	I48CJ7	1,287 J2	1X76.56	LL8I 87	1,192.41	IXG1.M	1X1 Mt	1X23.94	1X34.66	1X454)4	1X55^7	1X60-05	1X7656	U87J2
1569	HELD REPRESENT OFFICE	1*087,37	1.192,82	LI 8107	1^8737	1.097.87	1108.40	1J 18.94	L 129.46	1140.01	1150.49	1161.01	117151	uuxn	1192.82
2678	FIELD SERVICES APPRENTICE	442.92	793.H	738.12	441.91	MHO	55943	618-05	676.40	738.12	793.14				
•2968	FINANCIAL ASST POST 400 HR	92166	1176,82	1.13144	923.66	948.93	974X9	99960	1X124,83	1,05049	1JO75^9	1100,81		LW)-44	L (7682
1287	fitter	24.24	13X3	23.61	24 24	24J6	24.53	24.71	24.84	24.98	23.16	25.33	25.47	2*61	25.95
PAGE: 162
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE EfF ■ 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2003 TO OCTOBER 15,1004
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS. 1986
I
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN							YEARS			
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		fifth	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS
2290	FLD TR ELECPMECH GAS OPNS	28 86	3ft6O	36.43	28.36	29.05	29.21	29.34	29.55	29.73	29.90	30,10	30.24	30.43	30X0
2289	FLDTR INSTRUMSiSTlNSP	1,206.5?	1,278.97	1171,76	1,206.57	1213.79	1.121.0$	1.228.28	1x235.55	1142.79	1,250.03	1.2571$	1,164,53	1.271.76	L278.97
2292	FLDTRSYSGAS OPER	29,84	3IJ5	314|	2984	3003	30-19	3037	33 53	30.73	30.83	3105	31.22	3141	31.55
2341	GATEGUARD	2099	22 26	22.14	20.99	21.10	21.23	21.38	21.51	21.61	21.74	21.85	2100	22,14	22,26
23R	GRAPHICS TECHN SR 40 HR	IJOIJO	1J 8857	1479,72	LIO] JU	Ll J0lU2	M 18,73	L 127.42	1,136,14	1,144.85	3,152,59	1,162 JO	1,171.06	1379 72	1,188 57
2318	GRA/'HKS TECHA 40 HR	916.47	1,014.83	1.004.9?	916.47	926.24	W6.0<J	945,93	955.78	96557	91543	985.31	995.11	1X04-97	1,014.85
2710	GSO DISPUTATION FLDTRNR	29.81	31.55	31.34	29.81	29,36	30J7	30.35	i0.50	30 71	3087	J?,M	31 22	31.39	31,55
2712	GSO DlST/STATKM SR FLD TKNR	31X0	33,84	32 60	JL03	31.20	31,39	31,53	;i.?4	31.96	32,11	3131	3146	32.60	32X4
7708	GSO DISTRICT ASSISTANT	18.31	21.99	22.50	1831	18.76	19.20	19.71	?0.19	30.65	21.10	21,59	2109	22,50	22.99
2706	GSO DISTRICT ASST TRAINEE	13.84	16.68	1W	IM9	)&68									
2363	GSO HOLDS RPtRSON	2441	2801	27.72	2491	25 22	25.53	25.85	16.18	26,47	26,77	27,09	2741	27.72	28.01
2496	GSO MECHANIC PRESSURE	27,55	Z9J26	2896	27.55	27.71	27X8	28.0J	1A2U	23.32	28.49	28.66	28.80	2896	29 26
270?	GSO STATION & FIELD OPERATOR	28.27	24.94	29.79	2827	28-42	28.61	2876	18.93	24.10	24.27	29.45	24.60	29.79	29.94
253?	GSO STATION OPERATOR	27.20	28.85	28.70	27.20	27.39	27.54	27.71	27,88	2SM	38,2?	28.34	28.53	28.70	2885
2345	HELFER	n..cu	11.04	1LM	11.04	1104									
2583	HELPER CCSD	7.50	12X4	12.11	7.50	800	8.53	903	4X5	10lU7	10.56	IL08	11X2	12.J 1	12.64
2154	HELPER DISTRIBUTION	841	UA4		SJ1	8.57	9.02	9.47	9.92	10J8	10.79	11.25	11.70	12,14	12X4
2353	HELPER MECHANICS	I8.J4	23.19	22,58	18,19	1863	19,13	19X7	20,15	20X0	2] 10	21.60	2112	22J8	23/9
2355	HELPER OPERATORS	22.97	24.34	24.24	22.9?	2JJ1	23.25	23 42	23.54	23.67	23.80	23,96	24,10	2424	24,34
2356	HELPER PRESSURE	22.12	23.43	2330	2112	12.22	22.35	22.48	22.62	2177	22.89	23.01	21,15	23.30	23.43
2641	HELPER TEMPORARY 40 HR	943	4.43	943	943	9 43									
2362	HOLDER PERSON	24X4	26-31	26.18	|	24.34	24 97	25.12	25.27	25.43	25.56	25.72	25.86	26.02	2616	26-31
PAGE: 163
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, M»3 TO OCTOBER 15,2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	F.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	«MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
*29*2	(ND APPL INSPECTOR KW 4tMk	IMSJXi	IAQU1		T0WO6	) J0145	1*135.5?	IJ 69.71	1,203.85	JJJ7.97	QT2.I2	(3W.25	l-WJS	IJ73%	L4OA67
*296	INSPECTOR ENG POST	IJM27	13*390	1374 39	LI 34 27	1178.73	IJtB.19	1J27.65	1,252.11	1.27653	IJ0I.03	132547	(349.M	1374,39	
am	INSPECTOR INSTRUMENT MTR RF	1-0%%	)-223.86	UM.tl		1M5.63	1^4,36	LW302	l.llt.65	M3037	IJ49.0]	1367,74	1,1*6.42	IJ05.U	1213.66
*2W0 2659 263$	INVESTIGATOR 0 POST KES CALL CENTER REP’ M KES CALL CENTER REP - BT	9840) W-T* 1070	1J5J.98 w.% KLTC	U27.ro W.% 50.70	984.01 0	1,010.96	10M.W	L.0M.99	1,091.98	1,1)901	ltJ4J.97	J J 72.97	rjw.99	M27.W	(253%
2422	MAfNT FIRE EQGaS OP SYS SUP	27A8	29.75	2951	27.U	J?.W	2W»	2829	28.49	28.70	28.90	29,10		215)	29,75
1425	maintainer instrument	2630	la.or	27.72	2630	2647	16,64	26.17	26.96	27.09	27,24	27.41	27.55	2772	2tat
2C4	MAINTAINER PERSON FIRE EQUIP	ZJ.9]	25.36	2SJD	2191	74.05	14-19		1467	24 65	24%	i».«	2306	2120	29136
242?	MAINTAINER PRO VER WfCAT A1	2134	W-%	30,76	2834	2842	28.72	29.02	29.31	29.S9	29.17	30.18	30.43	30176	30W
2416	MAINTAINER PROVERINWCATQ	27.37	WAR	29.71	2737	27.61	27.88	W7	24.4]	28-68	a.%	2922	29-50	J0.78	Wil
24g L	MECH	2630	28.72	283(	2630	2637	26,76	270I	27.20	27.43	27.64	27.88	2804	28.31	1S.72
2590	MECH A D1ST OPNS	2034	29.M	29,70	28.34	2831	28.67	28,80	28%	29.41	2925	39.41	2155		29%
2483	MECH APPLIANCE	22117	2434	23.97	2217	2235	22.56	I2.7&	21.%	23.(5	23.40	23.56	23.75	23.97	2454
2503	MECH Di ST A	3».U	2926	29(4	2834	2BL26	28.34	23.47	28,60	28.70	%.ao	28.92	2904	JO.M	2«16
2503	MECUMSTAFlDtROC	31,03	12&4	32,6*	3103	3130	11.39	3I35	31,74	k 31,97	32.(2	32.31	32,46	32.68	32.84
23W	MECH DIST A FLD TRAINER	JW	31.S5	3IJ3	29.97	5£kU	30-26	30.43	30-W	30.74	30.88	3103	3U6	3 CT?.	31.55
1BI	MECH BIST A POST 9t	2734	2926	29.08	2734	2152	27.72	27.91	28.13	2829	28.49	28.68	21,87	29.08	29.26
2505	mechdcstb	24.46	249»	24 87	34.46	2433	24.59	24M	I46&	24.72	24.77	24 80	74,84	uw	24 9*
2727	MECH DIST B POST %	2U5	24.%	24.82	2133	;3.M	23.69	23M	2401	24 17	24,34	24.30	24.66	2482	24 9*
249]	MECH METER A	26 44	1841	27^7	26,44	lira	26.76	26.91	27.08	27.23	2740	27.55	27.71	27.87	2801
1493	MECH METER B	23.66	23.64	23.49	22.66	21.77	22.84	22.93	23.0)	23.J t	23,19	23JI	23JI	23.49	2304
PACE: 154
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14. 2W TO OCTOBER IS, 1004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HI RED AFTER OCTOBER 1S. 1985
					progression schedule in years										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P. P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	FMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2499	MECH METER SPECIAL	28.7J	30.13	29.93	28.73	28.86	29.0)	29.12	2926	■	29.41	29.S3	296$	29.8)	29.93	30.18
2484	MECH SYST SUPFT	26.30	2801	27.72	2630	26.47	26.64	26.77	2696	3709	27,24	2741	27,55	27,72	28,01
2373	MESSENGER 40 Hr	323 29	62202	591.15	32329	353.13	382.99	412.91	442,28	47270	502,52	532,39	561J9	592.15	622.02
2689	METER. READER >OST 98	44292	60207	52062	442.92	46SS2	494.70	520 62	54U0	575.54	602,03				
285#	METRETEKTECH	29.94	30,99	30.76	29.94	30.05	30.13	30.21	M 31	30.40	30.43	30 58	30,68	3076	30,99
2701	OPER D1STCPOST92	18.&	21.10	20.84	18.09	18.41	18.71	19.01	1<J1	19.61	19 91	20.22	2051	2084	21.10
2719	OPER DtSTC POST W	18. U9	21.10	2081	U.09	18.41	18.71	19.01	V.if	19,61	1991	20,20	20-51	mi	21.10
2 $49	OPER DISTRIBUTION C	2L53	22.81	2169	21.53	21.64	2i.77	31.90	2.!,05	14.48	22,29	22.42	22,52	2269	22,81
2609	OPER. SCREEN ALUBCKHQE/FAYL	23 W	24.84	urn	23.97	2AM	3X14	2425	2 M2	24.40	24.41	24.59	24.70	24.77	14 84
2608	OPER SLF’LDG V&H GVW 2600&+	23.99	24.84	34.77	2X99	2406	24.14	2425	2*22	J24.40	24.47	24.59	24 30	X?7	24.84
2378	OPNS ASST DIST	95531	U5999	1,049 41	955,31	965,77	976.19	986.71	997,13	1.007.62	IjHff.OT	LK5J5	1.038.93	EO49.4I	1.059.99
2516	OPNS ASST GAS OPS	19.7$	25 02	2435	19.7$	20.28	2080	2128	2LW	3231	22.83	23.36	23.85	24.35	2$ .01
2591	OPR ADLSTOPNS	28-M	29.94	29.70	28.34	28,51	28.67	28.89	;8.%	29.11	292$	2941	295$	2970	29,94
IflSO	OPR ASSISTANT SNQ	27 20	28.85	28.70	27.20	27.39	27 54	17.71	:;7.B8	2801	2821	28.34	28 53	28.70	ZK.SJ
1584	OPR.C TRAINEE DIST	13.89	1664	IJ.W	13,89	16.68	o.w	doo	0.00	(1.00	o.oo	000	OXtf	OOO	0.00
2715	OPR C TRAINEE PQST9S	J W	56,6&	13.89	13.89	16.68	1W	000	ooo	0.00	O.W	o.w	0.00	o.oo	0.00
2518	OPR CHIEF LNG	32.68	34.63	54.43	J 2.68	32.88	33.0$	33.26	jj.44	23,65	AIM	34,03	34 25	34.43	34.63
25J4	OPR CHIEF SNGWi	34.41	3t>A	3626	34 41	34,62	34.83	35.03	35-23	3546	35.64	35.86	3607	36.26	36.46
2394	OPR DATA PROC NO L	85)47	1,002.27	987. H	83147	*6634	881.62	896.72	511-80	926.84	941.92	957.02	972 02	987.11	LOOZ.2?
2393	OPR DATA PROC NO 3	320.96	693.05	^5,87	320.98	35821	39540	432.61	<6983	$07.05	$44.23	sa(.45	418.63	655.87	693.06
2390	OPR DATA PROC NO2	6574+		725.87	657.44	66501	672,67	68521	h8?46	W548	7OJ.O8	7)063	71824	725.87	733.44
2545	OPR DISTRIBUTION A	28)3	1».2»	29.14	25,13	28.26	28Ji	28.46	28.60	28.70	20 80	28.92	29,04	29.14	2926
PAGE: 165
LOCAL IOJ WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2003 TO OCTOBER IS, 2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15.1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE JN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	S MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2547	DPR MSnUBtmON B	22.12	2344	23.30	22.12	2123	22J5	2143	22-62	2277	22.89	' 33.92	»JS	2330	23,44
2723	OPR OISTMBUnON B POST 9»	22.12	2344	23.29	22.12	22.25	2238	22 50	22.64	22,77	22,91	23.04	23,17	23.29	23.44
2522	OPR DUMP TRUCK J.5T+	2239	2397	23.81	22J9	22.76	22 89	2300	23.(3	23.30	2344	2335	23.69	13X1	23.97
2523	OPR HOIST CHERRY PCKEWUQ	29.2*	3962	30.47	29.26	20.39	29.53	2965	29.80	29,93	30.06	30,(9	MHl	M.47	30.62
239E	OPR KEY PUNCH SR 40 HR	868-17	966J7	956.40	£68.17	B7T.W	BS7.78	897.57	W7J6	917.18	92698	93610	946.62	95640	96637
2430	OPR LEAD DATA ENTRY 40 HR	697.51		991,64	$97.51	908.00	918.43	928X9	93933	9*982	96/M	970.72	98M7	991 j54	TJX32.27
2414	OPR LEAD MICRO MACH 40 HR	994.12	1,091.66	LJMB.19	994.12	1,00457	101500	1/2547	(/35.9S	1/46.37	LG56.S3	L06T»	1/77.7}	[,08*19	1/90.M
MIX	CTO	RXyftOMACH 4tl	WJ2	1.0WA6	I.OKS.IO	994.12	J/KM37	L0( SOD	(.025.47	1,035.95	1/W6J7	1,05683	I.0MJ2	1,077.73	i.m.19	U098.66
2434	OPR LEAD SYSTEMS 40 HX	1.139,00	U3J37	1.223.(3	t, (29.00	U 39.44	M49.M	],(6033	L J 70X0	L18I.29	1,191.72	U02.20	1,212.87	L223.13	1233.57
2i»	OPRLNG	29.5$	3136	3t.]7	29.58	29.78	29.9*	30,12	30,28	30.47	3067	30182	3L0f	JU?	3136
2714	OFRLNGASST	27.60	29X2	29.tf7	27.60	27.77	27SZ	2B.W	29.25	28,40	28.38	28,73	28.90	29.07	2912
2399	OPR MAIL WSRTMAC 40 HR	851.47	949JJ	939,99	851.4?	WI27j	B7C.12	88093	890.83	900.65	910.48	920.32	9J0-L4	939.99	
2246	OTR ML (NSRT MAC 40 HR POST 9	363.01	75067	731.91	563.01	581.77	60055	6(9.31	638.06	656,85	675.62	69438	7(3.14	73L91	730.67
2S40	OPR OFF-SITE	24,35	25.82	25.67	MJS	24.5(1	24.63	2480	2*94	25.10	25.23	25.40	25.52	25X7	25,82
2*06	OWt REPRO MACH SR 40 HR	94266	1,047.40	(JW6.71	9U.66	953.12	963.62	974.07	984.53	994,93	1,005.42	L0J5.B7	L ,02430	1/36.7*	1.047,40
2402	OPR REPRO MACH 40 HR	379/3	69306	66168	379/3	410.45	441.32	47322	50*66	S36.O7	567.44	59817	630.28	661.68	693,06
2536	OPRSNGLNG	32-68	54.63	34.43	32.68	3288	B/5	3326	33.M	33X5	33X4	34X3	31.23	34*3	34.63
2541	OPR STATION A LEC	27.07	2168	28.5J	27.07	27.22	27.40	27.55	2771	27.88	28.0)	2B-21	2834	28 J L	116*
2543	OPR STATION 6	2*91	2619	26J7	24.91	25/7	25.22	2540	25.51	2566	25X2	25.99	26,15	2627	24,39
2436	OPR SYSTEMS A 4G HR	994.12	1,091.66	1,088.19	994J2	1,004.57	1,013.00	1.025.47	1,033.95	1,046.37	1/5683	U067JZ	1/7173		1/98,66
2435	OPR SYSTEMS *0 HR	955-98	146044	1/50.12	955 98	966.45	97W	98736	997.84	!.W»2S	1/1175	1,02951	1/39,70	UOflLlJ	1X60.6*
2423	OPR TELEPHONE NGHT 40 HR	329.25	733.44	693.03	329.25	369.66	410.11	450.50	490.93	331,36	571.78	612.17	65258		733.44
PAGE; 166
I
LOCAL toi WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2M3 TO OCTOBER 15.2004 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOL	RIH	FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	SMOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	SMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	SMOS
2419	OPR TELEPHONE 40 HR	379 03	71558	662.06	379,03	412.69	446.38	481.07	513.68	547 32	$80,99	6M.62	648.27	66206	7i$,$a
1431	OPR TELETYPE MACH 40 HR	320.98	693.06	655.87	32098	35611	395.40	432.61	469 83	$0705	S44.2S	$8145	6)863	655.87	693.06
2140	OPR TELPHONE PT 40 HR	236.46	23708	236 46	236,46	23708									
2388	OPR WORD PROCESS	470.96	679.12	658.28	470.96	491 BO	$12.61	$33.42	554 21	375.07	595.86	616.66	637.50	65828	679. U
2$67	PAINTER	24 27	25.11	24.86	34 27	2433	24.40	24 46	24 53	24.64	24,70	24.75	24.81	24 86	25 IL
2569	PAINTER BODY TRANS?	2630	2801	27.72	26JO	26.47	26.64	26.77	26 96	27.09	2724	27.41	27l$5	27,71	28.01
1372	PARTS PERSON TRANS	24 33	25.28	25.15	24.33	24.42	24 52	24 64	24,72	24 JO	24,87	24,96	25,06	25.15	2528
2440	PHOTOG ASST APPR40 HR	379 01	693.06	661.68	379 03	410,45	441.82	47322	504,66	536.07	567,44	$98,87	630.18	66 W	693,06
2443	PHOTOG ASST 40 HR	72782	80861	80056	71782	735,92	743.99	752.98	76CJJ	76823	776 30	784.40	792.46	800,56	BOS.61
1445	PHOTOG LAB TECHN 40 HR	337.69	L ,05 LSI	1.030.33	837 69	859.08	880.47	901.90	922.31	94471	966.13	987,51	1X08 92	1.03033	1,051 Jl
2439	PHOTOG 40 HR	1,037.83	1,16873	1,155.61.1	1,037,83	J ,05091	1063.94	1,077 06	L09C.13	1,103.22	LI 16.34	1,129.44	1.14151	1,155.60	1,168,73
2573	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON	21,53	22.76	22.50	21.33	21.62	21.74	21.84	21.96	22.11	22.19	2220	22,4)	2250	22.76
2574	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON SR	2320	24.44	2422	23.20	23,35	23.45	23.5$	2? ,64	2375	23 J8	2401	24.11	2412	24,44
297S	PUBLIC RELATIONS ASST POST	91429	h238.ll	1J9<j62	914,29	945,63	976,97	13308.39	1JBV.78	1071.15	1,102.51	1,133.89	1,16328	1,196.62	L2M.1L
2399	READER METER	442,91	793.14	758.12	442.92	501.30	559 63	618.05	67.1,40	758.12	793.14				
2598	READER METER (NIGHT SKIP)	4I2.9J	793.14	758.12	442.92	501 3ft	55963	61805	67x40	758.12	793.14				
2044	READER METER - TEMP	442.91	442.92	442.92											
2267	REP CAD 40 HR	978.05	1,103,31	1.090.57	978.05	990,53	1,003.06	1015,59	1 JUGS. IO	IJMO.57	10$ 303	1,065.61	107S.O8	1,090.57	1,103.31
2271	REP CUST LNQ SR 40 H ft	1 .019.6$	1,144.96	1,132.44	1.019.68	103210	1,044.74	LO57.27	X,06>-79	1,08233	LO94.B8	1.107.40	1.11909	L 132*44	L 144.96
2273	REP CUST 1NQ 40 HR	952 19	1,038.81	1X>75,17	95119	965,82	979.49	993.15	1005.83	1020.46	WM1J	1047. S3	1061.50	1,075,17	1,08841
2224	REPDIST OFF 41).0 hr	9S2.I9	1,08881	1.075.17	952.19	965.82	979.49	993J 5	L DOS. 83	1,02046	1.0M.I5	1 ,M7 S3	I.06L50	LOTS. 17	1.088 81
2227	REPD1ST OFFICE SR	1,0 ft 49	1,120.37	LI 10.06	101849	1028.69	1,038.88	1049.07	1,05923	1069.41	1,079.57	1049,74	109992	1J1O06	1,12037
PAGE; 167
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F-3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 1UW TO OCTOBER IS, Z«M
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15.1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	max	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	i MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS
2371	REP ENERGY CONSERV	75825	IX136J2		7MJJ	7*6.05	813.83	841.62	86950	197^4	913.09	95258	980.68	1+00850	LO36J2
2601	REP REGULATORY JNqV 40 HR	1,0196$	1J 4496	l J 32,44	1,019.68	tjQJLOT	1,044.74	1,057 J7	i3>w.79	1.082.33	1,09481	t, l(T».4O	1,119.09	J. 13244	1,14496
2274	REP SR SPEC LEDGER 40 HR	97S.O3	M03-M	L+090J7	97S.05	99053	1.00306	l£1S39	1.02830	13*057	1,053.05	IJ065.61	UIWi	)X9057	MMJ1
271)	SENIOR nKnOGRAPRER	922.36	IJJSJO		92236	953.75	983.14	1,016.50	1,047.90	1,079.29	1,110,67	1+142.06	1,173.43	I2tw.il	U36JO
1469	SEPARATOR PERSON	23.48	2455	24.73	23.40	2359	23.72	2W	2W	2435	14.30	2442	2459	24.73	2415
2SW	SNOW REMOVAL Lt 01	M>,«	».»	3M0											
3693	SNOW REMOVAL OT CALL JN LIO	3150	51J0	St.50											
•2*M	SPECIAL ENQUIRY ANAL POST		13GZM	1379,40	1+0(26,09	1.05422	1X«2J9	I+114J2	1+138,66	IJ66.81	JJ94.96	t-223,11	1,251-2*	(+279.40	JJWJJ
2466	STENO CLERICAL 40 HR	423 6J	733.44	684.59	423.65	454AL	4%Y«		5475*	57356	M9.54	M05D	*71.50	68459	733.44
14M	STENO SECRETARIAL 40 HR	St Ml	TT>.&	751.1*	6I3J8	62923	64551	661,40	677.47	«351	70960	725.67	741,73	75LI9	773.18
2699	STOCK PERSON DATA PROCESSI6	*65.91	94152	933.6*	*65.9)	873.42	8 80.94	888.57	896.08	903.61	911.13	91566	92&JI	933.68	94152
2472	STOCK PERSON *0 HR	336,74	693.(8	«955	336.74	390.37	424A3	457.68	*9132.	51496	55*59	39223	625*8	65953	693.18
2475	STRKPR ASST MATMGT 40 HR		wi.i*	l.tW.83	1.00938	LOI 9.50	1,029.65	1 3)39.8 J	1,05001	LM0.2J	1+07033	I+O8O5D	1+090.70	1+100.83	J+ltLtS
2492	STRKFR ASSTSR MATMGT40HR	L0*W	u'tej?	1J 7253	tjW.97	IhOTIJO	1J01.34	141153	1,121.68	1,131.84	1+142-01	1.152.19	J+M2.34	1J7253	1.10217
2490	STRKPR A£sT SR STATNffif 40 HR	IW2	U 51,46	1,141.14	t^4962	1.059X1	(3169.99	WB	1,09050	1,100.48	1,110.64	1,12082	1,13100	1,141.14	L1S1A6
2620	SUMMER, CLERICAL 40 HR	321.82	321.82	321.82											
	SUMMER. PHYSICAL 40 HR	8.76	8.76	*76											
2531	SURVEY OPR TRUCK	24J4	MJtf	24 JI	24.34	24.57	1443	24.47	2453	14.59	24,64	24.70	24.7J	24.77	24.83
2912	SVC PERSON A COORD pF	31,03	325*	32.68	11.03	31.20	31,39	3155	31.74	31.96	32.1)	32.31	32.46	3268	32.14
26*1	SVC PERSON A FLD TR	M51	31-55	315*	3051	30.62	30.7?	30.80	3089	30.96	3),tM	3U5	31.23	3)34	3153
26*2	JVC PERSON A FLD TRN OF	31J51	JZ.B*	3Z.t*	5W	31.30	3119		31.74	31,97	32,12	32.31	32.46	3268	3214
267J	SVC PERSON A CEM APPL	79,01	29.94	2951	1901	29.09	29.11	29 J6	29 36	29.45	2954	29.62	29.71	w.ai	29.94
I
PAGE: 168
LOCAL 101 Wage progression schedule
SCHEDULE EfF - 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER I*.	TO OCTOBER 15.2004
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, 1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MW	MAX	p. p.	S MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
1673	SVC PERSOK B APPL	24.TO	34.79	24.71	24,10	2415	24-24	2430	24,35	24,41	2447	24.58	24,65	24.7)	24.79
2675	SVC PERSON C METER St APPL	3361	24.10	14,03	2161	13.64	23,70	23.73	23,74	2382	23,8S	23,9<	2J,99	M03	24,10
2726	svcpeesdncpostw	19 62	22.62	2131	J 962	19.91	20.22	20.51	20.84	2L10	21.42	21.10	22,04	22.31	22.62
2677	SVC PERSON D LOCK. UN LOCK	21.86	2119	23.05	21,86	22,01	22.16	22,28	224)	22,5)	2266	22,90	2192	2305	23,19
2585	SVC PERSON TRAINEE CSD	14.93	18.34	14.93	14.93	I8J4		O.00	£i.U>	000	0.W	0.00	0.00	0,00	<J.OQ
	SVC SPECIAL DIST40 HR	966 02	1.07077	1,060.10	96602	976.45	986.92	997J9	1.0018	1.018 JO	1.02872	I.0M.K	1,04964	1,060 JO	1,070 77
*2964	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	856.09	JJ4M7	Ml 8.00	856.09	88574	91431	943,37	972.49	L0OL59	1,030.63	1J0W.78	LNB.W	L118.00	1,141.17
2494	SYS PROCESSOR DLST40 HR	926.40	LWU6	J,ft?<L55	926.40	934.88	947,13	957.79	968 25	978.70	989,11	999.61	U10.Q8	1,020.55	1,031-16
2626	technician process a	30.71	3155	31.49	3077	30,84	30,91	3101	31-07	3146	31 25		3MJ	31.49	31,5$
2589	TELEPHONE REP TRAINER CCC	428.18	753 59	64226	428.13	527.52	642.76	753.59							
2JS2	TELEPHONE REP TRAINEE CCC Tt	428.18	753,59	64226	428.18	527.52	64226	753.59							
2513	TELEPHONE SERV REP 40 HR	862.64	1,013,45	99829	862.64	877.70	592.7S	907.85	922,52	93796	953.0$	968.08	983.22	998,29	1,013.4$
2502	TELLER HEAD <0 HR	JJ11M9	1.120.37	LI 18.06	LOI 8.49	L02B.69	1.038,88	LCW9O7	1^9:3	1,069-41	1JG79J7	1,089.74	1,099.92	1,110JX	L12OJ7
2M2	TIMEKEEP SYS SUPP 40 HR	926-R	1,030.88	t .020,23	926,12	936.57	947 02	95747	967.97	978J9	98887	999J3	1,009.77	It010.2j	LO3O.88
2&19	TOOL REPAIR PERSON	M.W	27J2	27,49	28.08	26J5	26.38	26.57	26,7	26-85	27X13	27.17	2756	27 49	27,82
2820	TOOL REPAIR PERSON a	26.91	28,70	2831	26.91	27.07	2722	2740	27.14	27.68	27.86	2860	2818	28.3)	2870
2617	TRAINEE SSP 40 HR	13.89	16.68	1W	089	16,63									
2553	TYMST STATISTICAL 40 HR	485,64	541.73	536,02	483.64	491.23	496.83	502 44	508. M	5)3.69	519.29	32191	530.50	536 Q	$4 (.73
2829	UPHOLSTERER	25.67	37.40	27.08	25.67	25.83	36 00	26.P	2630	26.45	26.62	X17	26 94	27,0g	37 40
2631	upholsterer A	27.28	28.92	28.75	27.28	27.44	27.60	27.79	27 W	28.09	2827	2841	28.60	28.7$	28 92
2635	UTILITY PERSON SYS SUPP	22.17	23.19	22.95	22,17	22.25	22,34	2242	22 50	22.59	22.73		2289	22.9$	23.19
2837	UTILITY WAREHOUSE PERSON	631	12.64	!) 99	6.31	6.93	7.55	8.19	882	945	10 09	10.71	11.36	11,99	12.64
2849	WATCH GUARD	1999	2111	11,08	19.99	20.15	2027	2036	20 47	20.59	20.75	2W	20.97	21.03	2121
2353	WATCH GUARD fr PORTER	2B3.W	49J88	472 77	mt*	304-11	325)8	346.30	36136	38844	409.51		451,68	rn'i	493,88
2855	WELDER	26.30	2801	27.72	26.30	26.47	26.64	26.77	2f.96	27,09	27 24	itii	27S5	27.72	2S.0J
2857	WELDER A	27,79	2945	2927	21.79	21,94	28.10	28.28	2145	2862	28.77	28.94	(	291)	29.2?	29 45
PAGE: 169
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F- 3 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,2003 TO OCTOBER IS, 20<M FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, 1984
					PROGRESSION schedule in years										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS	4 MOS
2S$£	WELDER A QUALIFIED	29.«	31-43	J 1.23	29,6$	29 84	30.0?	30,19	30.39	3053	30.74	30.90	31.06	3123	31-42
1707	WORK MEASUREMENT ANALYST	If Ml		L192AS	IJ53JU	1J 59.20	1,161.92	L, 165.76	IJWOi	M7X33	1,177-2$	I.IS2-I8	1.187.12	».192,05	UWjW
1861	YARD PERSON	IWO	23,M	22.73	19.90	2022	20.52	2086	21,14	21.46	21.75	22,11	2236	22.73	2 J,09
*	ALL TITLE CODES FROM 2900 - 2999 ARE UACCRETION TITLES
PAGE: 170
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 14,200* TO OCTOBER IS, 200S
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, I9B6
					PROGRESS ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
						FIRST		SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.F.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6MOS	CMOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS
	ACCT £NGR SR POST	IMUI	130*00	U73JO	1023-14	105124	1079J1	LIOT39	LT3S.43	1,163,51	M9L58	1219.M	1147.74	L1751O	I3M00
UH	ACCTENGR40HR	1,100.41	1,337.15	IJ13.35	1.100.41	1,124.04	1,147.72	1J7| J7	IJ95.D3	U18.7I	1,242.35	1,266.01	1189.72	1013.35	1337.E5
	ACCT POST	itm_25	1344%	U18.4T	1JMKU3	1,106,73	M33.18	1,159,68	1JS6.11	tjijja	1339.10	1J6&H	1192.02	1718,41	IJ44.96
2003	ACCT Rtf 40 HR	946.04	L .054.47	1,043.47	946.04	956.EE	967.70	978.53	989.34	I.0W17	10L098	1,021.84	1.03264	IXH3.47	1JB447
2012	ACCTG ASST CORP 40 HR	1^3931	1444,75	MAW	1,03931	10*9,84	>06035	i.tnw	108)3?	IJW1.91	M 02.4 J	M 12.93	1123-50	[J344)S	1144.75
2006	ACCTG ASST DIST 40 HR	994 89	IJ 00,41	1089 84	99489	1.0*5.46	IX>1«JQO	1026,51	1,037,10	1,047.64	1^58.16	1,068,73	1JJ7927	1,08914	11004!
2l>!0	ACCTG ASST SR CORP 40 fflt	1,100.4 J	1077.38	L0S9-W	1.100-41	t ,118.05	IJM.73	1,15149	1.17117 ]	1,188.86	1J06J7	102417	tO4\,9T	I JS9.66	U7738
2015	acctqasstsrwhr	1039,31	t ,144 75	1,13402	1,029,31	1,049.84	1.0WJ5	1.070.87	1081,37	1.091 91	1,102.43	HUW	1,12300	113402	t J 44.75
2007	ACCTG ASST 40 HR	WK	LHXMl	L,O«9 84	994-89	10*5,46	1016.00	\ ,02651	IjOJT.W	1047.M		1,061,73	1JQ9,27	1089.84	1.100.41
2125	ACCTG CLERK I PT 40 HR	87146	931.17	925,97	87846	883,77	889.04	89428	89939	904.86	910.14	915.40	920,68	925,97	93)47
1123	ACCTU CLERK 3 FT 40 HR	264.77	264 J*	264.77	264.77	264.96									
2897	ACTIVE SUB BARG EMM.		*	*											
*2934	ADM ASST CSD POST	958.30	1,22995	MM 62	95830	98451	1,01043	1037.09	106308	IJM957	MWJS2	M4UW	1.16834	119461	1020.95
•2W6	ADM ASST MAT MG POST 40.0 HR	UOOJ.72	U76J7	U48J5	100172	1,029,14	105639	1,084.09	1JIL54	M 38.97	1,16641	1193-90	122133	1048,75	U7637
*2970	ADM ASST METER REPAIR POST	I014.J3	1,283.70	1,26105	1414 13	1.041.80	L .06942	1096.65	1124 03	1.151,51	t J 78.98	) 006.33	1133.83	1J6105	1088.70
*2966	ADM ASST SYS SUP POST	99504	l^2OS69	1,187.24	995.24	1.016-59	1017.89	1X»9JI	1.080.34	1,10188	1423,21	1.144.56	M 65.89	1,187,24	IO®69
*2946	ADM ASST WORK COMP POST	504.19	1,190.19	1,164 58	934.19	959 77	9K36	10)0.96	1JD6J6	106221	1,087.79	1,11339	LJ38JJ8	IL6438	LWUW
*2934	ART ± PROD ASST POST	956.95	108256	1049.94	936.95	98952	102205	1.054.59	1jM7.14	11)9.73	1.13230	1JMJW	11)7,36	1049.94	108256
2739	ASSOC CUSTOMER SERVICE	444 24	94500	80IJ4	444J4	527,70	611.16	694 62	718,07	36LM	945.00				
2819	ASSOC CUST SVC REP POST 2001	455.47	864. Bl	W0I4	435.47	506.63	557.79	608.97	660.14	71131	762.46	813 64	864.81		
2fW>	ASST CHEMIST	852-4«	IJUI.1I	1,049,80	852.48	874.38	19632	918.18	940J 4	962.01	98395	1^05.89	1X127. K	]XH9,80	1,07171
LOCAL 1OI WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDUL E
SCHEDULE E/F - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2004 TO OCTOBER 15,2005
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15.1986
PAGE: i7i
I
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST J			SECOND		third		FOURTH I		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	ii MOS	b MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS
*2952	ASST EDITOR POST	945,33	1*20248	1J 76.48	943£3	969.68	995.52	LKLJff	M 4 7.22	1,073.08	MW9J	JJ24.76	1,150-64	1J 7648	J. 201*8
2170	ASST HELD REP	1.06323	1,217,24	1.201,65	1,06123	1,078.57	1*0*3.99	1*109 36	1.124.72	1,14025	1,15549	1.17091	LI 86.25	L201.65	1*217.24
2021	ATTEND OARAGE	10'55	13.57	17 70	10 55	1139	12,15	12,97	13.77	14.59	1538	1616	16.97	17.70	1857
2022	attend garage alter fuel	18.35	24,50	23.76	13.35-	18.93	1955	20.14	20.73	21.34	21.91	22.56	23,15	23,76	24,50
2433	AUTO MECH A FLD TRAINER	29,67	3145	3126	29.67	29-83	30,01	30.19	JO.36	30.55	3071	30 92	31.08	31,26	3145
2487	AUTOMCCHANiC	27.67	29.43	29 10	27,67	27.81	2RO0	28.15	2833	2847	2864	28.83	28.97	29.10	2943
2*89	AUTO MECHANIC A	28.52	30.23	30.07	23 52	2863	28.89	29 03	19.23	29.37	29.55	29.73	29.90	30.07	30.23
2218	AUTO MECHANIC APPRENTICE	12 79	1620	15.86	12,79	13,12	13 47	13.82	14.17	14.53	14 33	15.18	15.52	15.86	1620
2631	AUTO TECHNICIAN	2967	31.45	31.26	29.67	29.83	30.01	30.19	30.36	30.55	30,71	30,92	31.08	3126	3145
2025	BLACKSMITH 'Ar	28?4	30-01	2971	28.24	28.42	28.55	28.72	2890	29.04	29.23	29.37	29.54	29.71	30.01
2031	CARPENTER	27.61	29.36	29.05	27.61	27.76	2792	28.09	28.24	2843	28.51	28.72	28.90	29.05	2936
2714	CHAUFFEUR DISTRICT OPS	2641	2641	2641											
2033	CHAUFFEUR EXECUTIVE	25,46	27,00	2653	25.46	25M	25.77	25.91	26.06	26.22	26 38	26.52	26.67	26*&3	27 00
2040	CHAUFFEUR TRACTOR TRAILER	26,82	2343	28.26	26.82	26.99	37.15	27.29	27.46	27,64	27.77	27.95	28.11	2826	2843
2013	CHEMISTSENIOR40HR	1323.55	1*40294	L394 9J	L323S5	U3L5O	1*33940	1,34732	1 355.24	1,363.19	1,371,17	1379.06	1*387,00	1,394,93	140294
1U29	CHEMIST4O HR	1.134 69	1,307,99	IJ90.61	1.134 69	IJ5L97	1,169 32	hl 86-61	I 203.95	1*221,33	1,238.64	1,255.98	1.273 27	1*29061	IJO7.99
’2936	CHIEF CLERK GAS OPER POST	95237	1,276.37	1JE43S5	952.37	984.74	LO 17.10	1.049.52	1 081.89	1.114 30	1.14666	1,179.08	1,211-45	U4385	1,27637
2615	CLK ACCT NO 2 *0 HR POSTS?	621 93	985,43	94942	621.93	658.24	694.61	73099	767*3?	803,68	840.04	876.38	912.73	949.12	935 45
2104	CLK ACCTG NO 1 ACCT 40 HR	946.04	1*054.47	LN3.47	946 04	95688	967,70	978,53	98934	1,00017	MHO-98	1,02184	1*012,64	1,043.47	1,054.47
2050	CLK ACCTG NO 140 HR	931.17	1,039.86	L02M3	W1 17	9*2.05	932,87	963 72	974.55	985.44	996.25	1*007.12	1,017,96	1,02883	1,039,86
2105	CLK ACCTG NO 2 40 HR	38340	985 45	975 24	88340	893.57	903,79	913.96	934.24	934.42	944 62	954.83	9^5.02	975.24	98545
2734	CLK ACCTG NO. 1 C1AS	821.41	1,039.86	1.017.98	821,41	84347	[	$65 10	886,93	90882	93064	952.46	974.32	996,16	1,017.98	1*039 86
PAGE: 172
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE EZF-4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER ». JWHTO OCTOBER IS, 2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15, I486
					PROGRESS ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2733	CLK ACCTG NO. 2ClA$	625A3	71231	766.66	62333	641.49	657.15	672.77	688.41	70*08	719,70	73537	751,02	766 66	78231
wu	CLK ACCTG N0.2 ACCTG POST W	621,93	9*545	89964	621-93	762.74	89964	985.45							
2256	CLK CNTL SR CUST ACCT 40 HR	1,063.9J	1J69.60	1,138.88	1,06393	(074 49	1,085.03	1XW535	1,106.(4	1J 16.64	LIHJ9	1,(37.82	1.14836	ujj.as	1J696O
2732	CLK COMM NO.l *0.0 HR ROSTC	821,41	1.039.36	1*017.98	821,41	843.27	865.10	886,93	908.82	930.30	952.46	97*38	996.16	1JH1M	\ *03386
2729	CLK COMM N02 40,0 HRPOST92	625.83	nui	766.66	62W	641.49	657.15	672,77	688-41	69037	7(9,70	735.3?	151-02	766.66	?8131
2133	CLK. COMML ASST HD40HR	I.W925	1. KO-41	1419532	1449 25	105435	14)5947	1,06*60	1 *06969	t ,07a, 8 J	1X179.95	IJ8SO5	1*090,1*	1*09532	1 *100.41
2170	CLK COMML INDL APFL 40 HH	1.04027	1*148.84	1,137.90	1*04027	IJMl.LJ	1*061-93	(,00.79	1,08166	1*09446	t+(CHJI	1,116.23	L127.10	1J37.W	114844
21*1	CLK COMML NO J 40 HR	93117	1JW986	1,028.83	93LJ7	942.05	95287	96372	97455	985.44	9W2J	1*007.(2	1*0(7.96	t,02W	IXU9.86
2(47	CLK COMML NO Z TWAS 40 HR	m.w	983.45	*5753	711.W	73880	766-20	79160	820.99	8*839	875,«O	963.13	930-W	957 93	9854$
214*	CLK COMML HO 2 40 HR	W 40	WS.45	975,24	883-40	■9337	90J79	913.96	924,24	93442	944.62	954,83	965,02	975 24	985.45
7J48	CLK COMML NO J 40 HR	30743	7190$	697,90	307.45	528.64	‘ 549,78	570,95	392.10	613.26	624.42	655.35	676.72	697.90	719jM
203*	CLK CONS ANALYS *0 HR	749.47	86215	8$t.49	7W.47	7M.81	172.10	783,49	794,81	806,15	8(7,45	828,84	840.11	83L49	862*85
2JI5	CLK CONTROL CUST SER 40HR	9J1.I7	)*03?26	102813	931.17	9*2.03	952.87	963,72	974 55	985.44	996,15	1*007.12	1X117.96	IXJ2SBJ	L039J6
2230	CLK CONTROL PROP MAI NT 40	991 85	1,183 27	1,(64.03	991-85	(,0(0.98	LOW 12	IjMOlS	(J968A4		L1M66	T,12$.81	1144.91	1,I«A.<IJ	M 83.27
2131	CLK DEPOSIT 40 HR	968.10	1*076.64	1XH5.76	968.10	978.92	989.79	100067	1*011.48	1,022,35	1033.23	1*0*406	1XW4.M	1.065,7*	1*076.64
2070	CLK CEN CUST SER 400 HR	39935	76195	726 59	39935	435.69	472.07	508.43	544.79	581.17	617,50	653.89	690.25	716-39	762.95
2216	CLK GEN MAILS MGT	161,04	1,09933	1036.52	761-0*	793.86	826.69	859.54	B92.J5	925.22	958.00	990.86	1.02167	1.056-52	1*08935
2(85	CLK GEN NO 1 40 Hit	931.17	1019.86	L 028.83	93117	94205	952.87	963,72	97*55	985.4*	99625	1*00712	1,017.96	>,®ZS8J	1*03936
2616	CLK GEN NO 1 *0 HR POSTS9	577.49	1/H9.86	993-M	577.49	623.76	669-96	716,20	762*1	808,68	854.91	901.12	94734	993.58	i.039.86
2(92	CLK GEN NO 2*0 HR	424.Q0	331X19	520.24	424.00	434.68	445.36	456 06	466.76	477.46	488 (6	498R*	50937	$20.24	53L09
2193	CLK GEN NO 3 40 HR	2WM	476,68	45 (.94	23009	254.71	279-19	M40J	328.71	35330	377.95	40162	427.27	431.9*	47668
286*	<XKGENN<M<JCSTWHR	1,042.28	L10140	1,093.49	1,042.28	(,048.21	1.054.ID	1,060.0 r	1065.91	1071J7	1,077.7*	L083.67	LD89.59	1.095.49	1,101.40
I
PAGE: 173
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER IF, 2M4 TO OCTOBER IS, 1005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, 1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	FMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
226)	CLK GEN TREASURY 40 HR	970.02	L0 7S.69	(.06769	970.02	980.59	991.75	1,002.56	j,013.44	1.024.28	LOSS. 10	LO45.94	1,056 86	1,067.69	1,07869
2)76	CLK GEN 1 CASHIER 40 HR	961.62	1,070.34	1*05919	961.62	972.48	98334	994.18	1,005.03	1*015.8?	1,026.17	1*037.55	1,040.44	1.059.29	1,070.34
2166	CLK GEN 1 MKT A W 4|l HR	985 08	1,09369	1,082.75	9850$	995 92	1.006.78	1,017.64	1,01849	1,03933	1*050.13	1.06102	L07L88	1,082,75	1,093.69
2190	CLK. GEN 1 PURQC40HR	974.37	1,04194	LOTZjOO	97437	985.22	996 07	L00690	1.0’ 7.76	1*02865	1,039 30	1,05035	L 061 24	1,072.06	1,082.94
22b	CLK GEN 2 MKT AW 40 HR	44081	547.98	537.27	440.81	45LS6	462,27	47295	403.70	494,39	505,12	51382	526,52	$37.27	547 98
2237	CLK HD CLAJNVSECURITY 4q HR	1,063.91	1,16960	1,156 88	1.063,93	1,074.4?	LOTS 03	7,095,55	LM6J4	J J 76.64	1,127,19	1,137.82	L 148.36	), 158.88	1*169.60
2202	CLK H D COMML 40 HR	1.063.93	1,169.60	1,158.68	1.063,93	1,074.49	1.085.03	I *095 55	L10614	1,116.64	1,12719	1237.82	L14836	M5B.88	1,169 60
'2930	CLK HD SECTION ACCTG POST	1,023.14	1,304.00	1,275.80	L023.14	1,051.24	1,079,31	1,107,3?	JJ 1543	1*16151	1,19(58	1 J! 9.M	1,247,74	1.27S.B0	1,304,00
2393	CLK HD URBAN ALTAIRS	1,06393	1,169.60	1,158,6$	L063.93	1/J74 49	t ,085.03	1*095.55	1,136.14	1,116.64	1*127.19	1*137.81	1*14836	1,158 88	1,169.60
2579	CLK HD URBAN A FFA1R5 4QHRS	L0639J	Lt 69.60	Lism	1,063.93	1,074 49	1.085.03	1,0955$	LLM.U	1,1)6.64	1.127.19	1.137,82	1,148.36	1,158.88	1*169-60
2251	CLK HEAD CONTROL 40 HR	1,10041	1,277 38	1,259.66	J, 100,41	IJMU5	1.135.73	1,153.49	1,17(17	IJS886	(,205.57	(224.27	JJ4L97	J ,359.66	1*27738
2211	CLK HEAD CUST SVC 40 HR	L 049.25	1,10041	1.093.32	1,049.25	1,054 35	1.039,47	1.064.60	1.069.60	1,074 85	1,079.95	t.085.05	1,090 14	1,095.12	1,100.41
223a	CLK HOUSE HEATNG A 40 HR	664 24	LW.49	974.87	6*4.24	698 75	7JA20	767.76	10129	836.82	871.34	905.87	94(L33	974 87	1,009.49
2705	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B POST 98	444.03	579.84	56626	444,03	437.6O	471.17	484,77	^98 35	311,91	525,50	539.D9	552.67	56626	579.84
223?	CLK HOUSE HEATNG B 40 HR	295.99	579 84	531.40	295.99	324,38	352.76	381.13	*09.4?	437.86	466 24	494 62	523,01	551,40	519.84
2635	clk mvENrr ctl mmd 40 hr	1,047.23	1,132.85	1,142 ll	1,047 23	1,05773	1,068 26	I >318,82	HA939	1,099.9?	1.110,47	1.121.02	1,13(60	l,J42,tf	1,152-85
2724	CLK METER REPAIR SR	W.)9	1,041.30	1.031.60	944 19	95391	9616J	973JS	083.05	992.78	1*002.46	L012.17	l,03LM	I4H1.30	1,041.30
2210	CLK MTR RPR HEAD 40 HR	994.8?	1,100.41	1,009.84	994.89	(,005.46	IXH6.M	1X72651	UG7J0	1.W7 64	1.05816	1.068 73	1,079.27	1.089 84	1,1004)
2244	CLK SPECIAL LEDGER 40 HR	91L17	1,067.23	1,0536)	931.17	944.74	956.38	97 ZOO	’>05-36	999.19	1,012.76	1,026 40	1,039.96	L05J61	1,06725
2252	CLK SICK MAT MGT 40 HR	452.28	761 03	75314	682.28	W0 17	698.05	705 J3	113 82	721.66	729.5$	727.41	745.31	753,14	76LO1
3248	CLK STCK MKT ADV 40 HR	883.4(1	98545	91524	88340	893.57	903.79	913,96	724,14	934.42	944.61	954.83	965,02	975 24	985 45
2255	CLK STCK STNRY TRUCK OP 40	B56,?5	1,02336	1.006,7!	856.73	873.40	890.08	906.75	723.40	939 99	936.69	973.33	99000	tjMJ6.11	1,023,3*
PAGE: 174
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2004 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SEC	■OND	TH	IRD	FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	EMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2221	CLK TELLER 40 HR	946.04	1054.47	1043.47	44601	96088	967.79	97823	98934	1,000,17	10)0,96	1021,64	L ,032.64	1043.47	1054.47
2737	CLK TELLER 400 HR POST 92	704W	936,72	913.27	704.08	727.S3	751.03	774.47	797.96	82141	8+4 89	86833	89L62	91527	938.72
2250	CLK TRAFFIC 40 HR	LI 89.10	IJKft	12*4-27	Lia*.io	tjw.e	121026	1320.80	I23U9	12419?	1452-53	146309	127369	1284 27	I2MW
2MS	CLK TYPIST 40 HR	381,71	71905	«5.»	381,71	4)5.44	449.14	+8283	5)6.62	550.36	58+30	61763	6S1J7	685J0	719.05
226+	COLLECTS CONTROLLER 40 HR	1014.73	1,14408	1,131.47	1.014.73	1027.67	1,04067	1053,67	1066.65	'070,59	109154	1JM57	1,118.51	1431,47	1,1+4.68
2123	COLLECTOR	966.43	1070.50	106799	966.43	977.74	988.99	1000.31	1011.55	102293	1034,15	t ,045.45	1056.67	106709	107900
26*5	CORROSION TECH HELPER	13,72	1902	1920	13.72	14J1	1494	1553	16.13	16-76	1736	170?	18.59	1920	1982
2649	CORROSION TECHNICIAN	2046	26J0	25.9)	20.46	J 1.06	21.69	22.30	22W	23.49	2401	24.69	25.28	25.91	26J0
2810	CORROSION TECHNICIAN PRE 92	106105	IJJ8J2	12U-78	106125	1,07830	1.095,15	LUU)	L11KJ2	1,14*46	U6L63	L17843	U95.D	Ult.T*	1228,52
2650	CORROSION TECHNICIAN SR	26,53	30,70	30.30	26.53	26.98	27.37	27.7*	2*21	28,64	29.04	29.47	29.88	3030	20.70
2130	CREATIVE SERVICES ASSOCIATE	940.41	142845	LI 59.53	94041	967.11	995.19	1022.5?	1,0*9.97	1,077.35	1.104.75	IJ32 13	L159J3	1228.45	
2735	CREW LEADER	3tR9	32-73	3257	31.00	3126	3L42	31.53	31.76	3L91	32.01	322+	32.40	32 57	32.73
2114	CUST INQUIRY REP FT 40 HR	96603	96603	966,03											
2652	CUST SERVICE ASSIST P/T	11.10	11.10	UJ0											
Z632	CUST SERVICE ASSIST FiT	4W.46	4900S	W28	455.46	461 23	467.00	472.76	478.53	484.28	490.05				
2276	CUST SERVICE REP 40 HR	987.90	1,129.64	1J 15.49	987.90	(£020*	301623	1000 39	l.CH+59	t ,058,73	1072.93	1087.12	1,10'41	Lt 15.49	[,12904
2688	CUST SERVICE REP 40 HR	987,90	1,129,64	1,115.49	987,90	1,002.04	1,016.22	1,030,39	1044.59	1038.73	1071.9]	J ,087.11	L10LJ)	' 'J 15+9	1,129.64
2738	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC	+4414	W«	678.04	44424	47022	496.21	522.19	54627	574,16	60015	62014	652,11	678.09	W08
2665	CUST SVC ASSOC NO 1 POST 98	661.50	945.00	916.6*	661.50	689,84	716.19	746,54	774,90	80323	831,59	870.32	888JO	91604	94100
2660	CUSTOMER SERVICE ASSOC F/T	11.10	I LIO	1L10											
2666	CUSTOMER SERVICE REP POST 98	882.00	1.1W.64	1J04 88	882 00	90676	931.52	956,29	981,05	100501	1,030,51	1,05545	1080.11	1,104 J8	1,119.64
224?	CUSTOMER SERVICE TELLER	444.24	70408	*39 12	4+424	509JI	574.16	039.12	7O4M						
2017	CUSTOMER SERVICE TELLER POS	45803	028.41	5+3,67	458.93	487,18	51543	543,67	571.92	600-18	628.42				
Jlfrl	deliverer	20,65	23,51	23.14	2005	2094	21,18	21.46	2L76	22.02	2242	22 J7	220*	23.14	23.51
27M	DISPATCHER POST 98	1207.78	12*9.05	125191	1,207.78	12 H93	1,216.04	1223,17	IJ28J29	1233+3	143855	t tM3£7	1248,8)	125391	1259,05
2296	DISPLAY ASSISTANT 40 HR	977,69	1086,45	1075,57	977J9	9N.78	999.61	1010.45	[021.36	1,031.18	1043.05	1,053.83	1,064.70	1075,57	108645
PAGE: 175
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2«M TO OCTOBER IS, 2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					-	PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	f. MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
ZJW	DISPLAY ASST APPRNT <0 HR	376.64	7t<M5	6#4,W	3T6 64	■KCS7	445.14	479.36	513.6 J	W7.M	582.06	6MJ1	659J6	6&4.81	719.05
2299	DISPLAY DESIGNER SR 40 HR	1206.90	133710	1,313.87	L206.90	1,219.87	1J32.88	1,245.88	1,258.89	1J7L88	U 34.89	1497.83	1JIO.87	1323.87	1337,10
2277	DISPLAY DESIGNER. 40 HR	1,12587	U5h.H	1442.93	1,125.87	1,138.92	1.151.89	LI 64.92	1477.94	1.190.92	1403.86	U1O9	1229.94	1142 93	1,256.11
2 >03	DISPLAY PRSCFN'CDNSTRN SNR 40	1.058.91	J,167.42	1,156,53	1,058,91	1.069.72	1,080.55	1.091 4}	1402.26	1,113 13	1,12399	1,134.85	1.145.69	1,156.53	1467,42
2260	DiSPTCH DISTR 40 HR	LI69J2	1J20.SO	1,2)5.33	1.169.12	1.17446	1J79 52	1,184.65	LI 89.74	1.194.84	1,19999	1,20540	J 210.20	* 1«215.33	1 <220.50
2293	DISPTCH FUEL 40 HR	1,049.25	1.143,13	1,13334	1,049.25	1,058-63	).067.93	1.077.35	1,086,72	1,096.13	LI 0549	UI4 82	1.124.21	1.133.54	1,143.13
2175	DISPTCH ORDER	[,207.78	1,229.05	1,253.31	1007,78	1,212.95	1.217.99	1,223,15	1428J8	U33.33	1,23043	1,24163	1,24869	1.253.81	1259.05
2294	DISPTCH TRA NS P 40 HR	987,94	1,040.74	1.035.41	98794	993 26	998.51	1,003.83	1009.04	] A314.3O	IjO 19.57	1,024 86	1,030.15	1.035.41	1040.74
2283	DlSKFCH TRUCK DI ST 40 HR	1,127.19	1J7R37	1473.19	1,127.19	113245	1,137.43	1,142.54	1.147 69	1,152.77	LI 57,89	1(6199	1,168-15	1173.19	1,17837
2307	DRAFTING CLERK 40 HR	762.78	950.39	931.64	762.78	781.56	80036	819.09	037.90	856.64	875.38	&WI5	91292	931.64	950.59
2308	DRAFTING TECH SR 40 HR	110167	1194.32	118506	1,103.67	1,112,70	1.121.78	1130-81	JJ39 83	1,143,88	1.1 $7.94	1,167.00	1,176-01	1185-06	1,19442
2304	DRAFTING TECH 40 HR	704.17	783,01	775.13	704.17	712.05	7J9.94	727,81	735.69	74349	751 45	759.15	767.25	775,13	78301
2)91	DRIP PERSON	2605	26,79	26-68	26.05	26.12	26.20	26.29	2636	26.43	16.47	26.53	26.61	26.68	26 79
2197	ELECT	27 29	29.60	2937	27 29	2757	27,76	28,02	2822	28.46	28.68	28.93	29.14	29,37	29.80
2199	ELECT A GAS OFNS	29.1 L	30.91	30.71	29. LL	2932	29 49	29.68	29 84	30.01	30.19	30J7	30.55	30.71	30,91
2198	ELECT SYSTEMS SUPPORT	2729	29.06	28.76	27.29	27.46	21A4	27.77	27.97	2&.11	28.26	28.44	28 53	28-76	29.06
2205	ELECTRONIC TECH RADIO LlC	3161	33.20	32.91	31 64	31.82	31,94	32.07	312)	32.35	32.52	3364	32,79	32.91	3320
*2940	ENGINEER AIDE GAS OPER POST	1X143.10	132B.90	) JOO.17	1,043 10	1x071 64	1,100.22	1,128.78	1,15733	1.185.90	1214.49	1,243.01	1,271.62	LJ00.I7	L ,328.90
2315	ENGINEER ASST TO 40 HR	1,100 41	1,351.85	1.32669	(.10041	1,125,49	U 50.69	1,175-82	L200.97	1226.14	1,251.26	U76.39	150IJJ	1J26.69	1.351.85
2245	ENGINEER HOIST LlC	19,67	31.08	30.^2	29,67	29.80	29.93	30.07	30.21	30.36	30.49	30,64	30.75	30.92	3108
2251	ENGINEER LlC	30.73	31.69	31.57	30.73	30 83	30.93	31.02	31.10	3122	3130	31.37	31.49	31.57	31.69
2275	EQUIPMENT MAINTAINER	25.34	26.89	26,74	25,34	25 54	25.67	|	15.80	25.96	26.11	26.29	26,43	26.56	|	26.74	26.84
PAGE: 176
LOCAL IO1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1WM TO OCTOBER 15, 2005
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOPER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P.P.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2637	FCM APPRENTICE	15,64	19.53	1S.23	15,64	16.94	I8J5	1955							
26SS	FCM APPRENTICE SEWMt	2ft H	2S41	13.1^	2036	11.03	1113	1542							
2656	FCM APPRENTICE TRAINEE	10-51	1404	13,44	10,50	12,0)	13.44	14.84							
2375	FCM ELECTNSTRUMENTTECB	13.30	3331	3530	3330	33.67	33.00	34.lt	34.29	J4-5I	34.69	3489	3540	35 JO	35 J t
2653	FCM MECHANIC	2610	2045	27,99	26,20	26,4 J	2659	26,79	17,00	27- W	2737	27 J9	27.M	2719	2045
1654	FCM MECHANIC A	38,95	30.91	30.70	20,95	29,11	29.34	29 53	29.73	29.93	30.13	30.31	3049	30,70	JO-91
27)3	FCM MECHANIC FU> FACtUTtES	28-58	3036	3010	2153	1190	16,95	2910	291)	29,48	19.67	2903	30j0!	3020	3036
2680	FCM MECHANIC SENIOR	31,67	33,63	3347	31.67	31,09	32,07	3127	32.47	32.67	32.86	33,03	3325	3347	53,63
2606	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN	27 00	2095	28,15	17,00	27.19	27.37	27.59	27,76	27.99	2815	28*39	20,34	28.75	28-95
2604	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN A	29.73	31.67	31,50	29.73	24.93	30,13	3032	3051	30,70	30,91	31.09	3130	MW	31^7
2602	FCM PROCESS TECHNICIAN SR	32.47	3443	3411	3147	3167	3186	3303	3315	3347	33.63	33.85	3402	3+21	34 43
2268	FIELD FORCE APPRENTICE	443,94	475,11	459.52	443.94	459,52	475,11								
3014	FIELD OFERS INSPECTOR A	2744	Z&S6	2869	2744	27.32	27.49	27.66	2704	20.00	2RI7	28 34	2g J J	28.69	28.86
2013	HELD OFERS INSPECTOR B	25.25	25.70	25,73	25,25	25.30	25,36	25.42	2547	2552	2557	25,62	2567	2573	2578
2000	FIELD OFERS INSPECTOR C	22-34	23,67	13.54	2134	22.46	22.61	22-73	21.88	23 00	2345	2327	23.41	73-54	23.67
274b	FIELD RE? 4ft HR	116510	I335,79	131112	1165,20	116370	11M10	116510	1108,65	1100.65	1112.12	1112,12	1335.79		
2310	HELD RE? 40 HR POST 92	1.034-75	I1M-7D	1193.17	1/15415	1,070.06	1.085.45	1,10003	1,116,14	1JJ1.6L	[J47-01	146135	1477,13	I.W47	1108.70
2360	FJELD REPRESENT	U26.14	IJJSjW	1324,43	1126,19	1137,13	1248.00	115894	1169,84	1100.96	119113	1102,65	13 U 53	U24.43	1J35-S9
2369	HELD REPRESENT OFFICE	LU8,I5	J 137,55	1126,40	1420.15	LJJ9.(M	IJ49.97	1.164190	IJTISL	1382,76	1493.63	I1C4.S5	111544	112^40	113733
2670	HELD SEkVKES APPRENTICE	45953	622.M	7&6J5	459,53	52O, JO	500.62	64113	701.77	706.55	822.08				
'I960	FINANCIAL ASST POST 40.0 HR	95030	1 110.95	1.194,62	956,30	904 J J	IjO 10.81	1037.09	1,063,23	1.00957	LI 15 82	IJ43.O9	1,16034	1,194-62	112095
2207	FITTER	13 13	26,92	26,57	25,15	23.27	25,45	2564	J3.77	25.92	26 ID	26-33	26.43	26.51	26.92
PAGE: 177
I
I
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F -4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16.1004 TO OCTOBER 15,2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	P. p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	GMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	4 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
22*)	FLDTR ELECT/MECH GAS OPNS	29.94	Jt.75	31,57	29,94	39,14	30.31	30.49	3066	30.84	3102	3123	31.37	31,57	31.75
2289	FLDTR INSTRUMENT INSP	1431.82	1,326 93	1J19 45	1,151.82	1,259.31	Q66.84	l™.«	LJ81.38	178939	1,296 91	1,304 40	1J) 1.95	1,319.45	1326.93
2292	H.D TR SYS CAS OFER	3096	32.73	32.59	30.96	31,16	3L32	3LJJ	31,67	3L88	32,04	32.21	32.39	32,59	32,73
2341	GATE CUARl>	2I.T8	23,09	22.97	21.78	21.89	22.03	2213	22J2	12.42	22,56	22.67	22.83	22.97	2309
2317	GRAPHICS TECHN SR « HR	1,142,60	1,233.14	1^13.96	1.142.60	1.151.65	1,160.68	1,169.70	MTi.TS	1,(87.78	i J 96.85	J 706,89	1,2)4.97	1.12396	1J33.14
23 IS	GRAPHICS TBCHN 40 HR	950.84	1,052,91	1.04166	950 84	960.97	971.19	981.4(1	99162	13X11,78	1,012X11	13)22.26	1/132.43	1,042.66	l,0$2„9l
271Q	GSO DIST/STATIOH FLD TRWR	30.93	32.73	32J7	3053	3067	31 30	31.49	31,64	31.86	32.03	32.20	323?	32J7	32.73
2712	GSO OfST/SfATKW Sft FLO TRNA	32.19	34.07	33.82	32.19	32-37	32.57	32 73	32.93	3316	33 JI	33,52	33.68	3382	34 07
2708	GSO DISTRICT ASSISTANT	19,00	23.35	23 J4	19.00	1946	19.92	2045	20.95	21,42	21.89	22.40	22.92	23.34	23.85
27M	GSO DISTRICT ASST TR Al N EE	14.41	RJi	14.41	J4.4J	P.31									
2363	GSO HOLDERPERSON	25.84	29.06	28,76	25.64	26 17	26.49	26.82	27.16	27,46	27.77	2811	28.44	20,76	29,06
3496	gso mechanic pressure	28.58	MJ6	30.05	28.5S	28-75	28.93	29.06	2976	29J8	29 56	29,73	29.38	30,05	3036
2709	GSO STATION & FIELD OPERATOR	2933	31.06	3091	29.33	29.49	29.68	29.84	30.0)	3019	3037	3055	30.71	30.91	31.06
2539	GSO STATION OPERATOR	2822	29.93	29,78	2822	28.42	2857	28.75	28.93	29M	297?	2940	29,60	29 J8	29,93
2345	HELPER	11 45	11.45	11,45	11.45	11.45									
1588	HELPER <?CSD	7.7*	13.11	1156	7 78	8.30	885	9.37	9.91	10.45	1096	1150	1706	12.56	JI J 2
31S?	HELPER £n$TR2fiUTK?N	R4J	13 J)	12 60	8.41	889	936	9,83	10.29	1077	11,19	H67	12,14	1260	B.H
2353	HELFER MECHANICS	18 87	24.06	23.43	18.87	19,33	19.85	20.41	20.9)	21.37	21.89	2241	22.95	23.43	14.06
1355	HELPER ORBRATORS	23.43	25.25	25.15	23.83	219*	24.12	24 30	24.42	2436	24 69	24 86	25.00	25,15	25.25
2356	HELPER PRESSURE	22,95	24 31	24,17	229$	23,05	2349	23JJ	23 47	23.62	23.7$	23,07	24.02	24.17	24.31
2641	HELPER TEMPORARY 40 HR	9 78	9.73	978	9,78	9.71									
2362	HOLDER PERSON	25,77	27.30	27.16	25.77	25.91	26.06	26J2	26J8	2652	26.68	2683	27XW	27.16	27.30
PAGE; 178
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE EfF-4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2064 TO OCTOBER IS, 2005
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	AMOS	CMOS	CMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
*2942	TM> MH INSPECTOR PO5T40HR	JJ36J2	1,46110	1,42750	1,136.12	1,142.75	i,m. is	1113.57	1148.99	11*4.39	1J [9.82	135513	IJ90.64	1*427.50	1,461 JO
•296	INSPECTOR ENG POST	LI97J6	1,451-36	1 <425.93	L19756	1122J>3	1148.31	117369	1199/16	1324.42	tJ49.»	1375.18	1,40037	1^25,93	L45L36
2374	INSPECTOR INSTRUMENT MIR RP	T,O7SL<7	1169.75	1150-30	1,075.87	1495.22	I.114W	L1340I	1,15334	1.17176	1,192.(0	Hl 1,53	1130.91	1150 30	1169.75
•2950	INVESTIGATOR B POST	1,020.9]	1,30100	M 73.01	1,020 91	1,0*83?	1.076.93	L1CH.9J	L 132.93	U 60.97	1,18194	Wlt.M	u**w	1173 OJ I	1JOLCO
2659	RES CALL CENTER REP-F<T	H.lO	IJJO	UIO											
2653	KES CALL CENTER REP - tfT	n.ro	]|,IO	11.10											
1422	MAWT mf EQ GaS OF SYS SUP	28.72	30-87	30.62	18.72	2194	29,14	29.55	2936	7973	2998	3039	3041	3062	»J7
2423	maintainer instrument	27.29	29,06	28.76	27.29	27.46	27.64	27.7?	27,97	21] ]	28.26	2844	2K5B	28.76	2906
2424	MAINTAINER PERSON EIRE EQUIP	1**1	2631	26.15	201	UM	25,10	2514	2539	J5J7	15.71	25A4	16.00	2615	26.3)
2427	MAINTAINER TROVER INDICAT A	29 JV	3115	3L9I	2920	29.49	29.80	30.11	30.41	30.70	30.99	31.31	3139	3)Jt	32-15
2426	MAINTAINER PROVER JNIXCATOI	28.40	3131	30.90	28.40	28-65	28.93	2923	2948	29.76	30.05	3632	3M1	30,90	3131
2481	MECH	2719	2980	2937	27.29	27.57	27.76	28.02	28.22	28.46	2868	28.91	».u	J937	29.80
2596	MECH A BIST DPNS	29.«	3106	30.81	29 40	2938	29.75	29.88	30.05	3020	3033	3051	3066	3011	3106
2483	MECH APPLIANCE	23.«	23,25	24.87	23.00	23.19	23.41	2363	2311	24.02	24.28	24.44	24.M	24.87	2513
2503	MECH DOT A	2910	M36	3023	2910	2932	29.40	19,34	w.w	29.78	ma	3W	30.11	3013’	3036
lies	MECH DOT A FLD TR (JC	32.19	34 07	33.91	3219	32.37	32.57	32.73	3293	33.17	33.32	3332	33.68	23.91	34.OT
2506	MECH DOT A FLD TRAINER	31/9	»73	32J0	31.09	3117	3139	31,51	31.74	31.89	32.M	3219	3133	315D	32,73
273]	MECH DOT A POST 9*	2*07	30.36	30t7	2837	2835	2K76	2196	29.18	29.35	29,56	29.76	29.95	30.17	3036
25<»	MECH DOT®	2518	23.92	25 SO	2538	25,45	25JJ	2536	2S.6I	25.65	13.70	25.73	2577	25.80	25.97
2727	MECH fN STB POST 9S	24 JJ	2192	25.75	3413	2441	24,58	24,7J	2491	25.08	2515	2542	2538	25.75	23.92
2491	MECH METER A	17.43	29.96	2892	27.43	17.62	27.76	27.92	28.10	2815	2843	2818	2875	2^92	2906
2495	M2CM METER. B	23.51	2453	24.37	2331	2362	23.70	23-79	2337	23.98	2406	24.18	24 29	24,37	24J3
PAGE: 179
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1(, 2004 TO OCTOBER 15,20J5 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15.1984
					PROGRESS!					ON SCHEDULE IN YEARS					
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	J MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	SMOS	(MOS	(MOS
249*1	MECH METER SPECIAL	29.81	31,31	31.05	29.81	29.94	30.10	30.21	30.36	20.51	30.64	30.76	30.93	31 0$	31.11
2484	MECH SY ST SU PET	27.29	29.06	28.76	27.29	27.46	27.64	27.77	27.97	28.11	2816	2844	28.58	28.76	29.06
2373	MESSENGER 40 HR	315.41	645,35	61436	335.41	366 3?	397.3$	42839	459 38	490,43	521.36	552.35	583-38	614.36	64535
2689	METER READER POST 98	459.53	624.65	54044	459.53	486 40	513.25	540.14	56699	597 12	624.65				
1859	METRETEKTECH	31.06	32 15	31.91	31.06	31.18	31.26	3144	31.4$	31.54	31,62	51,73	31.83	31 R	3215
2701	OPER t»STC POST 92	18.77	21,89	21.62	1877	19.10	1941	19.72	2003	20,36	20.66	20.98	21.28	21.62	21.89
2719	OFER DIS1C POST 98	18.77	21.89	21.59	18.77	)9 10	19.41	19.72	2003	2035	20.66	20.96	21.28	21.59	21.89
2549	OPER DISTRIBUTION C	22.34	23.67	2354	22J4	22*5	2259	22.72	223$	15,02	23.13	23.26	23.36	23,54	23,67
2609	OPER SCREENALUBCKHO&PAYL	2489	25.77	25.70	2489	24,96	25,05	25,16	25.23	13.32	25.39	25.51	25.63	2S.70	25.77
2608	OPER SLF-LDG VEH GVW 26000	24 89	25.77	2570	24 89	24 96	25 05	25.16	25.23	25 J2	2S.39	25.51	25.63	25.7(1	25.77
2378	OPNS ASSiTDlST	»M3	2JM74	1.088.76	991.13	I00J.99	1.012.80	1,023,71	1,034 52	1.04541	1,05625	1,067.12	1.07789	1,083,76	1,099,74
2516	OPNS ASST GAS DPS	20.49	25.96	25.26	20.49	21.04	11.58	22.08	22.61	23.15	23.69	24.24	14 74	2536	25.%
2591	OPR A DIST OPKS	29.40	31.06	3U.&1	29.40	29_58	29 75	2988	30-05	30-20	3035	30.51	3066	30,81	31 06
2850	OPR ASSISTANT SNG	28,22	2993	29 78	28.22	28.42	28-57	2875	2893	29.06	29.27	29.40	29,60	29 78	29.93
2SM	OPR C TRAINEE DUST	14.41	17J1	14.41	14.41	17JI									
2715	OFR CTRAINEE POST 98	14.41	I7JI	J4.41	14.41	L7J1									
2518	OPR CHIEF LNG	33.91	3593	35.72	3391	34.11	34 29	34.51	34 69	34.91	35.11	35.31	35-53	35.72	35.93
2534	OPR CHIEF SNGLNG	35.70	37-83	37.62	35,70	35,92	3644	36.34	36,55	3679	3698	37 20	3743	37,62	37,81
2394	OPR DATA PROC HO 1	343 40	1,03986	1,024.13	883,40	B99O	914.68	930.35	945.99	961.60	977.24	992.91	L ,008.47	1,014 13	1,0)9.86
2398	OPR DATA PROC NO 3	333.02	719.05	680.47	33301	371 64	41023	448.83	487.45	$26.06	$64.64	603.2$	641.83	630.47	719.05
2390	OPR DATA PROC N02	682,09	760.94	753.09	682.09	690.0J	697,90	71091	71365	721.56	729 45	737.28	74i5,J7	753.09	760.94
2545	OPR DISTRIBUTION A	29.18	30.36	30.23	29.18	29.32	29.41	29.53	29.67	29.78	2988	3000	3033	30.23	3036
PAGE: 180
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 1004 TO OCTOBER 15, 20115
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, 1M6
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															.
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX.	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	« MOS
2547	OPR DISTRIBUTION B	22,95	24.32	24 17	22.95	23.06	23.19	2332	23.47	23.62	23.75	23.88	24.02	M.n	1432
27Z3	OPR DlVreiEUTtoN &	W	21.95	14.32	24.16	2295	23.08	23.22	23.34	23.49	2362	2377	2390	24.IM	24 16	2432
2522	OPR DUMP TRUCK J 5T+	23.44	24.67	24.70	23 44	2361	2375	23.86	24,00	24.17	24 32	24.43	24.58	24.70	24K7
2523	0n6»0)ST CHERRY PCKERtUC)	30J6	31.77	31,61	30.36	30 49	3064	30.76	36-93	3k«	31.19	31-32	3149	31.61	31.77
1391	OPR KEY PUNCH SR 4© HR	9ML73	1,002.61	9K-27	900.73	910.86	921,07	93(23		95IJ7	961,74	97J.93	902J2	99227	t.0W6t
2450	OPR LEAD DATA ENTRY 40 HR	W1.17	1,039.86	1.02W	931.17	942.05	95L87	963.72	974.55	985 44	996J5	1 >00712	1,017.96	1,028 83	IJKW86
Z4J4	OPR LEAD MICRO MACH 40 HR	i,oa uo	IJ 39.86	1429,00	1/131.40	1,51224	1£33,M	1.063.93	t.074.W	1.085.61	1.096*6	1.107.34	f .118.14	1,129,00	1J39S6
2416	OPR LEAD REPRO MACH 40	1,031,40	1,139.36	1J 2900	1.931.40	LCH2.24	1,053.06	1,063,93	1,074 80	L0B5.61	1,096.46	LIO7.34	1J 18.14	1.129 00	1,139 86
Z4M	OPR LEAD SYSTEMS HR	IJ7L34	IJJ79K3	1J6900	1,17134	t ,182.17	M»,M	1JO9,84	U14.71	1.225.59	1J3M1	1^4728	UH.1S		U19J0
2530	OPRLNG	30.08	32M	3234	30,69	30.90	31,06	31.25	31.42	31.61	31.82	31.98	32.17	32.J4	32.54
2716	OPR LNG ASST	2844	34L32	30,16	28.64	28 8]	28.97	29.11	29.31	29.47	29.65	29.81	29 S®	30.16	3032
2399	OPR MAIL iNSRT MAC 40 HR	883,40	98543	975^4	883.46	893.57	903,79	913.96	924 24	934.42	9*4.62	95483	965.02	975.24	985.45
2246	OPR ML INSRT MAC 40 HR POST?:	544.12	778.82	759,36	584.12	603 59	42307	642S3	66199	681.48	7OOJ6	22M2	739K8	75936	778K2
254©	OPR. OFFSITE	25 26	2679	2663	2526	25.42	25.61	25.73	25 88	26.0*	26.18	26.35	26.48	36.63	26.79
2406	OPR RETRO MACH SR 40 HR	978,01	1,036.68	1/115.66	976.01	988.96	999.76	LOL0.60	L02 J.45	L03U4	1 XMi.il		1JU64.79	14175,66	1.0S668
2402	OPR REPRO MACH 40 HR	393,24	719.05	686.49	393,24	425.84	458.39	490.97	523.59	556lL7	588.72	621.33	653.92	686.49	719.05
2536	OPR$N<nNO	33.91	35.93	35.73	33.91	MJ I	J4.29	34.51	34 69	34.91	35 JI	35,31	35.53	35-72	3593
2541	OPR STATION A LIC	2S.04	29.76	2958	28.Q9	28^4	28,43	28,58	21.75	28.93	29.06.	29.27	29 40	29.58	29.76
2543	OPR STATION B	25 J4	27.33	2726	25.84	26.01	36.17	26,33	2647	26.62	26.79	26.96	27.13	27.26	2738
2436	OPR SYSTEMS A 40 HR	1.031.48	IJ39.M	IJ19W	1.031.40	L042J4	L053.O6	Lfl63,93	1.074.80		l,OTM6	UOT.34	LU8.M	1,129,00	1.13986
2435	OPRSYSTEMS40HR	991 Jtf	L 100,41	1,089,50	991.83	1.002.69	LOI 3.52	1.02439	1,035.26	LJM64K	1,056.95	UH7.8I	1,078 69		I JOG 41
2423	OPR TELEPHONE NGHT 40 HR	14160	760.94	71W	341^0	38332	425.49	467,39	509.34	55L29	593,22	635 13	677,05	7J9XC	7M.94
PAGE: 181
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E/F - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16, 2004 TO OCTOBER IS, 2665 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, 1986
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOSD		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	FMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	FMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
24 IS	OPR TELEPHONE 40 HR	393.24	742,41	686.89	393.24	428,17	463.12	499.11	532,94	567.84	602.78	637.67	672.58	686.89	742.4)
2431	OPR. TELETYPE MACH 4G HR	33302	71903	680.41	333.CC	371,64	410.23	448.83	487.43	52606	564.64	60325	641,83	680.47	719.05
2140	OPR TELPKGNE FT 40 HR	245JJ	2*5,97	245.33	24J.33	2*5.97									
2188	OPR WORD PROCESS	488 62	704.59	682.97	488.62	5)0.24	531,83	353.42	574.99	59664	618.20	639.78	661,41	682.97	704.59
2567	painter	25,18	26.05	25 79	25.18	25.24	15,32	2538	15.4$	2546	25 63	25.68	25,74	2579	26.65
2569	painter body transp	27.29	2906	28,76	27 20	2746	27,64	27.77	27.9?	23JJ	2R26	2844	28.58	28.76	29.06
2572	PARTS PERSON TRANS	25.24	26.23	2609	25.24	25 J4	15,44	25.56	25.6$	25,73	25.80	2590	16 00	26,09	26,23
244(k	PHOTOG ASST APPR 40 HR	393.24	719.05	686-49	393.24	42S,ft4	458J9	490.97	52358	556.17	58872	621-33	653.92	636-49	71905
2*43	PHOTOG ASST 40 HR	755,11	838.93	83058	735,11	763,52	7?j,39	780.28	788 63	797,04	805,41	813.82	822.18	6Wit	838,93
2445	PHOTOG LAB TtCHN 40 HR	869.10	1,091.2$	1X168.97	869.10	891.10	913.49	935,72	957,93	980.14	] <00236	1,024.54	1 >046,75	1,06*9?	1,091,25
1439	PHOTOG 40 HR	1-076.75	1-212.W	L398 94	I0W.15	IXW032	1403,84	1,117.45	1431-01	LJ44 J9	1,15820	JJ71.79	1485,35	1498,94	UI2J6
2573	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON	22.34	23 61	23,34	22,34	22.43	22.56	2Ltri	22,78	22.94	23.02	23,14	2345	23 J4	23.6)
2574	PLANT PROTECTION PERSON SR	14 07	2536	25,13	24.07	24.23	14.33	24 43	24,33	24.M	24,78	2491	25£]	25,13	2546
2978	PUBLIC RELATIONS ASST POST	94358	1.274.16	1-241,49	94853		1.01161	1^4620	?,W77	UI) J2	U4W	JJ7641	1 <208.98	1J4I 49	1-274.16
2599	READER METER	459,53	8’2. Bi	736.55	459,53	520-10	580.62	641.23	701,77	78653	822.88				
259$	READER METER (NIGHT SKIP)	45933	812.88	786,35	459.53	52010	58(162	641.23	70L7?	786.55	822,88				
2044	READER METER-TEMP	459J3	459.53	459.53											
2267	REP CAD 40 HR	1.0147?	]J44.b&	1411,47	1-014.73	1,027 67	LMO.67	1,053.67	J J)6665	1,079 59	1-09154	1,1(15,57	1,118.51	1431.47	1444,68
2271	REP OUSTING SR 40 HR	1X>57,92	U37.W	1J 74.91	1,057,92	1,07(191	1,083,92	1.096,92	J.109,91	M 22,92	1.135-94	1,148 93	1.161,89	1.174,91	1.187.90
2273	REP CUST 1NQ 40 HR	987.90	1J 29-64	1,1)3,49	987.90	i .002.04	I.OIfe 22	1.030.39	1-044.59	1,05673	1 -072 93	1,087,12	1,101.31	141549	1429 64
2224	REP DIST OFF 40,0 HR	987.90	1,119,64	1415,49	987.90	L002JM	101622	I,030-39	1.044.59	1,058,73	1,072-93	IXW7L2	1401.31	1415,49	1,129,64
2227	REP DtST OFFICE SR	1,056.68	1,162,38	1.15)69	1,056.68	1,067,27	[.077,84	1,058.41	iJ)9S.9i	U 09.51	) J 20 95	M306J	1441)7	1.151.69	146238
LOCAL 101 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE E/F - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,2W4 TO OCTOBER IS, 2005
FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER 15,1986
PAGE: 1S2
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	MAX	p.p.	3 MOS	3 MOS	CMOS	6 MOS	CMOS	CMOS	CMOS	CMOS	CMOS	CMOS	CMOS
2371	P£P ENERGY CWSERV	786.68	IX73J8	LXH6J2	786.61	BJ5J3	844.37	873.18	902.11	930X9	959.78	988.61	L6P.46	IXM6.J2	1X75.18
2601	REP REGULATORY INQY40 HR	1X57.72	US7-W	L>">«1	1X157.92	1.07091	1X83X2	1.096,92	1.109.91	LJ22.92	tj 35X4	1.14*93	1.(61.89	1.174 91	L187.W
2274	REP SR SPEC LEDGERS HR	t.014.73	1.14*68	LI 31,47	1X14.73	1X127.67	tj(H0,67	LtM3X7	1,066 65	1X79.59	L09234	1,105*7	1JJR51	1*31.47	(4*4.64
2711	SEMKJ& HtOTOGftAraER	V«,9S		IJW.99	956X5	989.52	) 3127X8	1X54,62	J.0K7J0	Li 1973	145232	IJ84.S9	UP.43	1249X9	U«J6
2669	separator person	24j4i	2 J .74	2$ 66	24.16	24.47	24 61	24.77	24.93	25.06	25.21	25.34	25*1	25.66	25.78
2692	SNOW REMOVAL L fQI	31,94	31.96	31.96											
2693	SNOW REMOVAL OT CALL IN DO	33.43	53,43	53.43											
*2958	SPECIAL INQUIRY ANAL POST	1,064.57	1356A7	1*27.38	1.0645?	IXM.75	L 122.90	U52,M	M*(3*	1*1037	IJW.77	08.98	1,298(6	1J27.38	£JMA7
2466	5TEN0 CLERICAL 40 hr	*39.M	760,94	71026	439.54	471.66	M3 A4	635.96	5WA\	WO .26	6*2.40	66452	696.68	710.26	760.94
2469	STENO SECRETARIAL 40 HR	M6.[7	M2.90	779J6	63417	652.83	66951	68620	702*8	719,52	73621	7S2XR	769,54	77936	802X0
2699	STOCK PERSON DATA PROCESSIN	soa.sa	97641	9*W	sw.jt	. 906.17	913.98	921*9	929.68	937.50	9*5,30	953.H	960,94	96869	97662
3472	STOCK PERSON 40 MR	370,12	719.17	644.2B	370,U	405.01	439.93	434*4	509.74	544.65	579 54	614 46	*49*5	684*8	719.17
2475	STRKPR ASST MATMGT 40 HR	UW	1,132*3	u«.n	1X47.23	1X57,73	L06826	1,07*82	1X09.39	1,099,97	1,110,4?	1521X2	MJI.00	1.14ZU	IJ32.B
2492	STRKPR ASST SR MATMGT 40 HR	Lttl.31	1*27.23	1216*0	1,12151	LUI. 11	1*42,64	M 5321	IJ 63.74	1274.28	1,18444	1,195.40	1205.93	141*30	1*21.23,
2490	STRKPR ASST SR STATNRY 40 MR	1X88 91	1.19*6*	1*83.93	IXWXJ	L09935	1*10*1	I.lM.M		1.141.7?	IJ52.29	I.1W.85	1,173.41	1,183-93	(J 9<X4
2410	SUMMER. CLERICAL AO HR	333,89	333*9	333 89											
3621	SUMMER. PHYSICAL 40 HR	9,04	909	9.09											
2551	SURVEY OPR TRUCK	25*5	25,78	23,70	25.25	252®	2535	25,39	25,45	23.51	25.56	25 63	25.66	25.70	25.7*
2722	SVC PERSON A COORD DF	32)9	34 07	33.9J	3219	3237	32*7	32.73	3*93	33.16’	J3.3)	33,52	5368	33X1	3407
2«K	SVC PERSON A FLD TR	31.65	32,73	3152	31.65	31.77	31,88	* 31,96	32.05	3114	3222	32.32	32.42	J132	32.73
w	SVC PERSON A FLDTRN D/F	32 (4	3*07	33.91	32,19	3237	32*7	32 73	32.93	M.n	3332	33.52	3368	33.91	3*07
2671	SVC PERSON A GEN APPL	MM*	31.06	30.93	30.10	30(8	3026	3036	30 46	39,53	JO65	3073	Mtt	30.93	31X6
PAGE: 105
I
LOCAL 1O1 WAGE PROGRESSION SCHEDULE SCHEDULE E?F - 4 EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 16,1004 TO OCTOBER IS, 2005 FOR ALL EMPLOYEES HIRED AFTER OCTOBER IS, *98*	'
					PROGRESSION SCHEDULE IN YEARS										
					FIRST			SECOND		THIRD		FOURTH		FIFTH	
															
	TITLE DESCRIPTION	MIN	Max	p, p.	3 MOS j	3 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS
2575	SVC PERSON BaPPL	25.00	2572	25.64	25,00	25.06	25.15	15.21	25,36	23.33	25J9	25 50	2557	25.64	25,12
2675	SVC PERSON C METER & APPL	24.311	25,07	24.93	21J0	2453	24.59	24.62	24.6$	24.71	24,78	2484	24 89	24,93	2500
2726	SVC PERSON C POST 98	10,36	23.47	13.15	20.36	2066	20,98	21 28	71.63	21 89	2222	22,51	2X87	23, Lf	2347
2677	SVC PERSON D LOCK UNLOCK,	22.68	24.06	2J91	22.68	22.84	22.99	23.1?	23.2$	2335	23.51	23.66	23,78	23.91	24.06
2585	SVC PERSON TRAINEE CSD	I5J9	?9(J3	15,49	1519	19,00									
J4S6	SVC SPECIAL DIST 40 HR	1,002,25	1,110.92	1,099.85	! .002J 5	1,013.07	1,023.93	1.034-79	1,045.60	1,056.49	L067 30	ljOTS.17	1.0K9W	1.099,8$	1,1 ] ft 92
*2964	SYS ASST SYS SERVICES POST	888.19	1390.19	l.l 59,93	6H.19	918.44	94860	97875	>.00i.96	1,039 IS	1.06933	1.099.52	1.129.72	1J 59.93	1.190.19
2W	SYS PROCESSOR PIST 40 HR	P6J.J4	1.069,83	1,058.62	96I.14	972,(11	982 85	99371	1.0W.56	1,015,40	1426.26	1*037,10	1047.96	1058.82	1,069.83
2626	TECHNICIAN PROCESS A	31.92	32.73	32.67	31 92	32.00	32.0?	32,17	32.21	32,33	3242	32.50	32,59	32,67	32.73
2589	TELEPHONE RE? TRAINEE CCC	44424	781.85	66634	44421	347.30	666.34	781 85							
2392	TELEPHONE REP TRAINEE CCC T£	444.24	721 85	66631	44q,?4	547J0	666.34	781.85							
2513	TELEPHONE SERV REP 40 HR	894.99	1,051.43	1.035.73	894.1*9	91061	926.26	941.89	957.53	973.13	988 79	LOfrU*	1,020-09	1,035,73	IJ05L45
3302	TELLER HEAD 40 HR	1.056,68	1.16238	1,151.69	L05(j6*	IA57.27	14)77.84	1*088,41	1,098.9$	LIO9.51	L12005	L13O6L	1.141,(7	IJ51.69	M62 3&
2542	TIMLKEEF SYS SUPP 40 HR	960,85	1,069.54	1,05849	960,85	971.69	982 53	993.38	1.004.27	(.015.08	1,0259$	1,036Jto	1*041-64	1,05849	1,069-54
2819	TOOL REPAIR PERSON	27.06	28.86	2832	27.06	27 23	27.3?	27.57	27,72	37,86	28.W	2819	28.39	23.52	28,86
2620	TOOL REPAIR PERSON A	37.92	29.78	2937	27.92	25.09	2814	28,43	28J?	2S.72	28.90	2905	29,24	29,37	2978
2617	TRAINEE SSP40HR	14.41	17 31	14.41	14.41	17.JI									
2353	TYPIST STATISTICAL 40 HR	5038$	56204	556 12	501.85	509.65	515.46	52148	527,11	$32.95	533.76	544.5,9	550.J9	556.12	Sfcl,W
2829	UPHOLSTERER	2663	28.43	28,10	2663	26,80	26.98	2715	27,29	2744	2762	21.?7	27,95	28.10	28.43
Wl	UPHOLSTERER A	28,30	30.00	29.83	18.30	28.47	28.64	28.83	28,99	29,14	29 33	29-48	29.67	2983	30GO
2835	UTILITY PERSON SYS SUPP	23 00	24,06	2381	23.00	23,08	2318	23_26	23J4	23-44	2158	2164	23.75	2J.il	24,06
283?	UTILITY WAREHOUSE PERSON	653	LMf	12.44	A 55	7.19	T.¥S	KSU	9.15	9,80	104?	B.H	11,79	1244	13,11
	WATCH GUARD	20.74	2201	21.87	20.74	20.91	21.03	21 12	21,24	21,36	21.S3	21.65	2(,?6	Z187	210!
2853	WATCH GUARD & PORTER	29365	51240	49050	293.65	315.51	35737	359.29	3*1,14	403 DI	424.87	446.79	468.62	49Q.50	$12.40
2655	Wta-MR.	27.29	2966	28.16	27.29	27.46	27.64	27.77	27.97	28.11	28.26	2844	28.38	28.76	29.06
285?	WELDER A	28,83	30.5$	3037	28,83	28.99	29.15	2934	29.52	29.69	29,a$	3003	30.2*		30 55
2858	WELDER A QUALIFIED	50.79	3260	3240	3ft79	30,96	3116	3132	3153	31,67	31.89	32.96	32,22	33,40	32,60
27U7	WORK MEASUREMENT ANALYST	M9926	1,242.96	U36.7S	1.199.26	1*202.67	L205.49	M 09.48	1,212.85	1.216,29	I22IW	1^’651	J.231.64	1.226.75	1.242 96
2861	YARD PERSON	20.65	23.96	23.53	20.6$	20.98	2229	2L64	21.93	2229	22.57	22.94	|	23.21	2338	23.96