1 ■
vd. I '
^Dominion
AGREEMENT BETWEEN „ DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC. . AND ■	- ;• J
HOPE GAS, INC., DBA DOMINION HOPE '' AND
THE UNITED GAS WORKERS’UNION
LOCAL NO. 69, DIVISION II SEIU, AFL-CIO
APRIL 1, 2002- APRIL 1, 2005


LOCAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section	- Page
I	Parties to the Agreement.............................................. L
II	Union Recognition.....................................................I
III	Management Rights.....................................................I
- IV	Meetings..............................................................I
V	Union Security and Checkoff...........................................I
VI	Correspondence........................................................3-	—
VII	Grievance and Settlement..............................................3
VIII	Strikes and Lockout...................................................6
IX	Discrimination........................................................6
X	Wages.................................................................6
XI	Premiums..............................................................7
Article I	- Shift Premium.....................................7
Article 2	- Sunday Premium .................................. 7
Article 3	- Holiday Premium ..................................7
Article 4	- Shift Change Premium ...........................  8
Article 5	- Temporary Assignment Premiums.....................8
XII	Working Conditions....................................................9
Article I	- Hours of Work and Overtime......................  9
Article 2	- Flexible Work Schedules .....;...................I	I
Flextimefor Clerical Employees...................11
Twelve Hour Shift	Schedules....................11
Station Schedules...............................12
Article 3	- Holidays.........................................12
Article 4	- Vacations.........................................13
Article 5	- Absences Due to Civic Service ...................14
Article 6	-Expenses.......................................   IS
A.	Per Diem for Expenses and Meals..............:...	15
B.	Meal Allowance................................... 15
C.	Mileage..........................................IS
D.	Moving Expenses ..................................16
E.	Clothing Allowance...............................17
Article 7	- Time Off for Personal Business...................18
Article 8	- Death in the Family..............................18
Article 9	- Time Off for Union Business ......................18
Article 10	- Safe Working Conditions .........................19
XIII	Assignment of Work...................................................20
- XIV	Contracting of Work ...........................................      20
XV	Changes in the Work Force............................................20
Article I	- Employee Selection ............................  20
Article 2	- Involuntary Transfers............................22
Article 3	- Reduction in the Work Force......................22
Article 4	- Moving Expenses for Surplused Employees..........24
Article 5	- Temporary Assignment.............................25
Article 6	- Casual Employees/Temporaries ....................25
Article 7	- Letter of Interest ..............................26
Article 8	- Upgrade .........................................26
Article 9	* New Regular Employees............................27
i
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
Page
XVI	Benefits .........................................................     27
XVII	Effect.of Invalidity ................................................. 27
XVIII	Termination ........................................  28
XIX	- Modified Bumping 28
XX(A) Clerical Pay Schedule (Employees Made Regular Prior to January I, 1996) Effective April 1, 2002...........................................................   32
XX(B) Clerical Pay Schedule (Employees Hired, Rehired, or Made Regular After January I, 1996) Effective April I, 2002.............................................33
XX(A) Clerical Pay Schedule (Employees Made Regular Prior to January I, 1996) Effective with the transfer from semi-monthly to hourly payroll......................34
XX(B) Clerical Pay Schedule (Employees Hired, Rehired, or Made Regular After January!, 1996) Effective with the transfer from semi-monthly to hourly payroll ..................................................................  .........35
XXI(A) — Physical Pay Schedule (Employees Made Regular Prior to January I, 1996) Effective April I, 200236 _
XXI(B) Physical Pay Schedule (Employees Hired, Rehired, or Made Regular After January I, 1996) Effective April I, 2002.............................................37
XX(A) Clerical Pay Schedule (Employees Made Regular Prior to January I, 1996) Effective April 1,2003.......................................................38
XX(B) Clerical Pay Schedule (Employees Hired, Rehired, or Made Regular After January I, 1996) Effective April I, 2003.....................................39
XXI(A) Physical Pay Schedule (Employees MadeRegular Prior to January I, 1996) Effective April I, 200340
XXI(B) Physical Pay Schedule (Employees Hired, Rehired, or Made Regular After '	January I, 1996) Effective April I, 2003........................41
XX(A) Clerical Pay Schedule (Employees Made Regular Prior to January I, 1996) Effective April I, 2004........................................................42
XX(B) Clerical Pay Schedule (Employees Hired, Rehired, or Made Regular After January 1, 1996) Effective April 1, 2004.................................      43
XXI(A) Physical Pay Schedule (Employees Made Regular Prior to January 1, 1996) Effective April 1, 200444
XXI(B) Physical Pay Schedule (Employees Hired, Rehired, or Made Regular After January I, 1996) Effective April I, 2004.......................................45
ii
APPENDIX
No.	Page
I.	Clerical Bidding Departments & Units........................7...........46
2.	Physical Bidding Departments & Units................;...................49
3.	Hope_Gas Cost Centers - Major	City	Plants...........................54	-
4.	Inspection................._............................................55
5.	- Clerical Progression	Schedules and Clerical	Pay Schedules ............56
6.	Physical Progression	Schedules......................................  59
7.	Physical Pay Schedules..................................................62
8.	Tie in Seniority......................................................  63
9.	Employee Selection Physical.............................................64
10.	Disciplinary Action .............................................  ^....65
I0A.	Loss of Driving Privileges .............................................66
11.	Employment and Promotion................................................68
12.	Overtime ..............................................................................................69
13.	Engine Compressor Analyst Progression...................................70
14.	— Commercial Driver's License.............................................  72
I4A.	Driver's License........................................................73
15.	Fire Resistive Clothing.................................................74
16.	Purchase Plan 77
17.	C.O.P.E. Deduction....................................................  87
18.	VEBA ...................................................................88
19.	Job Security .........................................................  89
20.	Welfare Contribution Rates............................................  90
Letter of Agreement....................................................95
Attachment A - Electrician Progression Training and Testing............96
>>	Signature Page..........................................................97
iii
SECTION I	- PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made the first day of April, 2002. by and between The Service Employees International Union, Local No. 69-11, AFL-CIO. hereinafter called the “Union*’ and Dominion Transmission, Inc. and Hope Gas. Inc:, doing business as Dominion Hope, hereinafter called the “Company*'.
SECTION II	BUNION RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative for the purpose of collective bargaining for.rates of pay, hours of work, and other conditions of employment for the employees of the Company whose wage rates and classifications are set forth in this Agreement.	•	• -
SECTION III	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
L The management of the Company and the direction of the working forces including the right to make rules and regulations, hire, discharge or suspend for just cause, promote, demote, transfer, relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or for other proper and legitimate reasons and to determine the work to be performed and the methods and equipment to be used by employees are recognized to be retained by the Company, except as otherwise limited by this Agreement.	...
2.	While Management agrees to carry out its responsibilities in a manner consistent with the purpose and intent of this Agreement, the right of the Company to manage the business shall only be restricted by the explicit limitations set forth in this Agreement. The fact that some of the Company’s rights to manage are-set forth in this Section shall not be taken in any way to imply that the Company does not have all other rights of management.
3.	The Union recognizes that the selection of employees from the Bargaining Unit to replace Non-Bargaining Unit employees is a right of Management. Physical and clerical employees will not be required to accept work assignments outside of the Bargaining Unit.
SECTION IV	- MEETINGS
1.	During the Union's annual Representative Council Meeting the Company will pay the wages of the Union Representative Council in attendance for one day. During this day, up to one half day will be used for the annual safety meeting.
2.	Special meetings may be held by mutual agreement.
3.	The Company will pay a mutually agreed upon travel time for designated Union members to attend meetings.
SECTION V	- UNION SECURITY AND CHECKOFF
1.	Any regular or casual employee covered by this Agreement who fails to acquire or maintain membership in good standing in the Union on or before January 1, 1983, or
Page - 1 -
the completion of the probationary period of that employee, whichever is later, thereafter shall be required, as a condition of employment, to acquire and maintain membership in _ good standing inthe Union, or pay to the Union the service fees specified herein. For the purpose of this Section only, the probationary period shall be defined as the first thirty (30) days after an employee attains employment status with the Company.
2.	The term ’’good standing" shall, for the purpose of this Section, mean that the employee has not been delinquent in tendering the periodic dues and initiation fees ^uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the Union?'
3.	The sendee fees shall be the same amount and payable at the same time as the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or "maintaining membership in the Union.
4.	The Company agrees to deduct Union membership dues and initiation fees from the pay of each employee who is a member of the Union and who has filed with the Company and with the Union a properly signed authorization for deduction. The Company further agrees to deduct service fees equal to said membership dues and initiation fees from the pay of each employee who has filed with the Company and with the Union a properly signed authorization for the deduction. The .dues and initiation fees or service fees deducted by the Company shall be forwarded promptly to the Treasurer of the Union together with a statement of account.
5.	The dues checkoff authorization shall be made on a form satisfactory' to the Company. The authorization is voluntary and an employee may at any time discontinue the deduction of dues from his or her pay by proper notification.
6.	The Secretary of the Union shall notify the Company in writing of any change in the Union membership and the amount of membership dues to be deducted.
7.	Any authorization for deduction of Union dues which was proper and had been received by the Company or the Union prior to the effective date of this Agreement, shall continue to be considered a proper authorization for deduction of Union dues in accord with the terms of that authorization.
8.	Once each month, the Union will submit to the Company, in writing, a list of all active employees who have failed to tender the funds required in Paragraph 1 of this Section. The Company will notify those persons named and will discontinue employment of such persons who are not in compliance with the terms of this Section within thirty (30) days after such notification, upon receipt of a certificate, properly notarized, from the Union of the following:
a.	That membership in the Union is available to such employee on the same terms and conditions generally applicable to other members, and
b.	That membership has not been denied to any such employee nor has the membership of any such employee been terminated for reasons other than his or her failure to tender the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the Union.
9.	During the thirty (30) day period referred to in Paragraph 8 above, the Company may counsel with any employee not in compliance with the Section and attempt to persuade the employee to so comply.
10.	In the event the Company discharges an employee solely for failure to tender the funds required iri'Paragraph 1 of this Section, the Union agrees to protect the Company
Page - 2 -
and hold it harmless from any claim of such employee that their discharge was not justifiable.
11.	"Each month, a list of bargaining unit employees will be furnished to the Secretary—of-, the Union, the appropriate Region . Directors and local Union . Representatives.
_	SECTION VI - CORRESPONDENCE
1.	All correspondence directed to the Union will be addressed to the" Union President unless otherwise specified in th is. Agreement. If directed to the Company, it will be addressed to the labor relations representative designated by Dominion Transmission, Inc. for Dominion Transmission - matters and/or Dominion Hope for Dominion Hope matters. If directed to an employee, it will be addressed to the last address fumishedby the employee to Human Resources. - ..
2.	All correspondence concerning disciplinary actions will be mailed by certified mail to the Union President and the appropriate Region Director and by regular mail to the Union Secretary.
3.	All correspondence required by" Section XV, Changes in the Work Force, Article 1, Employee Selection, will be addressed to the Union Secretary.
4.	All correspondence required-by Section XV, Changes in the Work Force, Article 3, Reduction in the Work Force, Paragraph 1, will be mailed by certified mail to the Union Secretary and by regular mail to the remainder of the Union Executive Board and appropriate representative(s). . . -
5.	The Company will mail by certified mail to the Union Secretary and by regular mail to the remainder of the Union Executive Board answers, in writing, to annual tour, questions within forty (40) calendar days after the Company has received the Union's written questions, unless.otherwise agreed. The time limit on filing grievances that arise as a result of an answer to a tour question shall commence upon receipt of the answer by the Union President. Furthermore, while the grievance procedure may be used to resolve disputes over the interpretation of this Agreement that surface in the answers to tour questions, resolution of such grievances will not be retroactive. That is, if the occurrence giving rise to the tour question was/is not grieved in a timely fashion as specified in Section VII, Paragraph 3, then no adjustment will be made in that specific case as a result of a subsequently grieved answer to a tour question.
SECTION VII	- GRIEVANCE AND SETTLEMENT
1.	It is the policy of the Company to allow employees a reasonable opportunity to -present to their Supervisors any request or complaint which they may have. However, it is agreed that not every such request or complaint constitutes a grievance.
2.	A grievance is a dispute or claim involving the meaning, interpretation, or application of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
3.	The aggrieved employee will seek to adjust the matter by first scheduling an informal meeting with his/her immediate supervisor, either personally or through his/her Union Representative or Union Steward. Unless otherwise mutually agreed, the informal meeting shall take place within ten (10) calendar days of the date the grievance was
Page - 3 -
initiated. In the event the aggrieved is the Union, the Union will seek to adjust the matter through an informal meeting with a Labor Relations representative of the Company and with‘the President of the Union or an appointed official of the Union. Management's answer willJje given within ten (10) calendar days of .this meeting unless otherwise agreed.
4.	If the aggrieved employee is unable to satisfactorily adjust the matter with his or her immediate Supervisor, a grievance shall be initiated in writing within ten (10). calendar days upon a mutually agreed upon form which shall state the nature of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance, the Section or Sections of this Agreement on' which the grievance is based and the relief or remedy sought. The grievance form shall be dated and signed by the employee and/or the Union Representative and presented to the employee’s immediate Supervisor to’be dated and signed. The grievance shall then be submitted to the first step of the grievance procedure. If the Union and the Company are unable to satisfactorily adjust’ a matter in the informaLmeeting held in Paragraph 3, a grievance shall be initiated in accordance with the procedure above with the exception that it will be signed by a Labor Relations representative and waived to the second step if agreed to by both parties.
5.	Grievances shall be initiated as soon as practicable, but in no event later than ten (10) calendar days in a dismissal or selection grievance and twenty (20) calendar days in a grievance arising from any other cause. The time limit on a dismissal grievance shall commence upon notification in writing to the Union President by the Labor Relations Section. The time limit on a grievance arising from any other cause shall commence on ■ the date the cause of the grievance, occurred. The date that an employee first seeks to adjust the matter with his/her supervisor shall be considered the date the grievance is initiated for the purpose of determining whether the grievance has been timely presented. Grievances not so presented shall be deemed to have been abandoned and shall not be entitled to consideration.
6.	At the first step of the grievance procedure the Union committee shall consist of the aggrieved employee, his/her Union Representative, his/her Region Director and one (1) other Union member. appointed by the Union President. The Company’s committee shall consist of the Division/Section Manager, or his/her appointee, the immediate supervisor, and a representative of the Labor Relations Section. Additional members may be appointed by either side but the Company reserves the right to refuse to pay for the time of such members appointed by the Union. (All authorized Union time will be paid at straight time only, no overtime, up to eight (8) hours per day.)
The first step grievance meeting will be held within 40 calendar days unless otherwise agreed. Management's answer at the first step will be given within seven (7) calendar days of the date of this meeting, unless otherwise agreed. If Management’s answer does not resolve the grievance at this step, the Union may appeal the case to the second step within seven (7) calendar days, unless otherwise agreed. Grievances arising from the selection of or the dismissal of an employee shall be given scheduling priority by the parties.
7.	By January 4 of each calendar year quarterly meetings will be scheduled to hear second step grievances. Additional meetings can be scheduled, as needed, for the purpose of addressing outstanding second step grievances. At the second step of the grievance procedure the Union committee shall consist of the aggrieved employee,
Page - 4 -
his/her Union Representative and the Union Executive Board. The Company's committee will consist of the manager of Labor Relations or his/her appointee, a representative of Labor Relations and other representatives of Management as deemed necessary. Additional members may be appointed by either side, but the Company reserves the right to refuse to pay for the time of such members appointed by the Union.
Management’s answer at the second-step will be given within ten (10) calendar days of the date of this meeting, unless otherwise agreed. If the grievance remains unresolved the Union Executive Board may submit the grievance to arbitration within thirty (30) calendar days, unless otherwise agreed, as provided for in Paragraph 12 below;
8.	If either party fails to answer or appeal a grievance within the time limits set forth in Paragraph 7, provided there has been no mutually agreed extension, the grieving party may appeal the grievance to the next step. If a grievance is not scheduled within the time limits set forth above, provided there has been no mutually agreed extension: (a) if the Company is at fault the grievance will be settled upon the remedy requested without precedence, (b) if the Union is at fault the grievance will be dropped without precedence..	_.. ...
9.	After a union eligible employee has filed a grievance, there shall be no discussion or adjustment of the case between the employee and his or her Supervisor without the Representative or Steward being present. Similarly, no discussion of the case shall take place between first level supervision and the local representative without the employee having the opportunity to be present?
10.	Furthermore, when an employee's presence is required at a grievance meeting, permission to attend will be granted by the Supervisor when requested. Both parties recognize that under certain .work load conditions, meetings may necessarily be postponed. Such postponement will be by mutual consent.
11.	Representatives of the employees may exercise the grievance procedure of the -Agreement at their discretion, regardless of whether or not a complaint has been filed by the affected party or parties. The only exceptions to. this provision are those grievances'' arising out of selection. Such grievances shall only be allowed as provided for in Section XV, Article 1.
12.	Should any grievance remain unresolved, the grievance may be submitted to arbitration by a notice in writing from the grieving party. Unless mutually agreed, such notice must be sent by the grieving party by certified mail within thirty (30) calendar days after the date the written answer is received in the second step of the grievance procedure. The notice must set forth the basis of the grievance, the provision or provisions of the Agreement which have allegedly been violated, the facts on which the claim rests and the remedy sought. The arbitration hearing shall be held as soon as practicable. Grievances arising from the selection of or the dismissal of an employee shall be given scheduling priority by the parties.
13.	The parties shall request the American Arbitration Association to furnish a list of fifteen (15) arbitrators. Within five (5) working days after receipt of such list, the Union and Company shall alternately strike one (1) name each from such list submitted until one (1) name remains. The remaining name shall be the arbitrator.
14.	The Company and the Union shall share equally the costs of the arbitrator.
Page - 5 -
15.	The fact.that a matter has been processed as a grievance shall not prevent either party from questioning whether it is a proper subject of grievance or arbitration.
16.	The award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties. The arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, subtract from or modify any of the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
17.	The day following the day a written answer is received shall.be counted as the first day in establishing time limits under this Section.	—
18.	Either party may, with advance notice to the other party and at its own expense, have a court reporter in attendance at any grievance hearing. In such case, the other party will be supplied, at no cost, .a copy of the transcript.	. „
19.	The Company will pay a mutually agreed upon travel .time for approved Union members to attend grievances.
SECTION VIII	- STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
1.	During the term of-this Agreement, there shall be no instigation or encouragement of, or participation in any strike, slowdown or work stoppage.
2.	During the term of this Agreement, there shall be no lockout of employees.
_	SECTION IX - DISCRIMINATION
There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint, coercion or intimidation of any employee by the Company or by the Union because of membership or non-membership in any lawful social, fraternal or religious organization, or by reason of membership or non-membership in a labor union. Also, the Company and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination against any employee by either party under definitions or regulations established by any State or Federal employment laws. Both parties shall have available to them all defenses under State or Federal law for any claim made under this Section. This provision is not intended_to_ alter any defenses under State or Federal law which would otherwise be available to the parties.
SECTION X-WAGES
1.	Pay rates shall be paid as negotiated and shall be in effect as described herein for the term of this Agreement.
2.	The pay rate for any job classification created after ratification of this Agreement will be negotiated by the Union and the Company. If the parties are unable to agree on the rate for the job, any such issue will be subject to the Grievance and Settlement Section of this Agreement.
3.	Paydays for physical employees will be every other Friday. If the payday falls on a recognized holiday, then employees will be paid on the last preceding workday.
4.	Paydays for regular clerical employees will be on the fifteenth (15th) day and the last day of each month. If the payday falls on Saturday, Sunday or a recognized holiday, then payday will be the last preceding workday. At a later date, subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, the payday for clerical employees will be converted' to an every other Friday schedule coinciding with the paydays for physical employees.
Page - 6 -
5.	The Company will determine what time and attendance data employees will be required to report and what method(s) for submitting the data will be used.
6.	The Company will pay twenty-five dollars ($25.00) to the employee as well as penalties assessed by a creditor against the employee which have resulted from paychecks mailed late or direct deposits which are deposited late if the late paychecks or late deposits are proven to. be the fault of the Company and within the Company’s control. The employee has an affirmative obligation to limit penalties.
7.	To eliminate the early cashing of checks by employees, the following guidelines will be adhered to:
(a)	Employees cashing their checks before the check date will be notified by the Company in writing.
(b)	Employees who disregard the written notice in'subparagraph (a) above will thereafter receive their pay through direct deposit-only.
8.	The Company will furnish to the Secretary of the Union a schedule of physical/clerical paydays for the life of this Agreement.
SECTION XI - PREMIUMS
Article 1	- Shift Premium
1.	A shift premium of forty-eight (48) cents per hour for the Number 2 Shift and fifty-five (55) cents per hour for the Number 3 Shift shall be added to the rate of all physical employees while assigned to scheduled hours of work, the majority of which occur within the period 4:00 P.M. to 8:00 A.M.
2.	The shift.premium shall be applicable only to time actually worked.
Article 2	- Sunday Premium
1.	The Company agrees to pay a Sunday premium at the rate of one dollar and twenty-three cents ($1.23) per hour to physical employees whose regular schedule requires them to work on a Sunday, except that the Sunday premium shall not be paid for work performed on a Sunday for which the employee receives overtime pay, call out pay, or any other pay amounting to a rate of time and one-half or more. Employees assigned to scheduled hours of work, the majority of which occur on Sunday, will be paid one dollar and twenty-three cents ($1.23) per hour Sunday premium.
2.	The Sunday premium shall be applicable only to time actually worked.
3.	Sunday, holiday, and shift change premiums shall not be accumulated, but the Company agrees to pay the highest premium earned.
Article 3	- Holiday Premium
1.	The Company agrees to pay a holiday premium at the rate of one dollar and thirty-three cents ($1.33) per hour to physical employees whose regular schedule requires them to work on a holiday, except that the holiday premium shall not be paid for work performed on a holiday for which the employee receives overtime pay, call out pay, or any other pay amounting to a rate of time and one-half or more. Employees assigned to scheduled hours of work, the majority of which occur on a recognized holiday, will be paid one dollar and thirty-three cents ($1.33) per hour holiday premium.
2.	The holiday premium shall be applicable only to time actually worked.
Page - 7 -
, 3. Sunday, holiday, and shift change premiums shall not be accumulated but the Company agrees to pay the highest premium earned.
Article 4	- Shift Change Premium
1.	No shift change premium will be paid if an employee agrees to a schedule change to accommodate the request of another union eligible employee. In case of ah" accommodation for a death in the family as defined in Section XII, Article 8, a shift change premium will be paid.	. _
2.	In cases where Management initiates a schedule change other than the type of accommodations discussed in Paragraph 1: .. .
(a)	Union eligible employees shall be paid time and one-half when their regular scheduled shift is changed after the start of their workweeks The employee's workweek, for the computation of the shift change premium, shall begin at the employee's quitting time on the last day ...of work of the employee's previous workweek, and shall consist of the days of rest plus the following continuous days of work. In the case of a relief person who works regularly on a split rest day schedule, the employee's workweek begins at the end of his or her day of work before his or her first rest day. Therefore, when there are less than five (5) days of work before the second rest day of the calendar . week, the employee’s workweek shall consist of the calendar days to and including the second rest day of the calendar week plus the following continuous days of work. This premium shall be paid only for the first eight hours worked on the new schedule. - -
(b)	If a union eligible employee is scheduled to work his or her-Sunday rest day, and then returned to his or her normal schedule for the remainder of his or her workweek, he or she will be allowed to work his or her regular workweek in addition to the overtime day on Sunday. However, if an employee is scheduled to work two or more days, which begin with the Sunday rest day, he or she will be considered to be on a new schedule. and eligible to work only five days in the new workweek. Schedule change premium will not apply in either case if the employee's schedule is changed prior to the beginning of his or her workweek.
(c)	Following a change in an employee’s normal schedule, he or she may be returned to his or her original (normal) schedule within five (5) consecutive working days without payment of shift change premium.
(d)	The Union will attempt to schedule Union Business and to identify participants in grievances with sufficient notice to avoid shift change premiums when possible.
Article 5	- Temporary Assignment Premiums
1.	When a clerical employee is assigned the duties of a physical employee, the clerical employee shall receive five percent (5%) above his or her base rate.
2.	When a physical employee is required to replace a Union eligible clerical employee, he or she shall receive five percent (5%) above his or her base rate.
Page - 8 -
SECTION XII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Article 1	- Houris of Work and Overtime -
1.	The Company workweek for computation of pay shall consist of seven (7) days commencing each week at	Saturday and ending at 11:30 P. M. the
"following Saturday.
2.	The working hours for bargaining unit employees will be as follows, unless employees are otherwise assigned:
----	(a) The working hours for physical employees will be from 7:30 A.lvl. to 4:00 P. M. for regular day schedules. The working hours for shift employees will be 7:30 A. M. to 3:30 P. M. for the Number 1 Shift; 3:30 P.M. to 11:30 P.M. for the Number 2 Shift; and 11:30 P. M. to 7:30 A. M. for the Number 3 Shift. Starting and quitting times will be the time that is officially in use in the Company's operating area (Eastern Standard or Daylight Saving). An employee who is working when the time is officially changed shall not receive less than eight (8) hours when the changing of time results in less than eight (8) hours work. Also, he or she shall be paid for the time worked when the changing of time results in more than eight (8) hours worked.
(b) The working hours for clerical employees will be from 8:00 A. M. to 5:00 P. M. for regular day schedules.
3.	Forty hours consisting of five eight-hour days or four ten-hour days shall constitute a normal full-time workweek.-An employee will not be assigned to a normal workweek of four ten-hour days without his/her consent.
4.	Bargaining unit employees are to be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all time worked in excess of forty hours per week or eight hours in any twenty-four hour period, except on shift changes where the scheduled rotations require two shifts to be worked in one twenty-four hour period when assigned to a schedule of eight-hour days. Bargaining unit employees are to be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all time worked in excess of forty hours per week or ten hours per day when assigned to a schedule of four ten-hour days per week.
5.	Employees shall be paid at the rate of triple time for all time worked over sixteen consecutive hours. However, if an employee has worked prior to a regularly scheduled workday so that during the regular workday the employee completes sixteen (16) consecutive hours of work, then if the employee is released (s)he will be paid straight time for the remainder of his/her regular workday.
6.	The Company will not normally require employees to split their rest days on a regularly scheduled basis with the exception of employees assigned to shift work. Employees other than shift employees shall not be required to split their rest days once their weekly work schedule (which includes the rest days) has begun.
7.	Employees shall not be required to take equivalent time off without pay for the time worked after regular working hours, for the time worked on a scheduled rest day(s) or for the time worked in emergencies in order to balance weekly working schedules.
8.	The employee's rest day shall not be changed after the employee has started working within his or her workweek to avoid the payment of overtime.
Page - 9 -
9.	Employees called out for emergency overtime shall receive a minimum of three hours' pay at the rate of time and one-half providedjhat the emergency work does not immediately precede the employee's regularly scheduled hours of work. Employees called out more than once within a three-hour period shall be paid only for the time actually worked -after the initial call out. The rate of pay for time worked during additional call outs within the first three-hour period shall be time and one-half. Upon the expiration of the three-hour period, if called out again, an employee shall be entitled to another three hours' pay at time and"one-half regardless of the amount of time worked during that period. Employees called out on Sunday shall receive a premium of three hours' pay at the rate of time and one-half. In addition, they shall be paid time and one-half for the time worked within the three hours. The rate of pay for an employee called out again during the first three-hour period shall also be time and one-half. Upon the expiration of the three-hour period, if called out again, an employee shall be entitled to the three-hour premium, as well as time and one-half for the period worked, in the same maimer as was paid for the first call out. -
10.	If an employee is required to report from off the job for unscheduled overtime, he or she shall receive a minimum of three hours' pay at the rate of time and one-half provided that the work does not immediately precede the employee’s regularly scheduled hours of employment. Neither travel time nor mileage will be paid for unscheduled overtime.	-
11.	When an employee is required to report on his or her rest days to the job for scheduled overtime, he or she will not be paid travel time. However, he or -she will be reimbursed at the contractual rate for mileage driven not to exceed thirty-five (35) miles.
12.	Call out time is defined as the time that an employee works after being ordered to report immediately from off the job following the completion of his or her workday or workweek. Call out time shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half and shall run from the time of leaving the employee’s residence until his or her return. Authorized mileage will be paid in accordance with Section XII, Article 6, Paragraph C, . from the employee's residence to the job site(s) and back to the employee's residence.
13.	When overtime work is necessary it shall be distributed at the Company's discretion. Local Management will make every effort to divide overtime evenly among the employees who normally perform the work. Employees will be counseled that they may be ineligible for call-out and unscheduled overtime based on where they reside. In an attempt to divide overtime evenly, Management will keep a cumulative total of overtime for each calendar year which shall be posted at the end of each calendar month. If an employee is offered overtime work and is excused at his/her own request, an adjustment of three (3) hours will be made to his/her cumulative total. The cumulative total for the preceding month shall be used as a guide by Management in distributing overtime. No time will be charged to an employee's cumulative total if he/she refused scheduled/unscheduled overtime while off work for sickness, death in the family, or vacation. This is not to be interpreted as allowing an employee to refuse call out. The credited overtime mentioned above will be listed separately on the cumulative total of overtime posted.
14.	Work schedules for shift employees shall be posted on the bulletin boards at the work location prior to the beginning of the employee’s workweek. The employee shall be notified when his or her work schedule is changed and aHsuch schedule changes
Page -10-
shall be immediately-posted on the bulletin board with the employee initialing the change. Any other employee who will be working a schedule different from the regular schedule will be notified in advance.
15.	Employees who are assigned to temporary duty, which requires them to be away from home overnight, shall be paid travel time from their temporary lodgings to the job and from the job to their temporary lodgings, exclusive of meal time in both cases.
16.	Employees required to report for work at a temporary location other than their payroll headquarters location shall be paid travel time and mileage if the temporary location is more than ten (10) miles farther from their home than their payroll headquarters.
17.	Employees who are assigned to a temporary location which would normally require them to be away from home overnight may request permission to drive to and from home to the temporary location each day. Management will consider their request, weighing the distance to be traveled, the seriousness of the employee's personal situation, and any other pertinent information. Such travel if authorized, will be on the employee's own time.
18.	Employeesrequired to work scheduled or unscheduled overtime for the purpose of attending meetings, training, or medical'tests on a rest day will receive a minimum of three (3) hours overtime pay.
Article 2	- Flexible Work Schedules
Flextime for Clerical Employees
1.	Employees may participate in flextime provided that the job responsibilities and departmental coverage requirements are met. Supervisors are encouraged to accommodate individual preference for working hours. If this is not practical, each supervisor is asked to develop an equitable system in accommodating arrivals and departures.
2,	Employees are to work a 40-hour week. The regular schedule will be 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. five (5) days per week during which normal operations must be available.
3.	The expanded workday is from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
4.	Lunch period is between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Employees must take no less than a 30-minute lunch.
5.	Work schedules must be submitted to and approved by the supervisor weekly. Employees may request the same daily schedule for an entire week or different schedules for various days of the week. Supervisors may approve employee requests for schedule changes during the week to accommodate unplanned appointments or emergencies based on the work requirements of the department.
Twelve-Hour Shift Schedules
1.	The Company and the Union agree to continue to provide for the option, at stations, of a twelve-hour rotating shift for shift employees.
2.	A twelve-hour schedule may be implemented at shift work locations upon the mutual agreement of the parties at the location and where the employees at the location have elected by a majority vote their desire for the new schedule.
Page -11-
3.	Application-of the schedule will continue unless and until Management or a majority of the employees at the location elects to end the schedule. Such an election will not occur until twelve (12) months after the twelve-hour schedule has been implemented and future elections will not occur more frequently than every twelve (12) months thereafter.
Any twelve-hour shift schedule must be cost neutral to the Company and, therefore, it may be necessary to modify work rules.
Station Schedules
If a majority of the employees desire to try an alternative schedule to improve efficiency and/or employee morale Management will give consideration to the feasibility of implementing the proposed change.
Article 3 - Holidays
1.	Beginning January 1, 2003, the recognized holidays for active regular physical and clerical workers are:	'	.	-
l.	-New Year's Day (January 1)
2.	Martin Luther King Day (Third Monday in January)
3.	Good Friday (Friday preceding Easter)
,	4. Memorial Day (Last Monday in May)
— -5.-Independence Day (July 4)
6.	Labor Day (First Monday in September)
7.	Veteran’s Day (November 11)	......
8.	Thanksgiving Day (Fourth Thursday in November)
9.	Day after Thanksgiving
10.	Christmas Day (December 25)
11.	Personal Day (January 1 to December 31)
12.	Personal Day (January 1 to-December 31) Where applicable the provisions of the Federal Uniform Monday Holiday Act shall apply.
2.	Two Personal Days will be allowed from January 1 to December 31. All days off can only be taken with prior approval of supervision and must be taken at a time which, in the judgment of Management, will make for efficient operations.
3.	(a) If one of the first six (6) recognized holidays (New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, and Labor Day) falls on an employee’s rest day or if the employee is required to work on the day the Company celebrates the holiday, the employee may choose to receive additional pay up to a full day’s pay at his/her straight time rate or-to take equivalent time off with pay within the following forty-five (45) calendar days at a time which, in the judgment of Management, will make for efficient operation of the unit concerned. The time off must be scheduled at least seven (7) days in advance.
(b) If the remaining four (4) recognized holidays "(Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day after Thanksgiving, and Christmas Day) falls on an employee’s rest day, the employee will receive an additional day of pay at his/her straight time rate in effect on the date of the holiday. If an
Page - 12 -
employee is -required to work on the day the Company celebrates the holiday, the employee will receive additional pay at his/her straight time rate in effect on the date of the holiday, equal to the time the employee worked on the holiday, up to eight (8) hours.
4.	If the employee is scheduled to work on a recognized holiday, he or she shall be paid straight time for the ’holiday and additional pay at straight _time rate plus one dollar and thirty-three cents ($1.33) per hour holiday premium for hours worked on a ‘ holiday up to eight hours per day, and time and one-half for hours worked in excess of eight hours per day.
5.	Time and one-half, in addition to the eight hours holiday pay, shall be paid for . time worked if the employee is required to perform non-scheduled duties on a recognized holiday.
' 6'~Holiday pay will only be paid once per holiday.
7.	In addition to the eight (8) hour holiday pay for recognized holidays listed in paragraph 1, employees instructed to report immediately from off the job on the day the Company celebrates a"hdliday wili. be paid a minimum of three (3) hours provided that the call-out work does not immediately precede the employee's regularly scheduled hours of work. The three (3) hours will consist of double time for time worked with any remaining non-work time to be paid at time and one-half. Employees called out more than once within the three (3) hour period will only be paid double time for time actually “worked.
8.	Casual employees who work on a day the Company celebrates a recognized holiday shall receive the holiday premium as established in Section XI, Article 3 of this Agreement. If instructed to report immediately from off the job on a recognized holiday, casual employees will receive time and one-half for hours worked.
9.	Premium pay for holidays worked shall be paid only for the holiday itself and not for any other days, that is,'premium pay shall be paid for January 1, Martin Luther King Day, third Monday in January, Friday preceding Easter, last Monday in May, July 4, first Monday in September, etc., as outlined in Paragraph 1 of this Article.
10.	The rate of pay for holiday pay shall be based on the employee’s current classified salary/rate.
11.	Special holidays declared by the President of the United States, which the Company observes, shall be treated as additional recognized holidays.
Article 4	- Vacations	—
1.	All regular physical and clerical employees, who have completed one year of credited service are eligible to one week's vacation with pay; those who have completed two years of credited service are eligible to two weeks* vacation with pay; those who have completed six or more years of credited service are eligible to three weeks' vacation with pay; those who have completed fifteen or more years of credited service are eligible to four weeks' vacation with pay; and those who have completed twenty years of credited service are eligible to five weeks' vacation with pay.
(a)	The vacation period will extend from January 1, to December 31 of each year.
(b)	While preference of individual employees may be given consideration, vacation must be taken at a time which, in the judgment of Management,
Page -13-
makes for efficient operation of the unit-concerned. Employees wishing to take vacation in November or December must schedule this time by July 1 of each year. Vacation may be taken at one period, but employees entitled ---=-.4o two or more weeks of vacation may split their vacations into the same number of periods as they have weeks of vacation eligibility, except where other arrangements are made with the approval of local supervision in ■ advance of the time desired. An employee will be entitled to receive an.
additional day of vacation for a holiday which occurs within his or her scheduled vacation period, if such holiday is observed by the Company. An employee may not, on his or her own volition, waive vacation and receive extra pay for work during that period. When vacations are waived due to the requiremehts~bf the. Company, the employees affected shall be paid their vacation pay in addition to pay at regular rates for work -done during the vacatio'nperiod, or with the approval of local Management, he or she may elect to reschedule his or her vacation if sufficient time remains in the calendar year. An employee whose employment is terminated for any reason including retirement, layoff, resignation, discharge, or entry into military service, shall receive vacation pay in lieu of any vacation to which h'e or she was entitled immediately prior to termination of employment. The survivors of a deceased employee shall receive vacation pay in lieu of any vacation such deceased employee would have been entitled to receive. Payment will be made in accordance with the laws of the.state in which the deceased employee resided.
(c)	Employees will have the option to postpone up to one (1) week of their vacation into the next calendar year. The postponed week, like other vacation, must be scheduled in accordance with paragraph (b) above.
2.	The rate of pay for vacation pay shall be based on the employee's current classified salary/rate.
3.	An employee who has started his or her vacation and enters the hospital unexpectedly due to a sickness or accident can reschedule the unused portion of his or her vacation providing the sickness or accident meets the requirements of the Disability Benefit Plan. The vacation days which can be rescheduled shall only be equal to the actual days spent in the hospital to the limit of the employee's vacation schedule and eligibility. Such illnesses or accidents while on vacation requiring hospitalization must be immediately reported to the employee’s supervisor in accordance with the terms of the Disability Benefit Plan. Vacation time to be rescheduled in accordance with the above must be taken within the current calendar year, and must be scheduled as operating conditions permit.
Article 5	- Absences Due to Civic Service
1.	Regular employees temporarily engaged in Jury Duty or Witness Duty, or Election Board Service, shall receive their regular earnings in addition to the compensation received from the public treasury. It is understood, however, that absences for Election Board Service shall be taken with prior approval of the local supervisor. The employee shall immediately notify the local supervisor when he or she has been summoned for Jury Duty or Witness Duty. No expenses shall be paid for absences under
Page - 14 -
this Article. Also, no time will be paid in the case of a proceeding initiated by the employee or in the case of the employee's divorce proceeding.
2.	Regular employees who are members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces or members of the National Guard shall receive their regular eamings in addition to their military pay for the first fifteen calendar days of coinpulsoiy annual training.
3.	Regular employees who are members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces or members of the National Guard shall receive their regular eamings in addition to their military pay for the first fifteen calendar days when called to duty during a civil disorder or natural disaster, which will only be paid on an annual basis.
4.	Regular eamings are based on the employee's regular rate of pay and normal work schedule in effect prior to the absence.
5.	Shift employees temporarily engaged in Jury Duty will be assigned to the first shift or other day work, provided the employee notifies his/her supervisor of the Jury Duty prior to the end of the previous workweek. ~	...	’
Article 6	- Expenses
A.	Per Diem for Expenses and Meals
1.	The Company will pay a per diem for meals and miscellaneous expenses for employees assigned to temporary duty which requires them to be away from home overnight. The per diem rate will be thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per day, or if applicable, six dollars ($6.00) for the .morning meal, eight dollars ($8.00) for the noon meal and sixteen dollars ($16.00) for the evening meal, with five dollars ($5.00) allowed for miscellaneous expenses. Payment will not be made for any meal for an employee living at home. Also, payment will not be made for a morning or a noon-time meal for an employee who stayed at home the previous night even though temporarily assigned to another location. In addition, the Company will pay reasonable expenses for lodging of employees assigned temporary duty which requires them to be away from home -overnight.
2.	The per diem will not be paid for any meal provided by the Company.
B.	Meal Allowance
1.	If an employee is required to work two (2) hours past his/her normal work schedule (i.e., eight, ten, or twelve hour, etc.) he or she shall be entitled to a meal allowance of nine dollars ($9.00) and an additional meal allowance of nine dollars ($9.00) for each four-hour period thereafter. For any overtime scheduled on rest days, an employee must work two (2) hours past his/her normal work schedule (i.e., eight, ten, or twelve hour, etc.) to be entitled to a meal allowance.
2.	Employees called out or assigned unscheduled overtime shall be eligible to receive a nine-dollar ($9.00) meal allowance provided they perform two hours of work during the callout or unscheduled overtime. Employees will also be entitled to an additional meal allowance of nine dollars ($9.00) for each four-hour period thereafter.
C.	Mileage
1.	Employees authorized by their supervisors to drive personal vehicles (cars or trucks) on Company business will be reimbursed as follows:
Page -15-
(a)	Employees filling regular assignments, such as Well Tenders, shall be paid a fixed monthly allowance based on the mileage driven during an average month after deducting the distance to and from the job. This allowance shall be adjusted to the nearest half-dollar and shall be subject to revision yvhen necessary. These employees are to be reimbursed in the following manner when absent from' work for any reasomexcept vacation. When they are absent for five (5) working days, their monthly allowance will be reduced by one-eighth‘(1 /8); if absent for ten (10) working days, their allowance will be reduced by one-fourth (1/4); if absent fifteen (15) working days, the reduction will be three-eighths (3/8); if absent twenty (20) working days or more, there will be no monthly allowance paid. Employees temporarily assigned to fill these jobs will be paid the-actual mileage driven as approved and shall be eligible for the four-dollar ($4.00) daily minimum described in Paragraph 3 below.
(b)	Other employees, regardless of classification, will be reimbursed at the standard mileage rate set by the Internal Revenue Service, except as defined in Section XII, Article 1, Hours of.Work and Overtime.
2.	Employees who are being reimbursed for the use of a personal vehicle for Company business may be required to use their vehicle to transport tools and passengers in the performance of their job as heeded. When two or more eligible employees ride in one car, only one mileage claim will be paid.- —
3.	When employees are required to use their personal vehicles for Company business or are permanently filling jobs which require the use of their personal vehicle, and when the mileage payment resulting from such use totals less than four dollars ($4.00) that day, the Company agrees to pay the employee four dollars ($4.00) for the use of his or her vehicle that day.
D.	Moving Expenses
1.	Regular employees who are transferred permanently to a new headquarters as a result of the provisions of Section XV, Article 1, Employee Selection resulting in an increased commuting distance of more than 50 miles (one way) will be eligible to receive expenses under this article, provided the reporting date for the new position is at least twenty-four (24) months from the last time the employee reported to a new job under the provisions of Section XV, Article 1, and received moving expenses as a result of moving to that new job.
2.	A temporary living allowance of five thousand dollars ($5,000) will be paid to employees to cover all temporary living expenses and house hunting expenses. Employees moving a current residential mobile home will receive a lump sum payment of two thousand dollars ($2,000). Employees will have movement of household goods paid to a moving service or if the employee elects to move himself or herself, receive reimbursement for those expenses. These expenses include: transportation, reasonable insurance, packing and cartons. Employees will receive reimbursement for actual enroute (final move) expenses, which include mileage, lodging, and meals.
3.	An employee transferred permanently and living away from home will be allowed one (1) round trip every two weeks on Company-time for the first 45 calendar days after the effective date of transfer.
4.	Mileage will be paid only for travel to and from home as provided for in Paragraph 3 of this article. None will be paid for commuting at the new' location.
5.	No expenses will be-paid under this article for any employee living at home, except that an employee commuting to a new' work location that results in an increased commuting distance of more than fifty (50) miles (one way) may receive mileage for the first 45 calendar days in lieu of the five thousand dollars ($5,000) temporary living allowance.
E.	Clothing Allowance
1.	The Company will provide uniforms consisting of an initial issue of four (4) pairs of pants, four (4) long sleeve shirts, four (4) short sleeve shirts, and one (1) jacket with removable liner to all employees in the Town Plant Representative, Gas Service Specialist, Meter Reader, and Collector classifications. These employees will be required to wear the ir-uni forms when on the job. The Company will replace items on an as needed basis up to two (2) pairs of pants, two (2). long sleeve shirts and two (2) short sleeve shirts per year. The jacket will be replaced on an as needed basis.
2.	Personal Protective Equipment:	'
(a)	The applicable Standard Operating Procedures issued by Dominion Transmission and Dominion Hope identify those work situations that require the proper use of personal protective equipment by employees.
(b)	The Company will initially provide and will replace, as it deems necessary, the following personal protective equipment at no cost to the employee:
_ (i)	Hard hats;
. (ii) Face shields, non-prescription safety glasses and goggles;
(iii)	Ear plugs/muffs;
(iv)	Specialty gloves; and
(v)	Other special safety equipment such as welding hoods,
respirators, etc., in order to comply with good safety practices.
(c)	Employees will provide appropriate safety toe. work shoes. Employees who wear glasses may provide approved safety prescription glasses in lieu of Company supplied non-prescript ion safety glasses.
(d)	If safety toe work shoes are required for a regular employee's classified job, the Company will pay him/her a forty-five dollar ($45.00) stipend by April 15 of each calendar year to help defray the cost.
3.	Dominion Transmission and Dominion Hope will provide at no cost to union eligible employees fire resistive clothing to be worn by union eligible employees as required by the applicable Dominion Transmission and Dominion Hope SOP 360 - 19 Personal Protective Equipment. See Appendix No. 15.
Page -17-
Article 7	- Time Off for Personal Business
1.	Physical and clerical employees will be allowed time off for personal business with proper and timely approvals. Personal Days will be used for personal business prior to-allowing additional time off under this article, except as provided in Paragraph 3 below.
2.	Payment for such time will only be made in cases where a valid emergency exists. In evaluating emergency cases, supervisors will weigh the extent to which the situation causing the emergency was beyond the employee's control.
3.	Supervisors may, at their discretion, grant up to eight (8) hours time off to attend a funeral. Payment for such time will only be made in cases where the supervisor feels such payment is justified, unless the employee elects to take a’Personal Day or vacation.	-
Article 8	- Death in the Family
1.	In the event of death in the immediate family, an employee shall be allowed three (3) work days with pay at the straight time rate.
2.	"Immediate Family" shall include husband, wife, children, step children, parents, step parents, brothers, step brothers, sisters, step sisters, legal guardian, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandchildren and grandparents of the employee, and grandparents of the employee's spouse.
3.	If travel time is necessary, employee may be granted additional time by immediate supervisor for travel. Such time will be on employee's time and expense.
4.	If a death occurs in the immediate family while the employee is on vacation, the employee will be allowed to reschedule the amount of vacation used in compliance with Paragraphs 1 and 3 above.
Article 9	- Time off for Union Business
1.	Reasonable time off for Union business will be allowed. The Union will give the Company as much advance notification as possible when this time off is required. Such time off will be at Union expense, except as provided in Paragraphs 2 and 3 below.
2.	The Company agrees to pay up to one-hundred eighty (180) days of time for use by Union Officers, Directors, or Representatives to improve communications and to promote understanding of the labor contract, etc. The one-hundred eighty (180) man-day period is the complete total and this agreement is not intended to allow each Officer, Director, or Representative a total of one-hundred eighty (180) man-days each. Pay for such time shall be at base rates and any replacement upgrades resulting from this time off shall not count toward the establishment of a full-time job.
3.	In addition to the foregoing, the Company shall observe a "no-docking" provision for the Union President, Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer, who shall be permitted to attend to the usual business, as in the past, of labor management activities related to grievances and potential grievances, negotiations of the Contract, amendments, modifications, deletions and additions thereto, interpretation of the Contract and its separate provisions, provided that the prior practice of payment by the Company to such Officers for hours that are not worked is discarded, and the Company will hereafter pay
Page -18-
the Union Officers for the actual time that they work in their regular jobs and in those labor management activities described hereinabove.
The Union Officers shall be paid their regular straight time base rate and not be docked for such time while engaged in labor management activities. Such labor management activities shall be performed by the Union Officers as employees of the Company who are entitled to receive all of the same benefits and privileges of their regular job, provided that the time spent in such labor management activities shall not be counted for the purpose of premium or overtime pay. Their hourly pay for such labor management activities shall not exceed 8 hours per day, 40 hours per week, or 1,500 hours per year for each Officer, provided that such time may be extended for just cause, the'request for which will not unreasonably be denied. The 1,500 hour maximum shall include activities credited under Section XII, Article 9, Paragraph 2.
The balance of the regular work year shall be spent on the regular job as an employee, including training,- safety meetings, time off for personal business and emergencies, vacation, holidays, and sick days as provided for under the collective bargaining agreement, other activities as directed by the Company, all of which shall be as employees of the Company. Union activities, whenever performed, will not jeopardize any Officer's status as an employee of the Company.
The Union Officers will he required to provide to the Company on a monthly basis reasonable documentation and, upon request, verification of hours spent on Union business, labor management activities and regular job functions.
The limitation of 1,500 hours .per year for each Officer is an experimental number and may be adjusted by the parties by notice of one to the other at any time for an adjustment to this agreement, and if an agreement cannot be reached, it may be the subject of arbitration.
Article 10	- Safe Working Conditions
1.	The Company will make regulations and-provisions to provide for the safety and health of its employees during their working hours. Each employee will be responsible for adhering to such regulations and provisions. The Company and the Union will cooperate in seeing that employees comply with such regulations and provisions. Employees in all work locations are encouraged to present questions with regard to safety, safety equipment, the elimination of job hazards, etc., to their supervisors. The Safety Meetings held regularly for physical employees in all major work locations, and at least biannually for clerical employees, provide an opportunity to raise such questions. Additionally, annually a safety consultation will be held between representatives of Management and the Representative Council of the Union. Representatives from the Safety Section will also be present at this meeting. The purpose of this meeting is to provide an opportunity for employees and Management to discuss matters of safety and accident prevention in order to reduce both the number and the severity of industrial and automotive accidents.
2.	All contracts for construction work to be performed by persons outside the physical and clerical units will specify that the contractor will comply with all relevant Federal and State safety regulations.
I
Page - 19 -	M
SECTION XIII - ASSIGNMENT OF WORK
1., The Company and the Union,agreeTn principle that bargaining unit work will be performed only by bargaining unit employees. However, it is also recognized and agreed by the parties that there is a significant difference in the way non-bargaining unit Company employees assist in the accomplishment of bargaining unit work. Therefore: - ■“	(a) With regard to the duties assigned to physical unit employees, non-union
eligible employees will not perform such duties except in the case of an emergency. Under no circumstances will the provisions of this clause preclude a salaried employee's right to assign work or cany7 out any of his or her assigned duties or responsibilities, provided these duties are not the same as the duties of any physical employee. ...
(b) With regard to’ the duties assigned to clerical unit employees, non-union eligible employees, including Supervisors, will not perform such duties except to meet temporary work load requirements. It is not Management's intent that this necessary practice results in the layoff of clerical workers.
, Under no circumstances will the provisions of this Section alter a nonunion eligible employee’s right to assign work or to carry out any of his or her assigned duties or responsibilities.
SECTION XIV	- CONTRACTING OF WORK
The Union recognizes that the Company has the right to contract for work to be performed by "persons not in the physical and clerical Bargaining Units. However, the Company will not contract work which directly results in any regular employee being laid-off, demoted, or forced to work less than a normal work week without that employee having been offered a-regular job in accordance with Section XV, Article 3, Reduction in the Work Force.
SECTION XV	- CHANGES IN THE WORK FORCE
Article 1 - Employee Selection -
1.	The matter of promotions, demotions, transfers, and layoffs is recognized as a function of Management except as provided hereafter. It is necessary to fill job vacancies with employees who are qualified for promotion.
2.	Seniority shall be the basis of selecting employees if the employees are available who are properly qualified for promotion. Unless specified otherwise in this Agreement, employees with satisfactory past performance who have demonstrated their ability and fitness to satisfactorily perform the duties of the job to be filled by passing one or more tests, or who, in the absence of a test, demonstrate their ability and fitness by meeting the criteria identified in paragraphs 1, 2, or 3 of Appendix No, 9 will be considered qualified for selection.(l) Management will prepare tests for jobs and the Union will be given the opportunity to review testing material. Testing may include hands on demonstration of skills and knowledge, oral explanations of job duties, and/or written tests.
Page - 20 -
3.	When an opening exists the Company will notify the Union Secretary' and post the job Company-wide within thirty (30) calendar days. Eligible employees may bid by submitting within fifteen (15) calendar days of posting their, written application on the agreed upon form to the appropriate Company designated representative identified on the job posting. Within-seven (7) calendar days following the close of the bidding period or upon completion of the Selection Testing, Management will evaluate bids. First priority wilf be-given to senior qualified and eligible employees from within the Bidding Unit. If.. no selection from within the Bidding Unit is made, second priority will be given to senior qualified and eligible employees within the Bidding Division/Department. If a selection is not made from within the Bidding Division/Department, third priority will be given to senior qualified and eligible employees from other Bidding Divisions and Departments.
4.	If a selection is not made Company-wide, the senior bidder will be given forty-five (45) calendar days to qualify for the opening (unless specified differently within this Agreement). Preference will be given to employees who bid from within the Bidding Unit. If at the end of forty-five (45) days the employee is qualified (s)he will be selected. Only one employee will be allowed the forty-five (45) day period to become qualified under this paragraph.
5.	After the Union has been notified of an employee selection, the selection shall be considered to be final. However, for a period of ten (10) calendar days, any eligible employee who properly bid for the opening shall have the right to initiate a grievance under the established grievance procedure. The informal hearing for any such grievance shall not be heard until the expiration of the ten (10) day period during which - grievances may be initiated. If no informal grievance is initiated, the selection shall be considered final upon the expiration of the ten (10) day period. If a selection is not grieved, the employee selected will be paid the rate of the new job and will receive credited service in classification beginning with the expiration of the ten (10) day grievance period. If business necessitates that the newly selected employee "remain in his/her old job temporarily, neither expenses nor mileage will be paid as they would for other temporary assignments. However, if the opening the employee was selected for is a lower rated job the employee will be paid no less than the rate of the job (s)he is performing.
6.	If no bids are received or if selection is not made in accordance with Paragraphs 2, 3, or 4 of this article Management may recruit outside the Company, to fill the position. However, before filling a position with an applicant from outside the Company who requires training for the position, a training opportunity will be posted in the Bidding Unit where the opening exists. Employees within the Bidding Unit may bid on the training opportunity by submitting within ten (10) calendar days of posting their written application to the appropriate Company designated representative as described in -paragraph 3 of this Article. If at the end of the training period (s)he is qualified, (s)he will be awarded the job. However, if a position remains unfilled after one employee is offered training for a position in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, Management may recruit outside the Company to fill the position.
7.	The Company may place special requirement notices on job postings. Such special notices must be valid requirements directly related to the job.
8.	Employees may bid on any job for which they are qualified at any pay code (up, down, or lateral). Employees may not bid on jobs in their own pay code within their
responsibility center. In order to be eligible for selection, employees on inactive rolls due to long-term illness, leave of absence, or disciplinary7 suspension must be available to perform the job by the expiration of the ten (10) day grievance period.
9.	When an employee accepts a transfer in accordance with the provisions of Article 2 or Article 3 of this Section, the employee will not only have bidding rights in the bidding unit to which (s)he is transferred.but also will retain bidding rights at his/her original Bidding Unit for the length of this' Agreement unless the employee bids out of the Bidding Unit to which the employee was transferred.
FOOTNOTE:
(1)	See Appendix No. 9 - Employee Selection Physical
Article 2	- Involuntary Transfers
1.	A transfer of all the employees in a particular job classification from one payroll location to another will not necessitate following the provisions of paragraph 2 of this article unless the new reporting location is more than twenty-five (25) miles from the old reporting location. A change in a Cost Center number for accounting purposes does not constitute a change in an employee's payroll/reporting location. The Company will agree to pay for a meeting between employee(s) and the Union including mutually agreed to travel time for the purpose of discussing employee options under this Article. Management will be present at all involuntary transfer meetings.
2.	When Management has determined that one or more employees in a particular job classification and the work they perform will be permanently transferred from one payroll location to another, the senior employee in the job classification willbe given an opportunity to volunteer to be transferred. If there are no volunteers or not enough -volunteers, the junior employee will be selected. If no employee desires to transfer to the new location then the reduction will be handled in accordance with Section XV, Changes in the Work Force, Article 3, Reduction in the Work Force.
3.	When the work and employees from more than one payroll location are being merged or combined, the employees (within the particular classification) from all impacted operating locations will be pooled for the purpose of administering paragraph 2 of this Article.
4.	When an employee accepts a transfer in accordance with the provisions of Article 2 or Article 3 of this Section, the employee will not only have bidding rights in the bidding unit to which (s)he is transferred but also will retain bidding rights at his/her original Bidding Unit for the length of this Agreement unless the employee bids out of the Bidding Unit to which the employee was transferred.
5.	The provisions of this article in no way limit Management’s right to make temporary assignments as provided for in Article 4 of this Section, or to reassign clerical employees in the General Office (at either Dominion Transmission, Inc. or Dominion Hope).
Article 3	- Reduction in the Work Force
1.	Management has the right and responsibility to reduce payroll costs by eliminating jobs that are no longer necessary7. When Management plans to eliminate a job after a vacancy has occurred, they will notify the Union within thirty (30) days or the job will be posted in accordance with Section XV, Article 1, Employee Selection.
Page - 22 -
2.	When the Company has determined that a certain number of jobs will be eliminated in a specific job classification and at a specific payroll location, the senior employee(s) in that job classification at that location will be given an opportunity to volunteer to be- declared surplus. If there are not enough volunteers, the junior employee(s) in the designated location and job classification will be declared surplus. - -
3.	When the work of employees from more than one payroll, location is being merged, the employees (within the particular classification) from all impacted payroll 7 locations will be pooled for the purpose of administering paragraph 2 of this Article.
4.	Employees declared surplus under the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this article will have the option to bump union employees as outlined under the provisions of Section XIX, Modified Bumping.
5.	Surplus employees will be.offered a transfer to other regular jobs for which they are qualified, if such-positions are available. If more than one employee is surplus, senior qualified employees will be given first choice. If they accept such job offers, the employees will be grandfathered in rate. That is, his/her rate of pay will not be reduced unless the employee bids down or-is demoted for disciplinary reasons. The employee will be eligible to receive negotiated increases in pay. Employees considering transfers to jobs which require moving their household under this paragraph, shall be given up to two (2) paid days, if necessary to visit the new location before accepting or rejecting the transfer offer.
6.	In assessing a surplus employee's qualifications for selecting a job:
(a) Except as provided for in (b)-(d)_ below to accept a job an employee must be qualified to be selected under the provisions of Section XV, Article 1. Appendix No. 5, Appendix No. 6, Appendix No. 9.
■ - (b) Any physical employee, will be considered qualified to accept any physical job vacancy Grade 3 or lower (including all levels in the Field/Distribution Worker and Compressor Station Operator Rate Schedule) except for progression jobs.
(c)	Any clerical employee will be considered qualified to accept any clerical job vacancy Grade 3 or lower (including all levels in clerical pay schedule jobs) except for progression jobs. Employees must also have passed the Clerical Aptitude Test and applicable skills tests.
(d)	Any employee will be considered qualified to accept any job which (s)he previously held.
7.	If a surplus employee has to leave his or her location due to a reduction in the work force and his or her previous job becomes reinstated within twelve (12) months, that employee has first rights to the job. In addition, that employee will be eligible for moving expenses as outlined in Section XII, Article 6, Expenses, D, Moving Expenses, of the current labor Agreement.
8.	If surplus employees refuse to accept such offers or if regular jobs for which they are qualified are not available they will be terminated and will be given call back rights within their former bidding Department/Division and severance pay. Severance pay will be equal to two (2) weeks at their current rate of pay for each year of credited service up to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks of pay. Any terminated surplus
Page - 23 -
I I I
I I a a a a a a a a a
employee will be eligible for a minimum of twelve (12) weeks severance pay. Call back rights for regular jobs will be in effect for the term of this Agreement.
9.	Surplus employees who are .qualified may elect to bump into currently filled casual positions Avithin their bidding Department/Division. If they bump, their rate of pay will be adjusted to the appropriate casual rate and their benefits will be adjusted to reflect their casual status. Any regular employee who bumps into a casual.position will not be eligible for moving expenses. If regular employees bump casual employees and are subsequently laid off from their casual position they will have casual call back rights for twelve (12) months from the date they were laid off from their casual positions as described in Section XV, Article 6, paragraph 2.	. .
10.	No job will be offered to terminated former employees eligible for call-back until the job has been offered to current employees or surplus employees (if any) under the provisions of:	- i. Section XV Changes in the Work Force
Article 1 Employee Selection.
ii.	Section XV Changes in the Work Force ArticleJLReduction in the Work Force. Paragraph 5
11.	When a position is available to be offered to former regular employees who were terminated in accordance with Paragraph 8 of this Article, they will be notified by mail at the address they last supplied to Human Resources with a copy to the Secretary of the Union. They will have seven days to respond in writing to the designated Company official. Jobs will be awarded to the qualified senior employees. The criteria specified in Article 1, paragraph 2 of this Section will be used in assessing employees' qualifications.
12.	Senior qualified former employees who were terminated in a Reduction in the Work Force will be given preferential treatment in hiring for casual positions for twelve (12) months within their former bidding Division/Department.
13.	For the provisions of this Article. Dominion Transmission, Inc.’s General Office is considered to be a single location. Similarly General Office employees at Dominion Hope will be grouped together, not separated by payroll locations, for the provisions of this Article.
Article 4	- Moving Expenses for Surplused Employees
1.	Regular employees who are transferred permanently to a new headquarters as a result of the provisions of Section XV, Article 2, Involuntary Transfers and Article 3, Reduction in the Work Force resulting in an increased commuting distance of more than twenty-five (25) miles (one way) will have their moving-related expenses paid as-outlined below, except employees moving under the provisions of Section XIX, Modified Bumping. Employees moving because of bumping another employee will only be eligible for a fifteen hundred dollar ($1,500) lump sum to cover movement of household goods and en-route expenses.
(a)	A one-time lump sum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250) for house hunting expenses.
(b)	Temporary living expenses - Five thousand dollars ($5,000) will be paid to employees to cover all temporary living expenses and incidental moving expenses not outlined below.
I
I
Page - 24 -
(c)	Movement of household goods where an employee may elect to use a Company-paid moving service or receive reimbursement for expenses incurred while moving himself br herself.
(d)	En-route expenses incurred during the final trip to the new residence.
(e)	A lump sum payment of two thousand dollars ($2,000) to move a current residential mobile home.
2.	Once the employee has started,reporting to his/her new location, he/she will — ■ receive five hundred dollars ($500) per month, up to twelve (12) months, provided he/she continues to report to that new location.
3.	If the employee remains on the job through the end of the calendar year and has incurred moving expenses during that year, the Company will pay a fifty percent (50%) gross-up of the employee's taxable moving expenses paid under Paragraph 1 of this article.
4.	An employee transferred permanently and living away from home will be -allowed one (1) round trip every two (2) weeks on Company time for the first forty-five (45) calendar days after the effective date of the transfer. Mileage will be paid only for travel to and from home for the round trip. None will be paid for commuting at the new location.
5.	No expenses will be paid under this article for any employee living at home, except that an employee commuting to a new work .location resulting in an increased commuting distance of more than twenty-five (25) miles (one way) may receive mileage for the first forty-five (45) calendar days in lieu of the five thousand dollars ($5,000) paid to cover the temporary living expenses. —
Article 5	- Temporary Assignment
1.	Temporary assignments do not fall within .the notification and posting provisions of the Employee Selection Article of this Agreement. Employees may request to be excused from temporary assignments for personal reasons. Management will evaluate such requests. This is not to be interpreted as allowing employees to refuse temporary assignments, particularly those which may involve undesirable working conditions. Also, when a temporary assignment outside an employee's payroll location requires staying away from home overnight, a senior employee may request to be excused from the assignment. Management will accommodate the request, provided - there is a qualified junior employee in the payroll location available for assignment.
2.	Regular employees assigned to a temporary work location and living away from home will be allowed one round trip per week on Company time except where the assignment is for training purposes in which case the employee will be allowed one round trip home on Company time every two weeks. If a serious personal emergency arises and an employee desires to return home during a training period. Management will normally permit such a trip if justified by the severity of the employee's situation.
Article 6	- Casual Employ ees/Temporaries
A.	Casual Employees
1.	Casual employees who are filling regular jobs and who satisfactorily meet the Company's employment requirements shall be made regular after twelve (12) months of
Page - 25 -
I I I
I I
I I
I I I
I I I I I
I I
continuous employment. Also, the Company agrees that they shall not be terminated for the sole purpose of breaking their continuous employment.
2.	Casual employees hired for specific periods of work, such as for summer employment, to meet temporary work load requirements, or to temporarily, replace regular employees, are not eligible for consideration under Paragraph 1 above. However, such casual employees will be given recall preference at the payroll location from which they were laid off as follows:
(a)	To be eligible for recall the casual employee must have been recommended for rehire at the time he/she was laid off.
(b)	Recall preference rights will be valid only for twelve (12) months.
(c)	The layoff/recall cycle within a payroll location will be as follows:
(i)	A senior qualified former regular employee who bumped a casual or was terminated under the provisions of Article 3 of this Section will be given preferential treatment for twelve (12) months within his or her former bidding Division/ Department.
(ii)	Except as provided for in paragraph (i) above:
*	Casual employees will be laid off on a first in, last out basis.
*	Former casual employees with recall preference rights will be recalled on a last out, first in basis.
3.	Casual employees hired or rehired after January 1, 1996, will be paid the appropriate casual rate in Section XX-B and Section XXI-B.
B.	Temporaries
1.	Prior to hiring a temporary to perform Union eligible work, the Company will , notify the Union of the work to be performed and the anticipated duration of the assignment.
Article 7	- Letter of Interest	— -
An employee may express interest in any job vacancy by submitting a letter of interest to his or her immediate Supervisor with a copy to the Manager, Labor Relations and the Union Secretary setting forth the reason(s) for such request. However, Management has no obligation to consider such requests.
Article 8	- Upgrade
1.	When a clerical employee is assigned by his or her supervisor to perform the duties of a higher rated clerical job, he or she shall be paid ten percent (10%) above his or her base rate if the assignment is for a continuous two (2) hour period. Supervisors will not reassign an employee on such an assignment for the sole purpose of avoiding the payment of this premium. Senior, qualified, and available employees in the payroll location will be given first consideration in making such assignments.
2.	Physical employees temporarily assigned to a job in a higher pay grade shall receive the higher rate for each hour worked. Senior, qualified, and available employees in the payroll location will be given first consideration in making such assignments.
3.	If one or more employee(s) is upgraded to a specific job in a specific payroll location for over 1040 hours in a calendar year, the hours that could have been worked by one employee, excluding any overtime, will be added. If the resulting total is over 1040
Page - 26 -
and if Management determines that the work is permanent and recurring, a new job exists and will be filled in accordance with the provisions of this-Section.
4.	Upgrade will be paid to any regular employee for temporary assignment to Well Tender or Compressor Station Operator-Start if an employee is assigned to work either of the above for a period of twenty (20) consecutive calendar days or more. If an employee, has vacation during a temporary assignment which" was scheduled prior to the beginning of the assignment, the days-assigned immediately preceding and following the vacation time will be counted as consecutive. A break in the assignment for any other reason will not be bridged.
5.	Upgrade will be paid to any regular employee for temporary assignment to Meter Reader, if the assignment is for a period of one (1) regular work day or more.
6.	When Management determines that a reserve is needed for a physical progression position, a training opportunity will be posted and the senior employee from the payroll location who expresses interest will normally be given an opportunity to attend orientation and testing. However^ -in some instances Management may determine it is more efficient to select a reserve from a group of payroll locations or from the entire Bidding Unit-
Article 9	- New Regular Employees
Newly hired regular employees will be on probation for the first twelve (12) months following employment during which time they may be terminated by the Company without recourse to the grievance procedure of the Agreement. -
SECTION XVI - BENEFITS
The Dominion Transmission and Hope Gas Union Savings Plan, the Dominion Transmission and Hope Gas Union Pension Plan and the Dominion Transmission & Hope Gas Union Welfare Benefit Plan, which includes Medical Insurance, Dental Insurance, Vision Care, Employee Group Life Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance, Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance, Survivor Benefit Insurance, Long Term Disability Insurance, and Health and Dependent Care Spending Accounts, shall be governed solely by the provisions of such plans. No changes affecting benefits or increasing employee contributions as provided on the date of this Agreement may be made in such plans unless by agreement between the Union and the Company. The Company reserves the right to replace the carrier or service provider with another carrier or service provider upon sixty (60) days prior notice to the Service Employees International Union, Local No. 69-11, AFL-CIO. in conjunction with any of the above named Benefit Plans.
SECTION XVII - EFFECT OF INVALIDITY
1.	Any provision of this Agreement which shall be in violation of applicable public laws or regulations shall be deemed void, but shall have no effect on the remaining portions of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Page - 27 -
SECTION XVIII - TERMINATION
This Agreement shall be in effect until 11:59 a.m., April 1, 20051 and for renewal periods of one year thereafter, unless canceled by either party by giving notice in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to April 1, 2005, or sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of any subsequent one-year period. This Agreement may be amended or canceled at any time'by mutual written agreement.
SECTION XIX - MODIFIED BUMPING(i)
1. When the Company ha's determined that a certain number of jobs will be eliminated in a specific job classification and at a specific payroll location, employees will be declared surplus in accordance with Section XV, Article 3, Paragraph
.. 2. A surplus employee will have his/her future employment status handled in accordance with Paragraphs 3 through 13 of Section XV. Article 3, unless he/she is eligible and elects the Modified Bumping provisions of Paragraph 3 below. To be eligible to elect Modified Bumping, he/she must have been involuntarily declared surplus.
3.	An employee involuntarily declared surplus may elect to participate in the following Modified Bumping procedure:
a. A list of surplus employees from the specific payroll location who elect to bumpiw7ill be prepared.
* b. A list of least senior employees from the same payroll location will be prepared. This list will contain the same number of names as the list prepared in Paragraph (a) above. In preparing this list, beginning with the least senior employee from the work location, a name will be excluded from this list for any of the following reasons:
~(i) The employee holds a job that none of the surplus -	employees (Paragraph (a) above) is eligible to select
(Paragraph (e) below.)
(ii)	The employee is senior to the surplus employee(s) (Paragraph (a) above) who are eligible to select (Paragraph (e) below) this employee’s job.
(iii)	The employee is the second, third, fourth, etc., employee in a non-entry job classification and there are not enough surplus employees (Paragraph (a) above) eligible or senior enough to select (Paragraph (e) below) any more jobs in this employee’s job classification than those held by employees already listed.
c. The lists from Paragraph (a) and Paragraph (b) will be combined. If an employee's name is on both lists, his/her name will appear only once on the combined list.
*d. A list of the jobs held by the least senior employees (Paragraph (b) above) will be prepared. If any of these least senior employees is a surplus employee (Paragraph (a) above), then he/she does not hold a job to be placed on this list.	___
Page - 28 -
e.	Based on seniority and qualifications (with senior employees selecting first) the employees from the combined list (Paragraph (c) above) will be allowed to select jobs from the list prepared in Paragraph (d) above. All employees will be eligible to select entry level jobs. (See Section XV, Article 3, Paragraph 6 (b) and (c) for definition of entry level jobs.) To be eligible to select a position other than an entry level job, an employee must have previously held that job classification and must currently be qualified for it. Employees will'be given credit for any time previously worked in a job classification.
f.	Employees who select jobs in the selection process described in Paragraph (e) will immediately “have their pay adjusted to the rate of the job-they selected and will have bidding rights based on the selected job. However, in no event will an employee have his/her rate of pay reduced by more than eight percent (8%) in any one bump. (Employees will NOT be red circled.)
g.	Employees who did not choose to select a job in the selection described in Paragraph (e) will have their future employment status handled in accordance with Paragraphs 3 through 13 of Section XV, Article 3, of this Agreement.
h.	If an employee was bumped, did not get an opportunity to select a job, and is senior-to employees who were excluded from the list in Paragraph (b) above (s)he may elect to initiate another bump as described above. If a senior employee who was bumped does initiate such a secondary bump, only the senior employee(s) who was bumped and the junior employee(s)-who was excluded from the list in Paragraph (b) above will be involved.
i.	If an employee who was bumped, did not get an opportunity to select a job, and is senior to employees who were excluded from the list in Paragraph (b) does not elect to initiate a secondary bump as provided for in Paragraph (h) then his/her future employment status will be handled in accordance with Paragraphs 3 through 13 of Section XV, Article 3, of this Agreement.
*NOTE:	If there are available vacant positions at the payroll location in question,
each available vacant position will be placed on the list referred to in Paragraph (d). Also, for each such available vacant position, the number of least senior employees on the list referred to in Paragraph (b) will be reduced by one (1).
4.	Employees who did not get an opportunity to select a job in the bumping described in Paragraph 3 above and who did not waive their right to initiate a secondary bump in Paragraph 3(h) may elect to initiate a bidding unit wide bump as follows:
a. A list of surplus employees from the specific bidding unit who elect to bump will be prepared.
*b. A list of least senior employees from the same bidding unit will be prepared. This list will contain the same number of names as the list prepared in Paragraph (a) above. In preparing this list, beginning with the least senior employee from the bidding unit, a name will be excluded from this list for any of the following reasons:
Page - 29 -
(i)	The employee holds a job that none of the surplus employees (Paragraph (a) above) is eligible to select
‘ ~	(Paragraph (e) below.)
(ii)	The employee-is senior to the surplus employee(s) " (Paragraph (a) above) who are eligible to. select (Paragraph (e) below) this employee’s job.
(iii)	The employee is the second, third, fourth, etc., employee in a non-entry job classification and there are not enough surplus employees (Paragraph (a) above) eligible or senior enough to select (Paragraph (e) below) any more jobs in this employee’s job classification than those held by employees already listed.
c. The lists from Paragraph (a) and Paragraph (b) will be combined. .If an employee's name is on both lists, his/her name will appear only once on the combined list.
*d. A list of the jobs held by the least senior employees (Paragraph (b) above) will be prepared. If any of these least senior employees is a surplus employee (Paragraph (a) above), then he/she does not hold a job to be placed on this list.
e.	Based on seniority and qualifications (with senior employees selecting first) the employees from the combined list (Paragraph (c) above) will be allowed io select jobs from the list prepared in Paragraph (d) above. All employees will be eligible to select entry level jobs. (See Section XV, Article 3, Paragraph 6 (b) and (c) for definition of entry level jobs.) To be eligible to select a position other than an entry level job, an employee must have previously held that job classification and must currently be qualified for it. Employees will be given credit for any time previously worked in a job classification.
f.	Employees who select jobs in the selection process described in Paragraph (e) will immediately have their pay adjusted to the rate of the job they selected and will have bidding rights based on the selected job. However, in no event will an employee have his/her rate of pay reduced by more than eight percent (8%) in any one bump. (Employees will NOT be red circled.) _
g.	Employees who did not choose to select a job or did not get an opportunity to select a job in the selection described in Paragraph (e) will have their future employment status handled in accordance with Paragraphs 3 through 13 of Section XV, Article 3, of the Agreement. However, if an employee was bumped, did not get an opportunity to select a job, and is senior to employees who were excluded from the list in Paragraph (b) above he/she may elect to initiate another bump as described above. If a senior employee who was bumped does initiate such a secondary bump, only the senior employee(s) who was bumped and the junior employee(s) who was excluded from the list in Paragraph (b) above will be involved.
h.	If ah employee who was bumped, did not get an opportunity to select a job, and is senior to employees who were excluded from the list in
Page - 30 -
Paragraph (b) does not elect to initiate a secondary bump as provided for in Paragraph (g) then his/her future employment status will be handled in accordance with Paragraphs 3 through 13 of Section XV, Article 3, of this ___... Agreement.
*NOTE: If there are available vacant positions in the bidding unit in question, each available vacant position will be placed on the list referred to in Paragraph (d). Also, for each such available vacant position, the number of-least senior employees on the list referred to in Paragraph (b) will be reduced by one (1).
FOOTNOTE:
(1) General Office employees at Dominion Transmission, Inc. will be grouped together, not separated by payroll locations, for all bumping provisions. Similarly General Office employees at DomiriiorTHope, will be.grouped together, not separated by payroll locations, for all bumping provisions.
Page -31-
SECTION XX(A) - CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE April 1.2002 DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC. AND DOMINION HOPE UNION CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCHEDULE ---EMPLOYEES MADE REGULAR PRIOR TO JANUARY 1. 1996	. . PAY SCHEDULE BASED ON CREDITED SERVICE IN CLASSIFICATION 120-DAY	MAXIMUM
GRADE MINIMUM PROGRESSION 2-YEARS	4-YEARS	6-YEARS S-YEARS
001. -	■■■ $1450	$1527	$1622	$1721	$1926-	$2025
002	1547.	1634	1740	1848	2060	2169
003	1740	1826	1942	2066	2305	2428 -—
004	1887	1980	2114	2239	2505	2636
005	2022	2124	2267	2401	2683	2823
006	2161	2272	2418	2569	2876	3019
007	2301	2417	- -—2574	2738	3055	3213
008	2401	2525	2686 ~	’	‘ 2855	3189	3358
009	2572	2703	2883	3058	3420	3597
010	2675	2805	2993	.3178	3547	3734
on	2762	2903	3094	3288	3671	3859
SPECIAL CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULES
38003	Stenographer-Clerk Level ] - Grade 3	39019 Key Punch Operator - Grade 3	38023	Word Processor. Start - Grade 3
38002	Stenographer-Clerk Level 11 - Grade 5	39081 Key Punch/Verifier Opr, - Grade 4 39020 Verifier Operator - Grade 5 SPECIAL PROGRESSION SCHEDULES	38024 38025	Word Processor. Level 1 - Grade 5 Word Processor, Level 11 - Grade 6
37081	Accounting Clerk, Start - Grade 5	-----	34342 City Plant Clerk. Start - Grade 5	34489	Rent & Rovalties Clerk. Start - Grade 5
37082	Accounting Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	34343 City Plant Clerk, Level 1 - Grade ?	34490	Rent & Rovalties Clerk, Level - Grade 7
37083	Accounting Clerk, Level II - Grade 8	34344 Cily Plant Clerk, Level II - Grade 8	34491	Rent & Royalties Cierk. Level It - Grade 8
37084	Accounting Clerk, Level III - Grade 9	34345 City Plant Clerk, Level III - Grade 9	34492	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level HI - Grade 9
34347	Field Clerk, Start - Grade 5	34126 Gas Measurement Clerk, Start - Grade 5	36020	Customer Account Clerk. Start - Grade 3
34348	Field Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	34163 Gas Measurement Clerk. Level ] - Grade 7	36021	Customer Account Clerk, Level I Grade 5
34349	Field Clerk, Level 11 - Grade 8	34165_Gas Measurement Clerk, Level II - Grade 8	36022	Customer Account Clerk, Level 11 - Grade 6
34350	Field Clerk, Level III - Grade 9	34195 Gas Measurement Clerk. Level Ill - Grade 9	36023	Customer Account Cierk. Level HI - Grade 9
	GRADE 001		GRADE 005 (CONT’D)		GRADE 008
39024	Messenger	38002	Stenographer-Clerk, Level 11	37083	Accounting Clerk. Level II
38004	Typist-Clerk	39044	Telephone Switchboard Operator	34344	Citv Plant Clerk, Level II
		34183	Tracer	34153	Telecommunications Clerk
	GRADE 002	39020	Verifier Operator	34349	Field Clerk, Level 11
39025	Slock Room Clerk	38024	Word Processor. Level i	34165	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level II
		-		34491	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level II
	GRADE 003		GRADE 006	39062	Microfilm Equipment Operator
36020	Customer Account Clerk-Stan	34113	Gas & By-Products Tester	38028	Word Processor. Leader
39026	Copying Machine Operator	36022	Customer Account Clerk, Level 11		
38182	General Office Clerk	39030	Printing Machine Operator		GRADE 009
39019	Key Punch Operator	39031	Stationery Clerk	36023	Customer Account Clerk, Level 111
38008	Receptionist	38025	Word Processor. Level 11	37084	Accounting Clerk, Level III
39028	Records Storage Clerk	39090	Environmental Clerk	34345	City Plant Clerk. Level 111
38003	Stenographer-Clerk. Level 1	39095	Engineering Clerk	34350	Field Clerk. Level III
38023	Word Processor, Start			34247	Gas & By-Products Tester. Sr.
			GRADE 007	34195	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level III
	GRADE 004	37082	Accounting Clerk. Level I	34111	Instrument Person
39029	Stock Room Clerk, Sr.	34343	City Plant Clerk. Level 1	34492	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level III
39081	Key Punch/Verifier Operator	34125	Draftsperson	34138	Production Clerk
		39023	Electronic Data Processor, Sr.	34108	Storage Clerk
	GRADE 005	34245	Extraction Plant Clerk		
37081	Accounting Clerk. Start	34348	Field Clerk, Level 1		GRADE 010
34342	City Plant Clerk, Start	34163	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level 1	34346	City Plant Clerk. Leader
36021	Customer Account Clerk. Level 1	34490	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level J	34297	Draftsperson. Division
39022	Electronic Data Processor	35012	Marketing & Rates Clerk, General	34104	Draftsperson. Sr.
34347	Field Clerk, Stan	34122	Purchasing Clerk	34338	Extraction Plant Clerk, Leader
34126	Gas Measurement Clerk, Start	34171	Traffic Clerk	34351	Field Clerk, Leader
34489	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Start	39064	Phototypesetting Specialist		
39027	Mail Clerk	37080	Information Systems Specialist		GRADE Oil
35011	Marketing and Rates Clerk			34192	Lease Ownership Clerk
Both parties agree to use the 1996 Job Descriptions
Page - 32 -
SECTION XX(B) - CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2002 J
DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC. AND DOMINION HOPE UNION CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCHEDULE EMPLOYEES MADE REGULAR AFTER JANUARY 1,1996 PAY SCHEDULE BASED ON CREDITED SERVICE IN CLASSIFICATION
GRADE	START RATE 2-YEARS	4-YEARS
BOI	$1527	$1622	$1721 ‘
B02	1634	1740	1848
B03	1826	1942	2066
B04	1980	2114	2239
B05	2124	2267	2401
B06	2272	2418	2569
B07	2417	2574	2738
-B08	2525	2686	2855
B09	2703	2883	3058 .
BIO	2805”	2993	3178
Bll	2903’	3094	3288
SPECIAL CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULES
B8003 Slenographer-Clerk Level 1 - Grade 3		B9019 Key Punch Operator ■ Grade 3 B9081 Key Punch/Verifier Opr - Grade 4 B9020 Verifier Operator - Grade 5 SPECIAL PROGRESSION SCHEDULES D4342 City Plant Clerk, Stan - Grade 3 B4343 City Plant Clerk, Level I - Grade 7 B4344 City Plant Clerk. Level 11 - Grade 8 B4345 City Plant Clerk, Level JU - Grade 9		B8023 Word Processor, Stan - Grade 3 B8O24 Word Processor, Level 1 - Grade 5	
B8002 B7081 B7082 B7O83 B7084	Stenographer-Clerk Level 11 - Grade 5 Accounting Clerk, Starr - Grade 5 Accounting Clerk. Level 1 - Grade 7 Accounting Clerk, Level I) - Grade 8 Accounting Clerk. Level UI - Grade 9				
				B8O23 B4489 B4490 B449! B4492	Word Processor, Level II - Grade 6 Rent & Royalties Clerk. Start - Grade 5 Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level - Grade 7 Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level 11 - Grade 8 Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level III - Grade 9
04347	Field Clerk. Start - Grade 5	B4126	Gas Measurement Clerk; Stan - Grade 5	B6O2O	Customer Account Clerk, Start - Grade 3
B4348	Field Clerk, Level I - Grade 7	B4163	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	B602I	Customer Account Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 3
B4349	Field Clerk. Level II - Grade 8	B4165	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level 11 - Grade 8	B6022	Customer Account Clerk.. Level II - Grade 6
B4350	Field Clerk, Level 111 - Grade 9	B4195	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level III - Grade 9	B6023	Customer Account Clerk. Level 111 - Grade 9
	GRADE 001		GRADE 005 (CONT’D.		GRADE 008
B9024	Messenger	B8002	Stenographer-Clerk, Level H	B7O83	Accounting Clerk. Level II
B8004	Typist-Clerk	B9044	Telephone Switchboard Operator	B4344	City Plant Clerk, Level 11
		B4183-	-Tracer	B4153	Telecommunications Clerk
	GRADE 002	B9020	Verifier Operator	B4349	Field Clerk. Level II
B9025	Stock Room Clerk	B8024	Word Processor, Level I	B4165	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level II '
				B4491	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level II
	GRADE 003		GRADE 006	B9062	Microfilm Equipment Operator
B6020	Customer Account Clerk-Start	B41I3	Gas & By-Products Tester	B8028	Word Processor, Leader
B9026	Copying Machine Operator	B6022	Customer Account Clerk, Level II		
B8182	General Office Clerk	B9030	Printing Machine Operator		GRADE 009
B9019	Key Punch Operator	B9O31	Stationery Clerk	B6O23	Customer Account Clerk, Level 111
B8008	Receptionist	B8025	Word Processor, Level JI	B7084	Accounting Clerk, Level III
B9028	Records Storage Clerk	B9090	Environmental Clerk	B4345	City Plant Clerk, Level III
.B8003	Stenographer-Clerk. Level I	B9095	Engineering Clerk	B4350	Field Clerk, Level III
B8023	Word Processor, Start			B4247	Gas & By-Products Tester, Sr.
			GRADE 007	B4195	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level III
	GRADE 004	B7082	Accounting Clerk, Level 1	B411I	Instrument Person
B9029	Stock Room Clerk, Sr.	B4343	City Plant Clerk, Level 1	B4492	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level III
B9081	Key Punch/Verifier Operator	B4I25	Draftsperson	B4138	Production Clerk
		B9023	Electronic Data Processor, Sr.	B4108	Storage Clerk
	GRADE 005	B4245	Extraction Plant Clerk		
B70S1	Accounting Clerk. Start	B4348	Field Clerk, Level 1		GRADE 010
B4342	City Plant Clerk. Start	B4I63	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level I	B4346	City Plant Clerk, Leader
B6021	Customer Account Clerk. Level I	B4490	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level I	B4297	Draftsperson, Division
B9022	Electronic Data Processor	B5012	Marketing & Rates Clerk, General	B4I04	Draftsperson, Sr.
B4347	Field Clerk. Stan	B4122	Purchasing Clerk	B4338	Extraction Plant Clerk, Leader
B4126	Gas Measurement Clerk, Start	B4171	Traffic Clerk	B435]	Field Clerk. Leader
B4489	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Start	B9064	Phototypesetting Specialist		
B9027	Mail Clerk	B7080	Information Systems Specialist		GRADE Oil
B5011	Marketing and Rates Clerk			B4I92	Lease Ownership Clerk
Both parties agree to use the 1996 Job Descriptions
Page - 33 -
SECTION XX(A) - CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE AT THE TIME UNION CLERICAL EMPLOYEES ARE CHANGED FROM SEMI-MONTHLY TO HOURLY
DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC.
AND DOMINION HOPE UNION CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCHEDULE EMPLOYEES MADE REGULAR PRIOR TO JANUARY L 1996
SPECIAL CLERICAL PAV SCHEDULES
38003	Stenographer-Clerk Level I - Grade 3	39019 Kev Punch Operator - Grade 3	3SO23	Word Processor, Start - Grade 3
.38002	Stenographer-Clerk Level 11 - Grade 5	39081 Kev Pune h/Ver ill er Opr - Grade 4	38024	Word Processor, Level 1 - Grade 5
		39020 Verifier Operator - Grade 5	38025	Word Processor, Level II - Grade 6
		SPECIAL PROGRESSIONS' SCHEDULES ~		
37081-	Accounting Clerk. Start - Grade 5	34342 Citv Plant Clerk, Start - Grade 5	34489	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Stan - Grade 5
37082	Accounting Clerk. Level 1 - Grade 7	34343 Citv Plant Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	34490	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level - Grade 7
37083	Accounting Clerk. Level IJ - Grade 8	34344 Citv Plant Clerk, Level 11 - Grade 8	34491	Rent &. Royalties Clerk. Level H - Grade 8
37084	Accounting Clerk, Level ill • Grade 9	34343 City Plant Clerk, Level Hl - Grade 9	34492	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level Ill • Grade 9
34347	Field Clerk. Stan - Grade 5	34126 Gas Measurement Clerk, Start - Grade 5	36020	Customer Account Clerk. Start - Grade 3
34348	Field Clerk, Level J - Grade 7	”34163 Gas Measurement Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	3602)	Customer Account Clerk. Level 1 - Grade 5
34349	Field Clerk. Level !1 - Grade 8	34165 Gas Measurement Clerk. Level II • Grade 8	36022	Customer Account Clerk, Level 11 - Grade 6
34350	Field Clerk, Level HI - Grade 9	34195 Gas Measurement Clerk. Level III - Grade 9	36023	Customer Account Clerk. Level 111 - Grade 9
—	GRADE00I -SI1.69/hr.		GRADE 005 (CONT’D|-S16.29/hr.		GRADE 008-S1938/hr
39024	Messenger	38002	Stenographer-Clerk, Level II	37083	Accounting Clerk, Level 11
38004	Typist-Clerk	39044	Telephone Switchboard Operator	- 34344	City Plant Clerk, Level II
		34183	Tracer	34153	Telecommunications Clerk
	GRADE 002 -S12.52/hr.	39020	Verifier Operator	34349	Field Clerk. Level 11
39025	Stock Room Clerk	38024 -	-Word Processor, Level 1	34165	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level II
				34491	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level II
	GRADE 003 - $14.01/hr.		GRADE 006-S17,42/hr.	39062	Microfilm Equipment Operator
36020	Customer Account Clerk-Start	34113.	Gas & By-Products Tester	38028	Word Processor. Leader
39026	Copying Machine Operator	36022	Customer Account Clerk. Level II		
38182	General Office Clerk	39030	Printing Machine Operator		GRADE 009 - S20.76/hr.
39019	Key Punch Operator	39031	Stationery' Clerk	36023	Customer Account Clerk. Level III
38008	Receptionist	38025	Word Processor, Level 11	37084	Accounting Clerk. Level III
39028	Records Storage Clerk	39090	Environmental Clerk	34345	City Plant Clerk. Level III
38003	Stenographer-Clerk, Level I	39095	Engineering Clerk	34350	Field Clerk. Level 111
38023	Word Processor. Start			34247	Gas & By-Products Tester. Sr.
			GRADE 007 - S18.54/hr,	34195	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level 111
	GRADE 004 - S15.2I/hr.	37082	Accounting Clerk, Level 1	34111	Instrument Person
39029	Stock Room Clerk. Sr.	34343	City Plant Clerk, Level 1	34492	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level III
39081	Key Punch/Verifier Operator	34125	Draftsperson	34138	Production Clerk
		39023	Electronic Data Processor. Sr.	34108	Storage Clerk	—
	GRADE 005 - SI6.29/hr,	34245	Extraction Plant Clerk		
37081	Accounting Clerk. Start	34348	Field Clerk, Level 1		GRADE 010-S21.55/hr
34342	City Plant Clerk. Start	34163	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level I	34346	City Plant Clerk, Leader
36021	Customer Account Clerk. Level 1	34490	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level 1	34297	Draftsperson, Division
39022	Electronic Data Processor	35012	Marketing & Rates Clerk, General	34104	Draftsperson, Sr.
34347	Field Clerk. Start	34122	Purchasing Clerk	34338	Extraction Plant Clerk, Leader
34126	Gas Measurement Clerk, Start	’34171	Traffic Clerk	34351	Field Clerk, Leader
34489	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Start	39064	Phototypesetting Specialist		
39027	Mail Clerk	37080	information Systems Specialist		GRADE - Oil -S22.27/hr.
35011	Marketing and Rates Clerk			34192	Lease Ownership Clerk
Both parties agree to use the 1996 Job Descriptions
Page - 34 -
SECTION XX(B) - CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE AT THE TIME UNION CLERICAL EMPLOYEES ARE CHANGED FROM SEMI-MONTHLY TO HOURLY
DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC. AND DOMINION HOPE UNION CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCHEDULE EMPLOYEES MADE REGULAR AFTER JANUARY 1,1996
	Casual Grade 001	$8.91/hr.
	Casual Grade 002	9.53/hr.
	Casual Grade 003	. 10.65/hr.
	Casual Grade 004	11.54/hr.
	Casual Grade 005	12.38/hr.
SPECIAL CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULES
B8003 B8002	Stenographer-Clerk Level I - Grade 3 Stenographer-Clerk Level II - Grade 5	BOO 19 Key Punch Operator - Grade 3 B90S J Kev Punc'n/Verifier Opr. - Grade 4		B8023 Word Processor. Start - Grade 3 BS024 Weed Processor. Level I - Grade 5	
		B9020	Verifier Operator * Grade 5	B8025	Word Processor, Level 11 - Grade 6
B7081	Accounting Clerk, Start - Grade 5	B4342	SPECIAL progression; schedules City Plant Clerk. Stan - Grade 5	B4489	Reni A Royalties Clerk, Start - Grade 5
B7082	Accounting Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	B4343	City Plant Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	B4490	Rent A Revalues Clerk, Level - Grade 7
B7O83	Accounting Clerk, Level 11 - Grade 8	B4344	Citv Plant Clerk, Level It - Grade 8	B4491	Rent A Royalties Clerk, Level 11 - Grade 8
B7084	Accounting Clerk, Level 111 • Grade 9	B4345	City Plant Clerk. Level III - Grade 9	B4492	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level III - Grade 9
B4J47	Field Clerk, Start - Grade 5	B4l2f>	Gai Measurement Clerk, Start - Grade 5	■B6020	Customer Account Clerk, Start - Grade 3
B4348	Field Clerk, Level J - Grade 7	B4163	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	B6021	Customer Account Clerk, Level I Grade 5
B4349	Field Clerk, Level II - Grade 8	B416S	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level IE- Graoe 8	B6022	Customer Account Clerk, Level 11 Grade 6
B435O	Field Clerk, Level III - Grade 9	B419J	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level 111 - Grade 9	B6023	Customer Account Clerk, Level Ill Grade 9
	GRADE 001 - $9.93/hr.		GRADE 005 (CONTtDI-$l3.86/hr.		GRADE 008-$16.48/hr.
B9024	Messenger	B8002	Stenographer-Clerk, Level II	B7083	Accounting Clerk, Level II
B8004	Typist-Clerk	89044	Telephone Switchboard Operator	B4344	City Plant Clerk. Level II
		B4183	Tracer	B4153	Telecommunications Clerk
	GRADE 002 -S10.67/hr.	B9020	Verifier Operator'	B4349	Field Clerk, Level II
, B9025	Stock.Room.Clerk . - _	,	B8024	Word Processor. Level 1	84165	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level ft
				B4491	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level 11
	GRADE 003 - $11.92/hr.		GRADE 006 - $14.83/hr.	'B9062	Microfilm Equipment Operator
B6020	Customer Account Clerk-Start	B4113	Gas & By-Products Tester	B8028	Word Processor, Leader
B9026	Copying Machine Operator	B6622	Customer Account Clerk. Level 11		
B8182	General Office Clerk	B9030	Printing Machine Operator		GRADE 009 - $I7,65/hr.
B9019	Key Punch Operator	B9031	Stationery Clerk	B6023	Customer Account Clerk, Level III
B8OO8	Receptionist ~	88025	Word Processor. Level ll	87084	Accounting Clerk, Level III
B9028	Records Storage Clerk	B9090	Environmental Clerk	B4345	City Plant Clerk, Level III
B8003	Stenographer-Clerk. Level I	B9095	Engineering Clerk	B4350	Field Clerk, Level III
B8023	Word Processor, Start			B4247	Gas & By-Products Tester. Sr.
			GRADE 007 -SI5.80/hr	B4195	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level Ill
	GRADE 004 - S12.92/hr.	B7082	Accounting Clerk. Level 1	B4111	Instrument Person
B9029 ■	Stock Room Clerk. Sr.	B4343	City Plant Clerk. Level I	B4492	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level III
B908I	Key Punch/Verifier Operator	B4125	Draftsperson	B4I38	Production Clerk
		B9023	Electronic Data Processor, Sr.	B4I08	Storage Clerk
	GRADE 005 - $13,8<5/hr.	B4245	Extraction Plant Clerk		
B7081	"Accounting Clerk. Stan	B4348	Field Clerk, Level 1		GRADE 010 -$18.34/hr.
B4342	City Plant Clerk, Start	B4163	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level 1	B4346	City Plant Clerk, Leader
B6021	Customer Account Clerk. Level 1	B4490	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level 1	B4297	Draftsperson, Division
B9022	Electronic Data Processor	B5012	Marketing & Rates Clerk. General	B4104	Draftsperson, Sr.
B4347	Field Clerk. Stan	B4122	Purchasing Clerk	B4338	Extraction Plant Clerk, Leader
B4126	Gas Measurement Clerk, Start	B4171	Traffic Clerk	B4351	Field Clerk, Leader
B4489	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Start	B9064	Phototypesetting Specialist		
89027	Mail Clerk	B7080 :	Information Systems Specialist		GRADE - 011 -S18.98/hr
B5011	Marketing and Rates Clerk			B4I92	Lease Ownership Clerk
Both parties agree to use the 1996 Job Descriptions
Page - 35 -
SECTION XXI(A) - PHYSICAL PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,2002 DOMINION TRANSMISSION. INC.
' '" AND
DOMINION HOPE
CLASSIFIED PHYSICAL EMPLOYEES RATES AND OCCUPATION CODES EMPLOYEES MADE REGULAR PRIOR TO JANUARY 1. 1996
OCCUPATION -___________________________________________RATE
0CW2	Casual Janitor		$ 10 59/hr
00004	Cisutl Roaster	-	-	13.23rhr
00005	Casual Rousier-)2 Mo		14 16/hr.
00007	Casual Roaster-18 Mo.	■>	- 15.08/hr
00006	Casual Compressor Sta Oper.-Start		19.50,'hr
00008	Regular Janitor		$ )4 9Uhr
RATE SCHEDULES
Time is Credited Service in Classification for New Regular Employees
00011 Field/DtstritiMan Worker (Less/) Yr.)	S14.12/hr.	00418 Utilityperson Field-Stan (Less,'6 Yrs.) Gr. 7	520 64/Vit
00012 Field/Distribution Worker (I Yr)	14.57/hr	00511 Utilityperson Field-Level 1 (6 Yrs.) Gr. 8	21.14/iir
00018 Field/Distributkm Worker (1-1.2 Yrs 1	15 iSAir	00620 Group Leader/Utilnyperson-Level 11 (10 Yrs 1 Gr 10	21.88/hr.
00024 Field/Distribution Worker (2 Yrs )	(5.87/hr		
00036 Field/Distributron Worker (J Yrs)	|7.55ff>r.		
00070 Field/Distribution Worker (5 Yrs )	I8.54/hr		
00080 Field/Distribution Worker (8 YrsJGr. 3	19 3!/hr		
0008) Field/Distribution Worker, Sr. IQ Yrs) Gr. J	19.70/hr.		
		004(9 Utilityperson Distribution-Start (Less/6 Yrs) Gr 7	$20 64/hr.
00)22 Compressor Stalion Operator-Start (Less than 5 Yrs) Gr.3	$19 3f/hr	00512 Utilityperscm Distribution-Level ] (6 Yrs ) Gr. 8	21.14/hr
0022) Compressor Station Operator-Level 1 (5 Years) Gr. 5	$|9 70/hr	00621 Utilityperson Distribution-Level II (10 Yrs ) Gr 10	21 88/hr.
	PROGRESS!	ON SCHEDULES	
Electrician		Gas Semite Specialist	
00301 Electrician-Start	$20 15/hr	00302 Gas Service Specialist-St art	$20 15/hr
00501 Electrician-Level 1	21.14/hr	00402 Gas Service Specialist-Level ]	20 64/hr
0070) Electrician-Level II	22 47/hr	00502 Gas Service Specialist-Level JI	21. 14/hr.
		00602 Gas Service Specialist-Level JU	21.52/hr
Gas Measurement Specialist		00705 Gas Service Specialist-Level IV	22 47/hr.
00405 Gas Measurement Specialist	$20.64(hr		
00614 Gas Measurement Specialist. Sr	21 88/hr	Regulator Spcdalisl	
		00417 Regulator Specialist	$20 64/hr
Communications Specinlist		00604 Regulator Specialist. Sr	21.52/hr
00124 Communications Specialist-St art	$19 31/hr		
00409 Communications Specialist-Lev el I	20 64/ht	Town Plant Representative	
GO622 Communications Specialist-Level II	2i.8Bfhr 1	00311 Town Plant Representative-Stan	$20 15/hr.
		00412 Town Plant Representative-Level!	20.64/hr
Engine Compressor Analyst		00510 Town Plant Represent alive-Level II	21.14/hr
■ 00624 Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee	$21.88/hr.		
00707 Engine Compressor Analyst	22 47/hr	W arehouse Worker	
00801 Engine Compressor Analyst. Sr.	22 91/hr.	00305 Warehouse Worker-Start	$20 15/hr.
		00420 Warehouse Worker-Level 1	20 64/hr,
		00514 Warehouse Worker-Level 11	21.14/hr.
	GRADE 001 - 18.18/hr.		GRADE 006-$2O.15/hr,		GR. 007 (CONT’Dj - $20.64/hr.		GRADE 0l0-$2LM/hr.
00101	Maintenance Worker. Building	00300	Bailing Machine Operator	00417	Regulaior Specialist	00610	Auto Mechanic, Sr.
		00301	Electrician (Stan)	004)8	UiiJinperson Field-Start	00611	Contra! Board Operator
	GRADE 002 - Sl8.54/hr.	00302	Gas Service Specialist (Start)	00419	Utilityperson Distribution-Start	00613	Engine Mechanic. Sr.
00110	Garage Attendant	00303	Inspector	06420	Warehouse Worker {Leitl I)	00614	Gas Measurement Specialist. Sr
oom	Guard	00304	Maintenance Mechanic, Building			00616	Machinist
		. 00305	Warehouse Worker (Start)			00617	Shift Leader
	GRADE 003-SI 9.31/hr.	00307	Auto Mechanic		GRADE 008- $21.14rtir.	00618	Extraction Plant Equip Mechanic
00080 -	Field/Distribution Worker 18 Yrs)	00308	Medium Equipment Operator	00501	Electrician (Level t)	00619	Instrument Specialist
00121	Chemical Tester	00309	Meas Station Operator (Major)	00502	Gas Service Specialist (Level II)	00620	Group Leader)Utility. Lv. 11 (10 Yrs )
00122	Compressor Station Operator fStart)	003)1	Town Plant Representative-Start	00503	Leader, General Office Garage	00621	Utilityperson Dist -Lv II (10 Yrs }
00124	Communications Specialist (Sian)	003)2	Service Dispatcher	00506	Compressor Station Oper. 24-Hr	00622	Communications Spec (Level II)
00125	Maintenance Worker, Ex). Plant	0031.3	Leak Inspector	00507	Extraction Plant Turbine Oper	00623	Compressor Station Control Spec
				00508	Insulator. Extraction Plant	00624	Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee
			GRADE 007- $20.64(hr.	00509	Heavy Equipment Operator		
	GRADE 004 . SI 9.50/hr.	00401	Compressor Station Oper. Sr	0O5IO	Town Plant Rep (Level 11)		GRADE 011 • $22.47/hr.
		00402	Gas Service Specialist (Level I)	00511	Utilityperson Field (Level I)	00701	Electrician (Level 11)
	GRADE 005 - $19.7O/hr.	OG4O4	Engine Mechanic	00512	Utilityperson Distrib (Level I)	00702	Leader. Repair Crew
00081	FieJd/Disl. Worker. Sr. (10 Yrs )	OG4O5	Gas Measurement Specialist	00514	Warehouse Worker (Level 11)	00703	Welder
002 J 2	Collector	00406	Heavy Truck Driver	00515	Maintenance Mechanic, Bld . Sr.	00704	Shift Leader, Extraction Plant
00214	Meter Reader	00407	Paint Gun Operator			00705	Gas Service Specialist (Level IV)
00216	Painter	00409	Communications Specialist (Lv. 1)		GRADE 009 - $21.52/hr.	00707	Engine Compressor Analyst
00219	Loader, Extraction Plant	00412	Town Plant Representative (Lv. I)	00602	Gas Service Specialist (Lv 111)	00709	Hastings Gas Processing Plant Oper
00220	Well Tender	00413	Loader, Sr . Extraction Plant	00603	Carpenter		
0022!	Compressor Station Oper.-Level I	00414	Extraction Plant Operator	00604	Regulator Specialist. Sr		GRADE 012 - $22.91/hr.
00222	Waste Water Treatment Plant Oper.	004I6	Pressure Control Operator			00801	Engine Compressor Analyst. Sr
Bpth wnisMKtf.tt.Ma »*tt P* Js.b frKdpuru-
Page - 36 -
SECTION XXI(B) - PHYSICAL PAY SCHEDULE
_	-	EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,2002
DOMINION TRANSMISSION. INC.
■AND—
DOMINION HOPE
CLASSIFIED PHYSICAL EMPLOYEES RATES AND OCCUPATION CODES
EMPLOYEES HIRED. REHIRED. OR MADE REGULAR AFTER JANUARY 1. 1996
OCCUPATION____________________-________________________RATE
OT003	Casual Janitor		$ 8 72/br
00009	Casual Rouster		9 88/hr
00010	Casual Rouster-!2 Mo		10 45/hr
00013	Casual Compressor Sta Oper.-Start		33.32/hr
00014	Regular Janitor		5 H 49/hr.
- - RATE SCHEDULES
Time is Credited Service in Classification for New Regular Employees
000)5 Field/Distribution Worker (Start)	514 12/hr	1 B0418 Utihtvperscn Field-Start (Less/6 Y'rs) Gr„7	I 520 64/hr 1
OOOIb Field/Distributran Worker (2 Yrs 1	15.JB/hr	1 B0511 Utilitvperson Field-Level J (6 Yrs ) Gr 8	21.14/hr
00017 Field/Distribution Worker (3 Yrs )	15 87/hr		
00019 Field/Distributicn Worker (5 Yrs )	■ )7,.55/hr		.	- I
			
00122 Compressor Station Operator-Start (Less than 5 Yrs I Gt 3	$19 31fbr.	B04I9 Ublitvperson Distribution-Start (Lessib Yrs .) Gr. 7	1 $20 64/hr I
00221 Compressor Station Operator-Level 1(5 Years! Gr 5	19 70thr	BOS 12 Utility-person Distribution-Level 1 16 Yrs ) Gr 8	) 2i )4/hr. |
PROGRESSION SCHEDULES
Electrician		Gas Servite Specialist .			
00301 Electrician-Start	$20 IJ/hr	00302 Gas Service Specialist-Start			520 15/hr
00501 Eiectrtcian-Leve] I	2 1.14/hr	00402 Gas Service Specialist-t.m el!			20 64/hr
0070J Electrician*Level IJ	22 47/hr	00502 Gas Service Specialist-Level II			21.14/hr.
		00602 Gas Service Specialist-Level III			3 1.52/hr
Gas Measurement Specialist		00705 Gas Service Specialist-Level 13"			22 47/hr
00405 Gas Measurement Specialist	520 64/hr				
006)4 Gas Measurement Specialist. Sr	21 88/hr	Regulator Specialist			
		0041 7 Regulator Specialist			$20 64/hr.
Communications Specialist		00604 Regulator Specialist, Sr			$21 52/hr
00124 Communications Specialist-Start	5)9.31/hr				
00409 Communications Specialist-Level I	20 64/hr	Town Plant Representative			
00622 Communications Specialist-Level II	21 88 hr	0031! Town Plant Represent alive-Start			$20 15/hr
		00412 Town Plant Representative-Level 1	*•	,-A”	*■ **“'20 64/hr
Engine Compressor Analyst		005 10 Town Plant Representative-Level ll			2). 14/hr
00624 Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee	521 88/hr				
00707 Engine Compressor Analyst	22 47/hr	Warehouse Worker			
00801 Engine Compressor Analyst, Sr	22.91/hr	00305 Warehouse Worker-Start			$20.15/hr.
	| 00420 Warehouse Worker-Level 1				20 64/hr
_ _ . . _ - . .... _		00514 Warehouse Worker-Level 11			2 L14/hr
	GRADE 609 - 13.75/hr.		GRADE 006- 520.15,Tir		GR. 007 (CONT’D) - 520.64/br.		GRADE 010 - SZlja/hr.
00025	Maintenance Worker, Building	00300	Bailing Machine Operator	00416	Pressure Control Operator	00610	Auto Mechanic. Sr
		00301	Electrician (Start)	00417	Regulator Specialist	00611	Control Board Operator
	GRADE 610 - 514.43/hr.	00302	Gas Service Specialist (Start)	B04I8	Utilityperson Field-Start	00613	Engine Mechanic, Sr
00026	Garage Attendant	00303	Inspector	B04J9	Utilityperson Distribution-Start	00614	Gas Measurement Specialist, Sr
00027	Guard	00304	Maintenance Mechanic, Building	00420	Warehouse Worker (Level I)	00616	Machinist
		00305	Warehouse Worker (Stan)			00617	Shift Leader
	GRADE 003 - 519.31/hr.	00307	Auto Mechanic	-	GRADE OO8-S2I.14/hr.	00618	Extraction Plant Equip Mechanic
00121	Chemical Tester	00308	Medium Equipment Operator	00501	Electrician (Level I)	00619	instrument Specialist
00122	Compressor Station Operator (Start)	00309	Meas Station Operator (Major)	00502	Gas Service Specialist (Level IJ)	00622	Communications Spec (Level II)
00124	Communications Specialist {Start)	003)1	Town Plant Representative-Start	00503	Leader. General Office Garage	00623	Compressor Station Control Spec
00125	Maintenance Worker. Ext. Plant	00312	Service Dispatcher	00506	Compressor Station Oper., 24-Hr	00624	Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee
		003)3	Leak Inspector	00507	Extraction Plant Turbine Oper		
	GRADE OT4 - 519.50/hr,			00508	Insulator. Extraction Plant		GRADE 01! - $22.47/hr.
			GRADE 007- $20.64Air.	00509	Heavy Equipment Operator	00701	Electrician (Level II)
	GRADE 005-Sl9.?Q(hr.	00401	Compressor Station Oper.. Sr	00510	Town Plant Rep (Level 11)	00702	Leader, Repair Crew
		00402	Gas Service Specialist (Level I)	BOS! I	Uiilnvperson Field (Level I)	OO7D3	Welder
00212	Collector	00404	Engine Mechanic	BOS 12	Utiliiyperson Disirib (Level!)	00704	Shift Leader, Extraction Plant
00214	Meter Reader	00405	Gas Measurement Specialist	00514	Warehouse Worker (Level IJ)	00705	Gas Service Specialist (Level IV)
00216	Painter	00406	Heavy Truck Driver	005 is	Maintenance Mechanic, Bld , Sr	00707	Engine Compressor Analyst
00219	Loader. Extraction Plant	00407	Paint Gun Operator			00709	Hastings Gas Processing Plant Oper
00220	Well Tender	00409	Communications Specialist (Lv 1)		GRADE 069 - SU .52/hr.		
00221	Compressor Station Oper -Level 1	00412	Town Plant Representative (Lv 1)	00602	Gas Service Specialist (Lv. Ill)		GRADE Oil - $12.91/hr.
00222	Waste Water Treatment Plant Oper	00413	Loader, Sr., Extraction Plant	00603	Carpenter	00801	Engine Compressor Analyst. Sr
		00414	Extraction Plant Operator	00604	Regulator Specialist. Sr.	- - .	
I
I I
I
I
I I
I
I
Both nariies aarreto mt the t996Job Descnnlions.
Page - 37 -
SECTION XX(A) - CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE APRIL L 2003
DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC.
AND DOMINION HOPE UNION CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCHEDULE EMPLOYEES MADE REGULAR PRIOR TO JANUARY 1,1996
SPECIAL CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULES
J8OO3 38OQ2	Stenagripher-Clerk Level f - Gride 3 Stenogr»pher-CJerk Level JS - Grade 5	39019 Keypunch Operator - Grade 3 J 9081 Key Punch/Verifier Opr. • Grade 4 39020 Verifier Operator - Grade 5	38023 Word Processor. Start - Grade 3 38024 Word Processor, Level 1 - Grade 5	
			38025	Word Processor. Level II - Grade 6
31081	Accounting Clerk, Start - Grade 5	SPECIAL PROGRESSION SCHEDULES 34342 Citv Pl^nt Clerk, Sun * Grade 5	34489	Rent A Rovalties Clerk, Start • Gride 5
37082	Accounting Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	34343 Citv Plant Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	34490	Rent & Rovalties Clerk, Level - Grade 7
37083	Accounting Clerk, Level IJ • Grade 8	34344-Citv Plant Clerk, Level JJ • Grade 8	34491	Rent & Rovalties Clerk, Level II - Grade 8
37084	Accounting Clerk, Level Ill - Grade 9	34345 City Plant Clerk. Level 111 - Grade 9	34492	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level III - Grade 9
34347	Field Clerk, Start - Grade 5	34126 Gas Measurement Clerk, Stan • Grade 5	36020	Customer Account Clerk, Stan * Grade 3
34348	Field Clerk, Level I -.Grade 7	34163 Gas Measurement Clerk, Level I - Grade 7	36021	Customer Account Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 5
34349	Field Clerk, Level J! - Grade 8	34165 Gas Measurement Clerk, Level 11 - Grade 8	36022	Customer Account Clerk, Level II * Grade 6
34350	Field Clerk, Level 111 - Grade 9	34195 Gas Measurement Clerk, Level HI - Grade 9	36023	Customer Account Clerk, Level 111 - Grade 9
	GRADE 001 -SI 1.98/hr.		GRADE 005 (CONT'D)-S16.70/hr.		GRADE 008 -$19.86/hr
39024	Messenger	38002	Stenographer-Clerk. Level II	37083	Accounting Clerk. Level 11
38004	Typist-Clerk	39044	Telephone Switchboard Operator	34344	City Plant Clerk,.Level 11
		34183	Tracer	34153	Telecommunications Clerk
	GRADE 002-S12.83/hr.	39020	Verifier Operator	34349	Field Clerk. Level 11
39025	Stock Room Clerk	38024	Word Processor, Level I	34165	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level II
				34491	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level H
	GRADE 003 - $14.36/hr.		GRADE 006 - S17.86/hr.	39062	Microfilm Equipment Operator
36020	Customer Account Clerk-Start	34113	Gas & By-Products Tester	38028	Word Processor, Leader
39026	Copying Machine Operator	36022	Customer Account Clerk. Level II		
38182	General Office Clerk	39030	Printing Machine Operator		GRADE 009 - S2l.28/hr.
39019	Key Punch Operator	39031	Stationery Clerk	36023	Customer Account Clerk. Level III
38008	Receptionist	38025	Word Processor. Level II	37084	Accounting Clerk. Level III
39028	Records Storage Clerk	39090	Environmental Clerk	34345	City Plant Clerk. Level III
38003	Stenographer-Clerk, Level 1	39095	Engineering Clerk	34350	Field Clerk, Level 111
38023	Word Processor, Start			34247	Gas & By-Products Tester. Sr.
			GRADE 007 - 519.0(1/6 r	34195	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level III
	GRADE 004 -SI 5.59/hr	37082	Accounting Clerk. Level 1	34111	Instrument Person
39029	Stock Room Clerk. Sr.	34343	City Plant Clerk, Level I	34492	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level III ■
39081	Key Punch/Verifier Operator	34125	Draftsperson	34138	Production Clerk
		39023	Electronic Data Processor. Sr	34108	Storage Clerk
	GRADE 005 - S16.70/hr	34245	Extraction Plant Clerk		
32081	Accounting Clerk. Start	34348	Field Clerk. Level I		GRADE Oil) - $22.09/hr
34342	City Plant Clerk. Start	34163	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level 1	34346	City Plant Clerk, Leader
36021 ’	Customer Account Clerk. Level 1	34490	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level I	34297	Draftsperson, Division
39022	Electronic Data Processor	35012	Marketing & Rates Clerk. General	34104	Draftsperson, Sr.
34347	Field Clerk. Start	34122	Purchasing Clerk	34338	Extraction Plant Clerk, Leader
34126	Gas Measurement Clerk. Start	34171	Traffic Clerk	3435)	Field Clerk, Leader
34489	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Start	39064	Phototypesetting Specialist		
39027	Mail Clerk	37080	Information Systems Specialist		GRADE - 011 - S22.83/hr.
35011	Marketing and Rates Clerk			34192	Lease Ownership Clerk
Both panics agree to use the 19% Job Descriptions
Page - 38 -
SECTION XX(B) - CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003
DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC.
AND DOMINION HOPE UNION CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCHEDULE EMPLOYEES MADE REGULAR AFTER JANUARY 1,1996
Casual Grade.001	S9J8/hr.
Casual Grade 002	9.82/hr.
Casual Grade 003	10.97/hr.
Casual Grade 004	11,89/hr.
Casual Grade 005	12.75/hr.
SPECIALCLERICAL PAY SCHEDULES
B8003 St enograp her-Clerk Level 1 - Grade 3		B90I9 Key Punch Operator - Grade 3 B908 1 Key PunctVVerifier Opr - Grade 4 B9020 Verifier Operator - Grade 5	B8O23 Word Processor, Start • Grade 3 . ... B8024 Word Processor, Level I - Grade 5	
B8002	Stenographer-Clerk Level 11 - Grade S			
			B8025	Word Processor. Level II - Grade t>
B7O81	Accounting Clerk, Start - Grade 5	SPECIAL PROGRESSION SCHEDULES B4342 Citv Plant Clerk, Start - Grade 5	B4489	Rent & Rovalties Clerk. Start - Grade 5
B7082	Accounting Clerk, Level I - Grade 7	B434] Citv Plant Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	RddQH	P.irt! £: Rovaliics	Level - Grade 7
B7083	Accounting Clerk, Lev*1.!’ • Grade E	B434a City Plant Clerk. Level II - Grade 8	B449)	Rent i Royalties Clerk, Level 11 - Grade 8
B7084	Accounting Clerk, Level III - Grade 9	B4345 City Plant Clerk. Level III - Grade 9	B4492	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level HI - Grade 9
B4347	Field Clerk, Start ■ Grade 5	B4I26 Gas Measurement Clerk, Stan - Grade 5	B6020	Customer Account Clerk, Stan - Grade 3
B4348	Field Clerk. Level J - Grade .7.	B4163 Gas Measurement Clerk. Level 1 - Grade 7	B602I	Customer Account Clerk, Level J Grade 5
B4349	Field Clerk, Level 11 ■ Grade 8	B4165 Gas Measurement Clerk. Level II • Grade 8	B6022	Customer Account Clerk, Level II Grade 6
B4350	Field Clerk, Level 111 - Grade 9	B4195 Gas Measurement Clerk, Level III • Grade 9	B6023	Customer Account Clerk, Level HI Grade 9
	GRADE 001 -S10.18/hr.		GRADE 005 t(()M'D)-S14.21/hr.		GRADE 008 - S16.89/hr.
B9024	Messenger	B8002	Stenographer-Clerk. Level II	B7083	Accounting Clerk. Level II
B8004	Typist-Clerk	B9044	Telephone Switchboard Operator	B4344	City Plant Clerk, Level II
		B4I83	Tracer	B41S3	Telecommunications Clerk
	GRADE 002 -$10,94/hr.	B9020	Verifier Operator	B4349	Field Clerk, Level II
B9025	Stock Room Clerk	B8024	Word Processor, Level 1	B4165	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level II
				B4491	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level II
	GRADE 003 - SI2.22/hr.		GRADE 006 - SI5.20/hr.	B9062	Microfilm Equipment Operator
B6020	Customer Account Clerk-Start	B4113	Gas &. By-Products Tester	B8028	Word Processor, Leader
B9026	Copying Machine Operator	B6022-'	Customer Account Clerk, Level II		
B8182	General Office Clerk	B9030	Printing Machine Operator		GRADE 009 - SI8.09/hr.
B9019	Key Punch Operator	B9031	Stationery Clerk	B6023	Customer Account Clerk. Level III
B8008	Receptionist	B8025	Word Processor. Level 11	B7084	Accounting Clerk. Level III
B9028	Records Storage Clerk	B9090	Environmental Clerk	B4345	City Plant Clerk, Level III
B8003	Stenographer-Clerk, Level I	B9095	Engineering Clerk	B4350	Field Clerk, Level III
B8O23	Word Processor, Start			B4247	Gas & By-Products Tester. Sr,
			GRADE 007-S16.20/hr	B4195	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level III
	GRADE 004 -Sl3.24/hr.	B7082	Accounting Clerk. Level I	B4111	Instrument Person
B9029	Stock Room Clerk, Sr.	B4343	City Plant Clerk. Level!'	B4492	Rent & Rovalties Clerk, Level [II
B9081	Key Punch/Verifier Operator	B4125	Draftsperson	B4IJ8	Production Clerk
		B9023	Electronic Data Processor, Sr.	B4108	Storage Clerk
	GRADE 005-S14,21/hr.	..B4245	Extraction Plant Clerk		
B7081	Accounting Clerk, Start	B4348	Field Clerk, Level I		GRADE 010 -S18.80/hr.
B4342	City Plant Clerk, Start	B4163	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level I	B4346	City Plant Clerk, Leader
B6021	Customer Account Clerk, Level J	B4490	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level I	B4297	Draftsperson, Division
B9022	Electronic Data Processor	B5012	Marketing &. Rates Clerk, General	B4104	Draftsperson, Sr.
B4347	Field Clerk, Start	B4122	Purchasing Clerk	B4338	Extraction Plant Clerk. Leader
B4126	Gas Measurement Clerk. Start	B417I	Traffic Clerk	B4351	Field Clerk, Leader
B4489	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Start	B9064	Phototypesetting Specialist		
B9027	Mail Clerk	B7080	Information Systems Specialist		GRADE - 01! -$19.45/hr
B50H	Marketing and Rates Clerk			B4192	Lease Ownership Clerk
Both parties agree to use the 1996 Job Descriptions
Page - 39 -
SECTION XXI(A) - PHYSICAL PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE APRIL L 2003 DOMINION TRANSMISSION. INC. AND DOMINION HOPE CLASSIFIED PHYSICAL EMPLOYEES RATES AND OCCUPATION CODES EMPLOYEES MADE REGULAR PRIOR TO JANUARY 1. 1996
OCCUPATION_____________________________________________RATE
00002	Casual Janitor	$ 10 91/hr.
00004	Casual Rouster	13 63/hr.
00005	Casual Rousrer-J2 Mo.	14.59/hr.
00007	Casual Rouster-18 Mo	15:53/hr.
00006	Casual Compressor Sta Oper.-Start	20 09/hr.
00008	Regular lanitor	J 15.29/hr.
RATE SCHEDULES
Time is Credited Service in Classification for New Regular Employees
00011 Field/Distribution Worker (Less/lYr.)	S14 47/hr.	00418 Utiittyperson Field-Start (Less/6 Yrs ) Gr 7	$21.16/hr
00012 Field/Distribution Worker (J Yr.)	14 93/hr	005) 1 Utilityperson Field-Level 1 (6 Yrs ) Gr. 8	21.67/hr.
00018 Field/Distribution Worker (1*1.2 Yrs)	15.56/hr	00620 Group Leader/Utilitvperson-Level II (10 Yrs )Gr. 10	22 43/hr.
00024 Field/Distribution Worker (2 Yrs.I	16 27/hr		
' 00036 Field/Distribution Worker (3 Yrs )	17 99/hr.		
00070 Field/Distribution Worker (5 Yrs.)	19.0i/hr		
00080 Field/Distribution Worker (8 Yrs.) Gd 3	(9 79/hr		
00081 Field/Distribution Worker. Sr. 10 Yrs)Gd 5	20 19/hr		
		00419 Utiiitvperson Distribution-Stan (Less/6 Yrs.) Gr. 7	$21.16/hr
00122 Compressor Station Operator-Start (Less than 5 Yrs ) Gr 3	$19.79/hr	00512 Utiittyperson Distribution-Level I (6 Yrs ) Gr. 8	21 67/hr.
00221 Compressor Station Operator-Level I (5 Years) Gr. 5	20 19/hr.	00621 Utilityperson Distribution-Level JI (10 Yrs ) Gr. 10	22 43/hr
PROGRESS!		ON SCHEDULES	
Electrician	— ~		Gas Service Specialist	
00301 Electrician-Start	$20 65/hr	00302 Gas Service Specialist-Start	$20 65/hr
00501 Electrician-Level 1	21 67/hr	00402 Gas Service Specialist-Level 1	21.16/hr
00701 Electrician-Level (J	23 03/hr	00502 Gas Service Specialist-Level II	21 67/hr.
		00602 Gas Service Specialist-Level 11!	22 06/hr.
Gas Measurement Specialist		00705 Gas Service Specialist-Level IV	23 03/hr
00405 Gas Measurement Specialist	$21.16/hr.		
00614 Gas Measurement Specialist. Sr.	22 43/hr	Regulator Specialist	
		00417 Regulator Specialist	$21.16/hr
Communications Specialist		00604 Regulator Specialist. Sr	22.06/hr
00124 Communications Specialist-Start	$19 79/hr		
00409 Communications Specialist-Level I	21.16/hr.	Town Plant Representative	
00622 Communications Specialist-Level 11	22 43/hr	00311 Town Plant Representative-Start	$20 65/hr.
		00412 Town Plant Representative-Level I	21.16/hr.
Engine Compressor Analyst		00510 Town Plant Representative-Level II	21 67/hr.
00624 Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee	$22 43/hr		
00707 Engine Compressor Analyst	23 03/hr	Warehouse Worker	
00801 Engine Compressor Analyst. Sr	_	23 48/hr	00305 Warehouse Worker-Start	$20 65/hr
		00420 Warehouse Worker-Level 1	21.16/hr
		00514 Warehouse Worker-Level II	21.67/hr
	GRADE 001 - 18.63/hr.		GRADE 006 - $20.65/hr..		GR- 007 (CONT’D) - $21.16/hr		GRADE 010 - 522.43/hr.
00101	Maintenance Worker. Building	00300	Bailing Machine Operator	00417	Regulator Specialist	00610	Auto Mechanic. Sr
		00301	Electrician (Stan)	00418	Utiittyperson Field-Stan	00611	Control Board Operator
	GRADE 002 - SI9 01/hr	00302	Gas Service Specialist (Start)	00419	Utilityperson Distribution-Start	00613	Engine Mechanic. Sr
001 to	Garage Attendant	00303	Inspector	00420	Warehouse Worker (Level I)	00614	Gas Measurement Specialist, Sr.
001 nd	Guard	00304	Maintenance Mechanic, Building			00616	Machinist
		00305	ll'arebouje Worker (Start)			00617	Shift Leader
	GRADE 003 - $19.79/hr.	00307	Auto Mechanic		GRADE 008 - $21.67/hr.	00618	Extraction Plant Equip Mechanic
00080	Field/Distribution Worker (8 Yrs )	00308	Medium Equipment Operator	00501	Electrician (Level I)	00619	Instrument Specialist
00121	Chemical Tester	00309	Meas Station Operator (Major)	00502	Gas Service Specialist (Level tl)	00620	Group Leader/Utility. Lv II (10 Yrs )
00122	Compressor Station Operator (Stan)	00311	Town Plant Representative-Start	00503	Leader. General Office Garage	0062!	Utilityperson Dist-Lv 11(10 Yrs )
00124	Communications Specialist (Start)	00312	Service Dispatcher	00506	Compressor Station Oper., 24-Hr	00622	Communications Spec (Level II)
00125	Maintenance Worker. Ext. Plant	003)3	Leak inspector	00507	Extraction Plant Turbine Oper	00623	Compressor Station Control Spec
				00508	Insulator, Extraction Plant	00624	Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee
			GRADE 007- $21,16/hr.	00509	Heavy Equipment Operator		
	GRADE 004 - $19.99/hr.	00401	Compressor Station Oper.. Sr	00510	Town Plant Rep (Level 11)		GRADE 01] - $23.03/hr.
		00402	Gas Service Specialist (Level I)	00511	Utiittyperson Field (Level 1)	00701	Electrician (Level It)
	GRADE 005-$20.19/hr.	00404	Engine Mechanic	OO5I2	Utilityperson Distrib (Level 1)	00702	Leader, Repair Crew
00081	Field/Dist Worker. Sr. (10 Yrs )	00405	Gas Measurement Specialist	00514	Warehouse Worker (Level II)	00703	Welder
00212	Collector	00406	Heavy Truck Driver	00515	Maintenance Mechanic. Bld , Sr.	00704	Shift Leader, Extraction Plant
00214	Meter Reader	00407	Paint Gun Operator			00705	Gas Service Specialist (Level IV)
00216	Painter	00409	Communications Specialist (Lv. I)		GRADE 009 - $22.06/hr.	00707	Engine Compressor Analyst
00219	Loader. Extraction Plant	00412	Town Plant Representative (Lv 1)	00602	Gas Service Specialist (Lv III)	00709	Hastings Gas Processing Plant Oper
00220	Well Tender	00413	Loader. Sr.. Extraction Plant	00603	Carpenter		
00221	Compressor Station Oper.-Level I	00414	Extraction Plant Operator	00604	Regulator Specialist, Sr.		GRADE 012 - $23.48/hr.
00222	Waste Water Treatment Plant Oper.	00416	Pressure Control Operator			00801	Engine Compressor Analyst. Sr
Both parties agree to use the 1996 Job Bescrinlions.
Page - 40 -
SECTION XXI(B) - PHYSICAL PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2003 DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC. _	AND
DOMINION HOPE
CLASSIFIED PHYSICAL EMPLOYEES RATES AND OCCUPATION CODES EMPLOYEES HIRED. REHIRED. OR MADE REGULAR AFTER JANUARY 1~ 1996
OCCUPATION_____________________________________________RATE
00003	Casual Janitor		J 8 98/hr,
00009	Casual Rouster	—	10 18/hr.
00010	Casual Rouster-12 Mo		10 76/hr.
00013	Casual Compressor Sia Oper-Start		13 72/hr
00014	Regular Janitor		J 11.78/hr
RATE SCHEDULES
Time is Credited Service in Classification for New Regular Employees
00015 Field/Distribution Worker (Start)	$ 14 47/ht	BO4I8 Utilitvperson Field-Stan (Less/6 Yrs.) Gr. 7	52116/hr.
00016 Field/Distribution Worker (2 Yrs )	15.56/hr	B0511 Utilitvperson Field-Level J (6 Yrs } Gr 8	21.67/hr
00017 Field/Distribution Worker (3 Yrs )	16 27/hr		
00019 Field/Distribution Worker (5-Yrs j	17 99/hr		
							
00)22 Compressor Station Operator-Stan (Less than 5 Yrs 1 Gr 3	519 79/hr	B0419 Utilitvperson Distribution-Start (Less/6 Yrs ) Gr 7	52116/hr.
00221 Compressor Station Operator-Level 1 (5 Years) Gr 5	20 19/hr	B05I2 Utilityperson Distribution-Level 1 (6 Yrs.) Gr. 8	21 67/hr
PROGRESSION SCHEDULES
1 Kkrinritn		Gas Service Specialist	
00301 Electrician-Sian	520 65/hr.	00302 Gas Service Specialist-Start	520 65/hr
00501 Electrician-Level I	21.67/hr	00402 Gas Service Specialist-Level 1	21.16/hr
00701 Electrician-Level 1!	23 03/hr	00502 Gas Service Specialist-Level II	21.67/hr
- " *■ -		00602 Gas Service Specialist-Level 111	22 06/hr
Gas Measurement Specialist		00705 Gas Service Specialist-Level IV	23.03/hr
00405 Gas Measurement Specialist	521.16/hr.		
00614 Gas Measurement Specialist. Sr.	22 43/hr	Regulator Specialist	
		004)7 Regulator Specialist	521.16/hr
Communications Specialist		00604 Regulator Specialist. Sr.	22 06/hr
00124 Communications Specialist-Stan	—	L—519 79/hr	—	
00409 Communications Specialist-Level 1	21 16/hr	Town Plant Representative	
00622 Communications Specialist-Level II	22 43/hr.	00311 Town Plant Representative-Start	520 65/hr.
		00412 Town Plant Representative-Level I	2 l.l 6/hr.
Engine Compressor Analyst		00510 Town Plant Representative-Level II	21.67/hr.
00624 Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee	522 43/hr		
00707 Enuine Compressor Analyst	23.03/hr.	Warehouse W orker	
0080! Engine Compressor Analyst. Sr	23 48/hr.	00305 Warehouse Worker-Start	520 65/hr
		00420 Warehouse Work er-Level I	21 16/hr.
..		00514 Warehouse Work er-Level II	21.67/hr.
	GRADE 609— 14.09/hr.		GRADE 006 -S20.65/hr.		GR. 007 (CONT'D) - $21.16/hr		GRADE 010 - 522.43/hr.
00025	Maintenance Worker, Building	00300	Bailing Machine Operator	00416	Pressure Control Operator	00610	Auto Mechanic. Sr.
		00301	Electrician (Stan)	00417	Regulator Specialist	00611	Control Board Operator
	GRADE 610 -514.79/hr.	00302	Gas Service Specialist (Stan)	B0418	Ulihlvperson Field-Start	00613	Engine Mechanic, Sr
00026	Garage Attendant	00303	Inspector	B04I9	Utilityperson Distribution-Start	00614	Gas Measurement Specialist, Sr.
00027	Guard	00304	Maintenance Mechanic, Budding	00420	Warehouse Worker (Level 1)	00616	Machinist
		00305	Warehouse Worker (Start)			00617	Shift Leader
	GRADE 003 - 519.79/hr.	00307	Auto Mechanic		GRADE 008 -521.67/hr,	00618	Extraction Plant Equip. Mechanic
0012!	Chemical Tester	00308	Medium Equipment Operator	00501	Electrician (Level 1)	00619	Instrument Specialist —	-
00122	Compressor Station Operator (Stan)	00309	Meas Station Operator (Major)	00502	Gas Service Specialist (Level 11}	00622	Communications Spec. (Level II)
00124	Communications Specialist (Stan)	00311	Town Plant Representative-Start	00503	Leader. General Office Garage	00623	Compressor Station Control Spec
00125	Maintenance Worker. Ext Plant	00312	Service Dispatcher	00506	Compressor Station Oper.. 24-Hr	00624	Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee
		00313	Leak Inspector	00507	Extraction Plant Turbine Oper		
	FgRADE 004 - SI9.99/hr.			00508	Insulator. Extraction Plant		GRADEOtl -S23.O3(hr.
			GRADE 007- $21.16/hr.	00509	Heavy Equipment Operator	0070!	Electrician (Level II)
	GRADE 005- 520.19/hr.	0040! .	Compressor Station Oper.. Sr.	005)0	Town Plant Rep (Level 11)	00702	Leader, Repair Crew
		00402	Gas Service Specialist (Level 1)	B051!	Utilityperson Field (Level 1)	00703	Welder
00212	Collector	00404	Engine Mechanic	BO512	Utilityperson Dislrib (Level I)	00704	Shift Leader. Extraction Plant
002)4	Meier Reader	00405	Gas Measurement Specialist	00514	Warehouse Worker (Level 11)	00705	Gas Service Specialist (Level IV)
00216	PaIntel	00406	Heavy Truck Driver	00515	Maintenance Mechanic. Bid . Sr	00707	Engine Compressor Analyst
00219	Loader. Extraction Plant	00407	Pa ini Gun Operator			00709	Hastings Gas Processing Plant Oper
00220	Well Tender	00409	Communications Specialist (Lv. 1)		GRADE 009 - 522.06/hr.		
00221	Compressor Station Oper.-Level I	00412	Town Plant Representative (Lv. 1)	00602	Gas Service Specialist (Lv. HI)		GRADE 012 - 523.48/hr.
00222	Waste Water Treatment Plant Oper	LMJ413	Loader, Sr„ Extraction Plant	00603	Carpenter	00801	Engine Compressor Analyst, Sr.
, —		00414	Exit action Plant Operator	00604	Regulator Specialist. Sr		
Both parlies agree to use the 1996 Job Descriptions.
Page -41-
SECTION XX(A) - CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,2004
DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC.
AND
DOMINION HOPE _ UNION CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCHEDULE EMPLOYEES MADE REGULAR PRIOR TO JANUARY L 1996
SPECIAL CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULES
38003 38002	Stenagftpher-Clerk Level I - Gride 3 Stenognpher-CJerk Level If. Grade 5	39019 Key Punch Operator • Grade 3 39081 Kev PuncftTVerifter Opr. - Grade 4		38023 Word Processor, Start - Grade 3 38024 Word Processor, Level I • Grade 5	
		39020	Verifier Operator • Grade 5 - ' '	38025	Word Processor, Level II • Grade 6
			SPECIAL PROGRESSION SCHEDULES		'• —
37081	Accounting Clerk, Start - Grade 5	34342	City Plant Clerk, Stan - Grade 5	34489	Rent &. Rovalties Clerk, Start * Grade 5
37082	Accounting Clerk, Level I - Grade 7	34343	Citv Plant Clerk. Level I - Grade 7	34490	Rent & Rovalties Clerk, Level - Grade 7
37083	Accounting Clerk. Level )l - Grade 8	34344	Citv Plant Clerk, Level II - Grade 8	34491	Rent i Rovalties Clerk. Level II - Grade 8
37084	Accounting Clerk, Level III - Grade 9	34345	City Plant Clerk, Level III - Grade 9	34492	Rent &. Royalties Clerk. Level III - Grade 9
34341	Field Clerk, Stan - Grade 5	34126	Gas Measurement Clerk, Stan - Grade 5	36020	Customer Account Clerk, Stan - Grade 3
34348	Field Clerk, Level I - Grade 7	34163	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	36021	Customer Account Clerk. Level 1 - Grade 5
34349	Field Clerk, Level II • Grade 8	34165	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level II - Grade 8	36022	Customer Account Clerk, Level if - Grade 6
34350	Field Clerk. Level 111 - Grade 9	34195	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level III - Grade 9	36023	Customer Account Clerk. Level HI - Grade 9
	GRADE 001 -S12.34/hr.		GRADE 005 (CONT’D)-S17.20/hr.		GRADE 008 - $20.46/hr.
39024	Messenger	38002	Stenographer-Clerk. Level II	37083	Accounting Clerk. Level 11
38004	Typist-Clerk	39044 ~	Telephone Switchboard Operator	34344	City Plant Clerk, Level II
		34183	Tracer	34153	Telecommunications Clerk
	GRADE 002 -S13.22/hr.	-39020	Verifier Operator	34349	Field Clerk, Level II
39025	Stock Room Clerk	38024	Word Processor. Level 1	34165	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level 11
				34491	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level 11
	GRADE 003 - Sl’4.79/hr		GRADE 006-S18.40/hr.	39062	Microfilm Equipment Operator
36020	Customer Account Clerk-Start	34113	Gas & By-Products Tester	38028	Word Processor, Leader
39026	Copying Machine Operator	36022	Customer Account Clerk, Level IJ		
38182	General Office Clerk	39030	Printing Machine Operator		GRADE 009-S21.92/hr.
39019	Key Punch Operator	‘ 39031	Stationery Clerk	36023	Customer Account Clerk. Level III
38008	Receptionist	38025	Word Processor, Level II	37084	Accounting Clerk, Level ill
39028	Records Storage Clerk	39090	Environmental Clerk	34345	City Plant Clerk. Level III
38003	Stenographer-Clerk. Level I	39095	Engineering Clerk	34350	Field Clerk, Level III
38023	Word Processor, Start			34247	Gas & Bv-Products Tester, Sr,
			GRADE 007 - $19,57/hr	34195	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level III
	GRADE 004 -SI6.O6/hr	37082	Accounting Clerk. Level I	3411!	Instrument Person
39029	Stock Room Clerk, Sr,	34343	City Plant Clerk, Level 1	34492	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level III
39081	Key Punch/Verifier Operator	34125	Draftsperson	34138	Production Clerk
		39023	Electronic Data Processor. Sr	34108	Storage Clerk
	GRADE 005 - S17.20/hr,	34245	Extraction Plant Clerk		
37081	Accounting Clerk, Stan	34348	Field Clerk. Level I		GRADE 010-S22.75/hr
34342	City Plant Clerk, Start	34163	Gas Measurement Clerk. Level 1	34346	City Plant Clerk, Leader
36021	Customer Account Clerk, Level I	34490	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level I	34297	Draftsperson, Division
39022	Electronic Data Processor	35012	Marketing & Rates Clerk. General	34104	Draftsperson, Sr.
34347	Field Clerk. Start	34122	Purchasing Clerk	34338	Extraction Plant Clerk, Leader
34126	Gas Measurement Clerk. Start	34171	Traffic Clerk	34351	Field Clerk. Leader
34489	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Start	39064	Phototypesetting Specialist		
39027	Mail Clerk	37080	Information Svstems Specialist		GRADE - 011 -S23.51/hr,
35011	Marketing and Rates Clerk			34192	Lease Ownership Clerk
Both parties agree to use the 1996 Job Descriptions
I
Page - 42 -
SECTION XX(B) - CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,2004
DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC. AND DOMINION HOPE UNION CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS AND PAY SCHEDULE EMPLOYEES MADE REGULAR AFTER JANUARY 1,1996
Casual Grade 00)	$ 9.46/hr.
Casual Grade 002	10.1 i /hr.
Casual Grade 003	11.30/hr.
Casual Grade 004	12,25/hr.
Casual Grade 005	13.13/hr.
SPECIAL CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULES
B8003	Sienographer-Clerk Level 1 - Grade 3	B9019 Kev Ptinch Operator - Grade 3	B8023	Word Processor, Start - Grade 3
B8OO2	St enogrep her-Clerk Level 11 - Grade 5	B9O81 Kev Funch/Verifier Opr - Grade 4	B8024	Word Processor. Level! - Grade 5
		B9020 Verifier Operator - Grade 5	B8025	Word Processor. Level IE - Grade 6
		SPECIAL PROGRESSION SCHEDULES		-
B7081	Accounting Clerk, Start - Grade 5	B4342 Citv Plant Clerk. Start - Grade 5	B4489	Rent & Rovalties Clerk, Start - Grade 5
B7082	Accounting Clerk. Level 1 - Grade 7	B4343 City Plant Clerk, Level 1 - Grade 7	B4490	Rent & Royalties Cierk. Level - Grade 7
R7083	Accountina Clerk. Level 11 * Grade 8	B4344 Citv Plant Clerk. Level II - Grade S	B449!	Rent & Royalties Clerk. Level It • Grade 8
B7084	Accounting Clerk, Level 111 - Grade 9	B4345 City Plant Clerk, Levei ill - Grade 9	84492	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level I!!,- Grade 9
B4347	Field Clerk. Start - Grade 5	B4126 Gas Measurement Clerk, Start - Grade 5	B6020	Customer Account Clerk, Start - Grade 3
B4348	Field Cierk. Level 1 - Grade 7	B4J63 Gas Measurement Clerk, Level J - Grade 7	B6021	Customer Account Clerk, Level 1 Grade 5
B4349	Field Clerk, Level II - Grade 8	B4165 Gas Measurement Clerk, Level 11 - Grade 8	B6022	Customer Account Clerk, Level 11 Grade 6
B435O	Field Clerk, Level III - Grade 9	B4195 Gas Measurement Clerk. Level III - Grade 9	B6O2J	Customer Account Cierk. Level III Grade 9
	GRADE 001 -S10.49/hr.		GRADE 005 (CONT’DFS14.64/hr.		GRADE 008 - SI7.40/hr,
	 B9024	■ Messenger•	B8002	Stenographer-Clerk. Level 11	B7083	Accounting Clerk. Level II
B8004-	Typist-Clerk	-B9044	Telephone Switchboard Operator	B4344	Citv Plant Clerk, Level II
		B4183	Tracer	B4153	Telecommunications Clerk
	GRADE 002-SI 1.27/hr	B9020.	Verifier Operator	B4349	Field Clerk. Level II
B9025	Stock Room Clerk	B8024	Word Processor, Level 1	B4165	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level 11
				B4491	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level 11
	GRADE 003-S12.59/hr.		GRADE 006 - S15.66/hr.	B9062	Microfilm Equipment Operator
B6020	Customer Account Clerk-Start	B41I3	Gas & By-Products Tester	B8028	Word Processor, Leader
B9026	Copying Machine Operator	B6022	Customer Account Clerk, Level JI		
B8182	General Office Clerk	B9030	Printing Machine Operator		GRADE 009 - S18.63/hr.
B90I9	Key Punch Operator	B903I	Stationery Clerk	B6023	Customer Account Clerk, Level 111
B8008	Receptionist	BS025	Word Processor, Level 11	B7O84	Accounting Clerk. Levei lit
B9028	Records Storage Clerk	B9090	Environmental Clerk	B4345	City Plant Clerk, Level III
B8OO3	Stenographer-Clerk, Level 1	B9095	Engineering Clerk	B4350	Field Clerk, Level III
B8023	Word Processor, Start			B4247	Gas & By-Products Tester, Sr.
			GRADE 007 -_S16.69/hr.	B4195	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level III
	GRADE 004 - S13.64/hr.	B7082	Accounting Clerk. Level I	B4111	Instrument Person
B9029	Stock Room Clerk. Sr.	B4343	City Plant Clerk, Level I	B4492	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level 111
B9081	Key Punch/Verifier Operator	B4125	Draftsperson	B4138	Production Clerk
		B9023	Electronic Data Processor, Sr.	B4108	Storage Clerk
	GRADE 005 -SI4.64/hr.	B4245	Extraction Plant Cierk		
B7081	■Accounting Clerk, Start	B4348	Field Clerk, Level 1		GRADE 010-$19.36/hr.
B4342	City Plant Clerk, Start	B4163	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level 1	B4346	City Plant Clerk, Leader
B6021	Customer Account Clerk, Levei I	B4490	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level 1	B4297	Draftsperson. Division
B9022	Electronic Data Processor	B5012	Marketing & Rates Clerk. Genera)	B4104	Draftsperson, Sr.
B4347	Field Clerk. Start	B4122	Purchasing Clerk	B4338	Extraction Plant Clerk, Leader
B4I26	Gas Measurement Clerk, Start	B4171	Traffic Clerk	B4351	Field Clerk, Leader
B4489	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Start	B9064	Phototypesetting Specialist		
B9027	Mail Clerk	B7080	Information Systems Specialist		GRADE - oil - S20.04/hr
B50I1	Marketing and Rates Clerk			B4192	Lease Ownership Clerk
Both parties agree to use the 1996 Job Descriptions
Page - 43 -
SECTION XXI(A) - PHYSICAL PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,2004 DOMINION TRANSMISSION. INC.
AND DOMINION HOPE CLASSIFIED PHYSICAL EMPLOYEES RATES AND OCCUPATION CODES EMPLOYEES MADE REGULAR PRIOR TO JANUARY I, 1996
OCCUPATION		-1- —	RATE
00002	Casual Janitor		5 11.24/hr
00004	Casual Ro uster		I4 04/hr.
__	00005	Casual Rouster-12 Mo			 15 03/hr
00007	Casual Rouster-18 Mo	-	16 OO/hr.
00006	Casual Compressor Sia Oper -Start		20.69/hr.
00008	Regular Janitor		S 15,74/hr.	'
RATE SCHEDULES
Time is Credited Service in Classification for New Regular Employees
00011 Field/Distribunon Worker (Less/1 Yr.)	$l4.90/hr	00418 Utilityperson Field-Start (Less/6 Yrs ) Gr. 7	$21.80/hr.
00012 Field/Distribution Worker (1 Yr )	15 38/hr	00511 Utilityperson Field-Level I (6 Yrs ) Gr 8	22 32/hr
00018 Field/Distribution Worker (1-1.2 Yrs.)	1602/hr -	00620 Group Leader/Utilityperson-Leve! 11(10 Yrs ) Gr. 10	- 23.10/hr
00024 Field/Distribution Worker (2 Vrs)	16 76/hr		
00036 Field/Distribution Worker (3 Yrs >	18 53/hr	-	
00070 Field/Distributkm Worker (5 Yrs )	!9.58/hr.		
00080 Field/Distribution Worker (8 Yrs ) Gr. 3	20 39/hr		
00081 Field/Distribution Worker, Sr 10 Yrs) Gt. 5	20 80/hr		
		00419 Utilityperson Distribution-Stan (Less/6 Vrs) Gr 7	$21,80/hr.
00)22 Compressor Station Operator-Start (Less than 5 Yrs) Gr 3	$20 39/hr	00512 Utilityperson Distribution-Level I (6 Yrs ) Gr 8	22.32/hr
00221 Compressor Station Opera tor-Level 1 (5 Years) Gr. 5	20 80/hr	0062! Utilityperson Distribution-Level II (10 Yrs ) Gr. 10	23 10/hr
PROGRESSION SCHEDULES
I
I
I
I I
I
Electrician	|		Gai Service Specialist		
00301 Eiectrician-Stan	I $2l.27/hr	00302 Gas Service Specialist-Start	121.27/fir.	
00501 Electrician-Lev e! 1	22 32'hr	00402 Gas Service Specialist-Level 1	21.80/hr.	
00701 Electrician-Level 11	|	23 72/hr.	00502 Gas Service Specialist-Level II	22 3».	
		00602 Gas Service Specialist-Level Ilf	22.72/hr.	
Gas Measurement Specialist	(		QO7O5 Gas Service Specialist-Level IV	23.72/hr	
00405 Gas Measurement Specialist	1	$21.80/hr			
00614 Gas Measurement Specialist. Sr	|	23 )O/hr	Regulator Specialist		
I		00417 Regulator Specialist	$2) 80/hr.	
Communications Specialist	(		00604 Re cu la tor Specialist. Sr.	22 72/hr	
00124 Communications Specialist-Start	I $20.39/hr.			
00409 Communications Specialist-Level 1	|	21 80/hr	Town Plant Representative		
00622 Communications Specialist-Level 11	j	23 10/hr	00311 Town Plant Representative-Start	$21,27/hr.	
		00412 Town Plant Representative-Level I	21.80/hr	
Engine Compressor Analyst	I		00510 Town Plant Representative-Level II	r	22.32/hr.
00624 Engine Compressor Analyst 7 rainee	j $23.10/hr			
00707 Engine Compressor Analyst	23 72/hr.	Warehouse Worker		
00801 Engine Compressor Analyst, Sr	)	24 19/hr.	00305 Warehouse Worker-Start		$21.27/hr.
		00420 Warehouse Worker-Level I	21.80/hr	
_ _ . .	. . J_ _		00514 Warehouse Worker-Level ][	22.32/hr	
	GRADE Ml - W W/lw.		GRADE 006 - Slinmr.		GR. 007 (CONT'D) - S21.»O/hr.		GRADE OlO-W.lb/hr.
00101	Maintenance Worker. Building	00300	Bailing Machine Operator	00417	Regulator Specialist	00610	Auto Mechanic, Sr
		00301	Electrician (Stan)	00418	Utilityperson Field-Stan	00611	Control Board Operator
	GRADE 002 -Sl9.M/br.	00302	Gas Service Specialist (Stan)	00419	Utilityperson Distribution-Start	00613	Engine Mechanic, Sr
00110	Garage Attendant	00303	Inspector	00420	Warehouse Worker (Level 1)	00614	Gas Measurement Specialist. Sr
00111	Guard	00304	Maintenance Mechanic. Building			00616	Machinist
		00305	Warehouse Worker (Stan)			00617	Shift Leader
-	GRADE 003 - 520.39/hr	00307	Auto Mechanic		GRADE 008 - $22.32/hr.	00618	Extraction Plant Equip Mechanic
00080	Field/Distribution Worker (8 Yrs )	00308	Medium Equipment Operator	00501	Electrician (Level I)	00619	Instrument Specialist
0012)	Chemical Tester	00309	Meas Station Operator (Major)	00502	Gas Service Specialist (Level ll)	00620	Group Leader/Utility. Lv. II (10 Yrs 1
00122	Compressor Station Operator (Start)	00311	Town Plant Representative-Start	00503	Leader. General Office Garage	00621	Utilityperson Dist -Lv 11(10 Yrs)
00124	Communications Specialist (Start)	00312	Service Dispatcher	00506	Compressor Staiion Oper.. 24-Hr	00622	Communications Spec. (Level If)
00125	Maintenance W'orker, Ext Plant	00313	Leak Inspector	00507	Extraction Plant Turbine Oper	00623	Compressor Staiion Control Spec
			- _- - - —	00508	Insulator, Extraction Plant	00624	Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee
			GRADE 007- $21.80/hr,	00509	Heavy Equipment Operator		
	GRADE 004 - $20.J9/hr.	00401	Compressor Station Oper., Sr	00510	Town Plant Rep (Level If)		GRADE Oil - $23.72/hr.
		00402	Gas Service Specialist (Level 1)	00511	Utilityperson Field (Level I)	00701	Electrician (Level II)
	GRADE 005 - SlOAOfhr.	00404	Engine Mechanic	00512	Utilityperson Distrib (Level 1)	00702	Leader, Repair Crew
00081	Field/Dist Worker. Sr (10 Yrs )	00405	Gas Measurement Specialist	00514	Warehouse Worker (Level If)	00703	Welder
00212	Collector	00406	HeawTruck Driver	00515	Maintenance Mechanic, Bld , Sr.	r00704	Shift Leader, Extraction Plant
00214	Meter Reader	00407	Paint Gun Operator			00705	Gas Service Specialist (Level IV)
00216	Painter	00409	Communications Specialist (Lv I)		GRADE 009 • $22.72/hr,	00707	Engine Compressor Analyst
00219	Loader, Extraction Plant	00412	Town Plant Representative (Lv. J)	00602	Gas Service Specialist (Lv. Ilf)	00709	Hastings Gas Processing Plant Oper
00220	Well Tender	00413	Loader, St., Extraction Plant	00603	Carpenter		
00221	Compressor Station Oper -Level 1	00414	Extraction Plant Operator	00604	Regulator Specialist. Sr		GRADE 012 • $24.19/hr.
00222	Waste Water 7 reatment Plant Oper.	00416	Pressure Control Operator			00801	Engine Compressor Analyst, Sr.
Both parties seres (owe the 1996 Job Descriptions.
Page - 44 -
SECTION XXI(B) - PHYSICAL PAY SCHEDULE
EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2004 =
DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC.
AND
-- DOMINION HOPE
CLASSIFIED PHYSICAL EMPLOYEES RATES AND OCCUPATION CODES
EMPLOYEES HIRED. REHIRED, OR MADE REGULAR AFTER JANUARY 1. 1996
OCCUPATION___________________________-
G0C05	Casual Janitor
00009	' ' Casual Rouster
000 1 0	Casual Rouster-12 Mo
00013	Casual Compressor Sta	Oper.-Start
00014	Regular Janitor ‘
RATE
S 9.25/hr
10 49/hr
11 08/hr
14.13/hr.
i 12.13/hr
RATE SCHEDULES
Time is Credited Service in Classification for New Regular Employers
000)5 Field/Distribution Worker (Stan)	514.90/hr.	B04JS Uiildyperson Field-Start (LessJb Yrs ) Gr. 7	J2! 80/hr
00016 Field/Distribution Worker (2 Yrs )	16 02/hr	B0511 Utiiitvperson Field-Level I (6 Yrs) Gr. 8	22 32/hr.
00017 Field/Distribution Worker (3 Yrs.)	J6.76/hr		
00019 Field/Distribution Worker (5 Yrs )	18.53/hr.		
			
00122 Compressor Station Operator-St art (Less than 5 Yrs ) Gr. 3	J20.39/hr	B04I9 Utilityperson Distribution-Stan (Less/6 Yrs ) Gr 7	$21.80/hr
00221 Compressor Station Operator-Level 1 (5 Years) Gr 5	20.80/hr	B0512 Utiittyperson Distribution.Level I (6 Yrs ) Gr. 8	22 32/hr
	PROGRESSl	ON SCHEDULES	
Electrician		Gas Service Specialist	
HOW) Etartrician*Sian	$21.27/hr.	00302 Gas Service Specialist-Start	$21.27/hr
00501 Electrician-Level 1	22.32/hr	00402 Gas Service Specialist-Level I	21.80/hr
00701 Electrician-Level 11	23.72/hr.	00502 Gas Service Specialist-Level tl	22.32/hr.
		00602 Gas Service Specialist-Level 111	22.72/hr
Gas Measurement Specialist		00705 Gas Service Specialist-Level IV	"	23 72/hr
00405 Gas Measurement Specialist	$2 1 80/hr		
00614 Gas Measurement Specialist. Sr	23. J O/hr	Regulator Specialist	
		00417 Regulator Specialist	$21.80/hr.
Communications Specialist		00604 Retraiator Specialist. Sr	22 72/hr,
00124 Communications Specialist-Start	$20 39/hr		
00409 Common tea trans Specialist-Level i	2 (80/hr	Town Plant Representative	
00622 Communications Specialist-Level 11	23.1 O/hr.	00311 Town Plant Representative-St an	$21.27/hr
		00412 Town Plant Representative-Level 1	21.80/hr.
Engine Compressor Analvsl		00510 Town Plant Representative-Level II	22 32/hr
00624 Enj> i ne Co mpresso r A n alvst T ra i nee	$23 I O/hr		
00707 Engine Compressor Analyst	23.72/hr	■ Warehouse Worker	
00801 Engine Compressor Analyst, Sr.	24.19/hr	00305 Warehouse Worker-Start	$21.27/hr
		00420 WarehouseWorker-Level)	21.80/hr
		005 J 4 Warehouse Worker-Level ]]	22.32/hr
	GRADE 609 _ 14.52/hr.		GRADE 006-Sll,l7/hr.		GR. 007 (COST'D) - S2)«0.hr.		GRADE 010-$23.10/hr.
00025	Maintenance Worker, Building	00300	Bailine Machine Operator	00416	Pressure Control Operator	00610-	Auto Mechanic, Sr
		0030)	Eleclrician(Stan)	OO41?	Regulator Specialist	00611	Control Board Operator
	GRADE 610 - $lS.24/hr.	00302	Gas Service Specialist (Start)	BG418	Utilityperson Field-Stan	00613	Engine Mechanic. Sr
00026	Garage Attendant	00303	Inspector	B0419	Utiittyperson Distribution-Start	00614	Gas Measurement Specialist. Sr
00027	Guard	00304	Maintenance Mechanic, Building	00420	Warehouse W’orker (Level I)	00616	Machinist
		00305	Warehouse Worker (Start)			00617	Shift Leader
	GRADE 003 - $20.39hr.	00307	Auto Mechanic		GRADE 008 - S22.32/br.	OO6J8	Extraction Plant Equip Mechanic
00121 ।	Chemical Tester	00308	Medium Equipment Operator	0050)	Electrician (Level 1)	006)9	Instrument Specialist
00)22	Compressor Sial»on Operator (Sian) ,	OO3D9 ,	Meas. Station Operator (Mator)	00502	Gas Service Specialist (Level II)	00622	Communications Spec (Level 11)
00124	Communications Specialist (Start)	003)1	Town Plant Represent alive-Stan	00503	Leader. General Office Garage	00623	Compressor Station Control Spec
00125	Maintenance Worker. Ext Plant	00312	Service Dispatcher	00506	Compressor Station Oper., 24-Hr	00624	Engine Compressor Analvst Trainee
		00313	Leak Inspector	00507	Extraction Plant Turbine Oper		
	GRADE 004 - 520.59/hr.			00508	Insulator, Extraction Plant		GRADE Oil • $U.72/hr.
			GRADE 007- $21.80/hr.	00509	Heavy Equipment Operator	00701	Electrician (Level (I)
	GRADE 005 - 520.80/hr.	00401	Compressor Station Oper., Sr	00510	Town Plant Rep (Level II)	00702	Leader. Repair Crew
		00402	Gas Service Specialist (Level 1)	B05H	Utilityperson Field (Level f)	00703	Welder
00212	Collector	00404	Engine Mechanic	B0512	Utilityperson Distrib (Level 1)	00704	Shift Leader. Extraction Plant
002(4	Meter Reader	00405	Gas Measurement Specialist	00514	Warehouse Worker (Level 11)	00705	Gas Service Specialist (Level IV)
00216	Painter	00406	Heavv Truck Driver	00515	Maintenance Mechanic. Bld , Sr	. 00707	Engine Compressor Analyst
00219	Loader, Extraction Plant	00407	Paint Gun Operator			00709	Hastings Gas Processing Plant Oper
00220	Well Tender	00409 -	Communications Specialisl (Lv. ])		GRADE 009-$22.72/hr.		
00221	Compressor Station Oper,-Level 1	00412	Town Plant Representative (Lv I)	00602	Gas Service Specialist (Lv HI)		GRADE Oil-S24.19/hT-
00222	Waste Water Trea t men t Plant Oper	00413	Loader, Sr , Extraction Plant	00603	Carpenter	00801	Engine Compressor Analyst, Sr
		00414	Extraction Plant Operator	00604	Regulator Specialist. Sr.		
Bgrhpartfcsjgrre to Ha_ihT f?96 jpb De^npuony
Page - 45 -
APPENDIX NO. 1 - CLERICAL BIDDING DEPARTMENTS & UNITS
BIDDING DEPARTMENT	BIDDING UNIT		
General Office - DTI	General Office		
Field Operations - DTI	Central Area Eastern Area Northern Area Southern Area Western Area		-
Dominion Hope	Clarksburg City Plant Fairmont City Plant General Office - Hope Morgantown City Plant Parkersburg City Plant Weston City Plant		
Page - 46 -
BIDDING DEPARTMENT	BIDDING UNIT
General Office - DTI	General Office Automation and Control Engineering
	Gas Accounting
	Gas Storage General Accounting Land Records -
	Mail Maps and Records Office Services . Pricing Project Team I Project Team II Project Team III Purchasing & Material Control System Planning	_ _ . . Technical and Marketing Support Transportation Services
Page - 47 -
BIDDING DEPARTMENT	BIDDING UNIT		
Field Operations-DTI	Southern Area Field Accounting G & P Grantsville G & P Pineville G & P Salem . G & P Weston Hastings Extraction Plant Southern Area Headquarters	—	- —-
	Western Area Lease & Rights-of-Way-Mamont Mamont Transmission		
	Central Area G & P Luthersburg Luthersburg Transmission P-Leidy Storage Pool	- _ . .	.. _ ...	
-	Northern Area Northern Area Technical Support		
	Eastern Area		
Dominion Hope	Clarksburg Staff		
	Fairmont Staff		
—'	General Office - Hope HG1 Accounting HGI Customer Billing HGI District 4 Staff HGI Mass Market Sales HGI Office Services		■ -
	Morgantown Staff		
	Parkersburg Staff		
	Weston Staff		-
*	New payroll locations that are established during the course of this agreement-will be included within the geographic bidding unit in which they are located.
*	Any payroll locations recognized in the previous labor agreement which are not listed above will be combined with one of the above payroll locations during the term of this labor agreement. Until such reorganization occurs, these employees will bid within the Southern Area Bidding Unit.
Page - 48 -
APPENDIX NO. 2 - PHYSICAL BIDDING DEPARTMENTS & UNITS
BIDDING DIVISION		BIDDING UNIT	
Dominion Transmission, Inc.			Central Area Eastern Area Northern Area Southern Area(l) Western Area	—-
Dominion Hope	—	Clarksburg City Plant Fairmont City Plant ■ Morgantown City Plant Parkersburg City Plant Weston City Plant (2)	- —— ■
(1) Job vacancies in the Electrician classification in the Division Staff at Products Division will be bid and filled division-wide in the initial posting.
(2) For division-wide bidding only, Chelyan Transmission will be allowed to bid job vacancies within Madison City Plant and Madison City Plant employees will be allowed to bid jobs within Chelyan Transmission.
Page - 49 -
BIDDING DIVISION Dominion Transmission, Inc.	BIDDING UNIT Southern Area 24-Hour Salem
	24-Hour Smithville 24-Hour Weston Bridgeport Station
■	Bridgeport Storage
——	Camden Station
-	Chambersburg Station Chelyan Transmission
-	Compressor Systems-WV	— Cornwell Station Cornwell Transmission Craig U Station ... Davis Station
—	Field Support
	Fleet G & P Grantsville G & P Pineville
. -	G & P Salem
—■			G & P Weston Galmish Hastings Extraction Plant
	 -	Hastings Station Hastings Transmission Huff Creek Station		 Jones Station Kennedy Station L. L. Tonkin Station
	Leesburg Station Leesburg Transmission Lightbum Station Lost Creek Storage Loup Creek Station
	Oscar Nelson Station
Page - 50 -
BIDDING DIVISION	BIDDING UNIT Southern Area (Continued) Sardis Station Schutte Station Security&Building Opers.(Facilities Mgt.) ’ Smithburg Station	- - - - - Southern Area Support Sweeney Station Sweeney Transmission Telecommunications-Comwell Telecommunications-Davisson Run Tonkin Transmission Yellow Creek Station
DTI (Continued)	
	 ——■	Western Area Beaver Station Beaver Transmission Carroll Station Compressor Systems-Ohio Compressor Systems-PA Crayne Station Gilmore Station Gilmore Transmission Groveport Station ' Groveport Transmission Hutchinson Station * Lebanon Station Mamont Transmission Newark Station North Summit Station P-Oakford Station T elecomm unicat ions~Oak ford Washington Station
Page -51-
DTI (Continued) -	Central Area Ardell Station Ardell Transmission Big Run Station Compression Maint.-Luthersburg Compressor Systems-Leidy —. - -Finnefrock Station G & P Luthersburg Greenlick Station Luthersburg Support Luthersburg Transmission _ P-Leidy Station P-Leidy Storage Pool Punxsutawney Station South Bend Station
BIDDING DIVISION	—	BIDDING UNIT
. ... "—	Northern Area ' Compressor Systems-Westfield Area Harrison Storage Northern Area Technical Support P-Ellisburg Station P-Ellisburg Storage P-Harrison Station P-Tioga Station - -Sabinsville Station Sabinsville Transmission Silver Springs Transmission State Line Station Telecommunications-Sabinsville Woodhull Station
	Eastern Area Borger Station Ithaca Field Schenectady Transmission Utica.Field Utica Station
Page - 52 -
BIDDING DIVISION	BIDDING UNIT
Dominion Hope	Clarksburg City Plant Clarksburg Construction and Maintenance Clarksburg Field Metering Services HGI Dispatch Services Hope Metering Data Management Sendees
	Fairmont City Plant Fairmont Construction and Maintenance Fairmont Field Metering Services Hope Metering Data Management Services
	Morgantown City' Plant HGI Dispatch Services Hope Metering Data Management Services Morgantown Construction and Maintenance Morgantown Field Metering Services
	Parkersburg City' Plant Hope Metering Data Management Services Parkersburg District Operations Parkersburg Field Engineering Parkersburg Field Metering Services Sistersville District Operations Sistersville Field Metering Services
	Weston City' Plant Gassaway-Glenville Const. & Maint. Gassaway-Glenville Field Metering Services Hope-Metering Data Management Services Madison Construction and Maintenance Madison Field Metering Services Summersville Field Metering Services Summersville-Richwood Const. & Maint. Weston Construction and Maintenance Weston Field Metering Services
Page - 53 -
APPENDIX NO. 3 - HOPE GAS COST CENTERS (PAYROLL LOCATIONS) - MAJOR CITY PLANTS
1.	For the purpose of administering this Agreement physical employees who work out of or report to Morgantown City Plant will be grouped together.-not separated by cost center (payroll location).
2.	For the purpose of administering this Agreement physical employees who
-- work out of or report to Fairmont City Plant will be grouped together, not separated by cost center (payroll location).
3.	For the purpose of administering this Agreement physical employees who work out of or report to Clarksburg City Plant will be grouped together, not separated by cost center, (payroll location).
4.	For the purpose of administering this Agreement physical employees who work out of or report to Parkersburg City Plant will be grouped together, not separated by cost center (payroll location).
The provisions of this Appendix in no way impact employees at Weston City Plant, Gassaway-Glenville City Plant, Summersville City Plant, Madison City Plant or Sistersville City Plant.
The provisions of this Appendix do not apply to employees assigned to cost center (payroll location) Hope Engineering.
Page - 54 -
APPENDIX NO. 4 - INSPECTION
If the Company deems it necessary to assign physical employees to inspect contracted work, the following guidelines will be used:
1.. Except in those circumstances identified in Paragraph 6 below, classified Inspectors will be entitled to first consideration for inspection work involving significant amounts of overtime.
2.	Temporary assignment of qualified employees to work as Inspectors on construction projects will normally be on an upgrade basis rather than to utilize higher rated employees. Management will not, however, be required to replace lower rated employees with higher rated employees in order to make the lower rated employees available for temporary upgrade to the Inspector's rate.
3.	Temporary assignments as inspectors on construction projects will be rotated among qualified and available employees in an effort to distribute —overtime. However, since assignments to work as an inspector can vary considerably in duration, there is no obligation to distribute inspection overtime evenly. Assignment will not normally be rotated during a project.
4.	Each payroll location will maintain two lists of employees qualified for inspection assignments in seniority order. One list will contain Inspectors and the other list will contain those lower rated employees who are qualified to be upgraded to an inspection assignment. The list of lower rated employees will only be used when a sufficient number of employees are not available for assignment from the Inspector list. When another employee's name is added to the list, it will be slotted in according to seniority. As inspection assignments become available, they will be offered to the next person on the list. Should an employee decline an opportunity for inspection, the next person on the list is asked and the employee that turned down the assignment will not be offered another opportunity until the inspection list has gone through one complete cycle and all employees on the list have been offered’an opportunity to work on an inspection assignment. Rotation through the list is continual, meaning that assignments are not offered to the senior employee on the list at the beginning of each project or year.
5.	When a specific project involves more than one payroll location, the lists from the payroll locations involved will be utilized in selecting employees for assignment.
6.	Under certain circumstances, an employee with specific skills or knowledge may be required to provide proper inspection for contracted work. In such cases, the employee may also be assigned other inspection duties. These assignments will also be rotated among those employees in the payroll location with the required skills.
Page - 55 -
APPENDIX NO. 5 - CLERICAL PROGRESSION SCHEDULES AND
CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULES:
1.	’ The Clerical Progression Schedules and Clerical Pay Schedules provide a means for employees to advance through pay grades by working a specified time in grade.
2.	Time in any level of a Clerical Progression Schedule or Clerical Pay Schedule is cumulative in calculating an employee's time in classification credit under the credited service in classification schedule.
3.	In order to qualify for selection to enter a Clerical Progression or a Clerical Pay Schedule job, an applicant must demonstrate proper qualifications by passing appropriate aptitude tests and/or typing test and/or scoring 70% on a -Personal Computer Skills test for the current Company Operating System and/or the current Electronic Spreadsheet Application. - -
4.	Normal bidding procedures will be followed in filling Start Level vacancies (Level I for Stenographer-Clerk) and the senior employee who meets the requirements stated in Paragraph (3) above will be awarded the job. Upon entry into Level I (Level II for Stenographer-Clerk), the employee's salary will be increased in accordance with Appendix No. 11 Employment and Promotion.
5.	Wage increases for successive levels will be based on time in position. (See Paragraph 9.)	■ ■ -
6.	Any employee permanently classified within one of these Clerical Progression Schedules or Clerical Pay Schedules may be assigned any of those duties which he/she is capable of performing. Any employee temporarily assigned duties within the progression/pay schedules may be required to perform any duties which he/she is capable of performing, but will be considered to be at the Start Level (Level I for Stenographer-Clerk) for pay purposes.
7.	Any regular employee on the payroll as of December 31, 1995, who enters a Clerical Progression Schedule will start at the start rate of the progression. (Section XX-A)
Any employee hired or rehired on or after January 1, 1996, who enters a Clerical Progression Schedule will start at the start rate of the progression. (Section XX - B)
8.	If an employee leaves a progression and reenters the same progression within 2 years, they will reenter at the same grade they previously held. At the time the employee reenters the progression, the Company will give the employee the appropriate diagnostic tests to determine any training necessary to update the employee’s skills. If an employee leaves a progression and reenters the same progression after 2 years, they will reenter at the start rate of the progression. Any accumulated time worked in a Progression will count toward the next level entrance or promotion.
Page - 56 -
9. Clerical jobs in these Progression Schedules/Clerical Pay Schedules are		
Accounting Clerk Progression:		
Grade	Title	Time in Grade
005	Accounting Clerk, Start	1 Year
007	Accounting Clerk, Level I	2 Years
008	Accounting Clerk. Level II	2 Years
009	Accounting Clerk,’Level III	
City Plant Clerk Progression:		
Grade	Title	Time in Grade
005	City Plant Clerk, Start	1 Year
007	City Plant Clerk, Level I	2 Years
008	City Plant Clerk, Level II	. 2 Years
009	City Plant Clerk, Level III	
Customer Account Clerk Progression:		
'Grade	Title	Time in Grade
003	Customer Account Clerk, Start	1 Year
005	Customer Account Clerk, Level I	2 Years
006	Customer Account Clerk, Level II	2 Years
009 ..	Customer Account Clerk, Level III	
Field Clerk Progression:		-
Grade	Title	Time in Grade
005	Field Clerk, Start	1 Year	~
007	Field Clerk, Level I	2 Years
008	Field Clerk, Level II	2 Years
009	Field Clerk, Level III	
Gas Measurement Clerk Progression:		
Grade	Title	Time in Grade
005	Gas Measurement Clerk, Start	1 Year
007	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level I	2 Years
008	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level II	2 Years
009	Gas Measurement Clerk, Level III	
Rent & Royalties Clerk Progression:		
Grade	Title	Time in Grade
005	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Start	1 Year
007	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level I	2 Years
008	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level II	2 Years
009	Rent & Royalties Clerk, Level III	- -
as follows:
Page - 57 -