Dominion
AGREEMENT BETWEEN DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC. AND HOPE GAS, INC., DBA DOMINION HOPE AND THE UTILITY WORKERS UNION OF AMERICA (UNITED GAS WORKERS’ UNION) LOCAL NO. 69, DIVISION II AFL-CIO
APRIL 1, 2008 - APRIL 1,2010
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section	Page
I	Parties to the Agreement............................................1
II	Union Recognition...................................................1
III	Management Rights...................................................1
IV	Meetings............................................................1
V	Union Security and Checkoff.........................................2
VI	Correspondence......................................................3
VII	Grievance and Settlement...............................................4
VIII	Strikes and Lockout....................................................6
IX	Discrimination......................................................6
X	Wages...............................................................6
XI	Premiums............................................................7
Article 1	- Shift Premium....................................7
Article 2	- Sunday Premium ..................................7
Article 3	- Holiday Premium .................................7
Article 4	- Shift Change Premium ............................8
Article 5	- Temporary Assignment Premiums....................8
XII	Working Conditions..................................................9
Article 1	- Hours of Work and Overtime.......................9
Article 2	- Flexible Work Schedules.........................11
Flextime for Clerical	Employees................11
Twelve Hour Shift Schedules....................12
Station Schedules..............................12
Article 3	- Holidays.........................................12
Article 4	- Vacations........................................13
Article 5	- Absences Due to Civic Service ..................15
Article 6	- Expenses....................................... 15
A.	Per Diem for Expenses and Meals................15
B.	Meal Allowance.................................15
C.	Mileage........................................16
D.	Moving Expenses................................16
E.	Clothing Allowance.............................17
F.	Dominion Safety Eyewear Program................18
Article 7	- Time Off for Personal Business..................18
Article 8	- Death in the Family.............................18
Article 9	- Time Off for Union Business ....................19
Article 10	- Safe Working Conditions........................21
XIII	Assignment of Work.................................................21
XIV	Contracting of Work................................................22
XV	Changes in the Work Force .........................................22
Article 1	- Employee Selection..............................22
Article 2	- Involuntary Transfers ..........................24
Article 3	- Reduction in the Work Force.....................24
Article 4	- Moving Expenses for Surplused Employees.........26
Article 5	- Temporary Assignment............................27
Article 6	- Casual Employees/Temporaries....................27
Article 7	- Letter of Interest..............................28
Article 8	- Upgrade ........................................28
Article 9	- New Regular Employees...........................29
Page -i -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section	Page
XVI XVII XVIII XIX XX XXI	Benefits	29 Effect of Invalidity	29 Termination 	29 Modified Bumping 	29 Clerical Pay Schedule Effective April 1,2008	33 Physical Pay Schedule Effective April 1, 2008	34
XX XXI	Clerical Pay Schedule Effective April 1, 2009	35 Physical Pay Schedule Effective April 1, 2009	36
Page - ii -
APPENDIX
No.	Page
1.	Clerical Bidding Departments & Units............................37
1	A.	Clerical Grievance Hearing Locations............................40
2.	Physical Bidding Departments & Units............................42
2A.	Physical Grievance Hearing Locations..........:.................47
3.	Hope Gas Cost Centers - Major City Plants.......................52
4.	Inspection......................................................53
5.	Clerical Testing................................................54
6.	Physical Progression Schedules...................................55
7.	Physical Pay Schedules...........................................58
8.	Tie in Seniority................................................59
9.	Employee Selection Physical.....................................60
10.	Disciplinary Action ............................................61
10A.	Loss of Driving Privileges .....................................62
11.	Vacation Sell ..................................................64
12.	Overtime .......................................................65
13.	Engine Compressor Analyst Progression...........................66
14.	Commercial Driver's License.....................................68
14A.	Driver's License................................................69
15.	Fire Resistive Clothing.........................................70
16.	Purchase Plan ..................................................73
17.	C.O.P.E. Deduction..............................................83
18.	VEBA ...........................................................84
19.	Leesburg Housing................................................85
20.	Job Security ...................................................86
21.	Successorship Clause............................................87
22.	Welfare Contribution Rates......................................88
23.	Joint Committee on Job Descriptions............................101
24.	Dominion Safety Eyewear Program................................102
Signature Page ...............................................106
Page - iii -
SECTION I	- PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT
This Agreement is made the first day of April, 2008, by and between The Utility Workers Union of America, Local No. 69-11, AFL-CIO, hereinafter called the “Union” and Dominion Transmission, Inc. and Hope Gas, Inc., doing business as Dominion Hope, hereinafter called the “Company”.
SECTION II	- UNION RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive representative for the purpose of collective bargaining for rates of pay, hours of work, and other conditions of employment for the employees of the Company whose wage rates and classifications are set forth in this Agreement.
SECTION III	- MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
1.	The management of the Company and the direction of the working forces including the right to make rules and regulations, hire, discharge or suspend for just cause, promote, demote, transfer, relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or for other proper and legitimate reasons and to determine the work to be performed and the methods and equipment to be used by employees are recognized to be retained by the Company, except as otherwise limited by this Agreement.
2.	While Management agrees to carry out its responsibilities in a manner consistent with the purpose and intent of this Agreement, the right of the Company to manage the business shall only be restricted by the explicit limitations set forth in this Agreement. The fact that some of the Company's rights to manage are set forth in this Section shall not be taken in any way to imply that the Company does not have all other rights of management.
3.	The Union recognizes that the selection of employees from the Bargaining Unit to replace Non-Bargaining Unit employees is a right of Management. Physical and clerical employees will not be required to accept work assignments outside of the Bargaining Unit.
SECTION IV	- MEETINGS
1.	During the Union's annual Representative Council Meeting the Company will pay the wages of the Union Representative Council in attendance for one day. During this day, up to one half day will be used for the annual safety meeting.
2.	Special meetings may be held by mutual agreement.
3.	The Company will pay a mutually agreed upon travel time for designated Union members to attend meetings.
Page - 1 -
SECTION V	- UNION SECURITY AND CHECKOFF
1.	Any regular or casual employee covered by this Agreement who fails to acquire or maintain membership in good standing in the Union on or before January 1, 1983, or the completion of the probationary period of that employee, whichever is later, thereafter shall be required, as a condition of employment, to acquire and maintain membership in good standing in the Union, or pay to the Union the service fees specified herein. For the purpose of this Section only, the probationary period shall be defined as the first thirty (30) days after an employee attains employment status with the Company.
2.	The term "good standing" shall, for the purpose of this Section, mean that the employee has not been delinquent in tendering the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the Union.
3.	The service fees shall be the same amount and payable at the same time as the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or maintaining membership in the Union.
4.	The Company agrees to deduct Union membership dues and initiation fees from the pay of each employee who is a member of the Union and who has filed with the Company and with the Union a properly signed authorization for deduction. The Company further agrees to deduct service fees equal to said membership dues and initiation fees from the pay of each employee who has filed with the Company and with the Union a properly signed authorization for the deduction. The dues and initiation fees or service fees deducted by the Company shall be forwarded promptly to the Treasurer of the Union together with a statement of account.
5.	The dues checkoff authorization shall be made on a form satisfactory to the Company. The authorization is voluntary and an employee may at any time discontinue the deduction of dues from his or her pay by proper notification.
6.	The Secretary of the Union shall notify the Company in writing of any change in the Union membership and the amount of membership dues to be deducted.
7.	Any authorization for deduction of Union dues which was proper and had been received by the Company or the Union prior to the effective date of this Agreement, shall continue to be considered a proper authorization for deduction of Union dues in accord with the terms of that authorization.
8.	Once each month, the Union will submit to the Company, in writing, a list of all active employees who have failed to tender the funds required in Paragraph 1 of this Section. The Company will notify those persons named and will discontinue employment of such persons who are not in compliance with the terms of this Section within thirty (30) days after such notification, upon receipt of a certificate, properly notarized, from the Union of the following:
a.	That membership in the Union is available to such employee on the same terms and conditions generally applicable to other members, and
b.	That membership has not been denied to any such employee nor has the membership of any such employee been terminated for reasons other than his or her failure to tender the periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership in the Union.
Page - 2 -
9.	During the thirty (30) day period referred to in Paragraph 8 above, the Company may counsel with any employee not in compliance with the Section and attempt to persuade the employee to so comply.
10.	In the event the Company discharges an employee solely for failure to tender the funds required in Paragraph 1 of this Section, the Union agrees to protect the Company and hold it harmless from any claim of such employee that their discharge was not justifiable.
11.	Each month, a list of bargaining unit employees will be furnished to the Secretary of the Union, the appropriate Region Directors and local Union Representatives.
SECTION VI	- CORRESPONDENCE
1.	All correspondence directed to the Union will be addressed to the Union President unless otherwise specified in this Agreement. If directed to the Company, it will be addressed to the labor relations representative designated by Dominion Transmission, Inc. for Dominion Transmission matters and/or Dominion Hope for Dominion Hope matters. If directed to an employee, it will be addressed to the last address furnished by the employee to Human Resources.
2.	All correspondence concerning disciplinary actions will be mailed by certified mail to the Union President and the appropriate Region Director and by regular mail to the Union Secretary.
3.	All correspondence required by Section XV, Changes in the Work Force, Article 1, Employee Selection, will be addressed to the Union Secretary.
4.	All correspondence required by Section XV, Changes in the Work Force, Article 3, Reduction in the Work Force, Paragraph 1, will be mailed by certified mail to the Union Secretary. The remainder of the Union Executive Board will receive electronic copies to the address provided by the Union Secretary. For any director that does not have an e-mail address, the Company will forward them a copy by regular mail.
5.	The Company will mail by certified mail to the Union Secretary and by electronic copy to the remainder of the Union Executive Board and for any director that does not have an e-mail address by regular mail, answers, in writing, to annual tour questions within forty (40) calendar days after the Company has received the Union's written questions, unless otherwise agreed. The time limit on filing grievances that arise as a result of an answer to a tour question shall commence upon receipt of the answer by the Union President. Furthermore, while the grievance procedure may be used to resolve disputes over the interpretation of this Agreement that surface in the answers to tour questions, resolution of such grievances will not be retroactive. That is, if the occurrence giving rise to the tour question was/is not grieved in a timely fashion as specified in Section VII, Paragraph 3, then no adjustment will be made in that specific case as a result of a subsequently grieved answer to a tour question.
Page - 3 -
SECTION VII	- GRIEVANCE AND SETTLEMENT
1.	It is the policy of the Company to allow employees a reasonable opportunity to present to their Supervisors any request or complaint which they may have. However, it is agreed that not every such request or complaint constitutes a grievance.
2.	A grievance is a dispute or claim involving the meaning, interpretation, or application of any of the provisions of this Agreement.
3.	The aggrieved employee will seek to adjust the matter by first scheduling an informal meeting with his/her immediate supervisor, either personally or through his/her Union Representative or Union Steward. Unless otherwise mutually agreed, the informal meeting shall take place within ten (10) calendar days of the date the grievance was initiated. In the event the aggrieved is the Union, the Union will seek to adjust the matter through an informal meeting with a representative of Labor Relations of the Company and with the President of the Union or an appointed official of the Union. Management's answer will be given within ten (10) calendar days of this meeting unless otherwise agreed.
4.	If the aggrieved employee is unable to satisfactorily adjust the matter with his or her immediate Supervisor, a grievance shall be initiated in writing within ten (10) calendar days upon a mutually agreed upon form which shall state the nature of the occurrence including the date or dates of the alleged Agreement violation giving rise to the grievance, the Section or Sections of this Agreement on which the grievance is based and the relief or remedy sought. The grievance form shall be dated and signed by the employee and/or the Union Representative and presented to the employee's immediate Supervisor to be dated and signed. The grievance shall then be submitted to the first step of the grievance procedure. If the Union and the Company are unable to satisfactorily adjust a matter in the informal meeting held in Paragraph 3, a grievance shall be initiated in accordance with the procedure above with the exception that it will be signed by a representative of Labor Relations and waived to the second step if agreed to by both parties.
5.	Grievances shall be initiated as soon as practicable, but in no event later than ten (10) calendar days in a dismissal or selection grievance and twenty (20) calendar days in a grievance arising from any other cause. The time limit on a dismissal grievance shall commence upon notification in writing to the Union President by the Company. The time limit on a grievance arising from any other cause shall commence on the date the cause of the grievance occurred. The date that an employee first seeks to adjust the matter with his/her supervisor shall be considered the date the grievance is initiated for the purpose of determining whether the grievance has been timely presented. Grievances not so presented shall be deemed to have been abandoned and shall not be entitled to consideration.
6.	At the first step of the grievance procedure the Union committee shall consist of the aggrieved employee, his/her Union Representative, his/her Region Director and one (1) other Union member appointed by the Union President. The Company’s committee will consist of a representative of Labor Relations or his/her appointee, and other members of Management with the authority to resolve the grievance, as deemed
Page - 4 -
necessary by the Company. (All authorized Union time will be paid at straight time only, no overtime, up to eight (8) hours per day.)
The first step grievance meeting will be held within 40 calendar days unless otherwise agreed. Management's answer at the first step will be given within seven (7) calendar days of the date of this meeting, unless otherwise agreed. If Management's answer does not resolve the grievance at this step, the Union may appeal the case to the second step within seven (7) calendar days, unless otherwise agreed. Grievances arising from the selection of or the dismissal of an employee shall be given scheduling priority by the parties.
7.	By January 4 of each calendar year quarterly meetings will be scheduled to hear second step grievances. Additional meetings can be scheduled, as needed, for the purpose of addressing outstanding second step grievances. At the second step of the grievance procedure the Union committee shall consist of the aggrieved employee, his/her Union Representative and the Union Executive Board. The Company’s committee will consist of a representative of Labor Relations or his/her appointee, and other members of Management with the authority to resolve the grievance, as deemed necessary by the Company.
Management's answer at the second step will be given within ten (10) calendar days of the date of this meeting, unless otherwise agreed. If the grievance remains unresolved the Union Executive Board may submit the grievance to arbitration as provided for in Paragraph 12 below, unless otherwise agreed, or the grievance shall be considered withdrawn without precedence.
8.	If either party fails to answer or appeal a grievance within the time limits set forth in Paragraph 7, provided there has been no mutually agreed extension, the grieving party may appeal the grievance to the next step. If a grievance is not scheduled within the time limits set forth above, provided there has been no mutually agreed extension: (a) if the Company is at fault the grievance will be settled upon the remedy requested without precedence, (b) if the Union is at fault the grievance will be dropped without precedence.
9.	After a union eligible employee has filed a grievance, there shall be no discussion or adjustment of the case between the employee and his or her Supervisor without the Representative or Steward being present. Similarly, no discussion of the case shall take place between first level supervision and the local representative without the employee having the opportunity to be present.
10.	Furthermore, when an employee's presence is required at a grievance meeting, permission to attend will be granted by the Supervisor, except in the case of an emergency. Both parties recognize that under certain work load conditions, meetings may necessarily be postponed.
11.	Representatives of the employees may exercise the grievance procedure of the Agreement, regardless of whether or not a complaint has been filed by the affected party or parties. The only exceptions to this provision are those grievances arising out of selection. Such grievances shall only be allowed as provided for in Section XV, Article 1.
12.	Should any grievance remain unresolved, unless mutually agreed, the Union Executive Board must provide written notice by certified mail to the Company of its intent to arbitrate within forty-five (45) calendar days after the date the written second step answer is given to the Union. The notice must set forth the basis of the grievance,
Page - 5 -
the provision or provisions of the Agreement which have allegedly been violated, the facts on which the claim rests and the remedy sought. The arbitration hearing shall be held as soon as practicable. Grievances arising from the selection of or the dismissal of an employee shall be given scheduling priority by the parties.
13.	The parties shall request the American Arbitration Association to furnish a list of fifteen (15) arbitrators. Within five (5) working days after receipt of such list, the Union and Company shall alternately strike one (1) name each from such list submitted until one (1) name remains. The remaining name shall be the arbitrator.
14.	The Company and the Union shall share equally the costs of the arbitrator.
15.	The fact that a matter has been processed as a grievance shall not prevent either party from questioning whether it is a proper subject of grievance or arbitration.
16.	The award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon both parties. The arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, subtract from or modify any of the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
17.	The day following the day a written answer is received shall be counted as the first day in establishing time limits under this Section.
18.	Either party may, with advance notice to the other party and at its own expense, have a court reporter in attendance at any grievance hearing. In such case, the other party will be supplied, at no cost, a copy of the transcript.
19.	The Company will pay a mutually agreed upon travel time for approved Union members to attend grievances.
SECTION VIII	- STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS
1.	During the term of this Agreement, there shall be no instigation or encouragement of, or participation in any strike, slowdown or work stoppage.
2.	During the term of this Agreement, there shall be no lockout of employees.
SECTION IX	- DISCRIMINATION
There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint, coercion or intimidation of any employee by the Company or by the Union because of membership or non-membership in any lawful social, fraternal or religious organization, or by reason of membership or non-membership in a labor union. Also, the Company and the Union agree that there shall be no discrimination against any employee by either party under definitions or regulations established by any State or Federal employment laws. Both parties shall have available to them all defenses under State or Federal law for any claim made under this Section. This provision is not intended to alter any defenses under State or Federal law which would otherwise be available to the parties.
SECTION X-WAGES
1.	Pay rates shall be paid as negotiated and shall be in effect as described herein for the term of this Agreement.
2.	The pay rate for any job classification created after ratification of this Agreement will be negotiated by the Union and the Company. If the parties are unable to
Page - 6 -
agree on the rate for the job, any such issue will be subject to the Grievance and Settlement Section of this Agreement.
3.	Paydays for union eligible employees will be every other Friday. If the payday falls on a recognized holiday, then employees will be paid on the last preceding workday.
4.	The Company will determine what time and attendance data employees will be required to report and what method(s) for submitting the data will be used.
5.	The Company will pay twenty-five dollars ($25.00) to the employee as well as penalties assessed by a creditor against the employee which have resulted from paychecks mailed late or direct deposits which are deposited late if the late paychecks or late deposits are proven to be the fault of the Company and within the Company’s control. The employee has an affirmative obligation to limit penalties.
6.	To eliminate the early cashing of checks by employees, the following guidelines will be adhered to:
(a)	Employees cashing their checks before the check date will be notified by the Company in writing.
(b)	Employees who disregard the written notice in subparagraph (a) above will thereafter receive their pay through direct deposit only.
7.	The Company will furnish to the Secretary of the Union a schedule of physical/clerical paydays for the life of this Agreement.
SECTION XI - PREMIUMS
Article 1	- Shift Premium
A shift premium of seventy (70) cents per hour will be paid to those physical employees who normally work a non-daylight shift. A daylight shift for the purpose of this Article, is an employee whose work schedule begins between 5:00 AM and 8:00 AM.
Article 2	- Sunday Premium
1.	The Company agrees to pay a Sunday premium at the rate of one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour to physical employees whose regular schedule requires them to work on a Sunday, except that the Sunday premium shall not be paid for work performed on a Sunday for which the employee receives overtime pay, call out pay, or any other pay amounting to a rate of time and one-half or more. Employees assigned to scheduled hours of work, the majority of which occur on Sunday, will be paid one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour Sunday premium.
2.	The Sunday premium shall be applicable only to time actually worked.
3.	Sunday, holiday, and shift change premiums shall not be accumulated, but the Company agrees to pay the highest premium earned.
Article 3	- Holiday Premium
1.	The Company agrees to pay a holiday premium at the rate of eight dollars ($8.00) per hour to physical employees whose regular schedule requires them to work on a holiday, except that the holiday premium shall not be paid for work performed on a holiday for which the employee receives overtime pay, call out pay, or any other pay amounting to a rate of time and one-half or more. Employees assigned to scheduled hours of work, the majority of which occur on a recognized holiday, will be paid eight dollars ($8.00) per hour holiday premium.
Page - 7 -
2.	The holiday premium shall be applicable only to time actually worked.
3.	Sunday, holiday, and shift change premiums shall not be accumulated but the Company agrees to pay the highest premium earned.
Article 4	- Shift Change Premium
1.	No shift change premium will be paid if an employee agrees to a schedule change to accommodate the request of another union eligible employee. In case of an accommodation for a death in the family as defined in Section XII, Article 8, a shift change premium will be paid.
2.	In cases where Management initiates a schedule change other than the type of accommodations discussed in Paragraph 1:
(a)	Union eligible employees shall be paid time and one-half when their regular scheduled shift is changed after the start of their workweek. The employee's workweek, for the computation of the shift change premium, shall begin at the employee's quitting time on the last day of work of the employee's previous workweek, and shall consist of the days of rest plus the following continuous days of work. In the case of a relief person who works regularly on a split rest day schedule, the employee's workweek begins at the end of his or her day of work before his or her first rest day. Therefore, when there are less than five (5) days of work before the second rest day of the calendar week, the employee's workweek shall consist of the calendar days to and including the second rest day of the calendar week plus the following continuous days of work. This premium shall be paid only for the first eight hours worked on the new schedule.
(b)	If a union eligible employee is scheduled to work his or her Sunday rest day, and then returned to his or her normal schedule for the remainder of his or her workweek, he or she will be allowed to work his or her regular workweek in addition to the overtime day on Sunday. However, if an employee is scheduled to work two or more days, which begin with the Sunday rest day, he or she will be considered to be on a new schedule and eligible to work only five days in the new workweek. Schedule change premium will not apply in either case if the employee's schedule is changed prior to the beginning of his or her workweek.
(c)	Following a change in an employee's normal schedule, he or she may be returned to his or her original (normal) schedule within five (5) consecutive working days without payment of shift change premium.
(d)	The Union will attempt to schedule Union Business and to identify participants in grievances with sufficient notice to avoid shift change premiums when possible.
Article 5 - Temporary Assignment Premiums
1.	When a clerical employee is assigned the duties of a physical employee, the clerical employee shall receive five percent (5%) above his or her base rate.
2.	When a physical employee is required to replace a Union eligible clerical employee, he or she shall receive five percent (5%) above his or her base rate.
Page - 8 -
SECTION XII - WORKING CONDITIONS
Article 1	- Hours of Work and Overtime
1.	The Company workweek for computation of pay shall consist of seven (7) days commencing each week at 11:31 P. M., Saturday and ending at 11:30 P. M. the following Saturday.
2.	The working hours for bargaining unit employees will be as follows, unless employees are otherwise assigned:
(a)	The working hours for physical employees will be from 7:30 A. M. to 4:00 P. M. for regular day schedules. The working hours for shift employees will be 7:30 A. M. to 3:30 P. M. for the Number 1 Shift; 3:30 P.M. to 11:30 P.M. for the Number 2 Shift; and 11:30 P. M. to 7:30 A. M. for the Number 3 Shift. Starting and quitting times will be the time that is officially in use in the Company's operating area (Eastern Standard or Daylight Saving). An employee who is working when the time is officially changed shall not receive less than eight (8) hours when the changing of time results in less than eight (8) hours work. Also, he or she shall be paid for the time worked when the changing of time results in more than eight (8) hours worked.
(b)	The working hours for clerical employees will be from 8:00 A. M. to 5:00 P. M. for regular day schedules.
3.	Forty hours consisting of five eight-hour days or four ten-hour days shall constitute a normal full-time workweek. An employee will not be assigned to a normal workweek of four ten-hour days without his/her consent.
4.	Bargaining unit employees are to be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all time worked in excess of forty hours per week or eight hours in any twenty-four hour period, except on shift changes where the scheduled rotations require two shifts to be worked in one twenty-four hour period when assigned to a schedule of eight-hour days. Bargaining unit employees are to be paid at the rate of time and one-half for all time worked in excess of forty hours per week or ten hours per day when assigned to a schedule of four ten-hour days per week.
5.	Employees shall be paid at the rate of triple time for all time worked over sixteen consecutive hours. However, if an employee has worked prior to a regularly scheduled workday so that during the regular workday the employee completes sixteen (16) consecutive hours of work, then if the employee is released (s)he will be paid straight time for the remainder of his/her regular workday.
6.	The Company will not normally require employees to split their rest days on a regularly scheduled basis with the exception of employees assigned to shift work. Employees other than shift employees shall not be required to split their rest days once their weekly work schedule (which includes the rest days) has begun.
7.	Employees shall not be required to take equivalent time off without pay for the time worked after regular working hours, for the time worked on a scheduled rest day(s) or for the time worked in emergencies in order to balance weekly working schedules.
8.	The employee’s rest day shall not be changed after the employee has started working within his or her workweek to avoid the payment of overtime.
Page - 9 -
9.	Employees called out for emergency overtime shall receive a minimum of three hours1 pay at the rate of time and one-half provided that the emergency work does not immediately precede the employee's regularly scheduled hours of work. Employees called out more than once within a three-hour period shall be paid only for the time actually worked after the initial call out. The rate of pay for time worked during additional call outs within the first three-hour period shall be time and one-half. Upon the expiration of the three-hour period, if called out again, an employee shall be entitled to another three hours' pay at time and one-half regardless of the amount of time worked during that period. Employees called out on Sunday shall receive a premium of three hours' pay at the rate of time and one-half. In addition, they shall be paid time and one-half for the time worked within the three hours. The rate of pay for an employee called out again during the first three-hour period shall also be time and one-half. Upon the expiration of the three-hour period, if called out again, an employee shall be entitled to the three-hour premium, as well as time and one-half for the period worked, in the same manner as was paid for the first call out.
10.	If an employee is required to report from off the job for unscheduled overtime, he or she shall receive a minimum of three hours' pay at the rate of time and one-half provided that the work does not immediately precede the employee's regularly scheduled hours of employment. Neither travel time nor mileage will be paid for unscheduled overtime.
11.	When an employee is required to report on his or her rest days to the job for scheduled overtime, he or she will not be paid travel time. However, he or she will be reimbursed at the contractual rate for mileage driven not to exceed thirty-five (35) miles.
12.	Call out time is defined as the time that an employee works after being ordered to report immediately from off the job following the completion of his or her workday or workweek. Call out time shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half and shall run from the time of leaving the employee's residence until his or her return. Authorized mileage will be paid in accordance with Section XII, Article 6, Paragraph C, from the employee's residence to the job site(s) and back to the employee's residence.
13.	When overtime work is necessary it shall be distributed at the Company's discretion. Local Management will make every effort to divide overtime evenly among the employees who normally perform the work. Employees will be counseled that they may be ineligible for call-out and unscheduled overtime based on where they reside. In an attempt to divide overtime evenly, Management will keep a cumulative total of overtime for each calendar year which shall be posted at the end of each calendar month. If an employee is offered overtime work and is excused at his/her own request, an adjustment of three (3) hours will be made to his/her cumulative total. The cumulative total for the preceding month shall be used as a guide by Management in distributing overtime. No time will be charged to an employee's cumulative total if he/she refused scheduled/unscheduled overtime while off work for sickness, death in the family, or vacation. This is not to be interpreted as allowing an employee to refuse call out. The credited overtime mentioned above will be listed separately on the cumulative total of overtime posted.
14.	Work schedules for shift employees shall be posted on the bulletin boards at the work location prior to the beginning of the employee's workweek. The employee shall be notified when his or her work schedule is changed and all such schedule changes
Page -10-
shall be immediately posted on the bulletin board with the employee initialing the change. Any other employee who will be working a schedule different from the regular schedule will be notified in advance.
15.	Employees who are assigned to temporary duty, which requires them to be away from home overnight, shall be paid travel time from their temporary lodgings to the job and from the job to their temporary lodgings, exclusive of meal time in both cases.
16.	Employees required to report for work at a temporary location other than their payroll headquarters location shall be paid travel time and mileage if the temporary location is more than ten (10) miles farther from their home than their payroll headquarters.
17.	Employees who are assigned to a temporary location which would normally require them to be away from home overnight may request permission to drive to and from home to the temporary location each day. Management will consider their request, weighing the distance to be traveled, the seriousness of the employee’s personal situation, and any other pertinent information. Such travel if authorized, will be on the employee's own time.
18.	Employees required to work scheduled or unscheduled overtime for the purpose of attending meetings, training, or medical tests on a rest day will receive a minimum of three (3) hours overtime pay.
19.	Once an employee is assigned to non-bargaining unit work, he/she will not be assigned bargaining unit work for the remainder of the calendar day or if an employee has worked 40 hours of non-bargaining unit work he/she will not perform bargaining unit work within the workweek.
Article 2	- Flexible Work Schedules
Flextime for Clerical Employees
1.	Employees may participate in flextime provided that the job responsibilities and departmental coverage requirements are met. Supervisors are encouraged to accommodate individual preference for working hours. If this is not practical, each supervisor is asked to develop an equitable system in accommodating arrivals and departures.
2.	Employees are to work a 40-hour week. The regular schedule will be 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. five (5) days per week during which normal operations must be available.
3.	The expanded workday is from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
4.	Lunch period is between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Employees must take no less than a 3 0-minute lunch.
5.	Work schedules must be submitted to and approved by the supervisor weekly. Employees may request the same daily schedule for an entire week or different schedules for various days of the week. Supervisors may approve employee requests for schedule changes during the week to accommodate unplanned appointments or emergencies based on the work requirements of the department.
Page -11-
Twelve-Hour Shift Schedules
1.	The Company and the Union agree to continue to provide for the option, at stations, of a twelve-hour rotating shift for shift employees.
2.	A twelve-hour schedule may be implemented at shift work locations upon the mutual agreement of the parties at the location and where the employees at the location have elected by a majority vote their desire for the new schedule.
3.	Application of the schedule will continue unless and until Management or a majority of the employees at the location elects to end the schedule. Such an election will not occur until twelve (12) months after the twelve-hour schedule has been implemented and future elections will not occur more frequently than every twelve (12) months thereafter.
Any twelve-hour shift schedule must be cost neutral to the Company and, therefore, it may be necessary to modify work rules.
Station Schedules
If a majority of the employees desire to try an alternative schedule to improve efficiency and/or employee morale Management will give consideration to the feasibility of implementing the proposed change.
Article 3 - Holidays
1.	Beginning January 1, 2006, the recognized holidays for active regular physical and clerical workers are:
1.	New Year's Day (January 1)
2.	Martin Luther King Day (Third Monday in January)
3.	Good Friday (Friday preceding Easter)
4.	Memorial Day (Last Monday in May)
5.	Independence Day (July 4)
6.	Labor Day (First Monday in September)
7.	Veteran's Day (November 11)
8.	Thanksgiving Day (Fourth Thursday in November)
9.	Day after Thanksgiving
10.	Christmas Day (December 25)
11.	Personal Day (January 1 to December 31)
12.	Personal Day (January 1 to December 31)
Where applicable the provisions of the Federal Uniform Monday Holiday Act shall apply.
2.	Two Personal Days will be allowed from January 1 to December 31. All days off can only be taken with prior approval of supervision and must be taken at a time which, in the judgment of Management, will make for efficient operations.
3.	(a) If one of the first six (6) recognized holidays (New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, and Labor Day) falls on an employee’s rest day or if the employee is required to work on the day the Company celebrates the holiday, the employee may choose to receive additional pay up to a full day’s pay at his/her straight time rate or to take equivalent time off with pay within the following
Page - 12 -
forty-five (45) calendar days at a time which, in the judgment of Management, will make for efficient operation of the unit concerned. The time off must be scheduled at least seven (7) days in advance.
(b) If the remaining four (4) recognized holidays (Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, Day after Thanksgiving, and Christmas Day) falls on an employee’s rest day, the employee will receive an additional day of pay at his/her straight time rate in effect on the date of the holiday. If an employee is required to work on the day the Company celebrates the holiday, the employee will receive additional pay at his/her straight time rate in effect on the date of the holiday, equal to the time the employee worked on the holiday, up to eight (8) hours.
4.	If the employee is scheduled to work on a recognized holiday, he or she shall be paid straight time for the holiday and additional pay at straight time rate plus eight dollars ($8.00) per hour holiday premium for hours worked on a holiday up to eight hours per day, and time and one-half for hours worked in excess of eight hours per day.
Holiday Premium will be paid only on the recognized holiday, not on the day celebrated in lieu of the recognized holiday.
5.	Time and one-half, in addition to the eight hours holiday pay, shall be paid for time worked if the employee is required to perform non-scheduled duties on a recognized holiday.
6.	Holiday pay will only be paid once per holiday.
7.	In addition to the eight (8) hour holiday pay for recognized holidays listed in paragraph 1, employees instructed to report immediately from off the job on the day the Company celebrates a holiday will be paid a minimum of three (3) hours provided that the call-out work does not immediately precede the employee's regularly scheduled hours of work. The three (3) hours will consist of double time for time worked with any remaining non-work time to be paid at time and one-half. Employees called out more than once within the three (3) hour period will only be paid double time for time actually worked.
8.	Casual employees who work on a day the Company celebrates a recognized holiday shall receive the holiday premium as established in Section XI, Article 3 of this Agreement. If instructed to report immediately from off the job on a recognized holiday, casual employees will receive time and one-half for hours worked.
9.	The rate of pay for holiday pay shall be based on the employee's current classified salary/rate.
10.	Special holidays declared by the President of the United States, which the Company observes, shall be treated as additional recognized holidays.
Article 4	- Vacations
1.	All regular union eligible employees, who have completed one year of credited service are eligible to one week's vacation with pay; those who have completed two years of credited service are eligible to two weeks' vacation with pay; those who have completed six or more years of credited service are eligible to three weeks' vacation with pay; those who have completed fifteen or more years of credited service are eligible to four weeks' vacation with pay; those who have completed twenty years of credited
Page -13 -
service are eligible to five weeks' vacation with pay; and those who have completed thirty or more years of service are eligible for six weeks of vacation with pay.
(a)	The vacation period will extend from January 1, to December 31 of each year.
(b)	While preference of individual employees may be given consideration, vacation must be taken at a time which, in the judgment of Management, makes for efficient operation of the unit concerned. Employees wishing to take vacation in November or December must schedule this time by July 1 of each year. Vacation may be taken at one period, but employees entitled to two or more weeks of vacation may split their vacations into the same number of periods as they have weeks of vacation eligibility, except where other arrangements are made with the approval of local supervision in advance of the time desired. An employee will be entitled to receive an additional day of vacation for a holiday which occurs within his or her scheduled vacation period, if such holiday is observed by the Company. An employee may not, on his or her own volition, waive vacation and receive extra pay for work during that period. When vacations are waived due to the requirements of the Company, the employees affected shall be paid their vacation pay in addition to pay at regular rates for work done during the vacation period, or with the approval of local Management, he or she may elect to reschedule his or her vacation if sufficient time remains in the calendar year. An employee whose employment is terminated for any reason including retirement, layoff, resignation, discharge, or entry into military service, shall receive vacation pay in lieu of any vacation to which he or she was entitled immediately prior to termination of employment. The survivors of a deceased employee shall receive vacation pay in lieu of any vacation such deceased employee would have been entitled to receive. Payment will be made in accordance with the laws of the state in which the deceased employee resided.
(c)	Employees will have the option to postpone up to one (1) week of their vacation into the next calendar year. The postponed week, like other vacation, must be scheduled in accordance with paragraph (b) above.
(d)	Refer to Appendix No. 11 - Vacation Sell.
2.	The rate of pay for vacation pay shall be based on the employee's current classified salary/rate.
3.	An employee who has started his or her vacation and enters the hospital unexpectedly due to a sickness or accident can reschedule the unused portion of his or her vacation providing the sickness or accident meets the requirements of the Disability Benefit Plan. The vacation days which can be rescheduled shall only be equal to the actual days spent in the hospital to the limit of the employee's vacation schedule and eligibility. Such illnesses or accidents while on vacation requiring hospitalization must be immediately reported to the employee's supervisor in accordance with the terms of the Disability Benefit Plan. Vacation time to be rescheduled in accordance with the above must be taken within the current calendar year, and must be scheduled as operating conditions permit.
Page - 14 -
Article 5	- Absences Due to Civic Service
1.	Regular employees temporarily engaged in Jury Duty or Witness Duty, or Election Board Service, shall receive their regular earnings in addition to the compensation received from the public treasury. It is understood, however, that absences for Election Board Service shall be taken with prior approval of the local supervisor. The employee shall immediately notify the local supervisor when he or she has been summoned for Jury Duty or Witness Duty. No expenses shall be paid for absences under this Article. Also, no time will be paid in the case of a proceeding initiated by the employee or in the case of the employee's divorce proceeding.
2.	Regular employees who are members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces or members of the National Guard shall receive their regular earnings in addition to their military pay for the first fifteen calendar days of compulsory annual training.
3.	Regular employees who are members of a reserve component of the Armed Forces or members of the National Guard shall receive their regular earnings in addition to their military pay for the first fifteen calendar days when called to duty during a civil disorder or natural disaster, which will only be paid on an annual basis.
4.	Regular earnings are based on the employee's regular rate of pay and normal work schedule in effect prior to the absence.
5.	Shift employees temporarily engaged in Jury Duty will be assigned to the first shift or other day work, provided the employee notifies his/her supervisor of the Jury Duty prior to the end of the previous workweek.
Article 6	- Expenses
A.	Per Diem for Expenses and Meals
1.	The Company will pay a per diem for meals and miscellaneous expenses for employees assigned to temporary duty which requires them to be away from home overnight. The per diem rate will be forty dollars ($40.00) per day, or if applicable, eight dollars ($8.00) for the morning meal, nine dollars ($9.00) for the noon meal and eighteen dollars ($18.00) for the evening meal, with five dollars ($5.00) allowed for miscellaneous expenses. Payment will not be made for any meal for an employee living at home. Also, payment will not be made for a morning or a noon time meal for an employee who stayed at home the previous night even though temporarily assigned to another location. In addition, the Company will pay reasonable expenses for lodging of employees assigned temporary duty which requires them to be away from home overnight.
2.	The per diem will not be paid for any meal provided by the Company.
B.	Meal Allowance
1.	If an employee is required to work two (2) hours past his/her normal work schedule (i.e., eight, ten, or twelve hour, etc.) he or she shall be entitled to a meal allowance of ten dollars ($10.00) and an additional meal allowance of ten dollars ($10.00) for each four-hour period thereafter. For any overtime scheduled on rest days, an employee must work two (2) hours past his/her normal work schedule (i.e., eight, ten, or twelve hour, etc.) to be entitled to a meal allowance.
2.	Employees called out or assigned unscheduled overtime shall be eligible to receive a ten-dollar ($10.00) meal allowance provided they perform two hours of work
Page -15-
during the callout or unscheduled overtime. Employees will also be entitled to an additional meal allowance of ten dollars ($10.00) for each four-hour period thereafter.
C.	Mileage
1.	Employees authorized by their supervisors to drive personal vehicles (cars or trucks) on Company business will be reimbursed as follows:
(a)	Employees filling regular assignments, such as Well Tenders, shall be paid a fixed monthly allowance based on the mileage driven during an average month after deducting the distance to and from the job. This allowance shall be adjusted to the nearest half-dollar and shall be subject to revision when necessary. These employees are to be reimbursed in the following manner when absent from work for any reason except vacation. When they are absent for five (5) working days, their monthly allowance will be reduced by oneeighth (1/8); if absent for ten (10) working days, their allowance will be reduced by one-fourth (1/4); if absent fifteen (15) working days, the reduction will be three-eighths (3/8); if absent twenty (20) working days or more, there will be no monthly allowance paid. Employees temporarily assigned to fill these jobs will be paid the actual mileage driven as approved and shall be eligible for the four-dollar ($4.00) daily minimum described in Paragraph 3 below.
(b)	Other employees, regardless of classification, will be reimbursed at the standard mileage rate set by the Internal Revenue Service, except as defined in Section XII, Article 1, Hours of Work and Overtime.
2.	Employees who are being reimbursed for the use of a personal vehicle for Company business may be required to use their vehicle to transport tools and passengers in the performance of their job as needed. When two or more eligible employees ride in one car, only one mileage claim will be paid.
3.	When employees are required to use their personal vehicles for Company business or are permanently filling jobs which require the use of their personal vehicle, and when the mileage payment resulting from such use totals less than four dollars ($4.00) that day, the Company agrees to pay the employee four dollars ($4.00) for the use of his or her vehicle that day.
D.	Moving Expenses
1.	a) Regular employees who are transferred permanently to a new headquarters as a result of the provisions of Section XV, Article 1, Employee Selection resulting in an increased commuting distance of more than 50 miles (one way) will be eligible to receive expenses under this article.
b)	Casual employees whose letter of interest pursuant to Section XV, Article 7, Letter of Interest, results in full time employment and who are transferred permanently to a new headquarters resulting in an increased commuting distance of more than 50 miles (one way) will be eligible to receive expenses under this article,
Page - 16 -
c)	Moving expenses will only be paid provided the reporting date for the new position is at least twenty-four (24) months from the last time the employee reported to a new job and received moving expenses under this article.
2.	A temporary living allowance of five thousand dollars ($5,000) will be paid to employees to cover all temporary living expenses and house hunting expenses. Employees moving a current residential mobile home will receive a lump sum payment of two thousand dollars ($2,000). Employees will have movement of household goods paid to a moving service or if the employee elects to move himself or herself, receive reimbursement for those expenses. These expenses include: transportation, reasonable insurance, packing and cartons. Employees will receive reimbursement for actual enroute (final move) expenses, which include mileage, lodging, and meals.
3.	An employee transferred permanently and living away from home will be allowed one (1) round trip every two weeks on Company time for the first 45 calendar days after the effective date of transfer.
4.	Mileage will be paid only for travel to and from home as provided for in Paragraph 3 of this article. None will be paid for commuting at the new location.
5.	No expenses will be paid under this article for any employee living at home, except that an employee commuting to a new work location that results in an increased commuting distance of more than fifty (50) miles (one way) may receive mileage for the first 45 calendar days in lieu of the five thousand dollars ($5,000) temporary living allowance.
E.	Clothing Allowance
1	.(a) The Company will provide uniforms consisting of an initial issue of four (4) pairs of pants, four (4) long sleeve shirts, four (4) short sleeve shirts, and one (1) jacket with removable liner to all employees in the Town Plant Representative, Gas Service Specialist, Meter Reader, and Collector classifications. These employees will be required to wear their uniforms when on the job. The Company will replace items on an as needed basis up to two (2) pairs of pants, two (2) long sleeve shirts and two (2) short sleeve shirts per year. The jacket will be replaced on an as needed basis.
(b) The Company will provide uniforms consisting of an initial issue of four (4) pairs of pants, four (4) long sleeve shirts, and four (4) short sleeve shirts to all employees in the Leader, Repair Crew, Engine Mechanic, and Engine Mechanic, Sr. classifications. These employees will be required to wear their uniforms when on the job. The Company will replace items on an as needed basis up to two (2) pairs of pants, two (2) long sleeve shirts and two (2) short sleeve shirts per year.
2.	Personal Protective Equipment:
(a)	The applicable Standard Operating Procedures issued by Dominion Transmission and Dominion Hope identify those work situations that require the proper use of personal protective equipment by employees.
(b)	The Company will initially provide and will replace, as it deems necessary, the following personal protective equipment at no cost to the employee:
(i)	Hard hats;
(ii)	Face shields, non-prescription safety glasses and goggles;
(iii)	Ear plugs/muffs;
Page - 17 -
(iv)	Specialty gloves; and
(v)	Other special safety equipment such as welding hoods, respirators, etc., in order to comply with good safety practices.
(c)	Employees will provide appropriate safety toe work shoes. Employees who wear glasses may provide approved safety prescription glasses in lieu of Company supplied non-prescription safety glasses.
(d)	If safety toe work shoes are required for an employee's classified job, the Company will pay him/her a seventy-five dollar ($75.00) stipend by April 15 of each calendar year to help defray the cost.
3.	Dominion Transmission and Dominion Hope will provide at no cost to union eligible employees fire resistive clothing to be worn by union eligible employees as required by the applicable Dominion Transmission and Dominion Hope SOP 360 - 19 Personal Protective Equipment. See Appendix No. 15.
F.	Dominion Safety Eyewear Program
The Company agrees to provide to bargaining unit employees safety glasses under the terms of the Dominion Safety Eyewear Program then in effect. See Appendix No. 24.
Article 7	- Time Off for Personal Business
1.	Regular union eligible employees will be allowed time off for personal business with proper and timely approvals. Personal Days will be used for personal business prior to allowing additional time off under this article, except as provided in Paragraph 3 below.
2.	Payment for such time will only be made in cases where a valid emergency exists. In evaluating emergency cases, supervisors will weigh the extent to which the situation causing the emergency was beyond the employee's control.
3.	Supervisors may, at their discretion, grant up to eight (8) hours time off to attend a funeral for relatives or close personal friends not covered by the provisions of Article 8 - Death in the Family. Payment for such time will be made in cases where the supervisor feels such payment is justified, unless the employee elects to take a Personal day or vacation day. The employee will be paid, however, in instances where he or she has served as a pallbearer or provided a eulogy during the funeral service.
Article 8	- Death in the Family
1.	In the event of death in the immediate family, an employee shall be allowed three (3) work days or twenty-four (24) hours for employees working alternative work schedules, with pay at the straight time rate. In the event of death in the immediate family, an employee shall be allowed three (3) work days with pay at the straight time rate.
2.	"Immediate Family" shall include husband, wife, children, step children, parents, step parents, brothers, step brothers, sisters, step sisters, legal guardian, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law,
Page -18-
grandchildren and grandparents of the employee, and grandparents of the employee's spouse.
3.	If travel time is necessary, employee may be granted additional time by immediate supervisor for travel. Such time will be on employee's time and expense.
4.	If a death occurs in the immediate family while the employee is on vacation, the employee will be allowed to reschedule the amount of vacation used in compliance with Paragraphs 1 and 3 above.
Article 9	- Time Off for Union Business
1.	The Company recognizes that the Union has unique and beneficial responsibilities in the administration of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and in facilitating improved relations between the Company and its employees. Therefore, Union employees shall be paid their regular straight time base rate and not be docked for such time while engaged in Union Business or Union/Management Business.
2.	“Union Business” shall mean matters internal to Local 69-11, including, without limitation, Union elections and affiliation votes, Union-directed training, Union-called meetings, Union meetings with counsel, preparation for and attendance at arbitration hearings, and national or international Union meetings. Such time off will be at Union expense.
3.	“Union/Management Business” shall mean matters directly related to the administration of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the investigation, filing, and presentation of grievances, representation of employees during investigations as required by law, negotiations of the Collective Bargaining Agreement and amendments, deletions, modifications, and additions thereto, Union tours, and other meetings with management or activities as directed by the Company. The Company and the Union will share the expense of Union/Management Business, as detailed in this Article.
4.	Pay for time spent on Union Business or Union/Management Business shall be at base rates and any replacement upgrades resulting from this time off shall not count toward the establishment of a full-time job. This Article shall not apply to Representative Council meetings under Section IV, Involuntary Transfer meetings under Section XV, Article 2, or Reduction in the Work Force meetings, Section XV, Article 3, of this Agreement. Union employee time spent in Representative Council meetings, Involuntary Transfer meetings, and Reduction in the Work Force, and any effects bargaining resulting from such meetings, will be paid fully by the Company and will not count toward the 12,000 hour limitation set forth in Paragraph No. 7, below. In addition, Union Secretary and Union Treasurer time spent on the annual Union tour will be paid by the Company, up to 120 straight-time hours each. Additional time spent by the Union Secretary and Union Treasurer on Union tours over and above this 120-hour allotment shall be considered Union/Management Business, as outlined in Paragraph No. 3, above.
5.	Union Business and Union/Management Business shall be performed by Union employees as employees of the Company who are entitled to receive all of the same benefits and privileges of their regular job, provided that the time spent in Union Business or Union/Management Business shall not be counted for the purpose of premium or overtime pay. Their hours of work for Union Business or Union/Management Business shall not exceed 8 hours per day, 40 hours per week.
Page - 19 -
6.	The balance of the regular work year shall be spent on the regular job as an employee, including training, safety meetings, time off for personal business and emergencies, vacations, holidays, and sick days as provided for under the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and other activities as directed by the Company, all of which shall be as employees of the Company. Union activities, whenever performed, will not jeopardize any employee’s status as an employee of the Company.
7.	As detailed in this Article, the Company will pay seventy percent (70%) of all expenses for time off spent on Union/Management Business, up to 12,000 hours per calendar year. Union/Management Business in excess of 12,000 hours per calendar year will be entirely at Union expense.
8.	The Union will give as much advance notice as possible, preferably at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance, when requesting that a Union employee be cleared for permission to take time off for Union Business or Union/Management Business. Such notice shall be given to the Company’s representatives designated by Labor Relations for such purposes. The Company reserves the right to deny or limit a request for time off for Union Business or Union/Management Business for operational or other good and sufficient reasons.
9.	The Company and the Union agree that they should share in the expense of Union/Management Business conducted on Company time, and that the Union should bear the expense of Union Business conducted on Company time. Thus, the Company and the Union agree that the Union will reimburse the Company for all expenses paid by the Company for time off spent on Union Business, and for thirty percent (30%) of all expenses paid by the Company for time off spent on Union/Management Business, up to 12,000 hours per calendar year. The Union will reimburse the Company for all expenses paid by the Company for time off spent on Union/Management Business in excess of 12,000 hours per calendar year.
10.	To facilitate the administration of this Article, the Company will, as described above, grant time off for Union Business and Union/Management Business with pay and invoice the Union. The Union shall provide to the Company on a monthly basis reasonable documentation and, upon request, verification of time (more than one (1) hour) taken off for Union Business or Union/Management Business. The Company shall bill the Union monthly for all time off for Union Business and for thirty percent (30%) of all time off for Union/Management Business. The amount the Company bills to the Union shall reflect the hourly wage rate plus 35 percent of the hourly wage rate for labor/benefit additives.
11.	The Union shall make payment to the Company within 30 days of its receipt of the invoice. In the event the Union disputes any part of the Company’s invoice, within 30 days of its receipt, it shall nevertheless reimburse the Company for the undisputed portion, and deposit funds equal to the disputed portion of the invoice into an interestbearing escrow account. When the amount in this escrow account reaches $5,000, all disputes concerning the Company’s invoices shall be submitted to mediation, as described in Paragraph No. 12, below.
12.	The Company and the Union shall agree to a panel of three neutral mediators to resolve disputes concerning the Company’s invoices to the Union under this Article throughout the term of this Contract. One of these three mediators shall be retained to facilitate resolution of all existing invoice disputes whenever the balance in the escrow
Page - 20 -
account reaches $5,000, as set forth in paragraph #11, above. The mediators shall be retained on a rotating basis, and the Company and the Union shall each pay an equal share of the mediator’s fees and expenses. Should mediation fail to resolve disputes, the mediator shall have the power to impose a binding resolution upon the parties.
13.	Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article, the Company agrees to pay the Union President and Vice-President full-time to attend to their Union responsibilities as representatives of the Company’s employees. The Union President and Vice-President shall be paid by the Company at their regular straight time base rate, not to exceed eight hours per day, or 40 hours per week. While performing their Union responsibilities, the Union President and Vice-President shall be treated in all respects as employees of the Company, and shall be entitled to receive all the same benefits and privileges of their regular job. The Union President and Vice-President will be required to report their time in the Company’s time entry system, but shall not be required to furnish detailed documentation of their daily Union or Union/Management activities, except as necessary to document time off for vacation, sickness, absences due to civic service, or as necessary to comply with Section 302 of the National Labor Relations Act.
14.	This Article is intended to supersede all past practices, understandings, and oral agreements relating to time off for Union Business and Union/Management Business, and it represents the complete and full agreement of the parties with respect to time off for Union Business and Union/Management Business.
Article 10	- Safe Working Conditions
1.	The Company will make regulations and provisions to provide for the safety and health of its employees during their working hours. Each employee will be responsible for adhering to such regulations and provisions. The Company and the Union will cooperate in seeing that employees comply with such regulations and provisions. Employees in all work locations are encouraged to present questions with regard to safety, safety equipment, the elimination of job hazards, etc., to their supervisors. The Safety Meetings held regularly for physical employees in all major work locations, and at least biannually for clerical employees, provide an opportunity to raise such questions. Each location may present questions to the Company in writing and the Company will respond in writing. Additionally, annually a safety consultation will be held between representatives of Management and the Representative Council of the Union. Representatives from the Safety Section will also be present at this meeting. The purpose of this meeting is to provide an opportunity for employees and Management to discuss matters of safety and accident prevention in order to reduce both the number and the severity of industrial and automotive accidents.
2.	All contracts for construction work to be performed by persons outside the physical and clerical units will specify that the contractor will comply with all relevant Federal and State safety regulations.
SECTION XIII	- ASSIGNMENT OF WORK
1.	The Company and the Union agree in principle that bargaining unit work will be performed only by bargaining unit employees. However, it is also recognized and
Page - 21 -
agreed by the parties that there is a significant difference in the way non-bargaining unit Company employees assist in the accomplishment of bargaining unit work. Therefore:
(a)	With regard to the duties assigned to physical unit employees, non-union eligible employees will not perform such duties except in the case of an emergency. Under no circumstances will the provisions of this clause preclude a salaried employee's right to assign work or carry out any of his or her assigned duties or responsibilities, provided these duties are not the same as the duties of any physical employee.
(b)	With regard to the duties assigned to clerical unit employees, non-union eligible employees, including Supervisors, will not perform such duties except to meet temporary work load requirements. It is not Management's intent that this necessary practice results in the layoff of clerical workers. Under no circumstances will the provisions of this Section alter a nonunion eligible employee's right to assign work or to carry out any of his or her assigned duties or responsibilities.
SECTION XIV	- CONTRACTING OF WORK
The Union recognizes that the Company has the right to contract for work to be performed by persons not in the physical and clerical Bargaining Units. However, the Company will not contract work which directly results in any regular employee being laid-off, demoted, or forced to work less than a normal work week without that employee having been offered a regular job in accordance with Section XV, Article 3, Reduction in the Work Force.
SECTION XV	- CHANGES IN THE WORK FORCE
Article 1 - Employee Selection
1.	The matter of promotions, demotions, transfers, and layoffs is recognized as a function of Management except as provided hereafter. It is necessary to fill job vacancies with employees who are qualified for promotion.
2.	Seniority shall be the basis of selecting employees if the employees are available who are properly qualified for promotion. Unless specified otherwise in this Agreement, employees with satisfactory past performance who have demonstrated their ability and fitness to satisfactorily perform the duties of the job to be filled by passing one or more tests, or who, in the absence of a test, demonstrate their ability and fitness by meeting the criteria identified in paragraphs 1, 2, or 3 of Appendix No. 9 will be considered qualified for selection.(l) Management will prepare tests for jobs and the Union will be given the opportunity to review testing material. Testing may include hands on demonstration of skills and knowledge, oral explanations of job duties, and/or written tests.
3.	When an opening exists the Company will notify the Union Secretary and post the job Company-wide within thirty (30) calendar days. Eligible employees may bid by submitting within fifteen (15) calendar days of posting their written application on the agreed upon form to the appropriate Company designated representative identified on the job posting. Within seven (7) calendar days following the close of the bidding period or
Page - 22 -
upon completion of the Selection Testing, Management will evaluate bids. First priority will be given to senior qualified and eligible employees from within the Bidding Unit. If no selection from within the Bidding Unit is made, second priority will be given to senior qualified and eligible employees within the Bidding Division/Department. If a selection is not made from within the Bidding Division/Department, third priority will be given to senior qualified and eligible employees from other Bidding Divisions and Departments. If a selection is not made from within other Bidding Divisions and Departments, fourth priority will be given to senior qualified and eligible casual employees assigned to the same payroll location where the job is located.
4.	If a selection is not made Company-wide, the senior bidder will be given forty-five (45) calendar days to qualify for the opening (unless specified differently within this Agreement). Preference will be given to employees who bid from within the Bidding Unit. If at the end of forty-five (45) days the employee is qualified (s)he will be selected. Only one employee will be allowed the forty-five (45) day period to become qualified under this paragraph.
5.	After the Union has been notified of an employee selection, the selection shall be considered to be final. However, for a period of ten (10) calendar days, any eligible employee who properly bid for the opening shall have the right to initiate a grievance under the established grievance procedure. The informal hearing for any such grievance shall not be heard until the expiration of the ten (10) day period during which grievances may be initiated. If no informal grievance is initiated, the selection shall be considered final upon the expiration of the ten (10) day period. If a selection is not grieved, the employee selected will be paid the rate of the new job and will receive credited service in classification beginning with the expiration of the ten (10) day grievance period. If business necessitates that the newly selected employee remain in his/her old job temporarily, neither expenses nor mileage will be paid as they would for other temporary assignments. However, if the opening the employee was selected for is a lower rated job the employee will be paid no less than the rate of the job (s)he is performing.
6.	If no bids are received or if selection is not made in accordance with Paragraphs 2, 3, or 4 of this article Management may recruit outside the Company, to fill the position. However, before filling a position with an applicant from outside the Company who requires training for the position, a training opportunity will be posted in the Bidding Unit where the opening exists. Employees within the Bidding Unit may bid on the training opportunity by submitting within ten (10) calendar days of posting their written application to the appropriate Company designated representative as described in paragraph 3 of this Article. If at the end of the training period (s)he is qualified, (s)he will be awarded the job. However, if a position remains unfilled after one employee is offered training for a position in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, Management may recruit outside the Company to fill the position.
7.	The Company may place special requirement notices on job postings. Such special notices must be valid requirements directly related to the job.
8.	Employees may bid on any job for which they are qualified at any pay code (up, down, or lateral). Employees may not bid on jobs in their own pay code within their responsibility center. In order to be eligible for selection, employees on inactive rolls due to long-term illness, leave of absence, or disciplinary suspension must be available to perform the job by the expiration of the ten (10) day grievance period.
Page - 23 -
9.	When an employee accepts a transfer in accordance with the provisions of Article 2 or Article 3 of this Section, the employee will not only have bidding rights in the bidding unit to which (s)he is transferred but also will retain bidding rights at his/her original Bidding Unit for the length of this Agreement unless the employee bids out of the Bidding Unit to which the employee was transferred.
FOOTNOTE:
(1)	See Appendix No. 9 - Employee Selection Physical.
Article 2	- Involuntary Transfers
1.	A transfer of all the employees in a particular job classification from one payroll location to another will not necessitate following the provisions of paragraph 2 of this article unless the new reporting location is more than twenty-five (25) miles from the old reporting location. A change in a Cost Center number for accounting purposes does not constitute a change in an employee's payroll/reporting location. The Company will agree to pay for a meeting between employee(s) and the Union including mutually agreed to travel time for the purpose of discussing employee options under this Article. Management will be present at all involuntary transfer meetings.
2.	When Management has determined that one or more employees in a particular job classification and the work they perform will be permanently transferred from one payroll location to another, the senior employee in the job classification will be given an opportunity to volunteer to be transferred. If there are no volunteers or not enough volunteers, the junior employee will be selected. If no employee desires to transfer to the new location then the reduction will be handled in accordance with Section XV, Changes in the Work Force, Article 3, Reduction in the Work Force.
3.	When the work and employees from more than one payroll location are being merged or combined, the employees (within the particular classification) from all impacted operating locations will be pooled for the purpose of administering paragraph 2 of this Article.
4.	When an employee accepts a transfer in accordance with the provisions of Article 2 or Article 3 of this Section, the employee will not only have bidding rights in the bidding unit to which (s)he is transferred but also will retain bidding rights at his/her original Bidding Unit for the length of this Agreement unless the employee bids out of the Bidding Unit to which the employee was transferred.
5.	The provisions of this article in no way limit Management's right to make temporary assignments as provided for in Article 4 of this Section, or to reassign clerical employees in the General Office (at either Dominion Transmission, Inc. or Dominion Hope).
Article 3	- Reduction in the Work Force
1.	Management has the right and responsibility to reduce payroll costs by eliminating jobs that are no longer necessary. When Management plans to eliminate a job after a vacancy has occurred, they will notify the Union within thirty (30) days or the job will be posted in accordance with Section XV, Article 1, Employee Selection.
2.	When the Company has determined that a certain number of jobs will be eliminated in a specific job classification and at a specific payroll location, the senior employee(s) in that job classification at that location will be given an opportunity to
Page - 24 -
volunteer to be declared surplus. If there are not enough volunteers, the junior employee(s) in the designated location and job classification will be declared surplus.
3.	When the work of employees from more than one payroll location is being merged, the employees (within the particular classification) from all impacted payroll locations will be pooled for the purpose of administering paragraph 2 of this Article.
4.	Employees declared surplus under the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this article will have the option to bump union employees as outlined under the provisions of Section XIX, Modified Bumping.
5.	Surplus employees will be offered a transfer to other regular jobs for which they are qualified, if such positions are available. If more than one employee is surplus, senior qualified employees will be given first choice. If they accept such job offers, the employees will be grandfathered in rate. That is, his/her rate of pay will not be reduced unless the employee bids down or is demoted for disciplinary reasons. The employee will be eligible to receive negotiated increases in pay. Employees considering transfers to jobs which require moving their household under this paragraph, shall be given up to two (2) paid days, if necessary to visit the new location before accepting or rejecting the transfer offer.
6.	In assessing a surplus employee’s qualifications for selecting a job:
(a)	Except as provided for in (b)-(d) below to accept a job an employee must be qualified to be selected under the provisions of Section XV, Article 1, Appendix No. 5, Appendix No. 6, Appendix No. 9.
(b)	Any physical employee will be considered qualified to accept any physical job vacancy Grade 3 or lower (including all levels in the Field/Distribution Worker and Compressor Station Operator Rate Schedule) except for progression jobs.
(c)	Any clerical employee will be considered qualified to accept any clerical job vacancy Grade 5 or lower. Employees must also have passed the Clerical Aptitude Test and applicable skills tests.
(d)	Any employee will be considered qualified to accept any job which (s)he previously held.
7.	If a surplus employee has to leave his or her location due to a reduction in the work force and his or her previous job becomes reinstated within twelve (12) months, that employee has first rights to the job. In addition, that employee will be eligible for moving expenses as outlined in Section XII, Article 6, Expenses, D. Moving Expenses, of the current labor Agreement.
8.	If surplus employees refuse to accept such offers or if regular jobs for which they are qualified are not available they will be terminated and will be given call back rights within their former bidding Department/Division and severance pay. Severance pay will be equal to two (2) weeks at their current rate of pay for each year of credited service up to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks of pay, and three (3) months of COBRA medical coverage at their current level. Any terminated surplus employee will be eligible for a minimum of twelve (12) weeks severance pay. Call back rights for regular jobs will be in effect for the term of this Agreement.
9.	Surplus employees who are qualified may elect to bump into currently filled casual positions within their bidding Department/Division. If they bump, their rate of
Page - 25 -
pay will be adjusted to the appropriate casual rate and their benefits will be adjusted to reflect their casual status. Any regular employee who bumps into a casual position will not be eligible for moving expenses. If regular employees bump casual employees and are subsequently laid off from their casual position they will have casual call back rights for twelve (12) months from the date they were laid off from their casual positions as described in Section XV, Article 6, paragraph 2.
10.	No job will be offered to terminated former employees eligible for call-back until the job has been offered to current employees or surplus employees (if any) under the provisions of:	i. Section XV Changes in the Work Force
Article 1 Employee Selection
ii. Section XV Changes in the Work Force
Article 3	Reduction in the Work Force, Paragraph 5
11.	When a position is available to be offered to former regular employees who were terminated in accordance with Paragraph 8 of this Article, they will be notified by mail at the address they last supplied to Human Resources with a copy to the Secretary of the Union. They will have seven days to respond in writing to the designated Company official. Jobs will be awarded to the qualified senior employees. The criteria specified in Article 1, paragraph 2 of this Section will be used in assessing employees' qualifications.
12.	Senior qualified former employees who were terminated in a Reduction in the Work Force will be given preferential treatment in hiring for casual positions for twelve (12) months within their former bidding Division/Department.
13.	For the provisions of this Article, Dominion Transmission, Inc.’s General Office is considered to be a single location. Similarly General Office employees at Dominion Hope will be grouped together, not separated by payroll locations, for the provisions of this Article.
Article 4	- Moving Expenses for Surplused Employees
1.	Regular employees who are transferred permanently to a new headquarters as a result of the provisions of Section XV, Article 2, Involuntary Transfers and Article 3, Reduction in the Work Force resulting in an increased commuting distance of more than twenty-five (25) miles (one way) will have their moving-related expenses paid as outlined below, except employees moving under the provisions of Section XIX, Modified Bumping. Employees moving because of bumping another employee will only be eligible for a fifteen hundred dollar ($1,500) lump sum to cover movement of household goods and en-route expenses.
(a)	A one-time lump sum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250) for house hunting expenses.
(b)	Temporary living expenses - Five thousand dollars ($5,000) will be paid to employees to cover all temporary living expenses and incidental moving expenses not outlined below.
(c)	Movement of household goods where an employee may elect to use a Company-paid moving service or receive reimbursement for expenses incurred while moving himself or herself.
(d)	En-route expenses incurred during the final trip to the new residence.
(e)	A lump sum payment of two thousand dollars ($2,000) to move a current residential mobile home.
Page - 26 -
2.	Once the employee has started reporting to his/her new location, he/she will receive five hundred dollars ($500) per month, up to twelve (12) months, provided he/she continues to report to that new location.
3.	If the employee remains on the job through the end of the calendar year and has incurred moving expenses during that year, the Company will pay a fifty percent (50%) gross-up of the employee’s taxable moving expenses paid under Paragraph 1 of this article.
4.	An employee transferred permanently and living away from home will be allowed one (1) round trip every two (2) weeks on Company time for the first forty-five (45) calendar days after the effective date of the transfer. Mileage will be paid only for travel to and from home for the round trip. None will be paid for commuting at the new location.
5.	No expenses will be paid under this article for any employee living at home, except that an employee commuting to a new work location resulting in an increased commuting distance of more than twenty-five (25) miles (one way) may receive mileage for the first forty-five (45) calendar days in lieu of the five thousand dollars ($5,000) paid to cover the temporary living expenses.
Article 5	- Temporary Assignment
1.	Temporary assignments do not fall within the notification and posting provisions of the Employee Selection Article of this Agreement. Employees may request to be excused from temporary assignments for personal reasons. Management will evaluate such requests. This is not to be interpreted as allowing employees to refuse temporary assignments, particularly those which may involve undesirable working conditions. Also, when a temporary assignment outside an employee's payroll location requires staying away from home overnight, a senior employee may request to be excused from the assignment. Management will accommodate the request, provided there is a qualified junior employee in the payroll location available for assignment.
2.	Regular employees assigned to a temporary work location and living away from home will be allowed one round trip per week on Company time except where the assignment is for training purposes in which case the employee will be allowed one round trip home on Company time every two weeks. If a serious personal emergency arises and an employee desires to return home during a training period, Management will normally permit such a trip if justified by the severity of the employee's situation.
Article 6	- Casual Employees/Temporaries
A.	Casual Employees
1.	Casual employees who are filling regular jobs and who satisfactorily meet the Company's employment requirements shall be made regular after six (6) months of continuous employment. Also, the Company agrees that they shall not be terminated for the sole purpose of breaking their continuous employment.
2.	Casual employees hired for specific periods of work, such as for summer employment, to meet temporary work load requirements, or to temporarily replace regular employees, are not eligible for consideration under Paragraph 1 above. However, such casual employees will be given recall preference at the payroll location from which they were laid off as follows:
Page -T1 -
(a)	To be eligible for recall the casual employee must have been recommended for rehire at the time he/she was laid off
(b)	Recall preference rights will be valid only for twelve (12) months.
(c)	The layoff/recall cycle within a payroll location will be as follows:
(i)	A senior qualified former regular employee who bumped a casual or was terminated under the provisions of Article 3 of this Section will be given preferential treatment for twelve (12) months within his or her former bidding Division/ Department.
(ii)	Except as provided for in paragraph (i) above:
*	Casual employees will be laid off on a first in, last out basis.
*	Former casual employees with recall preference rights will be recalled on a last out, first in basis.
B.	Temporaries
1.	Prior to hiring a temporary to perform Union eligible work, the Company will notify the Union of the work to be performed and the anticipated duration of the assignment.
Article 7	- Letter of Interest
An employee may express interest in any job vacancy by submitting a letter of interest to his or her immediate Supervisor with a copy to the Manager, Labor Relations and the Union Secretary setting forth the reason(s) for such request. However, Management has no obligation to consider such requests.
Article 8	- Upgrade
1.	Regular employees temporarily assigned to a job in a higher pay grade outside of their classification shall receive the higher rate up to the start rate for each hour worked. Senior, qualified, and available employees in the payroll location will be given first consideration in making such assignments.
2.	Casual employees temporarily assigned to a pay Grade 5 or higher job outside of their classification shall receive the higher rate up to the start rate for each hour worked.
3.	If one or more employee(s) is upgraded to a specific job in a specific payroll location for over 1040 hours in a calendar year, the hours that could have been worked by one employee, excluding any overtime, will be added. If the resulting total is over 1040 and if Management determines that the work is permanent and recurring, a new job exists and will be filled in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
4.	When Management determines that a reserve is needed for a physical progression position, a training opportunity will be posted and the senior employee from the payroll location who expresses interest will normally be given an opportunity to attend orientation and testing. However, in some instances Management may determine it is more efficient to select a reserve from a group of payroll locations or from the entire Bidding Unit.
Page - 28 -
Article 9	- New Regular Employees
Newly hired regular employees will be on probation for the first nine (9)
months following employment during which time they may be terminated by the Company without recourse to the grievance procedure of the Agreement.
SECTION XVI	- BENEFITS
The Dominion Transmission and Hope Gas Union Savings Plan, the Dominion Transmission and Hope Gas Union Pension Plan, Disability Benefit Plan of Dominion Transmission and Dominion Hope, the Dominion Transmission and Hope Gas Union Flexible Benefits Plan, (includes the Medical Plan, Dental Plan, Vision Plan, Employee Life Insurance, Dependent Life Insurance, Accidental Death and Dismemberment, Business Travel Accident, Long Term Disability, and Flexible Spending Accounts), the Education Assistance Program, and Adoption Assistance shall be governed solely by the provisions of such plans. No changes affecting benefits or increasing employee contributions as provided on the date of this Agreement may be made in such plans unless by agreement between the Union and the Company. The Company reserves the right to replace the carrier or service provider with another carrier or service provider upon sixty (60) days prior notice to the Utility Workers Union of America, Local No. 69-II, AFL-CIO, in conjunction with any of the above named Benefit Plans.
SECTION XVII	- EFFECT OF INVALIDITY
1. Any provision of this Agreement which shall be in violation of applicable public laws or regulations shall be deemed void, but shall have no effect on the remaining portions of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
SECTION XVIII	- TERMINATION
This Agreement shall be in effect until 11:59 a.m., April 1, 2010, and for
renewal periods of one year thereafter, unless canceled by either party by giving notice in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to April 1, 2010, or sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of any subsequent one-year period. This Agreement may be amended or canceled at any time by mutual written agreement.
SECTION XIX	- MODIFIED BUMPING(i)
1.	When the Company has determined that a certain number of jobs will be eliminated in a specific job classification and at a specific payroll location, employees will be declared surplus in accordance with Section XV, Article 3, Paragraph 2.
2.	A surplus employee will have his/her future employment status handled in accordance with Paragraphs 3 through 13 of Section XV, Article 3, unless he/she is
Page - 29 -
eligible and elects the Modified Bumping provisions of Paragraph 3 below. To be eligible to elect Modified Bumping, he/she must have been involuntarily declared surplus.
3.	An employee involuntarily declared surplus may elect to participate in the following Modified Bumping procedure:
a. A list of surplus employees from the specific payroll location who elect to bump will be prepared.
* b. A list of least senior employees from the same payroll location will be prepared. This list will contain the same number of names as the list prepared in Paragraph (a) above. In preparing this list, beginning with the least senior employee from the work location, a name will be excluded from this list for any of the following reasons:
(i)	The employee holds a job that none of the surplus employees (Paragraph (a) above) is eligible to select (Paragraph (e) below.)
(ii)	The employee is senior to the surplus employee(s) (Paragraph (a) above) who are eligible to select (Paragraph (e) below) this employee's job.
(iii)	The employee is the second, third, fourth, etc., employee in a non-entry job classification and there are not enough surplus employees (Paragraph (a) above) eligible or senior enough to select (Paragraph (e) below) any more jobs in this employee's job classification than those held by employees already listed.
c. The lists from Paragraph (a) and Paragraph (b) will be combined. If an employee's name is on both lists, his/her name will appear only once on the combined list.
*d. A list of the jobs held by the least senior employees (Paragraph (b) above) will be prepared. If any of these least senior employees is a surplus employee (Paragraph (a) above), then he/she does not hold a job to be placed on this list.
e.	Based on seniority and qualifications (with senior employees selecting first) the employees from the combined list (Paragraph (c) above) will be allowed to select jobs from the list prepared in Paragraph (d) above. All employees will be eligible to select entry level jobs. (See Section XV, Article 3, Paragraph 6 (b) and (c) for definition of entry level jobs.) To be eligible to select a position other than an entry level job, an employee must have previously held that job classification and must currently be qualified for it. Employees will be given credit for any time previously worked in a job classification.
f.	Employees who select jobs in the selection process described in Paragraph (e) will immediately have their pay adjusted to the rate of the job they selected and will have bidding rights based on the selected job. However, in no event will an employee have his/her rate of pay reduced by more than eight percent (8%) in any one bump. (Employees will NOT be red circled.)
Page - 30 -
g.	Employees who did not choose to select a job in the selection described in Paragraph (e) will have their future employment status handled in accordance with Paragraphs 3 through 13 of Section XV, Article 3, of this Agreement.
h.	If an employee was bumped, did not get an opportunity to select a job, and is senior to employees who were excluded from the list in Paragraph (b) above (s)he may elect to initiate another bump as described above. If a senior employee who was bumped does initiate such a secondary bump, only the senior employee(s) who was bumped and the junior employee(s) who was excluded from the list in Paragraph (b) above will be involved.
i.	If an employee who was bumped, did not get an opportunity to select a job, and is senior to employees who were excluded from the list in Paragraph (b) does not elect to initiate a secondary bump as provided for in Paragraph (h) then his/her future employment status will be handled in accordance with Paragraphs 3 through 13 of Section XV, Article 3, of this Agreement.
*NOTE:	If there are available vacant positions at the payroll location in question,
each available vacant position will be placed on the list referred to in Paragraph (d). Also, for each such available vacant position, the number of least senior employees on the list referred to in Paragraph (b) will be reduced by one (1).
4.	Employees who did not get an opportunity to select a job in the bumping described in Paragraph 3 above and who did not waive their right to initiate a secondary bump in Paragraph 3(h) may elect to initiate a bidding unit wide bump as follows:
a. A list of surplus employees from the specific bidding unit who elect to bump will be prepared.
*b. A list of least senior employees from the same bidding unit will be prepared. This list will contain the same number of names as the list prepared in Paragraph (a) above. In preparing this list, beginning with the least senior employee from the bidding unit, a name will be excluded from this list for any of the following reasons:
(i)	The employee holds a job that none of the surplus employees (Paragraph (a) above) is eligible to select (Paragraph (e) below.)
(ii)	The employee is senior to the surplus employee(s) (Paragraph (a) above) who are eligible to select (Paragraph (e) below) this employee's job.
(iii)	The employee is the second, third, fourth, etc., employee in a non-entry job classification and there are not enough surplus employees (Paragraph (a) above) eligible or senior enough to select (Paragraph (e) below) any more jobs in this employee's job classification than those held by employees already listed.
c. The lists from Paragraph (a) and Paragraph (b) will be combined. If an employee's name is on both lists, his/her name will appear only once on the combined list.
Page -31-
*d. A list of the jobs held by the least senior employees (Paragraph (b) above) will be prepared. If any of these least senior employees is a surplus employee (Paragraph (a) above), then he/she does not hold a job to be placed on this list.
e.	Based on seniority and qualifications (with senior employees selecting first) the employees from the combined list (Paragraph (c) above) will be allowed to select jobs from the list prepared in Paragraph (d) above. All employees will be eligible to select entry level jobs. (See Section XV, Article 3, Paragraph 6 (b) and (c) for definition of entry level jobs.) To be eligible to select a position other than an entry level job, an employee must have previously held that job classification and must currently be qualified for it. Employees will be given credit for any time previously worked in a job classification.
f.	Employees who select jobs in the selection process described in Paragraph (e) will immediately have their pay adjusted to the rate of the job they selected and will have bidding rights based on the selected job. However, in no event will an employee have his/her rate of pay reduced by more than eight percent (8%) in any one bump. (Employees will NOT be red circled.)
g.	Employees who did not choose to select a job or did not get an opportunity to select a job in the selection described in Paragraph (e) will have their future employment status handled in accordance with Paragraphs 3 through 13 of Section XV, Article 3, of the Agreement. However, if an employee was bumped, did not get an opportunity to select a job, and is senior to employees who were excluded from the list in Paragraph (b) above he/she may elect to initiate another bump as described above. If a senior employee who was bumped does initiate such a secondary bump, only the senior employee(s) who was bumped and the junior employee(s) who was excluded from the list in Paragraph (b) above will be involved.
h.	If an employee who was bumped, did not get an opportunity to select a job, and is senior to employees who were excluded from the list in Paragraph (b) does not elect to initiate a secondary bump as provided for in Paragraph (g) then his/her future employment status will be handled in accordance with Paragraphs 3 through 13 of Section XV, Article 3, of this Agreement.
*NOTE: If there are available vacant positions in the bidding unit in question, each available vacant position will be placed on the list referred to in Paragraph (d). Also, for each such available vacant position, the number of least senior employees on the list referred to in Paragraph (b) will be reduced by one (1).
FOOTNOTE:
(1) General Office employees at Dominion Transmission, Inc. will be grouped together, not separated by payroll locations, for all bumping provisions. Similarly General Office employees at Dominion Hope, will be grouped together, not separated by payroll locations, for all bumping provisions.
Page - 32 -
SECTION XX - CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2008 DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC. AND DOMINION HOPE UNION CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS*
	GRADE 001 - $14.16/hr.		GRADE 007 - $22.45/hr.
39024	Messenger	34125	Draftsperson
38004	Typist Clerk	34245	Extraction Plant Clerk
		35012	Marketing & Rates Clerk, General
	GRADE 002 - $15.17/hr.	34122	Purchasing Clerk
39025	Stock Room Clerk	34171	Traffic Clerk
		37080	Information Systems Specialist
	GRADE 003 - $16.97/hn	39023	Electronic Data Processor, Sr.
38182	General Office Clerk	39064	Phototypesetting Specialist
39026	Copying Machine Operator		
39019	Key Punch Operator		GRADE 008 - $23.48/hr.
38008	Receptionist	38028	Word Processor, Leader
39028	Records Storage Clerk	34153	Telecommunications Cleric
		39062	Microfilm Equipment Operator
	GRADE 004 - 518.42/hr		
39081	Key Punch/Verifier Operator		GRADE 009 - $25.15/hr.
39029	Stock Room Clerk, Sr.	55524	Customer Account Clerk
		55520	Accounting Clerk
	GRADE 005 - $19.73/1111	55522	City Plant Cleric
39027	Mail Clerk	55526	Field Clerk
55532	Stenographer-Clerk	34247	Gas & By-Products Tester, Sr.
34183	Tracer	55528	Gas Measurement Clerk
35011	Marketing and Rates Clerk	34111	Instrument Person
39020	Verifier Operator	55530	Rent & Royalties Clerk
39022	Electronic Data Processor	34138	Production Clerk
39044	Telephone Switchboard Operator	34108	Storage Clerk
			
	GRADE 006 - $21.11/hr.		GRADE 010 — $26.10/hr.
34113	Gas & By-Products Tester	34346	City Plant Clerk, Leader
39030	Printing Machine Operator	34104	Draftsperson, Sr.
55534	Word Processor	34297	Draftsperson, Division
39095	Engineering Clerk	34338	Extraction Plant Clerk, Leader
39031	Stationery Clerk	34351	Field Clerk, Leader
39090	Environmental Clerk		
			GRADE - 011 - $26.97/hr.
		34192	Lease Ownership Clerk
*A Casual employee hired to perform clerical work shall be paid at the classified rate contained in the above Rate Schedule.
Page - 33 -
SECTION XXI - PHYSICAL PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2008 DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC.
AND DOMINION HOPE CLASSIFIED PHYSICAL EMPLOYEES RATES AND OCCUPATION CODES
OCCUPATION		RATE
00002	Casual Janitor	$12.90/hr.
00004	Casual Rouster	$16.1 l/hr.
00005	Casual Rouster-12 Mo.	$17.24/hr.
00007	Casual Rouster-18 Mo.	$18.36/hr.
00006	Casual Compressor Sta. Oper.-Start	$23.74/hr.
| 00008
| Regular Janitor
| $18.06/hr.
RATE SCHEDULES
Time is Credited Service in Classification for New Regular Employees
00011 Field/Distribution Worker (Less/1 Yr.)	$17. lOZhr,	00418 Utilityperson Field-Start (Less/6 Yrs.) Gr. 7	$25.02/hr.
00012 Field/Distribution Worker (1 Yr.)	$17.66/hr.	00511 Utilityperson Field-Level I (6 Yrs.) Gr. 8	$25.62/hr.
00018 Field/Distribution Worker (1-1/2 Yrs.)	$18.38/hr.	00620 Group Leader/Utilityperson-Lcvel 11 (10 Yrs.) Gr. 10	$26.52/hr.
00024 Field/Distribution Worker (2 Yrs.)	$l9.24/hr.		
00036 Field/Distribution Worker (3 Yrs.)	$21.26/hr.	00419 Utilityperson Distribution-Start (Less/6 Yrs.) Gr. 7	$25,02/hr.
00070 Field/Distribution Worker (5 Yrs.)	$22.47/hr.	00512 Utilityperson Distribution-Level I (6 Yrs.) Gr. 8	$25.62/hr.
00080 Field/Distribution Worker (8 Yrs.) Gr. 3	$23.39/hr.	00621 Utilityperson Distribution-Level 11 (10 Yrs.) Gr. 10	$26.52/hr.
00081 Field/Distribution Worker, Sr. (10 Yrs) Gr. 5	S23.87/hr.		
			
00122 Compressor Station Operator-Start (Less than 5 Yrs.) Gr. 3	$23.39/hr.	00415 Hastings Gas Processing Plant Operator-Start Gr. 7	S25.02/hr.
00221 Compressor Station Operator-Level I (5 Years) Gr. 5	$23.87/hr.	00709 Hastings Gas Processing Plant Operator Gr. 11	$27.22/hr.
PROGRESSION SCHEDULES
Electrician		Gas Service Specialist	
00301 Electrician-Start	$24.4 l/hr.	00302 Gas Service Specialist-Start	$24.4 l/hr.
00501 Electrician-Level 1	$25.62/hr.	00402 Gas Service Specialist-Level I	$25.02/hr.
00701 Electrician-Level II	$27.22/hr.	00502 Gas Service Specialist-Level II	$25.62/hr.
		00602 Gas Service Specialist-Level UI	$26.07/hr.
Gas Measurement Specialist		00705 Gas Service Specialist-Level IV	$27,22/hr.
00405 Gas Measurement Specialist	$25.02/hr.		
00614 Gas Measurement Specialist, Sr.	$26.52/hr.	Regulator Specialist	
		00417 Regulator Specialist	$25.02/hr.
Communications Specialist		00604 Regulator Specialist, Sr.	$26.07/hr.
00124 Communications Specialist-Start	$23.39/hr.		
00409 Communications Specialist-Level I	$25.02/hr.	Town Plant Representative	
00622 Communications Specialist-Level II	$26.52/hr.	00311 Town Plant Representative-Start	$24.4 l/hr.
		00412 Town Plant Representative-Level I	$25.02/hr.
Engine Compressor Analyst		00510 Town Plant Representative-Level II	$25.62/hr.
00624 Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee	$26.52/hr.		
00707 Engine Compressor Analyst	$27.22/hr.	Warehouse Worker	
00801 Engine Compressor Analyst. Sr.	$27.77/hr.	00305 Warehouse Worker-Start	$24.4l/hr.
		00420 Warehouse Worker-Level I	$25.02/hr.
		00514 Warehouse Worker-Level II	$25.62/hr.
	GRADE 001 -$22.02/hr.		GRADE 006-$24.41/hr.		GR. 007 (CONTD) - $25.0L'hr.		GRADE 010 - $26.52Jhr.
00101	Maintenance Worker, Building	00300	Bailing Machine Operator	00417	Regulator Specialist	00610	Auto Mechanic, Sr.
		00301	Electrician (Start)	00418	Utilityperson Field-Start	00613	Engine Mechanic, Sr,
	GRADE 002 - $22.47/hr.	00302	Gas Service Specialist (Start)	00419	Utilityperson Distribution-Start	00614	Gas Measurement Specialist. Sr.
00110	Garage Attendant	00303	Inspector	00420	Warehouse Worker (Level I)	00616	Machinist
00111	Guard	00304	Maintenance Mechanic, Building			00617	Shift Leader
		00305	Warehouse Worker (Start)			00618	Extraction Plant Equip. Mechanic
	GRADE 003 -$23.39/hr.	00307	Auto Mechanic		GRADE 008 - S25.62/hr.	00619	Instrument Specialist
00080	Field/Distribution Worker (8 Yrs.)	00308	Medium Equipment Operator	00501	Electrician (Level I)	00620	Group Leader/Utility. Lv. II (10 Yrs.)
00121	Chemical Tester	00309	Meas, Station Operator (Major)	00502	Gas Service Specialist (Level II)	00621	Utilityperson Dist.-Lv. II (10 Yrs.)
00122	Compressor Station Operator (Start)	00311	Town Plant Representative-Start	00503	Leader, General Office Garage	00622	Communications Spec. (Level 11)
00124	Communications Specialist (Start)	00312	Service Dispatcher	00506	Compressor Station Oper., 24-Hr	00623	Compressor Station Control Specialist
00125	Maintenance Worker, Ext. Plant	00313	Leak Inspector	00508	Insulator. Extraction Plant	00624	Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee
				00509	Heavy Equipment Operator	00626	Liquids Plant Operator
			GRADE 007- $2S.02/hr.	00510	Town Plant Rep. (Level II)		
	GRADE 004 - $23.63/11r.	00401	Compressor Station Oper., Sr.	00511	Utilityperson Field (Level I)		GRADE Oil-S27.22/hr.
		00402	Gas Service Specialist (Level I)	00512	Utilityperson Distrib. (Level 1)	00701	Electrician (Level II)
	GRADE 005 - $23.87/11 r.	00404	Engine Mechanic	00514	Warehouse Worker (Level II)	00702	Leader. Repair Crew
00081	Field/Dist. Worker, Sr. (10 Yrs.)	00405	Gas Measurement Specialist	00515	Maintenance Mechanic, Bld., Sr.	00705	Gas Service Specialist (Level IV)
00212	Collector	00406	Heavy Truck Driver			00707	Engine Compressor Analyst
00214	Meter Reader	00407	Paint Gun Operator			00709	Hastings Gas Processing Plant Oper.
00216	Painter	00409	Communications Specialist (Lv. I)		GRADE 009 - $26.07/hr.		
00219	Loader. Extraction Plant	00412	Town Plant Representative (Lv. I)	00602	Gas Service Specialist (Lv. HI)		
00220	Well Tender	00413	Loader. Sr.. Extraction Plant	00603	Carpenter		GRADE 012-$27.77/hr.
00221	Compressor Station Oper.-Level I	00416	Pressure Control Operator	00604	Regulator Specialist, Sr.	00801	Engine Compressor Analyst. Sr.
00222	Waste Water Treatment Plant Oper.	00415	Hastings Gas Process. Pit. Opr.-St.			00703	Welder
Page - 34 -
SECTION XX - CLERICAL PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2009 DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC. AND DOMINION HOPE UNION CLERICAL CLASSIFICATIONS*
	GRADE 001 - $14.66/hr.		GRADE 007 - $23.24/hr.
39024	Messenger	34125	Draftsperson
38004	Typist Clerk	34245	Extraction Plant Clerk
		35012	Marketing & Rates Clerk, General
	GRADE 002 - $15.70/hr.	34122	Purchasing Clerk
39025	Stock Room Clerk	34171	Traffic Clerk
		37080	Information Systems Specialist
	GRADE 003 - $17.56/hr.	39023	Electronic Data Processor, Sr.
38182	General Office Clerk	39064	Phototypesetting Specialist
39026	Copying Machine Operator		
39019	Key Punch Operator		GRADE 008 - S24.30/hr.
38008	Receptionist	38028	Word Processor, Leader
39028	Records Storage Clerk	34153	Telecommunications Clerk
		39062	Microfilm Equipment Operator
	GRADE 004 - $19.06/hr._		
39081	Key Punch/Verifier Operator		GRADE 009-$26.03/hr.
39029	Stock Room Clerk, Sr.	55524	Customer Account Clerk
		55520	Accounting Clerk
	GRADE 005 - $20.42/hr.	55522	City Plant Clerk
39027	Mail Clerk	55526	Field Clerk
55532	Stenographer-Clerk	34247	Gas & By-Products Tester, Sr.
34183	Tracer	55528	Gas Measurement Clerk
35011	Marketing and Rates Clerk	34111	Instrument Person
39020	Verifier Operator	55530	Rent & Royalties Clerk
39022	Electronic Data Processor	34138	Production Clerk
39044	Telephone Switchboard Operator	34108	Storage Clerk
			
	GRADE 006 - $21.85/hr.		GRADE 010 - $27.01/hr.
34113	Gas & By-Products Tester	34346	City Plant Clerk, Leader
39030	Printing Machine Operator	34104	Draftsperson, Sr.
55534	Word Processor	34297	Draftsperson, Division
39095	Engineering Clerk	34338	Extraction Plant Clerk, Leader
39031	Stationery Clerk	34351	Field Clerk, Leader
39090	Environmental Clerk		
			GRADE - Oil -S2 7.91/hr.
		34192	Lease Ownership Clerk
*A Casual employee hired to perform clerical work shall be paid at the classified rate contained in the above Rate Schedule.
Page - 35 -
SECTION XXI - PHYSICAL PAY SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,2009 DOMINION TRANSMISSION, INC.
AND DOMINION HOPE CLASSIFIED PHYSICAL EMPLOYEES RATES AND OCCUPATION CODES
OCCUPATION		RATE
00002	Casual Janitor	St3.35/hr.
00004	Casual Ro uster	$I6.67/hr.
00005	Casual Rouster-12 Mo,	Sl7.84/hr.
00007	Casual Rouster-18 Mo.	$19.00/hr.
00006	Casual Compressor Sta. Open-Start	$24.57/hr.
| 00008
| Regular Janitor
| Sl8.69/hr.
RATE SCHEDULES
Time is Credited Service in Classification for New Regular Employees
00011 Field/Distribution Worker (Less/lYr.)	S17.70/hr.	00418 Utilityperson Field-Start (Less/6 Yrs.) Gr. 7	$25.90/hr.
00012 Field/Distribution Worker (1 Yr.}	$18.28/hr.	00511 Utilityperson Field-Level I (6 Yrs.) Gr. 8	$26.52/hr.
00018 Field/Distribution Worker (1-1/2 Yrs.)	S19.02/hr.	00620 Group Leader/Utilityperson-Level 11 (10 Yrs.) Gr. 10	$27.45/hr.
00024 Field/Distribution Worker (2 Yrs.)	$19.91/hr.		
00036 Field/Distribution Worker (3 Yrs.)	522.00/hr.	00419 Utilityperson Distribution-Start (Less/6 Yrs.) Gr. 7	$25.90/hr.
00070 Fteld/Distribution Worker (5 Yrs.)	$23.26/hr.	00512 Utilityperson Distribution-Level 1 (6 Yrs.) Gr. 8	$26.52/hr.
00080 Field/Distribution Worker (8 Yrs.) Gr. 3	$24.21/hr.	00621 Utilityperson Distribution-Level II (10 Yrs.) Gr. 10	$27.45/hr.
00081 Field/Distribution Worker, Sr. (10 Yrs) Gr. 5	$24.71/hr.		
			
00122 Compressor Station Operator-Start (Less than 5 Yrs.) Gr. 3	$24.21/hr.	00415 Hastings Gas Processing Plant Operator-Start Gr. 7	$25.90/hr.
00221 Compressor Station Operator-Level I (5 Years) Gr. 5	$24.71/hr.	00709 Hastings Gas Processing Plant Operator Gr. 11	$28.17/hr.
PROGRESSION SCHEDULES
Electrician		Gas Service Specialist	
00301 Electrician-Start	$25.26/hr.	00302 Gas Service Specialist-Start	$25.26/hr.
00501 Electrician-Level I	$26.52/hr.	00402 Gas Service Specialist-Level I	$25.90/hr.
00701 Electrician-Level II	$28.17/hr.	00502 Gas Service Specialist-Level II	$26.52/hr.
		00602 Gas Service Specialist-Level III	$26.98/hr.
Gas Measurement Specialist		00705 Gas Service Specialist-Level IV	$28.17/hr.
00405 Gas Measurement Specialist	$25.90/hr.		
00614 Gas Measurement Specialist, Sr.	$27.45/hr.	Regulator Specialist	
		00417 Regulator Specialist	$25.90/hr.
Communications Specialist		00604 Regulator Specialist, Sr.	$26.98/hr.
00124 Communications Specialist-Start	$24.21/hr.		
00409 Communications Specialist-Level I	$25.90/hr.	Town Plant Representative	
00622 Communications Specialist-Level II	$27.45/hr.	00311 Town Plant Representative-Start	$25.26/hr.
		00412 Town Plant Representative-Level I	$25.90/hr.
Engine Compressor Analyst		00510 Town Plant Representative-Level II	$26.52/hr.
00624 Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee	$27.45/hr.		
00707 Engine Compressor Analyst	$28.17/hr.	Warehouse Worker	
0080! Engine Compressor Analyst, Sr.	$28.74/hr.	00305 Warehouse Worker-Start	$25.26/hr.
		00420 Warehouse Worker-Level 1	$25.90/hr.
		00514 Warehouse Worker-Level II	$26.52/hr.
	GRADE 001-$22.79/hr.		GRADE 006 - $25.26/hr.		GR. 007 (CONTD) - $25.90/hr.		GRADE 010 - $27.45/hr.
00101	Maintenance Worker, Building	00300	Bailing Machine Operator	00417	Regulator Specialist	00610	Auto Mechanic, Sr.
		00301	Electrician (Start)	00418	Utilityperson Field-Start	00613	Engine Mechanic, Sr.
	GRADE 002 -$23.26/hr.	00302	Gas Service Specialist (Start)	00419	Utilityperson Distribution-Start	00614	Gas Measurement Specialist, Sr.
00110	Garage Attendant	00303	Inspector	00420	Warehouse Worker (Level I)	00616	Machinist
00111	Guard	00304	Maintenance Mechanic, Building			00617	Shift Leader
		00305	Warehouse Worker (Start)			00618	Extraction Plant Equip. Mechanic
	GRADE 003 -S24.21/hr.	00307	Auto Mechanic		GRADE 008-$26.52/hr.	00619	Instrument Specialist
00080	Field/Distribution Worker (8 Yrs.)	00308	Medium Equipment Operator	00501	Electrician (Level I)	00620	Group Leader/Utility. Lv. II (10 Yrs.)
00121	Chemical Tester	00309	Meas. Station Operator (Major)	00502	Gas Service Specialist (Level II)	00621	Utilityperson Dist.-Lv, II (10 Yrs.)
00122	Compressor Station Operator (Start)	00311	Town Plant Representative-Start	00503	Leader. General Office Garage	00622	Communications Spec. (Level II)
00124	Communications Specialist (Start)	00312	Service Dispatcher	00506	Compressor Station Oper.. 24-Hr	00623	Compressor Station Control Specialist
00125	Maintenance Worker, Ext. Plant	00313	Leak Inspector	00508	Insulator, Extraction Plant	00624	Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee
				00509	Heavy Equipment Operator	00626	Liquids Plant Operator
			GRADE 007- $25.90/hr.	00510	Town Plant Rep. (Level II)		
	GRADE 004 -$24.46/hr.	00401	Compressor Station Oper., Sr.	00511	Utilitypetson Field (Level I)		GRADE Oil-$28.17/hr.
		00402	Gas Service Specialist (Level 1)	00512	Utilityperson Distrib. (Level I)	00701	Electrician (Level II)
	GRADE 005-$24.7I/hr.	00404	Engine Mechanic	00514	Warehouse Worker (Level 11)	00702	Leader, Repair Crew
00081	Field/Dist. Worker, Sr. (10 Yrs.)	00405	Gas Measurement Specialist	00515	Maintenance Mechanic, Bld., Sr.	00705	Gas Service Specialist (Level IV)
00212	Collector	00406	Heavy Truck Driver			00707	Engine Compressor Analyst
00214	Meter Reader	00407	Paint Gun Operator			00709	Hastings Gas Processing Plant Oper.
00216	Painter	00409	Communications Specialist (Lv. I)		GRADE 009 - $26.98/hr.		
00219	Loader, Extraction Plant	00412	Town Plant Representative (Lv. I)	00602	Gas Service Specialist (Lv. Ill)		
00220	Well Tender	00413	Loader, Sr., Extraction Plant	00603	Carpenter		GRADE 012-S28.74/hr.
00221	Compressor Station Oper.-Level I	00416	Pressure Control Operator	00604	Regulator Specialist, Sr.	00801	Engine Compressor Analyst, Sr.
00222	Waste Water Treatment Plant Oper.	00415	Hastings Gas Process. Pit. Opr.-St.			00703	Welder
Page - 36 -
APPENDIX NO. 1 CLERICAL BIDDING DEPARTMENTS & UNITS
BIDDING DEPARTMENT	BIDDING UNIT
General Office - DTI	General Office Bidding Unit
Field Operations - DTI	Central Area Bidding Unit Northeastern Area Bidding Unit Southern Area Bidding Unit Western Area Bidding Unit
Dominion Hope	Clarksburg City Plant Fairmont City Plant General Office - Hope Morgantown City Plant Parkersburg City Plant Weston City Plant
Page - 37 -
BIDDING DEPARTMENT	BIDDING UNIT
General Office - DTI	General Office Bidding Unit Automation and Control Engineering DTI Office Administrative Services Gas Accounting Gas Environmental Services-Clarksburg Gas Storage General Accounting Land Records Maps and Records Project Team I Project Team II Project Team III Project Team IV Purchasing & Material Control
Page - 38 -
Field Operations-DTI	Southern Area Bidding Unit Business Agreements G & P Grantsville G & P Pineville G & P Salem G & P Weston Hastings Extraction Plant Southern Area Headquarters Western Area Bidding Unit Lease & Rights-of-Way-Mamont Mamont Transmission Central Area Bidding Unit G & P Luthersburg Leesburg Transmission Luthersburg Transmission P-Leidy Storage Pool Northeastern Area Bidding Unit Northeastern Area Technical Support
Dominion Hope	Davisson Run Staff Fairmont Staff General Office - Hope HGI Accounting Billing Services-WV Clarksburg Field Engineering Morgantown Staff Parkersburg Staff Weston Staff
NOTE: New payroll locations that are established during the course of this agreement will be included within the geographic bidding units in which they are located unless mutually agreed to by the parties.
Page - 39 -
APPENDIX NO. 1A - FIRST STEP GRIEVANCE HEARING LOCATIONS BY CLERICAL PAYROLL LOCATION
BIDDING DEPARTMENT	BIDDING UNIT	GRIEVANCE HEARING LOCATIONS	
General O ffice-DTI	General Office Bidding Unit	;	'*•'		
	Automation and Control Engineering	Clarksburg	
	DTI Office Administrative Services	Clarksburg	
	Gas Accounting	Clarksburg	
	Gas Storage	Clarksburg	
	General Accounting	Clarksburg	
	Gas Environmental Svcs.-Clarksburg	Clarksburg	
	Land Records	Clarksburg	
	Maps and Records	Clarksburg	
	Project Team I	Clarksburg	
	Project Team II	Clarksburg	
	Project Team III	Clarksburg	
	Project Team IV	Clarksburg	
	Purchasing & Material Control	Clarksburg	
Field Operations-DTI	Southern Area Bidding Unit		
	Business Agreements	Clarksburg	
	G & P Grantsville	Weston	
	G & P Pineville	Pineville or Beckley	
	G & P Salem	Clarksburg	
	G & P Weston	Weston	
	Hastings Extraction Plant	Hastings or Clarksburg	
	Southern Area Headquarters	Weston	
	Western Area Bidding Unit		
	Lease & Rights-of-Way-Mamont	Oakford or Mamont	
	Mamont Transmission	Oakford or Mamont	
	Central Area Bidding Unit		
	Leesburg Transmission	Leesburg	
	G & P Luthersburg	DuBois	
	Luthersburg Transmission	DuBois	
	P-Leidy Storage Pool	Leidy	
	Northeastern Area Bidding Unit		
	Northern Area Technical Support	Knoxville or Sabinsville	
Page - 40 -
BIDDING DEPARTMENT	BIDDING UNIT	GRIEVANCE HEARING LOCATIONS
		
Dominion Hope	Davisson Run Staff	Clarksburg - Davisson Run
	Fairmont Staff	Morgantown
	General Office - HOPE	
	HGI Accounting	Clarksburg - Davisson Run
	Billing Services WV	Clarksburg - Davisson Run
	Clarksburg Field Engineering	Clarksburg - Davisson Run
	Morgantown Staff	Morgantown
	Parkersburg Staff	Parkersburg
	Weston Staff	Weston
Page - 41 -
APPENDIX NO. 2 - PHYSICAL BIDDING DEPARTMENTS & UNITS
BIDDING DIVISION	BIDDING UNIT
Dominion Transmission, Inc.	Central Area Bidding Unit Northeastern Area Bidding Unit Southern Area Bidding Unit Western Area Bidding Unit
Dominion Hope	Clarksburg City Plant Fairmont City Plant Morgantown City Plant Parkersburg City Plant Weston City Plant
Page - 42 -
BIDDING DIVISION Dominion Transmission, Inc.	BIDDING UNIT Southern Area Bidding Unit 24-Hour Salem 24-Hour Smithville 24-Hour Weston Belington Station Bridgeport Station Bridgeport Transmission Camden Station Chelyan Transmission Compressor Services -WV Copley Extraction Plant (Weston) Comwell Station Cornwell Transmission Craig II Station Davis Station DTI Facilities Management Field Support Fleet Maintenance - CNGT G & P Grantsville G & P Pineville G & P Salem G & P Weston Galmish Hastings Extraction Plant Hastings Station Hastings Transmission Jones Station Kennedy Station L. L. Tonkin Station Lightbum Station Lost Creek Storage Loup Creek Station Mockingbird Hill Station Oscar Nelson Station
Page - 43 -
BIDDING DIVISION DTI (Continued)	BIDDING UNIT Southern Area Bidding Unit (Continued) Sardis Station Schutte Station Smithburg Station Southern Area Headquarters Southern Area Support Sweeney Station Sweeney Transmission T elecommunications-Comwell Telecommunications-Davisson Run Tonkin Transmission Wolf Run Station Yellow Creek Station
	Western Area Bidding Unit Beaver Station Beaver Transmission Carroll Station Compressor Services -Ohio Compressor Services -PA Crayne Station Gilmore Station Gilmore Transmission Groveport Station Groveport Transmission Hutchinson Station Lebanon Station Mamont Transmission Newark Station North Summit Station P-Oakford Station Telecommunications-Oakford Washington Station
Page - 44 -
BIDDING DIVISION DTI (Continued)	BIDDING UNIT Central Area Bidding Unit Ardell Station Ardell Transmission Big Run Station Big Run Waste Water Treatment Plant Centre Station Chambersburg Station Compressor Services -Leidy Finnefrock Station G & P Luthersburg Greenlick Station Leesburg Station Leesburg Transmission Loudoun Station Luthersburg Support Luthersburg Transmission P-Leidy Station P-Leidy Storage Pool Perulack Station Pleasant Valley Station Punxsutawney Station Quantico Station South Bend Station
	Northeastern Area Bidding Unit Borger Station Compressor Services Westfield Area Ithaca Field P-Boom Station P-Ellisburg Station P-Ellisburg Storage P-Harrison Station P-Harrison Storage P-Tioga Station Quinlan Compressor Station Sabinsville Station Sabinsville Transmission Schenectady Transmission Silver Springs Transmission State Line Station Telecommunications- Westfield Area Utica Field Utica Station Woodhull Station
Page - 45 -
BIDDING DIVISION	BIDDING UNIT
Dominion Hope	Clarksburg City Plant Davisson Run Construction and Maintenance Davisson Run Field Services Davisson Run Meter Reading Hope Gas Dispatch Services - Davisson Run
	Fairmont City Plant Fairmont Construction and Maintenance Fairmont Field Services Fairmont Meter Reading
	Morgantown City Plant Morgantown Construction and Maintenance Morgantown Field Services Morgantown Meter Reading
	Parkersburg City Plant Bens Run Construction and Maintenance Bens Run Field Services Bens Run Meter Reading Madison Construction and Maintenance Madison Field Services Madison Meter Reading Parkersburg Construction and Maintenance Parkersburg Field Services Parkersburg Meter Reading
	Weston City Plant Gassaway Construction and Maintenance Gassaway Field Services Gassaway Meter Reading Summersville Const. & Maint. Summersville Field Services Summersville Meter Reading Weston Construction and Maintenance Weston Field Services Weston Meter Reading
NOTE: New payroll locations that are established during the course of this agreement will be included within the geographic bidding units in which they are located unless mutually agreed to by the parties.
Page - 46 -
APPENDIX NO. 2A- FIRST STEP GRIEVANCE HEARING LOCATIONS BY PHYSICAL PAYROLL LOCATION
BIDDING DIVISION Dominion Transmission. Inc.	BIDDING UNIT	GRIEVANCE HEARING LOCATIONS
	Southern Area Bidding Unit	
	24-Hour Salem	Clarksburg or Weston
	24-Hour Smithville	Weston
	24-Hour Weston	Weston
	Belington Station	Weston
	Bridgeport Station	Clarksburg or Weston
	Bridgeport Transmission	Clarksburg or Weston
	Camden Station	Weston
	Chelyan Transmission	Cornwell Station
	Compressor Services-WV	Clarksburg or Weston
	Copley Extraction Plant (Weston)	Weston
	Cornwell Station	Cornwell Station
	Cornwell Transmission	Cornwell Station
	Craig II Station	Weston
	Davis Station	Weston
	DTI Facilities Management	Clarksburg
	Field Support	Weston
	Fleet Maintenance - CNGT	Clarksburg
	G & P Grantsville	Weston
	G & P Pineville	G & P Pineville or Oscar Nelson Station
	G & P Salem	Clarksburg or Weston
	G & P Weston	Weston
	Galmish	Hastings or Clarksburg
	Hastings Extraction Plant	Hastings or Clarksburg
	Hastings Station	Hastings or Clarksburg
	Hastings Transmission	Hastings or Clarksburg
	Jones Station	Weston
	Kennedy Station	Weston
	L. L. Tonkin Station	Weston
	Lightbum Station	Weston
Page - 47 -
BIDDING DIVISION Dominion Transmission, Inc.	BIDDING UNIT	GRIEVANCE HEARING LOCATIONS	
	Lost Creek Storage	Weston	
	Loup Creek Station	G & P Pineville or Oscar Nelson Station	
	Mockingbird Hill Station	Hastings or Clarksburg	
	Oscar Nelson Station	G & P Pineville or Oscar Nelson Station	
	Sardis Station	Clarksburg or Weston	
	Schutte Station	Clarksburg or Weston	
	Smithburg Station	Clarksburg or Weston	
	Southern Area Headquarters	Weston	
	Southern Area Support	Weston	
	Sweeney Station	Weston	
	Sweeney Transmission	Weston	
	Telecommunications-Comwell	Cornwell Station	
	Telecommunications-Davisson Run	Clarksburg	
	Tonkin Transmission	Weston	
	Wolf Run Station	Weston	
	Yellow Creek Station	Weston	
	Western Area Bidding Unit	IBB	
	Beaver Station	Oakford	
	Beaver Transmission	Oakford	
	Carroll Station	Cambridge	
	Compressor Services-Ohio	Cambridge	
	Compressor Services-PA	Oakford	
	Crayne Station	Oakford	
	Gilmore Station	Cambridge	
	Gilmore Transmission	Cambridge	
	Groveport Station	Cambridge	
	Groveport Transmission	Cambridge	
	Hutchinson Station	Oakford	
	Lebanon Station	Cambridge	
	Mamont Transmission	Oakford	
	Newark Station	Cambridge	
	North Summit Station	Oakford	
	P-Oakford Station	Oakford	
	T elecommunications-Oakford	Oakford	
	Washington Station	Cambridge	
Page - 48 -
BIDDING DIVISION Dominion Transmission, Inc.	BIDDING UNIT	GRIEVANCE HEARING LOCATIONS
	Central Area Bidding Unit	|	J 1- l" J ; . ■	■’ 'i'": -j J.?-- :. ■> ■ ”■'’■■■■ ■ .'.S’-./’...	;:7.-	;
	Ardell Station	DuBois or Luthersburg
	Ardell Transmission	DuBois or Luthersburg
	Big Run Station	DuBois or Luthersburg
	Big Run Waste Water Treat. Plant	DuBois or Luthersburg
	Centre Station	DuBois
	Chambersburg Station	Leesburg
	Compressor Services-Leidy	Leidy
	Finnefrock Station	Leidy
	G & P Luthersburg	DuBois or Luthersburg
	Greenlick Station	Leidy
	Leesburg Station	Leesburg
	Leesburg Transmission	Leesburg
	Loudoun Station	Leesburg
	Luthersburg Support	DuBois or Luthersburg
	Luthersburg Transmission	DuBois or Luthersburg
	P-Leidy Station	Leidy
	P-Leidy Storage Pool	Leidy
	Perulack Station	Leesburg
	Pleasant Valley Station	Leesburg
	Punxsutawney Station	DuBois or Luthersburg
	Quantico Station	Leesburg
	South Bend Station	Indiana or DuBois
	Northeastern Area Bidding Unit	
	P-Boom Station	Knoxville or Sabinsville
	Borger Station	Ithaca or Utica
	Compressor Sys.-Westfield Area	Knoxville or Sabinsville
	Ithaca Field	Ithaca or Utica
	Northern Gas Measurement	Knoxville or Sabinsville
	P-Ellisburg Station	Knoxville or Sabinsville
	P-Ellisburg Storage	Knoxville or Sabinsville
	P-Harrison Station	Knoxville or Sabinsville
	P-Harrison Storage P-Tioga Station	Knoxville or Sabinsville	 Knoxville or Sabinsville
	Quinlan Compressor Station	Knoxville or Sabinsville
Page - 49 -
BIDDING DIVISION Dominion Transmission, Inc.	BIDDING UNIT	GRIEVANCE HEARING LOCATIONS
	Sabinsville Station	Knoxville or Sabinsville
	Sabinsville Transmission	Knoxville or Sabinsville
	Schenectady Transmission	Ithaca or Utica
	Silver Springs Transmission	Knoxville or Sabinsville
	State Line Station	Knoxville or Sabinsville
	Telecomms.-Westfield Area	Knoxville or Sabinsville
	Utica Field	Ithaca or Utica
	Utica Station	Ithaca or Utica
	Woodhull Station	Knoxville or Sabinsville
Dominion Hope	Clarksburg City Plant Davisson Run Construction & Maint. Davisson Run Field Services Davisson Run Meter Reading Hope Gas Dispatch Services	Clarksburg - Davisson Run Clarksburg - Davisson Run Clarksburg - Davisson Run Clarksburg - Davisson Run
	Fairmont City Plant Fairmont Construction & Maint. Fairmont Field Services Fairmont Meter Reading	Morgantown Morgantown Morgantown
	Morgantown City Plant Morgantown Construction & Maint. Morgantown Field Services Morgantown Meter Reading	Morgantown Morgantown Morgantown
	Parkersburg City Plant Bens Run Construction & Maint. Bens Run Field Services Bens Run Meter Reading Madison Construction & Maint. Madison Field Services Madison Meter Reading Parkersburg Construction & Maint. Parkersburg Field Services Parkersburg Meter Reading	4 Ml ■ W j1^	L	1-iS; t; ।; jjl f■ V; 1 -j ■; ■' ■ j ji :■ t(■	■ -■ ■ ■	i '■; ?: M nli’Ji.fijj.iMluC ! f. H fchlvl Irtik il Ji 1 M 4n4> h k.Lwirl'mi । i.i^hipi iftili rT;i !*;; •|].1 t.i i !■; i;l irtn-iw-iR-m	i. yn.iu.V^'pjH.4. H.Rp.TW'M'nnjk^iii Mi Parkersburg Parkersburg Parkersburg Parkersburg Parkersburg Parkersburg Parkersburg Parkersburg Parkersburg
	Weston City Plant Gassaway Construction & Maint. Gassaway Field Services Gassaway Meter Reading	Weston Weston Weston
Page - 50 -
BIDDING DIVISION Dominion Hope	BIDDING UNIT	GRIEVANCE HEARING LOCATIONS
	Summersville Construction & Maint. Summersville Field Services Summersville Meter Reading Weston Construction & Maint. Weston Field Services Weston Meter Reading	Weston Weston Weston Weston Weston Weston
Page -51-
APPENDIX NO. 3 - HOPE GAS COST CENTERS (PAYROLL LOCATIONS) - MAJOR CITY PLANTS
1.	For the purpose of administering this Agreement physical employees who work out of or report to Morgantown City Plant will be grouped together, not separated by cost center (payroll location).
2.	For the purpose of administering this Agreement physical employees who work out of or report to Fairmont City Plant will be grouped together, not separated by cost center (payroll location).
3.	For the purpose of administering this Agreement physical employees who work out of or report to Clarksburg City Plant will be grouped together, not separated by cost center (payroll location).
4.	For the purpose of administering this Agreement physical employees who work out of or report to Parkersburg City Plant will be grouped together, not separated by cost center (payroll location).
The provisions of this Appendix in no way impact employees at Weston City Plant, Gassaway City Plant, Summersville City Plant, Madison City Plant or Bens Run City Plant.
The provisions of this Appendix do not apply to employees assigned to cost center (payroll location) Clarksburg Field Engineering.
Page - 52-
APPENDIX NO. 4 - INSPECTION
If the Company deems it necessary to assign physical employees to inspect contracted work, the following guidelines will be used:
1.	Except in those circumstances identified in Paragraph 6 below, classified Inspectors will be entitled to first consideration for inspection work involving significant amounts of overtime.
2.	Temporary assignment of qualified employees to work as Inspectors on construction projects will normally be on an upgrade basis rather than to utilize higher rated employees. Management will not, however, be required to replace lower rated employees with higher rated employees in order to make the lower rated employees available for temporary upgrade to the Inspector's rate.
3.	Temporary assignments as inspectors on construction projects will be rotated among qualified and available employees in an effort to distribute overtime. However, since assignments to work as an inspector can vary considerably in duration, there is no obligation to distribute inspection overtime evenly. Assignment will not normally be rotated during a project.
4.	Each payroll location will maintain two lists of employees qualified for inspection assignments in seniority order. One list will contain Inspectors and the other list will contain those lower rated employees who are qualified to be upgraded to an inspection assignment. The list of lower rated employees will only be used when a sufficient number of employees are not available for assignment from the Inspector list. When another employee's name is added to the list, it will be slotted in according to seniority. As inspection assignments become available, they will be offered to the next person on the list. Should an employee decline an opportunity for inspection, the next person on the list is asked and the employee that turned down the assignment will not be offered another opportunity until the inspection list has gone through one complete cycle and all employees on the list have been offered an opportunity to work on an inspection assignment. Rotation through the list is continual, meaning that assignments are not offered to the senior employee on the list at the beginning of each project or year.
5.	When a specific project involves more than one payroll location, the lists from the payroll locations involved will be utilized in selecting employees for assignment.
6.	Under certain circumstances, an employee with specific skills or knowledge may be required to provide proper inspection for contracted work. In such cases, the employee may also be assigned other inspection duties. These assignments will also be rotated among those employees in the payroll location with the required skills.
Page - 53-
APPENDIX NO. 5 - CLERICAL TESTING
1.	In order to qualify to enter any Clerical position, an applicant must demonstrate proper qualifications by passing appropriate aptitude tests and/or typing test and/or scoring 70% on a Personal Computer Skills test for the current Company Operating System and/or the current Electronic Spreadsheet Application.
2.	Required Clerical tests are as follows:
Job Title	Clerical Aptitude	Typing*	Computer Skills Test*
Accounting Clerk	X	X	OS, SA
City Plant Clerk	X	X	OS, SA
Customer Account Clerk	X		
Field Clerk	X	X	OS, SA
Gas Measurement Clerk	X		OS, SA
Rent & Royalties Clerk	X		OS, SA
Stenographer Clerk	X	X	OS
Word Processor	X	X	OS, SA
♦NOTES
1.	Stenographer-Clerk and Word Processor typing requirement is typing a minimum of forty (40) correct words per minute with a maximum of six (6) errors.
2.	OS - Operating System Test, SA- Spreadsheet Application Test.
3.	All other selection testing for clerical employees is outlined in the Union Selection Testing manual distributed to employees.
Page - 54-
APPENDIX NO. 6 - PHYSICAL PROGRESSION SCHEDULES
The Physical Progression Schedules provide a means for employees to advance through pay grades by successfully completing appropriate training and testing and working a specified time in grade.
(a)	In order to qualify for selection to enter the Electrician and Communications Specialist Progressions, an applicant must demonstrate proper qualifications by passing appropriate aptitude tests and attending a classroom orientation session and scoring at least 70% on a written test on the material presented.
(b)	In order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade in these Progressions an employee must successfully complete additional classroom training and testing and must work the time in grade as follows:
		Time
	Grade	Required
Electrician:		
Electrician, Start	006	1 Year
Electrician, Level I	008	1 Year
Electrician, Level II	011	
Communications Specialist:		
Communications Specialist. Start	003	1 Year
Communications Specialist, Level I	007	1 Year
Communications Specialist. Level II	010	
(a)	In order to qualify for training to enter the Gas Service Specialist, Town Plant Representative, Regulator Specialist or Gas Measurement Specialist Progression, an applicant must demonstrate proper qualifications by passing appropriate aptitude tests and attending a classroom orientation session and scoring at least 70% on a written test on the material presented.
(b)	In order to qualify for selection to enter the Gas Service Specialist, Town Plant Representative, Regulator Specialist or Gas Measurement Specialist Progression an applicant must demonstrate proper qualifications by attending classroom training and scoring at least 70% on a written test on the material presented.
(c)	An employee will enter the Gas Service Specialist Progression as a Gas Service Specialist, Start, Grade 6 and after 1 year experience in that position, will be promoted to a Gas Service Specialist, Level I, Grade 7 without additional testing. After 1 year experience in the Grade 7 position, the employee will be promoted to a Gas Service Specialist, Level II, Grade
Page - 55-
	8 without additional testing. After 1 year experience in the Grade 8 position, the employee will be promoted to a Gas Service Specialist, Level III, Grade 9 without additional testing. After 1 year experience in the Grade 9 position, the employee will be promoted to a Gas Service Specialist, Level IV, Grade 11 without additional testing. (d)	An employee will enter the Town Plant Representative Progression as a Town Plant Representative, Start, Grade 6 and after 2 years experience in that position, will be promoted to a Town Plant Representative, Level I, Grade 7 without additional testing. After 2 years experience in the Grade 7 position, the employee will be promoted to a Town Plant Representative, Level II, Grade 8 without additional testing. (e)	An employee will enter the Regulator Specialist Progression as a Regulator Specialist, Grade 7 and after 4 years experience in that position, will be promoted to a Regulator Specialist, Sr., Grade 9, without additional testing. (f)	An employee will enter the Gas Measurement Specialist Progression as a Gas Measurement Specialist, Grade 7 and after 4 years experience in that position, will be promoted to a Gas Measurement Specialist, Sr., Grade 10, without additional testing. (Up to 2 years upgrade to Gas Measurement Specialist can be counted in the four years required to progress to Gas Measurement Specialist, Sr.)
(1)4.	(a)	In order to qualify for training to enter the Warehouse Worker Progression Schedule, an employee must pass appropriate aptitude tests. Employees selected for training to enter the Warehouse Worker Progression Schedule will attend classroom or one-on-one training and four weeks of on-the-job training working with a classified Warehouse Worker. Trainees will be tested on both the classroom training or one-on-one training and the on-the-job training. In order to qualify for selection as a Warehouse Worker, the trainee must attain a score of 70% on this test. (b)	Employees selected to enter the Warehouse Worker Progression Schedule will work as a Warehouse Worker, Start, Grade 6, for two years and will be promoted to Warehouse Worker, Level I, Grade 7, without additional testing. After working two years as a Warehouse Worker, Level I, they will be promoted to Level II, Grade 8, without additional testing.
(3)5.	When an opening occurs in a Physical Progression Schedule, selection for orientation and testing to enter the progression will be handled in accordance with Section XV, Article I, Employee Selection. The senior applicant will be given an opportunity to take the orientation and testing to qualify to enter the progression, unless a training opportunity for a reserve position was posted Bidding Unit-wide. If a training opportunity for a reserve position was posted Bidding Unit-wide and if a reserve applies, the senior reserve will be awarded the job and it will not be necessary to provide orientation and testing to the
Page -56-
senior applicant. If an employee leaves a progression and reenters the same progression, they will reenter at the same grade they previously held. At the time the employee reenters the progression, the Company will give the employee the appropriate diagnostic tests to determine any training necessary to update the employee's skills. Any accumulated time worked in this Progression will count toward the next level entrance or promotion.
(4) 6. Any employee entering a Physical Progression Schedule will be expected to progress to the highest level of that Progression. Should any such employee twice fail to qualify for progression at any level after two separate classroom training periods, he or she will be red circled in rate, removed from the progression and assigned other work, if available.
7.	An employee who is being trained in a progression or as a backup for a progression job will not be allowed to receive training in another progression job.
8.	Any employee permanently classified within a Progression Schedule may be assigned any of those duties which he or she is capable of performing. Any employee temporarily assigned duties within the progression may be required to perform any duties which he or she is capable of performing, but will be considered to be at the Start Level or lowest level for pay purposes.
FOOTNOTE:
(1)	The score required to pass an aptitude test will in no case exceed 70%.
(2)	An Electrician, Start will undergo a six-month structured training program consisting of classroom and "on-the-job" training. The six month training program may or may not be consecutive.
(3)	An employee selected to receive a training opportunity to fill a Reserve Electrician position shall undergo a six-month structured training program consisting of classroom and "on-the-job" training. The six-month training program may or may not be consecutive.
(4)	An employee who has undergone the six-month training and fails the test to progress to Grade 8 will be given a second opportunity to take and pass this test within sixty-days after his/her first attempt.
Page - 57-
APPENDIX NO. 7 - PHYSICAL PAY SCHEDULES
The Physical Pay Schedules provide a means for employees to advance to higher levels of pay by working the specified time in classification. An employee enters a Pay Schedule at the lowest rate of pay, unless he/she has previously been classified in that particular Pay Schedule, in which case, prior time in classification will be credited.
Field Distribution Worker (Less/1 Yr.)
Field Distribution Worker (1 Year)
Field Distribution Worker (1-1/2 Years)
Field Distribution Worker (2 Years)
Field Distribution Worker (3 Years)
Field Distribution Worker (5 Years)
Field Distribution Worker (8 Years) - Gr. 3
Field Distribution Worker, Sr. (10 Years) - Gr. 5
Compressor Station Operator - Start (Less than 5 Years) - Gr. 3
Compressor Station Operator - Level I (5 Years) - Gr. 5
Utilityperson Field-Start (Less/6 Yrs.) - Gr. 7
Utilityperson Field-Level I (6 Yrs.) - Gr. 8
Group Leader/Utilityperson - Level II (10 Yrs.) - Gr. 10
Utilityperson Distribution-Start (Less/6 Yrs.) - Gr. 7
Utilityperson Distribution-Level I (6 Yrs.) - Gr. 8
Utilityperson Distribution-Level II (10 Yrs.) - Gr. 10
Hastings Gas Processing Plant Operator-Start - Gr. 7 (1 Year)
Hastings Gas Processing Plant Operator - Gr. 11
An employee will enter the Hastings Gas Processing Plant Operator as a Hastings Gas Processing Plant Operator-Start, Grade 7 and after 1 year experience in the position, will be promoted to a Hastings Gas Processing Plant Operator, Grade 11.
Page - 58-
APPENDIX NO. 8 - TIE IN SENIORITY
In the event of a tie in seniority for a specific selection the following will be used to determine seniority:
(1)	Credited service (seniority); if that is equal then
(2)	The first hired; if that is equal then
(3)	The employee whose birth date occurs closest to July 1; if that is equal then
(4)	A method determined by mutual agreement of the tied employees.
Any such settling of a tie in seniority will be valid only for the instant situation and will have no bearing on any subsequent cases.
Page - 59-
APPENDIX NO. 9 - EMPLOYEE SELECTION PHYSICAL
Under Section XV, Article 1, Employee Selection, Paragraph 2, of this Agreement, employees demonstrate their ability and fitness by passing one or more job related tests, if applicable. Testing may include hands-on demonstration of skills and knowledge, oral explanations of job duties and/or written tests.
If tests are not available, employees will demonstrate their abilities by meeting the criteria identified in paragraphs 1, 2, or 3 below.
1.	Performance of the duties of the job to be filled while employed by the Company; or
2.	Performance of the duties of the job to be filled while employed outside the Company.
3.	If no employees have demonstrated their ability and fitness under Numbers 1 and 2 above then consideration will be given to employees who have performed related and similar work.
NOTE: The duties of the job as defined in the job description of the classification shall normally be the criteria for selection. However, the Union recognizes that occasionally certain jobs have unique or critical duties which require demonstrated ability under Paragraph 1 above on the part of the employee to be selected.
Employees who desire consideration based on employment outside the Company will provide written evidence of demonstrated ability from previous employer(s) within twenty-five (25) days of the time the job is posted. In such cases, Management may delay selection of the employee to fill the opening until twenty-eight (28) days from the time the job is posted.
Page - 60-
APPENDIX NO. 10 - DISCIPLINARY ACTION
1.	Disciplinary Demotion Physical
When an employee is demoted for disciplinary reasons the Company will assign him or her to an appropriate job in a lower pay grade. If under this provision the employee is assigned to a Field/Distribution Worker job he/she shall be paid the appropriate rate based on his or her credited service in classification and will be allowed the normal progression thereafter.
2.	Disciplinary Demotion Clerical
When an employee is demoted for disciplinary reasons the Company will assign him or her to an appropriate job in a lower pay grade. The demotion will not result in a rate of pay below the employee's current rate or the rate of Grade 3, whichever is lower.
3.	Disciplinary Record Retention
All reference to disciplinary action will not be used as the basis for any other disciplinary action if no additional disciplinary action is taken against the employee within four (4) years.
Page - 61-
APPENDIX NO. 10A - LOSS OF DRIVING PRIVILEGES
If an employee whose job requires the possession of a valid driver’s license fails to maintain his/her driving privileges, the following actions will be taken:
1.	First Incident:
A.	An employee who fails to maintain driving privileges, must notify his/her immediate supervisor within ten (10) calendar days of the loss of his/her driving privileges. Failure by the employee to provide notice within the ten (10) calendar days will subject the employee to disciplinary action.
B.	Upon notification, commencing the effective date of the loss of his/her driving privileges and for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months, in those instances where the employee would otherwise be required as part of his/her duties to drive a Company vehicle, the employee will be temporarily assigned other duties within or outside his/her respective work location.
1.	The employee will be compensated for any temporary assignments at the classified rate of the job (s)he is assigned which could be lower than his/her classified rate.
2.	Employees temporarily assigned due to loss of driving privileges shall not be entitled to any travel time or mileage to their respective payroll location or temporary reporting location.
C.	An employee whose driving privileges have been suspended, as described above, who is involved in a reduction in force or involuntary transfer, may select a job that requires a driver’s license if the employee can provide proof that his/her driving privileges will be reinstated within the twelve (12) month period commencing the effective date of the loss of his/her driving privileges.
D.	Upon submitting proof, during the twelve (12) month period described above, that (s)he has regained his/her driving privileges, the employee will be permitted to resume the operation of a company vehicle as part of his/her regular duties.
E.	If, at the end of the twelve (12) month period described above, the employee has not regained his/her driving privileges, the employee will be removed from his/her job and the job will be filled through the provisions of Section XV of this Agreement. If there is a resulting vacancy for which the employee is qualified (s)he will be assigned to that job and his/her rate of pay will be adjusted to the classified rate of the new job. Otherwise, the employee will be terminated.
2.	Second Incident:
A.	An employee who fails for a second time to maintain his/her driving privileges, as described above, must notify his/her
Page - 62-
immediate supervisor within ten (10) calendar days of the loss of his/her driving privileges. Failure to provide notice within the ten (10) calendar days will be considered to be just cause for dismissal.
B.	Upon notification, the employee will be removed from his/her job and the job will be filled through the provisions of Section XV of this Agreement. If there is a resulting vacancy for which the employee is qualified (s)he will be assigned to that job and his/her rate of pay will be adjusted to the classified rate of the new job. Otherwise, the employee will be terminated.
Page - 63-
APPENDIX NO. 11 - VACATION SELL
Regular employees may sell up to forty (40) hours of vacation each year.
Guidelines: The following guidelines apply to the sale of vacation.
•	Vacation sale will occur through the Company’s time keeping systems.
•	Compensation for the sale of vacation will be taxed at the employee’s elected withholding rate. It will not be considered in the employee's benefit calculations.
•	The hours sold will be deleted from the employee's vacation account.
•	Vacation sale for bi-weekly paid employees (every other Friday) must occur by the third week in December.
Vacation sale is not dependent on vacation carryover from the previous year.
Page - 64-
APPENDIX NO. 12 - OVERTIME
Scheduled Overtime
The time that an employee works when overtime is assigned while the employee is on the job.
Unscheduled Overtime
The time that an employee works when overtime is assigned after the employee has left the job following the completion of his or her workday or workweek. The employee is not ordered to report immediately.
Call Out Time
The time that an employee works after being ordered to report immediately from off the job following the completion of his or her workday or workweek.
Page - 65-
APPENDIX NO. 13 - ENGINE COMPRESSOR ANALYST PROGRESSION
Title
Engine Compressor Analyst Trainee
Engine Compressor Analyst
Engine Compressor Analyst, Sr.
Grade
010 Oil
012
Classification
6 Months
1 Year
Employees will be selected to enter the Engine Compressor Analyst Progression using the following procedure. Openings for positions within the progression as deemed necessary by the Company will be posted throughout the Company. First priority will be given to senior qualified and eligible employees from within the Bidding Unit. If no selection from within the Bidding Unit is made, second priority will be given to senior qualified and eligible employees within the Bidding Division. If a selection is not made from within the Bidding Division, third priority will be given to senior qualified and eligible employees from other Bidding Divisions and Departments. Applicants will be determined to be qualified if they have successfully completed the test required to enter the Grade 11 Engine Compressor Analyst position. The selected employee will enter the progression at the Grade 11 level.
Opportunities for back-up positions will be posted within the bidding unit. First priority will be given to the senior, qualified and eligible employee within the unit.
If no qualified employee is selected, the senior employee who bid on the position will be given a series of written tests. The senior applicant who has successfully completed the tests will be selected for entry into the Progression, unless a training opportunity for a back-up was posted bidding unit wide. If a training opportunity for a back-up position was posted bidding unit wide and if a back-up applies, the senior backup will be awarded the job and it will not be necessary to provide a series of written tests to the senior applicant.
Employees selected to enter the Engine Compressor Analyst Progression as a Trainee will work at the Trainee level for a period of six months. At the end of the six months the employee will be required to take an advancement test. Employees passing the test will be promoted to the Engine Compressor Analyst level. Employees failing this test will be given one additional opportunity to pass the test within sixty (60) days after the first attempt.
Employees will work at the Engine Compressor Analyst level for a period of one year. After working at this level for six months, the employee will be required to take and pass a progress test in order to remain in the progression. Employees failing the test will be given one additional opportunity to pass the test within sixty (60) days after the first attempt. After working at this level for one year, the employee will be required to take an advancement test. Employees passing this test will be promoted to Engine
Page - 66-
Compressor Analyst, Sr. Employees failing this test will be given two additional opportunities to pass the test within one-hundred twenty (120) days after the first attempt.
Employees must attain a score of 70% on each segment of the advancement tests and progress test in order to pass. The Union will be provided an opportunity to review the training program and materials. The tests will consist of oral and written questions as well as hands-on demonstrations. The employee will receive on-the-job training directly related to the test he or she will take for a particular level. Employees who fail the first attempt will be coached in their areas of deficiency.
Any employee entering the Engine Compressor Analyst Progression will be expected to progress to Engine Compressor Analyst, Sr. Should any such employee fail to qualify for progression at any level after the maximum number of tests allowed, he or she will be red circled in rate, removed from the progression, and assigned other work.
Any employee permanently classified within this Progression Schedule may be assigned any of those duties which he or she is capable of performing. Any employee temporarily assigned duties within the progression may be required to perform any duties which he or she is capable of performing, but will be considered to be at the Trainee Level for pay purposes.
Any employee who is classified as an Engine Compressor Performance Specialist on or before October 1, 1993, who takes the classroom training and fails the test twice will be permitted to continue working as an Engine Compressor Analyst at the level they have attained and receive all negotiated raises and will be allowed to take the training and testing every thirty-six (36) months if the employee desires. Any Grandfathered employee that does not desire to take the tests, will not be required to and they will remain at the level they have attained and will receive all negotiated raises.
Page - 67-
APPENDIX NO. 14 - COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE
Regular Job Vacancies:
When vacancies occur in jobs which require possession of a Commercial Driver's License with appropriate endorsements (CDL w/e), possession of the required CDL w/e will be required for selection for the job.
Reserve Drivers/Operators:
Management will determine the number of Reserve Drivers/Operators needed at each location.
If a sufficient number of fully qualified reserves are not available, a training opportunity will be posted and the senior employee from the payroll location who is otherwise qualified and who bids will be provided a Commercial Driver's Manual for home study. Within thirty calendar days, the employee selected will be provided up to two opportunities to take the written tests for the CDL w/e on Company time and at Company expense (including test fees, license fees and required physical examination fees). If the employee passes the written tests, (s)he will be assigned with a licensed Commercial Driver to receive on-the-job experience for a period, not to exceed thirty calendar days. During this time the employee will be permitted to take the skills and road test up to two times on Company time and at Company expense. If the employee qualifies for the CDL w/e (s)he will be returned to his/her regular job and will be qualified for temporary assignment to jobs requiring a CDL w/e.
If the employee selected for training fails to qualify for the CDL w/e, (s)he will be returned to his/her regular job and the next senior employee who is otherwise qualified and who originally bid will be afforded an opportunity to obtain a CDL w/e as described above.
If the second employee selected for training fails to qualify for the CDL w/e, Management may select any employee who is otherwise qualified to train for the CDL w/e.
Page - 68-
APPENDIX NO. 14A - DRIVER’S LICENSE
The following jobs require the incumbent job holder or the successful bidder for such job to possess and maintain a valid driver’s license:
Clerical Jobs
City Plant Clerk	Mail Clerk
City Plant Clerk, Leader	Messenger
Division Draftsperson	Microfilm Equipment Operator
Extraction Plant Clerk	Records Storage Clerk
Extraction Plant Clerk, Leader	Stationery Clerk
Field Clerk	Stockroom Clerk
Field Clerk, Leader	Stockroom Clerk, Sr.
Instrument Person	
Physical Jobs
Auto Mechanic	Insulator, Extraction Plant
Auto Mechanic, Sr.	Leader, General Office Garage
Bailing Machine Operator	Leader, Repair Crew
Chemical Tester	Leak Inspector
Collector	Liquids Plant Operator
Communications Specialist	Loader, Extraction Plant
Compressor Station Control Specialist	Loader, Sr., Extraction Plant
Compressor Station Operator	Maintenance Mechanic Building, Sr.
Compressor Station Operator, Sr.	Maintenance Worker, Building
Compressor Station Operator-24 Hr.	Maintenance Worker, Extraction Plant
Electrician	Measuring Station Operator (Major)
Engine Compressor Analyst	Medium Equipment Operator
Engine Mechanic	Meter Reader
Engine Mechanic, Sr.	Painter
Extraction Plant Equipment Mechanic	Paint Gun Operator
Extraction Plant Operator	Pressure Control Operator
Extraction Plant Turbine Operator	Regulator Specialist
Field/Distribution Worker	Shift Leader
Garage Attendant	Shift Leader, Extraction Plant
Gas Service Specialist	Town Plant Representative
Gas Measurement Specialist	Utilityperson Distribution
Hastings Gas Processing Plant Operator	Utilityperson Field
Heavy Equipment Operator	Warehouse Worker
Heavy Truck Driver	Waste Water Treatment Plant Operator
Inspector	Welder
Instrument Specialist	Well Tender
NOTE: Where a job is identified as a single classification, it does include all the levels.
Page - 69-
APPENDIX NO. 15 - FIRE RESISTIVE CLOTHING
The table below specifies what fire resistive clothing will be provided to the employees.
Hope Operations Option 1 - 1 set lightweight 4 1/2 oz. coveralls choice, insulated jacket w / hood and insulated bib overalls, or insulated coveralls. or Option 2 - 5 long sleeve shirts 5 pants choice. 1 hooded sweatshirt w / zipper or 1 set lightweight 4 l/i oz. coveralls OR 1 set of bibs choice : insulated jacket w / hood & insulated bib overalls, or insulated coveralls	Classifications - All Levels Field! Distribution Worker Utilityperson Group Leader / Utilityperson Equipment Operator Truck Driver - Welder Leak Inspector Gas Measurement Specialist Regulator Specialist Casual Rouster Inspector Warehouse Worker Well Tender
Hope Customer Service 1 set lightweight 4 1/2 oz. coveralls and 1 set insulated bib overalls Note: Proposed FR clothing in addition to uniform provided for in Section XII, Article 6, Part E of the Agreement.	Classifications - All Levels Town Plant Representative Gas Service Specialist Meter Reader Collector
Transmission HEP LPG 7 long sleeve shirts 7 pants plus Option 1 - 1 set lightweight 4 % oz. coveralls or heavyweight 6 oz. bibs, 1 set heavyweight 6 oz. coveralls and bomber jacket or Option 2 - 1 set lightweight 4 1/2 oz. coveralls or heavyweight 6 oz. bibs, 1 set insulated coveralls or insulated field coat and bibs *Bibs w/shirt or coveralls can be substituted for pants and shirts for daily wear.	Classifications - All Levels Control Board Operator Electrician Extraction Plant Turbine Operator Extraction Plant Operator Extraction Plant Equipment Mechanic Gas and By Products Tester Hastings Gas Processing Plant Operator Insulator Extraction Plant Laboratory Technician Liquids Plant Operator Loader Extraction Plant Maintenance Worker Extraction Plant Shift Leader Extraction Plant Casual Rouster Warehouse Worker
Page - 70-
Transmission NGW Option 1 - 1 set lightweight 4 ¥2 oz. coveralls 1 set of insulated coveralls or Option 2 - 1 set lightweight 4 % oz. coveralls 1 set insulated bibs 1 insulated field coat or Option 3 - 1 set lightweight 4 ¥2 oz. coveralls 1 set heavyweight 6 oz. coveralls 1 insulated field coat or Option 4 - 1 set of bibs and 1 set lightweight 4 ¥2 oz. coveralls OR 2 sets of bibs 2 long sleeve FR shirts 1 insulated field coat	Classifications - All Levels Electrician Bailing Machine Operator Compressor Station Operator Field / Distribution Worker Gas Measurement Specialist Group Leader / Utilityperson Heavy Equipment Operator Heavy Truck Driver Inspector Instrument Person Well Tender Medium Equipment Operator Casual Rouster Warehouse Worker Pressure Control Operator Shift Leader Utilityperson Field Waste Water Treatment Plant Operator Welder Leader Repair Crew Measuring Station Operator
NOTE: Insulated bibs and insulated coveralls come with zippered pant legs.	
The following guidelines apply to the Fire Resistive (FR) clothing provided by the Company to its employees.
1.	The Company will provide the FR clothing specified at no cost to employees except as otherwise provided in Item #6.
2.	Employees issued FR clothing will be responsible for laundering the garments.
3.	Replacement of leased FR clothing, which may have exceeded its wear life or which no longer fits, shall be in accordance with provisions made between the Company and the vendor.
4.	Purchased FR clothing generally will be replaced by the Company every 60 months.
5.	Replacement of purchased FR clothing, which may have exceeded its wear life, shall be handled on a case-by-case basis by local supervision and/or the local Safety Representative.
Page - 71-
6.	Replacement FR clothing (leased or purchased) will not be reissued unless the garment is turned in by the employee and found to have exceeded its wear life. In those instances where replacement clothing is requested by an employee who does not turn in the garment(s) previously issued, the replacement(s) shall be at the employee’s expense, according to the following schedule.
a.	Months 1-24 from issue - employee pays 50% of replacement cost.
b.	Months 25 - 48 from issue - employee pays 25% of replacement cost.
c.	Months 49 - 60 from issue - employee pays 10% of replacement cost.
7.	Employees are not permitted to alter FR clothing in any manner, for example, removing or altering sleeves.
8.	FR clothing must be worn at all times by employees exposed to fire hazards. This stipulation extends to all employees at the job site where the hazard is present. See SOP for guidance on FR clothing requirements.
9.	The Dominion logo will be affixed to all shirts, jackets and coveralls by the vendor.
10.	At its discretion, the Union may supply cloth Union logos (2-1/2” diameter or similar) for placement on garments (FR jackets, FR shirts, etc.) by the vendor. Union logos will be affixed on the left shoulder of selected garments.
11.	Color of FR garments will be navy blue for pants; light blue for shirts, navy blue, royal blue or khaki for lightweight (4-1/2 oz.) coveralls; and navy blue or royal blue for bibs. All other garments will be navy blue.
Page - 72-
APPENDIX NO. 16 - PURCHASE PLAN
Purpose
To enable employees to purchase new gas/propane using appliances and equipment by providing discounts and/or interest-free financing to offset the required investment.
To familiarize employees with the characteristics of gas/propane using appliances and equipment and enable them to discuss the benefits with the public.
Eligibility
All active Dominion employees whose primary work location is a pre-merger CNG office located in: District of Columbia, Illinois, Louisiana, Ohio, New Mexico, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, and West Virginia.
Employees must meet minimum credit standards established for the Plan.
General Plan
Gas/Propane-Using Appliances and Equipment
Features:
1.	Purchasers will not be permitted to buy another appliance within the same category less than three years after prior purchase of that type of appliance through the plan (except for a gas furnace and/or gas air conditioner, which may be purchased every 5 years) unless the purchaser is relocated at Dominion’s request and the appliance is left in the previous home.
2.	All outstanding interest-free loans (including PC loans) through the company can not exceed $10,000. The maximum number of loans that an employee can have at one time is three - one PC loan and up to two appliance loans - or up to three appliance loans and no PC loans.
3.	Purchases of multiple appliance units within the same category may be allowed in less than three years to the extent that multiple units exist in the principal residence (e.g., two water heaters).
4.	The Company reserves the right to inspect the appliances installed in the primary residence of the purchaser and to contact the appliance dealer concerning the appliance transaction.
5.	The Plan Administrator has the right to request any information or documentation necessary to ensure compliance with all provisions of the plan and applicable regulation.
Page - 73-
6.	For each purchase made under the plan, the purchaser’s actual cost will be 80% of the total appliance price including dealer’s delivery, installation, and sales tax (subject to maximum purchase limitations). The discount, as provided by the addendum, will be treated as income to the purchaser.
All items approved for purchase under the plan must be installed in the primary residence of the purchaser.
Qualifying Purchases
New natural gas/propane appliances and equipment, as detailed in Addendum I and certified by a recognized testing facility and under full warranty, may be purchased and installed under the plan.
Covered Expenditures
For each purchase made under the plan, covered expenditures shall include the purchaser’s actual cost including delivery, installation, and sales tax. Reimbursement for installation charges will be made only as part of the purchase order for the qualifying purchase. Employees must negotiate their own purchase price from any established dealer, manufacturer, distributor, or wholesale outlet. Qualifying discount amounts and total cost limitations applicable to emergency purchases for gas/propane-using equipment shall be based on the policy and administered by the Plan Administrator.
Purchases under this plan should be made through established appliance or heating dealers, manufacturers, distributors, builders, or wholesale outlets. This plan covers appliances for new home construction if purchased as outlined above. The extraction of these appliance costs from the purchase price of the home must be documented (i.e., receipts) and provided by the employee to the Plan Administrator.
Gas furnaces and water heaters are considered emergency items. In an emergency situation, these items can be purchased without prior approval; however, eligibility for the loan and qualification for a discount will be determined as outlined in this Plan.
Financing
A list of current discount amounts, cost limitations (See Addendum I) and the like shall be maintained by the Plan Administrator.
Interest-free financing is available for a maximum period of 36 months for appliances and equipment, except for furnaces and air conditioners, which are subject to a maximum period of 60 months. The minimum payment will be $50 per month.
Payment of deferred accounts through payroll deduction shall begin with the first paycheck following the first of the month after the employee receives reimbursement.
Page - 74-
For those employees who are paid semi-monthly or bi-weekly, the monthly deduction will be divided equally and taken from the first two paychecks of each month until loan is paid in full.
The total of all outstanding interest-free loans (including PC loans) through the Company cannot exceed $10,000. The maximum number of loans that an employee can have at one time is three - one PC loan and up to two appliance loans - or three appliance loans and no PC loan.
The Agreement establishes the final and complete expression of the agreement between the Company and the employee until paid and shall, at the option of the Company, become immediately due and payable or converted to an interest bearing loan, with any one of the following events:
1.	Failure to pay amount as agreed herein.
2.	Default in the performance of any other obligation to the Company evidenced by this note.
3.	Termination of employment for any reason, including but not limited to resignation or separation.
Procedure
Dominion shall designate the Administrator for the plan. The Administrator shall be responsible for ensuring that all purchases comply with all plan provisions and procedures.
The Administrator will maintain a written record of the plan activity.
Payment by the Company to the employee will not be made until the original receipt(s) is provided to the Company by the employee as proof of purchase.
Purchase must be made by the employee within 30 calendar days from the date the employee's loan application is approved by the company.
The Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to make such determinations as are required to implement and administer the plan, and such determinations shall be final and binding on the Company and the employee.
Service/Installation
The purchaser is responsible for coordinating installation. The dealer is responsible for in-warranty and other normal services. The Company shall not be responsible in any manner for the installation, repair, or service of any item purchased under the plan nor for expressed and/or implied warranties.
Page - 75-
Restrictions
The Company reserves the right to verify any item purchase under this plan.
Withholdings
Any discount received by the employee is subject to all applicable federal, FICA, state, and local income taxes. The amount of the discount will be included in the employee’s paycheck as taxable income. Applicable taxes will be withheld from the employee’s wages by the Payroll Department on the first paycheck following the first of the month after the employee receives reimbursement. Federal taxes will be withheld at a supplemental tax rate of 28 percent.
Plan Abuse
Abuse of the plan may result in all outstanding plan balances and/or discounts becoming due and payable immediately. In addition, the employee may be subject to disciplinary action, including possible termination of employment and cancellation of all purchase plan privileges.
Process for Employee Purchases
Action by	Action
1. Employee	Obtains the application via the On-line Forms database or calls the Human Resources Center to request a loan package: 771- 6100 in Richmond, 8-736-6100 tie lines or 1-800-730-7230 long distance. Completes loan application. Forwards loan application to Plan Administrator.
2. Plan Administrator	Receives application and determines eligibility for purchases of desired appliance. Notifies employee by telephone if application is approved or not. Mails approval or denial notice to the employee.
Page - 76-
Action by
Action
3. Employee	Purchases item(s) directly from vendor. Return original receipts to Plan Administrator within 30 calendar days from the date the loan application is approved.
4. Plan Administrator	If employee is requesting 20% discount only - Initiates necessary paperwork to reimburse 20% of the purchase price, employee discount, in the employee’s next paycheck. The 20% discount is an addition to the employee’s income and the applicable taxes will apply. If employee is requesting 20% discount and financing - writes loan agreement and forwards to employee for review and signature.
5. Employee	Reviews and signs agreement, returning original to the Plan Administrator.
6. Plan Administrator	Receives agreement and reviews for proper signature Issues a check made payable to the employee for 80% of the purchase price of the loan. Initiates necessary paperwork to reimburse 20% of the purchase price, employee discount, in the employee’s next paycheck. The 20% discount is an addition to the employee’s income and the applicable taxes will apply. Establishes accounts for billing and payroll deductions Returns copies of documents to employee as necessary
Page - 77-
ADDENDUM I
Qualifying Appliances, Percent Discount, and Maximum Amount Allowed For A Purchase (Including Delivery, Installation And Applicable Sales Tax)
List of Qualifying Appliances/Equipment and Related Discounts
January 1, 2001		Discount Percent	Maximum Purchase Price Allowed (A)
1.	Gas dryer or washer/gas dryer combination (C)	20	$750/gas dryer Or $1,500 pr.
2.	Gas range and accessories	20	$1,500
3.	Gas water heater	20	$1,000
4.	Vented or unvented gas space heater	20	$2,000
5.	Gas outdoor cooking grill and associated equipment (B)	20	$1,000
6.	Gas logs and gas fireplace	20	$2,000
7.	Gas outdoor light	20	$500
8.	Gas heating system and associated equipment	20	$4,000
9.	Gas air conditioner and associated equipment	20	$5,500
	Gas heating system, electric/gas air conditioning, and associated equipment when purchased at the same time (B, C)	20	$9,000
10.	Unvented infrared garage heater	20	$800
11.	Patio heater	20	$1,500
Page - 78-
A.	Maximum purchase price (including delivery, installation and sales tax) subject to discount per appliance/equipment.
B.	To be eligible for discount and/or payroll deduction, associated equipment, such as ductwork, humidifiers, air cleaners, and rotisseries, which are integral to the appliance must be purchased at the same time as the original appliance purchase and installation and from the same dealer.
C.	Electric washers and electric air conditioning equipment must be purchased in conjunction with a gas dryer and gas furnace, respectively.
Modifications
The Company reserves the right, upon notification of the Union, to modify, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part.
Personal Computer
Purpose
To enable employees to purchase personal computers and associated software by providing interest-free financing to offset the required investment.
Eligibility
All regular, full-time and part-time Dominion employees.
Employees must meet minimum credits standards established for the Plan.
General Plan Features
Employees will not be permitted to finance another personal computer less than three years after prior purchase through this plan.
Purchases of personal computers and associated hardware/software may not exceed $3,000 and must be at least $500. All outstanding interest-free loans through the company can not exceed $10,000.
The Plan Administrator has the right to request any information or documentation necessary to ensure compliance with all provisions of the plan.
Qualifying Purchases
Personal computer and associated hardware/software may be purchased and installed under the plan, subject to the Plan Administrator’s approval.
Page - 79-
Covered Expenditures
For each purchase made under the plan, covered expenditures shall include the purchaser’s actual cost including delivery, installation, sales tax, and associated hardware and software. Reimbursement for installation charges will be made only as part of the purchase order for the qualifying purchase. Employees must negotiate their own purchase price from any regularly established dealer, manufacturer, distributor, or wholesale outlet.
Purchases under this plan should be made through regularly established manufacturers, distributors, retail stores and wholesale outlets.
Financing
Interest-free financing is available for a maximum period of 36 months for personal computer purchases. The minimum payment will be $50 per month. Payment of deferred accounts through payroll deduction shall begin with the first paycheck following the first of the month after the employee receives reimbursement. For those employees who are paid semi-monthly or bi-weekly, the monthly deduction will be divided equally and taken from the first two paychecks each month until loan is paid in full.
The total of all balances on any outstanding interest-free loans through the Company cannot exceed $10,000.
The Agreement establishes the final and complete expression of the agreement between the Company and the employee until paid and shall, at the option of the Company, become immediately due and payable or converted to an interest bearing loan, with any one of the following events:
1.	Failure to pay amount as agreed herein.
2.	Default in the performance of any other obligation to the Company evidenced by this note.
3.	Termination of employment for any reason, including but not limited to resignation or separation.
Service/Installation
The purchaser is responsible for coordinating installation. The dealer is responsible for in-warranty and other normal services. The Company shall not be responsible in any manner for the installation, repair, or service of any item purchased under the plan nor for expressed and/or implied warranties.
Page - 80-
Restrictions
The Company reserves the right to verify any item purchased under this purchase plan.
Abuse of the plan may result in all outstanding plan balances and/or discounts becoming due and payable immediately. In addition, the employee may be subject to disciplinary action, including possible termination of employment and cancellation of all purchase plan privileges.
Procedure
Dominion shall designate the Administrator for the plan. The Administrator shall be responsible for ensuring that all purchases comply with all plan provisions and procedures.
The Administrator will maintain a written record of the plan activity.
Payment by the Company to the employee will not be made until the original receipt(s) is provided to the Company by the employee as proof of purchase.
Purchase must be made by the employee within 30 calendar days from the date the employee's loan application is approved by the company.
The Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to make such determinations as are required to implement and administer the plan, and such determinations shall be final and binding on the Company and the employee.
Page - 81-
Process for Employee Purchases
Action by	Action
Employee	Retrieves the application via the On-line Forms database or calls the Human Resources Center to request a loan package: 771-6100 in Richmond, 8-736-6100 tie lines or 800-730-7230 long distance. Completes loan application. Forwards loan application to Plan Administrator.
Plan Administrator	Receives application and determines eligibility for purchases of desired appliance. Notifies employee by telephone if application is approved or not. Mails approval or denial notice to the employee.
Employee	Purchases item(s) directly from vendor. Return original receipts to Plan Administrator within 30 calendar days from the date the loan application is approved.
Plan Administrator	Writes loan agreement and forwards to employee for review and signature.
Employee	Reviews and signs agreement, returning original to the Plan Administrator.
Plan Administrator	Receives agreement and reviews for proper signature. Issues funds via a check made payable to the employee. Establishes accounts for billing and payroll deductions Returns executed copy of agreement to the employee
Modifications
The Company reserves the right, upon notification of the Union, to modify, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part.
Page - 82-
APPENDIX NO. 17 - C.O.P.E. DEDUCTION
The employer agrees to deduct and transmit to U.W.U.A. C.O.P.E., ____________ per
pay, from the wages of those employees who voluntarily authorize such contributions on the forms provided and mutually agreed to by Company and Union. These transmittals shall occur for each pay and shall be accompanied by a list of the names of those employees for whom such deductions have been made and the amount deducted for each such employee.
NOTE:	When three pay periods occur in the same month, no deduction will be
taken in the third pay.
Page - 83-
APPENDIX NO. 18 - VEBA
The Company and the Union agree that a VEBA (Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association) will be established following ratification of a new labor Agreement and upon completion and execution of a detailed Participation Agreement, and any other necessary documents and agreements. Pursuant to the terms of this Appendix and the Participation Agreement, the Company shall, beginning April 1, 2002, contribute each month to the Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA) Health and Welfare Fund, or another fund as may be mutually agreeable to the parties, an amount equal to 1% of monthly gross pay for each active regular employee covered by this labor Agreement. Effective April 1,2003, this contribution will be increased by .5% to a total of 1.5% of monthly gross pay for each active regular employee. The Company agrees to continue to make this contribution each month during the term of this Labor Agreement.
In addition to the deferred employee wage contributions described above, the Company shall, beginning January 1,2006, contribute each month to the Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA) Health and Welfare Fund an amount equal to 1.5% of monthly gross pay for each active regular employee. The Company agrees to continue to make this contribution each month during the term of this Labor Agreement.
Furthermore, the Company will make one-time lump sum contributions to the existing Voluntary Employee Benefit Association (VEBA) of $1,075,000.00 on January 31, 2009, and $900,000.00 on January 31,2010.
Both parties agree that the funds contributed to this VEBA by the Company are for the sole and exclusive purpose of supplementing employee and retiree medical contributions, as defined in the Participation Agreement. Sixty (60) days after the execution of a Participation Agreement and other necessary documents and agreements and continuing for the life of this Agreement, the VEBA will pay the retiree medical contributions for employees who retire after December 31, 2002, and for their dependents who meet the eligibility requirements under the Plan. For benefit plan year 2008, the VEBA will pay, for active regular employees and their dependents who meet eligibility requirements under the Plan, the difference in medical contribution rates between the rates in effect for year 2003 and the total rate for calendar year 2008.
Beginning January 1, 2009, and continuing for the life of this Agreement, the VEBA will pay, for active regular employees and their dependents who meet the eligibility requirements under the Plan, the amounts outlined in the Active Medical Plan monthly contribution rate schedule shown in Appendix 22.
No costs or fees of administering the VEBA shall be borne by the Company. In the event that the parties fail to execute a Participation Agreement, or such Participation Agreement ceases or is terminated, the UWUA fund ceases or is insolvent or is terminated, the Company's obligations in this Appendix and the Participation Agreement cease and shall not be renewed. The contribution rates outlined above will be paid to the employees as additional wages and the employees will be responsible for all payments required to continue available coverage during the term of this Agreement.
Page - 84-
APPENDIX NO. 19 - LEESBURG HOUSING
Regular employees who transfer or are hired into a position in the following payroll locations within the Leesburg Area(1) as defined below will receive a monthly housing stipend of two hundred fifty ($250.00) per month. This two hundred fifty ($250.00) is not considered a part of base pay and is not included in pension calculation, or any other type of benefit calculation. This does not apply to employees living or transferring into a Company house.
(^Leesburg Station Leesburg Transmission Loudoun Station Pleasant Valley Station Quantico Station
Page - 85-
APPENDIX NO. 20 - JOB SECURITY
1.	Regular employees who have been declared surplus will be handled in accordance with the provisions of Section XV, Article 3, Reduction in the Work Force.
2.	However, during the term of this Agreement only, no surplus regular employee will be terminated under the provisions of Section XV, Article 3, Reduction in the Work Force, unless the employee refuses an offer of a regular position, for which he/she is qualified, which may or may not require relocation, or unless the employee refuses a temporary assignment, which may or may not require working away from home.
If a surplus regular employee self-terminates by refusing the offer of a regular position during the term of this Agreement, that same position will not be offered to another surplus regular employee absent mutual agreement of the parties.
3.	The Company intends to eliminate positions by declaring positions surplus or by marking off vacant positions pursuant to Section XV, Changes in the Work Force, Article 3, Reduction in the Work Force.
4.	It is understood that the Job Security provisions in this Appendix are subject to the following conditions:
(a)	They do not apply to any employees except regular employees;
(b)	They do apply in the event of a sale, transfer or other disposition of assets to a subsidiary or a corporate affiliate of Dominion Resources, Inc.;
(c)	They do not apply in the event of a sale, transfer or other disposition of all or a substantial portion of the assets of either Dominion Transmission, Inc. or Hope Gas, Inc. dba Dominion Hope (or both) to an unaffrliated third party entity. In that event, federal labor law shall apply, and Dominion Transmission, Inc. and Hope Gas, Inc., dba Dominion Hope shall bargain in good faith regarding the effects of any such sale, transfer or other disposition upon the members of the bargaining unit.
(d)	They do apply for the term of this agreement.
Page - 86-
APPENDIX NO. 21 - SUCCESSORSHIP CLAUSE
1.	The Company and Union agree that should the Company during the term of
this Agreement sell, lease, assign, or transfer all or a substantial portion of the assets of either Dominion Transmission, Inc., or Hope Gas, Inc. d/b/a Dominion Hope (or both) which are covered by this Agreement, the Company will inform the purchaser, lessee, assignee, or transferee (hereinafter “Buyer”) of the exact terms of this Agreement, and shall make the sale, lease, assignment, or transfer conditional upon the Buyer’s assumption of all the obligations of the Agreement until its expiration date, except for those exclusions and exceptions contained in this Article.
2.	Notwithstanding the provisions of this Agreement, including but not limited to
provisions relating to Changes in the Work Force, Involuntary Transfer, or Modified Bumping, employees at payroll locations affected by a sale, lease, assignment, or transfer of Company assets who are offered employment by the Buyer shall have no right to bump or displace employees at payroll locations not affected by the sale, lease, assignment, or transfer, and shall not be entitled to severance pay or a job or temporary position in a part of the Company unaffected by the sale, lease, assignment or transfer.
Page - 87-
APPENDIX NO. 22 - WELFARE CONTRIBUTION RATES
MONTHLY CONTRIBUTION SCHEDULE (For Dominion Benefit Plans to be Effective January 1,2009)
This document provides information relative to monthly contribution rates for the plans for which the Company is proposing changes.
ACTIVE EMPLOYEE MEDICAL PLAN
	2009			2010		
	VEBA	Employee	Total	VEBA	Employee	Total
Option A Employee Only	0.00	8.87	8.87	0.00	9.76	9.76
Employee + Children)	0.00	34.78	34.78	0.00	38.26	38.26
Employee + Spouse	0.00	41,14	41.14	0.00	45.25	45.25
Employee + Family	0.00	55.46	55.46	0.00	61.01	61.01
Domestic Partner	0.00	264.36	264.36	0.00	293.30	293.30
Option B Employee Only	14.85	8.00	22.85	14.43	9.32	23.75
Employee + Child(ren)	44.00	14.40	58.40	42.75	16.78	59.53
Employee + Spouse	55.28	17.60	72.88	53.71	20.51	74.22
Employee + Family	81.14	24.00	105.14	78.83	27.97	106.80
Domestic Partner	0.00	313.82	313.82	0.00	345.20	345.20
Option C Employee Only	31.00	19.20	50.20	30.12	22.38	52.50
Employee + Children)	79.11	32.00	111.11	76.86	37.30	114.16
Employee + Spouse	97.60	38.40	136.00	94.83	44.76	139.59
Employee + Family	139.21	52.80	192.01	135.25	61.54	196.79
Domestic Partner	0.00	341.10	341.10	0.00	375.21	375.21
Option D Employee Only	54.39	41.60	95.99	52.84	48.49	101.33
Employee + Child(ren)	128.71	72.00	200.71	125.05	83.92	208.97
Employee + Spouse	157.12	86.40	243.52	152.65	100.70	253.35
Employee + Family	221.29	118.40	339.69	215.00	138.00	353.00
Domestic Partner	0.00	390.75	390.75	0.00	429.83	429.83
Page - 88-
Dental	2009	2010
Employee Only	10.23	11.25
Employee + Children)	26.51	29.16
Employee + Spouse	20.64	22.70
Employee 4- Family	33.30	36.63
Domestic Partner	36.74	40.41
Vision		
Employee Only	1.97	2.07
Employee + Child(ren)	3.96	4.16
Employee + Spouse	4.44	4.66
Employee + Family	5.43	5.70
Domestic Partner	4.35	4.57
Domestic Partner Coverage Notes (for Medical, Dental and Vision Plans):
For employees who elect to cover a Domestic Partner, the total employee payroll deduction will equal the Domestic Partner rate added to the Employee Only rate or Employee + Child(ren) rate, based on the employee’s election. For example, if an employee elects Employee + Domestic Partner coverage, the total employee cost will equal the Employee Only rate plus the Domestic Partner rate. Based on the above Option C rates for 2009, this would be $19.20 + $341.10 = $360.30. The Domestic Partner rates shown are for illustrative purposes only and do not necessarily reflect what the actual rates will be. Employee contributions for Domestic Partners represent the full cost of coverage, which is not determined until just before the open enrollment period for each plan year.
Page - 89-
Monthly Retiree Medical Contribution Rates for Individuals Age 58 and Older as of January 1,2009
Retiree Group	Retiree <65 Only	Retiree <65 Spouse <65	Retiree <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Only	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65	Retiree 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Spouse <65	Spouse 65+	Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Child(ren) Only
Local 69-11 Retirees on/after 1/1/2009-12/31/2009	$ 78.00	$ 156.00	$ 156.00	$ 156.00	$144.00	$ 66.00	$ 132.00	$144.00	$ 144.00	$ 132.00	$ 144.00	$ 144.00	$ 78.00	$ 66.00	$ 156.00	$ 144.00	$ 78.00
Local 69-11 Retirees on/after 1/1/2010-12/31/2010	$ 86.00	$ 172.00	$ 172.00	$ 172.00	$159.00	$ 73.00	$ 146.00	$ 159.00	$ 159.00	$ 146.00	$ 159.00	$ 159.00	$ 86.00	$ 73.00	$ 172.00	$ 159.00	$ 86.00
Effective each January 1 after retirement, monthly contribution rates will increase based on the percentage increase in the medical component of the consumer price index for the twelve-month period ending the second preceding December. For example, for the change effective January 1,2010, the relevant consumer price index would be from December 2007 to December 2008.
RETIREE MEDICAL COST CHART APPLICABLE TO LOCAL 69-11 EMPLOYEES RETIRING AFTER JANUARY 1, 2009 WHO WERE AGE 55, 56 OR 57 BY JANUARY 1, 2009		
	Age on January 1, 2009	
Total Age + Service at Retirement	55	56 and 57
95 and greater	25%	19%
94	26%	20%
93	27%	21%
92	28%	22%
91	29%	23%
90	30%	24%
89	31%	25%
88	32%	26%
87	33%	27%
86	34%	28%
85	35%	29%
84	36%	30%
83	37%	31%
82	38%	32%
81	39%	33%
80	40%	34%
79	42%	35%
78	44%	36%
77	46%	38%
76	48%	40%
75	50%	42%
74	52%	45%
73	54%	47%
72	56%	49%
71	58%	51%
70	60%	53%
69	60%	55%
68	60%	57%
67	63%	60%
66	64%	61%
65	70%	63%
Page - 91 -
How to Use The Retiree Medical Cost Chart
To see what percentage of the pre-65 cost you would pay:
-	Find your total age + service at retirement in the left column
-	Follow across to the column for your age on January 1, 2009
-	The percentage in the box should then be multiplied by .75 to arrive at the percentage you would be required to pay.
Example: if your age + service at retirement will be 90 and you are age 56 on 1/1/2009, you would pay 18% (24% times .75) of the pre-65 cost. Once you reach 65, your contribution rate (in dollars) would be half of the pre-65 cost for your age and service. If you are required to enroll in a Medicare HMO, your contribution rate will be set by the HMO. Contribution rates are set each year based on medical costs.
Determination of Cost of Spousal and/or Family Coverage
For pre-65 retiree and dependents
The contribution required for spousal or family coverage is determined by multiplying the contribution for individual coverage by a factor. The factor is 2.8419 for retiree and spouse coverage, 2.3157 for retiree and children) coverage and 4.0262 for retiree and family coverage.
For Medicare eligible retiree and spouse
The contribution would be half of the pre-65 contribution for your age and service.
Determination of Retiree Cost Every January 1 After Retirement
Contributions will change each January 1 after the individual's retirement. The amount will be determined as outlined above using the active employee cost for that year. Retirees will receive notice of the contribution increase.
Page - 92 -
Retiree Medical Cost Chart Applicable to Local 69-11 Employees Retiring After January 1, 2009 Who Were Less than Age 55 by January 1, 2009			
	Age on January 1, 2009		
Total Age + Service at Retirement	Less than 48 (and all employees hired on or after 1-1-06)	48 through 52	53 and 54
95 and greater	40%	40%	25%
94	42%	41%	26%
93	44%	42%	27%
92	46%	43%	28%
91	48%	44%	29%
90	50%	45%	30%
89	53%	46%	31%
88	56%	47%	32%
87	59%	48%	33%
86	62%	49%	34%
85	65%	50%	35%
84	68%	51%	36%
83	71%	52%	37%
82	74%	53%	38%
81	77%	54%	39%
80	80%	55%	40%
79	83%	56%	42%
78	86%	57%	44%
77	89%	58%	46%
76	92%	59%	48%
75	95%	60%	50%
74	98%	64%	52%
73	100%	68%	54%
72	100%	72%	56%
71	100%	76%	58%
70	100%	80%	60%
69	100%	80%	60%
68	100%	80%	60%
67	100%	80%	63%
66	100%	80%	64%
65	100%	80%	70%
Page - 93 -
How to Use The Retiree Medical Cost Chart
To see what percentage of the pre-65 cost you would pay:
-	Find your total age + service at retirement in the left column
-	Follow across to the column for your age on January 1, 2009 The box shows the percentage you would pay.
Example: if your age + service at retirement will be 90 and you are age 54 on 1/1/2009, you would pay 30% of the pre-65 cost. Once you reach 65, your contribution rate (in dollars) would be half of the pre-65 cost for your age and service. If you are required to enroll in a Medicare HMO, your contribution rate will be set by the HMO. Contribution rates are set each year based on medical costs.
Determination of Cost of Spousal and/or Family Coverage
For pre-65 retiree and dependents
The contribution required for spousal or family coverage is determined by multiplying the contribution for individual coverage by a factor. The factor is 2.8419 for retiree and spouse coverage, 2.3157 for retiree and children) coverage and 4.0262 for retiree and family coverage.
For Medicare eligible retiree and spouse
The contribution would be half of the pre-65 contribution for your age and service.
Determination of Retiree Cost Every January 1 After Retirement
Contributions will change each January 1 after the individual's retirement. The amount will be determined as outlined above using the active employee cost for that year.
Retirees will receive notice of the contribution increase.
Page - 94 -
Retiree Medical - 2009 Plan Year
Monthly Contribution Rates for Individuals Age 53 and 54 by January 1, 2009
Applicable to Local 69-II Employees Retiring After January 1, 2009
Page - 95 -
Points (Sum of Age and Service)	Retiree <65 Only	Retiree <65 Spouse <65	Retiree <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Only	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65	Retiree 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65 Child(ren)	• Retiree <65 Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Spouse <65	Spouse 65+	Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Child(ren)
95	$82.83	$235.39	$191.81	$333.49	$159.11	$41.42	$117.70	$193.98	$150.40	$226.68	$292.08	$268.09	$152.56	$76.28	$261.54	$185.26	$108.98
94	$86.14	$244.80	$199.47	$346.82	$165,47	$43.07	$122.40	$201.73	$156.40	$235.73	$303.75	$278.80	$158.66	$79.33	$271.99	$192.66	$113.33
93	$89.46	$254.24	$207.16	$360.18	$171.85	$44.73	$127.12	$209.51	$162.43	$244.82	$315.45	$289.55	$164.78	$82.39	$282.48	$200.09	$117.70
92	$92.77	$263.64	$214.83	$373.51	$178.20	$46.39	$131.82	$217.26	$168.45	$253.88	$327.13	$300.26	$170.87	$85.43	$292.93	$207.49	$122.06
91	$96.08	$273.05	$222.49	$386.84	$184.57	$48.04	$136.53	$225.01	$174.45	$262.94	$338.80	$310.98	$176.97	$88.49	$303.38	$214.90	$126.41
90	$99.40	$282.48	$230.18	$400.20	$190.94	$49.70	$141.24	$232.78	$180.48	$272.02	$350.50	$321.72	$183.08	$91.54	$313.86	$222.32	$130.78
89	$102.71	$291.89	$237.85	$413.53	$197.30	$51.36	$145.95	$240.54	$186.50	$281.09	$362.18	$332,44	$189.18	$94.59	$324,32	$229.73	$135.14
88	$106.02	$301.30	$245.51	$426.86	$203.66	$53.01	$150.65	$248.29	$192.50	$290.14	$373.85	$343.15	$195.28	$97.64	$334.77	$237.13	$139.49
87	$109.34	$310.73	$253,20	$440.22	$210.04	$54.67	$155.37	$256.06	$198.53	$299.23	$385.55	$353.90	$201.39	$100.70	$345.25	$244.56	$143.86
86	$112.65	$320.14	$260.86	$453.55	$216.39	$56.33	$160.07	$263.82	$204.54	$308.28	$397.23	$364.60	$207,49	$103.74	$355.70	$251.95	$148.21
85	$115.96	$329.55	$268.53	$466.88	$222.76	$57,98	$164.78	$271.57	$210.55	$317.35	$408.90	$375.33	$213.59	$106.80	$366.16	$259.37	$152.57
84	$119.28	$338.98	$276.22	$480.25	$229.13	$59,64	$169.49	$279.34	$216.58	$326.43	$420.61	$386.07	$219.70	$109.85	$376.64	$266.79	$156,94
83	$122.59	$348.39	$283.88	$493.57	$235.49	$61,30	$174.20	$287.10	$222.59	$335.49	$432.28	$396.78	$225.80	$112.90	$387.09	$274.19	$161.29
82	$125.90	$357.80	$291.55	$506.90	$241.85	$62.95	$178.90	$294.85	$228.60	$344.55	$443.95	$407.50	$231.90	$115.95	$397.55	$281.60	$165.65
81	$129.21	$367.20	$299.21	$520.23	$248.20	$64.61	$183.60	$302.60	$234.61	$353.60	$455.63	$418.20	$237.99	$118.99	$407.99	$288.99	$170.00
80	$132.53	$376.64	$306.90	$533.59	$254.58	$66,27	$188.32	$310.38	$240.64	$362.69	$467.33	$428.95	$244.11	$122.05	$418.48	$296.42	$174.37
79	$139.15	$395.45	$322.23	$560.25	$267.30	$69,58	$197.73	$325.88	$252.66	$380.81	$490.68	$450.38	$256.30	$128.15	$439.38	$311.23	$183.08
78	$145.78	$414.29	$337.58	$586.94	$280.04	$72.89	$207.15	$341.40	$264.69	$398.95	$514.05	$471.84	$268.51	$134.26	$460.31	$326.06	$191.80
77	$152.41	$433.13	$352.94	$613.63	$292.77	$76.21	$216.57	$356.93	$276.74	$417.10	$537.43	$493.30	$280.72	$140.36	$481,25	$340.89	$200.53
76	$159.03	$451.95	$368.27	$640.29	$305.49	$79.52	$225.98	$372.44	$288.76	$435.22	$560.78	$514.73	$292.92	$146.46	$502.16	$355.70	$209.24
75	$165.66	$470.79	$383.62	$666.98	$318.23	$82.83	$235.40	$387.96	$300.79	$453.36	$584.15	$536.19	$305.13	$152.57	$523.09	$370.53	$217.96
74	$172.29	$489.63	$398.97	$693.67	$330.96	$86.15	$244.82	$403,49	$312.83	$471.50	$607.53	$557.64	$317.34	$158.67	$544.02	$385.35	$226,68
73	$178.91	$508.44	$414.30	$720.33	$343.67	$89.46	$254.22	$418.99	$324.85	$489.61	$630.88	$579.06	$329.53	$164.76	$564.92	$400.15	$235,39
72	$185.54	$527.29	$429.65	$747.02	$356.42	$92.77	$263.65	$434.52	$336.88	$507.76	$654,25	$600.53	$341.75	$170.88	$585.86	$414.99	$244.11
71	$192.17	$546.13	$445.01	$773.71	$369.15	$96.09	$273.07	$450.05	$348.93	$525.91	$677.63	$621.99	$353.96	$176.98	$606.80	$429.82	$252.84
70	$198.79	$564.94	$460.34	$800.37	$381.86	$99.40	$282.47	$465.55	$360.95	$544.02	$700.98	$643.41	$366.15	$183.07	$627.70	$444.62	$261.55
69	$198.79	$564.94	$460.34	$800.37	$381.86	$99.40	$282.47	$465.55	$360.95	$544.02	$700.98	$643.41	$366.15	$183.07	$627.70	$444.62	$261.55
68	$198.79	$564.94	$460.34	$800.37	$381.86	$99.40	$282.47	$465.55	$360.95	$544.02	$700.98	$643.41	$366.15	$183.07	$627.70	$444.62	$261.55
67	$208.73	$593.19	$483.36	$840.39	$400.96	$104.37	$296.60	$488.83	$379,00	$571.23	$736.03	$675.59	$384.46	$192.23	$659.09	$466.86	$274.63
66	$212.04	$602.60	$491.02	$853.72	$407.32	$106.02	$301,30	$496.58	$385.00	$580.28	$747.70	$686.30	$390.56	$195.28	$669.54	$474.26	$278.98
65	$231.92	$659.09	$537.06	$933.76	$445.51	$115.96	$329.55	$543.13	$421.10	$634.69	$817.80	$750.65	$427.17	$213.59	$732.31	$518.73	$305.14
Retiree Medical - 2010 Plan Year
Monthly Contribution Rates for Individuals Age 53 and 54 by January 1,2009
Applicable to Local 69-11 Employees Retiring After January 1,2009
Page - 96 -
Points (Sum of Age and Service)	Retiree <65 Only	Retiree <65 Spouse <65	Retiree <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Only	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65	Retiree 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Spouse <65	Spouse 65+	Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Child(ren)
95	$91.11	$258.93	$210.98	$366.83	$175.02	$45.56	$129.47	$213.38	$165.43	$249.34	$321,28	$294.89	$167.82	$83.91	$287.69	$203.78	$119,87
94	$94.76	$269.30	$219.44	$381.52	$182.03	$47.38	$134.65	$221.92	$172.06	$259.33	$334.14	$306.71	$174.54	$87.27	$299.22	$211.95	$124,68
93	$98.40	$279.64	$227.86	$396.18	$189.02	$49.20	$139.82	$230.44	$178.66	$269.28	$346.98	$318.48	$181.24	$90.62	$310.70	$220.08	$129.46
92	$102.05	$290.02	$236.32	$410.87	$196.03	$51.03	$145.01	$239.00	$185.30	$279.28	$359.85	$330.30	$187.97	$93.98	$322.24	$228.25	$134.27
91	$105.69	$300.36	$244.75	$425.53	$203.02	$52.85	$150.18	$247.52	$191.91	$289.24	$372.69	$342.08	$194.67	$97.33	$333.73	$236.39	$139.06
90	$109.34	$310.73	$253.20	$440.22	$210.04	$54.67	$155.37	$256.06	$198.53	$299.23	$385.55	$353.90	$201.39	$100.70	$345.25	$244.56	$143.86
89	$112.98	$321.08	$261.63	$454.88	$217.03	$56.49	$160.54	$264.59	$205.14	$309.19	$398.39	$365.68	$208.10	$104.05	$356.75	$252.70	$148.65
88	$116.62	$331.42	$270.06	$469.54	$224.02	$58.31	$165.71	$273.11	$211.75	$319.15	$411.23	$377.46	$214.80	$107.40	$368.24	$260.84	$153.44
87	$120.27	$341.80	$278.51	$484.23	$231.03	$60.14	$170.90	$281.67	$218.38	$329.14	$424.10	$389.27	$221.53	$110.76	$379.77	$269.00	$158.24
86	$123.91	$352.14	$286.94	$498.89	$238.02	$61.96	$176.07	$290.19	$224.99	$339.10	$436.94	$401.05	$228.23	$114.11	$391.26	$277.14	$163.03
85	$127.56	$362.51	$295.39	$513.58	$245.04	$63.78	$181.26	$298.73	$231.61	$349.09	$449.80	$412.87	$234.95	$117.48	$402.78	$285,31	$167.83
84	$131.20	$372.86	$303.82	$528.24	$252.03	$65.60	$186.43	$307.26	$238.22	$359.05	$462.64	$424.65	$241.66	$120.83	$414.28	$293.45	$172.62
83	$134.85	$383.23	$312.27	$542.93	$259.04	$67.43	$191.62	$315.81	$244.85	$369.04	$475.51	$436.46	$248.38	$124.19	$425.80	$301.61	$177.42
82	$138.49	$393.57	$320.70	$557.59	$266.03	$69.25	$196.79	$324.33	$251.46	$379.00	$488.35	$448.24	$255.08	$127.54	$437.29	$309.75	$182.21
81	$142.14	$403.95	$329.15	$572.28	$273.05	$71.07	$201.98	$332.88	$258.08	$388.99	$501.21	$460.06	$261.81	$130.91	$448.82	$317.92	$187.01
80	$145.78	$414.29	$337.58	$586.94	$280.04	$72.89	$207.15	$341.40	$264.69	$398.95	$514.05	$471.84	$268.51	$134.26	$460.31	$326.06	$191.80
79	$153.07	$435.01	$354.46	$616.29	$294.04	$76.54	$217.51	$358.48	$277.93	$418.90	$539.76	$495.43	$281.94	$140.97	$483.33	$342.36	$201.39
78	$160.36	$455.73	$371.35	$645.64	$308.05	$80.18	$227.87	$375.55	$291.17	$438.86	$565.46	$519.04	$295.37	$147.69	$506.36	$358.68	$210.99
77	$167.65	$476.44	$388.23	$674.99	$322.04	$83.83	$238.22	$392.62	$304.41	$458.80	$591.17	$542.62	$308.79	$154.39	$529.37	$374.97	$220.58
76	$174.94	$497.16	$405.11	$704.34	$336.05	$87.47	$248.58	$409.69	$317.64	$478.75	$616.87	$566.22	$322.22	$161.11	$552.39	$391.28	$230.17
75	$182.23	$517.88	$421.99	$733.69	$350.05	$91.12	$258.94	$426.77	$330.88	$498.70	$642.58	$589.81	$335.65	$167.82	$575.41	$407.58	$239.76
74	$189.51	$538.57	$438.85	$763.01	$364.04	$94.76	$269.29	$443.82	$344.10	$518.63	$668.26	$613.38	$349.06	$174.53	$598.40	$423,87	$249.34
73	$196.80	$559.29	$455.73	$792.36	$378.05	$98.40	$279.65	$460.89	$357.33	$538.58	$693.96	$636.98	$362.49	$181.25	$621.42	$440.18	$258.93
72	$204.09	$580.00	$472.61	$821.71	$392.04	$102.05	$290.00	$477.96	$370.57	$558.52	$719.67	$660.56	$375.91	$187.95	$644.43	$456.47	$268.52
71	$211.38	$600.72	$489.49	$851.06	$406.05	$105.69	$300.36	$495.03	$383.80	$578.47	$745.37	$684.16	$389.34	$194.67	$667.45	$472.78	$278.11
70	$218.67	$621.44	$506.37	$880.41	$420.05	$109.34	$310.72	$512.11	$397.04	$598.42	$771.08	$707.75	$402.77	$201.38	$690.47	$489.08	$287.70
69	$218.67	$621.44	$506.37	$880.41	$420.05	$109.34	$310.72	$512.11	$397.04	$598.42	$771.08	$707.75	$402.77	$201.38	$690.47	$489.08	$287.70
68	$218.67	$621.44	$506.37	$880.41	$420.05	$109.34	$310.72	$512.11	$397.04	$598.42	$771.08	$707.75	$402.77	$201.38	$690.47	$489.08	$287.70
67	$229.60	$652.50	$531.68	$924.42	$441.05	$114.80	$326.25	$537.70	$416.88	$628.33	$809.62	$743.13	$422.90	$211.45	$724.98	$513.53	$302.08
66	$233.25	$662.87	$540.14	$939.11	$448.06	$116.63	$331.44	$546.25	$423.52	$638.33	$822.49	$754.95	$429.62	$214.81	$736.51	$521.70	$306.89
65	$255.12	$725.03	$590.78	$1,027.16	$490.08	$127.56	$362.52	$597.47	$463.22	$698.18	$899.60	$825.74	$469.91	$234.96	$805.57	$570.62	$335.66
Page - 97 -
Retiree Medical - 2009 Plan Year
Monthly Contribution Rates for Individuals Age 56 or 57 by January 1,2009
Applicable to Local 69-H Employees Retiring After January 1, 2009
Points (Sum of Age and Service)	Retiree <65 Only	Retiree <65 Spouse <65	Retiree <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Only	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65	Retiree 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Spouse <65	Spouse 65+	Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Child(ren)
95	$47.21	$134.18	$109.34	$190.10	$90.70	$23.61	$67.10	$110.58	$85.73	$129.22	$166.49	$152.82	$86.97	$43.49	$149.09	$105.61	$62.12
94	$49.70	$141.23	$115.08	$200.09	$95.46	$24.85	$70.61	$116.38	$90.23	$136.00	$175.24	$160.85	$91.53	$45.77	$156.92	$111.15	$65.39
93	$52.19	$148.31	$120.85	$210.11	$100.25	$26.09	$74.15	$122.21	$94.76	$142.82	$184.01	$168.91	$96.12	$48.06	$164.78	$116.72	$68.66
92	$54.67	$155.36	$126.59	$220.10	$105.02	$27.34	$77.69	$128.03	$99.26	$149.61	$192.77	$176.94	$100.70	$50.35	$172.62	$122.27	$71.93
91	$57.15	$162.41	$132.35	$230.10	$109.79	$28.58	$81.21	$133.84	$103.77	$156.41	$201.53	$184.98	$105.26	$52.64	$180.46	$127.83	$75.20
90	$59.64	$169.49	$138.11	$240.12	$114.57	$29.82	$84.75	$139.67	$108.29	$163.22	$210.30	$193.04	$109.85	$54.93	$188.32	$133.40	$78.47
89	$62.12	$176.54	$143.86	$250.12	$119.33	$31.07	$88.28	$145.49	$112.80	$170.01	$219.06	$201.07	$114.42	$57.21	$196.16	$138.95	$81.74
88	$64.61	$183.60	$149.60	$260.12	$124.10	$32.30	$91.80	$151.30	$117.30	$176.80	$227.81	$209.10	$119.00	$59.50	$203.99	$144.50	$85.00
87	$67.10	$190.68	$155.37	$270.14	$128.89	$33.55	$95.34	$157.13	$121.82	$183.62	$236.59	$217.16	$123.59	$61.79	$211.86	$150.07	$88.28
86	$69.58	$197.73	$161.12	$280.13	$133.65	$34.79	$98.87	$162.95	$126.34	$190.41	$245.35	$225.20	$128.15	$64.07	$219.70	$155.62	$91.55
85	$72.06	$204.79	$166.87	$290.13	$138.43	$36.03	$102.40	$168.76	$130.84	$197.21	$254.10	$233.24	$132.73	$66.37	$227.54	$161.18	$94.81
84	$74.55	$211.86	$172.64	$300.15	$143.21	$37.28	$105.93	$174.59	$135.36	$204.02	$262.88	$241.29	$137.31	$68.66	$235.40	$166.74	$98.09
83	$77.03	$218.92	$178.39	$310.15	$147.98	$38.52	$109.46	$180.41	$139.88	$210.82	$271.64	$249.33	$141.89	$70.94	$243.24	$172.30	$101.36
82	$79.52	$225.98	$184.13	$320.15	$152.75	$39.76	$112.99	$186.22	$144.38	$217.61	$280.39	$257.36	$146.46	$73.23	$251.08	$177.85	$104.62
81	$82.01	$233.05	$189.90	$330.17	$157.53	$41.00	$116.53	$192.05	$148.90	$224.42	$289.16	$265.43	$151.04	$75.53	$258.94	$183.42	$107.90
80	$84.49	$240.11	$195.65	$340,16	$162.29	$42.25	$120.05	$197.87	$153.41	$231.21	$297.92	$273.45	$155.62	$77.81	$266.78	$188.96	$111.16
79	$86.97	$247.16	$201.40	$350.16	$167.07	$43.49	$123.59	$203.68	$157.91	$238.01	$306.68	$281.50	$160.19	$80.10	$274.62	$194.53	$114.43
78	$89.46	$254.24	$207.17	$360.19	$171.85	$44.73	$127.12	$209.51	$162.44	$244.82	$315.46	$289.55	$164.78	$82.39	$282.48	$200.09	$117.71
77	$94.43	$268.35	$218.66	$380.18	$181.39	$47.21	$134.18	$221.14	$171.45	$258.41	$332.96	$305.63	$173.93	$86.96	$298.16	$211.20	$124.24
76	$99.40	$282.48	$230.18	$400.19	$190.94	$49.70	$141.24	$232.79	$180.48	$272.02	$350.50	$321.71	$183.08	$91.54	$313.86	$222.32	$130.78
75	$104.36	$296.59	$241.67	$420.19	$200.48	$52.19	$148.30	$244.41	$189.50	$285.61	$368.01	$337.79	$192.23	$96.11	$329.54	$233.42	$137.31
74	$111.82	$317.78	$258.94	$450.20	$214.79	$55.91	$158.89	$261.87	$203.03	$306.01	$394.30	$361.91	$205.96	$102.98	$353.08	$250,10	$147.12
73	$116.79	$331.91	$270.45	$470.22	$224.35	$58.40	$165.95	$273.51	$212.06	$319.61	$411.83	$378.01	$215.12	$107.56	$368.78	$261.22	$153.66
72	$121.76	$346.04	$281.96	$490.24	$233.90	$60.89	$173.02	$285.16	$221.09	$333.22	$429.36	$394.10	$224.27	$112.13	$384.47	$272.33	$160.20
71	$126.73	$360.15	$293.46	$510.23	$243.44	$63.37	$180.08	$296.79	$230.10	$346.81	$446.87	$410.17	$233.42	$116.71	$400.16	$283.44	$166.73
70	$131.70	$374.28	$304.98	$530.25	$252.99	$65.85	$187.14	$308.43	$239.13	$360.42	$464.40	$426.27	$242.58	$121.29	$415.86	$294.57	$173.28
69	$136.67	$388.41	$316.49	$550.27	$262.54	$68.34	$194.21	$320.08	$248.16	$374.03	$481.94	$442.36	$251.74	$125.87	$431.56	$305.69	$179.82
68	$141.64	$402.52	$327.99	$570.26	$272.08	$70.82	$201.26	$331.70	$257.18	$387.62	$499.45	$458.43	$260.88	$130.44	$447.23	$316.79	$186.35
67	$149.09	$423.71	$345.26	$600.28	$286.40	$74.55	$211.85	$349.16	$270.71	$408.02	$525.74	$482.56	$274.61	$137.30	$470.78	$333.47	$196.16
66	$151.58	$430.79	$351.02	$610.31	$291.18	$75.80	$215.39	$355.00	$275.24	$414.83	$534.52	$490.62	$279.20	$139.60	$478.64	$339.04	$199.44
65	$156.55	$444.89	$362.52	$630.29	$300.72	$78.28	$222.45	$366.62	$284.25	$428.42	$552.02	$506.69	$288.35	$144.17	$494.32	$350.15	$205.97
Retiree Medical - 2010 Plan Year
Monthly Contribution Rates for Individuals Age 56 or 57 by January 1,2009
Applicable to
ocal 69-11
Page - 98 -
After January 1,2009
Points (Sum of Age and Service)	Retiree <65 Only	Retiree <65 Spouse <65	Retiree <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Only	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65	Retiree 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+ Children	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Spouse <65	Spouse 65+	Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Child(ren)
95	$51.94	$147.61	$120.27	$209.11	$99.77	$25.97	$73.81	$121.64	$94.31	$142.14	$183.14	$168.11	$95.67	$47.84	$164.00	$116.17	$68.33
94	$54.67	$155.36	$126.59	$220.10	$105.02	$27.34	$77.69	$128.03	$99.26	$149.61	$192.77	$176.94	$100.70	$50.35	$172.62	$122.27	$71.93
93	$57.40	$163.12	$132.92	$231.10	$110.26	$28.70	$81.56	$134.42	$104.22	$157.08	$202.40	$185.78	$105.72	$52.86	$181.24	$128.38	$75.52
92	$60.14	$170.90	$139.25	$242.12	$115.52	$30.07	$85.45	$140.83	$109.19	$164.57	$212.05	$194.63	$110.76	$55.38	$189.88	$134.50	$79.12
91	$62.87	$178.66	$145.58	$253.11	$120.77	$31.43	$89.33	$147.23	$114.14	$172.04	$221.68	$203.48	$115.79	$57.90	$198.50	$140.61	$82.71
90	$65.60	$186.44	$151.91	$264.13	$126.02	$32.81	$93.22	$153.64	$119.12	$179.53	$231.33	$212.33	$120.83	$60.41	$207.14	$146.72	$86.31
89	$68.33	$194.20	$158.24	$275.12	$131.27	$34.17	$97.10	$160.04	$124.07	$187.01	$240.96	$221.17	$125.87	$62.93	$215.77	$152.84	$89.90
88	$71.07	$201.98	$164.58	$286.14	$136.52	$35.54	$100.99	$166.44	$129.05	$194.50	$250.61	$230.03	$130.91	$65.45	$224.42	$158.96	$93.51
87	$73.80	$209.73	$170.90	$297.14	$141.77	$36.90	$104.87	$172.83	$134.00	$201.96	$260.24	$238.86	$135.93	$67.97	$233.03	$165.06	$97.10
86	$76.54	$217.52	$177.24	$308.15	$147.02	$38.27	$108.76	$179.25	$138.98	$209.46	$269.89	$247.73	$140.98	$70.49	$241.68	$171.19	$100.70
85	$79.27	$225.27	$183.56	$319.15	$152.27	$39.64	$112.64	$185.64	$143.93	$216.93	$279.52	$256.56	$146.00	$73.00	$250.30	$177.29	$104.30
84	$82.01	$233.05	$189.90	$330.17	$157.53	$41.00	$116.53	$192.05	$148.90	$224.42	$289.16	$265.43	$151.04	$75.53	$258.94	$183.42	$107.90
83	$84.74	$240.81	$196.22	$341.16	$162.77	$42.37	$120.41	$198.44	$153.86	$231.89	$298.79	$274.26	$156.08	$78.04	$267.56	$189.53	$111.49
82	$87.47	$248.57	$202.55	$352.16	$168.02	$43.73	$124.28	$204.83	$158.81	$239.36	$308.42	$283.10	$161.10	$80.55	$276.18	$195.63	$115.08
81	$90.20	$256.35	$208.88	$363.17	$173.27	$45.11	$128.18	$211.25	$163.79	$246.86	$318.08	$291.95	$166.15	$83.07	$284.83	$201.75	$118.68
80	$92.93	$264.11	$215.21	$374.17	$178.52	$46.47	$132.05	$217.64	$168.74	$254.33	$327.71	$300.79	$171.17	$85.58	$293.45	$207.86	$122.27
79	$95.67	$271.88	$221.54	$385.19	$183.78	$47.84	$135.95	$224.05	$173.71	$261.82	$337.35	$309.65	$176.21	$88.11	$302.09	$213.98	$125.87
78	$98.40	$279.65	$227.87	$396.18	$189.02	$49.20	$139.82	$230.45	$178.67	$269.29	$346.98	$318.49	$181.25	$90.62	$310.71	$220.09	$129.47
77	$103.87	$295.18	$240.53	$418.19	$199.52	$51.94	$147.59	$243.25	$188.60	$284.25	$366.26	$336.18	$191.31	$95.66	$327.97	$232.31	$136.66
76	$109.34	$310.72	$253.19	$440.21	$210.03	$54.67	$155.36	$256.05	$198.52	$299.21	$385.54	$353.88	$201.38	$100.70	$345.23	$244.55	$143.85
75	$114.80	$326.26	$265.85	$462.22	$220.53	$57.41	$163.13	$268.86	$208.45	$314.18	$404.82	$371.57	$211.46	$105.73	$362.50	$256.77	$151.04
74	$123.00	$349.55	$284.83	$495.23	$236.28	$61.50	$174.78	$288.05	$223.33	$336.61	$433.73	$398.11	$226.55	$113.28	$388.38	$275.11	$161.83
73	$128.47	$365.09	$297.50	$517.24	$246.78	$64.24	$182.55	$300.86	$233.27	$351.58	$453.01	$415.81	$236.63	$118.31	$405.65	$287.34	$169.03
72	$133.94	$380.63	$310.16	$539.25	$257.29	$66.97	$190.32	$313.67	$243.19	$366.54	$472.28	$433.51	$246.70	$123.35	$422.92	$299.57	$176.22
71	$139.40	$396.17	$322.82	$561.26	$267.78	$69.71	$198.08	$326.47	$253.12	$381.50	$491.57	$451.19	$256.76	$128.38	$440.18	$311.79	$183.41
70	$144.87	$411.71	$335.48	$583.28	$278.29	$72.44	$205.85	$339.27	$263.04	$396.46	$510.84	$468.89	$266.84	$133.42	$457.44	$324.02	$190.61
69	$150.34	$427.25	$348.14	$605.29	$288.79	$75.17	$213.62	$352.08	$272.97	$411.42	$530.12	$486.59	$276.91	$138.45	$474.71	$336.25	$197.80
68	$155.81	$442.79	$360.80	$627.30	$299.30	$77.90	$221.39	$364.88	$282.89	$426.38	$549.40	$504.29	$286.98	$143.49	$491.97	$348.48	$204.99
67	$164.00	$466.08	$379.78	$660.31	$315.04	$82.01	$233.04	$384.08	$297.78	$448.82	$578.31	$530.81	$302.08	$151.04	$517.85	$366.81	$215.78
66	$166.73	$473.84	$386.10	$671.30	$320.28	$83.37	$236.92	$390.47	$302.74	$456.29	$587.93	$539.65	$307.10	$153.55	$526.47	$372.92	$219.37
65	$172.20	$489.38	$398.76	$693.32	$330.79	$86.10	$244.69	$403.28	$312.66	$471.25	$607.22	$557.35	$317.18	$158.59	$543.74	$385.15	$226.56
Retiree Medical - 2009 Plan Year
Monthly Contribution Rates for Individuals Age 55 by January 1,2009
Applicable to Local 69-IIEmployees Retiring AfterJanuary 1, 2009
Page - 99 -
Points (Sum of Age and Service)	Retiree <65 Only	Retiree <65 Spouse <65	Retiree <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Only	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65	Retiree 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Spouse <65	Spouse 65+	Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Child(ren)
95	$62.12	$176.54	$143.86	$250.12	$119.33	$31.07	$88.28	$145.49	$112.80	$170.01	$219.06	$201.07	$114.42	$57.21	$196.16	$138.95	$81.74
94	$64.61	$183.60	$149.60	$260.12	$124.10	$32.30	$91.80	$151.30	$117.30	$176.80	$227.81	$209.10	$119.00	$59.50	$203.99	$144.50	$85.00
93 ~	$67.10	$190.68	$155.37	$270.14	$128.89	$33.55	$95.34	$157.13	$121.82	$183.62	$236.59	$217.16	$123.59	$61.79	$211.86	$150.07	$88.28
92	$69.58	$197.73	$161.12	$280.13	$133.65	$34.79	$98.87	$162.95	$126.34	$190.41	$245.35	$225.20	$128.15	$64.07	$219.70	$155.62	$91.55
91	$72.06	$204.79	$166.87	$290.13	$138.43	$36.03	$102.40	$168.76	$130.84	$197.21	$254.10	$233.24	$132.73	$66.37	$227.54	$161.18	$94.81
90	$74.55	$211.86	$172.64	$300.15	$143.21	$37.28	$105.93	$174.59	$135.36	$204.02	$262.88	$241.29	$137.31	$68.66	$235.40	$166.74	$98.09
89	$77.03	$218.92	$178.39	$310.15	$147.98	$38.52	$109.46	$180.41	$139.88	$210.82	$271.64	$249.33	$141.89	$70.94	$243.24	$172.30	$101.36
88	$79.52	$225.98	$184.13	$320.15	$152.75	$39.76	$112.99	$186.22	$144.38	$217.61	$280.39	$257.36	$146.46	$73.23	$251.08	$177.85	$104.62
87	$82.01	$233.05	$189.90	$330.17	$157.53	$41.00	$116.53	$192.05	$148.90	$224.42	$289.16	$265.43	$151.04	$75.53	$258.94	$183.42	$107.90
86	$84.49	$240.11	$195.65	$340.16	$162.29	$42.25	$120.05	$197.87	$153.41	$231.21	$297.92	$273.45	$155.62	$77.81	$266.78	$188.96	$111.16
85	$86.97	$247.16	$201.40	$350.16	$167.07	$43.49	$123.59	$203.68	$157.91	$238.01	$306.68	$281.50	$160.19	$80.10	$274.62	$194.53	$114.43
84	$89.46	$254.24	$207.17	$360.19	$171.85	$44.73	$127.12	$209.51	$162.44	$244.82	$315.46	$289.55	$164.78	$82.39	$282.48	$200.09	$117.71
83	$91.94	$261.29	$212.91	$370.18	$176.62	$45.98	$130.65	$215.33	$166.94	$251.62	$324.21	$297.59	$169.35	$84.68	$290.32	$205.64	$120.97
82	$94.43	$268.35	$218.66	$380.18	$181.39	$47.21	$134.18	$221.14	$171.45	$258.41	$332.96	$305.63	$173.93	$86.96	$298.16	$211.20	$124.24
81	$96.91	$275.40	$224.41	$390.17	$186.15	$48.46	$137.70	$226.95	$175.96	$265.20	$341.72	$313.65	$178.49	$89.24	$305.99	$216.74	$127.50
80	$99.40	$282.48	$230.18	$400.19	$190.94	$49.70	$141.24	$232.79	$180.48	$272.02	$350.50	$321.71	$183.08	$91.54	$313.86	$222.32	$130.78
79	$104.36	$296.59	$241.67	$420.19	$200.48	$52.19	$148.30	$244.41	$189.50	$285.61	$368.01	$337.79	$192.23	$96.11	$329.54	$233.42	$137.31
78	$109.34	$310.72	$253.19	$440.21	$210.03	$54.67	$155.36	$256.05	$198.52	$299.21	$385.54	$353.88	$201.38	$100.70	$345.23	$244.55	$143.85
77	$114.31	$324.85	$264.71	$460.22	$219.58	$57.16	$162.43	$267.70	$207.56	$312.83	$403.07	$369.98	$210.54	$105.27	$360.94	$255.67	$150.40
76	$119.27	$338.96	$276.20	$480.22	$229.12	$59.64	$169.49	$279.33	$216.57	$326.42	$420.59	$386.05	$219.69	$109.85	$376.62	$266.78	$156.93
75	$124.25	$353.09	$287.72	$500.24	$238.67	$62.12	$176.55	$290.97	$225.59	$340.02	$438.11	$402.14	$228.85	$114.43	$392.32	$277.90	$163.47
74	$129.22	$367.22	$299.23	$520.25	$248.22	$64.61	$183.62	$302.62	$234.62	$353.63	$455.65	$418.23	$238.01	$119.00	$408.02	$289.01	$170.01
73	$134.18	$381.33	$310.73	$540.25	$257.75	$67.10	$190.67	$314.24	$243.64	$367.21	$473.16	$434.30	$247.15	$123.57	$423.69	$300.11	$176.54
72	$139.16	$395.47	$322.24	$560.27	$267.32	$69.58	$197.74	$325.89	$252.66	$380.82	$490.69	$450.40	$256.31	$128.16	$439.40	$311.24	$183.08
71	$144.13	$409.60	$333.76	$580.28	$276.86	$72.07	$204.80	$337.54	$261.70	$394.43	$508.22	$466.49	$265.47	$132.74	$455.10	$322.37	$189.63
70	$149.09	$423.71	$345.26	$600.28	$286.40	$74.55	$211.85	$349.16	$270.71	$408.02	$525.74	$482.56	$274.61	$137.30	$470.78	$333.47	$196.16
69	$149.09	$423.71	$345.26	$600.28	$286.40	$74.55	$211.85	$349.16	$270.71	$408.02	$525.74	$482.56	$274.61	$137.30	$470.78	$333.47	$196.16
68	$149.09	$423.71	$345.26	$600.28	$286.40	$74.55	$211.85	$349.16	$270.71	$408.02	$525.74	$482.56	$274.61	$137.30	$470.78	$333.47	$196.16
67	$156.55	$444.89	$362.52	$630.29	$300.72	$78.28	$222.45	$366.62	$284.25	$428.42	$552.02	$506.69	$288.35	$144.17	$494.32	$350.15	$205.97
66	$159.03	$451.95	$368.27	$640.29	$305.49	$79.52	$225.98	$372.44	$288.75	$435.21	$560.78	$514.73	$292.92	$146.46	$502.16	$355.70	$209.24
65	$173.94	$494.32	$402.80	$700.32	$334.13	$86.97	$247.16	$407.35	$315.83	$476.02	$613.35	$562.99	$320.38	$160.19	$549.23	$389.05	$228.86
Retiree Medical - 2010 Plan Year
Monthly Contribution Rates for Individuals Age 55 by January 1,2009
Applicable to Local 69-11 Employees Retiring After January 1,2009
Page -100 -
Points (Sum of Age and Service)	Retiree <65 Only	Retiree <65 Spouse <65	Retiree <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Only	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65	Retiree 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Retiree 65+ Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Retiree <65 Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Spouse <65	Spouse 65+	Spouse <65 Child(ren)	Spouse 65+ Child(ren)	Child(ren)
95	$68.33	$194.20	$158.24	$275.12	$131.27	$34.17	$97.10	$160.04	$124.07	$187.01	$240.96	$221.17	$125.87	$62.93	$215.77	$152.84	$89.90
94	$71.07	$201.98	$164.58	$286.14	$136.52	$35.54	$100.99	$166.44	$129.05	$194.50	$250.61	$230.03	$130.91	$65.45	$224.42	$158.96	$93.51
93	$73.80	$209.73	$170.90	$297.14	$141.77	$36.90	$104.87	$172.83	$134.00	$201.96	$260.24	$238.86	$135.93	$67.97	$233.03	$165.06	$97.10
92	$76.54	$217.52	$177.24	$308.15	$147.02	$38.27	$108.76	$179.25	$138.98	$209.46	$269.89	$247.73	$140.98	$70.49	$241.68	$171.19	$100.70
91	$79.27	$225.27	$183.56	$319.15	$152.27	$39.64	$112.64	$185.64	$143.93	$216.93	$279.52	$256.56	$146.00	$73.00	$250.30	$177.29	$104.30
90	$82.01	$233.05	$189.90	$330.17	$157.53	$41.00	$116.53	$192.05	$148.90	$224.42	$289.16	$265.43	$151.04	$75.53	$258.94	$183.42	$107.90
89	$84.74	$240.81	$196.22	$341.16	$162.77	$42.37	$120.41	$198.44	$153.86	$231.89	$298.79	$274.26	$156.08	$78.04	$267.56	$189.53	$111.49
88	$87.47	$248.57	$202.55	$352.16	$168.02	$43.73	$124.28	$204.83	$158.81	$239.36	$308.42	$283.10	$161.10	$80.55	$276.18	$195.63	$115.08
87	$90.20	$256.35	$208.88	$363.17	$173.27	$45.11	$128.18	$211.25	$163.79	$246.86	$318.08	$291.95	$166.15	$83.07	$284.83	$201.75	$118.68
86	$92.93	$264.11	$215.21	$374.17	$178.52	$46.47	$132.05	$217.64	$168.74	$254.33	$327.71	$300.79	$171.17	$85.58	$293.45	$207.86	$122.27
85	$95.67	$271.88	$221.54	$385.19	$183.78	$47.84	$135.95	$224.05	$173.71	$261.82	$337.35	$309.65	$176.21	$88.11	$302.09	$213.98	$125.87
84	$98.40	$279.65	$227.87	$396.18	$189.02	$49.20	$139.82	$230.45	$178.67	$269.29	$346.98	$318.49	$181.25	$90.62	$310.71	$220.09	$129.47
83	$101.14	$287.42	$234.20	$407.20	$194.28	$50.57	$143.72	$236.86	$183.64	$276.78	$356.63	$327.35	$186.29	$93.14	$319.35	$226.21	$133.07
82	$103.87	$295.18	$240.53	$418.19	$199.52	$51.94	$147.59	$243.25	$188.60	$284.25	$366.26	$336.18	$191.31	$95.66	$327.97	$232.31	$136.66
81	$106.61	$302.96	$246.86	$429.21	$204.79	$53.30	$151.49	$249.66	$193.56	$291.74	$375.91	$345.05	$196.36	$98.18	$336.62	$238.44	$140.26
80	$109.34	$310.72	$253.19	$440.21	$210.03	$54.67	$155.36	$256.05	$198.52	$299.21	$385.54	$353.88	$201.38	$100.70	$345.23	$244.55	$143.85
79	$114.80	$326.26	$265.85	$462.22	$220.53	$57.41	$163.13	$268.86	$208.45	$314.18	$404.82	$371.57	$211.46	$105.73	$362.50	$256.77	$151.04
78	$120.27	$341.80	$278.51	$484.23	$231.04	$60.14	$170.90	$281.66	$218.38	$329.15	$424.10	$389.28	$221.53	$110.77	$379.77	$269.01	$158.24
77	$125.74	$357.33	$291.17	$506.24	$241.53	$62.87	$178.67	$294.47	$228.31	$344.10	$443.38	$406.97	$231.59	$115.79	$397.03	$281.23	$165.44
76	$131.21	$372.87	$303.83	$528.26	$252.04	$65.60	$186.44	$307.27	$238.23	$359.06	$462.65	$424.67	$241.67	$120.83	$414.29	$293.46	$172.63
75	$136.67	$388.41	$316.49	$550.27	$262.54	$68.34	$194.21	$320.08	$248.16	$374.03	$481.94	$442.36	$251.74	$125.87	$431.56	$305.69	$179.82
74	$142.13	$403.93	$329.14	$572.26	$273.03	$71.07	$201.97	$332.87	$258.08	$388.97	$501.20	$460.04	$261.80	$130.90	$448.80	$317.90	$187.01
73	$147.60	$419.47	$341.80	$594.27	$283.54	$73.80	$209.74	$345.67	$268.00	$403.94	$520.47	$477.74	$271.87	$135.94	$466.07	$330.14	$194.20
72	$153.07	$435.00	$354.46	$616.28	$294.03	$76.54	$217.50	$358.47	$277.93	$418.89	$539.75	$495.42	$281.93	$140.96	$483.32	$342.35	$201.39
71	$158.54	$450-54	$367.12	$638.30	$304.54	$79.27	$225.27	$371.27	$287.85	$433.85	$559.03	$513.12	$292.01	$146.00	$500.59	$354.59	$208.58
70	$164.00	$466.08	$379.78	$660.31	$315.04	$82.01	$233.04	$384.08	$297.78	$448.82	$578.31	$530.81	$302.08	$151.04	$517.85	$366.81	$215.78
69	$164.00	$466.08	$379.78	$660.31	$315.04	$82.01	$233.04	$384.08	$297.78	$448.82	$578.31	$530.81	$302.08	$151.04	$517.85	$366.81	$215.78
68	$164.00	$466.08	$379.78	$660.31	$315.04	$82.01	$233.04	$384.08	$297.78	$448.82	$578.31	$530.81	$302.08	$151.04	$517.85	$366.81	$215.78
67	$172.20	$489.38	$398.76	$693.32	$330.79	$86.10	$244.69	$403.28	$312.66	$471.25	$607.22	$557.35	$317.18	$158.59	$543.74	$385.15	$226.56
66	$174.94	$497.15	$405.11	$704.33	$336.05	$87.47	$248.58	$409.69	$317.64	$478.75	$616.87	$566.21	$322.22	$161.11	$552.38	$391.28	$230.17
65	$191.34	$543.77	$443.09	$770.37	$367.56	$95.67	$271.89	$448.10	$347.42	$523.64	$674.70	$619.31	$352.43	$176.22	$604.18	$427.97	$251.75
APPENDIX NO. 23 - JOINT COMMITTEE ON JOB DESCRIPTIONS
No later than thirty (30) days after ratification of the contract, the Company and the Union will create a Joint Committee to update the Clerical and Physical Job Descriptions. Once the parties begin deliberations, if they cannot mutually agree to the revisions within sixty (60) days, then the current Job Descriptions will remain unchanged.
Page - 101 -
APPENDIX NO. 24 - DOMINION SAFETY EYEWEAR PROGRAM
Overview:
The Dominion Safety Eyewear Program (Program) is intended to provide employees of Dominion Transmission, Inc. and Dominion Hope, Inc. prescription safety glasses to employees at no or reduced costs.
Eligibility:
All employees of Dominion Transmission, Inc. and Dominion Hope, Inc. signed to perform work requiring safety eyewear are eligible for the Program.
Program
The Program is administered through American Optical (AO) eyewear. All eyewear must be purchased through vendors listed on the AO website. Eyewear purchased outside the AO program will not be paid by Dominion.
Supervisor authorization is required, and must be documented on the order form.
Prescription safety glasses will be replaced, if needed, every two years or when the employee obtains a new vision correction prescription.
Only industrial safety eyewear complying with the current ANSI Z 87.1-2003, with fixed sideshields, and included in the designated vendor program will be purchased.
What The Program Covers:
The Program provides coverage for:
•	Safety lenses, and
•	Safety frames with fixed sideshields; and
•	Dispensing/Fitting fee.
Eligible employees select from a wide variety of safety eyewear frames (Base and A, B, C, D) and lenses as listed on the Program order form. Upgrades are available under the Program at the expense of the employee in the form of a co-pay. Purchase and co-pay information are available on the Program order form. Employees are responsible for any co-pays listed on the Program order form at the time glasses are ordered.
If the vendor does not have the specific AO frame you would like, they can order it.
Page -102 -
Process:
Employee must furnish their prescription and completed order form to an AO vendor listed on the AO website, (http://www.aosafetysrx.com/aosafetvsrx.com/) Employee provides co-payment to vendor according to Program procedure when glasses are ordered.
What the Program Does Not Cover:
The Program does not include examinations or medical care for eyes, such as for an eye infection or injury. Such services may be covered by the employee’s Vision or Medical Plan.
Purchasing Procedure:
All purchases will be through a network optician designated by the vendor under contract to Dominion Resources, Inc. — currently AOSafety. Purchases will be transacted using the designated Program order form. The Company will provide payment by Purchasing Card (P-Card) to AO for the purchase amount, minus copay. Employees will provide co-payment amount by check, credit card or cash directly to the vendor when glasses are ordered. Upon receipt of the glasses, participating employee will give their supervisor a copy of the purchase information including vendors packing/shipping slip.
Administration and Recordkeeping:
The Program is administered by Dominion Transmission, Inc. and Dominion Hope, Inc. Safety Departments. Safety Departments will maintain a list of program participants including purchase dates.
Copies of purchase information including issue date; and employee’s prescription form will be maintained at the location for each employee participating in the Program.
Page -103-
11all starts Here;
Dominion Prescription Safety Glass Program
Obtain Supervisor approval for purchase
Down load prescription safety glass form from the following link:
http://dnet.dominionnet.com/delivery/dstc/safety/pdfs/AOform.pdf
Make sure all requested information is filled out clearly and completely, including:
•	Card Holder’s signature and phone number must be placed below special instructions at bottom of prescription safety glass form.
•	Procurement card number and expiration date on line in Bill to Box, which is located on the left hand side, 3 inches from the top of the form.
•	Name of employee in space provided below “Ship To” information.
•	Approving Supervisor's signature.
Select an eyecare professional
•	Select only those participating eyecare professionals listed on the following link. (http://www.aosafetysrx.com/aosafetysrx.com/)
•	We recommend making an appointment with chosen eyecare professional.
•	Only these participating doctors will have the approved safety frame kits for your frame selection.
•	As an added benefit, the professional eyecare facilities who participate in our program participate in many vision insurance programs which could reduce the cost of a prescription, and they also have a large selection of reasonably priced dress eyewear that you may personally purchase.
Your Standard Frames Options
•	Refer to safety glass form for company paid and employee paid options.
•	Solid tints and photogray lenses are provided at no cost to you.
•	The tints authorized are: Rose 1 & 2 for inside Gray 3 for outside
Note: Photogray lenses are NOT authorized for use indoors; they are authorized for outside work forces only as sunglasses. Please be advised that photogray lenses are available only in glass and weigh twice as much as plastic lenses. This extra weight may cause the wearer some discomfort
Receiving your safety glasses
•	The eyecare professional will process your order.
•	Your participating doctor will notify you when he/she has received the completed safety glasses. Take your packing slip and your glasses to your supervisor for documentation.
Page - 104 -
																						
E	<							AOSafety					A	1728 W. Frisco	401 E. Jefferson Chickasha, OK 7301B	Plymouth, IN 46563						FRAME GROUPS -'	Cflntpmy ’ ^*0		u,G>P*y Amount -	NM .'Afcwtd ;
																		Base Group	X			
													OW.XU4^DZO	puW7EM-LQia onn ewe					Group A	X			
																						
wraerrorm	rrescnpuon tyewear	»a* viwci iu uvu<	zozo																		GroupB	X			
EMPLOYEE	2 Vi“ COPAY	° amcT LJ AMEX “	□ Discover PAYMENT	„ „ .	,						/ /												GroupC	X			
						CredKCard Humber	Expiration date WC Number												GroupD	X			
						Card Holder Sigrsature for PreKriptfon Ghssci Sold by AOSafety (Acaco Company)												Group D PLUS	X		5.00	
INFORMATION nMoneyOrder														n				GroupE	X		10.00	
																						
ORDER DATE:	/	/	|						Check or Money Order *											Paid $ in Full	GroupF	X		20.00	
																		GroupG	X		45.00	
																						
COMPANY PAYMENT INFORMATION Dominion Transmission PO Box 2450 Clarksburg VW														Acct! 5288836				Group G PLUS	X		65.00	
																		Urban Cllp-Ons	X		29.00	
																		LENSSTYLES. •	;	rt/t ■		. Co-Pay Amount	Not AJkWvd
														Zip Code 26302-2450								
																		Single Vision	X			
																		Bifocal	X			
																		Trifocal	X			
BILL TO Dominion Transmission P-Card P Card	 Expiration Date	/	 PO Box 2450 Clarksburg VW														Accts 5288836								
																		Base - Truvision, Wsuality	X		15.00	
																		1 AOPra	X		25.00	
																		II Sola XL Sola VIP, AO Compact	X		35.00	
														Zip Code 26302-2450				IB b’Acthrt Easy XUVP Gold	X		50.00	
																		IV Sota One	X		90.00	
																		Please can 800S6Z2823 for price on ail progressives not listed above.				
SHIP TO (Employee's Name)														Accts								
																		LENS MATERIALS ( ,. '		ttrelQjtoi •’v Fan	■ '.Co Pay Amoum :	i'AtoOwOd I
																		Polycarbonate	X			
																		TegraSV				X
														Zip Code								
																		TegraBIf				X
																		Plastic CR-39	X			
																		Glass	X			
■tfl	ease be sure to complete all information for sections where box is marked with an'x'.l															"hankvou.						
																				X	20.00	
CUSTOMER I PATIENT NAME (LAST NAME FIRST NAME)															CONTACT PHONE NUMBER			Mid Index				
																		High Index		X	45.00	
□ POP						I-] Requisition/Cost Center t									□ Other			LENS "OPTIONS	: -	^7^"‘	;;;CaHby Amount	■:' *** Mowed
																		Photochromies	X			
□ SSNf						1 1 Empfoyre Number									□ DeptS			Transitions		X	45.00	
																		Polarized				X
Single Vision		Blfocat 28	35		Trifocal 28	35				Occupational Hmm	15mm 2B >k**-*' 35				Progressive Uns Style	AOTruvtsfon	AO Compact	AO Easy Circle One AO Pro	AO b‘Active	VBuality										
																		TINtS'&'CbATINGS •'■■■-T ’V			’£C£PajfMidUrit	ii.Sfal LM»d-
																		Tint Shade <1	X			
													faBSaWOttwPropvnhvHvre									
																		Tint Shade fZ	X			
□ POLYCARBONATE	□ PLASTIC CR-39	□ GLASS	□ OTH														PR				Tint Shade *3	X			
														rrt 	 _ _. 						UV	X			
TINT & COATING	□	SuperCote AR	□ Clear	□ Scratch	Resistant Coating □ Transitions	□	SuperCote	El	Tint	 EJUV □ Anti-Reflective	0	Photochroma tic	[J Polarized	□ Other																				Scratch Resistant Coating	X			
																		AR Coating		X	20.00	
																		SuperCote		X	15.00	
																		SuperCote AR		X	33.00	
			Sphere			Cylinder				Axis				Prism			Base					
																						
RIGHT OD																		OTHER OPTIONS	■			. GaPay Amount	'.-Mbwted
																		Specialty Lenses	X			
LEFT	OS																						
																		Occupational	X			
			Add		Seg. Hgt.			Dist P.D.					Near P.D.					Full Une Bifocals	X			
RIGHT OD																		Full Une Trifocals	X			
																		SpecUhy tenses indude SteMXfc. Myocfea. C	K»oi, pta sptdJ Gau trettnent such k			
LEFT	OS																						
																		StDESHiELDS .. . - - .	~OPay Amount / ££			
FRAME	Style Name/Mode! No.							Eye Size			Bridge Size		Temple Length			Color		Permanent	A			
																		Detachable				
																		dispensing ;- •			«•:? CoPay Amount	- Othw";
SIDESHIELDS KJ Permanent □	EZ] Gray O T-LOC	•Integrated ^3 'Perforated IZJ ’Breeze Catcher																		Dispensing Fee /Atting	X			
HMM 4»mlA dfabg far oniliMa rideMeltf options	tn^ktrAs,																		If Dispensing Fee b Employtt foid, <ul«t K time of wJcr from emrfaj**				
SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS	□ RUSH JOB	□ LENSES ONLY	□ FRAME ONLY																						
																		Employee co-payments by check, credit card, or money order are due at time of order. Mall checks and money orders with a copy of this order form to AOSafety to ensure prompt service. Employee co-pays by credit card may be faxed with this order form to 800.94512829.				
																		SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS Employee co-pay recorded at top of order form; company P-Card info recorded in ’Bill To1 box.				
Supervisor's Signature	Phone No.	Fax No.																						
Doctor's/Optldan's Name	Phone No.	Fax No. AOSafety MwCDtr. lrv*& Otthw" *» Scwwd ndnnab of MwO Comptny. AO TflMlfaft*. A0FTD' AO Corr^ci', AC t/AiUv	t” AO	Sc4 On»t Soh JQXofcT, wwf Job WGoU*f wbMfamirtaarA&SClATnfKlticnc' to « kcrwd tmtefnwfc of Thfisltion* OptiCil factW-M*ba tr*fam*rtic4PP	Glndwtrin. T4oC“ to oivgtetcrvd ndemact of TKnwt OptiolTtefFi* to* registered twfanari o( Mi latent																						
Page - 105
FOR THE UNION:
Signed By:
Charles D. Rittenhouse, President
United Gas Workers’ Union Division II
Local No. 69, UWUA, AFL-CIO
FOR THE COMPANIES:
Signed By:
David J. Davi
Manager, Gas Labor Relations Dominion Transmission, Inc.
Hope GaSj Inc. DBA ■ Dominion Hope
NEGOTIATING COMMITTEES
Company:
Union:
David J. Davis (Chief Spokesperson) Brenda R. Davisson T. Wesley Garrett Kelli L. Hawkins James M. Herron Jane Mainella Myers, Equire Joyce B. Norris Ronald R. Rizzo Kuryakin C. Rucker William S. Ruffner, III Brian C. Sheppard Debra A. Williams
Charles D. Rittenhouse (Chief Spokesperson)
Bryan E. Ash
G. Craig Bradford
Michael W. Errett
Kelly D.Gillot
James E. Lewis (International Rep.)
Samuel J. Pasquarelli, Esquire
John J. Rooney, III
Eric L. Simmons
Willard R. Swiger
Micheal K. Turner
Kris M. Wagner
Jerry L. White
Michael D. Zinck
Page - 106 -