between
THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY
and
LOCALS 420 and 457
THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
AFL-CIO
effective
JUNE 1,2004 TO JUNE 1, 2009
s
AGREEMENT
between
THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY
and
LOCALS 420 and 457
THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
AFL-CIO
effective
JUNE 1, 2004 TO JUNE 1, 2009
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE	PAGE
PREAMBLE.................................1
General ...............................1
Torrington Unit......................2
Stamford and New London	Units.......4
Middletown Unit......................5
Simsbury Unit........................8
Falls VillageUnit....................8
Stamford - Meter Reader	Unit.........8
Hartford Unit........................9
Wethersfield Unit....................9
A	General ..............................10
I	Nomenclature..........................15
II	Definition of an Employee.............25
V	Hours of Work, Rate of Pay	&
Overtime..............................25
✓	Vacations and Holidays................42
✓	I	Promotions, Transfers, Reductions
and Layoffs...........................49
✓	II	Discipline or Discharge..........67
✓	III	Grievance Procedure..............68
X	Safety Provisions.....................74
K	General Provisions....................83
KI	Strikes and Lockouts..................93
KU	Extent of Agreement..................93
Kill	Contract Period and Renewal..........95
Xppendix:
Schedule of Regular Hourly Rates (2004)...96
Schedule of Regular Hourly Rates (2005).... 119
Schedule of Regular Hourly Rates (2006).... 142
Schedule of Regular Hourly Rates (2007).... 165
Schedule of Regular Hourly Rates (2008).... 188
Addenda (All Units)
Topic: Leave of Absence - Elected/ Appointed Union
Representatives................213
Topic:	Tool Allowance................213
Topic:	Fire Retardant Clothing.......213
Topic: Motor Vehicle/P aging Device For
Use During Call Assignments....214
Topic: Company Allowed Time Off Before Christmas Day..................214
Topic: Working on Energized Primary Conductors.....................215
Topic: Payment of Expenses For Arbitration...........................215
Topic: Relative Policy................216
Topic: Practices and Procedures for
Rubber Gloving Conductors......217
Topic: Expense Allowance..............220
Topic: Trouble Calls..................223
Topic: Troubleshooter.................224
Topic: Commercial Driver’s License....225
Topic: Weingarten.....................226
Addenda (Stamford and New London Units)....................................227
Addenda (New London Electricians Working at Millstone)..............................230
Letters of Intent..........................232
Letter - 2004 Blue Book & Green Book Announcements..............................278
Initiation Fee and Union Dues Deduction Card.......................................281
Calendars 2004-2009......................  282
AGREEMENT
between
THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY
and
LOCAL UNIONS 420 & 457 I.B.E.W.
TORRINGTON, STAMFORD, FALLS VILLAGE, SIMSBURY, HARTFORD, WETHERSFIELD, NEW LONDON, and MIDDLETOWN UNITS
This Agreement, effective June 1,2004, is between The Connecticut Light and Power Company, hereinafter referred to as the Company, as the Successor to The Hartford Electric Light Company and Locals 420 and 457 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, hereinafter jointly referred to as the Union and shall be final and binding on any and all successors and assigns of the employer, whether by sale, transfer, merger, acquisition, consolidation, or otherwise. The employer shall make it a condition of transfer that any such successors or assigns shall be bound by the terms of this Agreement.
ARTICLE I Torrington General
Section 1.	The Company recognizes Local 420 as the exclusive collective bargaining representative with respect to rates of pay, hours of employment and other conditions of employment for employees in the former Torrington bargaining unit of The Hartford Electric Light Company who were on the eligibility list for voting in the NLRB election in case number 1-RC-5243 and any employee hired or permanently transferred to replace any such employee and any additional personnel covered by the provisions of Section 2 hereof.
Section 2.	If (a) additional personnel are hired for, or Company personnel are transferred permanently to, classifications included in the bargaining unit description in case number 1-RC-5243 or classifications added to the coverage of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of Article II, and (b) such personnel are assigned to the same reporting headquarters as any employee on said eligibility list or a reporting headquarters within the Towns of Torrington, New Hartford, Burlington, Thomaston or Plymouth, Connecticut, they shall become members of the bargaining unit and shall be added to the group referred to in Section 1 hereof, as of their date of hire, if newly hired, or as of their date of transfer, if permanently transferred. Nothing in this Article shall be deemed to require the hiring or transfer of personnel.
-2-
Section 3.	An employee covered by Section 1 above who is permanently transferred to any reporting headquarters of the Company which was not the reporting headquarters of any of the employees on said eligibility list or to any position not included in the classifications set forth in Section 1 of Article II of this Agreement, shall cease to be a member of the bargaining unit as of the date of such transfer, but such employee shall retain seniority rights in the event of layoff for one year as provided in Section 5 of Article VI. If a currently recognized reporting headquarters within the Torrington Bargaining Unit is relocated in the Towns of Torrington, New Hartford, Burlington, Thomaston or Plymouth, Connecticut, recognition herein will extend to all employees at such reporting headquarters with respect to job classifications appearing in Section 1, Article II, Nomenclature, or in any other classification added to the Unit by agreement of the parties.
Section 4.	By way of example as to the application of this Article, employees now or hereafter covered by Section 1 hereof who are permanently transferred to any service center located outside the above-mentioned town will cease to be members of the bargaining unit in accordance with Section 3 hereof. Similarly, a meter shop repairman now covered by Section 1 hereof who is permanently transferred to the Company's meter shop in Hartford where it is contemplated to centralize meter repair work, will cease to be a member of the bargaining unit. There shall be no personnel added to the bargaining unit in connection with either such change in the Company's operations. By way of
-3-
further example, in the event of a change in the reporting headquarters in Torrington, from one location to another within the Towns of Torrington, New Hartford, Burlington, Thomaston or Plymouth, Connecticut, the employees permanently transferred from their present reporting headquarters in Torrington to such new reporting headquarters will not result in such employees ceasing to be members of the bargaining unit.
Section 5.	In the event of any dispute between the parties as to whether an individual is a member of the bargaining unit or not, such dispute shall be handled under the grievance procedure of this Agreement except that if the grievance shall not have been satisfactorily disposed of after the meeting with the Grievance Committee under Section 1 (d) of Article VIII of this Agreement, instead of proceeding to arbitration as therein provided, the dispute shall be resolved by joint submission of the bargaining unit issue to the National Labor Relations Board through the filing of a Motion for Clarification on the Certification.
ARTICLE I Stamford and New London General
The Company recognizes Local 420 and Local 457, IBEW, respectively, as the exclusive representative of all employees in the former Stamford and New London bargaining units of The Hartford Electric Light Company, as were certified by proper authorities for the purpose of collective
-4-
bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment or other conditions of employment.
Middletown
This Agreement, dated as of June 1, 2004, is between The Connecticut Light and Power Company, hereinafter referred to as the Company, as the Successor to The Hartford Electric Light Company and Local 457 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the Union, in respect to the bargaining unit certified by the National Labor Relations Board on April 2, 1959, in case number 1-RC-5240, and which is described under Article I below and hereafter referred to as the "Middletown Bargaining Unit."
ARTICLE I Middletown General
Section 1.	The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive collective bargaining representative of those employees who were on the eligibility list for voting in the NLRB election in case number 1-RC-5240 and any employee hired or permanently transferred to replace any such employee and any additional personnel covered by the provisions of Section 2 hereof.
Section 2.	If (a) additional personnel are hired for, or Company personnel are transferred permanently to, classifications included in the bargaining unit description in case number 1-RC-5240 or classifications added to the
-5-
coverage of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of Article III, and (b) such personnel are assigned to the same reporting headquarters as any employee on said eligibility list or a reporting headquarters within the Towns of Middletown or Cromwell, Connecticut* they shall become members of the bargaining unit and shall be added to the group referred to in Section 1 hereof, as of their date of hire, if newly hired, or as of their date of transfer, if permanently transferred. Nothing in this Article shall be deemed to require the hiring or transfer of personnel.
Section 3.	An employee covered by Section 1 above who is permanently transferred to any reporting headquarters of the Company which was not the reporting headquarters of any of the employees on said eligibility list or to any position not included in the classifications set forth in Section 1 of Article III of this Agreement, shall cease to be a member of the bargaining unit as of the date of such transfer, but such employee shall retain seniority rights in the event of layoff for one year as provided in Section 5 of Article VI. It is understood that the designation of a new or different reporting headquarters within the Towns of Middletown or Cromwell for any of the employees on said eligibility list shall not be deemed a reporting headquarters which was not the headquarters of any of the employees on said eligibility list
Section 4.	By way of example as to the application of this Article, employees now or hereafter covered by Section 1 hereof who are permanently transferred to any service center
-6-
located outside the above-mentioned towns will cease to be members of the bargaining unit in accordance with Section 3 hereof. Similarly, a meter shop repairman now covered by Section 1 hereof who is permanently transferred to the Company's meter shop in Hartford where it is contemplated to centralize meter repair work, will cease to be a member of the bargaining unit. There shall be no personnel added to the bargaining unit in connection with either such change tn the Company's operations. By way of further example in the event of a change in the reporting headquarters in Middletown, from one location to another within the Towns of Middletown or Cromwell, the employees permanently transferred from their present reporting headquarters in Middletown to such new reporting headquarters will not result in such employees ceasing to be members of the bargaining unit.
Sections. In the event of any dispute between the parties as to whether an individual is a member of the bargaining unit or not, such dispute shall be handled under the grievance procedure of this Agreement, except that if the grievance shall not have been satisfactorily disposed of after the meeting with the Grievance Committee under Section 1 (d) of Article VIII of this Agreement, instead of proceeding to arbitration as therein provided, the dispute shall be resolved by joint submission of the bargaining unit issue to the National Labor Relations Board through the filing of a Motion for Clarification on the Certification.
-7-
ARTICLE 1 Simsbury
The Company recognizes Local 420 as the sole collective bargaining representative with respect to wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for those employees who were on the eligibility list for voting in the NLRB election in case number 34-RC-1486, and any employee hired or permanently transferred to replace any such employee and any additional personnel hired into classifications included in the bargaining unit description.
ARTICLE J Falls Village
The Company recognizes Local 420 as the sole collective bargaining representative with respect to wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for those employees who were on the eligibility list for voting in the NLRB election in case number 34-RC-1465, and any employee hired or permanently transferred to replace any such employee and any additional personnel hired into classifications included in the bargaining unit description.
ARTICLE I Stamford Meter Readers
The Company recognizes Local 420 as the sole collective bargaining representative with respect to wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for those employees who were on
-8-
the eligibility list for voting in the NLRB election in case number 34-RC-1561, and any employee hired or permanently transferred to replace any such employee and any additional personnel hired into classifications included in the bargaining unit description.
ARTICLE I Hartford
The Company recognizes Local 457 as the sole collective bargaining representative with respect to wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for those employees who were on the eligibility list for voting in the NLRB election in case number 34-RC-1485, and any employee hired or permanently transferred to replace any such employee and any additional personnel hired into classifications included in the bargaining unit description.
ARTICLE I Wethersfield
The Company recognizes Local 457 as the sole collective bargaining representative with respect to wages, hours of employment, and other conditions of employment for those employees who were on the eligibility list for voting in the NLRB election in case number 34-RC-1560, and any employee hired or permanently transferred to replace any such employee and any additional personnel hired into classifications included in the bargaining unit description.
-9-
ARTICLE IA General
Section 1.	Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Company reserves to itself all the customary functions of management, including among other things the direction of the working forces, the setting of working schedules, the right to hire, promote, demote, lay off, discipline, discharge for just cause, or transfer, the right to select or employ supervisory personnel, including foremen, and the right to temporarily assign for not more than six months management trainees to any classification for training purposes only without displacing any employee in such classification or preventing the advancement of any employee from a lower classification, provided that any such management trainee shall not act in a supervisory capacity during such training period. The Company and the Union agree to continue their cooperative efforts to promote safety, efficiency, and harmony among all employees.
Section 2.	The Union agrees that its members who are employees of the Company will individually and collectively perform efficient work and service, and that they will avoid and discourage waste of materials, time and manpower, and that they will use their influence and best efforts to protect the property of the Company and its interests and to prevent loss of tools and materials, and that they will cooperate with the Company in promoting and advancing the welfare of the Company and the service at all times.
-10-
Section 3.	Upon receipt of individual written authorization and assignment from employees in job classifications listed in Article II, Section 1 - Nomenclature, the Company will make a single deduction for the required initiation fee and in addition will deduct required monthly Union dues from the employee's wages on a pay period basis and remit monthly to the Local Union Officers designated in writing by each Local Union. Authorization shall be submitted in the form and language shown in the Appendix and made a part of this Agreement. If an employee is transferred out of the bargaining unit, the employee's authorization for the payroll deduction of Union dues will automatically become void at the end of the calendar month within which the employee’s transfer is effective.
On a pay period basis, the Company will deduct from the wages of each employee from whom it receives written authorization, voluntary contributions to the Union's COPE fund. Such deductions shall be remitted to the financial secretary of the Union monthly, along with a list of employees and amounts so deducted.
Sections The provisions of this Agreement shall be applied by the Company through its representatives to all employees within the bargaining unit without discrimination of any kind.
It is agreed that neither the Company nor the Union will discriminate against any employee in application of any of the terms of this Agreement because of race, color, religion, sex,
-11 -
national origin, age, ancestry, marital status, familial status, sexual orientation, disability/handicap, military status, genetic information, Vietnam era veterans, disabled veterans, and other veterans.
Section 5. Employees who were members of the Union in Stamford on June 21, 1968, in New London on May 22, 1968, in Torrington and Middletown on July 1, 1976, or who later become members, will as a condition of employment be required to maintain their membership for the duration of this Agreement.
(a)	Employees hired or transferred into the Bargaining Unit in Stamford after June 21,1968, in New London after May 22, 1968, in Torrington and Middtetown after July 1, 1976 will be required as a condition of employment to join or make application to join the Union thirty days from their date of employment or transfer or thirty days after the date this Agreement is executed, whichever is later.
(b)	Stamford employees on June 21,1968, New London employees on May 22, 1968 or Torrington and Middletown employees on July 1, 1976whowere not members of the Union in their respective areas are exempt from the provisions of Section 5(a) above.
(c)	If the Union refuses to accept as a member or refuses to continue the
-12-
(d)
membership of any employee for any reasons other than the failure to pay or tender payment of required initiation fees and periodic dues, the employee shall be exempt from the provisions of Section 5 and 5(a) above. It shall be the responsibility of the Union to solicit the membership of employees who are required to join the Union under Section 5 and 5(a). Should the Union fail to solicit the membership of an employee within the time period prescribed in Section 5(a), that employee shall be exempt from the provisions of Section 5(a) until the first day of the calendar month within which the employee’s membership is first solicited by the Union.
Should an employee fail or refuse to join the Union or maintain membership therein as hereinbefore provided, the Union may request the Company to discharge such employee. The request shall be submitted in writing to the Director-Labor Relations. Two weeks from the date of receipt of the request, unless the Company has notified the Union that the matter is in dispute, the employee will be discharged. If during the two week period the employee complies with the Union membership provisions of this Article, the Company will not be obliged to discharge the employee.
-13-
(e) If a dispute arises under Section 5(a) hereof concerning the discharge of an employee, the Director-Labor Relations and the Business Manager of the Union shall ascertain the facts and endeavor to settle the dispute. Pending settlement of the dispute, the Company will not suspend or discharge the employee concerned. If the dispute is not settled within thirty calendar days, (subject to extension by mutual agreement), from date of receipt of the Union's written request for discharge as provided in Section 5(d) hereof, either party may. within the next ten calendar days following the thirty calendar day period, submit the dispute to Arbitration for final settlement as provided in Article VIII.
Section 6. Each new employee shall upon the commencement of their employment be given a copy of the collective bargaining Agreement, informed that the Company has recognized the local Union as the exclusive bargaining representative of all employees in the bargaining unit, and introduced to the Union steward or other Union official employed in the same department or unit.
ARTICLE II Nomenclature Torrington Unit
Section 1. The job classifications referred to under Section 1 of Article I are as follows, or any new classification added hereafter:
-14-
Buildings
*	Janitor
d Maintenance Worker - Buildings Maintenance Worker A - Buildings Building Maintenance Mechanic
Electric Meters and Service
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric Chief Meter Service Mechanic - Electric
*	Meter Service Installer Helper Meter Service Installer
Electric Operations
*	Ground Worker Line Mechanic Troubleshooter Lead Line Mechanic Top Line Mechanic
*	Electrician's Helper Electrician Lead Electrician Chief Electrician Streetlight Mechanic
Stores
Stockhandler
Chief Stockhandler, Torrington
Transportation
Garage Mechanic Lead Garage Mechanic Chief Garage Mechanic
-15-
Stamford Unit
Section 1. Employees in the bargaining units shall be classified as follows: or in any new classification added under Section 3 hereof:
Buildings
*	Janitor - Service Building Building Maintenance Mechanic
*	Guard
d Maintenance Worker - Buildings, Stamford
Electric Distribution
*	Electrician's Helper Electrician Lead Electrician Chief Electrician
*	Cable Splicer's Helper Cable Splicer Lead Cable Splicer Chief Cable Splicer
*	Ground Worker Line Mechanic Troubleshooter Lead Line Mechanic Top Line Mechanic Streetlight Mechanic
Electric Meters and Service
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric
Chief Meter Service Mechanic - Electric
*	Meter Service Installer Helper Meter Service Installer
-16-
Stores
Stockhandler
Chief Stockhandler
Transportation
Garage Mechanic
Lead Garage Mechanic
Chief Garage Mechanic
District Management
*	Meter Reader d Collector
Simsbury Unit
Section 1. Employees in the bargaining units shall be classified as follows;
Buildings
*	Janitor - Service Building d Maintenance Worker - Buildings
Building Maintenance Mechanic
Electric Distribution
*	Electrician’s Helper
Electrician
Lead Electrician
Chief Electrician
Cable Splicer
Lead Cable Splicer
Chief Cable Splicer
*	Ground Worker
Mechanic A (Incumbent Only)
-17-
J
Line Mechanic Troubleshooter Lead Line Mechanic Top Line Mechanic Lead Mechanic - Direct Buried System (Incumbent OnlyJ Streetlight Mechanic
Electric Meters and Service
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric
Chief Meter Service Mechanic - Electric * Meter Service Installer Helper
Meter Service Installer
Stores
Stockhandler Chief Stockhandler
Transportation
Garage Mechanic Lead Garage Mechanic Chief Garage Mechanic
District Management
* Meter Reader d Collector
Falls Village Unit
Section 1. Employees in the bargaining units shall be classified as follows:
Electric Operations
Line Mechanic Lead Line Mechanic Top Line Mechanic
- T8-
New London Unit
Buildings
*	Janitor - Service Building
d Maintenance Worker - Buildings Building Maintenance Mechanic
Electric Distribution
*	Electrician's Helper Electrician Lead Electrician .Chief Electrician
*	Cable Splicer's Helper Cable Splicer Lead Cable Splicer Chief Cable Splicer
*	Ground Worker Line Mechanic Troubleshooter Lead Line Mechanic Top Line Mechanic Streetlight Mechanic
Electric Meters and Service
Chief Meter-Service Worker - Electric Meter Service Mechanic - Electric Chief Meter Service Mechanic - Electric
*	Meter Service Installer Helper Meter Service Installer
Stores
Stockhandler Chief Stockhandler
-19-
Transportation
Garage Mechanic
Lead Garage Mechanic
Chief Garage Mechanic
District Management
*	Meter Reader d Collector
Middletown Unit
Section 1. The job classifications referred to under Section 1 of Article I are as follows, or any new classifications added hereafter:
Buildings
*	Janitor - Service Building
d Maintenance Worker- Buildings, Middletown
Building Maintenance Mechanic
Electric Meters and Service
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric
Chief Meter Service Mechanic - Electric * Meter Service Installer Helper
Meter Service Installer
Electric Operations
*	Cable Splicer's Helper
Cable Splicer
Lead Cable Splicer
Chief Cable Splicer
*	Ground Worker
Line Mechanic
Troubleshooter
-20-
Lead Line Mechanic.
Top Line Mechanic-
*	Electrician’s Helper
Electrician
Lead Electrician
Chief Electrician
Streetlight Mechanic
Stores
Stockhandler
Chief Stockhandler
Transportation
Garage Mechanic
Lead Garage Mechanic
Chief Garage Mechanic
District Management
*	Meter Reader d Collector
Hartford Unit
Section 1. Employees in the bargaining units shall be classified as follows;
Buildings
* Janitor - Service Building
d Maintenance Worker - Buildings Building Maintenance Mechanic Chief Building Maintenance Mechanic
-21 -
Electric Distribution
*	Electrician’s Helper Electrician Lead Electrician Chief Electrician Cable Splicer Lead Cable Splicer Chief Cable Splicer
*	Ground Worker Utility Worker Lead Utility Worker-Chief Utility Worker Distribution Equipment Operator Chief Mechanic - Direct Buried Systems Line Mechanic Troubleshooter Lead Line Mechanic Top Line Mechanic Streetlight Mechanic
Electric Meters and Service
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric Chief Meter Service Mechanic - Electric
*	Meter Service Installer Helper Meter Service Installer
Stores
Stockhandler Chief Stockhandler
Transportation
Garage Mechanic Lead Garage Mechanic Chief Garage Mechanic
-22-
District Management
*	Meter Reader d Collector
Wethersfield Unit
Section 1.	Employees in the bargaining units shall be classified as follows:
Buildings
Building Maintenance Worker
Building Maintenance Mechanic
Chief Building Maintenance Mechanic
Stores
Store Worker
* Designates starting job
+ Designates for incumbents only d Designates displacable job
Section 2.	If it has been definitely established that an employee is incapable of performing the duties of the employee’s classification due to illness or infirmity and if the employee is assigned to a lower classification, the employee's rate of pay shall be in accordance with the following retrogression formula:
On entering the lower classification, the employee's wage rate will be computed as follows: The difference between the employee's rate prior to assignment to the lower classification, and the third step of the rate for the lower classification,
-23-
multiplied by 5 percent times years of service for an employee with less than twenty years of service. For such employee with twenty or more years of service, there shall be no reduction in rate of pay except for shift or Sunday differentials where applicable.
Should the employee later be assigned or promoted to a higher classification, said employee’s wage rate will be the established rate for the higher classification or the special rate as determined above, whichever is greater.
In the special case where the Company decides to continue a long service employee in the same classification and rate of pay even though, due to age or infirmity, the employee is unable to perform the full scope of the employee's duties, and where other employees complain on the basis that this works undue hardship on them, the problem will be a subject for informal discussion between the Company and the Union for the sake of understanding of all concerned.
In certain cases where an employee with twenty years or more of continuous service has expressed an interest in an opening in a lower classification for bona fide reasons of health, it will be within the sole discretion of the Company to transfer such employee to such job without posting a vacancy and to apply the retrogression formula, even though the employee may not be physically incapable of performing the full duties of the employee’s present job.
-24-
ARTICLE III Definition of an Employee
Section 1. The term "employee" as used in this Agreement refers only to regular employees in the bargaining unit. Regular employees are employees hired for full-time employment on continuing nontemporary work in an established job classification. During the first six months of employment each such employee will be on a probationary or trial basis. Nonregular employees are employees hired for temporary work whose term of employment will not exceed three months in any twelve month period and whose employment does not affect the advancement of or result in the layoff of a regular employee.
ARTICLE IV
Hours of Work, Rates of Pay and Overtime
Section 1.	The minimum wage rate for each job classification shall be in accordance with a schedule entitled "Schedule of Regular Hourly Rates" appended hereto and to be signed by both parties to this Agreement.
This rate schedule shall not be construed so as to require a cut in the existing hourly wage of any employee now paid in excess of the schedule.
-25-
Section 2.
(a)	For the purpose of computing overtime, the workweek shall start at 12:01 a.m. Sunday and end at 12 midnight the following Saturday.
(b)	The regular hours of employment for all Employees shall be eight (8) or ten (10) hours per day and forty (40) hours per week. The normal workweek shall consist of four or five consecutive days scheduled between Monday and Saturday inclusive, and may include a straight eight-hour shift without a designated lunch period. In the setting of work schedules, the Company will, insofar as is practicable, provide equal rotation of shifts, holiday, and days off. There shall be no split shifts.
(c)	All hours worked in excess of eight or ten hours in one day of twenty-four, except for shift employees as scheduled, or forty hours in one workweek or on an employee's regularly scheduled day off shall be paid for at the overtime rate of one and one-half times the regular rate. Employees with Sunday as a regularly scheduled day off in any calendar week shall be paid double time for work on that Sunday, and at time and one-half for work on the other regularly scheduled day off in that calendar week. Employees regularly scheduled to work on Sunday in any
-26-
calendar week shall receive time and one-half for work on the first regularly scheduled day off and double time for work on the second regularly scheduled day off in that calendar week. Overtime rates shall not be applied more than once to any particular hour of work, nor shall they apply to scheduled changes of shift.
(d)	Planned overtime shall be defined as overtime work for which at least thirty-six hours advance notice has been given and will be assigned among employees as equally as possible. Records of overtime hours and "on-call" hours shall be posted on the Company bulletin boards each month and a copy given to the Union. In selecting employees for assignment to planned overtime, the Company will excuse employees who do not want the assignment provided the required number of qualified employees are available. Where additional help is needed beyond the number desiring the overtime assignment, additional assignments will be made among qualified employees in inverse order of the amount of overtime worked. Nonregular employees shall not be used unless regular employees are not available. Among employees in a given classification, those who have more than six months of service will be given preference for planned overtime
-27-
assignments over those who are still on a probationary basis. If such planned overtime is to be done on a Saturday or Sunday, notice will be given by 8 p.m. of the preceding Thursday in order to constitute planned overtime. Except in the case of the unforeseen absence of another employee if an employee is required to work overtime on a scheduled day off, or on an observed holiday, with less than thirty-six hours notice, the employee shall be paid travel time as defined in Section 3 of this Article IV. Records of distribution of overtime work will be made available to designated Union representatives upon their request and also posted on a weekly basis.
(e)	Except in case of emergency or the case of unforeseen absence of other employees, employees shall not be required to work more than twelve hours in any one twenty-four hour period. If an employee is required to work beyond sixteen hours in any twenty-four hour period, the employee will be paid at double the employee’s straight time rate for those hours worked beyond sixteen. An employee required to work more than sixteen hours during any twenty-four hour period shall once released, be allowed a period of eight hours off before returning to work. If this period extends into the employee’s regular scheduled working hours, the employee
-28-
shall lose no pay thereby. If an employee is required to work outside of the employee’s normal schedule for more than one hour (more than two hours with advanced notice) during the eight-hour period immediately preceding the starting time of the employee's next normal schedule, the employee will, whenever possible be allowed rest time during that normal schedule without loss of normal wages. If an employee is called out without advance notice to work more than one hour (including travel time) during the eight hour period immediately preceding the starting time of the employee's next normal schedule, the employee will, where service requirements permit, be allowed equivalent rest time during the employee's basic scheduled hours on that day without loss of normal wages, except that eight hours rest time will be provided if an employee is required to work six consecutive hours. The above does not apply to "call-outs" occurring one hour before the start of the employee's regular schedule. The rest time provided in the above two paragraphs will be scheduled by the supervisor. When service requirements will not permit scheduling such time off, the equivalent hours will be paid for at two times the regular rate instead of straight time. Similarly, an employee called out without advance notice to work more than one hour (more than
-29-
two hours with advanced notice), including travel time during the eighthour period immediately preceding the starting time of a planned overtime assignment on the employee’s scheduled day off, said employee will, when service requirements permit, be allowed equivalent rest time at straight time rates during such planned overtime assignment hours-the maximum hours so paid being either the announced minimum hours guaranteed or the average hours actually worked on the assignment by other employees of the same classification, whichever is greater, except that eight hours rest time will be provided if an employee is required to work six consecutive hours. The above does not apply to "call-outs" occurring one hour before the start of the employee's regular schedule. The rest time provided for above will be scheduled by the supervisor. When service requirements will not permit scheduling such time off, the equivalent hours will be paid for at straight time rates in addition to the applicable overtime rate.
(f)	If an employee is required to work beyond sixteen consecutive hours, the employee will be paid at double the employee's the straight time rate for those hours worked beyond sixteen, until the employee is allowed eight consecutive hours off. Time allowed off,
-30-
for meals will be counted in determining sixteen consecutive hours for the purpose of this Section.
(g)	Where an employee first reports for planned overtime on a scheduled day off, or on an observed holiday, the employee shall receive a minimum of four hours work or pay or, if the work exceeds four continuous hours, a minimum of eight hours work or pay at the applicable overtime rate. For each time thereafter that the employee reports for planned overtime work on that same day, the employee shall receive a minimum of three hours' work or pay at the applicable overtime rate. Employees, at the time they are notified of the assignment shall be informed as to the estimated duration of the work. When such planned overtime is not canceled before the end of work on the employee’s last previous scheduled workday prior to the planned overtime assignment, the employees concerned shall receive two hours’ pay at straight time rates. In any case where an employee is given an opportunity to work planned overtime on the employee's scheduled day off in accordance with the full minimum provided under this paragraph, but is excused at the employee's own request from working that full minimum, the employee will be paid only for actual hours worked.
-31 -
(h)	It will be within the discretion of the supervisor to excuse an employee from overtime for good cause where such overtime is not due to an emergency, is not a special job, and does not involve work at the end of a day's shift.
Section 3.	An employee is considered to be called out (1) when the employee is called in when not on duty and without advance notice, to report immediately for overtime work or, (2) when the employee is given advance notice to report for overtime work on a regularly scheduled working day when the overtime work is prior to or after and not continuous with the employee's regular scheduled working hours. Employees called in for work outside their regular working hours shall be paid time and one-half. Such pay shall be computed from the time the employee reports to work to the time of completion of the employee’s work and their return to designated headquarters, to which time shall be added one-half hour for travel to work and one-half hour for travel from work. Time off shall not be considered as repayment for such work done. An employee called in for work under the terms of this paragraph will receive a minimum of two hours' pay including the above travel time at time and one-half for each time the employee is called away from their home, except that if an employee is called in for work which continues into the employee’s regular working schedule, the employee shall be paid the overtime rate only for actual time worked and the half hour travel time to work. In the case of an employee who receives a call between the hours of midnight and 6 a.m., or
-32-
between 8:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. for permanent 2nd shift garage mechanics, to report immediately, the minimum shall be three hours instead of the two hours referred to in the previous sentence, and the same conditions will apply. An employee will be considered on Company time while traveling directly to work after being called out, but paid no more than the amount specified herein.
Section 4.	Stamford Unit and New London Unit
(a)	Certain employees may be placed "on-call." An employee is placed "on-call" when the employee is given advance notice to be continuously available, when not on duty, to report for overtime work. For each twenty-four hour period or part thereof during which an employee is "on-call," the employee shall receive one and one-half hours' pay at straight time rates, provided that if such employee is placed "on-call" on an observed holiday, on a Sunday, or on the employee's day off, the employee shall receive three hours pay at straight time rates for such twenty-four hour period. In the case of an employee placed on call when that period begins on a day when the employee is scheduled to work, if the period of on-call extends 9 hours or more into an observed holiday, Sunday, or their scheduled day off, the employee shall receive instead of one and one-half hours' pay, three hours' pay at straight
-33-
time rates. In addition, the employee will receive pay, when appropriate, in accordance with Section 3 of this Article IV. Where employees have been placed "on-call," they shall be called before or concurrently with other employees in case of emergency work which they are qualified to do.
(b)	Such employees shall upon request be excused from "on-call"/Shift assignment for a period of not less than twelve months provided the employee has reached 45 years of age, has greater departmental seniority! and the granting and/or continued compliance with the request does not subject the remaining employees on the employee's particular "on-call" schedule to a normal "on-call" schedule assignment frequency greater than one out of four.
(c)	An employee not scheduled for "on-call" who is given advance notice to report for overtime work on a regularly scheduled working day when the overtime work is prior to or after and not continuous with the employee's regular scheduled working hours, shall be paid for being "on-call" in accordance with Section 4 of this Article.
(d)	Employees not regularly assigned to "on-call" who are required to hold themselves available so that they may be contacted within one-half hour in
-34-
anticipation of an emergency or to return to work following the completion of their regular shift shall be paid in the same manner as a person assigned to "on-call" for the day on which such assignment is made and paid under Section 4.
(e)	Troubleshooters who are assigned by the Company to take trouble calls outside their normal schedule hours will be so-assigned for either (1) eight hours immediately preceding, or (2) eight hours immediately following, or (3) a total not in excess of eight hours both immediately preceding and immediately following their normal schedule hours each day they work. Troubleshooters will be paid for one hour at basic straight-time rate for each eight hours they are assigned to trouble call duty except that, when assigned on a recognized holiday, they will be paid for two hours at basic straight-time rate for each eight hours so-assigned. If called upon to perform work, in addition to the call-time pay, they will be paid for the time worked at the rate applicable but not less than two hours for each time called out, except they will be paid not less than three hours at the applicable rate for each time called out between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. An employee who is called in for work that continues into the employee’s regular working schedule
-35-
shall be paid only the actual overtime worked.
Section 4.	Torrington and Middletown Unit
(a)	Employees may be placed "on-catl" as required. An employee is placed "on-call" when the employee is given advance notice to be continuously available, when not on duty, to report for overtime work. In addition to the employee's base pay for any particular workweek, each employee placed "on-call" shall receive "on-call" pay as follows: one and one-half hours' pay at straight time rates for each twenty-four hour period, or part thereof, for which the employee is placed "on-call" when that period begins on a day when the employee is scheduled to work, and three hours' pay at straight time rates for each twenty-four hour period, or part thereof, for which the employee is placed "on-call" on an observed holiday, on a Sunday, or on the employee’s day off. In the case of an employee placed “on call" when that period begins on a day when the employee is scheduled to work, if the period of "on-call" extends 12 hours or more into an observed holiday, Sunday, or the employee’s scheduled day off, the employee shall receive instead of one and one-half hours' pay, three hours' pay at straight time rates. In addition, the employee
-36-
will receive pay, when appropriate, in accordance with Section 3 of this Article IV. Where employees have been placed "on-call," they shall be called before or concurrently with other employees in case of emergency work which they are qualified to do. When such "on-caH" duty is on a regular scheduled basis, the normal schedule will be posted at least one month in advance, subject to revision as circumstances require. For occasional assignments of "on-call" periods, as much advance notice as practicable will be given.
(b)	Such employees shall upon request be excused from "on-calf/Shift assignment for a period of not less than twelve months provided the employee has reached 45 years of age, has greater departmental seniority, and the granting and/or continued compliance with the request does not subject the remaining employees on the employee's particular *on-call" schedule to a normal "on-call" schedule assignment frequency greater than one out of four.
(c)	An employee not scheduled for "on-call" who is given advance notice to report for overtime work on a regularly scheduled working day when the overtime work is prior to or after and not continuous with the employee’s regular scheduled working hours, shall be paid for being
-37-
"on-call" in accordance with Section 4(a) of this Article.
(d)	Troubleshooters who are assigned by the Company to take trouble calls outside their normal schedule hours will be so-assigned for either (1) eight hours immediately preceding, or (2) eight hours immediately following, or (3) a total not in excess of eight hours both immediately preceding and immediately following their normal schedule hours each day they work. Troubleshooters will be paid for one hour at basic straight-time rate for each eight hours they are assigned to trouble call duty except that, when assigned on a recognized holiday, they will be paid for two hours at basic straight-time rate for each eight hours so-assigned. If called upon to perform work, in addition to the call-time pay they will be paid for the time worked at the rate applicable but not less than two hours for each time called out, except they will be paid not less than three hours at the applicable rate for each time called out between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. An employee who is called in for work that continues into the employee's regular working schedule shall be paid only the actual overtime worked.
Section 5.	When normal means of transportation are not available to an employee
*38-
required to work overtime without advance notice, the Company will provide transportation to the employee's home.
Section 6.	After an employee has had one and one-half hours of overtime work which is continuous with the employee's regular scheduled working hours and which forces the employee to miss their regular meal hour (other than breakfast as provided for below), or after five hours of overtime work since being called out, and after each additional five hours of overtime work, the Company will either provide a meal for the employee or pay the employee $7.50 on account of such meal.
An allowance of $15.00 shall be made for evening meals only (4:00 p.m. to 12 midnight). The eight hour period following completion of the normal work schedule is applicable for shift workers. A meal allowance shall be given to shift employees who are required to report for work starting one hour or more before their next normal schedule starting time without having been given twelve hours advance notice.
An allowance of $7.50 shall be made for breakfast in any case where an employee is required to report for work on the day shift one hour or more before the employee’s usual starting time, even though prior notice had been given of. such work. Meals eaten on the job to avoid interruption of work during such overtime or emergency will be eaten on Company time. As far as operating requirements permit, each such employee shall be allowed reasonable time off to
-39-
eat such meal, except for the special case of the breakfast meal provided for above. Such reasonable time off up to three-quarters of an hour shall be included in the hours of overtime work. An employee entitled to a meal and/or time off under this Section shall, if the overtime assignment continues, become entitled to additional meals and/or time off therefore at five-hour intervals. Although exact scheduling of meals will depend on requirements of the job, it is intended that an employee be allowed to eat a meal within a reasonable time after the employee becomes entitled to it under this Section.
However, if the employee is not given time off but works through to complete the job, the employee will be paid three-quarters of an hour for each meal for which the employee qualified. An employee called out for one and one-half hours or more but less than five hours of actual overtime work, who thereby misses a regular meal hour, will be provided with a meal or paid for the meal at the rate of $7.50 for breakfast, lunch, and $15.00 for evening meals only (4:00 p.m. to 12 midnight), and in which case there would be a time allowance for eating. On a day when an employee is not scheduled to work, the "regular meal hour" for the purpose of this Section will include any part of the one hour period beginning at 7:00 a.m., 12:00 noon, and 5:00 p.m. For prearranged work, the meal allowances would be the same as on a regular workday. An employee on the day shift who is called to come immediately to work one hour or more in advance of the employee's regular starting time and who is not released for at least half an hour prior to starting the employee's day’s work will be provided with a breakfast or paid
-40-
$7.50 for purchase of same and, if the employee does not have the opportunity to provide the employee’s own lunch in these circumstances, the employee will be provided with a lunch or paid $7.50 for the purchase of same.
In the event a shift employee is called back with less than eight hours' notice to work a second full shift within a twenty-four hour period or is assigned with less than four hours* notice to work a full shift on the employee’s day off, the employee shall receive two meal allowances for the shift.
Except where the Company has scheduled an employee for a straight eight (8)-hour day, normal lunch periods should be observed whenever practicable and those cases where it is necessary to delay lunch periods should be kept at a minimum. When the work requirements make it necessary to postpone a lunch period for an hour or more, the practice will be to pay the employee time and one-half for the lunch period so that the employee will be considered to be on continuous duty from the start to the finish of the workday, eating when the employee can find the opportunity without any stated meal period. Employees scheduled for a straight eight (8)-hour day will not have a lunch period and will be expected to eat on the fly.
Section 7.	There shall be no pyramiding of regular overtime, premium, or other pay under this Agreement.
-41 -
Section 8.	The work and “on-call" schedules in effect for the different departments at the time of the execution of this Agreement will be furnished to the Union by the Company. When the Company plans a change in a regular work or "on-call" schedule, at least five days' advance notice will be given where practicable, to the Union and to the employees affected to permit discussion of the proposed change.
ARTICLE V Vacations and Holidays
Section 1.	Vacation allowance for active employees will be as follows: A new employee on the payroll as of June 1 of any year shall be entitled to two days of vacation within the current calendar year for each full month of employment completed between January 1 and June 1 of that year. During continuous employment thereafter, the employee will receive two weeks of vacation with pay in each calendar year thereafter until the fifth year of continuous service. All employees who will have completed five years of continuous service or who shall have reached the age of fifty years by December 31 of any calendar year shall receive three weeks of vacation with pay in that and succeeding calendar years. All employees who will have completed fifteen years of continuous service by December 31 of any calendar year shall receive four weeks of vacation with pay in that and succeeding calendar years. Alt employees who will have completed twenty-three years of continuous service by December 31 of any calendar year shall receive five weeks of vacation
-42-
with pay in that and succeeding calendar years. During the year in which any employee reaches the employee’s 63rd or 64th birthday, the employee will receive five weeks of vacation in lieu of the above except that any such employee already qualifying for five weeks for twenty-five years of service will instead be eligible for six weeks of vacation during the year in which the employee reaches the employee’s 63rd or 64th birthday.
All vacations must be completed within the calendar year and are not cumulative. The Company must afford opportunity for the employee to take the employee’s vacation within the calendar year. The period of continuous service, for vacation purposes only, is not interrupted by leave of absence or temporary layoff.
Section 2.	An employee who returns before June 1 of any calendar year from leave of absence or temporary layoff of more than six months' duration shall be entitled to the employee’s full vacation for that calendar year. For any such employee returning after June 1, the vacation for that calendar year will be computed at one-tenth of the amount provided under Section 1 above for each month (including the month of the employee’s return) remaining in the calendar year.
Section 3.	Choice of date by employees shall be granted whenever practicable, but operating requirements of the Company shall prevail. When a choice of date has been granted, it will not be interfered with except in case of
.43-
emergency. Company seniority shall govern in case of conflict between employees in similar departmental job groups. Seniority rights do not apply to the third or fourth week of vacation except as between two or more employees who are entitled to a third or fourth week. Vacation preference slips will be distributed not later than January 1 of each year. Any employee who fails to submit the employee’s choice of vacation dates on or before March 1 will forfeit vacation seniority for that year. Vacation schedules shall be posted not later than March 21. Where an employee is entitled to a full week of vacation, such vacation shall not be broken into shorter periods. (For exception, see R. H. Peterson memo of 7-22-76.)
Section 4.	The vacation period shall be between January 1 and December 31. Each employee shall be permitted to take a vacation between May 1 and October 31, subject to the provisions of Section 3. An employee entitled to more than two weeks of vacation shall be permitted to take a two-week vacation between May 1 and October 31 and may take the employee’s entire vacation during this period or outside this period, subject to the provisions of Section 3.
Section 5.	The vacation allowance per week will be based on the number of hours in the scheduled workweek generally in effect throughout the Division at the time the employee takes the employee’s vacation, with overtime rates applying to hours in excess of forty hours per week. For the term of this Agreement, the minimum vacation allowance per week will be forty hours' straight
-44-
time pay unless some public authority orders a shorter workweek.
Section 6.	Any employee with more than one year of continuous service who resigns and has given the Company at least two weeks' notice, or who is discharged by the Company, shall, at the time of the termination of the employee's employment, be credited with any vacation pay which the employee has earned but not received, prorated at one-fifth of the employee’s total vacation allowance for each full month of full-time, active employment completed between January 1 and June 1 of that year. Any such employee who leaves after June 1 will be entitled to the employee's full vacation or pay for that calendar year.
Any employee who retires after January 1 of any calendar year will be credited with vacation time for any portion of the employee's total vacation allowance for that calendar year which the employee has not already received. However, in the normal case, such employee will be required to schedule the employee’s entire vacation prior to the employee's retirement date. An employee retiring on any February 1 who is entitled to more than four weeks of vacation will schedule such vacation during January of that year and in the latter part of December of the preceding year.
Section 7.	An employee who has actually started the employee’s vacation will not be required to return to work during the period of that vacation as scheduled except tn an emergency.
-45-
Any employee who is recalled to work any hours of the employee’s regular basic schedule during a week the employee is on vacation shall be paid at two times the employee’s regular rate for such work and, in addition, shall receive as soon as practicable thereafter, at the employee’s option, either equivalent time off with pay or pay at straight time rates for those hours worked which are within the employee's regular forty-hour basic schedule. Hours worked outside of an employee's usual eight working hours on one of the employee’s basic five workdays shall be paid at double time and such hours shall be counted as hours worked for the purpose of equalizing overtime.
Section 8.	The following days shall be observed as holidays:
1.	New Year's Day
2.	Washington's Birthday
3.	Good Friday
4.	Decoration Day
5.	Independence Day
6.	Labor Day
7.	Columbus Day
8.	Veteran’s Day
9.	Thanksgiving Day
10.	The day after Thanksgiving
11.	Christmas Day
Whenever any of such holiday(s) occur upon Sunday, the Monday next following such day shall be recognized as the holiday, except that for those employees who are required to work that
-46-
Sunday, as part of their normal schedule, the holiday will be observed on Sunday.
Whenever any such holiday(s) occur upon Saturday, the preceding such day shall be recognized as the holiday, except that, for those employees who are required to work that Saturday, as part of their normal schedule, the holiday will be observed on Saturday.
Section 9.	Pay for the holidays listed in this Article will be as follows:
(a)	If the holiday is observed on a day when the employee would ordinarily work and if the employee’s services are not required, the employee will receive eight hours' pay and the day off.
(b)	If the holiday is observed on an
employee's day off or during the employee’s vacation, the employee shall receive an additional day off sometime during the calendar year on a day mutually agreeable to the Company and the employee.
(c)	If an employee is required to work on a holiday, the employee will receive the eight hours' pay or day off provided under (a) or (b) plus time and one-half for all hours worked within the employee’s usual eight working hours and double time for all other hours actually worked or the minimum
-47-
provided under Article IV, whichever is greater.
(d)	The pay provided in this Section 10 shall be in lieu of all other pay for work on holidays. Hours worked on a holiday which are outside of an employee’s usual eight working hours shall be counted as hours worked for purpose of equalizing overtime.
Section 10.	A permanent second shift employee, e.g., Garage Mechanic, will be paid holiday and vacation pay at the rate which includes the shift adder.
-48-
ARTICLE VI Promotions, Transfers, Reductions, and Layoffs
Section 1.	Length of service with the Company since date of last employment by the Company shall constitute Company seniority. Length of service in the District since date of last employment shall constitute District seniority. Length of service in the Department since date of last employment by the Company shall constitute Department seniority.
Section 2.	In case the nonregular status of an individual employed on a temporary, full-time basis is changed to that of a regular employee, the continuous period served will be credited against the probationary or trial period, and seniority shall start from the date when the last continuous full-time employment began.
Section 3.	If an employee resigns voluntarily, or is discharged for just cause or is laid off for a period of more than their recall entitlement, they shall lose all seniority.
Section 4.	The following procedure will be followed in connection with layoffs:
(a)	In the event of a layoff, the Company will first lay off nonregular employees and then that number of employees not needed who shall be employees in the District with the least Company seniority.
-49-
(b)	Employees in jobs where the number of employees is being reduced shall be removed in inverse order of Company seniority.
(c)	On a senior to junior basis employees so removed shall have the right on the basis of Company seniority to (1) replace an employee on another job in the Department in their line of promotion, or (2) replace an employee on a job which the employee has previously occupied, or (3) fill a job from which an employee has been laid off under paragraph (a) above, or (4) fill a job which is vacant, or (5) replace an employee in a starting job, or (6) replace the least senior employee in the District in a job identified as subject to displacement provided the employee is qualified to perform the job. An employee must be physically qualified for the job in the Department or District, as the case may be, and must be able to perform it satisfactorily within a trial period of 90 days. For layoff purposes, starting jobs are those identified in Article II, Nomenclature, by an asterisk. Jobs subject to displacement are those identified by a d in Article II, Nomenclature, and all C level jobs in Planned Progression Programs.
Employees displaced by the application of this Section shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 4. (c) on the
-50-
basis of their Company seniority.
Prior to or when being presented with their options, employees subject to reduction or layoff under this Section may, at their option, after giving the Company at least one week's notification, elect to be laid off with recall privileges as outlined in Section 5 of this Article.
(d)	An employee who is reassigned as a result of a layoff other than for conditions provided for in Article VI, Section 4, paragraph (e) below, to a job classification with a lower hourly starting rate of pay will have a special basic rate of pay established for the employee in the following manner;
A.	For an employee with less than five years of continuous service:
0) If the employee’s present rate is greater than the maximum rate of the employee’s new classification, the employee will be paid the maximum rate of the new classification.
(2) If the employee’s present rate is less than the maximum rate of the employee’s new classification, the employee will retain the employee’s present rate in the new
-51 -
classification until the employee is qualified for advancement.
B.	For an employee with five years but less than fifteen years of continuous service:
(3)	If the employee’s present rate is greater than the maximum rate of the employee’s new classification, twenty-five percent of the difference between the employee’s basic rate immediately preceding reassignment and the maximum basic rate of the lower job classification to which the employee is reassigned will be added to the rate for the lower job classification.
(4)	If the employee’s present rate is less than the maximum rate of the employee's new classification, the employee will retain the employee’s present rate in the new classification until the employee is qualified for advancement.
-52-
c.
For an employee with fifteen or more years of continuous service:
(5)	If the employee’s present rate
is greater than the maximum rate of the employee’s new classification, fifty percent of the difference between the employee’s basic rate immediately preceding reassignment and the maximum basic rate of the lower job classification to which the employee is reassigned will be added to the rate for the lower job classification.
(6)	If the employee’s present rate is less than the maximum rate of the employee’s new classification, the employee will retain the employee's present rate in the new classification until the employee is qualified for advancement.
Any special rate established under the terms of subsection (3) or (5) of this provision will thereafter not be subject to any rate or general wage adjustments until such time as the maximum rate for the lower job classification
-53-
equals or exceeds the employee's special rate.
(e)	In the event that the layoff results from the permanent elimination of one or more jobs due to technological or other changes in methods of operation and if an employee whose job has been eliminated shall be transferred to a job the top rate for which is more than ten cents below the employee’s previous rate, then on the first day of the month following transfer, the employee’s rate will be reduced by ten cents an hour and subsequent reductions shall be made in the amount of five cents per hour at intervals of six months until the employee's rate equals the applicable rate for the employee’s regular classification. For an employee with fifteen or more years of continuous service, application of the first of the above series of reductions will be delayed by one year. For an employee with twenty or more years of service, there will be no reduction in pay for such transfer.
(f)	Any employee who has completed one or more years of continuous service and who is laid off because of the permanent elimination of one or more jobs shall be given an allowance of forty hours' pay at the employee’s straight-time hourly rate for each full year of continuous service with the Company. For any such
-54-
employee who is fifty years or more of age, the above mentioned allowance will, instead of forty hours, be sixty hours if the employee has completed at least fifteen years of continuous service, or eighty hours if the employee has completed at least twenty-five years of continuous service. Any laid off employee or employee identified to be laid off who obtains employment with any of the System Companies and Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company will not be entitled to terminal pay. Any such employee who accepts terminal pay will thereby relinquish all other rights under this Agreement and will not be eligible for recall under Section 5 of this Article VI. In the event of a sale or lease of any of its properties or business, the Company agrees to use its best efforts to have the purchaser or lessor of such properties or the operators thereof employ at reasonably comparable wages and benefits any employees whose jobs are primarily dependent upon such properties and business; but the Company is not required to guarantee that this can be accomplished. If it cannot be accomplished, the Company shall endeavor to place such employees in other positions in the Company. Any employee who accepts any position or who is offered a position similar to the position the employee held with the Company prior to the sale or lease, or in
-55-
which the employee has had experience, the wages and benefits for which are reasonably comparable to those enjoyed prior to such sale or lease, with this Company or with the purchaser or lessor, shall not be eligible for severance pay. An employee so affected who has reached the employee's fifty-fifth birthday may, in addition to severance pay, make arrangements for applicable annuity benefits under the then existing Annuity Plan,
Section 5.	Employees with three or more years of continuous service who have been laid off will be entitled to recall for a period of three years from the date of layoff. Employees with less than three years of continuous service who have been laid off will be entitled to recall for a period of one year from the date of layoff. Employees who have been laid off will be recalled to their departments in the reverse order from that in which they were laid off, provided they are able and qualified to perform the available work in the department and that they return to work within three weeks of the date of notification, copy of same being sent to the Union, If on recall after layoff, an employee, because of illness or physical disability, is temporarily unable to perform the duties of the employee's classification or any other classification within the employee’s Department, then the three-week period stated above will be extended until the expiration of such temporary disability but not to exceed a total period of six months from date of notification to report back to
-56-
work. No new employees will be hired in the bargaining unit until all laid off employees able and qualified to perform the available work and who possess seniority rights in the bargaining unit have been offered reemployment therein in accord with their Company seniority rights. If, in lieu of layoff, an employee assents to temporary transfer from one classification to another, the said employee shall be offered a transfer back, to the employee's old classification if said classification becomes again available, provided the employee’s Company seniority rights entitle the employee thereto and the employee is still able and qualified to perform the duties thereof.
Employees who are reinstated to their old classification will have their Department Seniority adjusted for a period up to their recall rights entitlement at the time of temporary transfer.
Laid off employees who are reemployed within their recall period will maintain continuous Company, Department, and District seniority status during the period of layoff for the purpose of this Article and the starting rate of pay will be established according to the provisions of Section 4. (d) of this Article.
Section 6.	Union officers and shop stewards, not exceeding the following numbers, shall be the last to be laid off and the first to be rehired—Torrington Unit -13; Stamford Unit - 25.
Section 7.	The Company will follow the procedures outlined in this Article in filling openings which represent opportunities for
-57-
promotion for qualified employees before hiring new employees for such positions.
Section 8.	A vacancy in employment shall exist in fact when an employee permanently leaves a job and the Company actually fills that job with a second employee who is required to do substantially the same work as the first employee. A vacancy will be established where any one job is filled for more than three months in any twelvemonth period by one or more temporary employees unless the temporary employee is a replacement for an employee who is absent due to illness or injury. Within five days after the existence of a vacancy, the Company will follow the procedure called for in Section 9, subject to the provisions of Article II, Section 2, and in the event an employee is promoted to a job in the bargaining unit as a result of this procedure the employee’s new rate shall take effect not later than twenty-five days after the date the vacancy was posted.
-53 -
Torrington and Middletown Unit
A vacancy wifi not be deemed to exist by reason of any temporary transfer or assignment of Company personnel from reporting headquarters not covered by this Agreement or by reason of the permanent transfer of an employee to a new or different reporting headquarters, as provided in Section 8 of Article X, except where the former reporting headquarters is continued and the Company determines to have a replacement for the transferee at such headquarters.
Section 9.	When a vacancy exists or when the Company wishes to add to the number of employees in any classification within the bargaining unit, a suitable notice will be posted on the Company bulletin boards and a copy thereof sent to the Union. The Company will accept a written application from any employee who believes the employee is qualified, provided such application is received within ten days of the date the notice is posted. Qualifications for any position, except for promotion to Top, Chief or Lead classifications, within the bargaining unit shall be demonstrated by an examination. In the event that more than one person receives a passing mark in such examination, the one having the greatest departmental seniority will be the one promoted. Where departmental seniority is equal, District seniority shall govern. Where all passing applicants are outside the department in which the vacant job is located, District seniority alone shall be considered. Where two applicants with equal seniority pass the examination, the applicant
-59-
scoring the highest grade shall be the one promoted. The Company shall have the right to determine the minimum qualifications for any job. The examination shall be prepared, given, and graded by a committee composed of one representative of the Company and one representative of the Union. In the event that such representatives are unable to agree upon any question concerning the examination, the dispute shall be referred to the President of the Company, whose decision shall be subject to arbitration as provided in Article VIII. An employee who has passed an examination for any position shall not be required to take another examination for the same position within a period of six months after the employee has passed such examination, unless, in the opinion of the Company, the job content has changed in the interval or unless another employee with the same seniority has applied for the position. An employee who has twice failed an examination for the same job classification shall not be eligible for any opening occurring in that classification for a period of six months following the second or any succeeding failure. If more than three qualified employees apply for any given job vacancy, any portion or all of the examination may be limited to three senior qualified applicants, unless none of these receives a passing grade. If the senior qualified applicant has received a passing grade on an examination for the same job within the preceding six months, no examination is necessary.
Notice of openings in starting jobs will be covered by continuous posting of a general notice listing the starting bargaining unit jobs for all
-60-
departments and explaining the procedure to be followed by employees wishing to apply for transfer to a starting job in another department. Any such application received from a regular employee will be considered for all openings in the job applied for occurring during the following 12-month period or until the end of this Agreement, whichever occurs sooner. Copies of all applications will be provided to Local Union Assistant Business Managers.
Any such employee within the bargaining unit making such application will be interviewed by the head of the department in which the job is located, and in making its selection the Company will give preference to employees within the bargaining unit over any applicant from outside the bargaining unit provided the employee has substantially equal qualifications in accordance with the standards which the Company regularly uses in filling such starting jobs, such as related experience, education, physical condition, personality, aptitude test scores, and any special job qualifications. The Company will not award starting jobs to persons outside the bargaining unit until applications by qualified applicants from the bargaining unit have been considered, as herein provided. In choosing between two or more employees who have applied for a starting job and who meet these usual standards, the Company will give preference to the senior applicant. Where any employee is not given a starting job for which the employee has applied, the Company will discuss the reasons with the employee and, if requested, with a Union representative present.
-61 -
With the exception noted below, any employee transferred under this Section to a job classification in another department and which the employee has not previously occupied, will be started at the minimum of the rate range for such job, unless the employee has special ability or prior experience related to the job which, in the Company's judgment, warrants starting the employee at a higher step of the range. In determining the appropriate step of the range, the Company will discuss the matter with the Union Business Manager and/or Assistant Business Manager and take their comments into consideration. The exception to the above would be the case where a new employee is transferred under this Section before having completed the hiring steps for a starting job. In such case, the transfer would be made to the corresponding hiring step of the new classification.
Any employee who is transferred at the employee’s own request to a job in another department will not be entitled to preference under this Agreement for any further interdepartmental transfer which the employee may request within the following two-year period.
If reassignment is postponed following notification of acceptance, the employee’s departmental seniority will be adjusted upon reassignment to the starting date of the first full week following the date of notification of acceptance.
Section 10.	When the Company wishes to make an appointment in the first level of
-62-
supervision outside the bargaining unit, suitable notice will be posted, and applications from employees desiring to be considered will be received for a period of ten days after the notice is posted. The Company will endeavor to accept or reject any such application within sixty days of the conclusion of the ten-day posting period.
Selection of a person for any position outside the bargaining unit is entirely a function of Management and will not be subject to the grievance procedure. Any such promotion shall be on a trial basis for a period of ninety days. During such ninety days, any promotions made under Section 9 hereof to fill any vacancy or vacancies created by or resulting from such appointment to a position outside the bargaining unit shall be on a conditional basis. If, at any time during such ninety-day period, the Company or the employee appointed for trial in a position outside the bargaining unit so elects, such employee shall be returned to the bargaining unit to the employee's former classification, status, and pay, and any employee or employees promoted as a result of such trial appointment may, at the Company's option, be returned to the employee or their former jobs, status, and pay. Any employee transferred to a supervisory or other job outside the bargaining unit shall retain such seniority as the employee accumulated prior to such transfer, and no seniority shall accumulate while the employee has been or shall be employed outside the bargaining unit, except that where an employee is transferred to a position in the first level of supervision, the employee shall accumulate seniority for the first ninety days while occupying such position. If any employee has
-63-
been or is transferred to a supervisory or other position so as to be excluded from the coverage of this Agreement, such employee shall retain the employee's seniority plus that accumulated in the higher position, and in the event the employee shall be retransferred to a job classification within the unit, shall retain all accumulated seniority as provided in the preceding sentence. No such retransfer shall be the cause of a layoff in any job classification within the bargaining unit except as hereinabove provided.
*64-
Section 11.	Any employee may be assigned temporarily to a job in a higher classification in an emergency, or to cover the absence of another employee, or to cover a vacancy, for a reasonable period only, which has been posted as provided in this Article and has not been filled. If an employee is specifically assigned to a higher classification and this assignment is for one hour or more, then the employee is entitled all hours so assigned to the maximum of the higher classification. If the temporary assignment is to a supervisory position outside of the bargaining unit, not less than $1.50 per hour more than the employee’s present rate. If such temporary assignment to a supervisory assignment is from a "Journeyman" or "Lead" classification in a job progression containing a "Chief to "Top" classification in that particular location, such $1.50 per hour would instead of being added to the employee's present rate be in addition to the appropriate step of the "Chief or "Top" classification. Any employee temporarily assigned to a job in a lower classification is entitled to the wage rate of the employee's regular classification rather than that of such lower classification, providing the temporary assignment is for the convenience of the Company, except that if such lower classification involves more frequent shift and Sunday work, the employee will receive for the period of the assignment an appropriate upward adjustment in the regular rate for the employee's job. If the temporary assignment is in lieu of a layoff, then after a period of four working days, the rate of the lower classification will apply. Temporary assignment to a higher classification within the bargaining unit will be offered to
-65-
qualified employees on the basis of departmental seniority in the next lower classification provided the employee is available. The least senior qualified employee will be required to accept the assignment if all others decline. Should the temporary assignment exceed a period of two weeks, the Company shall assign other qualified employees in order of seniority at the start of the next workweek for periods not exceeding two weeks each.
Meter Readers may be temporarily assigned to perform the duties of a Collector as required. If this assignment exceeds a continuous period of one hour, then the employee is entitled for all hours so assigned on one day to be paid at the top of the rate of the Collector's rate progression.
It is agreed for the period of this Agreement that Article III and Article VI will be administered more flexibly in order to encourage the practice of temporary upgrading and transfers to make use of available and qualified personnel in the performance of work which might otherwise be let out to contract. Specifically, the three-month limitation for hiring of temporary help under Article III and under Section 8 of Article VI will be six months for such purposes, and also the rotation of temporary assignments to higher classifications called for under Section 11 of Article VI may be at intervals of as much as three months rather than two weeks. The Union will be informed in advance of any application of this Section.
-66-
Section 12.	The Company will reinstate, with accumulated seniority, employees who have been granted leave of absence for service in the Armed Forces, in accordance with Federal Statutes covering such matters as may be in effect at the time the employee returns.
ARTICLE VII Discipline or Discharge
Section 1.	The Company shall, on the same day on which it occurs, orally advise the local Union concerned of any suspension or discharge, and if requested by the Union, the matter shall on the same day, be discussed by the proper Management representative and the Business Manager and/or Assistant Business Manager or designated representative of the local Union concerned. The Company shall advise the Union in writing of any disciplinary action or discharge, which shall only be for just cause, within three (3) working days of its occurrence, specifying the reason therefore. The Company and Union shall designate representatives in each Division who will represent them at each step of the grievance procedure, and both the Company and the Union shall have a person available within the time limits provided for steps 1 and 2 of the grievance procedure.
Section 2.	The Union shall have the right to question the propriety of any such disciplinary action or discharge through the grievance procedure herein outlined, including arbitration, but any such grievance shall be filed
-67-
within fifteen days after receipt by the Union of notification of the Company's action.
Torrington and Middietown Unit
The separation of an employee during the probationary period shall not be subject to the grievance procedure or arbitration.
Section 3.	Any employee who has been disciplined or discharged and who is subsequently exonerated, shall be reinstated without prejudice or loss of seniority and compensated for any loss in wages, unless the Grievance Committee or the Arbitrator determine otherwise.
ARTICLE VIII Grievance Procedure
Section 1. Stamford Unit and New London Unit
Any dispute or grievance arising with respect to hours, wages, or working conditions, or the interpretation or application of any of the provisions of the Agreement shall be handled as follows:
Section 1.	Torrington and Middletown Unit
Any dispute or grievance arising with respect to the interpretation or application of any of the provisions of the Agreement shall be handled as follows:
-68-
All Locals
(a)	The aggrieved employee with or without a Union representative as the employee prefers, within three working days after the grievance arises shall state the employee’s case to the employee’s foreman, who will use the employee’s best efforts to settle the dispute promptly and shall give the employee’s answer within three working days.
(b)	In the event that the grievance is not satisfied in this manner, the employer within five working days after receipt of the foreman's answer, shall submit the grievance to the manager or superintendent and/or the employee's representative who shall investigate the grievance and meet for a discussion with the aggrieved employee, the steward and/or the Assistant Business Manager within five working days for the purpose of settling the grievance. The Business Manager may or may not be present at this step. At the start of the second step discussion, both parties will note for their own records an exact statement of the grievance at hand. The manager or superintendent or the employer’s representative will give the employer's answer to the grievance to the employee with the steward, Assistant Business Manager, or Business Manager within five working days after this discussion.
-69-
(c)	If the grievance is not resolved at the
second step, then, within five working days after receipt of the manager's or the superintendent's answer, the grievance will be forwarded in writing by the Business Manager or Assistant Business Manager for submission to a grievance committee consisting of not more than three persons representing the Union and not more than three persons representing the Company.
(d)	The Grievance Committee shall meet within fifteen working days after notice has been received by both parties for consideration of a grievance. Within fifteen working days after discussion in this stage of the grievance procedure, the Company shall give to the Union its written disposition of the grievance or the Union will give to the Company its answer to a Company grievance. If the grievance shall not have been satisfactorily disposed of and if it concerns the interpretation or application of any of the provisions of this Agreement and does not concern any matter referred to under Article XII hereof, only the Union or the Company may submit it to the American Arbitration Association for arbitration in accordance with its rules then prevailing, but only within twenty days after submission of the Company's disposition of the grievance to the
-70-
Union, or within twenty days after the Union's answer to a Company grievance, as the case may be, and the decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties.
(e)	Torrington and Middletown Unit
The function of the Arbitrator shall be limited to determining whether any terms subject to arbitration under this Agreement or any other current signed agreements between the parties, have been correctly interpreted and applied. The Employee shall have no power to add to or subtract from or modify any of the terms of this Agreement or any agreements made supplementary hereto.
Section 2.	Employees will be allowed necessary time off without loss of pay for attending scheduled grievance discussions with the Company at the second or third step. In addition to the time allowed above, the Assistant Business Manager or, in the employee's absence, the employee's designated representative, will, upon specific request, be allowed necessary time off to assemble data for scheduled grievance meetings.
Additional time off without pay will be allowed to not more than two representatives each from the Torrington Unit, Stamford Unit, New London Unit, Falls Village Unit, Simsbury Unit, Hartford Unit, and one additional representative at large (upon written request by the Union) for the
-71-
time required to attend slate, regional, and national labor conventions.
Section 3.	The Company and Union shall have the right to use Section 1(d) of the grievance procedure including arbitration, to settle any alleged violation or dispute over the interpretation or application of any provision of this Agreement. In such case, if the matter in question is one of major policy and Companywide application, and if the provisions in question are identical in all Agreements, the Grievance Committee may, by mutual consent, be increased to eight persons representing the Union and eight persons representing the Company. This clause shall not be used to circumvent the grievance procedure as provided in Section 1 hereof, which must be followed in any matter which involves individual employees.
Section 4.	Any grievance not presented or followed up through the grievance procedure above outlined shall be deemed waived. If at any step in the grievance procedure the Company fails to give its answer within the prescribed time, the grievance will automatically proceed to the next step unless the time is extended by mutual consent.
Section 5.	Where either party so states in writing in the disposition of a matter not submitted to arbitration under the grievance procedure, the acceptance of the action or disposition shall not be binding on either party as a precedent for the future on the same or related matters.
-72-
Section 6.	Where a disputed work assignment clearly involves a violation of the safety rules and such abnormal hazard as to affect a person's life, such work shall not be completed until the dispute is resolved or a temporary solution is reached by the Company and the local Union concerned. This shall not apply to any established practices. This paragraph shall not be so construed as to excuse an employee from performing any established duties of the employee’s job classification unless the employee is not familiar with them.
Section 7.	In the event any Agreement affecting the interpretation or application of this Agreement is reached with any local Union, a copy of such Agreement shall be sent immediately to the Business Manager of those local Unions not participating therein. In the event the Business Manager of such local Union informs the Company in writing within one month that such disposition or Agreement is not acceptable to the employee's local Union, such Agreement shall not be binding on that local Union. This does not apply to awards made as a result of arbitration which shall be binding on all local Unions.
-73-
ARTICLE IX Safety Provisions
Section 1.	It is agreed that the Company and the Union will work together on a continuing program of safety measures for the protection of the employees, the public, of Company property and of its service to customers.
Section 2.	It is understood and agreed that the safety regulations now in effect are covered by the current issue of the Company's "Accident Prevention Manual" and the safety rules issued by the Public Utility Commission of the State of Connecticut such as may not be included in their entirety in the "Accident Prevention Manual.1' Any changes in the rules in the "Accident Prevention Manual" shall be a matter of discussion between the parties before becoming effective. Once the Company has made a decision on any such change in a safety regulation, a grievance may be initiated to determine if the Company acted reasonably in making such change. Disciplinary action for breach of the rules in the "Accident Prevention Manual" shall be subject to the terms of Article VIII hereof.
Section 3.	Representatives of the Company and two representatives of the Union from each Division and the Local Business Managers shall meet in February and September to discuss safety. Any conclusions reached by this committee will be followed up promptly by the Safety Section and the results will be communicated to the Business Manager and
-74-
Assistant Business Manager concerned within thirty days. Within five days following any meeting of this joint committee, any Union representative may submit to the President the employee’s own report on any safety matters which this representative presented for discussion at the meeting but which did not result in a committee recommendation.
The Union shall be allowed one representative on each divisional or district safety committee.
Section 4.	The Union agrees to use its best efforts to see that its members employed by the Company shall read and comply with the safety regulations made by the Company, and that its members will wear and use the protective devices and apparel to be provided in accordance with the standard practice of the Company for the protection of employees from injury. The Company agrees to use its best efforts to see that persons who supervise employees read and comply with the safety regulations. The Company agrees also to use its best efforts to see that contractors engaged in work included in bargaining unit classifications observe the Company's safety regulations or equivalent.
Section 5.	Protective equipment such as safety belts, climbers, and welder's equipment will be furnished by the Company. Where required on special jobs, the Company will furnish for the use of the employees on the job, boots, raincoats, hats, asbestos gloves and other protective items which it has customarily supplied in the past.
-75-
Section 6.	Live wire work involving either transferring of primary wires on poles or cutting in or cutting out of slack or handling an energized wire at two working levels shall be carried on by two Linemen or a Lineman and an eligible Progression Lineman in the A or B wage rate steps.
(a)	For the purposes of this Section the following definitions shall apply:
(1)	Straight Line Pole
A pole, in line, where the energized primary wires are carried on pin type insulators and the angle of pull is not more than eighteen feet (twenty degrees).
(2)	Corner Pole or Angle Pole
A pole located at an angle in excess of the above or where the energized primary wires are carried on disc insulators or the equivalent.
(3)	Junction Pole
A pole where the energized primary wires extend three or more directions from the pole, or where the energized wires extend in two directions from
-76-
the pole and are supported on crossarms attached to the pole at two different levels.
(b)	The transferring of energized primary wires from a point of support on one pole to a point of support on another pole and where it is necessary to work on both poles at the same time shall be carried out in accordance with the number of qualified line department personnel described in the attached Live Wire chart. The chart shall be interpreted within the following scope.
(1)	Where the required numbers are two (2) or four (4), one-half (/;) of the assigned number must be Linemen, Lead Linemen or Top Linemen or a combination of both. The remainder may include Progression Linemen in the A or B wage rate steps.
Where the required number is three (3), two (2) must be Linemen, Lead Linemen, Top Linemen or a combination of both, the remainder may be a Progression Lineman in the A or B wage rate steps.
(c)	The cutting in or cutting out of slack in
-77-
energized primary wires shall be carried out by two Linemen or one Lineman and a Progression Lineman in the A or B wage rate steps.
(d)	The installation of energized primary
taps on junction poles and elsewhere where it is current standard practice shall be carried out by two Linemen or one Lineman and one Progression Lineman in the A or B wage rate steps.

It is understood that, in the event the
transferring of energized wires from one pole to another also involves the cutting in or out of slack or the installation of energized primary taps, or both, the provisions of (c) and (d) of this Section shall not require Linemen in addition to those provided for in the chart.
(f)
(9)
The Company may assign more than
the specified number of men to carry out any of the above jobs for expediting the work or for other purposes and the Union agrees that such use of extra men shall not be considered as establishing a precedent.
During 1976 Contract Negotiations
discussions of the Company proposals for modifications of this Section, the Company explained that it was not its intent to change its method of assigning three-person crews as a result of the redesigning of the required number of
-78-
personnel with respect to the live-wire practices, as described above and on the attached chart.
On limited occasions, a line crew consisting of two qualified line department personnel could be assigned to perform jobs listed as 1 through 3 under the heading Personnel Lifting Devices of the live-wire practices letter interpretation chart, where the jobs could be performed without the use of a lifting tong in conjunction with a holding stick.
-79-
Section 6. Paragraph (h) LIVE-WIRE CHART
The transferring of energized primary wires from a point of support on one pole to a point of support on another pole and where it is necessary to work on both poles at the same time shall be carried out by:
Tvoe of Pole		Horizontal Distance Between Pote Surfaces Change in level at Level of Primary of Primary Wires Wire on Old Pole		No Aerial Device	Personal Lifting Device 2/	Personnel Lifting Device & Material Handling Device or Aerial Derrick 2/	Material Handling or Aerial Derrick 2/
	1/						
1.	Straight Line	Not more than 5 ft.	Not more than 18 in.	2	2	2	2
2	Straight Une	Not more than 5 ft.	More than 18 in.	3	2	2	2
3	Straight Line	More than 5 ft.	Any distance	3	2	2	2
4	Comer	Not more than 5 ft.	Not more than 18 in.	3	2	2	2
5	Comer	Not more than 5 ft	More than 18 in.	3	3	2	3
6	Comer	More than 5 ft.	Not more than 18 in.	3	3	2	3
7	Comer	More than 5 ft.	More than 18 in.	4	3	3	3
8	Juncton	Not more than 5 ft.	Not more than 18 in.	3	2	2	3
80
Section 6. Paragraph (h) LIVE-WIRE CHART (con’t)
9	Junction	Not more than 5 ft. More than 18 in.	3	3	3	3
10	Junction	More than 5 ft. but Not more than 18 in.	3	3	3	3
not more than 6 ft.
11	Junction	More than 5 ft. but	More than 18 in.	4	3	3	4
not more than 6 ft.
12	Junction	More than 6 ft.	Any distance	4	4	4	4
1/ As defined in Section 6. paragraph (a).
2J Applicable when personnel lifting devices that can be controlled from the device's work position, or aerial derricks, are used and can be positioned so that both poles can be worked from the same truck position.
Numbers above refer to aloft in the work area only.
-81 -
It is recognized that some line functions other than the assignments listed in the live-wire practices chart, are now performed by and will continue to be performed by a two-person line crew.
Section 7,	Except in cases of necessity or emergency, employees shall not be required to do outdoor work when inclement weather conditions might make such work unsafe. In the case of line work it is considered that raining or snowing creates an unsafe condition. Under these circumstances, the Company will continue to provide other work as in the past.
Section 8.	No Apprentice Line Mechanic or Line Mechanic C-3 shall handle higher than secondary voltages.
Section 9.	No employee will be required to perform any hazardous task, with which the employee is not familiar, without proper instruction and close supervision.
Section 10.	Stamford Unit and New London Unit Only - A Second Class Line Mechanic shall not be placed on the regular "on-call" schedule unless the employee shall have had at least six months of service in such classification.
Section 11.	Meters installed on the outside of buildings or structures will not be tested in place during rainy or snowy weather unless the meterman is sheltered from rain or snow during the testing operation.
-82-
ARTICLE X General Provisions
Section 1, The Company will furnish suitably identified bulletin boards for use by the Union in such numbers and locations as mutually agreed upon. The purpose of these bulletin boards will be for the posting of notices pertaining to the Union and its members. All Union notices must be signed by an official of the Union and such notices shall contain nothing political, controversial or reflecting upon the Company, the Union, or any employees. Either the Union or the Company may remove from these bulletin boards any notices posted thereon which do not comply with this Section 1. If a general notice to employees is issued pertaining to a change made in this Agreement, it shall be signed jointly by representatives of the Company and the Union.
Section 2.
(a)	Supervisors shall not act in other than a supervisory capacity while they are actively supervising three or more men working on the same shift with them. They shall in no case act in other than a supervisory capacity for more than twenty percent of the time.
(b)	A supervisor is not relieved from the employee’s responsibility to protect life and property, nor from giving occasional or emergency assistance.
-83-
(c)	A supervisor called out in an emergency shall not perform regular work other than shall be immediately required to protect life and property. If any additional regular work is required, the foreman or supervisor shall call out bargaining unit personnel to perform the required work.
(d)	It is recognized that there are certain duties, such as switching, driving, clerical work, etc., which are required to be performed by both bargaining unit personnel and foremen and supervisors and that the foregoing is not intended to limit the performance of such duties by supervisors.
Section 3.	In order that the Union may maintain its records of bargaining unit employees, the Company will periodically notify the Union of job classification changes. Such notification will provide the name, job classification, and location for each bargaining unit employee hired, reclassified, transferred, or separated from the Company. The information will be directed to the Business Manager of the Local Union having jurisdiction over the location involved. If an employee within the bargaining unit is discharged, the Company will notify the Business Manager of the Local Union concerned as promptly as possible.
Section 4.	Not later than August 1 of each year, the Company shall furnish the Union with an up-to-date District and departmental
-84-
seniority list for the bargaining unit together with the classification and rate of pay and address of each employee on such list.
Section S.	The Company agrees to recognize the Business Manager, Assistant Business Manager, and stewards duly appointed by the Union for the purpose of adjusting grievances. The Union will furnish the Company with a list of these officers and stewards who are entitled to top seniority in case of layoff, as provided in Section 6 of Article VI, and will advise of any changes in said list.
Section 6.	Any new or replacement tools required by the Company for performance of any job will be furnished by the Company except that the employee will be responsible for any tools lost or damaged through the employee's own negligence.
Effective June 1,1986 new hires and transferees to the Garage Mechanic Classification shall provide and own al) ordinary hand tools commonly required in the employee’s regular assignment. The Company shall replace employees' personally owned hand tools if worn out or broken in normal use on the job. Worn out and broken tools replaced in accordance with this provision shall be turned over to and become the property of the Company.
Section 7.	When information pertaining to Company-Union business is to be disseminated to the employees, announcement shall be posted on the official bulletin boards in the department or
-85-
_______________________________J
departments affected, and duplicates submitted to the Business Manager and Assistant Business Manager.
Section 8.	Stamford Unit and New London Unit
(a)	No employee will be permanently transferred from one District of the Company to another District thereof unless said employee agrees thereto.
(b)	A temporary transfer of an employee from one District to another shall not cause a layoff nor shall it be a hindrance to the orderly progress of employees in the line of promotion in the District to which the employee is transferred. In selecting employees for temporary assignment to other Districts, the Company will excuse employees who do not want the assignment provided the required number of qualified employees are available. Where additional help is needed beyond the number desiring the assignment, additional assignments of qualified personnel will be made in inverse order of seniority. The Company will give notice of any such transfers to each Local involved. This clause is not intended to preclude such temporary assignments as:
Building and installation of substations and equipment in the New London
-86-
District and building and installation of substations and equipment in the Stamford District where workers usually performing such work are not available. (Building and installation of substations of 66kV and above is not usually performed by local Stamford employees.)
Sections. Torrington and Middletown Unit
The matter of permanent transfers, temporary transfers and assignments of employees, or other personnel affecting the status of employees shall be subject to the following provisions:
(a)	The Company may permanently transfer employees from the bargaining unit to positions outside the bargaining unit, when needed, provided that in the selection of the employee to be transferred, the position shall be offered to the employee who is qualified with the highest seniority and if none of the qualified employees desire such transfer, then the Company shall transfer the least senior employee. Such employee, so transferred, shall retain the employee’s seniority for purposes of layoff only, for one year from the date of transfer. The Company may also permanently transfer employees from the bargaining unit to positions outside the bargaining unit at
-87-
their own request where it desires, but the seniority of employees so transferred shall be terminated as of the date of the transfer.
(b)	The Company may permanently transfer Company personnel from outside the bargaining unit into the bargaining unit by way of replacements or as additional personnel, referred to in Sections 1 and 2 of Article I of this Agreement, provided such transfer does not thereby cause a layoff of employees or does not prevent any employee from exercising any right the employee may have under Sections 8 or 9 of Article VI in respect to the filling of vacancies.
(c)	The Company may temporarily transfer employees covered by this Agreement to perform work out of reporting headquarters not covered by this Agreement. In selecting employees for such transfer, except in emergencies, the Company will excuse employees who do not want the transfer, provided the required number of qualified employees are available, and if no employee desires the transfer or if additional help is needed beyond the number desiring the transfer, such transfer will be made in the inverse order of Company seniority. If any employee is so transferred for more than 30 consecutive days, the employee will be relieved and another employee
-88-
will be transferred in accordance with the above procedure. This paragraph shall not apply to assignments to perform work whenever and wherever needed, out of the employee's regular reporting headquarters. Employees so assigned or transferred will continue to be covered by the terms of this Agreement.
(d)	In connection with the assignments or temporary transfers of nonbargaining unit personnel, so far as they involve work in the classification included under this Agreement and affect employees under this Agreement, the Company will, from time to time, set forth in a letter to the Union the then current understanding affecting such matters.
Section 9,	When an employee is assigned to work in another District, arrangements will be made either directly with the employee or through the employee’s supervisor so that there will be sufficient cash on hand to meet the employee's reasonable expenses and the Business Manager and/or Assistant Business Manager will be advised.
Section 10.	The Company agrees that it will not have work done by contract which is usually done by employees where such contracts will be accompanied by a layoff or reduction of hours in the working schedule or where men capable of doing the work are on layoff, have recall rights, and are readily available. Where
-89-
contractors employing I.B.E.W. members are readily available and qualified to perform such work, they will be given any contract involving live wire work, to the extent permitted by law, and, all things being equal, will be given preference for other work usually done by employees, to the extent permitted by law.
Section 11.	An emergency, as referred to in this Agreement, is any unforeseen circumstance which involves the safety of any person, loss of or damage to any property, or interruption of or interference with service or operation.
Section 12.	Time off without loss of pay shall be granted to employees in the event of death in the family or step-family as follows: Where the deceased was the father, mother, brother, sister, wife, child, grandparent, or grandchild of the employee, the employee shall be given time off between the death and burial up to a maximum of four calendar days and including the entire calendar day on which the funeral occurs, together with the midnight shift of the next calendar morning, so that the employee may make arrangements for the funeral and attend the services. Where the deceased was the father-in-law or the mother-in-law of the employee, the above maximum time off shall be two calendar days. In case such relative's death and burial takes place at a distant location and the employee does not attend, one day off will be allowed. In case of the death of brother-in-law, sister-in-law, aunt, or uncle, or in case of the death of any relative who is a member of the employee's
-90-
household, the employee will be allowed one day off to attend the funeral. An employee seeking leave must notify the employee’s supervisor of such death and request such leave, which shall be granted unless an emergency exists at the time requiring the employee's services.
Where the supervisor is satisfied that additional time off is needed by the employee to attend the funeral and to make arrangements for which the employee has responsibility, the supervisor may, at the employee’s discretion, increase the maximum time allowances specified above to five or three calendar days, respectively.
Section 13.	The Company recognizes the obligation of employees to serve when called for jury duty and in the case of certain employees required to report for training in the Armed Forces. So that the employee will not suffer financial loss in such cases, the Company agrees to pay an employee called for jury duty the difference between the pay received for such jury duty and the employee’s regular straight time pay, but not for more than one such call in any calendar year. An employee required to report for training in the Armed Forces will likewise be paid the difference between the pay received for such service and the employee’s regular straight time pay for a period not to exceed two (2) weeks in any calendar year.
When an employee is notified to report for training duty, the employee shall notify the employee's supervisor immediately. Whenever there is a choice between two or more training periods, the period selected will be subject to the
-91-
approval of the employee's principal supervisor. Such leave will not normally be continuous with the employee's vacation.
Any payments applicable under this Section are for the purpose of avoiding a reduction in base pay for the period of absence covered and are in lieu of any other payment of base pay for the same period.
Section 14.	During negotiations for the amendment of this Agreement, the Company will pay basic straight time wages to not more than ten (10) total (five from each local) employee representatives from the Torrington Unit, Stamford Unit, Middletown Unit, Simsbury Unit, Falls Village Unit, Hartford Unit, and New London Unit for time lost from their normal basic work schedules while attending up to five meetings scheduled with Company representatives.
Section 15.	All hours for travel time or work time paid at a straight time rate under the terms of this Agreement will be paid at double straight time rates, when employees are assigned in emergency situations to work in locations served by utility companies other than those owned or operated by the Northeast Utilities System and the Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company.
Section 16.	If, during the term of this Agreement, a regular employee sustains an injury on a Company job which results in total incapacity and which prevents the employee from doing any work and which is compensable under the
-92-
Workmen's Compensation laws of the State of Connecticut, the employee shall be paid the differential between the employee's normal basic after-tax wages and the Workmen's Compensation benefit for the period of total incapacity not in excess of one year from the date of the injury. If it is established that the injury is caused by the negligence of a third party and that third party makes settlement with the injured employee, the Company shall be reimbursed for all wage payments made to the injured employee to the extent that such settlement covers the Company's payments made under the terms of this provision.
ARTICLE XI Strikes and Lockouts
Section 1. The Company agrees that there shall be no lockout and the Union agrees that there shall be no strike or stoppage of work during the period of this Contract. The Company agrees that no action will be taken against the Union as an organization, or its officers while acting as such, for any damage which may be sustained as a result of any strike or stoppage of work not countenanced or authorized by the Union.
ARTICLE XII Extent of Agreement
Section 1.	(a). The Company agrees to continue in effect for the period of this Agreement the benefits and eligibility requirements which apply to employees and their dependents where applicable under its current Group Life Insurance
-93-
Plan, and Health Insurance Plan and the current Northeast Utilities System Retirement Plan as amended and made effective January 1,1972 and extended to July 1,1977. (b). Should the Company make any major changes which affect privileges or benefits to employees under any major policy, plan, or program not specifically covered by this Agreement but affecting employees hereunder, the Company shall, if It recognizes such change as significant, notify the Union in writing of such proposed change and the effective date thereof and the Union may, if it so desires, request in writing at any time within thirty days after notice of such change, that a meeting be arranged to discuss the effect of such change on employees and the Company will promptly arrange such a meeting. If notice of such change has not been given, the Company will arrange a meeting for discussing it promptly on request of the Union, (c). Any change in a policy or practice covered by this Section which is not specifically mentioned in this Agreement or any question concerning the Company's application of such policies and practices of the Pension Plan, Group Life Insurance Plan or Health Insurance Plan shall not be subject to grievance procedure or arbitration.
Section 2.	This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement of the parties except such amendments or supplementary Agreements as are reduced to writing and signed by the parties hereto.
-94-
ARTICLE XIII Contract Period and Renewal
(a)	This Agreement shall be effective from the first day of June 2004 and shall remain in full force and effect until the first day of June 2009 and from year to year thereafter unless changed in a manner later provided.
(b)	Either party desiring to cancel the Agreement or to make changes in it must notify the other in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of the Agreement or any extension thereof.
-95-
APPENOIX
Section 1. Schedule of Regular Hourly Rates
Torrington Unit Effective May 30, 2004
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
'Janitor	20,93	21.05	21.18
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	22.57	22.67	22.83
Maintenance Worker A - Buildings 24.27		24.37	24.53
Building Maintenance Mechanic	27.38	27.49	27.66
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE			
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			29.12
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	30.19	30.72	31.22
Electric			
'Meter Service Installer Helper	16.86	18-24	19.19
Meter Service Installer			26.07
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS			
'Ground Worker	23.22	2332	23.49
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			31.73
(Non Rubber Gloving)			30.98
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			32.47
(Non Rubber Gloving)			31.27
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	32.22	32.35	32.57
(Non Rubber Gloving)	31.45	31.58	31.70
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.44	34.59	34.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.68	3383	33.96
'Electrician's Helper	22.24	22,41	22.52
Electrician			30.80
Lead Electrician			31.50
Chief Electrician	32.64	32.79	33.18
•96-
STORES
Stockhandler Chief Stockhandler
TRANSPORTATION
Garage Mechanic Lead Garage Mechanic Chief Garage Mechanic
26.26
27.67 27.80 27.93
28.52
29.04
31.67
-97-
Falls Village Unit Effective May 30,2004
Job Classification	1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS Line Mechanic (Rubber Gloving) (Non Rubber Gloving)			31.73 30.98
Lead Line Mechanic (Rubber Gloving) (Non Rubber Gloving)	32.22 31.45	32.35 31.58	32.57 31.70
Top Line Mechanic (Rubber Gloving) (Non Rubber Gloving)	34.44 33.68	34.59 33.83	34.71 33.96
-98-
Stamford Unit Effective May 30, 2004
Job Classification	1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor	20.75	20.92	21.03
Janitor - Service Buildings	20.93	21.05	21.18
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	22.57	22.67	22.83
Guard	21.06	21.18	21.29
Building Maintenance Mechanic	27.38	27.49	27.66
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION ‘Electrician's Helper	22.24	22.41	22.52
Electrician			30.80
Lead Electrician			31.50
Chief Electrician	32.64	32.79	33.18
‘Cable Splicer's Helper	22.91	23.06	23.20
Cable Splicer			30.53
Lead Cable Splicer			31.23
Chief Cable Splicer	32.79	32.91	33.26
‘Ground Worker Line Mechanic	23.22	23.32	23.49
(Rubber Gloving)			31.73
(Non Rubber Gloving)			30.98
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			32.47
(Non Rubber Gloving)			31.27
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	32.22	32.35	32.57
(Non Rubber Gloving)	31.45	31.58	31.70
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.44	34.59	34.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.68	33.83	33.96
-99-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			29.12
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -			
Electric	30.19	30.72	31.22
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	16.86	18.24	19.19
Meter Service Installer			26.07
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	16.66		23.27
Collector	17.25		25.12
‘Meter Reader	16.86		19.58
STORES			
Stockhandler			26.26
Chief Stockhandler	27.67	27.80	27.93
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			28.52
Lead Garage Mechanic			29.04
Chief Garage Mechanic			31.67
-100-
Simsbury Unit Effective May 30, 2004
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor - Service Buildings	20.93	21.05	21.18
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	22.57	22.67	22.83
Building Maintenance Mechanic	27.62		30.80
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
‘Electrician’s Helper	22.24	22.41	22.52
Electrician			30.80
Lead Electrician			31.50
Chief Electrician	32.64	32.79	33.18
Mechanic A (Incumbent Only)			30.85
Cable Splicer			30.53
Lead Cable Splicer			31.23
Chief Cable Splicer	32.79	32.91	33.26
‘Ground Worker	23.22	23.32	23.49
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			31.73
(Non Rubber Gloving)			30.98
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			32.47
(Non Rubber Gloving)			31.27
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	32.22	32.35	32.57
Non Rubber Gloving)	31.45	31.58	31.70
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.44	34.59	34.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.68	33.83	33.96
Lead Mechanic - Direct Buried System			31.23
(Incumbent Only)			
-101 -
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			29.12
Chief Meter Service Mechanic	30.19	30.72	31.22
- Electric			
‘Meter Service installer Helper	16.86	18.24	19.19
Meter Service Installer			26.07
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	16.86		23-27
Collector	17.25		25.12
‘Meter Reader	16.86		19.58
STORES			
Stockhandler			26.26
Chief Stockhandler	27.67	27.80	27.93
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			28.52
Lead Garage Mechanic			29.04
Chief Garage Mechanic			31.67
-102-
Hartford Unit Effective May 30,2004
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor - Service Buildings	20.93	21.05	21.18
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	22.57	22.67	22.83
Building Maintenance Mechanic	27.62		30.80
Chief Building Maintenance	31.45		32.91
Mechanic			
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
‘Electrician's Helper	22.24	22.41	22.52
Electrician			30.80
Lead Electrician			31.50
Chief Electrician	32.64	32.79	33.18
Cable Splicer			30.53
Lead Cable Splicer			31.23
Chief Cable Splicer	32.79	32.91	33.26
Utility Worker			26.00
Lead Utility Worker	25.27		26.85
Chief Utility Worker			28.90
Distribution Equipment Operator	19.06		26.83
‘Ground Worker	23.22	23.32	23.49
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			31.73
(Non Rubber Gloving)			30.98
T roubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			32.47
(Non Rubber Gloving)			31.27
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	32.22	32.35	32.57
Non Rubber Gloving)	31.45	31.58	31.70
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.44	34.59	34.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.68	33.83	33.96
Chief Mechanic - Direct Buried System			29.66
(Incumbent Only)			
-103-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric	29.12		
Chief Meter Service Mechanic	30.19	30.72	31.22
- Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	1686	18.24	19.19
Meter Service Installer			26,07
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	16.86		23.27
Collector	17.25		25.12
‘Meter Reader	16,86		19.58
STORES			
Stockhandler			26.26
Chief Stockhandler	27.67	27.80	27.93
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			28.52
Lead Garage Mechanic			29.04
Chief Garage Mechanic			31.67
- 104-
Wethersfield Unit Effective May 30, 2004
1st 2nd 3rd
Job Classification	Step Step Step
BUILDINGS & STORES
Store Worker	26.26
Building Maintenance Worker	27.66
Building Maintenance Mechanic	27.62	30.80
Chief Building Maintenance	31.45	32.91
Mechanic
-105-
New London Unit Effective May 30, 2004
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS •Janitor - Service Buildings	20.93	21.05	21.18
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	22.5?	22.67	22.83
Building Maintenance Mechanic	27.38	27.49	27.66
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION 'Electrician’s Helper	22.24	22.41	22.52
Electrician			30.80
Lead Electrician			31.50
Chief Electrician	32.64	32.79	33.18
'Cable Splicer’s Helper	22.91	23.06	23.20
Cable Splicer			30.53
Lead Cable Splicer			31.23
Chief Cable Splicer	32.79	32.91	33.26
‘Ground Worker Line Mechanic	23.22	23.32	23.49
(Rubber Gloving)			31.73
(Non Rubber Gloving)			30.98
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			32.47
(Non Rubber Gloving)			31.27
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	32.22	32.35	32.57
Non Rubber Gloving)	31.45	31.58	31.70
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.44	34.59	34.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.68	33.83	33.96
- 106-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Matar Service Mechanic - Electric	29.12		
Chief Meter Service Mechanic	30.19	30.72	31.22
- Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	16.86	18.24	19.19
Meter Service Installer			26.07
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	16.86		23.27
Collector	17.25		25.12
‘Meter Reader	16.86		19.58
STORES			
Stockhandler			26.26
Chief Stockhandler	27.67	27.80	27.93
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			28.52
Lead Garage Mechanic			29.04
Chief Garage Mechanic			31.67
-107-
Middletown Unit Effective May 30, 2004
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor - Service Buildings	20.93	21.05	21.18
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	22.57	22.67	22.83
Building Maintenance Mechanic	27.38	27.49	27.66
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE			
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			29.12
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	30.19	30.72	31.22
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	16.86	18.24	19.19
Meter Service Installer			26.07
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	16.86		23.27
Collector	17.25		25.12
‘Meter Reader	16.86		19.58
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS			
‘Cable Splicer's Helper	22.91	23.06	23.20
Cable Splicer			30.53
Lead Cable Splicer			31.23
Chief Cable Splicer	32.75	32.84	33.26
‘Ground Worker	23.22	23.32	23.49
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			31.73
(Non Rubber Gloving)			30.98
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			32.47
(Non Rubber Gloving)			31.27
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	32.22	32.35	32.57
(Non Rubber Gloving)	31.45	31.58	31.70
-108-
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.44	34.59	34.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.68	33.83	33.96
•Electrician's Helper	22.24	22.41	22.52
Electrician			30.80
Lead Electrician			31.50
Chief Electrician	32.64	32.79	33.18
STORES			
Stockhandler			26.26
Chief Stockhandler	27.67	27.80	27.93
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			28.52
Lead Garage Mechanic			29.04
Chief Garage Mechanic			31.67
-109-
METER READER Incumbent Only
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 30, 2004
Time Interval
Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
Going Rate
16,86
18.49
19.58
20.58
21,96
23.27
‘METER READER
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 30, 2004
Time Interval
Start 6 months 12 months
Going Rate
16.86
18.49
19.58
-110-
COLLECTOR
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 30, 2004
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months	Going Rate 17,25 18.88 19.98 21,00 22.43 25.12
UNE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury, and Falls Village Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 30,2004
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Line Mechanic C-1	17.47
6 months	Line Mechanic C-2	18.93
12 months	Line Mechanic C-3	19.94
18 months	Line Mechanic B-1	21.62
24 months	Line Mechanic B-2	22.80
30 months	Line Mechanic B-3	24.31
36 months	Line Mechanic A-1	25.41
42 months	Line Mechanic A-2	26.57
48 months	Line Mechanic	29.07
54 months	Line Mechanic	31.73
-111 -
CABLE SPLICER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 30, 2004
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Cable Splicer C-1	18.24
6 months	Cable Splicer C-2	19.58
12 months	Cable Splicer C-3	20.89
18 months	Cable Splicer C-4	22.45
24 months	Cable Splicer B-1	23.27
30 months	Cable Splicer B-2	24.15
36 months	Cable Splicer B-3	25.10
42 months	Cable Splicer A-1	26.83
48 months	Cable Splicer	28.07
54 months	Cable Splicer	30.53
METER-SERVICE INSTALLER HELPER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, and Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 30, 2004
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Meter Svc Installer C-1	16.86
6 months	Meter Svc Installer C-2	18.24
12 months	Meter Svc Installer C-3	19.19
18 months	Meter Svc Installer B-1	20.09
24 months	Meter Svc Installer B-2	21.33
30 months	Meter Svc Installer	24.37
36 months	Meter Svc Installer	25.10
42 months	Meter Svc Installer	26.07
-112-
METER-SERVICE MECHANIC - ELECTRIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, and Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 30, 2004
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Meter-Service Mach Electric C-1	16.86
6 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-2	18.24
12 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-3	19.19
18 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-1	20.09
24 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-2	21.33
30 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-3	24.37
36 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-1	25.10
42 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-2	26.07
48 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-3	26.74
54 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric	29.12
ELECTRICIAN WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, and Simsbury, Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 30, 2004
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Electrician C-1	17.50
6 months	Electrician C-2	19.11
12 months	Electrician C-3	20.51
18 months	Electrician B~1	22.39
24 months	Electrician B-2	23.27
30 months	Electrician B-3	24.03
36 months	Electrician A-1	25.10
42 months	Electrician A-2	26.83
48 months	Electrician	28.36
54 months	Electrician	30.80
-113 -
STOCKHANDLER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, and Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 30, 2004
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Stockhandler C-1	16.86
6 months	Stockhandier C-2	18.56
12 months	Stockhandler C-3	19.58
18 months	Stockhandler B-1	20.58
24 months	Stockhandier B-2	22.52
30 months	Stockhandler A-1	23.77
36 months	Stockhandler A-2	24.48
42 months	Stockhandler	26.26
GARAGE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, and Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 30, 2004
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Garage Mechanic C-1	17.40
6 months	Garage Mechanic C-2	18.93
12 months	Garage Mechanic B-1	19.92
18 months	Garage Mechanic B-2	20.93
24 months	Garage Mechanic A-1	22.16
30 months	Garage Mechanic	23.73
36 months	Garage Mechanic	25.83
42 months	Garage Mechanic	27.21
48 months	Garage Mechanic	28.52
-114-
LINE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford and Torrington Local 457 - New London and Middletown
Effective May 30,2004 Incumbent Only
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Line Mechanic C-1	17.40
6 months	Line Mechanic C-2	19.54
12 months	Line Mechanic C-3	21.06
18 months	Line Mechanic B-1	23.11
24 months	Line Mechanic B-2	24.17
30 months	Line Mechanic B-3	25.15
36 months	Line Mechanic A-1	26.14
42 months	Line Mechanic A-2	27.09
CHIEF METER SERVICE MECHANIC - ELECTRIC
Effective May 30,2004 incumbent Only
1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
31.03	31.55	32.07
-115-
UTILITY WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457-Hartford
Effective May 30, 2004
Time Interval Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
Going Rate
17.31
19.06
20.77
22.52
24.25
26.00
DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT OPERATOR WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Hartford
Effective May 30, 2004
Time Interval Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
Going Rate
19.06
20.67
22.23
23.77
25.31
26.83
-116-
	MECHANIC A WAGE PROGRESSION Local 420 - Simsbury Effective May 30, 2004 Incumbent Only
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months	Going Rate 27.45 28.37 29.40 30,85
BUILDING MAINTENANCE WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months	Local 457 - Wethersfield Effective May 30, 2004 Going Rate 16.89 19.00 21.09 23.07 24.07 27.66
-117-
STORE WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Wethersfield
Effective Mey 30,2004
Time Interval Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
36 months
42 months
Going Rate
16.86
18.56
19.58
20.58
22.52
23.77
24.48
26.26
-118-
APPENDIX
Section 1. Schedule of Regular Hourly Rates
Torrington Unit Effective May 29.2005
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
’Janitor	21.66	21.79	21.92
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	23.36	23.46	23.63
Maintenance Worker A - Buildings 25.12		25.22	25.39
Building Maintenance Mechanic	28.34	28.45	28.63
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE			
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			30.14
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	31.25	31.80	32.31
Electric			
’Meter Service Installer Helper	17.45	18.88	19.86
Meter Service Installer			26.98
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS			
’Ground Worker	24.03	24.14	24.31
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			32.84
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.06
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			33.61
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.36
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	33.35	33.48	33.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	32.55	32.69	32.81
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.65	35.80	35.92
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.86	35.01	35.15
’Electrician's Helper	23.02	23.19	23.31
Electrician			31.88
Lead Electrician			32.60
Chief Electrician	33.78	33.94	34.34
-119-
STORES
Stockhandler
Chief Stockhandier
TRANSPORTATION
Garage Mechanic Lead Garage Mechanic Chief Garage Mechanic
27.18
28.64 28.77 28.91
29.52
30.06
32.78
-120-
Falls Village Unit Effective May 29, 2005
Job Classification
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS
Line Mechanic
(Rubber Gloving)
(Non Rubber Gloving) Lead Line Mechanic
(Rubber Gloving)
(Non Rubber Gloving) Top Line Mechanic
(Rubber Gloving)
(Non Rubber Gloving)
1st	2nd	3rd
Step	Step	Step
		32.84 32.06
33.35	33.48	33.71
32.55	32.69	32.81
35.65	35.80	35.92
34.86	35.01	35.15
-121 -
Stamford Unit Effective May 29, 2005
Job Classification	1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor	21,48	21.65	21.77
Janitor - Service Buildings	21.66	21.79	21.92
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	23.36	23.46	23.63
Guard	21.80	21.92	22.04
Building Maintenance Mechanic	28.34	28.45	28.63
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
’Electrician’s Helper	23.02	23.19	23.31
Electrician			31.88
Lead Electrician			32.60
Chief Electrician	33.78	33.94	34.34
’Cable Splicer's Helper	23.71	23.87	24.01
Cable Splicer			31.60
Lead Cable Splicer			32.32
Chief Cable Splicer	33.94	34.06	34.42
’Ground Worker	24.03	24.14	24.31
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			32.84
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.06
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			33.61
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.36
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	33.35	33.48	33.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	32.55	32.69	32.81
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.65	35.80	35.92
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.86	35.01	35.15
*122-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			30.14
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	31.25	31.80	32.31
Electric			
’Meter Service Installer Helper	17.45	18.88	19.86
Meter Service Installer			26.98
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	17.45		24.08
Collector	17.85		26.00
•Meter Reader	17.45		20.27
STORES			
Stockhandler			27.18
Chief Stockhandler	28.64	28.77	28.91
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			29.52
Lead Garage Mechanic			30.06
Chief Garage Mechanic			32.78
-123-
Simsbury Unit Effective May 29, 2005
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification BUILDINGS	Step	Step	Step
‘Janitor - Service Buildings	21.66	21.79	21.92
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	23.36	23.46	23.63
Building Maintenance Mechanic	28.59		31.88
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION ‘Electrician’s Helper	23.02	23.19	23.31
Electrician			31.88
Lead Electrician			32.60
Chief Electrician	33.78	33,94	34.34
Mechanic A (Incumbent Only)			31.93
Cable Splicer			31.60
Lead Cable Splicer			32.32
Chief Cable Splicer	33.94	34.06	34.42
‘Ground Worker Line Mechanic	24.03	24.14	24.31
(Rubber Gloving)			32.84
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.06
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			33.61
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.36
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	33.35	33.48	33.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	32.55	32.69	32.81
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.65	35.80	35.92
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.86	35.01	35.15
Lead Mechanic - Direct Buried			32.32
System (Incumbent Only)
- 124-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric		30.14	
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	31.25	31.80	32.31
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	17.45	18.88	19.86
Meter Service Installer			26.98
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	17.45		24.08
Collector	17.85		26.00
‘Meter Reader	17.45		20.27
STORES			
Stockhandler			27.18
Chief Stockhandler	28.64	28.77	28.91
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			29.52
Lead Garage Mechanic			30.06
Chief Garage Mechanic			32.78
-125-
Hartford Unit Effective May 29,2005
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
•Janitor - Service Buildings	21.66	21.79	21.92
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	23.36	23.46	23.63
Building Maintenance Mechanic	28.59		31.88
Chief Building Maintenance	32.55		34.06
Mechanic			
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
•Electrician's Helper	23.02	23.19	23.31
Electrician			31.88
Lead Electrician			32.60
Chief Electrician	33.76	33.94	34.34
Cable Splicer			31.60
Lead Cable Splicer			32.32
Chief Cable Splicer	33.94	34.06	34.42
Utility Worker			26.91
Lead Utility Worker	26.15		27.79
Chief Utility Worker			29.91
Distribution Equipment Operator	19.73		27.77
‘Ground Worker	24.03	24.14	24.31
Line Mechanic (Rubber Gloving)			32.84
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.06
Troubleshooter (Rubber Gloving)			33.61
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.36
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	33.35	33.48	33.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	32.55	32.69	32.81
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.65	35.80	35.92
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.86	35.01	35.15
Chief Mechanic - Direct Buried System			
(Incumbent Only)			30.70
-126-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric	30.14		
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	31.25	31.80	32.31
Electric			
*Meter Service Installer Helper	17.45	18.88	19.86
Meter Service installer			26.98
Meter Reader (incumbent only)	17.45		24.08
Collector	17.35		26.00
’Meter Reader	17.45		20.27
STORES			
Stockhandler			27.18
Chief Stockhandler	28,64	28.77	28.91
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			29.52
Lead Garage Mechanic			30.08
Chief Garage Mechanic			32.78
-127-
Wethersfield Unit Effective May 29, 2005
1st 2nd 3rd
Job Classification	Step Step Step
BUILDINGS & STORES
Store Worker	27.18
Building Maintenance Worker	28.63
Building Maintenance Mechanic	2S.59	31.88
Chief Building Maintenance	32.55	34.06
Mechanic
-128-
New London Unit Effective May 29, 2005
Job Classification	1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
BUILDINGS ‘Janitor - Service Buildings	21.66	21.79	21.92
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	23.36	23.46	23.63
Building Maintenance Mechanic	28.34	28.45	28.63
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION *Eiectrician's Helper	23.02	23.19	23.31
Electrician			31.88
Lead Electrician			32.60
Chief Electrician	33.78	33.94	34.34
‘Cable Splicer's Helper	23.71	23.87	24.01
Cable Splicer			31.60
Lead Cable Splicer			32.32
Chief Cable Splicer	33.94	34.06	34.42
★Ground Worker Line Mechanic	24.03	24.14	24.31
(Rubber Gloving)			32.84
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.06
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			33.61
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.36
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	33.35	33.48	33.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	32.55	32.69	32.81
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.65	35.80	35.92
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.86	35.01	35,15
-129
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic -Electric			30.14
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	31.25	31.80	32.31
Electric			
"Meter Service installer Helper	17.45	18.88	19,86
Meter Service Installer			26.98
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	17.45		24.08
Collector	17.85		26.00
"Meter Reader	17.45		20.27
STORES			
Stockhandler			27.18
Chief Stockhandier	28.64	28.77	28.91
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			29.52
Lead Garage Mechanic			30.06
Chief Garage Mechanic			32.78
-130-
Middletown Unit Effective May 29, 2005
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor - Service Buildings	21.66	21.79	21.92
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	23.36	23.46	23.63
Building Maintenance Mechanic	28.34	28.45	28.63
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE			
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			30.14
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	31.25	31.80	32.31
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	17.45	18.88	19.86
Meter Service installer			26.98
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	17.45		24.08
Collector	17.85		26.00
‘Meter Reader	17.45		20.27
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS			
‘Cable Splicer's Helper	23.71	23.87	24.01
Cable Splicer			31.60
Lead Cable Splicer			32.32
Chief Cable Splicer	33.90	33.99	34.42
‘Ground Worker	24.03	24.14	24.31
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			32.84
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.06
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			33.61
(Non Rubber Gloving)			32.36
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	33.35	33.48	33.71
(Non Rubber Gloving)	32.55	32.69	32.81
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.65	35.80	35.92
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.86	35.01	35.15
-131 -
‘Electrician's Helper	23-02	23.19	23.31
Electrician			31.88
Lead Electrician			32.60
Chief Electrician	33.78	33.94	34.34
STORES			
Stockhandler			27.18
Chief Stockhandler	28.64	28.77	28.91
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			29.52
Lead Garage Mechanic			30.06
Chief Garage Mechanic			32.78
-132'
	METER READER Incumbent Only
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months	Effective May 29, 2005 Going Rate 17.45 19.14 20.27 21.30 22.73 24.08 •METER READER
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Time interval Start 6 months 12 months	Effective May 29, 2005 Going Rate 17.45 19.14 20.27
-133-
COLLECTOR
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 29,2005
Time Interval
Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
Going Rate
17.85
19.54
20.68
21.74
23.22
26.00
LINE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury, and Faits Village Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 29, 2005
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Line Mechanic C-1	18.08
6 months	Line Mechanic C-2	19.59
12 months	Line Mechanic C-3	20.64
18 months	Line Mechanic B-1	22.38
24 months	Line Mechanic B-2	23.60
30 months	Line Mechanic B-3	25.16
36 months	Line Mechanic A-1	26.30
42 months	Line Mechanic A-2	27.50
48 months	Line Mechanic	30.09
54 months	Line Mechanic	32.84
-134-
CABLE SPLICER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 29, 2005
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Cable Splicer C-1	18.88
6 months	Cable Splicer C-2	20.27
12 months	Cable Splicer C-3	21.62
18 months	Cable Splicer C-4	23.24
24 months	Cable Splicer B-1	24.08
30 months	Cable Splicer B-2	25.00
36 months	Cable Splicer B-3	25.98
42 months	Cable Splicer A-1	27.77
48 months	Cable Splicer	29.05
54 months	Cable Splicer	31.60
METER-SERVICE INSTALLER HELPER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 29, 2005
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Meter Svc Installer C-1	17.45
6 months	Meter Svc Installer C-2	18.88
12 months	Meter Svc installer C-3	19.86
18 months	Meter Svc Installer B-1	20.79
24 months	Meter Svc installer B-2	22.08
30 months	Meter Svc Installer	25.22
36 months	Meter Svc Installer	25.98
42 months	Meter Svc Installer	26.98
-135-
METER-SERVICE MECHANIC - ELECTRIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, and Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 29,2005
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-1	17.45
6 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-2	18.88
12 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-3	19.86
18 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-1	20.79
24 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-2	22.08
30 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-3	25.22
36 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-1	25.98
42 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-2	26.98
48 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-3	27.68
54 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric	30.14
-136-
ELECTRICIAN WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford and Torrington
Local 457 - New London and Middletown
Effective May 29, 2005
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Electrician C-1	18.11
6 months	Electrician C-2	19.78
12 months	Electrician C-3	21.23
18 months	Electrician B-1	23.17
24 months	Electrician B-2	24.08
30 months	Electrician B-3	24.87
36 months	Electrician A-1	25.98
42 months	Electrician A-2	27.77
48 months	Electrician	29.35
54 months	Electrician	31.88
STOCKHANDLER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, and Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 29, 2005
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Stockhandler C-1	17.45
6 months	Stockhandler C-2	19.21
12 months	Stockhandler C-3	20.27
18 months	Stockhandler B-1	21.30
24 months	Stockhandler B-2	23.31
30 months	Stockhandler A-1	24.60
36 months	Stockhandler A-2	25.34
42 months	Stockhandler	27.18
-137-
GARAGE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, and Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective May 29, 2005
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Garage Meeh C-1	18.01
6 months	Garage Meeh C-2	19.59
12 months	Garage Meeh B-1	20.62
18 months	Garage Meeh B-2	21.66
24 months	Garage MechA-1	22.94
30 months	Garage Meeh	24.56
36 months	Garage Meeh	26.73
42 months	Garage Meeh	28.16
48 months	Garage Meeh	29.52
LINE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford and Torrington
Local 457 - New London and Middletown
Effective May 29, 2005 Incumbent Only
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Line Mechanic C-1	18.01
6 months	Line Mechanic C-2	20.22
12 months	Line Mechanic C-3	21.80
18 months	Line Mechanic B-1	23.92
24 months	Line Mechanic B-2	25.02
30 months	Line Mechanic B-3	26.03
36 months	Line Mechanic A-1	27.05
42 months	Line Mechanic A-2	28.04
-138-
CHIEF METER SERVICE MECHANIC - ELECTRIC
Effective May 29, 2005 Incumbent Only
1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
32.12	32.65	33.19
UTILITY WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Hartford
Effective May 29, 2005
Time Interval
Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
Going Rate
17.92
19.73
21.50
23.31
25.10
26.91
DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT OPERATOR WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Hartford
Effective May 29, 2005
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months
Going Rate 19.73 21.39 23.01 24.60 26.20 27.77
-139-
Time Interval
Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
MECHANIC A WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Simsbury
Effective May 29, 2005 Incumbent Only
Going Rate
28.41
29.36
30.43
31.93
BUILDING MAINTENANCE WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Wethersfield
Effective May 29, 2005
Time Interval Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
Going Rate
17.48
19.67
21.83
23.88
24.91
28.63
- 140-
STORE WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Wethersfield
Effective May 29,2005
Time interval
Start 6 months 12 months . 18 months 24 months 30 months 36 months 42 months
Going Rate
17.45
19.21
20.27
21.30
23.31
24.60
25.34
27.18
-141 -
APPENDIX
Section 1. Schedule of Regular Hourly Rates
Torrington Unit Effective June 4, 2006
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor	22.42	22.55	22.69
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.18	24.28	24.46
Maintenance Worker A - Buildings 26.00		26.10	26.28
Building Maintenance Mechanic	29.33	29.45	29.63
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE			
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			31.19
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	32.34	32.91	33.44
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	18.06	19.54	20.56
Meter Service Installer			27.92
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS			
‘Ground Worker	24.87	24.98	25.16
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			33.99
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.18
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			34.79
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.52	34.65	34.89
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.69	33.83	33.96
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.90	37.05	37.18
(Non Rubber Gloving)	36.08	36.24	36.38
‘Electrician's Helper	23.83	24.00	24.13
Electrician			33.00
Lead Electrician			33.74
Chief Electrician	34.96	35-13	35.54
-142-
STORES
Stockhandler Chief Stockhandler
TRANSPORTATION
Garage Mechanic
Lead Garage Mechanic Chief Garage Mechanic
28.13
29.64 29.78 29.92
30.55
31.11
33.93
*143-
Falls Village Unit Effective June 4, 2006
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			33.99
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.18
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.52	34.65	34.89
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.69	33.83	33.96
Top Line Mechanic		37.05	
(Rubber Gloving)	36.90		37.18
(Non Rubber Gloving)	36.08	36.24	36.38
-144-
Stamford Unit Effective June 4, 2006
Job Classification	1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
BUILDINGS ‘Janitor	22.23	22.41	22.53
Janitor - Service Buildings	22.42	22.55	22.69
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.18	24.28	24.46
Guard	22.56	22.69	22.81
Building Maintenance Mechanic	29.33	29.45	29.63
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION ‘Electrician's Helper	23.83	24.00	24.13
Electrician			33.00
Lead Electrician			33.74
Chief Electrician	34.96	35.13	35.54
‘Cable Splicer's Helper	24.54	24.71	24.85
Cable Splicer			32.71
Lead Cable Splicer			33.45
Chief Cable Splicer	35.13	35.25	35.62
‘Ground Worker Line Mechanic	24.37	24.98	25.16
(Rubber Gloving)			33.99
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.18
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			34.79
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.52	34.65	34.89
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.69	33.83	33.96
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.90	37.05	37.18
(Non Rubber Gloving)	36.08	36.24	36.38
-145-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			31.19
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	32.34	32.91	33.44
Electric			
•Meter Service Installer Helper	18.06	19.54	20.56
Meter Service Installer			27.92
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	18.06		24.92
Collector	18.47		26.91
*Meter Reader	18.06		20.98
STORES			
Stockhandler			28.13
Chief Stockhandler	29.64	29.78	29.92
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			30.55
Lead Garage Mechanic			31.11
Chief Garage Mechanic			33.93
-146-
Simsbury Unit Effective June 4,2006
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
•Janitor - Service Buildings	22.42	22.55	22.69
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.18	24.28	24.46
Building Maintenance Mechanic	29.59		33.00
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
‘Electrician's Helper	23.83	24.00	24.13
Electrician			33.00
Lead Electrician			33.74
Chief Electrician	34.96	35.13	35.54
Mechanic A (Incumbent Only)			33.05
Cable Splicer			32.71
Lead Cable Splicer			33.45
Chief Cable Splicer	35,13	35.25	35.62
•Ground Worker	24.87	24.98	25.16
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			33.99
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.18
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			34.79
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.52	34.65	34.89
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.69	33.83	33.96
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.90	37.05	37.18
(Non Rubber Gloving)	36.08	36.24	36.38
Lead Mechanic - Direct Buried System			
(Incumbent Only)			33.45
-147-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			31.19
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	32.34	32.91	33.44
Electric			
*Meter Service Installer Helper	18.06	19.54	20.56
Meter Service Installer			27.92
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	18.06		24.92
Collector	18.47		26.91
*Meter Reader	18.06		20.98
STORES			
Stockhandler			28.13
Chief Stockhandler	29.64	29.78	29.92
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			30.55
Lead Garage Mechanic			31.11
Chief Garage Mechanic			33.93
-148-
Hartford Unit Effective June 4, 2006
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor - Service Buildings	22.42	22.55	22.69
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.18	24.28	24.46
Building Maintenance Mechanic	29.59		33.00
Chief Building Maintenance	33.69		35.25
Mechanic			
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
‘Electrician's Helper	23.83	24.00	24.13
Electrician			33.00
Lead Electrician			33.74
Chief Electrician	34.96	35.13	35.54
Cable Splicer			32.71
Lead Cable Splicer			33.45
Chief Cable Splicer	35.13	35.25	35.62
Utility Worker			27.85
Lead Utility Worker	27.07		28.76
Chief Utility Worker			30.96
Distribution Equipment Operator	20.42		28.74
‘Ground Worker	24.87	24.98	25.16
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			33.99
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.18
T roubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			34.79
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.52	34.65	34.89
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.69	33.83	33.96
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.90	37.05	37.18
(Non Rubber Gloving)	36.08	36.24	36.38
Chief Mechanic - Direct Buried System			
(Incumbent Only)			31.77
-149-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			31.19
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	32.34	32.91	33.44
Electric			
’Meter Service installer Helper	18.06	19.54	20.56
Meter Service Installer			27.92
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	18.06		24.92
Collector	18.47		26.91
’Meter Reader	18.06		20.98
STORES			
Stockhandler			28.13
Chief Stockhandler	29.64	29.78	29.92
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			30.55
Lead Garage Mechanic			31.11
Chief Garage Mechanic			33.93
-150-
Wethersfield Unit Effective June 4,2006
Job Classification	1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
BUILDINGS & STORES			
Store Worker			28.13
Building Maintenance Worker			29.63
Building Maintenance Mechanic	29.59		33.00
Chief Building Maintenance	33.69		35.25
Mechanic
-151 -
New London Unit Effective June 4, 2006
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
"Janitor - Service Buildings	22.42	22.55	22.69
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.18	24.28	24.46
Building Maintenance Mechanic	29.33	29.45	29.63
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
"Electrician's Helper	23.83	24.00	24.13
Electrician			33.00
Lead Electrician			33.74
Chief Electrician	34.96	35.13	35.54
"Cable Splicers Helper	24.54	24.71	24.85
Cable Splicer			32.71
Lead Cable Splicer			33.45
Chief Cable Splicer	35.13	35.25	35.62
"Ground Worker	24.87	24.98	25.16
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			33.99
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.18
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			34.79
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.52	34.65	34.89
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.69	33.83	33.96
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.90	37.05	37.18
(Non Rubber Gloving)	36.08	36.24	36.38
-152-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			31.19
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	32.34	32.91	33.44
Electric *Meter Service Installer Helper	18.06	19.54	20.56
Meter Service Installer Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	18.06		27.92 24.92
Collector	18.47		26.91
‘Meter Reader	18.06		20.98
STORES Stockhandler Chief Stockhandler	29.64	29.78	28.13 29.92
TRANSPORTATION
Garage Mechanic
Lead Garage Mechanic Chief Garage Mechanic
30.55
31.11
33.93
-153-
Middletown Unit Effective June 4, 2006
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor - Service Buildings	22.42	22.55	22.69
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.18	24.28	24.46
Building Maintenance Mechanic	29.33	29.45	29.63
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE			
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			31.19
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	32.34	32.91	33.44
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	18.06	19.54	20.56
Meter Service Installer			27.92
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	18.06		24.92
Collector	18.47		26.91
‘Meter Reader	18.06		20.98
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS			
‘Cable Splicers Helper	24.54	24.71	24.85
Cable Splicer			32.71
Lead Cable Splicer			33.45
Chief Cable Splicer	35.09	35.18	35.62
‘Ground Worker	24.87	24.98	25.16
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			33.99
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.18
T roubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			34.79
(Non Rubber Gloving)			33.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	34.52	34.65	34.89
(Non Rubber Gloving)	33.69	33.83	33.96
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.90	37.05	37.18
(Non Rubber Gloving)	36.08	36.24	36.38
‘Electrician's Helper	23.83	24.00	24.13
-154-			
Electrician
Lead Electrician
Chief Electrician
33.00
33.74
34.96 35.13 35.54
STORES
Stockhandler Chief Stockhandier
TRANSPORTATION
Garage Mechanic
Lead Garage Mechanic
Chief Garage Mechanic
28.13
29.64 29.78 29.92
30.55
31.11
33.93
- 155-
METER READER Incumbent Only
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective June 4, 2006
Time Interval Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
Going Rate
18.06
19.81
20.98
22.05
23.53
24.92
‘METER READER
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective June 4, 2006
Time Interval
Start 6 months 12 months
Going Rate
18.06
19.81
20.98
-156-
COLLECTOR
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective June 4, 2006
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months	Going Rate 18.47 20.22 21.40 22.50 24.03 26.91
LINE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury, Falls Village Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 4,2006
Time Interval	Job Classification	Going Rate
Start	Line Mechanic C-1	18.71
6 months	Line Mechanic C-2	20.28
12 months	Line Mechanic C-3	21.36
18 months	Line Mechanic B-1	23.16
24 months	Line Mechanic B-2	24.43
30 months	Line Mechanic B-3	26.04
36 months	Line Mechanic A-1	27.22
42 months	Line Mechanic A-2	28.46
48 months	Line Mechanic	31.14
54 months	Line Mechanic	33.99
-157-
CABLE SPLICER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 4, 2006
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Cable Splicer C-1	19.54
6 months	Cable Splicer C-2	20.98
12 months	Cable Splicer C-3	22.38
18 months	Cable Splicer C-4	24.05
24 months	Cable Splicer B-1	24.92
30 months	Cable Splicer B-2	25.88
36 months	Cable Splicer B-3	26.89
42 months	Cable Splicer A-1	28.74
48 months	Cable Splicer	30.07
54 months	Cable Splicer	32.71
METER-SERVICE INSTALLER HELPER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 4, 2006
Time Interval	Job Classification	Going Rate
Start	Meter Service Installer C-1	18.06
6 months	Meter Service Installer C-2	19.54
12 months	Meter Service Installer C-3	20.56
18 months	Meter Service Installer B-1	21.52
24 months	Meter Service Installer B-2	22.85
30 months	Meter Service Installer	26.10
36 months	Meter Service Installer	26.89
42 months	Meter Service Installer	27.92
- 158-
METER-SERVICE MECHANIC - ELECTRIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 4, 2006
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-1	18.06
6 months Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-2	19.54
12 months	Meter-Service Meeh	Electric C-3	20.56
18 months	Meter-Service Meeh	Electric B-1	21.52
24 months	Meter-Service Meeh	Electric B-2	22.85
30 months	Meter-Service Meeh	Electric B-3	26.10
36 months	Meter-Service Meeh	Electric A-1	26.89
42 months	Meter-Service Meeh	Electric A-2	27.92
\48 months	Meter-Service Meeh	Electric A-3	28.65
54 months Meter-Service Meeh Electric 31.19
ELECTRICIAN WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford and Torrington Local 457 - New London and Middletown
Effective June 4, 2006
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Electrician C-1	18.74
6 months	Electrician C-2	20.47
12 months	Electrician C-3	21.97
18 months	Electrician B-1	23.98
24 months	Electrician B-2	24.92
30 months	Electrician B-3	25.74
36 months	Electrician A-1	26.89
42 months	Electrician A-2	28.74
48 months	Electrician	30.38
54 months	Electrician	33.00
-159-
STOCKHANDLER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 4, 2006
Time Interval	Job Classification	Going Rate
Start	Stockhandler C-1	18,06
6 months	Stockhandler C-2	19.88
12 months	Stockhandler C-3	20.98
18 months	Stockhandler B-1	22.05
24 months	Stockhandler B-2	24.13
30 months	Stockhandler A-1	25.46
36 months	Stockhandler A-2	26.23
42 months	Stockhandler	28.13
GARAGE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 4, 2006
Time Interval	Job Classification	Going Rate
Start	Garage Mechanic C-1	18.64
6 months	Garage Mechanic C-2	20.28
12 months	Garage Mechanic B-1	21.34
18 months	Garage Mechanic B-2	22.42
24 months	Garage Mechanic A-1	23.74
30 months	Garage Mechanic	25.42
36 months	Garage Mechanic	27.67
42 months	Garage Mechanic	29.15
48 months	Garage Mechanic	30.55
-160-
LINE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford and Torrington Local 457 - New London and Middletown
Effective June 4, 2006 Incumbent Only
Time Interval	Job Classification	Going Rate
Start	Line Mechanic C-1	18.64
Smooths	Une Mechanic C-2	20.93
12 months	Line Mechanic C-3	22.56
18 months	Line Mechanic B-1	24.76
24 months	Line Mechanic B-2	25.90
30 months	Line Mechanic B-3	26.94
36 months	Line Mechanic A-1	28.00
42 months	Line Mechanic A-2	29.02
CHIEF METER SERVICE MECHANIC - ELECTRIC
Effective June 4,2006 Incumbent Only
1st	2nd	3rd
Step	Step	Step
33,24	33.79	34.35
-161 -
	UTILITY WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION Local 457 - Hartford Effective June 4, 2006
Tims Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months	Going Rate 18.55 ' 20.42 22.25 24.13 25.98 27.85
DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT OPERATOR WAGE PROGRESSION
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months	Local 457 - Hartford Effective June 4, 2006 Going Rate 20.42 22.14 23.82 25.46 27.12 28.74
-162-
	MECHANIC A WAGE PROGRESSION Local 420 - Simsbury Effective June 4,2006 Incumbent Only
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months	Going Rate 29.40 30.39 31.50 33.05
BUILDING MAINTENANCE WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months	Local 457 - Wethersfield Effective June 4, 2006 Going Rate 18.09 20.36 22.59 24.72 25.78 29.63
-163-
STORE WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Wethersfield
Effective June 4, 2006
Time Interval Start
6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months
36 months 42 months
Going Rate
18.06
19.88
20.98
22.05
24.13
25,46
26.23
28.13
- 164-
APPENDIX
Section 1. Schedule of Regular Hourly Rates
Torrington Unit Effective June 3, 2007*
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor	23.09	23.23	23.37
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.91	25.01	25.19
Maintenance Worker A - Buildings 26.78		26.88	27.07
Building Maintenance Mechanic	30.21	30.33	30.52
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE			
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			32.13
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	33.31	33.90	34.44
Electric			
‘Meter Service installer Helper	18.60	20.13	21.18
Meter Service Installer			28.76
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS			
‘Ground Worker	25.62	25.73	25.91
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.01
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.18
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.83
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.56	35.69	35.94
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.70	34.84	34.98
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	38.01	38.16	38.30
(Non Rubber Gloving)	37.16	37.33	37.47
‘Electrician's Helper	24.54	24.72	24.85
Electrician			33.99
Lead Electrician			34.75
Chief Electrician	36.01	36.18	36.61
-165-
STORES
Stockhandler Chief Stockhandler
TRANSPORTATION
Garage Mechanic
Lead Garage Mechanic
Chief Garage Mechanic
28.97
30.53 30.67 30.82
31.47
32.04
34.95
-166-
Falls Village Unit Effective June 3, 2007*
Job Classification	1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS			
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.01
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.18
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.56	35.69	35.94
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.70	34.84	34.98
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	38.01	38.16	38.30
(Non Rubber Gloving)	37.16	37.33	37.47
-167-
Stamford Unit Effective June 3, 2007*
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS •Janitor	22.90	23.08	23.21
Janitor - Service Buildings	23.09	23.23	23.37
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.91	25.01	25.19
Guard	23.24	23.37	23.49
Building Maintenance Mechanic	30.21	30.33	30.52
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION •Electrician’s Helper	24.54	24.72	24.85
Electrician			33.99
Lead Electrician			34.75
Chief Electrician	36.01	36.18	36.61
•Cable Splicer's Helper	25.28	25.45	25.60
Cable Splicer			33.69
Lead Cable Splicer			34.45
Chief Cable Splicer	36.18	36.31	36.69
•Ground Worker Line Mechanic	25.62	25.73	25.91
(Rubber Gloving)			35.01
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.18
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.83
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.56	35.69	35.94
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.70	34.84	34.98
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	38.01	38.16	38.30
(Non Rubber Gloving)	37.16	37.33	37.47
-168-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			32.13
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	33.31	33.90	34.44
Electric			
"Meter Service Installer Helper	18.60	20.13	21.18
Meter Service Installer			28.76
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	18.60		25.67
Collector	19.02		27.72
*Meter Reader	18.60		21.61
STORES			
Stockhandler			28.97
Chief Stockhandler	30.53	30.67	30.82
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			31.47
Lead Garage Mechanic			32.04
Chief Garage Mechanic			34.95
-169-
Simsbury Unit Effective June 3, 2007*
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
"Janitor - Service Buildings	23.09	23.23	23.37
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.91	25.01	25.19
Building Maintenance Mechanic	30.48		33.99
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
'Electrician’s Helper	24.54	24.72	24.85
Electrician			33.99
Lead Electrician			34.75
Chief Electrician	36.01	36.18	36.61
Mechanic A (Incumbent Only)			34.04
Cable Splicer			33.69
Lead Cable Splicer			34.45
Chief Cable Splicer	36.18	36.31	36.69
'Ground Worker	25.62	25.73	25.91
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.01
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.18
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.83
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.56	35.69	35.94
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.70	34.84	34.98
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	38.01	38.16	38.30
(Non Rubber Gloving)	37.16	37.33	37.47
Lead Mechanic - Direct Buried System			
(Incumbent Only)			34.45
-170-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric	32.13		
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	33.31	33.90	34.44
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	18.60	20.13	21.18
Meter Service Installer			28.76
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	18.60		25.67
Collector	19.02		27.72
‘Meter Reader	18.60		21.61
STORES			
Stockhandler			28.97
Chief Stockhandler	30.53	30.67	30.82
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			31.47
Lead Garage Mechanic			32.04
Chief Garage Mechanic			34.95
.171 -
Hartford Unit Effective June 3, 2007*
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor - Service Buildings	23.09	23.23	23.37
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.91	25.01	25.19
Building Maintenance Mechanic	30.48		33.99
Chief Building Maintenance	34.70		36.31
Mechanic			
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
‘Electrician's Helper	24.54	24.72	24.85
Electrician			33.99
Lead Electrician			34.75
Chief Electrician	36.01	36.18	36.61
Cable Splicer			33.69
Lead Cable Splicer			34.45
Chief Cable Splicer	36.18	36.31	36.69
Utility Worker			28.69
Lead Utility Worker	27.88		29.62
Chief Utility Worker			31.89
Distribution Equipment Operator	21.03		29.60
‘Ground Worker	25.62	25.73	25.91
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.01
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.18
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.83
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.56	35.69	35.94
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.70	34.84	34.98
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	38.01	38.16	38.30
(Non Rubber Gloving)	37.16	37.33	37.47
Chief Mechanic - Direct Buried System			
(incumbent Only)			32.72
-172-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			32.13
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	33.31	33.90	34.44
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	18.60	20.13	21.18
Meter Service Installer			28.76
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	18.60		25.67
Collector	19.02		27.72
’Meter Reader	18.60		21.61
STORES			
Stockhandler			28.97
Chief Stockhandler	30.53	30.67	30.82
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			31.47
Lead Garage Mechanic			32.04
Chief Garage Mechanic			34.95
-173-
Wethersfield Unit Effective June 3, 2007*
Job Classification	1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
BUILDINGS & STORES			
Store Worker			28.97
Building Maintenance Worker			30.52
Building Maintenance Mechanic	30.48		33.99
Chief Building Maintenance	34.70		36.31
Mechanic
-174-
New London Unit Effective June 3, 2007*
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
•Janitor - Service Buildings	23.09	23.23	23.37
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.91	25.01	25.19
Building Maintenance Mechanic	30.21	30.33	30.52
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
•Electrician's Helper	24.54	24.72	24.85
Electrician			33.99
Lead Electrician			34.75
Chief Electrician	36.01	36.18	36.61
•Cable Splicer's Helper	25.28	25.45	25.60
Cable Splicer			33.69
Lead Cable Splicer			34.45
Chief Cable Splicer	36.18	36.31	36.69
•Ground Worker	25.62	25.73	25.91
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.01
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.18
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.83
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.56	35.69	35.94
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.70	34.84	34.98
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	38.01	38.16	38.30
(Non Rubber Gloving)	37.16	37.33	37.47
-175-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric	32.13		
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	33.31	33.90	34.44
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	18.60	20.13	21.18
Meter Service Installer			28.76
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	18.60		25.67
Collector	19.02		27.72
‘Meter Reader	18.60		21.61
STORES			
Stockhandter			28.97
Chief Stockhandler	30.53	30.67	30.82
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			31.47
Lead Garage Mechanic			32.04
Chief Garage Mechanic			34.95
-176*
Middletown Unit Effective June 3, 2007*
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor - Service Buildings	23.09	23.23	23.37
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	24.91	25.01	25.19
Building Maintenance Mechanic	30.21	30.33	30.52
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE			
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			32.13
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	33.31	33.90	34.44
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	18.60	20.13	21.18
Meter Service Installer			28.76
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	18.60		25.67
Collector	19.02		27.72
‘Meter Reader	18.60		21.61
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS			
•Cable Splicer's Helper	25.28	25.45	25.60
Cable Splicer			33.69
Lead Cable Splicer			34.45
Chief Cable Splicer	36.14	36.24	36.69
‘Ground Worker	25.62	25.73	25.91
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.01
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.18
T roubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			35.83
(Non Rubber Gloving)			34.49
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	35.56	35.69	35.94
(Non Rubber Gloving)	34.70	34.84	34.98
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	38.01	38.16	38.30
(Non Rubber Gloving)	37.16	37.33	37.47
-177-
‘Electrician's Helper	24.54	24.72	24.85
Electrician			33.99
Lead Electrician			34.75
Chief Electrician	36.01	36.18	36.61
STORES			
Stockhandler			28.97
Chief Stockhandler	30.53	30.67	30.82
TRANSPORTATION
Garage Mechanic
Lead Garage Mechanic
Chief Garage Mechanic
31,47
32.04
34.95
-178-
METER READER Incumbent Only
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective June 3, 2007
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months
Going Rate
18.60
20.40
21.61
22.71
24.24
25.67
'METER READER
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective June 3, 2007
Time Interval
Start 6 months 12 months
Goinfl Rate
18.60
20.40
21.61
- 179-
COLLECTOR
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective June 3, 2007
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months	Going Rate 19.02 20.83 22.04 23.18 24.75 27.72
LINE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury, Falls Village Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 3, 2007
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Line Mechanic C-1	19.27
6 months	Line Mechanic C-2	20.89
12 months	Line Mechanic C-3	22.00
18 months	Line Mechanic B-1	23.85
24 months	Line Mechanic B-2	25.16
30 months	Line Mechanic B-3	26.82
36 months	Line Mechanic A-1	28.04
42 months	Line Mechanic A-2	29.31
48 months	Line Mechanic	32.07
54 months	Line Mechanic	35.01
-180-
CABLE SPLICER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 3, 2007
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Cable Splicer C-1	20.13
6 months	Cable Splicer C-2	21,61
12 months	Cable Splicer C-3	23.05
18 months	Cable Splicer C-4	24.77
24 months	Cable Splicer B-1	25.67
30 months	Cable Splicer B-2	26.66
36 months	Cable Splicer B-3	27.70
42 months	Cable Splicer A-1	29.60
48 months	Cable Splicer	30.97
54 months	Cable Splicer	33.69
METER-SERVICE INSTALLER HELPER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 3,2007
Time Interval	Job Classification	Going Rate
Start	Meter Service Installer C-1	18.60
6 months	Meter Service Installer C-2	20.13
12 months	Meter Service installer C-3	21.18
18 months	Meter Service Installer B-1	22.17
24 months	Meter Service Installer B-2	23.54
30 months	Meter Service Installer	26.88
36 months	Meter Service Installer	27.70
42 months	Meter Service Installer	28.76
-181 -
METER-SERVICE MECHANIC - ELECTRIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 3, 2007
Time	Job	Going	
Interval	Classification		Rate
Start	Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-1		18.60
6 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-2		20.13
12 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-3		21.18
18 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-1		22.17
24 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-2		23.54
30 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-3		26.88
36 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-1		27.70
42 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-2		28.76
48 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-3		29.51
54 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric		32.13
	ELECTRICIAN		
	WAGE PROGRESSION		
Local 420 - Stamford and Torrington Local 457 - New London and Middletown			
	Effective June 3, 2007		
Time	Job	Going	
Interval	Classification	Rate	
Start	Electrician C-1	19.30	
6 months	Electrician C-2	21.08	
12 months	Electrician C-3	22.63	
18 months	Electrician B-1	24.70	
24 months	Electrician B-2	25.67	
30 months	Electrician B-3	26.51	
36 months	Electrician A-1	27.70	
42 months	Electrician A-2	29.60	
48 months	Electrician	31.29	
54 months	Electrician	33.99	
-182-
STOCKHANDLER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford. Torrington, Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 3, 2007
Time Interval	Job Classification	Going Rate
Start	Stockhandier C-1	18.60
6 months	Stockhandler C-2	20.48
12 months	Stockhandler C-3	21.61
18 months	Stockhandler B-1	22.71
24 months	Stockhandler B-2	24.85
30 months	Stockhandler A-1	26.22
36 months	Stockhandler A-2	27.02
42 months	Stockhandler	28.97
GARAGE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 3, 2007
Time Interval	Job Classification	Going Rate
Start	Garage Mechanic C-1	19.20
6 months	Garage Mechanic C-2	20.89
12 months	Garage Mechanic B-1	21.98
18 months	Garage Mechanic B-2	23.09
24 months	Garage Mechanic A-1	24.45
30 months	Garage Mechanic	26.18
36 months	Garage Mechanic	28.50
42 months	Garage Mechanic	30.02
48 months	Garage Mechanic	31.47
-183-
LINE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford and Torrington
Local 457 - New London and Middletown
Effective June 3, 2007 Incumbent Only
Time Interval	Job Classification	Going Rate
Start	Line Mechanic C-1	19.20
6 months	Line Mechanic C-2	21.56
12 months	Line Mechanic C-3	23.24
18 months	Line Mechanic B-1	25.50
24 months	Line Mechanic B-2	26.68
30 months	Line Mechanic B-3	27.75
36 months	Line Mechanic A-1	28.84
42 months	Line Mechanic A-2	29.89
CHIEF METER SERVICE MECHANIC - ELECTRIC
Effective June 3, 2007 Incumbent Only
1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
34.24	34.80	35.38
-184-
Time Interval
Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
UTILITY WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Hartford
Effective June 3, 2007
Going Rate
19.11
21.03
22.92
24.85
26.76
28.69
DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT OPERATOR WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Hartford
Effective June 3, 2007
Time Interval Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
Going Rate
21.03
22.80
24.53
26.22
27.93
29.60
-185-
Time Interval
Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
MECHANIC A WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Simsbury
Effective June 3, 2007 Incumbent Only
GoinflRate
30.28
31.30
32.45
34.04
BUILDING MAINTENANCE WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Wethersfield
Effective June 3, 2007
Time Interval
Start
6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months
Going Rate
18.63
20.97
23.27
25.46
26.55
30.52
-186-
STORE WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Wethersfield
Effective June 3, 2007
Time Interval
Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
36 months
42 months
Going Rate
18,60
20.48
21.61
22.71
24.85
26.22
27.02
28.97
* Provide COLA effective June 3, 2007 in accordance with Exhibit C of the Green Book Summary.
-187-
APPENDIX
Section 1. Schedule of Regular Hourly Rates
Torrington Unit Effective June 1, 2008*
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor	23.78	23.93	24.07
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	25.66	25.76	25.95
Maintenance Worker A - Buildings 27.58		27.69	27.88
Building Maintenance Mechanic	31.12	31.24	31.44
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE			
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			33.09
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	34.31	34.92	35.47
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	19.16	20.73	21.82
Meter Service Installer			29.62
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS			
‘Ground Worker	26.39	26.50	26.69
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			36.06
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.21
T roubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			36.90
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.52
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.63	36.76	37.02
(Non Rubber Gloving)	35.74	35.89	36.03
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	39.15	39.30	39.45
(Non Rubber Gloving)	38.27	38.45	38.59
‘Electrician's Helper	25.28	25.46	25.60
Electrician			35.01
Lead Electrician			35.79
Chief Electrician	37.09	37.27	37.71
-188-
STORES
Stockhandier Chief Stockhandler
TRANSPORTATION
Garage Mechanic Lead Garage Mechanic Chief Garage Mechanic
29.84
31.45 31.59 31.74
32.41
33.00
36.00
-169-
Falls Village Unit Effective June 1, 2008'
2nd
Job Classification
Step Step
3rd Step
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS
Line Mechanic
(Rubber Gloving)
(Non Rubber Gloving)
36.06
35.21
Lead Line Mechanic
(Rubber Gloving)	36.63	36.76	37.02
(Non Rubber Gloving)	35.74	35.89	36.03
Top Line Mechanic
(Rubber Gloving)	39.15	39.30	39.45
(Non Rubber Gloving)	38.27	38.45	38.59
-190-
Stamford Unit Effective June 1, 2008*
Job Classification	1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
BUILDINGS ’Janitor	23.59	23.77	23.91
Janitor - Service Buildings	23.78	23 93	24.07
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	25.66	25.76	25.95
Guard	23.94	24.07	24.19
Building Maintenance Mechanic	31.12	31.24	31.44
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION ‘Electrician’s Helper	25.28	25.46	25.60
Electrician			35.01
Lead Electrician			35.79
Chief Electrician	37.09	37.27	37.71
‘Cable Splicer's Helper	26.04	26.21	26.37
Cable Splicer			34.70
Lead Cable Splicer			35.48
Chief Cable Splicer	37.27	37.40	37.79
‘Ground Worker Line Mechanic	26.39	26.50	26,69
(Rubber Gloving)			36.06
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.21
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			36.90
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.52
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.63	36.76	37.02
(Non Rubber Gloving)	35.74	35.89	36.03
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	39.15	39.30	39.45
(Non Rubber Gloving)	38.27	38.45	38.59
- 191 -
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			33.09
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	34.31	34.92	35.47
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	19.16	20.73	21.82
Meter Service Installer			29.62
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	19.16		26.44
Collector	19.59		28.55
‘Meter Reader	19.16		22.26
STORES			
Stockhandler			29.84
Chief Stockhandler	31.45	31.59	31-74
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			32.41
Lead Garage Mechanic			33.00
Chief Garage Mechanic			36.00
-192-
Simsbury Unit Effective June 1,2008*
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor - Service Buildings	23.78	23.93	24.07
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	25.66	25.76	25.95
Building Maintenance Mechanic	31.39		35.01
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
•Electrician's Helper	25.28	25.46	25.60
Electrician			35.01
Lead Electrician			35.79
Chief Electrician	37.09	37.27	37.71
Mechanic A (Incumbent Only)			35.06
Cable Splicer			34.70
Lead Cable Splicer			35.48
Chief Cable Splicer	37.27	37.40	37.79
•Ground Worker	26.39	26.50	26.69
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			36.06
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.21
T roubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			36.90
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.52
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.63	36.76	37.02
(Non Rubber Gloving)	35.74	35.89	36.03
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	39.15	39.30	39.45
(Non Rubber Gloving)	38.27	38.45	38.59
Lead Mechanic - Direct Buried System			
(Incumbent Only)			35.48
-193-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			33.09
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	34.31	34.92	35.47
Electric			
’Meter Service Installer Helper	19.16	20.73	21.82
Meter Service Installer			29.62
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	19.16		26.44
Collector	19.59		28.55
'Meter Reader	19.16		22.26
STORES			
Stockhandler			29.84
Chief Stockhandler	31.45	31.59	31.74
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			32.41
Lead Garage Mechanic			33.00
Chief Garage Mechanic			36.00
-194-
Hartford Unit Effective June 1, 2008*
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
•Janitor - Service Buildings	2378	23.93	24.07
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	25.66	2576	25.95
Building Maintenance Mechanic	31.39		35.01
Chief Building Maintenance	35.74		37.40
Mechanic			
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION			
‘Electrician's Helper	25.28	25.46	25.60
Electrician			35.01
Lead Electrician			35.79
Chief Electrician	37.09	37.27	3771
Cable Splicer			3470
Lead Cable Splicer			35.48
Chief Cable Splicer	37.27	37.40	3779
Utility Worker			29.55
Lead Utility Worker	28.72		30.51
Chief Utility Worker			32.85
Distribution Equipment Operator	21.66		30.49
‘Ground Worker	26.39	26.50	26.69
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			36.06
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.21
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			36.90
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.52
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.63	36.76	37.02
(Non Rubber Gloving)	35.74	35.89	36.03
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	39.15	39.30	39.45
(Non Rubber Gloving)	38.27	38.45	38.59
Chief Mechanic - Direct Buried System			
(Incumbent Only)			3370
-195-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric		33.09	
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	34.31	34.92	35.47
Electric			
•Meter Service Installer Helper	19-16	2073	21.82
Meter Service Installer			29.62
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	19.16		26.44
Collector	19.59		28.55
‘Meter Reader	19.16		22.26
STORES			
Stockhandler			29.84
Chief Stockhandler	31.45	31.59	31.74
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			32.41
Lead Garage Mechanic			33.00
Chief Garage Mechanic			36.00
-196-
Wethersfield Unit Effective June 1,2008*
Job Classification	1st Step	2nd Step	3rd Step
BUILDINGS & STORES			
Store Worker			29.B4
Building Maintenance Worker			31.44
Building Maintenance Mechanic	31.39		35.01
Chief Building Maintenance	35.74		37.40
Mechanic			
-197-
New London Unit Effective June 1, 2008*
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS Manitor - Service Buildings	23.78	23.93	24.07
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	25.66	25.76	25.95
Building Maintenance Mechanic	31.12	31.24	31.44
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION •Electrician's Helper	25.28	25.46	25.60
Electrician			35.01
Lead Electrician			35.79
Chief Electrician	37.09	37.27	37.71
•Cable Splicer's Helper	26.04	26.21	26.37
Cable Splicer			34.70
Lead Cable Splicer			35.48
Chief Cable Splicer	37.27	37.40	37.79
•Ground Worker Line Mechanic	26.39	26.50	26.69
(Rubber Gloving)			36.06
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.21
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			36.90
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.52
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.63	36.76	37.02
(Non Rubber Gloving)	35.74	35.89	36.03
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	39.15	39.30	39.45
(Non Rubber Gloving)	38.27	38.45	38.59
- 198-
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			33.09
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	34.31	34.92	35.47
Electric			
"Meter Service Installer Helper	19.16	20.73	21.82
Meter Service Installer			29.62
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	19.16		26.44
Collector	19.59		28.55
"Meter Reader	19.16		22.26
STORES			
Stockhandler			29.84
Chief Stockhandler	31.45	31.59	31.74
TRANSPORTATION			
Garage Mechanic			32.41
Lead Garage Mechanic			33.00
Chief Garage Mechanic			36.00
- 199-
Middletown Unit Effective June 1, 2008*
	1st	2nd	3rd
Job Classification	Step	Step	Step
BUILDINGS			
‘Janitor - Service Buildings	23.78	23.93	24.07
Maintenance Worker - Buildings	25.66	25.76	25.95
Building Maintenance Mechanic	31.12	31.24	31.44
ELECTRIC METERS AND SERVICE			
Meter Service Mechanic - Electric			33.09
Chief Meter Service Mechanic -	34.31	34.92	35.47
Electric			
‘Meter Service Installer Helper	19.16	20.73	21.82
Meter Service Installer			29.62
Meter Reader (Incumbent only)	19.16		26.44
Collector	19.59		28.55
‘Meter Reader	19.16		22.26
ELECTRIC OPERATIONS			
‘Cable Splicer's Helper	26.04	26.21	26.37
Cable Splicer			34.70
Lead Cable Splicer			35.48
Chief Cable Splicer	37.22	37.33	37.79
‘Ground Worker	26.39	26.50	26.69
Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)			36.06
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.21
Troubleshooter			
(Rubber Gloving)			36.90
(Non Rubber Gloving)			35.52
Lead Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	36.63	36.76	37.02
(Non Rubber Gloving)	35.74	35.89	36.03
Top Line Mechanic			
(Rubber Gloving)	39.15	39.30	39.45
(Non Rubber Gloving)	38.27	38.45	38.59
-200-
•Electrician's Helper
Electrician
Lead Electrician
Chief Electrician
STORES
Stockhandfer
Chief Stockhandler
TRANSPORTATION
Garage Mechanic Lead Garage Mechanic Chief Garage Mechanic
25.28	25.46	25.60
		35.01
		35.79
37.09	37.27	37.71
29.84
31.45 31.59 31.74
32.41
33.00
36.00
-201 -
METER READER Incumbent Only
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective June 1,2008
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months
Going Rate
19.16
21.01
22.26
23.39
24.97
26.44
"METER READER
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective June 1, 2008
Time Interval
Start
6 months
12 months
Going Rate
19.16
21.01
22.26
-202-
COLLECTOR
Local 420 - Stamford and Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, and Hartford
Effective June 1,2008
Time Interval
Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months
Going Rate 1959 21.45 22.70 23.88 25.49 28.55
LINE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury, Falls Village Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 1,2008
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Line Mechanic C-1	19.85
6 months	Line Mechanic C-2	21.52
12 months	Line Mechanic C-3	22.66
18 months	Line Mechanic B-1	24.57
24 months	Line Mechanic B-2	25.91
30 months	Line Mechanic B-3	27.62
36 months	Line Mechanic A-1	28.88
42 months	Line Mechanic A-2	30.19
48 months	Line Mechanic	33.03
54 months	Line Mechanic	36.06
-203-
CABLE SPLICER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 1, 2008
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Cable Splicer C-1	20.73
6 months	Cable Splicer C-2	22.26
12 months	Cable Splicer C-3	23.74
18 months	Cable Splicer C-4	25.51
24 months	Cable Splicer B-1	26.44
30 months	Cable Splicer B-2	27.46
36 months	Cable Splicer B-3	28.53
42 months	Cable Splicer A-1	30.49
48 months	Cable Splicer	31.90
54 months	Cable Splicer	34.70
METER-SERVICE INSTALLER HELPER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury
Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 1, 2008
Time interval	Job Classification	Going Rate
Start	Meter Service Installer C-1	19.16
6 months	Meter Service Installer C-2	20.73
12 months	Meter Service Installer C-3	21.82
18 months	Meter Service Installer B-1	22.84
24 months	Meter Service Installer B-2	24.25
30 months	Meter Service Installer	27.69
36 months	Meter Service Installer	28.53
42 months	Meter Service Installer	29.62
-204-
METER-SERVICE MECHANIC - ELECTRIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington. Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford Effective June 1, 2008		
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-1	19,16
6 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-2	20.73
12 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric C-3	21.82
18 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-1	22.84
24 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-2	24.25
30 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric B-3	27.69
36 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-1	28.53
42 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-2	29.62
48 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric A-3	30.40
54 months	Meter-Service Meeh Electric	33.09
ELECTRICIAN WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford and Torrington
Local 457 - New London and Middletown
Effective dune 1, 2008
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Electrician C-1	19.88
6 months	Electrician C-2	21.71
12 months	Electrician C-3	23.31
18 months	Electrician B-1	25.44
24 months	Electrician B-2	26.44
30 months	Electrician B-3	27.31
36 months	Electrician A-1	28.53
42 months	Electrician A-2	30.49
48 months	Electrician	32.23
54 months	Electrician	35.01
-205-
STOCKHANDLER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown. Hartford
Effective June 4,2008
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Stockhandler C-1	19.16
6 months	Stockhandler C-2	21.09
12 months	Stockhandler C-3	22.26
18 months	Stockhandler B-1	23.39
24 months	Stockhandler B-2	25.60
30 months	Stockhandler A-1	27.01
36 months	Stockhandler A-2	27.83
42 months	Stockhandler	29.84
GARAGE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford, Torrington, Simsbury Local 457 - New London, Middletown, Hartford
Effective June 1,2008
Time	Job	Going
Interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Garage Mechanic C-1	19.78
6 months	Garage Mechanic C-2	21.52
12 months	Garage Mechanic B-1	22.64
18 months	Garage Mechanic B-2	23.78
24 months	Garage Mechanic A-1	25.18
30 months	Garage Mechanic	26.97
36 months	Garage Mechanic	29.36
42 months	Garage Mechanic	30.92
48 months	Garage Mechanic	32.41
-206-
LINE MECHANIC WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 420 - Stamford and Torrington Local 457 - New London and Middletown
Effective June 1, 2008 Incumbent Only
Time	Job	Going
interval	Classification	Rate
Start	Line Mechanic C-1	19.78
6 months	Line Mechanic C-2	22.21
12 months	Line Mechanic C-3	23.94
18 months	Line Mechanic B-1	26.27
24 months	Line Mechanic B-2	27.48
30 months	Line Mechanic B-3	28.58
36 months	Line Mechanic A-1	29.71
42 months	Line Mechanic A-2	30.79
CHIEF METER SERVICE MECHANIC - ELECTRIC
Effective June 1, 2008 Incumbent Only
1st	2nd	3rd
Step	Step	Step
35.27	35.84	36.44
-207-
UTILITY WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Hartford
Effective June 1, 2008
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months
Going Rate
19.68
21.66
23.61
25.60
27.56
29.55
DISTRIBUTION EQUIPMENT OPERATOR WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Hartford
Effective June 1, 2008
Time interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months
Going Rate 21.66 23.48 25.27 27.01 28.77 30.49
-208-
	MECHANIC A WAGE PROGRESSION Local 420 - Simsbury Effective June 1,2008 Incumbent Only
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months	Going Rate 31.19 32.24 33.42 35.06
BUILDING MAINTENANCE WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Time Interval Start 6 months 12 months 18 months 24 months 30 months	Local 457 - Wethersfield Effective June 1, 2008 Going Rate 19.19 21.60 23.97 26.22 27.35 31.44
-209-
STORE WORKER WAGE PROGRESSION
Local 457 - Wethersfield
Effective June 1, 2008
Time Interval
Start
6 months
12 months
18 months
24 months
30 months
36 months
42 months
Going Rate 1916
21.09
22.26
23.39
25.60
27.01
27.83
29.84
' Provide COLA effective June 1,2008 In accordance with Exhibit C of the Green Book Summary.
-210-
(a)	When an employee in any job classification is assigned to work on a shift which includes one hour or more between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day, will receive an additional payment of $2.00 per hour.
(b)	When an employee in any job classification is assigned to work on a shift which includes one hour or more on a Sunday, the employee will receive a premium of 25 percent of the employee's basic straight time rate in addition to the employee’s basic straight time rate.
Classifications marked with an asterisk denote starting jobs requiring no previous experience in other classifications. Classifications so designated have, in addition to the three steps listed, three additional steps which are known as "hiring steps" and are designated by the letters A, B,and C.
Hiring Step A is 60ft below the first step of the rate shown for the classification. Hiring Step B is 40# below, and Hiring Step C is 20# below.
Section 2.	After a period of ninety days from date of employment.
Section 3.	The time period between the first, second, and third steps in the rate for any classification is six months beginning from the first
-211 -
day of the month an employee is promoted to an established classification or advanced from Hiring Step C.
Section 4.	Any employee promoted to a higher classification whose pay is less than the first step of that classification shall immediately receive an increase to the first step. Thereafter the employee shall receive an increase to the next higher step every six months until the third step of the hourly rate for the applicable classification is reached. If the employee is receiving more than the first step, the employee’s pay shall be increased to the next step of the applicable classification and if this proves to be the second step, shall receive a further increase to the third step at the end of a six-month period.
-212-
ADDENDA All Units
LEAVE OF ABSENCE - ELECTED/APPOINTED UNION REPRESENTATIVES
Upon written request from the Union the Company wifi arrange for a leave of absence for up to four employees who are elected or appointed to the office of full time Union representative for the Local Unions participating in this agreement. Such arrangements will include a provision for the Local Union to pay all costs required to maintain the employee’s benefits during the employee's leave of absence. The arrangement will also include provisions governing the seniority status of the full time union representative In such manner as may be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Union.
TOOL ALLOWANCE (Effective January 1, 2005)
The Company will provide an annual tool upgrade allowance of up to $150.00 per year for Garage Mechanics. The employee must furnish a receipt of purchase for reimbursement documenting the purchase of job specific tools.
FIRE RETARDANT CLOTHING (Effective January 1, 2005)
Increase yearly FR clothing allowance from $450 to $500 per employee.
-213-
MOTOR VEHICLE/PAGING DEVICE FOR USE DURING CALL ASSIGNMENTS
Employees who are assigned by the Company to take normal trouble call assignments outside their normal work schedule will, whenever practicable, be assigned a Company motor vehicle for all hours assigned to call, provided that there are no conflicts with local zoning regulations.
When an employee is assigned to call as a member of a crew, one member of the crew complement will be assigned a motor vehicle under the provisions outlined above.
The Company agrees that it will give consideration to valid reasons of an employee who requests to be excused from taking an assigned Company vehicle home during hours of call.
When an employee is assigned to call, they will be provided with a paging device ("beeper"), when practicable, as an alternate means of contact during the normal call schedule. It will be the responsibility of the employee to ensure that they are within the signal range and the "beeper" is in operating order as indicated by the testing procedure or to provide other means to be contacted as is presently practiced.
COMPANY ALLOWED TIME OFF BEFORE CHRISTMAS DAY
The Company will allow four (4) hours off at the basic straight-time rate to all employees
-214-
who report for work on their last scheduled workday prior to Christmas Day.
If it is determined by the Company that time off cannot be allowed, the employee, in lieu of the time off, will receive an additional four (4) hours pay at the employee's basic straight-time rates,
WORKING ON ENERGIZED PRIMARY CONDUCTORS (To be deleted subject to necessary state approval or federal authority.)
It is understood that the Company does not plan to change its present practices for working on energized primary conductors nominally rated above 5kV for the term of this Agreement.
PAYMENT OF EXPENSES FOR ARBITRATION
It is understood that for the term of this Agreement, where the original position of the Union is upheld by the Arbitrator, the Company will pay such fees charged by the Arbitrator or the American Arbitration Association for any grievance properly processed and properly referred to arbitration under the terms of Article VIII.
In any other case such fees will be shared equally by the Company and the Union. In all cases, any costs incurred by either party in its own behalf, such as legal fees, stenographic costs, etc., will be paid by that party.
-215-
RELATIVE POLICY
It is understood and agreed that notwithstanding the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement between the parties, relatives of employees will not be hired, transferred or promoted into situations where the possibility of favoritism or conflicts of interest might exist. These restrictions also apply to a relative who is working on Company property through a contractor or vendor agency, A relative of an employee will not be hired, transferred or promoted into the same department unfess the employee reports to a different supervisor. Additionally, a relative of an employee will not be hired, transferred or promoted into a position in which the relative would be in the employee’s direct chain of command (no matter how far removed geographically).
Relatives (including Step-relatives) are defined as:
Father	Wife	Unde
Mother	Father-In-law	Aunt
Son	Mother-in-law	Nephew
Daughter	Son-in-law	Niece
Brother	Daughter-in-law	Grandfather
Sister	Brother-in-law	Grandmother
Husband	Sister-in-law	Grandchild
If any liability is incurred as a result of discrimination charges that directly result from this Relative Policy, the Company will assume said liability.
-216-
PRACTICES AND PROCEDURES FOR RUBBER GLOVING CONDUCTORS IN THE THREE-PHASE 8.3 kV, THREE-PHASE 15 kV, AND THREE-PHASE 23 kV MGY CLASS
1.	All standard safety rules in effect shall be followed.
2.	Practices and procedures set forth below shall be strictly adhered to.
3.	Rubber gloving energized conductors in the three-phase 8.3 kV, three-phase 15 kV, and three-phase 23 kV MGY class will be done by a minimum two-person crew.
4.	No work will be permitted on energized conductors from a pole position (line mechanic spurred into pole or standing on pole steps or other permanent pole attachments).
5.	Class 2 (20 kV) gloves and properly tested sleeves shall be used for all pole work while rubber gloving high-voltage energized conductors up to and including the three-phase 23 kV MGY class. A ground-to-ground rubber sleeve rule shall be enforced for all voltages. Gloves shall be air inflated for testing in the morning and after lunch and at any other time deemed necessary.
-217-
6.	Employees using bucket trucks shall follow all rules and procedures governing the use of bucket trucks. The insulation portion of the bucket truck shall be inspected and cleaned as necessary before work.
7.	a. All energized or grounded parts such as secondaries, neutral conductors, guy wires, telephone wires, cables or CATV cables within reaching distance of the employee shall be covered with approved protective equipment. Company-owned wires and equipment may be floated clear of the pole when practical if work is being done on or near energized conductors. If the neutral conductor is moved, the continuity of all earth grounds including guy grounds shall be maintained.
b.	All energized conductors or equipment within reaching distance shall be covered with approved protective equipment, except that portion which is actually being worked on. No handline shall be permitted near an unprotected area.
c.	When work is performed on an energized primary conductor, all other conductors, neutrals.
-218-
grounds, and potential grounds, including crossarms and any portion of the pole within reaching distance, shall be covered with approved protective equipment.
8.	When an energized primary conductor is placed on the crossarm, bracket or against the pole, it shall first be covered with a line hose, and in addition, the crossarm, bracket or pole shall be covered with a rubber blanket or other approved insulation.
9.	Work being performed on energized conductors by workers in buckets, and/or by workers working at the same pole or structure, shall be confined to only one phase of any circuit at a time.
10.	Work not directly related to rubber glove procedures shall not be performed on the same pole or structure. Tools and materials shall not be handed to or from the pole to a person in a bucket while a Line Mechanic is spurred to the pole or not otherwise isolated from the ground.
11.	All jumpers and rubber protective equipment, including gloves, sleeves, blankets, hoods, and line hose shall be inspected before each use and shall be turned in for testing and/or washing in accordance with a Company schedule, or
-219-
sooner if there is any indication that the equipment may be defective.
12.	Bucket trucks shall be tested every six months and at any other time there are indications of damage or electrical leakage.
13.	When wet conditions exist, hot sticks will be used or the lines will be deenergized.
EXPENSE ALLOWANCES
1..	When required to work distant from this base area, employees will be paid expense and travel allowances as follows:
(a)	When the Company supplies transportation between the base and work, employees will be allowed travel time at the rate applicable and equal to the time spent en route.
(b)	When requested to travel by means of specific public transportation, employees will receive the actual fare paid and will be allowed travel time at the rate applicable and equal to the time spent en route.
(c)	Employees will be granted a daily mileage allowance of thirty-seven and one-half (37 %) cents per mile to and from the job in lieu of the provisions of Section 2 of this Article if the distance one way to the job location is ten miles
-220-
(10) or less from the home base or satellite/line shop.
2. Except when Section 1. or Section 3. of this Article is applicable, an employee required to make the employee’s own arrangements to report at a job location including all training assignments outside the employee’s base area (except satellites/line shops or when the job location distance one way is ten (10) miles or less) will be paid a daily expense allowance as provided under one of the following Plans:
Plan A- If the distance one way is twenty-five miles or less; $22.34 per day.
Plan B-	If the distance one way
is over twenty-five miles but not over forty miles; $39.57 per day.
Plan C - If the distance one way is over forty miles but not over sixty miles; $45.27 per day.
Plan D-	If the distance one way
is over sixty miles but not over ninety miles; $51.12 per day. When the distance is beyond ninety miles, the employee will be paid an
-221 -
additional thirty-seven and one-half (371/2) cents per mile for each mile beyond ninety miles.
(a)	If on any day an employee travels one way to or returns one way from a job location under the provisions of Section 1. of this Article, the employee will be paid an expense allowance on that day under one of the following Plans:
Plan E - If the distance one way is thirty miles or less; $19.20 per day.
Plan F~ If the distance one way is over thirty miles; $26.35 per day.
(b)	For the purposes of the above Plans, distances shall be measured over highways which are reasonably passable and which provide the shortest routes between the employee's base area headquarters and the job locations involved.
(c)	If an employee is required to report at two or more job locations outside of the employee’s base area on one day, the employee will be paid the daily expense allowance provided under the Plan applicable to the job location which is
-222-
the greatest distance from the employee's base area headquarters, tn addition, the employee will be paid thirty-seven and one-half (37 y2) cents per mile one way for the actual distance traveled between the job locations involved on the day. This Section 2.(c) will not be applied to require an employee to report at two or more job locations on one day involving Plans B, C, D, or F except when it is necessary to do so to provide a full day's work or when emergency work is required. Whenever possible, employees will be advised not later than the day preceding requirement to report at a different job location.
TROUBLE CALLS
Purpose
The Company and Union agree to continue their cooperative efforts to enhance customer service by improving response time during customer outages. In keeping with this mutual goal, the parties agree to the formation of an A list of employees who wish to be designated to take trouble calls.
-223-
Selection of Employees
All employees in the following classifications will be eligible to participate in the A response list:
Top Line Mechanic Lead Line Mechanic Troubleshooter Line Mechanic
Chief Electrician Lead Electrician Electrician
Chief Splicer Lead Splicer Splicer
The Company seeks 100% participation of all eligible employees, but requires 25% within each of the ten (10) participating classifications. If the required participation is not obtained on a voluntary basis, assignment to the A list will be made on a junior to senior basis.
Employees not participating in the A list may elect to participate on a weekly basis.
Overtime Rotation
A separate overtime rotation list will be maintained for A list participants. Planned overtime will be distributed from a combined list.
TROUBLESHOOTER
1.	Vacancies in the Troubleshooter classification will be offered to the qualified lineman on a senior to junior department seniority basis. Classified as a Line Mechanic for at least one year will be considered as qualified for promotion and upgrading to the Troubleshooter classification.
-224-
2,	Junior qualified Line Mechanic will be required to accept unfilled vacancies in the Troubleshooter classification.
3.	Troubleshooter can voluntarily elect to be reclassified to a Line Mechanic after one year in the Troubleshooter classification without loss of seniority.
4.	The Troutteshooter reclassified to Line
Mechanic will not be required to accept promotion to a Troubleshooter for a period of one year.
5.	For the purpose of Article VI, Troubleshooter and Line Mechanic will be considered as the same classification.
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE
The Company will pay applicable costs associated with obtaining a Commercial Driver’s License required by the duties performed of the classification.
Applicable costs Include:
a)	endorsements
b)	various test fees
c)	issuance of permit
In addition, the Company will pay the cost difference between the employee’s license fee and the license fee of the job-required CDL.
-225-
WEINGARTEN
Employees have the right to have a union representative present during any investigatory interview/meeting which the employee reasonably believes may result in disciplinary action.
-226-
ADDENDA Stamford and New London Units
The following subjects, while not part of the collective bargaining Agreement, were discussed during negotiations meetings to insure that the parties are in agreement as to the intent and application of certain aspects of our Agreement:
1.	Where an employee is entitled to a day off
under Section 10(b) of Article V and the Company elects to give such day off, it does not necessarily have to be scheduled in the time limits provided in this paragraph if the supervisor and employee are in agreement.
2.	With reference to the application of Section 16 (new) of Article X, if it develops that additional meetings are required to conduct meaningful negotiations, then the Company will consider authorizing further time off with pay.
3.	Where an employee expresses an interest in a lower rated job in the employee’s line of promotion, the Company will consider such request subject to operating requirements. If such employee is subsequently reassigned, the employee shall receive the third step of the lower rated classification provided the employee has previously held such classification and meets the time step experience requirements for that rate.
-227-
4.	Superceded (June 1, 1980).
5.	Superceded (June 1, 1980).
6.	In connection with the revision in Section 2(c) of Article IV, during discussions on this matter the Company expressed some concern as to whether this revision might affect the availability of employees for overtime. Upon the assurances of the Union that it would not, the Company agreed to this revision for one year with the further understanding that this revision would not affect the established procedures for assigning employees to overtime; for example, those procedures currently in effect at the Stamford Station for operators.
7.	Through a memorandum and meetings, supervision will be advised of the Company's intent and understandings with the Union with regard to the following;
A. Reasonable assignments during inclement weather, making particular mention of extremes of heat and cold. The Company agrees to instruct its supervisors to make reasonable assignments in all Departments during extreme cold. Except in the case of emergency or to restore service, employees will not be
-228-
required to do overhead line work or steel substation structure work when the temperature is 10dor lower at the job site.
B.	Inexperienced probationary Line Mechanics limited to simpler work in which they are fully qualified when assigned to two-person line crew and truck.
C.	Importance of staying within the limitation provided in the Agreement on work done by supervisors.
D.	Meter-Service Mechanics will get help, if requested, when servicing roof top heaters which are considered to present an unsafe working condition.
E.	Assistance will be provided, when requested by employees assigned to service customers, under conditions which present special problems or hazards.
F.	Replacement of clothing unavoidably destroyed due to abnormal working conditions.
G.	Line Mechanics will get help, if requested, when performing switching duties aloft on primary voltage on a planned switching
-229-
job on a scheduled day off when such switching presents an unsafe working condition.
ADDENDA New London Unit
New London Electricians Working at Millstone
New London Electricians who are required to have unescorted access to work at Millstone within the secured area will be paid $31.85 (effective May 29, 2005 - $32.96; effective June 4, 2006 - $34.11; effective June 3, 2007 - $35.13; effective June 1, 2008 - $36.18) while performing work at Millstone within the secured area.
-230-
This Agreement shall become effective when signed by the authorized representatives of the parties.
In witness thereof, we have attached our hand and seal.
FOR THE UNION;
a.',	Date: January 6, 2005
business Manager, Local 420
FOR THE UNION:
Date: January 6, 2005
Business Manager, Local 457
FOR THE COMPANY:
0^	Date. Januarv 6 2005
We President- Human Resources,
Safety & Ethics
APPROVED FOR THE INTERNATIONAL
OFFICE OF THE UNION:
Is/ Edwin D. Hill_______ Date: March 3, 2005
International President
APPROVED
INTERNATIONAL OFFICE - I.B.E.W.
MAR 0 3 2005
Edwin D. Hill, President This approval does not make the International a party to tta agreement
-231 -
LETTERS OF INTENT
August 21, 1995
Mr. J. R. Healey
Business Manager, Local 420, LB.E.W.
Mr. J. R. Kelly
Business Manager, Local 457, LB.E.W,
Gentlemen:
This is to confirm our understanding on the following matters discussed during our negotiations meetings in connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of June 1,1995.
1.	The Letter of Intent dated July 22, 1976 (page 138 of current Agreement) and other Letters of Intent extended by that Letter are extended until June 1, 1998 except as superceded by paragraphs 2. and 3. below.
2.	The Company will provide up to $150.00 ($175.00 effective January 1, 2007) ($200.00 effective January 1, 2008) allowance to Operating Department Employees towards the purchase of one pair of safety footwear that meets the requirements for impact/compression resistance and protection from electrical hazards (EH rated) as described in Sections 1 and 4 of ANSI Standards Z41-1999. The employee must furnish a receipt of purchase for reimbursement documenting the purchase of safety shoes which meet the above safety standard and the allowance will be limited to one purchase per year. Ordering safety shoes through the Company stock rooms has been discontinued.
3.	The Company will pay the full cost of lenses, frame, and case of clear and/or tinted prescription safety eyeglasses, one pair every two years, for operating
-232-
department personnel who are required to wear them. Photochromatic (photogray) lenses will be permitted (extra cost for photogray lenses will be at the employee expense). The Company will also provide for the replacement of safety eyeglasses when damaged on the job.
The employee will provide the Company with a current (not over two years' old) prescription.
The employee will pay the cost of any eye examination and/or fitting required.
Very truly yours,
C. W. GrisD
Senior Vice President -Human Resources and Administrative Services
Accepted for the Union:
August 21, 1995
August 21, 1995
Business Manager, Local 420,I.B.E.W.
Business Manager, Local 457. I.B.E.W.
-233-
September 14, 1982
Mr. J, R. Healey
Business Manager, Local 420, I.B.E.W.
Mr. J. R. Kelly
Business Manager, Local 457, I.B.E.W.
Gentlemen:
This is to confirm a statement of intent made by the Company during 1982 Company-Union (CL&P Green Book) negotiations.
The Labor Relations Department will provide, upon requests made at reasonable intervals by the Local Lfnion(s) Business Manager(s), the year-to-date hours of employees temporarily upgraded to "chief or "top" classification.
Very truly yours,
R. E. Pawioski
Labor Relations Administrator
-234-
Jury 22, 1976
Mr. J. R. Healey
Business Manager, Local 420, LB.E.W.
Mr. J. R. Kelly
Business Manager, Local 457, LB.E.W,
Gentlemen:
This is to confirm our understanding on the following matters discussed during our negotiations meetings in connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of July 1, 1976.
1.	The Letter of Intent dated July 18,1975 and other Letters of Intent extended by that Letter are extended until July 1,1977 except as noted in paragraph 2 below.
2.	Delete Letter of Intent June 30, 1967 to Local 383.
Delete Letter of Intent June 30,1967 to Local 1419.
Amend last sentence of paragraph 4 of Letter of Intent July 24, 1970 to Locals 383 and 1419 to read: "It is also agreed that any consecutive hours actually worked beyond sixteen consecutive hours actually worked will be paid at double the straight time rate whether offset by rest time or not. (Amended July 1, 1976).'
Delete paragraph 5 of Letter of Intent July 18, 1975 to Locals 420 and 457.
3.	“"Deleted.
Very truly yours, -235-
R. H. Peterson
Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 22,1976	________J. R. Healey________________
Business Manager, Local 420, I.B.E.W.
________J. R. Kelly_________________
Business Manager, Local 457, I.B.E.W.
-236
July 18,1975
Mr. J. R. Healey
Business Manager, Local 420, LB.E.W.
Mr. J. R. Kelly
Business Manager, Local 457, LB.E.W.
Gentlemen:
This is to confirm our understanding on the following matters discussed during our negotiations meetings tn connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of July 1,1975.
1.	The Letter of Intent dated July 17,1973 and other Letters of Intent referred to in paragraph 1 of that letter are extended until July 1, 1976 except as noted in paragraph 2 below.
2.	Delete Paragraph 2 - Letter of Intent July 15, 1971 to Local 383.
Delete Paragraph 2 - Letter of Intent July 15, 1971 to Locals 468 and 469.
Delete Paragraph 2 - Letter of Intent July 15, 1971 to Local 1419.
3.	As an alternative to the Company's current plan with the American Optical Company for providing safety glasses where required on the job, an employee so desiring may purchase prescription safety glasses through commercial sources. For such purchases the Company will pay the following allowances: $12 single lens, $22 bifocal lens, $29 trifocal lens, providing such lens and frames are certified to conform to Z87.1 U.S.A, Standard Practice for
-237-
Occupational and Educational Eye and Face Protection.
4.	(Effective January 1,2005) When obtaining prescription safety glasses under the Company's current plan with the American Optical Company (or other company approved vendor) employees will pay any costs for eye examinations which are not covered by their chosen medical or vision plan provisions.
The Company will reimburse the employee for all fitting fees.
Very truly yours,
R. H. Peterson
Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 18,1976	________J. R. Healey__________________
Business Manager, Local 420, I.B.E.W.
J. R- Kelly__________________
Business Manager, Local 457, I.B.E.W.
-238-
July 18,1975
Mr. J. R. Healey
Business Manager, Local 420, LB.E.W,
Mr. J. R. Kelly
Business Manager, Local 457, LB.E.W.
Gentlemen:
This is to confirm a statement of intent made by the Company during our recent negotiations meetings.
While not part of the Agreement and not subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure, it is the Company's intent, during the extent of the present Agreement, to not diminish any of the benefits as presently administered under the Company's "Absence Due to Nonoccupational Illness or Injury" procedure.
Very truly yours,
R. H. Peterson
Director of Employee Relations
-239-
Mr. J. R. Healey
Business Manager, Local 420, LB.E.W.
Mr. J. R. Kelly
Business Manager, Local 457, LB.E.W.
Gentlemen:
This is to confirm our understanding on the following matters discussed during our negotiations meeting in connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of July 1, 1973.
1.	The Letter of Intent dated July 14, 1972 and other Letters of Intent referred to in paragraph 1 of that letter are extended until July 1, 1975.
2.	Copies of all Bargaining Unit Job Vacancy Postings will be sent to all Business Managers and Assistant Business Managers.
3.	Records will be maintained in Divisional Electric Operations offices relative to assignment of linemen to various types of trucks. Such records will be available for inspection to Business Managers and Assistant Business Managers upon request.
Very truly yours,
R. H. Peterson
Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 17,1973	________J. R. Healey________________
Business Manager, Local 420, LB.E.W.
J- R- Kelly_________________
Business Manager, Local 457, LB.E.W.
-240-
July 14, 1972
Philip A. Lent
Business Manager, Local 383, I.B.E.W.
George O. Potter Jr.
Business Manager, Local 468, I.B.E.W.
Norman N. McPhail
Business Manager, Local 469, I.B.E.W.
Robert J. Chamis
Business Manager, Local 1419, I.B.E.W.
Gentlemen:
This is confirm our understanding on the following matters discussed during our negotiations meetings tn connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of July 1, 1972:
1.	The Letter of Agreement dated July 15,1971 and other Letters of Agreement cited in paragraph 1 of that letter are extended until July 1, 1973.
2.	*** Obsolete
3.	Overtime records for the calendar year will be maintained locally for each work group. These will be updated weekly for the purposes of overtime assignments. In the case of an employee excused from a particular overtime assignment by supervision, the number of hours worked by the excused employee's replacement will be added to the excused employee's overtime listing.
-241 -
Very truly yours,
R. H, Peterson Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 14,1972
_______Philip A. Lent________________
Business Manager, Local 383, LB.E.W.
_______George 0. Potter Jr.__________ Business Manager, Local 468, LB.E.W.
_______Norman N. McPhail_____________
Business Manager, Local 469, LB.E.W.
_______Robert J. Chamis______________
Business Manager, Local 1419, LB.E.W.
-242-
July 15, 1971
Mr. Philip A. Lent
Business Manager, Local 383, I.B.E.W
Dear Mr. Lent:
This is to confirm our understanding on the following matters discussed during our negotiations meetings in connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of July 1.1972.
1.	The following Letters of Agreement as appearing in the July 1, 1970 Agreement are extended until July 1,1972:
July 24,1970 (Paragraph 1. In the event that an employee, etc.)
June 30, 1969
June 30,1967
July 15,1966
July 1,1963
July 3,1963
December 27, 1962 June 27,1962 July 1,1960
2.	*“ Deleted
3.	The Company agrees to instruct its supervisors to make reasonable assignments in all departments during extreme cold. Except in the case of emergency or to restore service, employees will not be required to do overhead line work or steel substation structure work when the temperature is 10nor lower at the job site.
4.	Obsolete
-243-
5.	Line Mechanics will get help, if requested, when performing switching duties aloft on primary voltage on a planned switching job on a scheduled day off when such switching presents an unsafe working condition.
Very truly yours,
R. H. Peterson
Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 15, 1972	Philip A. Lent
Business Manager, Local 383,
LB.E.W.
-244 -
July 15,1971
Mr. Clarence L. Fillmore Jr.
Business Manager, Local 1419, I.B.E.W.
Dear Mr. Fillmore:
This is to confirm our understanding on the following matters discussed during our negotiations meetings in connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of July 1, 1971:
1.	The following Letters of Agreement dated July 1, 1970 Agreement are extended until July 1,1972:
July 24, 1970 (Paragraph 1. In the event that an employee, etc.)
July 3, 1969
June 30,1967
July 8,1966
July 3,1963
July 1,1963
July 1, I960
2.	*•* Deleted
3.	The Company agrees to instruct its supervisors to make reasonable assignments in all departments during extreme cold. Except in the case of emergency or to restore service, employees will not be required to do overhead line work or steel substation structure work when the temperature is 10Cor lower at the job site.
4.	*** Obsolete
5.	Line Mechanics will get help, if requested, when performing switching duties aloft on primary voltage on a planned switching job on a scheduled day off
-245-
when such switching presents an unsafe working condition.
Very truly yours,
R. H. Peterson
Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 15, 1971 __________Clarence L. Fillmore, Jr.______
Business Manager, Local 1419, LB.E.W.
-246-
July 15, 1971
Mr. George 0. Potter Jr.
Business Manager, Local 468, LB.E.W.
Mr. Norman N. McPhail
Business Manager, Local 469, LB.E.W.
Gentlemen:
This is confirm our understanding on the following matters discussed during our negotiations meetings in connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of July 1, 1971:
1.	Letter of Agreement dated July 24,1970 (Paragraph 1. In the event that an employee, etc.) is extended until July 1,1972.
2.	“• Deleted
3.	Although time required for washing up will vary with circumstances and no set amount can be guaranteed, it is the general practice to try to complete the normal day's work early enough to allow reasonable time for washing up.
4.	“* Obsolete
5.	That normal lunch periods should be observed whenever practicable and those case where it is necessary to delay lunch period should be kept at a minimum. Further, that when the work requirements make it necessary to postpone a lunch period for an hour or more, the practice will be to pay the employee time and one-half for the lunch period so that the employee will be considered to be on continuous duty from the start to the finish of the workday, eating when the employee can find the opportunity without any stated meal period.
-247-
Very truly yours,
R, H. Peterson
Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 15,1971	George O. Potter Jr.
Business Manager, Local 468, LB.E.W.
______Norman N. McPhail____________
Business Manager, Local 469, LB.E.W.
-248-
July 24, 1970
Mr. Philip A. Lent
Business Manager, Local 383, LB.E.W.
Mr. Clarence L. Fillmore Jr.
Business Manager, Local 1419, LB.E.W,
Gentlemen:
This is confirm our understanding on the fallowing matters discussed during our negotiations meetings in connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of July 1,1970:
1.	in the event that an employee suffers a serious verified incapacitating illness or injury during the employee’s scheduled vacation, and the employee notifies the employee’s supervisor of such illness or injury as soon as possible, that portion the employee's vacation period during which the employee is incapacitated may be rescheduled, at the option of the Company, to another time during the calendar year.
An employee who has been unable to take all of the employee's vacation by December 31 due to verified incapacitating illness or Company operating requirements will have their vacation period extended up to eighty (80) hours until the end of the following year.
in determining whether the employee’s vacation should be rescheduled, the Company may request from the employee verification from the attending physician.
2.	In connection with the administration of Section 2 of Article IX of the current Agreement, in the event the Union wishes to question whether or not the Company has acted reasonably in making a change -249-
in a safety regulation, such issue shall first be referred for review to a committee of two safety specialists, one appointed by the Company and one appointed by the Union. If the two representatives agree as to their decision on the issue submitted, it shall be binding on both parties.
tn the event the Committee is unable to agree, then the same issue shall be submitted to arbitration under Article IX of the current Agreement and the Arbitrator may use the two safety specialists as consultants in reaching the employee's decision following a hearing on the issue.
3.	This will confirm the Company's intent with respect to the application of paragraph (a) of Section 2, Article X of the current Agreement. In administering Section 2(a), the Company intends to use the twenty percent as a guideline in relation to the Fair Labor Standards Act and not as an authorization for supervisors to do regular work a full twenty percent of the time under normal operating conditions.
Both the Company and the Union plan to follow the administration of this clause very carefully during the period of the contract year.
4.	The sentence in paragraph 3 of the Memo of Agreement signed June 30,1967, which reads, "Similarly, any hours worked but offset by equivalent rest time shall not be recognized," shall be deleted. As a result, paragraph 3 will read:
"In connection with the revision of Article IV, Section 2(e), the following interpretation is agreed upon. Double the straight time rate will be paid for those hours worked beyond sixteen within any twenty-four hour period but not beyond such twenty-four hour period. Only such hours actually worked shall be recognized for these purposes. It is also agreed that any consecutive hours actually worked beyond sixteen consecutive hours actually -250-
worked will be paid at double the straight time rate whether offset by rest time or not.' (Amended July 1,1976)
5.	While not part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, for the duration of the Agreement, it is agreed, in connection with Article VIII, Grievance Procedure, that:
In the event a Business Manager and/or Assistant Business Manager has factual and reasonable evidence that the Company has violated a provision(s) of the Agreement and the employee(s) affected fails to present a grievance in Step One, then the Business Manager and/or Assistant Business Manager having first notified the employee(s) affected, may initiate a grievance in the Second Step at any time within ten working days after the date of the claimed violation. This period will be extended to fifteen working days should the Assistant Business Manager be absent during the original ten-day period,
6.	While not part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, for the duration of the Agreement, it is agreed that in addition to the two weeks Armed Forces training leave provided for in Article X, Section 14, an employee required to report for duty by a Reserve Component of the Armed Forces in the event of civil disturbance or natural disaster shall for an additional maximum of five working days, be paid the difference between the pay received for such service and the employee's regular straight time pay.
7.	While not part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, for the duration of the Agreement, it is agreed in connection with Article X, Section 0(a) that: The Company will not permanently transfer any employee from the Bargaining Unit to positions outside the Bargaining Unit unless the employee himself so desires.
-251 -
Very truly yours,
R. H. Peterson
Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 24, 1970 Philip A. Lent__________________________
Business Manager, Local 383, LB.E.W.
Clarence L. Fillmore Jr.
Business Manager, Local 1419, LB.E.W.
-252-
Mr. Clarence L. Fillmore Jr.
Business Manager, Local 1419, LB.E.W.
This is to confirm our understandings on the following matters discussed during our negotiations meetings in connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of Jutyl, 1969:
1.	*“ Implemented
2.	"* Implemented
3.	Under the Company's current plan with the American Optical Company for providing safety glasses where required on the job, the Company will revise its plan to provide for payment of lens for prescription glasses in addition to frames. It will be the responsibility of each employee to furnish to the Company at employee's own cost, a current prescription.
4.	In connection with Article VI, Section 9, "The Company will accept a written application from any employee who believes the employee is qualified, provided such application is received within ten days of the date the notice is posted," it is agreed that the Company may waive such ten day limitation for those employees who are absent from work due to vacation, illness, etc., during the entire original ten day posting period.
5.	The Company agreed to discuss with supervision the results of its discussions with the Union on its intentions with respect to the following items:
a. Introduction of new employees to a Union Official, b. Posting of overtime in Middletown.
c.	Conditions for "call-out" of Stores employees.
d.	Reprimanding of employees.
e.	Performance of regular work by supervision.
f.	Work assignments during extreme heat and cold.
-253-
g.	Time aitowed for funerals.
h.	Work on days when assigned to jury duty.
Very truly yours,
Robert H. Pearson
Vice President Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 3,1969 Isl Clarence L. Fillmore Jr.______________
Business Manager, Local 1419, LB.E.W.
-254-
July 24, 1970
Mr. George O. Potter Jr.
Business Manager, Local 468,LB.E.W.
Mr, Norman N. McPhail
Business Manager, Local 469, LB.E.W.
Gentlemen:
This is to confirm our understanding on the following matters discussed during our negotiations meetings in connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of July 1, 1970:
1.	In the event that an employee suffers a serious verified incapacitating illness or injury during the employee’s scheduled vacation, and the employee notifies the employee’s supervisor of such illness or injury as soon as possible, that portion of the employee’s vacation period during which the employee is incapacitated may be rescheduled, at the option of the Company, to another time during the calendar year.
An employee who has been unable to take all of the employee's vacation by December 31 due to verified incapacitating illness or Company operating requirements will the employee’s vacation period extended until the end of the following calendar year.
In determining whether the employee's vacation should be rescheduled, the Company may request from the employee, verification from the attending physician.
2.	In connection with the administration of Section 2 of Article IX of the current Agreement, in the event the Union wishes to question whether or not the Company has acted reasonably in making a change -255-
in a safety regulation, such issue shall first be referred for review to a committee of two safety specialists, one appointed by the Company and one appointed by the Union. If the two representatives agree as to their decision on the issue submitted, it shall be binding on both parties. In the event the committee is unable to agree, then the same issue shall be submitted to arbitration under Article IX of the current Agreement and the arbitrator may use the two safety specialists as consultants in reaching the employee's decision following a hearing on the issue.
3.	This will confirm the Company's intent with respect to the application of paragraph (a) of Section 2, Article X of the current Agreement. In administering
Section 2(a), the Company intends to use the twenty percent as a guideline in relation to the Fair Labor Standards Act and not as an authorization for Foremen and other supervisors to do regular work a full twenty percent of the time under normal operating conditions.
Both the Company and the Union plan to follow the administration of this clause very carefully during the period of the contract year.
4.	While not part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, for the duration of the Agreement, it is agreed in connection with Article VIII, Grievance Procedure, that:
In the event a Business Manager and/or Assistant Business Manager has factual and reasonable evidence that the Company has violated a provision(s) of the Agreement and the employee(s) affected fails to present a grievance in Step One, then the Business Manager and/or Assistant Business Manager having first notified the employee(s) affected, may initiate a grievance in the Second Step at any time within ten working days after the date of the claimed violation. This period will be extended to fifteen working days should the -256-
Assistant Business Manager be absent during the original ten day period.
5.	While not part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, for the duration of the Agreement, it is agreed that in addition to the two weeks Armed Forces training leave provided for in Article X, Section 14, an employee required to report for duty by a Reserve Component of the Armed Forces in the event of civil disturbance or natural disaster shall for an additional maximum of five working days, be paid the difference between the pay received for such service and the employee's regular straight time pay.
Very truly yours,
R. H. Peterson Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 24, 1970 George O. Potter Jr.___________________
Business Manager, Local 468, I.B.E.W.
Norman N. McPhail_______________
Business Manager, Local 469, I.B.E.W.
-257-
Mr. Philip A. Lent
Business Manager, Local 383, I.B.E.W.
This is to confirm our understandings on the following matters discussed during our negotiations meetings in connection with a new Agreement to be effective as of July 1, 1969:
1.	*** Implemented
2.	*** Implemented
3.	Under the Company's current plan with the American Optical Company for providing safety glasses where required on the job, the Company will revise its plan to provide for payment of lens for prescription glasses in addition to frames. It will be the responsibility of each employee to furnish to the Company at the employee's own cost, a current prescription.
4,	In connection with Article VI, Section 9 The Company will accept a written application from any employee who believes the employee is qualified, provided such application is received within ten days of the date the notice is posted" it is agreed that the Company may waive such ten day limitation for those employees who are absent from work due to vacation, illness, etc., during the entire original ten day posting period.
5.	The Company agreed to discuss with supervision, the results of its discussions with the Union on its intentions with respect to the following items:
a.	Introduction of new employees to a Union official.
b.	Not applicable.
c.	Conditions for "call-out" of Stores employees.
d.	Reprimanding of employees.
e.	Performance of regular work by supervision.
f.	Work assignments during extreme heat and cold, g. Time allowed for funerals.
h. Work on days when assigned to jury duty.
-258-
Very truly yours,
Isl Robert H. Pearson Robert H. Pearson Vice President Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
June 30, 1969	Philip A. Lent__________
-259-
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT between
THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY and
LOCAL 3B3, I.B.E.W,
This is to confirm understandings reached as a result of our current negotiation discussions.
A.	The following policy changes will be made effective as of July 1, 1966:
1.	*“ Superceded
2.	*** Superceded
3.	*" Superceded
4.	In Contract
5.	*“ In Contract
B,	The following practices will be reaffirmed through meetings with supervisors to be held during the month of July:
1.	On-call schedules will be posted at least one month in advance, hopefully more, and will cover as long a period as is practicable, recognizing that there will necessarily be later revisions to accommodate unanticipated absences or changes in personnel or in operating requirements.
2.	A regular system must be maintained whereby an employee will be notified the actual hours of overtime work recorded as soon as practicable after having worked overtime.
3.	If supervision decides a replacement is needed to cover the illness of a person "on-call," it is supervision's responsibility to designate the substitute, giving consideration to the relative amounts of accumulated overtime worked by those qualified for the assignment.
-260 -
4,	Although time required for washing up wilt vary with circumstances and no set amount can be guaranteed, it is the general practice to try to complete the normal day's work early enough to allow reasonable time for washing up.
5.	On days of extremely cold weather, particularly when accompanied by high winds, supervision is expected to use discretion so as to minimize exposure aloft of any one lineman in the performance of nonemergency work which does not have to be completed that day.
Accepted for the Company:
/si Robert H. Pearson Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 15, 1966	/si Peter A. Pertotto
Business Manager, Local 383, LB.E.W.
Is! Donald A. Hand
-261 -
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT botwocn
THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY and
LOCAL 1419, LB.E.W.
This is to confirm understandings reached as a result of our current negotiation discussions.
A.	The following policy changes will be made effective as of July 1, 1966:
1.	*** Superceded
2.	“* Superceded
3.	*** Superceded
4.	"* In Contract
5.	*** In Contract
B.	The following practices will be reaffirmed through meetings with supervisors to be held during the month of July:
1.	On-call schedules will be posted at least one month in advance, hopefully more, and will cover as long a period as is practicable, recognizing that there will necessarily be later revisions to accommodate unanticipated absences or changes in personnel or in operating requirements.
2.	A regular system must be maintained whereby an employee will be notified the actual hours of overtime work recorded as soon as practicable after having worked overtime.
3.	If supervision decides a replacement is needed to cover the illness of a person "on-call," it is supervision's responsibility to designate the substitute, giving consideration to the relative amounts of accumulated overtime worked by those qualified for the assignment.
-262-
4,	Although time required for washing up will vary with circumstances and no set amount can be guaranteed, it is Ute general practice to try to complete the normal day's work early enough to allow reasonable time for washing up.
5,	On days of extremely cold weather, particularly when accompanied by high winds, supervision is expected to use discretion so as to minimize exposure aloft of any one lineman in the performance of nonemergency work which does not have to be completed that day.
Accepted for the Company:
/s/ Robert H, Pearson Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for the Union:
July 8, 1966	/s/ Richard Krivanec____________
Business Manager, Local 1419, LB.E.W.
/$/ Richard Hennessey___________
-263-
AGREEMENT botwcc n THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY and
LOCAL 383, LB.E.W. as of July 1, 1963
*** Paragraph Obsolete
We have also agreed to the following interpretations and applications of Section II of Article VI concerning temporary assignments to a higher classification:
1.	That it is the intent of our Agreement that temporary assignments to higher classifications may be made occasionally under circumstances where there is no vacancy and where there is no employee absent. Along with this understanding, the Union reserves the right to bring up a claim of vacancy if, in their opinion, temporary assignments of this special nature are so frequent as to indicate the need for additional help.
2.	Although the Agreement only requires the Company to rotate temporary assignments among qualified employees in order of seniority where such assignments exceed two weeks, it is the intent that in any case where assignment to a given classification occurs frequently that such assignments be rotated even though they be less than a week's duration, provided the largest share of such assignments are given to the senior employee.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF:
The parties hereto have executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
By: /s/ R. H, Peterson
Witness: /si R. H. Pearson -264-
/s/ W. L. Baldwin
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS - Local 383
By: JsJ Chester R. Reynolds
Witness: Isl Charles A. Martin
-265-
July 3,1963
Mr. Chester Reynolds, Business Manager, Local 383, LB.E.W.
Mr. Charles McBrien, Business Manager, Local 1419, LB.E.W.
This is to confirm certain statements of intent made by the Company during our recent negotiation meetings and certain understandings which are not a part of the Agreement itself.
1.	"* Obsolete
2.	Superceded (June 1,1980)
3.	*** Implemented
4.	The Company plans to hold meetings with supervisors for the purpose of reviewing the terms of the Agreement and to emphasize the following points:
a.	*“ In Contract
b.	That every effort will be made to give a shift employee as much advance notice as is practicable when the employee is to be given a holiday off. Further, that when such a holiday off is scheduled, it will not be interfered with except in case of emergency or the unforeseen absence of another employee.
c.	Special mention will be made of the contract limitations on the amount and kinds of work to be performed by supervisors.
5.	During the period of our Agreement, the Director of Employee Relations plans to arrange periodic meetings with the representatives of each of the local -266-
unions for the purpose of discussing on an informal basis, any subjects of current interest.
Very truly yours,
THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY Robert H. Pearson
Director of Employee Relations
-267-
AGREEMENT
between
THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
and
LOCAL 1419, LB.E.W.
as of July 1, 1963
"* Paragraph Superceded
We have also agreed to the following interpretations and applications of Section 11 of Article VI concerning temporary assignments to a higher classification:
1.	"‘Deleted
2.	Although the Agreement only requires the Company to rotate temporary assignments among qualified employees in order of seniority, where such assignments exceed two weeks, it is the intent that in any case where assignments to a given classification occur frequently that such assignments to be rotated even though they be less than a week's duration, provided the largest share of such assignments are given to the senior employee.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF:
The parties hereto have executed this Agreement the day and year first above written.
THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
By: /s/ R. H. Pearson
Witness: fsf
R. H. Peterson
/s/ Robert F. Burnham
-268-
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS - Local 1419
By: Is!	Charles F. McBrien
Witness: /s/	Richard Krivanec
-269-
December 27, 1962
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
This is to confirm our Agreement concerning certain departmental seniority understandings as applies to our Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 1962.
Those Electric Meter Workers and Meter Service Workers who were transferred to Gas Operations effective November 1,1962 shall transfer with them their accumulated departmental seniority. For job bidding purposes, however, the seniority accumulated in Electric Operations shall not be acceptable for meeting the minimum gas experience Job Qualifications in jobs in Gas Operations. Similarly, seniority accumulated in Gas Operations shall not be acceptable for meeting minimum electric experience Job Qualifications in Electric Meter Worker and Meter Service Worker jobs.
1st Ragnar H. Peterson Ragnar H. Peterson Personnel Supervisor North-Central Division
/s/ Chester Reynolds
Chester Reynolds
Business Manager, Local 383, I.B.E.W.
-270-
Jun© 27.1962
Mr. Chester Reynolds
Business Manager, Local 383,I.B.E.W
345 Riverside Avenue Torrington, Connecticut
Dear Mr. Reynolds:
This is to confirm yesterday's discussion as to our reasons far eliminating from the Agreement we signed, Item 11 which was a new Section 12 to be included under Article X and which is found in the Agreement with Locals 468, 469, and 1419. This Section was left out, not because we expect the Agreement to operate very differently on this subject from those we have with the other Locals, but rather because Local 383 had some concern as to its meaning and application and preferred not to have it in their Agreement. Rather than hold up proceedings, we have agreed to remove it with the understanding that it is the intent of our Agreement that temporary assignments to higher classifications may be made occasionally under circumstances where there is no vacancy and where there is no employee absent. Along with this understanding, the Union reserves the right to bring up a claim of vacancy if, in their judgment, they feel that temporary assignments of this special nature are so frequent as to indicate a need for additional full-time help. Please indicate your acceptance of this by signing and returning the copy of this letter which is enclosed.
Very truly yours,
THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
Isl R. H. Pearson
Robert H. Pearson
Director of Employee Relations
Accepted for Local 383:
-271-
fsl Chester R, Reynolds Business Manager
June 29, 1962
-272-
THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
and
Local 1419, LB.E.W.
Effective as of July 1,1960
In addition to matters agreed upon and incorporated in the collective bargaining Agreement of even date between the parties, the following are agreements and understandings reached concurrently with such collective bargaining Agreement.
1.	’"Obsolete
2.	While the collective bargaining Agreement between the parties provides that there will be no other restriction on the Company’s use of outside contractors, this will confirm our understanding in respect to the use of outside contractors so far as it involves or affects work in classifications in the bargaining unit.
When contractors employing LB.E.W. members are readily available and qualified to perform live wire work usually done by employees in the bargaining unit, they will be given any contracts involving live wire work and, al) things being equal, will be given preference for other work usually done by employees in the bargaining unit. It is understood that this limitation does not apply to the kinds of work other than live wire work customarily given to outside contractors in the past such as tree trimming and group replacement of streetlights.
Also, the Company, ail things being equal, will not have work done by contract which is usually done by employees in the bargaining unit when this would cause a layoff of such employees. This will in no way apply to the use of nonbargaining unit personnel in -273-
the employ of the Company which is covered in a separate memorandum.
3.	ft is understood that any part-time employees of the Company currently performing work in classifications in the bargaining unit are excluded from the bargaining unit and that the Company will not add to the number of such employees.
4.	*** Obsolete
5.	’** Superceded
This memorandum shall be considered to be a part of the collective bargaining Agreement between the parties although not incorporated physically therein and shall be effective for the duration of said collective bargaining Agreement.
THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
By: /si H. Warren Lawrence, Vice President
Witness; fsf Robert F. Burnham
THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS Local 1419
By: 1st Alexander E. Walach, Business Manager
Witness: (si Leonard Jaworski
-274-
THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
and
Local 383, I.B.E.W.
Effective as of July 1,1960
In addition to matters agreed upon and incorporated in the collective bargaining Agreement of even date between the parties, the following are agreements and understandings reached concurrently with such collective bargaining Agreement.
1.	"’Obsolete
2.	While the collective bargaining Agreement between the parties provides that there will be no other restrictions on the Company's use of outside contractors, this will confirm our understanding in respect to the use of outside contractors so far as it involves or affects work in classifications in the bargaining unit.
When contractors employing I.B.E.W. members are readily available and qualified to perform live wire work usually done by employees in the bargaining unit, they will be given any contracts involving live wire work and, all things being equal, will be given preference for other work usually done by employees in the bargaining unit. It is understood that this limitation does not apply to the kinds of work other than live wire work customarily given to outside contractors in die past such as tree trimming and group replacement of streetlights.
Also, the Company, all things being equal, will not have work done by contract which is usually done by employees in the bargaining unit when this would cause a layoff of such employees. This will in no way apply to the use of nonbargaining unit personnel in
-275-
the employ of the Company which is covered in a separate memorandum.
3.	It is understood that any part-time employees of the Company currently performing work in classifications in the bargaining unit are excluded from the bargaining unit and that the Company will not add to the number of such employees.
4.	Obsolete
5.	*** Superceded
This memorandum shall be considered to be a part of the collective bargaining Agreement between the parties although not incorporated physically therein and shall be effective for the duration of said collective bargaining Agreement.
THE HARTFORD ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY
By: H. Warren Lawrence, Vice President
Witness: H, John Mosher
THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS - Local 383
By: Reginald W. Butts, Business Manager
Witness: Harold P. Meyer
-276-
June 23, 1989
LR-89-73
Vlr. J. R. Healey, Business Manager _ocal No. 420-I.B.E.W.
Vtr. J. R. Kelly, Business Manager .ocal No. 457-1.B.E.W.
3entlemen:
Re:	Personal Security-Meter Reader and Meter
Service Personnel
fo enhance the personal safety of Meter Reader and yieter Service personnel, the following guidelines should je observed:
V Meter Reader and Meter Service personnel will avoid entering a high-risk area to perform their assigned duties if it appears that their personal safety, or the safety of their personal or company property, may be endangered. Personnel should report such conditions immediately to their supervisor.
3. District management will request local law enforcement agencies to accompany employees performing an assignment in a high-risk area when the employee has identified the area as imminently dangerous.
Very truly yours,
Richard E. Pawloski
Director-Labor Relations
REP/cak
-277-
November 22, 2004
Mr. John Unikas, Business Manager Local Union 420 - LB.E.W.
550 Wolcott Street
Waterbury, CT 06705
MS. Theresa Kmetetz, Assistant Business Manager
Local Union 457 - LB.E.W.
1237 East Main Street, 1st Floor South
Meriden, Ct 06450
Re: 2004 Blue Book & Green Book Announcements
John & Terry:
As part of the 2004 Blue Book and Green Book negotiations the Company announced that it would discontinue certain practices upon expiration of the current contract. Of the seven (7) Blue Book and six (6) Green Book announcements, the Union Locals expressed specific membership concerns regarding the three (3) announcements below, and requested that the Company commit that any future changes to these announcements be negotiated with the Locals.
-278-
In agreeing to the Union's request, the Company is agreeing—without precedent and without in any way committing to negotiate with the Locals with respect to any other announcements (whether made in the past, present or future)—to negotiate future modifications of the three (3) 2004 announcements listed below:
o	Announcement - displaced employees,
who are hired after June 1, 2004, will be required to successfully pass applicable aptitude tests (i.e., CAST, Tech., etc.) prior to exercising bumping options under Article V, Reassignment, Layoff and Demotion.
o Announcement * the Company eliminates the practice of rotating crews after 1% hours worked for the sole purpose of equitable distribution of overtime. The Company will attempt to change-out crews after 3 hours.
o Announcement - On-call Prearranged Overtime Practices - with the exception of Saturday and Sunday, the Company eliminates the practice of using the scheduled on-call lineworker for prearranged overtime.
-279-
It is also understood and agreed that this agreement in no way affects the Company's management rights, including but not limited to, determining qualifications (including testing), establishing schedules (including establishment of the on-call week, shifts, etc.), and making work assignments.
Agreed to by the Company:
/s/ Mr. Robert G. Lizotte January 6, 2005
Agreed to by the Locals:
/s/ Ms, Theresa Kmetetz January 6, 2005
(Local 457)
/s/ Mr. John Unikas	January 6, .2005
(Local 420)
-280-
-231 -
Iharatry (Uthortn Th* Corracdcut uyx a Powar Con^any to maha ■ atogto Hdatkin taa daductton and in addnton to dadud from my waga* aaoh month union mambanltp dM< in Local *20 and load 457 alto* Mamational Brntharhood ot Etoqbtaal Worltar* In mffl WK* ■*» from B ma to Wna ma aacratarymaasurar a Loa* 420 and Local 4571* to* totomadona* Breewdwod cl Badrlcai Workara may oardfy. BtoiaBon toaa and m>ea covarad by mid authortzadoo ar> no* daducttoto aa chartabto conatoubona tor tadaral mcoma tai purpoaa.
I torthar dract Iha Company to rarrtt Iha amount daductod to ma Union orticar ctotognatod by tha Union to racaoa auch paymanto
Thto audtoriatton ahdl ba aitactnm tor toa dUatton ot any wrtttan agraamant or artanaton Iharaot batwaan Tha Connatttout UgtB a Pawar Company and Local Union No*. 420 and 457 0* Ma Intarnattonal Brotharhood of Etoctricai Workaito M al uniaaa cancalad m witting by ma.
Appftovta b^ctoR ■ lwor RaxnoHs	DATE
si0WTUn£a!E«pU>Ve£			6Mi£	
INITIATION FEES AND UNION DUES DEDUCTIONS CARD
2004
anuary
M T W T F S
1 2 3
5 6 7 8 9 10
1 12 13 14 15 16 17
6 19 20 21 22 23 24
5 26 27 20 29 30 31
February
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1011 12 13 14 1516 17 IB 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29
March
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31
Ipril M T W T F S 1 2 3 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 12 13 14 15 16 17	May S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1112 13 14 15	June S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
8 19 20 21 22 23 24 >5 26 27 28 29 30	16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
luly , M T W T F S 1 2 3 5 8 7 8 9 10 1 12 13 14 1516 17 8 19 20 21 22 23 24 5 26 27 28 29 30 31	August S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 2 5 26 27 28 29 30 31	September S M T W T F S 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
October M I W T F S
1 2
4 5 6 7 8 9
0 11 12 13 14 15 16
7 18 19 20 21 22 23
4 25 26 27 28 29 30
November $ M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1213 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
December
S M T W T F S
12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 1011
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
- 283-
2005
January	February	March
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	SMTWTFi-
1	1 2 3 4 5	1 2 3 4 5-
2 3 4 5 6 7 8	6 7 8 9 10 11 12	6 7 8 9 10 11 1
9 10 11 12 13 14 15	13 14 1516 17 18 19	13 14 15 16 17 18 1
16 17 181920 21 22	20 21 22 23 24 25 26	20 21 22 23 24 25 2
25 24 25 26 27 28 29	27 28	27 28 29 30 31
30 31		
April	May	June
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
1 2	1 2 3 4 5 6 7	12 3 4
3 4 5 6 7 8 9	8 9 10 11 12 13 14	5 6 7 8 9 10 1
10 11 12 13 14 15 16	15 16 17 18 19 20 21	12 13 14 15 16 17 1
17 18 19 20 21 22 23	22 23 24 25 26 27 28	19 20 21 22 23 24 2
24 25 26 27 28 29 30	29 30 31	26 27 28 29 30
July
S M T W T F S
1 2
3 4 5 8 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 1516 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
October
S M T W T F S
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
August
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 3031
November
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30
September
S M T W T F S 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 1 11 12 13 14 15 16 1
18 19 20 21 22 23 2 25 26 27 28 29 30
December
S M T W T F S
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 1
11 12 1314 1516 1
18 19 20 21 22 23 2
25 26 27 28 29 30 3
-284-
anuary
M T w T F S
2 3 4 5 6 7
9 10 11 12 13 14
5 16 17 18 19 20 21
2 23 24 25 26 27 28
9 30 31
February
S M T w T f s
12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 1516 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
March
S M T W T F S
12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31
\pril	May	June
> M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
1	1 2 3 4 5 6	1 2 3
■3 4 5 6 7 8	7 8 9 10 11 12 13	4 5 6 7 8 9 10
) 10 11 12 13 14 15	14 15 16 17 1819 20	11 12 13 14 15 16 17
16 17 18 19 20 21 22	21 22 23 24 25 26 27	18 19 20 21 22 23 24
?3 24 25 26 27 28 29	28 29 30 31	25 26 27 28 29 30
10		
[uly	August	September
3 M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S
1	1 2 3 4 5	1 2
2 3 4 5 6 7 8	6 7 8 9 10 11 12	3 4 5 6 7 B 9
9 10 11 12 13 14 15	13 14 1516 17 18 19	10 11 12 13 14 15 16
6 17 18 19 20 21 22	20 21 22 23 24 25 26	17 18 19 20 21 22 23
3 24 25 26 27 28 29	27 28 29 30 31	24 25 26 27 28 29 30
JO 31		
October	November	December
5 MT WT F S	S MT (VT F S	S M T W T F S
2 3 4 5 6 7	12 3 4	1 2
3 9 10 11 12 13 14	5 6 7 8 9 10 11	3 4 5 6 7 8 9
5 16 17 18 19 20 21	12 13 14 1516 17 18	10 11 12 13 14 15 16
22 23 24 25 26 27 28	19 20 21 22 23 24 25	17 IB 19 20 21 22 23
29 30 31	26 27 28 29 30	24 25 26 27 28 29 30
31
-285-
2007
January
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 1819 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31
February s M t w t f s
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 *10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28
March
S M T W T F I 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 1 11 12 13 14 15 16 1
18 19 20 21 22 23 2-25 26 27 28 29 30 3
April
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 1920 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
May
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11*12 13 14 1516 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
June
S M T W T F S 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 IE 17 18 19 20 21 22 2..
24 25 26 27 28 29 3C
July S M T W T F S	August S M T W T F 8	September 8 M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ID 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1112 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26 29 30
October S M T W T F S 12 3*56 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 16 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	November S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1314 151617 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 2B 29 30	December S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1011 12 1314 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
-286 -
2008
inaury
M T w T F s
1 2 3 4 5
7 8 9 10 11 12
14 1516 17 18 19
21 22 23 24 25 26
28 29 30 31
February 8 M T W T F 8
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 12 13 14 15 16'
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29
March
S M T W T F S
1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9 10 1112 13 14 15
16 17 1819 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
30 31
pril
M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5
7 8 9 10 11 12
14 15 16 17 18 19
21 22 23 24 25 26
28 29 30
May
S M T W T F S 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
June
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1011 12 13 14 15 16 1718 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
ily
M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5
7 8 9 10 11 12
14 15 16 17 18 19
21 22 23 24 25 26
28 29 30 31
ctober
M T W T F S
12 3 4
6 7 8 9 10 11
13 14 15 16 17 18
20 21 22 23 24 25
27 28 29 30 31
August
S MT WT F S 1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
November
S M T W T F S 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 2021 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
September
S MT WT F s
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30
December
S M T W T F S
1 2 3 4 5 6
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31
-287-
2009
January
8 M T W T F S
1 2 3
4 5 6 7 B S 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
16 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 26 29 30 31
February
S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1011 121314 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 26
March
S M T W T F 1 2 3 4 5 6
8 9 10 11 12 13 15 16 17 18 1920
22 23 24 25 26 27 29 30 31
April	May	June
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S M T W T F
12 3 4	1 2	1 2 3 4 5
5 6 7 8 9 1011	3 4 5 6 7 8 9	7 8 9 10 11 12
12 13 14 15 16 17 18	10 11 12 13 14 15 16	14 15 16 17 18 19
19 20 21 22 23 24 25	17 16 19 20 21 22 23	21 22 23 24 25 26
26 27 28 29 30	24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	28 29 30
July	August S M T W T F S	September
S M T W T F S		S M T W T F
12 3 4	1	12 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11	2 3 4 5 6 7 8	6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18	9 10 11 12 13 14 15	13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25	16 17 18 19 20 21 22	20 21 22 23 24 25
26 27 28 29 30 31	23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31	27 28 29 30
October	November	December
S M T W T F S	S M T W T F S	S MT VH F
1 2 3	1 2 3 4 5 6 7	12 3 4
4 5 6 7 8 9 10	8 9 10 11 12 13 14	6 7 8 9 10 11
11 12 13 14 15 16 17	15 16 17 IB 19 20 21	13 14 1516 17 18
1819 20 21 22 23 24	22 23 24 25 26 27 28	20 21 22 23 24 25
25 26 27 28 29 30 31	29 30	27 28 29 30 31
-288-
AFL-CIO
Always keep in mind the Company Safety Policy:
NO JOB IS IMPORTANT ENOUGH TO INVOLVE A SACRIFICE OF SAFE WORK PRACTICES
Connecticut
Light & Power
The Northeast Utilities System