LOCAL 175, UWUA, AFL-CIO AND
COMPACT 2008
LOCAL 175, UWUA, AFL-CIO AND THE DAYTON POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY
NOVEMBER 1, 2008 TO
OCTOBER 31, 2011
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.	Our Joint Mission..................................1
II.	Management and The Union...........................1
III.	The Basic Compact..................................2
IV.	Employee Bill of Rights............................3
V.	Career Preference..................................4
VI.	Training Opportunities and Safety..................5
VII.	Issue Resolution...................................6
VIII.	Hours of Work......................................7
IX.	Overtime...........................................8
X.	Seniority.........................................10
XI.	Pay for Performance...............................11
XII.	Benefits..........................................11
XIII.	Term of Compact...................................16
I.	OUR JOINT MISSION
Our joint mission is to compete successfully in the deregulated utility industry of the future. We are united in purpose to safely serve our customers, communities and industry. We must build now on our success to capture the lead in service quality and value in all the energy markets we serve. The economic health of our Company and thus the security and well-being of us all depends on the success of our shared commitment to prepare for the future and compete in a free market economy. Our goal is to establish the Local 175 and DP&.L working relationship as the standard of excellence. We care about DPL being a great company!
Our Company is its people. We value: respect, trust, integrity and pride. With this Compact we must move toward a clear vision of employees as human assets in our Company. It recognizes the need for continual employee involvement in adapting to change and 'secures employee participation in the institutions which manage change. By focusing on ever improving personal performance, both the Union and the Company benefit.
Our methods for constant improvement must build on consultation, mutual respect, open communication, shared success, mutual aid, our heightened personal commitment and innovative problem-solving which have led our transition to competitive excellence. The intent of our Compact continues to be that each employee becomes daily a more capable, confident, committed and secure person.
II.	MANAGEMENT AND THE UNION
It is not intended that this Compact alter the function of the Union and the management or limit the use of joint labor management panels.
A.	Management and Union - The Union, the management and the employees will all promote improved customer service, the consultative relationship, work life harmony, mutual trust and responsible issue resolution.
We will support the negotiated Wellness Program consistent with law and the desire for optimum uniformity.
B.	Management - Management will define, communicate and implement the objectives and goals of the Company. It will lead and direct the employees. It will provide resources and equipment for safe and efficient work performance. It will establish and enforce reasonable work rules. It will accomplish these things through the exercise of all the rights and prerogatives associated with management and exercised by it. This section does not abrogate other provisions of this agreement.
1
C.	The Union - Local 175, UWUA, AFL-CIO is the sole and exclusive representative of the recognized bargaining unit employees within the historical work jurisdiction with respect to wages, hours and conditions of employment. It will represent unit employee views and administer this Compact. Elected full-time Union officials shall have leave of absence with full seniority and benefits. If employed by DP&L, the Company will pay straight time wages and incentive payouts for the President and/or Vice President of Local 175. Consistent with the Basic Compact, part-time employees (those limited to less than 1,000 hours per year) shall be excluded from the bargaining unit for the duration of this Labor Compact. They may be used for meter reading, illness/vacation replacement and to supplement the regular employee work force in accordance with the understanding of the parties. Temporary employees are those who are employed for a specific task and a specific period of time under the direct supervision of the Company; they are excluded from the bargaining unit. The use of temporary personnel is limited and shall be reviewed with the Union on a regular basis. New employees may be terminated without cause during their one-year probationary period
D.	Dues Checkoff - Upon Union certification of membership status and checkoff authorizations, the Company will deduct monthly from each Union-eligible employee's pay and remit to the Union an amount equal to the monthly Union dues for each employee. The Company agrees to deduct from the paycheck of each Union-eligible employee's pay voluntary contributions to the Local 175 COPE fund and/or UWUA National COPE fund. The Company shall forward to the appropriate COPE fund on a monthly basis the total amount deducted along with the name of each bargaining unit employee who made a contribution.
III.	THE BASIC COMPACT
A.	Commensurate with the continued success of our joint mission and attendant objectives and goals, the Company will retain each existing unit employee for the term of the agreement.
In any transaction involving the continuation of one or more of the Company's current business unit operations by another entity, DP&L will require that such entity agree to (1) offer employment to the affected bargaining unit employees in such operations to the extent and for the jobs necessary, (2) recognize Local 175 as the exclusive representative of such employees, and (3) adopt and become signatory to the Local 175 collective bargaining agreement covering such employees. Once a unit employee is offered employment with substantially the same terms and conditions of employment by the new entity, including continuation of credited pension service, the employment and future contractual rights of such employee with DP&L shall terminate.
2
B.	This agreement supports employees in becoming more professional, versatile and productive in their daily work responsibilities. There will be no layoffs due to such improvements. There will be no discipline or terminations without cause; there will be no lockouts, strikes, slowdowns, or other interruptions of work.
C.	Contracted Work - The Company will not employ outside contractors for work which will result in a layoff of employees in the bargaining unit who customarily and ordinarily do such work. Any bargaining unit employee affected by contracting shall be permitted to remain in their present position until retirement, or be given a comparable job without loss of pay. Current overtime practices will continue. This language takes the place of all previous agreements on contracting.
D.	Management, the Union and each employee will cooperate to maintain high levels of efficiency, productivity and meet service standards throughout the Company.
E.	Nothing in this Agreement will prevent supervisors in their discretion from performing tasks routinely performed by control room operators so long as no control room operator loses their job, pay or normal work assignment as a result.
IV.	EMPLOYEE BILL OF RIGHTS
It is the right of every employee:
•	To be treated with respect;
■	To expect cooperation in improving safety;
■	To be informed of Company objectives and goals;
■	To be encouraged in developing potential;
■	To be evaluated regularly and constructively;
■	To participate in improving work methods;
■	To participate in issue resolution procedures; and
■	To share in the gains of the Company.
3
V.	CAREER PREFERENCE
A.	Career Preference - Once an open position has been identified, the position will be advertised via the DPL intranet and Company bulletin boards for employees who do not have intranet access. A copy of the advertisement will be forwarded to Local 175.
The openings will be advertised for 14 calendar days to allow employees an opportunity to register their interest. The expiration date will be noted on the advertisement. Applications will not be accepted after the expiration date.
Interested employees will complete the Career Preference Application Form. Career Preference forms will be forwarded to Human Resources, who will compile a list of interested candidates in order of Company seniority. At the end of the 14 day period, Human Resources will forward the list of interested employees to the requesting manager. A copy will be forwarded to Local 175.
Once a position is advertised, the opening will be filled with the senior qualified employee who responded to the advertisement.
With due regard to registered interests, management will be responsible for hiring and initial placement of additional personnel.
The general qualifications referenced in this section of the Compact are:
(1)	The possession of normal health, the particular senses required and the necessary strength and endurance to fill their assigned jobs;
(2)	A willingness to follow instructions and cooperate with fellow employees;
(3)	A willingness, when the need arises, to respond to calls outside of regular hours;
(4)	A willingness, when required, to direct the work of employees of a lower job rating assisting on the same work;
(5)	Compliance with reasonable general rules of the Company (including safety rules), with the reasonable rules of the department in which they are employed, and with those of other departments with which their work must be coordinated;
(6)	When required, a practical working knowledge of first aid as covered by the Red Cross Standard First Aid Course; also, when required, a thorough working knowledge of respiration or resuscitation; and
4
(7)	The ability and willingness to always meet customers and the public in a pleasant, tactful manner and to perform their duties in such a way as to best insure the maintenance of good public relations.
B.	Joint Labor Management Initiative - To promote continual planning and implementation of joint Compact initiatives, resources will be dedicated pursuant to the Labor Management Cooperation Act of 1978 for application in lawful purposes under the authority of trustees appointed by DP&L and Local 175.
VI.	TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES AND SAFETY
A.	Training - Training is critical to profitability, to maintenance of an efficient and competitive workforce and to employee advancement. Both management and the Union are committed to preparing our workforce for the future and recognize that well-trained employees are essential to gaining a competitive advantage. Management and the Union will jointly define and develop job training. Employees will be assigned by skills and experience to progress levels encompassing a variety of functions and services; they will be able to demonstrate maintenance of these progress levels. Employees will be provided training opportunities adapted to local circumstances, and shall receive pay increases upon completion of assigned training required for increased responsibilities. We are committed to encouraging and allowing employees the opportunity to voluntarily gain additional skills.
Employees in traditional jobs, not at the top of their pay range, will go from the minimum of the job to the maximum of the job in the time in grade period contained in the job description, with wage increases equally distributed over that time period. Any job without time in grade requirements will be assumed to be 24 months. The Union and Management commit to review all traditional jobs during the term of this Agreement.
Applicants for Team Lead positions throughout the Company must successfully complete Team Lead training. Management and the Union will jointly define and develop Team Lead training.
B.	Safety - Working safely is of the utmost importance to each of us and requires the commitment of all employees. Management will ensure safety through the implementation of a safety commitment and each area will seek input from the Union and employees in the development and maintenance of responsible safety goals and objectives, subject to regular measurements and evaluations.
5
VII.	ISSUE RESOLUTION
The success of our mutual relations under this agreement depends on our commitment to address issues in a fair and responsible way. It is a matter of trust. Management and the Union recognize that it is necessary to resolve disputes at the lowest possible level, provided such resolutions are not inconsistent with the terms of this agreement. Through mutual pledges to approach concerns in a problem-solving manner that is characterized by vesting appropriate authority to resolve issues in supervisors, employees, managers and Union stewards, we have established the following procedures:
A.	Unlimited Referral - There is no limit on the nature of issues which may be referred to this process by employees, the Union, or Management. The process will be used to advance positive ideas as well as to examine perceived wrongs. The only qualifications are that the affected person(s) certify the issue as a responsible one of genuine concern and thereafter participate firsthand in its resolution. Employees will be paid scheduled rates for work time required for issue resolution. Union representatives may participate as they choose in any phase of issue resolution.
B.	Procedure - An issue should be addressed promptly between the affected person and those with the resources and authority to resolve the issue. The initiator and responder have the responsibility for introducing the issue constructively, for identifying the necessary participants and resources for the resolution of the issue, and any further necessary interaction to resolve the issue.
If not resolved within 20 days, the issue will be jointly defined in writing and discussed at the monthly consultative meeting. The process/issue will then be reviewed by the Union Executive Board before it may be referred to mediation or arbitration. A copy of the unresolved issue will be sent to Labor Relations.
C.	Facilitation - Upon mutual agreement, either Management or the Union may refer an unresolved issue to facilitation. The Facilitator's fee will be paid from the Joint Labor Management Trust Fund.
D.	Mediation - Upon mutual agreement, either Management or the Union may refer an unresolved issue to mediation. The neutral Umpire must certify that the issue has not been resolved before it may be referred to arbitration. The neutral Umpire will be selected from a panel of mediators, who have been mutually approved by the parties for participation in the issue resolution process. Either party may remove a mediator from the panel. The Mediator's fee will be paid from the Joint Labor Management Trust Fund.
6
E.	Arbitration - Either party may refer an issue to arbitration. The Impartial Arbitrator shall be selected from a panel of five arbitrators, who have been mutually approved by the parties for participation in the issue resolution process. Each of the five arbitrators shall serve on the panel for a period of 18 months. Upon the expiration of the 18-month period, either party may remove an arbitrator from the panel. The arbitrators shall have no power to add to or subtract from or modify the terms of this agreement. The Arbitrator shall announce the decision or resolution as speedily as possible in writing, and it shall be binding upon the parties. The parties shall bear their own costs of arbitration. The Impartial Arbitrator's fee will be split equally between the Union and the Company.
F.	Arbitration Backlog - When the Union and Labor Relations, with consideration of the quantity of issues and the time they have been appealed to arbitration, determines there is a backlog of issues in Service Operations (including Financial Operations) or Power Production, a special problem solving process will be conducted to address the backlog.
G.	Discharge Cases- Employee discharge cases will be referred directly to the Local 175 Executive Board for review to determine if the discharge will be arbitrated. If advanced to arbitration, the discharge case will be scheduled for the next available arbitration date.
VIII.	HOURS OF WORK
The basic work week shall consist of five days of eight hours each, or forty hours. Work is performed under two schedules, "regular work schedules" and "irregular work schedules." Employees will normally have a 15-minute break in the morning and the afternoon. Power Production employees (on schedules other than 3 shift rotating or twelve-hour schedules) may elect to take one or both breaks at the end of their work shift.
■	Employees electing to take one or both breaks at the end of the work shift will clock out and receive the commensurate 15 or 30 minutes straight time pay. After clocking out, employees may leave work.
*	All employees assigned to a work crew will have the same break schedule. Crews will notify their supervisor of their break schedule election on a weekly basis.
■	Break duration is 15 minutes, including travel time.
7
A.	Regular Schedules - Regular work schedules will be Monday through Friday, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. They will consist of five days of eight consecutive hours each, or 40 hours.
B.	Irregular Schedules - All other working schedules shall be known as irregular work schedules. When irregular schedules include Saturday, Sunday or holidays, they shall, unless otherwise mutually agreed, be rotated in such a manner as to equalize the Saturday, Sunday and holiday work among the employees involved.
Employees on irregular work schedules may have a moving Saturday and Sunday as their days off, rather than the calendar Saturday and Sunday. When the calendar Sunday is one of their days off and they work it, it will be treated as their Sunday.
Scheduled Premium - A premium of 4<t per hour will be paid to all irregular scheduled employees. Shift premiums will be 50$ and 75<t per hour for the second and third shifts respectively, as determined by whether the majority of a shift's hours fall between 3:00 p.m.-11:00 p.m. or 11:00 p.m.-7:00 a.m. Shift premium shall be paid on all hours worked. The scheduled calendar Sunday premium is 25% of the regular hourly rate.
When an employee works two consecutive shifts the second shift will be worked on an overtime basis.
C.	Schedule Change - When an employee's schedule is changed, every effort will be made to give as much advance notice as possible. An employee's schedule will be changed only to fill an extended vacancy.
D.	New Schedules - Upon mutual agreement of management and at least two-thirds majority of the affected employees, new work schedules other than those outlined in the book of schedules may be implemented. A new schedule shall be reduced to writing and reviewed with the Union prior to the implementation on a trial basis. The new schedule will be signed by an Officer of the Company and the President of the Union before becoming permanent.
IX. OVERTIME
A.	Overtime hours are those hours worked in excess of the regularly scheduled workday or in excess of 40 hours per week. If mutually agreed, employees may accept time off in lieu of overtime pay at the applicable rate.
8
Time and one-half will be paid for all overtime unless double time rates apply. Double time will be paid for all overtime:
•	After midnight, unless prearranged within two hours of scheduled starting time;
•	On an employee's Sunday;
■	In excess of normally scheduled hours on a holiday;
■	In excess of 12 hours on an employee's day off except Sunday;
■	As a result of call-in;
■	After 17 hours while employees are working schedules other than their regular ones.
B.	Overtime Minimum - Unless it is canceled on the preceding shift or 12 hours in advance, employees will be assured three pay hours for scheduled overtime which is not consecutive with their regular shift - four pay hours if called in, and six pay hours if the overtime was prearranged for a normal day off.
C.	Overtime opportunities will be fairly equalized as nearly as practicable within the appropriate job title(s)/classification in the area/reporting location. Employees recognize their personal responsibility to respond to overtime requests. The parties are committed to utilizing technology and process improvement to speed up overtime response. Methods for implementing those principles will be those arranged by the Union, employees and managers.
D.	It is intended that employees working overtime will receive adequate rest. At a minimum they will be entitled to eight hours rest after working 16 hours out of the previous 24 beginning with an employee's starting time. Employees who work overtime during the eight hours preceding their normal shift may have their starting time delayed by the number of hours worked. This does not apply to prearranged overtime if the employee has eight continuous hours off between shifts nor to overtime that starts within two hours of regularly scheduled starting time and is continuous with that starting time.
Employees entitled to rest will be paid the straight time hourly rate for any hours of a rest period that fall within their normal work schedule.
9
X. SENIORITY
Employees accrue and retain seniority according to length of service in a job, the company and an area. Among employees qualified for an opportunity other than career preference, priority is accorded job, company and area seniority; company seniority has priority in voluntary placement or bumping during surplus. Employees will be notified of job opportunities.
In the event there is a surplus situation, Management and the Union will work together to resolve placement of employees prior to bumping. In the event of a bumping situation, the senior employee can bump an employee with less seniority when the senior employee can demonstrate the ability to perform the essential job duties.
A surplus is not activated if the work (same or substantially similar job functions) for an employee or group of employees is moved from one location to another, as long as the distance between work locations is less than 35 miles.
While receiving personal illness pay, an employee will accumulate seniority. After the expiration of such benefits, the employees will continue to accumulate seniority for a period equal to that for which the employee received benefits.
After the accumulation of seniority, as described above, an employee will retain, but will not accumulate any further seniority until the employee has returned for regular employment, or is eligible for further illness pay benefits.
For the purposes of this section, 40 hours of illness pay shall constitute one week of seniority. When employees return after absence due to illness, they shall be re-employed on their previous job unless circumstances beyond the control of the Company make this impossible.
In order to avoid unfairness which may be caused by this section, the application of this section may be varied by agreement between the Union and the Company.
The seniority of an employee who suffers industrial disability shall accrue while absent by reason of such disability. On return from absence because of industrial disability, an employee shall return to the same classification, provided the employee is physically and mentally able to perform the assigned duties therein.
10
XI.	PAY FOR PERFORMANCE
Employees' compensation will consist of hourly pay rates, incentives and an Employee Stock Ownership Plan, all of which are set forth in "The Dayton Power and Light Pay Schedule." For new or substantially changed jobs, Management will set a new rate subject to referral for issue resolution between 60 and 90 days after the rate is implemented.
Temporarily transferred employees will be paid the higher of their regular job rate or the temporary job rate, a minimum premium of 10<t/hour if the temporary job minimum rate is higher than the employee's regular rate (20<t /hour minimum if to crew leader). Employees upgraded to non-bargaining unit positions will receive 30<f/hour.
XII.	BENEFITS
The following negotiated Union benefits appear in the Union Employee's Handbook:
■	Special Employees
*	Leave of Absence
■	Wellness Program
■	Retirement/Pension
■	Medical
■	Life Insurance
■	Military Service
■	Disability
■	Employee Savings Plan (401k)
■	Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
■	Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
The following are additional negotiated benefits:
A.	Holidays - Every employee will be paid straight time on the agreed celebration day for New Year's Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving Day, the day before Christmas Day, Christmas Day and the day before New Year's Day. Employees will be paid a minimum of eight straight time hours if their regular day off falls on the celebrated holiday. Employees will be paid straight time hours equal to the amount of hours they would have been paid if the celebrated holiday falls on a day they are normally scheduled to work (not less than 8 hours). (Refer to Book of Schedule for employees on the 12-hour schedule for the purpose of holiday straight time hours paid.) As many employees as possible will be given time off on such holidays. Employees who do work during a holiday celebration
11
on their normal scheduled day shall be paid an additional one and one-half times straight time rate for the hours worked. For irregular scheduled employees, this holiday work pay shall apply to the calendar holiday unless the employee is scheduled to work the celebration day and not the calendar holiday, in which case it shall apply to the celebration day. Any employee may be granted a day off in lieu of the holiday through mutual consent.
Floating holidays are available for Good Friday, July 4, Day After Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve. Requesting of floating holidays is at the employee's discretion. The granting of a floating holiday request will be based on staffing needs and seniority. Floating holidays must be taken in a full day's schedule of hours, except for the DuPont 12 hour schedule, during that calendar year. Management will allow employees who are forced to work the holiday to treat it as a floating holiday.
B.	Vacations - January 1 of each year, all employees on active payroll in the preceding vacation year will receive 100% of their accrued vacation from April 1 - December 31 of the previous year. This equals 75% of their annual vacation entitlement. April 1 of each year, employees on active payroll will receive 100% of their accrued vacation from January 1 - March 31 which is 25% of their annual entitlement.
Employees shall be entitled to the following vacation time as accrued while on the active payroll in the preceding vacation year (April 1 - March 31).
Years of Service as of January 1 Qualifying Date	Vacation Hours
0-1 1-9	4 hours for each month not to exceed 40 hours 40 hours plus 4 hours for each month of service over 1 year not to exceed 80 hours
9 14 24	120 hours 160 hours 200 hours
Scheduling of vacation time will be with supervisor approval and based on signup order and/or by Company seniority. Pro rata vacation entitlement shall not be affected by termination, resignation, retirement, death or military leave. Vacation entitlements of employees will not be affected after their qualifying date. After a vacation is scheduled, it may not be changed except by mutual agreement of the employee and the employee's supervisor.
12
Solely at the employee's option, employees may volunteer to sell back to the Company all annual vacation entitlement in excess of two weeks. Employees with two weeks or less annual vacation entitlement may volunteer to sell back to the Company annual vacation entitlement in excess of one week. Elections to sell back vacation must be made on the first working day of January, April, July and October. On each election date, employees may elect to sell back up to 1 week (40 hours). On the first working day of December, employees may volunteer to sell back any remaining vacation entitlement eligible to be sold.
C.	Paid Absence Time - Each employee on the payroll January 1 of each year shall be entitled to 16 hours paid absence time to be taken during such calendar year. Newly hired employees shall be entitled to 16 hours paid absence time at the time of hire and must use this entitlement during their first 12 months of employment.
D.	Bereavement Leave - Employees will be permitted time off with scheduled straight time pay from the date of death to the funeral date of the employee's father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, siblings, parents-in-law, grandchildren or persons living in an employee's household. Scheduled time off with pay will be granted to attend the funeral of grandparents, son (daughter-in-law and brother (sister)-in-law. Time off for a friend or relative not mentioned above will be without pay.
E.	Illness Pay - Employees unable to perform regular work or available light duty due to illness or injury will receive pay per the following schedule:
Years of Service	Weeks at Full Pay (40 Hrs.)	Weeks at Half Pay (20 Hrs.)
6 Mo. - Less than 1 Yr.	1	1
1 Yr. - Less than 2 Yr.	2	2
2 Yr. - Less than 3 Yr.	3	3
3 Yr. - Less than 4 Yr.	4	4
4 Yr. - Less than 5 Yr.	5	5
5 Yr. - Less than 6 Yr.	6	6
6 Yr. - Less than 7 Yr.	7	7
7 Yr. - Less than 8 Yr.	8	8
8 Yr. - Less than 9 Yr.	9	9
9 Yr. - Less than 10 Yr.	10	10
10 Yr - Less than 15 Yr.	15	15
15 Yr. And Over	20	20
13
Employees off due to illness will be paid holiday pay when the celebrated holiday occurs while the employee is off. All employees will have an unpaid waiting period of 8 hours for the first occasion and 24 hours for subsequent occasions unless they are confined to a hospital or have out patient surgery. The unpaid waiting period of 8 hours for the first occasion is reset after the employee has no illness for 12 consecutive months. Illness credits are earned in 16 hour increments by having no illness for twelve months and are applied against the waiting period. Calendar year entitlements are established by being actively at work in the calendar year. Vacation, time off in lieu of overtime, and/or paid absence time may be applied against the waiting period. All unused illness credits will be purchased by the Company at the employees' straight time rate upon the employees' retirement.
Employees unable to perform regular work or available light duty due to work related illness or injury will receive a separate allowance of the full difference between Ohio Workers' Compensation payments and regular pay for twenty weeks, then one-half that difference for an additional twenty weeks per illness or injury.
F.	Disability Allowance - Employees will be entitled to a monthly disability allowance when they have medical certification of total disability from performing their assigned job duties and illness allowances have been exhausted. Once an employee is eligible for PTD, they will receive 50% of their gross hourly pay for a maximum of 24 months or until they are eligible and receive Social Security disability, whichever occurs first. After the above time, the disability allowance, payable to normal retirement, will be 30% of their gross hourly pay. Employees on the PTD program will be entitled to a transition payment (refer to the Employee Handbook for the payment criteria). The Company and Union will continue their current practice for "Special Employees."
G.	Jury and Witness Pay - Employees will be permitted time off with scheduled straight time pay for all time reasonably required to discharge duties resulting from subpoena for jury duty or as a witness in an action to which the employee is not a party.
H.	Travel Pay - Reimbursement for employees assigned to other than their regular reporting location is as follows:
•	Less than 50 miles: for actual miles driven, mileage at the prevailing I.R.S. rate.
•	Beyond 50 miles: round trip transportation or mileage on Company time, plus reasonable meals, lodging and a $5 incidental fee, or at the employee's election, a $125 per diem.
14
In emergency situations when lodging is required, meals, lodging and a $5 daily incidental fee will be provided.
I.	Use of Persona! Vehicle - Agreed employee use of insured private vehicles for Company business will be reimbursed at the prevailing I.R.S. rate.
J.	Moving Expense - The Company will pay reasonable moving expenses for employees it requires to relocate.
K.	Inclement Weather - Existing inclement weather practices will continue unless employees and managers agree on an area basis to improve them. Employees and managers will cooperate in arranging for productive work during inclement weather periods.
L.	Meat Expenses - During overtime, meal expenses of $6.00 per meal will be reimbursed after five hours on call-ins and at every five hour interval thereafter. Employees will be reimbursed for meals as follows:
8 hour employees	At 10 consecutive hours and at five hour intervals thereafter
10 hour employees	At 12 consecutive hours and at five hour intervals thereafter
12 hour employees	At 13 consecutive hours and at five hour intervals thereafter
9 hour employees	At 11 consecutive hours on the nine hour shift, at six consecutive hours on their four hour shift and at five hour intervals thereafter
For all other employees not covered by the above shifts, employees will be paid meal expenses after working one hour past their regular scheduled hours and at five hour intervals thereafter.
For pre-arranged overtime on the employee's day off, meal expenses will be reimbursed after ten consecutive hours of work and at five hour intervals thereafter. Employees who return to work within one and one-half hours of their normal quitting time shall continue to receive meal allowances as if they continued to work.
M.	Licensing Fees - The Company will pay all licensing fees and physical examination costs incurred in order to comply with state or federal laws and regulations.
15
XIII. TERM OF CONTRACT
This agreement is effective upon signing and remains in effect until 11:59 p.m. October 31, 2011.
It shall continue in effect from year to year thereafter unless, by written notice delivered by certified mail not less than 60 days prior to its expiration, a party gives notice of its termination. Agreement of the parties to renegotiate wages or benefits shall not operate as a termination of this agreement.
Any provision of the agreement invalidated by law or governmental proclamation is severable and negotiable, and shall not affect the validity of other provisions of this agreement.
THE DAYTON POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY?	. I	. Daniel J. McCabe Sr. Vice President, HR & Administration Kyle M. King Director, Labor Relations 		 Bryce W. "Nickel Vice President, T&D Operations Kevin W. Crawford // Vice President, Power Production William L. Mercer Consultant	LOCAL 175, UTILITY WORKERS UNION OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO 	 President Greg Adams Vice President Rebecca J. MoUnt Service Operations Representative II Danny Pertuset Killen Station Representative , jfy/PZMwsfy /yr/V'-'l	 ^Kenny Ruck^l J. M. Stuart Station Representative Donald Opatka Regional Director, Utility Workers Union of America
16
The Dayton Power & Light Company
P.O. Box 8825
Dayton, Ohio 45401
(937) 259-7126
Local 175, UWUA, AFL-CIO 2307 Embury Park Rd.
Dayton, Ohio 45414 (937) 275-7471
®
>37