AGREEMENT BETWEEN
VERIZON DELAWARE INC.
VERIZON SERVICES CORP.
AND
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA AFL-CIO
THE UNITED TELEPHONE WORKERS OF
>	DELAWARE
i	(PLANT AND TRAFFIC)
CWA-LOCAL 13101
November 28,1952 351^ As Amended
AUGUST 3, 2003 * Er /<?-/ 0$
13
This amended Agreement contains the provisions		of the following	*
agreements:	Date Effective	1
Date of		Date of
Execution	Other	Wages	Termination	B
8/11/74	7/21/74	7/21/74 8/3/75	1
	8/ 1/76	8/6/77
8/13/77	8/ 7/77	8/ 7/77 8/6/78	
	8/5/79	8/9/80	*
8/16/80	8/10/80	8/10/80 8/9/81	
	8/8/82	8/6/83	■
8/23/83	8/ 7/83	8/24/83 8/5/84	1
	8/4/85	8/9/86
8/14/86	8/10/86	8/10/86 8/9/87	8/5/89	|
	8/7/88	
8/27/89	8/27/89 8/5/90	
	8/4/91	8/8/92	*
8/28/92	8/9/92 8/8/93	1
	8/7/94	8/5/95
1/25/96	12/31/95 12/29/96	8/8/98	|
	12/28/97	
8/11/98	8/9/98	
	8/ 8/99	8/ 5/00
8/23/00	8/ 6/00 8/ 5/01	1
	8/ 4/02	8/2/03	■
9/5/03	8/3/03 8/1/04 8/7/05 8/6/06	1
	8/5/07	8/2/08
See inside back cover for earlier history.		
	[2]	1
I I I
I
I I I
I I
CONTENTS
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT	Page
I.	Definitions .................................3
2.	Recognition ............................... 6
3.	Deduction of Union Dues Payments........... 7
4.	Promotions and Transfers of Union Representatives ............................. 8
5.	Bulletin Boards ........................... 8
6.	Wages ..................................... 9
7.	Working Conditions..........:............. 10
8.	Layoffs Made Necessary by Reduction in the Volume of Work............................... 10'
9.	Contract Labor in the Plant Organization..20
10.	Pensions and Benefits ....................21
11.	Demotions for Misconduct, Discharges and Suspensions ...,.......................... 22
12.	Discrimination for Union Activity........ 23
13.	Procedure for Adjusting Grievances (See Trial Letter)............................ 24
14.	Arbitration........................T.... 28
15.	Safety................................... 36
16.	Federal or State Laws	........... 37
17.	Amendments .............................. 37
18.	Retroactivity............................ 38
19.	Income Security Plan/Enhanced ISP........ 39
20.	Absence for Union Business............... 43
21.	Promotions............................... 47
22.	Non-Discrimination....................... 48
23.	Agency Shop...............................48
24.	Personnel Records........................ 49
25.	Union Representation	..........  50
26.	New Job Titles and Job	Classifications... 50
27.	Reassignment Pay Protection Plan ....... 53
28.	Technology Change Committee ............ 54
29.	Technological Displacement.............. 56
30.	Employment Security Training............ 57
31.	Service Quality Observing .............. 63
32.	Motor Vehicle Usage Program ............ 64
33.	Duration of Agreement .................. 66
Letter Agreements .........................  279
Wage Schedules ..........................160,263
General Index .................................I
I I I I
I
I
I
ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, entered into on September 5, 2003 between VERIZON DELAWARE INC., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, VERIZON SERVICES CORP, (herein collectively called the “Company”), and THE COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO on behalf of its affiliated Local 13101, THE UNITED TELEPHONE WORKERS OF DELAWARE, an unincorporated association;
WHEREAS, on November 28, 1952, the Company and the Union entered into an Agreement with respect to terms and conditions of employment, which Agreement, as amended, was subject to termination on August 2, 2003 as provided in Article 33 thereof; and
WHEREAS, on August 28, 1992, the Company and the Union entered into an Agreement that certain employees of the Financial Organization will be represented by the Union and included under the Articles of Agreement and Exhibit A of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, on May 3, 1977, the Company and the Union entered into Agreement that certain employees in the Outside Plant Engineering organization shall be represented by the Union and included under the Articles of Agreement and Exhibit A of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Company and the Union recognize the importance of maintaining and promoting equitable and harmonious industrial relations and achieving a high level of productivity and efficiency.
NOW THEREFORE, the parties agree that the
[1]
Agreement of November 28, 1952, as amended, shall be further amended in accordance with the following:
[2]
ARTICLE 1
Definitions
I 1 I I 1 I
1.01 Employee
(a)	An employee in any of the occupations listed in Sections A 1.02 and Al 1.02 of Exhibit A who is employed in the following organizations (understood in prior agreements to mean Plant employees):
Customer Services
Distribution Services
Network Services
Outside Facilities Construction Outside Facilities Engineering Support Services Financial Organization
(b)	An employee in any of the occupations listed in Section B1.01 and B1.02 of Exhibit B who is employed in the Operator Services Organization or the Network Administration Organization of Network Services (understood in prior agreements to mean Traffic employees).
(c)	Employees are further classified in accordance with the following:
1.011 Regular Employees
Employees other than Temporary, Term or Occasional employees.
(a)	Full-Time Employees
Employees whose regular assignments of work are normal work weeks.
[3]
(b)	Part-Time Employees
Employees who are employed and normally scheduled to work less hours per average month than comparable Full-Time employees in the same job title, classification and work group working the same normal daily tour.
1.012 Temporary Employees
Employees engaged for a specific project or a limited period, with the definite understanding that their employment is to terminate upon completion of the project or at the end of the period, and whose term of employment is expected to continue for more than three weeks but ordinarily for not more than six (6) months.
I
I I
I
1.013 Term Employees
Employees whose term of employment is intended to last longer than six (6) months but no longer than thirty-six (36) months. Term employees are engaged with the understanding that they will remain in the same occupational title for the duration of their term of employment. No more than 50 employees in the combined Plant/Traffic Organizations may be in the Term classification. The Company will give notice to the President of the Union in advance of hiring a Term employee.
1.014 Occasional Employees
Employees engaged on a daily basis for a pe
[4]
I I
I I
I I
1
riod of not more than three (3) consecutive weeks, or for a cumulative total of not more than thirty (30) days, in any calendar year, regardless of the length of the daily or weekly assignments. An Occasional Employee who actually works or is engaged to work in excess of three (3) consecutive weeks or thirty (30) days in a calendar year shall be reclassified as a Regular, Term, or Temporary, Full-Time or Part-Time Employee, as appropriate.
I I I
I I
1.015 The term “service” when referring to an employee means the employee’s net credited service unless it is clear that some other meaning is intended.
1.016 “Net credited service” means the current period of continuous employment with the Company, together with any other employment to the extent bridged or otherwise recognized, less all deductible periods of absence, all as determined from the payroll records for the employee affected.
1.017 The use of the masculine or feminine gender in this contract shall be construed as including both genders and not as sex limitations unless the contract clearly requires a different construction.
I
I
1.018 The “Union” means the United Telephone Workers of Delaware, CWA - Local 13101 and/or Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO.
[5]
ARTICLE 2 Recognition
2.01 The Company recognizes the Union as the exclusive bargaining agent of the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, hours of employment and other conditions of employment.
2.02 Employees assigned “confidential’' titles shall not be represented by or hold membership in the Union. Such titles shall not be assigned to more than eight employees at any one time. If an employee so assigned objects to the confidential classification, the Company will reassign the employee to work which is not confidential without a change in title.
2.03 Representatives of the Union in attendance at conferences with representatives of the Company will be excused from duty during “normal worktime” or “scheduled hours”, as applicable, and paid for absent time actually spent in such conferences at their basic hourly wage rates. However, when a conference is conducted for the purpose of negotiating or renegotiating the terms of agreement covering rates of pay, hours of employment or other conditions of employment under this Agreement with an authorized Company representative, such payments shall not be made to more than seven (7) employees represented by the Union in attendance at the particular conference.
2.04 The Company recognizes the Union has appointed Shop Stewards to act as representatives of the
[6]
I
I
I
I I I
I
I I
I
I
I
Union solely for the purpose of reviewing grievances at the first step of the grievance procedure. These appointed persons shall not be considered “representatives” of the Union for any other portion of the contract.
, The Union will keep the Company advised of the names and no more than thirty employees at any one time may be appointed as Shop Stewards.
ARTICLE 3
Deductions of Union Dues Payment
3.0	1 The Company will deduct Union membership dues or an amount equal to the periodic dues applicable to members, from the weekly wages or sickness or accident benefits of any employee, upon written authorization signed by the employee, until such authorization is revoked by the employee in writing, or until the employee is formally separated from the bargaining unit. Formal separation includes transfers out of the bargaining unit and removal from the payroll of the Company. Deductions shall be reinstated within 30 days following the employee’s return to the bargaining unit, provided a new authorization is submitted. No deductions will be made in any week in which the wages or sickness or accident benefits of an employee amount to less than the total of all deductions authorized for the employee.
For purposes of this Section, leaves of absence not exceeding one year will not be considered as formal separations from the bargaining unit.
[7]
3.0	2 The Company will forward to the Union the weekly amount deducted, together with supporting information as agreed to by Company and Union.
ARTICLE 4	•
Promotions and Transfers of Union Representatives
4.01 The Company will not promote or transfer a Representative of the Union without giving written notice of its proposed action to the Union if the promotion or transfer will affect the status of the employee as a Representative of the Union and is for a period of more than six months or is for a period of more than six weeks if it would require the employee to work in a building other than the one in which he normally works. If the Union objects in writing within two weeks of the notification, the Company will not make the promotion or transfer. The Union will keep the Company Labor Relations Manager advised of the names of all its Representatives so that the Company may give any required notice.
I
I
I
I I I I
ARTICLE 5
Bulletin Boards
5.01 The Union will have the right to erect bulletin boards at its own expense, except that the location, number and construction of such bulletin boards will be subject to the approval of the Company.
[8]
The Union agrees not to post any objectionable matter on the bulletin boards. Should the Union post any objectionable matter, on the complaint of the authorized representative of the Company to a Representative of the Union, such material will be promptly removed by the Union. If a Representative of the Union is not promptly available, the authorized Representative of the Company after making reasonable efforts to contact a Representative of the Union shall have the right to remove any objectionable material without prior notice to the Union.
ARTICLE 6
Wages
6.01 The wages to be paid to Regular, Term and Temporary Employees, the additional wage increases to be granted during the life of this Agreement, (and the time at which such additional wage increases will be granted, are set forth in Sections A62 and A63 of Exhibit A and Sections B16 and B17 of Exhibit B attached to and made part of this Agreement.
6.02 The Company will not, except as the result of the application of the Notes on Wage Schedule Administration set forth in Section A62 of Exhibit A and Section B16 of Exhibit B, reduce the basic weekly wage rate of any Regular, Term or Temporary Employee.
6.03 [f the Company establishes a new location for an existing occupation it will notify the Union of the
[9]
action taken. The notice will be given in advance wherever reasonably possible. If the basic weekly wage rate established by the Company is unsatisfactory to the Union, the Company within thirty (30) days after notice by the Union will meet and negotiate the proper weekly wage rate.
6.04 If the Company reestablishes any occupation which has been eliminated by agreement subsequent to October 12, 1960, the minimum and maximum wage rates and wage increase schedule for such occupation shall be reestablished as modified by any wage changes applicable thereto which the parties negotiated since the elimination of such occupation.
ARTICLE 7
Working Conditions	..
7.01 The working conditions applicable to employees are set forth in Exhibits A and B attached and made part of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 8
Layoffs Made Necessary By Reduction In The Volume of Work
8.01 Reduction in work time may be accomplished by part-timing, layoffs, or a combination of the two. The Company will determine the necessity for reductions in work time, the extent of the reductions required and the occupations and the payroll locations affected.
I I
[10]
I
8.02 As used in this Article, “service” means the period of time since the “Verizon Service Date” which date appears on the Company’s records for each employee. In addition, in the case of an employee taken over from another telephone company at the time of either the purchase of the physical property of such other company by the Company or the consolidation or merger of such other Company with the Company, it includes continuous service with such other company immediately prior to service with the Company which has not already been included in determining the employee’s “Verizon Service Date.”
8.03 As used in this Article, a “Service Group” consists of all employees in any one occupation in the particular organization in a single exchange in the case of employees covered by Exhibit B, and throughout the Company in the case of employees covered by Exhibit A, whose service, as defined in Section 8.02, began in a particular calendar year. Service Groups are designated by numbers, No. 1 consisting of employees whose service began in the current year, No. 2 consisting of those whose service began in the preceding calendar year, etc.
8.04 The Company, without giving notice to the Union, may:
8.041 Layoff Occasional, Temporary, and Term Employees, without regard to their service.
8.042 After having laid off Occasional, Temporary and Term Employees, part-time, not more than two days per week, Regular Full-Time Em
[11]
ployees in the occupation in the exchange or location having fess than two years’ service.
8.05 Incidental Layoffs
8.051 The Company, after giving notice to the Executive President of the Union, may:
Make incidental layoffs of individual employees in Service Groups 1 through 9 in an occupation in the Company which may be necessary because of the normal fluctuation of the business or because of minor readjustments of force when a general layoff is not anticipated and when there is no part-timing in such occupation anywhere in the Company. Each employee so laid off will be paid a layoff allowance in accordance with the terms of Subsection 8.08.
8.052 When employees are to be laid off under the provisions of 8.051, they will be laid off to the extent necessary in the following order:
(a)	Service Groups I and 2 in numerical order. All employees in each Service Group will be considered to have the same service.
(b)	Remaining employees in the affected occupation in the Company in Service Groups 3 through 9 in inverse order of seniority. The Company may retain, without regard to seniority, up to 5% of the employees in each of the Service Groups 3 through 9.
8.053 The Executive President of the Union will be notified, in writing, of the names of the employees retained under the provisions of Sec
fl 2]
tion 8.052(b). The employees retained under Section 8.052(b) will not be transferred or laid off under Sections 8.054 or 8.06 in order to avoid transferring or laying off employees of greater service.
8.054 If, as a result of the order of layoff specified in Section 8.052, it is necessary to transfer the employee in a given location in the Company with the least service to another location anywhere in the Company to replace an employee in that location with less service who is to be laid off, or if an employee who is about to be laid off requests to be transferred to a job in another occupation anywhere in the Company which is either unfilled or held by an employee with less service, the employee will be transferred to the unfilled job or to the job of the employee with the least service, provided the employee has had prior experience in the job to be filled, as shown by the employee's service record, and is qualified, in the judgment of the Company, to take the job without additional training.
If the employee does not meet the above qualifications or does not accept the transfer within seven days, the employee may be laid off and the other employee with less service retained.
In any case, where a transfer results from a layoff under this Section, the employee transferred will not be paid for any travel time or reimbursed for any expenses resulting from the transfer.
[13]
8.06 General Layoffs
8.061 Before instituting any program for the reduction of work time, other than any reduction covered by the above, the Company will give the Union thirty days’ notice of such intention. During this period, the Company will consult with the Union regarding the method of effecting the reduction in work time, and will give consideration to the recommendations of the Union before arriving at a final decision as to the method to be pursued.
8.0	62 Except as provided in this Section and in Section 8.07, no employee, other than those covered by Sections'8.04 and 8.05, will be laid off in any occupation while there is an employee in that occupation with less service anywhere in any location listed in Sections A63 and B17.
8.0	63 When employees are to be laid off in any occupation, they will be laid off to the extent necessary in the following order:
(a)	Occasional and Temporary Employees.
(b)	Term Employees, without regard to their service.
(c)	Service Groups 1 and 2 in numerical order, all employees in each Service Group being considered as having the same service.
(d)	Remaining employees in the affected occupation in the Company in inverse order of seniority. The Company may retain, without regard to seniority, up to 5% of the
[14]
number of employees in each of the Service Groups 3 through 15.
8.064 The Union Executive President will be notified, in writing, of the names of the employees retained under the retention provision of this Section. ■
8.065 Employees retained under the retention provision of this Section will not be transferred or laid off under Section 8.07 in order to avoid ' transferring or laying off employees of greater service.
8.066 Nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting the Company from reassigning an employee to another occupation.
8.067 This Section will be applied on a Companywide basis with respect to employees covered by Exhibit A, and on an exchange basis with respect to employees covered by Exhibit B.
8.07 If as a result of the order of layoff of employees covered by Exhibit A, as specified in Section 8.063, it is necessary to transfer the employee in a given location with the least service to another location anywhere in the Company to replace an employee in that location with less service who is to be laid off, or if an employee who is about to be laid off requests to be transferred to a job in another occupation anywhere in the Company which is either unfilled or held by an employee with less service, the employee will be transferred to the unfilled job or to the job of the employee with the least service provided the employee has had prior
[15]
experience in the job to be filled and is qualified, in the judgment of the Company, to take the job without additional training.
If the employee does not meet the above qualifications or does not accept the transfer within seven days, the employee may be laid off and the employee with less service retained. In any case where a transfer results from a layoff under this Section the employee transferred will not be paid for any travel time or reimbursed for any expenses resulting from the transfer.
8.08 Layoff Allowances
8.081 Each employee laid off, except “Temporary,” “Term,” or “Occasional” employees, will be paid a layoff allowance in accordance with the following:
(a)	An employee with five years of service or less will be paid one week’s pay for each year of service.
(b)	An employee with more than five, but not more than ten years’ service will be paid one week’s pay for each of the first five years and two weeks’ pay for each year thereafter.
(c)	An employee with more than ten, but not more than fifteen years’ service will be paid one week’s pay for each of the first five years, two weeks’ pay for each of the next five years, and three weeks’ pay for each year thereafter.
[16]
(d)	An employee with more than fifteen years of service will be paid one week’s pay for each of the first five years, two weeks’ pay for each of the next five years, three weeks’ pay for each of the next five years and four weeks’ pay for each year thereafter.
(e)	In computing years of service, a fraction amounting to less than six months will be disregarded, and a fraction amounting to six months or more will be considered as a full year.
8.082 In addition to the above, the employee will be paid for any vacation to which the employee may be entitled.
8.083 A week’s pay for a Regular Full-Time Employee will be at the employee’s basic weekly wage rate even though part-timing is currently in effect.
8.084 A week’s pay for a Regular Part-Time Employee, engaged or re-engaged prior to January 1, 1981, will be the employee’s average weekly earnings, exclusive of any overtime worked or premiums paid, during the last three months preceding the layoff. A week's pay for a Regular Part-Time Employee, engaged or re-engaged after January 1, 1981, will be based on the employee’s “part-time equivalent work week,” in accordance with the provisions of Subsections A32.05 or Bl 1.05.
8,085 If an employee who has received a layoff allowance is rehired and the number of weeks
[17]
since the date of the layoff is less than the number of weeks upon which the allowance is based, less vacation, if any, the amount paid to the employee for the excess number of weeks shall be refunded to the Company, at the rate of ten percent per week of the employee’s basic weekly wage rate.
8.086 If an employee who has been laid off and given a layoff allowance is subsequently reemployed and again laid off prior to the completion of three years’ continuous service since the date of the latest rehiring, the layoff allowance in the case of the second layoff, or any subsequent layoff, will be based upon the length of service since the date of last reemployment and the employee will be paid any portion of the prior layoff allowance which has been refunded to the Company.
8.087 If an employee who has been laid off and given a layoff allowance is subsequently reemployed and again laid off after the completion of three or more years of continuous service, the layoff allowance to be granted to the employee shall be determined on the basis of service as defined in Section 8.02 of this Article.
8.09 Before offering employment to new employees in an occupation (except to employees taken over from other telephone companies at the time of either the purchase of the physical properties of such other companies or the consolidation or merger of such other companies with the Company), the Company will offer employment to for-
[18]
met employees in such occupation in the organization who have been laid off as follows:
(a)	Employees in Service Groups 10 and over who have not been laid off more than three years - in the inverse order of layoff.
(b)	Employees in Service Groups 3 to 9, inclusive, who have not been laid off more than two years - in the inverse order of layoff.
(c)	Employees in Service Groups 1 and 2, who have not been laid off more than two years - in the inverse order of Service Groups. All employees in each such Service Group shall be considered as having the same service.
The Company’s offer will be made in writing and mailed to the last known address of the employee and a copy furnished to the Union.
8.091 Such a former employee will be employed if the employee can meet the requirements of the available job, and if the employee responds within ten days and is available for duty within twenty days from the date the employee is of-■ fered employment. In the event the employee is unable to report within twenty days, the case will be given special attention and the Company may waive the twenty-day limitation. In the case of an emergency, employment may be given for the duration of the emergency to any applicant who can meet the requirements of the available job.
8.092 This Section will be applied on a Companywide basis to employees covered by Exhibit A
[19J
and on an exchange basis to employees covered by Exhibit B.
ARTICLE 9
Contract Labor In The Plant Organization
9.01 The Company will maintain its established policies as to the assignment of work in connection with the installation and maintenance of communications facilities owned, maintained, and operated by the Company; provided that the Company may contract work, if such contracting will not currently and directly result in the layoff or parttiming of Regular employees.
9.02 The Company, except in emergencies, will not enter into contracts with any company or agency, other than those referred to in Section 9.03 for the purpose of doing the work indicated therein, to do work which is similar in nature to that normally done by the Company’s Plant employees, if:
9.021 Such action, in the judgment of the Company, would currently result in the layoff or part-timing of employees in the same occupation anywhere in the Company as those who would normally perform the work to be done under the contract.
9.022 Part-timing is in effect in the said occupation anywhere in the Company.
9.03 It is an established policy of the Company to have affiliated companies, connecting companies of the Company or of an affiliated company, other wire
[20]
I I
I I
I
using companies, municipalities and governmental agencies, do work some of which is similar in nature to that normally done by the Company's employees. The kind and relative amount of such work which the Company’s employees do and which the above mentioned companies, municipalities or agencies do varies from time to time. Nothing in this Article will prevent the Company from continuing this policy.
9.04 The Company, except in emergencies, will give the Union notice before it enters into any contract with any company or agency, other than those referred to in Section 9.03, to do outside plant construction or reconstruction work normally done by the Company’s employees.
ARTICLE 10
PENSIONS AND BENEFITS
10,01 During the life of this Agreement the Company will not:
10.011 Make any change in the “Verizon Pension Plan” or the “Verizon Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan” which would reduce or diminish the benefits or privileges provided by the Plans for employees within the bargaining unit without the agreement of the Union.
10.012 Make any change in the Plans which would increase or enlarge the benefits or privileges provided by the Plans for employees within the bargaining unit without notice to the Union and
[21}
an offer to bargain during the thirty days following such notice.
10.02 A claim that this Article has been violated may be submitted to arbitration under Section 13.10 of this Agreement. A claim of an employee within the bargaining unit that he has been deprived of any benefits or privileges to which he is entitled under the Plans may be processed as a grievance under the provisions of Article 13 of this Agreement. However, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to subject the provisions of the Plans or their administration or the terms of a proposed change to arbitration.
I I I I
ARTICLE 11
Demotions For Misconduct, Discharges and Suspensions
11.0	1 Any demotion for misconduct, discharge or suspension may be processed in accordance with the provisions of Article 13.
11.0	2 In the event the Union, within 30 calendar days from the date of the demotion for misconduct, discharge or suspension of any employee with six months or more of continuous service, charges that such employee has been demoted for misconduct, discharged or suspended without proper cause, the claim shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of Article 13. If the controversy is processed under that Article and not satisfactorily settled, either party may submit, by written
I I
I t
I
[22]
I
I
I
notice, the question to arbitration as provided in Article 14 of this agreement. Such written notice must be given no later than 30 calendar days from the Company’s or the Union’s answer or the expiration of time within which to answer at the final step of the grievance procedure. If written notice of arbitration is not given within the time specified, the grievance shall be considered settled. Awards shall be retroactive to the extent provided in Article 18 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 12
Discrimination For Union Activity
12.0) The Company will not in any manner discriminate against any employee because of membership in or activity on behalf of the Union. Any claim charging discrimination because of such memberships or activity shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of Article 13. If the controversy is processed under that Article and not satisfactorily settled, either party may submit, by written notice, the question to arbitration as provided in Article 14 of this agreement. Such written notice must be given no later than 30 calendar days from the Company’s or the Union’s answer or the expiration of time within which to answer at the final step of the grievance procedure. If written notice of arbitration is not given within the time specified, the grievance shall be considered settled.
. Awards shall be retroactive to the extent provided in Article 18 of this Agreement.
[23]
ARTICLE 13
Procedure For Adjusting Grievances
13.01 Any complaint or dispute arising between any employee and the Company shall be presented by the employee or by a Representative of the Union to the immediate management supervisor of the employee in an effort to reach a mutually acceptable adjustment.
13.011 Grievances must be presented within thirty (30) calendar days from the time the employee has knowledge of the act which is the basis of the dispute.
13.012 Any settlement or adjustment of a grievance at the first step shall be binding only for the particular grievance and shall not constitute precedent. Such settlements shall not be used in any legal or arbitration proceeding except in connection with a claim that the settlement has been violated.
13.02 If the matter is not satisfactorily adjusted at the first step and the grievance involves only the issue of discipline of an employee, the Union shall present the grievance to the second tier supervisor. If the grievance is for other than discipline, the Union shall present the grievance to the third tier supervisor. If there is no third tier supervisor, the Union shall present the grievance to the second tier supervisor. Regardless of whether or not the grievance is presented to a second or third tier supervisor, when it is presented at the second step of the grievance procedure, the grievant(s) or the
[24]
Union shall provide the immediate management supervisor with a signed written submission from either the grievant(s) or Union of the grievance. This statement shall contain pertinent information including the circumstances giving rise to the grievance, places, times, dates, names of the employees involved, the Section of the Contract alleged to be violated, if any, and the remedy requested. This written statement shall accompany the grievance through the grievance procedure. Grievances must be presented within ten (10) calendar days of the answer provided at the first step. The grievance shall be heard at the mutual convenience of the parties, but in any event within three weeks from the date the grievance is placed on the agenda at the second step.
13.03 If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved at the second step and the grievance involves only the issue of discipline of an employee, the Union shall present the grievance to the third tier supervisor within ten (10) calendar days of the answer provided at the second step. This third step shall be the last step for all disciplinary grievances prior to arbitration.
I I
I
(a)	If there is. no third tier supervisor, the Company’s answer at the second step shall be considered as the final step for all disciplinary grievances prior to arbitration.
(b)	If both parties agree, the second and third steps can be combined into a single meeting with the third tier supervisor which shall be
[25]
the third and final step for all disciplinary grievances prior to arbitration.
13.04 If the matter is not satisfactorily resolved at the second step and the grievance involves a matter other than discipline, the Union shall present the grievance directly to the Labor Relations Staff within 14 days of the answer providedat the second step. In any event the grievance must be heard within four (4) weeks from the date it was presented to the Labor Relations Staff. The Labor Relations Staff shall be the final step for all grievances involving matters other than discipline prior to arbitration.
13.05 The scope of the grievance may be enlarged or reduced at any step with the mutual consent of the parties.
13.06 Grievances held pending for further review shall be answered within 7 days after presentation at the first step and 14 days at the second and third steps. Nothing herein shall preclude the parties from arranging for different time periods whenever deemed appropriate by them or waiving any step except the final step.
13.07 If any grievance is not presented within the time limits specified, unless the parties have agreed to an extension of time or the delay is caused by the Company, the grievance or controversy shall be considered closed.
13.08 The number of employees including any Union Representatives paid scheduled hours for attending and for reasonable travel time actually con
I
I
126]
sumed, up to a maximum of two hours, in traveling to and from grievance meetings shall be as follows:
Number of Employees
Step 1	2
Step 2	3
Step 3	4
Additional employees/Representatives may attend and be paid, if requested by the Union and approved by the Company.
13.09 The Company may initiate grievances with Representatives of the Union at any step of the grievance procedure. When the Company initiates a grievance, the same time limits will apply.
13.10 If, at any time, a controversy should arise between the Union and the Company regarding the meaning or application of any provision of this Agreement or regarding a claim that either party has not performed a commitment of this Agreement, the controversy shall be reviewed in accordance with the preceding Sections of this Article. If the controversy is processed under these Sections and is not satisfactorily settled, the Union or the Company, by written notice specifying the Section of the Agreement alleged to.be violated, may submit the question under dispute to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 14 of this Agreement. Such written notice of arbitration must be given no later than 30 calendar days from the Company’s or the Union’s answer or the expiration of time within which to answer at the final
[27]
step of the grievance procedure. If written notice of arbitration is not given within the time specified, the grievance shall be considered settled. Awards shall be retroactive to the extent provided in Article 18 of this Agreement.
13.11 Nothing in this Agreement in any manner affects the right of an individual employee or group of employees to present grievances to the Company under Article 13 nor affects the rights of the Union under the National Labor Relations Act, as amended. The Company agrees, however, that after a grievance arising under any provision of this Agreement has been referred to a Union Representative and such Representative has dealt with a Company Representative with respect thereto, no . Company Representative will adjust or attempt to adjust the grievance with the employee or employees involved unless a Union Representative is first given an opportunity to be present at the adjustment.
ARTICLE 14
Arbitration
14.0	1 There shall be arbitrated only the matters specifically made subject to arbitration in Article 10, Section 11.02, Article 12, Section 13.10 and Article 21 of this Agreement.
14.0	2 The procedure to be followed in instituting and conducting the arbitration of any matter subject to
[28]
arbitration under the provisions of Section 14.01 shall be as follows:
14.021 The Board of Arbitration shall consist of three members, one of whom shall be a member of the Union designated by the Union, and one individual designated by the Company, who shall be in the employ of the Company; the third shall be an impartial Chairman designated in the manner hereinafter described. Joint employees of this Company and of Bell Atlantic -Pennsylvania, Inc. or Bell Atlantic - Network Services, Inc. shall be considered to be in the employ of this Company for the purpose of this paragraph.
The various steps required in connection with any such arbitration shall be taken as expeditiously as possible, but the parties agree that the following steps shall be taken within the times stated unless an extension be mutually agreed to in writing.
14.022 Within five days following the serving by either party upon the other of a written demand for arbitration, each party shall, by a written designation, advise the other party of the appointed arbitrator. Each such written designation shall state the full name and address of the arbitrator appointed thereby.
14.023 Should either the Union or the Company fail, within the time above stated, to appoint its arbitrator, the vacancy resulting by reason of such failure shall, upon the written request of
[29]
either party be filled by an impartial individual appointed by the American Arbitration Association.
14.024 Within five days following the appointment of the two arbitrators, the parties shall select an Impartial Chairman. If they are unable to agree, the American Arbitration Association immediately shall be requested in writing to appoint the Impartial Chairman.
14.025 Upon the appointment of the Impartial Chairman, the Board shall be deemed to be constituted. Following the constitution of the Board of Arbitration, hearings shall be started and carried to conclusion as expeditiously as possible. The arbitration shall be conducted under • the Labor Arbitration Rules then obtaining of (he American Arbitration Association as to any procedural matter not specifically covered in this Agreement. A stenographic transcript of the hearings shall be prepared, and the parties will share the cost thereof equally. After hearings in the case have concluded, but before the proceeding is closed, the members of the Board of Arbitration, unless they unanimously agree otherwise, shall meet in Executive Session at a mutually convenient location and time. In the absence of agreement by other members of the Board of Arbitration with respect to the closing of the proceeding, the Impartial Chairman may declare the proceeding closed. Within ten days following the closing of the proceeding, the
[30]
Board of Arbitration shall render its decision in writing.
14.026 In making an award the Arbitration Board may not add to, subtract from, modify or disregard any contract provision. In no way shall this detract from the right of the Arbitration Board to interpret the meaning and application of any contract term in which the parties hereto are in dispute as of such meaning and application.
14.027 If the members of the Board are unable to reach a decision, the decision of the Impartial Chair-, man shall be final and binding upon the parties. The Union and its members and the Company agree to abide by such decision, which shall be enforceable by appropriate action or proceeding, if necessary, in a court of law or equity or otherwise.
14.028 If a case is withdrawn from arbitration, such withdrawal shall settle the grievance(s) and any issue(s) contained therein unless the parties expressly agree to a different disposition. In addition, all grievances which have been held pending the withdrawn case shall be settled in the same manner as provided above.
14.029 Each of the parties hereto shall bear the compensation and expenses of the members appointed by it or on its behalf. The compensation and expenses of the Impartial Chairman and of the American Arbitration Association, and any other expenses of the Board of Arbi
131]
tration, shall be borne equally by the Union and the Company.
14.03 Expedited Arbitration
14.031 In lieu of the procedures specified in Section 14.02 of this Agreement, any grievance involving a claim of a violation of Section A5, Subsection A5.014, or the suspension of an individual employee, except those suspensions which also involve an issue of arbitrability, contract interpretation, or work stoppage (strike) activity and those suspensions which are also the subject of an administrative charge or court action shall be submitted to arbitration under the expedited arbitration procedure here' inafter provided within fifteen (15) calendar days after the filing of a request for arbitration. In all other grievances involving disciplinary action which are specifically subject to arbitration under Article 11 of this Agreement, both parties may, within fifteen (15) calendar days after the filing of the request for arbitration, elect to use the expedited arbitration procedure hereinafter provided. The election shall be in writing and, when signed by authorized representatives of the parties, shall be irrevocable. If no such election is made within foregoing time period, the arbitration procedure in Section 14.02 shall be followed.
14.032 As soon as possible after this Agreement becomes final and binding, a panel of three umpires shall be selected by the parties. Each umpire shall serve until the termination of this
132]
Agreement unless his or her services are terminated earlier by written notice from either party to the other. The umpire shall be notified of his or her termination by a joint letter from the parties. The umpire shall conclude his or her services by settling any grievance previously heard. A successor umpire shall be selected by the parties. Umpires shall be assigned cases in rotating order designated by the parties. If an umpire is not available for a hearing within ten (10) working days after receiving an assignment, the case will be passed to the next umpire. If no one can hear the case within ten (10) working days, the case will be assigned to the umpire who can hear the case on the earliest date.
14.033 The procedure for expedited arbitration shall be as follows:
(a)	The parties shall notify the umpire in writing on the day of agreement or date of arbitration demands in suspension cases to settle a grievance by expedited arbitration. The umpire shall notify the parties in writing of the hearing date.
(b)	The panics may submit to the umpire prior to the hearing a written stipulation of all facts not in dispute.
(c)	The hearing shall be informal without formal rules of evidence and without a transcript. However, the umpire shall be satisfied himself or herself that the evidence submitted is of a type on which he or she
[33]
can rely, that the hearing is in all respects a fair one, and that all facts necessary to a fair settlement and reasonably obtainable are brought before the umpire.
(d)	Within five (5) working days after the hearing, each party may submit a brief written summary of the issues raised at the hearing and arguments supporting its position. The umpire shall give his or her settlement within five (5) working days after receiving the briefs. He or she shall provide the parties a brief written statement of the reasons supporting his or her settlement.
(e)	The umpire’s settlement shall apply only to the instant grievance, which shall be settled thereby. It shall not constitute a precedent for other cases or grievances and may not be cited or used as a precedent in other arbitration matters between the parties unless the settlement or a modification thereof is adopted by the written concurrence of the representatives of each party. The Company and Union further agree that neither party will cite or use in any arbitration matter an umpire’s settlement in an expedited arbitration proceeding between the Company and any of the Union’s Locals, or one between Verizon Pennsylvania Inc. or Verizon Services Corp, and any of its Unions.
(f)	The time limits in (a) and (d) of this Section may be extended by agreement of the
[34]
I
I
parties or at the umpire’s request, in either case only in emergency situations. Such extensions shall not circumvent the purpose of this procedure.
(g)	In any grievance arbitrated under the provisions of this Section, the Company shall under no circumstances be liable for backpay for more than six (6) months (plus any time that the processing of the grievance or arbitration was delayed at the specific request of the Company) after the date of the disciplinary action. Delays requested by the Union in which the Company concurs shall not be included in such additional time.
(h)	The umpire shall have no authority to add to, subtract from or modify any provisions of this Agreement.
(i)	The decision of the umpire will settle the grievance, and the Company and the Union agree to abide by such decision. The compensation and expenses of the umpire and the general expenses of the arbitration shall be borne by the Company and the Union in equal parts. Each party shall bear the expense of its representatives and witnesses.
(j)	The time limit for requesting arbitration under this provision shall be the same as in existing procedures.
[35]
ARTICLE 15
Safety
15.01 Safety is of primary concern to the Company and the Union as well as to each individual employee.
15.02 The Company provides various safety equipment and devices for the use of employees and establishes safety rules and practices to be followed by the employees.
15.03 The Company further undertakes to give training in safe methods of working, safe driving and in safety precautions which are useful to employees in connection with their work.
15.04 The Company and the Union agree to cooperate from time to time in such joint undertakings as may be appropriate to promote safety, and to attempt to develop a completely accident-free operation.
15.05 All accidents must be reported promptly and accurately even though they may appear to be minor.
15.06 When an Accident Investigating Committee is formed according to existing Company practice to investigate an accident involving an employee, the employee members of the Accident Investigating Committee appointed according to existing Company practice shall be (1) the Executive President of the Union or a Representative of such Union, and (2) an employee appointed by the Union having experience within the craft to which the employee involved was assigned at the time of the accident. The employee members shall be compensated only for such of their scheduled hour
[36]
as are spent with the Committee, The purpose of the Committee is to attempt to determine the facts, the cause of the accident, and what might be done to prevent future accidents. The Committee shall investigate the accident as soon as practical, but the final report of the Committee may be delayed a reasonable period upon the request of either the Union or the Company.
I 9
I
ARTICLE 16
Federal or State Laws
16.01 Should any valid Federal or State Law, or the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, if final after appeal or otherwise, affect any provision of this Agreement, the provision or provisions so affected will be construed as having been changed to conform to the law or decision, and the other provisions of this Agreement will continue in full force.
ARTICLE 17 Amendments
17.01 The entire understanding between the parties is set forth completely in this Agreement and the Exhibits attached hereto. Any amendment to this Agreement or any interpretation of the true intent and meaning of the provisions of this Agreement will be committed to writing and signed by the duly authorized representatives of the parties.
[371
ARTICLE 18
Retroactivity
18.01 Any determination as to the interpretation of this Agreement or as to the fulfillment of any obligations thereunder shall be limited in its retroactive effect as follows:
18.011 If it is found that a discharge based in whole or in part on grounds of misappropriation of Company assets or information or violation of the Company policy regarding the secrecy of communications was made without proper cause, the Company will reinstate the employee and will reimburse the discharged employee the amount of pay the employee would have received had the employee not been discharged, less any amount received by the employee as wages in other employment or as unemployment benefits for the period since the time of such discharge, or both.
18.012 In discharge cases other than those covered by Section 18.011 and in suspension cases the Arbitration Board shall have authority to modify as well as to sustain or set aside the disciplinary action.
18.013 All other cases not covered in 18.011 and 18.012 above which may be subject to grievance or arbitration procedures-the determination may or may not be retroactive as the equities of the particular case shall demand, but in any case where the determination is retroactive the effect shall be limited to thirty calendar
[38]
days prior to the date the current dispute is initially submitted to the Company.
ARTICLE 19
Income Security Plan Enhanced Income Security Plan
19.01 If during the term of this Agreement, the Company notifies the Union in writing that technological change (defined as changes in equipment or methods of operation) has or will create a surplus in any job title in a work location which will necessitate lay-offs or involuntary permanent reassignments of regular employees to different job titles involving a reduction in pay or to work locations requiring a change of residence, or if a force surplus necessitating any of the above actions exists for reasons other than technological change and the Company deems it appropriate, regular employees who have at least one (1) year of net credited service may elect, in the order of seniority, and to the extent necessary to relieve the surplus, to leave the service of the Company and receive Income Security Plan (ISP) and if applicable, during the term of this agreement, Enhanced Income Security Plan (Enhanced ISP) benefits described in this Section, subject to the following conditions:
(a)	The Company shall determine the job titles and work locations in which a surplus exists, the number of employees in such titles and locations who are considered to be surplus, and
[39]
the period during which the employee may, if he or she so elects, leave the service of the Company pursuant to this Section. Effective until August 8, 1998, the Company will offer Enhanced ISP in the circumstances described in Subsection 19.02 (a) of this Section and may also offer Enhanced ISP in other circumstances if they choose to do so. The Company may limit acceptances to the number of surplus and this Enhanced ISP offer would be in lieu of obligations, if any, the Company may have to offer regular ISP. Neither such determinations by the Company nor any other part of this Article shall be subject to arbitration.
(b)	The number of employees who may make such election shall not exceed the number of employees determined by the Company to be surplus.
(c)	An employee’s election to leave the service of the Company and receive ISP or Enhanced ISP payments must be in writing and transmitted to the Company within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the Company’s offer in order to be effective and it may not be revoked after such thirty (30) calendar day period.
19.02 ISP Termination Allowance
(a)	For an employee who so elects in accordance with this Section, the Company will pay an ISP Termination Allowance of One Thousand and One Hundred Dollars ($1,100.00), less withholding taxes, for each completed year of
[40]
net credited service up to and including thirty (30) years, for a maximum of Thirty-Three Thousand Dollars ($33,000.00) prior to withholding taxes. Furthermore, prior to proceeding to a layoff resulting from a surplus in any particular title, location, and work group, the Company will offer an Enhanced ISP Termination Allowance equal to two (2) times the normal ISP Termination Allowance (e,g., up io a maximum of $66,000) in the surplus title and location.
(b)	If the total amount of the ISP or Enhanced ISP Termination Allowance prior to deductions for taxes does not exceed Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00), that allowance shall be paid in a single lump sum within thirty (30) calendar days after the employee has left the service of the Company. '■
(c)	Except when (b) above applies, an employee may select one of the following irrevocable payment options:
(i)	Forty-eight (48) monthly payments beginning the month following the month in which the employee leaves the service of the Company. Employees who elect this option and are within forty-eight (48) months of their sixtyseventh (67th) birthday will be paid their monthly payments over the months remaining up to their sixty-seventh (67th) birthday.
(ii)	Half of the ISP or Enhanced ISP Termination Allowance prior to deductions for taxes,
141]
in a lump sum, with the remaining half paid in forty-eight (48) monthly payments as described in (i) above. Such lump sum payments shall be paid within thirty (30) calendar days after the employee has left the service of the Company.
19.03 In addition to the ISP or Enhanced ISP Termination Allowance, for an employee who so elects to leave the service of the Company in accordance with Subsection 19.01 above, the Company, as an ISP or Enhanced ISP Expense Allowance, will reimburse the employee for actual expenses incurred for relocation costs, tuition or training costs, or job placement expenses related to seeking other employment, or any combination thereof, up to an amount not to exceed Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) for each year of net credited service (prorated for any partial year of service) to a maximum of Three Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($3,750.00). Any such expenses for which reimbursement will be made must be approved by the Company prior to being incurred and must be incurred within one (1) year from the date of termination of employment except that reimbursement for tuition or training costs will be made for such expenses incurred within two (2) years from the date of termination of employment.
I I I I I
I
19.04 The years of net credited service in determining the ISP or Enhanced ISP Termination Allowance and the ISP or Enhanced ISP Expense Allowance shall be prorated for any period of time during
[42]
which an employee is (was) employed on a part- time basis in the same manner as net credited service is prorated based on part-time hours pursuant to the Verizon Pension Plan.
19.05 Repayment of ISP or Enhanced ISP Termination Allowance
If the recipient of an ISP or Enhanced ISP Termination Allowance is reemployed within fortyeight (48) months by the Company or by an affiliate or subsidiary company within the Verizon Services Group, ISP or Enhanced ISP termination allowance payments will cease. If the termination allowance was being paid in forty-eight (48) monthly payments (with no lump sum), no repayment is required. If the employee received a lump sum, or a partial lump sum and monthly payments, the employee will repay the excess over what he or she would have received if payments had been made under the forty-eight (48) monthly payment schedule. Such repayment will be made through payroll deduction in each payroll period at the rate of ten percent (10%) of the employee’s basic weekly wage.
ARTICLE 20
Absence For Union Business -
20.01 General
To the extent the Company determines that service requirements permit, employees who are elected or appointed to represent the Union will be ex
[43]
cused without pay or given leaves of absence to attend to Union business in accordance with the provisions of this Article,
20.02 Excused Time	.
During each year the Agreement is in effect, the maximum excused time which will be granted, without pay, to other than full-time Union officials to attend to Union business is:
Title
Cumulative Total of Excused Schedule Time
Executive President,
Executive Secretary-Treasurer, 350 Days Executive Vice-President, collectively *
Other Executive Committee 30 Days
Members
Members appointed by Union to 8 Days perform delegated duties
* The Executive President, Executive Secretary-Treasurer, and Executive Vice President each will spend a minimum of 20 days per contract year performing his or her regular job duties for the Company.
20.021 Excused time does not include joint conference time.
20.022 Requests for excused time shall be made to the immediate management supervisor as far in advance as possible, but not later than three days, exclusive of Sunday, prior to the absence unless it is not possible to do so.
20.023 A single period of excused unpaid time shall not exceed thirty consecutive calendar days.
[44]
20.03 Leaves of Absence
A leave of absence without pay will be required:
(a)	If a Union official is on full-time Union business.
(b)	If the total excused time specified in Section ■	20.02 is exceeded.
(c)	If the excused time is to exceed 30 consecutive calendar days.
20.031 When leave of absence is required in accordance with Section 20.03, the Union will certi-fythe facts to the Company. All requests for leave of absence shall be made as far in advance as possible. Unless it is not possible to do so, such request shall be made to the employee’s immediate management supervisor . not less than eight days, exclusive of Sunday, prior to the absence. The total number of employees on leave of absence for Union business shall not exceed two at any one time unless special approval of the Company is obtained.
20.032 Leave of absence shall include any period of Excused Scheduled Time taken under 20.02 in the agreement year in which the leave of absence is granted.
20.033 During any such leave of absence, the employee shall be entitled to Death Benefits.
During any period of leave of absence as required by Section 20.03, the employee shall pay the premiums for the Dental Expense Plan, Vision Care Plan, Supplementary Group Life
[45]
Insurance Program and Dependent Group Insurance Plan. The Company shall pay the premiums for the Basic Group Life Insurance Plan, and will pay the same amount towards the employee’s (single or family) coverage under the Medical Expense Plan as the Company would have paid if the employee had remained on the active payroll.
20.034 Employees, upon returning from a leave of absence, shall be reinstated to their former occupation unless conditions have so changed that it is impractical to do so, in which case they will be assigned to work generally similar to that in which they were engaged last prior to their absence, subject, however, to the provisions of this Agreement relating to layoffs. They will be placed on the payroll at the rate received when such absence began, adjusted for any general increase in wages made during the period of absence.
20.035 The leave of absence shall cease if the Union notifies the Company that the employee on leave is no longer authorized to transact business for the Union.
20.036 There shall be no limitation on the total cumulative period of leave of absence for Union business for an employee. Service credit will not be given for leave of absence for Union business prior to August 7, 1983; however, service credit will be given for leave of absence for Union business subsequent to August 7, 1983.
[46]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1, 2004
I I I
WAGE TABLE: 17
BUILDING CUSTODIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$365.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos	$409.50	$44.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$459.00	$49.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$514.50	$55.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$577.00	$62.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$646.00	$69.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$725.00	$79.00
Pension Band		105	
I
I
I
I
।	[169]
21.04 If the Union claims that a promotion violates this Article because it was not given to the applicant with the most seniority, such claim may be grieved and then submitted to arbitration pursuant to Article 14. A Union claim regarding any single promotion must be confined to a single grievant. {n such event, the Company must be shown to have acted arbitrarily or in bad faith. The Union will limit the scope of arbitrability under this Article to seniority and the issue of qualifications being substantially equal. Any Union representing a Company employee may be a party to the arbitration.
I I I c
ARTICLE 22 NON-DlSCRtM!NATtON
22.01 Neither the Company nor the Union shall unlawfully discriminate against any employee because of such employee’s race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age or national origin or because the employee is disabled, a disabled veteran or a veteran of the Vietnam era.
ARTICLE 23 Agency Shop
23.0	1 AH employees, except oc casi onal employ ees, who are members of the Union or who are obligated to tender to the Union amounts equal to periodic dues on the effective date of this Agreement, or who later become members, and ail employees, except occasional employees, entering into the
[48]
bargaining unit on or after the effective date of this Agreement, shall as a condition of employment pay or tender to the Union amounts equal to the periodic dues applicable to members from such effective date or, in the case of such employees entering into the bargaining unit after the effective date, on the thirtieth day after such entrance, until the termination of this contract.
23.0	2 The condition of employment specified above shall not apply during periods of formal separationf*) from the bargaining unit by any such employee but shall reapply to such employee on the thirtieth day following his return to the bargaining unit.
ARTICLE 24
Personnel Records
24.0	1 Entries which are intended to be used against an employee for the purpose of justifying discipline shall not be made a part of an employee’s personnel record unless a copy has been provided to the employee.
24.0	2 After six (6) months from the date of an entry into an employee’s record, the employee involved or the Union may request a review of the entry by the third tier supervisor then having authority over the employee. Within two weeks of the request, the employee or the Union shall be advised whether the entry will be removed.
(*) The term ''formal separation” includes transfers out of the bargaining unit, removal from the payroll of the Company, and leaves of absence of more than one month duration.
[49]
24.03 The provisions of Section 24.01 do not apply to routine recording of statistics on such matters as absence, tardiness, productivity, quality, etc. However, any adverse entry based on such statistics shall be subject to Section 24.01.
ARTICLE 25
Union Representation
25.01 At any meeting between a representative of the Company and an employee in which discipline (including warnings which are to be recorded in the personnel file, suspension, demotion or discharge for cause) is to be announced, or at any meeting with an employee for the purpose of conducting an investigatory interview which may lead to discipline of such employee, a Union Representative may be present if the employee so requests.
ARTICLE 26
New Job Titles and Job Classifications
Whenever the Company determines it appropriate to create a new job title or job classification in the bargaining unit, or to re-structure or redefine an existing one, it shall proceed as follows:
26.01 The Company shall notify the Union in writing of such job title or classification and shall furnish a job description of the duties and the wage rates and schedules initially determined for such job titles and classifications. Such wage rates and schedules
I
I
I
[50]
shall be designated as temporary. Following such notice to the Union, the Company may proceed to staff such job titles or classifications.
26.02 The Union shall have the right, within thirty (30) days from the receipt of notice from the Company, to initiate negotiations concerning the initial wage rates or schedules established by the Company.
26.03 If negotiations are not so initiated, the initial wage rates and schedules set by the Company shall remain in effect and the temporary designation removed.
26.04 If agreement is reached between the parties within the sixty (60) days following the Union’s receipt of notice from the Company concerning the initial wage rates and schedules, the agreed upon wage rates and schedules shall be retroactive to the date the change or new job was implemented.
26.05 If negotiations are initiated pursuant to paragraph (2), above, and if the parties are unable to reach agreement within sixty (60) days following receipt of notice from the Company, the Union may, within thirty (30) days of the expiration of the sixty (60) day period for negotiations, demand that the issue of an appropriate schedule of wage rates be submitted for resolution to a neutral third party. Within seven (7) days of such demand, each party will submit its final proposed schedule of ' wage rates to the other party, which cannot thereafter be changed.
26.06 The neutral third party shall be selected by mutual agreement from among those who possess ac
[51]
knowledged expertise in the area of employee compensation. The parties may submit all evidence deemed relevant to the issue to the neutral third party. At the request of either party, a hearing shall be held to receive such evidence. Any such hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days after the matter is referred to the neutral third party. While it is not intended that such third party undertake a full and complete job evaluation study, he or she shall review other job titles or classifications and their wage schedules for comparison purposes and may make an on-site inspection of the workplace and conduct a reasonable number of interviews of incumbents. A written decision as to the appropriate schedule of wage rates will be rendered by the neutral third party within sixty (60) days of the date that the matter is referred for resolution. In the event that the neutral third party determines that a different schedule of rates is appropriate, the new schedule shall be placed in effect retroactive to the date the change or new job was implemented, except that in no event shall the retroactive effect exceed 150 days.
26.07 The procedures set forth in this Section shall be the exclusive means by which the Union may contest the schedule of wage rates which the Company sets for any new, restructured, or redefined job title'or classification.
26.08 The cost of the neutral third party shall be borne one-half by the Company and one-half by the Union.
[52]
i
I
ARTICLE 27
Reassignment Pay Protection Plan (RPPP)
27.01 If the Company notifies the Union that a need exists to adjust force and employees are reassigned or voluntarily transferred in lieu of others being reassigned, to vacancies where the rate of pay for the new job is less than the current rate for the employee’s former job, the rate of pay will be reduced over a period of time based on the employee’s length of service. The reductions in pay are effective at periods following reassignment as shown below and are based on the difference in rates for the old and new jobs:
0-5 Years
Weeks 1 through 4
Weeks 5 through 8
Weeks 9 through 12
Weeks 13 and thereafter
5+ Years
Weeks 1 through 56
Weeks 57 through 60
Weeks 61 through 64
Weeks 65 and thereafter
—No reduction
—lA reduction
—% reduction
—Full reduction
—No reduction
—% reduction
—A reduction
—Full reduction
27.02 However, notwithstanding the foregoing schedule, an employee with fifteen (15) years or more of net credited service who, due to technological change, is assigned to a vacancy with a lower rate of pay than the then current rate of the employee’s regular job shall continue to be paid in the lower paid job an amount equivalent to the rate of pay of the higher paid job in effect at the time of the down
■	[53]
grade for a period of thirty-six (36) months following the effective date of such downgrade. Thereafter, the following schedule in reduction shall apply:
Weeks 1 through 4
Weeks 5 through 8
Weeks 9 through 12
Weeks 13 and thereafter
—No reduction reduction —% reduction
—Full reduction
27.03 The employee, however, shall receive any increases in pay in amounts which are applicable for a comparable employee in the lower rated job to which downgraded.
ARTICLE 28
Technology Change Committee
28.01 The Company and the Union recognize that technological changes in equipment, organization, or methods of operation have a tendency to affect job security and the nature of the work to be performed. The parties, therefore, will attempt to diminish or abolish the detrimental effects of any such technological change by creating a joint committee to be known as the Technology Change Committee to oversee problems, and recommend solutions of problems in this area as set forth below.
28.02 It is agreed that a Technology Change Committee be constituted in each Company. Such committee will consist of not more than three representatives of the Company and not more than three representatives of the Union. Such Committee will be
[54]
convened at the option of either party at mutually agreeable places and times, at least two (2) times each year.
28.03 The purpose of the Committee is to provide for discussion of major technological changes (including changes in equipment, organization, or methods of operation) which may affect employees represented by the Union. The Company will ■ notify the Union at least six (6) months in advance of planned major technological changes. Meetings of the Committee will be held as soon thereafter as can be mutually arranged. At such meetings, the Company will advise the Union of its plans with respect to the introduction of such changes and will familiarize the Union with the progress being made.
28.04 The impact and effect of such changes on the employees shall be appropriate matters for discussion. The Company will discuss with the Union:
(a)	What steps might be taken to offer employment to employees affected:
(1)	In the same locality or other localities in jobs which may be available in occupations covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement between the parties;
(2)	In other occupations in the Company not covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement;
(3)	In other Verizon Services Group companies.
[55]
(b)	The applicability of various Company programs and contract provisions relating to force adjustment plans and procedures, including Income Security Plan, Reassignment Pay Protection Plan, termination allowances, retirement, transfer procedures and the like.
(c)	The feasibility of the Company providing training for other assignments for the employees affected. (Example: sponsorship of typing training on Company time)
28.05 The Committees shall not formulate policy or arrive at binding decisions or agreements, but rather shall be charged with the responsibility to develop facts and recommendations so that the Company can make well-informed decisions regarding the matters covered by this provision.
ARTICLE 29
Technological Displacement
29.0	1 If during the term of this Agreement, the Company notifies the Union in writing that technological change (defined as changes in equipment or methods of operation) has or will create a surplus in any job title in a work location which will necessitate reassignments of Regular employees to different job titles involving a reduction in pay or to locations requiring a change in residence, or if a force surplus necessitating any of the above actions exists for reasons other than technological change and the Company deems it appropriate,
156]
I I
I I I
any Regular employee who is in the affected job titles and work locations may elect not to accept such reassignment to a job title involving a reduction in pay or to a location requiring a change in residence and shall be paid a termination allowance. Any such Regular employee who refuses to accept a transfer to a job title having the same or greater rate of pay and which does not require a change in residence shall not be paid a termination allowance.
29.0	2 Employees eligible for a termination allowance under the terms of this provision alternatively may elect to participate in the Income Security Plan (ISP) providing they meet the eligibility requirements of that program.
I
I I
ARTICLE 30
Employment Security Training
30.01 Personal or Career Development Training
Personal or career development training programs will be designed as an educational self-development aid to assist employees in their personal development or preparing them for career progression opportunities or job changes within the Company.
30.011 Training under such program will be generic in nature as opposed to job specific and will cover technical, sales, clerical and other fundamental skills.
30.012 Any regular employee with at least one year of net credited service will be eligible to parlici-
[57]
pate in such training program under the terms of such program.
30.013 Participation by employees in the personal or career development training program will be voluntary, and time spent by employees in such training will be outside scheduled working hours and not paid or considered as time worked for any purpose.
30.014 Successful completion by an employee of any training or courses offered pursuant to such program will be taken into account by the Company when considering the employee for an upgrade or transfer.
30.02 Job Displacement Training
Job displacement training opportunities will be offered to prepare employees whose jobs are being displaced, or whose jobs are being restructured or redefined to a wage schedule with a lower maximum wage rate, to enhance their ability to qualify for anticipated job vacancies within the Company or for job opportunities external to the Company.
30.021 Internal Job Vacancies
Employees will be informed of potential displacements as soon as possible and, depending on the number of any anticipated job openings, will be offered training, if necessary, which is intended to enable them to qualify for such job openings in the Company.
[58]
30.022 External Job Opportunities
For any such employees (those being displaced) interested in seeking employment external to the Company, the Company will reimburse the employee for actual expenses incurred for job specific tuition, training, or counseling, not covered by the Tuition Aid Plan, related to seeking such other employment. Reimbursement for such expenses shall be made up to an amount not to exceed $500 for each year of net credited service (prorated for any partial year of service) to a maximum of $2,500,
Any such expenses for which reimbursement will be made must be approved by the Company prior to being incurred and while the employee is still on the active payroll of the Company.
30.023 Only regular employees who are notified of potential displacement from their current job or restructuring of that job to a lower maximum wage rate will be eligible to participate in such training as covered in Sections 30.021 and 30.022.
30.024 Participation by employees in job displacement training programs will be voluntary, and time spent by employees in such training will be outside scheduled working hours and not paid or considered as time worked for any purpose unless the Company determines it appropriate
[59]
in specific instances to permit employees to receive such training during working hours.
30.03 Training Advisory Board
There will be a Training Advisory Board consisting of three Union representatives, three Management representatives and a professional educational counselor selected by the Training Advisory Board from the academic community. The Board will meet periodically and have responsibility for:
30.031 furnishing advice to the Company on personal or career development and job displacement training courses and curricula;
30.032 reviewing and making recommendations regarding training delivery systems (e.g., technical schools, community colleges, home study programs, etc.) available to be used by the Company;
30.033 evaluating the effectiveness of such training programs and courses and the delivery systems utilized;
30.034 encouraging employees to participate in and successfully complete the available training courses; and
30.035 researching and recommending through the educational counselor, appropriate educational counseling programs to be made available to those employees interested in seeking etnploy-( ment outside the Company.
30.04 The Union and the Company will each be responsible for the respective costs and expenses of their
[60]
representatives’ participation on the Training Advisory Board and will share equally in the joint costs and expenses incurred by the Board. The Company will be responsible for the costs and expenses of the professional educational counselor.
30.05 Employee Career Resource Center
The Company agrees to continue to offer the Employee Career Resource Center over the life of this Agreement.
30.051 Functions: Each Center will perform the following functions:
. a. One-on-one and group counseling of employees regarding:
-	career goals and objectives
-	job skills and knowledge requirements
-	training for specific jobs
b.	Provide information on available job opportunities and trends inside and outside of the Network Services Group;
c.	Provide information on available Company programs and procedures (e.g., Regional Associate Mobility Plan, Intercompany Job Bank, Tuition Assistance, ATLAS/P.M. Edu-
’ cation);
d.	Aptitude and interest testing;
e.	Liaison with Company departments (e.g., Operations, Labor Relations, Human Resources) to develop recommendations for:
[61]
-	placement of employees whose jobs are being displaced, including job specific test training;
-	placement of employees whose jobs are being restructured or redefined to a wage schedule with a lower maximum wage rate;
-	out'placement services for employees when necessary.
30.052 Participation: Employee participation in the services of the Center will be voluntary, and time spent by employees in the Center will be outside scheduled working hours and not paid or considered as time worked for any purpose. However, employees who have been declared surplus or in a group that has been declared surplus may be allowed to participate on Company-paid time when specifically authorized and approved by Management. Employees who are voluntarily separated under an ISP offer or laid-off during the life of the Agreement may utilize the services of the Center for a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of separation.
30.053 Administration: Subject to the oversight and potential enhancement responsibility of the Training Advisory Board Executive Council, the Company will continue to have on-going responsibility for the administration of the Center(s), as well as the other employment security programs currently offered, including
[62]
but not limited to their number, location and budget.
I
I
30.054 Effect on Other Contract Provisions: Nothing in this program will supersede the applicable promotion, transfer or other provisions of the Agreement.
30.055 Nothing in this Article 30 shall be subject to arbitration.
ARTICLE 31
Service Quality Observing
31.01 It is the policy of the Company to conduct Service Quality Observations in full compliance with Federal and State laws. Service Quality Observing includes Service Observing and Supervisory Observing.
31.02 Service Observing measures the overall speed, accuracy and efficiency of our telecommunications network and work forces. It is not used for evaluating individual employee performance.
31.03 Supervisory Observing involves observations of employee contacts with customers or service-related contacts with other employees. It is used in determining the quality of individual employee performance and as an aid to training and development.
31.04 Supervisory observations are limited to the handling of customer contacts and contacts between employees involved in the provision of customer
[63]
service. Employees who may be observed will be made aware of such fact and of the general frequency of such observations. Employees’ conversations will not be electronically recorded.
31.05 Records of supervisory observations will be limited to Company-related matters. They will not be disclosed except to authorized personnel for Company-related reasons. Results of observations will be periodically reviewed with employees and adverse notations, which are intended to be used against an employee for the purpose of justifying discipline, will be reviewed promptly with such employee.
31.06 Telephones which are not subject to Supervisory Observing will be provided by the Company for employees’ personal calls. In addition, Supervisors will not listen in on personal conversations of employees on any telephone.
ARTICLE 32
Motor Vehicle Usage Program
32.01 There will be established in Verizon Delaware Inc. or Verizon Services Corp, a Motor Vehicle Usage Program to provide, in those administrative work units where implemented, that employees who participate will be assigned a motor vehicle for use in their work and for traveling between their work locations and places of residence or other designated places for the vehicle storage.
[64]
32.02 The Motor Vehicle Usage Program will be implemented only within administrative work units where some or all of the employees normally use a Company-provided motor vehicle in order to perform their work. The decision to implement and to continue the program within any such administrative work unit will be within management’s discretion.
32.03 When the Motor Vehicle Usage Program is introduced within an administrative work unit, all employees within that unit who normally use a Company-provided motor vehicle in the performance of their work assignment will be eligible to participate. Participation by any such employees will be on a voluntary basis. If an employee elects not to participate, management will determine where the motor vehicle assigned to that employee is to be stored and that location will become the employee’s work reporting location.
32.04 Employees who participate in the program will be expected to provide normally secure and legal storage for the vehicle at their places of residence. If the vehicle cannot be properly stored at an employee’s place of residence, the Company may arrange for appropriate storage at its expense.
32.05 Operating and maintenance costs will be at the Company’s expense. The Company will make arrangements for maintenance of the vehicle; however, it will be the responsibility of the employee to whom the vehicle is assigned to assure that the vehicle is properly maintained.
[65]
32.06 For employees who participate in the Motor Vehicle Usage Program, a work reporting area will be established on a local basis before implementation. Such work reporting area will be designed so as to serve the interests of the customer, reasonably accommodate the employee, and be satisfactory to management and the Union. The work reporting area normally will be a circular geographic area. In large congested metropolitan locations or where natural barriers render a circular work reporting area impractical, other suitable parameters will be established.
32.07 Each participating employee will be expected to begin and end the work tour at any assigned location within the established work reporting area. Prior to implementation of the program, the Company and Union will determine a method of compensation for employees who begin or end a work tour outside an established work reporting area.
ARTICLE 33
Duration of Agreement
33.01 This Agreement shall continue in effect until terminated in accordance with Section 33.02.
33.02 Either party may terminate this Agreement at 11:59 PM, August 2, 2008 by notifying the other party in writing at least 60 calendar days prior to such date. If no such notice of termination is given, this Agreement shall automatically continue in full force and effect for successive renewal peri
[66]
I I
I I
ods of one year each, subject to the right of either party to terminate this Agreement at the end of any renewal period, by notifying the other party in writing at least 60 calendar days prior to the end of such renewal period, of its intention to terminate this Agreement.
33.03 At the time that the notice of the desire to terminate this Agreement is .served pursuant to Section 33.02, or at least 30 calendar days prior to the date for negotiations agreed to by the parties, the party serving the notice shall submit a written list of the changes desired in the Agreement. Submission of such a list shall not prejudice the right of either party to submit additional changes during the period of negotiations.
33.04 This Agreement has been made in final settlement for its duration of all demands and proposals made by either party during negotiations preceding its execution. During the term of this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated to discuss or agree to any improvement or liberalization either of the provisions of this Agreement or with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment or other conditions of employment not specifically set forth herein, if such improvement or liberalization is proposed to be made effective during the period covered by this Agreement; and the Union shall not be obligated to discuss or agree to any impairment or deliberalization either of the provisions of this Agreement or with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment or other conditions of employment not specifically set forth
[67]
herein, if such impairment or deliberalization is ■ proposed to be made effective during the period of ■ this Agreement.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
[68]	|
I
The Company and the Union agree that unless a different effective date is specified in this Agreement its terms shall be effective August 3, 2003.
The Company and the Union further agree that this Agreement shall become effective if and only if it is ratified by the membership of the Union on or before the 28th day following the date of this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives on the day and year first above written.
COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA, AFL-CIO, ON BEHALF OF ITS AFFILIATED LOCAL J3)01, THE UNITED TELEPHONE WORKERS OF DELAWARE
\s\ Terrance Tipping__________
CWA - Staff Representative
\s\ Bud Speakman______________
Executive President
\s\ Michael DiConslanza_______
Executive Vice President
\si Sandie Taylor_____________
Executive Secretary-Treasurer
\s\ Scott Davis_______________
Division Vice President
W Kevin Johnson ______________
Division Vice President
\s\ Brian Lagerence___________
Division Vice President
\s\_Mike Willoughby___________
Division Vice President
VERIZON DELAWARE INC. VERIZON SERVICES CORP. Isi Helen M. Hanson______
Director - Labor Relations \s\ Maxine M. L’Abbee____
Director - Labor Relations
1691
I
170]
CONTENTS
EXHIBIT A	Page
Regular Full-Time Employees—Group 1 Section Al. Definitions.......................74
Section A2. Worktime Schedules ...............77
Section AS. Payments for Time Worked .........83
Section A4. Payments for Time Not Worked .....93
Section A5. Travel Time and Allowance........101
Section A6. Incidental Expenses..............107
Section A7. Vacations........................117
Section A8. Holidays.........................126
Section A9. Excused Work Days................128
Section A10. Scheduling of Time Off..........130
Regular Full-Time Employees—Group 2 Section All Definitions......................133
Section A12. Worktime Schedules .............135
Section Al 3. Payments for Time Worked.......135
Section A14. Payments for Time Not Worked ...138
Section Al5. Travel Time and Allowance.......138
Section A16, Incidental Expenses.............138
Section A17. Vacations ......................138
Section A18. Holidays........................139
Section A19. Excused Work Days...............139
Section A20. Scheduling of Time Off..........139
Temporary Employees Section A21. General.........................139
Part-Time Employees—Groups I and 2
Section A31. Regular Part-Time Employees (Engaged or Re-engaged prior to
January 1, 1981).............................140
[71]
Section A32. Part-Time Employees
(Engaged or Re-engaged after January 1, 1981).........................  .	.144
Part-Timing of Full-Time Employees
Section A41. General..........................147
Occasional Employees
Section A51. General..........................150
Section A61. Term Employees ..................150
Section A62. Notes on Wage Increase Schedule Administration................................151
Wage Increase Schedules.......................159
Section A63. Wage Increase Schedule Assignment List...............................185
Section A71. Pension Bands and Monthly Benefits..............................186
LETTER AGREEMENTS ............................279
General Index.................................  I
I I
I I
I I
I
I
[72]
PLANT JOB TITLE CHANGES (EFFECTIVE 8-7-77)
OLD ..............................................NEW
Combination Man...............Combination	Technician
Communications Serviceman..........Installation/Repair
Outside Plant Tech.
Deskman ........................Test Desk Technician
Frameman............................Frame	Attendant
PBX Installer ..............PBX	Installation Technician
PBX Repairman...................PBX	Repair Technician
Senior Utility Man .............Senior Utility Worker
Senior Utility Man-A ........Senior Utility Worker-A
Splicer.........................Splicing Technician
Switchman ............Switching	Equipment Technician
Utility Maintenance Man.........Utility Maintenance
Mechanic
Helper ...................Splicing Technician’s Helper
(EFFECTIVE 8-10-80)
House Service Attendant..........Building	Custodian
Installation/Repair/Outside Plant
Technician ......................Services	Technician
PBX Installation Technician ....Systems Technician
PBX Repair Technician ............Systems	Technician
Senior Utility Worker ....Materials Service Attendant
Senior Utility Worker-A .....Driver-Heavy Equipment
Utility Maintenance Mechanic	...	.Building Equipment
Mechanic Storekeeper Maintenance Administrator
[73]
EXHIBIT A
WORKING CONDITIONS PLANT EMPLOYEES Regular Full Time Employees
GROUP 1
(Section Al to Section A10 Inclusive)
SECTION Al Definitions
Al.01 Regular Full-Time Employees
A1.011 Employees whose regular assignments of work cover normal work weeks.
I I
I I
A 1.02 Group I Employees
A 1.021 Employees assigned one of the following titles or other titles which may subsequently be established by the Company for corresponding occupations:
Apprentice Technician Assignment Administrator Assignment Technician Building Custodian
Building Equipment Mechanic
Driver - Heavy Equipment
Driver - Heavy Truck
Driver - Light Truck
Driver - Medium Truck
Facilities Assignor
Field Clerk
Frame Attendant
General Field Clerk
174]
I I
1 I
Maintenance Administrator Materials Service Attendant Network Service Coordinator Senior Attendant Senior Field Clerk Services Technician Splicing Technician Splicing Technician’s Helper Storekeeper
Switching Equipment Technician Systems Technician Test Desk Technician Translations Administrator
Al .03 Normal Work Week
A 1.031 Five full tours which may be scheduled on any of the seven days of a calendar week.
A 1.04 Full Day Tours
Al .041 Eight hours of worktime, starting at or after 6 A.M. but not after 9 A.M. and divided into two sessions by a meal period of not more than one hour.
Al .042 On Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays, at locations with one employee scheduled on duty when continuous coverage for the tour is necessary, these tours may be assigned as eight consecutive hours including a paid meal period of one-half hour during which the Company may require employees to remain at the job location.
[75]
Al ,05 Full Evening Tours
A1.051 Eight hours, starting at or after 11:00 A.M, but not after 5 P.M., and including a meal period of 30 minutes which is paid for as work time and during which the Company may require employees to remain at the job location.
A1.06 Nigh t Tou rs
Al.061 Eight hours, starting at or after 10 P.M. but not after midnight, including a meal period of 30 minutes which is paid for as worktime and during which the Company may require employees to remain at the job location.
A1.07 Half Tours
A 1.071 Four hours of continuous worktime starting within the limits of full day or evening tours.
A 1.08 NormaiWorktime
A1.081 Worktime included in the normal work week.
A1.09 Overtime Work
AT.091 Worktime outside the limits of a scheduled full tour, or outside the limits of a normal work week, subject to the provisions of Section A2.013.
A1.10 Basic Weekly Wage Rate. ■
A 1.101 The amount paid for a normal work week, exclusive of extra payments for overtime work or work during evenings, night, Sundays and holidays.
A1.11 Basic Daily Wage Rate
Al .111 One-fifth of the basic weekly wage rate.
I76|
A1,12 Basic Hourly Wage Rate
Al. 121 One-fortieth of the basic weekly wage rate.
A 1.13 Premium Hourly Wage Rate
Al. 131 One and one-half times the basic hourly wage rate, except that overtime work normally paid at one and one-half times the basic hourly wage rate will, to the extent that the hours in the week exceed 49, be paid at twice the basic hourly wage rate.
SECTION A2
Worktime Schedules
A2.01 Posting Schedules
A2.011 Worktime schedules will be posted by the Company each week on Wednesday showing the work schedules for the next three calendar weeks in advance.
A2.012 These schedules will show the time each tour starts and ends on each day of the normal work week. Employees who are not being part-timed will ordinarily be scheduled to work a normal work week.
A2.O13 Employees may also be required to work overtime outside the limits of a scheduled full tour of the normal work week or may be required to work overtime outside the limits of a normal work week on days or part days on which normal work time has not been scheduled. Each full or part hour of such overtime
[77]
work shall be paid at the premium hourly wage rate except:
(a)	Where the normal worktime in the week is not worked in full and an employee in that week works overtime on a day or part day not included in the normal work week, such overtime work shall be paid at the basic hourly rate. For this purpose, time not worked during the normal work week for the following reasons shall be counted as if worked:
(1)	An excused Holiday.
(2)	Jury Duty or Grand Jury Duty.
I I
I I
(3)	Absence when required to appear as a witness before a court or Grand Jury.
(4)	Joint Conference of Representatives of the Union with Representatives of the Company.
(5)	Vacation, except vacation which is worked pursuant to A7.04.
(6)	Accident occurring while on duty.
(7)	Visits to Medical Department or Treating Physician at Company request.
(8)	When Serving as Judge, Inspector or Clerk of Election.
(9)	Scheduled hours excused and paid under Subsection A3.09, Fatigue Time.
[78]
I
(10)	Excused Work Day for which the employee is paid,
(11)	Attendance at joint meetings on Quality of Work Life.
(12)	Attendance at Union Orientation Meeting,
(13)	Absence for Union Business of up to seven (7) Union officials (Plant and Traffic combined) provided that the Union notifies management by January 1 st of each year of the names of the Union officials who will be covered by this provision for that year. The Union will give the Company thirty (30) days notice of changes in the names of the 7 designated officials.
Payments at the basic hourly wage rate under (a) above in any week shall not exceed the absent time during normal work time in that week or in any day shall not exceed the number of hours constituting a full tour.
(b)	Time worked outside of the hours scheduled on a holiday which is scheduled as part of the normal work week which shall be paid in accordance with Subsection A3.032(b).
A2.014 During a week containing a holiday, the normal work week will include a full tour starting on the holiday, except as provided in Sec
179]
tion A8 of this Exhibit A. Employees not needed to meet service requirements will be excused from working such tours.
A2.015 In each Supervisor’s group, not more often than once every three months, employees with the following titles with twenty-five years or more of service will advise their immediate supervisor as to the normally scheduled tours they desire to work. The requested assignments will be granted to the extent and in such combinations that it is practicable to do so in accordance with service and training requirements, proper coverage and normal scheduling procedures, as determined by the Company, provided no other employee in the group would thereby be required to work either evening tours, night tours, or Saturdays or Sundays for more than fifty percent of the year;
Apprentice Technician Assignment Administrator Assignment Technician Building Equipment Mechanic Driver - Heavy Equipment Driver - Heavy Truck Driver - Light Truck Driver - Medium Truck Facilities Assigner Frame Attendant
Maintenance Administrator Materials Service Attendant Network Service Coordinator
L8OJ
Senior Attendant Services Technician Splicing Technician Splicing Technician’s Helper Storekeeper
Switching Equipment Technician Systems Technician Test Desk Technician Translations Administrator
A2.016 In each Customer Service Bureau, not more often than once every three months, Field Clerks, General Field Clerks and Senior Field Clerks with twenty-five or more years of service and in each Supervisor’s group not more often than once every three months, Building Custodians with twenty-five or more years of service will advise their immediate supervisor as to the normally scheduled tours they desire to work. The requested assignments will be granted to the extent and in such combinations that it is practicable to do so in accordance with service and training requirements, proper coverage and normal scheduling procedures, as determined by the Company, provided no other employee in the group would thereby be required to work either evening tours, night tours, or Saturdays or Sundays for more than fifty percent of the year.
A2.017 If all of the assignments requested under the provisions of Subsection A2.01 cannot be granted, preference shall be given to the re
(811
quests of those employees within each group who are most senior, pursuant to the guidelines of the above sections.
A2.0I8 Where there is a small number of employees in the group in the occupations normally scheduled for evening or night tours or Saturdays or Sundays, or where the number of such employees with sufficient service to exercise a choice is disproportionately large, the provisions of this subsection will apply only as long as the appropriate directors of the Company and the local officials of the Union agree that such provisions will operate equitably with respect to all of the employees concerned. Where no such local agreement is reached, the Company, as far as reasonably possible, will endeavor to schedule the employees involved so as to carry out the above principles.
A2.O2 Changes in Worktime Schedules
A2.021 The schedules may be changed at any time after posting. Changes may be initiated by the Company or by employees, if approved by the Company.
A2.022 In case of excused absence to attend Union business, unless it is not possible to do so, requests for such absence shall be made to the employee’s immediate supervisor at least three full working days prior to the beginning of the absence.
A2.023 The assignment of an employee to work in
I I
I I
[82]
I I I I
I I I I
I
excess of a full tour on a day is not considered a change in schedule and time off corresponding to such overtime work will not be required.
A2.024 When the Company assigns an employee to work on a day on which no tour has previously been scheduled or to work additional time on a day on which a half tour has previously been scheduled, his scheduled worktime on another day of the same week may be reduced by a corresponding amount, providing he is notified at least two days before the day of the added assignment or that of the decreased assignment, whichever is earlier. In this event, the worktime of the added assignment is within the normal work week and is therefore normal worktime.
A2.025 If, on the other hand, the employee is not given at least two days’ notice of the change, no corresponding reduction in worktime will be made in the worktime of another day, and the added time being outside the normal work week is overtime work.
SECTION A3 Payments For Time Worked
A3.01 Week Days
A3.Oil The basic hourly wage rate will be paid for normal worktime.
A3.012 The premium hourly wage rate will be paid
[83]
for overtime work except as provided in Subsections A2.013, A3.O71 andA3.072.
A3.02 Sundays
A3.O21 Sunday time extends from midnight Saturday to midnight Sunday.
A3.022 The premium hourly wage rate will be paid for all worktime.
A3.O3 Holidays
A3.O31 All time included in tours starting on a Holiday scheduled as part of the normal work week is Holiday time. No time included in tours starting on the preceding day is Holiday time even though the tour ends after midnight.
A3.032 Where a full tour of the normal work week is scheduled on the Holiday, the basic daily wage rate will be paid for the Holiday. This pay allowance may be withheld w'hen, in the opinion of the Company, the facts relating to the absence of the employee on the Holiday or the scheduled day immediately preceding or following the Holiday warrant such action. In addition:
(a)	Time worked within hours scheduled as part of the normal work week will be paid at the premium hourly wage rate subject to the provisions of Subsection A3.072 with respect to callouts.
(b)	Time worked outside of the hours scheduled as part of the normal work week will
[84]
be paid at two and one half times the basic hourly wage rate subject to the provisions of Subsection A3.072. The provisions of Al. 13 shall not apply.
A3.04 Changes in Scheduled Tours Initiated by the Company
A3.041 When the Company changes the starting or quitting time of a scheduled tour and does not notify the employee at least 24 hours before the previously or newly scheduled starting time, whichever is earlier, the premium hourly wage rate will be paid for all worktime outside the starting and quitting times previously scheduled.
A3.05 Part Hour Worked
A3.O51 When an employee works less than his scheduled tour, he will be paid for any part hour worked, as follows:
Hours Paid
If Basic	If Premium
Minutes Worked Rate Applies Rate Applies
1 to 15 inclusive	14	%
16 to 30 inclusive	'A	3A
31 to 45 inclusive
46 to 60 inclusive 1	1 }A
A3.052 When employees work more than their scheduled tour, they will be paid for the overtime work as follows:
[85]
Minutes Worked	Hours Paid(*}
1 to 5 inclusive	None
6 to 15 inclusive	
16 to 30 inclusive	3/4
31 to 45 inclusive	1!4
46 to 60 inclusive	1'Z
61 to 75 inclusive	1%
76 to 90 inclusive	2?4
etc.	etc.
I I
I
(*) Appropriate adjustments will be made as required by the pro vi sions of A1.13./1
A3.O6 Evening, Night, and Certain Full Day Tours
A3.061 Any employee assigned one of the occupational titles listed in Section Al will be paid a wage differential in an amount equivalent to 12% of the employee’s basic hourly wage rate for each hour worked between 5 RM. and 8 A.M. during scheduled evening or night tours. A wage differential of 15% of the employee’s basic hourly wage rate will be paid for each hour worked on a Saturday between 12:01 a.m. and 11:59 p.m. during scheduled Saturday tours. The 12% evening or night tour differential docs not apply to Saturday tours.
A3.062 This wage differential payment where applicable will be in addition to amounts paid for work time during scheduled hours on weekdays, Saturdays, Sundays and General Holidays and during non-scheduled hours when tours are changed with insufficient notice.
[86]
I I
I I i i
A3.063 Since the wage differentials are designed to compensate employees for the inconvenience of working evening or night tours, wage differential payments will not be made unless the employee actually works between 5 P.M. and 8 A.M. during scheduled evening or night tours except as follows:
(a)	During full evening and night tours the differential will be paid for the one half hour meal period during which the Company may require the employee to remain on the job.
(b)	Absence due to accidents occurring while on duty-if on the day the accident occurs, the employee was scheduled to work a tour carrying a differentia) payment, this payment will be continued during the period of absence. Otherwise, no differential payment will be made for absent time, Holidays or vacations,
(c)	Absence due to Excused Work Day for which the employee is paid.
A3.07 Employee Called Out to Work
A3.071 An employee who is called out to work overtime which is not consecutive with a scheduled tour will receive a minimum of four hours’ pay, including any travel time authorized under Section A5. The minimum payment will compensate for time worked up to two and one-half hours, subject to the provisions of A 1.13. If the employee is called out
[87]
a second time within the two and one-half hours covered by the first minimum payment, those two and one-half hours will be considered as fully paid for and no additional payment will be made for that period, except as required by the provisions of A 1.13. Time worked beyond two and one-half hours will be compensated at the premium hourly wage rate, except that when the employee is called out on a non-scheduled day, payment will be in accordance with the provisions of Subsection A2.013, but not less than four hours’ pay at the basic hourly wage rate.
A3.072 If called out to work on an excused holiday the employee will be paid at the premium hourly wage rate for time worked during hours scheduled as part of the normal work week and at two and a half times the basic hourly wage rate for time worked in hours outside of those scheduled as part of the normal work week but in no case less than four hours’ pay at the basic hourly rate. The provisions of A1. 13 shall not apply to time worked in hours outside of those scheduled as part of the norma! work week.
A3.O73 When an employee is called out to work and the call out is canceled by management before the employee leaves home, the employee will be paid one half hour at the time and one half rate.
A3.08 Special Payment For Replacing Management Employee
[88]
I
I I
I I
I
I I
I
I
A3.081 When a management employee is to be absent for a half tour or more, and in the opinion of the Company, it is necessary to appoint an employee to temporarily replace the absent management employee, the employee appointed shall receive a special payment for each half tour worked during the employee's actual performance of the assignment in accordance with the following table:
Amount of In-Charge Payment Per Half Tour
Assignment Technician	)	$8.00
Building Equipment Mechanic )
Splicing Technician	)
Switching Equipment Technician)
Systems Technician	)
Services Technician	)
Facilities Assigner	)
Driver - Heavy Equipment	)	$7,00
Driver - Heavy Truck	)
Assignment Administrator	)	$6.75
Driver - Medium Truck	)
Frame Attendant	)
Maintenance Administrator	)
Network Service Coordinator	)
Storekeeper	)
Translations Administrator	)
Drafter	)	$6.50
Driver - Light Truck	)
Senior Field Clerk	)
Staff Clerk	)
I
[89]
Stenographer Clerk	)
General Field Clerk	)
Senior Clerk	)
Apprentice Technician	)
Senior Attendant	)
General Clerk	)
Field Clerk	)
Building Custodian	)
$5.75
A3.082 The above amounts shall be included with the basic rate in computing all compensation for that day to which the employee is entitled under this Agreement.
A3.083 The Company will administer these assignments so that one or more employees will not be assigned to replace a management employee for more than a reasonable continuous period under the circumstances of the particular case.
A3.O9 Working 16 Hours or More Within a 24-Hour Period - Fatigue Time
A3,091 When an employee works 16 hours or more in a 24 hour period, except in emergencies, he shall be excused for a minimum of eight hours following completion of the work. Such regularly scheduled hours as fall within the eight hour excused period shall be paid for at the employee’s basic hourly wage rate.
A3.092 In emergencies, when an employee is required to continue work beyond 16 hours he will be paid the premium rate until he stops such emergency work even though such time
[90]
worked beyond 16 hours is in the next regularly scheduled tour.
A3.093 Employees who have worked lesser amounts of overtime may be excused without pay if excused time is requested by the employee but at the discretion of the Company payment may be authorized.
A3.10 Special City Allowance
A3.101 An employee whose assigned reporting location on a particular day is within the city limits of the City of Wilmington, will be paid a Special City Allowance of $2.00 for each day he works after reporting at such assigned reporting location. An employee who is scheduled to work 50% or less of a regular full tour, or is called in and works 50% or less of a full tour, will be paid one-half of a full daily allowance.
A3.102 Not more than one full daily allowance will be paid to an employee on any one day regardless of the number of times the employee reports to a qualified location during that day.
A3.103 The Special City Allowance will enter into computations of overtime pay required by law but will not be part of the basic rate or basic weekly wages for any other purpose nor enter into the computation of any payments under the “Verizon Pension Plan” or the “Verizon Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan”.
[91]
A3.11 Associates Training Other Associates
A qualified employee may volunteer to be assigned the responsibility to train another employee in the same or another occupation. No employee will be involuntarily assigned this training responsibility. When this occurs, the employee performing the training will be given a special payment of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each tour in which training is performed.
I
I
I
Where an employee is involved in merely explaining and demonstrating the job, in detail, for the benefit of another employee, or explaining its relationship to associated jobs, or answering job related questions, the procedure shall not be considered as job training and the training payment will not be applicable.
The training responsibility is not merely explaining the job; it includes directing the employee in the proper procedures, observing the performance and reviewing the results of the work with the other employee.
A3.12 Differential for Use of Bi-tingual Skills
An employee will be paid an hourly differential in the amount of 3.5% of the employee’s basic hourly wage rate for all scheduled or nonscheduled hours or partial hours (including overtime) during which the employee is assigned to provide bi-lingual services to customers or to provide translation services for the Company. Only employees who qualify as proficient on the appropriate test for the language being used will be
F92]
eligible to be assigned such work, and to receive this differential. Employees who were assigned such duties during the term of the 1998 contracts, but who have not qualified as proficient on the appropriate test, will be grandfathered until September 1,2003, to become test-qualified, during which time they may continue to be assigned such duties.
The bi-lingual differential will enter into computations of overtime pay in accordance with applicable law on overtime on differentials.
It is also agreed that this provision replaces the Bi-lingual Letters of Understanding in the applicable collective bargaining agreements.
I I
I I
SECTION A4
Payments For Time Not Worked
A4.01 General
A4.011 Employees will be paid for time scheduled within the normal work week but not worked only for the reasons listed and as specified in this Section. Payments will be at basic wage rates unless otherwise specifically provided. Payments for absent time, unless otherwise specifically provided herein, will not include evening and night wage differentials.
A4.012 Under no condition will the authorized payment apply to hours outside the limits of a scheduled full tour or outside the limits of a normal work week regardless of the basis on
[93]
which such hours, if worked, would have been paid.
A4.02 Holidays
The following treatment shall apply if a full tour of the normal work week is scheduled on the Holiday:
A4.021 Employees excused will be paid subject to the provisions of A3.032 of this Exhibit A.
A4.022 If the Holiday occurs during any part of an absence:
(a)	Of seven consecutive calendar days or less, employees absent will be paid unless payment is withheld by the Company.
(b)	Which extends beyond seven consecutive calendar days and which is for reasons other than those provided for in this Section A4, employees absent will not be paid unless payment is approved by the Company.
A4.03 Sickness of the Employee, or Quarantine Approved by the Company
Payments will be made on the following basis, provided that any authorized payments may be withheld where in the opinion of the Company the circumstances of the particular case warrant such action:
(a)	Employees With Less Than One Year’s Service-No payment will be made regardless of
[94]
the length of the absence, except when specifically authorized by the Company.
(b)	Employees With One But Less Than Two Years’ Service-Payments will be made for the first two consecutive tours of absence only when specifically approved by the Company. Employees absent more than two consecutive tours of the normal work week will be paid for any further tours not worked during the first seven consecutive calendar days of absence.
(c)	Employees With Two But Less Than Five Years’ Service-Payments will be made for the first tour of absence only when specifically approved by the Company. Employees absent more than one tour of the normal work week will be paid for any further tours not worked during the first seven consecutive calendar days of absence.
(<i) Employees With Five or More Years’ Service-Employees will be paid for all tours not worked during the first seven consecutive days of absence.
A4.04 Accident on Duty
A4.041 Payments for the day of the accident will be the same as if the employee had worked his scheduled tour, including the wage differential for the scheduled tour.
A4.05 Less than Full Tours Worked on Recommendation of Medical Department
[95]
A4.051 Payment for each day will be as follows:
(a)	During the “Full Pay” period - For a full tour.
(b)	During the “Half Pay” period - For the time worked, but not less than a half tour.
A4.06 Jury Duty
A4.061 Employees absent during scheduled hours will be paid their basic pay. Employees scheduled for evening or night tours will be rescheduled for day tours, the change being considered as initiated by the employees.
A4.07 Death in Family
A4.071 Employees will be paid for such absent time as they elect to take, up to the maximum number of consecutive scheduled work days coincident with the funeral and delineated below by employee relationships. Employees on evening and night tours shall be excused from evening or night work on the day or days for which they are excused and paid • basic wages.
A4.072 Family, for purposes of this Section A4.07, shall be limited to the following relationships of the employee:
I
I I
I I
Spouse (or live-in equivalent) 4 days (Step) Child
(Step) Parent
(Step) Sister .	3 days
(Step) Brother
Person living in the
same household as employee
[96]
Father-in-law Mother-in-law (Step) Grandfather (Step) Grandmother (Step) Grandchild
Aunt
Uncle
Niece
Nephew Brother-in-law Sister-in-law Son-in-law Daughter-in-law Cousin (1st)
2 days
1 day
A4.073 Employees may request to take additional time off as a vacation day(s), floating holiday^), excused work day(s), or time off without pay. Such requests will be granted when the employee has been appointed to serve as an executor of the decedent’s estate provided sufficient notice is given. Other requests will be granted where feasible.
A4.08 Time Off to Vote in National, State or Local Elections
A4.081 An employee who is unable to vote outside his scheduled tour may be allowed time off to vote.
A4.09 Conferences of Representatives of the Union with Representatives of the Company.
A4.091 Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03 of Article 2, Representatives of the Union, and
[97]
other individual members of the Union who attend a conference at the request of the Representatives because they are personally involved in a matter under discussion, will be paid only for that part of their scheduled tours that is actually spent in conferences and for travel time as authorized in Article 13. Any of these employees who are scheduled for evening or night tours will be rescheduled for day tours, the change being considered as initiated by the employee.
A4.092 Short interruptions during a conference for recesses or to permit either group of representatives to confer alone will be considered as time spent in conference.
A4.093 A Representative of the Union attending disciplinary meetings or investigatory interviews as outlined in Article 25 will be paid by the Company only for such of the Representative’s scheduled hours as are actually spent in those meetings.
A4.10 Visit io Medical Department or Treating Physician
A4.101 Employees visiting the Medical Department or Treating Physician at the direction of the Company will be paid for such excused time as comes within their scheduled hours. Visits to the Medical Department or Treating Physician at the employees’ request will be made on the employees’ own time and at their expense.
[98]
I
I
I
A4.11 When Required To Appear In Court Or Before A Grand Jury As A Witness
A4.I 11 Employees absent during scheduled hours will be paid their basic pay. Payments provided in this Subsection A4.111 will not apply when employees appear in court or before a grand jury in any capacity other than witness.
A4.12 When Serving As A Judge, Inspector or Clerk of Election	.	.
A4.121 Upon reasonable notice, employees will be excused during scheduled hours on election days and, when excused, will be paid their basic pay for those days. Employees normally scheduled for evening or night tours will be rescheduled to day tours if they request.
A4.13 Pre-Admission Medical Tests
A4.131 Employees directed by their physicians to visit a hospital or other medical facility on an out-patient basis, in order to have a pre-admission medical test(s) (in connection with either in-patient or out-patient surgery) administered in lieu of similar services rendered on an in-patient basis, will be excused and will be paid for the necessary absent time on the same basis as for Sickness of the Employee, or Quarantine Approved by the Company as set forth in Subsection A4.03. A copy of the physician’s written directive for such tests must be presented to the employee’s supervisor prior to the day of the tests. Such
[99]
time off will not be counted under the attendance improvement program.
A4.14 Attendance at Union Orientation Meeting
A4.141 One Representative of the Union may meet once with one or more employee(s) who is newly hired into, or transferred into, the bargaining unit for the purposes of furnishing the employee(s) with information about the Union. The date, time, and plane of the meeting must be approved in advance by the employee’s immediate supervisor. The meeting shall last no longer than thirty minutes.
A4.142 Within a second tier supervisor’s organization, no more than two Union orientation meetings shall be held monthly. Whenever more than one employee is transferred into a second tier supervisor’s organization within the same two week period, every effort will be made by the Union to hold a single group orientation meeting.
I
I
A4.143 At their request, employees newly hired into, or transferred into, the bargaining unit will be excused during his or her scheduled hours and paid for up to 30 minutes (including travel time, if any) to attend a Union Orientation Meeting described in this Section A4.14.
A4.144 The Representative of the Union who conducts a Union Orientation Meeting described in this Section A4.14 will be paid for no more than thirty minutes of his or her time (including any travel time) to conduct such a meet
1100]
I
I I
I
ing, provided such time comes within the Representative’s scheduled hours.
SECTION A5 ’
Travel Time and Allowance
A5.01 Certain locations are specified below at which work time for various forces starts and stops. Employees will report for duty at the specified location at the time shown on the work time schedule.
A5.011 Individual employees shall be assigned to a reporting location such as a work center, storeroom, central office, locker, such customer premises as are normally considered a place to report for starting the day’s work, or the like.
A temporary reporting location is any location at which an employee is required to start and/or end his/her work tour other than his/her assigned reporting location.
An employee may be assigned to a temporary reporting location and/or may be transferred from one temporary reporting location to another temporary reporting location. The place of reporting for the day’s work will be designated by the Supervisor.
A normal work assignment is any assignment which requires the employee to start and end his/her work tour al his/her assigned report
1101]
ing location. Subsections A5.012 and A5.013 do not apply to these assignments.
A temporary work assignment is any assignment of 1 day or more which requires the employee to start or end his/her work tour at his/her temporary reporting location and/or requires the employee to travel between or among locations.
When an employee is on a temporary work assignment requiring him/her to report to more than one location during the course of his/her temporary work assignment, the location which is the farthest from the employee’s residence at either the start or end of his/her tour will be considered to be the employee’s temporary reporting location for purposes of calculating distance in accordance with the provisions of Section A5.
An employee on a 1 day temporary work assignment will be paid in accordance with Subsection A5.012 if the distance which hc/she must travel from his/her residence to his/her temporary reporting location is greater than the distance which he/she would normally travel from his/her residence to his/her assigned reporting location.
An employee on a temporary work assignment lasting more than a day will be paid in accordance with Subsection A5.O13 if the distance which he/she must travel from his/her residence to his/her temporary report
1102]
ing location is greater than the distance which he/she would normally travel from his/her residence to his/her assigned reporting location.
In no event will the provisions of Section A5.012 or A5.013 apply if the distance from the employee’s residence to his/her temporary reporting location is less than the distance from the employee’s residence to his/her assigned reporting location.
A3.012 / Day Temporary Work Assignments
A5.0121 An employee on a 1 day temporary work assignment will be paid a Daily Travel Allowance in accordance with the following table:
Additional Distance	Eff.	Eff	Eff-
Which the Employee	9/30/00	8/5/01	8/4/02
Must Travel One Way	Daily	Daily	Daily
When On A Temporary	Travel	Travel	Travel
Work Assignment	Allowance	Allowance	Allowance
0 to 5 Road Miles	$ 3.71	$ 3.82	$ 4.01
Over 5 to 10 Road Miles	9.26	9.54	10.02
Over 10 to 15 Road Miles	18.53	19.09	20.04
Over 15 to 20 Road Miles	27.16	27.97	29.37
Over 20 to 25 Road Miles	35.19	36.25	38.06
Over 25 to 30 Road Miles	43.84	45.16	47.42
Over 30 to 35 Road Miles	52.49	54.06	56.76
(Road miles are determined by the shortest commonly traveled routes)
A5.0122 -An employee who is required to travel an additional distance of over 35 road miles when traveling to a 1 day temporary work
[103]
I
assignment will not be paid a daily travel allowance as set forth in A5.0121 but will be paid his/her actual travel expenses in accordance with Subsection A6.031 and for the time reasonably required to travel between his/her residence and his/her temporary reporting location.
A5.OI3 Temporary Work Assignments Lasting More than 1 Day
A5.O131 An employee who is required to travel an additional distance of up to 35 road miles to a temporary work assignment lasting more than I day either will be paid (a) a Daily Travel Allowance in accordance with the table set forth in Subsection A5.0121 for each day on the temporary work assignment or(b) if management approves, will be provided with meals and lodging in accordance with Subsections A6.01 and A6.02, will be reimbursed for actual travel expenses in accordance with Subsection A6.031, and will be paid for the time reasonably required to travel between his/her residence and his/her temporary reporting location.
A5.O132 An employee who is required to travel an additional distance of over 35 road miles to a temporary work assignment lasting more than 1 day, may either elect (a) to receive a Daily Travel Allowance for travel over 30 to 35 road miles in accordance with the table set forth in Subsection
1.104]
I
I
I
A5.0121 for each day on the temporary work assignment or (b) to receive meals and lodging in accordance with Subsections A6.01 and A6.02, be reimbursed for actual travel expenses in accordance with Subsection A6.031, and be paid for the time reasonably required to travel between his/her residence and his/her temporary reporting location.
A5.014 The Company will not force transfer an employee to a reporting location for the singular purpose of circumventing the provisions of this Section A5. A claim that the Company has violated this Subsection A5.014 may be grieved and then submitted to expedited arbitration pursuant to Article 14, Section 14.03.
A5.02 Travel time referred to in Subsection A3.071 shall be determined and applied on the following basis:
A5.O21 Travel time to the job shall be the period that is reasonably required for the employee to travel from his residence to the job.
A5.022 Travel time from the job shall be the period between the ending time of the work period and the time reasonably required to reach his residence.
A5.023 “Normally assigned starting and quitting times,” as used herein, shall be determined on the basis of the majority of tours assigned for the employee in the particular week.
A5.024 Travel time to or from the job, as defined in
[105]
A5.021 and A5.O22, will be paid for all callouts except under the following conditions in which case no travel time will be paid.
(a)	Where the work period of any duration as the result of the callout is continuous with a scheduled tour on a day other than a holiday or a worked scheduled tour on a holiday.
(b)	Where the callout occurs on a non-sched-uled day or on a holiday and four or more hours are worked between the normally assigned starting and quitting time.
A5.03 Time spent in loading and unloading material is worktime.
A5.04 Time spent traveling from job to job during the day’s work is worktime.
A5.05 Employees who are scheduled for a full week, or more, of vacation during the time they are on a temporary work assignment as defined in A5.0132 will be permitted to return to their assigned reporting location prior to the end of their last work day preceding the start of the vacation week, or weeks. For those who have elected to receive meals and lodging, travel time will be considered to be worktime. These employees will be reimbursed for transportation expenses in accordance with Subsection A6.032. If an employee is assigned to continue on a temporary work assignment as defined in A5.0132 on the first tour following return from vacation, and elects to receive meals and lodging, then his/her
[106]
travel time, when first reporting to the temporary reporting location, will be considered as worktime and transportation expenses will be reimbursed in accordance with Subsection A6.032.
A5.06 Employees on temporary work assignments during which they are provided with meals and lodging, who elect to return to their homes on a weekend, and who are then called out to work at their assigned reporting location during the weekend, shall be reimbursed for their travel time from their temporary reporting location to their home and their return from their home to the temporary reporting location.
SECTION A6 Incidental Expenses
A6.01 Meals
In accordance with Section A5, Subsection A5.O13, the Company will provide daily meal allowances as follows:
Breakfast	$ 5.00
Noon Meal	$10.00
Evening Meal	SI8.00
$33.00
If, in accordance with Section A5, Subsection A5.0I32, the employee elects to receive Daily Travel Allowance, the Company will not pay any meal allowance. In addition, at no time will the employee be entitled to receive a meal allowance for any meal listed in the above table
[107]
which is provided by the Company at no expense to the employee.
A6.02 Lodging
In accordance with Section A5, Subsection A5.013, the employee will be reimbursed for all of his/her reasonable lodging expenses actually incurred. The Company will pay a maximum of $10.00 for lodging expenses actually paid if the lodging location is other than that assigned by the Company.
A6.03 Transportation
A6.031 For temporary work assignments as defined in Subsection A5.0122 or for temporary work assignments for which meals and lodging are provided under the provisions of Subsection A5.013, the employee will be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses actually incurred when initially traveling to and from the temporary work assignment. The method of reimbursement of any transportation expense will be in accordance with Section A6.05.
A6.032 Employees on a temporary work assignment lasting more than five consecutive days will be permitted to return to their residence once in each calendar week and will be reimbursed for their transportation expenses to and from their home not in excess of 700 miles round trip.
A6.033 Employees on temporary work assignments as defined in Section A5, Subsection A5.O13 involving training only, will be given the op-
[108]
I
tion of returning home on weekends, consistent with the limitations of A6.032, or of remaining at the training location in which case the Company will pay the expenses in accordance with Section A5, Subsection A5.013.
A6.04 Employees Permanently Transferred from One Location to Another
A6.041 This Subsection applies to employees meet- ■ ing all of the following conditions: (1) they are permanently transferred, other than at . their own request; (2) they relocate their homes as a result of such transfer within 6 months of the date of transfer; and (3) the distance between the new assigned reporting location and the former home of such transferred employee exceeds the distance between the employee’s former assigned reporting location and his/her former home by 35 road miles or more. Road miles are determined by the shortest of the more commonly traveled routes between the locations involved. This subsection will also apply to a volunteer for a permanent transfer who meets conditions (2) and (3), above, in a situation where otherwise another employee who meets condition (3), above, would be required to transfer.
Employees covered by this Subsection shall be entitled to the following expenses to the extent they are reasonably incurred, except that meal expenses will be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of A6.01. It is
Fl 09]
understood that the Company will make tax deductions from such payments to the extent such deductions are required by law.
(a)	The actual expense of packing, moving, and unpacking the customary personal household belongings of employees and their immediate family including transportation insurance of household furniture.
(b)	The actual transportation expenses for employees and their immediate family including meals (in accordance with Subsection A6.01) and lodging en route.
(c)	Lodging and transportation expenses actually incurred by employees and meal expense in accordance with Subsection A6.01, until the employees’ new residence is established, for a period not in excess of six weeks from the date of transfer. If warranted by unusual circumstances, the Company may authorize the reimbursement of such expenses for a period in excess of six weeks.
(d)	Meal (in accordance with Subsection A6.01), lodging and transportation expense actually incurred for one other member of their immediate family while looking for a residence in the new community up to a maximum of three trips or six days.
(e)	Meal (in accordance with Subsection A6.01) and lodging expense actually in-
[H01
I I
I I
I I
I I
I
curred for employees and their immediate family from the date of moving until delivery of household goods and connection of utilities, not to exceed three days.
(f)	The actual cost of connecting basic utilities (telephone, electricity, gas and water) at the new location and, when authorized by the Company, the cost of disconnecting normal household appliances (such as gas refrigerators, automatic washers, etc.) at the old location and of reconnecting at the new location.
(g)	Duplicate rent at either the new or old location (whichever is less) that the employee is unable to avoid up to a maximum of six weeks.
.	(h) The actual realtor’s commission paid for
the sale of the employee’s former residence up to seven percent of the purchase price.
Afi.04 2 Permanently transferred employees who are not reimbursed for expenses under Subsection A6.041 and whose new assigned reporting location is fifteen or more miles further from their residence than their prior assigned reporting location will be reimbursed for a period not in excess of one month from the date of transfer for all expenditures in excess of normal actually incurred for lodging and transportation, and meal expense will be reimbursed in accordance with Subsection
[UH
A6.01. If warranted by unusual circumstances, the Company may authorize the reimbursement of such expenses for a period in excess of one month.
A6.05 Method of Reimbursement of Transportation Expense
A6.051 Transportation incidental to travel as required by Sections A6.03 and A6.04 will be furnished by the Company or will be by means of transportation approved by the Company. An employee receiving Daily Travel Allowance in accordance with Subsections A5.O121 orA5.013l, is not eligible for compensation under paragraphs (a), (d), (e) or (k) below.
(a)	If public transportation is used, the employee will be reimbursed for fare actually expended.
(b)	Use of personal automobiles for individual assignments, trips or projects may be approved by the immediate supervisor, considering such factors as the transportation available, the employee’s qualification as a driver of a Company automobile, evidence of ownership of the personal automobile, liability and property damage insurance carried on the automobile and the extent of the benefit to be derived by the Company from the automobile’s use,
(e) When a personal automobile is to be used
[U2J
I I I I I I I I I I
on Company business as the authorized means of transportation, approval of the employee’s immediate supervisor must be first obtained. If it is expected that a personal automobile will be used on more than half the days on which an employee is scheduled to work over an extended period of time, it shall be considered as a regular recurring usage and written approval must be obtained from the Company and renewed each year.
(d)	If an employee, with advance approval, is authorized by Subsection (c) to use a personal automobile, the employee will be reimbursed for any compensable mileage at the rate of twenty-eight cents ($.28) per mile. On trips of three miles or less, employees shall be reimbursed an amount equal to the rate for one mile multiplied by three.
In the event the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) increases the standard mileage rate allowable as a business use deduction from gross income during the term of this Agreement, the Company will change the amount of the reimbursement according- ly effective on the first of the second month following the publication of the change by the IRS, but in no event prior to the effective date of the IRS increase.
This shall apply to reimbursement for authorized incidental use and not use of
[113]
personal automobiles, which are required as a condition of employment.
Compensable mileage will be the distance from the point of departure to destination, reduced, where applicable, as set forth in Subsection A6.042. Mileage will be determined from road maps or odometer readings or a combination of the two. No additional compensation will be paid to or for employee passengers.
(e)	Where travel requires the use of a toll road, highway tolls actually expended will be reimbursed.
(f)	Should an employee use his personal automobile in the course of Company business without prior approval, the mileage payment is not authorized and the transportation shall be paid for at public transportation rates.
(g)	For approval of the use of a personal automobile, an employee’s assurance must be obtained that liability and property damage insurance is in force covering the automobile to be used.
(h)	An employee will not be required to use his personal automobile.
(i)	The Company assumes no obligation for payment of repairs, maintenance and upkeep of personal automobiles except for the following situations when employees are operating personal cars:
rn4]
I I
I I
I I
I I I I
(1)	On callouts, both coming to and returning home from work;
(2)	On-the-job authorized use of personal car for Company business where the accident occurs during paid work time;
(3)	Special assignments and temporary transfers where use of a personal car is authorized and travel time is paid as work time under the contract.
In these cases the Company will pay a maximum of $100.00 for damage incurred, provided:
(1)	(a) The employee has actually had the car damage repaired and produces a receipted bill for or in excess of the amount claimed; or (b) the damage is so extensive that it is unreasonable to have the car repaired and it is junked or sold for salvage in which case the Company will pay the reasonable value of the car prior to the accident, less any salvage, up to the maximum of $100; and
(2)	Collision insurance does not cover the amount claimed; and
(3)	The employee takes reasonable steps to obtain reimbursement but there is no prospect of recovery from a third party or an insurance company within a reasonable period. (It is under
[115]
stood that the employee will reimburse the Company out of any subsequent recovery as a result of a claim arising from the accident); and
(4)	The accident was not clearly the fault of the employee or was not caused by the defective condition of the employee’s car.
(j)	Employees are not authorized to permit relatives or friends to ride with them when using a personal automobile on
■ Company business as the authorized means of transportation. The Company assumes no liability for accident or damage claims made by any such persons or on their behalf and the employee permitting any such person to ride in his personal automobile while on company business is required to notify him or her to that effect.
(k)	Parking fees reasonably incurred will be reimbursed when required by the assignment and approved by the supervisor.
(1)	-Motor scooters and motorcycles are not covered.
[116]
SECTION A7
Vacations
I I
I
A7.01 Vacation Allowances
■ A7.011 Vacations with pay will be permitted during each calendar year according to the following schedule:
No Vacation - If engaged or re-engaged on or after July 1 st of the current calendar year.
One Week Vacation - Upon completion of six months’ service.
I I
I I
I I
Two Weeks Vacation - Upon completion of twelve months’ service, provided that if terms of employment of 6 months and 12 months are both completed in the same calendar year, only two weeks will be granted, with the second week to be taken after completion of 12 months of net credited service. The first week may be taken any time after completion of 6 months of net credited service.
If an employee becomes eligible for one or two weeks of vacation on or after December 1, it may be taken in the following calendar year, providing it is completed prior to April 30, and prior to the taking of any of that year’s vacation.
Three Weeks Vacation - Beginning with and at any time within the year in which the employee completes 7 years’ service.
[117]
Four Weeks Vacation ■ Beginning with and at any time within the year in which the employee completes 15 years’ service.
Five Weeks Vacation - Beginning with the year in which the employee completes 25 years’ service but only if at least one week is taken during the month of January, February, March, April, November or December.
A7.012 It being a mutual objective of the Company and the Union that the method of selecting vacations results in maximum satisfaction to employees and it being necessary that the numbers of vacations granted at one time be consistent with customer service objectives and economy of operation, it is agreed that the selection of vacations will be conducted as follows:
I I
I I
I
(1)	The Director or Director’s designee will consult each year with the appropriate representative of the Union concerning the various work groups of employees in the District to determine whether such work groups should select vacations separately or in one or more combinations of groups. In mutually discussing combinations, consideration shall be given to seniority problems, the geographical proximity of groups, the interchangeability of work and the wishes of employees. The final composition of work groups, the amount of vacation time available for selection each week in each group or com-
fl 18]
I I
I I I
I I
I 1 I
I I
I I
bi nation of groups and the experience and training of the employees needed on duty each week shall be determined by the Company.
(2)	The Company, consistent with the above, will offer to all eligible employees, in the order of their length of service, the choice of vacations from the vacation time available each week in their particular groups or combination of groups in the following order:
(a)	Employees who are eligible fer at least one week of vacation in the current calendar year shall select one week.
(b)	Employees entitled to two or more vacation weeks will select their remaining weeks.
A7.013 Employees who are eligible for one or more weeks of vacation in any calendar year may take up to three weeks of their current year’s entitlement on a day-at-a-time basis. The selection of day-at-a-time vacation will be in accordance with the provisions of Subsection A10.03 of Section A10, Scheduling of Time Off.
1. Subject to the foregoing provisions in Subsection A7.O13, employees may take a maximum of five (5) day-at-a-time vacations in one-half day increments in a given calendar year. These half day increments
[119]
may only be scheduled Mondays through Fridays. Subsequent requests for one-half day-at-a-time vacation (subject to the 5 day maximum) and the Company’s accommodation of such requests will be subject to the provisions of Section A10.03.
A7.014 Employees who are eligible for two or more weeks of vacation in any calendar year may schedule up to two weeks of their current year’s entitlement during the period from January 1 through April 30 of the subsequent year, provided that an equal, or matching, number of vacation weeks taken from the employee’s entitlement for the subsequent year must be scheduled and the weeks taken no later than April 30 also.
The selection of “carry over” and “matching” weeks shall have precedence over all other vacation selections for the period of January 1 through April 30 of the subsequent year.
A7.015 Vacation schedules will be posted by the Company after all assignments have been completed, but not later than February 1. Where eligibility to an initial or additional week of vacation occurs after the time the schedules are posted, such vacations may be scheduled to be taken upon completion of necessary service and included on the vacation schedules when posted. The Company will make every reasonable effort to adhere to the schedule, but may make changes in the assignment at any time in conformity with
[120]
I I I I I I I I I
the requirements of the business. If the Company decides to give vacations to more employees at a particular time, the desires of individual employees will be given consideration for these assignments.
Employees may exchange assigned vacations if service requirements permit.
A7.016 If a Holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation, the employee will be excused with pay on a scheduled day of another week. This day may be taken at any time prior to April 30 of the succeeding calendar year, in accordance with the provisions outlined in Subsection A 10.033.
A7.017 When an employee is unable, due to absence, to take a previously scheduled vacation in October, November or December in any calendar year, he will be permitted to take the unexpended portion of his vacation up to a maximum of two weeks in the next calendar year, subject to the following limitations.
(1)	The absence must be due to reasons beyond the employee’s control, such as personal illness, accident or jury duty.
(2)	The absence must start on or after October 1 and prior to the start of the vacation.
(3)	As much of the unexpended vacation as possible must be rescheduled in the calendar year.
[121]
(4)	The unexpended vacation must be completed by April 30 of the next calendar year.
(5)	No payment in lieu of vacation will be made unless it is made pursuant to Section A7.04.
A7.018 Employees transferred to Company from an associate company or new employees taken over from other telephone companies at the time of either the purchase of the physical property of such other company or the consolidation or merger of such other company with this Company will, for vacation purposes, be given credit for their continuous service with such other company immediately prior to the transfer, purchase or merger. A vacation will be given such employees in the year of transfer according to the combined length of service of the employee in the other company and this Company, less any vacation already received by the employee in the calendar year.
A7.019 If an employee is drawn to serve on a jury during his scheduled vacation, he will be permitted to reschedule his vacation.
A7.02 Vacation Payments
A7.021 Payments for each vacation week will be the basic weekly wage rate except as otherwise provided in this Exhibit A.
A7.022 In general, employees will be paid for the va
[122]
cation period on the pay day just before the beginning of vacation.
I I
I I
I I
I I
I
A7.023 Upon the request of the employee, payment for vacation time will be held until the employee returns from vacation.
A7.024 Employees may also be paid in advance for the week preceding the vacation. In this case, payments for that week will be based on the basic weekly wage rate and any adjustments resulting from under or over-payments will be made after the employee returns to duty.
A7.03 Special Conditions Affecting Vacation Allowances
A7.031 Treatment granted employees for military leaves of absence is covered in a separate agreement.
A7.032 Employees who retire for any reason other than total physical disability will be given the full vacation to which they are entitled by their years of service, provided there is sufficient time in the calendar year for such vacation prior to the employees’ retirement date. If there is not sufficient time, employees will be given a cash allowance in lieu of unused vacation.
A7.O33 An employee separated or about to be separated from the service of the Company because of inefficiency or infraction of rules will not be given a vacation.
A7.034 In cases of termination of service due to res-
[1231
ignation or layoff, employees will be given a cash allowance in lieu of any unused vacation to which they are entitled by their years of service. In the case of interruption of service for leave of absence or resumption of service from leave of absence (other than those leaves referred to in A7.031), employees will be given unused vacation in that calendar year, to which they are entitled by their years of service, but no cash allowance in lieu of vacation will be given.
A7.04 Payment for Working Vacation Time
A7.041 Employees who are entitled to three or more vacation weeks may, at the sole option of the Company, be afforded the opportunity to receive pay for agreeing to work vacation time, subject to the conditions set forth below.
I I
I I
I
A7.042 Only full vacation weeks (including weeks with holidays) may be worked under this Section A7.04. In no event shall vacation days, HV days, floating holidays, excused work days, or reserved time be eligible for payment under this Section.
A7.043 Employees who are entitled to three or more weeks of vacation in a calendar year are eligible to be offered the opportunity to work vacation time as follows:
I
I
(a)	Employees entitled to three weeks vacation are eligible to be offered the opportunity to work one week of vacation.
(b)	Employees entitled to four or five weeks
I
1124]
vacation are eligible to be offered the opportunity to work one or two weeks of vacation.
I I
I I
I I
I I
I
A7.044 Within a work group, in order to meet anticipated service needs, the Company may, in its sole discretion, offer to eligible employees the opportunity to work a full vacation week which qualifies for such payment under A7.042 and A7.043 as follows:
(a)	No minimum period of advance notice to eligible employees is required.
(b)	Eligible employees scheduled for a vacation during a week for which management wishes to offer one or more opportunities to work vacation time will have the opportunity to volunteer to work in order of their credited service, except that employees who, in the opinion of management are not qualified to perform the work which is expected to be performed that week need not be afforded the opportunity to work that week.
(c)	Whether to volunteer for an opportunity is within the sole discretion of the employee.
A7.045 An employee shall receive one week’s basic wages and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement covering work on a scheduled day of work for each week of vacation which- he has agreed to work under this Section. (This payment shall
[125]
not be used in the computation of overtime, differential, or other premium payments). In the event an employee is absent on a day or days in a week which he has agreed to work under this Section, he shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Section A4.
A7.046 A vacation week which an employee has elected to work under this Section shall not be available for reselection as vacation time (either as a full week or as individual days as listed in Section A 10.033) by another employee in the same work group.
A7.047 This Section will not be raised as a reason for permitting additional employees to take time off.
A7.048 Nothing in this Section shall limit the Company’s right under A7.015 to make changes in vacation assignments where the requirements of the business make it necessary.
I I I
I I I
SECTION A8 Holidays
A8.0I The following will be observed as Holidays:
New Year’s Day (*) Presidents’ Day (*) Good Friday
Memorial Day
Independence Day Labor Day
(*) Veterans’ Day Thanksgiving Day Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Day
(*) Floating Holiday
(*) Each employee shall select any three of these four Holidays.
I I
I I
[126]
A8.02 When any of the above Holidays falls on Sunday, the following day will be observed as the Holiday. If the Holiday falls on a Saturday, the Friday immediately preceding will be observed as the Holiday.
A8.O3 The posted work time schedule for the particular week will provide for a scheduled full tour on the Holiday for each employee as part of his normal work week. Employees will be excused on the Holiday to the extent that service requirements permit as determined by the Company.
A8.O4 Selection of Presidents’ Day, Good Friday, Veteran’s Day and Floating Holiday
I
I I
I
I 1
Not later than January 20, employees shall inform their immediate supervisor as to which three of these four Holidays they wish to observe in that year. To the extent that service requirements permit, employees will be afforded the Holidays of their choice. The work group for selection purposes shall generally be the same as the work group used for vacation selections under A7.O12. The selections made by employees under the provisions of this Subsection shall not be subject to change except that service requirements or work load may require that employees work on the days they have selected as their Holidays.
Floating Holidays, once granted, will not normally be subject to change. However, at the employee’s request and subject to the requirements of the business as determined by management,
[127]
employees may change a scheduled Floating Holiday.
Employees hired after September 30 in any calendar year shall not be eligible for a Floating Holiday in that calendar year.
SECTION A9
Excused Work Days
A9.01 Each Regular employee who has at least six months of net credited service on January 1 of the current year shall be eligible for four (4) Excused Work Days with pay and one (1) Excused Work Day without pay during the year.
A9.02 Employees who do not work on their paid Excused Work Day shall be paid for the day as if for a normal or standard day worked provided they are on the active payroll of the Company on that Excused Work Day.
A9.03 One paid Excused Work Day in each calendar year may be designated by the Company for employees in an administrative work group (as designated by the Company) or in any larger group, including the entire Company. Employees (except occasional employees) in any such group for which an Excused Work Day is designated by the Company and who are not otherwise eligible for a paid Excused Work Day shall be excused and paid for such designated day as set forth in A9.01, provided they are on the active
I
I I
I I
I I
1128]
payroll of the Company on the designated Excused Work Day.
A9.04 Employees who are on vacation or absent with pay on their paid Excused Work Day for reasons other than having observed it as an Excused Work Day shall have their paid Excused Work Day rescheduled if a vacation day would have been rescheduled under the same circumstances.
A9.05 If employees agree to work on their paid Excused Work Day and the Company determines that the day cannot be rescheduled, they shall be paid as applicable in accordance with the following subparagraphs:
(i)	Employees who agree to work before the work schedule becomes fixed shall receive one day’s pay as set forth in A9.02, in lieu of their Excused Work Day and shall in addition be paid in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement covering work on a scheduled day of work.
(ii)	Employees who agree to work after the work schedule becomes fixed shall receive one day’s pay as set forth in A9.O2, in lieu of their Excused Work Day and shall in addition be paid in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement covering work on a non-scheduled day.
(iii)	Time worked by an employee on his or her Excused Work Day shall be considered time worked on a regularly scheduled day of
[129]
work for all purposes, except as is otherwise expressly provided in this Section.
A9.06 Temporary employees shall not be entitled to Excused Work Days other than Company designated Excused Work Days.	.
SECTION A10
Scheduling Of Time Off
AI0.0I The provisions of this Section cover the procedures to be followed in scheduling of time off. These procedures relate to provisions of the following Sections of this Agreement:
Section A7. Vacations. Subsections A7.012, A7.013.A7.016.
Section A8. Holidays, Subsection A8.04.
Section A9. Excused Work Days
The provisions of Section A10 shall not be used to alter the above provisions of this Agreement except to the extent required by this Section.
A 10.02 For the purposes of this Section A10, time off includes vacation time, Excused Work Days (paid and non-paid), floating holidays, and days in lieu of holidays which occur during a scheduled vacation week and are referred to as “HV” days.
A 10.03 The selection and scheduling of time off shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Subsection A 10.03.
[130]
I I I
I I
I I
I I I I I
I i I
I I
Al0.031 Employees shall select in the priority herein set forth in seniority order within the admin. istrative work group or other appropriate groups which may be designated as set forth in Subsection A7.012. The employees’ selections shall be granted, to the extent practicable, consistent with force requirements and needs of the business.
A 10.032 Prior to the beginning of a calendar year, and in accordance with the provisions of A7.012, management will make available to members of the designated groups a schedule for selection of full vacation weeks. Only full week vacations shall be selected at this time.
A 10.033 Upon completion of the selections of full vacation weeks in the manner described in Subsection Al0.032, the schedule will be made available for selections of other scheduled time off for which individual employees are eligible. Scheduled time off shall include the following:
I.	Day-at-a-time vacation days.
2.	Days in lieu of holidays occurring in vacation weeks (“HV” days).
3.	Floating holidays.
4.	Excused Work Days— Paid and NonPaid.
5.	Reserve-time.
Within each work group, or other vacation selection group, and in seniority order within
U31]
the group, individual employees shall be given the opportunity to designate specific dates, if known, upon which they desire to observe the time off to which they are entitled.
Individuals need not designate every day to which they are entitled at this time. Subsequent requests will be considered on the basis of the earliest request to the employee’s immediate supervisor or other designated management person. The Company will attempt to accommodate such requests, subject to the needs of the business and force requirements of the work group.
A 10.034 The selection procedure, known as the second priority selection, described in A 10.033, will also include selection of “reserve-lime”. Reserve-time is a block of work days equal to the number of individual time off days to which an employee is entitled but which are not designated by the employee during the second priority selection. This block of days must be selected and scheduled at the same time an employee is given the opportunity to designate individual days off. Reserve-time shall be scheduled consistent with force requirements and the needs of the business, but in any case, not later than April 30 of the succeeding calendar year.
Any time off not taken by an employee prior to the scheduled reserve-time must be taken during the scheduled reserve-time selected by that employee.
[132j
I I I
I I I
I I I
I
REGULAR FULL TIME EMPLOYEES
GROUP 2
(Section Al I to Section A20 Inclusive)
SECTION All Definitions
A11.01 Regular Full-Time Employees
Al 1.011 Employees whose regular assignments of work cover normal work weeks.
A11.02 Group 2 Employees
Al 1.021 Employees assigned one of the following titles or other titles which may subsequently be established by the Company for corresponding occupations:
Drafter
General Clerk
Senior Clerk
Staff Clerk
S tenographer-Clerk
A11.03 Normal Work Week
Al 1.031 Five full tours or four full and two half tours which may be scheduled on any of the six weekdays.
Al 1.04 Full Tours
Al 1.041 Seven and one-half hours of worktime starting at or after 8 A.M., ending at or before 6 P.M., and divided into two sessions by a meal . period of not more than one hour.
[133]
A11.05 Half Tours
A11.051 Not less than three and one-half nor more than four hours of continuous worktime starting and ending within the limits of full day tours.
Al 1,06 Normal Worktime
Al 1.061 Worktime included in the normal work week.
A11.07 Overtime Work
Al 1.071 Worktime outside the limits of a scheduled full tour, or outside the limits of a normal work week, subject to the provisions of Section A12.
Al 1.08 Basic Weekly Wage Rate
A11.081 The amount paid for a normal work week, exclusive of extra payments for overtime work or work during Sundays and holidays.
Al 1.09 Basic Daily Wage Rate
Al 1.091 One-fifth of the basic weekly wage rate.
A11.10 Basic. Hourly Wage Rate
Al 1.101 The basic weekly wage rate divided by 371/2.
A11.11 Premium Hourly Wage Rate
A11.111 One and one-half times the basic hourly wage rate, except overtime work normally paid at one and one-half times the basic hourly wage rate will, to the extent that the hours in the week exceed 49, be paid at twice the basic hourly wage rate.
[134]
I
SECTION A12 Worktime Schedules
A12.01
The provisions of Section A2 for Group 1 Employees will also apply to Group 2 Employees.
,	SECTION Al3
Payments For Time Worked
A 13.01 Week Days ■
Al3.011 The basic hourly wage rate will be paid for all scheduled hours worked.
A 13.012 The premium hourly wage rate will be paid for overtime work except as provided in Subsections A2.013, A13.O3 and A3.07.
A13.02 Sundays
A 13.021 The premium hourly wage rate will be paid for all worktime.
A 13.03 Holidays
The basic hourly wage rate will be paid for each hour of the “normal work week scheduled on the Holiday. Any pay allowance computed on this basis may, however, be withheld where in the opinion of the Company the facts relating to the absence of the employee on the Holiday or the scheduled day immediately preceding or following the Holiday warrant such action.
In addition:
(a)	Time worked within hours scheduled as part of the normal work week will be paid at the
[135]
premium hourly wage rate subject to the provisions of Subsection A3.07 with respect to callouts.
(b)	Time worked outside of the hours scheduled as part of the normal work week will be paid at two and one half times the basic hourly wage rate subject to the provisions of Subsection A3.07. The provisions of Al 1.11 shall not apply.
A 13.04 Changes in Scheduled Tours initiated by the Company
A13.041 When the Company changes the starting or quitting time of a scheduled tour and does not notify the employee at least 24 hours before the previously or newly scheduled starting time, whichever is earlier, the premium hourly wage rate will be paid for all worktime outside the starting and quitting times previously scheduled.
A13.05 Part Hour Worked
A 13.051 When employees work less than their scheduled tour, they will be paid for any part hour worked, as follows:
Hour Paid
Minutes Worked
1 to 15 inclusive 16 to 30 inclusive 31 to 45 inclusive 46 to 60 inclusive
If Basic Rate Applies
A A A
1
If Premium Rate Applies
A A l'A l'A
[136]
A13.052 When employees work more than their scheduled tour, they will be paid for the overtime work, as follows:
Minutes Worked
1	to 5 inclusive
6 to 15 inclusive 16 to 30 inclusive 31 to 45 inclusive 46 to 60 inclusive 61 to 75 inclusive 76 to 90 inclusive etc.
Hours Paid (*) None
X 1% VA
2% etc.
(*) Appropriate adjustments will be made as required by the provisions of Al 1.11
Al3.06 Employee Called Out to Work
Employees called out to work overtime will be paid in accordance with the provisions of Section A3.07.
A 13.07 Special Payment for Replacing Management Employee
Al3.071 The provisions of Section A3.08 relating to Special Payments for Group 1 Employees will also apply to Group 2 Employees.
A13.08 Special City Allowance
Payment shall be in accordance with the provisions of A3.10.
Al 3.09 Evening, Night and Certain Full Day Tours
Payment shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section A3.06 for any employee assigned one of the occupational titles listed in Section Al 1.02.
[137]
A13.10 Associates Training Other Associates
Payment shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section A3.11.
A13.ll Differential for Use of Bi-Lingual Skills Payment shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section A3.12.
SECTION A 1.4
Payments For Time Not Worked
A 14.01 The provisions of Section A4 for Group 1 employees shall apply to Group 2 employees.
SECTION Al5
Travel Time and Allowance
A 15.01 The provisions of Section A5, for Group 1 employees will also apply to Group 2 employees.
A16.01
SECTION A16 Incidental Expenses
The provisions of Section A6 for Group 1 employees will also apply to Group 2 employees.
SECTION Al 7 Vacations
A 17.01 The provisions of Section A7 for Group 1 employees will also apply to Group 2 employees.
[138]
A18.01
SECTION Al8 Holidays
The provisions of Section A8 for Group 1 employees will also apply to Group 2 employees.
I I
I
I I I I
SECTION Al9
Excused Work Days
Al9.01 The provisions of Section A9 for Group 1 employees will also apply to Group 2 employees.
SECTION A20
Scheduling of Time Off
A20.01 The provisions of Section Al0 for Group I employees will also apply to Group 2 employees.
TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
SECTION A21
General
A21.01 Temporary Employees are those whose term of employment is intended to last more than three weeks but not more than six (6) months.
A21.02 The provisions of Sections Al to A20 inclusive, will apply to Temporary Full-Time Employees.
A21.03 The provisions of Section A32 will apply to Temporary Part-Time Employees, except that Temporary Part-Time Employees shall not be
[139]
entitled to Excused Work Days other than Company designated Excused Work Days.
REGULAR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES GROUPS 1 AND 2
(Engaged or Re-engaged prior to January 1, 1981)
SECTION A31
General
A31.01 Regular Part-Time Employees are those who are employed and normally scheduled to work less hours per average month than comparable FullTime Employees in the same job title, classification and work group working the same normal daily tour.
This classification will not be used for Regular Full-Time Employees who are temporarily part-timed.
A31.02 With the following exceptions, the provisions of Sections Al to A10 for Regular Full-Time Employees in Group i will apply to Regular PartTime Employees in Group 1 and the provisions of Sections Al 1 to A20 for Regular Full-Time Employees in Group 2 will apply to Regular Part-Time Employees in Group 2.
A31.021 The basis of assigning work time for PartTime Employees is to schedule those employees each, week for the number of hours needed to meet service requirements.
Under this condition, part tours are not nec
[140]
essarily of the same length as those defined for Full-Time Employees.
A31.022 All time worked will be paid at the employee’s basic hourly wage rate except time worked on Sunday, or on a Holiday, or as provided in A31.027 (b), or time worked in a day or in a week in excess of the number of hours comprising a full tour or a normal work week, respectively, in which cases payment will be made at the premium hourly wage rate. Any hours paid at the premium hourly wage rate for work time in excess of the number of hours included in a full tour will not be duplicated in computing weekly overtime payments.
A31.023 Where the period worked by a Group 1 PartTime Employee ends at or after 9:00 P.M. and prior to 8:00 A.M., evening or night tour differentials, as provided in Section A3.06, will . be paid only if the period actually worked is in excess of four hours.
A31.024 Absent time payments and payments for excused time for a Holiday falling during a vacation will be calculated on the basis of the employee’s average daily payment in the first four of the six calendar weeks preceding the absence, excluding any weeks containing a Holiday. Differential payments and any premium payments will be excluded in developing such average daily payment.
A31.025 Vacation payments win be computed by multiplying the average hours worked per week
[141]
during the first four of the six weeks immediately preceding the vacation by the employee’s basic hourly wage rate, provided hours in excess of the number of hours included in a full tour, or hours in excess of the number of hours comprising a normal work week, will be excluded in computing such weekly average.
A31.026 The Holiday allowance will be determined by multiplying the employee’s basic hourly wage rate by either of the following whichever produces the greater amount:
(a)	One-fifth of the average hours worked per week (exclusive of hours in excess of the number included in a full tour or in a normal work week) in the first four of the six calendar weeks immediately preceding the Holiday week, or
(b)	The number of hours worked on the holiday but not in excess of the number of hours comprising a full tour.
A31.027 Payment for paid Excused Work Days will be as follows:
(a)	For Part-Time Employees who do not work their paid Excused Work Day, payments will be based on one-fifth of the average hours worked per week (exclusive of hours in excess of the number included in a full tour or in a normal work week) in the first four of the six calendar weeks immediately preceding the week
[142]
in which the paid Excused Work Day falls, including tour differential if it would have been applicable on the Excused Work Day.
(b)	If Part-Time Employees agree to work their paid Excused Work Day and the Company determines that the day cannot be rescheduled, they will be paid in accordance with paragraph (a) preceding, except that if the number of hours actually worked on the Excused Work Day is greater than the number of hours payable under paragraph (a), the greater number of hours, not in excess of a full tour, will be paid, including tour differential if it would have been applicable on the Excused Work Day. In addition, if employees are notified to work their scheduled Excused Work Day at least two days prior thereto, they will be paid for the time worked on the basis of a regularly scheduled day. If . at least two days’ notice is not given, employees will be paid as if the hours worked were in excess of a full tour.
A31.03 Any Regular Employee who was on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31, 1980, and who works as a Regular PartTime Employee on or after January 1, 1981, shall thereafter continue, for the duration of that term of employment, to be entitled to working conditions and benefits on the same basis as was applicable to a Regular PartTime Employee on December 31,1980.
[M3]
SECTION A32
Part-Time Employees
(Engaged or Re-engaged after January 1, 1981)
A32.O1 A Part-Time employee is one who is employed and normally scheduled to work less hours per average month than a comparable Full-Time Employee in the same job title, classification and work group working the same normal daily tour.
A32.02 Except for payment for overtime hours worked, all hours worked by a Part-Time Employee in Phonecenter Stores, Verizon Customer Service Centers, Verizon Phone Booths (Kiosks) DM/DR (Direct Marketing/Direct Response) Centers and any equivalent retail sales or service centers operation, and any employee who is transferred to or employed by any new unregulated subsidiary or affiliated entity in the Verizon Services Group shall be paid at the equivalent basic hourly rate for a comparable Full-Time Employee working a normal daily tour in the same job title, classification, and work group. Payment to a Part-Time Employee for hours worked in excess of an equivalent normal daily tour or work week for a comparable Full-Time Employee shall be at the applicable overtime rate for a comparable Full-Time Employee based on such Part-Time employee’s basic hourly rate. Any Regular employee who is on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31,1980, and who works part-time on or after January 1, 1981, shall thereafter continue,
[144]
I
I
during the current term of employment, to be paid on the same basis as was applicable to such a Part-Time Employee on December 31, 1980,
A32.03 The classification of a Part-Time Employee is based on the employee’s “part-time equivalent work week” which shall be determined prospectively by dividing the employee’s total normally scheduled hours per month by 4.35 and rounding the result to the next higher whole number. (Illustration: 68 hours per month divided by 4,35 equals 15,6, rounded to a “part-time equivalent work week” classification of 16).
A32.04 The “part-time equivalent work week” classification of each Part-Time Employee shall be reviewed by the Company no less often than every six (6) months on April 1 and October 1 of each year and adjusted on a prospective basis, if appropriate. In determining whether such adjustment is appropriate, the Company will consider the actual average number of hours worked per month during the preceding six (6) month period and the likelihood that such number of work hours will continue for a reasonably foreseeable period of time except that any hours worked which are paid at the overtime rate shall not be counted in computing the average number of hours worked.
A32.05 For employees, who are hired on or after January 1, 1981, and who work as Regular or Term Part-Time Employees, payments to a Regular or Term Part-Time Employee for sickness disability, accident disability, or death benefits under
[145]
the “Verizon Pension Plan” or the “Verizon Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan”, vacations, holidays, excused work days, anticipated disability leave, sickness absence (not under the “Verizon Pension Plan” or the “Verizon Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan”), or termination allowance (or its equivalent [termination allowance not applicable to Term employees]) shall be pro-rated based on the relationship of the individual Part-Time Employee’s “part-time equivalent work week” to the normal work week of a comparable Full-Time Employee in the same job title, classification and work group. A Part-Time Employee shall not be paid for absence due to sickness (not under the Verizon Pension Plan” or the “Verizon Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan”) unless such absence due to sickness occurs on a day of the week on which the employee is normally scheduled to work. Regular employees who are on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31, 1980, and who work part-time on or after January 1, 1981, shall thereafter continue, during the current term of employment, to receive payments for the benefits and other items listed above on the same basis as was applicable to a Part-Time Employee on December 31, 1980.
A32.06 Employees who are hired on or after January 1, 1981, and who work as Part-Time Employees shall, if otherwise eligible to participate under the terms of such plans, be eligible for coverage
1146]
under the Medical Expense Plan, Dental Expense Plan, and Vision Care Plan, as follows:
(a)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is sixteen (16) or less shall be eligible by enrollment and payment of 100% of the premiums for such coverage:
(b)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is seventeen (17) through twenty-four (24) shall be eligible by enrollment and payment of 50% of the premiums for such coverage;
(c)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is twenty-five (25) or more shall be eligible for such coverage on the same basis as a Regular Full-Time Employee;
(d)	Regular employees who are on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31, 1980, shall continue to be eligible for such coverage on the same basis as a Regular Full-Time Employee regardless of classification.
PART-TIMING OF FULL TIME EMPLOYEES SECTION A41
General
A41.01 For employees being part-timed under the provisions of Article 8 of this Agreement, the working conditions set forth in Exhibit A wilt be modified as follows:
[147]
A41.011
A41.012
A41.013
A41.014
The worktime schedule, as originally posted for each week, will provide for a normal work week. Not later than Thursday of each week, the Company will indicate on the schedule for the following week the time which the employee will not work. This time, referred to hereafter as “rotation time,” will consist of one full tour or one or two half tours.
An employee may be assigned to work during the rotation time. No time off will be required to compensate for such time worked and the employee will be paid for it as follows:
(a)	If he is notified up to the end of the last previous tour scheduled before the day affected that he is to work a full or half tour of the rotation time, he will be paid for that tour at his basic hourly wage rate (one and one-half times that rate if on Sunday),
(b)	If the notice specified in (a) above is not given, the time worked will be considered as overtime.
If an employee works time in excess of a full tour on a day, or works other time not covered by the definition of a full or half tour, no time off will be required to compensate for such time worked and the employee will be paid for it at the premium hourly wage rate.
An employee may be assigned to work a full or half tour on a day on which he was previ-
[148]
I I
I I
I
ously not scheduled to work or to work an additional half tour on a day on which he was previously scheduled to work only a half tour. If the total of such time worked plus the scheduled hours worked in the week exceeds 40 hours for a Group 1 Employee or 37-1/2 hours for a Group 2 Employee, the employee may be required to take time off in the same or the next following week, provided that he is so notified before the end of the last scheduled tour preceding the tour or half tour which is to be taken off. The time to be taken off will be the amount by which the above total exceeds 40 hours in the case of a Group 1 Employee or 37-1/2 hours in the case of a Group 2 Employee.
A41.015 The weekly and daily payments specified in Exhibit A will be reduced to payments at the basic hourly wage rates for the time scheduled, excluding rotation time not worked.
A41.016 If no time has been scheduled for any week, as in the case of vacations, the weekly and , daily payments specified in Exhibit A will be reduced to payments at the basic hourly wage rates for the amount of time scheduled in that week excluding rotation time, for other employees in the same occupation and location. If there are no other employees in the same occupation and location, the payments for such a week will be based on the employee’s then current degree of part-timing.
[149]
OCCASIONAL EMPLOYEES
SECTION A51
General
A51.01 An Occasional Employee is one who is engaged on a daily basis for a period of not more than three (3) consecutive weeks, or for a cumulative total of not more than thirty (30) days, in any calendar year, regardless of the length of the daily or weekly assignments. An Occasional Employee who actually works or is engaged to work in excess of three (3) consecutive weeks or thirty (30) days in a calendar year shall be reclassified as a Regular, Term, or Temporary, Full-Time or Part-Time Employee, as appropriate.
A51.02 Wage rates to be paid and any working conditions applying to the particular work for which the employee is engaged will be stated to the employee at the time of engagement.
SECTION A61
Term Employees
A61.01 Term employees are those whose term of employment is intended to last longer than six (6) months but no longer than thirty-six *(36) months. Term employees are engaged with the understanding that they will remain in the same occupational title for the duration of their term of employment.
A61.02 The provisions of Sections Al to AID, inclusive, of Exhibit A for Regular employees will apply to Term Full-Time employees.
[150]
A61.03 The provisions of Section A32, Part-Time Employees (Engaged or Re-engaged after January 1, 1981), of Exhibit A will apply to Term PartTime employees.
A61.04 At any one time there may be no more than 50 employees in the combined Plant/Traffic Organizations in the Term classification provided, however, that if at some future time the Company has the need to increase this number of Term employees, the Company will meet to discuss this need with the Union,
A61.05 The Company will give notice to the President of the Union in advance of hiring a Term employee.
I
I
NOTES ON WAGE INCREASE SCHEDULE ADMINISTRATION AND
WAGE INCREASE SCHEDULES (SECTIONS A62 AND A63)
SECTION A62
I I
I
Notes On Wage Increase Schedule Administration
A62.01 General
A62.011 The Wage Increase Schedules shown in Section A63 provide a plan of wage increases for Regular, Term and Temporary Employees in the occupations shown at the top of each sheet.
[151]
A62.012 The wage rate shown at any level of a schedule is the basic weekly wage rate for a normal full-time workweek.
A62.013 Under the heading “Next Increase” are shown the minimum intervals in months between increases and the amounts of the increases to be granted.
If the employee’s current rate is not shown on the Wage Increase Schedule and the difference between the rate and the maximum rate is less than the increase shown for the next lower current rate, the increase will be to the maximum rate and the interval reduced proportionately.
A62.014 Employees will be increased in the interval shown opposite their current rate except that, at the discretion of the Company, an increase may be deferred beyond the stated interval for a further period not to exceed the stated interval. In the event an increase is to be deferred, the employee shall be notified at least 15 days prior to the commencement of the payroll period in which the increase would normally become effective and will be advised of the reason for the deferment. If in the judgment of the Company the employee later merits the increase, when the period of deferment terminates the employee’s rate shall be increased by the amount of the deferred increase. The date for the next scheduled wage increase shall be measured from the date the
[152]
I I I I
I
I I I
prior increase would normally have been granted had it not been deferred.
A62.015 If the employee’s basic weekly wage rate is adversely affected by a change in occupation, the Company will give serious consideration to any questions raised by the Union before making it effective.
A62.016 If an employee's rate is to be reduced in accordance with this Section, the Company may, at its own discretion in exceptional cases, decrease the rate by a smaller amount than the total amount specified.
A62.017 Employees may be hired into any titles at rates in excess of the minimum hiring rate at the Company’s discretion. If an employee is hired into a title at a pay rate in excess of the minimum hiring rate for reasons other than job related experience and/or job related training, any employee in that title in the building into which the employee is hired who is at a lower rate of pay will be raised to the rate of the individual hired.
A62.018 Progression Increase Deferral Upon Return from Absence
In the event of absence for any reason continuing for more than one month (thirty days) during which the employee was scheduled to receive a progression increase, the employee shall receive his/her progression increase effective the Sunday after he/she returns to work. In addition, the accumulated absence,
[153]
if over thirty (30) days (one month), will be added to extend the time until the employee’s next scheduled progression increase in intervals of thirty (30) days.
A62.019 Cost-of-Living
(1)	Effective August 6, 2006 and August 5, 2007, adjustments will be made in basic weekly rates in each wage schedule in accordance with the following:
(a)	the amount of the August 6, 2006 adjustment shall be: (i) one-half of the increase above four percent (4.0%) in the “CPI-W” (1982-84 = 100) for May 2006 over May 2004, applied to (ii) the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on August 5, 2006, (iii) rounded to the nearest 50 cents.
(b)	the amount of the August 5, 2007 adjustment shall be: (i) one-half of the increase above two percent (2.0%) in the “CPI-W” (1982-84 = 100) for May 2007 over May 2006, applied to (ii) the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on August 4, 2007, (iii) rounded to the nearest 50 cents.
(2)	In no event shall a decrease in the CPI-W result in a reduction of any basic weekly wage rate.
(3)	In the event the Bureau of Labor Statis
[154]
tics does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Indexes on or before the dates referred to in Paragraph 1, the cost-of-living adjustment required by such appropriate indexes shall be effective at the beginning of the first payroll week after receipt of the indexes.
(4)	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made as the result of any revision which may later be made in the first published figures for the CPI-W for May 2004, May 2006 and May 2007.
(5)	The cost-of-living adjustment is dependent upon the availability of the CPI-W in its present form and calculated on the same basis as the CPI-W for May 2003. In the event the Bureau of Labor Statistics changes the form or the basis of calculating the CPI-W, the Companies and the Union agree to request the Bureau to make available, for the life of this agreement, a CPI-W in its present form and calculate it on the same basis as the CPI-W for May 2003, which was 179.4 (1982-84 = 100).
A62.02 The following procedure governs the change of an employee from one occupation to another occupation having a different Wage Increase Schedule:
A62.021 Change to an occupation with a higher maximum rate.
[155]
A62.022 Except as otherwise provided below, the wage rates of promoted employees will be changed to the rates they would be receiving had they been hired directly into and remained in the new occupation since their net credited service date. This shall be accomplished by reconstructing the employee’s wage history as though originally hired into the new occupation.
A62.023 Employees will be placed on the step of the new wage schedule to which promoted as determined by the wage reconstruction process but not to exceed the wage step from maximum rate as shown on the following page:
Title Groupings
Splicing Technician
Systems Technician
Assignment Technician
Building Equipment Mechanic
Facilities Assigner
Switching Equipment Technician
Test Desk Technician
Driver - Heavy Equipment
Driver - Heavy Truck
Services Technician
Splicing Technician’s Helper
Assignment Administrator
Driver - Medium Truck
Frame Attendant
Maintenance Administrator
Network Service Coordinator
Materials Service Attendant
Step From Maximum
12 months
12 months
6 months
6 months
[156]
I I
I I
Storekeeper
Translations Administrator
Drafter
Driver - Light Truck Senior Field Clerk Staff Clerk
General Field Clerk
Senior Clerk Stenographer-Clerk
Field Clerk
General Clerk
Apprentice Technician Building Custodian Senior Attendant
6 months
6 months
0 months
0 months
0 months
I I t
I I I
A62.024 Employees promoted from one occupation to another occupation within the same Title Groupings set forth in A62.023 above will not be subject to the six and/or twelve month step from maximum rate limitation.
A62.025 Employees promoted to the occupation of Facilities Assigner and who have over four years net credited service, one year of which was spent performing plant line assigning work, will not be subject to the twelve month step from maximum rate limitation.
A62.026 If at the time of promotion the employee’s current wage rate is higher than it would have been had the employee been hired directly into the new occupation, the wage rate will not be reduced.
A62.027 If at the time of promotion the employee’s current wage rate is equal to or higher than
£157]
the six month or twelve month step from maximum rate, whichever is applicable, the step from maximum rale provision will not apply. In such case, the employee’s wage rate will be changed to the rate which would have been received had the employee been hired directly into the new occupation, unless a reduction in the wage rate would result, in which case A62.026 will apply.
A62.028 A promotional increase will be granted to the extent that the maximum rate for the new occupation is not exceeded.
A62.029 Employees who are subject to the six and/or twelve month step from maximum rate limitation will have the interval for the next regular increase measured from the date of this change. For all other employees, the interval for the first regular increase will be measured from the last regular increase received prior to the change in occupation.
I I I I I
A62.03 Change to an occupation with a lower maximum rate.
A62.031 If the change results from other than force surplus reasons, employees who are changed to an occupation with a lower maximum rate will have their rate reduced to the rate they would be receiving had they been hired into and remained in the new occupation since their net credited service date. This shall be accomplished by reconstructing the employee’s wage history as though they were hired
[158]
I I
I
into the new occupation. If the employee’s rate exceeds the maximum rate of the new occupation, the rate will be reduced to the maximum rate of the new occupation at the time of the change or, at the option of the Company, in several subsequent steps.
A62.032 The interval for the next regular increase will be measured from the date of the last regular increase.
[159]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 3, 2003
WAGE TABLE: 01	WAGE TABLE: 02
BUILDING EQUIPMENT MECHANIC ASSIGNMENT TECHNICIAN SPLICING TECHNICIAN	AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN
SWITCHING EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN FACILITIES ASSIGNER SYSTEMS TECHNICIAN	SERVICES TECHNICIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Stan	6 Mos.	$438.50		Start	6 MOS	$436.50	
6 MOS,	6 Mos.	$492.50	$54.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos,	$489.00	$52.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$553.00	$60.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos	$547.50	$58.50
15 Mos.	6 Mos.	$620.50	$67.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos	$613.50	$66.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos,	$697.50	$77.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$688.00	$74.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos	$783.00	$85.50	30 Mos,	6 Mos.	$770.50	$82.50
36 Mos.	6 Mos,	$879.50	$96.50	36 Mos,	6 Mos.	$863.00	$92,50
42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$986.50	$107.00	42 Mos,	6 Mns	$967.50	$104.50
48 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,108.00	$121.50	48 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,083.50	$116.00
Pension Band		121		Pension Band		120	
I
I
WAGE TABLE: 03	WAGE TABLE: 04
DRIVER-HEAVY TRUCK	DRIVER-HEAVY EQUIPMENT
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$448,00		Start	6 Mos.	$446.50	
6 Mos	6 Mos.	$510,50	$62.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos,	$508.00	$61.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$582.00	$71.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$578.50	$70.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$664.50	$82.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$660.00	$81.50
24 Mes.	6 Mos,	$758.00	$93.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$751.50	$91.50
30 MOS.	6 Mos.	$865.00	$107.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$857.00	$105.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$986.50	$121.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$975.50	$118.50
Pension Band		116		Pension Band		116	
I I I
I I
[160]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 3, 2003
I I I I I I I I
WAGE TABLE: 05	WAGE TABLE: 06
STOREKEEPER	DRIVER - MEDIUM TRUCK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$439.00		Start	6 Mos.	$438.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$496.50	$57.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$494.50	$56.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$561.00	$64.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$558.50	$64.00
18 Mos.	6 MOS.	$634.50	$73.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$630.50	$72.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$717.50	$83.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$712.50	$82.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$811.50	$94.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$804.50	$92.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$917.50	$106.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$907.50	$103.00
Pension Band	113				Pension Band	113			
WAGE TABLE: 08
ASSIGNMENT ADMINISTRATOR DRAFTER
MAINTENANCE ADMINISTRATOR
WAGE TABLE: 07	NETWORK SERVICE COORDINATOR
MATERIAL SERVICE ATTENDANT TRANSLATIONS ADMINISTRATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$436.50		Start	6 Mos.	$399.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$492.00	$55.50	6 Mos	6 Mos.	$457.50	$58.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$554.50	$62.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$523.00	$65.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$625.50	$71.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$598.00	$75.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$705.00	$79.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$684.00	$86.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$795.00	$90.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$782.50	$98.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$896.00	$101.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$894.50	$112.00
Pension Band	112				Pension Band	112			
ri6i]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 3, 2003
WAGE TABLE: 09	WAGE TABLE: 10
FRAME ATTENDANT SPLICING TECHNICIAN S HELPER
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$436.00		Start	6 Mos.	$431.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$491.00	$55.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$482.50	$51.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$553.00	$62.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$540.00	$57.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$622.50	$69.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$606.00	$66.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$701.50	$79.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$678.50	$72.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$789.50	$88.00	30 Mos.	6 MOS.	$759.50	$81.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$889.50	$100.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$851.00	$91.50
Pension Band	112				Pension Band	111			
WAGE TABLE: 12 WAGE TABLE: 11	SENIOR FIELD CLERK
DRIVER ■ LIGHT TRUCK	STAFF CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$403.00		Start	6 Mos.	$375.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$451.50	$48.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$425.50	$50.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$505.50	$54.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos	$481.50	$56.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$565.50	$60.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$545.50	$64.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$633.00	$67.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$618.00	$72.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos	$709.00	$76.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$700.50	$82.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$793.50	$84.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$793.00	$92.50
Pension Band		108		Pension Band		108	
[162]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 3, 2003
I I
I I I I
I
I I
WAGE TABLE: 13
GENERAL FIELD CLERK
SENIOR CLERK	WAGE TABLE: 14
STENOGRAPHER CLERK	' APPRENTICE TECHNICIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$364.00		Stan	6 Mos.	$359.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$412.00	$48.00	6 Mes.	6 Mos.	$407.00	$48.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$467.50	$55.50	12 MOS.	6 Mos.	$461.00	$54.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$529.50	$62.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$522.50	$61.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$600.00	$70.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$592.00	$69.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$680.50	$80.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$671.00	$79.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$771.00	$90.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$760.00	$89.00
Pension Band	107				Pension Band	107			
WAGE TABLE: 16
WAGE TABLE: 15	FIELD CLERK
SENIOR ATTENDANT	GENERAL CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$353.00		Start	6 Mos.	$353.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$398.50	$45.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$398.00	$45.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$450.50	$52.00	12 Mos.	6 MOS.	$450.50	$52.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$509.50	$59.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$508.50	$58.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$576.00	$66.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$575.00	$66.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$650.50	$74.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$649.50	$74.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$735.50	$85.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$734.00	$84.50
Pension Band	106				Pension Band	106			
(163]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 3, 2003
I
WAGE TABLE: 17
BUILDING CUSTODIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$350.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$401.50	$43.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$450.00	$48.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$504.50	$54.50
24 Mos.	6 MOS.	$565.50	$61.00
30 Mos.	6 MOS.	$633.50	$68.00
36 Mos.	Maximum)	$711.00	$77.50
Pension Band		105	
[164]
I I
I I
I
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1,2004
WAGE TABLE: 01	WAGE TABLE; 02
BUILDING EQUIPMENT MECHANIC ASSIGNMENT TECHNICIAN SPLICING TECHNICIAN	AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN
SWITCHING EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN FACILITIES ASSIGNEH SYSTEMS TECHNICIAN	SERVICES TECHNICIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	1447.50		Start	6 Mos.	$445.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$502.50	$55.00	6 Mos.	6 MOS.	$499.00	$54.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$564.00	$61.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$558.50	$59.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$633.00	$69.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$626.00	$67.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$711.50	$78.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$702.00	$76.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$798.50	$87.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$786.00	$84.00
38 Mos.	6 Mos.	$897.00	$98.50	36 Mos.	6 Mos.	$880.50	$94.50
42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$1,006.00	$109.00	42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$987.00	$106.50
48 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,130.00	$124.00	48 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,105.00	$118.00
Pension Band		121		Pension Band		120	
I I
I I
WAGE TABLE: 03	WAGE TABLE: 04
DRIVER-HEAVY TRUCK	DRIVER-HEAVY EQUIPMENT
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$457.00		Start	6 Mos.	$455.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$520.50	$63.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$518.00	$62.58
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$593.50	$73.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$590.00	$72.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$678.00	$84.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$673.00	$83.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$773,00	$95.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$766.50	$93.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$882.50	$109.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$874.00	$107.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,006.00	$123.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$995.00	$121.00
Pension Band		116		Pension Band		116	
[165]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1, 2004
WAGE TABLE: 05	WAGE TABLE: 06
STOREKEEPER	DRIVER - MEDIUM TRUCK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$448.00		Start	6 Mos.	$447.00	
6 Mos,	6 MOS.	$506.50	$58.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$504.50	$57.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$572.00	$65.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$569.50	$65.00
18 Mos.	6 MOS.	$647.00	$75.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$643.00	$73.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$732.00	$85.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$727.00	$84.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$827.50	$95.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$820.50	$93.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$936.00	$108.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$925.50	$105.00
Pension Band	113				Pension Bond	113			
WAGE TABLE: 08 ASSIGNMENT ADMINISTRATOR DRAFTER
MAINTENANCE ADMINISTRATOR
WAGE TABLE: 07	NETWORK SERVICE COORDINATOR
MATERIAL SERVICE ATTENDANT TRANSLATIONS ADMINISTRATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$445.00		Start	6 Mos.	$407.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$502.00	$57.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$466.50	$59.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$565.50	$63.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$533.50	$67.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$638.00	$72.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$610.00	$76.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$719.00	$81.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$697.50	$87.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$811.00	$92.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$798.00	$100.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$914.00	$103.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$912.50	$114.50
Pension Band	112				Pension Band	112			
[166]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1,2004
I I
I I I I 1 I
WAGE TABLE: 09	WAGE TABLE: 10
FRAME ATTENDANT SPLICING TECHNICIAN’S HELPER
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE!	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$444.50		Start	6 Mos.	$439.50	
6 MOS.	6 Mos.	$501.00	$56.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$492.00	$52.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$564.00	$63.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$551.00	$59.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$635.80	$71.00	19 Mos.	6 Mos.	$618.00	$67.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$715.50	$80.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos,	$692.00	$74.00
3ft Mos	6 Mos	$805.50	$90.00	30 Mes.	6 Mos.	$774.50	$82.50
36 Mos. (Maximum!		$907.50	$102.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$868.00	$93.50
Pension Band	112				Pension Band	111			
WAGE TABLE: 12
WAGE TABLE: 11	SENIOR FIELD CLERK
DRIVER - LIGHT TRUCK	STAFF CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	INCREASE ZONE 1 AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$411.00	Start	6 Mos.	$383.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$460.50 $49.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$434.00	$51,00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$515.50 $55.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$491.00	$57.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$577.00 $61,50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$556.50	$65.50
24 Mos,	6 Mos.	$645.50 $68.50	24 Mds.	6 Mos.	$630.50	$74.00
30Mns	6Mns.	$723.00 $77.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$714.50	$84.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$809.501 $86.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$809.00	$94.50
Pension Band	108			Pension Band	1D8			
[167]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1, 2B04
WAGE TABLE: 13
GENERAL FIELD CLERK
SENIOR CLERK WAGE TABLE: 14 STENOGRAPHER CLERK	APPRENTICE TECHNICIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mes.	$371.50		Start	6 Mos.	$366.00	
6 Mds	6 Mos.	$420.00	$48.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$415.00	$49.00
12 Mm.	6 Mds.	$477.00	$57.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$470.00	$55.00
13 Mos.	6 Mos.	$540.00	$63.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$533.00	$63.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$612.00	$72.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$604.00	$71,00
30 Mds.	6 Mes.	$694.00	$82.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$684,50	$80.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$786.50	$92.50	36 Mos. (Maximum!		$775.00	$90.50
Pension Band	107				Pension Band	107			
WAGE TABLE: 16
WAGE TABLE: 15	FIELD CLERK
SENIOR ATTENDANT	GENERAL CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 MOS.	$300.00		Start	6 Mos.	$360.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mes.	$406.50	$46.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$406.00	$46.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$459.50	$53.05	12 Mes.	6 Mos,	$459.50	$53.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$519.50	$60.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$518.50	$59.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$587.50	$88.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$586.50	$68.06
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$663.50	$76.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$662.50	$76.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$755.00	$86.50	36 Mos. (Maximuml		$748.50	$86.00
Pension Band		106		Pension Band		105	|	
I I I I
I I I
I I
[168]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1, 2004
I I I
WAGE TABLE: 17
BUILDING CUSTODIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$365.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos	$409.50	$44.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$459.00	$49.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$514.50	$55.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$577.00	$62.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$646.00	$69.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$725.00	$79.00
Pension Band		105	
I
I
I
I
।	[169]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 7, 2005
WAGE TABLE: 01	WAGE TABLE: 02
BUILDING EQUIPMENT MECHANIC ASSIGNMENT TECHNICIAN SPLICING TECHNICIAN	AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN
SWITCHING EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN	FACILITIES ASSIGNER
SYSTEMS TECHNICIAN	SERVICES TECHNICIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$456.50		Start	6 Mos.	$454.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$512.50	$56.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$509.00	$55.00
’2 Mos.	6 Mos.	$575.00	$63.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$569.50	$60.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$645.50	$70.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$638.50	$69.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$725.50	$80.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$716.00	$77.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$814.50	$80.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$801.50	$85.50
36 Mes.	6 Mos.	$015.00	$100.50	36 Mos.	6 Mos.	$808.00	$96.50
42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$1,026.00	$111.00	42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$1,008.50	$108.50
48 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,152.50	$126.50	48 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,127.00	$120.50
Pension Band		121		Pension Band		’ 120	
WAGE TABLE: 03	WAGE TABLE: 04
DRIVER-HEAVY TRUCK	DRIVER-HEAVY EQUIPMENT
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$466.00		Start	6 Nlos.	$464.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$531.00	$65.00	6 Mos.	6 Mes.	$528.50	$64.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$605.50	$74.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$602.00	$73.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$691.50	$88.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$686.50	$84.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$788.50	$97.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$782.00	$95.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$900.90	$111.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$891.53	$109.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,026.00	$126.00	36 Mos.	Maximum)	$1,015.00	$123.50
Pension Band		116		Pension Band		116	
I I
I I
I
I I I I
[170J
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 7, 2005
I I I I I I I I
WAGE TABLE: 05	WAGE TABLE: 06
STOREKEEPER	DRIVER - MEDIUM TRUCK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$457.00		Start	6, Mos.	$456.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$516.50	$59.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$514.50	$58.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$583.50	$67.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$581.00	$66.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$660.00	$76.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$656.00	$75.00
24 MOS.	6 Mos.	$746.50	$86.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$741.50	$85.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$844.00	$97.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$837.00	$95.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$954.50	$110.50	36 Mos. {Maximum)		$944.00	$107.00
Pension Band		113		Pension Band		113	
WAGE TABLE: 08
ASSIGNMENT ADMINISTRATOR DRAFTER
MAINTENANCE ADMINISTRATOR
WAGE TABLE: 07	NETWORK SERVICE COORDINATOR
MATERIAL SERVICE ATTENDANT TRANSLATIONS ADMINISTRATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$454.00		Start	6 Mos.	$415.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$512.00	$58.00	6 Mes.	6 Mos,	$476.00	$60.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$577.00	$65.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$544.00	$68.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$651.00	$74.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$622.00	$78.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$733.50	$82.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$711.50	$89.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$827.00	$93.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$814.00	$102.50
36 Mos. jMaximum)		$932.50	$105.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$931.00	$117.00
Pension Band	112				Pension Band	112			
[171]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 7, 2005
WAGE TABLE: 09	WAGE TABLE: 10
FRAME ATTENDANT SPLICING TECHNICIAN’S HELPER
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$453.50		Start	6 Mos.	$448.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$511.00	$57.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$502.00	$53.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$575.50	$64.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$562.00	$60.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$647.50	$72.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$633.50	$68.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$730.00	$82.53	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$706.00	$75.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$621.50	$91.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$790.00	$84.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$925.50	$104.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$885 50	$95.50
Pension Band	112				Pension Band	111			
I I I I
WAGE TABLE: 12
WAGE TABLE: 11	SENIOR FIELD CLERK
DRIVER - LIGHT TRUCK	STAFF CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$419.00		Start	6 Mos.	$390.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$469.50	$50.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$442.50	$52.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$526.00	$56.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$501.00	$58.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$588.50	$62.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$567.50	$66.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$658.50	$70,00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$643.00	$75.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$737.50	$79.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$729.00	$86.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$825.50	$88.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$825.00	$96.00
Pension Band		108		Pension Band		108	
I I i I
[172]
I I
I I
I
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 7, 2005
WAGE TABLE: 13
GENERAL FIELD CLERK
SENIOR CLERK ' WAGE TABLE: 14 STENOGRAPHER CLERK	APPRENTICE TECHNICIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$379.00		Start	6 Mos.	$373.50	
6 Mos.	6 MOS.	$428.50	$49.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$423.50	$50.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$486.50	$58.00	12 Mes.	6 Mos.	$479.50	$56.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$551.00	$64.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$543.50	$64.00
24 Mos.	6 Mes	$624.00	$73.90	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$616.00	$72.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$708.00	$84.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$698.00	$82.00
36 Mos, (Maximum)		$802.00	$94.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$790.50	$92.50
Pension Band	107				Pension Band	107			
I I I 1
WAGE TABLE: 16
WAGE TABLE: 15	FIELD CLERK
SENIOR ATTENDANT	GENERAL CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$367.00		Start	6 Mos.	$367.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$414.50	$47.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$414.00	$47.00
12 Mus.	6 Mos.	$468.50	$54.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$468.50	$54.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$530.00	$61.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$529.00	$60.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$59950	$69.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$598.00	$69.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$677.00	$77.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$676.00	$78.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$765,00	$88.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$763.50	$87.50
Pension Band	106				Pension Band	106			
[173]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 7, 2005
WAGE TABLE: 17
BUILDING CUSTODIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$372.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$417.50	$45.00
12 Mos.	6 MOS.	$468.00	$50.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$525.00	$57.00
24 Mos.i	6 Mos.	$588.50	$63.58
30 Mos.	6 Itos.	$659.00	$70.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$739.50	$80.50
Pension Band 105
I I I I I I I I I
I
[174J
I I I I I I I I 1
I
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 6, 2006
WAGE TABLE; 01	WAGE TABLE; 02
BUILDING EQUIPMENT MECHANIC ASSIGNMENT TECHNICIAN SPLICING TECHNICIAN	AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN
SWITCHING EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN FACILITIES ASSIGNER SYSTEMS TECHNICIAN	SERVICES TECHNICIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 7	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$465.50		Start	6 Mos.	$463.00	
6.MOS.	6 Mos.	$523.00	$57.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$519.00	$56.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$587.00	$64.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$581.00	$62.00
18 Mos. |	6 Mos.	$658.50	$71.50	18 Mos. i	6 Mos.	$651.50	$70.50
24 MOS.	6 Mos.	$740.00	$81.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$730.50	$79.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$831.00	$91.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$817.50	$87.00
36 Mos.	6 Mos.	$933.50	$102.50	36 Mos.	6 Mos.	$916.00	$98.50
42 Mos.		6 Mos.	$1,046.50	$113.00	42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$1,026.50	$110.50
48 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,175.50	$129.00	48 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,149.50	$123.00
Pension Band		121		Pension Band		120	
WAGE TABLE: 03	WAGE TABLE: 04
DRIVER-HEAVY TRUCK	DRIVER-HEAVY EQUIPMENT
----■—i---------------------------------------------------
NEXT WAGE INCREASE STEP INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start 6 Mos.	$475.50		Start	6 Mos.	$474.00	
6 Mos. 6 Mos.	$541.50	$66.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$539.00	$65.00
12 Mos. 6 Mos.	$617.50	$76.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$614.00	$75.00
.18 Mos. 6 Mos.	$705.50	$88.00	18 Mos.	8 Mos.	$700.00	$86.00
24 Mos. 6 Mos.	$804.50	$99.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$797.50	$97.50
30 Mos.l 6 Mos.	$918.00	$113.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$909.50	$112.00
36 Mos, (Maximum)	$1,046.50	$128.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,035.50	$126.00
Pension Band	116		Pension Band		116	
[175]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 6, 2006
WAGE TABLE: 05	WAGE TABLE: 06
STOREKEEPER_____________DRIVER - MEDIUM TRUCK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE!	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$466.00		Start	6 Mos.	$465.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$527.80	$61.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$525.00	$60.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$595.00	$68.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$592.50	$67.50 $76.58
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$673.00	$78.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$669.00	
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$761.50	$88.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$756.50	$87.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$861.00	$99.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$853.50	$97.00
38 Mos. (Maximum)		$973.50	$112.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$963.00	$109.50
Pension Band	113				Pension Band	113			
WAGE TABLE: 08
ASSIGNMENT ADMINISTRATOR DRAFTER
MAINTENANCE ADMINISTRATOR
WAGE TABLE: 07	NETWORK SERVICE COORDINATOR
MATERIAL SERVICE ATTENDANT TRANSLATIONS ADMINISTRATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 MoS.	$463.00		Start	6 Mos.	$424.00	
6 Mds.	6 Mos.	$522.00	$59.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$485.50	$61.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$588.50	$66.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$555.00	$69.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$664.00	$75.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$634.50	$79.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$748.00	$84.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$725.50	$91.00
30 Mos	6 Mos.	$843.50	$95.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$830.50	$105.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$951.00	$107 50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$949 50	$119.00
Pension Band	112				Pension Band	112			
I I I
I I I
I I
[176]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 6, 2006
I I
I I
WAGE TABLE: 09	WAGE TABLE: 10
FRAME ATTENDANT SPLICING TECHNICIAN’S HELPER
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 MOS.	$462.50		Start	6 MOS.	$457.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$521.00	$58.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$512.00	$54.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	S58?.oa	$66.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$573.00	$61.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$660.50	$73.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$643.00	$70.00
24Mtra.	6 MOS.	$744.50	$84.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$720.00	$77.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$838.00	$93.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$808.00	$86.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$944.00	$106.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$903.00	$97.00
Pension Band	112				Pension Band	111			
I I I I 1
I
WAGE TABLE: 12
WAGE TABLE: 11	SENIOR FIELD CLERK
DRIVER - LIGHT TRUCK	STAFF CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE!	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$427.50		Start	6 MOS.	$398.50	
6 Mes.	6 Mos.	$479.00	$51.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$451.50	$53.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$536.50	$57.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$511.00	$59.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$600.50	$64,00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$579.00	$68.00
24 Mos.	6 MOS.	$671.50	$71.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$656.00	$77.00
30 Mos.J	6 Mos.	$752.50	$81.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$743,50	$87.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$842,00	$89.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$841.50	$98.00
Pension Band	108				Pension Band	108			
rn7i
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 6, 2006
WAGE TABLE: 13
GENERAL FIELD CLERK
SENIOR CLERK WAGE TABLE: 14 STENOGRAPHER CLERK	APPRENTICE TECHNICIAN
■ ' “r,;:;"!	-------ii-----r_"™i-----------—
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE,	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$386.50		Start	6 Mos.	$381.00	
6 Mes	6 Mos.	$437.00	$50.56	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$432.00	$51.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos	$496.00	$59.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$489.00	$57.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$552.00	$6600	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$554.50	$65.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$636.50	$74.50	24 MOS.	6 Mos.	$628.50	$74.00
30 Mos.	8 Mos.	$722.00	$85.50	30 Mos.	6 Mes.	$712.00	$83.50
35 Mos. (Maximum)		$818.00	$96.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$806.50	$94,50
Pension Band	107				Pension Band	107			
WAGE TABLE: 16
WAGE TABLE: 15	FIELD CLERK
SENIOR ATTENDANT	GENERAL CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$374.50		Start	6 Mos.	$374.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$423,00	$48.50	6 Mas.	6 Mos.	$422.50	$48 00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$478.00	$55.00	12 MOS.	6 Mos.	$478.00	$55.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos,	1540.50	$62.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$539.50	$61.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$511.50	$71.00	24 Mas.	6 Mos	$610.00	$70.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$690.50	$79.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$689.50	$79.50
36 Mos. (Maximutn)		$780.50	$90.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$779.00	$89.50
Pension Band		106	|		Pension Band		106	
[178J
।	EFFECTIVE AUGUST 6, 2006 B WAGE TABLE: 17 I	BUILDING CUSTODIAN				
1 1	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
	Start	6 Mos.	$380.00	
	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$426.00	$46.00
	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$477.50	$51.50
	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$535.50	$58.00
	24 Mds.	6 Mos.	$600.50	$65.00
	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$672.00	$71.50
	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$754.50	$82.50
	Pension Band	105			
i I I I
I
[179]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 5, 2007
WAGE TABLE: 01	WAGE TABLE: 02
BUILDING EQUIPMENT MECHANIC ASSIGNMENT TECHNICIAN
SPLICING TECHNICIAN	AUTOMOTIVE EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN
SWITCHING EQUIPMENT TECHNICIAN FACILITIES ASSIGNEE!
SYSTEMS TECH N1 Cl AN	SER VICES TECHNICIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 MOS.	$475,00		Start	6 MOS.	$472.58	
fl Mos,	fi MOS.	$533.50	$58.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$529.50	$57.00
12 Mes.	6 MOS.	$598.50	$55.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$592.50	$63.00
18 Mos.	6 MOS.	$671.50	$73.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$664.50	$72.00
24 Mos	fi Mos.	$755.00	$83.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$745.00	$80.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos,	$847.50	$92.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$834.00	$89.00
36 Mos.	6 Mos.	$952.00	$104.50	3$ Mos.	fi Mos.	$934.50	$100.50
42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$1,067.50	$115.50	42 Mes.	6 Mos.	$1,047.00	$112.50
48 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,199.00	$131.50	4$ Mos. (Maximum)		$1,172.50	$125.50
Pension Band		121		Pension Band		120	
WAGE TABLE: 03	WAGE TABLE: 04
DRIVER-HEAVY TRUCK	DRIVER-HEAVY EQUIPMENT
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$465.00		Start	6 Mas.	$483.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$552.50	$67.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$550.00	$S6.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$630.00	$77.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$626.50	$76.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$719.50	$89.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$714.00	$87.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos	$820.50	$101.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$813.50	$99.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$930.50	$116.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$927.50	$114.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$1,067.50	$131.00	36 Mos.	Maximum)	$1,056.00	$128.50
Pension Band		116		Pension Band		116	
I I I I » I
I I
I I
1180]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 5, 2007
WAGE TABLE: 05	WAGE TABLE: 06
STOREKEEPER	DRIVER - MEDIUM TRUCK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Stan	6 Mos.	$475.50		Stan	6 Mos.	$474.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$537.50	$62.00	6 Mos.	■ 6 Mos.	$535.50	$61.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$607.00	$69.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$604.50	$69.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$686.50	$79.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$682.50	$78.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$776.50	$90.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$771.50	$89.00
30 Mos.	6 MOS.	$87800	$101.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$670.50	$99.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$933.00	$115.00	36 Mos (Maximum)		$982.50	$112.00
Pension Band	113				Pension Band	113			
WAGE TABLE: 08
ASSIGNMENT ADMINISTRATOR DRAFTER
MAINTENANCE ADMINISTRATOR
WAGE TABLE: 07	NETWORK SERVICE COORDINATOR
MATERIAL SERVICE ATTENDANT TRANSLATIONS ADMINISTRATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE $	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	Next increase interval	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$472.50		Start	6 Mos.	$432.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$532.50	$60.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$495.00	$62.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$600.50	$68.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$566.00	$71.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$677.50	$77.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$647.00	$81.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$763.00	$85.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$740.00	$93.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$860.50	$97.50'	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$847.00	$107.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$970.00	$109.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$968.50	$121.50
Pension Band	112				Pension Band	112			
[181]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 5, 2007
WAGE TABLE: 09	WAGE TABLE: 10
FRAME ATTENDANT SPLICING TECHNICIAN’S HELPER
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$472.00		Start	6 Mas.	$466.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$531.50	$59.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$522.00	$55.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$598.50	$67.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$584.50	$62.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$673.50	$75,00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$656.00	$71.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$759.50	$86.00	24 Mes.	6 Mos.	$734.50	$78.50
30 Mes.	6 Mos.	$855.00	$95.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$822.00	$87.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$963 00	$108.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$921.00	$99.00
Pension Band	112				Pension Band	112			
WAGE TABLE: 12 WAGE TABLE; 11	SENIOR FIELD CLERK
DRIVER • LIGHT TRUCK	STAFF CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$436.00		Start	6 Mos	$406.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$488.50	$52.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$460.50	$54.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$547.00	$58.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$521.00	$60.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$612.50	$65.50	18 Mos.	6 MOS.	$590.50	$69.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$685.00	$72.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$669.00	$78.50
30 Mos.	6 Mes.	$767.50	$82.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$758.50	$89.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$859.00	$91.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$858.50	$100.00
Pension Band		108	|		Pension Band		108	
I I I 1
[182]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 5, 2007
WAGE TABLE: 13
GENERAL FIELD CLERK
SENIOR CLERK WAGE TABLE: 14 STENOGRAPHER CLERK	APPRENTICE TECHNICIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$394,00		Start	6 Mos.	$388.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$445.50	$51.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$440.50	^”$52.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$506.00	$60.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$499.00	$58.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$573.00	$67.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$565.50	$68.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$649.00	$76.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$641.00	$75.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$736.50	$87.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$726.00	$85.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$834.50	$98.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$822.50	$96.50
Pension Band	107				Pension Band	107			
WAGE TABLE: 16
WAGE TABLE: 15	FIELD CLERK
SENIOR ATTENDANT	GENERAL CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE!	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$382.00		Start	6 Mos.	$382.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$431.50	$49.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$431.00	$49.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$487.50	$56.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$487.50	$56.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$551.50	$64.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$550.50	$63.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$623.50	$72.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$622.00	$71.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$704.50	$81.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$703.50	$81.50
36 Mos. IMaximum)		$796.90	$91.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$794.50	$91.00
Pension Band	106				Pension Band	106			
[183]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 5, 2007
WAGE TABLE: 17
BUILDING CUSTODIAN
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	20NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	G Mos	$387.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$434.50	$47.00
12 Mos.	S Mos.	$487.00	$52.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$546.00	$59.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$612.50	$66.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$685.50	$73.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$769.50	$84.00
Pension Band		105	
[184]
SECTION A63
Wage Increase Schedule Assignment List
I I 1
I
I I I
Payroll Location
Bridgeville Camden Dagsboro Delaware City Dover Felton Frederica Georgetown Greenwood Gumboro Harrington Hartly Hockessin Holly Oak Laurel Lewes Middletown Milford Millsboro Milton New Castle Newark Newport Ocean View Rehoboth Seaford Selbyville Smyrna Talleyville
Wilmington
Zone Assignment
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
I
I
1
I
1
1
1
I
I
1
1
1
I
1
1
1
1
1
1
[185!
SECTION A71
Pension Bands and Benefits
A7I.01 Pension Bands
Job Titles	Wage Zone 1
Apprentice Technician	107
Assignment Administrator	112
Assignment Technician	120
Building Custodian	105
Building Equipment Mechanic	121
Drafter	112
Driver - Heavy Equipment	116
Driver - Heavy Truck	116
Driver - Light Truck	108
Driver - Medium Truck	113
Facilities Assigner	120
Field Clerk	106
Frame Attendant	112
General Clerk	106
General Field Clerk	107
Maintenance Administrator	112
Materials Service Attendant	112
Network Service Coordinator	112
Senior Attendant	106
Senior Clerk	107
Senior Field Clerk	108
Services Technician	120
Splicing Technician	121
Splicing Technician’s Helper	III
Staff Clerk	108
Stenographer-Clerk	107
Storekeeper	113
Switching Equipment Technician	121
Systems Technician	121
Test Desk Technician	121
Translations Administrator	112
[186]
I
A71.02	Monthly Benefit Table
Pension Band	Previous Effective Amounts	Temporary 4Q 2003	Effecttw 1/1/200410/31/2004	Effective 11/1/2004	Effective 10/1/2005	Effective 10/1/2006	Effective 10/1/2007
101	$31.36	$32.93	$31.36	$31.99	$32.95	$33.94	$34.96
102	$32.66	$34.29	$32.66	$33.31	$34.31	$35.34	$36.40
103	$33.98	$35.68	$33.98	$.34.66	$35.70	$36.77	$37.87
104	$35.31	$37.08	$35.31	$36.02	$37.10	$38.21	$39.36
105	$36.63	$38.46	$36.63	$37.36	$38.48	$39.63	$40.82
106	$37.97	$39.87	$37.97	$38.73	$39.89	$41.09	$42.32
107	$39.28	$41.24	$39.28	$40.07	$41.27	$42.51	$43.79
108	$40.59	$42.62	$40.59	$41.40	$42.64	$43.92	$45.24
109	$41.96	$44.06	$41.96	$42.80	$44.08	$45.40	$46.76
HO	$43.25	$45.41	$43.25	$44.12	$45.44	$46.80	$48.20
HI	$44.58	$46.81	$44.58	$45.47	$46.83	$48.23	$49.68
112	$45.88	$48.17	$45.88	$46.80	$48.20	$49.65	$51.14
113	$47.22	$49.58	$47.22	$48.16	$49.60	$51.09	$52.62
114	$48.55	$50.98	$48.55	$49.52	$51.01	$52.54	$54.12
115	$49.85	$52.34	$49.85	$50.85	$52.38	$53.95	$55.57
116	$51.19	$53.75	$51.19	$52.21	$53.78	$55.39	$57.05
117	$52.48	$55.10	$52.48	$53.53	$55.14	$56.79	$58.49
118	$53.84	$56.53	$53.84	$54.92	$56.57	$58.27	$60.02
I
[187];
Previous
Effective
Pension Effective Temporary 1/1/2004 ■ Effective Effective Effective Effective Band Amounts 40 21X0 10/31/20M 11/1/2004 lfl/1/2005 10/1/2006 10/1/2007
119
$55.17
$57.93
$55.17
$56.27
$57.96
$59.70
$61.49
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
$56.47 $57.78 $59.13 $60.44 $61,76 $63.08 $64.40 $65.74 $67.03 $68.38 $69.67 $71.03 $72.36 $73.66
$75.00 $76.28
$59.29 $60.67 $62.09 $63.46 $64.85 $66.23 $67.62 $69.03 $70.38 $71.80 $73.15 $74.58 $75.98
$77.34 $78.75 $80.09
$56.47 $57.78 $59.13 $60.44 $61.76 $63.08 $64.40 $65.74 $67.03 $68.38 $69.67 $71.03 $72.36 $73.66 $75.00 $76.28
$57.60 $58.94 $60.31
$61.65 $63.00 $64.34 $65.69 $67.05 $68.37 $69.75 $71.06 $72.45 $73.81 $75.13 $76.50 $77.81
$59.33 $60.71 $62.12 $63.50 $64.89 $66.27 $67.66 $69.06 $70.42 $71.84 $73.19 $74.62 $76.02 $77.38 $78.80 $80.14
$61.11 $62.53 $63.98 $65.41 $66.84 $68.26 $69.69 $71.13 $72.53 $74.00 $75.39 $76.86 $78.30 $79.70 $81.16 $82.54
$62.94 $64.41
$65.90 $67.3?'
$68.85 $70.31 $71.78 $73.26 $74.71 $76.22 $77.65 $79.17 $80.65 $82.09 $83.59 $85.02
I
I
I
I
1188J
I
I
NOTES
[189]
NOTES
I I 1
I
I
I I
[190]	।
CONTENTS
EXHIBIT B
Page
Section Bl.	Definitions...................... 192
Section B2.	Worktime Schedules............... 196
Section B 3.	Payments for Time Worked......... 201
Section B4.	Pay for Time Not Worked.......... 222
Section B5.	Vacations........................ 231
Section B6.	Holidays ........................ 240
Section B7.	Excused Work Days ............... 242
Section B8.	Scheduling of Time Off .......... 244
Section B9.	Strikes.......................... 247
Section BIO. Regular Part-Time Employees (Engaged or Re-Engaged Prior to
January 1, 1981)................. 247
Section Bl 1. Part-Time Employees
(Engaged or Re-Engaged After
January 1, 1981)................. 248
Section Bl2.	Temporary Part-Time Employees ... 251
Section Bl3.	Part-Timing of
Full-Time Employees.............. 252
Section B14.	Evening and Night Differentials .... 252
Section Bl5.	Term Employees................... 254
Section B16.	Notes on Wage Increase Schedule
Administration .................. 255
Section Bl7.	Wage Increase Schedule Assignment List ............................. 262
Section Bl8.P	ension Bands and Benefits...... 273
Wage Increase Schedules....................... 263
LETTER AGREEMENTS ............................ 279
General Index .................................. I
[191]
EXHIBIT B WORKING CONDITIONS TRAFFIC EMPLOYEES AND HEADQUARTERS STAFF EMPLOYEES
SECTION Bl
Definitions
BL01 Group 1 Employees
B1.011 Employees assigned one of the following occupational titles are Group 1 Employees:
(a)	Operating Employees
Operator
Senior Operator
(b)	Special Group Employees
Desk Attendant
Desk Assistant
Service Assistant
B1.02 Group 2 Employees
B1.021 Employees assigned one of the following occupational titles constitute Group 2 Employees.
General Clerk
Senior Clerk
Staff Clerk
Stenographer-Clerk
B 1.03 Regular Full- Time Employees
B 1.031 Employees whose normal assignments of work cover normal work weeks.
B1.04 Regular Part-Time Employees
Bl.041 Employees who are employed and normally
[192]
scheduled to work less hours per average month than comparable Full-Time employees in the same job title, classification and work group working the same norma! daily tour.
B1.05 Temporary Employees
B1.051 Employees whose terni of employment is intended to last more than three weeks but ordinarily not more than six (6) months.
B1.06 Term Employees
Bl.061 Employees whose term of employment is intended to last longer than six (6) months but no longer than thirty-six (36) months. Term employees are engaged with the understanding that they will remain in the same occupational title for the duration of their term of employment. No more than 50 employees in the combined Plant/Traffic Organizations may be in the Term classification. The Company will give notice to the President of the Union in advance of hiring a Term employee.
B1.07 Occasional Employees
Bl.071 Employees engaged on a daily basis for a period of not more than three (3) consecutive weeks, or for a cumulative total of not more than thirty (30) days, in any calendar year, regardless of the length of the daily or weekly assignments. An Occasional Employee who actually works or is engaged to work in excess of three (3) consecutive weeks or thirty (30) days in a calendar year shall be reclassi-
[193]
fled as a Regular, Term, or Temporary, Full-Time or Part-Time Employee, as appropriate.
Bl.072 Wage rates to be paid and any working conditions applying to the particular work for which the Occasional Employee is engaged will be stated to the employee at time of engagement.
B1.08 Fall Day Tours
B1.081 Full day tours are seven and one-half hours in length.
B1.082 For Group 1 Employees, Full Day Tours will start at or after 6 A.M. and end no later than 6:30 P.M. These tours will be divided into two sessions, not necessarily of the same length, separated by an unpaid lunch period of at least one-half hour but not more than two hours.
Bl.083 For Group 2 Employees, Full Day Tours will start at or after 7 A.M. and end no later than 6:30 P.M. These tours will be divided into two sessions, not necessarily of the same length, separated by an unpaid lunch period of not more than one hour.
B1.084 Day tours ending after 6 P.M. will be avoided whenever possible.
B1.09 Full Evening Tours
Bl.091 These tours end after 6:30 P.M. but not later than 2:00 A.M. of the next day. They are seven hours in length if they end prior to 10:30 P.M. and six hours in length if they end at or
[194]
I I
I I
I I
1
after 10:30 P.M. Full evening tours for Group 2 Employees will be scheduled to end not later than 1:30 A.M. of the next day.
Bl.092 Evening tours starting on December 24, 25 and 31 for Group 1 Employees may be scheduled to end after 2 A.M. of the next day.
B1.093 Seven hour tours will be divided into two sessions, not necessarily of the same length, separated by at least one-half hour. Six hour tours will be assigned as continuous hours and will include a thirty minute lunch-relief period which shall be scheduled between the two sessions.
B1.10 Night Tours
Bl.101	Night tours are seven and one-half hours in length and are divided into two sessions, not necessarily of equal length, by an unpaid meal period of one-half hour. For Group 1 Employees, these tours start not earlier than 9:30 P.M. and end not later than 7:30 A.M. For Group 2 Employees, these tours start at 12 midnight and end at 8:00 A.M.
B1.102	Part Night tours will not be scheduled.
B1.11 Part Day Tours
B1.111 Part Day Tours consist of a single session of not less than three and three-quarter hours. They start at or after 6 A.M. and end not later than 6:30 P.M.
B1.12	Pan Evening Tours
Bl .121 These tours end after 6:30 P.M. They consist
[195]
of a single session of not less than three and one-half hours if they end prior to 10:30 P.M. and not less than three hours if they end at or after 10:30 P.M.
Part evening tours for Group 2 Employees will be scheduled to end prior to 10:30 P.M.
B1.122 Part evening tours starting on December 24, 25 and 31 for Group 1 Employees may be scheduled to end after 1 A.M. of the next day. On other days these tours will be scheduled to end not later than 1 A.M. of the next day.
B1.13	Normal Work Week
Bl. 131 A normal work week consists of five full tours which may be scheduled on any of the seven days of the calendar week for Group 1 Employees or on any of the six week days for Group 2 Employees.
B1.14 Retief Periods
Bl.141 Rest periods in sessions of two hours or more are given to Group I Operating and Special Group Employees in offices where force and traffic conditions permit. They are paid for as worktime.
SECTION B2 Worktime Schedules
B2.01 Posting Worktime Schedules
B2.011 In general, worktime schedules will be posted not later than the second Wednesday, prior
H96J
to the week for which they are effective. Tours for employees who are expected to work on holidays will be posted four weeks in advance, to the extent possible.
B 2.012 These schedules will show the days on which each employee is scheduled to work and the start and finish of each session for each day. All time included between the starting and quitting time of full or part tours to the extent of the first five full tours or the equivalent posted or actually worked in a calendar week is referred to hereafter as “scheduled hours.”
B2.013 While the basis of assigning worktime is to provide a uniform work week, service requirements as determined by the Company may make it necessary to assign a greater number of tours, or when part-timing is in effect a lesser number of tours than constitute the normal work week. Employees may also be required to work additional time in a day.
B2.014 Before any employee is requested to work more than five full tours, the extra worktime may be assigned to other Regular Full-Time, Regular Part-Time, Temporary or Occasional Employees who were scheduled for less than five full tours.
B2.015 When the service requirements are such that part tour assignments are needed, no fulltime employees will be given more than two such assignments in any calendar week.
B2.016 The basis of assigning worktime for Part-
fl 97]
Time Employees is to schedule those employees each month for the number of hours needed to meet service requirements. Under this condition part tours are not necessarily of the same length as those defined in Section Bl.
B2.O17 Selection of Tours
Employees in individual offices may select the method to be used in assigning tours (that is either by rotation, or on the basis of net credited service, or by date of appointment) to the extent that service requirements permit. It is recognized by both Union and Company that the requirements of the business make it necessary for some employees to be assigned to tours other than those they might select. For the purpose of this Section B2.017, net credited service for employees whose latest reengagement occurred on or after August 5,1989, shall be considered as beginning at the date of last reengagement.
B2.02 Changes in Posted Worktime Schedules
B2.021 Worktime schedules may be changed at any time after posting. Changes may be originated by the Company or at the request of employees if approved by the Company. Changes by the Company will be avoided insofar as service requirements permit, but in the event of unavoidable changes, employees will be given as much advance notice as possible.
[198]
I
B2.03 Changes Originated by Company
B2.O31 At any time the Company may assign or cancel full or part tours in excess of the first five full tours or the equivalent in any week, or may change the tour assigned on a day, or may change the starting and ending time of any tour with no increase in the total time to be worked on a day. Changes in lunch hours shall not be considered a change of assignment. Where more than five full tours or the equivalent are assigned in any week, the workweek may be reduced to five full tours or the equivalent by cancelling any tour other than the full or part tour in excess of the normal workweek, by giving notice of at least 24 hours prior to the starting time of the tour being cancelled. In addition, the Company by giving an employee a notice of at least 48 hours prior to the earliest tour affected, or prior to 7 A.M. of the preceding Saturday, whichever is later, may make any other changes in the posted worktime schedules.
B2.04 Changes Originated by Employees
B2.041 Worktime changes originated by employees to the extent of a full tour on any day will not be considered as a change of assignment.
B2.042 Whenever it becomes necessary to call in an employee to work time which was previously not scheduled, this time will be assigned, within the limitations of the needs of the service, to employees who have been un
[199]
avoidably absent for a full tour or more without pay during the same week and who have specifically requested that they be given an opportunity to make up such lost time. Such a change will be considered as being originated by the employee.
B2.043 In each Operator Services office, not more often than once every three months, Operators with 25 years or more of service may advise their Assistant Manager as to their preference for working weekends. The requested assignments will be granted to the extent and in such combinations that is practicable to do so in accordance with the service and training requirements, proper coverage and normal scheduling procedures, as determined by the Company, provided that no other employee with less than 25 years of service in this group would thereby be required to work weekends for more than fifty (50) percent of the year.
B2.044 In each Operator Services office, not more often than once every three months, Senior Operators and Service Assistants with 25 years or more of service may advise their immediate supervisor as to their preference for working weekends. The requested assignments will be granted to the extent and in such combinations that is practicable to do so in accordance with the service and training requirements, proper coverage and normal scheduling procedure, as determined by the
[200]
Company, provided that no other employee with less than 25 years of service in this group would thereby be required to work weekends for more than fifty (50) percent of the year.
B2.045 If all of the assignments requested under either B2.043 or B2.044 cannot be granted, preference shall be given to the requests of those employees with 30 or more years of service. In either group provided that no other employee with less than 30 years of service in either group would thereby be required to work weekends for more than fifty (50) percent of the year. In this event preference shall be given to the requests of those employees in either group with 35 or more years of service.
SECTION B3 Payments For Time Worked
B3.01 General
B3.011 Employees are carried on the payroll at a basic weekly wage rate which is the amount paid for five full tours of work at straight time exclusive of evening and night differential payments.
B3.012 The basic daily wage rate is determined by dividing the basic weekly wage rate by five.
B3.O13 The basic hourly wage rate is determined by dividing the basic weekly wage rate as follows:
[201]
Assigned Tours	Divided by
Group 1 Employees
Day and Night	37!^
Evening—7 hours	35
Evening—6 hours	30
Group 2 Employees Day	37 !d
Evening	35
B3.014 When part-timing is in effect, employees will be paid for any scheduled hours worked on days other than Sunday or Holidays at their basic hourly wage rates.
B3.015 All hours worked shall be paid at the basic hourly wage rate except time actually worked under the following conditions which shall be paid:
(1)	At one and one-half times the basic hourly wage rate:
(a)	Any tours starting between midnight Saturday and midnight Sunday.
(b)	Any time not included in full or part tours but worked between midnight Saturday and midnight Sunday.
(c)	Worktime in excess of a full tour.
(d)	Except where change is made at the request of the employee or due to a visit to the Medical Department or the Treating Physician at the direction of the Company, any worktime which does not coincide with the previously assigned tour (excluding changes in
[202]
I
lunch hours) where the starting or ending time of the tour, or the tour scheduled on the day, is changed with less than twenty-four hours’ notice. When part-timing is in effect, additional tours or part tours up to five full or four full tours and two half tours may be scheduled at any time and paid at the basic hourly wage rates.
(e)	Hours worked in excess of five full tours or the equivalent in the calendar week.
In determining whether an employee has worked five full tours in a calendar week, time paid at time and one-half by reason of the provisions of 1. (b) and 1. (c) above in the case of Group 1 Employees or 1. (a), 1. (b) and 1. (c) above in the case of Group 2 Employees and time worked on a Holiday outside the limits of the scheduled tour, shall not be counted, but scheduled hours not worked for the following reasons shall be counted:
(1)	An excused Holiday.
(2)	Jury Duty or Grand Jury Duty.
(3)	Absence when required to appear as a witness before a court or Grand Jury.
(4)	Joint Conference of Representatives of the Union with Representatives of the Company.
[203]
(5)	Vacation, except vacation which is worked pursuant to B5.04.
(6)	Accident occurring while on duty.
(7)	Visits to Medical Department or Treating Physician at Company request.
(8)	When Serving as Judge, Inspector or Clerk of Election.
(9)	Excused Work Day for which the employee is paid.
(10)	Attendance at joint meetings on Quality of Work Life,
(11)	Attendance at Union Orientation Meeting.
(12)	Absence for Union Business of up to seven (7) Union officials (Plant and Traffic combined) provided that the Union notifies management by January 1 st of each year of the names of the Union officials who will be covered by this provision for that year. The Union will give the Company thirty (30) days notice of changes in the names of the 7 designated officials.
(2)	Employees working overtime normally paid at one and one-half times their basic hourly wage rate will, to the extent that the hours in the week exceed 49, be paid at twice their basic hourly wage rate.
1204]
(3)	Holiday work as covered in B6.07.
B3.02 Part Hour Worked
B3.021 Part Hour for Group 1 and Group 2 employees will be paid as follows:
(a)	When an employee works less than her scheduled tours she will be paid for any part hour worked as follows:
I I
I I
Hours Paid
If Basic	If Premium
Minutes Worked Rate Applies Rate Applies
1 to 15 inclusive	14	%
16 to 30 inclusive	'/i	%
31 to 45 inclusive	114
46 to 60 inclusive 1	1 'zz
(b)	When an employee works more than her scheduled tour, she will be paid for the overtime work as follows;
Hours Paid
Minutes Worked
1 to 5 inclusive	None
6 to 15 inclusive	%
16 to 30 inclusive	
31 to 45 inclusive	
46 to 60 inclusive	1!4
61 to 75 inclusive	17A
76 to 90 inclusive	2!4
etc.	etc.
[205]
B3.03 Special Payments
B3.O31 Special Payment For Replacing Management Employee
(a)	When a management employee is to be absent for a half tour or more, and in the opinion of the Company, it is necessary to appoint an employee to temporarily replace the absent management employee, the employee appointed shall receive a special payment of $5.00 for each half tour worked during the employee’s actual performance of the assignment.
(b)	The above amount shall be included with the basic rate in computing all compensation for that day to which the employee is entitled under this Agreement.
(c)	The Company will administer these assignments so that one or more employees will not be assigned to replace a management employee for more than a reasonable continuous period under the circumstances of the particular case.
B3.032 Special Payment for Christmas and New Year’s Eves
(a)	Employees working on December 24 or December 31 will be paid at twice their basic hourly wage rate for any time worked between 6:00 P.M. and 7:30 A.M. of the following day.
(b)	This payment will be in addition to the
[206]
differential paid during assigned evening and night tours but will be in place of the time and one-half payment for working overtime.
B3.04 Employee Called Out to Work
I I
I I
I
B3.041 An employee who is called out to work hours which are not consecutive with a scheduled tour or is called out to work on a day when no tour is scheduled, will receive a minimum of four hours’ pay at her basic hourly wage rate if she works two and one-half hours or less. If the employee is called out a second time within the two and one-half hours covered by the first minimum payment, those two and a half hours will be considered as fully paid for and no additional payment will be made for that period. If the work time resulting from the callout is in excess of two and one-half hours, she will be paid in accordance with the table appearing in Subsection B3.O21 (b) except that when the callout occurs on a nonscheduled day the employee shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of B3.O15 (e) but in such case shall receive not less than four hours’ pay at her basic hourly wage rate.
B3.042 If called out on an excused Holiday during hours of the normal work week, the employee will be paid in accordance with the provisions of Subsection B6.07, but in such case shall receive not less than 4 hours’ pay at her basic hourly wage rate.
[207]
B3.O5 Travel Time and Allowance
B3.O51 Individual employees shall be assigned to a Report Location. A Temporary Location is any location other than the employee’s Report Location. The place for starting the day’s work will be designated by the Company and may be either an employee’s Report Location or a Temporary Location. Employees directed to start and/or end their work tour at a Temporary Location, except where meals and lodging are being furnished as specified in Subsections B3.064 and B3.O65, will be reimbursed by means of a Daily Travel Allowance on each day worked in accordance with the following table:
Distance from Report Location to Temporary Location	Eff. 9/30/00 Daily Travel Allowance	Eff. 8/5/01 Daily Travel Allowance	Eff. 8/4/02 Daily Travel Allowance
0 to 5 Road Miles	$	0	$	0	$	0
Over 5 to 10 Road Miles	7.16	7.37	7.74
Over if) to 15 Road Miles	10.12	10.42	10.94
Over 15 to 20 Road Miles	13.08	13.47	14.14
Over 20 to 25 Road Miles	16.05	16.53	17.36
Over 25 to 30 Road Miles	19.01	19.58	20.56
Over 30 to 35 Road Miles	21.98	22.64	23.77
Road miles are determined by the shortest of the more commonly traveled routes between the locations involved.
B3.Q52 Any assignment of more than one day’s duration to a Temporary Location over 35 road
[208]
I I
I I
I I
I I
miles from an employee’s residence will be treated as a non-commuting assignment.
On such assignments, meal and lodging will be furnished by the Company in accordance with Subsections B3.064 and B3.O65. Under no circumstances will Daily Travel Allowance be paid to an employee for any day or days on which meals and lodging are furnished by the Company.
In lieu of meals and lodging, however, the employee may elect to receive the applicable Daily Travel Allowance as set forth in Subsection B3.O51. Daily Travel Allowance will be based on the distance between the Report Location and Temporary Location. If an employee elects to take Daily Travel Allowance, the noon meal allowance for non-commuting assignments will not be paid.
On assignments to a Temporary Location of more than one day’s duration involving distances of thirty-five (35) road miles, or less, from an employee’s residence, Daily Travel Allowance will apply as set forth in Subsection B3.051, except that meals and lodging may be furnished, as specified in Subsections B3.064 and B3.065, instead of Daily Travel Allowance, providing management approval has been obtained.
B3.053 When an employee is directed to a Temporary Location and is being provided meals and lodging, the initial travel time to the
[209]
Temporary Location and the travel time involved when she is directed to return to her Report Location, or to travel to another Temporary Location, will be paid for as time worked. Transportation expenses will be paid in accordance with Subsection B3.062.
B3.054 Employees who are scheduled for a full week, or weeks, of vacation during the time they are on a non-commuting assignment will be permitted to return to their Report Location prior to the end of their last work day preceding the start of the vacation week, or weeks. Travel time will be considered to be work time. Employees will be reimbursed for transportation expenses as covered in Subsection B3.O62. If an employee is assigned to continue on a non-commuting assignment on the first tour following return from vacation, travel time when first reporting to the Temporary Location will be considered as work time and transportation expenses will be reimbursed as covered in Subsection B3.062.
B3.06 Reimbursement of Traveling Expenses
B3.061 Traveling {'rom Job to Job:
Employees will be reimbursed for payments made by them for all transportation expenses incurred in traveling from job to job during the day’s work.
B3.062 When an employee is directed to a Temporary Location and is being provided meals and lodging under the provisions of Subsection B3.052, the employee will be reimbursed
[210]
I I I
I I
I I
I I
I 1
I
for the reasonable travel expense actually incurred when initially traveling to the Temporary Location and when directed to return to her Report Location.
B3.063 Employees Working Evening Tours:
Employees working tours which have an interval of more than two hours between sessions will be reimbursed $3.50 per tour for the cost of one round trip between home and office.
B3.064 Meal Expense
When an employee is assigned to a non-commuting Temporary Location, the Company will provide daily meal allowance as follows:
Breakfast $ 5.00
Noon Meal	10.00
Evening Meal	18.00
$33.00
If an employee elects to take Daily Travel Allowance on a non-commuting assignment, the Company will not pay any meal allowance. In addition, an employee will not be entitled to receive a meal allowance for any meal listed in the above table which is provided by the Company at no expense to the employee.
B3.065 Lodging Expenses
An employee working at a non-commuting Temporary Location will be reimbursed for
[211]
all her reasonable lodging expense actually incurred.
B3.07 Employees Permanently Transferred from One Location to Another
B3.O71 This Subsection applies to employees meeting ail of the following conditions: (1) they are permanently transferred, other than at their own request; (2) they relocate their homes as a result of such transfer within 6 months of the date of transfer; and (3) the distance between the new Report Location and the former home of such transferred employee exceeds the distance between the former Report Location and the former home by 35 road miles or more. Road miles are determined by the shortest of the more commonly traveled routes between the locations involved. This Subsection will also apply to a volunteer for a permanent transfer who meets conditions (2) and (3), above, in a situation where otherwise another employee who meets condition (3), above, would be required to transfer.
I I I I I I
Employees covered by this Subsection shall be entitled to the following expenses to the extent they are reasonably incurred, except that meal expenses will be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of B3.064. It is understood that the Company will make tax deductions from such payments to the extent such deductions are required by law.
I
I
[212]
(a)	The actual expense of packing, moving, and unpacking the customary personal household belongings of employees and their immediate family including transportation insurance of household furniture.
(b)	The actual transportation expenses for employees and their immediate family including meals (in accordance with Subsection B3.064) and lodging en route.
(c)	Lodging and transportation expense actually incurred by employees and meal expense in accordance with Subsection B3.064, until the employees’ new residence is established, for a period not in excess of six weeks from the date of transfer. If warranted by unusual circumstances, the Company may authorize the reimbursement of such expenses for a period in excess of six weeks.
(d)	Meal (in accordance with Subsection B3.064), lodging and transportation expense actually incurred for one other member of their immediate family while looking for a residence in the new community up to a maximum of three trips or six days.
(e)	Meal (in accordance with Subsection B3.064) and lodging expenses actually incurred for employees and their immediate family from the date of moving until
[213]
delivery of household goods and connection of utilities, not t.o exceed three days.
I
(f)	The actual cost of connecting basic utilities (telephone, electricity, gas and water) at the new location and, when authorized by the Company, the cost of disconnecting normal household appliances (such as gas refrigerators, automatic washers, etc.) at the old location and of reconnecting at the new location.
(g)	Duplicate rent at either the new or old location (whichever is less) that the employee is unable to avoid up to a maximum of six. weeks.
(h)	The actual Realtor’s commission paid for the sale of the employee’s former residence up to seven percent of the purchase price.
B3.072 Permanently transferred employees who are not reimbursed for expenses under Subsection B3.071 and whose new Report Location is fifteen or more miles further from their residence than their prior Report Location will be reimbursed for a period not in excess of one month from the date of transfer for all expenditures in excess of normal actually incurred for lodging and transportation, and meal expense will be reimbursed in accordance with Subsection B3.064. If warranted by unusual circumstances, the Company may
[214]
authorize the reimbursement of such expenses for a period in excess of one month.
B3.08 Method of Reimbursement
B3.081 Transportation incidental to travel as required by Subsections B3.061, B3.062 and B3.07 will be furnished by the Company or will be by means of transportation approved by the Company. An employee receiving Daily Travel Allowance is not eligible for compensation under paragraphs (a), (d), (e) or (k) below.
(a)	If public transportation is used, the employee will be reimbursed for fare actually expended.
(b)	Use of persona] automobiles for individual assignments, trips or projects, may be approved by the immediate management supervisor, considering such factors as the transportation available, the employee’s qualification as a driver of a Company automobile, evidence of ownership of the personal automobile, liability and property damage insurance carried on the automobile, and the extent of the benefit to be derived by the Company from the use of the automobile.
(c)	When a personal automobile is to be used on Company business as the authorized means of transportation, approval of the employee’s immediate management supervisor must first be obtained. If it is ex
1215]
pected that a personal automobile will be used on more than half the days on which the employee is scheduled to work over an extended period of time, it shall be considered as a regular recurring usage and written approval must be obtained from the Company, and renewed each year.
(d)	If an employee, with advance approval, is authorized by Subsection (c) to use a personal automobile, the employee will be reimbursed for any compensable mileage at the rate of twenty-eight cents ($.28) per mile. On trips of three miles or less, employees shall be reimbursed an amount equal to the rate for one mile multiplied by three.
In the event the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) increases the standard mileage rate allowable as a business use deduction from gross income during the term of this Agreement, the Company will change the amount of the reimbursement accordingly effective on the first of the second month following the publication of the change by the IRS, but in no event prior to the effective date of the IRS increase.
This shall apply to reimbursement for authorized incidental use and not use of personal automobiles, which are required as a condition of employment.
[216]
Compensable mileage will be the distance from the point of departure to destination, reduced, where applicable, as set forth in Subsection B3.072. Mileage will be determined from road maps or odometer readings or a combination of the two. No additional compensation will be paid to or for employee passengers.
(e)	Where travel requires the use of a toll road, highway tolls actually expended will be reimbursed.
(f)	Should an employee use her personal automobile in the course of Company business without prior approval, the mileage payment is not authorized and the transportation shall be paid for at public transportation rates.
(g)	For approval of the use of a personal automobile, an employee’s assurance must be obtained that liability and property damage insurance is in force covering the automobile to be used.
(h)	An employee will not be required to use her personal automobile.
(i)	The Company assumes no obligation for payment of repairs, maintenance and upkeep of personal automobiles except for the following situations when employees are operating personal cars:
[217]
(1)	On call outs, both coming to and returning home from work;
(2)	On-the-job authorized use of personal car for Company business where the accident occurs during paid work time;
(3)	Special assignments and temporary transfers where use of a personal car is authorized and travel time is paid as work time under the contract.
In these cases the Company will pay a maximum of $100.00 for damage incurred, provided:
(1)	(a) The employee has actually had the car damage repaired and produces a receipted bill for or in excess of the amount claimed; or (b) the damage is so extensive that it is unreasonable to have the car repaired and it is junked or sold for salvage in which case the Company will pay the reasonable value of the car prior to the accident, less any salvage, up to the maximum of $100; and
(2)	Collision insurance does not cover the amount claimed; and
(3)	The employee takes reasonable steps to obtain reimbursement but there is no prospect of recovery from a third party or an insurance company within a reasonable period. (It is understood that the employee will reim
[218]
burse the Company out of any subsequent recovery as a result of a claim arising from the accident); and
(4)	The accident was not clearly the fault of the employee or was not caused by the defective condition of the employee’s car,
(j)	Employees are not authorized to permit relatives or friends to ride with them when using a personal automobile on Company business as the authorized means of transportation. The Company assumes no liability for accident or damage claims made by any such persons or on their behalf and the employee permitting any such person to ride in her personal automobile while on Company business is required to notify him or her to that effect.
(k)	Parking fees reasonably incurred will be reimbursed when required by the assignment and approved by the supervisor.
(1)	Motor scooters and motorcycles are not covered.
B3.09 Special City Allowance
B3.091 An employee whose assigned reporting location on a particular day is within the city limits of the City of Wilmington, will be paid a Special City Allowance of $2.00 for each day he works after reporting at such assigned reporting location. An employee who is sched
1219]
uled to work 50% or less of a regular full tour, or is called in and works 50% or less of a full tour, will be paid one-half of a full daily allowance.
B3.092 Not more than one full daily allowance will be paid to an employee on any one day regardless of the number of times the employee reports to a qualified location during that day.
B3.093 The Special City Allowance will enter into Computations of overtime pay required by law but will not be part of the basic rate or basic weekly wages for any other purpose nor enter into the computation of any payments under the “Verizon Pension Plan” or the “Verizon Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan”.
I I I I I
B3.10	Associates Training Other Associates
A qualified employee may volunteer to be assigned the responsibility to train another employee in the same or another occupation. No employee will be involuntarily assigned this training responsibility. When this occurs, the employee performing the training will be given a special payment of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each tour in which training is performed.
Where an employee is involved in merely explaining and demonstrating the job, in detail, for the benefit of another employee, or explaining its relationship to associated jobs, or answering job related questions, the procedure shall not be
[220]
considered as job training and the training payment will not be applicable.
The training responsibility is not merely explaining the job; it includes directing the employee in the proper procedures, observing the performance and reviewing the results of the work with the other employee.
B3.11	Differential for Use of Bi-lingual Skills
An employee will be paid an hourly differential in the amount of 3.5% of the employee’s basic hourly wage rate for all scheduled or nonscheduled hours or partial hours (including overtime) during which the employee is assigned to provide bi-lingual services to customers or to provide translation services for the Company. Only employees who qualify as proficient on the appropriate test for the language being used will be eligible to be assigned such work, and to receive this differential. Employees who were assigned such duties during the term of the 1998 contracts, but who have not qualified as proficient on the appropriate test, will be grandfathered until September 1, 2003, to become test-qualified, during which time they may continue to be assigned such duties.
The bi-lingual differentia] will enter into computations of overtime pay in accordance with applicable law on overtime on differentials.
It is also agreed that this provision replaces the Bi-lingual Letters of Understanding in the applicable collective bargaining agreements.
[221]
SECTION B4
Pay For Time Not worked
B4.01 General
B4.011 Absence due to any of the following reasons will be paid to the extent specified. “Scheduled Hours” as used in this Section means all time included between the starting and quitting time or full or part tours to the extent of the first five full tours or the equivalent posted or actually worked in the calendar week. Payments will not be allowed for absence during assigned tours which are not a part of “scheduled hours” as herein defined. In all cases, payments, where made, will be at basic hourly wage rates and will not include evening and night differentials.
B4.02 Accidents Occurring While an Duty
B4.021 An employee absent due to an accident occurring on duty will be paid in full for any time lost on the day of the accident, including extra payments such as evening and night differentials and Sunday or Holiday payments that would have been earned on that day.
B4.03 Holidays
B4.031 If a Holiday occurs during an absence of seven consecutive calendar days or less, employees will be paid for any “scheduled hours” on the Holiday even though no payment is made for the balance of the absent time. These payments may be withheld in individual cases
[222]
where, in the opinion of the Company, unusual conditions warrant such action.
B4.032 If an absence for reasons other than those provided for in this Section B4 extends beyond seven consecutive calendar days, payment will be made for all or part of such absence only when specifically approved by the Company.
B4.04 Attendance at Joint Conference of Union and Company
B4.041 Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03 of Article 2, employees will be paid by the Company only for such of their “scheduled hours” as are actually spent in joint conferences and for travel time as authorized in Article 13.
B4.042 Employees scheduled for evening or night tours may, upon their request, be rescheduled for day tours in order to permit them to attend joint conferences with the Company, but in such cases, the time spent in joint conferences during “scheduled hours” will be paid as day tour hours.
B4.043 Short interruptions during a joint conference for recesses or to permit either group of representatives to confer by themselves will be considered as part of the joint conference.
B4.044 A Representative of the Union attending disciplinary meetings or investigatory interviews as outlined in Article 25 will be paid by the Company only for such of the Represen
[223]
tative’s “scheduled hours” as are actually spent in those meetings.
B4.05 When Required To Appear In Court Or Before A Grand Jury As A Witness
B4.051 When required to appear in court or before a grand jury as witnesses, employees will be paid their basic pay for such absent time as comes within their “scheduled hours”. Payments provided in this Subsection B4.051 will not apply when employees appear in court or before a grand jury in any capacity other than witness.
B4.06 While Serving As Juror
B4.061 While serving as jurors, employees will be paid their basic pay for such absent time as comes within their “scheduled hours”. Employees on evening or night tours will be rescheduled for day tours while serving as jurors, in which case absent time will be paid as day tour hours.
B4.07 Authorized Quarantine
B4.071 In case of unavoidable quarantine which the Medical Department has approved, the employee will be paid as if the absence were due to the employee’s own illness.
B4.08 Death in Family
B4.081 Employees will be paid for such absent time as they elect to take, up to the maximum number of consecutive scheduled work days coincident with the funeral and delineated be-
[224]
I
I
I I
I I
I
low by employee relationships. Employees on evening and night tours shall be excused from evening or night work on the day or days for which they are excused and paid basic wages
B4.082 Family for purposes of this Section B4.O8, shall be limited to the following relationships of the employee:
Spouse (or live-in equivalent) (Step) Child (Step) Parent		4 days
(Step) (Step)	Sister Brother Person living in the same household as employee	3 days
(Step) (Step) (Step)	Father-in-law Mother-in-law Grandfather Grandmother Grandchild	2 days
	Aunt Uncle Niece Nephew Brother-in-law Sister-in-law Son-in-law Daughter-in-law Cousin (1st)	1 day
B4.083 Employees may request to take additional time off as a vacation day(s), floating holi-
[225]
day(s), excused work day(s), or time off without pay. Such requests will be granted when the employee has been appointed to serve as an executor of the decedent’s estate provided sufficient notice is given. Other requests will be granted where feasible.
B4.09 When Serving As Judge, inspector or Clerk of Election
B4.091 Upon reasonable notice, employees will be excused during scheduled hours on election days and, when excused, will be paid their basic pay for those days. Employees normally scheduled for evening or night tours will be rescheduled to day tours if they request.
B4.10	Time Off to Vote in National, State, or Local Election
B4.101 Employees who are unable to vote outside their assigned hours of work will be allowed time off with pay for the purpose of voting, and in such cases they will be paid for such absent time as comes within their “scheduled hours.” Employees will not be reimbursed for traveling or other expenses incurred in voting.
B4.11	Excused to Visit Medical Department or Treating Physician
B4.111 Employees visiting the Medical Department or Treating Physician at the direction of the Company will be paid for such excused time as comes within their “scheduled hours.” Visits to the Medical Department of Treating
[226]
Physician at the employee’s request will be made on the employee’s own time and at their expense.
B4.12 Part Session Absence Due to Illness
B4.121 Employees excused from duty after reporting for work for part of a session during “scheduled hours” will be paid for a full session at their basic hourly wage rates. Where such absence occurs during an evening or night tour, differentials to be paid will be those specified in Section B14 for the ending time of the assigned tour on the day.
B4.13	Absence Due to Sickness During the first Seven Consecutive Calendar Days
B4.131 Payments will be made on the following basis provided any authorized payments may be withheld where, in the opinion of the Company, the circumstances of the particular case warrant such action:
(a)	Employees under One Year’s Service— Other than covered in Subsection B4.03 no payments will be made regardless of the length of the absence except when specifically authorized by the Company.
(b)	Employees of One but Less Than Two Years’ Service—Payments will be made for the first two consecutive days on which “scheduled hours” have been assigned only when specifically approved by the Company. Employees absent more than two consecutive days on which they
[227]
were assigned to work “scheduled hours” will be paid for any further absence during “scheduled hours” within the first seven consecutive calendar days.
(c)	Employees of Two or More but Less Than Five Years’ Service—Payments will be made for the first day on which “scheduled hours” have been assigned only when specifically approved by the Company. Employees absent more than one day on which they were assigned to work “scheduled hours” will be paid for any further absence during “scheduled hours” within the first seven consecutive calendar days.
(d)	Employees of Five or More Years’ Service—Employees will be paid for absence during “scheduled hours” during the first seven consecutive calendar days of absence.
B4.14	Less than Regular Full-Time Assignment Worked on Recommendation of the Medical Department
B4.141 Employees working less than a full tour of “scheduled hours” on recommendation of the Medical Department will be paid:
(a)	During the “Full Pay” period — For a full-time working day.
(b)	During the “Half Pay” period—For the hours on duty at their basic hourly wage rates, but in no case for less than a half tour.
[228]
I I
I
I
(c)	Outside the “Full Pay” and “Half Pay” periods — For the hours on duty at their basic hourly wage rates,
B4.15	Pre-Admission Medical Tests
B4.151 Employees directed by their physicians to visit a hospital or other medical facility on an out-patient basis, in order to have a pre-admission medical test(s) (in connection with either in-patient or out-patient surgery) administered in lieu of similar services rendered on an in-patient basis, will be excused and will be paid for the necessary absent time on the same basis as for Absence Due to Sickness During the First Seven Consecutive Calendar Days as set forth in Subsection B4.131, A copy of the physician’s written directive for such tests must be presented to the employee’s supervisor prior to the day of the tests. Such time off will not be counted under . the attendance improvement program.
B4.16	Attendance at Union Orientation Meeting
B4.161	One Representative of the Union may meet once with one or more employee(s) who is newly hired into, or transferred into, the bargaining unit for the purposes of furnishing the employee(s) with information about the Union. The date, time, and place of the meeting must be approved in advance by the employee’s immediate supervisor. The meeting shall last no longer than thirty minutes.
B4.162	Within a second tier supervisor’s organiza
[2291
tion, no more than two Union orientation meetings shall be held monthly. Whenever more than one employee is transferred into a second tier supervisor’s organization within the same two week period, every effort will be made by the Union to hold a single group orientation meeting.
B4.163	At their request, employees newly hired into, or transferred into, the bargaining unit will be excused during his or her scheduled hours and paid for up to 30 minutes (including travel time, if any) to attend a Union Orientation Meeting described in this Section B4.16.
I I
I I
B4.I64	The Representative of the Union who conducts a Union Orientation Meeting described in this Section B4.16 will be paid for no more than thirty minutes of his or her time (including any travel time) to conduct such a meeting, provided such time comes within the Representative’s scheduled hours.
B 4.17 Part Session Absence
Employees will, upon approval, for reasons not covered above, be excused for part of a session of “scheduled hours” and be paid for a full session at their basic hourly wage rates. Where such absence occurs during the second session of an evening or night tour, differentials to be paid will be those specified in Section B14 for the ending time of the assigned tour on the day.
B4.18 Part- Time Employees
B4.181	Absent time payments for any Part-Time Em
[230]
ployee in a particular occupation, who was engaged or re-engaged prior to January 1, 1981, will be on the same basis as that provided for Full-Time Employees in the same occupation, except that the amount to be paid for any day (other than for the day on which an accident occurs) will be the employee’s average daily payment in the four weeks preceding the absence, excluding any weeks containing a Holiday. Differential payments and any extra payments for work on Sunday or during non-scheduled periods shall be excluded in making such calculation.
B4.182	Absent time payments for Part-Time Employees, engaged or re-engaged after January 1, 1981, will be based on the provisions of Subsecion Bl 1.05.
SECTION B5 Vacations
B 5.01 Vacation A llowances
B5.011 Vacations with pay will be permitted during each calendar year according to the following schedule:
No Vacation — If engaged or re-engaged on or after July 1st of the current calendar year.
One Week Vacation — Upon completion of six months’ service.
Two Weeks Vacation — Upon completion of
[231]
twelve months’ service, provided that if terms of employment of 6 months and 12 months are both completed in the same calendar year, only two weeks will be granted, with the second week to be taken after completion of 12 months of net credited service. The first week may be taken any time after completion of 6 months of net credited service.
If an employee becomes eligible for one or two weeks of vacation on or after December 1, it may be taken in the following calendar year, providing it is completed prior to April 30, and prior to the taking of any of that year’s vacation.
Three Weeks Vacation — Beginning with and at any time within the year in which the employee completes 7 years’ service.
I
I 1
I
I
Four Weeks Vacation — Beginning with and at any time within the year in which the employee completes 15 years’ service.
Five Weeks Vacation — Beginning with the year in which the employee completes 25 years’ service but only if at least one week is taken during the month of January, February, March, April, November or December.
B5.012 It is a mutual objective of the Company and the Union that the method of selecting vacations results in maximum satisfaction to employees and, it being necessary that the numbers of vacations granted at one time be consistent with customer service objectives
[232]
and economy of operation, it is agreed that the selection of vacations will be conducted as follows:
(1) The Director or Director’s designee will consult each year with the appropriate representative of the Union concerning the various work groups of employees in the District to determine whether such work groups should select vacations separately or in one or more combinations of groups. In assigning vacation periods, length of service and the desires of individual employees will be given consideration; however, it is recognized that service requirements are the controlling factor in any case.
B5.013 Employees who are eligible for one or more weeks of vacation in any calendar year may take up to three weeks of their current year’s entitlement on a day-at-a-time basis. The selection of day-at-a-time vacation will be in accordance with the provisions of Subsection B8.O3 of Section B8, Scheduling of Time Off.
1. Subject to the foregoing provisions in Subsection B5.O13, employees may take a maximum of five (5) day-at-a-time vacations in one-half day increments in a given calendar year. These half day increments may only be scheduled Mondays through Fridays. Subsequent requests for one-half day-at-a-time vacation (subject to the 5
[233]
B5.014
B5.015
B5.016
day maximum) and the Company’s accommodation of such requests will be subject to the provisions of Section B8.03.
Employees who are eligible for two or more weeks of vacation in any calendar year may schedule up to two weeks of their current year’s entitlement during the period from January 1 through April 30 of the subsequent year, provided that an equal, or matching, number of vacation weeks taken from the employee’s entitlement for the subsequent year must be scheduled and the weeks taken no later than April 30 also. The selection of “carry over” and “matching” weeks shall have precedence over all other vacation selections for the period of January 1 through April 30 of the subsequent year.
Employees transferred to this Company from an associate company or purchased company will for vacation purposes be given credit for their continuous service with such other company immediately prior to the purchase or transfer. A vacation will be given such employees in the year of the transfer according to the combined length of service the employee has in the other company and this Company, less any vacation already received by the employee in the calendar year.
If a Holiday occurs during an employee’s vacation, the employee will be excused with pay on a scheduled day of the normal work week in another week. This day may be tak
[234]
en at any time prior to April 30 of the succeeding calendar year, in accordance with the provisions outlined in Subsection B8.033.
When an employee is unable, due to absence, to take a previously scheduled vacation in October, November or December in any calendar year, he will be permitted to take the unexpended portion of his vacation up to a maximum of two weeks in the next calendar year, subject to the following limitations:
I.	The absence must be due to reasons beyond the employee’s control, such as personal illness, accident or jury duty.
2.	The absence must start on or after October 1 and prior to the start of the vacation.
3.	As much of the unexpended vacation as possible must be rescheduled in the calendar year.
4.	The unexpended vacation must be completed by April 30 of the next calendar year.
5.	No payment in lieu of vacation will be made unless it is made pursuant to Section B5.04.
B5.02 Vacation Payments
B5.021 While on vacation employees will be paid their basic weekly wage rate. Evening and night differentials will not be included in vacation pay. When part-timing is in effect, vacation payments for employees part-timed
[235]
will be computed by multiplying the basic hourly wage rate by the average number of scheduled hours per week during the first four weeks of the six weeks immediately preceding the vacation.
B5.022 For Part-Time Employees engaged or re-engaged prior to January 1, 1981, payments for the vacation period will be computed by multiplying the basic hourly wage rate by the average number of scheduled hours per week during the first four weeks of the six weeks immediately preceding the vacation. Differential payments shall be excluded in computing such payments.
For Part-Time Employees engaged or re-engaged after January 1, 1981, payments for the vacation period will be based on the employee’s “part-time equivalent work week”, in accordance with the provisions of Subsection Bl 1.05.
I I I
I i i
B5.03 Special Conditions Affecting Vacation Allowances
B5.031 Treatment granted employees for military leaves of absence is covered in a separate agreement.
B5.032 Employees who retire for any reason other than total physical disability will be given the full vacation to which they are entitled by their years of service, provided there is sufficient time in the calendar year for such vacation prior to the employee’s retirement date.
[236]
If there is not sufficient time, employees will be given a cash allowance in lieu of unused vacation.
B5.033 An employee separated or about to be separated from the service of the Company because of inefficiency or infraction of rules will not be given a vacation.
B5.034 Employees drawn to serve on a jury during their scheduled vacations will be permitted to reschedule their vacations.
B5.035 In cases of termination of service due to resignation or layoff, employees will be given a cash allowance in lieu of any unused vacation to which they are entitled by their years of service. In the case of interruption of service for leave of absence or resumption of service from leave of absence (other than those leaves referred to in B5.031), employees will be given unused vacation in that calendar year, to which they are entitled by their years of service, but no cash allowance in lieu of vacation will be given.
B5.04 Payment for Working Vacation Time
B5.041 Employees who are entitled to three or more vacation weeks may, at the sole option of the Company, be afforded the opportunity to receive pay for agreeing to work vacation time, subject to the conditions set forth below.
B5.042 Only full vacation weeks (including weeks with holidays) may be worked under this Section B5.04. In no event shall vacation
[237]
I
days, HV days, floating holidays, excused work days, or reserved time be eligible for payment under this Section.
B5.O43 Employees who are entitled to three or more weeks of vacation in a calendar year are eligible to be offered the opportunity to work vacation time as follows:
(a)	Employees entitled to three weeks vacation are eligible to be offered the opportunity to work one week of vacation.
(b)	Employees entitled to four or five weeks vacation are eligible to be offered the opportunity to work one or two weeks of vacation.
B5.044 Within a work group, in order to meet anticipated service needs, the Company may, in its sole discretion, offer to eligible employees the opportunity to work a full vacation week which qualifies for such payment under B5.042 and B5.043 as follows:
(a)	No minimum period of advance notice to eligible employees is required.
(b)	Eligible employees scheduled for a vacation during a week for which management wishes to offer one or more opportunities to work vacation time will have the opportunity to volunteer to work in order of their credited service, except that employees who, in the opinion of management, are not qualified to perform the work which is expected to be performed
[238]
that week need not be afforded the opportunity to work that week.
(c)	Whether to volunteer for an opportunity is within the sole discretion of the employee.
B5.045 An employee shall receive one week’s basic wages and shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement covering work on a scheduled day of work for each week of vacation which he has agreed to work under this Section. (This payment shall not be used in the computation of overtime, differential, or other premium payments.) In the event an employee is absent on a day or days in a week which he has agreed to work, under this Section, he shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Section B5.
B5.046 A vacation week which an employee has elected to work under this Section shall not be available for reselection as vacation time (either as a full week or as individual days as listed in Section B8.033) by another employee in the same work group.
B5.047 This Section will not be raised as a reason for permitting additional employees to take time off.
B5.048 Nothing in this Section shall limit the Company’s right to make changes in vacation assignments where the requirements of the business make it necessary.
[2391
SECTION B6
Holidays
B6.01 The following will be observed as Holidays: New Year’s Day	(*) Veterans’ Day
(*)	Presidents’ Day	Thanksgiving Day
(*)	Good Friday	Day After Thanksgiving
Memorial Day	Christmas Day
Independence Day	(*) Floating Holiday
Labor Day
(*) Each employee shall select any three of these four Holidays.
B6.02 Holiday tours are all tours starting between midnight of the day before the Holiday and midnight of the Holiday. When any of the above Holidays falls on Sunday, the following Monday will be observed as the Holiday. For Group 2 Employees only, when any of the above Holidays falls on Saturday, the Friday immediately preceding will be observed as the Holiday.
B6.03 All Full-Time Employees will be assigned to work a full tour and Part-Time Employees assigned to work as required on ah Holidays.
B6.04 To the extent that service requirements permit, employees will be excused from work on the Holiday.
B6.05 Each Full-Time Employee, whether or not excused from duty on the Holiday, will receive a Holiday allowance equal to the employee's basic daily wage rate. For Part-Time Employees engaged or re-engaged prior to January 1, 1981, the Holiday allowance will be determined by multiplying the employee’s basic hourly wage
[240]
I
rate by either (a) one-fifth the average weekly hours of scheduled time worked during the first four of the six calendar weeks immediately preceding the Holiday week, or (b) the number of scheduled hours worked on the Holiday, whichever produces the greater amount. Holiday allowances will not include evening and night differential payments. For Part-Time Employees engaged or re-engaged after January 1, 1981, the Holiday allowance will be based on the employee’s “part-time equivalent work week”, in accordance with the provisions of Subsection Bl 1.05.
B6.06 Holiday allowances may be withheld where, in the opinion of the Company, the conditions in individual cases, or the facts relating to any absence of the employee on the Holiday, or the scheduled day immediately preceding or following the Holiday warrant such action.
B6.07 In addition to the Holiday allowance, time actually worked by an employee within the hours scheduled on the Holiday will be paid at one and one-half times the basic hourly wage rate. Time worked outside of the hours scheduled on the Holiday will be paid at two and one-half times the employee’s basic hourly wage rate.
B6.08 Selection of Presidents’Day, Good Friday, Veterans ’ Day and Floating Holiday
Not later than January 20, employees shall inform their immediate supervisor as to which three of these four Holidays they wish to ob-
[241]
serve in that year. To the extent that service requirements permit, employees will be afforded the Holidays of their choice.
The selections made by employees under the provisions of this Subsection shall not be subject to change except that service requirements may require that employees work on the days they have selected as their Holidays.
Floating Holidays, once granted, will not normally be subject to change. However, at the employees’ request and subject to the requirements of the business as determined by management, employees may change a scheduled Floating Holiday.
Employees hired after September 30 in any calendar year shall not be eligible for a Floating Holiday in that calendar year.
SECTION B7 Excused Work Days
B7.01 Each Regular employee who has at least six months of net credited service on January 1 of the current year shall be eligible for four (4) Excused Work Days with pay and one (I) Excused Work Day without pay during the year.
B7.O2 Employees who do not work on their paid Excused Work Day shall be paid for the day as if for a normal or standard day worked provided they are on the active payroll of the Company on that Excused Work Day.
[242]
I
I I
I I
I I
I
B7.03 One paid Excused Work Day in each calendar year may be designated by the Company for employees in an administrative work group (as designated by the Company) or in any larger group, including the entire Company, Employees (except occasional employees) in any such group for which an Excused Work Day is designated by the Company and who are not otherwise eligible for a paid Excused Work Day shall be excused and paid for such designated day as set forth in B7.01, provided they are on the active payroll of the Company on the designated Excused Work Day.
B7.04 Employees who are on vacation or absent with pay on their paid Excused Work Day for reasons other than having observed it as an Excused Work Day shall have their paid Excused Work Day rescheduled if a vacation day would have been rescheduled under the same circumstances.
B7.O5 If employees agree to work on their paid Excused Work Day and the Company determines that the day cannot be rescheduled, they shall be paid as applicable in accordance with the following subparagraphs:
(i)	Employees who agree to work before the work schedule becomes fixed shall receive one day’s pay as set forth in B7.02, in lieu of their Excused Work Day and shall in addition be paid in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement covering work on a scheduled day of work.
[243]
(ii)	Employees who agree to work after the work schedule becomes fixed shall receive one day’s pay as set forth in B7.02, in lieu of their Excused Work Day and shall in addition be paid in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement covering work on a nonscheduled day.
(iii)Time worked by an employee on his or her Excused Work Day shall be considered time worked on a regularly scheduled day of work for all purposes, except as is otherwise expressly provided in this Article.
B7.06 Temporary employees shall not be entitled to Excused Work Days other than Company designated Excused Work Days.
SECTION B8 Scheduling Of Time Off
B8.01 The provisions of this Section cover the procedures to be followed in scheduling of time off. These procedures relate to provisions of the following Sections of this Agreement:
Section B5	- Vacations, Subsections B5.012, B5.O13, B5.016
Section B6	- Holidays, Subsection B6.08
Section B7	- Excused Work Days
The provisions of Section B8 shall not be used to alter the above provisions of this Agreement except to the extent required by this Section.
[244]
I
I I
I
I I
I I
B8.02 For the purposes of this Section B8, time off includes vacation time, Excused Work Days (paid and non-paid), floating holidays, and days in lieu of holidays which occur during a scheduled vacation week and are referred to as “HV” days.
B8.03 The selection and scheduling of time off shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Subsection B8.03.
B8.031 Employees shall select in the priority herein set forth in seniority order within the administrative work group or other appropriate groups. The employees’ selections shall be granted, to the extent practicable, consistent with force requirements and needs of the business.
B 8.032 Prior to the beginning of a calendar year, and in accordance with the provisions of B5.013, management will make available to members of the group a schedule for selection of full vacation weeks. Only full week vacations shall be selected at this time.
B8.O33 Upon completion of the selections of full vacation weeks in the manner described in Subsection B8.032, the schedule will be made available for selections of other scheduled time off for which individual employees are eligible. Scheduled time off shall include the following:
1.	Day-at-a-time vacation days.
2.	Days in lieu of holidays occurring in vacation weeks (“HV” days).
[245]
3.	Floating holidays.
4.	Excused Work Days—Paid and Non-Paid.
5.	Reserve-time.
Within each work group, or other vacation selection group, and in seniority order within the group, individual employees shall be given the opportunity to designate specific dates, if known, upon which they desire to observe the time off to which they are entitled.
Individuals need not designate every day to which they are entitled at this time. Subsequent requests will be considered on the basis of the earliest request to the employee’s immediate supervisor or other designated management person. The Company will attempt to accommodate such requests, subject to the needs of the business and force requirements of the work group.
B8.034 The selection procedure, known as the second priority selection, described in B8.O33 will also include selection of “reserve-time”. Reserve-time is a block of work days equal to the number of individual time off days to which an employee is entitled but which are not designated by the employee during the second priority selection. This block of days must be selected and scheduled at the same time an employee is given the opportunity to designate individual days off. Reserve-time shall be scheduled consistent with force requirements and the needs of the business, but
[246]
in any case, not later than April 30 of the succeeding calendar year.
Any time off not taken by an employee prior to the scheduled reserve-time must be taken during the scheduled reserve-time selected by that employee.
SECTION B9
.	Strikes
B9.01 The Union agrees that during the term of this Agreement the Union and its members will not take part in any strike or slowdown.
SECTION BIO
Regular Part-Time Employees
(Engaged or Re-engaged prior to January 1, 1981)
B 10.01 Working conditions for Regular Part-Time employees engaged or re-engaged prior to January 1, 1981, are contained in Sections Bl through B8 inclusive.
B 10.02 Any Regular Employee who is on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31, 1980, and who works as a Regular Part-Time Employee on or after January 1, 1981, shall thereafter continue, for the duration of that term of employment, to be entitled to working conditions and benefits on the same basis as was ap
[247]
plicable to a Regular Part-Time Employee on December 31, 1980.
SECTION Bl 1
Part-Time Employees
(Engaged or Re-engaged after January I, 1981)
Bl 1.01 A Part-Time employee is one who is employed and normally scheduled to work less hours per average month than a comparable Full-Time employee in the same job title, classification and work group working the same normal daily tour.
Bl 1.02 Except for payment for overtime hours worked, all hours worked by a Part-Time employee in PhoneCenter Stores, Verizon Customer Service Centers, Verizon Phone Booths (Kiosks) DM/DR (Direct Marketing/Direct Response) Centers and any equivalent retail sales or service centers operation, and any employee who is transferred to or employed by any new unregulated subsidiary or affiliated entity in the Verizon Services Group shall be paid at the equivalent basic hourly rate for a comparable Full-Time employee working a normal daily tour in the same job title, classification, and work group. Payment to a Part-Time employee for hours worked in excess of an equivalent normal daily tour or work week for a comparable Full-Time employee shall be at the applicable overtime rate for a comparable Full-Time employee based on such Part-Time employee’s basic hourly rate.
[248]
Any Regular employee who is on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31, 1980, and who works part-time on or after January 1, 1981, shall thereafter continue, during the current term of employment, to be paid on the same basis as was applicable to such a Part-Time employee on December 31, 1980.
B11,03 The classification of a Part-Time employee is based on the employee’s “part-time equivalent work week” which shall be determined prospectively by dividing the employee’s total normally scheduled hours per month by 4.35 and rounding the result to the next higher whole number. (Illustration: 68 hours per month divided by 4.35 equals 15.6, rounded to a “part-time equivalent work week” classification of 16).
Bl 1.04 The “part-time equivalent work week” classification of each Part-Time employee shall be reviewed by the Company no less often than every six (6) months on April 1 and October 1 of each year and adjusted on a prospective basis, if appropriate. In determining whether such adjustment is appropriate, the Company will consider the actual average number of hours worked per month during the preceding six (6) month period and the likelihood that such number of work hours will continue for a reasonably foreseeable period of time except that any hours worked which are paid at the overtime rate shall not be counted in computing the average number of hours worked.
B11.05 For employees, who are hired on or after Janu
[249]
ary 1, 1981, and who work as Regular or Term Part-Time employees, payments to a Regular or Term Part-Time employee for sickness disability, accident disability, or death benefits under the “Verizon Pension Plan” or the “Verizon Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan”, vacations, holidays, excused work days, anticipated disability leave, sickness absence (not under the “Verizon Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan”), or termination allowance (or its equivalent [termination allowance not applicable to Term employees]) shall be pro-rated based on the relationship of the individual PartTime employee’s “part-time equivalent work week” to the normal work week of a comparable Full-Time employee in the same job title, classification and work group. A Part-Time employee shall not be paid for absence due to sickness (not under the “Verizon Sickness and Accident Disability Benefit Plan”) unless such absence due to sickness occurs on a day of the week on which the employee is normally scheduled to work. Regular employees who are on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31,1980, and who work part-time on or after January 1, 1981, shall thereafter continue, during the current term of employment, to receive payments for the benefits and other items listed above on the same basis as was applicable to a Part-Time employee on December 31, 1980.
Bl 1.06 Employees who are hired on or after January 1, 1981, and who work as Part-Time employees
[250]
shall, if otherwise eligible to participate under the terms of such plans, be eligible for coverage under the Medical Expense Plan, Dental Expense Plan, and Vision Care Plan, as follows:
(a)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is sixteen (16) or less shall be eligible by enrollment and payment of 100% of the premiums for such coverage;
(b)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is seventeen (17) through twenty-four (24) shall be eligible by enrollment and payment of 50% of the premiums for such coverage;
(c)	Employees whose part-time equivalent work week classification is twenty-five (25) or more shall be eligible for such coverage on the same basis as a Regular Full-Time employee;
(d)	Regular employees who are on the active payroll of the Company as of December 31, 1980, shall continue to be eligible for such coverage on the same basis as a Regular Full-Time employee regardless of classification.
SECTION B12
Temporary Part-Time Employees
B 12.01 Working Conditions for Temporary Part-Time Employees shall be those contained in Section B11 of this Agreement, except that Temporary
[251]
Part-Time Employees shall not be entitled to Excused Work Days other than Company designated Excused Work Days.
B13.01
SECTIONB13
Part-Timing Of Full Time Employees
A Full-Time Employee who is part-timed under the provisions of Article 8 of this Agreement will not be reclassified as a Part-Time Employee. In situations where a week’s pay is provided for time not worked, such week’s pay will be at the part-timed employee’s basic weekly wage rate reduced by the then current degree of parttiming applicable to the employee. Under a program of part-timing, vacation payments for employees part-timed will be computed by multiplying the basic hourly wage rate by the average number of basic hours assigned per week during the first four weeks of the six week period immediately preceding the vacation.
B14.01
SECTION B14
Evening and Night Differentials
Operating and Special Group Employees
(a)	Evening Tours
Operating and Special Group employees who work after 6:30 P.M. during evening tours will be paid wage differentials depend
[252]
ing upon the ending time of the assigned tour on the day in accordance with the following schedules:
Payment Per Tour
Seven Hour Evening Tours Ending: After 6:30 P.M. but not after 8:00 P.M. After 8:00 P.M. but not after 9:00 P.M. After 9:00 P.M.
.80
1.05
1.30
Six Hour Evening Tours Ending:
At or after 10:30 P.M. but
prior to 11:00 P.M.	.75
At or after 11:00 P.M.	.85
(b)	Night Tours
Operating and Special Group employees who work night tours will be paid a wage differential of $1.65 for each hour of the assigned tour worked between 9:30 P.M. and 7:30 A.M.
Bl4.02 Group 2 employees who work evening tours ending after 6:30 P.M. will be paid wage differentials depending upon the ending time of the assigned tour on the day in the amount indicated in the above schedules.
B 14.03 Group 2 employees who work night tours will be paid a wage differential of $1.65 for each hour of the assigned tour worked between 12 midnight and 8:00 A.M.
[253]
SECTION B15
Term Employees
B 15,01 Term employees are those whose term of employment is intended to last longer than six (6) months but no longer than thirty-six (36) months. Term employees are engaged with the understanding that they will remain in the same occupational title for the duration of their term of employment.
B15.02 The provisions of Sections Bl to B9, inclusive, of Exhibit B for Regular employees will apply to Term Full-Time employees.
B 15.03 The provisions of Section Bl 1, Part-Time Employees (Engaged or Re-engaged after January 1, 1981), of Exhibit B will apply to Term PartTime employees.
Bl5.04 At any one time there may be no more than 50 employees in the combined Plant/Traffic Organizations in the Term classification provided however, that if at some future time the Company has the need to increase this number of Term employees, the Company will meet to discuss this need with the Union.
Bl5.05 The Company will give notice to the President of the Union in advance of hiring a Term employee.
[254]
I I
I I
I I I I I
I
SECTION B16
Notes On Wage Increase Schedule Administration
Bl 6.01 General
Bl6.011 The Wage Increase Schedules shown in Section B17 provide a plan of Wage Increases for Regular, Term and Temporary Employees in the occupation shown at the top of each sheet.
B 16.012 The Wage rate shown at any level on a schedule is the basic weekly wage rate for a normal full-time workweek.
Bl6.013 Under the heading “Next Increase” are shown the minimum intervals in months between increases and the amounts of the increase to be granted.
If the employee’s current rate is not shown on the Wage Increase Schedule and the difference between the rate and the maximum rate is less than the increase shown for the next lower current rate, the increase will be to the maximum rate and the interval reduced proportionately.
Bl6.014 Employees will be increased in the interval shown opposite their current rate except that, at the discretion of the Company, an increase may be deferred beyond the stated interval for a further period not to exceed the stated interval.
In the event an increase is to be deferred, the employee shall be notified at least 15 days
[255]
prior to the commencement of the payroll period in which the increase would normally become effective and will be advised of the reason for the deferment. If in the judgment of the Company the employee later merits the increase, when the period of deferment terminates the employee’s rate shall be increased by the amount of the deferred increase. The date for the next scheduled wage increase shall be measured from the date the prior increase would normally have been granted had it not been deferred.
B 16.015 If an employee’s rate is to be reduced in accordance with this Section, the Company may, at its own discretion in exceptional cases, decrease the rate by a smaller amount than the total amount specified.
I I I I I
Bl6.016 Employees may be hired into any titles at rates in excess of the minimum hiring rate at the Company’s discretion. If an employee is hired into a title at a pay rate in excess of the minimum hiring rate for reasons other than job related experience and/or job related training, any employee in that title in the building into which the employee is hired who is at a lower rate of pay will be raised to the rate of the individual hired.
Bl6.017 Progression Increase Deferral Upon Return from Absence
In the event of absence for any reason continuing for more than one month (thirty days)
[256]
I I I
I I 1
I
during which the employee was scheduled to receive a progression increase, the employee shall receive his/her progression increase effective the Sunday after he/she returns to work. In addition, the accumulated absence, if over thirty (30) days (one month), will be added to extend the time until the employee’s next scheduled progression increase in intervals of thirty (30) days.
B 16.018 Cost-of-Living
(1)	Effective August 6, 2006 and August 5, 2007, adjustments will be made in basic weekly rates in each wage schedule in accordance with the following:
(a)	the amount of the August 6,2006 adjustment shall be: (i) one-half of the increase above four percent (4.0%) in the “CPI-W” (1982-84 = 100) for May 2006 over May 2004, applied to (ii) the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on August 5, 2006, (iii) rounded to the nearest 50 cents.
(b)	the amount of the August 5, 2007 adjustment shall be: (i) one-half of the increase above two percent (2.0%) in the “CPI-W” (1982-84 = 100) for May 2007 over May 2006, applied to (ii) the scheduled rates in effect in each wage schedule on August 4,
[257]
r

2007, (iii) rounded to the nearest 50 cents.
(2)	In no event shall a decrease in the CPI-W result in a reduction of any basic weekly wage rate.	.
(3)	In the event the Bureau of Labor Statistics does not issue the appropriate Consumer Price Indexes on or before the dates referred to in Paragraph 1, the cost-of-living adjustment required by such appropriate indexes shall be effective at the beginning of the first payroll week after receipt of the indexes.
(4)	No adjustment, retroactive or otherwise, shall be made as the result of any revision which may later be made in the first published figures for the CPI-W for May 2004, May 2006 and May 2007.
(5)	The cost-of-living adjustment is dependent upon the availability of the CPI-W in its present form and calculated on the same basis as the CPI-W for May 2003. In the event the Bureau of Labor Statistics changes the form or the basis of calculating the CPI-W, the Companies and the Union agree to request the Bureau to make available, for the life of this agreement, a CPI-W in its present form and calculate it on the same basis as the CPI-W for May 2003, which was 179.4 (1982-84= 100).
[258]
I I I I
I
I I
I I
I I
I I I I
I I
!
i
B16.02 The following procedure governs the change of an employee from one occupation to another occupation having a different Wage Increase Schedule;
B 16.021 Change to an occupation with a higher maximum rale:
Bl6.022 Except as otherwise provided below, the wage rates of promoted employees will be changed to the rates they would be receiving had they been hired directly into and remained in the new occupation since their net credited service date. This shall be accomplished by reconstructing the employee’s wage history as though originally hired into the new occupation.
B 16.023 Employees will be placed on the step of the new wage schedule to which promoted as determined by the wage reconstruction process but not to exceed the wage step from maximum rate as shown below:
Title Groupings
Desk Attendant
Staff Clerk
Service Assistant
Desk Assistant Senior Operator
Senior Clerk Stenographer-Clerk General Clerk
Operator
Step From Maximum 6 months
0 months
0 months
0 months
[259]
B16.024 Employees promoted from one occupation to another occupation within the same Title Groupings set forth in Bl6.023 above will not be subject to the six month step from maximum rate limitation.
B 16.025 If at the time of promotion the employee’s current wage rage is higher than it would have been had the employee been hired directly into the new occupation, the wage rate will not be reduced.
Bl6.026 If at the time of promotion the employee’s current rate is equal to or higher than the six month step from maximum rate, whichever is applicable, the step from maximum rate provision will not apply. In such case, the employee’s wage rate will be changed to the rate which would have been received had the employee been hired directly into the new occupation, unless a reduction in the wage rate would result, in which case Bl6.024 will apply.
B 16.027 A promotional increase will be granted to the extent that the maximum rate for the new occupation is not exceeded.
Bl6.028 Employees who are subject to the six month step from maximum rate limitation will have the interval for the next regular increase measured from the date of this change. For all other employees, the interval for the first regular increase will be measured from the last
I I I I I I I I
[260]
I I I I I
I
regular increase received prior to the change in occupation.
B 16.03 Temporarily assigned to Service Assistant or Desk Attendant
B 16.031 When the Company temporarily assigns an employee to work a scheduled Service Assistant’s tour, or to initially train Operators (including first class), or temporarily assigns an employee to work a scheduled Desk Attendant’s tour and the employee in any calendar week actually performs the duties of the temporary assignment for at least two full tours or the equivalent in full or part tours, each employee so assigned will receive a wage increase for that week as provided in section Bl 6.02,	paragraphs Bl 6.021 through
Bl 6.027.
B16.04 Change to an occupation with a lower maximum rate:
Bl6.041 If the change results from other than force surplus reasons, employees who are changed to an occupation with a lower maximum rate will have their rate reduced to the rate they would be receiving had they been hired into and remained in the new occupation since their net credited service date. This shall be accomplished by reconstructing the employee’s wage history as though they were hired into the new occupation. If the employee’s rate exceeds the maximum rate of the new occupation, the rate will be reduced to the max
[261]
imum rate of the new occupation at the time of the change or, at the option of the Company, in several subsequent steps.
Bl6.042 The interval for the next regular increase will be measured from the date of the last regular increase.
SECTION B17
Wage Increase Schedules Assignment List and Wage Increase Schedules
Payroll	Zone
Location	Assignment
Wilmington	1
I
I I
I I
I I
[262]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 3, 2003
I I I
I I I
I I I
WAGE TABLE: 30
DESK ATTENDANT WAGE TABLE: 31
SERVICE ASSISTANT	SERVICE EVALUATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$378.00		Start	6 Mos.	$375.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$430.00	$52.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$426.00	$50.50
12 Mos	6 Mos.	$488.50	$58.50	12 MOS.	6 Mos.	$483.50	$57.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$554.50	$66.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$549.00	$65.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$630.50	$76.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$624.00	$75.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$716.50	$86.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$708.00	$84.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$814.50	$98.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$805.00	$97.00
Pension Band	109				Pension Band	109			
WAGE TABLE; 33
WAGE TABLE: 32	SENIOR CLERK
STAFF CLERK	STENOGRAPHER CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE t	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$375.50		Start	6 Mos.	$364.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$425.50	$50.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$412.00	$48.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$481.50	$56.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$467.50	$55.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$545.50	$64.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$529.50	$62.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$61800	$72.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$600.00	$70.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$700.50	$82.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$680.50	$80.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$793.00	$92.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$771.00	$90.50
Pension Band	108				Pension Band	107			
[263]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 3, 2003
WAGE TABLE: 34	WAGE TABLE: 35
OPERATOB-A	OPERATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$359.00		Start	6 MOS.	$359.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mas.	$387.00	$28.00	6 Mos.	6 MOS.	$407.00	$48.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$417.00	$30.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$461.00	$54.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$449.50	$32.50	18 Mos.	6 MOS.	$522.50	$61.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$484.50	$35.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$592.00	$69.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$522.50	$38.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$671.00	$79.00
36 Mos.	6 Mos.	$563.00	$40.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$760.00	$89.00
42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$607.00	$44.00	Pension Band	108			
48 Mos.	6 Mos.	$654.00	$47.00				
54 Mos.	6 Mos.	$705.00	$51.00				
60 Mos	Maximum)	$760.00	$55.00				
Pension Band	107							
WAGE TABLE: 36 GENERAL GLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$353.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$398.00	$45.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$450.50	$52.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$508.50	$58.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$575.00	$66.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$649.50	$74.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$734.00	$84.50
Pension Band 106
I I
I I I I I I
[264]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1,2004
WAGE TABLE: 30
DESK ATTENDANT WAGE TABLE: 31
SERVICE ASSISTANT	SERVICE EVALUATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$385.50		Start	6 Mos.	$383.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$438.50	$53.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$434.50	$51.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$498.50	$60.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$493.00	$58.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$565.50	$67.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$560.00	$67.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$643.00	$77.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$636,50	$76.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$731.00	$88.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$722.00	$85.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$831.00	$100.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$821.00	$99.00
Pension Band		109		Pension Band		109	
WAGE TABLE: 33
WAGE TABLE: 32	SENIOR CLERK
STAFF CLERK	STENOGRAPHER CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$383.00		Start	6 Mos.	$371.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$434.00	$51.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$420.00	$48.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$191.00	$57.00	t2Mos.	6 Mos.	$477.00	$57.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$556.50	$65.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$540.00	$63.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$630.50	$74.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$612.00	$72.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$714.50	$84.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$694.00	$82.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$809.00	$94.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$786.50	$92.50
Pension Band	108				Pension Band	107			
[265]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 1, 2004
WAG E TABLE: 34	WAGE TABLE: 35
OPERATOR-A	OPERATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	3366-00		Start	6 Mos.	$366.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$394.50	$28.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$415.00	$49.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$425.50	$31.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$470.00	$55.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$458.50	$33.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$533.00	$63.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$494.00	$35.50	24 MOS.	6 Mos.	$604.00	$71.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$533.00	$39.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$684.50	$80.50
36 Mos.	6 Mos.	$574.50	$41.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$775.00	$90.50
42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$619.00	$44.50	Pension Band	168			
48 Mos.	6 Mos.	$667,00	$48.00				
54 Mos.	6 Mos.	$719.00	$52.00				
60 Mos	Maximum)	$775.00	$56.00				
Pension Band	107							
WAGE TABLE: 36 GENERAL GLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$360.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$406.00	$46.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos	$459.50	$53.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$518.50	$59.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$586.50	$68.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$662.50	$76.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$748.50	$86.00
Pension Band		106	
I I I
I I
I
I
[266]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 7, 2005
I I
I I I I I I I
WAGE TABLE: 30
DESK ATTENDANT WAGE TABLE: 31
SERVICE ASSISTANT	SERVICE EVALUATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE I	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	1393.00		Start	6 Mos.	$390.50	
6 Mos,	6 Mos.	$447.50	$54.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$443.00	$52.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$508.50	$61.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$503.00	$60.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$577.00	$68.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$571.00	$68.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$656.00	$79.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$649.00	$78.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$745.50	$89.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos	$736.50	$87.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$847.50	$102.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$837.50	$101.00
Pension Band	109				Pension Band	109			
WAGE TABLE: 32
WAGE TABLE: 33
SENIOR CLERK
STAFF CLERK	STENOGRAPHER CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$390.50		Start	6 Mos.	$379.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$442.50	$52.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$428.50	$49.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$501.00	$58.50	12 Mos,	6 Mos.	$486.50	$58.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$567.50	$66.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$551.00	$64.50
24 Mos.	, 6 Mos.	$643.00	$75.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$624,00	$73.00
30 Mos.	8 Mos.	$729.00	$86.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$708,00	$84.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$825.00	$96.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$802.00	$94.00
Pension Band	108				Pension Band	107			
[267]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 7, 2004
WAGE TABLE; 34	WAGE TABLE; 35
OPERATOR-A	OPERATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Stan	6 Mos.	$373.50		Start	6 Mos.	$373.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$402.50	$29.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos	$423.50	$50.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$434.00	$31.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$479.50	$56.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$467.50	$33.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$543.50	$64.00
24 Moil	6 Mos.	$504.00	$36.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$616.00	$72.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$543.50	$39.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$698.00	$82.00
36 Mas.	6 Mos	$586.00	$42.50	36 Mos. (Max'.raiim)		$790.50	$92.50
42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$631.50	$45.50	Pension Band	108			
48 Mos.	6 Mos.	$680.50	$49.00				
54 MOS-	6 Mos.	$733.50	$53.00				
60 Mos (Maximum)		$790.50	$57.00				
Pension Band	107							
WAGE TABLE: 36 GENERAL GLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 MoS.	$367.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos	$414.00	$47.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$468.50	$54,50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$529.00	$60.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$598.00	$69.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$676.00	$78.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$763.50	$87.50
Pension Band	106			
I
1268]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 6, 2006
I I I
I I I
I I
I
WAGE TABLE: 30
DESK ATTENDANT WAGE TABLE: 31
SERVICE ASSISTANT	SERVICE EVALUATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos	$401.00		Start	6 Mos.	$39850	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	' $456.50	$55.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$452.00	$53.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$518.50	$62.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$513.00	$61.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$588.50	$70.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$582.50	$69.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$669.00	$80.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$662.00	$79.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$760.50	$91.50	30 MoS.	6 Mos.	$751.00	$89.00
36 Mos. [Maximum)		$864.50	$104.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$854.50	$103.50
Pension Band	109				Pension Band	109			
WAGE TABLE: 33
WAGE TABLE: 32	SENIOR CLERK
STAFF CLERK	STENOGRAPHER CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$398.50		Start	6 Mos.	$386.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$451.50	$53.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$437.00	$50.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$511.00	$59.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$496.00	$59.00
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$579.00	$68.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$562.00	$66.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$656.00	$77.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$636.50	$74.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$743.50	$87.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$722.00	$85.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$841.50	$98.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$818.00	$96.00
Pension Band	108				Pension Band	107			
[269]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 6, 2006
WAGE TABLE: 34 ________OPERATORS
WAGE TABLE: 35 OPERATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	20NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$381.00		Start	6 Mos.	$381.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$410.50	$29.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$432.00	$51.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$442.50	$32.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$489.00	$57~00
18M0S.	6 Mos.	$477.00	$34.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$554.50	$65.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$514.00	$37.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$628.50	$74.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$554.50	$40.50	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$712.00	$83.50
36 Mos.	6 Mos.	$597.50	$43.00	36 MOS.	Maximum)	$806.50	$94.50
42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$644.00	$46.50	Pension Band	108			
48 Mos.	6 Mos.	$694.00	$50.00				
54 Mos.	6 Mos.	$748.00	$54.00				
60 Mos (Maximum)		$806.50	$58.50				
Pension Band	107							
WAGE TABLE: 36 GENERAL CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos,	$374.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$422.50	$48.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$478.00	$55.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$539.50	$61.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$610.00	$70.50
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$689.50	$79.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$779.00	$89.50
Pension Band		106	
[270]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 5, 2007
WAGE TABLE: 30
DESK ATTENDANT SERVICE ASSISTANT
WAGE TABLE: 31
SERVICE EVALUATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$409.00		Start	6 Mos.	$406.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$465.50	$56.50	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$461.09	$54.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$529.00	$63.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$523.50	$62.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$600.50	$71.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$594.00	$70.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$682.50	$82.00	24 Mds.	6 Mos.	$675.00	$81.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$775.50	$93.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$766.00	$91.00
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$882.00	$106.50	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$871.50	$105.50
Pension Band	109				Pension Band	109			
WAGE TABLE: 32
STAFF CLERK
WAGE TABLE: 33
SENIOR CLERK STENOGRAPHER CLERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$406.50		Start	6 Mos.	$394.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$460.50	$54.00	6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$445.50	$51.50
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$521.00	$60.50	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$506.00	$60.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$590.50	$69.50	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$573.00	$67.00
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$669.00	$78.50	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$649.00	$76.00
30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$758.50	$89.50	30 MOS.	6 Mos.	$736.50	$87.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$858.50	$100.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$834.50	$98.00
Pension Band	108				Pension Band	107			
[271]
EFFECTIVE AUGUST 5, 2007
WAGE TABLE: 34 QPERATOR-A
WAGE TABLE: 35 OPERATOR
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT	WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	Z0NE1	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 Mos.	$388.50		Start	6 Mos.	$388.50	
6 Mos.	6 Mo$.	$418.50	$30.00	6	6 Mos.	$440.50	$52.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$451.50	$33.00	12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$499.00	$58.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$486.50	$35.00	18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$565.50	$66.50
24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$524.50	$38.00	24 Mos.	6 Mos.	$641.00	$75.50
SO Mos.	6 Mos.	$565.50	$41.00	30 Mos.	6 Mos.	$726.00	$85.00
36 Mds.	6 Mos.	$609.50	$44.00	36 Mos. (Maximum)		$822.50	$96.50
42 Mos.	6 Mos.	$657.00	$47.50	Pension Band	108			
48 Mos.	6 Mos.	$708.00	$51.00				
							
54 Mos.	6 Mos.	$763.00	$55.00				
60 Mos	Maximum)	$822.50	$59.50				
Pension Band	107							
WAGE TABLE: 36 GENERAL GlERK
WAGE STEP	NEXT INCREASE INTERVAL	ZONE 7	INCREASE AMOUNT
Start	6 MOS	$382.00	
6 Mos.	6 Mos.	$431.00	$49.00
12 Mos.	6 Mos.	$487.50	$56.50
18 Mos.	6 Mos.	$550.50	$63.00
24 MOS.	6 Mos.	$522.00	$71.50
30 MOS,	6 Mos.	$703.50	$01.50
36 Mos. (Maximum)		$794.50	$91.00
Pension Band		106	
[272]
I I i i I i
SECTION B18
Pension Bands and Benefits
B 18.01 Pension Bands
Job Titles
Desk Assistant Desk Attendant General Clerk Operator Senior Clerk Senior Operator Service Assistant Staff Clerk
Stenographer-Clerk
Wage Zone
1
108
109
106
108 (See Note Below)
107
108
109
108
107
NOTE: Effective retroactive to July 1, 2003, through August 2,2008, the Pension Band for the Operator Job Title will be increased from Band 107 to Band 108. On and after August 2, 2008, the Pension Band for the Operator Job Title will revert to Band 107.
I
I
I
[273]
B18.02 Monthly Benefit Table
Previous	Effective
Pension Effective Temporal^ 1/1/2004 ■ Effective Effective Effective Effective Band Amounts 4Q 2003 W3U20Q4 11/1/2004 WI/2M5 10/1/2006 lO/l/lW
101 $31.36
102 $32.66
103 $33.98
104 $35.31
105 $36.63
106 $.37.97
$32.93 $31.36 $34.29 $32.66
$35.68 $33.98 $37.08 $35.31
$38.46 $36.63
$39.87 $37.97
$31.99 $32.95
$33.31 $34.31
$34.66 $35.70
$36.02 $37.10
$37.36 $38.48
$38.73 $39.89
$33.94 $34.96
$35.34 $36.40
$36.77 $37.87
$38.21 $39.36
$39.63 $40.82
$41.09 $42.32
107 $39.28 $41.24 $39.28 108 $40.59 $42.62 $40.59 109 $41.96 $44.06 $41.96 110 $43.25 $45.41 $43.25 Hl $44.58 $46.81 $44.58
112 $45.88 $48.17 $45.88 113 $47.22 $49.58 $47.22 114 $48.55 $50.98 $48.55 115 $49.85 $52.34 $49.85
$40.07 $41.27 $42.51 $43.79 $41.40 $42.64 $43.92 $45.24 $42.80 $44.08 $45.40 $46.76 $44.12 $45.44 $46.80 $48.20 $45.47 $46.83 $48.23 $49.68 $46.80 $48.20 $49.65 $51.14 $48.16 $49.60 $51.09 $52.62 $49.52 $51.01 $52.54 $54.12 $50.85 $52.38 $53.95 $55.57
I
I
I
I I I
116	$51.19	$53.75	$51.19	$52.21	$53.78	$55.39	$57.05
1(7	$52.48	$55.10	$52.48	$53.53	$55.14	$56.79	$58.49
118	$53.84	$56.53	$53.84	$54.92	$56.57	$58.27	$60.02
[274]
Pension Band	Previous Effective Temporary Amounts 40 2003		Effective 1/1/2004-10/31/2004	Effective 11/1Z2004	Effective 10/1/2005	Effective 10/1/2006	Effective 10/r/2(M)7
119	$55.17	$57.93	$55.17	$56.27	$57.96	$59.70	$61.49
120	$56.47	$59.29	$56.47	$57.60	$59.33	$61.11	$62.94
121	$57.78	$60.67	$57.78	$58.94	$60.71	$62.53	$64.41
122	$59.13	$62.09	$59.13	$60.31	$62.12	$63.98	$65.90
123	$60.44	$63.46	$60.44	$61.65	$63.50	$65.41	$67.37
124	$61.76	$64.85	$61.76	$63.00	$64.89	$66.84	$68.85
125	$63.08	$66.23	$63.08	$64.34	$66.27	$68.26	$70.31
126	$64.40	$67.62	$64.40	$65.69	$67.66	$69.69	$71.78
127	$65.74	$69.03	$65.74	$67.05	$69.06	$71.13	$73.26
128	$67.03	$70.38	$67.03	$68.37	$70.42	$72.53	$74.71
129	$68.38	$71.80	$68.38	$69.75	$71.84	$74.00	$76.22
130	$69.67	$73.15	$69.67	$71.06	$73.19	$75.39	$77.65
131	$71.03	$74.58	$71.03	$72.45	$74.62	$76.86	$79.17
132	$72.36	$75.98	$72.36	$73.81	$76.02	$78.30	$80.65
133	$73.66	$77.34	$73.66	$75.13	$77.38	$79.70	$82.09
134	$75.00	$78.75	$75.00	$76.50	$78.80	$81.16	$83.59
135	$76.28	$80.09	$76.28	$77.81	$80.14	$82.54	$85.02
[275]
NOTES
[276]
NOTES
[277]
NOTES
[278]
I I I I
I I
I I I
LETTER AGREEMENTS
INDEX
Page
Agreement Continuation (9-5-03) ............... 1
Assignment of Employees to Work in Other States (8-2-00).........................,	3
Apprentice Technician Title Memo of Agreement (9-18-84) ................... 4
Attendance-Trial for Letters in Lieu of Suspensions (8-3-03) ...................................... 5
BANDI (8-23-00)................................ 6
Broadband Network/Employment Security Provisions (1-25-96) .......................... 7
Broadband Network/Employment Security Provisions (8-23-00) ......................... 10
Christmas Eve (Excused Time) (8-3-03) ........ II
Concession Telephone Service (8-23-83 i amended 1-25-96) ............................. 12
Contract Labor (8-13-83) ..................... 14
Contract Labor - Outside Copper Cable Splicing (1-25-96) ...................................  15
Contracting Initiatives Committee (8-23-00)... 16
Double Trades - Tours (8-23-83) .............. 17
“E” Time (12-8-66)...........................  18
Flextime (8-23-83) ..........................  19
FMLA - Absence for Union Business Included (9-15-98) .................................... 20
Forced Permanent Transfers (8-13-77).......... 21
Four-Day Work Week Trial (8-23-00) ........... 22
Grievance Procedure - Trial (8-3-03).......... 24
Home Garaging (8-3-03) ....................... 28
[279]
IME Repons (8-22-03)........................... 30
Inter-Company Transfers (8-23-00) ............. 31
*1SP/EISP - Limitations on Contracting Out (8-18-00) ..................................... 32
Job Title Review Committee (8-23-00) .........  33
Joint Time for Participation in Joint Committees (8-23-00) ..................................... 34
Lateral Transfer Plan (8-3-03) ................ 35
Letter Agreement Provisions (8-23-00) ......... 36
Limited Extension Agreement (8-3-03)........... 37
Management Returns to Bargaining Unit (8-23-00) 38
Mediation (8-28-92) ........................... 39
Mediation (8-23-00)............................ 41
Monitoring (8-23-83) .......................... 43
On-Call Assignment (8-3-03).................... 44
Operator Services Monitoring (8-23-00) ........ 45
Overtime Agreement (1-25-96 / amended 8-23-00) . 46
Overtime - Forced vs. Voluntary (8-3-03) ...... 47
Quarterly List - Occasional and Temporary Employees (7-20-71).................. 48
Safety Committee (8-3-03)...................... 49
Sales Agreement (8-28-89)...................... 50
SB115 (8/11/98) ............................... 51
Seniority (8-3-03)............................  52
Service Bridging (8-22-03)..................... 53
Service Technician - Work Clothes (8-16-80) ... 54
Short Notice Excused Work Days (SNEWDs) (8-23-00) ..................................    55
*Plant Only
[280]
I i i i i i
Staffing Information (8-23-00).................. 56
-	Reports (8-23-00) ........................ 56
-	Freezing Laterals (8-11-98) .............. 56
-	Intemal/Extemal Designations on JVRs (8-11-98) ..................................  56
-	Staffing Criteria (8-11-98) .............. 56
-	Internal vs. External Staffing Commitments (8-11-98) ................................... 57
-	Advertising and Classifying Job Vacancies (8-23-00) ................................... 57
Stress Committee (8-3-03) ...................... 58
Term Employees, Time in Title (8-3-03) ......... 59
Tours - Scheduling Undesirable (8-11-98)........ 60
Tours - Alternate Procedure for Scheduling (8-3-03) ..................................... 61
Treatment of Grievances/Arbitration Awards Which
Involve Backpay and/or Reinstatement (9-5-03) . 62
Vacation Scheduling Percentages (8-11-98) (7-27-00) .................................... 65
Voluntary Overtime in Forced Overtime Build (7/27/00)..................................... 66
[281]
Agreement Continuation '
The following Common Issues MOU provisions with an expiration date of August 2. 2003 (unless otherwise noted) are hereby extended for the life of the new collective bargaining agreements, with no change in their terms and will be included in the applicable collective bargaining agreetnent(s):
*	Outside Copper Cable Splicing
*	Internal v. External Staffing Commitment
*	IME Program
•	Stress Letter of Understanding
•	1991 Memorandum of Understanding (“PA Information Age Agreement”)
•	BAN I Customer Bid Work Letter
•	Letter Agreement on Termination of Outside Contractors
•	Letter Agreement on Service Quality Observing
*	Letter Agreement on Service Monitoring
•	FMLA - Absence for Union Business
•	Provisions on Vacation Scheduling Percentage (Percentage is 18%)
•	Short Notice Excused Work Days
Any Memorandum of Understanding provision that was in effect during the period of the 2000 collective bargaining agreements which has not been altered, changed, or removed, but which may have been inadvertently omitted from the above list, will speak for itself.
The status of MOU provisions with an expiration date of Augusi 2, 2003 which have been modified by the parties during 2003 negotiations will speak for themselves.
All Local, District and International agreements that were valid and enforceable under the 2000 collective bargaining agreements, and which have not been separately renegotiated by the parties in 2003 negotiations, will continue in effect for the life of the new agreements.
The status of all Local, District and International agreements that have been renegotiated during 2003 negotiations will speak for themselves.
In the event a letter agreement has been inadvertently omitted, it will be treated in accord with the above provisions.
On the subject of oral agreements, there is no intention on the Companies’ part to change the status of any oral agreement — whatever contractual status any oral agreement had during the term of the 2000 contracts will remain unchanged unless a change is made subsequent to collective bargaining.
If there are particular oral agreements that the Union wishes to discuss or which become the subject of a dispute after the contract, the Union may bring them to the attention of Labor Relations. If we are unable to resolve the situation, the dispute can be submitted to arbitration under the usual procedures.
[11
FOR THE COMPANIES:
By /s/ Ronald H. Williams .
Executive Director, Labor Relations
FOR THE COMMUNICATIONS
WORKERS OF
AMERICA:
By fsJ James J. Short Assistant to Vice President CWA District J 3
Dated: 9/5/03
Dated: 9/5/03
[2]
August 2, 2000
Mr. James Short
Assistant to Vice President
District 13,CWA
230 South Broad Street, 19th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19102
Dear Mr. Short;
This letter is to recognize that during 2000 bargaining, the issue of assigning Pennsylvania and Delaware employees to work in other slates within the Mid-At-lantic Region (DC, VA, MD, WV, NJ, DE, PA) has been discussed.
In response to concerns raised by the Union, the Company agrees that it will seek volunteers when a need arises to send Pennsylvania or Delaware employees to work in another Mid-Atlantic state. Upon request, the Union agrees to assist the Company in securing volunteers.
In the event of an emergency (such as a major service problem, severe weather, or other Act of God) in the receiving state, the Company will first seek volunteers; however, if there are not enough volunteers, the Company may assign Pennsylvania or Delaware employees to work out of state.
The Company will notify the Union when Pennsylvania or Delaware employees are asked to work out of state.
The terms of this letter will not affect the manner in which the driving titles in the Transportation Services organization have been typically deployed between Pennsylvania and Delaware.
The commitmenis in this letter will remain in effect for the life of the new Local 13000 and 13101 collective bargaining agreements.
Very truly yours,
(s)Ron Williams
Executive Director-Labor Relations AGREED:
(s) Jim Short
Bargaining Agent
Communications Workers of America
[3]
.	MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
The Diamond State Telephone Company and (he United Telephone Workers of Delaware agree to the establishment of a new job called Apprentice Technician (AT) which shall be a 40 hour a week job. The negotiated maximum will be $410.50 per week with a minimum start rate of $198.00 per week with a 48 month schedule.	■
The job duties will involve providing assistance to Services and Systems Technicians, but will not include the termination of wire unless performed under the direction of a Services or Systems Technician. Also included in the duties is any work /hat could have been contracted out under the terms of our bargaining agreement.
For the life of the current agreement, the Company and Union agree that qualified applicants from the Operator title and other entry level positions will be considered prior to the normal selection procedure. In addition, experience (totaling at least 6 months) as an Apprentice Technician will be counted as an “adder” for U.M.T.P. purposes involving promotions to the Services Technician title.
With the introduction of a new job the Company agrees to provide the following employment protection to Services and Systems Technicians.
Before the Company decides to lay off, part-time, or downgrade regular fulltime Services or Systems Technicians of record as of the date of this agreement as a result of technological change or a reduction in workload, it is agreed that the appropriate contract provisions apply and will be utilized to first depopulate the title of Apprentice Technician,
(s)	Roger R. Kochman
For (he Company
Date 9/18/84
(s) Robert J. Wehde
For the Union
Date 9/18/84
I I i i i
I
I
I
I
[41
1 i I I I l
August 3, 2003
Mr. Terrance Tipping
Staff Representative
District 13, CWA
230 S. Broad Street, 19th floor
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102
Dear Mr. Tipping:
As discussed during 2003 bargaining, Verizon Delaware Inc. and Verizon Services Corp, (collectively "Company’') and The United Telephone Workers of Delaware, Local 13101,CWA (“Union") agree to amend the August 11, 1998 letter agreement (modified 8/23/00) on continuing the trial on the use of a warning letter in lieu of suspension for employees with poor absence and tardiness records when administering the Regional Attendance Plan (RAP).
We have agreed upon the following procedure:
1.	The procedure will involve all associate employees who are currently represented by Local 13101 or who hereafter become represented by Local 13101.
2.	A letter in lieu of suspension may be substituted for any actual suspension warranted when advancing an employee under the RAP, as appropriate.
3.	A letter in lieu of suspension may be grieved and arbitrated in a timely fashion as if it were a suspension in accordance with Article 11 ("Demotions for Misconduct, Discharges and Suspensions").
4.	Neither the Company nor the Union will take the position that letters in fieu of suspension are not arbitrable. Neither the Company nor the Union will take the position that letters in lieu of suspension are not progressive discipline.
5.	It is understood by both parties that the Union’s agreement to the procedure set forth above does not mean that the Union agrees with the Company’s Regional Attendance Plan.
Sincerely,
\s\ Helen M. Hanson
Direcior-Labor Relations
AGREED:
\s\ Terrance Tippingm
CWA Staff Representative
[5]
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING - “BANDl”
A condition of the Federal Communications Cornmisston’s approval of the merger between Bell Atlantic and GTE is the creation of a separate data affiliate (“SDA") to provide certain data services. The parties understand that the SDA, Bell Atlantic Network Data, Inc. ("BANDl") will need to employ employees who are currently employed by some former Bell Atlantic Network Services Companies in bargaining units represented by the CWA (“Union"). The Network Services Companies and the Union hereby agree that bargaining unit employees of the Network Services Companies may be transferred, on a voluntary basis, to employment al BAND! which shall be treated as a transfer between employers within the same bargaining unit. Simultaneous with such transfers, BANDl will recognize the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative of Lhc transferred employees, and the collective bargaining agreement that governed employees' terms and conditions of employment immediately prior to the change in employer will be amended to add BAND! as a party io the agreement effective as of the date of the first employee’s transfer. (Jf BANDFs corporate name is changed, rhe new name will be substituted for BANDl.)
BANDl employees will continue to be covered by any promotion, lateral or downgrade plans (as well as all other rights) available to employees of the former Network Services Companies and may continue to avail themselves of the use of these plans.
The parties further understand that as a result of regulatory requirements, BANDl will not be able to provide local concession telephone service lo ils employees. Instead, bargaining unit employees shall receive $35 per month to be included in payroll compensation that will be effective upon the first month that a bargaining unit employee becomes employed by BANDL BANDl employees who retire during the life of the current agreement will receive a lump sum payment of $2,600, less applicable deductions.
By: A/ Ron Williams
Company Bargaining Chair for Verizon Services Corp., Verizon Delaware Inc., Verizon Maryland Inc., Verizon New Jersey Inc..
Verizon Pennsylvania Inc, Verizon Virginia, Inc., Verizon West Virginia.
Verizon Washington, D.C.
By:/s/ Jim Short
Bargaining Agent
Communications Workers of America
[6]
I i i
BROADBAND NETWORK/EMPLOYMENT SECURITY PROVISIONS 1-25-96
Effective ninety (90) days following the dale of ratification, the following provisions will apply to CWA. units in the Bell Atlantic telephone companies in Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Washington, D.C. and West Virginia for the term of this agreement,
i.	The following work security protection shall apply to the below described work operations which are performed in Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Washington, D.C., and West Virginia by the Companies in the Network Operations Line of Business, whether or not the Companies operate the Network Operations Line of Business as a separate Line of Business and whether or not these work operations are transferred to another organization or entity within the Companies:
A)	With regard to that portion of the Broadband Network which is defined in subsection 1(B) as Broadband Facilities, the placement (except for the continued use of Flow Mole or other burying/ trenching methods), transfer, splicing and repair of such Broadband Facilities will be as-signetf exclusively io employees of the Companies represented by CWA. The only exception will be in the event of an emergency or in a situation where a Company determines that there are extraordinary circumstances that require outside assistance.
B)	Broadband Facility is defined as any fiber optic cable and associated electronics, coaxial cable and associated electronics, or any other newly developed wire or cable material and associated electronics actually used in the deployment of the Broadband Network to deliver a broad range of voice, data, imaging and video service applications not located within a Company central office which is of will be maintained, operated and majority or wholly owned by one of (he Companies and which is or will be located between the vaults of any two Company central offices, or between a customer serving terminaVTAP/ONU and the vault of the “end office" Company central office. These facilities are commonly referred to as inter-office, feeder and distribution outside plant facilities. Broadband Facility does noi include traditional copper wire facilities.
2.	These provisions concerning Broadband Network shall not apply to support or routing structures, poles, strand, anchors, guys, trees, huts, vaults, conduit, innerduct, rods, trenches or other structures used to support, route or enclose Broadband Facilities or to cable locating activities.
3.	All video and telephony work on the remaining portion of the Broadband Network from (he serving teminalrTA P/ONU to and including the customer’s premises (e.g., drop, inside wire, sei top or other equipment) can be performed by Bell Atlantic Communications and Construction Ser
[7]
vices. Inc. (BACCSI). BACCSI and CWA have reached agreement on a prehire agreement (setting forth competitive wages, benefits and working conditions) that is being signed by those parties simultaneous with this Memorandum of Understanding and is based on the following work jurisdiction and job security provisions:
A)	BACCSI can perform all work from the serving lerminal/TAP/ONU toward the customer, including but not limited to installation and maintenance on drop and inside wire, telephony and video and set tops or other equipment.
B)	In all General Manager areas (districts) where BACCSI is operating, all regular full-time Network Operations employees of the Companies hired on or before ‘‘the Date of this Memorandum” and holding the title of Splicing Technician, Cable Splicing Technician, Systems Technician, Services Technician and Outside Plant Technician will not be subject to layoff, In the event any of these employees' titles are changed but their duties remain essentially unchanged, such employees will continue to have this layoff protection. If BACCSI is not operating in a General Manager area, this layoff protection will not apply,
C)	In General Manager areas where BACCSI is not operating, the rights of the Companies and CWA regarding the assignment of telephone work described in Section 3(A) af£ unaffected by these Broadband Network/ Employment Security Provisions. However, in the event of a force adjustment which would result in the layoff, in a Genera! Manager area where BACCSI is not operating, of a regular full-time Network Operations employee who:
(I)	is hired on or before "the Date of this Memorandum'1,
(2)	holds the title of Splicing Technician, Cable Splicing Technician, Systems Technician, Services Technician or Outside Plant Technician. and
(3)	would normally have rights to “bump” a less senior employee who is protected by Section 3(B) above, such employee may elect to transfer into the title and location of the less senior protected employee provided that:
a)	such senior employee shall be eligible for relocation reim-• bursement or commutation expense in lieu of relocation under the applicable provisions of the collective bargaining agreement, and
b)	no General Manager area will, in any calendar year, have to absorb such transfers if they exceed two percent (2%) of the . average total number uf employees in the affected title within
[8]
I I I
the General Manager area during the last three (3) months of the preceding calendar year.
D)	The provisions of this Section 3 will supersede any contrary provisions of the applicable collective bargaining agreement
4.	Regarding future work assignments after this Broadband Network agreement expires and regarding work operations not covered by paragraph one (1) or three (3), these provisions on Broadband Network do not modify, increase or diminish, and shad not be construed to modify, increase or diminish the rights of either CWA or the Companies under other provisions of their collective bargaining agreements. .
5.	Sales of video information and programming wilt be handled by Bell Atlantic Video Services, Inc. (BVS) and Other Video Information Providers (VIPs). Jt is the Companies’ understanding that BVS currently plans to use multiple sales channels. While BVS is a separate company which makes its own labor policy, it is the Companies’ intent to aggressively pursue with BVS (if legally permissible) sales opportunities for the Consumer LOB to become an additional in-bound and out-bound sales channel for BVS uti-liying the Telephone Canvasser, Telemarketing Representative and other titles.
6.	These provisions concerning Broadband Network/Employment Security will be implemented ninety (90) days following ratification of this Memorandum. The use of contractors performing the work covered by paragraph one (1) will be phased out during that ninety (90) day period, subject to any existing contractual arrangements with contractors which cannot be terminated within that period. Any such requirement will be terminated at the first possible date permitted under the agreement with the vendor. These provisions expire on August 8, 1998.
i t
[91
BROADBAND NETWORK/EMPLOYMENT SECURITY PROVISIONS 8-23-00
The Broadband Network/Employment Security Provisions are renewed, as amended below, for the life of the new collective bargaining agreements of the covered Verizon operating telephone companies. The following amendments supersede any contrary or conflicting provisions in the current Broadband Network/Employment Security Provisions. The Broadband Network/Employment Security Provisions, as amended herein, expire on August 2. 2003.
I, Commencing no later than August 1.2001, Verizon Connected Solutions Inc. (VCS) will no longer perform repair work between the serving ter-minal/TAP/ONll and the Companies' side of the network interface device (“drop repair work"}. Except as provided for below, "drop repair work" will be dispatched exclusively to CWA-reprcscnled employees of the Companies (“core” employees). Staffing associated with the return of this work will take place over the period January I, 2001 through August 1. 2001.	,
The exclusions to the above commitments are as follows:
• Repair, replacement, and/or connection of buried drops, or “C wire, after service has been restored or corrected by temporary means, and
♦ In an emergency (“event of national importance, fire, explosion, or other catastrophe or severe weather conditions, e.g.. Hurricane, Tornado, Blizzard, severe ice damage, or Major Flood").
2.	Commencing no later than October 1, 2000, when a “core" employee is dispatched on “drop repair work", and the trouble on that job is at or beyond the customer's side of the network interface device ("inside repair work”), the “inside repair work" will be performed by the “core” employee if the customer is present to provide access at the time of the visit.
3.	The foregoing commitments will not affeci the ability of VCS technicians to perform repair work involving the network interface device when dispatched to a repair job involving "inside repair work”.
4.	Existing VCS technicians will receive full consideration for “core" vacancies created as a result of the implementation of these provisions. VCS technicians hired as “core” employees will nol be counted in the 50/50 Internal vs. External Staffing Commitment. Their impact will be fully neutral.
5.	These commitments apply only to repair jobs necessary to restore or correct service in response to a specific trouble report.
[10]
August 3, 2003
Mr. Terrance T. Tipping
Staff Representative
CWA, District 13
230 South Broad Street, 19th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19103
Dear Mr. Tipping:
The Company agrees that any operator scheduled to work a full day tour (as defined in Subsection B1.08 of the Agreement) on Christmas Eve (December 24) will be assigned one half tour compensatory time off between December 1 and March 31 of the following year.
The Company will determine when the time off will be assigned in accordance with the needs of the service.
This letter will remain in effect for the duration of the 2003 Agreement.
Sincerely,
(s) Helen M. Hanson
Director - Labor Relations
AGREED:
(s)	Terrance T. Tipping CWA Staff Representative
[11]
August 23. 1983 (amended 1-25-96)
Mr. Robert J. Wehdc, President
The United Telephone Workers of Delaware
350 Gooding Drive
Newark, Delaware 19702
Dear Mr. Wehde:
This is to confirm our understanding of August 23, 1983 concerning concession telephone arrangements after the effective date of the Bell System divestiture for active and retired employees of the Diamond State Telephone Company.
I.	As agreed io in national bargaining, al I active and retired employees of the Diamond State Telephone Company will receive the terminal equipment (CPE) for which, as of July 1, 1983, they received a concession related to monthly charges. This transfer will occur on the effective date of the pending divestiture of the Diamond State Telephone Company from the Bell System and will be at no cost to the employees.
2,	In addition, the Union and the Diamond State Telephone Company have agreed that each active employee with less than thirty (30) years of service on and after the effective date of divestiture will receive a fifty percent (50%) discount on single line local service of whatever residential class he or she elects to subscribe lo at his or her residence, such discount to be applicable to all fixed monthly dial tone charges including CALC’s authorized by the FCC ora State Regulatory Commission and local message unit charges.
3.	Except as provided in Paragraph 6 of this letter. Diamond Stale Telephone Company and the Union also have agreed that each active employee with thirty (30) or more years of service and each employee who retires after the effective date of divestiture with a Bell Atlantic pension will receive a one hundred percent (100%) discount on single line local service of whatever residential class he or she elects to subscribe to at his or her residence, such discount to be applicable to all fixed monthly dial tone charges including CALC’s authorized by the FCC or a State Regulatory Commission and local message unit charges. Moreover, each active and retired employee covered by this paragraph will be allowed up to twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per month in intra-LATA toll calls, said intra-LATA toll call allowance to include charges for calls within the LATA in which the active or retired employee has service and intra-LATA calls made within any other LATA served by a subsidiary of Bell Atlantic.
4.	Diamond Slate Telephone Company will seek to adopt jointly with other Bell Atlantic Companies uniform procedures for implementation of the arrangements agreed to herein.
[12]
I f I
5.	AH of the arrangements agreed to herein are, of course, subject io any necessary regulatory or other governmental approval.
6.	Employees who retire on or after January 1, 1996 and who reside in locations outside of Delaware. District of Columbia, Maryland. New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia will not receive concession telephone arrangements.
Very truly yours.
(s) J. R. LAWRIE
’	Division Manager-Labor Relations
Agreed: (s) ROBERT J. WEHDE
President
I i
t i i t i
[131
r
August 13, 1983
Mr. Robert J. Wehde. President
The United Telephone Workers of Delaware
350 Gooding Drive
Newark, Delaware 19702
Dear Mr. Wehde:
This will confirm our agreement that on and alter the dale of divestiture Diamond State Telephone Company may contract to Western Electric Company or others, work which the Company now has the right to contract to Western Electric Company as an affiliated company under Section 9-03 of oar Labor Agreement.
It is understood that this agreement is not intended to expand work which the Company may contract under Section 9.03 but is intended to continue the Company’s right to contract work which Western Electric Company may now perform as an affiliated company.
It is understood that this letter agreement applies only to Diamond Stale Telephone Company post divestiture when Western Electric Company will no longer be affiliated with Diamond State Telephone Company.
Please sign the enclosed copy of this letter and return it to me as a record of out agreement.
Very truly yours.
(s) J. R. LAWRIE
Division Manager-Labor Relations
Agreed; (s) ROBERT J, WEHDE	'
President
The United Telephone Workers of Delaware
I
I
[14]
January 25, 1996
Mr. James N. Byme
Staff Representative
CWA. AFL-CIO, District 13
230 South Broad Street
Philadelphia, PA 19102
Dear Mr. Byrne:	*
The Bell Atlantic telephone company in Delaware agrees that ull splicing of outside copper cable which is owned, maintained, and operated by it and located between two central offices or between the customer serving TAP/Terminal/ONU and the central office is guaranteed to be assigned to Company employees represented by the Union. This commitment will be phased-in over eighteen (18) months from “the Date of this Memorandum" and will terminate on August 8, 1998.
The use of contractors performing this work will be phased out during the eighteen (18) month period, subject to any existing contractual arrangements with vendors which cannot be terminated within that period. Any such requirement will be terminated at the first possible date thereafter permitted under the agreement with the vendor.
Regarding future assignment of this work after this letter agreement expires and regarding work operations not covered by this letter, the provisions of this letter agreement do not modify, increase, or diminish, and shall not be construed to modify, increase, or diminish the rights of cither CWA or the Companies under other provisions of their collective bargaining agreements.
Very truly yours,
(s) C Richard Thomas
Director-Labor Relations
AGREED:	'	-
(s) James N. Byme
CWA Staff Representative
[15]
August 23. 2000
Mr. James J. Short
Assistant to Vice President
CWA, District 13. AFL-CIO 230 South Broad Street, 19th Floor Philadelphia, PA 19102
Dear Mr. Short: ‘
This will confirm our agreement regarding contracting initiatives.
The Company agrees, subject to certain conditions described below, that through 12-31-02, it will not contract out work of a type that it has not contracted out during the three years preceding the effective date of the agreement. This restriction shall not preclude contracting out work to deal with emergency situations including severe weather conditions.
The parties further agree to create a Contracting Initiatives Committee, which will be co-chaired by the CWA District Vice President and a company Senior Operations Manager (or their designee). The CEO of the Verizon and the President of CWA shall be ex-officio members of the Committee. Each party may appoint up to two additional members.
The purpose of this Committee is to find ways by which the levels of contracting can be reduced within the Verizon (Mid-Atlantic) Operating Companies. The objective is for company employees to do mure work in □ more productive and efficient manner than that performed by contractors. The Company will provide all necessary resources needed by the Committee to carry out its purpose.
In addition, the Company will notify the Union at least six months in advance of planned, new, major, contracting initiatives that arc to be implemented on or after January 1, 2003. and which affeci employees represented by the Union. The Contracting Initiatives Committee will then have the opportunity to discuss such new major initiatives. It is understood, however, that after the end of the six month period, the Company is free to implement planned, new, major initiatives that do nut otherwise violate the collective bargaining agreement.
\s\ Ron Williams
Executive Director-Labor Relations
AGREED:
\s\ James J. Short
Bargaining Agent
Communications Workers of America
[16]
August 23. 1983
Mr Robert J. Wehde, President
The United Telephone Workers of Delaware
350 Gooding Drive
Newark, Delaware 19702
Dear Mr Wehde:
During our discussions in bargaining, the Union presented a demand for double trades of tours in Operator Services. We would be willing to initiate a trial involving double trades, on a post-bargaining basis. During that trial, which would run for a 90 day period, management would permit double trades on the same basis as is currently done for single trades. During this trial, management would carefully track the volumes of double trades and their impact on desk hours required.
To (he extent that double trades do not have significant impact on administrative time, we would be willing to discuss a further extension of the trial al the end of the 90 day period. Should for any reason the trial have a negative effect in administrative time, the trial would be terminated at the end of the 90 days.
Sincerely.
(s)J. R. LAWRIE
Division Manager-Labor Relations
Agreed: (s) ROBERT J. WEHDE
President
[17]
o
December 8, 1966
Mr. Earle R. Lindell, Jr, President
Uniled Telephone Workers of Delaware
P.O. Box 5127
Wilmington, Delaware 19808
Dear Mr Lindell*
The Company wherever surplus force exists, will attedipc to accommodate Traffic central office employee requests on particular occasions to work less hours in a day than those included in the normally scheduled tour.
Such requests will be considered on an individual employee basis and the degree to which they may be granted will be contingent upon force conditions and service requirements on the particular day and al the particular time concerned. The work time scheduled but not worked as a result of granting these employee requests will be without payment. Where such excused time is requested by the employee and is granted by the Company to reduce a force surplus, the absent time will be considered the same as work time for the sole purpose of determining whether a normally scheduled full or part tour is worked-
Requests for time off for periods of a day or longer will be considered by the Company when surplus force exists. Any such excused time granted for a full tour or longer (or for a part tour or longer when only a part tour is scheduled on a day) will be without payment and will not be considered as work time for any purpose.
Very truly yours,
(sJ D. R. CARROLL
General Personnel Supervisor
ACCEPTED:
(s) EARLE R. LINDELL, JR.
President
United Telephone Workers of Delaware
[18]
August 23. 1983
Mr. Robert J. Wehde, President
The United Telephone Workers of Delaware
350 Gooding Drive
Newark, Delaware (9702
Dear Mr. Wehde:
In accordance with our discussions during 1983 contract bargaining, the DiU' mond State Telephone Company and The United Telephone Workers of Delaware agree to initiate discussions on a post-bargaining basis to examine the feasibility of a trial involving flextime. If as a result of these discussions, it ts determined to be feasible, we would be willing to consider a trial in a location yet io be determined.
Very truly yours,
(s) J. R. LAWRIE
Division Manager-Labor Relations
Agreed: (s) ROBERT J. WEHDE
President
I
I
I
September 15. 1998
Mr. Terrance Tipping
CWA Staff Representative
District 13
23ft South Broad Street, 19ih Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19102
Dear Mr Tipping:
Re: Absence For Union Business in the Build for Annual FMLA Eligibility Requirement - Local 13101
As a i'ollow-up to our recent contract settlement and our discussion on Chis matter. effective January 3, 1999., the Company wifi include “absence for Union business" which is unpaid, excused time, during ihe employee’s normal daily tour within the normal work week in the build for the FMLA annual eligibility requirement. Absence for Union business will not he considered -as "tiiv.e worked” for any other purpose, unless otherwise specified in the contract.
This Letter of Understanding shall empire at 11:59 p.m. on August 5, 2000.
Sincerely,
Vd Maryanne Crompton
Director-Labor Relations
AGREED!
\s\ Terry Tipping
CWA Staff Representative
•
[20]

August 13, 1977
I I
I
I
Mr. Earle R. Lindell, Jr., President
The United Telephone Workers of Delaware
P.O. Box 5262
Wilmington, Delaware 19808
Dear Mr. Lindell:
This will confirm our discussion about permanent transfers. When an employee is forced to transfer in title or to a different title with the same or lower maximum wage rate for force adjustment reasons, and a move of residence is not necessary; the Company, before filling any available opening in the employee’s title or former tide at the old or new location, will, for a period of one year from date of transfer, offer the transferred employee the opportunity to return io the former title and/or location.
When an employee is forced to transfer to a different title with the same or lower maximum wage rate for force adjustment reasons and a move of residence is involved, before filling any available job in the former title at (he new location, the Company will, for a period of three years, offer the transferred employee, the opportunity to return to (he former title.
Opportunities will not be offered to an employee who voluntarily transfers or io an employee transferred because of inability to adequately perform in a particular job. •
An employee rejecting an initial opportunity to return to the former title and/or location will forfeit all return rights.
* Very truly yours,
(s) J. R. LAWRIE
General Personnel Supervisor
AGREED:	’ ,
(s) EARLE R. UNDELL, JR.
President
I
8
[21]
FOUR DAY WORK WEEK TRIAL
8-23-W
For six (6) months following ihe ratification of this Agreement, Four-Day Work Week Trials will be implemented in Company jurisdictions under the following terms:
The Company and the Union mutually recognize that, in certain administrative groups, it may be beneficial to the employees and in the best interests of the business to establish four-day work week trials as a normal week. In such cases,’ the total number of hours presently constituting a five-day normal work week will be scheduled over four days of the calendar week. Four day work weeks will be scheduled on four consecutive days.
Individual tours scheduled during a four day normal work week may or may not be of equal length, but will not be shorter than 7.5 hours or longer than 10 hours. When a four-day schedule is in effect, the duration of tours specified in the Local Agreements will be considered to be expanded accordingly.
The Company, with the Union’s input, may institute four-day trials in administrative groups. The Company or the Union may discontinue four-day trials upon fourteen (14) Days' notice to the other party.
In administering four-day trials, the Company will offer four-day work weeks to employees on a voluntary basis in seniority order. If there are insufficient volunteers, four-day work week trials will not be instituted. In BA-PA/CWA Local 13000 only, an employee who is required to work an evening, night, or weekend tour “by virtue of the operation of Section A2,02n of the local agreement may not volunteer for a four day work week. Night differential payments shall be paid pursuant to the applicable differential provision in the local collective bargaining agreements.
I I
I i
When a four-day schedule is in effect as a normal work week overtime payments shall apply to time worked in excess of the new normal daily tour.
Pay allowances for absent time (including sickness absence) occurring during four-day trials will be subject to the conditions specified in this Agreement. When pay treatment is calculated on a daily (as opposed to hourly or weekly) basis, a scheduled day of a four-day trial and a scheduled day of a five-day normal work, week will each count as one full day, except with respect to vacations and employee designated excused work day calculations.
Vacation and employee designated excused work days will be assessed in proportion to the ratio between the hours actually scheduled on the tour in question and the hours scheduled on each tour of a five day normal work week for the employee’s administrative group. For example, if a 37.5-hour employee scheduled to work three 10-hour days and one 7.5 hour day takes a vacation day on a 10 hour day, all 10 hours (or 1.33 vacation days) will be charged. If that same employee
[22]
takes, a vacation day on the 7.5-hour day, 7.5 hours (or one vacation day} will be charged.
For calendar weeks containing holidays recognized under the Agreement (including floating holidays) or Company designated excused work days, the Company will revert to a five-day schedule.
Subject to the above, four-day trials will be administered in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Local Agreements. The parties may meet locally and discuss other administrative issues raised with respect to the four-day work week. These provisions will become effective upon ratification.
Unless renewed or amended by mutual agreement, these four day work week trials will terminate six (6) months following ratification of this Agreement.
[23]
August 3, 2003
Mr, Terrance Tipping
Staff Representative
District 13, CWA
230 S, Broad Street, 19th floor
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102
Dear Mr. Tipping:
This tetter agreement confirms our discussions during 2003 bargaining regarding the continuation of the Trial Grievance Procedure, with modifications, Verizon Delaware Inc. and Verizon Services Corp, (collectively, 'Company") and the Communications Workers of America, AFL-CIO on behalf of its affiliated Local 13101 (“Union") agree to replace the parties' existing grievance procedure as sei forth in Article-13, with the following process on a trial basis:
13.01 Except as provided in subsection (a) of this Section 13.01, any complaint or dispute arising between any employee and the Company shall be presented by the employee or by u representative of the Union to the employee’s immediate management supervisor or another designated management person who is mutually agreed upon in an effort to reach a mutually acceptable adjustment.
(a) Complaints or disputes involving a Human Resources issue (such as promotion bypasses, wage credit issues, Worker’s Compensation matters or bcncfits-related matter) shall be presented directly to Labor Relations Staff. The written statement required by Subsection 13.02) will accompany any Human Resources grievance. The Z-abor Relations Staff shall be the final step prior to arbitration for all grievances involving a Human Resources issue,
13,011 Grievances must be presented within thirty (30) calendar days from the lime the employee has knowledge of the act which is the basis of the dispute
13.012 Unless the parties have agreed to an extension of time, the grievance must he heard within 14 calendar days of notification under Subsection 13.01 J, If the grievance is not heard within the appropriate time frame, the Union may escalate the grievance to the next step in accordance with Section 13.02. In the case of grievances covered by Subsection 13.01 (a), she next step shall be arbitration pursuant to Section 13.08.
13.013 Any settlement or adjustment of a grievance at the first step, including grievances covered by Subsection 13.01 (a), shall be binding only for the particular grievance and .shall not constitute precedent. Such settlements or adjustments shall not be used in any
[24]
legal or arbitration proceeding except in connection with a claim that the settlement has been violated.
13.02 Processing of Grievances Beyond rhe First Step of the Grievance Procedure '
13.021 A written statement will accompany any grievance which is presented at the second step of the grievance procedure. This statement, signed by either the grievant or the Union, shall contain all pertinent information including what is being grieved, the circumstances giving rise to the grievance, the place(s), time(s), date(s), and r»ame(s) of the employee(s) involved, the section(s) of the Agreement alleged to be violated, if any, and the remedy request' ed.
13.022 Grievances Involving Discipline Only -
If the grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved at the first step, the Union shall present the grievance to the employee’s third-tier supervisor or his/her designated representative wiihi n ten (10) cal’ endar days from the date it receives the Company’s answer at the first step. The grievance shall be heard at the mutual convenience of the parties, but in any event within three (3) weeks from the date the grievance is placed on the agenda. This step shall be the final step for all disciplinary grievances prior to arbitration.
13-023 Grievances Involving Matters OtherThan Discipline -
If rhe grievance has not been satisfactorily resolved at the first step, the Union shall present the grievance directly to the Labor Relalions Staff within fourteen (14) calendar days of the answer provided at the first step. The grievance shall be heard at the mutual convenience of the parties, but in any event within four (4) weeks from the date it was presented to the Labor Relations Staff. The Labor Relations Staff shall be the final step for all grievances involving mailers other than discipline prior to arbitration.
13.03 The scope of the grievance may be enlarged or reduced al any step with the mutual consent of the parties.
13.04 Grievances held pending for further review shall be answered within seven (7) calendar days after presentation at the first step and fourteen (14) calendar days at the second step. Nothing herein shall preclude the parties from arranging for different time periods whenever deemed appropriate by them or waiving the first step of the grievance process.
13.05 If any grievance is not presented within the time limits specified, Unless the parties have agreed to an extension of time or the delay i.s
[25]
caused by Che Company, die grievance or controversy shall be considered closed.
13.06 The number of employees, including any Union Representatives paid scheduled hours for attending and for reasonable travel time actually consumed, up io a maximum of two hours, in traveling io and from grievance meetings, shall be as follows:
. Number of Employees
Step 1	2
Step 2	4
Additional employees/Representativcs may attend and be paid, if requested by the Union and approved by the Company.
13.07 The Company may initiate grievances with Representatives of the Union at any step of the grievance procedure. When the Company initiates a grievance, the same time limits will apply.
13-08 If. ar any lime, a controversy should arise between the Union and the Company' regarding the meaning or application of any provision of this Agreement or regarding a claim (hat either party has not performed a commitment of this Agreement, the controversy shall be reviewed in accordance with the preceding Sections of this Article. If the controversy is processed under these Sections and is not satisfactorily settled, the Union or (he Company, by written notice specifying the Section of the Agreement alleged to be violated, may submit the question under dispute to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of Article 14 of this Agreement. Such written notice of arbitration must be given no later than 60 calendar days from the Company's or the Union's answer or the expiration of lime within which to answer at the final step of the grievance procedure. If written notice of arbitration is not given within the lime specified, the grievance shall be considered settled. Awards shall be retroactive to the extent provided in Article 18 of this Agreement.
13.09 Nothing in this Agreement in any manner affects the right of an individual employee or group of employees io present grievances to the Company under Article 13 nor affects the rights of the Union under the National Labor Relations Act, as amended. The Company agrees, however, that after a grievance arising under any provision of this Agreement has been referred to a Union Representative and such Representative has dealt with a Company Representative with respect thereto, no Company Representative will adjust or attempt to adjust the grievance with the employee or employees involved unless a Union Representative is first given an opportunity to be present at the adjustment.
[26]
For the period of this trial any references in the 2003 Collective Bargaining Agreement to Article 13 shall mean the trial grievance procedure set forth above.
[f either party desires io terminate this trial agreement, it must notify the other party in writing at least 30 days in advance of the proposed termination date and be willing to discuss the matter during the period prior to the proposed rermina-tion date. If the parties do not agree to continue or modify this trial procedure before the proposed termination dace, it will terminate on that date. Thereafter, the grievance procedure set forth in Article 13 of the 2003 Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be utilized.
Unless renewed or amended by mutual agreement, the provisions of this letter will terminate on August 2, 2008.
Sincerely.
\s\ Helen M, Hanson Director-Labor Relations
AGREED:
\s\ Terrance Tipping CWA Staff Representative
c*
1.27]
. August 3. 2003
Mr. Terrance Upping
Staff Representative
CWA. District 13
230 South Broad St-, 19lh floor
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102
Dear Mr. Tipping:
This letter confirms our agreement during 2003 Bargaining io modify and extend the August 11, 1998 Letter Agreement (modified 8/23/00) regarding the continuation and expansion of the motor vehicle usage program (“Program"') pursuant to Article 32 of the Collective Bargaining Agreement between Verizon Delaware Inc. or Verizon Services Corp. (“Company”) and the Communications Workers of America, Local 13101 ('Union'*).
As agreed, in tbvsft administrative work nobs where implemented, an employee who lives in the state of Delaware within 20 miles (*} of his/her current reporting location and who normally uses a Company-provided vehicle in order io perform work (“employee”) may volunteer to garage his/her Company-provided vehicle at his/her residence in accordance with the following guidelines outlined in this letter agreement (“guidelines”). These guidelines are not intended to change any of the provisions of Article 32.
1.	An employee’s contractual rights under the parties' Agreement will not be compromised while participating in the program pursuant to these guidelines. For exwple. if an tmpioyee is entitled to receive the special city allowance, participating in the program pursuant to these guidelines would not affect that right. Similarly, an employee will be compensated for a “call-out” in accordance with Section A3.07 of the Agreement.
2.	The Company will designate a “work reporting area” us referenced in Article 32.06 for each employee participating in the program pursuant to these guidelines. In some instances, the “work reporting area” may be the same for two or more employees. In any event, the ‘’work reporting area” will be clearly defined and will normally encompass an area with an approximate 10 mile radius from the employee's residence.
3.	An employee's tour will begin when he/she “CATs in” at the start of his/her scheduled lour from his/her residence.
4.	Travel time from the employee’s residence to his/her first job assignment of the day will be considered work time.
5.	If the employee’s last job assignment of the day requires him/her to travel to a location outside of the work reporting area as defined in paragraph 2 above, and the employee is outside of his/her work reporting area at (he end of his/her scheduled tour, bc/she will be compensated for the additional distance which he/she must travel from his/her location at the end of the scheduled tour to the perimeter of his/her work reporting area in accordance with the following tabic:
[28]
Distance one-way between the perimeter of the work reporting area and the employee's location outside of the perimeter at the end of his/her scheduled tour
0 to 5 Road Miles
Over 5 to 10 Road Miles
Over 10 to 15 Road Miles
Over 15 to 20 Road Miles Over 20 w 25. Road Miles Over 25 io 30 Road Mites Over 30 to 35 Road Miles
Travel Allowance
$6.21
$9.26 $12.41 $15.54 $18.64
$21.70 $24.83
6.	An employee who participates in the program pursuant to these guidelines can later elect to withdraw from participation provided he/she gives the Company two (2) weeks' notice. The Company may disqualify an employee from the program pursuant to these guidelines or based on the employee's job performance after giving the Union one week's notice of its intent to do so.
7.	At no time and under no circumstances may an employee transport anyone other than an authorized company employee in his/her company vehicle.
8.	An employee newly hired or promoted into a title within an administrative work group participating in the program pursuant to these guidelines is not eligible to participate for a period of time not to exceed six <6) months. If the Company deems it necessary to prolong this period of ineligi bilily for an employee, the Company will notify the Union of its intent.
9.	It is not (he Company's intent to pre-assign work the day before to participating employees. Exceptions to that would include instances like Company meetings and/or training at an employee’s current reporting location, projects of more than one day’s duration or the continuation of the previous day's work. In those instances where, due to a project uf more than one day's duration or the continuation of the previous day's work, an employee is expected to be ai the location of his/her first job assignment at the start of his/her scheduled tour, and that job assignment is outside of the employee's work reporting area, that employee will be compensated in accordance with paragraph 5 above.
10.	These guidelines will remain in effect until August 2,2008.
(♦ ^Employees who are home garaging on August 8,1998 who either do not reside tn the state of Delaware. or who live between 20-35 miles from their normal reporting location will be able to continue participating in this Program. However, if they withdraw from participating in home garaging at any time, or no longer satisfy the criteria set forth in the (2/3/93 Agreement, they must then meet the newr eligibility criteria described above to home garage in ihe future.
Sincerely,
\s\ Helen M. Hanson
Director-Labor Relations
AGREED:
\s\ Terrance Tipping
CWA Staff Representative
[29]
August 22, 2003
Mr. James Short
Assistant to Vice President, CWA, District 13
230 South Broad Street, 19th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19(03
Dear Mr. Short:
During 2003 collective bargaining, the Union presented two demands regarding Independent Medical Examination (IME) reports (VIA and V|,5).
This letter will confirm our agreement to meet within 90 days following contract ratification to discuss and attempt to resolve the issues involved.
Sincerely,
/s/ Ron Williams
Executive Director - Labor Relations
Agreed:
/s/ James J. Short
Bargaining Agent
Communications Workers of America/IBEW
I
V
[30]
I
I I
I
INTER-COMPANY TRANSFERS
&23-00
1.	Commencing January 1, 2001. the Company will implement a process which will allow employees to request lateral transfers or downgrades between positions in NY/NE Companies and Mid-Atlantic Companies.
2.	For the purposes of this agreement NY/NE Companies will include: Verizon New England Inc, Verizon New York Inc. Empire City Subway Company (Limited) Telesector Resources Group. Inc.
For the purposes of this agreement Mid-Atlantic Companies will include: Verizon Pennsylvania Inc.
Verizon New Jersey Inc.
Verizon Delaware Inc.
Verizon Maryland Inc-
Verizon Virginia Inc.
Verizon Washington, D.C. Inc.
Verizon West Virginia Inc.
Verizon Services Corp.
3.	This agreement does not apply to requests for upgrades. This agreement does not apply to employee requests for lateral transfers or downgrades within these companies, among the NY/NE Companies, among the Mid-Atlantic Companies, or to any other employee movements covered by other provisions of the collective bargaining agreements, if any. This agreement will not affect existing staffing procedures in any of the NY/NE or Mid-Atlantic Companies.
I
I
।	[31]
August 18, 2000
Mr. James J, Short
Assistant to Vice President
CWA. District (3, AFL-CIO
230 South Broad Street, 19th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19102
Dear Mr. Short:
This letter will ccalimi that for the life of the collective bargaining agreements specified below, for the employees specified below, work performed exclusively by employees in a particular job title of titles at a work location will not be contracted in the geographic area covered by that location for 6 months after any cmpfoyee(s) in that job title (or titles) and work location have accepted an ISP/EISP offer. During that 6 month period, rf a need arises for personnel to perform such work, the work will be performed by existing employees or an employee^) added to the group. Thereafter, the Company’s rights to contract work shall be whatever they were before the ISP/E1SP offer in question was accepted.
The terms of this letter apply to the following employees:
•	Local 13000 (PA): “Plant Employees11 under Article I, Section 1.01(a)
*	Local 1310) (DE): “Plant Employees" under Article 1, Section [.01(a)
•	D.C, MD, VA, WV, VSC: “Category 1 Employees" under Article 40, Section 8.
Nothing in this letter is intended to enlarge the Company's rights to contract work.
Very Truly Yours,
(s) Ron Williams
AGREED:
(s) Jim Short
Bargaining Agent	.
Communications Workers of America
[32]
I
I
JOB TITLE REVIEW COMMITTEE
8,23-00
The parties agree that within three (3) months after ratification of this Memorandum of Understanding, a joint Union-Company Job Tide Review Committee will be established. The objectives of this committee will be (I) to identify job classifications which perform substantially the same or very similar duties, but which carry different designations, and (2} to attempt to reach agreement on a single designation for each such job title to be recommended.Id the Company and Union bargaining committce(s) for the affected bargaining Lttut(s). A non-exclu-sive list of examples of titles which may qualify for this consideration appears on “Attachment A”.
The Committee will be composed of five (5) representatives from the Company and its affiliates and a total of five (5) from the Unions. There will be one (1) representative from each of the three affected CWA Districts; to the extent that job titles represented by a Local of the IBEW are involved, the parties agree to invite one (1) representative from each such Local to discuss the re-designation of those titles. The Committee will meet a total of at least five (5) times during the years 2000 and 2001 combined.
Any recommendation to use a common designation will not change or otherwise affect the job content or wage rate of any of the involved titles.
I
I
I
I	133]
JOINT TIME FOR PARTICIPATION IN JOINT COMMITTEES
8-23-00
For the life of the new agreements, the Companies will pay for joint time spent in the following committees, all oTwhich are also continued lor the life of the agreement:
*	Advisory Committee on Health Care
•	Advisory Committee on Family Care
•	National Health Reform Committee
. • Safety Executive Council
*	Training Advisory Board Executive Council
’	Joint Title Review Committee (new)
♦	Stress Relief Committee (Commercial) (new)
•	Operator Services Monitoring (new)
This list is intended to include all regional joint committed for which joint time is paid; if any were inadvertently omitted, they are eligible for the same treatment.
I
I
I
I f I I
[34]
August 3, 2003
Mr. Terrence Tipping
Staff Representative
CWA, District 13, AFL-CIO
230 South Broad Street, 19th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19102
Re: LOCAL 13101 LATERAL TRANSFER PLAN
Dear Mr. Tipping:
Effective with ratification, and for the life of the 2003 collective bargaining agreement, the Company and the Union agree to continue the Lateral Transfer Plan Letter Agreement. The following provisions shall apply in the Local 13101 bargaining unit:
•	Whenever the Company plans to fill a vacancy within the bargaining unit through its Regional Associate Mobility Plan, it will first honor any lateral requests (a request to transfer to the same title at another location) submitted by employees in ihe bargaining unit.
•	Eligibility Requirements: Employees must have a completed Lateral Transfer Request Form on file at the time of a selection to fill a lateral opening. Employees must have at least one year served in their current title, and be rated “Meets AH” on current overall job performance and “Meets Requirements” in attendance, at the time of selection to fill a lateral opening.
*	Selection: Qualifying requests will be honored on the basis of the mosi/more senior NCS Date. If NCS dates are identical, digits from the social security number will be used in accordance with the Letter Agreement dated August 3, 2003.
Very truly yours,
(s) Helen M. Hanson Director-Labor Relations
AGREED:
(s) Terrance Tipping
CWA Staff Representative
[35]
August 3, 2000
Mr. James J. Short
Assistant to Vice President	r
CWA. District 1.1 AFL-CIO
230 South Broad Street, i 9th Floor
Philadelphia. PA 19102	'	•
Dear Mr. Short:
This letter is to confirm our discussions about the provisions in the letter agreement sections of the Delaware CWA contracts. Provisions reflecting Cl-ne-gotiaced items, or which are the subject of CI demands in our current negotiations, will be dealt with an our current CI negotiations. (This includes provisions on “Agreement Continuation”.) Provisions which are the subject of “Tentative Agreement” on the Delaware tables will remain in that status, and be part of the final local package upon successful completion of negotiations.
Any provisions not covered by the preceding paragraph will remain as they arc today. We will meet post-bargaining to discuss those items., and by September 30, 2000, wc will determine, for each provision, whether to retain it in. or remove it from, the agreements. In the event we are unable to reach agreement on any such provision, the provision will remain in the agreement in its current form.
Sincerely,	.
(s) Ron Williams
'	Executive Director-Labor Relations
AGREED:
(s) Jim Short
Bargaining Agent
Communications Workers of America
[36]
I
August 3. 2003
Mr. James Short
Assistant to Vice President, CWA, District 13
230 South Broad Street, 19th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19103
Dear Mr. Short:
RE: Limited Extension Agreement
The CWA and the Company agree as follows:
Grievance and Arbitration Extension	'
If the parties’ tentative agreements on new collective bargaining agreements are ratified by the Union’s membership, the grievance and arbitration provisions of the parties’ expired agreements shall be applied retroactively to the period between August 3, 2003 and the date of ratification.
Union Security Agreement
The parties' agree to extend the Union Security provisions of their respective collective bargaining agreements during the period from expiration of their 2000 agreements until the parties’ reach new agreements.
The Union hereby agrees to indemnify the Company and hold it harmless from ail claims, damages, costs, fees or charges of any kind which may arise out of the honoring by the Company of deduction authorizations in accordance with the provisions of this Limited Extension Agreement, the making up of sums owed the Union in cases sof inadvertent failure to timely honor authorizations, and the transmitting of such deductions to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Union.
No Strike - No Lockout
The parties agree that until ratification of, or a vole of the Union’s membership rejecting ratification of, the new collective bargaining agreements, the Union agrees on behalf of itself and the employees that it represents, that, in relation to these negotiations, there shall be no strikes, stoppages of work or other job actions of any kind by any employee or employees, or any action by the Union contrary to such obligations. Further, until ratification of, or a vote and failure to ratify, the new collective bargaining agreements by the Union, the Companies agree that they shaft not engage in a lockout, except a defensive lockout in response to a material breach of the express promises of the Union set forth herein.
Sincerely,
/s/ Ron Williams
Executive Director-Labor Relations
Agreed:
James J. Short
Bargaining Agent
Communications Workers of America	'
[37]
August 23. 2000
Mr. Terrance T. Tipping Staff Representative CWA, District 13 230 South Broad Street, 19th Floor Philadelphia. PA 19103
Dear Mr. Tipping:
When a management employee with over 1 year of service in a management job is assigned to an occupation in the bargaining unit, ihe period of service in management shall not be counted in determining the employee’s service for the purpose of determining the order of layoff under Article 8 for the first year after the employee is assigned to an occupation in the bargaining unit. Management service shall be included in the computation of service credit for all other purposes immediately upon the employee's assignment to an occupation in the bargaining unit.
Sincerely..
(s) Helen M. Hanson
Director - Labor Relations
AGREED:
<s> Terrance T. Tipping
CWA Staff Representative
138]
I
I
August 23,1983
(modified 8-11-98)
Mr. Robert J. Wehde, President
The United Telephone Workers of Delaware
350 Gooding Drive
Newark, Delaware 19702
Dear Mr. Wehde:
I I
I I
1
I983 Bargaining discussions about concerns regarding monitoring and productivity in operator services leads us to address that question in local bargaining.
Consistent with the agreement reached on August 9,1980, remote monitoring for evaluation purposes shall be taken in one observing session per month and limited to the number of calls as specified in the appropriate evaluation plan. For good reasons, an observing session may be split into no more than two observing periods per month. No make-up observing sessions or periods will be taken in the following month unless the operator requests. Feedback shall follow each observ-ingsession or period by the end of the tour.
Diagnostic monitoring is permitted on a parallel basis at the operator position only for the purpose of diagnosing training needs. These calls shall be limited to an amount up to 60 calls per month, excluding inexperienced operators with less than 6 months’ service and those with marginal and unsatisfactory ratings.
Service management observations will be taken only for the purpose of evaluating new or changed practices and procedures, customer acceptance, problems in providing service or equipment problems or disasters. No employee will be discharged or terminated as a result of these observations except for gross customer abuse or discourtesy, fraud or violation of secrecy of communications.
Our approach to monitoring and Productivity measurements.will be based on a premise chat fosters a work environment that builds on mutual trust and respect and that enhances job satisfaction.
Good service to rhe customers and enhancing revenues are of equal importance to productivity. The Customer Service Time (CST) practices will be reviewed to maximize the objectives of good service and revenue enhancement. It is the Company’s intent to develop operators' overall performance in such a manner as to provide operator services to the customer in an efficient, courteous and responsive way.
Very truly yours,
(s) I R. LAWRIE
Division Manager-Labor Relations
Agreed: (s) ROBERT J. WEHDE
President
[43]
August 3. 2003
Mr Terrance Tipping
Staff Representative, CWA, District 13 230 South Broad Street, 19th Floor
Philadelphia* PA 19103
Dear Mr. Tipping:
This will confirm our agreement during 2003 contract negotiations to establish a joint Union-Management Committee to explore ways in which the parlies address On Call Assignments.
The committee shall consist of no more than 3 members for the Union and 3 members for the Company and will meet within 3 months of the ratification of the 2003 Agreement.
The committee will engage in joint discussions regarding the possible implc-mentation of trial on-call procedures. It is the objective of rhe committee to explore options and develop recommendations that can be presented to the duly, authorized representatives of the parties.
Unless renewed or amended by mutual agreement, the provisions of this letter wiB terminate on August 2, 2(X)8.
Sincerely.
/sf Helen M. Hanson
Director - Labor Relations
Agreed:
/%/ Terrance Tipping
Staff Representative
District 13, CWA
144]
MEDIATION 8-23-00
The provisions on “Mediation Cases" in the 1998 MOD will be continued for the life of the 2000 collective bargaining agreements:
MEDIATION CASES: The Companies will amend their cunent mediation provisions so that the following types'of cases may be submitted to mediation by mutual agreement:
•	arbitrable discharge cases;
•	disputes where employees allege that they were improperly denied an opportunity to work overtime;
•	disputes where it is alleged that management is doing “bargaining unit” work.
Where there is mutual agreement to mediate one or more cases, the parties will reserve two days per month per CWA District for mediation cases. In addition, in jurisdictions with a backlog of mediation cases, the parties will reserve up two additional days per month for the next 6 months in order to address the backlog, However, either party may move a case which is subject to mediation to mediation without agreement of the other party, subject to the following:
*	the mediator will serve as a mediator only and will not render a decision if there is no agreed settlement;
•	if there is no settlement in mediation, the case may be moved to arbitration through the normal arbitration procedures;
•	if there is an arbitration tn such case, the person who was the mediator cannot serve as the arbitrator and a party cannot introduce any statements (or documents) made (or produced) by the other party, its witnesses or advocates in the mediation, as evidence in the arbitration.
In addition, suspensions of five days or less may be moved to mediation without agreement, under the normal mediation rules (where the mediator can become an arbitrator if no settlement is reached).
In addition, the following mediation trial will be conducted under each of the local collective bargaining agreements, as follows:
•	The trial will last from January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2001.
•	The following matters will be subject to mediation without mutual agreement under the normal mediation rules (where the mediator can become an arbitrator if no settlement is reached):
•	Suspensions of up to 10 days
*	Claims of management performing bargaining unit work
[41]
• Claims of in improper "bypass” under a lateral transfer plan ( solely for purposes of this trial, whether or not these claims are subject to arbitration under applicable contract provisions)
Al the close of the trial, the Company and Union will meet to discuss the trial and to decide whether to continue the trial, by mutual agreement, for a period not exceeding the remaining life of the applicable collective bargaining agreements.
[42]
August 28, 1992
Mr. James N. Byme
Staff Representative
CWA, AFL-CIO* Dwtrta 13
230 South Broad Street
15th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19102
Dear Mr. 8yrne:
This letter canfirms the parties’ understanding in 1992 bargaining that, subject to the terms and conditions outlined below, either party may request mediation of a grievance relating to discipline only,
1.	Either party may request mediation by providing the other party with written notice within 30 days from ihe date on which the grievance has been heard at the final step of the grievance procedure. The party to whom notice is given shall have ten (10) working days from receipt of such notice to advise the requesting party whether it agrees to mediate (he grievance. Lacking agreement, the request for mediation will constitute a demand for arbitration pursuant to Article 14.
2.	If the parties agree to mediate the grievance, they will schedule a mediation conference qs expeditiously as possible, but in no event later than one (I) month following the date of their agreement to mediate the grievance. In the event the conference cannot be convened within one (0 month’s lime, the party who requested mediation can decline mediation and proceed to arbitration within the lime limits pursuant ro Article 14.
3.	Mediators will be selected from either the list of umpires which the parties use for expedited arbitration or from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. Once a mediator is selected and serves in this capacity he or she may no? serve as the Impartial Arbitrator in the event the grievance proceeds to arbitration.
4.	Mediation conferences shall be held within the district in which the griev-ant works. Attendance at Che conference will be limited to no more than three (3) representatives from the Union and three (3) representatives from the Company.
In no event will the Union representatives be paid for their time either traveling to or from the conference or at the conference itself. Should additional representatives from either side be necessary for the complete discovery of the facts, the parties will agree, in advance, on the number of such additional representatives.
5.	The mediation conference shall be informal and last not more than four (4) hours. No stenographic or other recording methods of any kind will
[39]
be permitted at the conference. Handwritten note's, however, may be tak-en,The rules, of evidence will nos apply. Ai the conclusion of the conference any material which one party has provided to the mediator or to the other party will be returned to the party who has provided'^
6.	The mediator will have the authority to confer privately with either party during ihe conference and propose a resolution of the grievance which neither party is required to accept. If the mediator’s proposed resolution is unacceptable to one or both parties, the mediator will provide the parties with a written opinion of the merits of the grievance and his or her underlying reasons fur such opinion. Nothing said by the mediator or by the parties' representatives during any aspect of the mediation conference and process may be referred to by either party in any subsequent grievance nor arbitration proceeding. Moreover, if the grievance remains unresolved slier a mediation attempt, the parties may not tri any subsequent joint conference or arbitration involving the grievance refer to the fact that mediation was utilized in an attempt io resolve the grievance. If the parties agree to accept the mediator’s proposed resolution, the settlement shall be without prejudice or precedent.
7.	The costs of the mediation conference, including the mediator’s fees, will be shored equally by the parties.
Very truly yours,
(s) DanaW. Blewett Director * Labor Relations
AGREED;
(s) James N. Byrne
CWA - Staff Representative
fl fl
I I fl
HO]
I I
I I I
OPERATOR SERVICES MONITORING
Effective January 1, 2001, Operator Services will implement paragraphs (3) au<f (4), (6) and the unnumbered paragraph fallowing paragraph (6) of the Commercial Evaluative Observations provisions of this Agreement, changing “Consultant'' io “Operator”’and “one Consumer organization RSSC in each CWA Local” io “one Operator Services office in NJ and one Operator Services office in DC, MD. VA or WV.”
The parties agree to create a joint Mid-Atlantic Company-Union Operator Services Monitoring Committee, comprised of three representatives of the Companies. and three representatives of rhe Union (one from NJ, one from DE, and one from DC, MD, VA. WV).	-
The purpose of Chis Committee is to determine how to revise Paragraphs (I), (2) and (5) of the Commercial Evaluative Observations provisions of this Agreement to apply in the Operator Services work environment and work operations. The Committee will lake into accoum the substantial differences between RSSC.s and GBS business offices on the one hand, and Operator.Services offices, on the other, including but not limited to, the competitive pressures affecting Operator Services, the significantly shorter contact time in Operator Services, and the lack of methods other than monitoring to measure individual or office .service results.
The committee will meet al mutually agreeable limes, commencing no later than 60 days after ratification of the collective bargaining agreements. A mutually agreed Monitoring Policy will be developed and implemented no later than March 1,2001.
I I
I
I	[45]
.	January 25, <996
(Modified 8/23/00)
Mt. Janies N. Byrne
Staff Representative	?
CWA, District 13
230 South Broad Streel Philadelphia, PA JO 102
Dear Mr. Byrne1.
This letter replaces rite August 23. 1983 letter regarding overtime.
L Commencing September 1, 2000, the limitmion on forced overtime (“cup”) for the remainder of 2CKI0 shall he 1(1 hours pvr employee per payroll week. Commencing January I, 2001, this cap on forced overtime shall he 8 hours per employee per payroll week. Voluntary overtime worked will be counted toward the overtime cap, except for the period from January 1,2001 to September 1,2001. Upon request, the Union will assist in securing volunteers. These overtime caps will not apply in case of emergency, long term service difficulties or if un employee consents to additional overtime.
2.	An “emergency” is an event of national importance, fire, explosion, or other catastrophe, severe weather conditions, major cable and equipment failures, or an act of God.	,
3.	The parties recognize ihal service difficuhics for an extended period may develop from time to time during which suspension of the above overtime limitations would be appropriate. In the event such service difficulties develop. the Company and the Union will meet io discuss the problem and determine bow to best deal with the .situation.
Very truly yours,
(s) C. Richard Thomas
Director - Labor Relations
Agreed; (s) James Byrne CWA Stuff Representative
[46]
August 3.2003
Mr. Terrance Tipping Staff Representative District 13, CWA 230 S. Broad Street, J 9th floor Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 19102
Dear Mr. Tipping:
As discussed during 2(X)3 bargaining, Verizon Delaware Inc. and Verizon Services Corp, (collectively "Company”) and The United Telephone Workers of Delaware, Local 13101, CWA ("Union'’) agree to amend the August 11T 1998 letter agreement on Overtime - Forced vs. Voluntary.
This letter is in response to the Union’s concern that employees are being forced to work mandatory overtime in lieu of volunteers willing to work the over' time. For the duration of the 2003 contract, no employee covered under Exhibit A of the Collective Bargaining Agreement will be forced to work mandatory overtime when there is a suitable volunteer in the same administrative work group who requests and is available io be assigned to the designated overtime work if the volunteer has not yci worked fifteen (15) hours of overtime in that calendar week- In determining whether 3 particular volunteer is suitable, the Company may consider the type of work tD be performed and the volunteer’s tide, location, qualifications, and experience.
Except as expressly provided above, this letter does not affect the Company’s rights and obligations contained in the Letter of Agreement on page 46, the employee’s obligation to work overtime that is consecutive with a scheduled tour, or any other right of the Company with regards io overtime administration.
Unless renewed or amended by mutual agreement, the provisions of this letter will terminate or August 2,2008.
Sincerely,
\s\ Helen M, Hanson
Director - Labor Relations
Agreed:
VA Terrance Tipping
CWA Staff Representative
[47]
July 20, 1971
Mr. Earic R. Lindell. President
The Uniled Telephone Workers of Delaware
P.O. Box 5262 '
Wilmington. Delaware l9tfC)8
Dear Mr. Lindell:
in accordance with onr discussions during the present negotiations, the Company agnjes to provide to the United Telephone Workers of Delaware, on a quarterly basis, a list of Occasional and Temporary Full-Time and Part-Time employees in the Plant and Traffic organizations who are on the payroll at the end of each quarter. These lists will show the name, job classification and paymil location for each listed cmnloycc and, in addition, the number of days worked in the quarter.
I I
I
It is understood that, w ith the implementation of this quarterly list, any local lists presently furnished to representatives of the Union w ill be discontinued.
If you are tn agreement, please sign and return one copy of this letter for our filo.	’
Very truly yours.
Is} D. R. CARROLL
General Personnel Supervisor
ACCEPTED:
CD EARLE R. UNDELL. JR. President
I I
I
[481
I I
I I
I
August 3. 2W3
Mr. Terrance Tipping
Stall- Representative
District 13, CWA
230 S. Broad St.. Floor 19
Philadelphia. PA 19102
Dear Mr, Tipping:
Safety is a concern to the Company and the Union. The Company and rhe Union mutually recognize the need for a work environment in which safe operations can be achieved in accomplishing ah phases of work, and the need to promote better understanding and acceptance of (he principles of safety on lite part of all employees to provide for iheir own safety and that of Iheir fellow employees, cusiomeis and the general public.
To achieve the above principles, Bell Atlantic-Delaware, Inc. and the United Telephone Workers of Delaware, Local 13101, CWA agree to establish for the duration of the Collective Bargaining Agreement an advisory committee on safety principles. The Committee shall consist of not more than two (2) representatives from the Company and not more man two (2) representatives from CWA, Local 13101. This Committee shall meet from time to time when both parties agree conditions warrant a meeting.
The Company agrees to reimourse the Union representatives who are active employees only for the time spent for attendance at such committee meetings during the employee’s scheduled tour at the employee’s regular straight time rate of pay.
Very truly yours.
Helen M. Hanson
Director-Labor Relations
AGREED:
Ys\ Tenunce Tipping
CWA Staff RepiCMMiiaiive
[49|
I
August 2S, 1989
Mr. John Scally
Staff Representative
CWA, AFL-CIO, District 13
23(1 South Broad Street
Floor 15
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102
Dear Mr. Scally:
The Company may develop and implement on and off the job sales and referral incentive programs which will provide participating employees, which may include management and other nonbargaining unit personnel, the opportunity to earn merchandise, cash, meals, recognition, and other awards of value based on individual and/or collective performance in achieving standards developed and administered solely by the Company. Except for attending informational meetings. participation in sales and referral incentive programs by employees shall be wholly voluntary and shall not be used Cor evaluation and/or discipline purposes unless there is dishonesty.Howevcr. employees may be required to present brochures, literature, etc. as requested by the Company.
The Company agrees to notify the Union of corporate-wide sales incentive programs prior to implementation by the Company. The development, design, sire, and frequency, and/or administration of sales and referral incentive programs, including the amount of merchandise, cash or other awards earned by participating employees, arc wholly within the discretion of the Company and are not subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. However, a claim by the Union that an individual employee's participation in a sales or referral incentive program was not wholly voluntary, or a claim that an individual employee's participation or nonparticipation was used for evaluative or disciplinary purposes in violation of this letter, is subject to the grievance and arbitration provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Very truly yours.
(s) James R. Hoy
Managing Director - Labor Relations
AGREED:
6) John T. Scully
CWA - Staff Representative
I
[50]	'	।
I
I
I
I
I I
I I
I
I
August IL 1998
Mr. Bud Speakman •
Executive President
Local J3I0I, UTWD
350 Goading Drive
Newark. Delaware 197D2
Dear Mr. Speakman:
The Company agrees that the Leiter of Agreement anil Commitment dated July 23, 1993, from Doug Von Trott to Charlotte Jamieson and John Lloyd remains in full force and effect and all commitments contained in the July 23^ 1993 letter wiD be extended through August 3), 2(XX>.
Sincerely.
\s\ Maryanne Crompton Director-Labor Relations
[511
August 3, 2Qf)3
Mr. Terrance Tipping
Staff Representative. CWA. District 13
230 South Broad Street. )9ih Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19103
Dear Mr. Tipping:
This wall confinn our agreement during 2003 contract negotiations that in any situation governed by Met Credited Service (“NCS"') date, where employees have rhe .same NCS dare, the following process will apply os a “tiebreaker":
•	Employees with the same NCS date will be ranked by the last four digits of the Social Security Number; Che lower the number, the higher the NCS date.
•	In the event the last four digits in two or more employees' social security numbers arc identical, employees will be ranked by the last five digits of their social security number ' the lower that number, the higher the NCS date is for purposes of this process. i
Sincerely,
As/ Helen M- Hanson
Director - Labor Relations
Agreed:
A/Terrance Tipping
Staff Representative
District 13. CWA
[52]
August 22, 2OQ3
I I
I I I I
Mr Jarres Short
Assistant to Vice President, CWA, District 13
230 South Broad Street, ! 9th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19103
Dear Mr, Short;
During 2003 collective bargaining, the Union presented a demand proposing immediate service bridging for movement between companies in which Verizon has a majority ownership interest.
This letter will confirm our agreement io meet after bargaining to discuss service bridging issues, including reduction of the 5-year bridging rule to one year. Your signature below also affirms that you are and will continue to be the authorized agent to bargain on behalf of and bind Locals 827 and 1944, international Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, on the issues we discuss post-bargaining concerning service bridging.
Sincerely,
/s/ Ron Williams
Executive Director - Labor Relations
Agreed:
/s/ James J. Short	.
Bargaining Agent
Communications Workers of AmericaflBEW
I I
I
I
[53]
August 16, 1980
Mr. Robert J. Wehde. President
The United Telephone Workers of Delaware
350 Gooding Drive
Newark, Delaware 19702
Dear Mr. Wehde:
I
I
The Company recognizes that with the creation of the single occupation of Service*, Technician problems may arise as to what type of work clothes should be worn for particular work. The Company in making work assignments to Services Technicians will give consideration to these problems, which include, wherever possible, notifying such employees, on the prior day, of any changed assign^ meats to permit them to report with the proper type of work clothes.
The Company also recognizes its responsibility of providing Services Technicians with proper job and safety training to enable them to perform their assignments.
Very truly your&,
(s)	J. R. LAWRIE
Division Manager-
Labor Relations
I
I
I
I
154]
I I I
I I I I
I I
SHORT NOTICE EXCUSED WORK DAYS (SNEWDs)
8-23'00
Effective. January L 2001. and continuing for the calendar years 2002 and 2003. nolwithstanding the applicable Excused Work Day provisions in the local collective bargaining agreements, requests to supervision for up to three (3) paid Excused Work Days and one (IJ unpaid Excused Work Day will be granted on short notice to employees eligible for paid and unpaid Excused Work Days under the following conditions:
I.	The employee must request time off on short notice prior to the start of a scheduled tour or half-lour, but no more than twenty four (24) hours prior to the start of the scheduled tour or half-tour.
2,	The Company will grant all Excused Work Days on the basis of the earliest requests) to supervision provided that the Company may deny any and all requests in work groups of five (5) or more which would result in less than eighty percent {80%) of the scheduled force being available for duty. In a work group of four (4), the Company may deny any and all requests which would result in only one or two scheduled employees being available for duty. In a work group of 3, the Company may deny any and all requests which would result in only one employee being available for • duty. This paragraph does not apply to a work group of one or two employees.
3.	The work group shall be the same as the group designated for purposes of vacation selection.
4.	Short Notice Excused Work Days may be taken in one-half (I /2) day increments; however, no more than one fall day may be requested at any one time.
?, Jrt each work' group, the Company may dcs/griatc up to four (4) work days in any month as unavailable for Short Notice Excused Work Days. Such designations will be made in accord with work schedule posting requirements.
6. The Company will have the right to deny any and all requests during any severe service disruption that may be caused, for example, by a natural disaster or other calamity (e.g., fires, explosions, civil disturbances, wars, acts of terrorism, major utility and transportation disruptions). Disputes regarding the application of the terms and conditions of Short Notice Excused Work Days may be submitted to the grievance procedure; howev-■ er, neither these provisions nor their interpretation and application shall be subject to arbitration.
[55]
ENHANCED STAFFING INFORMATION 8-23-00
Over the life of the 2000 collective bargaining agreement, the Company will continue to provide on a monthly basis, separate associate staffing reports which reflect the number of new hires, promotions and laterals hy state, city, work location and job title.
Over the life of the 2(KK) collective bargaining agreement the Company will continue to provide on a quarterly basisjob forecasts by job title, city, major work location (i,e., work locations with 25 or more associates) and state.
These reports will be provided to each major work location (25 or more associates) and to the appropriate Local union offices; electronic or other automated means may be used instead of paper distribution where mutually agreed, A re* port that includes the names and Net Credited Service Dates (or dates of hire in thcca.se of new hires) for employees promoted, laterally transferred or hired will be provided to the appropriate local Union offices.
I I
I I
“FREEZING” PROMOTIONS AND LATERAL TRANSFERS 8-11-98
On “the Effective Date of(his Memorandum'’, the Companies will discontinue its practice in PA, DE and NJ of restricting promotions out of a particular organization or work group (sometimes referred to as imposing a ''freeze” on promotions), This practice does not exist in DC, MD, VA, and WV. Effective with regard to lateral transfers out of a director's work group, during any nine month period, there will he al least three months when lateral transfers may not he frozen and in no case would they be frozen for more than two consecutive months, subject to local lateral transfer plans and applicable contract provisions.
I I
I
INTERNAL/EXTERNAL DESIGNATIONS ON JVRs AND STAFFING CRITERIA
8-H-98
Within thirty days following "the Effective Date of this Memorandum” (he Companies will remove the "internal’' and “exiertial” designations from the Job Vacancy Request form. In addition, the Companies reaffirm that the best qualified candidate, whether internal or external, will be selected to fill a job vacancy. With regard to internal candidates, seniority will continue to be considered in accordance with existing contractual provisions.
[56]
I I
I I I I
I
INTERNAL vs. EXTERNAL STAFFING COMMITMENT 8-1L9R
Except for entry level positions (sec Attachment B), the Companies will fill at least 50%' of their regular full-time requisitions with qualified internal candidates (promotions or transfers) commencing 1/1/99 and terminating 8/5/00. Failure io meet this requirement will be excused when caused by major changes in business circumstances (e.g.. business/work volumes significantly higher or lower than projected for sustained periods of time, extraordinary and severe service disruptions, natural disasters, other calamities). This commitment is also contingent on (here being qualified internal candidates. Furthermore, the Companies' compliance with this commitment will be measured cm a full calendar year basis aggregating all requisitions within each particular bargaining unit, except in DC, MD, VA and WV the aggregation of requisitions will be by state. Status reports will be provided to the Union at the end of each calendar quarter.
ADVERTISING AND CLASSIFYING JOB VACANCIES 8*23-00
The Company agrees that effective January 1,200). all regular foil-time, regular part-time, and temporary Associate Vacancy Requests (AVRs) submitted to the Associate Staffing Center will be advertised for ten (10) business days via STAR tor any future system which replaces or complements STAR). This replaces the 8/11/98 job advertising commitment in New Jersey.
The Company also reaffirms that the designations “internal'’ and “external’' will nor be placed on Associate Vacancy Requests (AVR). In addition, the Company reaffirms that the best-qualified candidate, whether internal or external, will be selected to fill a job vacancy. With regard to internal candidates, seniority will continue to be considered in accordance with existing contractual provisions.
[57]
STRESS LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
During 2003 bargaining negotiations, ihe Union raised concerns regarding employee stress levels. Recognizing the desirability of reducing workplace stress levels to the extent possible, the Company and the Union emphasize their mutual belief that it would be beneficial to all employees, (he Company and the Union for the parties to engage in ongoing dialogue designed to explore ways to reduce the level of stress in the workplace, and to assist employees to manage stress in their daily lives. Accordingly, this letter will confirm our agreement during 2003 bargaining to establish joint Union-Management Committees for the life of the contract to explofc ways in which the parties can work together to reduce employee stress levels. Upon written request by the authorized representative of the Union, a committee will be established in a fine of business/busjness unit with bargaining unit employees.
Where such joint committees are established, they shall meet quarterly or more frequently by mutual agreement as required. Up to .six representatives from the Company and up to six representatives from the Union shall ordinarily attend Che meetings; however, upon advance mutual agreement, additional representatives of either party may attend designated meetings to discuss specific subjcci(s). The Company representatives at each meeting shall include the involved line of business field Director and the Director of Labor Relations.
The objectives of (he joint Committees shall include-.
I.	Identifying current practices that contribute to a feeling of stress in the workplace.
2.	Identifying those factors outside the workplace that contribute io a sense of stress on the job.
3.	Review ing and analyzing possible alternatives to current practices that arc determined to be sources of significant stress.
4.	Recommending strategies and initiatives designed to reduce employee stress levels and to assist employees to manage stress more successfully.
This letter of Understanding shall expire al 11:59 PM on August 2, 2008.
I I
I I
I I
I I
[58]
August 3, 2003
Mr. Terrance Tipping
Staff Representative
CWA, District! 3, AFL-CIO 23(1 South Broad Street Philadelphia, PA191O2
Dear Mr. Tipping:
I
I
This teller will confirm the Company’s commitment made during 2003 collective bargaining that for the life of ihe current collective bargaining agreement, any time spent by an employee in a job title while that employee is in the Term classification will not count towards she time in current title requirements of the Regional Associate Mobility Plan (“RAMP”).
Nothing in this letter should be read to suggest that the Company and Union have negotiated any provision of RAMP or that the Union accepts RAMP, either in whole or in part, This tetter is simply a commitment by the Company regarding how it will administer a single RAMP requirement for the life of the August 2003 collective bargaining agreement.
I
I
Very truly yours.
(s) Helen M. Hanson Director - Labor Relations
AGREED:
(s) Terrance Tipping CWA ■ Staff Representative
I
I
[59]
August II, 1998 Mr. Terrance Tipping Staff Representative
District 13. CWA
230 S. Broad Street, 19th floor
Philadelphia, PA 19102
Dear Mr. Tipping:
This letter agreement is intended to modify Subsections A2XJ15 and A2.016 tor the titles listed under the respective subsections. This letter agreement sbal.J remain in effect through August 5, 2000.
In each supervisor's group, not more than once every three months, such employees with 25 years or more of service will advise iheir immediate supervisor as to the normally scheduled tours they desire to work. The requested assignments will be granted to the extent and in such combinations that it is practicable to do so in accordance with service turf training requirements, proper coverage and normal scheduling procedures, as determined by the Company. and the Company will err deavor to schedule employees on evening tours, night tours, or Saturdays or Sundays so that employees with 25 years or more of service will not be required to work such tours. If circumstances require the Company to consider utilizing employees with 25 years or more of service, such as a major project, cutovers. or the circumstances described in Subsection A2.0I8, the Company will utilize volunteers if possible. If an insufficient number of volunteers exist, subsection A2.O18 will apply. It is understood that this letter agreement is not intended to modify or diminish the Company's right to assign employees in cases of emergency.
Except in cases of emergency, major project, cutovers, or the circumstances described in Subsection A2.O18, rhe Company will endeavor to schedule employees on evening lours, night tours, or Saturdays or Sundays so that no employee in a supervisor’s group with less than 25 years of service shall be required to work such lours for more than fifty (50) percent of the year. In those supervisor’s groups where it is anticipated that employees with less than 25 years of service will be required to work either evening lours, night lours, or Saturdays or Sundays more than fifty (50) percent of ihe year, ihe Director, or his/her designated representative, and the Union will meet in accordance with Subsection A2.OI8.
This commitment is being made with the Union's agreement that the Union will not attempt to influence any employee on his/her choice of tour. In addition, the Union agrees to withdraw arbitration case #0455-96 without prejudice ar precedent.
Sincerely,
\s\ Maryanne Crompton Director-Labor Relations
AGREED:
\s\ Terrance Tipping
CWA Staff Representative
1603
I
I
I
I I
I I
I
August 3, 2003
Mr. Terrance T. Tipping
Staff Representative
District 13. CWA
230 S. Broad Street, ] 9th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19102	.
Dear Mr. Tipping:	4
This letter confirms our agreement in 2003 negotiations on an alternate procedure to using the provisions of Section A.2.015 for the scheduling of tours.
Beginning in the fall of 2003, when vacation assignment discussions are held, under Section A7.0I2, the appropriate Union Representative wiU inform the Company of the tour scheduling method to be used during the following calendar year in the administrative group(s) that Representative is responsible for The Representative may designate one of the two tour selection methods described in the next paragraph.
The two alternate tout scheduling methods are (1) scheduling tours using the provisions of Section A2.015, or (2) scheduling based on employees, on a semiannual basis (tttxrawWy in December and June), selecting their tours on the basis of their net credited service to the extent that service requirements permit. It is recognized by both the Union and the Company that the requirements of the business make it necessary for certain employees to be assigned to tours other than those they might select.
This agreement will remain in effect for the life of the 2003 Agreement.
Sincerely,
/s/ Helen M. Hanson
Director - Labor Relations
Agreed:
Js/Terrance Tipping
CWA Staff Representative
[61]
treatment of grievances settled by the parties or arbitration AWARDS WHICH INVOLVE BACKPAY
AND/OR REINSTATEMENT
9-5*03
If, as a result of the settlement of a grievance by the panics or an arbitration award, the gricvant is to receive back pay and/or reinstatement following a discharge, layoff’, demotion, or suspension, unless and to the extent the settlement or arbitration award specifies OIhenvi.se, the employee will be entitled to the following compensation and benefits, and no other compensation (other than any back pay awarded or agreed upon) or benefits:
I.	In the case of a discharged employee reinstated to employment with full back pay. or regardless of the amount of back pay if the settlement or award specifies that the employee is co be “made whole'1 for the entire period off the payroll, the employee shall receive, less any applicable deductions; (a) full service credit under the pension plan for the period off the payroll, (b) reimbursement for the COBRA premiums the employee paid for medical, denta) and/or vision coverage if the employee continued those covcrage(s) under COBRA, or if the employee did not continue those coverage(s) under COBRA, reimbursement for premiums paid by the employee for medical, dental and/or vision coverage not to exceed ihe amount the employee would have paid as premiums for such coverage^) had the employee elected COBRA coverage and reimbursement for out-of-pocket medical, vision and denial expenses if. under the provisions of the applicable plans, the employee would not have incurred these expenses if they had remained on the payroll- The appropriate Plan Administrator would determine which expenses would he reimbursable. Copies of bills and receipts for sen ices provided must be submitted in order for the employee to be eligible for a reimbursement, (c) any Corporate Profit Sharing Award(s) the employee would have received but for the termination, (d) any Ratification Bonus the employee would have received but for the termination, (e) reimbursement for telephone-relaied services that would have been covered by Concession Telephone Service hud the employee remained on the payroll, (f) recognition of the time off the payroll as “hours worked” for purposes- of FMLA eligibility, and (g) if a reinstated employee was a participant in the Verizon Savings and Security Plan for Mid-Atlanlic Associates, the Companies will deduct from any backpay awarded or agreed upon, (he contributions the employee would have made based on the last election on file as of the date of the employee’s termination, and the employee will receive the Companies mutch in his or her Savings and Security Plan account to which the employee would have been entitled proportionate to the employee's contribution.
I I
I I I
I I
I I
2.	A laid off employee who is reinstated as a result of a grievance settlement
162}
or arbitration award shall receive the compensation and benefits set forth in paragraph [ irrespective of the amount of back pay the employee is to recei ve.
3.	In the case of a discharged employee reinstated to employment with no back pay or partial back pay, pursuant to a settlement or award which doc.t not .specify that the employee is to be “made whole” for the entire period off the payroll, the employee shall receive, less any applicable deductions, the following, each of which will be prorated as specified: (a) prorated service credit under the pension plan for the period off the payroll based upon the ratio between the amount of back pay and the amount which Ibe employee would have received in pay if continuously employed, with immediate bridging of service, and (b) reimbursement for the COBRA premiums the employee paid for medical, denial and/or vision coverage if the employee continued those coverage(s) under COBRA. or if the employee did not continue those coverage(s) under COBRA, reimbursement for premiums paid by the employee for medical, denial and/or vision coverage not lo exceed the amount the employee would have paid as premiums for such coverage(s) had the employee elected COBRA coverage and reimbursement for out-of-pocket medical, vision and dental expenses if, under the provisions of the applicable plans, the employee would not have incurred these expenses if they had remained on the payroll, bated upon the employee's coverage at the time of die discharge, prorated fur the period off the payroll based upon the ratio between the amount of back pay and lbs amount which the employee would have received in pay if continuously employed (The appropriate Plan Administrator will determine which expenses will be reimbursable. Copies of bills and receipts for services provided must be submitted in order for the employee to he eligible for a reimbursement), (c) any Corporate Profit Sharing Awardfs) the employee would have received bur for the termination, prorated according to Section 3 of the Corporate Profit Sharing Plan, so that the employee receives one-twelfth of the applicable Coiporate Profit Sharing Award(s) for each full month’s worth of backpay awarded, (d) any Ratification Bonus the employee would have received but for the termination, prorated for the period off the payroll based upon ihc ratio between the amount of back pay and the amount which the employee would have received in pay if continuously employed, (e) reimbursement for telephone-related services that would have been covered by Concession Telephone Service had the employee remained db the payroll, prorated for the period off the payroll based upon the ratio between the amount of back pay and the amount which the employee would have received in pay if continuously employed, (f) recognition of the time off the payroll as “hours worked” for purposes of FMLA eligibility, prorated for the period off the payroll based upon the ratio hciween the amount of back pay and the amount which the em
[63]
ployee would have received in pay if continuously employed, and (g) if a reinstated employee was a participant in the Verizon Savings and Security Plan for Mid-Allantic Associates, the Companies will deduct from any backpay awarded or agreed upon, the contributions the employee would have made based on the last election on file as of the date of the employee's termination prorated for the period off the payroll based upon the ratio between the amount of back pay and the amount which the employee would have received in pay if continuously employed, and the employee will receive the Company match in his or her Savings and Security Plan account to which the employee would have been entitled proportionate to the employee's contribution.
4.	Any backpay awarded or agreed upon will be reduced by the amount of money the employee received under any governmental unemployment compensation program, and the amount of money the employee received from other employment, during the period the employee was discharged or suspended.
I
I
[64]
VACATION SCHEDULING PERCENTAGES PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF VACATIONS IN 1999:
During 1999,’ at Ieasth7% of the employees tn each vacation administrative work group shall be permitted to schedule off in a. given week.
PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF VACATIONS IN 2000:
During 2000, al least 18% of the employees in each vacation administrative work group shall be permitted to schedule off in a given week.
Where the application of the percentage figures specified above results in other than a whole number, the number yielded will be rounded up to the next whole number.
Regarding vacation availability during traditional fall hunting season and the December holiday season, management will make a reasonable effort to consider the need for higher vacation availability.
Those work groups whose vacation availability is currently greater than the percentages specified above, will not he required to reduce their vacation scheduling availability in 1999 and 2000.
I I I I
[65)
July 27, 2000
Mr. Jim Short	,	•
Assistant to the Vice President	**	?
CWA District 13
230 South Broad Street, i9th Floor	1 *
Philadelphia. PA 19102
Voluntary Overtime in the Forced Overtime Build Agreement
Dear Jim,
I
I
Where overtime limitations (caps) exist in the Mid-Atlantic States' jurisdictions. the Companies agree for the purposes of determining whether an employee has worked the specified overtime cap. voluntary overtime will count toward any such forced overtime cap. Upon request, the Union will assist in securing volunteers to work overtime. As a result of this commitment, the Union agrees to move any other existing overtime related issues and matters to the Common Issues table.
(s) Ron Williams
Executive Director-Labor Relations
AGREED:
(s) Jim Short
Bargaining Agent
Communications Workers of America
I
I
[66]
GENERAL INDEX
PLANT
Group I Group 2
Absence-Pay Treatment.......................... 93	J 38
Accident on Duty ...........................  95	138
Death in Family ............................. 96	138
Election Activity (Clerk, Inspector nr Judge) ................................... 99	138
Fatigue Time-excused......................... 90	138
Holiday tn Period of Absence................  94	138
Illness ..................................... 94	138
Jury Duty.................................... 96	138
Modified Duty................................ 95	138
Part Session................................. -	-
Pre-Admission Medical Test................... 99	138
Quarantine................................... 94	138
Union Activity-Excused Time ................................ 43	43
Joint Conference ......................... 6,97	138
Leave of Absence .........................   45	-
Union Orientation Meeting ..,............. 100	138
Visit to Medical Department or Lrical Treating Physician..........................  98	138
Voting Time...................,......... 97	138
Witness-Court or Grand Jury ................. 99	138
Agency Shop ..................................  48	48
Agreement Continuation (Letter #1) Amendments to Agreement........................ 37	37
Arbitration ..................................   28	28
Basic Daily Wage Rate (Definition)............. 76	134
Basic Hourly Wage Rale (Definition) ........... 77	134
Basic Weekly Wage Rate (Definition).......	76	134
Benefits......................................  21	21
Bi-Lingual Differential.......................  92	138
Broadband Network (Letter #6 S #7) Bulletin Boards................................  8	8
Call Out-...................................... 87	137
Car Fare ...................................... -	-
Change of Tour (notice of) . .................   82	J 36
Classification of Employees (Group).......	74	133
Compensation for Work timeCall-out.................................. 87	137
Change of tours or hours (insufficient notice)................................. 85	136
TRFFC.
222
222
224
226
222
227
224
228
227,230
229
224
43
223
229
226
226
224
48
37
28
201
201
201
21
221
8
207
211
198
192
207
195
LU
GENERAL INDEX
Evening and Night Tour Differential.....
Fatigue Time............................
Holidays ...............................
In-Charge payment.......................
Part hours .............................
Normal .................................
Overtime................................
Overtime over 49 Hours..................
Relief Periods .........................
Special City Allowance..................
Sunday hours.............................
Tour Change (insufficient notice).......
Training Payment .......................
Confidential Employees......................
Contract Labor..............................
(see Letter Agreements)
Contracting Initiatives (Letter #12)
Court Witness...............................
Daily Travel Allowance......................
Death in Family .........•..................
Definitions-
Basic Daily Wage Rate...................
Basic Hourly Wage Rate..................
Basic Weekly Wage Rate .................
Employee ...............................
Employee Classification (Group).........
Full Day Tour. .........................
Full Evening Tour . , ..................
Generic Terms...........................
Half lours..................................
Net Credited Service . . ,..............
Night Tour. . . , ..........................
Normal Work Time........................
Normal Work Week........................
Overtime................................
Occasional Employees ...................
Part Day Tours .........................
Part Everting Tours ....................
Regular Full-Time Employee..............
Regular Part-Time Employee..............
Temporary Employees ....................
PLANT		TRFFC.
Group 1	Group 2	
86	137	252
90	138	-
79.84	135	240
88	137	206
85	136	205
76	134	201
77	134	202
77	134	204
	-	196
91	138	219
84	135	202
83	136	202
92	138	220
6	6	6
20
99	138	224
103	-	208
96	138	224
76	134	201
77	134	201
76	134	201
3	3	3
74	133	192
75	133	194
76	-	194
5	5	5
76	133	-
5	5	5
76	-	195
76	134	-
75	133	196
76.77	134	202
4,150	150	193
	-	195
	-	195
3.74	133	192
4,140	4,140	192
4,139	4.139	193,251
[III
GENERAL INDEX
PLANT TRFFC.
Term Employees............................
Union.....................................
Demotions for Misconduct, Discharges
& Suspensions.............................
Diffcrential-Bi-Lingual ....................
Differential-Evening and Night Toura........
DifferenfiabChri.stmas & New Years Eves . . . . DlfferentiaLSaturday .......................
Discharges .................................
Discriniinatior) - for Union Activity.......
Dues deduction (or payments in Heu) ........
Duration of Agreement.......................
Employment Security Training ..................
Enhanced ISP ...............................
Establishment of New Job Titles and Job
Classifications...........................
Evening Tour-Definition.....................
Evening and Night Tour Differential.........
Excused Time-Union Business ................
Excused Time-Christmas Eve (Letter #S) Excu.wd Work Days...........................
Expedited Arbitration, .....................
Fatigue Time................................
Federal or State Laws (effect on
Agreement)................................
Four Day Work Week (Letter#IS)
Generic Terms (Use of male/female
pronoun) .................................
Grievances (Procedure) .....................
Grievance Procedure - Triaf (Lecter #!9j Group 1 Employees (Definition) .............
Group 2 Employees (Definition)..............
Holidays-
Li.stof...................................
Definition of Holiday time................
Floating holiday-selection................
Holiday in Vacation..............
Part Time Employees ......................
Scheduling................................
Worktime compensation.....................
Home Garaging (Letter #20)
Group 1 4,150 4	Group! 4,150 4	193,254 4
22	22	22
92	138	221
86	137	252
-	-	206
86	137	-
22	22	22
23	23	23
7	7	7
66	66	66
57	5?	57
39	39	39
50	5(1	50
76	-	194
86	137	252
44,82	44,135	44
128	>39	242
32	32	32
90	138	-
37	37	37
5	5	5
24	24	24
74		192
-	133	192
126	739	240
84	139	240
127	139	24!
121	(39	234
	139	241
79		
’9.84	139	240
[HI]
GENERAL INDEX
PLANT TRFFC.
Group 1 Group 2
illness Absence		94	B8	217
In-Charge Paymeni	.		$8	137	206
Incidental Expense				107	138	
Income Security Plan (I$P) 		39	39	39
'Limitations on Contracting Out (Letter # 10) Inspector of Election 		99	138	226
Joint Conference Time .				6,97	138	223
Judge of Election 			99	138	226
Jury Duly 		96	138	774
Layoffe-Part Timing {Procedures)		It}	lt>	10
Leave of Absence-Union Business. ., .	45	45	45
Lodging Expenses (Temporary Transfer) ....	108	138	21 I
Meal Expenses (Temporary Transfer)	 Mediaiion (Leiters -)	107	138	211
Modified Duty 	 Monitoring-Operator Services (Letter #34)	95	138	228
Motor Vehicle Usage Program		64	_	
Moving Expense (Permanent Transfer)		109	138	212
Night Tour (Definition) 		76		195
Night artel Evening Tour Differencial		86	137	252
Non-Discrimination 			48	48	48
Notice of Change of Tours or Hours		83,86	136	198
Occasional Employees				150	150	193
Overtime (See Compensation)	 Overtime Agreement (Letter #35) Overtime - Forced vs. Voluntary (Leiter #36)	77	137	2(12
Part Hours Worked		85	136	205
Part-Timing of Full Time Employees 		147	147	252
Part-Time Employees (definition) 			>44	144	192.247
Engaged After [-(-8)		144	144	248
Holidays					146	146	250
Vacations		146	146	250
Engaged Prior id 1-1-81 		140	140	247
Holidays		141	141	250
Vacations		141	141	250
Temporary Part-Time 				251
			
Pension Bands and Monthly Benefits 		186	186	273
Pensions & Benefits . .. ..			21	21	21
Per Diem	„		107	138	211
Permanent Transfer 			109	138	212
Personal Automobile-Use of 			112	138	215
I I I I I
I I
I I
{IV]
GENERAL INDEX
! I
I I
I I
I I
I I
Personnel Record (discipline related items).....................................
Posting-Worktime Schedules.................
Pre-Admission Medical Tests.............. Promotions.................................
Quarantine-Authorized......................
Reassignment Pay Protection Plan...........
Recognition-Bargaining Agent...............
Regular Full-Time Employee ([definition)..............................
Relief Periods................................
Retroactivity of Awards ...................
Safety ....................................
Safety Committee (Letter #38) Saturday Differential .....................
SB 115 (Letter #40) Sehedules-work time-posting................
Scheduling of Time Off.....................
Seniority (Letter #41)
Service Quality Observing..................
Shou Notice EW Days (Letter #44) Special City Allowance ....................
Stan Rates, Hiring Above ..................
Staffing Information (Letter #45)
-	Reports
-	Freezing Laterals
-	Internal vs. External
Stress Committee (Letter #46) Strikes....................................
Sunday Hours (Definition)..................
Suspensions ...............................
Technological Displacement ................
Technology Change Committee................
Temporary Employee ................... . Temporary Report Location..................
Term Employees.............................
Term of Agreement .........................
Tours -
Selection...............................
Changes.................................
Scheduling Undesirable (Letter #4^)
PLANT TRFFC.
Group 1	Group 2	
49	49	49
77	135	196
99	138	229
47	47	47
94	138	224
53	53	53
6	6	6
3,74	133	192
-	-	196
38	38	38
36	36	36
. 86	137	
77		196
130	139	244
63	63	63
91	138	219
153	153	256
84	135	247
22	22	22
56	56	56
54	54	54
139	J.39	193,25)
101	138	
4 J 50	4,150	193,254
66	66	66
80	135	198
83.86	136	198
[V]
GENERAL INDEX
Training Payment	................
Training, Employment Security..............
Transfer-Permanent ........................
Transfer-Temporary ........................
Transfer and Promorion-Union
Representative...........................
Transportation Expense ....................
Travel Expense (Meals. Lodging-Noncommuting).................................
Travel Time-General........................
Temporary Assignment, commuting..........
Temporary Assignment. non-comniuting . . . Vacation dun ng non-commuting
assignment.............................
Union Business-Excused Time ...............
Union Busincss-l-cave of Absence ..........
Union Bulletin Boards......................
Union Dues Deduction (or payment
in lieu of)..............................
Union Orientation Meetings.................
Union Recognition..........................
Union Representation (Disciplinary interviews) .................................
Union Representative-Promotion and
Transfer. ...............................
VacationAmount in accordance with service..........
Buy-Back ................................
Carry-over (Xintl Matching)..............
Cash allowance in lieu ot vacation.......
Day-at-a-Time............................
Discharge ...............................
Halt-day ................................
Holiday .................................
Jury duty during vacation ............... Lay-off .................................
Leave of Absence-Military................
Posting vacation assignments.............
Reserve Time ............................
Resignation .............................
Retirement...............................
PLANT		TRFFC.
Group 1	Group 2	
92	138	220
57	57	57
109	138	212
102	138	208
8	8	8
108 ■	138	215
107	138	21 1
101	138	208
101	138 ‘	208
104	J 38	208,209
106	138	210
44,82	*	
45	45	45
8	8	8
7	7	7
101)	138	229
6	6	6
50	50	50
8	8	8
117	138	231
124	138	229
120	138	234
123	138	236
119	138	233
123	138	237
110	138	233
121	138	234
122	138	237
124	138	237
123	138	236
120	138	-
132	138	236
123	138	237
122	138	236
[VI]
GENERAL INDEX
I I
I I
Scheduling...............................
Scheduling Percentages (Letter #49) Selection uf (Seniority).................
Voting Time ...............................
Wage Increase Schedule Administration .....
Wage Zones ................................
Wages-
Hiring Above Start Rate..................
Deferral - Notice........................
Deferral - Return from Absence...........
Schedules ...............................
Witness-Court or Grand Jury................
Work Week Buildup..........................
PLANT		TRFFC.
Group 1	Group 2	
BO	138	244
) 19	138	245
97	138	226
LSI	151	254
185	185	262
153	153	256
152	152	255
153	153	256
160	160	263
99	138	224
78	135	203
I
I
I
J
I
[VII]
—	This amended Agreement contains the provisions of the following			
■	Agreements:			
fl	Date Effective		
Date of			Date of
—	Execution	Other	Wages	Termination
fl	11/28/52	12/7/52	2/1/53	11/27/53
fl	11/28/53	12/6/53	12/6/53	12/2/54
12/2/54	12/5/54	12/5/54	2/29/56
3/16/56	3/11/56	3/11/56	4/17/57
"fl	4/17/57	4/14/57	4/14/57	7/16/58
fl	7/16/58	7/20/58	7/20/58	7/16/59
•	7/17/59	7/19/59	7/19/59	10/13/60
10/13/60	10/13/60	10/16/60	10/18/61(*J
—	10/18/61	10/17/61	10/22/61	10/17/62/*)
fl	10/17/62	10/16/62	10/21/62	10/16/63
fl	10/16/63	10/16/63	10/20/63	12/9/64/*)
12/9/64	12/8/64	12/13/64	12/8/65/*) -
12/8/65	12/8/65	12/12/65	12/7/66
fl	(D12/8/66	12/4/66	12/4/66	6/ 5/68(+)
fl	6/5/68	6/5/68	6/2/68 6/1/69	
t		5/31/70	6/2/71
j	7/20/71	7/20/71	7/18/71 7/16/72 7/15/73	7/20/74
(*) Wage Reopener			
(L) 3 year agreement, terminating 12/3/69
।	(+) Full agreement negotiated in lieu of 6/5/68 wage reopener
I
I
1
[IX]