Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref(a)cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Operation, Maintenance and Construction Employees) and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), AFL-CIO Local 1245 (2003)
K# 6071
Employer Name: Pacific Gas and Electric Company (Operation, Maintenance and Construction Employees)
Location: CA
Union International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), AFL-CIO
Local: 1245
SIC: 4911	NAICS: 221122
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 9300
Effective Date: 10/01/03	Expiration Date: 12/31/07
Number of Pages: 330	Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
]<■» 607/
Agreement v j t e. I
Between
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
MV Pacific Gas and mlfl Electric Company™
WE DELIVER ENERGY."
and
LOCAL UNION NUMBER 1245 OF
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Affiliated with
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR -CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS
au.
7i ge
O-o i
APPLYING TO:
OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2003 -
Pacific Gas and
Electric Company
September 24, 2001
77 Deale Sveel DO. B<w 770000
San f landsco. W 94177
415.97X7000
PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY EMPLOYEES:
Pacific Gas & Electric Company and IBEW Local 1245 have a 50-year history of labor-management cooperation to address areas of mutual interest. This letter reaffirms our ongoing commitment to labormanagement cooperation in a traditional industrial relations framework.
While we recognize that both parties have different needs, we are committed to an ongoing alliance to address shared interests, Our alliance includes:
=5 Quarterly meetings between the Union’s leadership and the Company's officers to discuss current business issues and the Company's strategic business plan.
Quarterly labor-management meetings in each functional department or area to address departmenWarea specific Issues.
Ad hoc negotiations to discuss current business needs in a timely manner.
Pacific Gas & Electric Company and IBEW Local 1245 are committed to work together in a collaborative manner to address issues critical to PG&E's ability to compete now and in the future, and to promote profitability for PG&E, and employment and income security for PG&E employees. It is in our mutual best interest - the Company’s, the Union's, and the employees' - to ensure PG&E's success.
0/i,w
GORDON R. SMITH :	SPERRY ZIW0£rMAN
President and CEO, Pacific Gas &	Business Manager, IBEW Local 1245
Electric Company
fct (S'
^3
AGREEMENT
between PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
and
LOCAL UNION NO. 1245 of
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD
OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Affiliated with
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR >	CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS
APPLYING TO OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1,2003 -

Vo A V A'to-
V □-	11 Q 6
TITLE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
PREAMBLE.............................................................
RECOGNITION.............................................................
CONTINUITY OF SERVICE......................................................
UNION SECURITY.......................................................
UNION ACTIVITY.......................................................
WAGES................................................................
MANAGEMENT OF COMPANY................................................
LABOR-MANAGEMENT COOPERATION.........................................
1 1
2 3
4 4
4 5
PART I * REGION, DEPARTMENT, AND GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
100. 101. 102. 103. 104. 105. 106. 107. 108. 109. 110. 111. 112.	APPLICATION	6 LEAVE OF ABSENCE	6 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES	9 HOLIDAYS	15 MEALS	16 SAFETY	18 STATUS	20 MISCELLANEOUS	23 SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS FOR INDUSTRIAL INJURY	24 APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING	24 PREMIUM PAY	24 VACATIONS	26 SICK LEAVE	:	29 PART II - REGION OR GENERAL OFFICE DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES ONLY
200. 201. 202. 203. 204. 205. 206. 207. 208. 209. 210. 211. 212. 213. 214.	APPLICATION	32 EXPENSES	32 HOURS	34 INCLEMENT WEATHER PRACTICE			  38 WAGES AND CLASSIFICATION	39 JOB BIDDING. PROMOTION AND TRANSFER	40 DEMOTION AklD LAY OFF PROCEDURE	47 (DELETED)	53 OVERTIME	53 (DELETED)	  :	56 (DELETED)	56 (DELETED)	56 EMERGENCY DUTY	  56 (DELETED)	58 DELETED	58
PART 111 - GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES ONLY
300.
301.
302.
303.
304.
305.
306.
307.
308.
309.
310.
311.
APPLICATION...................
EXPENSES......................
HOURS.........................
INCLEMENT WEATHER.............
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS.....
JOB BIDDING AND PROMOTION.....
DEMOTION AND LAY OFF PROCEDURE (DELETED).....................
OVERTIME......................
(DELETED).....................
(DELETED).....................
(DELETED).....................
58 59
65 67 67
68 74 77
80
80
80
PART IV - INTERIM NEGOTIATIONS
400. INTERIM NEGOTIATIONS..................................................  80
PARTV-TERM
500. TEAM.................................................................................................  81
PART VI
600. JOB DEFINITIONS AND LINES OF PROGRESSION........................................82
EXHIBITS
111.
IV. V.
VI. VII. VIII.
IX. X.
XI. XII. XIII. XIV. XV. XVI. XVII
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE...........................................................
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PROMOTION-DEMOTION GEOGRAPHIC AREAS.........................
CLASSIFICATIONS OF SHIFT EMPLOYEES...............................................
CLASSIFICATIONS OF SERVICE EMPLOYEES.............................................
CLASSIFICATIONS OF RESIDENT EMPLOYEES............................................
JOB DEFINITIONS AND LINES OF PROGRESSION.........................................
BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATIONS.......................................................
JOB COMPARISONS..................................................................
CLASSIFICATIONS COMMON TO MORE THAN ONE DEPARTMENT...............................
WAGES (See Separate Booklet) LETTER AGREEMENT 87-165-PGE PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT COMMITTEES ADDENDUM TO TITLE 206 AND 306 DEMOTION AND LAY OFF PROCEDURE.....................
LETTER AGREEMENT 91 -99-APPOINTMENT DUE TO URGENT NECESSITY......................
SEVERANCE........................................................................
Deleted (see 301.21).............................................................................................................. CONTRACTING......................................................................
METER READER AGREEMENT (See Separate Booklet)
83
85
86
86
87
87
87
90
91
..93 ..94 ..94 ..96 ..99 101
SUPPLEMENTS
SUPPLEMENT TO SECTION 1.7.........................................;.102
SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 104 - MEALS: COMPARABLE SUBSTITUTE FOR USUAL AND AVERAGE MEALS...................................................103
SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 205 - BIDDING UNITS...............................104
SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 206 - DEMOTION UNITS............................107
CRITICAL CLASSIFICATIONS..............................................111
The Agreement dated September 1,1952 has been amended on the following dates:
September 1,1953 July 15,1954 September 1,1954 March 1,1956 July 1,1956 October 1,1956 January 1,1957 May 1,1957 July 1,1957 September 1,1957 January 1,1958 February 1,1958 July 1,1958 August 1,1958 September 1,1958 September 15,1958 July 1,1959 July 1,1960 July 1,1962 January 1,1963 July 1,1963 January 1,1964 July 1,1964 July 1,1965 July 1,1966
January 1,1967 July 1,1967 January 1,1968 July 1,1968 July 1,1969 July 1,1970 January 1,1971 July 1971 July 1,1972 April 1,1973 January 1,1974 July 1,1974 January 1,1975 January 1,1977 January 1,1978 December 1,1978 January 1,1980 January 1,1983 January 1,1984 January 1,1988 January 1,1991 January 1,1994 January 1,1997 January 1,2000 October 1, 2003
September 16,2003
Local Union No. 1245
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO
P.O. Box 2547
Vacaville, CA 95687
Attention: Mr. Perry Zimmerman, Business Manager
Dear Mr. Zimmerman:
This letter and its attachments will confirm the Company’s understanding of the settlement reached on August 25, 2003 between the Company's Negotiating Committee and the Union's Negotiating Committee in General Negotiations with respect to the IBEW Physical Agreement between Company and IBEW Local 1245. This settlement represents the Company’s last, best and final offer and Is subject to a ratification vote by Local 1245 Physical bargaining unit members at PG&E.
1.	Term
October 1, 2003 through December 31,2007.
2.	Wages
The Company will grant a general wage increase, rounded up to the nearest nickel, of four percent (4.0%), effective October 1, 2003. If this agreement is ratified, employees who are on the active payroll on the ratification date of this agreement will receive a one-time payment equal to the amount they would have received II the general wage increase had been implemented on January 1,2003. The Company’s agreement to provide this payment is contingent upon ratification of this settlement. This one-time payment will be included in covered compensation only for purposes of the Savings Fund Plan, and will not be included for any other benefit plan purposes.
In addition, the Company will grant a general wage increase, rounded up to the nearest nickel, of lour percent (4.0%), effective January 1, 2004 and four percent (4.0%), effective January 1,2005. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 500.1, either party may re-open this Agreement with respect to the subject of wages by giving notice of such re-opening to the other party 60 days prior to January 1, 2006 and January 1,2007.
If this agreement is ratified, IBEW Clerical employees who are on the active payroll on the ratification date of this agreement will also receive a one-time payment equal to the amount they would have received if the general wage increase had been implemented on January 1, 2003. The retroactive amount will be calculated for each Clerical employee. If the amount comes out to more than the $900 lump sum already received, the employee will receive the difference. If the amount comes out less than $900, no deduction will be made and the employee will not receive any additional pay. The previous $900 payment and any additional payment will be included as covered compensation for purposes of the Savings Fund Plan and will not be included for any other benefit plan purposes.
3.	General Construction
During discussion of Union's proposal to modify the provisions of Subsection 305.4(d), the parties addressed Union’s concern that the temporary upgrade report is not being posted for employee review in many locations. Company committed to make a good faith effort to ensure that the required list is made available to Title 300 employees at all field locations.
iv
Title 300 classification wage rates will be adjusted to reflect the historical 5% differential from the comparable Title 200 classification during each year of the Agreement.
It was agreed to modify/relocate the clarification of Subsection 301.4(a) also known as Exhibit XV to Section 301.21.
4.	Interim Negotiations
Merge Title 200 and Title 300 Fleet
Company and Union agree to revisit the previous recommendation to merge the Title 200 and Title 300 Fleet workforce made by the previous Fleet Subcommittee.
DCPP
Company and Union agree to discuss establishing separate Radiation Protection Technician and Chemistry Technician classifications and associated training programs in Diablo Canyon.
Company and Union agree to discuss establishment of a multi-skilled journeyman classification in the Mechanical, Electrical and l&C disciplines at Diablo Canyon.
System Operator Program
Company and Union agree to the following concepts and will establish a System Operator Ad Hoc Committee to discuss and reach agreement on a journeyman re-certification program, an enhanced OIT program, lines of progression and bidding-displacement for Transmission, Distribution and Hydro Operators, an entry-level classification, filling of shifts, alternate work schedules, and wages. It is recommended that this Committee begin its work immediately upon ratification of the Agreement and conclude within six months, unless agreement is reached to extend the timeframe. Upon reaching agreement, an increase as agreed to by the Ad Hoc Committee will be granted to classifications identified by the Committee.
Pre-screen Potential Candidates for Meter Reader Positions
Company and Union agree in concept to a physical pre-assessment test for potential Meter Reader candidates. The Meter Reader Committee will ensure that the physical assessment test is validated. Upon successful validation, the physical assessment will be implemented and administered to any potential candidate for a Meter Reader position, including but not limited to new hires, transfers, and displaced employees.
Premium Standardization
Company and Union agree to establish a Premium Standardization Committee to simplify the administration of payroll rules to facilitate administration in the current environment and to successfully position tor future system implementation. Also, included lor discussion in this Subcommittee will be standardization of the shift premiums.
General Construction:
Promotion-Demotion Geographic Areas
Company and Union agree to form an Ad Hoc Committee for the purpose of examining the PromotionDemotion geographic areas in Exhibit II of the Physical Agreement and discuss possible updates and modifications to this Exhibit.
Residence Definition
Company and Union agree to meet within 90 days of ratification to bargain in good laith.
I
v
Update Job Descriptions and Lines of Progression
Company and Union agree to establish a Subcommittee to review and update the Job Definitions and Lines of Progression.
Rubber Glove Premium
Company and Union agree to meet to discuss improvements in productivity and safety.
Gas T&D JDLOP
Company and Union will conduct a review of the Title 200 Gas T&D Lines of Progression, Reverse Lines of Progression and Job Descriptions. The purpose of the review is to ensure that the Lines of Progression and the Reverse Lines of Progression as well as the Job Descriptions and compensation are appropriate and reflect the current work force and job duties.
Exhibit XVI
Company and Union agree to review the administrative process used to track work performed by outside contractors.
CDLA
Company and Union will meet to discuss the requirements of positions requiring a CDLA.
Meals
Company and Union will meet to develop clarifications for various meals issues.
Working Foneman/Lead Classifications
This committee will review job expectations of lead positions, identify qualifications necessary lor lead positions and identify a selection process to ensure that employees are qualified for Lead positions. The Committee will ensure that its recommendations are consistent with the language in Subsection 205.14(a) of the Physical Agreement.
Cost of Living
Company and Union agree to meet and to explore alternatives to address high cost of living areas.
5.	Successor
Company and Union agree that an employee with a regularly assigned job who receives an offer of equivalent employment from an Affiliated Acquiring Entity at the employee's last regular headquarters or a headquarters that is within 45 road miles or 60 minutes automotive travel time from the employee's current residence, or equal to the employee's last regular commute if the employee’s last regular commute exceeded these limits will be eligible for options under Titles 206/306 but will not be eligible for severance.
6.	Pension
A 20% pension adjustment will be made for retirees who retired prior to 1/1/78. The parties agree to meet, in good faith, to re-open discussions regarding pension adjustments for 2006 and 2007.
Effective 1/1/04, the pension formula will be increased to 1.5% of pay for the first 25 years of service and to 1.6% of pay for years of service above 25.
vi
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES Pension Formula Benefit (effective 2004)
Physical Journeyman Rate of Pay ■
Example based on 32 years of service:
Basic Weekly Pay on 1/1/04	$1,283.60
Pension Band 35
25 years @ 1.5%- QLaaL
Monthly Benefit Per Year of Service x Credited Service (25 years) $83.85 x 25 = $2,096.25
7 years @ 1.6% of pay
Monthly Benefit Per Year of Service x Credited Service (7 years) $89.44 x 7 = $ 626.08
Total Monthly Pension Benefit1	$2,096.25 + $626.08 = $2.722.33
7.	Long-Term Disability
For disabilities occurring on or after the date of ratification: No Social Security offset will be assumed until Social Security disability is actually granted. When Social Security is granted, family disability payments attributable to the employee will be included in the offset. To continue on LTD for more than two years, an employee must be deemed disabled by Social Security. Participants who have not received a final Social Security Disability ruling . within 24 months may receive a monthly extension of up to an additional 36 months of Long-Term Disability benefits.
The time period for LTD eligibility will be reduced from six cumulative months from onset of disability to five consecutive months.
The Company and Union will meet on a monthly basis to discuss any retum-to-work issues for LTD employees.
Other changes include return to work language for current and future LTD recipients.
8.	Retiree Medical
Effective 1/1/04, a medical account balance of up to $7,500 will be established for current and future retirees. Retirees may use their account balance to pay 50% of their medical premium contribution. The account.balance amounts will be prorated from 10 to 25 years of service.
A ten-year minimum service requirement is established for eligibility for future retiree medical benefits. In addition, the Company’s fixed contribution for future retirees will be prorated from 0 to 25 years of service for both over- and underage 65 retirees.
Effective 1/1/03, retirees who drop medical coverage through the Company will be allowed to re-enroll during future open enrollment periods.
9.	Medical (Effective 1/1/04 unless otherwise noted)
•	Replaces current POS, PPO and OOA plans with new PPO and OOA plans, o Includes changes to copayments and coinsurances.
o Changes in network deductibles will be effective 1/1/05.
•	Increases HMO copayments.
•	Increases allowed EAP visits from three to six visits.
•	Establishes Kaiser in-patient drug and alcohol rehabilitation benefits (effective upon ratification).
1 Monthly Pension Benefit is unreduced for early retirement or spouse/joint beneficiary and does not include any premiums. Monthly Pension Benefit will be different based on classification and rate of pay. Pension income is one source of retirement income. Other sources include Social Security, the Savings Fund Plan [401 (k)J, and personal savings.
vii
•	Establishes a mandatory generic drug provision for prescription drug coverage.
•	Establishes cost sharing of 3.75% of medical plan premiums.
10.	401 (k)
Members in the Savings Fund Plan (administered by CitiStreet) will be switched to the Retirement Savings Plan (administered by Fidelity Investments) as soon as possible. Concurrent with the plan and administrator change, employees will be eligible to start contributing to the plan upon hire date, to contribute up to 20% of covered pay to the plan, and to receive the maximum employer matching contribution after only three years of service.
11.	Attachments
Attached are amended contract sections as agreed to during the negotiations, as follows;
A.	Physical Agreement and its Exhibits, Supplements and Clarifications
B.	Medical, Dental and Vision Agreement
C.	Benefit Agreement
If any of the above or the attachments thereto are not in accordance with your understanding of our settlement, please let me know immediately.
Sincerely,
Stepfenft. 'J(ay6um
Stephen A. Rayburn
Director and Chief Negotiator
Attachments
viii
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this first day of September, 1952, by and between Pacific Gas and Electric Company, hereinafter referred to as Company, and Local Union No. 1245 of international Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (affiliated with the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations), hereinafter referred to as Union,
WITNESSETH that:
WHEREAS the parties hereto desire to facilitate the peaceful adjustment of differences that may from time to time arise between them, to promote harmony and efficiency to the end that Company, Union and the general public may benefit therefrom, and to establish wages, hours and working conditions for certain hereinafter designated employees of Company,
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto do agree as follows:
GENERAL
TITLE 1.	PREAMBLE
1.1	PRINCIPLES
The parties recognize that the free private enterprise system in the United States has produced the highest standard of living anywhere in the world, and they hereby confirm their adherence to, and belief in, that system. In accordance with such belief the parties support the principle of private ownership of public utilities under enlightened regulation by public authority. Further, the parlies support the principles of collective bargaining and self-organization.
1.2	NON-DISCRIMINATION
It is the policy of Company and Union not to discriminate, harass or allow the harassment of an employee or applicant for employment on the oasis of race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, ancestry, physical or mental disability, medical condition, veteran status, marital status, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, or a request for family medical leave, or any other non-job related factor. (Amended 10-1-03)
1.3	SECTION TITLES
Section Titles in this Agreement are for identification purposes only and are not to be used for the purpose of interpreting either the intent or the meaning of the language of any Section. (Added 1 -1-80)
1.4	NEUTRAL GENDER
Any changes to contract language made as a result of the ratification of the Physical and Clerical Agreements effective on 1-1-88 and not changed in the contract language effective 1-1-88 were changed in the contract language effective 1-1-91. Changes made to the contract sections, effective 1-1-91 are not intended to change the context of the language other than to neutralize the genders. (Added 1-1-91)
1.5	DIVISION
In acknowledgment of a review by Company and Union of those areas of the contract where the word “Division" is still present, "Division" will be considered to represent an area designated as a "Division" by the Company, with Union reserving its right to have the geographic boundary remain intact, utilizing the Supplement to Title 206. (Added 1-1-91)
1.6	All language printed in italics indicates new language from previous printing of the contract. (Added 1 -1 -91)
1.7	REGION
The use of the word "Region" or "Regional" as used in the contract shall represent the geographical area that was in effect in 1992. See Supplement to Section 1.7.
TITLE 2.	RECOGNITION
2.1	RECOGNITION
For the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment Company recognizes Union as the exclusive representative of those employees for whom the National Labor Relations Board certified Union as such representative in Case No. 20-RC-1454, but further including clerks in the offices of electric department foremen and technical clerks in steam generation, and excluding system dispatchers, assistant system dispatchers and rodman-chainman.
1
2.2	APPLICABILITY
The provisions of this Agreement shall be limited in their application to employees of Company in the bargaining unit described in Section 2.1. Wherever the words "employee" and "employees' are used in this Agreement they shall, unless otherwise noted, be construed to refer only to the employees described in Section 2.1 for whom Union is the exclusive collective bargaining representative. The respective obligations of the parties herein shall be operative only insofar as Union acts in the capacity of exclusive collective bargaining representative of said employees.
2.3	SUCCESSOR (Added 1-1-00)
(a)	(1) Any parent or affiliated company of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company that acquires any property or facility at which employees covered by this Agreement have regularly assigned jobs ("Affiliated Acquiring Entity”) shall offer employment to all such covered employees, up to the number ofsuch employees that the Affiliated Acquiring Entity determines are necessary to operate the property or facility, under the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement except as to those specific benefits that the Affiliated Acquiring Entity cannot offer. For such benefits, the Affiliated Acquiring Entity shall offer alternate benefits of comparable value and coverage.
Any employee covered by this Agreement with a regularly assigned job who receives an offer of equivalent employment from the Affiliated Acquiring Entity at the employee's current regular headquarters or a headquarters that is within 45 road miles or 60 minutes automotive travel time from the employee's current residence, or equal to the employee's current regular commute if the employee's current regular commute exceeds these limits, shall not be eligible to participate in the severance program describ&d in Exhibit XIV (Severance) of this Agreement. (Added 10-1-03)
Any employee covered by this Agreement with a regularly assigned job who receives an offer of employment by the Affiliated Acquiring Entity shall remain eligible to participate in the Demotion and Layoff Procedure under Titles 206 and 306 of this Agreement. (Added10-1 -03)
(a)	(2) In addition to the obligation to offer employment as required in (a) (1) above, an Affiliated Acquiring Entity shall adopt this agreement or alternate terms and conditions of employment mutually acceptable to the Affiliated Acquiring Entity and Union.
(b)	(1) An entity not affiliated with Pacific Gas and Electric Company that acquires any property or facility at which employees covered by this Agreement have regularly assigned jobs (“Non-affiliated Acquiring Entity') shall offer employment to covered employees, up to the number of such employees that the Non-affiliated Acquiring Entity determines are necessary to operate the property or facility, at the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement; except as to those specific benefits that the Non-affiliated Acquiring Entity cannot offer. For such benefits, the Non-affiliated Acquiring Entity shall offer alternate benefits of comparable value and coverage.
(b)	(2) In addition to the obligation to offer employment as required in (b) (1) above, the Non-Affiliated Acquiring Entity shall maintain the same or comparable terms and conditions of employment applicable to covered employees hired by the Non-Affiliated Acquiring Entity for a period that is not less than the unexpired term of this Agreement that is in effect as of the date such employees are hired by the Non-Affiliated Acquiring Entity.
(c)	This section shall only apply to an acquiring entity that intends to operate the property or facility in the same or substantially the same manner as the Pacific Gas and Electric Company operates the property or facility immediately prior to its acquisition.
(d)	The Pacific Gas and Electric Company shall include the obligations set forth in sections (a) or (b) above in any transfer or sale agreement, as provided in section (a) or (b) above, with an acquiring entity of its property or facility. For any property or facility that is subject to Public Utilities Code section 363, the obligations set forth in sections (a) or (6) shall commence at the end of the applicable operating and maintenance period. The only claim the Union may have against Company under this section is for the Company’s failure to include in the transfer or sale agreement the obligation set forth in Section (a) or (b) above.
TITLE 3.	CONTINUITY OF SERVICE
3.1	Company is engaged in rendering public utility services to the public, and Union and Company recognize that there is an obligation on each party for the continuous rendition and availability of such services.
3.2	The duties performed by employees of Company as part of their employment pertain to and are essential to the operation of a public utility and the welfare of the public dependent hereon. During the term of this Agreement employees shall not partially or totally abstain from the performance of their duties for Company. Union shall not call upon or authorize employees individually or collectively to engage in such activities and shall make a reasonable effort under the circumstances to dissuade employees from engaging in such activities, and Company shall not cause any lockout.
3.3	Employees who are members of Union shall perform loyal and efficient work and service, and shall use their influence and best efforts to protect the properties or Company and its service to the public, and shall cooperate in promoting and advancing the welfare of Company and in preserving the continuity of its service to the public at all times.
2
3.4	Company and Union shall cooperate in promoting harmony and efficiency among Company employees.
3-5 Consistent with the provisions of this Title which pertain to the continuity of service to the public, employees who fill job vacancies in the classifications of Serviceman or Troubleman on and after July 1,1974, may be required to reside within the community in which the Company headquarters to which they regularly report is located, unless for good cause such requirement is waived or varied by joint agreement of Union and Company as to any such individual appointment. Such residential requirement shall be determined solely on the basis of obligations relating to the continuous rendition and availability of Company service to the public. The waiver provided for above shall be reduced to writing, the conditions thereof set forth, and signed by the Company's Director at Industrial Relations and Union's Business Manager. {Amended 10-1-03)
For the purposes of this section, an employee will be considered to be residing in the “community" if his/her residence is located no more than 30 minutes automotive travel time, under ordinary travel conditions, from the employee's headquarters. (Amended 1-1-91)
Any employee who must change his/her place of residence as provided herein shall be given a reasonable period of time in which to move in order io avoid personal hardship. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
The local residence requirements allowing an employee to live beyond the above community standard in effect at a headquarters on June 30,1974 shall remain in effect for each employee then subject to the provisions of this Section 3.5 until changed by agreement of said Business Manager of Union and Company's Director of Industrial Relations. (Amended 10-1-03)
TITLE 4.	UNION SECURITY
4.1	AGENCY SHOP
(a)	Thirty days after being employed, every employee covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment: (1) become a member of the Union; or (2) in the alternative, an employee must tender a registration fee to the Union in such an amount as the Union may prescribe (but in no event to exceed the initiation fee required of Union members), and shall tender, monthly, an agency fee as established by the Union in an amount not to exceed the amount of the monthly dues and per capita fees required of BA members in their base wage rates; except that (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Any employee of Company in a classification represented by Union and who, on December 1,1970, was an employee and was not a member of the Union, and who remains an employee continuously after December 1,1970, is exempt from the provisions of Subsection 4.1(a) unless he or she becomes a member of Union.
(c)	Any non-bargaining unit employee who is placed in a classification represented by Union shall, as a condition of employment, within 30 days comply with the provisions of Subsection (a) above. (Amended 1-1-80)
(d)	Any bargaining unit employee who is temporarily placed in a non-bargaining unit classification shall continue to be subject to the provisions of Subsection (a) above, for the duration of such temporary assignment. (Added 1-1-91)
(e)	Once each month, Company shall provide to Union a list of employees in bargaining unit classifications who did not tender dues or an agency fee to Union during the preceding 30 day period. (Added 1 -1 -91)
4.2	PAYMENT OF UNION DUES
Any employee who is or who becomes a member of Union shall, as a condition of employment, tender to the Union periodic dues uniformly required by Union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.
4.3	CHECKOFF OF DUES
Company shall deduct from wages and pay over to the proper officers of Union the membership dues of any member of union or agency fees of any other employee as provided for in Subsection 4.1(a) who individually and voluntarily authorizes such deductions in writing. The form of checkoff authorization shall be approved by Company and Union. (Amended 1-1-83)
4.4	TERMINATION FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES
Upon written request from the Union, the Company shall, within 21 calendar days, terminate the employment of any employee who fails to comply with the requirements of this Title.
4.5	GRIEVANCES
If any dispute arises under the provisions of this Title it shall be referred directly to the appropriate Local Investigating Committee lor determination under the grievance procedure provided for in this Agreement.
4.6	(Deleted 1-1-80)
3
TITLES.	UNION ACTIVITY
5.1	BULLETIN BOARDS
Union may use one-half of Company's regular bulletin boards and Company shall designate by lettering thereon or otherwise the portion of each bulletin board which shall be reserved for use by Union. Company shall erect additional bulletin boards in any location where it may be found that existing bulletin boards are not adequate..
5.2	LIMITS ON USE OF BULLETIN BOARDS
Union's use of bulletin boards shall be limited to the posting thereon of official notices of meetings and similar matters relating to official Union business and its relationship with Company. Union shall not post thereon any matter derogatory to Company or to its customers.
5.3	NON-DISCRIMINATION
Company shall not discriminate against any employee because of membership in Union or activity on behalf of Union. (Amended 1-1-91)
5.4	REPRESENTATIVES OF UNION
At Union's request Company shall authorize any representative of Union to enter any Company properties on which employees represented by Union are employed. Such authorization shall be for the purpose of enabling such representative to transact Union business other than the solicitation of employees to join Union or the collection of dues.
5.5	NEW EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
Company’s local Human Resources Representatives shall, notify the designated local Shop Steward or Representative of Union, in writing, of the reporting for duty of new bargaining unit employees within thirty days. Upon said notification, the parties may schedule necessary paid time (not to exceed one-half hour) and facilities for Union to provide orientation information regarding the obligations and benefits of Union membership. In addition, Company will include a one-page document, as submitted by Union, in the customary new employee orientation information package. Such document or discussion shall not include any matters derogatory to the Company and its customers. (Amended 1-1-91)
TITLES. WAGES
6.1	Attached hereto, made a part hereof, and marked Exhibit X, is a schedule of the wage rates applicable to employees described in Section 2.1.
TITLE 7.	MANAGEMENT OF COMPANY
7.1	MANAGEMENT OF COMPANY
The management of the Company and its business and the direction of its working forces are vested exclusively in Company, and this includes, but is not limited to, the following: to direct and supervise the work of its employees, to hire, promote, demote, transfer, suspend, and. discipline or discharge employees for just cause; to plan, direct, and control operations: to lay off employees because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons; to introduce new or improved methods or facilities, provided, however, that all of the foregoing shall be subject to the provisions of this Agreement, arbitration or Review Committee decisions, or letters of agreement, or memorandums of understanding clarifying or interpreting this Agreement.
7.2	BARGAINING UNIT WORK BY SUPERVISORS
Supervisors and other employees shall not perform work usually assigned to employees in IBEW 1245 batgaining unit classifications except:
(a)	Such assignments are not to be deliberately made for the purpose of reducing the number of employees performing work within bargaining unit classifications.
(b)	Historical assignments recognized by the NLRB and those involving continued Company practices with respect to overlapping duties of non-bargaining unit classifications and bargaining unit classifications are to be maintained unless otherwise resolved by Company and Union.
(c)	Other than the above (a) and (b), such work assignments should be limited to work performed in:
(1)	Emergency situations.
(2)	Training of employees and demonstrating work methods.
(3)	Incidental assistance and de minimis assignments. (Added 1 -1 -80)
4
7.3	CLASSIFICATIONS WITH SUPERVISORY DUTIES
In accordance with decisions of the National Labor Relations Board and Agreements between Company and Union, there are certain classifications in the bargaining unit which have supervisory duties. Company may at its discretion establish classifications which are supervisory within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act. Upon agreement by Company and Union, Company may eliminate certain classifications which are within the bargaining unit but have supervisory responsibilities, including the elimination of such classifications from Exhibit X. (Added 1-1-00)
TITLE 8.	LABOR-MANAGEMENT COOPERATION
8.1	COMPANY LABOR-MANAGEMENT MEETINGS (Title Amended 1-1-00)
Quarterly system joint labor-management meetings shall be regularly scheduled for the purposes of improving communications and promoting harmony and cooperation between Company and Union through discussions of matters of policy and operation which are of general system concern. The meetings witl be scheduled for the fourth Wednesday of January, April, July and October, except that such meetings may be canceled by mutual agreement or by failure to submit agenda items. (Amended 1-1-83)
(a)	AGENDA (Title Amended 1-1-00)
To enable each to select representatives knowledgeable in the matters of general system concern, agenda items will be submitted to the Company's Director of Industrial Relations together with a list of employees attending for Union at least two weeks prior to tne date of the next quarterly meeting. An agenda will be prepared from the items submitted and sent to the Union and Committee members designated by each as soon as possible thereafter. A summary of the Committee's discussion shall be prepared by Company and after Union review shall be distributed to each attending Committee member. (Amended 10-1-03)
(b)	REPRESENTATION (Title Amended 1-1-00)
Company's Director of Industrial Relations and Union shall appoint their respective representatives to attend a quarterly meeting, and no restriction is placed on the number each may appoint. However, the number so appointed “by each should be limited to those having knowledge of the agenda items and restricted in number in such a way as to insure an orderly presentation by each. (Amended 10-1-03)
8.2	LOCAUDEPARTMENT LABOR MANAGEMENT MEETING
If the Department or Area Manager is informed by the Union Business Representative serving that area of supervision of problems other than those subject to the grievance procedures of the applicable contract concerning the affairs and relationship between Union and Company management or involve public affairs matters of a local nature which the Area or Department Manager believes could oe solved or improved through joint participative discussion, the Manager and Union Business Representative shall mutually arrange for a meeting at a place and time which may be during or outside of regular work hours. Such meetings (excluding a continuation of any adjourned meeting) shall take place not more often than bimonthly. (Amended 1-1-00)
(a)	ATTENDEES ANO AGENDA
After notice of a scheduled meeting, the Union may select a reasonable number of its Shop Stewards who are knowledgeable in the matters of concern conveyed to the Manager to attend the meeting. Ten days prior to the date set by the Manager for such meeting, the Union will submit to him/her agenda items together with a list of employees Union desires to be in attendance at the meeting. As soon as possible thereafter, an agenda will be prepared from the items submitted by the Union and those proposed by Management and sent to Union. (Amended 1-1-00)
(b)	SUMMARY
Following the meeting, the Area or Department Manager will prepare a summary of the items discussed and the conclusions reached by the Committee which shall thereafter be distributed to the Union and Company members in attendance. (Amended 1-1-00)
(C) WITHDRAWAL
Any Area or Department may withdraw from participation in the Local Labor-Management Committee upon Company’s Manager of Industrial Relations giving notice of such intent to Union. (Amended 1-1-00)
8.3	PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT COMMITTEES (Title Amended 1 -1 -00)
(a)	Company and Union will establish Joint Committees on Productivity Enhancement. One such committee consisting of four members appointed by Company's Manager of Industrial Relations and four members appointed by Union shall meet at the call of either party. Other Productivity Enhancement Committees will be established as agreed between Union and Company at other levels of Company's organization. Union members of such committees who are employees of Company shall be paid by Company for attendance at mutually agreed-to meetings of such committees. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
5
(b)	A unit may request to participate in an employee involvement efficiency project. Each project will have an advisory committee and a steering committee, each consisting of Company and Onion representatives.
Company's Director of Industrial Relations and Union's Business Manager may agree to guidelines and provisions to temporarily amend provisions of the agreement and/or Company policies and procedures (excluding conflict with any Federal or State Law, Regulation or Executive Order). (See Letter Agreement 87-165-PGE, Exhibit XI.) (Amended 10-1-03}
PARTI
REGION, DEPARTMENT, AND GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
TITLE 100.	APPLICATION
100.1	The provisions of Part I of this Agreement shall apply to
(a)	operation, maintenance, and construction employees in each of Company’s geographical Divisions and Regions (including clerks in the offices of Electric Department foremen and technical clerks in Steam Generation) and its	■	■	'
Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations,
Materials Distribution Department,
Telecommunications Department of General Office,
Building Department of General Office,
Gas Meter Repair Plant,
Electric Meter Shop,
Steam Generation Department,
Hydro Generation Department,
Nuclear Power Generation Department, and
(Amended 1-1-00)
(b)	field and Service Center employees of General Construction.
Whenever the words "employee” and "employees” are used in this Part, they shall, unless otherwise noted, be construed to refer only to employees described above in this Section for whom Union is the exclusive bargaining representative. Where the context of this Part makes it reasonable to do so, reference to "Region" or "Division" or “Department* shall be construed to include and apply to the organizational units enumerated hereinabove and the words "Vice Presidents)'' shall be construed to include and apply to the head(s) of such organizational unit(s). (Amended 1-1-88)
TITLE 101.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
101.1	ELIGIBILITY
“Leave of absence" without pay shall be granted to regular employees, under the conditions set forth in this Title for urgent or substantial personal reasons, provided that adequate arrangements can be made to take care of the employee's duties without undue interference with the normal routine of work. A "leave" will not be granted if the purpose for which it is requested may lead to the employee's resignation. For the purpose of this Agreement the terms "leave of absence" and "leave" signify absence without pay for periods in excess cf ten consecutive workdays. In the computation of the length of a "leave of absence" there shall not be included any time the employee is absent with pay. Absences without pay for ten consecutive workdays or less shall also be authorized under these provisions.
In addition to the provisions of this Title, ft is the intent of the parties to include leave benefits as mandated by state and federal law, including both the California Family Rights Act of 1991 and the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993. (Amended 1-1-94)
101.2	PERIODS OF LEAVE
(a)	The Company may grant a "leave of absence" without pay to a regular employee for a period not in excess of six consecutive months. Tt may grant an additional "leave of absence without pay to such employee if personal circumstances and service to the Company warrant the granting thereof. Except as provided in Sections 101.6 and 101.8, a "leave of absence" will not be granted which, together with the last "leave" or ‘'leaves" granted, will exceed twelve consecutive months. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(b)	Child Care Leave: A regular employee who has become a parent by the birth or adoption of a child, or has become the legal guardian of a child shall be entitled to an unpaid "leave of absence" for a period not to exceed six consecutive months, without reference to urgent and substantial personal reasons to care for such newborn or adopted child. When an employee who was granted a leave for child care applies for reinstatement the employee will be returned to the employees former classification and headquarters which the employee vacated. (Amended 1-1-91)
6
An employee shall be entitled to an additional "leave of absence" for a period not in excess of six consecutive
months for child care with the understanding that the employee may return to work provided a vacancy exists in the
classification and headquarters which the employee vacated, or in a classification lower thereto in the Line of
Progression at such headquarters.
If a vacancy of this kind does not exist after the second six consecutive months, the employee's service shall be terminated. (Entire Subsection Added 1-1-84)
101.3	COMMENCE AND END
A “leave* shall commence on and include the first workday on which the employee is absent without pay, and terminate with and include the workday preceding the day such employee returns to work. The conditions under which an employee shall be restored to employment on the termination dt the employee's "leave of absence" shall be clearly stated on the form on which application for the "leave" is made. (Amended 1-1-91)
101.4	STATUS
An employee's status as a regular employee shall not be impaired by a “leave of absence."
101.5	TERMINATION OF SERVICE
If an employee fails to return immediately on the expiration of the employee's "leave of absence," or if such employee accepts other employment while on "leave," except as provided in Section 101.6, or if such employee makes application for unemployment benefits under the California Unemployment Insurance Act while on “leave," such employee shall thereby forfeit the "leave of absence," and terminate Service with Company. (Amended 1-1-91)
101.6	UNION LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Subject to the provisions of Section 101.1 Company shall at request of Union grant a "leave of absence" without pay to any employee for the purpose of engaging in Union business. Such "leave" shall be for a period or periods not to exceed a total of 36 consecutive months. An employee who has returned to work lor Company following an absence on “leave* for Union business in excess of six months shall not be granted another such "leave1' until such employee has worked for a period equivalent to the time of the last continuous absence on “leave" for Union business. (Amended 1-1-91)
101.7	RETURN FROM UNION LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Unless an employee who is on “leave of absence" for Union business notifies Company that he/she will return to work at the end of the first six months of such absence, such employee's job shall be considered as vacant, and Company may fill it as provided in Title 205 in the case of a Division job, or as provided in Title 305 in the case of a General Construction job. When such employee returns to employment after an absence in excess of six months, such employee shall be employed in his/her former Bidding Unit or Department and former classification subject to the following: (Amended 1-1-91)
(a)	Such employee may elect to displace another employee, or, if Company offers an assignment to a job vacancy on which another employee with longer Service does not have a prebrd, the employee may elect to accept it. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	It such employee accepts such assignment, the location of such job shall thereupon become the regular headquarters. If there is no vacancy to which the employee can be assigned or elects not to accept an assignment to an existing job vacancy, placement in the Company shall be governed by Title 206 or Title 306, whichever is applicable. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	if the employee is a Division employee and elects to displace another employee, such employee shall displace that employee in his/her former Bidding Unit or Department and classification who entered such classification during the period of the “leave of absence and who has the least Service. If such displacement cannot be effected, the employee shall displace that employee in such Bidding Unit or Department and classification who has the least Service, except that the employee may not displace an employee whose Service is equal to or exceeds his/her own. If the last mentioned displacement cannot be effected, placement in the Company shall be governed by Title 206, and the job headquarters shall be the same as it was when the "leave of absence was granted. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	If he/she is an employee of General Construction and elects to displace another employee, he/she shall displace that employee in his/her classification and department of General Construction within his/her former promotion and demotion area who has the least Service, except that the employee may not displace an employee whose Service is equal to or exceeds his/her own. If this displacement cannot be effected, placement in the Company shall be governed by Title 306. (Amended 1-1-91)
7
101.8	MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE
An employee who leaves employment with Company to enter the military service or other service where reemployment rights are protected by law will be granted a "leave of absence" under the provisions of Sections 101.1 to 101-5, inclusive. Upon qualifying tor reemployment under any such law, and being reemployed the employee will be granted a further retroactive leave of absence" to cover the balance of the absence. (Amended 1-1-91)
101.9	FUNERAL LEAVE
(a)	If at all possible, a regular employee will be granted the actual time off with pay necessary to attend the funeral of a member of the immediate family, including the time the body may lie in state and the day of the funeral, and the time necessary to travel to and from the location of the funeral but not to exceed three workdays. Unused vacation or floating holidays may be granted to extend an employee's funeral leave beyond the three days Erovided for above or personal time off without pay for the time needed will be granted. The immediate family shall e limited to: an employee's spouse, parent, grandparent, grandparent-in-law, parent-in-law, child, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter- in-law, stepchild, brothers, sisters, half-brothers and half-sisters, foster parents, step-parents, aunts, uncles or an individual who was a member of the employee's immediate household at the time of death. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Consistent with the Company's operational needs, a regular employee may be granted the time off with pay necessary to attend the funerals of other persons the employee may be reasonably deemed to owe respect, but not to exceed one day.
(c)	Employees who have not attained regular status will be allowed time off without pay as provided for in (a) and (b) above.
101.10	JURY DUTY
Employees who are summoned to serve on a grand jury, trial jury, or a jury of inquest will be granted the necessary time off for this purpose under the following conditions:
(a)	Regular employees will be allowed the necessary time off with pay for jury duty which occurs within their scheduled working hours during the basic workweek. Such employees assigned to a third shift shall be rescheduled to a first shift during such a period of time at the straight rate of pay, and such employees assigned to a second shift who are required to report to the jury commissioner on a second consecutive workday or more shall be rescheduled to a first shift on a Monday-Friday basic workweek during such a period of time at the straight rate of pay. Such employees will be paid at their basic rate of pay. In the application of other provisions of this Agreement, such time off with pay for jury duty will be considered as time worked and, if dismissed by the court on any workday before the end of the employee's regular work hours, such employee shall return to work provided such dismissal occurs at least two hours before the conclusion of such hours of work. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(b)	Employees who have not attained regular status will be allowed time off without pay subject to the other provisions of (a) above.
(c)	Employees shall advise their supervisor on the workday following receipt of notice that they are required to report for jury duty service. The employee may be required to provide receipt of such notice to their supervisor. (Amended 1-1-88)
101.11	WITNESSES
Regular employees will be given the necessary time off to appear as a witness in administrative, civil or criminal cases under the following conditions:
(a)	Employees who are required to appear as witnesses on behalf of Company will be treated with respect to the provisions of this Agreement as though they were employed in their customary work.
(b)	Employees who are subpoenaed to appear in litigation in which Company has no interest and is not a party, but nonetheless involves an employee's presence as to matters arising out of and in the course of their employment with Company will be paid at their regular straight-time rate of pay for the time required to appear or testify (but not more than eight hours in any one normal workday), less any remuneration they are entitled to by law except that travel and other expenses for which they are reimbursed which are not subject to income tax will not be included when computing such remuneration.
(c)	Following dismissal of the employee-witness by the court or administrative agency on any workday before the end of the employee’s regular work hours, the employee shall return to work provided such dismissal occurs at least two hours before the conclusion of such hours of work. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	In all other instances, an employee who has been subpoenaed as a witness in any matter not provided for above will be excused from work, without pay, for the time necessaiy for such administrative or court appearance.
8
I
101.12	ADOPTION
Regular employees will be allowed up to 8 hours of time off with pay (as necessary) for court appearances in connection with child adoption procedures. Such time may be taken in increments of one hour or more. (Amended
TITLE 102.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
102.1	STATEMENT OF INTENT - NOTICE
The provisions of this Title have been amended and supplemented from time to time. Company and Union have now revised and consolidated this Title in its entirety to provide a concise procedure for the resolution of disputes.
It is the intent of both Company and Union that the processing of disputes through the grievance procedure will give meaning and content to the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The parties are in agreement with the policy expressed in the body of our nation's labor taws that the mutual resolution of disputes through a collectively bargained grievance procedure is the hallmark of competent industrial self-government. Therefore, apart from those matters that the parties have specifically excluded by way of Section 102.2, all disagreements shall be resolved within the scope of the grievance procedure.
Union agrees to provide grievantfs) with a copy of any settlement reached at the grievanfs last known address. Such copy shall be sent oy certified, U.S. mail, or handed to the grievant, within 30 calendar days of the signing of the settlement.
102.2	GRIEVANCE SUBJECTS
Disputes involving the following enumerated subjects shall be determined by the grievance procedures established herein:
(a)	Interpretation or application of any of the terms of this Agreement, including exhibits thereto, letters of agreement, and formal interpretations and clarifications executed by Company and Union.
(b)	Discharge, demotion, suspension or discipline of an individual employee,
(c)	Disputes as to whether a matter is proper subject for the grievance procedure.
102.3	TIME LIMITS
(a)	Filing
It is the intent of Company, Union and the employees that timely filed grievances shall be settled promptly, (i) A local grievance is timely tiled when submitted by the Union Business Representative or his/her alternate (hereinafter either is referred to as “Business Representative-) in writing on the form adopted for such purpose to the Director, HR Service Center, 245 Market Street, San Francisco or his/her alternate (hereinafter either is referred to as "Human Resources Advisor "); or (ii) a Business Manager grievance is timely filed when submitted by Union’s Business Manager to Company’s Industrial Relations Director (ill) within the following time periods: (Amended 10-1-03)
(1)	A grievance which involves the discharge of an employee must be filed not later than 14 calendar days after the employee is notified in writing of the discharge. Whether or not a grievance is filed, Company shall, at Union's request, state in writing the reasons therefore within two workdays of such request. (Amended 1-191)
(2)	A grievance which does not involve the grlevanfs discharge must be filed not later than 30 calendar days after the date of the action complained of, or the date the employee became aware of the incident which is the basis for the grievance, whichever is later. The Company shall, at Union's request, state in writing the reason for an employee's discipline, demotion or suspension within seven calendar days of receipt of such request by Union.
(3)	Business Manager grievances which may be filed pursuant to (a)(ii) above shall concern contractual interpretation matters which have system-wide or classification wide implications. Business Manager ?rievances shall not involve an employee’s discharge, demotion, discipline, promotion, demotion or transfer. (Added -1-00)
(b)	Steps One Through Five Extension of Time Limits
Either the Company or Union members of any of the Committees provided for in each of the following grievance Steps One through Five may, if they agree that further determination of fact is required, request an extension of time which may be granted by the other. In no event shall any extension by either or both parties exceed one additional time period provided for at the step where the extension is granted.
9
102.4	FINALITY
The resolution of a timely grievance at any of the steps provided herein shall be final and binding on the Company, Union and the grievant. A resolution at a step below Step Five, while final and binding, is without prejudice to the position of either party, unless mutually agreed to otherwise.
(a)	If an employee has been demoted, disciplined or dismissed from Company's service for alleged violations of a Company rule, practice or policy and Company finds upon investigation that such employee did not violate a Company rule, practice or policy as alleged, Company shall reinstate the employee and pay the employee for all time and benefits lost thereby plus interest on such reinstated pay in the amount of 71/2% annum.
(b)	In the event of a “continuing grievance" as set forth in Section 102.9 and Attachment A, a retroactive wage adjustment shall be made as provided therein.
(c)	Provided further that nothing contained herein shall restrict or inhibit the parties or the Board of Arbitration from reducing the amount of a retroactive wage adjustment to an otherwise successful grievant where, in their absolute discretion, the equities of the situation do not call for the employee to receive a full retroactive wage adjustment.
102.5	ADJUSTMENTS
Company will make a reasonable effort to effectuate remedies provided for in a grievance settlement within 30 calendar days of such settlement
102.6	STEPS
STEP ONE
SHOP STEWARDS
Except for disputes involving an employee's discharge, demotion, suspension, discipline or qualifications for promotion or transfer, the initial step in the adjustment of a grievance shall be a discussion between Union's shop steward (or grievant or Business Representative if no shop steward is assigned to the work area) and the foreman or other immediate supervisor directly involved. The foreman and shop steward may discuss the grievance with the general foreman or other supervisor of corresponding authority. The purpose of such discussion shall be to reach a satisfactory disposition of the grievance but shall not waive or delay the filing requirements set forth in Section 102.3 above. Discussions shall be at such time and place as not to interfere with the work then in progress. (Amended 1 -1 -
Shop stewards shall be employees of Company, and Union may designate as many shop stewards as it deems necessary for the proper administration of its affairs and for the administration of the provisions of this Agreement.
STEP TWO
LOCAL INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE
Immediately following the filing of a timely grievance, a Local Investigating Committee will be established. The Committee will be composed of the Human Resources Advisor, the Business Representative, the exempt supervisor whose decision is involved in the grievance, and the shop steward representing the department involved. (Amended 1-1-00)
(1)	The Human Resources Advisor and Business Representative will arrange for meetings of the Committee at times and places convenient for the persons involved. (Amended 1-1-00)
(2)	The Committee shall meet as soon as reasonably possible and shall make a full and complete investigation of all of the factors pertinent to the grievance. If necessary to gain all of the information required to resolve the grievance, the Committee may hold investigative interviews with other persons involved in the dispute. Except for good cause to the contrary, the grievant shall be permitted to be present during these interviews. The grievant wilt not be a party to the disposition of the grievance, nor is the gnevant’s concurrence required for the Committee to reach a settlement of the grievance. Grievant, however, does nave the right to point out the existence of other facts or witnesses favorable to gnevant’s case.
Notwithstanding the foregoing prohibition, with the written consent of the Union's Business Manager, or designee, the members of the Local Investigating Committee may include the grievant where such employee is also the shop steward representing the department involved in the grievance. In this limited situation, the shop steward/grievant may be a party to the disposition of the grievance. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(3)	(a) Withrin 30 calendar days following the filing of a grievance which does not concern an employee's qualifications for promotion or transfer (except as provided in the next paragraph for Inter-regional or General Office Departmental prebids or transfer applications), or the employee’s demotion, suspension or termination of employment, the Local Investigating Committee shall prepare a report of its findings, which shall include: (i) a mutually agreed-to brief narration of all the events and factors involved in the dispute, and (ii) the Committee's
10
mutually agreed-to findings with respect thereto. If the Committee has reached an agreeable disposition of the grievance, Ine report shairalso contain a statement to Chat effect and the reasons therefore. (Amended 1-1-88)
Inter-regional or General Office Departmental prebids or transfer applications shall be subject to the further limitation, however, that the report of the employee's present Regional or General Office Departmental Local Investigating Committee shall be forwarded within 15 calendar days from the date a report was requested by the bypassing Region or General Office Department and further, the latter Committee must dispose of the grievance, in the manner described above, no later than 15 calendar days thereafter. (Amended 1-1-88)
If the grievance is not resolved in 30 calendar days following its being timely filed, either Company or Union may request "Certification to Fact Finding" for a local grievance, or referral to the Review Committee for a Business Manager's Grievance. (Amended 1-1-00)
The referral in either event shall be accompanied by the report referred to above. The referral shall also include either an agreed-to summary or separate summaries or the reasons (facts or factors in dispute) why the Local Investigating Committee could not resolve the grievance.
If either party requests "Certification to Fact Finding," copies of the report and the request shall be forwarded to the Chairman and the Secretary of the Review Committee. If the request is not received within the seven calendar days following the expiration of time limits stated for resolution by the Local Investigating Committee, the grievance will be automatically referred to Fact Finding. Business Manager Grievances not resolved by the LIC within the time limits in Step Two(3) (a) will be automatically referred to the Review Committee. (Amended 1-1-00)
(3) (b) Within 15 calendar days following the filing of a grievance which does concern an employee's qualifications for promotion or transfer (except as provided above for Inter-regional or General Office Departmental prebids or transfer applications), or an employee's demotion, suspension or termination of employment, the Local Investigating Committee shall prepare a report of its findings as set forth in Subsection (a) above.
If such grievance is not resolved in 15 calendar days following its being timely filed, the grievance must be referred to and accepted by the Fact Finding Committee. The referral snail also include the report referred to above and either an agreed-to summary or separate summaries of the reasons (facts or factors in dispute) why the Local Investigating Committee could not resolve the grievance. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
STEP THREE
FACT FINDING COMMITTEE
The Fact Finding Committee shall be composed of the Chairman of the Review Committee or his/her designee, the Secretary of the Review Committee or his/her designee, and the Human Resources Advisor and the Business Representative involved in the preceding step. (Amended 1 -1 -00)
The Fact Finding Committee shall hold hearings or meet at such places and times as it deems necessary to resolve the grievance, rt the grievance is resolved by the Fact Finding Committee before the expiration of the 30 calendar days following the date of referral from the preceding step, the Committee shall issue an agreed-to "Memorandum of Disposition," copies of which shall be distributed to each member of the Committee and to the grievant, and such others as the Committee determines.
If the Fact Finding Committee has not settled the grievance within 30 calendar days following receipt of or acceptance of certification, it may, by mutual agreement of the Secretary and Chairman, be:
(1)	referred to arbitration; or
(2)	referred to the Region or General Office Department Joint Grievance Committee; or
(3)	referred back to the Local Investigating Committee tor further information and/or instructions as to the grounds for settlement; or
If none of the foregoing can be mutually agreed to, the complete grievance file shall be referred to the Review Committee. (Amended 1-1-88)
Region or General Office Department Joint Grievance Committee (Deleted 1-1-00)
STEP FOUR (Title Amended 1-1-00)
REVIEW COMMITTEE
The Review Committee shall consist of four representatives designated by Company's Director of Industrial Relations, one of whom shall serve as Chairman of the Committee, and four representatives designated by the Union, one of whom shall serve as Secretary of the Committee. Company will not assume payment or any expense or lost time incurred by Union members of the Review Comm ittee.
The Chairman of the Committee shall maintain an agenda of the current cases referred to the Committee. So long as there are cases pending on the agenda, the Committee shall meet at least once each calendar month.
11
These monthly meetings shall be scheduled for the fourth Thursday of each month unless the Chairman and Secretary agree to meet more often. (Amended 10-1-03)
A.	PRE-REVIEW COMMITTEE PROCEDURE
After the Industrial Relations Department receives a Business Manager's Grievance or the file from the Local Investigating Committee or Fact Finding Committee as provided for in the foregoing, four copies shall be submitted to the Union’s Business Office. Thereafter, and prior to docketing, the Chairman and the Secretary of the Review Committee shall meet at a mutually agreeable time and place for the following purposes: (Amended 1-1-00)
(i)	To allow Company to indicate whether or not it will implement the correction asked for. In the event Company takes such action, the grievance will, upon agreement of Union, be considered closed; or
(ii)	To allow Union to indicate whether or not it will summarily reject the grievance. In the event Union fakes such action, the grievance will, upon agreement of Company, be considered closed; or
(iii)	To determine whether or not the file forwarded for review contains sufficient facts to enable the Review Committee to formulate a decision. In the event it is determined the file Is incomplete, it shall forthwith, and prior to docketing, be returned to the source of referral for correction or supplementation.
(iv)	To number and docket cases not disposed of by subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) above; and
(v)	To prepare a statement of issues and to endeavor to reach a preliminary understanding of grounds for settlement.
(vi)	To appoint a Local Investigating Committee to investigate and prepare a Joint Statement of Facts for Business Manager Grievances. (Added 1-1-00)
B.	REVIEW COMMITTEE PROCEDURE
After the Pre-Review Committee meeting, referrals not disposed of shall automatically be added to the Review Committee Agenda.
(i)	Cases for which preliminary grounds for settlement have been reached in the Pre-Review Committee meeting shall have priority over other cases. The parties shall, as expeditiously as possible, determine whether the preliminary grounds are dispositive of the matter. In the event it is not, the matter shall be treated in the same manner as any other referral.
(ii)	Other referrals - Within 30 calendar days of docketing a grievance, the Company shall submit, in writing, a 'Preliminary Disposition" of all new cases placed on the Agenda. Company may have a continuance for an additional 30 calendar days or until the next Review Committee meeting, whichever is later, to submit such Preliminary Disposition.
(iii)	After receipt of the Preliminary Disposition, Union shall have 30 calendar days or until the next scheduled Review Committee meeting, whichever is later, to submit to the Company a "Counter-Preliminary Disposition."
(iv)	After receipt of Union's "Counter-Preliminary Disposition," a matter may, at the option of either party, be set over to the next scheduled Committee meeting if, in the view of either party, compromise or settlement appears possible. Within 30 calendar days thereafter or at the conclusion of the next scheduled meeting, whichever occurs later, the matter must be disposed of by mutual agreement, in writing, by one of the following methods:
(1)	Settlement.
(2)	Acceptance of Company's "Preliminary Disposition."
(3)	Acceptance of Union’s "Counter-Preliminary Disposition."
(4)	Close the Review Committee file and remove it from its Agenda by notifying the Company's Director of Industrial Relations and the Union's Business Manager that the case is "suspended. Following such notice, the Union's Business Manager and Company's Director ot Industrial Relations shall, within 15 calendar days, meet for the purpose of proposing an interim consultative disposition of the issues involved or, at their option, refer the case to an Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee as provided for pursuant to the provisions of Title 400 of the Physical Labor Agreement. (Amended 10-1-03)
If a matter so suspended has not been referred to an Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee for interim negotiations within 15 calendar days of the receipt of the case from the Review Committee and, provided further, if no other disposition is made within that time period, the case may, within five calendar days of the expiration of said 15 calendar days, be filed for arbitration pursuant to the applicable provisions of the applicable Labor Agreement then in effect between tine parties. If not filed for arbitration or if the 15-calendar-day limits are not waived as provided for hereafter, or if the grievance has not been withdrawn, the grievance shall be considered finally settled without prejudice.	•
12
If Ad Hoc Negotiations are agreed upon within the time periods provided, the Committee will meet and confer at the earliest date that can be arranged between them. The Committee will meet thereafter as often as both parties deem necessary to effect an early disposition of the issues involved. The Committee is empowered to render a final, binding disposition of the case. Such decision will be reduced to writing, signed by both Union and Company, and distributed by each to Union members and Company’s management as each deems necessary to effectuate the decision.	-
If an Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee is unable to reach a disposition of the "suspended" case within 180 days of the date the case was suspended, and if within that period of time neither party has notified the other in writing of their intent to submit said case to arbitration, then at the expiration of said 180 days, the case shall be automatically closed without prejudice, unless there is mutual agreement that the case be terminated by other means.
While "suspended," the preliminary disposition proposed by either party may, upon mutual agreement of the parties, be placed into effect anywhere without prejudice to either party. If both have submitted preliminary dispositions that provide for different methods ol resolving the issues, either or both may, by mutual agreement, be put into effect tor the purpose of determining which, if either, is mutually acceptable to the parties as a solution.
To provide a favorable atmosphere for negotiating a settlement of the issue referred to an Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee and to encourage the trial of preliminary dispositions proposed by either Company or Union, the period of "suspension* will insulate Company from additional monetary liability, if that is involved in the case, in the following manner: The Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee is empowered to mutually determine in an appropriate case, the amount of retroactive wage adjustment which will accompany its disposition of the case. In no event, however, will such period of retroactive wage adjustment exceed the period of time beginning with the date the grievance was originally filed and ending with the 30th calendar day following the date the Union notifies Company of their election to "suspend."
The period of suspension shall end, and the insulation of Company of further liability shall cease whenever either party notifies the other of its desire to submit the case to arbitration.
(5)	Referral to arbitration.
(6)	Withdrawal of the grievance by Union without prejudice.
(v)	Unless the parties mutually agree in writing to the waiver of the applicable time limitation in any specific instance, the failure to strictly comply with the time limits provided above shall result in:
(1)	Granting, at the option of the Union! of the correction sought by the grievance if Company does not submit its "Preliminary Disposition* within the time limits set forth in Item (ii) of this PartB, or
(2)	The closure of the case without adjustment and without prejudice.
(vi)	Either party may request a Review Committee hearing. Such hearing will be scheduled at the earliest time possible, but shall not delay or extend the running of time limits set forth in Part B of this Procedure.
STEP FIVE (Title Amended 1-1-00)
ARBITRATION
A. TRIPARTITE BOARD
Either Company or Union may request, within the time limits provided in the foregoing steps, that a grievance which is not settled at one of the steps provided above be submitted to arbitration.
An Arbitration Board shall be appointed on each occasion that a grievance is timely submitted to arbitration Pursuant to the foregoing provisions or this Title. The board shall be composed of two members appointed by dmpany, two members appointed by Union, and a fifth member appointed pursuant to the procedure set forth in the following Subsection B. Such fifth member shall act as Chairman or the Arbitration Board and conduct hearings and render a decision in accordance with the appropriate Submission Agreement.
B, SELECTION PROCEDURE
The parties to an arbitration proceeding will make a good faith effort to mutually agree to the selection of the Chairman, It they cannot, each party shall nominate two candidates from the panel established by Company and Union, Subsection C. If the parties are still unable to agree upon the selection of a Chairman, then the Chairman shall be chosen by lot from the panel names submitted.
C.	PANEL OF ARBITRATORS
1	A panel of not more titan ten arbitrators shall be established and renewed annually by the Company and the
।	Union on January 1 of that year. Each party shall have the right to name five panelists who will remain on the panel
during the calendar year.	.
I
I
13
102.7	INDIVIDUAL DISPUTE ADJUSTMENT
Pursuant to the provisions of Subsection 9(a) of the Labor Management Rotations Act of 1949, as last amended, no provision of this Title shall be construed to restrict or prohibit an individual employee or group of employees from presenting disputes to Company and to have such disputes adjusted without the intervention of Union, provided that the adjustment shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, and that Union shall be given an opportunity to be present at such adjustment. (Amended 1-1-91)
An employee's election under this Section shall not preclude the employee's later consenting to Union's filing a grievance on his/her behalf if the employee is not satisfied with the results. Such grievance, however, must be filed within the time limits provided in Section 102.3, and such time limits are not delayed or suspended by the grievant's original choice to pursue the dispute without Union's intervention. {Amended 1 -1 -91)
Unless the employee consents to Union's later filing of a timely grievance, the procedures and grievance "steps" set forth in the foregoing Sections of this Title are not available to the employee.
102.8	ENABLING CLAUSE
By written agreement between Company and Union, other provisions may be substituted for or added to the provisions of this Title.
102.9	ATTACHMENTS
In addition to the provisions of Section 105.5 of this Agreement, the Master Apprenticeship Agreement, the Benefit Agreements, Training Agreements, and other special agreements that may be executed from time to time under Section 102.8, the provisions of this Title shall also include the following attachments which are set out elsewhere in this Agreement.
(a)	Continuing Grievances
(b)	(Deleted 1-1-94)
(Entire Title Amended 1-1-80)
Attachment A
LABOR AGREEMENT INTERPRETATION
SUBJECT:	Retroactive Wage Adjustment ~ Continuing Grievances
SECTION 102.2 - Physical Agreement
SECTION 9.2 - Clerical Agreement
For the purpose of determining the extent of a retroactive wage adjustment resulting from the submission of a continuing grievance timely filed under the applicable provisions of Section 102.2 or 9.2, the following procedure will be observed. For this purpose, a "continuing grievance" is defined as a continuing course of conduct allegedly in violation of the Labor Agreement as opposed to a single isolated and completed transaction.
1.	The period of retroactive wage adjustment shall not exceed thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date of filing such grievance in writing in the form and manner prescribed by Section 102.2 or 9.2, whichever is applicable, unless
2.	It can be established that sometime prior to filing the grievance, as provided above, the grievant requested his or her supervisor to make the same correction, during the period of that continuing course of conduct, and a supervisor of gnevant, who is authorized to make the correction, had declined to do so. The period of retroactive wage adjustment in this case (or an adjustment made pursuant to the provisions of Section 102.7 or 9.7) shall commence with the date it can be established that grievant made such request. In either event, however, if the request was made within thirty (30) calendar days of the day the alleged violation first occurred, the adjustment shall commence with the first day the violation occurred.
It is further understood and agreed that this interpretation shall in no way limit Company's right to make further wage adjustments which result from unintentional or inadvertent errors which are not alleged to be a matter of law or interpretation of the Labor Agreements.
For Union:	/s/ Ronald T. Weakley
Its Business Manager
Date: March 17,1969
For Company: /s/ I.W. Bonbright
Its Manager oflndustrial Relations
Date: March 17,1969
14
Attachment B (Deleted 1-1-94)
TITLE 103.	HOLIDAYS
103.1	HOLIDAY ENTITLEMENT
Only regular employees who are not on a “leave of absence" and who:
(a)	are paid for the workdays immediately before and after the holiday, or
(b)	are off work with permission, but without pay, tor reasons of illness or disability, on the workdays immediately before and after the holiday, or
(c)	are paid for the workday either before or after the holiday but are off work with permission without pay on the other day,
shall, except as provided in Section 1037, be entitled to have the following holidays off with pay when they fall on a workday in such employee's basic workweek:
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Washington's Birthday Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day
Veterans Day Thanksgiving Day Friday after Thanksgiving Christmas Day Three Floating Holidays
(January 1)
(3rd Monday in January)
(3rd Monday in February)
(last Monday in May)
(July 4)
(1st Monday in September)
(November 11)
(4th Thursday in November)
(December 25)
(see Section 103.3)
(Amended 1-1-94)
103.2	(Deleted 1-1-88)
103.3	FLOATING HOLIDAYS
(a)	An employee may select any day as a floating holiday, except those holidays listed under Section 103.1, either during the vacation sign-up provided for in Section 111.13 or during the year. Except in emergencies, employees shall make a good faith effort to notify their supervisor at least 24 hours in advance for all floating holidays which are not scheduled in accordance with Section 111.13. A supervisor may, however, limit the number of employees in a classification at a headquarters who may be off on a floating holiday on any given day. If more employees elect a specific day as a floating holiday than can be permitted to be off on that day, the preference will be given in order of service to employees who sign up during the annual vacation sign-up. Under no circumstances may an employee with greater service "bump* an employee who has signed up for a given floating holiday earlier in the year. (Amended W-1-03)
(b)	Employees are strongly encouraged to schedule and take Floating Holidays during the calendar year in which they are granted. However, any unused Floating Holiday hours as of December 31of each year will be converted to vacation hours and will be deferred pursuant to Section 111.11(a). (Added 10-1-03)
103.4	SUNDAY HOLIDAYS
When any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday. However, those employees scheduled to work on Sunday at the straignt-time rate shall observe that Sunday as a holiday and the following Monday shall not be treated as a holiday. (Amended 1-1-91)
103.5	(Deleted 1-1-91)
103.6	HOLIDAY ON EMPLOYEE'S NON-WORKDAY
H a holiday falls on a regular employee's non-workday, such employee shall be entitled to have one additional workday off with pay. Such day shall be scheduled in conjunction with the employee's next scheduled vacation under the provisions of Title 111, except that such day may be taken prior to the employee’s next scheduled vacation with the approval of the supervisor in charge. In no event shal the additional day be taken prior to the date of the holiday. By agreement between the employee and the Company, the employee may elect to take one day's pay at fire straignt-time rate lor each holiday that falls on his/her non-workday. Such election shall be exercised within ten workdays after the holiday falls on an employee’s non-workday. Ine provisions Of this Section shall not apply to part-time employees. (Amended 1-1-88)
15
103.7	WORK ON HOLIDAYS
(a)	Regular employees in the classifications listed below may be regularly scheduled to work on holidays which fall on their workdays and shall be compensated therefore as provided in Title 208. The number of such employees regularly scheduled to work on a holiday shall be kept at a minimum consistent with operational requirements. By agreement between the employee and the Company, the employee may take one additional workday off with pay
Classifications listed in Exhibits III, IV and V
Roving Operator
Water System Operator
Classifications subject to the provisions of Section 202.5.
if the Company determines that the services of an employee, who is regularly scheduled to work on a holiday, are not required on the holiday, such employee, upon being notified by Company any time prior to quitting time of such employee's workday next preceding the holiday, shall then take the holiday off with pay and the employee’s name shall be considered to be removed from the schedule for such day. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	A regular employee may be required to perform prearranged or emergency work on a holiday which falls on a workday in The employee's basic workweek in which event the employee shall, in addition to his/her noliday pay, be compensated therefore as provided in Title 208 or 308. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	(Deleted 1-1-88)
103.8	PAY FOR HOLIDAY WORK ON NON-WORKDAY
If an employee is required to work on a holiday which falls on a non-workday or on a workday outside his/her basic workweek, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation at one and one-half times the employee's straight rate of pay for all time worked on such day. (Amended 1-1-91)
103.9	HOLIDAY PAY FOR PROBATIONARY OR CASUAL EMPLOYEES
A probationary or casual employee shall not be entitled to pay for a holiday unless such employee works on such day, in which event the employee shall be paid at one and one-half times the straight rate of pay for the time so worked. (Amended 1-1-91)
103.10	(Deleted 1-1-97)
103.11	(Deleted 1-1-97)
103.12	HOLIDAY PAY-TIME CARD UPGRADE
The holiday pay of an employee, who works in other than his/her regular classification on a time card basis, shall be based on the rate of payor his/her regular classification. (Amended T-1-91)
103.13	HOLIDAY PAY - OTHER THAN TIME CARD UPGRADE
The holiday pay of an employee, who is temporarily upgraded other than on a time card basis, shall be based on the rate of pay of the job to which the employee is temporarily upgraded. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
103.14	ERROR
ff an employee is misinformed as to his/her holiday entitlement, such employee will not be required to reimburse the Company for any excess day(s) taken if such employee pointed out the error to his/her supervisor in writing. (Amended 1-1-91)
in those cases where an employee has not pointed out the error to his/her supervisor in writing beforehand, the employee may elect to (a) reimburse the Company for the wages paid for the excess day(s), or (b) have such excess day(s) be deducted from his/her current vacation entitlement, if any, or (c) have such excess day(s) be deducted from his/her next year's holiday entitlement and if none, vacation entitlement. (Added 1-1-91)
103.15	(Deleted 1-1-94)
TITLE 104.	MEALS
104.1	* INTENT
The provisions of this Title shall be interpreted and applied in a practical manner which shall conform to the intention of the parties in negotiating with respect to meals; namely, that a comparable substitute shall be provided when employees are prevented from observing their usual and average meal practices or are prevented from eating a meal at approximately the usual time therefore.
16
I I I
I
104.2	MEALS - EMERGENCY OUTSIDE WORK HOURS AND NON-WORKDAYS - GENERAL
If Company requires an employee to perform emergency work on the employee's non-workday or wholly outside of the employee's regular work hours on workdays, it shall, if possible, provide the employee with a meal at intervals of approximately four hours for as long as such work continues, but such employee snail not be required to work more than five consecutive hours without a meal if one can be provided. This Section shall be construed not to apply to cases wherein work extends beyond regular quitting time on a workday.
104.3	MEALS - EMERGENCY PRIOR TO WORK HOURS
If Company requires an employee to perform emergency work on workdays starting two hours or more before regular work hours and such employee continues to work into regular work hours, the employee shall provide for one meal on the job and Company shall provide other meals as required by the duration of the work period, but if such emergency work starts less than two hours before regular work hours the usual meal arrangements shall prevail. If tn any of the foregoing cases Company does not give an employee an opportunity to eat a breakfast and prepare a lunch before reporting Tor work, it shall provide such meals. The meals provided for in this Section shall be eaten at approximately the usual times therefore and the usual practice relating to lunch periods on workdays shall prevail. (Amended 1-1-91)
104.4	MEALS - WORK BEYOND QUITTING TIME
If Company requires an employee to perform work for more than one hour beyond regular work hours, it shall provide the employee with a meal approximately one hour after regular quitting time and with meals at intervals thereafter of approximately four hours but not more than five hours for as long as the employee continues such work. (Amended 1-1-91)
104.5	MEALS - PREARRANGED WORK ON NON-WORKDAYS
When an employee is required to perform prearranged work on non-workdays during regular work hours the employee shall observe the lunch arrangement which prevails on his/her workdays. If such work continues after regular work hours Company shall provide the employee with meals in accordance with the provisions of Section 104.4 hereof. (Amended 1-1-91)
104.6	MEALS - PREARRANGED WORK - OUTSIDE WORK HOURS
If Company requires an employee to perform prearranged work wholly outside of regular work hours on either workdays or non-workdays such employee shall be permitted to have time off for a meal approximately four hours but not more than five hours after the employee starts work, such meal to be furnished by the employee at the employee's own expense. The time necessarily taken for any such meal up to one-half hour shall be at Company expense. (Amended 1-1-91)
104.7	MEALS - PREARRANGED WORK - EXTENDED HOURS
It prearranged work as described in Section 104.6 hereof continues after the meal provided for in said Section, Company shall provide subsequent meals at intervals thereafter of approximately four hours but not more than five hours for as long as such work continues.
104.8	MEALS - PREARRANGED WORK BEFORE REGULAR HOURS
If Company requires an employee to perform prearranged work starting two hours or more before regular work hours on workdays or non-workdays and such employee continues to work into regular work hours, the employee shall provide for one meal on the job and Company snail provide other meals as required by the duration of the work period. The meals provided for in this Section shalibe eaten at approximately the usual times therefore and the usual practice relating to lunch periods on workdays shall prevail. (Amended 1-1-91)
104.9	MEALS - REIMBURSEMENT WHEN PURCHASED
Company shall reimburse an employee for the cost of a meal under the provisions of this Title when such meals are purchased by the employee. (Amended 1-1-88)
104.10	MEALS - REIMBURSEMENT AND TIME TAKEN
(a)	Company shall pay the cost of any meal which it is required to provide under this Title, and shall consider as hours worked the time necessarily taken to consume such meal, except, however, that when a meal is taken at Company expense following dismissal from work the time allowance therefore shall be one-half hour. If an employee who is entitled to a meal under the provisions of this Title prior to work, during or upon dismissal from work does not accept such meal the employee shall nevertheless be entitled to such time allowance of one-half hour for each meal missed and meal reimbursement as provided in (b) below. The foregoing shall not apply to an employee's regular lunch period. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
17
(b)	At the employee's option. Company shall pay an allowance for any meal which it is required to provide in accordance with the following schedule:
1.	Prior to reporting to work:
(i)	Meal nearest regular starting time	$ 8.00
(ii)	Meal nearest midpoint of regular hours	$ 8.00
(iii)	Meal nearest regular quitting time	$15.00
2.	Meal following dismissal from work	$15.00
3.	Meal missed during a work period	$15.00
The allowances referred to above may be paid by separate check and shall be issued on a weekly basis.
(Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	"Regular hours, starting time, lunch period and quitting time" on a non-workday are the same as those of a workday. (Added 1-1-84)
104.11	TIME INTERVALS
In determining time intervals for the purpose of providing meals there shall not be included any travel time from an employee's home nor any time allowed for meals.
104.12	OVERTIME MEALS FOR SHIFT EMPLOYEES
The provisions of this Title shall appfy to shift employees as foltows:
(a)	The employee may arrange to have a meal purchased for herself/himself and delivered to the job. In such event, Company shall pay die cost or the meal and reasonable commercial delivery charges, if any, associated with such meal or (Amended T-1-88)
(b)	when held over from the employee's previous shift, the employee may take the meal upon dismissal from work and Company shall pay the cost of the meal and one-half hour for the time to consume such meat, or in lieu thereof, the employee may elect to receive a flat payment in accordance with the schedule set forth in 104.10(b) plus a time allowance of one-half hour, or (Amended 1-1-88)
(c)	such employee may provide the meal(s) on the job, and the Company shall pay the employee an allowance of $8.00 for each meal. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	If an employee is not assigned to shift work which requires the employee to remain on the job, the employee shall follow the same overtime meal practice as any other employee, and Ine time necessary to eat the meal shall be considered work time. (Amended 1-1-88)
104.13	SHIFT EMPLOYEES
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, shift employees and other employees whose workday consists of eight consecutive hours shall be permitted to eat their meals during work hours and shall not be allowed additional time therefore at Company expense.
104.14	MEALS - REGULAR WORK HOURS ON WORKDAYS
Except as provided in Sections 104.3 and 104.8 hereof, nothing contained herein shall be construed to require Company to provide meals during regular work hours on workdays.
104.15	MEALS - RESIDENT EMPLOYEES
This Title shall apply to resident employees. Where Company determines that it is not practicable to provide meals on the job for resident employees, as herein provided, they shall provide their own meals and Company shall reimburse them for the cost thereof not to exceed $8.00 for each meal. (Amended 1-1-91)
TITLE 105.	SAFETY
105.1	PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS
(a)	The safety rules of the state having jurisdiction shall be observed by the parties hereto. It is recognized that the Employer has the exclusive responsibility for providing a safe and healthful workplace.
(b)	Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety of employees in the performance of their work. It shall provide each new employee, and each employee who has transferred into an electric generating or gas compressor plant, with a safety indoctrination during the first five days of employment, which shall include, where
18
appropriate, giving such employee a copy of the Accident Prevention Rule Book and an indication of the applicable Sections therein.
(c)	Company and Union shall cooperate in promoting the realization of the responsibility of the individual employee and supervisor with regard to the prevention of accidents.	,
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-91)
105.2	PROMULGATION OF ACCIDENT PREVENTION RULES
(a)	Company reserves the right to promulgate reasonable accident prevention rules for employees and to insist on the observance of such rules. Except in emergencies, at least 14 days before a new or revised accident prevention rule is put into effect and disseminated in writing, Company shall inform Union of the substance of such rule for its comments and possible referral to the Health and Safety Committee as provided for in Section 105.3 below. (Amended 1-1-80)
(b)	Nothing in the Accident Prevention Rules is intended to conflict with applicable Federal or State heafth and safety laws, rules and regulations. In the event any applicable Federal or State health or safety rules are revised or adopted so that any provisions of the Accident Prevention Rules are in conflict therewith, such rules shall be revised as provided in Subsection (a) above.
1OS.3	HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
(a)	Members - There shall be established immediately a Company-Union Heafth and Safety Committee consisting of not more than ten members, five of whom shall be appointed by Company's Director of Industrial Relations from among its employees and five of whom shall be appointed by Union from among its members. (Amended 10-1-03)
(b)	Purpose - The purpose of the Committee will be to further promote safe working conditions and safety awareness on the part of both supervisors and other employees; negotiate with respect to additions to or revisions of the Accident Prevention Rules; discuss serious industrial accidents where not prejudicial to the legal position of either the employee or Company, and report hazardous conditions; adjust grievances relating to any provision of this Title; and such other related agenda items as either party may request.
(c)	Chairman-Secretary - The Chairman and the Secretary of the Committee shall be appointed by the Company. The Secretary will prepare meeting agendas and keep the minutes of the meeting which will be distributed to the Committee members.
(d)	Meetings - The Committee provided for herein shall meet quarterly on the third Wednesday in the months of February, May, August, and November unless it is mutually agreed in writing to schedule any such meeting on a different date or to cancel it. (Amended 1 -1-83)
In addition to the foregoing, the Committee shall also meet on a mutually convenient date at the request of the Union's Business Manager or the Company's Director of Industrial Relations. (Amended 10-1-03)
(e)	Agenda - An agenda for each meeting shall be prepared by the Secretary and distributed to the Committee prior to each such meeting. The Committee members, the Company or the Union may submit items for discussion to the Secretary at least two weeks prior to any scheduled meeting date. Items so submitted that are within the scope of (b) above will be listed on the agenda prepared by the Secretary.
105.4	TIME
The time spent in connection with the work of this Committee by Union's Committee members who are employees of the Company shall be paid by Company, and Union shall reimburse Company for such expenditures in accordance with the provisions of the letter agreement dated July 6,1977. (Amended 1-1-80)
105.5	GRIEVANCES
(a)	Grievances concerning any provision of this Title shall be filed and processed in accordance with the provisions of Title 102-Grievance Procedure-except that: (1) prior to the discussion of such grievances at a Division Local Investigating Committee, the Union shall give Company sufficient notice so that arrangements can be made to have a Company Safety Supervisor present at me meeting to act as a consultant to any such Committee; and (2) Union's Business Manager may in lieu of Union referring such grievances to a Fact Finding Committee or the Review Committee as provided for in Title 102, upon giving 15 calendar days' written notice to Company's Director of Industrial Relations, request that such grievance be forwarded to the Committee provided for herein for inclusion on the agenda of its next quarterly meeting or request that a special meeting be called for the purpose of adjusting such grievance. The Committee may, in its discretion, conduct a hearing on any grievance forwarded to if (3) Adjustment-the decision of a majority of the members of the Committee shall be final and binding on Company, Union, and the aggrieved employee, if any, provided that this decision does not tn any way add to, disregard, or modify any of the provisions or this Agreement. The Committee in its discretion may issue written decisions in a form agreeable to the Committee in cases which have been timely referred to the Committee; or it may refer a case back to any level of the Grievance Procedure provided for in Title 102 of this Agreement, along with written instructions it may wish to issue to the Committee to which the case is referred. (Amended 10-1-03)
(b)	By written agreement, Company and Union may replace or modify the Safety Grievance Procedure provided for in Subsection (a) above at any time during the term of this Agreement. (Amendecr 1-1-80)
105.6	ELECTION OF REMEDY
(a)	The parties, in their belief that the health and safety of employees is of mutual concern to the Company, the Union and the employees, will mutually strive to resolve disputes with respect to health and safety issues. To that end Union agrees to raise ail health and safety issues with Company before availing itself of any other remedy provided by Federal or State law or regulation for the settlement of disputes over health and safety issues. Union agrees that it will, in addition, encourage any individual employee in the bargaining unit who may believe that he/she has a complaint with respect to a safety matter to exhaust these remedies before electing any individual recourse to investigate and adjust such matters as may be provided by Federal or State law or regulation. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	No employee shall be discharged for refusing to work on a job, a piece of equipment, or under conditions which present a real and apparent hazard to the employee's life or health. (Amended 1-1-80)
105.7	ELECTRICAL LIMITS
(a)	■ Except in cases of trouble and emergency work involving immediate hazard to life or property, an employee shall not work alone dangerously near energized fines of more than 600 volts.
(b)	Only qualified employees shall take clearance on electrical equipment. (Relocated 1-1-83 from 207.5)
105.8	SAFETY INSPECTION COMMITTEES
Safety Inspection Committees shall continue to function in the prevention of accidents by ascertaining unsafe working conditions and recommending measures to be taken for correction thereof. There shall be as many such Committees in each Division as may be warranted by the extent of the territory of such Division and the number of emolovees therein, but in no event shall there be less than two such Committees in any Division. Division Managers shall make appointments to the Safety Inspection Committees from among nominees selected by Union for their respective Divisions. Union shall annually provide each Division Manager with a list of ai least three nominees for each Committee; one of such nominees shall be appointed in the spring and another prior to September 7 for a term of one and one-half years. Each such Committee shall continue to be composed of three non-supervisory employees who shall be selected from different departments or shops, except that, where practical, an additional member shall be appointed from a General Construction crew which is headquartered within the physical boundaries of the Division. Committee members shall serve for three periodic inspections. The chairman of each such Committee shall be the Division employee who has served on said Committee for the two preceding inspection periods. Each Committee shall make not less than two inspections annually of Company's properties and activities in its designated territory. One of such inspections should be made between January 1 and June 30 of each year and the other of sucn inspections during the month of September prior to "Fire Week." Members of such Inspection Committees shall have time off with pay for the purpose of making said inspections and reports and shall be reimbursed by Company for expenses incurred therefore. (Amended 1-1-80)
105.9	WALK-AROUND INSPECTIONS
Union may select from among its members, individuals who shall serve as employee representatives in walk-around inspections conducted by authorized Federal or State agencies. Union shall keep Company advised as to such selectees. Time spent in such inspections by employees shall be considered and compensated for as their regularly assigned work.
105.10	INDUSTRIAL INJURY REPORTS
(a)	In the event of a serious injury or fatal accident involving any employee covered by this Agreement, Company shall notify Union as soon as possible, but not later than 24 hours after such occurrence. (Added 1-1-88)
(b)	To the extent feasible, Company shall submit a quarterly summary of all lost-time industrial injuries to Union. Such summary is to be submitted at least 15 days in advance of regularly scheduled meetings of the Company-Union Health and Safety Committee. (Amended 1-1-88)
TITLE 106.	STATUS
106.1	. EMPLOYMENT DATE
As used in this Agreement, "employment date" means the latest date on which an employee began a period of Service with Company.
20
I
106.2	COMPANY
As used tn this Title, the term "Company** shall include:
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Standard Pacific Gas Line, Inc.
Pacific Gas Transmission Company
Alberta and Southern Gas Company
Alberta Natural Gas Company
Pacific Service Employees Association
Alaska California LNG Company
• Calaska Energy Company
Eureka Energy Company
Gas Lines, Inc.
Natural Gas Corporation
Pacific Gas Marine Company
Pacific Transmission Supply Company
(Amended 1-1-80)
106.3	SERVICE
Service is defined as the length of an employee's continuous employment since his/her Employment Date with Company, a Predecessor Company, any Company or association named in Section 106.2 above, and as provided hereafter in Section 106.4. The continuity of an employee's Service shall be deemed to be broken by termination of employment for any reason or layoffs for lack of work which is in excess of the time provided for in Subsection (a) below. The following periods of absence shall count as service for purposes of this Agreement and shall not constitute a break in service: (Amended 1-1-88)
(a)	Absences caused by layoff for (ack of work so long as such employee has been absent less than thirty continuous months. (Amended 1-1-94)
(b)	Absence on a leave of absence authorized by the Company pursuant to the provisions of Title 101 provided the employee returns to active work with Company immediately folrowing the leave of absence. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	Absence because of illness or injury as long as the employee is entitled to receive sick leave pay or is entitled to receive benefits under the provisions of the Voluntary Wage Benefit Plan, a state disability plan, the Long-Term Disability Plan, or a Workers' Compensation Law, provided that the employee returns to active work with Company immediately following recovery from the illness or injury. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(d)	Absence for military service or service in the Merchant Marine so long as the employee returns to active work with the Company within the period during which the employee's reemployment rights are protected by law. (Amended 1-1-91)
(e)	Absence for Union business pursuant to the provisions of Section 101.6.
If an employee fails to return to active work within the above time limits for any reason except death or disability, Service shall be deemed terminated as of the expiration of the time limit. (Amended 1 -1-91)
An employee who is rehired after a break in Service shall be treated as a new employee for all purposes, and Service and compensation before the break tn Service shall not be recognized for any purpose under any provisions of this Agreement. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
106.4	ACQUISITIONS
In the acquisition of another company, the Service of the employees involved in such acquisition may be established by written agreement between Company and Union.
106.5	REGULAR STATUS
(a)	Regional or General Office Departmental Employees
(1)	Regional or General Office Departmental employees shall be designated as probationary and regular, depending on the length of their Service. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(2)	New employees shall be hired as probationary employees at a daily rate of pay not less than the minimum wage established for tne classification of work to be performed. As long as a probationary employee retains such status, the employee shall not acquire any Service, or rights with respect To leave of absence, holidays, job bidding and promotion, demotion and layoff, sick leave, vacation, or similar rights and privileges. (Amended 1-1-91)
(3)	On the completion of such employee's first six months of Service which, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 106.3 above, is uninterrupted by absence lor more than a cumulative total of 30 days due To (i)
21
layoff, (ii) sickness or disability, or (iii) any other reason, a probationary employee shall be given a status of a regular employee, a definite job classification, and placed on a weekly rate. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(4)	The transfer of a probationary employee from one job to another without interruption of work time shall not be considered an "interruption" of such six months' period of Service.
(b)	General Construction
(1)	General Construction employees shall be designated as casual or regular. A regular employee who has completed less than one year of Service extended by layoffs or absences of 30 consecutive days or more, may be terminated for inadequate work performance without recourse to the grievance procedure.
(2)	A casual employee is one who is hired at a daily wage rate for an indeterminate period of time and who, regardless of length of service with Company, does not, as long as the employee retains such status, acquire any service, vacation, sick leave, leave of absence, or similar rights and privileges. (Amended 1-1-91)
(3)	When a casual employee has completed six months of service with Company at its established rates of pay, such employee shall be given the status of regular employee, provided that he/she meets Company's qualifications for continued employment. As used herein, six months of service is defined as a minimum of 115 days of work in any period of six consecutive months at the straight rate of pay, provided, however, that if by reason of absence due to inclement weather or holidays In such period an employee was prevented from working a total of 115 days, such period shall be extended by not more than the total number of days of such absence. (Amended 1-1-91)
. .	A regular employeeis one who has qualified for transfer from the status of casual employee
and whose pay has been established at a weekly wage rate.
106.6	PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT
(a)	A part-time employee is any employee whose regularly scheduled workweek is less than 40 hours. Regular part-time employees who attained part-time status on or before December 31, 1990 shall be entitled to Service and prorated vacations and sick leave based on the ratio of total straight-time hours worked in a year by the employee to the iuii-iitne equivalent hours (2,080 hours per calendar vear), unless otherwise noted. Regular pan-time employees who attained part-time status on or after January 1, 1991 shall be entitled to Service and prorated benefits, vacations and sick leave based on the ratio of total straight-time hours worked in a year by the employee to the full-time equivalent hours (2,080 hours per calendar year), unless otherwise noted. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	A part-time employee who attains regular status or a regular full-time employee who accepts part-time status on or after January 1,1991 shall be eligible to receive the following benefits:
(1)	Group Life Insurance and Long-Term Disability coverage, and Retirement Plan and Savings Fund Plan benefits as provided in the Benefit Agreement.
(2)	Medical, Dental and Vision plan coverage as provided in the Medical, Dental and Vision Benefit Agreement.
(3)	Vacation allowance as provided in Title 111, but prorated based on the ratio of total straight-time hours worked in a year to 2,080 hours.
(4)	Sick Leave as provided in Title 112, but prorated based on the ratio of straight-time hours worked in a year to 2,080 hours. Sick leave may only be taken on those days or for those hours that an employee is asked or scheduled to work and is unable to work due to illness or non-indusfrial injury.
(5)	Paid holidays when regularly scheduled to work on that day. Such holiday payment shall be in proportion to the amount of time which the employee would have worked on that day if it were not a holiday.
(Added 1-1-91)
106.7	INTERMITTENT EMPLOYEES
(a)	An intermittent employee is one who does not work any set schedule of hours per day or days per week, but who is on call to Jill in on any schedule on an as-needed basis. During sickness or vacation relief periods, however, such employee may be assigned to work the schedule and hours of the absent employee if such an assignment cannot be made pursuant to the provisions of Subsection 205.3(a) or any Relief Agreement.
(b)	Intermittent employees will attain regular status upon the completion of six months of continuous service. Continuous service is defined in Section 106 5 as being uninterrupted by (1) discharge, (2) resignation, or (3) absence for more than a cumulative total of 30 days due to (i) layoff, (ii) sickness or industrial disability, or (iii) other causes. If an employee is off for more than 30 days during a six-month period, a new six-month qualifying period will begin upon return to work. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	An intermittent employee who attains regular status or a regular employee who accepts intermittent status shall be eligible to receive the following benefits:
22
(1)	Group Lite Insurance and Long-Term Disability coverage, and Retirement Plan and Savings Fund Plan benefits as provided in the Benefit Agreement.
(2)	Medical, Dental and Vision plan coverage as provided in the Medical, Dental and Vision Benefit Agreement.
(3)	Vacation allowance as provided in Title 111, but prorated based on the ratio of total straight-time hours worked in a year to 2,080 hours.
(4)	Sick Leave as provided in Title 112, but prorated based on the ratio of total straight-time hours in a year to 2,080 hours. Sick leave may only be taken on those days and for those hours that an employee is asked or scheduled to work and is unable to work due to illness or non-industrial injury.
(5)	Paid holidays when regularly scheduled to work that day. Such holiday payment shall be in proportion to the amount of time which the employee would have worked on that day if it were not a holiday.
(Entire Subsection Amended 1-1-91)
106.8	OVERTIME
Part-time and intermittent employees shall receive the overtime rate of pay set forth in Title 208 for hours worked in excess of eight hours in a day or 40 hours in a week, or on the sixth or seventh day worked in a week or on a holiday.
106.9	PROGRESSIVE WAGE INCREASES
Part-time and intermittent employees shall receive progressive wage increases (where applicable) upon completion of 1,040 hours of work at the straight-time rate of pay at an established wage step.
106.10	LIST
As soon after the end of each calendar year as it is practicable to do so, Company will furnish Union with a list showing the name, social security number, home address, employment date, and classification of each employee calculated to the end of such year.
106.11	INFORMATION
Upon an employee's request, Company shall give such employee any information of record concerning his/her status as an employee of Company. Such requested information shall be furnished during normal business hours and as soon as practicable, but within 28 calendar days from the date of the request. (Amended 1-1-91)
106.12	TEMPORARY ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEE (Added 1-1-91)
In order to make assignments lor occasional or seasonal work, Company may hire temporary additional employees in accordance with the following conditions:
(a)	Company shall first fill all temporary vacancies pursuant to Subsection 205.3 or 305.4 wherever possible.
(b)	Temporary additional employees shall attain regular status upon the completion of 1,040 hours in any 365 day period. Temporary additional employees shall not be eligible for sick pay, holiday pay, vacation pay, insurance coverage, pension coverage or items of similar nature, except as specifically provided herein.
(c)	The utilization of any temporary additional employee shall be considered as "contracting out of work* tor the purposes of Letter Agreement 88-104, but such employees will not be considered as working in the affected department tor the purposes of Letter Agreement 88-104.
(d)	Company shall utilize temporary additional employees in place of any agency employees.
TITLE 107.	MISCELLANEOUS
107.1	ANTI-ABROGATION CLAUSE
Company shall not by reason of the execution of this Agreement (a) abrogate or reduce the scope of any present plan or rule beneficiafto employees, such as its vacation and sick leave policies or its retirement plan, or (b) reduce the wage rate of any employee covered hereby, or change the conditions of employment o' any such employee to the employee's disadvantage. The foregoing limitation shall not limit Company in making a change in a condition of employment if such change has been negotiated and agreed to by Company and Union. (Amended 1-1-91)
23
107.2	SAFETY STRAPS
Initially employees shall furnish their own safety straps, which shall conform to Company specifications. When a safety strap is worn out in Company service, or is condemned by Company, it shall be replaced at no cost to the employee.
107.3	PERSONAL TOOLS
(a)	Company will continue its practice of supplying tools and equipment to employees where it presently does so.
(b)	Company shall provide the employee a list of personal tools the employee must provide. (Such lists may be changed only by agreement between Company and Union.) When the employee cannot practicably transport such tools to and from (he job headquarters daily, Company shall provide space for the safe storage of such tools. In the event that any of these listed personal tools which have been stored on Company's premises or in a Company vehicle are destroyed or damaged by fire, storm or flood, or are stolen (subject to evidence by the employee of the theft), Company snail reimburse the employee for any such loss which is in excess of any reimbursement for the tools such employee may receive from an insurance carrier. (Amended 1-1-91)
TITLE 10S. SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS FOR INDUSTRIAL INJURY
108.1	BENEFIT DESCRIBED
(a)	When an employee is absent by reason of injury arising out of and in the course of the employment with Company which comes within the application of the Workers' Compensation and insurance Chapters of the State Labor Code, the employee shall be eligible for supplemental benefits for the duration of temporary disability. Such benefits shall commence with the first workday of absence immediately following the day of the injury. The amount of the supplemental benefit payable shall be 75 percent of an employee's basic weekly wage rate divided by five, less the sum of any payments to which the employee may be entitled under the Workers' Compensation and Insurance Chapters of the State Labor Code and benefits from the Voluntary Wage Benefit Plan which provides benefits in lieu of unemployment compensation disability benefits provided for in the California Unemployment insurance Code. (Amended 1-1 -00 to be applicable to employees sustaining injuries 1 -1 -00 or after)
(b)	Any supplemental benefits paid during the first week of disability shall be considered as a credit against disability compensation which may be retroactively due under provisions of the Workers' Compensation and Insurance Chapters of the State Labor Code. Supplemental benefits paid for the first aggregate 182 days of absence shall be considered as a credit which may be applied to any permanent disability settlement. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
108.2	LIGHT DUTY
An employee who is absent by reason of industrial disability may be returned to work and given temporary Sht duties within his/her ability to perform. The duration of any such period of temporary work shall be determined by impany. Employees shall be compensated at the rate of pay of their regular classifications while engaged in sucn temporaiyduties. (Amended 1-1-91)	.
TITLE 109.	APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING
109.1	An Apprenticeship Committee consisting of three representatives of Union and three representatives of Company shall be established. The representatives appointed by Union shall be employees of Union or employees of Company. The representatives appointed by Company shall be employees of Company, one of whom shall be designated as Charman of the Apprenticeship Committee. Company will not assume payment of any expense or lost time incurred by Union representatives of the Apprenticeship Committee.
109.2	The functions of the Apprenticeship Committee shall consist of matters relating to the entrance requirements of employees for apprenticeship training and the discussion and analysis of such subjects as methods of grading, related training, means of progression, etc. By agreement in writing, Company and union may adopt programs or plans recommended by the Apprenticeship Committee. The development and administration of apprenticeship training programs shall continue to be the responsibility of Company.
TITLE 110.	PREMIUM PAY
110.1	SHIFT DEFINITIONS
All eight hour work periods regularly scheduled to begin at 4 a.m. or thereafter but before 12 o'clock noon shall be designated as first shifts. AITeight hour work periods regularly scheduled to begin at 12 o'clock noon or thereafter but before 8 p.m. shall be designated as second shifts. All eight hour work periods regularly scheduled to begin at 8 p.m. or thereafter but before 4 am. shall be designated as third shifts.
24
110.2	AMOUNT OF SHIFT PREMIUM
(a)	No shift premium shall be paid for the first shift. An hourly premium of 41/2 percent of the weighted average straight-time rate of all employees represented by Union (rounded to the nearest full cent per hour) shall be paid for work performed in the second shift, and an hourly premium of 9 percent of the weighted average straight-time rate of all employees represented by Union (rounded to the nearest full cent per hour) shall be paid for work performed in the third shirt. An employee will be paid the shift premium, if any, in effect for such employee's regular work hours for work performed on a regular workday where all work performed is contiguous with regular work hours. An employee will be paid the shift premium, if any, in effect for the shift in progress at the time such employee reports tor work (exclusive ol travel time) when work is performed on a regular workday where such work is not contiguous with regular work hours. An employee will be paid the shift premium, if any, in effect for time worked on such employee's non-workday based on the shift in progress at the time the employee starts work (exclusive of travel time). (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	The weighted average straight-time rate referred to in Subsection (a) hereof shall be calculated annually oy adding any genera) wage increase effective on January 1 to the computed weighted average straight-time rate as of the December 31 immediately prior, except as provided for in (c) below. The effective date of any change in shift premium shall be January 1. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	When all employees represented by Union are not granted equal increases, or where the effective date is not the same, the calculation snail be computed by adding the appropriate general wage increase to the appropriate group's weekly payroll ol the month immediately prior to the effective date of the general wage increase and adding the totals of the groups together to ascertain the total weekly payroll of the groups of employees represented by the Union. The sum of those amounts should be divided by the total number of employees represented by the Union and divided by 40. (Added 1 -1 -91)
110.3	OVERTIME RATE
When a shift premium is applicable to time worked at the overtime rate of pay, the applicable multiplier shall be used in determining the applicable shift premium.
110.4	NON-WORKTIME
Shift premiums shall.be payable only for hours actually worked, and shall not be paid for non-work time such as holidays, sick leave, and vacation.
110.5	PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Shift premiums shall not be payable for work performed by part-time employees (as that term is defined in Section 106.6) who work less than eight hours per day.
110.6	DISCLAIMER
Nothing contained in Sections 110.1 to 110.5, inclusive, hereof shall be construed to modify or supersede any other provision of this Agreement with respect to hours of work, rates of pay, and working conditions.
110.7	SUNDAY PREMIUM
In addition to any other compensation due an employee, Company shall pay to ail employees regularly scheduled to work on Sunday, and who in fact work on a Sunday, an hourly premium for such work equal To the premium paid by Company for the third shift as provided in Subsection 110.2(a) of the Agreement. (Added 1-1-80)
110.8	RELIEF PREMIUM
Employees in relief classifications shall receive a premium equal to the appropriate rate of the designated classification plus $5.00 per week plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium. (Added 1-1*91)
110.9	FIRE BRIGADE - STEAM AND NUCLEAR GENERATION
(a)	Employees who are assigned to perform fire protection and/or hazardous material emergency response duties at any work location, including training, instructing, and qualifying, and response to fire and hazardous waste spill emergencies, shall receive the following premium pay, compensated to the one-quarter hour, in addition to any other pay:
(1)	one time straight hourly rate of pay for time spent in actual fire response,
(2)	one-half time the straight hourly rate of pay for time spent in hazardous material response,
(3)	one-half time the straight hourly rate of pay for time spent in training, instructing, and
qualifying.
(b)	In the event there are more volunteers than needed, the individuals with the most seniority in the affected classifications shall be offered such assignments.
25
(c) In the event there are not a sufficient number of volunteers, the individuals with the least amount of
seniority in the affected classifications shall be assigned such duty contingent upon meeting the applicable
qualifications.
(Added 1-1-91)
TITLE 111.	VACATIONS
111.1	DEFINITIONS
(a)	Eligibility: The provisions of this Title apply only to regular employees.
(b)	A Regular Employee is an employee who has fulfilled the applicable requirements of Section 106.5 of this Agreement.
(c)	Earned Annual Vacation Allowance is the number of paid vacation days which an employee has earned in the previous calendar year. The number of paid vacation days will be determined by the straight-time days worked in the preceding calendar year and years of employment.
111.2	VACATION ALLOWANCE
(a)	A regular employee, who completes his/her first year of Service, shall be entitled to vacation with pay in accordance with the following table: (Amended 1-1-91)
Employment date: From	to inclusive	Days of Vacation
January 1	February 3	10
Februaiy 4 March 10	March 9 April 11	9 8
April 12	May 14	.	7
Mav15	June 16	6
Uurie 17	July 19	5
July 20	August 21	4
August 22	September 23	3
September 24	October 26	2
October 27	November 28	1
November 29	December 31	0
(b)	In the subsequent calendar years a regular employee shall be entitled to vacation with pay in accordance with the following table:
Subsequent Calendar Years Following Date of Employment
Workdays With Pay
2-5
6-15
10
16-21
15
22-29
30 and greater
20
25
30
(Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	(Deleted 1-1-91)
(d)	(Deleted	1-1-91)
(e)	(Deleted	1-1-91)
(f)	(Deleted	1-1-91)
111.3	SERVICE ANNIVERSARY VACATION - BONUS VACATION
(a)	In the fifth calendar year following his/her employment date and in each fifth calendar year thereafter,
Company shall grant each employee a service anniversary vacation of five workdays. A service anniversary vacation shall be in addition to the annual vacation allowance set forth in Section 111.2 above to which the employee may be otherwise entitled in that calendar year and the employee acquires no right as to all or any part of the service anniversary vacation unless the employee works in the calendar year in which it is granted. The service anniversary vacation, as herein provided, vests on the first day of each calendar year in which an employee qualifies for a service anniversary vacation, and must be taken in that calendar year. (The provisions of this Section shall not apply to part-time or intermittent employees.) (Amended 1-1-91)
26
(b)	In each of the first five calendar years following his/her employment date, an employee who has used five days or less of paid or unpaid sick leave in the preceding year shall be entitled to one day of bonus vacation in addition to any vacation allowance the employee is entitled to as set forth tn Section 111.2. An employee must complete one year of Service before becoming qualified for such day. In the tenth calendar year following an employee's employment date and in each fifth calendar year thereafter, an employee who has used 25 days or less of sick leave during the five preceding calendar years shall be entitled to five bonus days of vacation in addition to the vacation allowance the employee is entitled to as set forth in Section 111.2. In determining the number of sick days used in computing 25 days or less, no more than ten days or 80 hours will be charged to the employee in any one Ksar. The bonus vacation, as herein provided, vests on the first day of each year in which an employee qualifies for a onus vacation and must be taken in that calendar year. An employee acquires no right to all or any part of the bonus vacation unless such employee works in the calendar year in which it is granted. (The provisions of this Section shall not apply to part-time or intermittent employees.) (Amended 1 -1 -91)
111.4	PART-TIME AND INTERMITTENT REGULAR EMPLOYEES
A regular part-time or intermittent employee shall earn an annual vacation allowance as determined in the foregoing Section 111.2, but such allowance will be based on the ratio of the total straight-time hours worked by the employee in a year to 2,080 hours. (Amended 1-1-91)
111.5	FORFEITURE OF VACATION
(a)	An employee who is absent for 22 consecutive workdays or more in any calendar year by reason of leave of absence or layoff without pay for any reason, or for 110 workdays or more in any calendar year by reason of industrial disability, shall in the following calendar year forfeit for each 22 workdays of such absence 1/12th of the number of days of vacation to which the employee is entitled, to be computed to the nearest full day. An employee may, at his/her option, take the full vacation to which the employee would be otherwise entitled, in which event the employee shall receive no vacation pay for the number of days of vacation forfeited as herein determined. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	If any absence is for less than 22 consecutive workdays in duration because of leave of absence, or layoff without pay for any reason, or is for less than 110 workdays in duration because of industrial disability, an employee shall be entitled to a full vacation as provided for in Section 111.2. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(c)	Any employee who is affected under this Section shall be notified in writing, (Added 1-1-84)
(d)	The provisions of this Section do not apply to part-time employees.
111.6	VACATION ALLOWANCE WHEN LAID OFF FOR LACK OF WORK
An employee who has qualified for a vacation, and who is laid off for lack of work, shall be paid a vacation allowance under me provisions of Section 111.7. Thereafter if the employee returns to work and Service is not deemed to be broken under the provisions of Title 106, vacation allowance for the next calendar year shall be computed on the basis of 1/10th of the allowance provided lor in Section 111.2 for each 22 workdays remaining in the calendar year of the employee's return to employment (Amended 1-1-91)
111.7	TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
(a)	Any employee who terminates Service with the Company for any reason shall be paid a vacation allowance of 1/12th of his/her annual vacation for each 22 workdays worked beyond January 1 of the year in which he/she leaves the Company's service, plus any unused vacation earned in the calendar year(s) preceding severance provided the employeefs):
(1)	was first employed before December 31, 1969, and retired from the Company's service under the provisions of Company's Retirement Plan, or
(2)	was first employed after December 31,1969, or
(3)	vacation entitlement as of December 31, 1970, was calculated on the basis of the then existing provisions of Section 211.17 and Title 311 of this Agreement,
(Entire Subsection Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Any employee, other than an employee described in Subsection (a) above, whose Service with Company terminates shall, upon such termination, be paid only a vacation allowance equivalent to the unused vacation earned in the calendar year(s) preceding such termination.
111.8	HOLIDAYS DURING VACATION
If any of the holidays enumerated in Section 103.1 occurs during an employee's vacation it shall not be counted as one day of vacation. The employee shall receive pay for the holiday as such. If a holiday occurs on a non-workday in conjunction with an employee's vacation, the provisions of Section 103.6 shall be applicable. (Amended T-1-84)
27
111.9	PAY COMPUTATION
(a)	Except as otherwise provided in Subsections 111.9(b) and (c), vacation pay shall be computed at the straight rate of pay applicable to the employee's regular classification as of the time vacation is taken. (Amended
(b)	The vacation pay of an employee who works in other than his/her regular classification on a time card basis shall be based on the rate of pay of such employee's regular classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	The vacation pay of an employee who is temporarily upgraded at the time his/her vacation begins on other than a time card basis snail be based on the rate of pay of the classification to which the employee is temporarily upgraded. In no case, however, shall such upgraded rate of pay apply beyond the expiration date of the temporary upgrade. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	(Deleted 1-1-97)
111.10	SICK LEAVE
(a)	An employee shall not be required to use vacation in lieu of sick leave; provided however that (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	an employee who becomes sick or disabled while on vacation shall continue to receive vacation pay unless
(1)	the employee has been hospitalized for one day or more for which the employee otherwise would receive vacation pay; or
(2)	the employee's doctor has ordered the employee to remain in bed for two or more such days. (Amended 1-1-91)
111.11	DEFERRED VACATION
(a)	An employee may defer vacation in one year and add it to his/her vacation in the next following year, provided that the Company gives its approval thereto prior to December 1 of any year. In no event shall an employee defer vacation longer than one year, or be permitted to take more than a total of two vacation allowance years In any one vacation year, or take a vacation in advance of the year in which it is due. An employee may defer vacation in consecutive years provided that in no event shall the amount of vacation deferred exceed more than one yearns vacation allowance. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	If an employee forgoes any part of his/her vacation the Company shall pay for the time worked and, in addition, shall pay a vacation pay allowance, provided, however, that in no event shall an employee be permitted at his/her option to forego vacation tor the purpose of receiving vacation pay allowance in addition to pay for time worked. Time worked in lieu of time off for vacation shall not be considered overtime as such but shall be compensated at the rates of pay applicable to the work performed. (Amended 1-1-91)
111.12	STARTING DAY
For the purposes set forth in the following Section 111.13, vacation shall be scheduled in increments of one week or more to commence on Monday, except for an employee whose basic workweek starts on a day of the week other than Monday, where the vacation shall commence witfi the starting day of the employee's basic workweek. However, by prior arrangement with the employee's supervisor, an employee snail be allowed vacation in increments of one day or more on any day of the week, except where prohibited by operational needs or where necessary relief cannot be provided, or where tne payment of overtime to another employee would be required.
111.13	SCHEDULING
(a)	An employee desiring to use vacation during the months of January, February and March shall indicate a choice of vacation periods by the 15th day of December of the preceding year. Company shall post on appropriate bulletin boards in each headquarters a special sign-up schedule for this purpose. (Amended 1-1-91)
Not later than March 5 of each year Company shall post on appropriate bulletin boards another vacation schedule sign-up in each department in each headquarters where employees shall designate their choice of vacation periods for the months of April through December for that year. Such schedule shall be posted no later than March 15 on the appropriate headquarters' bulletin boards.	.
(b)	Regional or Department Employees Only
(1)	Company shall schedule vacations throughout the calendar year and shall prepare the annual vacation schedule on the basis of the sign-up giving effect where possible to the selection of employees in order of their Service. An employee may schedule in increments of one day or more. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(2)	To prevent undue interference with the proper and economic rendition of service to the public. Company may designate the number of employees at a headquarters, the number of employees within a classification at a headquarters or within a Bidding Area or the number of employees within a combined group of
28
classifications within a Line of Progression at a headquarters or within a Bidding Area which may be on vacation at one time. In such event there shall be a separate sign-up schedule for each such group and a vacation schedule shall be prepared for each group giving effect where possible to the selection of employees in order of their Service within the group designated. (Amended 1-1-91)
(3)	If an employee elects to divide his/her annual vacation into two or more periods on a sign-up schedule and it is possible for Company to give effect thereto, such employee shall be given preferential consideration over other employees in his/her selection of only one of such periods until all other employees within the group have indicated their first choice of a vacation period. Where more than one employee in a headquarters or group desires to divide his/her vacation into two or more periods on a sign-up schedule, there shall be subsequent sign-ups as required for selection of open periods not filled by the previous si^i-up. Sign-ups for additional periods shall be conducted in the same manner with the employee with the most Service having his/her choice of vacation periods not yet selected. In no event shall an employee be allowed more than five vacation periods of less than one week during any calendar year, exclusive of situations where an employee elects to use such vacation time in combination with other authorized time off entitlement. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(4)	Company may schedule vacation by crews in the interest of economy and efficiency of operation, in which event the vacation period for each crew shall conform as nearly as practicable to the dates selected by a majority of the crew members in the sign-up provided for herein. When vacations are scheduled by crews a member of one crew may exchange a vacation period with a member of another crew in the same classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	General Construction Employees
(1)	Company shall prepare the annual vacation schedule giving effect to the employees' selections where practicable and taking into consideration their Service. Vacations are to be scheduled in increments of one week or more, except that any employee may schedule up to five days per year in increments of one day or more. (Amended 1-1-80)
(2)	Company may schedule vacations by crews in the interest of economy and efficiency of operation.
(3)	If an employee elects to divide annual vacation into two or more periods on a sign-up schedule and it is practicable for Company to give effect thereto, such employee shall be given preferential consideration over other employees in the selection of only one of such periods. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
111.14	ERROR
If an employee is misinformed as to his/her vacation allowance, the employee will not be required to reimburse the Company for any excess day(s) taken if such employee pointed out the error to his/her supervisor in writing. In those cases where an employee has not pointed out tne error to his/her supervisor in writing before hand, the employee may elect to (a) reimburse the Company for the wages paid for the excess day(s), or (b) have such excess day(s) be deducted from his/her next year's vacation entitlement. (Amended 1-1-91)
111.15	VOLUNTARY VACATION TRANSFER
By local agreement between Company and Union, employees may voluntarily sell vacation and transfer the proceeds to an employee experiencing a medical emergency, (including a medical condition of a family member), who has insufficient leave available to cover their absence from work. In addition, and by local agreement between Company and Union, an employee may also sell vacation for the purpose of relieving personal financial difficulties experienced as a result of a medical emergency in his or her own family even though the employee may have paid leave available. (Amended 1-1-94)
111.16	UNANTICIPATED VACATION
Any combination of vacation hours, up to 16 per year, may be taken in increments of one hour or more, not to exceed six (6) consecutive hours at an employee's option. However, for employees in crew-based classifications and employees who work alone supervisory approval is required. (Added 1-1-00)	.
TITLE 112.	SICK LEAVE
112.1	QUALIFICATION AND RATE OF COMPENSATION
After completing one year of Service and for each year of Service thereafter, a regular employee shall be allowed sick (eave with pay for a total of 80 hours per calendar year. A regular part-time employee or intermittent employee shall be allowed sick leave with pay for such portion of 80 hours per calendar year as the ratio of straight-time hours worked in a year to 2,080 hours. (Amended 1-1-91)
112.2	ACCUMULATION
A regular employee, in addition to the annual sick leave allowed under the provisions of Section 112.1, shall be allowed further sick leave with pay which shall not exceed the total of unused annual sick leave in the eight years immediately preceding. (Amended 1-1-91)
29
112.3	ADDITIONAL SICK LEAVE AFTER 10 YEARS
In the calendar year in which Company anticipates that an employee may attain ten years of Service and in any calendar year thereafter, an employee whose sick leave record qualifies the employee in accordance with the formula shown below shall, upon exhausting his/her accumulated and current sick leave, be allowed additional sick leave, if needed, not to exceed 160 hours in such calendar year. (Amended 1-1-91)
(a)	For each of the preceding eight calendar years, calculate the employee's annual sick leave accrual a subtracting from 80 hours each year the hours (not exceeding 80 hours) of sick leave used in such year. , mended 1-1-91)
(b)	Total such annual sick leave accrual for the eight years involved.
(c)	If such total is 320 hours or more, the employee shall be qualified for the additional allowance.
(d)	Once the employee has qualified for such additional allowance, such additional allowance shall be
renewed in full on the first day of each succeeding calendar year.
112.4	ADDITIONAL SICK LEAVE AFTER 20 YEARS
In the calendar year in which Company anticipates that an employee may attain 20 years of Service, an employee who has qualified for additional sick leave under Section 112.3 shall, upon exhausting such additional sick leave as provided in Section 112.3, be allowed, if needed, an additional 160 hours in such calendar year. Once the employee has qualified for such additional allowance, such additional allowance shall be renewed in full on the first day ol each succeeding calendar year.
112.5	ORDER OF USE
Current sick leave shall not be applied until cumulative sick leave has been exhausted. Cumulative sick leave shall be applied in the order in which it accumulated.
112.6	HOURLY INCREMENTS
Sick leave shall be charged by the hour with no charge made for increments of iess than one liour . Such time off as that allowed for an employee’s personal medical and dental appointments shall be charged as sick leave.
112.7	HOLIDAYS
If a holiday occurs on a workday during the time an employee is absent on sick leave with pay, the employee shall receive pay for the holiday as such; and it shall not be counted as a day ol sick leave. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
112.8	ABUSE
Company may require satisfactory evidence of an employee’s illness or disability before sick leave will be granted. If an employee abuses the sick leave provisions of this Agreement by misrepresentation or falsification, the employee shall restore to Company all sick leave payments the employee received as a result of such abuse. In case of recurring offenses by the employee, Company may cancel all or any part of such employee's current and cumulative sick leave, and may treat the offense as it would any other violation of a condition of employment. Charges of alleged discrimination in the application of this Section shall be investigated by the Local Investigating Committee described in Section 102.6. (Amended 1-1-88)
112.9	TERMINATION DUE TO PHYSICAL DISABILITY
If a regular employee is required permanently to leave the Service of Company because of physical disability, the employee shall, on termination of employment, be entitled to an allowance which shall be the equivalent of the sick leave to which the employee would be entitled under the provisions of Sections 112.1, 112.2,112.3, and 112.4. (Amended 1-1-91)
112.10	LIGHT WORK
(a)	Except as provided in Section 108.2, if an employee's health or physical ability becomes impaired to such an extent that he/she cannot perform the work ol his/her classification, Company shall, if practical to do so, give such employee light work within his/her ability to perform for which he/she shall be compensated at the rate of pay established for such work. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(b)	It is Company's policy in the administration of Subsection 112.10(a) above to assign employees who are permanently partially disabled to such light work as may be available within the employee's current classification. When making such assignments within the employee’s classification, Company shall give consideration to whether or not the disability is industrially related, the employee's service, the operating requirements of the Bidding Area or Department, and the temporaiy assignments as provided in Section 108.2. For example, in the Electric Transmission and Distribution Department of the Divisions, Company will attempt to assign employees who can no longer meet the climbing requirement but who are otherwise qualified as journeymen to duties which require journeyman skills but do not require employees to climb on a regular basis. The foregoing shall not be interpreted to apply to more than one
30
journeyman, including classifications higher thereto in the normal Line of Progression, in ten in any headquarters and shall be administered on the basis of service and qualifications. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	Placement of Partially Disabled Employees: In the event an employee is disabled due to injury or illness and is returned to active payroll in a physical or clerical classification or is assigned to a classification designed for the employee with the prior written agreement of Union, the employee shall be paid in accordance with the following formula:
(1)	if the employee is returned to the classification held before the disability occurred, the rate of pay for such classification, or
(2)	if the employee has less than ten years of Service at the time of the employee's disability, the rate of pay of the classification to which assigned, or
(3)	if the employee has ten or more years of Service at the time of his or her disability; The rate of pay of the classification to which assigned plus four percent per year of Service (but not over 100 percent) times the difference between such rate of pay and the rate of pay of the employee’s regular classification immediately prior to the injury or illness which caused the employee's disability.
. An employee who returns to active payroll at a rate of pay calculated as in (3) above shall be limited to 50 percent of any general wage increase until such time as the partially disabled employee is receiving a rate of pay equal to the rate of the classification to which such employee is assigned. In no case will a partially disabled employee who is placed on the active payroll be paid less than 110 percent of such employee's current LTD rate of pay. (Added 1-1-83)	.
(d)	An employee who is disabled due to injury or illness who is able to return to active payroll and the classification held prior to such disability but is assigned to a classification with a lower rate of pay shall be entitled to the provisions as described above until such time as the employee is returned to his/her former status on an accelerated basis as provided in Sections 206.9 and 306.9. (Amended 1-1-91)
112.11	(Deleted 1-1-97)
112.12	(Deleted 1-1-97)
112.13	TIME CARD UPGRADE
The sick leave pay of an employee who works in other than his/her regular classification on a time card basis shall be based on the rate of pay of the regular classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
112.14	UPGRADE OTHER THAN TIME CARD
If an employee who is temporarily upgraded other than on a time card basis is absent by reason of illness or disability, the sick leave pay for such absence shall be based on the rate of pay of the job to which the employee is temporarily upgraded. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
112.15	RETURN FROM LTD
By written agreement between the Company and the Union and on an individual basis, an employee who qualified for and received benefits under provisions of the Long-Term Disability Plan of the Benefit Agreement between the Company and the Union may be returned to active Service.
112.16	FAMILY SICK LEAVE (Added 1-1-00)
(a)	In any calendar year, a regular full or part time employee shall be permitted to use the employee’s current available sick leave benefits, in an amount equal to the sick leave benefits that the employee would accrue for six months at his or her annual rate of entitlement, to attend to an illness of a child, parent, or spouse of the employee.
(b)	All conditions and restrictions that apply to an employee’s use of sick leave for his or her own illness shall apply to sick leave usage to attend to an illness or a child, parent, or spouse under this section.
(c)	An employee’s use of sick leave under this section does not extend the maximum period of leave to which the employee may be entitled under the California Family Rights Act or the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act.
For purpose of this section only, the following definitions shall apply:
(1)	“Child” means a biological, foster, or adopted child, a stepchild, or a legal ward.
(2)	“Parent" means a biological, foster, or adoptive parent, a stepparent, or a legal guardian.
31
PART II
REGION OR GENERAL OFFICE DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES
TITLE 200.	APPLICATION
200.1	The provisions of Part II of this Agreement shall apply only to operation, maintenance and construction employees (including clerks in the offices of electric department foremen and technical clerks in steam and hydro generation) in each of the Compan/s geographical Divisions and Regions and the
Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations,
Materials Distribution Department,
Telecommunications Department of General Office,
Building Department of General Office,
Gas Meter Repair Plant,
Electric Meter Repair Facility,
Steam Generation Department,
Hydro Generation Department,
Nuclear Power Generation Department, and
Accounting and Computer Operations Department
(Amended 1-1-00)
Whenever the words "employee" and "employees" are used in this Part, they shall, unless otherwise noted, be construed to refer only to employees described above for whom Union is the exclusive bargaining representative. Where the context of this Part I makes it reasonable to do so, reference to "Region" or "Division" or Department" shall be construed to include and apply to the organizational units enumerated hereinabove. (Amended 1-1-88)
TITLE 201.	EXPENSES
201.1	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
Employees who are temporarily assigned to work at such distance from their established headquarters that it is impracticable for them to return thereto, or to their regular place of abode, shall for the duration of such assignment be allowed actual personal expenses for board and lodging and for other incidental items of expense approved in advance of the assignment, provided that they board and lodge at places designated by Company. The time spent by such employees in traveling to their temporary headquarters or their temporary place of abode at the beginning of a temporary assignment and from it at its conclusion and any expense incurred therein shall be paid by Company.
201.2	NON-WORKDAYS - EXPENSES
(a) If on their non-workdays any such employees remain at such designated places, their expenses for board and lodging on such days shall be paid by Company, but if they go elsewhere for their personal convenience, Company shall not reimburse them for any expense they incur thereby. II any such employees return to their homes for their non-workdays, including any holiday which immediately precedes or follows their non-workdays, Company at its option shall:
(1)	allow them for transportation the equivalent of any savings it realizes in their board and lodging costs, or
(2)	provide round trip transportation by Company vehicle between their temporary headquarters and their regular headquarters and pay them travel time in each direction, such travel time to be considered as time worked.
In the event that such employees board and lodge at a Company boardinghouse the allowance which may be made by reason of the savings in board and lodging costs will be based on the established charge to the employees who temporarily board and lodge at such boardinghouse.
(b> In lieu of (1) and (2) in Subsection (a) hereof and when such temporary assignment extends beyond the second consecutive workweek, except at the conclusion of such assignment, an employee may, in any succeeding workweek in which he/she does not work on a non-workday, elect to provide his/her own transportation between temporary headquarters and regular headquarters or place of abode, in which event Company shall give an allowance for actual time spent in travel time between such locations exclusive of stopovers. Such allowance snail be computed at the straight rate of pay of the employee's classification at the temporary headquarters. In addition, the employee shall be allowed transportation expense at the minimum common earner rate. (Amended 1-1-91)
201.3	LUNCH EXPENSE
(a)	Other than as provided in Subsection (b), employees who leave from and return to their established headquarters the same day shall not be reimbursed for lunch expense.
(b)	If an employee who works in an office or shop is temporarily required to be away from such work location and is thereby prevented from following his/her usual lunch arrangement Company shall reimburse the
32
employee for lunch expense if the employee had not been given notice of the temporary change prior to the close of the previous workday. (Amended 1-1-91)
201.4	MOVING EXPENSES
An employee who is required to change his/her residence from one locality to another for Company's convenience shall be reimbursed by Company for any expense the employee incurs thereby in moving his/her household goods, but no reimbursement shall be made by Company for expenses incurred by an employee in connection with a transfer which is made at the employee's request or the result of the employee's bid lor a job. (Amended 1-1-91)
201.5	TELEPHONE EXPENSES
Whenever Company requires an employee to install and maintain a telephone in his/her home the expense thereof shall be borne by Company. (Amended 1-1-91)
201.6	PERSONAL VEHICLE
An employee who is authorized by Company to use his/her personal vehicle in connection with his/her duties shall be entitled the maximum non-taxable vehicle mileage allowance allowed by the I.R.S., except that an employee covered under Standard Practice 552.3 will receive reimbursement as provideo therein. However, the application of the DMA shall not be reduced without agreement with Union. (Amended 1-1-00)
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR EMPLOYEES ATTENDING COMPANY TRAINING CLASSES
The provisions of Sections 201.1,201.2,202.4, and 202.23 shall not apply to an employee who is temporarily assigned to attend training classes at other than the employee’s regular headquarters. In such assignments, the following provisions of Sections 201.7 through 201.12 shall apply: (Amended 1-1-91)
201.7	DAILY TRAVEL
and the training location, he/she shall be given an allowance for the time involved which is in excess or the time normally taken in traveling between his/her living quarters and regular headquarters and such compensation shall be paid at the employee's regular straight rate of pay. Transportation between Irving quarters and the training location shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 201.9. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
201.8	TRAVEL AND EXPENSES - NON-COMMUTABLE LOCATION
(a)	If it is impracticable for an employee who attends training classes to return to the employee's regular headquarters or living quarters each day, Company shall, for the duration of the training assignment, provide such employee board andlodging, or. at its option, provide such employee with lodging and reimburse the employee for the reasonable cost for meals. With the advance approval of the supervisor in charge of the training classes, local transportation expense and other incidental expenses shall be paid by Company. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(b)	An allowance for reasonable travel time incurred by an employee in traveling between the employee's regular headquarters or living quarters and the training location at the beginning and at the end of the employee's training assignment shall be authorized. Such allowance shall be computed at the straight rate of pay of the employee's classification at the employee's temporary headquarters and shall also include reimbursement for reasonable cost of meals incurred while traveling. Transportation shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 201.9. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	If on an employee's non-workdays an employee remains at the training location, the employee's board and lodging on such days shall be provided by Company, or if Company does not provide board on such days, it shall authorize tne employee to obtain such meals elsewhere and reimburse the employee for the reasonable costs incurred in obtaining such meals. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	If an employee elects not to utilize Company-designated board and lodging on his/her non-workdays, including any holiday which immediately precedes or follows his/her non-workdays, Company shall allow him/her for transportation the sum of $10.00 per day for each of such days. In lieu of such allowance, Company may provide transportation arrangements between the training location and the employee's living quarters or regular headquarters in accordance with Subsection 201.9(a). If such employee is scheduled to attend the training class for three consecutive weeks or more, transportation allowances under the provisions of Subsections 201 9(a), (b), or (c) will apply, commencing with the second weekend and every weekend thereafter for the duration of such scheduled attendance. (Amended 1-1-88)
201.9	TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS
In arranging transportation under the provisions of Section 201.7, and Subsections 201.8(b) and 201.8(d), Company, at its option, shall:
(a)	provide individual or group transportation by Company vehicle, or
33
(b)	authorize in advance of the assignment the use of an employee's personal vehicle, or
(c)	provide transportation by public carrier only, or In combination with other means specified in (a) above.
201.10	COMMON CARRIER
An employee who does not utilize the arrangements determined by Company under the provisions of Sections 201.7, 201.8(a) or 201.9 shall be reimbursed for travel expense at the minimum common carrier tare or its equivalent.
201.11	PERSONAL AUTOMOBILE
The provisions of Section 201.6 shall apply when an employee is authorized to use his/her personal vehicle as a means of transportation under the provisions of Subsection 201.9(b). (Amended 1-1-91)
201.12	HOURS IN TRAINING SCHOOLS
The regular hours of work of an employee on the days the employee attends training classes shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., with not more than one hour off for lunch between 11:00 am. and 2:00 p.m. When the lunch Kiriod is scheduled for less than one hour, adjustment of the hours of work to correspond thereto shall be made at e end of the afternoon work period. (Amended 1-1-91)
201.13	ENABLING CLAUSE
By written agreement between Company and Union, special provisions may be substituted for the provisions of Section 201.7 through Section 201.12, inclusive.
201.14	INTERVIEWS
An employee, who at Company request, is required to travel tor the purpose of attending an interview shall be reimbursed by Company for all reasonable costs incurred, including travel time during regular work hours on a workday, transportation or mileage rates, and board and lodging when authorized in advance. If at all possible, interviews and travel time will be scheduled on workdays during regular work hours. (Added 1 -1 -80)
TITLE 202.	HOURS
202.1	WORKWEEK AND BASIC WORKWEEK
A workweek is defined to consist of seven consecutive calendar days, and a basic workweek is defined to consist of five workdays of eight hours each. The days in the basic workweek shall be known as workdays and the other days in the workweek snail be known as non-workdays. Employees may be scheduled to work more or less than five days per week or for more or less than eight hours per day, but in any such event the basic workweek shall continue to be as herein defined.
202.2	BASIC WORKWEEK DESCRIBED	•
Except as otherwise provided herein, the basic workweek shall be from Monday through Friday, or from Tuesday through Saturday. The number of employees who shall be required to work the basic workweek of Tuesday through Saturday shall be kept at a minimum consistent with the rendition of adequate public utility service, and employees may be assigned to such workweek in rotation.
202.3	WORKWEEK CHANGES - PAYROLL PERIOD
In changing an employee's workweek, and in changing the days in an employee's basic workweek, Company shall, if possible, make any such change in a manner which will result in the employee having ten workdays at the straight rate of pay in the payroll period involved in the change.
202.4	HOURS • GENERAL RULE
In general, and except as otherwise provided herein, the regular hours of work shall be from 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 12:30 p.m. to4:30p.m., or from 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; provided, however, that the regular lunch period may be advanced or delayed one hour or less for any of the following reasons, namely, (a) when work which must necessarily be performed on facilities serving a customer of Company can most conveniently be performed during such customer's lunch period; (b) when work must necessarily be performed by reason of an interruption to utility service or other emergency having occurred; (c) when work must necessarily be performed to eliminate a hazard to life or property; (d) when the Company foreman or other supervisor ano the employees involved mutually establish a different lunch period or agree to a temporary change in the regular lunch period; or (e) when prearranged or emergency overtime work starting after 6:00 a.m. and before 7:00 a.m. results in advancing the lunch period to provide for the meal to be eaten no more than five hours after work began. A change in lunch period for any of the foregoing reasons shall not be deemed to require the payment of overtime except that if the regular lunch period is advanced or delayed for more than one hour for any of the reasons herein listed (a), (b),
34
and {c), the employees involved shall be paid at the overtime rate for work performed in the regular lunch period and may eat their lunch on Company time. (Amended 1-1-88)
202.5	HOURS - SPECIAL CASES
(a)	Transmission and Distribution: In addition to the hours and conditions outlined in Section 202.4 above, employees in the Electric Transmission and Distribution Departments and the Gas Transmission and Distribution Departments may be regularly scheduled to work the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and from 12:00 noon to 3:30 p.m. or the hours of 930 am. to 1:00 p.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. The basic workweek of employees assigned either of the regular schedule of hours listed above shall be from Monday through Friday. Company shall notify the Union of any change in hours provided for by this Subsection 30 days prior to the institution of work hours which differ from those previously in effect at a headquarters. In general, assignment to hours of other than 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. will be offered to employees in order of Service. If there are insufficient volunteers, assignments will be made on the basis of least Service.
(b)	Steam Generation Maintenance: In addition to the days of work outlined in Section 202.2 above, employees engaged in Steam Maintenance may be regularly scheduled to workdays other than Monday through Friday. Thirty aays prior to the establishment of basic workweeks other than as provided in Section 202.2 at any plant or group of plants, Company will notify Union of its plans and the means by which Company’s needs with respect to proper operation and maintenance of the plant will be met. Such means will be within the conditions already contained in this Agreement or Interpretations or Clarifications previously negotiated between the parties. For the purposes of this Section an employee who is presently a non-traveler and volunteers on a 10-4 schedule shall retain non-traveling status if the employee returns to a 5-2 schedule at the headquarters at which such employee held non-traveling status. (Amended 1-1-84)
(c)	Employees in the Pipe Line Operations Department who are engaged in maintenance work on pipe lines and in compressor stations maybe excepted from the provisions of Sections 202.2 and 202.4,
202.6	SHIFT EMPLOYEE DEFINED
When by reason of the nature of the operation of a plant or other property of Company one or more eight hour watches must be maintained therein, an employee who is assigned to duty on any of such watches shall, for the purpose of this Agreement, be known as a shift employee. Attached hereto, marked Exhibit III, and made a part hereof is a list of the classifications which come within the foregoing definition of shift employee.
202.7	SERVICE EMPLOYEE DEFINED
An employee who is assigned to work which directly relates to the rendering of utility service to Company's customers including work on the facilities of such service, snail be known as a service employee. Attached hereto, marked Exhibit IV, and made a part hereof is a list of the classifications which come within the foregoing definition of service employee.
202.8	WORKWEEK AND HOURS - SHIFT AND SERVICE EMPLOYEES
(a)	The workweek of shift employees and service employees shall be regularly scheduled. It may start on any day of the week and at any hour of tne day. The five workdays and two non-workdays in the workweek of shift and service employees in any plant or department may be arranged in cycles of one, two or more weeks, provided that any such arrangement shall first be agreed upon by Company and Union.
(b)	When an employee whose regular work hours are 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with half-hour for lunch is upgraded to replace a service employee whose regular work hours are either 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. or 8:30 a.m. to 5:0o p.m., the upgraded employee will work a schedule of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. during the first workweek involved in such upgrade, if such employee is needed after 4:30 p.m. during such first workweek, the employee will, nonetheless, work between 12:30 p.m. and 1:00 p.m. and be paid at the overtime rate lor all time worked after 4:30 p.m. During succeeding workweeks, the upgraded employee will work the scheduled hours of the service employee whom such upgraded employee is relieving. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	When an employee whose regular work hours are 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. is temporarily upgraded to provide extra help in a service classification, such employee shall normally retain his/her regular work hours and status as a "Day Employee." If, however, additional temporary help is needed during hours other than 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., a temporary schedule may be established by agreement between Company and Union under the provisions of Subsection (a) hereof. Such agreement shall provide whether or not the work periods involved will rotate among all the service employees in the appropriate classifications at the headquarters involved. (Amended 1-1-91)
202.9	HOURS - SHIFT AND SERVICE
The workday of service employees who report for their day's work between 12 o'clock noon and 1:00 a.m. inclusive, and the workday of shift employees shall consist of eight consecutive hours.
202.10	RESIDENT EMPLOYEE DEFINED
Employees who are employed in the classifications of Station Attendant, Water Facilities Maintenanceman, and in similar classifications shall be known as resident employees. Attached hereto, marked Exhibit V, and made a
35
part hereof is a list of the classifications which come within the foregoing definition of resident employee. (Amended 1-1-80)
202.11	WORKWEEK ANO HOURS - RESIDENT
The workweek of resident employees shall be regularly scheduled and may start on any day of the week and at any hour of the day, and the hours of work of such employees shall be regularly scheduled; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to (im It the right of Company to establish a basic workweek for resident employees other than as provided in Section 202.2 hereof, and to establish hours of work for such employees other than as provided in Section 202.4.
202.12	RELIEF RESIDENT CONDITIONS
When employees who relieve resident employees are required to spend time traveling from station to station, and between any station and their headquarters on their workdays such travel time shall be considered as hours worked, and any time spent by such employees in so traveling on their non-workdays shall be considered as overtime. In connection with such travel they shall be entitled to a vehicle mileage allowance at the mileage rates which Company may establish from time to time.
202.13	MILEAGE
From time to time Company may fix a maximum allowance which shall be paid to a resident employee who uses his/her personal vehicle in connection with his/her duties. Such maximum allowance shall be based on the average number of miles traveled by the resident employee per month in the performance of his/her work. On request of Union, Company shall provide it with the details of the computation of any such maximum allowance. (Amended 1-1-91)
202.14	HOURS - BOARDING HOUSE EMPLOYEES
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 202.4. the eight regular hours of work of employees who are employed in boarding houses maybe spread over a period of not more than 13 hours each day.
202.15	HOURS AND WORKWEEKS - GENERAL SERVICES
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to limit the right of Company to establish a basic workweek other than as provided in Section 202.2 hereof, or to establish hours of work other than as provided in Section 202.4 hereof, lor employees assigned to work which cannot conveniently or practicably be performed at the times established by said Sections. The foregoing reservation shall be deemed to apply to such employees as janitors, warehouse, shop and garage employees. (Amended 1-1-80)
202.16	HOURS CHANGES - PUBLIC AUTHORITIES OR AGREEMENT
(a)	The regular hours of work established herein may be changed by Company at the request or direction of public authorities, provided, however, that before any sucn change is made Company shall discuss it with Union. Company shall not be required to pay overtime compensation by reason of any change made as provided in this Subsection.
(b)	Such hours of work and the basic workweek may also be changed by agreement between Company and Union.
202.17	CHANGE OF HOURS - FIRST FOUR DAYS
(a)	Company may schedule employees to work for periods of eight hours at other than their regular work hours when additional shifts are required in any of the following situations:
(1)	Emergency condition involving the maintenance, construction, or repair of plant or station equipment;
(2)	Installation of new or additional facilities of such character that work thereon cannot be completed during regular work hours or must be continuous until completed;
(3)	Conditions involving the need for the extended utilization of pipe-wrapping and meter shop facilities and work involving cleaning debris from the water intake of hydro or power plants where extra precautionary measures are required to protect such property
(4)	Conditions which require the manning of a plant or station which is normally unattended or is to be unattended upon completion.
(b)	Company shall pay overtime compensation for all work performed outside of regular work hours for the first four workdays or any such situation. On the fifth workday, provided that such day falls on an employee's regularly scheduled workday, and thereafter for the duration of any such situation. Company shall pay the straight rate of pay for work performed on workdays during the hours of work established under this Section. If any such situation extends beyond four workweeks, Company and Union may agree to rotate the assignment of employees thereto, but
36
in such event the overtime compensation herein provided for will not be paid to any employee for more than the first four workday period worked outside of regular work hours.
(c)	If an additional work period is established under this Section which would require an employee to work beyond 3:00 a.m„ the employee on such work period shall be allowed to eat on Company time approximately four hours after the starting time of the work period.
(d)	This Section shall apply only to employees whose regular work hours are between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except as provided in Section A(2) of the 202.17 Clarification. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-80)
202.18	RETURN TO REGULAR HOURS
When an employee resumes the regular schedule of work hours after discontinuance of a change made as provided in Section 202.17 hereof, the employee shall be compensated at the straight rate of pay for work performed during such employee's regular work hours on the first such workday, provided that at least eight hours has elapsed between completion of work on the former shift and reporting for work on the employee's regular schedule of work hours. If not, such employee shall be entitled to a rest period of eight consecutive hours following dismissal from work. However, the employee may nonetheless be required to report for work at any time during the first day of such change. The employee s rate of pay on such first workday shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 208.11 as though the employee had qualified for a rest period" under such Section. (Amended 1-1-91)
202.19	REGULAR HEADQUARTERS
Except as provided in Sections 202.20 to 202.23, inclusive, an employee shall report to a Company headquarters to which the employee has been regularly assigned and shall return thereto at the conclusion of the day's work. The time spent in traveling between such headquarters and the job site shall be considered as time worked. (Amended 1-1-91)
202.20	PRE-JULY 1962 EXCEPTIONS
Section 202.19 shall not apply in any area tn which on June 30,1962, it is the established practice to require employees to report for work at other than regularly established Company headquarters.
202.21	REMOTE REPORTING
(a	) When the Company determines a need for employees to report for work at other than their regularly established assigned headquarters, such employees, while assigned to such temporary assembly sites, shall report at the beginning of the workday and return thereto at the conclusion of the workday.
(b	) An assembly site is defined as a temporary reporting location for employees assigned under this Section.	.
(c	) Each employee who volunteers and is assigned to an assembly site shall receive an expense allowance which ineWes: 1) any additional parking fee and bridge tolls incurred, and 2) if the assembly site located from the headquarters is:
YEAR	(i) less than 15 miles	(«) more than 15 miles
2003	$16.50	$23.25
2004	17.25	24.25
2005	18.00	25.25
Such allowance shall be increased on each January 1 thereafter by the same percentage as the average hourly rate for Regional Physical employees is increased and rounded to the nearest 25 cents. (Amended 10-1-03)
(d	) If in the opinion of Company or Union Section 202.21 and its ’application” paragraphs are not working as intended by the parties, either party may reopen the Agreement with respect to such section and its' "application" provisions. In such case, it is the intent that Company and Union meet and agree on those measures required to correct identified Job Siting problem areas.
In the event there is an ongoing problem with staffing at an assembly site, local Company and Union representatives will meet to ascertain what the problem maybe and attempt to resolve it.
Application
1.	This shall include Gas and Electric T&D Crews and any other Department as agreed to in writing by the Union Business Managerand the Director of Industrial Relations. (Amended 10-1-03)
2.	Job Siting may be used for any combination of New Business, Reconstruction or Maintenance jobs.
3.	Job Siting shall apply only to job locations within the service area of the headquarters assigning the
work. In the event insufficient volunteers are obtained under the provisions of paragraph 4 below, volunteers from adjacent service areas may then be used.
37
4.	A volunteer sign-up list will be posted in the headquarters no less than three workdays prior to the establishment of a temporary assembly site. The sign-up sheet shall include the location of the reporting site, the classifications required and an estimate of the work period involved.
5.	Section 202.19 (Regular Headquarters) of the Agreement shall not apply to any employee who volunteers and is appointed to report directly to an assembly site.
6.	A system of rotating remote reporting assignments shall be established and reduced to writing in each department in a headquarters. If a system cannot be agreed upon, it will be resolved pursuant to Subsection 202.21(d) of the Physical Agreement.
7.	If a volunteer employee requests to be removed from the assembly site for cause, the employee shall be reassigned to the regular assigned headquarters. If an employee requests to be removed and a qualified volunteer is available, no cause is needed.
8.	Com pany shall provide for safe storage of an em ployee's tools.
9.	All Titles and Sections of the Agreement shall apply as if the employee were still at the employee's
regular assigned headquarters, except as provided below:
(i)	Section 202.19 as provided for in paragraph 5 above;
(ii)	Section 205.3 for temporary upgrades at the employee's regular assigned headquarters lasting less than one week;
(iii)	Overtime assignments at the employee's regular assigned headquarters which are an extension at either end of the regular workday;	■
(iv)	Other overtime assignments where the employee's personal tools are stored at the assembly site. Company will provide appropriate bags for employees who volunteer to transport such tools to and from their homes. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-88)
202.22	TEMPORARY HEADQUARTERS ,
Section 202.19 hereof shall not apply to employees temporarily engaged in work at locations which qualify them for the expense allowance provided for in Section 201.1 hereof Such employees, while assigned in sucn location, shall report to a designated work headquarters and shall travel to and from such established headquarters and the place where board and lodging are furnished up to 15 minutes each way on their own time. Such travel time which is in excess of 15 minutes each way shall be considered as time worked. Transportation between the location where the employees board and lodge and such designated headquarters shall be arranged for by Company.
202.23	TEMPORARY HEADQUARTERS - COMMUTING
Section 202.19 hereof shall not apply to an employee who has been temporarily assigned to work at a regularly established Company headquarters other than his/her regularly assigned work headquarters and who, by voluntary arrangement approved by the Company supervisor in charge, reports directly to such temporary headquarters. Cinder the provisions of this Section, travel to and from an employee's home and such temporary headquarters shall be considered as time worked. The provisions of Section 201.6 shall apply to the use of an employee's personal vehicle. (Amended 1-1-91)
202.24	EXCHANGE OF SHIFTS
Shift or service employees within the same classification may exchange shifts or work periods provided that any such exchange takes place within the respective workweeks of the employees involved ana does not require the payment of overtime compensation, and provided, further^ that employees within the same classification and work group whose schedules are established under the provisions of Sections 202.5, 202.11 or 202.15 may exchange workdays and/or work hours when the supervisor in charge gives approval thereto. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
TITLE 203.	INCLEMENT WEATHER PRACTICE
203.1	Regular employees who report for work on a workday, but are not required to work in the field because of inclement weather or other simitar cause, shall receive pay for the lull day. During such day they may be held pending emergency calls, and may be given first aid, safety or other instruction, or may be required to perform miscellaneous work in the yard, warehouse, or in any other sheltered location.
203.2	Probationary employees who report for work on a workday but are not required to work in the field because of inclement weather or other similar cause shall be paid only for the time they work or are held by Company, except, however, that they shall be paid compensation for not less than two hours.
203.3	If an employee, who is assigned to dual classifications on either a regular basis or a temporary basis, other than a time card basis, and who works in such dual classifications on a recurring schedule determined in advance, is not required to work by reason of inclement weather, inclement weather pay under the provisions of Sections 203.1
38
and 203.2 shall be based on the rates of pay which would have been applicable had the employee continued to work as scheduled. (Amended 1-1-91)
203.4	If an employee, who is assigned to dual classifications on either a regular basis or a temporary basis other than a time card basis, but does not work on a predetermined recurring schedule, is not required to work by reason of inclement weather the employee's inclement weather pay shall be based on the rate of pay for the classification worked on the workday next preceding the day of absence except, however, if the classification in which the. employee would have been required to work was determined in advance, inclement weather pay shall be based on the rate of pay of such classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
203.5	The inclement weather pay of an employee who works in other than his/her regular classification on a time card basis, shall be based on the rate of pay of the regular classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
203.6	The inclement weather pay of an employee, who is temporarily upgraded other than on a time card basis, shall be based on the rate of pay or the job to which the employee is temporarily upgraded. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
TITLE 204.	WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
204.1	PAYDAY
(a)	Wages shall be paid at biweekly intervals on Fridays for a two weeks1 payroll period ending not less than four nor more than ten days prior to the pay date, provided that if the regular pay date falls on a holiday payment shall be made on the preceding workday.
(b)	Company shall make direct deposit or regular pay available to all employees. (Added 1-1-91)
204.2	WAGES - DUAL AND PROGRESSION
(a)	(Deleted 1-1-97)
(b)	An employee who has accumulated sufficient time in a classification having a time progression shall ha	to tha	rinyt	atari in ctii^h iMaecifinotinn I trMrf	ei iph	tho movimum rot-a theranf tho
lIG	IW 4< * W	livAt	M > W WP i W'V' ■	* VI <	W » VW iWV'WV W IHWKfllVIll imw viwrwii	• W U ’V
purpose of wage rate progression in a temporary classification, the time worked by an employee in other than his/her regular classification snalralso be accrued in such temporary classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	The "Wage Progression" of an employee who is absent on leave of absence without pay for more than ten consecutive workdays will be delayed by a period of time equivalent to such leave of absence. The “Wage Progression" of an employee in a beginning or other negotiated training classification who is absent for more than 25 consecutive workdays because of an industrial injuiy as defined in Section 108.1 or lor an illness or disability and is receiving sick leave with pay as provided for in Section 112.1, will be delayed by the period in excess of 25 consecutive workdays.
(d)	(Deleted 1-1-97)
204.3	TEMPORARY UPGRADE
When an employee is temporarily assigned to work in a classification higher than his/her regular classification such employee shall be paid for the time worked in Hie higher classification at the rate therefore, provided that such time worked is not less than two hours during the day. Such time worked may be accumulated over an eight hour period by intervals of not less than one-half hour. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
204.4	NEW CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
(a)	When Company wishes to establish temporary classifications and wages or temporarily modifies fob content for the purpose of improving efficiency of operations, Company will give Union 30 days written notice of its intention to conduct any such efficiency experiment. Upon request from Union, the parties will meet and confer during the 30-day period before implementation, thereby giving Union an opportunity to familiarize itself with the experiment. The duration of any such efficiency experiment will not exceed six months without Union's concurrence. Company will, on a weekly basis, provide Union with all data compiled or derived from such experimentation. Based on such experimentation, Company and Union may then establish permanent classifications and wages or permanently modify job content in accordance with Subsection (b) below.
(b)	Upon the written request of one party to the other, the parties agree to open discussions during the term of the Agreement to discuss additional classifications, wages therefore, and normal Lines of Progression. Upon agreement thereon by Company and Union, such changes may be implemented. (Amended 1-1-91)
204.6	WAGE RATE ON UPGRADE OR PROMOTION
Except as provided in Subsection 204.6(a) and 204.7, an employee who is regularly or temporarily assigned to a classification having a higher maximum wage rate shall be paid at the highest wage rate of the following;
(a)	the first step of the wage progression of such classification which is higher than the employee's present wage rate, or (Amended 1-1-91)
39
(b)	the wage step in the higher classification determined by the time previously accumulated in such higher classification, as provided for in Subsection 204.2(b), or	.
(c)	the top rate of pay of such higher classification if the employee has previously been demoted or displaced, pursuant to Title 206, from a classification having a higher wage rate than the classification to which the employee is assigned. (Amended 1-1-91)
204.6	WAGE RATE - ASSIGNED LOWER CLASSIFICATION
(a)	When Company appoints an employee from another Line of Progression to a beginner's classification and such employee is receiving a rate of pay less than the maximum rate of pay provided for in the beginner's classification to which the employee is appointed, such employee shall retain his/her present wage progressive step and be credited with time spent in such step but not to exceed six months toward the next progressive wage increase. The rate of pay lor the wage progressive step the employee is now in will be adjusted to the rate of pay for such corresponding step for die beginner's classification in the new Line of Progression which relates to his/her time progression and the employee shall receive further applicable increases in accordance with Subsection 204.2(b). (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	An employee who is receiving in his/her present classification a rate of pay the same or higher than the maximum rate of pay established for the classification to which he/she is being appointed shall receive the top rate of pay established for the classification to which the employee is being appointed. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	When Company appoints an employee from a classification covered under the Clerical Labor Agreement to a beginner's cfassification covered under this Agreement, such employee shall be paid at the first step of the wage progression of the new classification which is higher than the employee's present wage rate. (Amended
(dl Employees who have received notice of displacement and vacate their base position by successful bid, transfer or who are displaced into a lower paying position will maintain their rate of pay for up to three years or until such time as the rate of pay in the new position is equal to or greater than that of the employee’s frozen rate of pay, whichever comes first. If at the end of three years, an employee is still paid above the top of the rate for the classification held, the employee will be placed at the fop of the rate for that classification. During the time that an employee's pay remains above the wage range of the position into which he/she bid, the employee will not receive General Wage increases or Progressive Wage Increases. (Added 1-100)
204.7	APPRENTICE WAGE RATES
(a)	In each instance, except as provided in Subsection (b), when an employee is appointed to fill a vacancy in an apprentice classification for the first time, such employee shall be placed at the beginning rate in such apprentice classification.
(b)	Based on Company and Union written agreement and the employee's current knowledge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability which relate directly to prior performance or journeyman duties and which supplant need for training in an apprenticeship, the employee may be placed in a wage step above the beginning rate. (Added 1-1-80)
TITLE 205.	JOB BIDDING, PROMOTION AND TRANSFER
205.1	INTENT
(a)	The provisions of this Title shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with the parties' purpose and intent in negotiating the job bidding, transfer^ and promotion procedures contained herein, namely that when employees are qualified by knowledge, skill and efficiency and are physically able to perform the duties of a job, the employee with the greatest Service snail receive preference in accordance with the sequence of consideration outlined in Subsection 205.5(b), and Section 205.7 for an appointment to fill a vacancy, and that Company shall endeavor to expedite the filling of job vacancies. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	In filling vacancies In classifications described in Section 200.1, Company shall observe the above-stated purpose and intent in applying the provisions of this Title and the related provisions of Title 206, "Demotion and Layoff Procedure." Any alleged arbitrary or discriminatory disregard of this policy shall be subject to review under the grievance procedure. (Amended 1-1-88)
I	(c) A vacancy created by an employee's absence on "leave" or by reason of industrial disability shall be
1 deemed to be a temporary vacancy. (Added 1-1-88)
I 205.2 PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
I	A probationary employee shall not be entitled to consideration under the provisions of this Title or Title 206.
40
205.3	FILLING TEMPORARY VACANCIES
(a)	Whenever a vacancy occurs in any job classification, Company may temporarily fill it by assignment. In making temporary assignments to fill job vacancies, Company snail first consider employees in Relief classifications, and then, when practicable, consider the employees at the headquarters in which the job vacancy exists in the order of their preferential consideration under Section 205.7. The foregoing shall apply whether or not the vacancy is one which must be filled on a regular basis.
(b)	If the vacancy cannot be filled as outlined in (a) above, and if there is no next lower classification in the headquarters, and the temporary vacancy is for more than one week, and the Company still desires to fill the temporary vacancy, the senior qualified prebidder within the Bidding Unit residing within a commutable distance (30 miles or 45 minutes road time) from the temporaiy headquarters shall be offered the vacancy. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	Except in limited circumstances where the requirement is justified, temporary vacancies shall only be filled by employees who have qualified for such promotion in the same manner as would be required if the employee were to fill the job vacancy on a permanent basis. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
205.4	PREBID PROCEDURE
Any regular employee of Company may submit a prebid on any existing job classification and headquarters for which the employee desires consideration in accordance with the following procedure provided the employee does not exceed a combined maximum number of 150 prebids and transfers. This maximum will not apply to employees subject to the provisions of Title 206. (Amended 10-1-03)
(a)	Eligibility: To be valid, an employee's prebid must be entitled to preferential consideration under the provisions of Section 205.7. A list of existing classifications by headquarters with appropriate prebtd numbers Is available in each headquarters where employees in the bargaining unit regularly report for work. (Amended 1 -1 -83)
(b)	Forms: Prebids must be submitted on the form provided by Company or via Bid Express, the telephone input system. (Amended 1 -1 -94)
(c)	Mail: Prebids may be submitted to Company by either United States or Company mail.
(d)	Timeliness: Company shall not consider any prebid which was received by Company less than
eight calendar days prior to the date the fully authorized job vacancy report was received ano date stamped by the Human Resources Department to fill a job vacancy in the classification and headquarters on which the prebia was made. Only those prebids valid as of the date stamped on the job vacancy report will be considered to fill such vacancy Subsequent prebids may be considered only after that list has been exhausted. At that point where there are no qualified prebids on file. Company may fill the job at its discretion under the provisions of Section 205.13. (Amended 10-1-03)
(e)	Date of Receipt: The date of receipt will be the date of the U.S. postmark if legible. If such postmark is illegible or if the prebid is submitted by Company mail, the date of receipt will be the Industrial Relations' date stamp.
(f)	Acknowledgment: Company will acknowledge receipt of all prebids within 15 calendar days from the date of receipt and without rejecting the prebid notify the employee in writing (via e-mail for employees who submitted prebids via e-mail) of any known reason which might preclude the employee's filling the classification on which the employee has submitted a prebid, including information regarding testing programs which must be completed. Information on whether or not an employee has completed such programs is available from the employee’s Human Resources Department. (Amended 10-1-03)
(g)	Cancellation of Prebids: Prebids are valid for a period of one year from the date of receipt or until such time as the employee changes classification and/or headquarters, or until such time as the employee rejects an appointment to the classification and headquarters (and shift, if appropriate) on which the prebid was made. Company will notify an employee of the cancellation of employee's prebids as indicated below. Cancellation shall be effective as follows:
(1)	at the expiration of one year from the date of the prebid and after 15 calendar days' advance notice from Company,
(2)	upon the employee's declining an appointment to the classification and headquarters on which tie prebid was submitted, (Amended 1-1-88)
(3)	30 calendar days after any employee's change of headquarters or classification which does
not affect his or her status as a prebidder, and after 15 calendar days' advance notice from Company,
(4)	immediately upon an employee's change of classification and/or headquarters which affects his or her status as a prebidder,
(5)	immediately upon receipt of authorization from an employee to cancel a prebid, or
(6)	upon receipt of authorization from the local Human Resources Department to cancel prebids because a job is deleted from the directory or an employee improperly designates rights, as provided in Section
41
206.9, with notification to the employee by the local Human Resources Department of such cancellation. In the latter cases, the employee's prebid will be given the appropriate 205.7 consideration for 15 calendar days from the time the local Human Resources Department notifies employee of such cancellation. (Amended 1-1-88)
(h)	New Jobs ait a Headquarters: The Company shall post, on all bulletin boards throughout the System, a notice describing all new classifications at existing headquarters or any job at a new headquarters in the Company, on the first or fifteenth of any month, as soon as such jobs are authorized to be filled. Such notice shall remain posted until the next Directory listing the new classification is posted on the bulletin board, but not less than 15 days. If no prebids are received 18 days after the date shown on the notice, or at the point there are no qualified bids on file, Company will have 60 days to fill the vacancy under the provisions of Section 205.13. (Amended 1-1-88)
(i)	An employee who is the senior, qualified bidder to more than one vacancy, which is currently being filled, shall be given the option of accepting the classification and headquarters desired. (Added 1-1-88)
(j)	Prebid Directory: The Company shall identify all prebidable classifications covered under the Physical and Clerical Agreements. Such identification'shall include tne location, function and prebid number. (Added 1-1-91)
(k)	Accepting Job Offer: An employee will be expected to provide a response by the next business day if s/he is offered a position that wifi not result m the employee needing to relocate his/her residence,
An employee will be expected to reply within 48 hours of receiving a job offer request when accepting the offered position will result In the employee needing to relocate his/her residence. Under certain circumstances of hardship or operational needs, the supervisor offering the position may grant up to 72 hours for the employee to respond. Further, based on operational needs, an employee may be granted the use of a floating holiday or vacation day to assist in determining whether or not to accept a job offer. Failure to respond in the aforementioned time frame will cause the employees bid to forfeit.
An employee who is scheduled to go on vacation is encouraged to voluntarily leave a phone number with his/her supervisor at which s/he can be reached if a job offer is extended. As an alternative, an employee may voluntarily leave his/her supervisor a prioritized list of vacancies s/he will accept if offered a position. This list will expire after the vacation period is ended. In no case will an employee be bypassed for an offer due to being on vacation. (Added 10-1-03)
205.5	FILLING BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATIONS
Whenever Company intends to fill a beginner's classification, Company shall fill it in the following sequence:
(a)	Transfers made by regular employees who are entitled to preferential consideration under Section 206.9.
(b)	Priority 1 vacancies as defined in Exhibit VII shall be filled by employees entitled to consideration pursuant to Title 600. When a vacancy occurs and a Priority 1 Transfer is on file, awards shall be made under 205.7(b) to employees with at least one of year service, giving consideration to the employee with the greatest Service on a system-wide basis. If a Priority 1 award is not made, the vacancy shall be filled as provided for Tn (c) or (d) below. When a Priority 1 classification is newly established at a headquarters, Company shall post the vacancy as provided by 205.4(h). (Priority 1 status transfer.) (Amended 10-1-03)
If a vacancy in a beginner's classification is not filled in accordance with the provisions of (a) and (b) above, it will be filled in the following manner:
(c)	Company shall make unrestricted appointments in filling one-half of the vacancies in beginner’s classifications. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	In making appointments to fill the remaining one-half of the vacancies in beginner's classifications in each Line of Progression in a given headquarters, Company shall give preferential consideration to regular physical and clerical employees with at least one year of service, unless transferring to a part-time classification with a higher wage rate or from a part-time position to a full-time position, who have previously requested in writing a transfer to fill such vacancies. An employee who is the senior, qualified transferee to more than one vacancy, which is currently being filled, shall be given the option of accepting the classification and headquarters desired. Preference for appointment shall be given to the employee in each classification who has the greatest Service in the following sequence: (Amended 10-1-03)
(1)	To such physical and clerical employees in the Bidding Unit where the vacancy exists. (Priority 2 status transfer) (Amended 1-1-91)
(2)	To any other such physical or clerical employees. (Priority 3 status transfer)
The provisions of this Subsection shall be applicable to a beginner's classification in a Line of Progression at a headquarters where a transfer application for such vacancy is on file and the number of unrestricted appointments under provisions of Subsection 205.5(c) exceeds transfers.
42
All transfer requests must be submitted by United States or Company mail on a form provided by Company. Transfer requests also may be submitted via Bid Express, the telephone input system. The date of receipt shall be the postmark date if delivered by U.S. Mail, or Industrial Relations date stamp if delivered by Company mail or if the U.S. postmark is illegible. In no event shall the Company consider any transfer application which was received by Company less then eight calendar days prior to the established control date. The control date is first established on the date the fully authorized personnel requisition is received and date stamped by the local Human Resources Department to fill a job vacancy in the classification and headquarters on which the transfer application was made. If the transfer listing is exhausted without a successful candidate, a new control date will be established. This new control date will be the date of the decline or. bypass of the last transfer applicant. Transfers which were not timely under the original control date but were received eight days prior to the new control date will then be given consideration. If the vacancy cannot then be filled by transfer, it may be filled by unrestricted appointment - no transfers on file. (Amended 1-1-94)
(e)	Company shall acknowledge receipt of all transfer applications within 15 calendar days from date of receipt and, without rejecting such applications, notify in writing (via e-mail for employees who submitted transfers via e-mail) an employee who submits a transfer application of any known reason which might preclude the employee from tilling the classification on which the employee has submitted a transfer application, including information regarding testing programs which must be completed. Information on whether or not an employee has completed such programs is available from the employee's Human Resources Department. (Amended 10-14)3)
(f)	Within ten calendar days after the first of each month. Company shall, within each Bidding Unit or Department, provide Union information on beginning job vacancies that have been filled the previous month as follows: (Amended 1-1-91)
(1)	Name of individual, social security number, employment date and classification.
(2)	Classification of vacancy filled.
(3)	Department and Headquarters of vacancy filled.
(4)	Date vacancy filled.
(5)	Show whether vacancy is regular or part-time.
(6)	Show whether vacancy is filled by transfer, new hire or new hire - no transfers on file.
(g)	Attached hereto, made a part hereof and marked Exhibit VII, is a list of such beginner's classifications. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-84)
(h)	Cancellation of Transfers; Applications for Transfer are valid for a period of one year from the date of receipt or until such time as the employee changes classification and/or headquarters, or until such time as the employee rejects an appointment to the classification and headquarters on which the transfer application was made. Company will notify an employee of the cancellation of employee's applications for transfer as indicated below. Cancellations shall be effective as follows:
(1)	At the expiration of one year from the date of the transfer and after 15 calendar days advance notice from Company,
(2)	Upon the employee's declining an appointment to the classification and headquarters on which the transfer was submitted, (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(3)	30 calendar days after any employee's change of headquarters or classification, which does
not affect his or her priority status as a transfer, and after 15 calendar days advance notice from Company,
(4)	Immediately upon an employee's change of classification and/or headquarters which affects his or her priority status as a transfer,	.
(5)	Immediately upon receipt of authorization from an employee to cancel a transfer, or
(6)	Upon receipt of authorization from the local Human Resources Department to cancel transfers because a job is deleted from the directory or an employee improperly designates rights, as provided in Section 206.9 with notification to the employee by the local Human Resources Department of such cancellation. In the latter cases the employee's transfer will be given the appropriate consideration for 15 calendar days from the date of notification. (Amended 1-1-91)
(i)	Accepting Job Offer: An employee will be expected to provide a response by the next business day if s/he is offered a position that will not result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence.
An employee will be expected to reply within 48 hours of receiving a job offer request when accepting the offered position will result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence. Under certain circumstances of hardship or operational needs, the supervisor offering the position may grant up to 72 hours for the employee to respond. Further, based on operational needs, an employee may be granted the use of a floating holiday or vacation day to assist in determining whether or not to accept a job offer. Failure to respond in the aforementioned time frame will cause the employee s bid to forfeit.
43
An employee who is scheduled to go on vacation is encouraged to voluntarily leave a phone number with his/her supervisor at which s/he can be reached if a job offer is extended. As an alternative, an employee may voluntarily leave his/her supervisor a prioritized list of vacancies s/he will accept if offered a position. This list will expire after the vacation period is ended. In no case will an employee be bypassed for an offer due to being on vacation. (Added 10-1-03)
205.6	POSTBIDDING PROCEDURE {Deleted 1-1-88)
205.6	FORFEITURE
If an employee is the senior qualified bidder for a job vacancy and turns down a bona fide offer for such vacancy, such employee's prebid or transfer application on such vacancy shall be canceled Such employee’s prebid or transfer application to such classification and headquarters need not be considered for a period of six months. Exceptions to the aforementioned will be as follows:
(a)	Such employee shall retain rights to consideration for appointment under Section 205.13; and
(b)	An employee who after declining a bona fide offer to a vacancy at a given headquarters attains preferential bidding rights under Title 206 shall not De subject to the provisions of this Section. {Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	Employees bidding to System Operator classifications. (Added 1 -1 -91)
205.7	SEQUENCE OF CONSIDERATION
Whenever a vacancy occurs in any job classification which the Company intends to fill on a regular basis, Company shall fill it by award as soon as practicable. Prebids on any job covered by this Subsection shall be given preferential consideration in the following sequence:
(a)	Bids made by employees who are entitled to preferential consideration under Section 206.9.
(b)	Bids made by regular full-time employees in the Bidding Unit in which the vacancy exists who are:
-	in the same classification as that in which the job vacancy exists, or
-	in classifications which are higher thereto in the Lines of Progression as shown in Title 600, or
-	at the top rate of pay ol the next lower classification in the normal Line of Progression, except as otherwise provided in any applicable apprenticeship agreement.
(c)	Bids made by regular employees who are:
-	in the same classification as that in which the job vacancy exists, or
-	in classifications which are higher thereto in the Lines of Progression as shown in Title 600, or
■	- at the top rate of pay of the next lower classification in the normal Line of Progression,
except as otherwise provided in any applicable apprenticeship agreement.
(d)	Bids made by any regular employee in the physical or clerical bargaining unit within the Company.
(e)	Bids made by any regular employee of Company. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-88)
205.8	(Deleted 1-1-88)
205.9	PREFERENCE BY LENGTH OF SERVICE
(a)	When employees in the same preferential sequence as provided in Section 205.7 are each qualified by knowledge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability for appointment to a job, the bid of the employee with the greatesfService shall be given preference for appointment. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(b)	In the event a conflict arises as to seniority between two (2) or more employees whose seniority date is the same, the following will be the sequence of consideration for the purpose of a tie-breaker:
(1)	any prior service as a Company employee shall be taken into consideration and the employee whose prior service is greater shall be deemed to have the greater seniority;
(2)	the employee who first successfully completed all preemployment tests shall be deemed to have the greater seniority;	’
(3)	the employee whose application was first filed with the Company will be deemed to have the greater seniority; or
44
(4)	the parties will determine which employee is deemed to have the greater seniority by a mutually agreed-upon method of chance, such as a coin flip. (Added 1-1-88)
(c)	In the implementation of Title 206, the parties may agree to a process different than the above. (Added 10-1-03)
205.10	TIME LIMITS ON BIDDING
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Title, Company shall not give consideration to any application for transfer or prebid submitted by an employee who has changed Unes of Progression within the preceding 12 calendar months or who has entered a training classification within tne preceding 1z calendar months, if the consideration of such application for transfer or prebid would result in such employee returning to his or her last previous Line of Progression. Training classification is defined as a classification for which there exists a negotiated training program. (Amended 1-1-91)
205.11	BYPASS FOR LACK OF QUALIFICATIONS
(a)	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Title, Company may reject the bid of any employee who does not possess the knowledge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability required for the job on which the bid is made. Additionally, the bid of an employee to a classification having a higher maximum wage rate will be rejected if the employee has been under active counseling tor poor work performance during the previous 12 months. Active counseling for the purpose of this Section is defined as: during the previous twelve month period (1) two or more instances in which the employee has received written reminders, (2) a decision-making leave or (3) a demotion with cause. (Amended 1-1-S4)
(b)	Company may give tests to assist in determining an employee's qualifications. By written agreement, Company and Union may adopt testing programs for determining employee's qualifications for promotion. An employee's failure to pass such fests in accordance with a Company and Union-approved program shall result in rejection of the employee's bid without further consideration. The employee shall nave the nght to review the examination and the correct answers unless there are no alternate versions of the examination, in which event the employee can review the examination without the correct answers. Any review shall be conducted with a management employee. (Amended 1-1-91)
205.12	DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS VIII and IX
(a)	Attached hereto, made a part hereof, and marked Exhibit VIII, is a list entitled "Job Comparisons" in which are listed certain classifications in General Construction, and opposite each, the classification in the Region or General Office Department which is deemed the same as the former for the purpose of Section 205.7. (Amended 1*1*88)
(b)	Attached hereto, made a part hereof, and marked Exhibit fX, is a list of "Classifications" in the different departments which are considered as the same for the purposes of Sections 205.7 and 206.4. (Amended 1-1-88)
(c)	Upon written agreement thereon by Company and Union, additions, deletions or any other change may be made or substituted to the following exhibits:
Exhibit VII - Beginner's Classification
Exhibit VIII - Job Comparisons
Exhibit IX - Same Classifications	.
205.13	APPOINTMENT TO UNBID VACANCY
(a)	If Company does not within the time provided in Section 205.4 hereof receive any bids on a job which has been authorized for filling, or does not receive a bid from an employee who possesses the qualifications set forth in Section 205.11 hereof, it may in its discretion make a final appointment to such job. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	When an apprentice or a journeyman classification is to be filled, the negotiated Qualifying Examination shall be given to employees, applicants, or new hires entering the classification. In the absence of a Journeyman Qualifying Examination, the appropriate Apprenticeship or Training Qualifying Examination shall be given. (Added 1-1-88)	.
205.14	WORKING FOREMAN OR LEAD CLASSIFICATIONS
(a)	In making an appointment to fill a job vacancy in a classification involving personal contact by the employee with the public, or a technical classification, or a classification in which an employee must exercise supervisory duties, Company shall consider bids of employees submitted as herein provided, out Company may nevertheless make an appointment to fill such vacancy on the basis of ability and personal qualifications.
(b)	In making an appointment to fill a vacancy in a classification in which an employee must exercise supervisory duties, Company, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 205.7, shall give preferential consideration to
45
the bids submitted by employees who have a combined total of one year or more of experience in the journeyman classification or classifications higher thereto in the normal Line of Progression.
205.15	NOTIFICATION TO UNION OF BYPASS
When an employee is to be appointed to fill a job vacancy in preference to an employee with greater Service, [jrovided in Section 205.7, Company shall notify Union of the decision prior to sucn appointment. (Amended
205.16	RIGHTS TO GRIEVANCE
Any employee aggrieved by Company's application and interpretation of the job bidding and promotion policies established herein may thereon invoke the grievance procedure of this Agreement.
205.17	APPOINTMENT DUE TO URGENT NECESSITY
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Title, Company by agreement with Union, may appoint, to fill a job vacancy, any employe who requests such appointment for reasons of urgent necessity, such as impairment of the employee s health or that of a member of the employee's family, or the lack of adequate educational facilities for the employee’s children in the locality in which the employee has been employed, provided, however, that an appointment shall not be made hereunder to a classification which has a wage rate higher than the classification of the employee who requests the transfer. For consideration under this Section, an employee shall submit to the Company, by united States mail, a letter outlining reasons for such request in accordance with Letter Agreement 91-99 (See Exhibit XIII - Procedures to be Utilized in Connection with Hardship Transfers.) When a vacancy occurs at a location that could alleviate the employee's problem, Company and Union may agree in writing to the appointment of the employee to such vacancy. (Amended 1 -1 -94)
205.16	EXCHANGE OF HEADQUARTERS
Company, by written agreement with Union, may consent to an exchange of headquarters between employees in the same classification and Une of Progression without reference to the foregoing provisions of this Title.
205.	19 ENABLING CLAUSE
By written agreement between Company and Union, other provisions may be substituted for the provisions of this Title.
205.	20 POSTING OF JOB AWARDS
(a) (Deleted 1-1-88)
Company shall post biweekly on the bulletin boards in each headquarters within the system a list of all ob awards made through prebids and through transfers since the last list was posted. Such list will include the ob vacancy number (where appropriate) and headquarters, the appointed employee's name and Service, and the Agreement Section relied upon tor the award. (Amended 1-1-88)
205.	21 TOP RATE OF PAY OF THE NEXT LOWER CLASSIFICATION
For the purpose of clarification, the lop rate of pay of the next lower classification'' is defined as the top wage rate of that classification which has the lowest maximum wage rate of the group of classifications combined and indicated as the next lower to any particular higher classification.
To be entitled to preferential consideration under Subsection 205.7(b) or (c), except as otherwise provided in any applicable apprenticeship agreement, an employee receiving the "top rate of pay of the next lower classification" as defined above must have worked in such listed "next lower classifications,'’ or the "same or higher classifications" for a period of time equal to or greater than the time required to progress from the starting wage rate to the top wage rate for that "next lower classification" having the lowest maximum wage rate.
Where a clerical classification is among a group of classifications listed in Exhibit VI as "next lower" in a physical Une of Progression, the physical classification with the lowest maximum wage rate shall prevail in determining the amount of time required to be worked in such listed "next lower classifications." (Amended 1-1-88)
205.	22 QUALIFICATIONS FOR GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES BIDDING/TRANSFERR1NG TO REGION OR GENERAL OFFICE DEPARTMENT JOBS
An employee in General Construction must pass the appropriate agreed-to employment test battery before the employee's bld to fill a job vacancy in a Region or General Office Department under the provisions of Title 205 will be considered.
Such employee shall be entitled to two opportunities to pass the test referred to above. The second attempt to pass such test must be a minimum of three months from the date of the initial attempt. However, where the parties have agreed that certain classifications, other than normal entry level, have substantially identical tasks In General Construction as in the Regions or General Office Departments, successful performance by an employee in such
I
46
classification will be considered as presumptive evidence of meeting the appropriate agreed-to test requirements. Additionally, a former General Construction employee who has become a Region or General Office Department employee at the journeyman level or below must meet the agreed-to test battery to meet the employment requirements for Region or General Office Department employees before being promoted to a Working Foreman job on other than a temporary basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, successful performance as a temporary Work ng Foreman in a Region or General Office Department for a cumulative total of six months or more shall be presumpt ve evidence of meeting such requirements.
An employee in General Construction, other than an employee in a journeyman classification in the same Line of Progression as that in which the vacancy exists, must pass the appropriate agreed-to apprentice entrance tests, as designated in Paragraph A of the Master Apprentice Agreement before the employee's bid to fill a vacancy in an apprentice or a journeyman classification will be considered. The employee shall be entitled to retest following failure on the same schedule as a Region or General Office Department employee. (Amended 1-1-88)
TITLE 206.	DEMOTION AND LAY OFF PROCEDURE
206.1	GENERAL RULES (REGULAR EMPLOYEES)
The provisions of Title 206 which are applicable to employees with one continuous year of service in cases of displacement, demotion, or layoff due to lack of work or the return of an employee from leave of absence for Union business or military service shall be applied in such manner as to give effect to the foltowing: (Amended 11-94).	.
(a)	Employees shall be given as much notice as practicable of Company's proposed action. Following such notice, and prior to the date of the proposed action, employees to be affected oy the procedure due to lack of work shall be considered as though they had already been demoted, and, notwithstanding the provisions of Title 205, have their bids to fill vacancies, in the normal Line of Progression, considered undertne provisions of Section 206.9. Subsection 206.1(b) through Section 206.14 shall apply to employees being displaced or demoted due to lack of work or employees being displaced by another employee due to lack of work. (Amended 1-1-00)
(h)	An employee's Service, as defined in Section 106.3 shall be the determining factor in the application of this Title.	.
(c)	Where a vacancy in an appropriate classification exists, the filling of such vacancy in accordance with the appropriate provisions of this Title shall be substituted for the displacing of another employee as provided herein. (Amended 1-1-00)
(d)	An employee may not elect to displace another employee whose Service is equal to or greater than hismer own. An employee may not displace an employee in a classification having a wage rate higher than that of hisi/her own classification except where such classification is considered to be the same in accordance with a Line of Progression as provided for the Title 600 and Exhibit IX - “Same Classifications" or where such classification is a beginners classification. (Amended 1-1-00)
(e)	Employees shall be demoted, displaced, laid off, or effect elections under the provisions of this Title on the basis of their regular classification, headquarters and Line of Progression at the time of any such action.
(f)	In the application of the Title, an employee shall not be placed in a job unless qualified to perform the duties.
fa) In the application of this Title, part-time employees and intermittent employees are considered to be a dinerent classification than full-time employees under the same job title. Part-time employees and intermittent employees will not be able to displace full-time employees, regardless of seniority. Part-time employees can only displace other part-time employees in the same or lower classifications within their normal Line of Progression. Intermittent employees can only displace other intermittent employees in the same or lower classifications within their normal Lines of Progression. (Added 1-1-88)
(h)	No regular full-time employee will be displaced, demoted, or laid off due to the usage of part-time employees. Further, at a headquarters where Title 206 is to be implemented, all part-time employees shall be affected prior to regular full-time employees. (Added 1-1-91)
206.2	NOTICES
The following notices shall be given in connection with the demotion, displacement and layoff provisions of this Title: (Amended 1 -1 -00)
(a)	Company will give all employees as much notice as possible of an impending displacement, but in no case less than 14 calendar days. Further, Company will give an employee who is to be demoted or displaced due to lack of work as much notice thereof as possible, but in no case less than 14 calendar days. (Amended 1-100)
(b)	AH employees will be given an opportunity to notify the Company, through the completion of the employee option form, of their preferential order in which Section 206.3 through 206.7 shall be administered. This information will be kepton file for use in any displacement action and may be updated by the employee at anytime
up to 2 days prior to the start of a displacement action. Preferential consideration shall be given to employees in
the order of their Service, while Company shall endeavor to give effect to an employee’s preference in the order
he/she has indicated. Length of Service shall be the determining factor where two or more employees express a
preference for a single location. Company shall notify an employee as to the specific location to which such
employee will be transferred. (Amended 1-1-00)
(c)	An employee’s failure to give the notice prescribed in Subsection (b) will result in the Company applying the following preference sequence: t) 206.3 to immediate next lower classification; 2) regular sequence of consideration of 206.4 to Area, then Unit, then System; 3) 206.5 to Area and then Unit; 4) 206.6 to Area, then Unit, then System; and 5) 206.7 layoff. (Amended 1-1-00)
(d)	Any transfer resulting from the application of this Section will be made effective at any time after the expiration of ten workdays from the giving of the notice provided for in Subsection (a). (Amended 1-1-86)
(e)	By agreement between Company and Union, the notice periods in this Section may be extended. (Added 1-1-91)
206.3	DEMOTION IN LINE OF PROGRESSION
When a demotion or displacement is to be made in a classification at a Company headquarters, the employee with the least Service in such classification shall be demoted to the next lower classification in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression. An employee shall be demoted on a step by step basis; that is, the employee shall first be demoted in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression for his/her classification to the next lower classification and, at such step, if the employee is subject to further demotion, the employee may exercise the election provided for in Section 206.4 or Section 206.5, as tne case may be. If successive demotions must be made, the same procedure shall apply at each step until the employee is either placed in another job or is laid off. If more than one demotion is to be made, the within procedure shall first be applied to the highest classification to be affected, and then to successively lower classifications. (Amended 1-1-91)
206.4	ELECTIONS TO CHANGE HEADQUARTERS OR DEPARTMENT
(a)	Elections to retain department: An employee with three years or more of Service, who is to be demoted or displaced as provided in Section 206.3 has the following elections within his or her department: (Amended 1-1-00)
(1)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department within the Demotion Area who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-91)
(2)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department within the Demotion Unit who has Ine least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-94)
(3)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department in the System who has the least Service, (Amended 1-1-00)	.
(b)	Elections to change department; An employee with three years or more of Service, who is to be demoted or displaced as provided in Section 206.3 also has me following elections: (Added 1-1-00)
(1)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification in the Demotion Area who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-00)
(2)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification in the Demotion Unit who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-00)	.
(Deleted 1-1-00)
(3)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification in the System who has the least Service. (Amended 1-1-00)
(c)	An employee with less than three years of Service who is to be demoted or displaced as provided in Section 206.3 has the following elections: (Amended 1-1-00)
(1)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department within the Demotion Area who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-91)
(2)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department within the Demotion Unit who has tne least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-94)
(3)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification within the Demotion Area who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-91)
- (4) may elect to displace that employee in the same classification within the Demotion Unit who has the least Service. (Amended 1-1-94)
48
(d)	An employee who has been demoted or displaced, as provided in Section 206.3, before exercising the election provided by Subsection (a) hereof, may exercise such elections as if the demotion has not occurred. (Amended 1-1-00)
(e)	Under a systemwide application of Title 206, the three year service requirement under Sections 206.4 and 206.6 will be waived. (Addea 1-1-00)
206.5	ELECTION TO RETURN TO PREVIOUS LINE OF PROGRESSION
(a)	If an employee cannot effect a demotion or displacement in accordance with Section 206.3 and, if in addition, such employee does not for any reason effect an election in accordance with Section 206.4, the employee may, if such employee has previously worked for at least six months in any other classification in another Line of Progression in Company, elect to displace that employee in such classification and Line of Progression in the employee's Demotion Area who has the least Service. An employee may exercise an election under the provisions of this Section only when it is for the purpose of returning to the Line of Progression in which the employee worked immediately prior to entering the Une of Progression from which the election was exercised. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(b)	If an employee cannot effect a demotion or displacement in accordance with Section 206.5(a) above, the employee may, if he/she has previously worked for at least six months in any other classification in another Line of Progression in Company, elect to displace that employee in such classification and Une of Progression in such employee's Demotion Unit who has the least Service. An employee may exercise an election underlhe provisions of this Section only when it is for the purpose of returning to the Une of Progression in which the employee worked immediately prior to entering the Line of Progression from which the election was exercised. (Amended 1-1-97)
206.6	BUMPING EMPLOYEE IN BEGINNER S JOB
(a)	If the Company cannot effect a demotion or displacement of an employee in accordance with Section 206.3 and, if in addition, such employee does not tor any reason effect an election in accordance with Section 206.4 or 206.5, he/she may elect to displace that em cloves in the Demotion Area, in a beginning classification who has the least Service for which he/she meets the qualifications of the transfer. (Amended 1-100)
(b)	if the Company cannot effect a demotion or displacement of an employee in Subsection (a) hereof, such employee may elect to displace that employee in the Demotion Unit in a beginning classification, who has the least Service, for which the employee meets the qualifications of a transfer. (Amendea 1-1-00)
(c)	If the Company cannot effect a demotion or displacement of an employee in Subsections (a) and (b) hereof, if the employee has been employed three years or more, such employee may elect to displace that employee in the Company in a beginning classification, who has the least Service, for which the employee meets the qualifications for a transfer. (Amended 1-1-00)	•
206.7	LAYOFF
(a)	An employee can elect layoff in lieu of exercising options under 206.3, 206.4, 206.5 or 206.6. Further, an employee who does not effect a displacement under any of the elections in Section 206.3, 206.4, 206.5, and 206.6, will be laid off. (Amended 1-1-00)
(b)	An employee who is not affected by this Title may elect to take a layoff under this Title, without employing applications of Sections 206.1 through 206.6, thereby reducing the number of employees affected. Such employee shall have preferential rehire rights as provided under Section 206.13. This option for layoff is restricted to employees in impacted classifications and headquarters. (Added 1-1-00)
206.8	MOVING ALLOWANCE
(a)	When an employee is displaced under the provisions of this Title because of lack of work at his/her headquarters, and the employee's new headquarters is beyond commutable distance from his/her residence, Company shall reimburse the employee for the reasonable costs incurred in connection with moving his/her household in a sum not to exceed $2,400. (Amended 1-1-94)
(b)	Reasonable costs as referenced above shall include and are restricted to: (Amended 1-1-94)
(1)	Transportation of the employee and his/her immediate family to the new headquarters location (one trip only). (Amended 1-1-94)
(2)	Meal and motel expenses for the above incurred on moving day when movers cannot complete the move on the same day. (Amended 1-1-94)
(3)	Moving of furniture and household goods to the new residence. (Amended 1-1-94)
(4)	Cost of containers to be used in moving less applicable credits for returned items, such as, barrels, wardrobes and boxes. (Amended 1-1-94)
(5)	Reasonable insurance on furniture and household goods. (Amended 1-1-94)
49
(6)	Installation of television antenna and cable connections. (Amended 1-1-94)
(7)	Piping and wiring costs to accommodate moved appliances. (Amended 1-1-94)
(8)	Reasonable costs of any kind and all non-refundable deposits and/or hook-up fees for water, garbage, telephone, gas and electric, (Amended 1-1-94)
1 94)	expenses not speeifieally covered above are excluded from payment under this Section. (Amended 1 -
Although there is no time limit on when the move should occur, notice of intent to move must be filed by the employee within 90 days after his/her transfer in order to quality for reimbursement of moving expenses outlined above. All requests for reimbursement for moving expenses must be presented together with proper receipts before payment can be granted. (Amended 1-1-00)
(c)	"Beyond commutable distance," as used above, shall mean a new headquarters located more than 45 minutes or 30 miles from his/her present residence. (Amended 1-1-94)
(d)	An employee is not required to move within a commutable distance (45 minutes or 30 miles) to become eligible for a moving allowance, but must move closer to the new headquarters to qualify. (Added 1-1-00)
206.9	ACCELERATED PROMOTION
For the purpose of enabling employees who have been demoted or transferred under the provisions of this Title, or to enable employees who have been on or are on Long-Term Disability status, to return to their former status (includes former classification and department and/or any other intermediate classification in the department and in the Line of Progression), on an accelerated basis, Company will give preferential consideration in the following sequence to the bids and transfer applications submitted by such employees on any job vacancy:
(a)	Bids and transfer applications submitted by employees who formerly worked in such job classification and headquarters, and who were transferred from such headquarters, demoted from such classification, or were placed on Long-Term Disability status from such headquarters. An employee’s bid or transfer application shall not be considered under this Subsection if.following demotion or transfer the employee has not exercised each opportunity available to return to a job in his/her former classification and headquarters. (Amended 1-1-91)	.
(b)	Bids and transfer applications submitted by employees listed in Subsection (a) above who formerly worked in such job classification and Area. (Added 1-1-00)
(c)	Bids and transfer applications submitted by employees listed in Subsection (a) above who formerly worked in such job classification. (Amended 1-1-00)
(d)	Should an employee return to a classification and/or Line of Progression under the provisions of Section 206.13 other than one from which such employee was demoted, transferred or laid off, such placement shall not be considered as voluntarily removing himself/herself from the Line of Progression to which such employee would have accelerated promotional rights under the provisions of this Section. (Amended 1-1-00)
In considering, under Subsections (a), (b) or (c), bids or transfer applications received from two or more employees on the same job, Company shall give preferential consideration to the bid or transfer application submitted by the employee who has thegreatestService. (Amended 1-1-00)
An employee who has been demoted or transferred under the provisions of this Title who thereafter voluntarily removes him/herself from the Line of Progression to which the employee was previously transferred or demoted shall not be given consideration under this section. (Amended 1-1-91)
206.10	DEMOTION INTO UNIT FROM OUTSIDE
(a)	When by reason of lack of work at the employee's headquarters the Company demotes into a classification in the collective bargaining unit a supervisory or other employee who was not at the time of demotion a member of such unit such employee shall thereupon be entitled to exercise the rights set forth in this Title. (Amended
(b)	In no case shall such demoted employee be placed into a classification that is higher than the classification held prior to leaving the bargaining unit subject to Subsection 206.1(f). (Added 1-1-88)
(c)	Company shall not demote into the collective bargaining unit a supervisor or other employee who was hired or left the bargaining unit on January 1,1991 or thereafter. (Added 1-1-91)
50
206.11	NOTICE OF LAYOFF
When it becomes necessary for Company to lay off employees because of lack of work Company shall give employees involved as much notice thereof as practicable, but in no event shall a regular employee be given less than ten workdays' notice of layoff, provided, however, that notice of layoff need not be given to employees who are employed on a probationary basis. (Amended 1-1-88)
206.12	ENABLER
By written agreement between Company and Union, special provisions may be substituted for the provisions of this Title.
206.13	REEMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS
(a)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a regular employee who has been laid off for lack of work pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement for a period not in excess of thirty months and who had one or more years of Service at the time of layoff shall be entitled to preferential rehire on the basis ol Company Service at the time of layoff, providing that the laid-off employee keeps the Company informed in writing of the current mailing address and telephone number for contact and the Part II Bidding Unit(s) and/or Part III Promotion-Demotion Geographical Areafs) for which reemployment will be accepted and whether the laid-off employee wants to be considered for part-time employment. The employee will be notified of the proper method for informing the Company. Company shall maintain one address to which the above notice may be mailed.
(b)	When a vacancy exists tn a:
(i)	beginning classification covered by this Agreement, or;
(it) classification above beginning level that is not filled pursuant to the provisions of Section 205.7 (a) through (d) or Section 305.5 of this Agreement, or;	■
(iii)	part-time position that is not filled pursuant to the provisions of Section 205.5 (a), (b) or (d) of this Agreement.
Company shall provide notice of openings for reemployment as follows:
(1)	By calling the last telephone number furnished by the laid-off employee and offering reemployment. If contacted by telephone, such employee must advise Company whether or not such employment will be accepted within three working days and the employee must be available for work within seven calendar days.
(2)	If the laid-off employee cannot be reached by telephone, Company shall forward notice by Certified Mail Return Receipt Requested or openings for reemployment to the last mailing address as furnished by the laid-off employee.
Within three working days after such notice is received at such mailing address, such laid-off employee must advise Company whether or not the reemployment offer will be accepted, and the employee must be available for work within seven calendar days after so advising Company. If the certified letter is returned undeliverable, such employee will be considered terminated, and the next employee on the laid-off list may be notified of the opening.
(3)	To expedite rehiring, more than one employee may be notified of an opening, but priority shall be given to employees in the order orService at the time of layoff, if no employee remains on the laid-orf list, the provisions of Section 205.5 will be invoked.
(4)	Company shall not be required to contact laid-off employees when the openings for reemployment is outside the Part II Bidding Un’it(s) and departments and/or the Part til Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area(s) and department(s) tn which such employee has indicated a desire to accept reemployment.
(5)	If Company cannot contact the laid-off employee by telephone and if no reply is received by Company within three working days after notice is received at the employee's marling address, or if the laid-off employee does not accept reemployment to a full-time position or report for work within the time periods provided in this Subsection, such employee will be considered terminated, with no further reemployment rights under this Section, and the next employee on the laid-off list may be notified of the opening. If ihe laid-on employee declines an offer of part-time employment, such employee will not be considered for reemployment to future part-time positions.
(6)	An employee returning to a classification under the provisions of this Section must possess the necessary skills, ability ana physical qualifications to perform the duties of the position to which he/she returns.
(c)	The Certified Mail Return Receipt in (b) above shall be retained by the Company for a period of one year after the notice was mailed to the laid-off employee and shall serve as proof of such notice actually being mailed. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-94)	■
51
206.14	JOURNEYMAN RETENTION
If in the application of the provisions of this Trile an employee in a classification which, in the normal Line of Progression, is higher than an apprentice classification can effect a displacement in such classification, the former shall not take such apprentice classification, but shall be given the rate of the classification next higher thereto (Amended 1-1-80)
DEMOTION OTHER THAN FOR LACK OF WORK
Except for Sections 206.9 and 206.12 the foregoing Sections 206.1 through 206.14 appty only to an employee demoted for lack of work. Demotion for any reason other than for lack of work Is providedfor as follows: (References Amended 1-1-80)
206.15	DEMOTION OF UNIT EMPLOYEE
An employee who is demoted for any reason other than for lack of work may be placed in a vacancy created in such employees headquarters by the promotion of one or more employees to fill the job which the demoted employee vacated. If no such vacancy occurs the employee may be demoted to a vacancy in a lower classification in the Demotion Area in which he/she is employed or if no such vacancy occurs, the employee may be demoted to a vacancy in a lower classification in the Region in which he/she is employed. In the application of this Section, an employee shall be demoted to a vacancy in the first successively lower classification which the employee is qualified tofRI. (Amended 1-1-91)
206.16	DEMOTION OF NON-UNIT EMPLOYEE INTO UNIT
(a)	A supervisory or other employee who was not at the time of demotion a member of the collective bargaining unit but who formerly worked in a classification which is in such unit may be demoted for any reason other than for lack of work into a previously existing vacancy in such unit within the Demotion Area in which the employee is employed or into a vacancy which has been created in any Demotion Area by the concurrent transfer or promotion of an employee out of such unit in connection with such demotion, (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(b)	In no case shall such demoted employee be placed into a classification that is higher than the classification held prior to leaving the bargaining unit subject to Subsection 206.1(f). (Amended 1-1-84)
(c)	Company shall not demote into the collective bargaining unit a supervisor or other employee who was hired or left the bargaining unit January 1,1991 or thereafter. (Addedi-1-91)
206.17	RELOCATION OTHER THAN FOR LACK OF WORK
When it becomes necessary to relocate individuals, crews, or groups of employees in a headquarters/office due to the closing of a reporting headquarters/office or when such relocation is necessitated by a shift of workload or other economic consideration, either of which is expected to be permanent, and where the number and the classification of jobs in the Demotion Area will be unchanged, the following procedure shall be followed: (Amended 1-1-91)
(a)	All employees in a headquarters/office, including those on leaves of absence, off sick, on vacation, or off on disability, shall be considered on the basis of Service, as defined in Section 106.3, in the following Subsections.
(b)	Employees with the greater Service shall be given the first opportunity to relocate.
(c)	In the event there are insufficient volunteers) for such relocation, the employee^) with the least Service in the affected classifications shall be relocated.
(d)	Each employee in Subsection (c) above shall be given as much notice as possible of the impending relocation and such employee may elect either:
(1)	to fill any vacancy in the employee's classification in the Demotion Area in which the employee is assigned, notwithstanding Subsection 205.6(a) or (Amended 1-1-91)
(2)	to fill the vacancy in the employee's classification created at the new location where such job is relocated.
(e)	An employee so displaced in Subsections (b) and (c) above shall be given preferential consideration under Section 206.9 to return to such employee's former headquarters/office.
(f)	An employee relocated in accordance with Subsection (b) or (c) above shall be entitled, when appropriate, to the provisions of Section 206.8.
(g)	Unassigned classifications, as provided for in the Master Apprenticeship Agreement, relocated under the provisions of this Section shall be immediately reclassified as "Assigned" to the headquarters/office where such job is to be relocated.
52
(h)	Company shall not implement the provisions of this Section for the purpose of subverting Titles 201, 202, or 205.
(Entire Section Added 1-1-80)
206.18	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
Company shall continue to provide Union with as much notice as practicable of technological changes in its business which may have a significant effect on its workforce. In such circumstances, Company and Union snail then meet to study and endeavor to adopt appropriate solutions, such as retraining or special pfacement, as may be practicable before Company implements the provisions of Titles 206, 306, and 19 of the Physical and Clerical Agreements. (Added 1-1-88)
TITLE 207.	MISCELLANEOUS
207.1	(Deleted 9-1-53 - See Section 107 J)
207.2	(Deleted 7-1-00)
207.3	(Deleted 7-1-62)
207.4	(Deleted 7-1-60)
207J (Relocated to 105.7(b) 1-1-83)
TITLE 208.	OVERTIME
208.1	DEFINITION
Overtime is defined as (a) time worked in excess of 40 hours in a workweek, (b) time worked in excess of eight hours on a workday, (c) time worked on a non-workday, (d) time worked on a holiday as provided for in Title 103, and (e) time worked outside of regular work hours on a workday. Company shall not be required to pay overtime compensation more than once for any single period of time worked. Overtime shall be cumulated each day and shall be compensated to the one-quarter hour.
208.2	RATE AND DOUBLE TIME CONDITIONS	.
(a)	In general, overtime compensation at the rate of one and one-half times the straight rate of pay shall be paid to employees for overtime as defined in Items (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 208.1; except that
(b)	the time worked in excess of 12 consecutive hours and continuing until the employee is dismissed from such work shall be paid at the rate of two times the employee's straight rate of pay, or
(c)	if, following an employee's dismissal from work or on an employee's non-workday or holiday which the employee is schedulea to have off, the employee is called out for work, the employee shall be paid at two times the employee’s straight rate of pay for all work performed outside the employee's regular work hours or on a non-workday or holiday which the employee is scheduled to have off. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(d)	The time worked in excess of eight hours on the employee's second of two scheduled days off counting from the first day of the basic workweek snail be paid at the rate of two times the employee's straight rate of pay provided such employee has performed work on the first scheduled day off. Employees scheduled tonave four consecutive days shall be entitled, in addition to the above, to pay at the rate of two times the employee's straight rate of pay for the time worked in excess of eight hours on the fourth scheduled day off, provided that such employe has also performed work on the third scheduled day off.
(e)	For purposes of this Section, an employee’s "regular hours of work" shall be the same on a non-workday as those regularly scheduled for such employee on a workday.
208.3	(Deleted 7-1-57)
208.4	TRUCK DRIVERS
In the event that the truck driver of a crew is required to work in excess of eight hours per day in connection with loading, unloading, and garaging trucks such excess time shall be considered as scheduled work time and shall • be compensated for at the overtime rate.
208.5	TIME OFF IN LIEU OF OVERTIME - PROHIBITED
Company shall not require employees to take equivalent time off during a workday in lieu of overtime compensation.
53
208.6	TRAVEL TIME - EMERGENCY
Employees who are called from their homes for emergency work on their non-workdays, or on holidays which they are entitled to have off, or outside of their regular work hours on workdays shall be paid overtime compensation for the actual work time and travel time in connection therewith.
208.7	TRAVEL TIME - CALL OUT BEFORE WORK HOURS
If an employee, who is called out for emergency work outside of such employee's regular work hours on a workday, continues to work into or beyond the employee's regular work hours the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for actual travel tim e only from his/her home. (Am ended 1 -1 -91)
208.8	TWO-HOUR MINIMUM - EMERGENCY
The minimum time for which overtime compensation shall be paid under the_provisions of Section 208.6 shall be two hours, except that if an employee who is called out for emergency work outside of his/her regular work hours on workdays continues to work into or beyond regular work hours he/she shall be paid overtime compensation only for travel time as provided in Section 208.7 and for actual work time up to regular work hours unless the provisions of Section 208.11 are applicable. When an employee is called out for emergency work during his/her lunch period the minimum time provision hereof shall not be applicable, but such employee shall be paid at the overtime rate of pay for the actual time worked during the lunch period. (Amended 1-1-91)
208.9	TWO-HOUR MINIMUM - SERVICE OR RESIDENT EMPLOYEE
If a service or resident employee is called for emergency work more than once in the 24 hour period from midnight to midnight, minimum overtime compensation as provided in Section 208.8 hereof shall be paid only for the first call outside of such employee's regular work hours on workdays or at any time-on his/her non-workrfays; for subsequent calls overtime compensation shall be paid for actual work and travel time as herein provided. For the purpose of this Section concurrent calls or successive calls without a break in work time shall be considered as a single call. If by reason of a call a service or resident employee works less than two hours and into regular work hours such calf shall not be considered as a first call for the purpose of the minimum overtime compensation provision of Section 208.8 hereof. (Amended 1-1-91)
208.10	(Deleted 7-1-62)
208,11	REST PERIODS
If an employee has worked for eight hours or more at the overtime rate during the 16 hour period immediately preceding the beginning of the employee's regular work hours on a workday, such employee shall be entitled to a rest period of sight consecutive hours on the completion of such overtime work.
(a)	There shall be included as part of the eight hours worked at the overtime rate in such 16 hour period any travel time and mealtime to which the employee is entitled when emergency or prearranged work is performed except that any travel time and mealtime to which the employee is entitled after being dismissed from work shall not be included as hours worked tn such period, but it shall be included in the computation of the eight hour rest period. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Hours worked prior to any eight hour rest period in which the employee does not work shall not be included in computing another period of overtime work.
(c)	If the eight hour rest period in whole or in part overlaps the employee's regular work hours the employee will receive pay at the straight rate for the extent of the overlap, except that the time taken during such overlap for any meal to which the employee is entitled on dismissal shall be paid for at the overtime rate. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	If the employee is called back to work during his/her eight hour rest period a new rest period will commence at the conclusion of such work. (Amended 1-1-91)
(e)	(1) If the rest period overlaps the employee's regular work hours but does not extend into the
second half of the employee's workday, the empfoyee shaft be excused from reporting for work until the beginning of the second half of the employee's workday, and in such an event the employee shall be paid for the time between the expiration of the rest period and the end of the first half of such workday. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(2)	If the rest period extends into the second half of the employee's workday, the employee shall be excused from reporting for work until the following workday, and in such event the employee shall be paid for the time between the expiration of the rest period and the employee’s regular quitting time on such day. (Amended 1-1-88)
(3)	In the application of the foregoing, an employee, due to operational needs, may be required to report to work at the end of the employee's rest penod. (Amended 1-1-88)
54
(f)	An employee entitled to a rest period hereunder may nevertheless be required to work during regular work hours on a workday without having had a rest period of eight consecutive hours, in which event the employee shall be paid at two times the straight rate of pay for all work performed until the employee has been relieved from duty for at least eight consecutive hours. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
208.12	PREARRANGED OVERTIME
When, at the request of the supervisor in charge, an employee reports for prearranged work (a) on workdays outside of his/her regular work hours, the employee snail be paid overtime compensation for actual work time and travel time in connection therewith, provided, however, that if such employee continues to work into or beyond the employee's regular work hours, such employee shall be paid overtime compensation only for travel time from the employee's home and tor actual work time up to the employee's regular work hours unless the provisions of Section 208.11 are applicable; (b) on non-workdays or on holidays, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for actual work time and for travel time in connection therewith. For the purpose of this Section prearranged work is deemed to be work for which advance notice has been given by the end of the employee's preceding work period on a workday. However, Company shall make a good faith effort to notify the employee at least 24 hours in advance of the need to perform prearranged overtime work on non-workdays of holidays. (Amended 1-1-88)
208.13	MINIMUM PAY
The minimum time for which overtime compensation shall be paid under the provisions of Section 208.12 shall be two hours, except that if an employee, who has been notified to report for prearranged work outside of his/her regular work hours on workdays, continues to work into or beyond regular work hours, tne employee shall be paid overtime compensation only for actual work time up to regular work hours, and for travel time as provided in Section 208.12 hereon (Amended 1-1 -91)
208.14	MINIMUM PAY-CANCELLATION
If an employee is instructed by his/her supervisor to report for prearranged work on a non-workday or on a holiday which the employee is entitled to take off with nay, and such work is canceled, the emptoyee siiaii be paid overtime compensation tor a minimum of two hours, inclusive of any travel time as provided for in Section 208.12, if the employee is not given notice of the cancellation of such work by the end of his/her preceding work period on a workday. (Amended 1-1-91)
208.15	(Deleted 7-1-62)
208.16	EQUAL DISTRIBUTION - PREARRANGED OVERTIME
(a)	Prearranged overtime work shall be distributed among employees in the same classification and in the same location as equally as is practicable. The Company will post accumulative prearranged overtime worked or credited as worked for each person each month. The method for practicable equalization of prearranged overtime should be developed at each location by agreement between Company and Union. Such procedure should be in writing and signed by both parties. Whether procedures are developed or not, it is incumbent on Company to comply with tne provisions of this Subsection concerning equal distribution. Where an imbalance cannot be justified, paying the aggrieved employee(s) is an appropriate remedy after the end of the accounting period, although this does not preclude other local agreements. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	An employee who is scheduled to be off on vacation shall not be scheduled for work under this Section for the period between the end of the employee's last regular day of work preceding the employee's vacation and the start of the employee's first regular day of work following the vacation. An employee who is off due to illness or injury shall not be scheduled for work under this Section until tne employee returns to work on a regular workday.
208.17	SHORTCHANGE
If Company establishes a regular schedule by which a shift employee will have less than 16 hours off between shifts, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for any time worked in the 16 hour interval following the end of his/her last preceding regular shift. If a schedule which provides for less than 16 hours off between shifts is established by agreement between Company and Union the within provision for the payment of overtime compensation shall not apply. (Amended 1-1-91)
208.18	CHANGE OF SHIFTS
When a shift or service employee is transferred from one schedule of workdays or work hours to another the employee shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for work performed during regular work hours of any day involved in the transfer, provided that (a) the employee has been notified of such transfer not less than 24 hours in advance of the starting time of the new shift or work period; (b) the employee has had a minimum of eight hours off between shifts or work periods; (c) as a result of such transfer the employee has not been required to work more than 40 hours at the straight rate in any workweek involved; and (d) the employee has not been required to work more than two short changes in the workweek involved. (A short change is defined as a transfer from one schedule to another with but eight hours off between shifts or work periods.) (Amended 1-1-91)
55
208.19	NON-SHIFT EMPLOYEE ASSIGNED TO SHIFT
(a)	When by reason of an emergency in the operation of a plant or other property an employee, other than a shift employee, is transferred from his or her regular schedule to a shift schedule which has been regularly established he/she shall be entitled to overtime compensation for the first eight hour shift, unless the employee has been ^notified of such transfer at least 24 hours in advance of the starting time of such shift schedule. (Amended
(b)	Section 208.18 and Subsection 208.19(a) shall not apply in the case where an employee works outside of his or her regularly scheduled work hours for one day or less, but in such case Subsection 208.1(e) shall apply. Sections 208.18 and 208.19 shall apply when an employee is returned to the schedule of workdays or work hours from which the employee had previously been transferred under the provisions of said Sections. (Amended 1-1-88)
208.20	RELIEF SHIFT EMPLOYEES
An employee who is classified to perform relief duties shall be available for duty in revolving shifts on any day of the week, and may be assigned for the relief of any shift in any such occupations without advance notice. Such employee shall not as the result of such relief assignments be paid overtime compensation for work performed during the regular work hours of such shift, provided, however, that in the event that the employee shall be required to report for work without having had 12 hours off following the end of his/her last preceding work period the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for any time worked in the 12 hour period following the end of his/her last preceding work period. A work period is defined as any eight hour shift or extension thereof. (Amended 1 -1-91)
208.21	(Deleted 1-1-97)
208.22	HOLIDAY PAY
An employee in a classification listed in Subsection 103.7(a) who reports to work on a holiday in accordance with his/her regular schedule shall, in addition to the holiday pay, be entitled to compensation at the overtime rate of pa^ for,he wor^ Peri°d 'nvotvecl shall not be entitled to travel time in connection therewith. (Amended
208.23	THREE WEEK LIMIT
Except where a hazard to life or property exists, employees will not be required to work more than three consecutive weeks without having two consecutive days off. In the application of this Section, if a regularly established shift (as defined in Clarifications Sections 208.23, 308.15 and 202.17) begins on one workday and ends on the next, it will count as one day toward the three week limit. (Amended 1-1-91)
TITLE 209.	(Deleted 1-1-74) See Title 112
TITLE 210.	(Deleted 1-1-74) See Title 106
TITLE 211.	(Deleted 1-1-71) SeeTitlem
TITLE 212.	EMERGENCY DUTY
212.1	GENERAL PRINCIPLES
(a)	The provisions of this Title shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with the parties' purpose and intent in negotiating a voluntary on-call system for emergency duty contained herein, namely that when employees volunteer for emergency duty they are making a definite commitment to be readily available tor call-out; ano in turn, Company will call the volunteer with the least amount of recorded emergency overtime hours. When there are insufficient volunteers available for emergency duty, Company will continue to require employees to report for work on an emergency basis.
(b)	Employees shall not be required to be on-call, however, Company with Union's cooperation shall establish a call-out procedure for employees who volunteer to be readily available for duty in case of emergency. Assignments of emergency work shall be distributed and rotated as equitably as practicable among qualified employees in the same classification and in the same location who have volunteered to be available. The time during which an employee is available for duty shall not be considered as hours worked.
212.2	ANNUAL AND WEEKLY SIGN-UP
(a)	Company will prepare a list at each headquarters of those employees who volunteer for emergency work. In calling employees to respond to emergency situations involving immediate hazard to life or property,
56
Company will give preferential consideration to employees whose residences are located within 30 minutes automotive travel time, under ordinary travel conditions, from their headquarters. For emergencies not involving immediate hazard to Ute or property, Company will givepreferential consideration to employees whose residences are located within 60 minutes automotive travel time. This list will start on January 1 and continue until December 31 at which time a new voluntary call-out list will be prepared. On January 1, the accumulated overtime will be reduced to zero for all employees. This procedure is to be continued annually (hereafter. (Amended 10-1-03)
(b)	In administering Subsection (a) above, Company shall establish a sign-up procedure whereby a form will be posted in each headquarters on Monday of each week soliciting voluntary sign-up overtime for the period of the following Friday at 4:30 p.m. through the next Friday at 8:00 a.m. The list should provide for sign-ups by classification. It is to be removed on Tuesday evening and reposted Wednesday afternoon showing the names of those who have volunteered by classification, with the employees having the least overtime accrued at the head of the list. Until quitting time on Thursday afternoon, employees whose names appear on the list will have the opportunity to remove themselves from the call-out roster or note in writing on the list that all contact information is correct. This open period will allow employees to reevaluate their commitment after they determine where they stand in the call-out sequence. Employees who do not take the opportunity to remove their names from the roster will be expected to meet the commitments of availability as described earlier in this interpretation. (Amended 1 -1 -00)
(c)	Employees who do not remove themselves from the call-out roster as provided for above nevertheless shall be allowed the opportunity to remove themselves during the week under the following conditions:
(1)	Regular scheduled attendance for educational purposes with advance notice.
(2)	Participation in civic or church activities with advance notice,
(3)	Ail other instances limited to twice a week with advance notice.
212.3	CALL OUTS AND RESPONSE
In the event employees are called for emergency overtime and refuse or cannot be reached, they will nevertheless be credited on the appropriate list with equivalent overtime in the same amount as received by triose who did the work. Company is only required to make an attempt to contact by telephone an employee during an emergency period and such employee will be charged only one refusal. "An attempt" includes redialing a telephone number once when a busy signal or no answer results from the first attempt. In the case of an employee on sick during his/her regular work hours, the employee will not be called nor be credited with equivalent overtime until he/she returns to work on a regular workday. An employee who left work for a doctor or dentist appointment shall be considered as available for emergency call-out. An employee who is called out but unable to work due to illness will nevertheless be credited for equivalent overtime in the same amount as the person who actually performs the work. The employee will not be called again nor credited with any further equivalent overtime until he/sne returns to work on a regular workday. When an employee is on vacation or is working or is scheduled to work prearranged work, who would otherwise nave been called for overtime, the employee win not be credited with the equivalent overtime if he/she does not work it. For the purpose of this procedure, vacation will begin when an employee leaves his/her work headquarters on the last workday and ends when the employee reports back to work. (Amended 1-1-91)
212.4	RECORDS
During each week, the General Foreman's clerical force or equivalent will post the overtime worked or credited as worked lor each person for that week and will, at the end of the week, run up a new accumulated total, update the list, post them, and distribute them to the supervisor concerned with overtime call-out for the next week. Overtime so posted as worked shall be actual work time. In order that it may be apparent whether overtime was actually received or credited as if worked under Section 212.3 above, the latter will be circled" on the lists to show the difference. Both normal and "circled" hours will be added together in running up the new accumulated totals. An employee who signs the list provided for in Subsection 212.2(a) but not the current weekly list, and who is called out, shall be credited with all overtime hours worked.
212.5	NEW EMPLOYEE ON UST
A new hire, a person coming back off of a leave of absence, or a person not previously volunteering for emergency duty will initially be credited with one hour more than the maximum accrued m his/her classification. In other words, the employee would "go to the bottom of the list." (Amended 1 -1-91)
212.6	ADDITION DUE TO BIDDING, ETC.
A person bidding into or demoted to a new classification or new headquarters, or a person coming back off of an extended sickness will initially be credited with mean accumulated hours for the new classification and headquarters. In other words, the employee would "go to the middle of the list" on the assumption that overtime had been equitably distributed at his/her previous headquarters. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
212.7	TEMPORARY UPGRADES
Employees temporarily upgraded, whether on a time-card basis or not, shall have overtime worked or credited at tne temporary rate posted to their permanent classification.
57
212.8	EXTENSION OF WORKDAY
For purposes of this procedure when overtime results because of unanticipated continuation of the workday, such overtime will be recorded as emergency overtime.
212.9	MAJOR EMERGENCY
In the event of an emergency situation where more than 50 percent of the employees in a given headquarters are called out, an employee refusing or who cannot be reached will nevertheless be credited with the mean overtime of those working dunng the given emergency situation.
212.10	SERVICE EMPLOYEES	.
In the distribution of emergency overtime for service personnel, the purpose and intent described in Subsection 212.1(a) shall be applicable; but the current call-out procedure shall remain in effect unless specifically changed by written agreement between the Human Resources Advisors and the appropriate Business Representative. (The call-out procedures currently tn effect should incorporate the sequential order of call-out; the rotation of call-out, if any; and the provisions for calling out additional help or replacing an absent employee.) (Amended 1-1-94)
212.11	GRIEVANCE SETTLEMENTS
In the event that a grievance arises over the administration of this procedure, the following methods will be used in adjusting the dispute:
(a)	When it has been determined by the Local Investigating Committee that it was impractical to use the emergency overtime call-out procedure, the actual overtime worked wilfbe charged to those employees who worked and the grievance settled without adjustment.
(b)	When it has been determined by the Local Investigating Committee that the Company made a mistake in the administration of this procedure, the Company will pay the aggrieved employee for the time lost. However, if it has been determined that the employee contact information was incorrect, the Company will not be required to pay the employee for any time lost caused by incorrect contact information, on the call-out list furnished by the employee. (Am ended 1 -1 -00)
(c)	When it has been determined by the Local Investigating Committee that the overtime was improperly assigned to an employee in another classification or crew in another service area thereby making equitable distribution impossible, (he aggrieved employee(s) will be paid for the time that was lost.
(d)	Employees who received overtime payment for time not worked as a result of a misapplication of this Section will nevertheless be credited on the appropriate list the amount paid as if they had actually worked.
(e)	If during an accounting period an employee fails to respond when called on more than six separate occasions, the employee will be removea from the voluntary call-out list for that period, (/(mended 1 -1-91)
212.12	ENABLER
By written mutual agreement between the local Human Resources Advisor and the local Business Representative of Union, other call-out procedures may be developed locally. Such local agreement must include a 30-day cancellation clause by either party. If voluntary agreement is not reached, the provisions of Title 212 will remain In effect. (Amended 10-1-03)
TITLE 213.	(Deleted 7-1-57)
TITLE 214.	(Deleted 1-1-74)
PART III
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES ONLY
TITLE 300.	APPLICATION
300.1	The provisions of Part III of this Agreement shall apply only to field employees of General Construction, and those employees regularly assigned to a General Construction Service Center. Whenever the words "employee* and ‘‘employees* are used in this Part they shall, unless otherwise noted, be construed to refer only to such employees for whom Union is the exclusive bargaining representative.
58
301.1 APPLICATION
TITLE 301.	EXPENSES-FIELD EMPLOYEES
Employees who are transferred from a present headquarters to one at a new location, or who are reemployed at a new location within thirty months after layoff for lack of work at a previous location, shall be allowed expenses as provided for in Section 301.4. Transfer to a new location or reemployment at a new location shall mean one of the following: (Amended 1-1-94)
(a)	a change from an established job headquarters or point of assembly location within an employee's own Residence Area to a location outside such area; or;
(b)	a change from an established job headquarters or point of assembly location at which the current expense status is based; (Amended 1-1-83)
(c)	(Deleted 1-1-83)
301.2	MILEAGE MEASUREMENT
(a)	Expense allowances provided for in Sections 301.4 and 301.9 shall be paid, or free board and lodging provided for in Section 301.5 shall be allowed, to an employee only when the job headquarters or point of assembly to which the employee has been transferred or reemployed is outside the boundary of the employee's Residence Area, except as provided in Subsection 301.4(b).
(b)	All road mile measurements for the purpose of establishing Residence and per diem expenses shall be determined by measuring distances on road maps acceptable to Company and Union. However, when it is not possible to obtain such map measurements, a field check to the nearest measurable point shall be made. Routes selected for road mile measurement shall be accessible by automobile. Accessible by automobile is defined as a route that is: (1) reasonable and practical, (2) regularly maintained in reasonable repair, and (3) is safely traversable in a standard 2-wheel drive passenger car. (Amended 1-1 -88)	.
(c)	The city or town designated for an employee's Residence must be listed as having a permanent population in the current Rand McNally Standard Reference Map and Guide of California, and must be included in the Company system.
301.3	RESIDENCE DEFINITION
An employee's Residence and Residence Area shall be determined and used to establish eligibility for expense allowances in accordance with the following:
(a)	An employee's Residence is defined as the principal place of abode in the Company system in which the employee normally resides (1) on a regular basis and from which the employee commutes daily or weekly to work locations, or (2) one which the employee has a financial responsibility to maintain and to which the employee returns to live on most weekends while on work assignments at more distant job locations. An employee establishes a Residence by filing a Residence Certificate. Except employees hired after December 31, 1999, shall have their residence defined in 301.3.c.(2). (Amended 1-1-00)
(b)	An employee's Residence Area is defined as a zone extending 25 road miles from the city hall of the city or town in which the employee's Residence is located. If the employee's Residence is not located in a city or town, the 25 road mile zone will be measured from the city hall of the city or town nearest to such Residence. If there is no city hall in the aforementioned city or town, the 25 road mile zone will be measured from the principal street intersectton of the main business district.
(c)	Per Diem Eligibility
(1)	An employee who, prior to 1-1-88, is newly hired, rehired more than 30 months after layoff due to lack of work or renfred after any other type of termination must designate a Residence as defined in Subsection 301.3(a) or (d). However, this employee shall not be eligible for per diem expenses as provided in Section 301.4 until the employee is transferred to a job location more than 25 road miles from the city hall of the city or town in which the employee was hired or rehired. If the hiring or rehiring location is not established within the limits of a city or town, the 25 road miles will be measured from the city half of the nearest city or town. If there is no city hall in the aforementioned city or town, the 25 road miles will be measured from the principal street intersection of the main business district.
(2)	An employee who, after 12/31/87, is newly hired, rehired more than 30 months after layoff due to lack of work or renired after any other type of termination must designate a Residence as defined in Subsection 301.3(a) or (d). An employee who is hired after December 31,1999 shall have his/her Residence based on his/her hiring location or the location where that employee transfers or pre-bids to under Section 305.7. However, these employees shall not be eligible for per diem expenses as provided in Section 301.4 until these employees are transferred: (Amended 1-1^00)
(i)	to a location more than 50 road miles from the city hall of the city or town in which the employee was hired or rehired, so long as the employee continues to report to a job headquarters that is within the boundaries of the Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area in which such employee was hired or rehired, or
59
(ii)	to a location more than 25 road miles from the city hall ol the city or town in which the employee was hired or rehired and in a different Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area than that in which such employee was hired or rehired,
(ii	i) such employee shall not become eligible for per diem as a result of an exchange or rotation pursuant to Section 301.18 provided that the next transfer returns the employee to the original hiring area (as defined above), except that while tne employee is working within a commuting distance (as defined in Subsection 301.18(b)) of such employee's residence area, the employee may receive per diem as provided in Section 301.4.
(iv)	The Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area referenced in this Section are those contained in Exhibit 1 II of this Agreement or as amended from time to time by agreement of Company and Union. (Entire Subsection । Amended 11-88)
(d)	Change of Residence
'	(1) An employee may change Residence as defined in Subsection 301.3(a) at any time: however,
। the employee may have only one Residence at a time. An employee who changes Residence under this Subsection I must fife a new Residence Certificate immediately. The new Residence Certificate will become effective on the dale । of the change of Residence, except employees hired after December 31,1999. (Amended 1-1-00)
(2) Since the payment of per diem expenses is based upon the location of the employee's Residence, the employee is vouching that the Residence Certificate does, in fact, identify a Residence (as defined in Subsection 301.3(a)) and not temporary living accommodations. Any employee who knowingly falsifies or delays filing such a Residence Certificate shall be required to reimburse the Company for any overpayment of per diem and shall be subject to disciplinary action, including discharge, except employees hired after December 31, 1999. (Amended 1-1-00)
301.4	EXPENSE ALLOWANCES
Subject to the provisions of this Title, employees who provide their own board and lodging shall be entitled to per diem expense allowance as follows:
(a)	Each scheduled day an employee works in the basic workweek or is prevented from performing such scheduled work by inclement weather conditions covered in the Title 303; each day an employee reports for prearranged or emergency work on a non-workday; holidays which fall on a workday in the basic workweek provided such an employee works on the adjacent workday or such day is also observed as a holiday pursuant to Fhe provisions of Title 103; each non-workday during which an employee is required to take more than four hours of travel time under the provisions of Section 301.11.
Zone	Road Mlles from the City Hall or Principal Intersection * of Employee's Residence to the Reporting Location	Amount of Per Diem
1	More than 25 but 35 or less	$ 6.25
2	More than 35 but 45 or less	10.50
3	More than 45 but 55 or less	14.00
4	More than 55 but 65 or less	19.25
5"	More than 65	25.00
(Amended 10-1-03)
Employees in Zone 5 have a choice. They can elect to commute and receive $25.00 or choose to stay overnight and receive $25.00 plus full reimbursement for lodging. The employee must indicate on the daily time card which choice s/he has made tor that day. Per Diem for employees receiving expenses while in Zone 1-4, or while commuting in Zone 5 will be paid on fhe regular payroll. The lodging and the $25.00 meal reimbursement for employees in Zone 5 who elect to stay overnight will not be subject to payroll taxes or withholding taxes. See Subsection 301.21 for further clarification on this Subsection. (Amended 10-1-03)
*The principles set forth in Subsection 301.3(b) also dictate whether the city hall or principal intersection is to be used for this purpose. (Amended 1-1-94)
"When an employee volunteers to work in excess of 52 weeks in Zone 5 s/he will be paid the $25.00 per day and reimbursement for lodging and the payment will be subject to payroll and withholding taxes. (Added 10-1 -03)
(b)	If a new Residence is established by an employee who is being transferred to, or is presently reporting at. a job headquarters location which is outside the present Residence Area but inside the proposed Residence Area, the employee will be eligible to receive per diem expenses at the per diem rate established for Zone 1 only until the completion of 52 consecutive weeks at his or her current headquarters location (measuring from the date the employee was transferred to the current headquarters). If such 52 consecutive week period has elapsed when an employee makes such a Residence change, the employee will not be eligible for per diem expenses until he or she is transferred to a job location outside his or her new Residence Area (Amended 1 -1 -83)
60
I
I
(c)	An employee cannot qualify for per diem expense allowances and/or increase his/her per diem by moving his/her Residence further from his/her job headquarters. Such employee's per diem status and/or rate of per diem shall remain unchanged until his/her next following transfer. (Amended T-1-91)
(d)	The continuity of the consecutive workweek periods referred to in Subsection (b) shall not be broken by the special assignment of an employee under Section 301.9, but such workweek periods shall be extended by a period or time equal to the period of time of such special assignment.
(e)	When an employee who maintains a temporary residence while on a job that is outside his/her Residence Area, or the employee who is receiving expenses under Subsection 301.4(b), is unable to work due to illness, he/she shall be allowed per diem expense for up to five workdays during any single period of illness. Employees who have temporary residences will qualify for this allowance by providing evidence that this residence was maintained during the period of illness. (Amended 1-1-91)
301.5	COMPANY PROVIDED FACILITIES
Employees may elect to use Company-provided camp and boarding facilities in lieu of providing their own board and lodging pursuant to Section 301.4 or Subsections 301.9(b) or (c), in which case Company shall provide such employees board and lodging for the duration of the periods they work at locations where board and lodging facilities are made available. Such camp and boardinghouse facilities shall be of reasonable quality. (Amended 1-1-84)
301.6	IN LIEU OF EXPENSES
An employee may receive expense allowances under Section 301.4 or 301.9, or the employee may elect to use the Company-provided board and lodging referred to in Section 301.5; however, the employee will not be allowed to receive benefits under more than one section at the same time.
(Amended 1-1-84)
301.7	MOVING EXPENSES
If an employee is moved from one camp to another on a single project Company shall reimburse him/her tor traveling expense and for other expenses incurred therein in transporting his/her household goods. (Amended 1-1-91)
301.8	PROJECTS
Provisions will be negotiated on an individual project basis, as needed, with the Union. (Amended 1-1-91)
301.9	SPECIAL ASSIGNMENT-FIELD EMPLOYEES
When the Manager in charge orders that an employee be temporarily detached from the employee's established headquarters and assigned to a temporary, emergency, or special job at another location outside the employee's Residence Area with the expectation that ne or she shall return to such headquarters within a 30-day period, or orders that an employee be sent on a special temporary assignment to a location outside the employee's Residence Area, while enroute between jobs, the employee snail be eligible to elect either opton (a) or (b) below.
(a)	Such employee shall be reimbursed for actual board and lodging expenses incurred therein for a period not to exceed 30 consecutive days. Reimbursement for actual expenses shall be made after the employee submits an Expense Account accompanied by receipts for lodging and receipts and justification for any meals which exceed the amounts specified in Subsection 104.10(b). All expenses are expected to be reasonable and appropriate for the geographical location in which the temporary assignment is located. Upon such employee's request. Company shall provide such employee with an appropriate monetary advance on his or her anticipated board and lodging expense reimbursements. It such temporary, emergency, or special job location is at a headquarters or point of assembly at which Company-provided board and lodging are available, the employee shall not be eligible to select the provisions of this option (a) but shall be eligible to select the provisions of option (b) below. If an employee's temporary, emergency, or special job assignment continues beyond 30 consecutive days, it shall not thereafter retain its temporary character but shall be deemed to be a transfer io a new headquarters, in which event the employee shall be entitled to a per diem allowance under the provisions of Section 301.4. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	While on special temporary assignment at one location an employee may elect to receive for the gariod on special assignment, a per diem allowance equal to the amount such employee is eligible to receive under ubsecton 301.4(a) in lieu of reimbursement for actual expenses provided for in this Section for:
(1)	each scheduled day he or she works in his or her basic workweek or is prevented from performing such scheduled work during inclement weather conditions covered in Title 303;
(2)	each day he or she reports for work on a non-workday and;
(3)	holidays which fall on a workday in his or her basic workweek, provided that the employee works on an adjacent workday or such day is also observed as a "holiday" pursuant to the provisions of Title 103.
(c)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, a series of short assignments (30 days or less each) by an employee in the Station Communications, Instrumentation, or Protection Group or Gas Instrumentation and Control
61
Group or the Field Mechanical Services Group Lubrication or Crane crews or the Line Department Tower Group or any other group(s) hereafter agreed to by Company and Union shall be considered a special temporary assignment for the duration of such series of assignments. In no event shall the employee be paid expenses at two locations concurrently. Such series of assignments will not constitute changes in headquarters for the purposes of Section 301.1. (Amended 10-1-03)
(d)	Any continuous period of attendance at a Company training class which has been agreed to between Company and Union shall be considered a special temporary assignment for the duration of such assignment and shall qualify for expenses as provided in Subsections 301.9(a) and (b) above, except, however, while on such training assignment an employee whose residence Is more than 50 road miles away from such training facility may be required to utilize board and lodging which is provided by Company, tn lieu of receiving per diem or full expenses. An employee whose residence is located between 25 and 50 miles of the training facility may elect to utilize the Company provided board and lodging or a per diem expense allowance as provided for in Subsection (b) above. Such board and lodging shall be or reasonable quality. Such assignment will not constitute a change in headquarters for the purposes of Section 301.1. T ravel to such classes shall be as provided in Section 301.11. (Amended 1-1-88)
(e)	Employees who are sent on special temporary assignment and are required to use Company transportation to the temporary location will be provided transportation to the extent reasonably possible and subject to the availability of appropriate Company vehicie(s) for meeting their personal needs. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
301.10	ILLNESS WHILE IN CAMP
Notwithstanding the foregoing sections of this Title, an employee shall not be entitled to an expense allowance for any day he or she is absent from duty by reason of illness, or other personal reason except as provided for in Subsection 301.4(e). Camp and boarding house facilities shall, however, be available at no cost for not more than five days during a period of illness of an employee who has elected to receive board and lodging under Section 301.5. (Amended 1-1-84)
301.11	TRAVEL ALLOWANCE
(a)	When an employee is transferred to a new job headquarters or point of assembly, the employee shall be compensated for either (1) the actual time the employee spends traveling from his/her former job headquarters or point of assembly, exclusive of stopovers or (2) one hour (or each 45 miles or portion thereof traveled, whichever is greater. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	Where possible, all travel time pursuant to this Section 301.11 shall be taken during regular work hours on a workday, ana shall be compensated at the straight rate of pay tor the classification the employee will hold at his or her new headquarters or point of assembly, except that if Company requires an employee to travel for more than four hours outside of regular work hours or on a non-workday the travel time in excess of four hours shall be paid at one and one-half times the straight rate erf pay for the classification the employee will hold at his or her new headquarters or point of assembly. (Amended 1-1-68)
(c)	When transportation facilities therefore are not furnished by Company or other mode of transportation Is not authorized in advance, reimbursement of transportation expense at the maximum non-taxable vehicle mileage allowance allowed by the IRS shall be made. (Amended 1-1-00)
*(d	) The foregoing provisions of this Section do not apply if the employee Is transferred from one headquarters or point of assembly to another headquarters or point of assembly arid each of the following provisions apply: (Amended 1-1-91)
(1)	both locations are 25 road miles or less from each other; and	.
(2)	both locations are within 60 road miles of the employee's residence area; and
(3)	the employee normally commutes from home to both locations. (Amended 1-1-91)
(e) Company shall make a good faith effort to notify an employee at least 24 hours in advance of a change in headquarters or point of assembly. (Added 1-1-94)
’Note: Exception, if more than one such transfer is made in a workday, the employee shall receive mileage pursuant to Subsection 301.11(c) and shall be allowed actual travel time during regular work hours. (Subsection Added 1-1-88)
301.12	VEHICLE DRIVER PROVISIONS
If a driver of a vehicle cannot be released from duty when the crew is moved to a new location, and is required to return to his or her former headquarters to remove personal effects, such employee will be allowed round trip travel time under Section 301.11. In addition, if appropriate arrangements to transport the employee back to the former headquarters cannot be provided by the Company, the employee will be allowed the mileage expenses provided in Section 301.11 for his/her return to the former headquarters.
62
301.13	TRANSFER - GENERAL CONSTRUCTION SERVICE CENTERS
(a)	An employee holding a General Construction Service Center classification shall not be subject to transfer to other job locations as are field employees and shall not be entitled to a per diem allowance or other expense allowance, except as provided for in Subsection (b) below, while at the Center. If, however, such an employee transfers to the field, the employee shall file a Residence Certificate, as provided in Section 301.3, on or before the date of such transfer; any per diem expenses due the employee will be based on such Residence Certificate. (Amended 1-1-84)
(b)	If an employee is transferred to a General Construction Service Center as a result of the application of Title 306 of this Agreement the employee shall be entitled to a Relocation Allowance equal to the applicable per diem amount for field employees, as provided for in Subsection 301.4(a), based upon the employee's Residence (as defined in Subsection 301.3(a)) at the time of the transfer, except that the maximum Allowance shall not exceed that of the Zone 3 per diem amount. Such Relocation Allowance shall be paid for each scheduled day the employee works in his/her basic workweek and each holiday which falls on a workday in his/her basic workweek, and shall continue (1) for 26 weeks from the date of the employee’s placement in the Service Center, or (2) until he/she returns to a Service Center from which he/she transferred under the provisions of Title 306, or (3) until he/she is otherwise transferred, whichever occurs first. (Amended 1-1-91)
301.14	SPECIAL ASSIGNMENT - SERVICE CENTER EMPLOYEES
When an employee who is holding a General Construction Service Center classification is assigned to temporary work at such distance from the established headquarters at the Center that It is impracticable to return thereto or to the employee's regular place of abode, actual personal expenses for board and lodging for the duration of such assignment shall be allowed. All expenses are expected to be reasonable and appropriate for the geographical location in which the temporary assignment is located. The time spent by such an employee in traveling io such temporary job at its beginning and from it at its conclusion and any expense incurred therein snail be paid by Company. (Amended 1-1-83)
If on an employees non-workdays any ouch employee remains at such temporary headquarters, expenses for board and lodging on such days shall be paid by Company, but if the employee goes elsewhere for personal convenience, Company shall not reimburse the employee for any expense that the employee incurs thereby. If any such employee returns home for non-workdays, including any holiday which immediately precedes or follows the employee's non-workdays, Company at its option shall: (Amended 1-1-83)
(a)	allow the equivalent of any savings it realizes in the employee's board and lodging costs, or
(b)	provide round-trip transportation by Company vehicle between the temporary headquarters and the tegular headquarters at the Center and pay travel time in each direction, such travel time to be considered as time worked.
301.15	(Deleted 1-1-84)
GENERAL
301.16	HARDSHIP TRANSFERS
(a)	Notwithstanding anything contained herein, Company by agreement with Union may transfer any employee who requests such a transfer tor substantial reason. Such transferred employee shall not be entitled to travel time or reimbursement of transportation expense. Upon written request from an employee, submitted concurrently to Company and Union on the appropriate form, Company and Union shall give such request good faith consideration. Any transfer granted under tne provisions of this Section shall remain in effect until the substantial reason which justified the transfer no longer exists or for a period not to exceed 6 months, whichever Is less, unless Company and Union agree to an extension of the time period in increments not to exceed six additional months. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	If granted a hardship under the provisions of Subsection (a) above and upon the conclusion of the period for which a hardship transfer was granted Company transfers the employee back to the previously assigned ob headquarters where the hardship was granted, such employee shall retain the same per diem status as previously leld at that job headquarters. If such employee Is transferred to a different job headquarters from where the hardship was granted, such employee shall be eligible for per diem pursuant to the provisions of Sections 301.3 and 301.4. (Added 1-1-88)
301.17	EXPENSE ALLOWANCE ERRORS
If an error is made in the expense allowance to which an employee is entitled which results in an overpayment to the employee, the employee shall not be required to reimburse the Company beyond the first 60 days of such overpayment. However, extenuating circumstances may relieve the employee of responsibility of reimbursement for overpayment of less than 60 days,
301.18	WORK ASSIGNMENT - RESIDENCE CONSIDERATION
The parties recognize that the work of General Construction may often require working at a job location outside of an employee's residence area. The parties also recognize the Company's right to transfer employees at its
63
discretion to perform the work assigned to General Construction. Nevertheless, it is the Company's intent to attempt to place employees as close to their residence as possible, commensurate with General Construction's work assignments.
(a)	Such intent may include the exchange of headquarters between employees in same or equivalent classifications who possess simitar skills, knowledge and abilities and who mutually agree to such an exchange.
(b)	Further, such intent may take into consideration the rotation, when practical, at reasonable intervals, of those employees in the same or equivalent classifications who possess similar skills, knowledge and abilities who have worked long distances from their residence area with those employees who have remained within a reasonable commuting distance (75 road miles or less but not more than 1-1/2 hours normal travel time) of their residence areas for similar periods of time. For the purpose of this Section “reasonable intervals" is considered to be approximately 6-12 months. Employees in Apprentice classifications may be required to forego consideration for rotation, due to training requirements, for the duration (X their apprenticeship.
<c) Employees who exchange headquarters pursuant to Subsection (a) above shall not be eligible for the travel allowance provided for in Section 301.11. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-88)
301.19	CLERICAL AND ROUTINE CLERICAL ASSISTANT
(a)	Company may assign Clerical Assistants to work at a project or to work at permanently established field offices. A permanently established field office is defined as the office of a General Foreman or Superintendent. Such permanently established field office must maintain a minimum clerical staff of one Senior Field Clerk and one First Field Clerk and/or Routine Field Clerk at all times while the Clerical Assistant classification is assigned to such field office. No more than one Clerical Assistant may be assigned to a single field office.
(b)	Employees holding this classification are not eligible for per diem or expenses and are not subject to transfer unless written agreement with Union is obtained. "However. Clerical Assistants may submit transfer applications to Routine Field Clerk pursuant to Section 305.5. Consideration will be on a system-wide Promotion-Demotion Area, consistent with Exhibit II of the Agreement. An employee classified as a Clerical Assistant who files a transfer application will at the same time file a Residence Certificate as provided in Section 301.3. If such employee is subsequently the successful bidder to Routine Field Clerk, per diem or expenses due the employee will be based on such Residence Certificate.
(c)	Employees holding this classification may be sent on special assignment for up to five days for training and shall be compensated pursuant to the pay provisions of Subsection 301.9(a) or (b).
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-91)
301.20	ENABLING CLAUSE
By written agreement between Company and Union, special provisions may be substituted for the provisions ofthisTitle. (SectionAdded 1-1-88)
301.21	CLARIFICATION TO SUBSECTION 301.4(a) (Formerly Exhibit XV) (Amended 10-1-Q3)
1.	Company may establish a list of motels in the area. An employee may elect to stay at any motel/hotel in the area which is on the Company established list in which event employee shall use the normal method of payment as established by Company (i.e. P-Card, Corporate Credit Card, or other method adopted by Company) where payment is made by Company1 If the employee elects to utilize other facilities, he/sne must pay the associated cost and submit an Expense Reimbursement form. The cost of such other facility shall be reasonable. The determination of the reasonableness of the cost of such facility shall be subject to review in a manner agreeable to Company and Union. If agreement cannot be reached on the acceptability of the cost of the facility, Union may address the issue in the grievance procedure.
If an employee elects to utilize other facilities, and submits an Expense Reimbursement form, Company shall reimburse such employee in a reasonable period of time.
2.	Facilities placed on the Company established list shall be of reasonable quality. Disputes related to the reasonableness of the facility shall be subject to review in a manner agreeable to local Company and Union representatives. If agreement cannot be reached on the acceptability of a facility, Union may address the issue in the grievance procedure.
Company shall utilize as a reference for identifying acceptable facilities, travel reference materials such as the California Automobile Association rating system or the Best Western rating system. Additional facilities not on the Company established list may be utilized if approved in advance by Company, and are subject to the same reasonableness requirements for cost and quality as above. AH facilities included in the California Automobile Association rating system or the Best Western rating system, with the exception of those that are rated (four star), shall be assumed to be on the Company established list.
3.	Motels/hofeZs on the Company list shall be located not more than five (5) road miles and/or fifteen (15) minutes travel time from the employee's regular headquarters, if such headquarters is located in an incorporated area. If the headquarters is in an unincorporated area, both board and lodging facilities must be located not more than 15 road miles of the headquarters provided that such board and lodging are within two road miles of each other. See note (4) below for an exception to this provision.
64
4,	In the city/county of San Francisco, motels/hotefc on the Company list shall be located not more than fifteen (15) road miles and/or thirty (30) minutes travel time from the employee’s headquarters. Further, such facilities shall not be located in a city or town that requires crossing a toll bridge to reach. (Cannot cross Bay Bridge, Golden Gate Bridge, San Mateo Bridge, etc.)
5,	Motefs/hotefe on the Company list shall provide, at minimum, the following conveniences:
a)	In-room telephone (does not include charges associated with use of the in-room phone).
b)	Cable television (does not include charges for use of pay-per-view channels).
6.	Company cannot require two or more employees to share a facility. However, two or more employees may elect to share a facility. In the event two or more employees elect to share a facility, and all do not incur an expense, it is understood that only those who incur an expense are entitled to a reimbursement.
7.	Employees who elect to utilize a travel frailer or motor home for lodging may do so. In such cases, employees may utilize the services of a campground or similar facility in the vicinity of the job headquarters. The normal method of payment established by Company shall be used tor the payment at such facilities. In the event the normal method of payment established by the Company is not available at the facility selected by the employee, such employee will be required to submit receipts on an Expense Reimbursement Form. Employees who utilize such facilities shall be entitled to the same conveniences as are provided to employees electing to utilize a motel (such as electric, water, telephone, cable television hookup, etc.).
8.	Where it is reasonably possible to do so, and where the associated costs would be the same or less as for a motel/hote/, an employee (or several employees) may elect to rent an apartment on a month-to-month basis. Agreement with local management must be reached on a case-by-case basis, however, prior to such rental. There must be a reasonable expectation that the involved employee(s) will remain at the headquarters for a period of time sufficient to make such rental economically feasible.
3. An employee entitled to receive lodging at Company expense need not either commute on consecutive days or stay over night on consecutive days. Such employee may elect to commute on one or more days during a workweek or may elect to stay over night on one or more nights during a workweek,
10.	An employee entitled to receive lodging at Company expense is entitled to lodging during a work week the same number of times as the number of work days and non-work days worked during the work week. The nights of lodging are not required to be on the same days as the workdays and non-work days. For example, an employee who works a regular 4 day/1O hour Monday through Thursday schedule may elect to receive lodging reimbursement for Sunday-Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday nights or for Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday-Thursday nights. If such employee was required to work overtime on Sunday in this example, such employee may elect to receive lodging reimbursement for Saturday through Wednesday nights or for Sunday Through Thursday nights. If such employee were required to work overtime on "Friday in this example, such employee may elect to receive lodging reimbursement for Sunday through Thursday nights or for Monday through Friday nights.
TITLE 302.	HOURS
302.1	BASIC WORKWEEK AND BASIC WORKWEEK DEFINED
A workweek is defined to consist of seven consecutive calendar days, and a basic workweek is defined to consist of five workdays of eight hours each. The days in the basic workweek shall be known as workdays and the other days in the workweek snail be known as non-workdays. Employees may be scheduled to work more or less than five days per week or for more or fess than eight hours per day, but in any such event the basic workweek shall continue to be as herein defined.
302.2	BASIC WORKWEEK
The basic workweek shall be from Monday through Friday.
302.3	CHANGES
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 302.2 hereof. Company's Foreman or other Supervisor and the employees involved, together with Union, may mutually establish a different basic workweek of five consecutive workdays.
302.4	(Deleted 7-1-56)
302.5	HOURS-GENERAL
In general, and except as otherwise provided herein, the regular hours of work shall be from 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., or from 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 1 p,m. to 5 p.m.; provided, however, that the regular lunch period may be advanced or delayed one hour or less for any of the following reasons, namely, (a) when work which must necessarily be performed on facilities serving a customer of Company can most conveniently be performed during such customer's lunch period; (b) when work must necessarily be performed by reason of an interruption to utility service or other emergency having occurred; (c) when work must necessarily be
65
performed to eliminate a hazard to life or property; or (d) when the Company foreman or other supervisor and the employees involved mutually establish a different lunch period or agree to a temporary change in the regular lunch period. A change in lunch period for any of the foregoing reasons shall not be deemed to require the payment of overtime, except that if the regular lunch period is advanced or delayed for more than one hour for any of tne reasons herein listed (a), (b), (c), the employees involved wilt be paid at the overtime rate for work performed tn the regular lunch period and may eat their lunch on Company time.
302.6	HOURS - BOARDINGHOUSE
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 302.5 hereof, the eight hours of work of employees who are employed in boardinghouses may be spread over a 13 hour period each day.
302.7	OVERTIME - HOURS CHANGE
Further notwithstanding the provisions of Section 302.5 hereof, Company may change the regular hours of work of any employee when necessary, in which event overtime compensation shall not be paid for time worked outside of regular work hours except during the first four workdays following such change.
(a)	As used in this Section, "regular hours of work" are those defined in Section 302.5; i.e., 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 12:30 p.m. to4;30p.m., or from 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 1 p.rri. to 5 p.m.
(b)	The provisions of this Section shall not be applicable unless an employee is assigned hours of work other than regular hours of work for a period estimated as more than four consecutive workdays.
(c)	A further change of work hours, following an assignment as provided in Subsection (b) above, shall result in the payment of overtime the first four workdays after such further change for hours worked outside of regular work hours and outside those hours from which the employee was just changed. If any such situation extends beyond two workweeks, Company and Union may agree to rotate the assignment of employees thereto, but in such event the overtime compensation herein provided for will not be paid to any employee for more than the first four workday period worked outside of regular hours. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	Overtime compensation shall not be paid under this Section 302.7 for time worked during regular hours of work as defined in Subsection (a) above.
(e)	The provisions of this Section are not applicable where:
(1)	the regular hours of work, as established in Section 302.5, are changed by Company at the request or direction of public authorities, provided, however, that before any such change is made Company shall discuss it with Union, or
(2)	such regular hours of work are changed by agreement between Company and Union.
In neither instance shall Company be required to pay overtime compensation by reason of such change.
302.8	(Deleted 1-1-80)
302.9	NORMAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
When employees are engaged in work on electric power lines, water distribution systems or gas pipelines, ob headquarters shall be established at a location reasonably convenient to board and lodging or to a local ransportation system, oral a Company Service Center or other Company facility where employees customarily report for work, and the time spent in traveling between job headquarters and work sites shall be considered as time worked.
302.10	OTHER REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
When regular employees are engaged in work other than that described in Section 302.9 hereof, the following shall govern the reporting practice and payment for travel time:
(a)	Assembly Point: In an unincorporated area except as provided in Subsection (c) hereof, an assembly point shall be designated for each job at a location reasonably convenient to board and lodging and the travel between such point ano the work site shall be considered as time worked.
(b)	Travel Time: In a town or a metropolitan area, employees may be required to report at the work site on their own time.
(c)	Camp Provided: On a station or hydro job when living quarters are provided by Company: (Amended 1-1-80)
(1)	When travel from such facilities to the work site is 30 minutes or less each way, such employees shall report at the work site.
(2)	When travel from such facilities to the work site requires more than 30 minutes, the travel time each way in excess of 30 minutes shall be considered as time worked.
66
(3)	if the work site is inaccessible to automotive transportation such travel shall be to a designated point which is accessible. Accessible to automotive transportation is defined as a route that is (a) reasonable and practical, (b) is safely traversable in a standard 2-wheel drive passenger car, and (c) is regularly maintained in reasonable repair. (Amended 1-1-88)
302.11	NON-CAMP CONDITIONS
A location reasonably convenient to board and lodging as referred to in Sections 302.9 and 302.10 hereof shall mean any location within the city limits of an incorporated city where board and lodging are available; or, in an unincorporated area, a location where the board and lodging are within 15 road-miles of the headquarters or assembly point and provided further that such board and lodging are within two road-miles of each other, and which is accessible by automobile. Accessible by automobile shall be as defined in Subsection 301.2(b). Where the headquarters is in an unincorporated area, such board and lodging may be either in an unincorporated area or in an incorporated city, (Amended 1-1-88)
TITLE 303.	INCLEMENT WEATHER PRACTICE
303.1	SHELTERED WORK
Regular employees who report for work on a workday, but are prevented from working in the field because of inclement weather or other similar cause shall, if practicable, be held pending emergency calls, or may be given first aid, safety or other instruction, or may be required to perform miscellaneous work at locations unaffected by inclement weather conditions. (Amended 1-1-83)
303.2	SHOW-UP TIME (FIRST HALF)
If an employee reports for work on a workday in his/her basic workweek and is not required to work because of inclement weather, lack of materials, or similar cause beyond his/her control, or if such employee, having started work on a workday in his/her basicworkweek^ is required to discontinue it for any^of the foregoing reasons, the G«Tip!oyos shsll bs coiiipGnScuGd for ths *«rno mO/smG works or is held at the worksite. Such compensaLion shall be at the rate of pay which would have been payable had the employee worked at his/her scheduled work, but in no event shall a regular employee be paid less than four hours compensation or a casual employee less than two hours compensation. (Amended 1-1-91)
303.3	MINIMUM (AFTER SECOND HALF)
If a regular employee after working more than 4 hours on a day in his/her basic workweek is prevented from continuing work for the remainder of such day because of inclement weather the employee shall be paid eight hours compensation for such day at the rate of pay which would have been payable had the employee worked the full day. (Amended 1-1-91)
303.4	EXPENSES
When a regular employee is directed by the foreman or supervisor in charge not to report for work on any day in the employee’s basic workweek because of inclement weather, or other similar cause beyond the employee's control, the employee shall be paid the Zone 3 per diem amount (as provided in Section 301.4) or regular per diem, whichever is greater, or, if the employee lives at a Company-operated or Company-designated boardinghouse or camp, the employee shall not be charged for board and lodging on such day. (Amended 1 -T-91)
303.5	CLOSE DOWN DECISION
The decision to close down a job or a portion of a job and send employees home under this Title shall be made by a supervisor when, in the supervisor’s reasonable judgment, the weather, ground, or other conditions at the worksite make it impractical to work efficiently, productively or safely. The decision will be made by an exempt supervisor who personally examined the conditions at the worksite and who has evaluated the availability of other miscellaneous work or training as provided for in Section 303.1, except in those cases where such a supervisor is not able to personally examine such worksite. When the exempt supervisor is unable to personally examine such worksite, he/she shall consult with a bargaining unit supervisor who is familiar with such worksite. If an employee is sent home and conditions improve to the point at the employee's worksite that work can be performed efficiently, productively and safely, the Company will make a good faith effort to call the employee back to work on the earliest workday possible regardless of the number of days off originally anticipated. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
TITLE 304.	WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
304.1	WAGE PROGRESSION
■	(a) The "Wage Progression" of an employee who is absent on leave of absence without pay for more
than ten consecutive workdays will be delayed by a period of time equivalent to such leave of absence. The "Wage Progression" of an employee in a beginning or apprentice or other training classification who is absent for more than 25 consecutive workdays because ofan industrial injury as defined in Section 108.1 or for an illness or disability and
67
is receiving sick leave with pay as provided for in Section 112,1, will be delayed by the period in excess of 25 consecutive workdays,
(b)	Except as provided in Section 304.5 below, an employee who is assigned to a classification having a higher maximum wage rate shall be paid at the first step of the wage progression of such classification which is higher than his/her present wage rate, or at the wage step in the higher classification determined by the time previously accumulated in such higher classification, as provided for in Subsection 304.1(a), whichever is the greater. (Amended 1-1-91)	y
(c)	An employee who is demoted due to lack of work to a classification in such employee's current Line of Progression having a lower top wage rate is entitled to the rate of pay previously held in the lower classification or the rate of pay in the tower classification equal to or next lower to his/her present rate of pay, whichever is higher. Employees with 24 months or more in their current classification who have received notice of displacement and vacate their base position by successful bid, transfer or who are displaced into a lower paying position will maintain their rate of pay for up to three years or until such time as the rate of pay is equal to or greater than that of the employee's frozen rate of pay, whichever comes first. If at the end of three years, an employee is still paid above the top of the rate for the classification. During the time that an employee's pay remains above the wage range of the position into which he/she bid, the employee will not receive General Wage Increases or Progressive Wage Increases. (Amended 1-1-00)
(d)	An employee who is demoted to a classification outside of the employee's current Line of Progression having a lower wage rate will be placed at the wage step appropriate to the employee's level of qualifications. (Amended 1-1-80)
304.2	TEMPORARY UPGRADE
When an employee is temporarily assigned to work in a classification higher than the employee's regular classification the employee will be paid for time worked in the higher classification at the rate therefore, provided that such time worked is not less than two hours during the day. However, an employee who previously held the higher classification on a permanent basis will be paid lor time worked in the higher classification at the rate therefore provided that the time worked is not less than one hour. Such time worked may be accumulated over an eight-hour period by intervals of not less than one-half hour. (Amended 1-1-88)	.
304.3	PAYDAY
Wages shall be paid at biweekly intervals on Fridays for a two-week payroll period ending not less than four nor more than ten days prior to the pay date, provided that if the regular pay date falls on a holiday payment shall be made on the preceding workday. Company shall make direct deposit available to those employees who elect to utilize such. (Amended 1-1-88)
304.4	NEW CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
Upon agreement thereon by Company and Union, additional regular classifications, wages therefore, and normal Lines of Progression may be established, and the wages, duties and Line of Progression di any classification (Added	such agreement’ C°mPany may establish temporary classifications and wages therefore.
304.5	APPRENTICE WAGE RATES
(a) in each instance, except as provided in Subsection (b), when an employee is appointed to fill a vacancy in an apprentice classification for the first time, such employee shall be placed at the beginning rate in such apprentice classification.
' (b) Based on Company and Union written agreement and the employee's current knowledge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability which relate directly to prior performance of journeyman duties and which supplant need for training in an apprenticeship, the employee maybe placed in a wage step above the beginning rate. (Added 1-1-80)
TITLE 305.	JOB BIDDING AND PROMOTION
305.1	BIDDING ON REGION JOBS
Any regular employee of General Construction who is in the unit described in Section 300.1 may submit a bid by United States or Company mail to Company on any job under the provisions of Title 205 or Title 18 of the Clerical Agreement and such bids will be entitled to consideration as provided for in such Title. (Amended 1-1 -94)
305.2	QUALIFICATIONS FOR GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES BIDDING/ TRANSFERRING TO DIVISION JOBS
An employee in General Construction must pass the appropriate agreed-to employment test battery before the employee's bid to fill a Regional or Department job vacancy under the provisions of Titfe 205 will be considered. (Amended 1-1-91)
68
Such employee shall be entitled to two opportunities to pass the test referred to above. The second attempt to pass such test must be a minimum of three months from the date of the initial attempt. However, where the_parties have agreed that certain classifications, other than normal entry level, have substantially identical tasks in General Construction as in the Regions or Departments, successful performance by an employee tn such classification will be considered as presumptive evidence of meeting the appropriate agreed-to test requirements. Additionally, a former General Construction employee who has become a Regional or Department employee at the journeyman level or below must meet the agreed-to test battery to meet rhe employment, requirements for Region or Department employees before being promoted to a working foreman job on other than a temporary basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, successful performance as a temporary working foreman in a Region or Department for a cumulative total of six months or more shall be presumptive evidence of meeting such requirements. (Amended 1-1-91)
An employee in General Construction, other than an employee in a journeyman classification in the same Line of Progression as that in which the vacancy exists, must pass the appropriate agreed-to apprentice entrance tests, as designated in Paragraph A of the Master Apprenticeship Agreement before the employee's bid to fW a vacancy in an apprentice or a journeyman classification will be considered. The employee shall be entitled to retest following failure on the same schedule as a Regional or Department employee. (Amended 1-1-91)
305.3	(Deleted 7-1-66)	-
305.4	TEMPORARY UPGRADES
(a)	When it is necessary to effect a temporary upgrade Company shall give preferential consideration to the regular employee who has the greatest Service among those who:
(1)	are qualified for the upgrade, and
(2)	have at least six months of Service, and
(3)	are in the classification next lower, in the normal Line of Progression, to the classification to which the upgrade is being made, and	■
4
(4)	are working on the shift where the upgrade is needed, and
,	(5)	(i)	are working at the assembly point where the upgrade is needed, or
(ii)	when unanticipated vacancies occur and/or when operating conditions require, are in the crew or Service Center or project section where the upgrade is needed. (Amended 1 -1 -00)
Upgrades under Subsection 305.4(a)(5)(H) shall be limited to five consecutive workdays or less, except that upgrades to classifications which require the employee to exercise supervisory duties shall be limited to ten consecutive workdays or fess.
(b)	Further notwithstanding the foregoing, Company shall have the right to select for temporary upgrade a qualified employee who is working outside the assembly point or shift where the upgrade is needed, provided that such employee has greater Service than the employee who otherwise would have been awarded the upgrade.
(c)	Temporary upgrades normally are limited to 20 consecutive workdays, but may extend beyond 20 consecutive workdays when an employee is upgraded to replace one or more employees who are absent from work.
(d)	Each month Company shall provide Union with a list of temporary upgrades effected during the prior month. Such list shall include eacn upgraded employee's name, social security number, job headquarters, promotion-demotion area, the classification^) to which each employee was upgraded and the hours each employee worked in such classifications). This list snail be cumulative, reflecting hours worked in upgraded classification(s) during the prior 13 payroti periods. Additionally, each job headquarters will be furnished with a copy of that portion of the list which shows the upgrades effected in the Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area (as defined in Section 305.5) in which such headquarters is located. Employees shall be permitted to review the list upon request. (Amended 10-1-03)
305.5	PROMOTION (SIX MONTHS OR MORE SERVICE) (Amended 1 -1 -00)
Employees who have six months or more of continuous Service with Company (as defined in Section 106.1) shall be given preferential consideration as follows for promotions occurring in the department of General Construction in which they are employed: (Amended 1-1-00)
(a)	In the case of each such promotion such preferential consideration shall first be given to that employee who qualifies under the provisions of Section 306.9, then to that employee who has the greatest Service and is at the top rate of pay in the classification next lower in the normal Line of Progression to the one in which the vacancy exists, provided that the employee is fully qualified to perform the duties of the job which is vacant, and provided further that the employee is headquartered in the area in which the vacancy exists. As used herein, the term ’'area'' means the geographic promotion-demotion area established by agreement between Company and Union as indicated in Exhibit II, General Construction Promotion-Demotion Geographic Areas, which is attached hereto and made a part hereof. (Amended 1-1-88)
69
(b)	Employees, other than those with preferential rights under Section 306.9, who have turned down a temporary upgrade opportunity that was known in advance to last for five or more workdays (10 or more workdays for positions which require the employee to exercise supervisory duties) shall not be entitled to consideration for promotion for a period c< 90 calendar days thereafter. An employee who declines a temporary upgrade shall sign and date a temporary upgrade form indicating he/she is not interested in the upgrade and further indicating awareness that he/she will not be considered for promotion for a 90 calendar day period. (Added 1-1-94)
(c)	A permanent upgrade form shall be used so that employees can indicate interest in and qualification for permanent upgrade to classifications higher in the normal Line of Progression. Such forms shall be signed and dated by the employee and the employee’s supervisor, following which a copy of the completed form shall be returned to the employee. Such form shall remain in effect until either the employee is promoted to a higher classification or for one year from the date signed by the employee. An employee may revise and resubmit a permanent upgrade form at any time. (Added 1 -1 -91)
(d)	Notwithstanding anything therein contained to the contrary, Company may make appointments to jobs requiring the employe to exercise supervisory duties on the basis of ability and personal qualifications. (Added
(e)	At least once each month Company shall submit to Union a list of promotions in each geographic sromotion-demotion area in General Construction. Such list shall include the name of the employee promoted, the ocatton and title of the original vacancy, and the employment date of the promoted employee. Such list shall also nclude the name, employment date and classification of each employee in the area and normal Line of Progression where the promotion was made who has an employment date earlier than the employment date of the promoted employee. (Added 1-1-91)
305.6	HARDSHIPS
Company shall have the right to make transfers in the case of employees whose health or physical condition makes it advisable to relieve them from duty in occupations which are hazardous or which involve physical or mental strain, and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to restrict or restrain Company in the exercise of such right.
305.7	GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PREBID PROCEDURE
Any regular employee of Company may submit a prebid on any existing job classification and promotion/demotion geographic area, as defined in Exhibit II of the Agreement for which the employee desires consideration in accordance with the following procedure provided the employee does not exceed a combined maximum number of 150 prebids and transfers. This maximum will not apply to employees subject to the provisions of Title 306. (Amended 10-1-03)
(a)	Eligibility: To be valid, an employee's prebid must be entitled to preferential consideration under the provisions of Section 305.5 or the provisions of Subsection (b) below. A list of existing classifications by promotiondemotion geographic area with appropriate prebid numbers is available in each headquarters where employees in the Physical bargaining unit regularly report for work.
(b)	Filling of Vacancies: whenever a vacancy occurs in any job classification which the Company intends to fill on a regular oasis, once the current provisions of Section 305.5 have been exhausted, Company shall fill the remaining vacancies as soon as practicable and in the following sequence:
(1)	Bids made by employees who are entitled to preferential consideration under Section 306 9 who are out of the Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area of the vacancy;
(2)	Bids made by regular Title 300 General Construction employees in order of seniority who are:
(a)	in the same department but in a different Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area, who are either
(i)	in the same classification as that in which the job vacancy exists, or
(ii)	in classifications which are higher thereto in the Lines of Progression, or
Sat the top rate of pay of the next lower classification in the normal Line of _____ . ____ rwise provided in any applicable apprenticeship agreement.
(b)	from all other Title 300 employees from any other department (Amended 10/1/03)
(3)	Bids made by any regular Title 200 Division employee in order of seniority,
(c)	Forms: Prebids must be submitted on the form provided by Company or via Bid Express, the telephone input system.
(d)	Mall: Prebids may be submitted to Company by either United States or Company mail.
(e)	Timeliness: Company shall not consider any prebid which was received by Company less than eight
calendar days prior to the date the fully authorized job vacancy report was received and date stamped by the Human Resources Department to fill a job vacancy in the classification and promotion-demotion geographic area on which
70
J
the prebid was made. Only those prebids valid as of the date stamped on the job vacancy report will be considered to fill such vacancy. Subsequent prebids may be considered only after that list has been exhausted. At that point where there are no qualified prebids on file, Company may fill the job at its discretion in the same manner as described in Section 205-13- (Amended 10-1-03)
if) Date of Receipt: The date of receipt will be the date of the U.S. postmark if legible. If such postmark is illegible or if the prebid is submitted by Company mail, the date of receipt will be the Industnal Relations’ date stamp.
<g>	Acknowledgment: Company will acknowledge receipt of all prebids within 15 calendar days from the date of receipt and without rejecting the prebid notify the employee in writing (via e-mail for employees who submitted prebids via e-mail) of any known reason which might preclude the employee's filling the classification on which the employee has submitted a prebid, including information regarding testing programs which must be completed. Information on whether or not an employee has completed such programs is available from the employee's Human Resources Department. (Amended 10-1-03)
(h)	Cancellation of Prebids: Prebids are valid for a period of one year from the date of receipt or until such time
as the employee changes classification or until such time as the employee rejects an appointment to the classification in a specific promotion-demotion geographic area (and shift, it appropriate) on which the prebid was made. Company will notify an employee of the cancellation of employee’s prebids as indicated below. Cancellation shall be effective as follows;
(1)	at the expiration of one year from the date of the prebid and after 15 calendar days' advance notice from Company,
(2)	upon the employee’s declining an appointment to the classification in a specific promotion-demotion geographic area on which the prebid was submitted,
(3)	30 calendar days after any employee’s change of classification which does not affect his or her
status as a prebidder, and after 15 calendar days advance notice from Company,
(4)	immediately upon an employee’s change of classification which affects his or her status as a prebidder,
(5)	immediately upon receipt of authorization from an employee to cancel a prebid, or
(6)	upon receipt of authorization from the local Human Resources Department to cancel prebids because a job is deleted from the directory or an employee improperly designates rights, as provided in Section 306.9, with notification to the employee by the local Human Resources Department of such cancellation. In the latter cases, the employee’s prebid will be given the appropriate 305.5 consideration for 15 calendar days from the time the local Human Resources Department notifies employee of such cancellation.
(i)	New Jobs In a Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area: The Company shall post, on all bulletin boards throughout the System, a notice describing all new classifications in any promotion-demotion geographic area on the first or fifteenth of any month, as soon as such jobs are authorized to be filled. Such notice shall remain posted until the next Directory listing the new classification is posted on the bulletin board, but not less than 15 days, fl no prebids are received 18 days after the date shown on the notice, or at the point there are no qualified bids on file, Company will have 60 days to fill the vacancy in a manner as described in the provisions of Section 205.13.
An employee who is the senior, qualified bidder to more than one vacancy, which is currently being filled, shall be given the option of accepting (he classification and promotion-demotion geographic area desired.
(i)	Prebld Directory; The Company shall identify all prebidable classifications covered under the Physical and Clerical Agreements. Such identification shall include me location, function and prebid number.
(k) Accepting Job Offer: An employee will be expected to provide a response by the next business day if s/he is offered a position that will not result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence.
An employee will be expected to reply within 48 hours of receiving a job offer request when accepting the offered position will result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence. Under certain circumstances of hardship or operational needs, the supervisor offering the position may grant up to 72 hours for the employee to respond. Further, based on operational needs, an employee may be granted the use of a floating holiday or vacation day to assist in determining whether or not to accept a job offer. Failure to respond in the aforementioned time frame will cause the employees bid to forfeit.
An employee who is scheduled to goon vacation is encouraged to voluntarily leave a phone number with his/her supervisor at which s/he can be reached if a job offer is extended. As an alternative, an employee may voluntarily leave his/her supervisor a prioritized list of vacancies s/he will accept if offered a position. This list will expire after the vacation period is ended. In no case will an employee be bypassed for an offer due to being on vacation. (Added 10-1-03)
305.8 FILLING BEGINNER’S CLASSIFICATIONS (Added 10-1-03)
Whenever Company intends to fill a beginner's classification, Company shall fill it in the following sequence:
71
(a)	Transfers made by regular employees who are entitled to preferential consideration under Section 306.9 who are;
1.	in the same Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area as the vacancy, then;
2.	out of the Promotion Demotion Geographic Area as the vacancy.
(b)	Company shall make unrestricted appointments in filling one-half of the vacancies in beginner’s classifications.
(c)	In making appointments to fill the remaining one-half of the vacancies in beginner’s classifications in each Line of Progression in a given department in a promotion-demotion geographic area, Company shall give preferential consideration to employees with at feast one year of service, unless transferring to a part-time classification with a higher wage rate or from a part-time position to a full-time position, who have previously filed a transfer to fill such vacancies. An employee who is the senior, qualified transferee to more than one vacancy, which is currently being filled, shall be given the option of accepting the vacancy desired. Preference for appointment shall be given to the emfM^ee for each vacancy in each classification who has the greatest Service in the following sequence: (Amended
(1)	Title 300 General Construction employee in the same department as the vacancy.
(2)	Any other Title 300 General Construction employee.
(3)	Title 200 Division employees.
The above provisions shall be applicable to a beginner’s classification in a Line of Progression in a promotion-demotion geographic area where a transfer application for such vacancy is on file and the number of unrestricted appointments exceeds transfers.
AU transfer requests must be submitted by United States or Company mail on a form provided by Company. Transfer requests also may be submitted via Bid Express, the telephone input system. The date of receipt shall be the postmark date if delivered by U.S. Mail, or Industrial Relations date stamp if delivered by Company mail or it the U.S. postmark is illegible. In no event shall the Company consider any transfer application which was received by Company less then eight calendar days prior to the established control date. The control date is first established on the date the fully authorized personnel requisition Is received and date stamped by the local Human Resources Department to fill a job vacancy in the classification and promotion-demotion geographic area on which the transfer application was made. If the transfer listing is exhausted without a successful candidate, a new control date will be established. This new control date wilt be the date of the decline or bypass of the last transfer applicant. Transfers which were not timely under the original control date but were received eight days prior to the new control date will then be given consideration. If the vacancy cannot then be filled by transfer, it may be filled by unrestricted appointment - no transfers on file.
(d)	Company shall acknowledge receipt of all transfer applications within 15 calendar days from date of receipt and, without rejecting such applications, notify in writing (via e-mail for employees who submitted transfers via e-mail) an employee who submits a transfer application of any known reason which might preclude the employee from filling the classification on which the employee has submitted a transfer application, including information regarding testing programs which must be completed. Information on whether or not an employee has completed such programs is available from the employee’s Human Resources Department. (Amended 10-1-03)
(e)	Within ten calendar days after the first of each month. Company shall, within each department identified in Exhibit II and by promotion-demotion geographic area, provide Union information on beginning job vacancies that have been filled the previous month as follows: (Amended 10-1-03)
(1)	Name of individual, social security number, employment date and classification.
(2)	Classification of vacancy filled.
(3)	Department and promotion-demotion geographic area of vacancy filled.
(4)	Date vacancy filled.
(5)	Show whether vacancy is regular or part-time.
(6)	Show whether vacancy is filled by transfer, new hire or new hire - no transfers on file.
SFor the purposes of this agreement, beginner’s classifications are those listed in Exhibit VII, General instruction Field and Service Center classifications.
(g)	Cancellation of Transfers: Applications for Transfer are valid for a period of one year from the date of receipt or until such time as the employee changes classification or until such time as the employee rejects an appointment to the classification and promotion-demotion geographic area on which the transfer application was made. Company will notify an employee of the cancellation di employee’s applications for transfer as indicated below. Cancellations shall be effective as follows:
72
(1)	At the expiration of one year from the date of the transfer and after 15 calendar days advance notice from Company,	.
(2)	Upon the employee's declining an appointment to the classification and promotion-demotion geographic area on which the transfer was submitted,
(3)	30 calendar days after any employee’s change of classification, which does not affect his or her
priority status as a transfer, and after 15 calendar days advance notice from Company.
(4)	Immediately upon an employee’s change of classification which affects his or her priority status as a transfer,
(5)	Immediately upon receipt of authorizations from an employee to cancel a transfer, or
(6)	Upon receipt of authorization from the local Human Resources Department to cancel transfers because a job is deleted from the directory or an employee improperly designates rights, as provided in Section 306.9 with notification to the employee by the local Human Resources Department of such cancellation. In the latter cases the employee's transfer will be given the appropriate consideration for 15 calendar days from the date of notification.
(h)	Accepting Job Otter} An employee will be expected to provide a response by the next business day if s/he is offered a position that will not result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence.
An employee will be expected to reply within 48 hours of receiving a job offer request when accepting the offered position will result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence. Under certain circumstances of hardship or operational needs, the supervisor offering the position may grant up to 72 hours for the employee to respond. Further, based on operational needs, an employee may be granted the use of a floating holiday or vacation day to assist in determining whether or not to accept a job offer. Failure to respond in the aforementioned time frame will cause the employee s bid to forfeit.
An employee who is scheduled to go nn vacation is encouraged to voluntarily leave a phone number with his/her supervisor at which s/he can be reached if a job offer is extended. As an alternative, an employee may voluntarily leave his/her supervisor a prioritized list of vacancies s/he will accept if offered a position. This list will expire after the vacation period is ended. In no case will an employee be bypassed for an offer due to being on vacation. (Added 10-1-03)	■
305.9	POSTING OF JOB AWARDS (Added 10-1-03)
Company shall post biweekly on the bulletin boards in each headquarters within the system a list of all job awards made through prebids and through transfers since the last list was posted. Such list will include the job vacancy number (where appropriate) and the Promotion/Demotion Geographic Area, the appointed employee's name and Service, and the Section of this Agreement relied upon for the award.
305.10	PREFERENCE BY LENGTH OF SERVICE (Added 10-1-03)
(a)	When employees in the same preferential sequence as provided in Section 305.7 are each qualified by knowledge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability for appointment to a job, the bid of the employee with the greatest Service shall be given preference for appointment.
(b)	In the event a conflict arises as to seniority between two (2) or more employees whose seniority date is the same, the following will be the sequence of consideration for the purpose of a tie-breaker:
(1)	any prior service as a Company employee shall be taken into consideration and the employee whose prior service is greater shall be deemed to have the greater seniority;
(2)	the employee who first successfully completed all preemployment tests shall be deemed to have the greater seniority;
(3)	the employee whose application was first filed with the Company will be deemed to have the greater seniority; or
(4)	the parties will determine which employee is deemed to have the greater seniority by a mutually agreed-upon method of chance, such as a coin flip.
(c)	in the implementation of Title 306, the parties may agree to a process different than the above.
73
i
TITLE 306. DEMOTION AND LAYOFF PROCEDURE
306.1	EMPLOYEES (TWO OR MORE YEARS SERVICE)
The provisions of this Title 306 which are applicable to regular employees with two years or more of Service in cases of displacement, demotion or layoff due to lack of work or the return of an employee from leave of absence for Union business or military service, but not to layoffs due to inclement weather, lack of material and similar causes, shall be applied in such manner as to give effect to the following:
(a)	Provided that the employee is fully qualified to perform the duties of the classification to which such employee is to be demoted or transferred, Service, as defined in Section 106.3, shall be the determining factor in the application of this Title.
(b)	An employee may not elect to displace another employee with equal or greater Service. An employee may not displace an employee in a classification having a wage rate higher than that of such employee's classification except where such classification is considered to be the same in accordance with a Line of Progression as provided tor in Title 600.
(c)	Where referred to in this Title, the Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area shall be as listed in Exhibit I), General Construction Promotion-Demotion Geographic Areas. (Amended 1-1-88)
(d)	Company shall designate the employees to be displaced under the provisions of this Title.
(e)	When it becomes necessary to move an employee because of lack of work, Company shall given the employee as much notice as practicable. (Amended 1-1-91)
306.2	GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
When a demotion is to be made in a classification within a Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area, the employee with the least Service in such classification shall be demoted to the next lower classification in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression. An employee shall be demoted on a step-by-step basis; that is, such employee shall be first to be demoted in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression for the employee's classification to the next lower classification, [f successive demotions must be made, the same procedure shall apply at each step until the employee is either placed in another job or is laid off. If more than one demotion is to be made, the within procedure shall first be applied to the highest classification to be affected and then to successively lower classifications.
306.3	BUMPING (TWO OR MORE YEARS OF SERVICE) *
(a)	An employee who has two or more years of Service and who is to be demoted pursuant to Section 306.2 may, in lieu thereof, elect to displace an employee who (1) has less Service than the displacing employee, (2) is in the displacing employee's current classification and (3) is in the same General Construction Department.
(b)	If an employee with two or more years of Service cannot effect a displacement provided for in Subsection (a) above and cannot effect a demotion to the next lower classification in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression pursuant to Section 306.2, the employee may elect to displace an employee who (1) has less Service than the displacing employee and (2) is in the next successively lower classification in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression in the same General Construction Department. (Amended 1-1-91)
306.4	BUMPING (FIVE OR MORE YEARS OF SERVICE)
(a)	An employee with five or more years of Service who cannot effect a demotion pursuant to Section 306.2 and who cannot effect a displacement provided for in Section 306.3, may elect to displace an employee who (1) has less Service than the displacing employee and (2) is in the displacing employee's current classification in a different department of General Construction. If such displacement is not possible, the employee may elect to displace an employee who has less Service than the displacing employee and who is in the next lower or successively lower classification in the reverse order of the normal Une of Progression.
(b)	An employee with five or more years of Service who cannot effect a demotion pursuant to Section 306.2 and who cannot effect a displacement provided for in Section 306.3 or Subsection 306.4(a), may elect to displace an employee who,
(1)	has less Service than the displacing employee, and
(2)	is in a General Construction Department in which the displacing employee previously worked for one year or more in the preceding four years, and
(3)	is in a classification the displacing employee previously held for six months or more in such General Construction Department in the preceding four years, or is in a classification lower thereto in the same Line of Progression.
An employee may not effect a promotion under the provisions of this Subsection,
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-84)
74
306.5	BUMPING (FOUR OR MORE YEARS OF SERVICE)
(a)	. An employee with four or more years ol Service who cannot effect a demotion pursuant to Section 306.2, and who cannot effect a displacement provided for in Section 306.3 or 306.4, may elect to displace that employee who (1) has less Service than the displacing employee and (2) is in the beginner's classification in a different Line of Progression in the same General Construction Department.
(b)	An employee with four or more years of Service who cannot effect a demotion pursuant to Section 306.2, and who cannot effect a displacement provided for in Section 306.3 or 306.4 or Subsection 306.5(a), may elect to displace an employee who (1) has less Service than the displacing employee and (2) is in a beginner's classification in a different department of General Construction. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-84)
306.6	RIGHTS TO A BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION IN REGION
An employee with five or more years of Service who cannot effect a demotion pursuant to Section 306.2 and who cannot effect a displacement provided for in Section 306.3,306.4, or 306.5, may elect to:
(a)	Fill a vacancy in a beginner's classification in the Regions in the same normal Une of Progression (as set forth in Title 600 and Exhibit Vilfand Exhibit A of the Agreement applying to Office and Clerical Employees) as the one occupied by the employee at the time the initial Title 306 action began.
(b)	If an employee cannot effect a placement in accordance with Subsection (a) above, the employee may displace the Region employee with the least Service in a beginner's classification in the same normal Une of Progression as the one occupied by the displacing employee at the time the initial Title 306 action began, providing such displacing employee was a journeyman or higher at the time the initial Title 306 action began. The General Construction employee may not displace a Region employee whose Service is greater than his/her own. A journeyman is defined as a classification having a formal negotiated training program.
(c)	In the application of this Section, the General Construction employee within the 10 workday lay-off notice period must be able to meet the same qualification requirements that Region employees must meet,
(d)	An employee who enters a beginner's classification under the provisions of this Section:
(1)	shall not have any rights under Section 206.9, but shall have accelerated rights to return to his or her former classification and department of General Construction or to a successively lower classification in the normal Line of Progression to such classification. If the employee declines to return, sucn employee loses Section 306.9 rights,
(2)	’ may return to another General Construction department if such employee can be placed within any such General Construction department within one year from the date of displacing info a Region beginner's classification.	1
(e)	A placement into a Region vacancy under the provisions of this Section shall count as a transfer under the provisions of Subsection 205.5(c) or Subsection 18.5(b), as appropriate. (Amended 1 -1 -94)
306.7	LAYOFFS
(a)	If there is no job to which Company can demote an employee under Section 306.2, or if the employee does not effect a displacement under any of the provisions of this Title, the employee will be laid off.
(b)	When it becomes necessary for Company to lay off an employee because of lack ol work, Company shall give the employee as much notice as practicable, but in no event shall a regular employee be given less than five working days notice, and an employee who has five or more years of Service shall be given not less than ten working days'notice. (Amended 1-1-91)
306.8	JOURNEYMAN RETENTION
If in the application of the provisions of this Title an employee in a classification which, in the normal Line of Progression, is higher than an apprentice classification can effect a displacement in such classification, the former shall not take such apprentice classification but shall be given the rate of classification next higher thereto.
306.9	ACCELERATED PROMOTION - TRANSFER
For the purpose of enabling employees who have been demoted and/or transferred under the provisions of this Title, or to enable employees who have been or are on Long-Term Disability status to return to their former classificatlonfs) and Lines of Progression on an accelerated basis, Company shall give preferential consideration, pursuant to Title 305, to employees who formerly worked in such job classification® and Lines of Progression in accordance with the following:
75
I
(a)	An employee will be given preferential consideration for promotion within his/her present General Construction Department to return to tne highest classification held immediately prior to demotion under this Title. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Where written notice has been provided to Company by an employee who has been transferred to or reemployed tn other General Construction Departments or Lines of Progression under the provisions of Title 306, Company shall return such employee to any classification previously held, which the Company intends to fill, in the employee's original or intermediate Line(s) of Progression to which the employee has indicated he/she will return. (Amended 1-1-94)
An employee who declines to return to a classification in a former Line of Progression for which he/she has indicated willingness to return will forfeit any further preferential rights to return to such Une of Progression. Such employee will retain preferential rights to those Lines of Progression the employee has not declined. (Amended 1-1-94)
In considering notices received from two or more employees under the provisions of this Subsection (b), Company shall give preferential consideration to the notice made by the employee who has the greatest Service.
(c)	When appropriate medical recommendations indicate that an employee on Long-Term Disability can return to active employment, the employee will be given preferential consideration to return to Ine last classification held prior to going on LTD or to a lower classification he/she is capable of filling in his/her former department or another department of General Construction, subject to the provisions of 2.14(a)(2) of the Benefit Agreement, e.g., such placement will be in the highest available classification commensurate with such employee's reduced capabilities, if any. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	When Company intends to fill a vacancy or increase the number of employees in a classification in a General Construction Service Center, preferential consideration shall be given to those employees who (1) have been displaced from such Service Center under the provisions of Title 306 and have provided Company with written notice that they desire to return to such Service Center, and/or (2) have been demoted, pursuant to Title 306, from the subject classification or one higher thereto in the normal Line of Progression.
An employee who declines to return to a Service Center under the provisions of this Subsection (d) will forfeit any further preferential rights to return to such Center under these provisions.
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-84)
306.10	SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
By written agreement between Company and Union, special provisions may be substituted for the provisions of this Title 306.
306.11	SUPERVISORIAL DEMOTION
When by reason of lack of work in his or her department, the Company demotes into a classification in the collective bargaining unit a supervisor or other employee who was not at the time of demotion a member of such unit, such employee shall be placed in the classification held prior to leaving the bargaining unit consistent with the provisions oi Subsections 306.1(a) and (b) and thereupon be entitled to exercise the rights set forth in this Title. (Amended 1-1-88)
306.12	DEMOTION INTO UNIT FROM OUTSIDE
(a)	A supervisory or other employee who was not at the time of demotion a member of the collective bargaining unit, but who formerly worked in a classification which is in such unit, may be demoted for any reason other than lack of work into a classification in such unit provided that no employee in such unit shall be displaced by such action.
(b)	In no case shall such demoted employee be placed into a classification that is higher than the classification held prior to leaving the bargaining unit subject to Subsection 306.1(a). (Amended 1-1-88)
306.13	TERMINATION NOTICE
At such time an employee’s Service with the Company terminates, such an employee shall be notified in writing if he/she is eligible for rehire or not eligible for rehire. The form shall be signed by the appropriate supervisor and, n available at the time of termination, by the employee. One copy of the executed form shall be presented to the employee. In the event the employee is unavailable on the date of termination, Company shall, on such date, mail one executed copy of the form to the terminated employee's last known address. (Amended 1-1-91)
76
306.14	REEMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS
(a)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, a regular employee who has been laid-off for lack of work pursuant to the provisions ol this Agreement for a period not in excess of thirty months, and who had one or more years of Service at the time of layoff shall be entitled to preferential rehire on the basis of Company Service at the time of layoff, providing that the laid-off employee, keeps the Company informed in writing of the current mailing address and telephone number for contact and the Part in Promotion-Demotion Geographical Area(s) and/or Part II Bidding Unit(s) for which reemployment will be accepted and whether the laid-off employee wants to be considered for part-time employment. The employee will be notified of the proper method for informing the Company. Company shall maintain one address to which the above notice may be marled.
(b)	When a vacancy exists in a:
(i)	beginning classification covered by this Agreement, or;
tn) classification above beginning level that is not filled pursuant to the provisions of Section 305.5 or Section 205.7 (a) through (d> of this Agreement,
Company shall provide notice of openings for reemployment as follows:
(1) By calling the last telephone number furnished by the laid-off employee and offering reemployment. If contacted by telephone, such employee must advise Company whether or not such employment will be accepted within three working days and the employee must be available for work within seven calendar days.
Slf the laid-off employee cannot be reached by telephone. Company shall forward notice by n Receipt Requested for openings for reemployment to the last mailing address as furnished by such employee.
Within three working days after such notice is received at such mailing address, the laid-off employee must advise Company whether or not the reemployment offer will be accepted, and the employee must be available for work within seven calendar days after so advising Company. If the certified tetter is returned undeliverable, such employee will be considered terminated, and ihe next employee on the laid-off list may be notified of the opening.
(3)	To expedite rehiring, more than one employee may be notified ol an opening, but priority shall be given to employees tn tne order of Service at the time of layoff.
(4)	Company shall not be required to contact laid-off employees when the opening for reemployment is outside the Fart III Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area(s) and departments) and/or the Part II Bidding Unrt(s) and department(s) in which such employee has indicated a desire to accept reemployment.
(5)	It Company cannot contact the laid-off employee by telephone and If no reply is received by Company within three working days after notice is received at the employee's mailing address, or if the laid-off employee does not accept reemployment to a full-time position or report for work within the time periods provided in this Subsection, such employee will be considered terminated, with no further reemployment rights under this Section, and the next employee on the laid-off list may be notified of the opening. If the laid-on employee declines an offer of part-time employment, such employee will not be considered for reemployment to future part-time positions.
(6)	An employee returning to a classification under the provisions of this Section must possess the necessary skills, ability and physical qualifications to perform the duties of the position to which he/she returns,
(c)	The Certified Mail Return Receipt shall be retained by the Company for a period of one year after the notice was mailed to the laid-off employee and shall serve as proof of such notice actually being mailed.
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-94)
306.15 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
Company shall continue to provide Union with as much notice as practicable of technological changes in its business which may have a significant effect on its workforce. In such circumstances, Company and Union shall then meet to study and endeavor to adopt appropriate solutions, such as retraining or special placement, as may be practicable before Company implements the provisions of Titles 206, 306, and 19 of the Physical and Clerical Agreements. (Added 1-1-88)
TITLE 307, (Deleted 9-1-53)
TITLE 308.	OVERTIME
308.1	DEFINITION
Overtime is defined as (a) time worked in excess of 40 hours in a workweek, (b) time worked in excess of eight hours on a workday, (c) time worked on a non-workday, (d) time worked on a holiday as provided for in Title 103, and (e) time workedToutside of regular work hours on a workday. Company shall not be required to pay overtime
77
compensation more than once for any single period of time worked. Each overtime period worked shall be compensated to the nearest one-quarter hour. (Amended 1-1-68)
308.2	RATE AND DOUBLE-TIME CONDITIONS
(a)	In general, overtime compensation at the rate of one and one-half times the straight rate of pay shall be paid to employees for overtime as defined in Items (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 308,1; except that
(b)	the time worked in excess of 12 consecutive hours and continuing until the employee Is dismissed from suct) work shall be paid at the rate of two times the employee's straight rate of pay, or
(c)	if, following an employee's dismissal from work or on an employee's non-workday or holiday which the employee is schedufeato have off, the employee is called out for work, the employee shall be paid at two times the employee's straight rate of pay for all work performed outside the employee's regular work hours or on a non-workday or holiday which the employee is scheduled to have off, (Amended 1-1-88)
(d)	The time worked in excess of eight hours on the employee's second of two scheduled days off counting from the first day of the basic workweek snail be paid at the rate of two times the employee's straight rate of pay provided such employee has performed work on the first scheduled day off. Employees scheduled to nave four consecutive days shall be entitled, in addition to the above, to pay at the rate of two times the employee’s straight rate of pay 1or the time worked in excess of eight hours on the fourth scheduled day off, provided that such employee has also performed work on the third scheduled day off. (Amended 1 -1 -80)
SFor purposes of this Section, an employee's "regular hours of work" shall be the same on a iy as those regularly scheduled for such employee on a workday.
308.3	VEHICLE DRIVERS
in the event that the truck driver of a crew is required to work in excess of eight hours per day in connection with loading, unloading and garaging trucks such excess time shall be considered as scheduled work time and shall be compensated for at the overtime rate.
308.4	COMPENSATORY TIME OFF
Employees shall not take equivalent time off during a workday in lieu of overtime compensation. (Amended 1-1-88)
308.5	CALL-OUT-NON WORKDAYS
Employees who are called from their living quarters for emergency work on their non-workdays or on holidays which fall on a workday, or outside of their regular work hours on workdays shall be paid overtime compensation for the actual work time and travel time in connection therewith.
308.6	CALL-OUT - WORKDAYS
If an employee, who is called out for emergency work outside of such employee's regular work hours on a workday, continues to work into or beyond the employee's regular work hours the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for actual travel time only from his/her Jiving quarters. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
308.7	TWO HOUR MINIMUM
The minimum time for which overtime compensation shall be paid under the provisions of Section 308.6 shall be two hours, except that if an employee who is called out for emergency work outside of his/her regular work hours on workdays continues to work into or beyond regular work hours he/she shall be paid overtime compensation only for travel time as provided in Section 308,6 and for actual work time up to regular work hours unless the provisions of Section 308.14 are applicable, (Amended 1-1-91)
308,8	PREARRANGED OVERTIME
When, at the request of the supervisor in charge, an employee reports for prearranged work (1) on workdays outside of his/her regular work hours, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for actual work time and travel time in connection therewith, provided, however, that if such employee continues to work into or beyond the employee's regular work hours such employee shall be paid overtime compensation only for travel time from the employee's living quarters and for actual work time up to regular work hours unless the provisions of Section 308.14 are applicable; (2) on non-workdays outside of the employee's regular work hours, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for actual work time and travel time in connection therewith, provided^ however, that if such employee continues to work into or beyond regular work hours, travel time only from his/her living quarters shall be paid for; and (3) on non-workdays during regular work hours, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation only for actual work time. For the purpose of this Section prearranged work shall be deemed to be work for which advance notice has been given by the end of the employee’s preceding work period on a workday. However, Company shall make a good faith effort to notify the employee at least 24 hours in advance of the need to perform prearranged overtime work on non-workdays or holidays, (Amended 1-1-88)
78
308.9	MINIMUM PAY
The provisions of Section 308.8 as to travel time shall not apply when the prearranged work starts less than two hours before regular work hours.
308.10	MAXIMUM TRAVEL TIME
The maximum time for which travel time in any one direction shall be paid under the provisions of Section 308.8 shall be one-half hour.
308.11	MINIMUM PAY - CANCELLATION
If an employee is instructed by his/her supervisor to report for prearranged work on a non-workday, or on a holiday which the employee is entitled to take off with pay, and such work is canceled, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for a minimum of two hours, inclusive of any travel time as provided in Section 308.8, if the employee is not given notice of the cancellation of such work by the end of his/her preceding work period on a workday. (Amended 1-1-91)
308.12	DISTRIBUTION
(a)	Prearranged overtime work shall be distributed among employees in the same classification and on the same job assignment as equally as is practicable. (Amended 1 -1 -80)
(b)	An employee who is scheduled to be off on vacation shall not be scheduled for work under this Section for the period between the end of the employee's last regular day of work preceding the employee’s vacation and the start of the employee's first regular day ol work following the vacation. An employee who is off due to illness or injury shall not be scheduled for work under this Section until the employee returns to work on a regular workday.
308.13	(Deleted 9-1-54)
308.14	REST PERIODS
If an employee has worked for eight hours or more at the overtime rate during the 16 hour period immediately preceding the beginning of the employee's regular work hours on a workday, such employee shall be entitled to a rest period of eight consecutive hours on the completion of such overtime work. (Amended 1-1-91)
(a)	There shall be included as hours worked at the overtime rate in such 16 hour period any travel time and mealtime to which the employee is entitled when emergency or prearranged work is performed, except that any travel time and mealtime to which the employee is entitled after being dismissed from work shall be.included in the computation of the eight hour rest period. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Hours worked prior to any eight hour rest period shall not be included in computing another period of overtime work.
(c)	If the eight hour rest period in whole or in part overlaps the employee's regular work hours, the employee will receive pay at the straight rate for the extent of the overlap, except that the time taken during such overlap for any meal to which the employee is entitled on dismissal shall be paid for at the overtime rate. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	If the employee is called back to work during his/her eight hour rest period, a new rest period will commence at the conclusion of such work. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(e)	(1) If the rest period overlaps the employee's regular work hours but does not extend into the
second naif of the employee's workday, the employee may be excused from reporting for work until the beginning of the second half of the employee's workday, and in such event the employee will be paid for the time between the expiration of the rest period and the end of the first half of such workday. (Amended 1-1-91)
(2)	If the rest period extends into the second half of the employee's workday, the employee may be excused from reporting for work until the following workday, and in such event the employee will be paid for the time between the expiration of the rest period and the employee's regular quitting time on such day. (Amended 1-1-91)	.
(3)	In the application of the foregoing, an employee, unless otherwise instructed, shall be deemed to be excused from reporting to work for the period between the end of the employee's rest period and the reporting time as designated by the applicable subdivision. (Amended 1-1-91)
(f)	An employee entitled to a rest period hereunder may nevertheless be required to work during regular work hours on a workday without having had a rest period of eight consecutive hours, in which event the employee shall be paid at two times the straight rate of pay for al) work performed until the employee has been relieved from duty for at least eight consecutive hours. (Amended 1-1-91)
308.15	THREE WEEK LIMIT
Except where a hazard to life or property exists, employees will not be required to work more than three consecutive weeks without having two consecutive days off.
79
(a)	The terms and provisions of this Section shall be applicable to all employees described in Section 300.1.
(b)	This Section means that, except for the three exceptions noted below, there is an absolute prohibition against requiring an employee to work more than three consecutive weeks without having two consecutive days off. There is no penalty provided for a violation of the provisions of this Section since the ban is absolute.
If an employee has performed work on 21 straight days, the employee must be granted the next two days off. If the next two days off occur on regular workdays for that employee, such employee snail, nonetheless, be granted the days off at the straight-time rate of pay.
(c)	Employees may work beyond the 21 consecutive day limit only under the following conditions:
(1)	Any work situation involving an Immediate hazard to life or property. This does not include situations limited to a loss of money or revenue only.
(2)	Employees voluntarily working emergency overtime.
If an employee is called out for emergency duty and declines to respond because of having worked 21 straight days, the employee shall be excused with no penalty.
(3)	Any prearranged work where it is clear that the assignment to such work is voluntary on the part of the concerned employee.
(d)	"Day" as used in this Section 308.15 refers to calendar day.
For the purposes of this Section 308.15, the time of day when a work period occurs or the length of any given work period is immaterial. If any work is performed on a given day (except as noted below), such day shall be included in the accumulation of 21 straight days.
"Work* as used in this Section 308.15 is defined as time for which an employee is paid while actively working at such employee's assigned job. This definition does not include travel time, time paid for a meal after dismissal from work and prearranged overtime cancellation payments when the employee has not reported for work. Nor does it include shifts which overlap calendar days by a period of one hour or (ess.
(1)	Any non-workday or holiday on which an employee is not regularly scheduled to work, where an employee volunteers for overtime work (see (c)(2) and (3) above) shall not be included in the determination of 21 straight days, and such days will count as days off whether or not the employee works. (Application of this Section will be made to other regular workdays where employee does not work, e.g., jury duty, etc.)
(2)	(a) One day off during the first seven consecutive days worked shall constitute a break
in the 21 -day accumulation.	.
(b) One day off after seven consecutive days of work shall not constitute a break in the 21-day accumulation; however, such a day off shall not be counted as a day of work. The count towards 21 consecutive days shall continue upon the employee's return to work. For example, if an employee who has worked 13 consecutive days takes a single day off, the day such employee returned to work shall be the 14th day towards the accumulation of 21 consecutive days.
(3)	Successive workweeks of six days worked and one day off are permissible with no requirement of granting Iwo consecutive days off. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-84)
TITLE 309.	(Deleted 1-1-74) See Title 112
TITLE 310.	(Deleted 1-1-74)
See Title 106
TITLE311.	(Deleted 1-1-71)
See Title 111
PART IV
TITLE 400. INTERIM NEGOTIATIONS
400,1	From time to time during the term of this Agreement, grievances which have been timely filed concerning the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement may be "Suspended" pursuant to the provisions of a Letter Agreement dated November 1, 1973, as amended March 8, 1974. Additionally, Company and Union may agree to enter Into Interim negotiations to clarify, modify, add to, or delete from the provisions of this Agreement. This Title authorizes the establishment of Ad Hoc Negotiating Committees from time to time to resolve such disputes. (Amended 1-1-94)
80
400.2	An Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee established by this Title shall be composed of members appointed by Union and members appointed by Company's Manager of Industrial Relations. Each party may appoint any number of members who they deem best suited to resolve the particular dispute before the Committee. The members appointed by each, however, shall be kept to a reasonable number consistent with the principles of effective bargaining, and each shall appoint a spokesman from amongst those appointed to the Committee.
400.3	The time spent by Union's Committee members in conjunction with the purpose o1 this Title and who are employees of the Company shall be paid by Company, and Union shall reimburse Company for such expenditures in accordance with the provisions of the Letter Agreement dated July 6,1977.
400.4	The Committee is authorized to settle the dispute referred to it and issue a final and binding decision thereto and to issue Letters of Agreement or Letters of Interpretation revising and adding to this Agreement where necessary to effectuate the Committee's settlement. Without such agreement neither Party may implement any change to this Agreement unless specifically provided for in this Agreement. (Amended 1-1-94)
PARTV
TITLE 500. TERM
500.1 TERM
This Agreement, having taken effect as of September 1,1952, and having thereafter been amended from time to time shall continue in effect as further amended herein for the term of October 1,2003 through December 31, 2007, and shall continue thereafter from year to year unless written notice of termination shall be given by either party to the other 60 days prior to the end of the then current term. The Company and Union acknowledge that, in the event the Company forms new Affiliated Acquiring Entities that are bound by this Agreement, this Agreement and any amendments thereto shall remain in effect until December 31, 2007, or until separate agreements are negotiated to apply to each new Affiliated Acquiring Entity, whichever is earlier. Further, upon either party's request, any new Affiliated Acquiring Entity and the Union shall engage in good faith negotiations to develop separate agreements. (Amended 10-1-03)
500.2	AMENDMENT - NOTICE
Except as provided otherwise herein, if either party desires to amend this Agreement, it shall give notice thereof to the other party 120 days prior to the end of the then current term, in which event the parties shall commence negotiations on any proposed amendment as soon as practicable after such notice has been given. Failure of the parties to agree on such proposed amendment shall not cause termination of this Agreement unless either party has given notice of termination as provided in Section 500.1. (Amended 1-1-80)
500.3	GENERAL WAGE INCREASES
(a)	Effective October 1, 2003, the basic wage rates established for October 1, 2003 in Exhibit X of this Agreement shall be increased by four percent. (Amended 10-1-03)
(b)	Effective January 1,2004, the basic wage rates established for January 1,2004 in Exhibit X of this Agreement shall be increased by four percent. (Amended 10-1-03)
(c)	Effective January 1,2005, the basic wage rates established for January 1, 2005 in Exhibit X of this Agreement shall be increased by four percent. (Amended 10-1-03)
(c)	(Deleted 1-1-97)
(e) Either party may re-qpen this Agreement with respect to the subject of wages by giving notice of such re-opening to the other party 60 days prior to January 1,2006 and January 1, 2007. (Added f 0-1-03)
500.4	APPROPRIATE UNIT CHANGE
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 500.1, either party may give to the other 30 days written notice of the proposed amendment of this Agreement in the event that an administrative or judicial tribunal having jurisdiction to do so shall determine that the unit described in Section 2.1 hereof is inappropriate for the purpose of collective bargaining.
500.5	CONFLICT OF LAW
Any provision of this Agreement which may be in conflict with any Federal or State law, regulation or executive order shall be suspended and inoperative to the extent of and for the duration of such conflict.
In the event any provision of this Agreement is suspended or declared inoperative by reason of the operation of this Section, the parties shall meet within 30 days to negotiate a substitute provision which will, as nearly as possible, reflect the intent of the suspended clause in a lawful manner. (Amended 1-1-84)
81
500.6	CANCELLATION DUE TO BREACH
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 500.1, either party may forthwith terminate this Agreement in the event that the other breaches its obligation as set forth in Section 3.2 hereof. Notice of termination snail be given in accordance with the terms of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as last amended.
500.7	RECISIONS
This Agreement cancels and supersedes that certain agreement entered into on August 1, 1947, by Company and Union, and all amendments, continuations and extensions thereof, or that agreement dated September 1,1950, between Locals 1245 and 1324,1.B.E.W., and all amendmentsand extensions thereof.
PART VI TITLE 600. JOB DEFINITIONS AND LINES OF PROGRESSION
Attached hereto, made a part hereof, and marked Exhibit VI, is a listing of the Section numbers and Exhibits, under which Company and Union have entered into separate Supplementary Agreements setting forth the Job Definitions and Lines of Progression for certain classifications of tne Operating, Maintenance and Construction employees as referred to in Part I, Section 100.1 and Part II, Section 200.1 and certain classifications of General Construction employees as referred to in Part I, Section 100.1 and Part II), Section 300.1 of this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives have caused these
presents to be executed this	day of ^0 V’Crrt /?£	2003.
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
Its Vice Preside
iator of Industrial Relations
And Bv: Its Director And Ctiifet N
LOCAL UNION NO. 1245 OF INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD O American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations)
CTRICAL WORKERS (affiliated with the
82
EXHIBIT!
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE
LETTER AGREEMENT NO. 93-121-PGE
Decembers, 1993
Local Union No. 1245
International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO
P.O. Box 4790
Walnut Creek, CA 94598
Attention: Mr. Jack McNally
Gentlemen:
Company proposes to amend the Educational Assistance Program (Exhibit I of the Physical Agreement and Exhibit B of the Clerical Agreement) as attached, effective January 1,1994. The proposed amendments will provide qualified employees with payment in advance from PG&E to approved educational institutions. Under this proposal, qualified employees will receive payment in advance by an Official Tuition Voucher as direct payment to the institution for tuition and covered fees. Additional minor “clean-up” changes to Exhibit I are also contained within the attached proposal.
If you are in accord with the foregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed copy of this letter to the Company.
Yours very truly,
PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY
By: /s/David J. Bergman
Director and Chief Negotiator
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and agrees thereto as of the date hereof.
LOCAL UNION 1245, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO
March 7,1994
By: /s/Jack McNally
Business Manager
The Company shall provide a program of partial reimbursement for tuition and required textbooks, as follows:
Eligibility
A.	Any regular full-time employee on the active payroll of the Company, except employees in an apprentice classification covered by the provisions of the Master Apprenticeship Agreement, is eligible to participate in the plan. Employees on Long Term Disability may be eligible for reimbursement as determined on a case-by-case basis. Qualified employees may apply for payment In advance to the school.
B.	Courses must be accredited by one of the following:
□	One of the six Regional Associations of Schools and Colleges through a regular program of instruction, a correspondence program, an extension division, or an evening division;
□	The California Department of Education.
83
n The Directory of Accredited Private Home Study Schools approved by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council; or,
□	Schools selected by the Company
Approved courses are those that add to your effectiveness in your job. Courses that contribute to your overall development may also be approved.
C.	Proof of successful completion of an approved course with a grade of "C" (or equivalent) or better in each course is required in order to qualify lor a tuition refund.
D.	Employees eligible for State or Federal Veteran’s Assistance will be reimbursed the difference between the Veteran’s reimbursement percent and PG&E’s.
E.	Attendance at these courses shall not interfere with the regular working hours of the employee.
Procedure
□	An employee who desires to receive tuition refund must submit a completed Tuition Refund application to his/her supervisor for approval, prior to enrollment in a course of study. The completed Tuition Refund application must contain details of the course for which payment in advance will be sought and if the employee is qualified for financial assistance through a Federal or State Veteran’s Education Assistance, an outline of those program benefits must be attached.
□	Employees should submit this request for approval at least 30 days prior to the enrollment date to allow ample time for processing.
□	Upon review and approval of the Tuition Refund Application, employees will receive payment in advance by an Official Tuition Voucher in the amount of tuition and fees and a Textbook Reimbursement Form within the established employee reimbursement limit as direct payment to the institution for tuition and covered fees.
□	The employee must provide proof of successful completion of an approved course with a grade of “C” (or equivalent) or better, in each course, and copies of receipts indicating moneys paid for textbooks, within 30 calendar days to the Plan Office.
□	If an employee has received payment in advance and does not successfully complete the course within one year from the term ending date or does not provide passing grades or proof of satisfactory completion within 120 calendar days of the end of the course, he/she is responsible for repayment to PG&E of the tuition and fees advanced. This requirement will be waived in the event the employee is unable to complete an approved course due to Company initiated transfer or excessive mandatory overtime.
Payment In Advance
Payment in advance for approved courses of study will be provided at a rate of 75 percent or 90 percent of direct costs. Direct costs apply only to registration fees, tuition, required textbooks, laboratory fees, and other charges made by the institution. Costs of material and equipment purchased separately by the employee are not covered.
A.	Refunds under the current Tuition Refund Program will be made only for those approved coursed begun on or after January 1, 1971. Payment in advance under the revised Tuition Refund Program will be provided only for those approved courses begun on or after January 1,1994.
B.	Where the institution includes the costs of textbooks and/or supplies in its charges or fees, a refund of 75 percent of the direct costs will be made (e.g., ICS, La Salle, etc.).
C.	In all other cases, a refund of 90 percent of the direct cost charged by the institution will be made (e.g., City or State Colleges, Heald’s etc.).
D.	Payment in advance will be made only for courses in which regular employee enrolled after completion of six months or more of continuous service. Employees who voluntarily terminate employment with PG&E or are discharged for cause must repay PG&E for any tuition and fees advanced.
E.	There is an annual limit of $1,200 per employee per calendar year. Requests for payment in excess of this limit will be considered only if:
1.	The course or courses are of a special nature, and
2.	Such course or courses are not available elsewhere, and
3.	It is unlikely that such course or courses will be repeated in the foreseeable future.
84
EXHIBIT II
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PROMOTION-DEMOTION GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
For Use With Titles 305 and 306
CLERICAL SERVICES (All Departments) (including Camp and Kitchen Employees)
0) Systemwide
GAS CONSTRUCTION
Construction Operation, promotion-demotion area systemwide
Humboldt and North Bay Divisions
Sacramento, Sierra and Vaca Valley
North Valley Division
San Francisco/Peninsula
East Bay
Stockton
San Jose and Coast Valleys
Technical Classifications, promotion-demotion area systemwide
San Joaquin
LINE CONSTRUCTION
1) Humboldt, North Bay and San Francisco Divisions.
21 Shasta, De Sabla. Colgate, Drum and Sacramento.
3)	San Joaquin and Stockton
4)	San Jose and Coast Valleys
5)	Paint Section: Humboldt, North Bay, San Francisco, Drum, Sacramento, Shasta, De Sabla, Stockton, Colgate, and East Bay
6)	Paint Section: Coast Valleys, San Jose, and San Joaquin
7)	East Bay
FLEET MANAGEMENT
r
2
3
4
5
6
7
8'
Humboldt and North Bay Divisions Shasta, De Sabla and Colgate Sacramento, Drum and Stockton
East Bay
Coast Valleys, San Francisco and San Jose
San Joaquin
General Construction Davis Service Center
Field Mechanical Inspectors and Working Foreman B's, promotion-demotion areas systemwide
STATION, SUBSTATION, AND HYDRO CONSTRUCTION
1) 2'। 31 41 51 61
7
North Bay and Humboldt Divisions
Shasta, De Sabla, Colgate, Drum and Sacramento
East Bay
San Francisco
Coast Valleys and San Jose
San Joaquin and Stockton
Technical Classifications, promotion-demotion area systemwide
Exhibit II - Promotion - Demotion Geographic Areas provide the same geographic boundaries as the original 13 Divisions and Departments in existence prior to 1987.
85
EXHIBIT III
CLASSIFICATIONS OF SHIFT EMPLOYEES
ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Assistant Operator
Division Operator
Grid System Control Operator
GAS DEPARTMENT
Compressor Engineer
Fireman
Gas Operator In Training
Operator-in-T raining
System operator
Plant Utility Worker Shift Utility Worker Watch Engineer
SYSTEM MAINTENANCE & TECHNICAL SUPPORT/GAS SYSTEM OPERATIONS
Gas System Operator
Gas System Operator-in-Training
Gas Supply Coordinator (PIO)
Gas Transmission Operator (PIO)
Operator - Mechanic
Operator Mechanic I
Operator Mechanic II
Senior Gas Transmission
Operator (PIO)
Senior Operator Mechanic (PIO)
BUILDING DEPARTMENT
Building Engineer	Lead Building Engineer
NUCLEAR POWER GENERATION DEPARTMENT
Chemical and Radiation Protection Technician
Control Operator
Control Room Assistant
Fire Captain
Firefighter
Nuclear Operator
STEAM GENERATION DEPARTMENT
Assistant Control Operator
Assistant Power Plant Operator
Auxiliary Operator
Control Operator
Senior Control Operator Shift CARP Helper Shift Control Technician Shift Ftrewatch Shift Utility Plant Clerk Shift Utility Worker
Power Plant Operator
Senior Control Operator
Senior Power Plant
Operator
Steam Heat Engineer
EXHIBIT IV CLASSIFICATIONS OF SERVICE EMPLOYEES ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Cableman Cableman's Utility Worker Night Cable Splicer Night Groundman Night Manhole Pumpman Night T&D Assistant GAS DEPARTMENT	Night T&D Equipment Operator Patrolman Street Light Maintenanceman Troubleman
Chartperson Service Representative Service Mechanic	Service Operator Steam Serviceman Night Fieldperson
WATER DEPARTMENT
Water Treatment Plant Operator
86
EXHIBITV CLASSIFICATIONS OF RESIDENT EMPLOYEES ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Electrician - Helms
Electrical Machinist - Helms
Electrical Technician - Helms
Electric Maintenance Crew Foreman - Helms
First Hydro Clerk - Helms
Utility Worker - Helms
Relief System Operator
* Helms
Station Attendant - Hydro
System Operator - Helms
Telecommunications Technician - Helms
WATER DEPARTMENT
Water Systems Repairperson - Helms
GARAGE DEPARTMENT
Utility Equipment Mechanic - Helms
EXHIBIT VI
*Job Definitions and Lines of Progression
Section No.	Exhibit	Department
600.1	VI	Division Gas and Steam Heat Department
600.2	Vi-A	Materials Distribution Division Materials including Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations and Davis warehouse of General Construction
600.3	Vl-B	Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation
600.4	Vl-C	Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations
600.5	Vl-D	Division Garage
600.6	Vl-E	Gas Meter Repair Plant
600.7	Vl-F	Division Customer Services
600.8	Vl-G	Division Water
600.9	Vl-H	Division and General Office Building Departments
600.10	Vl-J	Accounting and Computer Operations Department
600.11	Vl-K	Service Centers (Davis and Oakland) General Construction
600.12	Vl-L	Division Electric
600.13	Vl-M	Field Employees - General Construction
’See Pal vi, Title 600, Job Definitions and Lines of Progression.
EXHIBIT VII
BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION
ASSISTANT PUMP TESTER
2482 Customer Services
AUXILIARY OPERATOR*
1560 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation
87
COOK'S UTILITY WORKER
0964 Electric - Operating
0965 Electric - Operating
0966 Electric - Operating
ELECTRIC T&D ASSISTANT
1096 Electric Transmission and Distribution
FIREFIGHTER
0545 - Nuclear Generation - Fire Department
GARAGEMAN
0880 General Services - Garage
GARDENER
0890 General Services - Building Service
0890 Electric - Maintenance
GAS SUPPLY COORDINATOR*
1836 Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations
GAS SYSTEM OPERATOR-IN-TRAINING
1588	Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations
GAS TRANSMISSION OPERATOR*
1576	Gas System Maintenance & Techn ica) Support/Gas System Operations
GROUNDMAN
0910 Electric - Transmission and Distribution
METER READER 2785 Gas Service
NIGHT GROUNDMAN*
0913 Electric - Transmission and Distribution
NIGHT T&D ASSISTANT
1098 ElectricTransmission and Distribution
HOUSEKEEPER
0980 Electric - Operating
0983 Electric - Operating
0984 Electric - Operating
1050 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Operating
1050 General Services - Building Service
1050 Materials Distribution - Warehouse Operations
1050 Materials Distribution - Decoto Pipe Yard and Plant
JANITRESS
1060 General Services - Building Service
1060 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Operating
MAINTENANCE ASSISTANT 1
0057 Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations
MATERIALS HANDLER*
1210 Materials Distribution - Warehouse Operations
1213 Materials Distribution - Warehouse Operations - Utility
NUCLEAR OPERATOR***
1699 Nuclear Power Generation - Operating
OPERATOR-IN-TRAINING*
1554 Electric - Operating
PIPEPERSON
1960 Materials Distribution - Decoto Pipe Yard and Plant
PLANT ASSISTANT
0055 Gas - Meter Repair Plant
88
PLANT UTILITY WORKER 0937 Gas - Measurement and Control
ROUTINE HYDRO CLERK 0265 Electric - Hydro - Clerical
ROUTINE PLANT CLERK 0294 Steam Generation - Clerical	.
0294 Nuclear Power Generation - Clerical**
SHIFT FIREWATCH • (DCPP) 0547 Nuclear Power Generation - Technical Maintenance
SHOP METERPERSON 1489 Electric - Meter
SHIFT UTILITY WORKER 0950 Gas - Measurement and Control
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INSTALLER 2406 Electric - Maintenance
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS ANALYST 2417 Electric - Maintenance
TELECOMMUNICATION UTILITY WORKER 0925 Electric - Maintenance
TRAVELING UTILITY WORKER 0498 - Materials Distribution Electric and Utility
UTILITY PLANT CLERK (DCPP) 0296 Nuclear Power Generation - Clerical 0297 Nuclear Power Generation - Clerical - Shift
UTILITY WORKER 0920 Materials Distribution - Machine Shop 0921 Electric - Maintenance - Drum 0921 Electric * Operating - Drum 0922 Electric - Maintenance - Helms 0922 Electric • Operating - Helms 0923 Materials Distribution - Electric and Utility 0924 Electric - Meter 0925 Electric - Maintenance 0926 Electric - Operating - Hydro 0927 General Services - Building Service 0928 Nuclear Power Generation - Operating 0929 Nuclear Power Generation - Building Services 0930 Gas - Transm ission and Distribution 0935 Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations 0938 Nuclear Power Generation - Technical - Chemical ana Radiation Protection 0939 Nuclear Power Generation * Technical - Chemical and Radiation Protection - Shift 0940 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Mechanical 0942 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Electrical - Traveling 0943 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Electrical 0944 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Technical 0945 Water 0946 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Technical - Traveling 0963 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Mechanical - Traveling
’Will not be considered a beginning job foFbidding purposes for employees in the same Line of Progression, but will be considered as a beginning job for all other employees.
•’Will not be considered a beginning job for bidding purposes for Utility Plant Clerks-DCPP, but will be considered as a beginning job for all other employees.
***Will not be considered a beginning job for bidding purposes for Assistant Power Plant Operator, Auxiliary Operator, or higher classification, but wirbe considered a beginning job for all other employees.
(Amended 1-1-97)
NOTE: For those classifications indicated by an asterisk (*) or a double asterisk (**) or a triple asterisk (***), refer to the Job Definitions and Lines of Progression for that classification for further information.
89
0053 Clerical Assistant 0245 Routine Field Clerk 0885 Field Garageman 0916 Camp Utility Worker
0314 Routine Shop Clerk
0882 Garageman
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION
FIELD CLASSIFICATIONS
0947	Utility Worker
0956 Kitchen Utility Worker 1926 Painter Utility Worker 2584 Waitress C
SERVICE CENTER CLASSIFICATIONS
1212 Materials Handler
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION
Carpenter, A or Carpenter, Service Center
Clerk, Field
Clerk, Shop, Senior
Clerk, Shop, First,
Clerk, Shop, Routine
Clerk, Shop, First
Clerk, Shop, Routine Cook
Driver, T ruck
Driver, Truck, Heavy or Special
Driver, Truck, Line Electrician
Electrician, Apprentice
Field Clerk, (3 years & up)
Field Clerk (Less than 3 years)
Field Clerk, Senior
Field Clerk (3 years & up)
Field Clerk, (Less than 3 years)
Fitter, Street
Foreman, Labor
Foreman, (Sub or Working)
Foreman, Sub (Garage)
Garageman, Service Center Garageman, Field
Utility Worker
Utility Worker, Kitchen
Lineman
Lineman, Apprentice
Machinist, SC
Materials Handier
Mechanic, Gas
Mechanic, Hydro or Sub
Mechanic, Equipment (Garage) or
Mechanic, Field Garage “A
Mechanic, Equipment Apprentice (Garage) or Mechanic, Field Garage “B”
Operator, Backhoe
Operator, Compressor
Operator, Crane
Operator, Equipment, Miscellaneous
Operator, Hole Digger
Operator, Tractor
CorD
A or B
Operator, Trencher Painter
Painter, SC
Spacer, Cable
Technician, Communication
Technician, Apprentice Communication
Technician, Gas
Technician, Electrical
EXHIBIT VIII JOB COMPARISONS
REGIONS
Carpenter
Clerk, Field
Clerk, Plant or Hydro, Senior
Clerk, Plant or Hydro, First
Clerk, Plant or Hydro, Routine
Foreman’s Clerk
Assistant Foreman’s Clerk Cook
Driver, Truck, or Driver, Truck, Light
Driver, Truck, Heavy Driver, Truck, T&D Electrician
Electrician, Apprentice Foreman’s Clerk Assistant Foreman's Clerk Clerk, Plant or Hydro, Senior Clerk, Plant or Hydro, First Clerk, Plant or Hydro, Routine Fitter, Apprentice Foreman, Labor
Foreman, Sub or Leader, Gas Crew Foreman, Sub (Garage)
Garageman ’
Garageman
Utility worker
Utility Worker, Cook’s
Lineman
Lineman, Apprentice Machinist
Materials Handler Fitter, Apprentice Mechanic, Electric Maintenance Mechanic, Equipment (Garage)
Mechanic, Equipment, Apprentice (Garage)
Operator, Equipment, Heavy Fieldperson
Operator, Equipment, Heavy Fieldperson
Operator, Equipment, T&D
Driver, Tractor
Light
Heavy
Operator, Equipment, Heavy Painter Painter
Rigger
Splicer, Cable
Technician, Telecommunications
Technician, Apprentice Telecommunications Technician, Gas Control
Technician, Electrical
90
Towerman
Towerman, Apprentice
Welder
Welder, Apprentice
Welder, Arc
Welder, Oxygen Acetylene
Lineman, Apprentice
Lineman, Apprentice
Fitter or Welder
Fitter or Welder, Apprentice
Fitter or Welder
Fitter or Welder
The foregoing comparison of jobs is general and does not necessarily connote that the jobs which are compared have identicaTduties or that performance in one job of itself qualifies an employee for a "comparable” job.
See also Sections 205.22 and 305.2
Exhibit VIII does not currently contain all appropriate comparisons and should not be an exclusive resource for the purposes intended.
EXHIBIT IX
LIST OF CLASSIFICATIONS COMMON TO MORE THAN ONE DEPARTMENT AND THE DEPARTMENTS BETWEEN WHICH SUCH CLASSIFICATIONS ARE CONSIDERED THE SAME FOR PURPOSES OF TITLES 205 AND 206.
The attached list indicates the departments and subdepartments in which the classification listed will be considered as the same classification within the meaning of Sections 205.7,205.8 and 206.4 of the Agreement. This list does not necessarily connote that the jobs within the several departments have identical duties or that performance of the job in one department of itself qualifies an employee for the same classification in another department.
Unless so provided in the departmental Lines of Progression, the fact that a classification is considered as next lower to another in one department does not mean that the same job is next lower to the higher job in another department.
CLASSIFICATION
Carpenter
Telecommunication Technician
Apprentice Telecommunication
Technician
Tractor Driver, Heavy
Tractor Driver, Light
Truck Driver, Heavy
Truck Driver, Light
Truck Driver
Electric Crew Foreman
Electric Maintenance Crew Foreman
Electric Shop Crew Foreman
Electrician
Electrician
Apprentice Electrician
Labor Foreman
Maintenance Crew Foreman
(Mechanical)
Machinist
Apprentice Machinist
Materials Handler
Materials Leadman Mechanic Mechanic-Rigger
DEPARTMENTS
Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance
Electric Maintenance
Electric Maintenance, Water
Electric Maintenance, Water .
Electric Maintenance, Water, Gas T&D,
Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Steam
Generation, Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Water, Gas T&D,
Materials Distribution
Electric T&D, Electric Maintenance,
Steam Generation, Materials
Distribution
Electric T&D, Electric Maintenance,
Materials Distribution
Steam Generation, Nuclear Power
Generation
Electric Maintenance, Steam
Generation, Nuclear Power
Generation, Materials Distribution
Electric T&D, Electric Maintenance,
Water
Electric Maintenance, Steam
Generation, Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Steam
Generation, Nuclear Power
Generation, Gas Plant, Gas
System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System
Operations, Materials
Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Steam Generation, Nuclear Power Generation, Materials Distribution
Materials Distribution
Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Gas Plant, Steam Generation, Nuclear Power
91
Painter
Rigger Mechanic-Rigger
Certified Welder
Welder
Apprentice Welder
Generation
Garage, Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Steam
Generation, Nuclear Power Generation
Steam Generation, Nuclear Power Generation, Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Gas Plant
Electric Maintenance, Steam Generation, Nuclear Power Generation
Exhibit IX does not currently contain all appropriate common classifications and should not be an exclusive resource for the purpose intended.
EXHIBIT X
PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY BASIC WAGE SCHEDULE - FORTY-HOUR WEEK BASIS OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
See Separate Book
92
EXHIBIT XI
LETTER AGREEMENT 87-165-PGE PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT COMMITTEES
August 17,1987
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 245 Market Street
San Francisco, CA 94106
Attention: Mr. I. W. Bonbright, Manager of Industrial Relations
Gentlemen:
This letter shall supersede Letter Agreement No. 87-83-PGE
Since January 1987, Company and Union have had discussions regarding a work efficiency experiment at the District headquarters in Livermore, California. We have also previously discussed preliminary plans for similar trials at other locations. In order to provide a consistent approach to the Livermore experiment and to other work efficiency experiments, the Union proposes that the Manager of Industrial Relations and the IBEW Business Manager may agree to the establishment of individual work efficiency experiments and that the following conditions ~be applicable:
1.	Company and Union may agree locally to the specific conditions of each experiment including the criteria to be used to judge the productivity and the quality of the work, except that changes in the conditions of any Labor Agreement requires an agreement between the Manager of Industrial Relations and the appropriate Union Business Managers).
2.	Each experiment will have an Advisory Committee to consist of Company members, IBEW members, Engineers and Scientists of California, MEBA, and at least one consultant to be agreed to by the parties. The number and size of the Advisoiy Committee shall be determined by the Committee.
3.	Each experiment will have a local Steering Committee and a consultant to be agreed to by the parties. The size of this committee is to be determined locally. The Steering Committee may also utilize representatives from various departments on a subcommittee basis, as they deem appropriate.
4.	Upon completion of the experiment, any modified bargaining unit work assignments agreed to during the experiment will be returned to the original unit.
5.	There will be no layoffs for lack of work or demotions for lack of work in the headquarters in which the experiment is located during the period of the experiment.
6.	During the experiment, local supervision and the employees involved shall be responsible for getting work done in a timely manner using all available resources.
7.	Any party to an individual work efficiency agreement may cancel the agreement upon 30 day's notice to the other party(s).
If you are in accord with the foregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed copy of this letter to the Union.
Very truly yours,
LOCAL UNION 1245, IBEW
.	By/s/ Jack McNally
Business Manager
The Company is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.
■	PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
1 September, 1987	By/s/ I. Wayland Bonbright
Manager of Industrial Relations
93
EXHIBIT XII
ADDENDUM TO TITLE 206 AND 306 DEMOTION AND LAYOFF PROCEDURE
JOB SECURITY
During the course of 1990 General Negotiations the parties spent a great deal of time addressing the issue of job security with particular emphasis on the ability of Company to place non-bargaining unit employees into the bargaining unit. Company agreed that Letter Agreement 88-104 would remain in effect which limits Company's ability to place non-bargaining unit personnel into the bargaining unit Further, in the application of Titles 206 and 306 of the Physical Agreement and Title 19 of the Clerical Agreement, Company agrees mat should such placements occur, bargaining unit employees in the department and headquarters will not be impacted by demotion, displacement or layoff for the next three years subsequent to the placement of the non-bargaining unit employee into the bargaining unit, unless such employee leaves that headquarters for any reason. Employees at the headquarters in that department during the three year period will not be impacted by demotion, displacement, or layoff, unless such demotion, displacement or layoff is unrelated to the placement of the non-bargaining unit employee into the bargaining unit, in which event the original non-bargaining unit employee will be affected first if the number of employees in that department and headquarters is being reduced.
Example 1.	Supervisor is returned to Lineman position in Antioch. The Supervisor must be placed in a vacancy as such placement cannot result in a displacement, demotion or layoff.
Example 2.	Eight months after the Supervisor’s return to the bargaining unit, another Lineman bids out of the Antioch headquarters. Assuming there is no contracting of Electric T&D work, therefore, no 88-104 implications, the headquarters may elect to not fill the vacancy and reduce through attrition.
Examples. Thirteen months after the Supervisor’s return to the bargaining unit, Hie Concord Electric T&D Department effects a displacement for lack of work and a Lineman has 206,4 rights into Antioch. Since Antrochis not reducing in the Electric T&D Department, the affected Lineman in Antioch would be ihe one witi'i the least seniority, which may or may not be the former Supervisor.
Example 4.	Fifteen months after Hie Supervisor’s return to the bargaining unit Antioch decides to downsize the Electric T&D Department by reducing the number of Linemen by one. Since a reduction is taking place, the Supervisor is the first to be demoted, displaced or laid off.
Example 5.	At any time the Supervisor leaves the Antioch Electric T&D Department and headquarters for any reason (bid, transfer, displacement), the headquarters and department has returned to status quo and may be reduced through demotion, displacement or layoff. •
EXHIBIT XIII
LETTER AGREEMENT NO. R1-91-99-PGE
November 1,1991
Local Union No. 1245
International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO
P.O. Box 4790
Walnut Creek, CA 94546
Attention: Mr. Jack McNally, Business Manager
Gentlemen:
This cancels and supersedes our letter dated July 23,1991 to reflect changes proposed in Union's letter of October 25, 1991. Pursuant to Sections 205.19 and 18.17 of the Physical and Clerical Agreements, Company proposes the following procedures for the application of the hardship transfer provisions of the Physical and Clerical Agreements (i.e., Sections 205.17 and 18.15). The purpose of these Sections was to allow the Company, through agreement with the Union, to fill a job vacancy by appointing an employee who requests the position for reasons of urgent necessity. Urgent necessity includes impairment of the employee's health or that of a member of the employees family or the lack of educational facilities for the employee's children in the location in which he/she is currently employed.
Following are the procedures to be utilized:
1.	An interested employee must write to the Human Resources Department of his/her division (or General Office department), explaining the circumstances and request a transfer pursuant to the provisions of Section 205.17 (physical) or Section 18.15 (clerical), whichever is applicable.
94
2.	The Division or Department Human Resources Department must then undertake a preliminary investigation to determine whether or not a bona fide reason exists to apply the appropriate section. For situations involving impairment of an employee's health or that of a member ot the family, medical documentation is required.
3.	If the Human Resources Department believes that the matter should be pursued, they then contact the IBEW . Business Representative assigned to that area and both will make a thorough investigation to determine whether a hardship exists. If they agree a hardship exists, then they must then prepare a list of alflocations in the Company that could alleviate the problem.
4.	This list must be forwarded to the Human Resources Manager and Business Representative of each division (and/or General Office department] where such a location is identified. Each of these locations must also agree, in writing, that hardship transfer consideration should be afforded the employee. To avoid conflicting responses to an employee, all of the divisions solicited for hardship consideration should communicate with each other.
5.	The first vacancy in any of the listed locations to any classification to which the employee is qualified to fill that does not have a higher wage schedule than the employee's current classification must be offered to the employee. If the employee declines such offer without a substantial reason or the Company does not make such an offer, the entire matter shall be dropped at this point, and the 205.17/18.5 request is invalidated.
6.	If the individual accepts the offered position, a written agreement must then be prepared and signed by both the host and receiving Division Human Resources Managers and IBEW Business Representatives. A copy or such agreement should be forwarded to the Manager of Industrial Relations and the IBEW Business Manager, as well as all of the other locations earlier identified.
While the Division Human Resources Manager and IBEW Business Representative must send a hardship request to each suitable location, employees must also submit bids and transfers to each of these locations. The’ bias and transfers must be to every classification that would qualify in alleviating the hardship. If an employee declines a bona fide bid or transfer job offer, without a substantial reason, or if they refuse to submit bids and transfers to appropriate positions in all of the locations identified, his/her hardship would also be invalidated.
Many hardship requests are location specific. This appears to be an attempt by some employees to relocate using the hardship provisions rather than the normal bid and transfer procedure. Those location specific requests must be viewed very carefully to ensure that the locationfs) requested is/are the only location(s) that would alleviate the employee's hardship. Often there are many locations that would accommodate the employee's particular situation. All of those locations must be included for consideration.
*
Often times employees send hardship requests directly to the Division Human Resources Department(s) in the locationfs) where they wish to be considered. Those requests must be returned to the employee's Human Resources Department for consideration and processing.
This agreement may be cancelled by either party upon 30 days written notice to the other of such cancellation.
If you are in accord with the loregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed copy of this letter to Com pany.	-
Very truly yours,
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
By /s/R.L. Bailey
Manager of Industrial Relations
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.
LOCAL UNION NO. 1245, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO
Feb 3,1992
By /s/ Jack McNally
Business Manager
95
EXHIBIT XIV
SEVERANCE
A.	Application
Employees laid off pursuant of Section 206.7 and 306.7 of the Physical Agreement will receive the Severance Package as defined below.
Title 200 employees with less than one year of service will not be eligible for the severance program. Title 300 employees with less than two years of service will not be eligible for the severance program.
B.	Formula
a)	Four weeks pay (base classification) plus two weeks' pay for each year of service.
b)	A lump sum payment of $5,000 to partially off set COBRA and life insurance conversion coverage. The employee has no obligation to use it for COBRA conversion or continued life insurance coverage.
c)	Payment is dependent on signing of the agreed to Severance Agreement and Release.
d)	Employees who are rehired, pursuant to Sections 206.13 and 306,14 of the Physical Agreement, within 12 months of lay-off and are subsequently laid off for lack of work within 12 months of being rehired will receive a prorated severance. The prorated severance amount will be equal to the difference between the severance amount(s) the employee previously received and the severance amount calculated using the employee’s current years of service.
(Amended 1-1-00)	■
ATTACHMENT 1
SEVERANCE AGREEMENT AND RELEASE (Amended 10-1-03)
This Severance Agreement and Release is made and entered into between Mr./Ms.__
and the Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E). Mr./Ms and PG&E (collectively referred to as
"the parties'), in their wish to compromise, resolve, settle, and terminate any dispute or claim between them with respect to Mr./Ms.employment with PG&E and severance therefrom, have agreed as follows;
1.	Effective close of business,Mr./Ms.shall be laid off from PG&E employment.
2,	On____________, or seven calendar days following the execution of this Severance Agreement and
Release, whichever is later, PG&E shall pay to Mr./Ms.the amount of, less applicable deductions. Mr./Ms.agrees that he/she is responsible for paying any taxes on the amount paid to him/her pursuant to this Severance Agreement and Release. If Mr./Ms.is rehired within 30 calendar days of layoff, then PG&E's obligation to pay is null and void. The parties agree that the payment provided in this paragraph is in addition to, and does not affect, any payment and benefit to which Mr./Ms.may be otherwise entitled under PG&E's compensation, performance incentive, stock option, and other benefit programs.
3.	Mr./Ms.__________represents that he/she does not have any pending claim, charge or action in or with
any federal, state or local court or any administrative agency relating to his/her employment against PG&E, its officers, attorneys, agents, employees, subsidiaries, parent company, assigns, affiliated companies and successors. If Mr./Ms. does have pending claims described in the preceding sentence, Mr./Ms. ________agrees that such claims are covered by the release aspect of this Severance
Agreement and Release and that he/she shall take all necessary action to seek dismissal with prejudice of each claim, within two business days after the effective date of this Severance Agreement and Release.
4.	In consideration for the payment which PG&E shall provide Mr./Ms.under this Severance Agreement and Release, MrVMs.in behalf of his/herself, his/her heirs, estate, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, releases and agrees to hold harmless PG&E, its officers, attorneys, agents, employees, subsidiaries, parent company, assigns, affiliated companies, and successors, from all actions, causes of action, claims, disputes, judgments, obligations, damages, liabilities of whatsoever kind and character, relating to Mr./Ms.employment with PG&E, including his/her employment severance and any action which led to the severance. Specifically, Mr./Ms.understands and agrees that the actions, causes of action, claims, disputes, judgments, obligations, damages, and
96
liabilities covered by the preceding sentence include, but are not limited to, those arising under any federal, state, or local law, regulation, or order relating to civil rights (including but not limited to employment discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, ancestry, physical or mental handicap or disability, medical condition, veteran status, marital status, pregnancy, and sexual orientation}, wage and hour, labor, contract, or tort.
5.	Mr./Ms.understands and agrees that the Severance Agreement and Release extends to all claims of every nature and kind whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, past or present, and all rights under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code are hereby expressly waived. Such section reads as follows:
A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his/her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known to his/her must have materially affected his/her settlement with the debtor.
6.	Mr./Ms.agrees not to initiate, participate or aid, in any way, in any lawsuit or proceeding upon any claim released by him/her under this Severance Agreement and Release. The preceding sentence, however, shall not prohibit Mr./Ms.  from participating in any judicial or administrative proceeding that relates to the subject matter of, or any claim covered by, this Severance Agreement and Release, if he/she is compelled to do so by a properly-issued subpoena or valid court order. PG&E also acknowledges that Mr./Ms.may be legally required to appear and testify at a deposition, court hearing or trial, or otherwise respond to a subpoena. In the event of any such subpoena, court order, or request, Mr ./Ms.shall notify PG&E's Human Resources Department as soon as possible.
7.	Mr ./Ms.represents and agrees that prior to signing this Severance Agreement and
Release, he/she returned to PG&E all originals and copies of all files, memoranda, records, software, credit cards, identification cards, keys, and any other property of PG&E or its affiliates which he/she had in his/her possession, custody or control. Mr./M$.further agrees that his/her violation of this paragraph shall constitute a material breach of this Severance Agreement and Release.
8.	Mr./Ms.agrees not to use, disclose, publicize, or circulate any secret, confidential or proprietary information concerning PG&E, its subsidiaries, parent company, or affiliates, which has come to his/her attention during his/her employment with PG&E, unless his/her doing so is consistent with any rights he/she may have under any applicable whistleblower laws, is authorized in writing by PG&E or is required by law, including subpoena. Before making any legally-required disclosure, Mr ./Ms._shall
give PG&E as much advance notice as possible. Mr./Ms.further agrees that his/her violation of this paragraph shall constitute a material breach of this Severance Agreement and Release.
9.	Mr./Ms.agrees not to make, issue, endorse, publicize, or circulate to any person or entity statements or remarks that can reasonably be construed as disparaging toward PG&E, including its officers, directors, attorneys, agents, employees, assigns, parent company, subsidiaries, affiliated companies and successors, or any aspect of its operations. Mr./Ms.also agrees that, if called upon to do so, he/she will cooperate with, and provide reasonable assistance to, PG&E to protect and further its lawful interests in all judicial, administrative, investigative, and legislative proceedings involving PG&E or any aspect of its operations. The parties agree that this paragraph does not affect Mr./Ms._’s legitimate
exercise of his/her rights under applicable whistleblower laws or his/her obligation to comply with all validly-issued court or administrative orders, including subpoenas. Mr./Ms.further agrees that his/her violation of this paragraph shall constitute a material breach of this Severance Agreement and Release.
10.	Mn/Ms. ____________. agrees that, If he/she engages in a material breach of this Severance
Agreement and Release, PG&E shall not be required to make any unmade payment due under this Severance Agreement and Release, and he/she shall repay lo PG&E the payment he/she received under this Severance Agreement and Release within seven (7) calendar days upon written demand by PG&E. The parties agree that this paragraph shall not apply to the lawful exercise of any right Mr./Ms. _______________may have under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act and that such matters shall be governed by the provisions of said act.
97
11.	Mr./Ms.understands that if he/she engages, or has engaged, in misconduct that would warrant his/her termination of employment under PG&E’s employee conduct standards and the collective bargaining agreement’s just cause standard, he/she shall forfeit his/her right to sign this Severance Agreement and Release.
12.	Any dispute regarding any aspect ol this Severance Agreement and Release, including its validity, interpretation, or any action which would constitute a violation of this Severance Agreement and Release (hereinafter referred to as an ’’arbitrable dispute") shall be resolved by an experienced arbitrator, selected by the parties in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The fees of the arbitrator and the cost associated with producing a transcript of the proceedings shall be paid in equal shares by Mr./Ms.___________________and PG&E. The parties agree that arbitration shall be the exclusive remedy for
resolving arbitrable disputes and that the decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding. The judgment rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having competent jurisdiction. The prevailing party in any such arbitration shall be entitled to costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees. In addition, any party who attempts to pursue an arbitrable dispute in any forum other than arbitration shall be liable for costs and attorneys’ fees incurred by the other party in seeking to compel arbitration. The parties agree that this paragraph shall not apply to the lawful exercise of any right Mr./Ms.may have under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act and that such matters shall be governed by the provisions of said Act.
13.	Mr./Ms.________________agrees that, if he/she initiates an administrative, judicial, arbitral, or other similar
proceeding, to bring a claim released by this Severance Agreement and Release or to challenge the validity of this Severance Agreement and Release, PG&E shall not be required to make any unmade payment due under this Severance Agreement and Release and he/she shall repay to PG&E the payment he/she received under this Severance Agreement and Release concurrent with his/her initiation of the proceeding. Mr./Ms.
's failure to make the prescribed repayment shall be a basis for rejecting his/her claim and/or his/her attempt to challenge the validity of this Severance Agreement and Release. MrVMs._
also agrees that, if the claim he/she brought or his/her attempt to challenge the validity of this Severance Agreement and Release is rejected, he/she shall pay to PG&E any loss, cost, damage, or expense, including, without limitation, reasonable attorney fees PG&E incurred in the proceeding, within seven (7) calendar days from the final decision rejecting his/her claim or attempt. Further, notwithstanding the foregoing, if Mr./Ms.
obtains against PG&E a monetary judgment or settlement for a claim released under this Severance Agreement and Release, the payment he/she received under this Severance Agreement and Release shall be deducted from any such monetary judgment or settlement. The parties agree that this paragraph shall not apply to the lawful exercise of any right Mr./Ms.may have under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act and that such matters shall be governed by the provisions of said Act.
14.	This Severance Agreement and Release shall not be considered an admission of liability or a violation of any applicable contract, law, rule, regulation, guideline, or order of any kind.
15.	W./Ms.agrees that all claims he/she may have arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act before he/she signs this Severance Agreement and Release are covered by paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Severance Agreement and Release and that his/her waiver of those age discrimination claims is an integral part of the release aspect of this Severance Agreement and Release. Therefore, consistent with the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, MrJMs.  states that he/she was given this Severance Agreement and Release on, and understands that he/she has 45 calendar days from until, to consider the Severance Agreement and Release.
Further, Mr./Ms.  understands that, if he/she signs this Severance Agreement and Release, he/she may revoke it within seven (7) calendar days of the agreement's execution. To revoke this Severance Agreement and Release, Mr./Ms.____________must submit to the local Human Resources
Department, a signed statement to that effect by close of business of the seventh (7th) day. Mr./Ms. _________________understands and agrees that this Severance Agreement and Release will not take effect until the expiration of the seven-day revocation period. Further, Mr./Ms.may elect to consider the severance package for /ewer than 45 days, at his/her own option, but is under no obligation to shorten the period. If Mr./Ms.elects to consider the severance package for fewer than 45 days at his/her option and executes this Severance Agreement and Release before the 45-day consideration period has expired, said employee may receive the severance payment before the 45-day consideration period, but only after the seven-day revocation periods has expired. In no event, however, shall Mr./Ms.
98
receive the payment until he/she has completed his/her consideration period, which may be less than 45 days at his/her option, as well as the seven-day revocation period.
16.	This Severance Agreement and Release sets forth the entire agreement between the parties and fully supersedes any and all prior agreements or understandings between the parties pertaining to the subject matter of this Severance Agreement and Release. This Severance Agreement and Release, however, shall not affect any right either party has or may have against the other regarding Workers' Compensation claims and Supplemental Benefit payments made for those claims. The parties agree that this Severance Agreement and Release may not be modified or canceled in any manner except by a writing signed by Mr./Ms.and an authorized PG&E official. If any provision of this release is found to be unenforceable, all other provisions will remain fully enforceable.
17.	Mr./Ms.____________________states that he/she has read this Severance Agreement and Release in its
entirety, that he/she has been given the necessary time to consider its contents, that he/she fully understands its terms, that he/she has been advised that he/she should consult legal counsel of his/her choosing, that the only promises made to him/her to sign are those stated herein, and that he/she is signing this Severance Agreement and Release voluntarily.
PLEASE READ CAREFULLY. THIS SEVERANCE AGREEMENT AND RELEASE INCLUDES A RELEASE OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
PACIMC GAS AND LCECTPflU COMPANY EMPLOYEE
Social Security
DATE-----------------:---------------- DATE-----------
EXHIBIT XV (Deleted 10-1-03)
CLARIFICATION TO SUBSECTION 301.4(a) (Moved to 301.21 effective 10-1-03)
EXHIBIT XVI
CONTRACTING
(Applicable to Title 200 and 300)
It is recognized that Company has the right to have work done by outside contractors. Company will not make a contract with any other firm or individual for the purpose or with the effect of dispensing with the services of employees who are engaged in maintenance, operating or construction work.
It is the general intent of the parties to have bargaining unit employees perform bargaining unit work.
In the exercise of the right to contract work. Company shall observe the provisions of this exhibit.
94-53 Committee
1.	An eight person 94-53 committee shall be established consisting of four individuals appointed by each party.
2.	The committee shall meet at least quarterly; however, either party may cali for a meeting.
3.	The purposes of the committee are to (1) assure compliance with this agreement; (2) assure appropriate steps are taken prior to contracting of work in a department; (3) assure compliance with this agreement prior to the utilization of the lack of work provisions of Title 206 or 306 in any department; ancT(4) review all contracting out of bargaining unit work.
99
Pre-Contracting Out Provisions
1.	Prior to contracting out work normally performed by the bargaining unit Company shall perform such work by the use of optimum use of voluntary overtime if at all possible. This shall be defined as being able to accomplish the work with the utilization of bargaining unit employees on a straight time and overtime basis if the work can be accomplished in a reasonable time frame.
2.	Exhaust the provisions of 206.13 and 306.14.
3.	Assure no use of contracting or hiring hall personnel has occurred within twelve months of any involuntary layoff in a department or have the number ot regular bargaining unit positions brought up to the level in place prior to such involuntary layoff.
Pre Title 206 or 306 Provisions
Prior to the use of the lack of work provisions of Title 206 or 306 that will result in involuntary layoff Company shall first;
1.	Meet with the Union to discuss the possible use of such provisions and assure compliance with the Agreement.
2.	Eliminate all use of contracting and hiring hall personnel on a system-wide basis in the affected department initiating involuntary layoffs.
3.	In the event an employee is displaced into or displaced out of a department using hiring hall employees, a listing of hiring hall positions will be provided to such displaced employees. A list of Hinng Hall positions, if desired, will be provided to displaced employees subsequent to their 206 or 306 assignment. Such displaced employees will be given seven calendar days to prioritize the hiring hall positions if elected. Assignments into the prioritized positions wifi be based on seniority and qualifications. However, this will not result in an employee being placed into a classification having a higher wage rate as provided for In Sections 206.1 and
4.	In the event an employee is displaced into a department that is contracting, the following will apply; Departments included in Letter Agreement 95-54 will be required to absorb the displaced employee or cease contracting before executing subsequent displacements. Those departments not included in Letter Agreement 95-54 that are impacted by displacements may continue the displacement process regardless of contracting status.
Prior to the use of the lack of work provisions of Title 206 and 306 that will not result in involuntary layoff Company shall first:
1,	Meet with the union to discuss the possible use of such provisions and assure compliance with the Agreement.
2.	Eliminate all use of contracting and hiring hall in that department.
Departmental Contracting Out of Work Provisions
1.	All contractors will pay employees prevailing wage as defined by California Labor Code Part 7, Chapter 1, Article 2, Section 1/70, 1773 and 1/73.1. Further, the parties continue to encourage use of IBEW and union friendly contractors.
2.	Company will maintain accurate records for all hours worked by bargaining unit employees and hiring hall employees on a departmental basis.
3.	Company is to assure that all contractors furnish, on a departmental basis, all hours worked by contractor employees and submit a certified copy of their payroll, including benefits, for each pay period. Failure on the part of the Company or contractor to comply with this agreement shall result in immediate cancellation of the contract between the Company and the contractor.
4.	Inspection of work contracted out will be performed by regular bargaining unit employees consistent with current practices including provisions of 95-54 and pole replacement work.
5.	On a quarterly basis, Company shall hire additional bargaining unit employees in the event hours worked by hiring hall personnel and contractors exceed 20% of the total numbers of hours worked by bargaining unit employees for the previous twelve months. The number of employees to be hired will be equivalent to the numbers of hours worked by contractors and hiring hall personnel in excess of 20% divided by 2080.
6.	On a quarterly basis, the bargaining unit may only be reduced by attrition when the utilization of contract and hiring hall personnel has been at a 10% or lower ratio for the prior twelve months in that department, with the exception of Gas and Electric T&D which maybe at a 15% or lower ratio for the prior twelve months.
100
Department for this Exhibit
The departments for the purpose of this exhibit are:
Title 200 and 300
1.	Gas T&D (Title 200 and 300)
2.	Electric T&D (Title 200 and 300)
Title 200
1	Electric Substation Maintenance
2.	Substation Operations
3.	Hydro Maintenance
4.	Hydro Operating
5.	Electric Meter
6.	Electric Office
7.	Hydro Clerical
8.	Telecommunications
9.	Gas M&C
10.	Gas Service
11.	Gas Meter Repair
12.	Water
13.	Materials Warehouse
14.	Material Pipe Line Yard & Plant
15.	Materials Machine Shop
16.	Materials Electric Utility & Hydro Maintenance
17.	General Services Garage
18.	General Services Building Services
19.	Accounting & Computer Operations	.
20.	Steam Operating
21.	Steam EiectricafMaintenance
22.	Steam Mechanical Maintenance
23.	Steam Technical Maintenance
24.	Steam Clerical
25.	Steam Firewatch
26.	Gas System Maintenance
27.	Gas System Operations
Title 300
1.	Fleet
2.	Clerical
3.	Station, Substation and Hydro Construction
General Provisions
1.	Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, or either party exercise their cancellation rights, letter agreements 91-20, 92-56, 96-10/, 97-53 and 95-60 shall remain in effect.
2.	Gas Service Department including Meter Readers fall under the provisions of Section 24.5, of the Clerical Agreement.
3.	The parties will meet to discuss special circumstances such as the current needs in Substation Construction where an exemption to the percentages detailed in “Departmental Contracting Out of Work Provisions” items 5 and 6 are needed.
4.	If incidental contracting occurs without impact to the bargaining unit the provisions of this agreement will not be considered violated; The hours of the incidental contracting are counted toward the total contracting in the department.
EXHIBIT XVII
METER READER EXHIBIT (SEE SEPARATE BOOKLET)
101
SUPPLEMENT to SECTION 1.7

102
SUPPLEMENTS
LABOR AGREEMENT INTERPRETATION
SUBJECT:	Comparable Substitute for Usual and Average Meals (Meals at Home)
TITLE 104 - MEALS - Physical Agreement
TITLE 16 - MEALS - Clerical Agreement
Section 104.1 of the Physical Agreement and Section 16.1 of the Clerical Agreement state that provisions of the Meal Titles shall be interpreted and applied in a practical manner which shall conform to the intention of the parties in negotiating with respect to meals; namely, that a comparable substitute shall be provided when employees are prevented from observing their usual and average meal practices or are prevented from eating a meal at approximately the usual time therefore.
In the Company's Guidelines with respect to the application of Title 104 originally issued in October 1965 and amended in October 1966 and July 196S, the following statement is made with respect to the definition of a comparable substitute: .
"The meal provided...should but may not be quite the same as the meal would be at the same time if eaten
at home. Dependent upon the circumstances present at the time, and where practical or possible, a comparable substitute to the missed meal should be furnished.
'It may be necessary to provide meals at times of the day or night when the employee would not observe a customary mealtime...The meal provided, again dependent upon the circumstances of that situation, should be such as to adequately compensate for the need for food resulting from working beyond or before customary mealtime.
There have been no maximum cost limits for meals agreed upon because the cost of meals may vary due to such factors as the time of day, location, conditions and other circumstances. However, the requirement of reasonableness in the selection of a 'comparable substitute1 for the meal missed should be followed."
The following guidelines, but not necessarily in the order listed, should be kept in mind by both employees and supervisors in determining whether or not a meal purchased as a comparable substitute is or is not reasonable.
1.	The cost of meals at the average restaurant available in the general area, but excluding such luxury items as filet mignon or combination steak and seafood dinners. The foregoing is not intended to mean menu averaging.
2.	The availability of restaurants which can provide a comparable substitute within a reasonable distance of the job site or between the job site and the headquarters.
3.	The breakfast, luncheon or dinner menu where comparable substitutes are available, but excluding extra a la carte items. The foregoing does not preclude ordering a la carte when that is all that is available nor does rt preclude a la carte desserts with dinner meals.	.
4.	The weather or other extreme working conditions to which the employees have been subjected.
5.	The amount by which the time limits in the Agreement and in the Guidelines have been exceeded, with some consideration as to whether or not sandwiches and a hot beverage have been supplied on the job. Except for lunch, the foregoing does not imply that sandwiches and a hot beverage are to be considered as a comparable substitute nor is it intended to mean that employees are to be worked routinely nor excessively beyond the aforementioned time limits.
For Union: /s/ L. L. Mitchell
Its Business Manager
Date: June 26,1974
For Company: /s/1. W. Bonbright
Its Manager of Industrial Relations
Date: June 13,1974.	.
103
SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 205 BIDDING UNITS (1)		
BIDDING UNIT ONE		
AREA ONE		
Berkeley El Cerrito	Pinole Richmond	Rodeo
AREA TWO		
Alameda	Emeryville	Oakland
AREATHREE		
Antioch	Contra Costa Power Plant	Orinda
Avon	Lafayette	Pittsburg
Brentwood Concord	Martinez Moraga	Pittsburg Power Plant Walnut Creek
AREA FOUR		
Fremont	Newark	San Ramon
Hayward	Pleasanton	Sunol
Livermore	San Leandro	Union City
Gas Meter Repair - Fremont	Electric Meter Repair Shop-	
	Fremont	
BIDDING UNIT TWO (2)		
AREA FIVE		
Belmont	Half Moon Bay	San Mateo
Burlingame AREA SIX	Redwood City	
Hunters Point Power Plant Oakland Power Plant	Potrero Power Plant	San Francisco
AREA SEVEN		
Brisbane Colma	Daly City	San Bruno
	Pacifica	South San Francisco
BIDDING UNIT THREE		
AREA EIGHT		
Ignacio Mill Valley	Olema	San Rafael
Novato	Point Reyes	Sausalito
AREA NINE		
Cloverdale, Inc.	Healdsburg	Santa Rosa
Geysers Power Plant	Petaluma	Sebastopol
Geyserville Guerneville	Rohnert Park	Sonoma
AREA TEN		
Boonville	Lakeport Mendocino	Potter Valley
Clearlake Highland		Ukiah
Covelo	Middletown	Willits
Fort Bragg AREA ELEVEN	Point Arena	
Benicia	Napa	Vallejo
Calistoga	St. Helena	
104
BIDDING UNIT FOUR
AREA TWELVE
Arcata
Bridgeville Eureka
BIDDING UNIT FIVE
AREA THIRTEEN
Brighton
Cameron Park
AREA FOURTEEN
Cordelia Davis Dixon
BIDDING UNIT SIX
AREA FIFTEEN
Big Bend Village Big Springs Bucks Lake Caribou Centerville Chico
BIDDING UNIT SEVEN
AREA-SIXTEEN
Arbuckle Colusa Dobbins East Nicolaus Gridley
BIDDING UNIT EIGHT
AREA SEVENTEEN
Anderson
Burney Cassel Central Valley Cloverdale Coming Cottonwood Fall River Mills
BIDDING UNIT NINE
AREA. EIGHTEEN
Alta
Auburn Colfax Downieville
BIDDING UNIT TEN
AREA NINETEEN
Groveland Jamestown Long Bam Modesto
Ferndale Fortuna Garberville
Folsom Placerville
Fairfield Rio Vista Vacaville
Greenville Hamilton City Lake Almanor
Magalia Nelson
Orland
Lincoln Marysville Mendan Oroville
Forest Glen Hat Creek Hayfork Junction City Manton Montgomery Creek Paynes Creek
Dutch Fiat Emigrant Gap Fresn Pond
Newman Oakdale Patterson Pinecrest
Humboldt Bay Power Plant Weott
Willow Creek
Sacramento
West Sacramento Winters Woodland
Paradise Prattville Quincy Rodgers Fiat Storne Willows
Smartville Wheatland Williams Yuba City
Red Bluff Redding Round Mountain Trinity Center Weaverville Whitmore Wildwood
Grass Valley Nevada City Roseville
Sonora Tuolumne Turlock Twain Hart
105
AREA TWENTY		
Angels Camp	Jackson	San Andreas
Arnold	Lodi	Stockton
Bellota	Manteca	Tracy
Hathaway Pines BIDDING UNIT ELEVEN AREA TWENTY-ONE	Martell	Victor
Capitola AREA TWENTY-TWO	Santa Cruz	Watsonville
Cupertino Los Gatos AREA TWENTY-THREE	Mountain View	Sunnyvale
Coyote	Milpitas	San Martin
Gilroy BIDDING UNIT TWELVE AREA TWENTY-FOUR	San Jose	Santa Clara
Auberry	Dinuba	Piedra
Avenal	Five Points	Reedley
Caruthers	Fresno	Riverdale
Clovis	Huron Kerman	Sanger
Coalinga		Selma
Corcoran AREA TWENTY-FIVE	Lemoore	Springville
Arvin	Ridgecrest	Tehachapi
Bakersfield	Rosedale	Trona
Boron Buttonwillow AREA TWENTY-SIX	Taft	Wasco
Chowchilla	Los Banos	Merced
Dos Palos	Madera	North Fork
Firebaugh BIDDING UNIT THIRTEEN (4)	Mariposa	Oakhurst
. AREA TWENTY-SEVEN		
Carmel	Monterey	Salinas
Hollister	Moss Landing Power Plant	Soledad
King City	Pacific Grove	
AREA TWENTY-EIGHT		
Arroyo Grande	Morro Bay Power Plant	Santa Maria
Atascadero	Paso Robles	Santa Ynez
Diablo Canyon Power Plant Lompoc BIDDING UNIT FOURTEEN MATERIALS DISTRIBUTION BIDDING UNIT FIFTEEN HYDRO GENERATION BIDDING UNIT SIXTEEN	San Luis Obispo	Solvang
GAS SYSTEM MAINTENANCE & TECHlCAL SUPPORT/GAS SYSTEMS OPERATIONS		
106
BIDDING UNIT SEVENTEEN
(Deleted 1-1-94)
BIDDING UNIT EIGHTEEN (3)
Materials
Reprographics
Mail
Design Drafting
T elecommunications
Garage
Building and Maintenance Operations
BIDDING UNIT NINETEEN
San Francisco Computer Center
Fairfield Computer Center/Data Recording Section
Vice President & Comptroller's Organization (Including Customer Accounting and West Sacramento Billing Center)
NOTES:
1)	The Bidding Unit will be the geographical area listed in 1 through 13 above, unless a work group or department is specifically designated as a separate bidding unit, such as Hydro Generation
2)	Bidding Unit Eighteen Garage, Building and Materials employees are 205.5(d)(1) and 205.7(b) bidders to Garage, Building and Materials classifications in Bidding Unit Two.
3)	Bidding Unit Two Garage, Building and Warehouse employees are 205.5(d)(1) and 205.7(b) bidders to Garage, Building and Materials classifications in Bidding Unit Eighteen.
4)	DER, DCPP employees are 205.5(d)(i), 205.7(b) and 18.5(c)(1) bidders to Bidding Unit Thirteen.
SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 206 DEMOTION UNITS (1)
DEMOTION UNIT ONE
AREA ONE		
Berkeley El Cerrito	Pinole Richmond	Rodeo
AREA TWO		
Alameda Emeryville	Oakport	Oakland
AREA THREE		
Antioch Avon Brentwood Concord	Lafayette Martinez Moraga	Orinda Pittsburg Walnut Creek
AREA FOUR		
Fremont Gas Meter Repair - Fremont Elec. Meter Repair - Fremont Hayward	Livermore Newark Pleasanton San Leandro	San Ramon Sunol Union City
DEMOTION UNIT TWO (2)		
AREA FIVE		
Belmont Burlingame	Half Moon Bay Redwood City	San Carlas San Mateo
107'
area sjx
San Francisco	*
AREA SEVEN
Brisbane	Daly City	San Bruno
Colma	Pacifica	South San Francisco
DEMOTION UNIT THREE
AREA EIGHT		
Ignacio	Olema	San Rafael
Mill Valley	Point Reyes	Sausalito
Novato		
AREA NINE		
Cloverdale, Inc, ,	Healdsburg	Santa Rosa
Geyserville	Petaluma	Sebastopol
Guerneville	Rohnert Park	Sonoma
AREA TEN		
Boonville	Lakeport	Potter Valley
Clearlake Highland	Mendocino	Ukiah
Covelo	Middletown	Willits
Fort Bragg	Point Arena	
AREA ELEVEN		
Benicia	Napa	Vallejo
Calistoga	St. Helena.	
AREA TWELVE		
Arcata	Ferndale	Humboldt
Bridgeville	Fortuna	Weott
Eureka	Garberville	Willow Creek
DEMOTION UNIT FOUR
AREA THIRTEEN
Brighton Cameron Park	Folsom Placerville	Sacramento
AREA FOURTEEN		
Cordelia Davis Dixon	Fairfield Rio Vista Vacaville	West Sacramento Winters Woodland
AREA FIFTEEN		
Big Bend Village Big Springs Bucks Lake Caribou Centerville Chico	Greenville Hamilton City Lake Almanor Magalia Nelson Orland	Paradise Prattville Quincy Rodgers Flat Storrie Willows
AREA SIXTEEN		
Arbuckle Colusa Dobbins East Nicolaus Gridley	Lincoln Marsyville Meridian Oroville Smartville	Table Mountain Wheatland Williams Yuba City
108
AREA SEVENTEEN
Anderson	Forest Glen	Red Bluff
Burney	Hat Creek	Redding
	Hayfork	Round Mountain
Central Valley	Junction City	Trinity Center
Cloverdale	Manton	Weaverville
Coming	Montgomery Creek	Whitmore
Cottonwood	Paynes Creek	Wildwood
Fall River Mills		
AREA EIGHTEEN
Alta	Dutch Flat	Grass Valley
Auburn Colfax	Emigrant Gap Fresh Pond	Nevada City Roseville
Downieville		
DEMOTION UNIT FIVE
AREA NINETEEN
Groveland	Newman	Sonora
Jamestown	Oakdale	Tuolumne
Long Barn	Patterson	Turlock
Modesto	Pinecrest	Twain Hart
AREA TWENTY		
Angels Camp	Jackson	San Andreas
Arnold	Lodi	Stockton
Bellota	Manteca	Tracy
Hathaway Pines	Martell	Victor
AREA TWENTY-ONE		
Auberry	Five Points	Piedra
Avenal	Fresno	Reedley
Caruthers	Helms	Riverdale
Clovis	Huron	Sanger
Coalinga	Kerman	Selma
Corcoran	Kettleman	Springville
Dinuba	Lemoore	
AREA TWENTY-TWO
Arvin	Hinkley	Tehachapi
Bakersfield	Ridgecrest	Trona
Boron	Rosedale	Wasco
Buttonwillow	Taft	
AREA TWENTY-THREE
Chowchilla	Los Banos	Merced
Dos Palos	Madera	North Fork
Firebaugh	Mariposa	Oakhurst
DEMOTION UNIT SIX		
AREA TWENTY-FOUR		
Capitola	Santa Cruz	Watsonville
AREA TWENTY-FIVE		
Cupertino Los Gatos	Mountain View	Sunnyvale
AREA TWENTY-SIX		
Cinnabar	Gilroy	San Martin
Coyote	Milpitas	Santa Clara
Edenvale	San Jose	
109
AREA TWENTY-SEVEN
Carmel Hollister King City AREA TWENTY-EIGHT	Monterey Pacific Grove
Arroyo Grande	Paso Robles
Atascadero	Pismo Beach
Buellton	San Luis Obispo
Lompoc	Santa Maria
Salinas Soledad
Santa Ynez Solvang Templeton
DEMOTION UNIT SEVEN
HYDRO GENERATION
AREA TWENTY-NINE
Northern Area
AREA THIRTY
Central Area
AREA THIRTY-ONE
Southern Area
DEMOTION UNIT EIGHT
GAS SYSTEM MAINTENANCE/GAS SYSTEM OPERATIONS (including Gas Chart Office)
DEMOTION UNIT NINE
MATERIALS DISTRUBTION
Emeryville, Fremont, and Decoto Pipe Yard only
DEMOTION UNIT TEN
(Deleted 1-1-94)
DEMOTION UNIT ELEVEN
GENERAL OFFICE
Building
Reprographics
Building and Maintenance Operations Telecommunications
Garage
Computer Operations
Vice President & Comptroller's Organization (including Customer Accounting) Design Drafting
DEMOTION UNIT TWELVE
STEAM GENERATION
NUCLEAR POWER GENERATION
AREA THIRTY-TWO
Geysers Power Plant in Demotion Areas 8, 9,10 and 11.
AREA THIRTY-THREE
Pittsburg and Contra Costa in Demotion Areas 1,2,3 and 4.
110
AREA THIRTY-FOUR
Oakland, Potrero and Hunters Point in Demotion Areas 6 and 7.
AREA THIRTY-FIVE
Morio Bay, Moss Landing, Diablo Canyon in Demotion Areas 27 and 28.
AREATHIBTY^IX	.
Humboldt Baiy Power Plant in Demotion Area 12.
NOTES:
1)	The Demotion Unit will be the geographical area listed in 1 through 6 above, unless a work group or department is specifically designated as a separate demotion unit, such as Hydro Generation,
2)	Demotion Unit Eleven Garage, Building and Materials employees have 206.4, 206.5 and 206.6 demotion rights to Garage, Building and Materials classifications in Demotion Unit Two.
3)	Demotion Unit Two Garage, Building and Materials employees have 206.4, 206.5 and 206.6 demotion rights to Garage, Building andTAaterials classifications in Demotion Unit Eleven.
CRITICAL CLASSIFICATIONS
Local Union No. 1245	March 8,1974
International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, AFL-ClO
P.O. Box 4790
Walnut Creek, California 94596
Attention: Mr. L.L. Mitchell, Business Manager
Gentlemen:
This letter cancels and supersedes all previous proposals submitted to you on the same subject.
As discussed with you on numerous occasions, it has become increasingly difficult for the Company to properly staff and maintain qualified personnel in certain journeyman classifications ana locations in the system. In an attempt to solve this problem, Company proposes the following:
1.	When the complement of a journeyman classification is 10% or more below the desired strength for 90 days or more at a specific headquarters, Company may upon giving written notice to Union designate the apprenticeship leading to such journeyman classification, the journeyman classification, and classifications above the designated journeyman classification, as critical classifications. Non-apprenticeship situations shall be handled in accordance with Paragraph 8 below.	r
2.	In order to bring the complement at the affected headquarters to the desired level, Company will initially seek volunteers system-wide for assignment to such critical classifications through the postbid procedure. Employees voluntarily transferring to the critical classifications shall be designated critical and be subject to the conditions outlined below. If sufficient employees are obtained in this manner to alleviate the critical situation, no further action will be taken. If, however, a sufficient number of employees are not obtained for critical status, Company shall designate all apprentices appointed after the date critical status was applied at that headquarters as 'critical apprentices/
3.	(a) Except as provided in (b) below, employees on critical status shall be paid 8% above their basic
weekly rate as provided for in Exhibit X.
(b) Employees in a critical apprenticeship status shall be paid the following percent adjustment above their basic weekly rate as provided for in Exhibit X:
Start	3%
End 6 months	4%
End 1 year	5%
End 18 months	6%
End 24 months	7%
End 30 months	8%
4.	Employees on critical status will not have their prebids or postbids for vacancies in or below their present classifications nor their application for transfer considered for any job outside of their existing headquarters or outside of their Line of Progression.
111
5	A journeyman’s "critical" status shall be for a period ol three years with the exceptions set forth in Item 6 below. However, by mutual agreement, the "critical classification" designation may be lifted on either an individual or on a total basis. Apprentices on critical status complete their training at the "critical" headquarters.
6.	Apprentices designated as critical who progress to unassigned journeymen status shall continue on "critical" status for two additional years under the conditions outlined above. If the desired strength has been met at the concerned headquarters, the unassigned journeyman may replace the senior journeyman on criticar status who desires such replacement. Upon his release from "critical status, the 8% weekly allowance and the freeze on bidding and transfer rights will cease.
7.	Company will give the Union and the involved employees 90 days' notice of the cancellation of the "critical classification designation. However, upon cancellation by Company, employees on critical status shall continue to receive the appropriate weekly allowance for the remainder of their applicable term or until such time as they bid or transfer to another classification or headquarters.
8.	In critical situations where a formal apprenticeship is not involved Company proposes to apply the 8% weekly allowance and the freeze on bidding ano transfer rights to the journeyman classification under the conditions outlined above. However, in each instance, the added weekly pay and the total length of the bid or transfer freeze for classifications leading to such non-apprentice journeymen snail be established by agreement between Company and Union. Such agreement shall be, to the extent possible, consistent with the framework outlined above for apprentice situations.
If you are in accord with the foregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed copy of this letter to Com pany.
Yours very truly,
PACIFIC GAS And ELECTRIC COMPANY
By /s/ I.W. Bonbright
Manager of Industrial Relations
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.
LOCAL UNION NO. 1245, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS. AFL-CIO
July 1,1974
By /s/L.L. Mitchell Business Manager
112
Printed by IBEW Local Union 1245 Members
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO
LOCAL UNION 1245
P. O. Box 2547, Vacaville, CA 95696
30 Orange Tree Circle, Vacaville, CA 95687
(707) 452-2700

7 3‘,‘>

EXHIBIT X

(AS AMENDED OCTOBER 1, 2003) SCHEDULE OF WAGE RATES OF AGREEMENT APPLICABLE TO OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
Between
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
Pacific Gas and
Electric Company ~
WE DELIVER ENERGY.**

and
LOCAL UNION NO. 1245 of
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD
OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Affiliated with
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABORCONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2003 - i^l3i/e7
jz. 6 u "l (

EXHIBIT X
(As Amended October 1, 2003)
BASIC WAGE SCHEDULE FIVE-DAY WEEK BASIS
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
Applicable to OPERATING, MAINTENANCE, AND CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
Represented by LOCAL UNION NO. 1245 OF INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO
///«? —
EXHIBIT X - WAGES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
MATERIALS DISTRIBUTION
Warehouse Operations................................................................1
Machine Shop........................................................................3
Electric and Utility.................................................:............  4
ACCOUNTING AND COMPUTER OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT
Customer Accounting........;  .....................................5
CUSTOMER SERVICES DEPARTMENT
Customer Service.................................................      6
ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Office................................................................•............6
Transmission and Distribution.......................................................7
Meter.............................................................................11
Maintenance.......................................................................12
Operating.........................................................................18
Cferical-Hydro....................................................................22
GAS DEPARTMENT
Transmission and Distribution....................................................24
Service..........................................................................25
Measurement and Corrosion Control..........................................      27
Gas Meter Repair Facility....................................;...................28
GENERAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
Garage...................................................................29
Warehouse................................................................31
Building Service.........................................................32
Miscellaneous..........................................................  34
GAS SYSTEM MAINTENANCE & GAS SYSTEM OPERATIONS
Maintenance............................................................34
Operations.............................................................38
STEAM GENERATION & NUCLEAR POWER GENERATION DEPARTMENTS
Operating.....................................................................  41
Electrical Maintenance........................................................  42
Mechanical Maintenance..........................................................43
Technical Maintenance.......................................................    44
Clerical........................................................................46
Operating (DCPP)................................................................47
EiectricarMaintenance (DCPP)....................................................48
Mechanical Maintenance (DCPP)...................................................49
Technical Maintenance (DCPP)....................................................51
Fire Department (DCPP).......:..................................................54
Clerical (DCPP).................................................................55
WATER DEPARTMENT
Water Department..........................................................................56
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION Field Classifications.......................................................            ..59
Service Center Classifications............................................................73
EXHIBIT X
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
BASIC WAGE SCHEDULE - FORTY-HOUR WEEK BASIS Effective October 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
Applicable to ALL REGIONS, DIVISIONS AND DEPARTMENTS EXCEPT GENERAL CONSTRUCTION
CLASSIFICATION
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
MATERIALS DISTRIBUTION
WAREHOUSE OPERATIONS
1594	Crane Operator	1126.35		1171.45	1218.35
0462	Heavy Truck Driver		1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
1050	Janitor (Hired 1-1*88 and after)	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
		End 6 Mo	755.00	785.20	816.65
		End 1 Yr	825.85	858.90	893.30
		End 18 Mo	896.85	932.75	970.10
1050	Janitor (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
		End 6 Mo	838.50	872.05	906.95
		End 1 Yr	896.85	932.75	970.10
1050	Janitor (Hired 12-31-82 and before)	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
		End 6 Mo	865.00	899.60	935.60
		End 1 Yr	896.85	932.75	970.10
0433	Lead Driver		1126.35	1171,45	1218.35
0422	Light Truck Driver	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
1215	Materials Facilityperson		1154.50	1200.70	1248.75
0765	Materials Facility Leader		1259.50	1309.90	1362.30
1
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION 101-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
1085	Materials Leadperson	1095.60	1139.45	1186.05
1210	Materials Handler (Hired 1-1-83 and after)			
1213	Utility Materialsman (Hired 1-1-83 and after)			
	Start	832.50	865.80	900.45
	End 6 Mo	912.90	949.45	987.45
	End 1 Yr	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 18 Mo	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 2 Yr	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
1210	Materials Handler (Hired 12-31-82 and before)			
1213	Utility Materialsman (Hired 12-31-82 and before)			
	Start	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 6 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 1 Yr	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 18 Mo	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 2 Yr	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
0914	Pipe Handler	1095.60	1139.45	1185.05
1910	Pipe Machine Operator	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
1960	Pipeperson (Hired 1-1-88 and after)			
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
1960	Pipeperson (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)			
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
1960	Pipeperson (Hired 12-31-82 and before)			
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0416	Truck Driver			
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
2
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
MACHINE SHOP
1132 Apprentice Machinist
	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo End 2 Yr End 30 Mo	952.10 962.20 990.35 1012.05 1075.80 1104.30	990.20 1000.70 1030.00 1052.55 1118.85 1148.50	1029.85 1040.75 1071.20 1094.70 1163.65 1194.45
0160 Carpenter				
	Start	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
	End 6 Mo	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
	End 1 Yr	1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
0690 Lead Carpenter				
	Start	1169.90	1216.70	1265.40
	End 1 Yr	1240.10	1289.75	1341.35
2626 Certified Welder				
2623 Unassigned Certified Welder		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0400 Crater				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 1 Yr	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
0745 Machine Shop Leader				
	Start	1192.10	1239.80	1289.40
	End 1 Yr	1268.45	1319.20	1372.00
1700 Machine Operator				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 1 Yr	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
1112 Machinist				
1127 Unassigned Machinist		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
1165 Maintenance Worker				
	Start	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
	End 1 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
1455 Metalworker				
	Start	1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
	End 6 Mo	1192.10	1239.80	1289.40
	End 1 Yr	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
3
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
1180 Plant Maintenance Worker		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
2624 Routine Welder				
	Start	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
	End 1 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
0920 utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0920 Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0920 utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
ELECTRIC AND UTILITY				
0483 Apprentice Electrician				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
2626 Certified Welder				
2623 Unassigned Certified Welder		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0750 Electric Maintenance Crew Leader				
	Start	1290.90	1342.55	1396.30
	End 1 Yr	1322.55	1375.50	1430.55
0710 Electric Shop Leader				
	Start	1290.90	1342.55	1396.30
	End 1 Yr	1322.55	1375.50	1430.55
0469 Electrician				
0486 Unassigned Electrician				
0499 Traveling Electrician		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
4
CLASSIFICATION		PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005		
0530	Filterperson	Start End 1 Yr	1020.95 1084.65	1061.80 1128.05	1104.30 1173.20
1934	Painter	Start End 1 Yr	1020.95 1084.65	1061.80 1128.05	1104.30 1173.20
2135	Transformer Repairperson	Start End 8 Mo End 1 Yr	962.20 990,35 1020.95	1000.70 1030.00 1061.80	1040.75 1071.20 1104.30
0923 0498	Utility Worker {Hired 1-1-88 and after) Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo	683.95 770.15 855.90 941.90	711.35 801.00 890.15 979.60	739.85 833.05 925.80 1018.80
0923 0498	Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87) Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr	781.80 859.95 941.90	813.10 894.35 979.60	845.65 930,15 1018.80
0923 0498	Utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before) Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr	832.45 887.20 941.90	865.75 922.70 979.60	900.40 959.65 1018.80
	ACCOUNTING AND COMPUTER OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT				
2825	Office Machine Repairman (General Office, Customer Accounting and Computer Operations)	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo	1019.10 1083.80 1108.55 1126.40	1059.90 1127.20 1152.90 1171.50	1102.30 1172.30 1199.05 1218.40
2819	Senior Office Machine Repairman		1196.15	1244.00	1293.80
5
i
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
CUSTOMER SERVICES DEPARTMENT
2482 Assistant Pump Tester (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	773.45	804.40	836.60
	End 6 Mo	840.70	874.35	909.35
	End 1 Yr	908.00	944.35	982.15
	End 18 Mo	975.05	1014.10	1054.70
	End 2 Yr	998.30	1038.25	1079.80
2482 Assistant Pump Tester (Hired 1-1-83 through				
12-31-87)				
	Start	883.75	919.10	955.90
	End 6 Mo	932.90	970.25	1009.10
	End 1 Yr	975.05	1014.10	1054.70
	End 18 Mo	998.30	1038.25	1079,80
2482 Assistant Pump Tester (Hired 12-31-82 and				
before)				
	Start	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	975.05	1014.10	1054.70
	End 18 Mo	998.30	1038.25	1079.80
2350 Head Power Surveyor		1154.50	1200.70	1248.75
2353 power Surveyor				
	Start	998.30	1038.25	1079.80
	End 6 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
	End 1 Yr	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
	End 18 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT				
OFFICE				
0252 Assistant Foreman’s Clerk				
	Start	880.35	915.60	952.25
	End 6 Mo	925.65	962.70	1001.25
	End 1 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 18 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 2 Yr	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
6
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0250 Foreman's Clerk				
0254 utility Foreman's Clerk				
	Start	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
	End 6 Mo	1056.35	1098.65	1142.60
	End 1 Yr	1095.60	1139.45	1185.05
	End 18 Mo	1118.75	1163.50	1210.05
	End 2 Yr	1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
0253 Foreman's Clerk (More than 2 Assistants)				
	Start	1118.75	1163.50	1210.05
	End 6 Mo	1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
	End 1 Yr	1154.50	1200.70	1248.75
	End 18 Mo	1187.20	1234.70	1284.10
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION				
2281 Apprentice Cable Splicer				
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 1 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 18 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
	End 2 Yr	1135.60	1181.05	1228.30
	End 30 Mo	1163.50	1210.05	1258.50
1101 Apprentice Lineman				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
1187 Apprentice Lineman - Helicopter (Temp)				
	End 6 Mo	1058.45	1100.80	1144.85
	End 1 Yr	1089.40	1133.00	1178.35
	End 18 Mo	1113.30	1157.85	1204.20
	End 2 Yr	1183.40	1230.75	1280.05
	End 30 Mo	1214.75	1263.35	1313.90
0820 Cable Crew Foreman				
	Start	1322 55	1375.50	1430.55
	End 1 Yr	1365.30	1419.95	1476.75
1105 Cable Lineman (To be used on a temporary				
basis only)		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
7
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2280 Cable Splicer				
2286 Unassigned Cable Splicer		1277.20	1328.30	1381.45
0140 Cableman - San Francisco Division				
	Start	1315.50	1368.15	1422.90
	End 1 Yr	1336.05	1389.50	1445.10
0960 Cableman's Utility Worker				
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
0180 Cartman (Incumbent only)				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
0998 Compliance Inspector		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0999 Compliance Inspector Underground		1277.20	1328.30	1381.45
0740 Electric Crew Foreman				
	Start	1290.90	1342.55	1396.30
	End 1 Yr	1322.55	1375.50	1430.55
0739 Electric Crew Foreman (When in charge of a				
crew of 5 other employees)		1388.70	1444.30	1502.10
1096 Electric T&D Assistant				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	799.05	831.05	864.30
	End 1 Yr	914.00	950.60	988.65
	End 18 Mo	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
0458 Field Clerk - Electric T&D		1056.35	1098.65	1142.60
1097 Gas & Electric Technician (Temp)		1357.70	1412.05	1468.50
0910 Groundman (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0910 Groundman (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
8
CLASSIFICATION		PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
			10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0910	Groundman (Hired 12-31-82 and before)	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
		End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
		End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
1186	Helicopter Crew Foreman (Temp)	Start	1420.00	1476.85	1535.95
		End 6 Mo	1454.85	1513.05	1573.65
1185	Helicopter Line Worker (Temp)		1357.70	1412.05	1468.50
0990	Inspector				
1035	Utility Inspector (Golden Gate Region only)		1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
0623	Labor Crew Leader		1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
1100	Lineman				
1103	Unassigned Lineman				
1108	Utility Lineman - Burney		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
2010	Manhole Pumpman		962.20	1000.70	1040.75
0683	Night Cable Crew Foreman	Start	1379.85	1435.05	1492JO
		End 6 Mo	1404.75	1460.95	1519.40
2283	Night Cable Splicer	Start	1297.15	1349.05	1403.05
		End 6 Mo	1322.55	1375.50	1430.55
1098	Night Electric T&D Assistant	Start	699.10	727.10	756.20
		End 6 Mo	839.00	872.60	907.55
		End 1 Yr	934.15	971.55	1010.45
		End 18 Mo	1051.60	1093.70	1137.45
0913	Night Groundman (Hired 1-1-88 and after)	Start	698.75	726.70	755.80
		End 6 Mo	786.50	818.00	850.75
		End 1 Yr	874.50	909.50	945.90
		End 18 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
0913	Night Groundman (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31- 87)	Start	798.55	830.50	863.75
		End 6 Mo	878.65	913.80	950.40
		End 1 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
9
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0913 Night Groundman (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	850.55	884.60	920.00
	End 6 Mo	906.40	942.70	980.45
	End 1 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
2013 Night Manhole Pumpman		984.00	1023.40	1064.35
1663 Night T&D Equiptment Operator - San				
Francisco Div.				
	Start	1117.00	1161.70	1208.20
	End 6 Mo	1160.05	1206.50	1254.80
1943 Patrolman				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
0523 Second Faller (To be used on a temporary basis				
only)		962.20	1000.70	1040.75
1190 Street Light Maintanenceman				
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
2290 Transmission Cableman		1336.05	1389.50	1445.10
2535 Transmission Troubleman				
2540 Troubleman				
2550 Utility Troubleman		1258.20	1308.55	1360.90
0456 T&D Driver				
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
1660 T&D Equipment Operator				
	Start	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
	End 6 Mo	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
0737 Underground Construction Crew Foreman				
	Start	1290.90	1342.55	1396.30
	End 1 Yr	1322.55	1375.50	1430.55
Underground Construction Crew Foreman shall receive an additional $50.00 per week.
10
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
1077 Underground Construction Journeyman		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
Underground Construction Journeyman shall receive an additional				
$50.00 per week.				
2500 Voltage Tester				
2510 utility Voltage Tester - Auburn				
	Start	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
	End 6 Mo	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
	End 1 Yr	1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
0845 Working Foreman		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
METER				
2421 Apprentice Metering Electronics Technician				
	Start	1135.60	1181.05	1228.30
	End 6 Mo	1154.50	1200.70	1248.75
	End 1 Yr	1186.05	1233.50	1282.85
	End 18 Mo	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
2433 Apprentice Metering Systems Technician				
	Start	1135.60	1181.05	1228.30
	End 6 Mo	1154.50	1200.70	1248.75
	End 1 Yr	1186.05	1233.50	1282.85
2411 Metering Electronics Technician				
2422 Unassigned Metering Electronics Technician		1306.80	1359.10	1413.50
2431 Metering Systems Technician				
2432 Unassigned Metering Systems Technician		1306.80	1359.10	1413.50
2364 Metering Technician Crew Leader				
	Start	.	1365.35	1420.00	1476.80
	End 1 Yr	1435.80	1493.25	1553.00
1490 Service Meterperson				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
	End 1 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
1489 Shop Meterperson				
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 1 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 18 Mo	1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
11
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
0924	Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
		End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
		End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
		End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0924	Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
		End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
		End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0924	Utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
		End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
		End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	MAINTENANCE				
1141	Apprentice Electrical Machinist	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
		End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
		End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
		End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
2401	Apprentice Electrical Technician	Start	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
		End 6 Mo	1135.60	1181.05	1228.30
		End 1 Yr	1154.50	1200.70	1248.75
		End 18 Mo	1186.05	1233.50	1282.85
		End 2 Yr	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0481	Apprentice Electrician	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
		End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
		End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
		End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
2408	Apprentice Telecommunications Technician	Start	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
		End 6 Mo	1135.60	1181.05	1228.30
		End 1 Yr	1154.50	1200.70	1248.75
		End 18 Mo	1186.05	1233.50	1282.85
		End 2 Yr	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
12
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2630 Apprentice Welder Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
End 16 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
1594 Crane Operator (To be used on a temporary basis only)	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
0750 Electric Maintenance Crew Leader Start	1290.90	1342.55	1396.30
End 1 Yr	1322.55	1375.50	1430.55
0751 Electric Maintenance Crew Leader (Helms) Start	1355.45	1409.70	1466.15
End 1 Yr	1388.70	1444.30	1502.10
Rate	1421.75	1478.70	1537.85
Rate applies after 1 year in classification at Helms. 1140 Electrical Machinist 1143 Unassigned Electrical Machinist	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
1139 Electrical Machinist (Helms) 1138 Electrical Machinist (Helms) - Provisional	1296.00	1347.85	1401.75
Rate	1326.85	1379.95	1435.15
Rate applies after 1 year in classification at Helms. 2400 Electrical Technician 2403 Unassigned Electrical Technician	1306.80	1359.10	1413.50
0752 Electrical Technician Crew Leader Start	1365.35	1420.00	1476.80
End 6 Mo	1398.20	1454.15	1512.35
2402 Electrical Technician (Helms) 2488 Electrical Technician (Helms) - Provisional	1372.15	1427.10	1484.20
Rate	1404.85	1461.05	1519.55
Rate applies after 1 year in classification at Helms.
13
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0467 Electrician				
0484 Unassigned Electrician		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0459 Electrician (Helms)		1296.00	1347.85	1401.75
	Rate	1326.85	1379.95	1435.15
Rate applies after 1 year in classification at Helms.				
0494 Electrician - Switching (Temporary basis only)		1259.55	1309.95	1362.35
0890 Gardener (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0890 Gardener (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894,35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0890 Gardener (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0463 Heavy Truck Driver		1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
0624 Labor Crew Leader		1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
0424 Light Truck Driver				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
1231 Mechanic				
	Start	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 6 Mo	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
1930 Painter (To be used on a temporary basis only)		1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
2160 Rigger
Start	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
End 6 Mo	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
End 1 Yr	1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
14
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION		PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0523	Second Faller (To be used on a temporary basis only)		962.20	1000.70	1040.75
2407	Telecommunications Crew Leader	Start End 6 Mo	1365.35 1398.20	1420.00 1454.15	1476.80 1512.35
2426	Telecommunications Crew Foreman - DCPP -Temp. Only	Start End 6 Mo	1365.35 1398.20	1420.00 1454.15	1476.80 1512.35
		Start Rate 1 Start Rate 2 Start Rate 3	1433.65 1460.95 1501.90	1491.00 1519.40 1562.00	1550.65 1580.20 1624.50
		End 6 Mo Rate 1 End 6 Mo Rate 2 End 6 Mo Rate 3	1468.15 1496.10 1538.05	1526.90 1555.95 1599.60	1588.00 1618.25 1663.60
	Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1 year. Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2 years. Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3 years.				
2406	Telecommunications Installer	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo	940.85 980.00 1019.30 1045.40	978.50 1019.20 1060.10 1087.25	1017.65 1060.00 1102.55 1130,75
2417	Telecommunications Operations Analyst (DCPP, Fairfield and General Office Computer Centers, Sacramento Valley Region and San Joaquin Valley Region Headquarters only.)	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo	988.10 1019.30 1045.45 1078.15	1027.65 1060.10 1087.30 1121.30	1068.80 1102.55 1130.80 1166.20
2409 2393	Telecommunications Technician Unassigned Telecommunications Technician		1306.80	1359.10	1413.50
15
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2389 Telecommunications Technician (Helms)		1372.15	1427.10	1484.20
	Rate	1404.85	1461.05	1519.55
Rate applies after 1 year in classification at Helms.				
2414 Telecommunications Technician - DCPP				
2427 Unassigned Telecommunications Technician -				
DCPP		1306.80	1359.10	1413.50
	Rate 1	1372.15	1427.10	1484.20
	Rate 2	1398.30	1454.25	1512.45
	Rate 3	1437.50	1495.05	1554.85
Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1				
year.				
Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2				
years.				
Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3				
years.				
0932 Telecommunications Utility Worker				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0442 Heavy Tractor Driver (30 H.P. or over)				
	Start	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
	End 6 Mo	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
0437 Light Tractor Driver (Less than 30 H.P.)				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
2140 Transformer Repairperson				
2150 utility Transformer Repairperson				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 1 Yr	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
0417 Truck Driver				
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
2620 Welder				
2633 Unassigned Welder		1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
16
I
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0925 Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
0921 Utility Worker - Drum (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0925 utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
0921 Utility Worker - Drum (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-				
31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0925 Utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
0921 Utility Worker - Drum (Hired 12-31-82 and				
before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0922 utility Worker - Helms (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	718.15	746.95	776.85
	End 6 Mo	808.70	841.05	874.75
	End 1 Yr	898.70	934.70	972.10
	End 18 Mo	989.00	1028.60	1069.75
	Rate 1	920.10	956.95	995.25
	Rate 2	1012.55	1053.10	1095.25
Rate 1 applies after 1 year in classification at Helms and at 1 year				
wage step.				
Rate 2 applies after 1 year in classification at Helms and at 18				
month wage step.				
0922 Utility Worker- Helms (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-				
31-87)				
	Start	820.90	853.80	887.95
	End 6 Mo	902.95	939.10	976.70
	End 1 Yr	989.00	1028.60	1069.75
	Rate	1012.55	1053.10	1095.25
Rate applies after 1 year in classification at Helms and at 1 year wage step.
17
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0922 Utility Worker - Helms (Hired 12-31-82 and before)	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr	874.10 931.60 989.00	909.05 968.85 1028.60	945.45 1007.65 1069.75
	Rate	1012.55	1053.10	1095.25
Rate applies after 1 year in classification at Helms and at 1 year wage step.				
OPERATING				
1552 Assistant Operator	End 10 Mo	1056.35	1098.65	1142.60
An Assistant Operator will automatically progress to System Operator upon completion of Operator-In-Training Program.				
COOK				
Wages for Cook classifications are gross, from which boarding house charges at established . rates will be deducted.				
0355 When cooking for a group averaging less than 5 persons and having responsibility for upkeep of a dormitory.		941.90	979.60	1018.80
0356 When cooking for a group averaging from 5 to 10 persons and having responsibility for upkeep of a dormitory.		990.35	1030.00	1071.20
0357 When cooking for a group averaging from 10 to 15 persons and having responsibility for upkeep of a dormitory.		1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
0360 When cooking for a group averaging more than 15 persons and having responsibility for upkeep of a dormitory.		1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
COOK'S UTILITY WORKER				
Wages for Cook's Utility Worker classifications are gross, from which boarding house charges ■ at established rates will be deducted.				
0964 At an establishment where less than 10 persons are boarded. (Hired 1-1-83 and after)		806.70	839.00	872.60
18
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003	1-1-2004 1-1-2005
COOK'S UTILITY WORKER
Wages for Cook's Utility Worker classifications are gross, from which boarding house charges at established rates will be deducted.
0964 At an establishment where less than 10 persons
are boarded. (Hired 12-31-82 and before)			859.25	893.65	929.40
0965	At an establishment wherefrom 10 to 15 persons are boarded. (Hired 1-1-83 and after)		826.30	859.40	893.80
0965	At an establishment where from 10 to 15 persons are boarded. (Hired 12-31-82 and before)		880.35	915.60	952.25
0966	At an establishment where more than 15 persons are boarded. (Hired 1-1-83 and after)		850.85	884.90	920.30
0966	At an establishment where more than 15 persons are boarded. (Hired 12-31-82 and before)		906.40	942.70	980.45
1610 1609 1611	Division Operator - San Francisco Division Division Operator - Provisional Unassigned Division Operator	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr	1315.50 1344.70 1371.30	1368.15 1398.50 1426.20	1422.90 1454.45 1483.25
1803	Grid System Control Operator	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr	1458.20 1498.95 1559.55	1516.55 1558.95 1621.95	1577.25 1621.35 1686.85
	HOUSEKEEPER				
	Wages for Housekeeper classifications are gross, from which boarding house charges at established rates will be deducted.				
0980	At an establishment where less than 10 persons are boarded. (Hired 1-1-83 and after)		806.70	839.00	872.60
0980	At an establishment where less than 10 persons are boarded. (Hired 12-31-82 and before)		859.25	893.65	929.40
0983	At an establishment where from 10 to 15 persons are boarded. (Hired 1-1-83 and after)		826.30	859.40	893.80
19
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
HOUSEKEEPER
	Wages for Housekeeper classifications are gross, from which boarding house charges at established rates will be deducted.				
0983	Atari establishment where from 10 to 15 persons are boarded. (Hired 12-31-82 and before)		880.35	915.60	952.25
0984	At an establishment where more than 15 persons are boarded. (Hired 1-1-83 and after)		850.85	884.90	920.30
0984	At an establishment where more than 15 persons are boarded. (Hired 12-31-82 and before)	■		906.40	942.70	980.45
1554	Operator-In-Training (Hired 1-1-83 and after)	Start	832.50	865.80	900.45
		End 6 Mo	972.40	1011.30	1051.80
	An Operator-In-Training will automatically progress to Assistant Operator upon completion of 10 months in classification.				
1554	Operator-In-Training (Hired 12-31-82 and before)	Start	887.20	922.70	959.65
		End 6 Mo	987.15	1026.65	1067.75
	An Operator-In-Training will automatically progress to Assistant Operator upon completion of 10 months in classification.				
1740	Roving Operator (Hydro Plants)				
1745	Utility Roving Operator - Stockton only				
1739	Roving Operator - Provisional				
1741	Roving Operator - Unassigned	Start	1220.15	1269.00	1319.80
		End6 Mo	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0070	Station Attendant		1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
1805	System Operator				
1811	Unassigned System Operator				
1812	System Operator - Provisional	Start	1297.15	1349.05	1403.05
		End 6 Mo	1315.50	1368.15	1422.90
20
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
1819 1821	System Operator (Helms) System Operator (Helms) - Provisional			
	Start End 6 Mo	1362.05 1381.30	1416.55 1436.60	1473.25 1494.05
	Rate	1414.20	1470.80	1529.65
	Rate applies after 1 year in classification at Helms.			
	Relief System Operator			
	The rate of the System Operator at the highest schedule substation, hydro plant or power plant at which he is qualified to relieve, and at which he stands shift, plus $5.00 per week plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium.	.			
1880	Utility Operator - Substations			
1878	Utility Operator - Unassigned			
1879	Utility Operator - Provisional			
	Start	1178.00	1225,15	1274.20
	End 6 Mo	1192.10	1239.80	1289.40
0926	Utility Worker (Operating - Hydro only) (Hired 11-88 and after)			
0921	Utility Worker - Drum (Hired 1-1-88 and after)			
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	89015	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0926	Utility Worker (Operating - Hydro only) (Hired 11-83 through 12-31-87)			
0921	Utility Worker - Drum (Hired 1-1-83 through 1231-87)			
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0926	Utility Worker (Operating - Hydro only) (Hired 12-31-82 and before)			
0921	Utility Worker - Drum (Hired 12-31-82 and before)			
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
21
	RATES EFFECTIVE		
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0922 utility Worker - Helms (Hired 1-1-88 and after) Start	718.15	746.95	776.85
End 6 Mo	808.70	841.05	874.75
End 1 Yr	898.70	934.70	972.10
End 18 Mo	989.00	1028.60	1069.75
Rate 1	920.10	956.95	995.25
Rate 2	1012.55	1053.10	1095.25
Rate 1 applies after 1 year in classification at Helms and at 1 year wage step. Rate 2 applies after 1 year in classification at Helms and at 18 month wage step. 0922 Utility Worker - Helms (Hired 1-1-83 through 12- 31-87) Start	820.90	853.80	887.95
End 6 Mo	902.95	939.10	976.70
End 1 Yr	989.00	1028.60	1069.75
Rate	1012.55	1053.10	1095.25
Rate applies after 1 year in classification at Helms and at 1 year wage step. 0922 Utility Worker - Helms (Hired 12-31-82 and before) Start	874.10	909.05	945.45
End 6 Mo	931.60	968.85	1007.65
End 1 Yr	989.00	1028.60	1069.75
Rate	1012.55	1053.10	1095.25
Rate applies after 1 year in classification at Helms and at 1 year wage step. CLERICAL-HYDRO 0264 First Hydro Clerk Start	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
End 6 Mo	1049.15	1091.15	1134.80
End 1 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
End 18 Mo	1111.25	1155.70	1201.95
End 2 Yr	1129.20	1174.40	1221.40
22
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0266 First Hydro Clerk - Helms	Start	1080.55	1123.80	1168.80
	End 6 Mo	1101.65	1145.75	1191.55
	End I Yr	1138.90	1184.50	1231.90
	End I8 Mo	1166.85	1213.50	1262.05
	End 2 Yr	1185.70	1233.15	1282.50
	Rate 1	1166.00	1212.70	1261.20
	Rate 2	1194.60	1242.40	1292.10
	Rate 3	1213.90	1262.50	1313.05
Rate 1 applies after 1 year in classification at Helms and at 1 year wage step.
Rate 2 applies after 1 year in classification at Helms and at 18 month wage step.
Rate 3 applies after 1 year in classification at Helms and at 2 year wage step.
0265	Routine Hydro Clerk (Hired 1-1-88 and after)	Start	683.90	711.30	739.80
		End 6 Mo	776.95	808.05	840.40
		End 1 Yr	869.50	904.30	940.50
		End 18 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 2 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 30 Mo	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
0265	Routine Hydro Clerk (Hired 1-1-83 through 1231-87)	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
		End 6 Mo	869.35	904.15	940.35
		End 1 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 18 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 2 Yr	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
0265	Routine Hydro Clerk (Hired 12-31-82 and before)	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
		End 6 Mo	896.85	932.75	970.10
		End 1 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 18 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 2 Yr	1029.05	1070.25 .	1113.10
0263	Senior Hydro Clerk	Start	1129.20	1174.40	1221.40
		End 6 Mo	1154.50	1200.70	1248.75
		End 1 Yr	1178.00	1225.15	1274.20
		End 18 Mo	1203.85	1252.05	1302.15
23
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003	1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
GAS DEPARTMENT
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
0561 Apprentice Fitter
		Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
		End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
		End 2 Yr	1035.00	1076.40	1119.50
1645	Equipment Operator		1111.25	1155.70	1201.95
0524	Fieldperson				
0526	Night Fieldperson - San Francisco Division Only	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
		End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 18 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
		End 2 Yr	1035.00	1076.40	1119.50
0560	Fitter				
0563	Unassigned Fitter		1111.25	1155.70	1201.95
0562	Fitter - Arc		1135.60	1181.05	1228.30
0641	Gas Crew Leader (Non-welding)		1217.85	1266.60	1317.30
0640	Gas Crew Leader (Welding)	Start	1217.85	1266.60	1317.30
		End 1 Yr	1259.50	1309.90	1362.30
1300	Gas Mechanic		1203.85	1252.05	1302.15
1650	Heavy Equipment Operator		1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
0465	Heavy Truck Driver		1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
0738	Underground Construction Crew Leader (Gas)	Start	1259.50	1309.90	1362.30
		End 1 Yr	1322.55	1375.50	1430.55
Underground Construction Crew Leader shall receive an additional $50.00 per week.
24
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	■ PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
1078 Underground Construction Journeyman (Gas)				
		Present	Present	Present
	Start	Rate	Rate	Rate
	End 6 mo	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
Underground Construction Journeyman shall receive an additional				
$50.00 per week.				
0241 Utility Field Clerk - Modesto				
0242 Utility Field Clerk - Bakersfield				
0248 Utility Field Clerk - San Francisco		1037.60	1079.15	1122.35
1	0930 utility Worker (Hired 1 -1-88 and after)				
I	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0930 utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0930 utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959,65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
SERVICE				
2579 AMR Crew Leader (Temp)		1277.60	1328.75	1381.90
0190 Chartperson		1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
2785 Meter Reader (Hired 10-1-88 and after)				
	Start	659.30	685.70	713.15
	End 6 Mo	740.10	769.75	800.55
	End 1 Yr	820.80	853.65	887.80
	End 18 Mo	901.50	937.60	975.15
	End 2 Yr	929.00	966.20	1004.85
	End 30 Mo	957.05	995.35	1035.20
25
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2785 Meter Reader (Hired 1-1-83 through 9-30-88)				
	Start	753.40	783.55	814.90
	End 6 Mo	825.75	858.80	893.20
	End 1 Yr	901.50	937.60	975.15
	End 18 Mo	929.00	966.20	1004.85
	End 2 Yr	957.05	995.35	1035.20
2785 Meter Reader (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	802.30	834.40	867.80
	End 6 Mo	852.00	886.10	921.55
	End 1 Yr	901.50	937.60	975.15
	End 18 Mo	929.00	966.20	1004.85
	End 2 Yr	957.05	995.35	1035.20
1756 Relief Service Operator				
	Start	998.00	1037.95	1079.50
	End 6 Mo	1019.90	1060.70	1103.15
	End 1 Yr	1056.80	1099.10	1143.10
	End 18 Mo	1103.25	1147.40	1193.30
	End 2 Yr	1148.15	1194.10	1241.90
	End 30 Mo	1194.00	1241.80	1291.50
Relief Service Operator				
The appropriate rate of Relief Service Operator plus $5.00 per				
week plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium.				
2230 Reserve Gas Service Representative (PIO)				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	975.05	1014.10	1054.70
	End 1 Yr	998.30	1038.25	1079.80
	End 18 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
2782 Senior Meter Reader				
	Start	1030.60	1071.85	1114.75
	End 6 Mo	1060.65	1103.10	1147.25
1405 Service Mechanic		1225.30	1274.35	1325.35
1755 Service Operator				
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 1 Yr	1049.15	1091.15	1134.80
	End 18 Mo	1095.60	1139.45	1185.05
	End 2 Yr	1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
	End 30 Mo	1186.10	1233.55	1282.90
26
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2210 Gas Service Representative				
2220 utility Gas Service Representative - Jackson				
	Start	998.00	1037.95	1079.50
	End 6 Mo	1019.90	1060.70	1103.15
	End 1 Yr	1056.80	1099.10	1143.10
	End 18 Mo	1103.25	1147.40	1193.30
	End 2 Yr	1148.15	1194.10	1241.90
	End 30 Mo	1194.00	1241.80	1291.50
GAS MEASUREMENT AND CORROSION				
CONTROL				
Relief Operator or Engineer				
The appropriate rate of the designated operating classification,				
plus $5.00 per week plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium.				
1368 Apprentice Measurement and Control Mechanic				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
1244 Compressor Mechanic (Rio Vista) (Incumbent				
Only)		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
1245 Corrosion Mechanic				
	Start	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 6 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
	End 1 Yr	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
	End 18 Mo	1147.35	1193.25	1241.00
	End 2 Yr	1178.00	1225.15	1274.20
1483 Field Meterperson				
	Start	962,20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 1 Yr	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
2410 Gas Control Technician		1259.50	1309.90	1362.30
1365 Measurement and Control Mechanic				
1366 Unassigned Measurement and Control				
Mechanic		1234.25	1283,65	1335.00
27
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
GAS METER REPAIR FACILITY				
1375 Meter/Regulator Mechanic				
	Start	968.35	1007.10	1047.40
	End 6 Mo	984.00	1023.40	1064.35
	End 1 Yr	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 18 Mo	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
	End 2 Yr	1068.75	1111.50	1156.00
0055 plant Assistant (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 2 Yr	952.10	990.20	1029.85
0055 plant Assistant (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	. 1018.80
	End 18 Mo	952.10	990.20	1029.85
0055 plant Assistant (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 18 Mo	952.10	990.20	1029.85
1390 Plant Mechanic				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1035.00	1076.40	1119.50
	End 30 Mo	1111.25	1155.70	1201.95
2420 Plant Technician		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
1376 Senior Meter/Regulator Mechanic		1095.60	1139.45	1185.05
28
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
GENERAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
GARAGE
1256	Apprentice Equipment Mechanic	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo End 2 Yr End 30 Mo	975.10 996.30 1020.95 1049.20 1075.80 1104.30	1014.15 1038,25 1061.80 1091.20 1118.85 1148.50	1054.75 1079.80 1104.30 1134.85 1163.65 1194.45
1255 1252 1256	Equipment Mechanic Utility Equipment Mechanic - Auberry Unassigned Equipment Mechanic		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
1255 1254	Equipment Mechanic (DCPP) Utility Equipment Mechanic (DER)		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
		Rate 1 Rate 2 Rate 3	1296.00 1320.65 1357.70	1347.85 1373.55 1412.05	1401.75 1428.45 1468.50
Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1 year.
Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2 years.
Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3 years.
0060	Garage Attendant - General Office	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr	990.35 1005.65 .	1029.05	1030.00 1045.90 1070.25	1071.20 1087.75 1113.10
0730	Garage Subforeman		1290.90	1342.55	1396.30
29
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0733 Garage Subforeman (DCPP)		1290.90	1342.55	1396.30
	Rate 1	1355.45	1409.70	1466.15
	Rate 2	1381.30	1436.55	1494.05
	Rate 3	1420.00	1476.85	1535.95
Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1				
year.				
Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2				
years				
Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3				
years.				
0880 Garageman (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 2 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
0880 Garageman (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 18 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
0880 Garageman (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 18 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
0423 Light Truck Driver				
	. Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
1928 Painter		1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
1083 Parking Leadman (50 Main Garage)				
	Start	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
	End 6 Mo	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
	End 1 Yr	1165.40	1212.05	1260.55
30
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0277 Parts Clerk				
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 1 Yr	1035.00	1076.40	1119.50
	End 18 Mo	1049.20	1091.20	1134.85
	End 2 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
1253 utility Equipment Mechanic - Helms		1296.00	1347.85	1401.75
	Rate	1326.85	1379.95	1435.15
Rate applies after 1 year in classification at				
Helms.				
WAREHOUSE				
1594 Crane Operator		1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
0462 Heavy Truck Driver		1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
0433 Leadman Driver		1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
0422 Light Truck Driver				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
1215 Materials Facilityperson		1154.50	1200.70	1248.75
0765 Materials Facility Leader		1259.50	1309.90	1362.30
1085 Materials Leadperson		1095.60	1139.45	1185.05
1210 Materials Handler (Hired 1-1-83 and after)				
1213 Utility Materialsman (Hired 1-1-83 and after)				
	Start	832.50	865.80	900.45
	End 6 Mo	912.90	949.45	987.45
	End 1 Yr	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 18 Mo	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 2 Yr	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
1210 Materials Handler (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
1213 utility Materialsman (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 6 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 1 Yr	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 18 Mo	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 2 Yr	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
31
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0416 Truck Driver				
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
BUILDING SERVICE				
0492 Building Engineer - General Office only				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
	End 2 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
	End 30 Mo	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
Relief Building Engineer				
The appropriate rate of Building Engineer, plus $5.00 per week				
plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium.				
1242 Building Mechanic				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1020.95	1061.60	1104.30
	End 2 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
	End 30 Mo	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
0665 Building Crew Leader				
	Start	1240.10	1289.75	1341.35
	End 1 Yr	1259.50	1309.90	1362.30
2355 Building Technician		1306.60	1359.10	1413.50
0590 Fioorperson - General Office only				
	Start	914.55	951.15	989.20
	End 6 Mo	952.10	990.20	1029.85
0890 Gardener (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0890 Gardener (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
32
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0890 Gardener (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
1050 Janitor (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
1060 Janitress (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	755.00	785.20	816.65
	End 1 Yr	825.85	858.90	893.30
	End 18 Mo	696.85	932.75	970.10
1050 Janitor (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
1060 Janitress (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	838.50	872.05	906.95
	End 1 Yr	896.85	932.75	970.10
1050 Janitor (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
1060 Janitress (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	865.00	899.60	935.60
	End 1 Yr	896.85	932.75	970.10
0493 Lead Building Engineer - General Office only		1178.00	1225.15	1274.20
1235 Lead Building Mechanic		1178.00	1225.15	1274.20
1236 Lead Building Mechanic-DCPP		1178.00	1225.15	1274.20
	Rate 1	1236.90	1286.45	1337.95
	Rate 2	1260.50	1310.95	1363.40
	Rate 3	1295.80	1347.70	1401.65
Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1 year.
Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2 years.
Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3
years.					
1073	Lead Janitor - General Office		968.35	1007.10	1047.40
1935	Lead Painter - General Office	Start	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
		End 6 Mo	1178.00	1225.15	1274.20
		. End 1 Yr	1203.85	1252.05	1302.15
33
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0927 Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0927 Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0927 utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0929 Utility Worker - Building (DCPP) (Hired 1-1-88				
and after)				
	Start	728.50	757.65	788.00
	End 6 Mo	799.70	831.70	865.00
	End 1 Yr	870.85	905.70	941.95
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0929 Utility Worker - Building (DCPP) (Hired 12-31-87				
and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
MISCELLANEOUS				
2570 Utilityperson - General Office	Rate based upon various types of work performed.			
GAS SYSTEM MAINTENANCE/GAS SYSTEM OPERATIONS
MAINTENANCE
1401 Apprentice Transmission Mechanic
Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
End 6 Me	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
End 1 Yr	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
End 18 Mo	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
End 2 Yr	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
34
CLASSIFICATION		PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
			10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
1406 1414	Transmission Mechanic Unassigned Transmission Mechanic		1186.10	1233.55	1282.90
	To progress the Transmission Mechanic employee must be an Operator Mechanic II and successfully complete skill block 3 (Pneumatic Regulation and Control).				
1417	Transmission Mechanic I		1206.70	1255.00	1305.20
	To progress to Transmission Mechanic I employee must be a Transmission Mechanic and successfully complete skill block 4 (Electric Measurement and Controls).				
1418	Transmission Mechanic II		1227.30	1276.45	1327.50
	To progress to Transmission Mechanic II employee must be a Transmission Mechanic I and successfully complete skill block 5 (Electronic Controls).				
0825	Lead Transmission Mechanic (When assigned to supervise four or more employees including themselves.)	Start End 1 Yr	1268.45 1297.15	1319.20 1349.05	1372.00 1403.05
0824	Lead Transmission Mechanic 1 (When assigned to supervise four or more employees including themselves.)	Start End 1 Yr	1277.15 1305.85	1328.25 1358.10	1381.40 1412.45
0823	Lead Transmission Mechanic II (When assigned to supervise four or more employees including themselves.)	Start End 1 Yr	1285.85 1314.55	1337.30 1367.15	1390.80 1421.85
2437	Apprentice Gas Control Technician - GSM	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo End 2 Yr End 30 Mo	952.10 962.20 990.35 1012.05 1075.80 1104.30	990.20 1000.70 1030.00 1052.55 1118.85 1148.50	1029.85 1040.75 1071.20 1094.70 1163.65 1194.45
35
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	, PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2435 Gas Control Technician - GSM 2436 Unassigned Gas Control Technician - GSM	1268.45	1319.20	1372.00
To progress to Gas Control Technician employee must be a Transmission Mechanic II and successfully complete skill block 6 (Electronic Measurment). 2438 Gas Control Technician 1	1278.05	1329.20	1382.40
To progress to Gas Control Technician 1 employee must be a Gas Control Technician and successfully complete skill block 7 (Radio Systems). 2439 Gas Control Technician II	1287.65	1339.20	1392.80
To progress to Gas Control Technician II employee must be a Gas Control Technician 1 and successfully complete skill block 8 (Voice Systems). 2434 Lead Gas Control Technician (When assigned to supervise four or more employees including themselves.)	1331.90	1385.20	1440.60
2440 Lead Gas Control Technician 1 (When assigned to supervise four or more employees including themselves.)	1341.50	1395.20	1451.00
2441 Lead Gas Control Technician II (When assigned to supervise four or more employees including themselves)	1351.10	1405.20	1461.40
0723 Gas Transmission Crew Leader 1 (Transmission Mechanic)	1315.70	1368.35	1423.10
0722 Gas Transmission Crew Leader 2 (Mechanic Welder)	1322.65	1375.60	1430.65
0721 Gas Transmission Crew Leader 3 (Gas Control Technician)	1356.85	1411.15	1467.60
0720 Gas Transmission Crew Leader 4 (Gas Transmission Technician)	1395.20	1451.05	1509.10
36
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2415 Gas Transmisslon Technician		1306.80	1359.10	1413.50
To progress to Gas Transmission Technician				
employee must be a Gas Control Technician II				
and successfully complete skill block 9 (Data				
Systems).				
2416 Lead Gas Transmission Technician (When				
assigned to supervise four or more employees				
including themselves)		1365.30	1419.95	1476.75
0057 Maintenance Assistant I				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
A Maintenance Assistant I will automatically				
progress to Maintenance Assistant II upon				
completion of 18 Mo in rate or hold top step for				
6 Mo.				
0049 Maintenance Assistant H				
	Start	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 1 Yr	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
A Maintenance Assistant II will automatically				
progress to Senior Maintenance Assistant upon				
completion of skill proficiency examination and 6				
Mo at top step.				
0048 Senior Maintenance Assistant		1086.30	1129.80	1175.00
1440 Mechanic-Welder		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
1112 Machinist (PIO-GSBU only)				
1127 Unassigned Machinist (PIO - GSBU only)		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
1245 Corrosion Mechanic (PIO - GSBU only)				
	Start	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 6 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
	End 1 Yr	1126.35	1171.45	1218.35
	End 18 Mo	1147.35	1193.25	1241.00
	End 2 Yr	1178.00	1225.15	1274.20
1089 Utility Leadperson - Topock (PIO)		1095.60	1139.45	1185.05
37
I
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0935 utility Worker-GSM (Hired 1 -1 -88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0935 Utility Worker-GSM (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-				
31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0935 utility Worker-GSM (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
OPERATIONS				
1705 Operator-Mechanic				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1095.60	1139.45	1185.05
Relief Operator-Mechanic				
The appropriate rate of Operator-Mechanic, plus $5.00 per week				
plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium.				
1708 Operator-Mechanic I				
	Start	974.75	1013.75	1054.35
	End 6 Mo	984.85	1024.25	1065.25
	End 1 Yr	1013.00	1053.55	1095.70
	End 18 Mo	1034.70	1076.10	1119.20
	End 2 Yr	1118.25	1163.00	1209.55
To progress to Operator Mechanic I employee				
must be a Operator Mechanic and successfully				
complete skill block 1 (Station Facilities).				
38
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
1707 Operator-Mechanic II				
	Start	997.40	1037.30	1078.85
	End 6 Mo	1007.50	1047.80	1089.75
	End 1 Yr	1035.65	1077.10	1120.20
	End 18 Mo	1057.35	1099.65	1143.70
	End 2 Yr	1140.90	1186.55	1234.05
To progress to Operator Mechanic II employee				
must be a Operator Mechanic I) and				
successfully complete skill block 2				
(Transmission Facilities).				
1704 Senior Operator-Mechanic (PIO)				
	Start	1133.95	1179.35	1226.55
	End 1 Yr	1184.65	1232.05	1281.35
Relief Senior Operator Mechanic (PIO)				
The appropriate rate of Senior Operator Mechanic, plus $5.00				
per week plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium.				
1706 Lead Operator Mechanic (When assigned to				
supervise tour or more employees including				
themselves.)				
	Start	999.75	1039.75	1081.35
	End 6 Mo	1010.35	1050.75	1092.80
	End 1 Yr	1039.90	1081.50	1124.80
	End 18 Mo	1062.70	1105.20	1149.45
	End 2 Yr	1150.40	1196.45	1244.35
1709 Lead Operator Mechanic I (When assigned to				
supervise four or more employees including				
.	themselves.)				
	Start	1022.40	1063.30	1105.85
	End 6 Mo	1033.00	1074.30	1117.30
	End 1 Yr	1062,55	1105.05	1149.30
	End 18 Mo	1085.35	1128.75	1173.95
	End 2 Yr	1173.05	1220.00	1268.85
1703 Lead Operator Mechanic II (When assigned to				
supervise four or more employees including				
. themselves.)	,				
	Start	1045.05	1086.85	1130.35
	End 6 Mo	1055.65	1097.85	1141.80
	End 1 Yr	1085.20	1128.60	1173.80
	End 18 Mo	1108.00	1152.30	1198,45
	End 2 Yr	1195.70	1243.55	1293.35
39
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003	1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
1702 Lead Senior Operator Mechanic (When				
assigned to supervise four or more employees including themselves.)				1287.90 1345.45
	Start End 1 Yr	1190.65 1243.90	1238.35 1293.70	
Relief Lead Senior Operator Mechanic (When				
assigned to supervise tour or more employees				
including themselves.)				
The appropriate rate of Lead Senior Operator Mechanic, plus				
$5.00 per week plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium.				
1588 Gas System Operator-In-Training				
	Start	1111.25	1155.70	1201.95
	End 6 Mo	1154.55	1200.75	1248.80
	End 1 Yr	1203.90	1252.10	1302.20
1587 Gas System Operator				
1593 Gas System Operator - M&C (PIO) I		1259.50	1309.90	1362.30
I 1576 Gas Transmission Operator (PIO)				
	Start	855.65	889.90	925.50
	End 6 Mo	911.05	947.50	985.40
	End 1 Yr	966.65	1005.35	1045.60
	End 18 Mo	1022.20	1063.10	1105.65
	End 2 Yr	1077.55	1120.70	1165.55
	End 30 Mo	1133.20	1178.55	1225.70
1577 Senior Gas Transmission Operator (PIO)				
	Start	1203.90	1252.10	1302.20
	End 1 Yr	1259.50	1309.90	1362.30
Relief Senior Gas Transmission Operator
The appropriate rate of Senior Gas Transmission Operator, plus $5.00 per week plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium.
1574 Lead Senior Gas Transmission Operator (When assigned to supervise tour or more employees including themselves.)
Start	1264.10	1314.75	1367.35
End 1 Yr	1322.50	1375.40	1430.45
Relief Lead Senior Gas Transmission Operator
(When assigned to supervise four or more employees including themselves.)
The appropriate rate of Lead Senior Gas Transmission Operator, plus $5.00 per week plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium.
40
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003	1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
STEAM GENERATION & NUCLEAR POWER GENERATION DEPARTMENTS EXCEPT DIABLO CANYON POWER PLANT
OPERATING
Relief Operator or Engineer
The appropriate rate of the designated operating classification, plus $5.00 per week plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium.
1589 Assistant Control Operator - (Group I) Humboldt
Bay, Hunters Point
	Start End 6 Mo	1140.30 1169.90	1185.95 1216.70	1233.40 1265.40
1560 Auxiliary Operator (Hired 1-1-83 and after)				
	Start	832.50	865.80	900.45
	End 6 Mo	878.65	913.80	950.40
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 18 Mo	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 2 Yr	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 30 Mo	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
1560 Auxiliary Operator (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 6 Mo	906.40	942.70	980.45
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 18 Mo	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 2 Yr	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 30 Mo	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
1585 Control Operator - (Group I) Humboldt Bay,				
Hunters Point				
	Start	1203.85	1252,05	1302.15
	End 6 Mo	1268.45	1319.20	1372.00
1050 Janitor (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
1060 Janitress (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	755.00	785.20	816.65
	End 1 Yr	825.85	858.90	893.30
	End 18 Mo	896.85	932.75	970.10
1050 Janitor (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
1060 Janitress (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	838.50	872.05	906.95
	End 1 Yr	896.85	932.75	970.10
41
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003	1-1-2004 1-1-2005
1050 Janitor (Hired 12-31-82 and before)
1060 Janitress (Hired 12-31-82 and before)
		start	832.45	865.75	900.40
		End 6 Mo	865.00	899.60	935.60
		End 1 Yr	896.85	932.75	970.10
1580	Senior Control Operator - (Group I) Humboldt Bay, Hunters Point		1306.80	1359.10	1413.50
	ELECTRICAL MAINTENANCE				
0482	Apprentice Electrician	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
		End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
		End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
		End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
0749	Electrical Maintenance Subforeman	Start	1290.90	1342.55	1396.30
		End 1 Yr	1322.55	1375.50	1430.55
0468	Electrician				
0485	Unassigned Electrician				
0477	Traveling Electrician				
0476	Unassigned Traveling Electrician		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0943	Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
0942	Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 1-1 -88 and after)	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
		End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
		End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
		End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0943	Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
0942	Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
		End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
		End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0943	Utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
0942	Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
		End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
		End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
		42			
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003	1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE
1131 Apprentice Machinist
	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo End 2 Yr End 30 Mo	952.10 962.20 990.35 1012.05 1075.80 1104.30	990.20 1000.70 1030.00 1052.55 1118.85 1148.50	1029.85 1040.75 1071.20 1094.70 1163.65 1194.45
2171 Apprentice Mechanic - Rigger				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
2629 Apprentice Welder				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
2626 Certified Welder				
2623 Unassigned Certified Welder				
2637 Traveling Certified Welder				
2636 Unassigned Traveling Certified Welder		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0426 Light Truck Driver				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
1111 Machinist				
1126 Unassigned Machinist				
1147 Traveling Machinist				
1124 Unassigned Traveling Machinist		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0753 Maintenance Subforeman				
	Start	1290.90	1342.55	1396.30
	End 1 Yr	1322.55	1375.50	1430.55
43
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2173 Mechanic-Rigger				
2175 Unassigned Mechanic - Rigger				
2170 Traveling Mechanic - Rigger				
2172 Unassigned Traveling Mechanic - Rigger		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0330 Tool Clerk		962.20	1000.70	1040.75
0940 Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
0963 Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0940 Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
0963 Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through				
12-31-87)				
	CMsr* WlCil It	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941,90	979.60	1018.80
0940 utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
0963 Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and				
before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
2620 Welder		1140.30	1185.95	1233.40
TECHNICAL MAINTENANCE				
2398 Apprentice Control Technician				
	Start	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
	End 6 Mo	1135.60	1181.05	1228.30
	End 1 Yr	1154.50	1200.70	1248.75
	End 18 Mo	1186.05	1233.50	1282.85
	End 2 Yr	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
2091 Apprentice Instrument Repairman				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
44
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
3260 Chemical Technologist				
	Start	869.15	903.95	940.15
	End 6 Mo	903.85	940.05	977.70
	End 1 Yr	940.00	977.60	1016.75
	End 18 Mo	977.50	1016.60	1057.30
	End 2 Yr	1016.55	1057.25	1099.55
	End 30 Mo	1057.40	1099.70	1143.70
	End 3 Yr	1099.65	1143.65	1189.40
	End 42 Mo	1143.65	1189.40	1237.00
	End 4 Yr	1189.50	1237.10	1286.60
	End 54 Mo	1235.00	1284.40	1335.80
2397 Control Technician				
2383 Unassigned Control Technician				
2396 Traveling Control Technician				
2394 Unassigned Traveling Control Technician		1306.80	1359.10	1413.50
2369 Deconner (HBPP)				
	Start	965.45	1004.10	1044.30
	End 6 Mo	989.65	1029.25	1070.45
	End 1 Yr	1014.40	1055.00	1097.20
	End 18 Mo	1039.75	1081.35	1124.65
	End 2 Yr	1065.75	1108.40	1152.75
2090 Instrument Repairman				
2093 Unassigned Instrument Repairman				
2097 Traveling Instrument Repairman				
2094 Unassigned Traveling Instrument Repairman		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
1505 Radiation and Process Monitor (HBPP)				
1506 Traveling Radiation and Process Monitor				
(HBPP)				
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1068.70	1111.45	1155.95
	End 1 Yr	1147.35	1193.25	1241.00
	End 18 Mo	1235.00	1284.40	1335.80
0944 utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
0946 Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
45
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
0944	Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
0946	Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)	Start	78180	813.10	845.65
		End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
		End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0944	Utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
0946	Traveling Utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
		End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
		End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	CLERICAL				
0293	First Plant Clerk	Start	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
		End 6 Mo	1049.20	1091.20	1134.85
		End 1 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
		End 18 Mo	1111.25	1155.70	1201.95
		End 2 Yr	1129.20	1174.40	1221.40
0294	Routine Plant Clerk (Hired 1-1-88 and after)	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
		End 6 Mo	776.95	808.05	840.40
		End 1 Yr	869.50	904.30	940.50
		End 18 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 2 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 30 Mo	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
0294	Routine Plant Clerk (Hired 1-1-83 through 1231-87)	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
		End 6 Mo	869.35	904.15	940.35
		End 1 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 18 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 2 Yr	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
0294	Routine Plant Clerk (Hired 12-31-82 and before)	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
		End 6 Mo	896.85	932.75	970.10
		End 1 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 18 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 2 Yr	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
46
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0290 Senior Plant Clerk				
	Start	1129.20	1174.40	1221.40
	End 6 Mo	1154.55	1200.75	1248.80
	End 1 Yr	1178.00	1225.15	1274.20
	End 18 Mo	1203.90	1252.10	1302.20
NUCLEAR POWER GENERATION DEPARTMENT				
DIABLO CANYON POWER PLANT				
OPERATING				
Relief Operator or Engineer				
The appropriate rate of the designated operating classification,				
plus $5.00 per week plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium.				
1583 Control Operator (DCPP)		1395.30	1461.15	1509.20
1050 Janitor (DCPP} (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
1060 Janitress (DCPP) (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	728.50	757.65	788.00
	End 6 Mo	784.60	816.00	848.65
	End 1 Yr	840.70	874.35	909.35
	End 18 Mo	896.85	932.75	970.10
1050 Janitor (DCPP) (Hired 12-31-87 and before)				
1060 Janitress (DCPP) (Hired 12-31-87 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo ,	865.00	899.60	935.60
	End 1 Yr	896.85	932.75	970.10
1699 Nuclear Operator				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1023.80	1064.80	1107.40
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
	End 42 Mo	1220.15	1269.00	1319.80
	End 54 Mo	1335.35	1388.80	1444.40
1582 Senior Control Operator (DCPP)		1437.50	1495.05	1554.85
47
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION’PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
ELECTRICAL MAINTENANCE
2366 Apprentice Electrical Control Technician
(DCPP)	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo End 2 Yr	1104.30 1135.60 1154.50 1186.05 1234.25	1148.50 1181.05 1200.70 1233.50 1283.65	1194.45 1228.30 1248.75 1282.85 1335.00
0482 Apprentice Electrician				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962,20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990 35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
2365 Electrical Control Technician (DCPP)				
2367 Unassigned Electrical Control Technician				
(DCPP)		1306.80	1359.10	1413.50
	Rate 1	1372.15	1427.10	1484.20
	Rate 2	1398.30	1454.25	1512.45
	Rate 3	1437.50	1495.05	1554.85
Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1 year.
Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2 years.
Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3 years.
0472 Electrician (DCPP)
0489 Unassigned Electrician (DCPP)
0479 Traveling Electrician (DCPP)
0491 Unassigned Traveling Electrician (DCPP)	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
Rate 1	1296.00	1347.85	1401.75
Rate 2	1320.65	1373.55	1428.45
Rate3	1357.70	1412.05	1468.50
Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1 year.
Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2 years.
Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3 years.
48
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0332 Tool Maintenance Clerk - Electrical (DCPP)				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End I Yr	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
	End I8 Mo	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
	End 2 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
0943 utility Worker (DCPP) (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	728.50	757.65	788.00
	End 6 Mo	799.70	831.70	865.00
	End 1 Yr	870.85	905.70	941.95
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0943 Utility Worker (DCPP) (Hired 12-31-87 and				
before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
MECHANICAL MAINTENANCE				
1131 Apprentice Machinist				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
2171 Apprentice Mechanic - Rigger				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
2629 Apprentice Welder				
	Start	952.10	990.20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 MO	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
49
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003	1-1-2004 1-1-2005
2631 Certified Welder (DCPP)
2632 Unassigned Certified Welder (DCPP)
2634 Traveling Certified Welder (DCPP)
2635 Unassigned Traveling Certified Welder (DCPP)	1234.25	1263.65	1335.00
Rate 1	1296.00	1347.85	1401.75
Rate 2	1320.65	1373.55	1428.45
Rate 3	1357.70	1412.05	1468.50
Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1 year. Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2 years. Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3 years.			
1113 Machinist (DCPP) 1128 Unassigned Machinist (DCPP) 1146 traveling Machinist (DCPP) 1129 Unassigned Traveling Machinist (DCPP)	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
Rate 1	1296.00	1347.85	1401.75
Rate 2	1320.65	1373.55	1428.45
Rate 3	1357.70	1412.05	1468.50
Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1 year. Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2 years. Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3 years.			
0753 Maintenance Subforeman			
Start	1290.90	1342.55	1396.30
End 1 Yr	1322.55	1375.50	1430.55
1409 Traveling Mechanic (DCPP) (Incumbent only)	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
Rate 1	1296.00	1347.85	1401.75
Rate 2	1320.65	1373.55	1428.45
Rate 3	1357.70	1412.05	1468.50
Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1 year. Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2 years. Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3 years.			
50
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2174 Traveling Mechanic - Rigger (DCPP) 2176 Unassigned Traveling Mechanic - Rigger				
(DCPP)	.		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
	Rate 1	1296.00	1347.85	1401.75
	Rate 2	1320.65	1373.55	1428.45
Rate 3 Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1 year. Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2 years. Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3 years.		1357.70	1412.05	1468.50
0336 Tool Maintenance Clerk ■ Mechanical (DCPP)				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 1 Yr	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
	End 18 Mo	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
0940 utility Worker (DCPP) (Hired 1-1-88 and after) 0963 Traveling Utility Worker (DCPP) (Hired 1-1-88 and after)	End 2 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
	Start	728.50	757.65	788.00
	End 6 Mo	799.70	831.70	865.00
	End 1 Yr	870.85	905.70	941.95
0940 Utility Worker (DCPP) (Hired 12-31-87 and before) 0963 Traveling Utility Worker (DCPP) (Hired 12-31-87 and before)	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
TECHNICAL MAINTENANCE	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
2398 Apprentice Control Technician				
	Start	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
	End 6 Mo	1135.60	1181.05	1228.30
	End 1 Yr	1154.50	1200.70	1248.75
	End 18 Mo	1186.05	1233.50	1282.85
	End 2 Yr	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
51
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
2091 Apprentice Instrument Repairman
	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo End 2 Yr End 30 Mo	952.10 962.20 990.35 1012.05 1075.80 1104.30	990.20 1000.70 1030.00 1052.55 1118.85 1148.50	1029.85 1040.75 1071.20 1094.70 1163.65 1194.45
2357 Chemical & Radiation Protection Technician				
(DCPP)				
2358 Traveling Chemical & Radiation Protection				
Technician (DCPP)				
	Start	990,35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1068.75	1111.50	1156.00
	End 1 Yr	1147.35	1193.25	1241.00
	End 18 Mo	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
	End 2 Yr	1320.65	1373.55	1428.45
	End 3 Yr	1357.70	1412.05	1468.50
	End 4 Yr	1398.30	1454.25	1512.45
2380 Control Technician (DCPP)				
2381 Unassigned Control Technician (DCPP)				
2382 Traveling Control Technician (DCPP)				
2399 Unassigned Traveling Control Technician				
(DCPP)				
2385 Shift Control Technician (DCPP)				
2375 Unassigned Shift Control Technician (DCPP)		1306.80	1359.10	1413.50
	Rate 1	1372.15	1427.10	1484.20
	Rate 2	1398.30	1454.25	1512.45
	Rate 3	1437.50	1495.05	1554.85
Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1 year.
Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2 years.
Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3 years.
52
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2006
CLASSIFICATION
2095 instrument Repairman (DCPP)
2096 Unassigned Instrument Repairman (DCPP)
2099 Traveling Instrument Repairman (DCPP)
2092 Unassigned Traveling Instrument Repairman
(DCPP)	1234.25		1283.65	1335.00
	Rate 1	1296.00	1347.85	1401.75
	Rate 2	1320.65	1373.55	1428.45
	Rate 3	1357.70	1412.05	1468.50
Rate 1 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 1 year.
Rate 2 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 2 years.
Rate 3 applies after being regularly headquartered at DCPP for 3 years.
2368	Decontamination Specialist	Start	1036.00	1077.45	1120.55
		End I Yr	1135.15	1180.60	1227.85
		End 2 Yr	1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0334	Tool Maintenance Clerk - Instrument Maintenance (DCPP)	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End I Yr	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
		End I8 Mo	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
		End 2 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
0944	Utility Worker (DCPP) (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
0946	Traveling Utility Worker (DCPP) (Hired 1-1-88 and after)	Start	728.50	757.65	788.00
		End 6 Mo	799.70	831.70	865.00
		End I Yr	870.85	905.70	941.95
		End I8 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0944	Utility Worker (DCPP) (Hired 12-31-87 and before)				
0946	Traveling Utility Worker (DCPP) (Hired 12-31-87 and before)	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
		End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
		End I Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
53
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
0938 Utility Worker - Chemical and Radiation Protection Technician (DCPP} (Hired 1-1-88 and after)
0939 Shift Utility Worker - Chemical and Radiation Protection Technician (DCPP) (Hired 1-1-88 and after)
	Start End 6 Mo End I Yr End 18 Mo	728.50 799.70 870.85 941.90	757.65 831.70 905.70 979.60	788.00 865.00 941.95 1018.80
0938 Utility Worker - Chemical and Radiation Protection Technician (DCPP) (Hired 12-31-87 and before) 0939 Shift Utility Worker - Chemical and Radiation Protection Technician (DCPP) (Hired 12-31-87 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
FIRE DEPARTMENT	End I Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0540	Fire Captain	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr	1258.65 1317.45 1329.20	1309.00 1370.15 1382.40	1361.40 1425.00 1437.70
0545	Firefighter	Start End 6 Mo	1117.45	1162.15	1208.65
		End 1 Yr	1152.75	1198.90	1246.90
			1205.75	1254.00	1304.20
0547	Shift Firewatch (DCPP) Relief	Start	740.50	770.15	801.00
		End 6 Mo	765.40	796.05	827.90
		End 1 Yr	813.20	845.75	879.60
54
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
CLERICAL
0301	Control Room Assistant (DCPP)	Start	896.85	932.75	970.10
		End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 1 Yr	990.25	1029.90	1071.10
		End 18 Mo	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
		End 2 Yr	1049.15	1091.15	1134.80
		End 30 Mo	1077.30	1120.40	1165.25
		End 3 Yr	1111.25	1155.70	1201.95
		End 42 Mo	1129.20	1174.40	1221.40
0293	First Plant Clerk	Start	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
		End 6 Mo	1049.20	1091.20	1134.85
		End 1 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
		End 18 Mo	1111.25	1155.70	1201.95
		End 2 Yr	1129.20	1174.40	1221.40
0290	Senior Plant Clerk	Start	1129.20	1174.40	1221.40
		End 6 Mo	1154.55	1200.75	1248.80
		End 1 Yr	1178.00	1225.15	1274.20
		End 18 Mo	1203.90	1252.10	1302.20
0059	Scheduling Assistant - (DCPP only)	Start	896.85	932.75	970.10
		End 6 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 18 Mo	1029.05	1070,25	1113.10
		End 2 Yr	1049.15	1091.15	1134.80
		End 30 Mo	1077.30	1120.40	1165.25
0294	Routine Plant Clerk (Hired 1-1-88 and after)	Start	728.50	757.65	788.00
		End 6 Mo	806.40	838.70	872.25
		End 1 Yr	884.35	919.75	956.55
		End 18 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
		End 2 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
		End 30 Mo	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
55
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
0294 Routine Plant Clerk (Hired 12-31-67 and before)
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	896.85	932.75	970.10
	End 1 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 18 Mo	990.35	1030,00	1071.20
	End 2 Yr	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
0296 Utility Plant Clerk (DCPP)				
0297 Shift Utility Plant Clerk (DCPP)				
	Start	625.00	650.00	676.00
	End 6 Mo	669.30	696.10	723.95
	End 1 Yr	715.15	743.80	773.60
	End 18 Mo	740.50	770.15	801.00
	End 2 Yr	765.40	796.05	827.90
	End 30 Mo	813.20	845.75	879.60
Hiring rate of Utility Plant Clerk and Shift Utility Plant Clerk based on experience.
WATER DEPARTMENT
2067 Apprentice Water System Repairperson
	Start	952,10	990,20	1029.85
	End 6 Mo	961,75	1000.25	1040.30
	End 1 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 18 Mo	1012.05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 2 Yr	1049.20	1091.20	1134.85
	End 30 Mo	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
1037 Assistant Meteorological Instrumentperson	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 1 Yr	1012,05	1052.55	1094.70
	End 18 Mo	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
0247 Field Clerk	Start	896.85	932.75	970.10
	End 6 Mo	925.70	962.75	1001.30
	End 1 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 18 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 2 Yr	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
	End 30 Mo	1049.15	1091.15	1134.80
	End 3 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 42 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
	End 4 Yr	1134.60	1180.00	1227.20
56
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
0425 Light Truck Driver (Temporary Assignment only)				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
1036 Meteorological Instrumentperson		1178.00	1225.15	1274.20
0418 Truck Driver				
	Start	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 6 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
0945 Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.95	711.35	739.85
	End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
	End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925.80
	End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0945 Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
0945 utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
1899 utility Water Systems Operator (Spring Gap)		1035.15	1076.60	1119.70
1898 Water Systems Operator				
	Start	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 6 Mo	990.40	1030.05	1071.30
	End 1 Yr	1010.95	1051.40	1093.50
2070 Water Systems Repairperson				
2068 Unassigned Water Systems Repairperson		1159.10	1205.50	1253.75
2069 Water Systems Repairperson (Helms)				
2066 Unassigned Water Systems Repairperson				
(Helms)		1217.10	1265.80	1316,45
	Rate	1246.05	1295.95	1347.80
Rate applies after 1 year in classification at Helms.
■ 57
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003	1-1-2004 1-1-2005
0830 Water Systems Crew Leader	1249.00	1299.00	1351.00
1905 Water Treatment Plant Operator	1135.60	1181.05	1228.30
58
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY BASIC WAGE SCHEDULE - FIVE-DAY WEEK BASIS Effective October 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005 PHYSICAL EMPLOYEES GENERAL CONSTRUCTION
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
FIELD CLASSIFICATIONS				
2285 Apprentice Cable Splicer	Start	1039.90	1081.50	1124.80
	End 6 Mo	1062.65	1105.20	1149.45
	. End 1 Yr	1129.60	1174.80	1221.80
	End 18 Mo	1159.50	1205.90	1254.15
	End 2 Yr	1192.40	1240.10	1289.75
	End 30 Mo	1221.70	1270.60	1321.45
2391 Apprentice Communication Technician				
	Start	1169.40	1216.20	1264.85
	End 6 Mo	1186.05	1233.50	1282.85
	End 1 Yr	1211.45	1259.95	1310.35
	End 18 Mo	1246.20	1296.05	1347.90
	End 2 Yr	1296.00	1347.85	1401.80
2388 Apprentice Electrical Technician				
	Start	1169.40	1216.20	1264.85
	End 6 Mo	1186.05	1233.50	1282.85
	End 1 Yr	1211.45	1259.95	1310.35
	End 18 Mo	1246.20	1296.05	1347.90
	End 2 Yr	1296.00	1347.85	1401.80
0488 Apprentice Electrician				
	. Start	999.65	1039.65	1081.25
	End 6 Mo	1026.90	1068.00	1110.75
	End 1 Yr	1063.45	1106.00	1150.25
	End 18 Mo	1093.60	1137.35	1182.85
	End 2 Yr	1129.80	1175.00	1222.00
	End 30 Mo	1159.55	1205.95	1254.20
2412 Apprentice Gas Technician				
	Start	1169.40	1216.20	1264.85
	End 6 Mo	1186.05	1233.50	1282.85
	End 1 Yr	1211.45	1259.95	1310.35
	End 18 Mo	1246.20	1296.05	1347.90
	End 2 Yr	1284.75	1336.15	1389.60
	End 30 Mo	1319.00	1371.80	1426.70
59
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2419 Apprentice Instrument Technician				
	Start	1169.40	1216.20	1264.85
	End 6 Mo	1186.05	1233.50	1282.85
	End 1 Yr	1211.45	1259.95	1310.35
	End 18 Mo	1246.20	1296.05	1347.90
	End 2 Yr	1284.75	1336.15	1389.60
	End 30 Mo	1319.00	1371.80	1426.70
1107 Apprentice Lineman				
	Start	999.65	1039.65	1081.25
	End 6 Mo	1026.90	1068.00	1110.75
	End 1 Yr	1063,50	1106,05	1150.30
	End 18 Mo	1093.60	1137.35	1182.85
	End 2 Yr	1129.85	1175.05	1222.10
	End 30 Mo	1159.55	1205.95	1254.20
1107 Apprentice Lineman - GC Helicopter				
	■ End 6 Mo	1129.60	1174.80	1221.85
	End 1 Yr	1169.85	1216.70	1265.35
	End 18 Mo	1203.00	1251.10	1301.15
	End 2 Yr	1242.85	1292.60	1344.35
	End 30 Mo	1275.55	1326.55	1379.65
2628 Apprentice Welder (Except Service Center,				
Davis, or Oakland)				
	Start	999.65	1039.65	1081.25
	End 6 Mo	1026.90	1068.00	1110.75
	End 1 Yr	1063.45	1106.00	1150.25
	End 18 Mo	1093.60	1137.35	1182.85
	End 2 Yr	1129.80	1175.00	1222.00
	End 30 Mo	1159.55	1205.95	1254.20
2625 Arc-Welder		1169.40	1216.20	1264.85
60
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
1515	Backhoe Operator All Backhoes - Includes truck-mounted Wamer-Swasey Gradall, Model G660; Crawler-mounted Hein-Werner Hyd Backhoe/Excavator, Model C 14A; Power Screens. (Backhoe Operator is considered a specialist and not an integral part of the crew, except as provided in footnotes to Subforeman, Working Foreman and Labor Foreman.)	Start	1107.15	1151.45	1197.55
		End 6 Mo	1128.45	1173.60	1220.55
		End 1 yr	1177.50	1224.60	1273.60
		End 18 Mo	1199.15	1247.15	1297.05
		End 2 Yr	1239.60	1289.20	1340.80
		End 30 Mo	1284.75	1336.15	1389.60
2282	Cable Splicer		1341.10	1394.75	1450.55
0916	Camp Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 and after)		812.35	844.85	878.65
0916	Camp Utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and before)		865.55	900.20	936.25
	CARPENTER				
0163	A - When working from drawings or plans to				
	construct buildings, cabinet work and intricate form work, also high trestle work.		1205.40	1253.65	1303.80
0164	B - When performing ordinary or finish work but				
	does not lay out from drawings or plans.		1147.25	1193.15	1240.90
0053	Clerical Assistant	Start	886.90	922.40	959.30
		End 6 Mo	908.15	944.50	982.30
		End 1 Yr	939.65	977.25	1016.35
		End 18 Mo	963.65	1002.20	1042.30
		End 2 Yr	984.50	1023.90	1064.90
		End 30 Mo	1005.55	1045.80	1087.65
		End 3 Yr	1029.95	1071.15	1114.00
2390	Communication Technician		1372.25	1427.15	1484.25
61
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
1597 Crane Operator
Crane - 40-70 ton capacity such as the Lima, 40 ton; the Link Belt, 45 ton; the American, 50 ton; the Lima, 70 ton.
Crane - 30-35 ton capacity, such as PMH 30 ton and 35 ton and the Calavar Lift
Crane - All 10-25 ton capacity such as Grove 12 ton, Bucyrus Erie 15 ton, and the Lorain 20 ton.
Power Screens.
Pile Driving Hammer - Such as Kobe Model K13 K13, diesel powered when applicable.
Or equivalent.
	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo End 2 Yr End 30 Mo	1107.15 1128.45 1177.50 1199.15 1239.60 1284.75	1151.45 1173.60 1224.60 1247.15 1289.20 1336.15	1197.55 1220.55 1273.60 1297.05 1340.80 1389.60
0405 Driller				
	Start	1005.75	1046.00	1087.85
	. End 6 Mo	1043.50	1085.25	1128.70
	End 1 Yr	1081.20	1124.45	1169.45
	End 18 Mo	1119.00	1163.80	1210.40
	End 2 Yr	1156.75	1203.05	1251.20
	End 30 Mo	1194.40	1242.20	1291.90
	End 3 Yr	1232.35	1281,65	1332.95
0844 Drilling Working Foreman B				
	Start	1343.10	1396.85	1452.75
	End 6 Mo	1356.90	1411.20	1467.65
0846 Drilling Working Foreman C				
	Start	1214.05	1262.65	1313.20
	End 6 Mo	1322.60	1375.55	1430.60
2387 Electrical Technician		1372.25	1427.15	1484.25
0474 Electrician		1296.00	1347.85	1401.80
1270 Field Garage Mechanic "A"		1296.00	1347.85	1401.80
1275 Field Garage Mechanic "B”				
	Start	1041.75	1083.45	1126.80
	End 6 Mo	1056.80	1099.10	1143.10
	End 1 Yr	1159.55	1205.95	1254.20
	62			
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
1276 Field Garage Mechanic "C*1				
	Start	990.60	1030.25	1071.50
	End 6 Mo	1029.95	1071.15	1114.00
0885 Field Garageman (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	781.50	812.80	845.35
	End 6 Mo	864.95	899.55	935.55
	End 1 Yr	1010.45	1050.90	1092.95
0885 Field Garageman (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-31-				
87)				
	Start	893.05	928.80	966.00
	End 6 Mo	1010.45	1050.90	1092.95
0885 Field Garageman (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	951.60	989.70	1029.30
	End 6 Mo	1010.45	1050.90	1092.95
1006 Field Mechanical Inspector		1315.10	1367.75	1422.50
0276 Field Partsman				
	Start	931.45	968.75	1007.50
	End 6 Mo	988.90	1028.50	1069.65
	End 1 Yr	1023.80	1064.80	1107.40
	End 18 Mo	1056.05	1098.30	1142.25
	End 2 Yr	1138.90	1184.50	1231.90
0525 Fieldperson				
	Start	999.70	1039.70	1081.30
	End 6 Mo	1010.40	1050.85	1092.90
	End 1 Yr	1039.75	1081.35	1124.65
	End 18 Mo	1071.95	1114.85	1159.45
	End 2 Yr	1086.75	1130.25	1175.50
0376 First Cook				
	Start	951.25	989.30	1028.90
	End 6 Mo	972.70	1011.65	1052.15
	End 1 Yr	996.75	1036.65	1078.15
	End 18 Mo	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
Automatic progression to Senior Cook upon completion oft year at 18 month step.
Employee cannot be returned to First Cook after automatic progression has occurred.
63
I
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
0246 First Field Clerk
	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo End 2 Yr	1091.70 1112.50 1138.65 1166.90 1197.45	1135.40 1157.00 1184.20 1213.60 1245.35	1180.85 1203.30 1231.60 1262.15 1295.20
1301 Gas Mechanic				
	Start	996.50	1036.40	1077.90
	End 6 Mo	1026.90	1068.00	1110.75
	End 1 Yr	1063.45	1106.00	1150.25
	End 18 Mo	1093.60	1137.35	1182.85
	End 2 Yr	1124.70	1169.70	1216.50
	End 30 Mo	1156.75	1203.05	1251.20
	End 3 Yr	1236.90	1286.40	1337.90
2413 Gas Technician		1372.25	1427.15	1484.25
2405 Gas Technician (Incumbent Only)				
	Start	1046.35	1088.25	1131.80
	End 6 Mo	1088.45	1132.00	1177.30
	End 1 Yr	1126.05	1171.10	1217.95
	End 18 Mo	1166.65	1213.35	1261.90
	End 2 Yr	1202.60	1250.75	1300.80
	. End 30 Mo	1246.20	1296.05	1347.90
	End 3 Yr	1295.45	1347.30	1401.20
	End 42 Mo	1331.10	1384.35	1439.75
	End 4 Yr	1360.05	1414.50	1471.10
1510 Gunite Nozzleman				
	Start	1107.15	1151.45	1197.55
	End 6 Mo	1128.45	1173.60	1220.55
	End 1 Yr	1177.50	1224.60	1273.60
	End 18 Mo	1199.15	1247.15	1297.05
	End 2 Yr	1239.60	1289.20	1340.80
	End 30 Mo	1284.75	1336.15	1389.60
1181 Helicopter Line Worker - GC		1425.55	1482.65	1542.00
1182 Helicopter Subforeman - GC				
	Start	1492.60	1552.35	1614.45
	End 6 Mo	1527.80	1588.95	1652.55
64
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
1184 Helicopter Towerman				
	Start	1099.35	1143.35	1189.10
	End 6 Mo	1132.95	1178.30	1255.40
	End 1 Yr	1188.50	1236.10	1285.55
	End 18 Mo	1231.75	1281.05	1332.30
	End 2 Yr	1275.55	1326.55	1379.65
1690 Hole Digger Operator				
	Start	1107.15	1151.45	1197.55
	End 6 Mo	1128.45	1173.60	1220.55
	End 1 Yr	1177.50	1224.60	1273.60
	End 18 Mo	1199.15	1247.15	1297.05
	End 2 Yr	1239,60	1289.20	1340.80
	End 30 Mo	1284.75	1336.15	1389.60
2418 । nstru ment Techn ician		1372.25	1427.15	1484.25
0956 Kitchen Utility Worker				
	Start	832.35	865.65	900.30
	End 6 Mo	850.80	884.85	920.25
	End 1 Yr	875.50	910.55	947.00
LABOR FOREMAN
The craft at which the Foreman, himself, is working while supervising the crew is to be included in determining his proper grade of Labor Foreman. The step in which a new Labor Foreman is placed in a particular grade shall be at least 4% over his present craftsman rate, or 4% over his highest rate supervised excluding specialists, such as Trencher, Backhoe Operator, or Hole Digger Operator assigned to the crew. However, if a Trencher Operator, Backhoe Operator, Hole Digger Operator, Tractor Operator A or Wrapping Machine Operator is assigned to the same job location for the full work day or more, such employee . shall be considered to be an integral part of the crew,
0630 A - Supervises a crew performing semi-skilled work, such as, but not limited to clearing, excavating, sloping, concrete work, sorting and distribution material.
Start	1087.90	1131.45	1176.75
End 6 Mo	1110.60	1155.05	1201.30
End 1 Yr	1138.10	1183.65	1231.00
End 18 Mo	1182.70	1230.05	1279.30
65
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
LABOR FOREMAN
The craft at which the Foreman, himself, is working while supervising the crew is to be included in determining his proper grade of Labor Foreman. The step in which a new Labor Foreman is placed in a particular grade shall be at least 4% over his present craftsman rate, or 4% over his highest rate supervised excluding specialists, such as Trencher, Backhoe Operator, or Hole Digger Operator assigned to the crew. However, if a Trencher Operator, Backhoe Operator, Hole Digger Operator, Tractor Operator A or Wrapping Machine Operator is assigned to the same job location for the full work day or more, such employee shall be considered to be an integral part of the crew.
0633 b - Supervises crew performing labor work, such as, but not limited to, simple excavation, chemical right-of-way treatment, brushing, and job cleanup.
	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr End 18 Mo	997.70 1017.70 1037.65 1058.55	1037.65 1058.45 1079.20 1100.90	1079.20 1100.80 1122.40 1144.95
1267 Lead Field Garage Mechanic		1312.55	1365.10	1419.75
1086 Lead Materials Handler		1150.50	1196.55	1244.45
1090 Levelman				
	Start	957.60	995.95	1035.80
	End 6 Mo	977.80	1016.95	1057.65
	End 1 Yr	1005.55	1045.80	1087.65
1106 Lineman		1295.95	1347.85	1401.80
1211 Material Handler				
	Start	874.15	909.15	945.55
	End 6 Mo	958.50	996.85	1036.75
	End 1 Yr	1023.80	1064.80	1107.40
	End 18 Mo	1055.95	1098.20	1142.15
	End 2 Yr	1093.10	1136.85	1182.35
66
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
1500 Miner-Tunnel				
	Start	1012.70	1053.25	1095.40
	End 6 Mo	1029.95	1071.15	1114.00
	End 1 Yr	1056.80	1099.10	1143.10
	End 18 Mo	1097.85	1141.80	1187.50
	End 2 Yr	1107.15	1151.45	1197,55
1646 Miscellaneous Equipment Operator				
	Start	1124.00	1169.00	1215.80
	End 6 Mo	1152.85	1199.00	1247.00
MIXER OPERATOR				
1710 a - When operating a concrete mixer of 2 cu.				
yds,, or over output.		1271.50	1322.40	1375.30
1713 b - When operating a concrete mixer of 1 cu.				
yd., or more and less than 2 cu. yds. output. -		1186.10	1233.55	1282.90
1714 c - When operating a concrete mixer of more				
than 1/2 cu.yd. and less than 1 cu. yd. output.		1107.15	1151.45	1197.55
1924 Painter A		1156.75	1203,05	1251.20
1925 PainterB				
	Start	977.80	1016.95	1057.65
	End 6 Mo	1012.70	1053.25	1095,40
	End 1 Yr	1063.05	1105.60	1149.85
	End 18 Mo	1107.15	1151.45	1197.55
	End 2 Yr	1131.60	1176.90	1224.00
1926 Painter Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	750.75	780.80	812.05
	End 6 Mo	833.90	867.30	902.00
	End 1 Yr	916.75	953.45	991.60
1926 Painter Utility Worker (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-				
31-87)	.				
	Start	857.85	892.20	927.90
	End 6 Mo	916.75	953.45	991.60
1926 Painter Utility Worker (Hired 12-31-82 and				
before)				
	Start	914.10	950.70	988.75
	End 6 Mo	945.70	983.55	1022.90
67
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2157 Rigger				
	Start	1048.10	1090.05	1133.70
	End 6 Mo	1080.40	1123.65	1168.60
	End 1 Yr	1107.15	1151.45	1197.55
	End 18 Mo	1134.60	1180.00	1227.20
	End 2 Yr	1177.50	1224.60	1273.60
	End 30 Mo	1295.95	1347.80	1401.75
0245 Routine Field Clerk (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
Must pass pre-employment test and type 15				
w.p.m.				
	Start	762.85	793.40	825.15
	End 6 Mo	839.05	872.65	907.60
	End 1 Yr	915.20	951.85	989.95
	End 18 Mo	991.15	1030.80	1072.05
	End 2 Yr	1014.05	1054.65	1096.85
	End 30 Mo	1041.75	1083.45	1126.80
	End 3 Yr	1080.55	1123.80	1168.80
Routine Field Clerk will automatically progress				
to First Field Clerk upon completion of six				
months at top rate of pay.				
0245 Routine Field Clerk (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-				
31-87)				
Must pass pre-employment test and type 15				
w.p.m.				
	Start	871.75	906.65	942.95
	End 6 Mo	928.80	966.00	1004.65
	End 1 Yr	991.15	1030.80	1072.05
	End 18 Mo	1014.05	1054.65	1096.85
	End 2 Yr	1041.75	1083.45	1126.80
	End 30 Mo	1080.55	1123.80	1168.80
Routine Field Clerk will automatically progress to First Field Clerk upon completion of six months at top rate of pay.
68
i
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1 -1 -2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
0245	Routine Field Clerk (Hired 12-31-82 and before) Must pass pre-employment test and type 15 w.p.m.				
	Start End 6 Mo ' End 1 Yr End 18 Mo End 2 Yr End 30 Mo		929.00 958.15 991.15 1014.05 1041.75 1080.55	966.20 996.50 1030.80 1054.65 1083.45 1123.80	1004.85 1036.40 1072.05 1096.85 1126.80 1168.80
	Routine Field Clerk will automatically progress to First Field Clerk upon completion of six months at top rate of pay.				
0377	Senior Cook		1056.80	1099.10	1143.10
0243	Senior Field Clerk	Start	1212.55	1261.10	1311.55
		End 6 Mo	1236.90	1286.40	1337.90
		End 1 Yr	1264.10	1314.70	1367.35
1337	Station Mechanic	Start	996.50	1036.40	1077.90
		End 6 Mo	1026.90	1068.00	1110.75
		End 1 Yr	1063.45	1106.00	1150.25
		End 18 Mo	1093.60	1137.35	1182.85
		End 2 Yr	1124.70	1169.70	1216.50
		End 30 Mo	1156.75	1203.05	1251.20
		End 3 Yr	1236.90	1286.40	1337.90
0580	Street Fitter	Start	990.60	1030.25	1071.50
		End 6 Mo	1005.55	1045.80	1087.65
		End 1 Yr	1029.95	1071.15	1114.00
		End 18 Mo	1056.80	1099.10	1143.10
		End 2 Yr	1080.45	1123.70	1168.65
		End 30 Mo	1114.05	1158.65	1205.00
		End 3 Yr	1169.40	1216.20	1264.85
69
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
SUBFOREMAN
The craft at which the Foreman, himself, is working while supervising the crew is to be included in determining his proper grade of Subforeman. The step in which a new Subforeman is placed in a particular grade shall be at least 4% over his present craftsman rate, or 4% over the highest rate supervised, excluding specialists, such as Trencher, Backhoe Operator, or Hole Digger Operator assigned to the crew. However, if a Trencher Operator, Backhoe Operator, Hole Digger Operator, Crane Operator, Tractor Operator A or Wrapping Machine Operator is assigned to the same job location for the foil work day or more, such employee shall be considered an integral part of the crew.
0650 A - Supervises crews performing highest class of work including, but not limited to, "hot"					
	operations. May work at his craft with the crew he supervises.				
	Start End 6 Mo		1356.90 1388.90	1411.20 1444.50	1467.65 1502.30
0653	B - Supervises crews containing skilled				
	craftsmen of highest grade at level of Electrician, Lineman, Welder or above, but who is limited as to class of work he may supervise. May work at his craft with the crew he supervises.	Start	1343.10	1396.85	1452.75
		End 6 Mo	1356.90	1411.20	1467.65
0644	Technical Crew Leader A		1468.15	1526.90	1588.00
0645	Technical Crew Leader B	Start	1421.90	1478.80	1538.00
		End 6 Mo	1436.30	1493.80	1553.60
2392	Telecommunications Equipment Installer	Start	996.50	1036.40	1077.90
		End 6 Mo	1026.90	1068.00	1110.75
		End 1 Yr	1063.45	1106.00	1150.25
		End 18 Mo	1093.60	1137.35	1182.85
		End 2 Yr	1124.70	1169.70	1216.50
		End 30 Mo	1156.75	1203.05	1251.20
		End 3 YR	1284.75	1336.15	1389.60
70
CLASSIFICATION		PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
			10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
2520	Towerman	Start	999.40	1039.40	1081.00
		End 6 Mo	1029.95	1071.15	1114.00
		End 1 Yr	1080.45	1123.70	1168.65
		End 18 Mo	1119.75	1164.55	1211.15
		End 2 Yr	1159.55	1205.95	1254.20
1840	T ractor Operator Cat, D-4, D-5, D-6, D-7 and D-8; Case, 850, 1150; IH, TD-9, TD-15, TD-20, TD-25; A.C. HD-6, HD-11, HD-16, HD-21, Drott over 5 ton to 18 ton; Crane, swing, self-propelled 5 to 10 ton P/M Model 25-20; Loader, crawler mounted, 1-1/2 cubic yard and over; Whiriey, swing crane; Motor patrol over 115 HP or when grading to stakes or grade; Tractor, crawler side boom, 10 ton and over.		1284.75	1336.15	1389.60
1860	Trencher Operator Large wheel and ladder type trenchers, such as Bartoe-Green, Parsons, Cleveland, Gauwood, Challenge. Or equivalent.		1284.75	1336.15	1389.60
1661	T&D Equipment Operator - GC	Start	1138.90	1184.50	1231.90
		End 6 Mo	1182.70	1230.05	1279.30
0649	Underground Subforeman A	Start	1356.90	1411.20	1467.65
		End 6 Mo	1388.90	1444.50	1502.30
0947	Utility Worker	Start	738.75	76830	799.05
		End 6 Mo	808.80	841.20	874.85
		End 1 Yr	878.55	913.70	950.25
		End 18 Mo	948.30	986.25	1025.70
		End 2 Yr	989.00	1028.60	1069.75
	WAITRESS				
2580	A - As head waitress for more than 35 persons				
	and in charge of salads and dining room or when working as a combination waitress and dishwasher in a camp of not more than 22				
	persons.		875.50	910.55	947.00
2583	B - At an establishment of not more than 35				
	persons or when working with one assistant.		832.45	865.75	900.40
71
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION		PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
	WAITRESS				
2584	C - When acting as an assistant. {Hired 1-1-83 and after)		771.30	802.20	834.30
2584	C - When acting as an assistant. (Hired 12-3182 and before)		821.40	854.30	888.50
2617	Welder		1296.00	1347.85	1401.80
	WORKING FOREMAN				
	The craft at which the Foreman, himself, is working while supervising the crew is to be included in determining his proper grade of Working Foreman. The step in which a new Working Foreman is placed in a particular grade shall be at feast 4% over his present craftsman rate, or 4% over the highest rate supervised, excluding specialists, such as Trencher, Backhoe Operator, or Hole Digger Operator assigned to the crew. However, if a Trencher Operator, Backhoe Operator, Crane Operator, Tfactor Operator A or Wrapping Machine Operator is assigned to the same job location for the full work day or more, such employee shall be considered an integral part of the crew.				
0850	A - Supervises highest class work including but not limited to "hot" operations.	Start End 6 Mo	1356.90 1388.90	1411.20 1444.50	1467.65 1502.30
0853	B - Supervises a crew containing one or more skilled craftsman of the highest grade at the level of Electrician, Lineman, Welder, or higher classifications.	Start End 6 Mo	1343.10 1356.90	1396.85 1411.20	1452.75 1467.65
0854	C - Supervises a crew containing skilled craftsmen of intermediate grade at level of Oxygen-Acetylene Welder, Carpenter A, or higher, or supervises Towermen.	Start End 6 Mo	1214.05 1322.60	1262.65 1375.55	1313.20 1430.60
72
RATES EFFECTIVE
PROGRESSION 10-1-2003 1-1-2004 1-1-2005
CLASSIFICATION
WORKING FOREMAN
The craft at which the Foreman, himself, is working white supervising the crew is to be included in determining his proper grade of Working Foreman. The step in which a new Working Foreman is placed in a particular grade shall be at least 4% over his present craftsman rate, or 4% over the highest rate supervised, excluding specialists, such as Trencher, Backhoe Operator, or Hole Digger Operator assigned to the crew. However, if a Trencher Operator, Backhoe Operator, Crane Operator, Tractor Operator A or Wrapping Machine Operator is assigned to the same job location for the full work day or more, such employee shall be considered an integral part of the crew.
0855 0 - Supervises a crew containing skilled craftsmen at level of Carpenter B or below.
	Start End 6 Mo End 1 Yr	1156.05 1176.15 1212.40	1202.30 1223.20 1260.90	1250.40 1272.15 1311.35
1920 Wrapping Machine Operator		1284.75	1336.15	1389.60
SERVICE CENTER CLASSIFICATIONS				
1261 Apprentice Equipment Mechanic				
	Start	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 6 Mo	998.30	1038.25	1079.80
	End 1 Yr	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
	End 18 Mo	1049.20	1091.20	1134.85
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
2028 Apprentice Repairperson				
	Start	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 6 Mo	998.30	1038.25	1079.80
	End 1 Yr	1020.95	1061.80	1104.30
	End 18 Mo	1049.20	1091.20	1134.85
	End 2 Yr	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 30 Mo	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
2622 AWS Certified Welder
1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
73
RATES EFFECTIVE
CLASSIFICATION		PROGRESSION	10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
1596	Crane Operator	Start	1056.80	1099.10	1143.10
		End 6 Mo	1134.30	1179.70	1226.90
		End 1 Yr	1226.25	1275.30	1326.35
0466	Electrician		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
1260	Equipment Mechanic - GC		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
0313	First Shop Clerk	Start	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
		End 6 Mo	1049.20	1091.20	1134.85
		End 1 Yr	1084.65	1128.05	1173.20
		End 18 Mo	1111.25	1155.70	1201.95
		End 2 Yr	1129.20	1174.40	1221.40
0857	Garage Working Foreman		1310.40	1362.85	1417.40
	The craft at which the Foreman, himself, is working while supervising the crew is to be included in determining his proper grade of Working Foreman. The step in which a new Working Foreman is placed in a particular grade shall be at least 4% over his present craftsman rate, or 4% over the highest rate supervised, excluding specialists, such as Trencher, Backhoe Operator, or Hole Digger Operator assigned to the crew. However, if a Trencher Operator, Backhoe Operator, Hole Digger Operator, Crane Operator, Tractor Operator A or Wrapping Machine Operator is assigned to the same job location for the full work day or more, such employee shall be considered an integral part of the crew.				
0882	Garageman - GC (Hired 1-1-88 and after)	Start	683.90	711.30	739.80
		End 6 Mo	770.15	801.00	833.05
		End 1 Yr	855.90	890.15	925,80
		End 18 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
		End 2 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
0882	Garageman - GC (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-3187)	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
		End 6 Mo	859.95	894.35	930.15
		End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
		End 18 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
74
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0882 Garageman * GC (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	865.75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 1 Yr	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 18 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
0515 Lead Electrician		1260.00	1310.40	1362.85
1345 Lead Mechanic		1260.00	1310.40	1362.85
2026 Lead Repairperson (Davis Service Center)		1260.00	1310.40	1362.85
2619 Lead Welder		1260.00	1310.40	1362.85
1110 Machinist		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
1082 Materials Leadman - GC		1095.60	1139.45	1185.05
1212 Materials Handler (Hired 1-1-83 and after)				
	Start	'	832.50	865.80	900.45
	End 6 Mo	912.90	949.45	987.45
	End 1 Yr	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 18 Mo	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 2 Yr	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
1212 Materials Handler (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 6 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 1 Yr	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 18 Mo	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 2 Yr	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
1007 Mechanical Inspector		1260.00	1310.40	1362.85
1084 Parts Leadman		1095.60	1139.45	1185.05
0275 Partsman				
	Start	887.20	922.70	959.65
	End 6 Mo	941.90	979.60	1018.80
	End 1 Yr	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 18 Mo	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 2 Yr	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
2027 Repairperson		1234.25	1283.65	1335.00
75
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0314 Routine Shop Clerk (Hired 1-1-88 and after)				
	Start	683.90	711.30	739.80
	End 6 Mo	776.95	808.05	840.40
	End 1 Yr	869.50	904.30	940.50
	End 18 Mo	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 2 Yr	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 30 Mo	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
0314 Routine Shop Clerk (Hired 1-1-83 through 12-				
31-87)				
	Start	781.80	813.10	845.65
	End 6 Mo	869.35	904.15	940.35
	End 1 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 18 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 2 Yr	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
0314 Routine Shop Clerk (Hired 12-31-82 and before)				
	Start	832.45	866,75	900.40
	End 6 Mo	896.85	932.75	970.10
	End 1 Yr	962.20	1000.70	1040.75
	End 18 Mo	990.35	1030.00	1071.20
	End 2 Yr	1029.05	1070.25	1113.10
0310 Senior Shop Clerk				
	Start	1129.20	1174.40	1221.40
	End 6 Mo	1154.55	1200.75	1248.80
	End 1 Yr	1178.00	1225.15	1274.20
	End 18 Mo	1203.90	1252.10	1302.20
1408 Service Mechanic				
	Start	1049.20	1091.20	1134.85
	End 6 Mo	1075.80	1118.85	1163.65
	End 1 Yr	1104.30	1148.50	1194.45
76
I
CLASSIFICATION	PROGRESSION	RATES EFFECTIVE		
		10-1-2003	1-1-2004	1-1-2005
0858 Services Working Foreman		1310.40	1362.85	1417,40
The craft at which the Foreman, himself, is working while supervising the crew is to be included in determining his proper grade of Working Foreman. The step in which a new Working Foreman is placed in a paricular grade shall be at least 4% over his present craftsman rate, or 4% over the highest rate supervised, excluding specialists, such as Trencher, Backhoe Operator, or Hole Digger Operator assigned to the crew. However, if a Trencher Operator, Backhoe Operator, Hole Digger Operator, Crane Operator, Tractor Operator A or Wrapping Machine Operator is assigned to the same job location for the full work day or more, such employee shall be considered an integral part of the crew.				
0434 Special Driver		1096.50	1140.40	1186.05
0917 steel Fabricator	Start	832.50	865.80	900.45
	End 6 Mo	912.90	949.45	987.45
	End 1 Yr	975.10	1014.15	1054.75
	End 18 Mo	1005.65	1045.90	1087.75
	End 2 Yr	1040.90	1082.55	1125.90
0918 Steel Fabricator Leadman		1095.60	1139.45	1185.05
2618 Welder	Start	1049.20	1091.20	1134.85
	End 6 Mo	1128.85	1174.05	1221.05
	End 1 Yr	1154.80	1201.00	1249.05
	End 18 Mo	1183.15	1230.50	1279.75
	End 2 Yr	1219.10	1267.90	1318.65
77
]<■» 607/
au.
Agreement v j t e. I
Between
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
MV Pacific Gas and mlfl Electric Company™
WE DELIVER ENERGY."
and
LOCAL UNION NUMBER 1245 OF
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Affiliated with
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR -CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS
7i ge
O-o i
APPLYING TO:
OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2003 -
Pacific Gas and
Electric Company
September 24, 2001
77 Deale Sveel DO. B<w 770000
San f landsco. W 94177
415.97X7000
PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY EMPLOYEES:
Pacific Gas & Electric Company and IBEW Local 1245 have a 50-year history of labor-management cooperation to address areas of mutual interest. This letter reaffirms our ongoing commitment to labormanagement cooperation in a traditional industrial relations framework.
While we recognize that both parties have different needs, we are committed to an ongoing alliance to address shared interests, Our alliance includes:
=5 Quarterly meetings between the Union’s leadership and the Company's officers to discuss current business issues and the Company's strategic business plan.
Quarterly labor-management meetings in each functional department or area to address departmenWarea specific Issues.
Ad hoc negotiations to discuss current business needs in a timely manner.
Pacific Gas & Electric Company and IBEW Local 1245 are committed to work together in a collaborative manner to address issues critical to PG&E's ability to compete now and in the future, and to promote profitability for PG&E, and employment and income security for PG&E employees. It is in our mutual best interest - the Company’s, the Union's, and the employees' - to ensure PG&E's success.
0/i,w
GORDON R. SMITH :	SPERRY ZIW0£rMAN
President and CEO, Pacific Gas &	Business Manager, IBEW Local 1245
Electric Company
K-tt 607/

Agreement	«• ।
Between
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
WE DELIVER ENERGY."
and
LOCAL UNION NUMBER 1245
OF
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
1
Affiliated with
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR -CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS
Vol \
7?
0-0 f
APPLYING TO:
OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1, 2003 -
Pacific Gas and ffXfl Electric Company
September 24, 2001
77 Beale Street
Rd. Box 77DOOO San Francisco. CA 94177
415.973.7000
PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY EMPLOYEES:
Pacific Gas & Electric Company and IBEW Local 1245 have a 50-year history of labor-management cooperation to address areas of mutual interest. This letter reaffirms our ongoing commitment to labormanagement cooperation in a traditional industrial relations framework.
While we recognize that both parties have different needs, we are committed to an ongoing alliance to address shared interests. Our alliance includes: -
=> Quarterly meetings between the Union's leadership and the Company’s officers to discuss current business issues and the Company's strategic business plan.
Quarterly labor-management meetings In each functional department or area to address departmentfarea specific issues.
=> Ad hoc negotiations to discuss cunent business needs in a timely manner.
Pacific Gas & Electric Company and IBEW Local 1245 are committed to work together in a collaborative manner to address Issues critical to PG&E’s ability to compete now and in the future, and to promote profitability for PG&E, and employment and income security for PG&E employees. It is in our mutual best interest - the Company's, the Union's, and the employees' - to ensure PG&E's success.
GORDON R. SMITH :	£PERRY£lM^ERMAN
President and CEO, Pacific Gas &	Business Manager, IBEW Local 1245
Electric Company
fct (S'
^3
AGREEMENT
between PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
and
LOCAL UNION NO. 1245 of
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD
OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Affiliated with
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR >	CONGRESS OF INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS
APPLYING TO OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 1,2003 -

Vo A V A'to-
V □-	11 Q 6
TITLE
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
PREAMBLE.............................................................
RECOGNITION.............................................................
CONTINUITY OF SERVICE......................................................
UNION SECURITY.......................................................
UNION ACTIVITY.......................................................
WAGES................................................................
MANAGEMENT OF COMPANY................................................
LABOR-MANAGEMENT COOPERATION.........................................
1 1
2 3
4 4
4 5
PART I * REGION, DEPARTMENT, AND GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
100. 101. 102. 103. 104. 105. 106. 107. 108. 109. 110. 111. 112.	APPLICATION	6 LEAVE OF ABSENCE	6 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES	9 HOLIDAYS	15 MEALS	16 SAFETY	18 STATUS	20 MISCELLANEOUS	23 SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS FOR INDUSTRIAL INJURY	24 APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING	24 PREMIUM PAY	24 VACATIONS	26 SICK LEAVE	:	29 PART II - REGION OR GENERAL OFFICE DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES ONLY
200. 201. 202. 203. 204. 205. 206. 207. 208. 209. 210. 211. 212. 213. 214.	APPLICATION	32 EXPENSES	32 HOURS	34 INCLEMENT WEATHER PRACTICE			  38 WAGES AND CLASSIFICATION	39 JOB BIDDING. PROMOTION AND TRANSFER	40 DEMOTION AklD LAY OFF PROCEDURE	47 (DELETED)	53 OVERTIME	53 (DELETED)	  :	56 (DELETED)	56 (DELETED)	56 EMERGENCY DUTY	  56 (DELETED)	58 DELETED	58
PART 111 - GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES ONLY
300.
301.
302.
303.
304.
305.
306.
307.
308.
309.
310.
311.
APPLICATION...................
EXPENSES......................
HOURS.........................
INCLEMENT WEATHER.............
WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS.....
JOB BIDDING AND PROMOTION.....
DEMOTION AND LAY OFF PROCEDURE (DELETED).....................
OVERTIME......................
(DELETED).....................
(DELETED).....................
(DELETED).....................
58 59
65 67 67
68 74 77
80
80
80
PART IV - INTERIM NEGOTIATIONS
400. INTERIM NEGOTIATIONS..................................................  80
PARTV-TERM
500. TEAM.................................................................................................  81
PART VI
600. JOB DEFINITIONS AND LINES OF PROGRESSION........................................82
EXHIBITS
111.
IV. V.
VI. VII. VIII.
IX. X.
XI. XII. XIII. XIV. XV. XVI. XVII
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE...........................................................
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PROMOTION-DEMOTION GEOGRAPHIC AREAS.........................
CLASSIFICATIONS OF SHIFT EMPLOYEES...............................................
CLASSIFICATIONS OF SERVICE EMPLOYEES.............................................
CLASSIFICATIONS OF RESIDENT EMPLOYEES............................................
JOB DEFINITIONS AND LINES OF PROGRESSION.........................................
BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATIONS.......................................................
JOB COMPARISONS..................................................................
CLASSIFICATIONS COMMON TO MORE THAN ONE DEPARTMENT...............................
WAGES (See Separate Booklet) LETTER AGREEMENT 87-165-PGE PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT COMMITTEES ADDENDUM TO TITLE 206 AND 306 DEMOTION AND LAY OFF PROCEDURE.....................
LETTER AGREEMENT 91 -99-APPOINTMENT DUE TO URGENT NECESSITY......................
SEVERANCE........................................................................
Deleted (see 301.21).............................................................................................................. CONTRACTING......................................................................
METER READER AGREEMENT (See Separate Booklet)
83
85
86
86
87
87
87
90
91
..93 ..94 ..94 ..96 ..99 101
SUPPLEMENTS
SUPPLEMENT TO SECTION 1.7.........................................;.102
SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 104 - MEALS: COMPARABLE SUBSTITUTE FOR USUAL AND AVERAGE MEALS...................................................103
SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 205 - BIDDING UNITS...............................104
SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 206 - DEMOTION UNITS............................107
CRITICAL CLASSIFICATIONS..............................................111
The Agreement dated September 1,1952 has been amended on the following dates:
September 1,1953 July 15,1954 September 1,1954 March 1,1956 July 1,1956 October 1,1956 January 1,1957 May 1,1957 July 1,1957 September 1,1957 January 1,1958 February 1,1958 July 1,1958 August 1,1958 September 1,1958 September 15,1958 July 1,1959 July 1,1960 July 1,1962 January 1,1963 July 1,1963 January 1,1964 July 1,1964 July 1,1965 July 1,1966
January 1,1967 July 1,1967 January 1,1968 July 1,1968 July 1,1969 July 1,1970 January 1,1971 July 1971 July 1,1972 April 1,1973 January 1,1974 July 1,1974 January 1,1975 January 1,1977 January 1,1978 December 1,1978 January 1,1980 January 1,1983 January 1,1984 January 1,1988 January 1,1991 January 1,1994 January 1,1997 January 1,2000 October 1, 2003
September 16,2003
Local Union No. 1245
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO
P.O. Box 2547
Vacaville, CA 95687
Attention: Mr. Perry Zimmerman, Business Manager
Dear Mr. Zimmerman:
This letter and its attachments will confirm the Company’s understanding of the settlement reached on August 25, 2003 between the Company's Negotiating Committee and the Union's Negotiating Committee in General Negotiations with respect to the IBEW Physical Agreement between Company and IBEW Local 1245. This settlement represents the Company’s last, best and final offer and Is subject to a ratification vote by Local 1245 Physical bargaining unit members at PG&E.
1.	Term
October 1, 2003 through December 31,2007.
2.	Wages
The Company will grant a general wage increase, rounded up to the nearest nickel, of four percent (4.0%), effective October 1, 2003. If this agreement is ratified, employees who are on the active payroll on the ratification date of this agreement will receive a one-time payment equal to the amount they would have received II the general wage increase had been implemented on January 1,2003. The Company’s agreement to provide this payment is contingent upon ratification of this settlement. This one-time payment will be included in covered compensation only for purposes of the Savings Fund Plan, and will not be included for any other benefit plan purposes.
In addition, the Company will grant a general wage increase, rounded up to the nearest nickel, of lour percent (4.0%), effective January 1, 2004 and four percent (4.0%), effective January 1,2005. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 500.1, either party may re-open this Agreement with respect to the subject of wages by giving notice of such re-opening to the other party 60 days prior to January 1, 2006 and January 1,2007.
If this agreement is ratified, IBEW Clerical employees who are on the active payroll on the ratification date of this agreement will also receive a one-time payment equal to the amount they would have received if the general wage increase had been implemented on January 1, 2003. The retroactive amount will be calculated for each Clerical employee. If the amount comes out to more than the $900 lump sum already received, the employee will receive the difference. If the amount comes out less than $900, no deduction will be made and the employee will not receive any additional pay. The previous $900 payment and any additional payment will be included as covered compensation for purposes of the Savings Fund Plan and will not be included for any other benefit plan purposes.
3.	General Construction
During discussion of Union's proposal to modify the provisions of Subsection 305.4(d), the parties addressed Union’s concern that the temporary upgrade report is not being posted for employee review in many locations. Company committed to make a good faith effort to ensure that the required list is made available to Title 300 employees at all field locations.
iv
Title 300 classification wage rates will be adjusted to reflect the historical 5% differential from the comparable Title 200 classification during each year of the Agreement.
It was agreed to modify/relocate the clarification of Subsection 301.4(a) also known as Exhibit XV to Section 301.21.
4.	Interim Negotiations
Merge Title 200 and Title 300 Fleet
Company and Union agree to revisit the previous recommendation to merge the Title 200 and Title 300 Fleet workforce made by the previous Fleet Subcommittee.
DCPP
Company and Union agree to discuss establishing separate Radiation Protection Technician and Chemistry Technician classifications and associated training programs in Diablo Canyon.
Company and Union agree to discuss establishment of a multi-skilled journeyman classification in the Mechanical, Electrical and l&C disciplines at Diablo Canyon.
System Operator Program
Company and Union agree to the following concepts and will establish a System Operator Ad Hoc Committee to discuss and reach agreement on a journeyman re-certification program, an enhanced OIT program, lines of progression and bidding-displacement for Transmission, Distribution and Hydro Operators, an entry-level classification, filling of shifts, alternate work schedules, and wages. It is recommended that this Committee begin its work immediately upon ratification of the Agreement and conclude within six months, unless agreement is reached to extend the timeframe. Upon reaching agreement, an increase as agreed to by the Ad Hoc Committee will be granted to classifications identified by the Committee.
Pre-screen Potential Candidates for Meter Reader Positions
Company and Union agree in concept to a physical pre-assessment test for potential Meter Reader candidates. The Meter Reader Committee will ensure that the physical assessment test is validated. Upon successful validation, the physical assessment will be implemented and administered to any potential candidate for a Meter Reader position, including but not limited to new hires, transfers, and displaced employees.
Premium Standardization
Company and Union agree to establish a Premium Standardization Committee to simplify the administration of payroll rules to facilitate administration in the current environment and to successfully position tor future system implementation. Also, included lor discussion in this Subcommittee will be standardization of the shift premiums.
General Construction:
Promotion-Demotion Geographic Areas
Company and Union agree to form an Ad Hoc Committee for the purpose of examining the PromotionDemotion geographic areas in Exhibit II of the Physical Agreement and discuss possible updates and modifications to this Exhibit.
Residence Definition
Company and Union agree to meet within 90 days of ratification to bargain in good laith.
I
v
Update Job Descriptions and Lines of Progression
Company and Union agree to establish a Subcommittee to review and update the Job Definitions and Lines of Progression.
Rubber Glove Premium
Company and Union agree to meet to discuss improvements in productivity and safety.
Gas T&D JDLOP
Company and Union will conduct a review of the Title 200 Gas T&D Lines of Progression, Reverse Lines of Progression and Job Descriptions. The purpose of the review is to ensure that the Lines of Progression and the Reverse Lines of Progression as well as the Job Descriptions and compensation are appropriate and reflect the current work force and job duties.
Exhibit XVI
Company and Union agree to review the administrative process used to track work performed by outside contractors.
CDLA
Company and Union will meet to discuss the requirements of positions requiring a CDLA.
Meals
Company and Union will meet to develop clarifications for various meals issues.
Working Foneman/Lead Classifications
This committee will review job expectations of lead positions, identify qualifications necessary lor lead positions and identify a selection process to ensure that employees are qualified for Lead positions. The Committee will ensure that its recommendations are consistent with the language in Subsection 205.14(a) of the Physical Agreement.
Cost of Living
Company and Union agree to meet and to explore alternatives to address high cost of living areas.
5.	Successor
Company and Union agree that an employee with a regularly assigned job who receives an offer of equivalent employment from an Affiliated Acquiring Entity at the employee's last regular headquarters or a headquarters that is within 45 road miles or 60 minutes automotive travel time from the employee's current residence, or equal to the employee's last regular commute if the employee’s last regular commute exceeded these limits will be eligible for options under Titles 206/306 but will not be eligible for severance.
6.	Pension
A 20% pension adjustment will be made for retirees who retired prior to 1/1/78. The parties agree to meet, in good faith, to re-open discussions regarding pension adjustments for 2006 and 2007.
Effective 1/1/04, the pension formula will be increased to 1.5% of pay for the first 25 years of service and to 1.6% of pay for years of service above 25.
vi
ILLUSTRATIVE EXAMPLES Pension Formula Benefit (effective 2004)
Physical Journeyman Rate of Pay ■
Example based on 32 years of service:
Basic Weekly Pay on 1/1/04	$1,283.60
Pension Band 35
25 years @ 1.5%- QLaaL
Monthly Benefit Per Year of Service x Credited Service (25 years) $83.85 x 25 = $2,096.25
7 years @ 1.6% of pay
Monthly Benefit Per Year of Service x Credited Service (7 years) $89.44 x 7 = $ 626.08
Total Monthly Pension Benefit1	$2,096.25 + $626.08 = $2.722.33
7.	Long-Term Disability
For disabilities occurring on or after the date of ratification: No Social Security offset will be assumed until Social Security disability is actually granted. When Social Security is granted, family disability payments attributable to the employee will be included in the offset. To continue on LTD for more than two years, an employee must be deemed disabled by Social Security. Participants who have not received a final Social Security Disability ruling . within 24 months may receive a monthly extension of up to an additional 36 months of Long-Term Disability benefits.
The time period for LTD eligibility will be reduced from six cumulative months from onset of disability to five consecutive months.
The Company and Union will meet on a monthly basis to discuss any retum-to-work issues for LTD employees.
Other changes include return to work language for current and future LTD recipients.
8.	Retiree Medical
Effective 1/1/04, a medical account balance of up to $7,500 will be established for current and future retirees. Retirees may use their account balance to pay 50% of their medical premium contribution. The account.balance amounts will be prorated from 10 to 25 years of service.
A ten-year minimum service requirement is established for eligibility for future retiree medical benefits. In addition, the Company’s fixed contribution for future retirees will be prorated from 0 to 25 years of service for both over- and underage 65 retirees.
Effective 1/1/03, retirees who drop medical coverage through the Company will be allowed to re-enroll during future open enrollment periods.
9.	Medical (Effective 1/1/04 unless otherwise noted)
•	Replaces current POS, PPO and OOA plans with new PPO and OOA plans, o Includes changes to copayments and coinsurances.
o Changes in network deductibles will be effective 1/1/05.
•	Increases HMO copayments.
•	Increases allowed EAP visits from three to six visits.
•	Establishes Kaiser in-patient drug and alcohol rehabilitation benefits (effective upon ratification).
1 Monthly Pension Benefit is unreduced for early retirement or spouse/joint beneficiary and does not include any premiums. Monthly Pension Benefit will be different based on classification and rate of pay. Pension income is one source of retirement income. Other sources include Social Security, the Savings Fund Plan [401 (k)J, and personal savings.
vii
•	Establishes a mandatory generic drug provision for prescription drug coverage.
•	Establishes cost sharing of 3.75% of medical plan premiums.
10.	401 (k)
Members in the Savings Fund Plan (administered by CitiStreet) will be switched to the Retirement Savings Plan (administered by Fidelity Investments) as soon as possible. Concurrent with the plan and administrator change, employees will be eligible to start contributing to the plan upon hire date, to contribute up to 20% of covered pay to the plan, and to receive the maximum employer matching contribution after only three years of service.
11.	Attachments
Attached are amended contract sections as agreed to during the negotiations, as follows;
A.	Physical Agreement and its Exhibits, Supplements and Clarifications
B.	Medical, Dental and Vision Agreement
C.	Benefit Agreement
If any of the above or the attachments thereto are not in accordance with your understanding of our settlement, please let me know immediately.
Sincerely,
Stepfenft. 'J(ay6um
Stephen A. Rayburn
Director and Chief Negotiator
Attachments
viii
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this first day of September, 1952, by and between Pacific Gas and Electric Company, hereinafter referred to as Company, and Local Union No. 1245 of international Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (affiliated with the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations), hereinafter referred to as Union,
WITNESSETH that:
WHEREAS the parties hereto desire to facilitate the peaceful adjustment of differences that may from time to time arise between them, to promote harmony and efficiency to the end that Company, Union and the general public may benefit therefrom, and to establish wages, hours and working conditions for certain hereinafter designated employees of Company,
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto do agree as follows:
GENERAL
TITLE 1.	PREAMBLE
1.1	PRINCIPLES
The parties recognize that the free private enterprise system in the United States has produced the highest standard of living anywhere in the world, and they hereby confirm their adherence to, and belief in, that system. In accordance with such belief the parties support the principle of private ownership of public utilities under enlightened regulation by public authority. Further, the parlies support the principles of collective bargaining and self-organization.
1.2	NON-DISCRIMINATION
It is the policy of Company and Union not to discriminate, harass or allow the harassment of an employee or applicant for employment on the oasis of race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, ancestry, physical or mental disability, medical condition, veteran status, marital status, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, or a request for family medical leave, or any other non-job related factor. (Amended 10-1-03)
1.3	SECTION TITLES
Section Titles in this Agreement are for identification purposes only and are not to be used for the purpose of interpreting either the intent or the meaning of the language of any Section. (Added 1 -1-80)
1.4	NEUTRAL GENDER
Any changes to contract language made as a result of the ratification of the Physical and Clerical Agreements effective on 1-1-88 and not changed in the contract language effective 1-1-88 were changed in the contract language effective 1-1-91. Changes made to the contract sections, effective 1-1-91 are not intended to change the context of the language other than to neutralize the genders. (Added 1-1-91)
1.5	DIVISION
In acknowledgment of a review by Company and Union of those areas of the contract where the word “Division" is still present, "Division" will be considered to represent an area designated as a "Division" by the Company, with Union reserving its right to have the geographic boundary remain intact, utilizing the Supplement to Title 206. (Added 1-1-91)
1.6	All language printed in italics indicates new language from previous printing of the contract. (Added 1 -1 -91)
1.7	REGION
The use of the word "Region" or "Regional" as used in the contract shall represent the geographical area that was in effect in 1992. See Supplement to Section 1.7.
TITLE 2.	RECOGNITION
2.1	RECOGNITION
For the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment and other conditions of employment Company recognizes Union as the exclusive representative of those employees for whom the National Labor Relations Board certified Union as such representative in Case No. 20-RC-1454, but further including clerks in the offices of electric department foremen and technical clerks in steam generation, and excluding system dispatchers, assistant system dispatchers and rodman-chainman.
1
2.2	APPLICABILITY
The provisions of this Agreement shall be limited in their application to employees of Company in the bargaining unit described in Section 2.1. Wherever the words "employee" and "employees' are used in this Agreement they shall, unless otherwise noted, be construed to refer only to the employees described in Section 2.1 for whom Union is the exclusive collective bargaining representative. The respective obligations of the parties herein shall be operative only insofar as Union acts in the capacity of exclusive collective bargaining representative of said employees.
2.3	SUCCESSOR (Added 1-1-00)
(a)	(1) Any parent or affiliated company of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company that acquires any property or facility at which employees covered by this Agreement have regularly assigned jobs ("Affiliated Acquiring Entity”) shall offer employment to all such covered employees, up to the number ofsuch employees that the Affiliated Acquiring Entity determines are necessary to operate the property or facility, under the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement except as to those specific benefits that the Affiliated Acquiring Entity cannot offer. For such benefits, the Affiliated Acquiring Entity shall offer alternate benefits of comparable value and coverage.
Any employee covered by this Agreement with a regularly assigned job who receives an offer of equivalent employment from the Affiliated Acquiring Entity at the employee's current regular headquarters or a headquarters that is within 45 road miles or 60 minutes automotive travel time from the employee's current residence, or equal to the employee's current regular commute if the employee's current regular commute exceeds these limits, shall not be eligible to participate in the severance program describ&d in Exhibit XIV (Severance) of this Agreement. (Added 10-1-03)
Any employee covered by this Agreement with a regularly assigned job who receives an offer of employment by the Affiliated Acquiring Entity shall remain eligible to participate in the Demotion and Layoff Procedure under Titles 206 and 306 of this Agreement. (Added10-1 -03)
(a)	(2) In addition to the obligation to offer employment as required in (a) (1) above, an Affiliated Acquiring Entity shall adopt this agreement or alternate terms and conditions of employment mutually acceptable to the Affiliated Acquiring Entity and Union.
(b)	(1) An entity not affiliated with Pacific Gas and Electric Company that acquires any property or facility at which employees covered by this Agreement have regularly assigned jobs (“Non-affiliated Acquiring Entity') shall offer employment to covered employees, up to the number of such employees that the Non-affiliated Acquiring Entity determines are necessary to operate the property or facility, at the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement; except as to those specific benefits that the Non-affiliated Acquiring Entity cannot offer. For such benefits, the Non-affiliated Acquiring Entity shall offer alternate benefits of comparable value and coverage.
(b)	(2) In addition to the obligation to offer employment as required in (b) (1) above, the Non-Affiliated Acquiring Entity shall maintain the same or comparable terms and conditions of employment applicable to covered employees hired by the Non-Affiliated Acquiring Entity for a period that is not less than the unexpired term of this Agreement that is in effect as of the date such employees are hired by the Non-Affiliated Acquiring Entity.
(c)	This section shall only apply to an acquiring entity that intends to operate the property or facility in the same or substantially the same manner as the Pacific Gas and Electric Company operates the property or facility immediately prior to its acquisition.
(d)	The Pacific Gas and Electric Company shall include the obligations set forth in sections (a) or (b) above in any transfer or sale agreement, as provided in section (a) or (b) above, with an acquiring entity of its property or facility. For any property or facility that is subject to Public Utilities Code section 363, the obligations set forth in sections (a) or (6) shall commence at the end of the applicable operating and maintenance period. The only claim the Union may have against Company under this section is for the Company’s failure to include in the transfer or sale agreement the obligation set forth in Section (a) or (b) above.
TITLE 3.	CONTINUITY OF SERVICE
3.1	Company is engaged in rendering public utility services to the public, and Union and Company recognize that there is an obligation on each party for the continuous rendition and availability of such services.
3.2	The duties performed by employees of Company as part of their employment pertain to and are essential to the operation of a public utility and the welfare of the public dependent hereon. During the term of this Agreement employees shall not partially or totally abstain from the performance of their duties for Company. Union shall not call upon or authorize employees individually or collectively to engage in such activities and shall make a reasonable effort under the circumstances to dissuade employees from engaging in such activities, and Company shall not cause any lockout.
3.3	Employees who are members of Union shall perform loyal and efficient work and service, and shall use their influence and best efforts to protect the properties or Company and its service to the public, and shall cooperate in promoting and advancing the welfare of Company and in preserving the continuity of its service to the public at all times.
2
3.4	Company and Union shall cooperate in promoting harmony and efficiency among Company employees.
3-5 Consistent with the provisions of this Title which pertain to the continuity of service to the public, employees who fill job vacancies in the classifications of Serviceman or Troubleman on and after July 1,1974, may be required to reside within the community in which the Company headquarters to which they regularly report is located, unless for good cause such requirement is waived or varied by joint agreement of Union and Company as to any such individual appointment. Such residential requirement shall be determined solely on the basis of obligations relating to the continuous rendition and availability of Company service to the public. The waiver provided for above shall be reduced to writing, the conditions thereof set forth, and signed by the Company's Director at Industrial Relations and Union's Business Manager. {Amended 10-1-03)
For the purposes of this section, an employee will be considered to be residing in the “community" if his/her residence is located no more than 30 minutes automotive travel time, under ordinary travel conditions, from the employee's headquarters. (Amended 1-1-91)
Any employee who must change his/her place of residence as provided herein shall be given a reasonable period of time in which to move in order io avoid personal hardship. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
The local residence requirements allowing an employee to live beyond the above community standard in effect at a headquarters on June 30,1974 shall remain in effect for each employee then subject to the provisions of this Section 3.5 until changed by agreement of said Business Manager of Union and Company's Director of Industrial Relations. (Amended 10-1-03)
TITLE 4.	UNION SECURITY
4.1	AGENCY SHOP
(a)	Thirty days after being employed, every employee covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of employment: (1) become a member of the Union; or (2) in the alternative, an employee must tender a registration fee to the Union in such an amount as the Union may prescribe (but in no event to exceed the initiation fee required of Union members), and shall tender, monthly, an agency fee as established by the Union in an amount not to exceed the amount of the monthly dues and per capita fees required of BA members in their base wage rates; except that (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Any employee of Company in a classification represented by Union and who, on December 1,1970, was an employee and was not a member of the Union, and who remains an employee continuously after December 1,1970, is exempt from the provisions of Subsection 4.1(a) unless he or she becomes a member of Union.
(c)	Any non-bargaining unit employee who is placed in a classification represented by Union shall, as a condition of employment, within 30 days comply with the provisions of Subsection (a) above. (Amended 1-1-80)
(d)	Any bargaining unit employee who is temporarily placed in a non-bargaining unit classification shall continue to be subject to the provisions of Subsection (a) above, for the duration of such temporary assignment. (Added 1-1-91)
(e)	Once each month, Company shall provide to Union a list of employees in bargaining unit classifications who did not tender dues or an agency fee to Union during the preceding 30 day period. (Added 1 -1 -91)
4.2	PAYMENT OF UNION DUES
Any employee who is or who becomes a member of Union shall, as a condition of employment, tender to the Union periodic dues uniformly required by Union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership.
4.3	CHECKOFF OF DUES
Company shall deduct from wages and pay over to the proper officers of Union the membership dues of any member of union or agency fees of any other employee as provided for in Subsection 4.1(a) who individually and voluntarily authorizes such deductions in writing. The form of checkoff authorization shall be approved by Company and Union. (Amended 1-1-83)
4.4	TERMINATION FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES
Upon written request from the Union, the Company shall, within 21 calendar days, terminate the employment of any employee who fails to comply with the requirements of this Title.
4.5	GRIEVANCES
If any dispute arises under the provisions of this Title it shall be referred directly to the appropriate Local Investigating Committee lor determination under the grievance procedure provided for in this Agreement.
4.6	(Deleted 1-1-80)
3
TITLES.	UNION ACTIVITY
5.1	BULLETIN BOARDS
Union may use one-half of Company's regular bulletin boards and Company shall designate by lettering thereon or otherwise the portion of each bulletin board which shall be reserved for use by Union. Company shall erect additional bulletin boards in any location where it may be found that existing bulletin boards are not adequate..
5.2	LIMITS ON USE OF BULLETIN BOARDS
Union's use of bulletin boards shall be limited to the posting thereon of official notices of meetings and similar matters relating to official Union business and its relationship with Company. Union shall not post thereon any matter derogatory to Company or to its customers.
5.3	NON-DISCRIMINATION
Company shall not discriminate against any employee because of membership in Union or activity on behalf of Union. (Amended 1-1-91)
5.4	REPRESENTATIVES OF UNION
At Union's request Company shall authorize any representative of Union to enter any Company properties on which employees represented by Union are employed. Such authorization shall be for the purpose of enabling such representative to transact Union business other than the solicitation of employees to join Union or the collection of dues.
5.5	NEW EMPLOYEE INFORMATION
Company’s local Human Resources Representatives shall, notify the designated local Shop Steward or Representative of Union, in writing, of the reporting for duty of new bargaining unit employees within thirty days. Upon said notification, the parties may schedule necessary paid time (not to exceed one-half hour) and facilities for Union to provide orientation information regarding the obligations and benefits of Union membership. In addition, Company will include a one-page document, as submitted by Union, in the customary new employee orientation information package. Such document or discussion shall not include any matters derogatory to the Company and its customers. (Amended 1-1-91)
TITLES. WAGES
6.1	Attached hereto, made a part hereof, and marked Exhibit X, is a schedule of the wage rates applicable to employees described in Section 2.1.
TITLE 7.	MANAGEMENT OF COMPANY
7.1	MANAGEMENT OF COMPANY
The management of the Company and its business and the direction of its working forces are vested exclusively in Company, and this includes, but is not limited to, the following: to direct and supervise the work of its employees, to hire, promote, demote, transfer, suspend, and. discipline or discharge employees for just cause; to plan, direct, and control operations: to lay off employees because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons; to introduce new or improved methods or facilities, provided, however, that all of the foregoing shall be subject to the provisions of this Agreement, arbitration or Review Committee decisions, or letters of agreement, or memorandums of understanding clarifying or interpreting this Agreement.
7.2	BARGAINING UNIT WORK BY SUPERVISORS
Supervisors and other employees shall not perform work usually assigned to employees in IBEW 1245 batgaining unit classifications except:
(a)	Such assignments are not to be deliberately made for the purpose of reducing the number of employees performing work within bargaining unit classifications.
(b)	Historical assignments recognized by the NLRB and those involving continued Company practices with respect to overlapping duties of non-bargaining unit classifications and bargaining unit classifications are to be maintained unless otherwise resolved by Company and Union.
(c)	Other than the above (a) and (b), such work assignments should be limited to work performed in:
(1)	Emergency situations.
(2)	Training of employees and demonstrating work methods.
(3)	Incidental assistance and de minimis assignments. (Added 1 -1 -80)
4
7.3	CLASSIFICATIONS WITH SUPERVISORY DUTIES
In accordance with decisions of the National Labor Relations Board and Agreements between Company and Union, there are certain classifications in the bargaining unit which have supervisory duties. Company may at its discretion establish classifications which are supervisory within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act. Upon agreement by Company and Union, Company may eliminate certain classifications which are within the bargaining unit but have supervisory responsibilities, including the elimination of such classifications from Exhibit X. (Added 1-1-00)
TITLE 8.	LABOR-MANAGEMENT COOPERATION
8.1	COMPANY LABOR-MANAGEMENT MEETINGS (Title Amended 1-1-00)
Quarterly system joint labor-management meetings shall be regularly scheduled for the purposes of improving communications and promoting harmony and cooperation between Company and Union through discussions of matters of policy and operation which are of general system concern. The meetings witl be scheduled for the fourth Wednesday of January, April, July and October, except that such meetings may be canceled by mutual agreement or by failure to submit agenda items. (Amended 1-1-83)
(a)	AGENDA (Title Amended 1-1-00)
To enable each to select representatives knowledgeable in the matters of general system concern, agenda items will be submitted to the Company's Director of Industrial Relations together with a list of employees attending for Union at least two weeks prior to tne date of the next quarterly meeting. An agenda will be prepared from the items submitted and sent to the Union and Committee members designated by each as soon as possible thereafter. A summary of the Committee's discussion shall be prepared by Company and after Union review shall be distributed to each attending Committee member. (Amended 10-1-03)
(b)	REPRESENTATION (Title Amended 1-1-00)
Company's Director of Industrial Relations and Union shall appoint their respective representatives to attend a quarterly meeting, and no restriction is placed on the number each may appoint. However, the number so appointed “by each should be limited to those having knowledge of the agenda items and restricted in number in such a way as to insure an orderly presentation by each. (Amended 10-1-03)
8.2	LOCAUDEPARTMENT LABOR MANAGEMENT MEETING
If the Department or Area Manager is informed by the Union Business Representative serving that area of supervision of problems other than those subject to the grievance procedures of the applicable contract concerning the affairs and relationship between Union and Company management or involve public affairs matters of a local nature which the Area or Department Manager believes could oe solved or improved through joint participative discussion, the Manager and Union Business Representative shall mutually arrange for a meeting at a place and time which may be during or outside of regular work hours. Such meetings (excluding a continuation of any adjourned meeting) shall take place not more often than bimonthly. (Amended 1-1-00)
(a)	ATTENDEES ANO AGENDA
After notice of a scheduled meeting, the Union may select a reasonable number of its Shop Stewards who are knowledgeable in the matters of concern conveyed to the Manager to attend the meeting. Ten days prior to the date set by the Manager for such meeting, the Union will submit to him/her agenda items together with a list of employees Union desires to be in attendance at the meeting. As soon as possible thereafter, an agenda will be prepared from the items submitted by the Union and those proposed by Management and sent to Union. (Amended 1-1-00)
(b)	SUMMARY
Following the meeting, the Area or Department Manager will prepare a summary of the items discussed and the conclusions reached by the Committee which shall thereafter be distributed to the Union and Company members in attendance. (Amended 1-1-00)
(C) WITHDRAWAL
Any Area or Department may withdraw from participation in the Local Labor-Management Committee upon Company’s Manager of Industrial Relations giving notice of such intent to Union. (Amended 1-1-00)
8.3	PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT COMMITTEES (Title Amended 1 -1 -00)
(a)	Company and Union will establish Joint Committees on Productivity Enhancement. One such committee consisting of four members appointed by Company's Manager of Industrial Relations and four members appointed by Union shall meet at the call of either party. Other Productivity Enhancement Committees will be established as agreed between Union and Company at other levels of Company's organization. Union members of such committees who are employees of Company shall be paid by Company for attendance at mutually agreed-to meetings of such committees. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
5
(b)	A unit may request to participate in an employee involvement efficiency project. Each project will have an advisory committee and a steering committee, each consisting of Company and Onion representatives.
Company's Director of Industrial Relations and Union's Business Manager may agree to guidelines and provisions to temporarily amend provisions of the agreement and/or Company policies and procedures (excluding conflict with any Federal or State Law, Regulation or Executive Order). (See Letter Agreement 87-165-PGE, Exhibit XI.) (Amended 10-1-03}
PARTI
REGION, DEPARTMENT, AND GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
TITLE 100.	APPLICATION
100.1	The provisions of Part I of this Agreement shall apply to
(a)	operation, maintenance, and construction employees in each of Company’s geographical Divisions and Regions (including clerks in the offices of Electric Department foremen and technical clerks in Steam Generation) and its	■	■	'
Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations,
Materials Distribution Department,
Telecommunications Department of General Office,
Building Department of General Office,
Gas Meter Repair Plant,
Electric Meter Shop,
Steam Generation Department,
Hydro Generation Department,
Nuclear Power Generation Department, and
(Amended 1-1-00)
(b)	field and Service Center employees of General Construction.
Whenever the words "employee” and "employees” are used in this Part, they shall, unless otherwise noted, be construed to refer only to employees described above in this Section for whom Union is the exclusive bargaining representative. Where the context of this Part makes it reasonable to do so, reference to "Region" or "Division" or “Department* shall be construed to include and apply to the organizational units enumerated hereinabove and the words "Vice Presidents)'' shall be construed to include and apply to the head(s) of such organizational unit(s). (Amended 1-1-88)
TITLE 101.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
101.1	ELIGIBILITY
“Leave of absence" without pay shall be granted to regular employees, under the conditions set forth in this Title for urgent or substantial personal reasons, provided that adequate arrangements can be made to take care of the employee's duties without undue interference with the normal routine of work. A "leave" will not be granted if the purpose for which it is requested may lead to the employee's resignation. For the purpose of this Agreement the terms "leave of absence" and "leave" signify absence without pay for periods in excess cf ten consecutive workdays. In the computation of the length of a "leave of absence" there shall not be included any time the employee is absent with pay. Absences without pay for ten consecutive workdays or less shall also be authorized under these provisions.
In addition to the provisions of this Title, ft is the intent of the parties to include leave benefits as mandated by state and federal law, including both the California Family Rights Act of 1991 and the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993. (Amended 1-1-94)
101.2	PERIODS OF LEAVE
(a)	The Company may grant a "leave of absence" without pay to a regular employee for a period not in excess of six consecutive months. Tt may grant an additional "leave of absence without pay to such employee if personal circumstances and service to the Company warrant the granting thereof. Except as provided in Sections 101.6 and 101.8, a "leave of absence" will not be granted which, together with the last "leave" or ‘'leaves" granted, will exceed twelve consecutive months. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(b)	Child Care Leave: A regular employee who has become a parent by the birth or adoption of a child, or has become the legal guardian of a child shall be entitled to an unpaid "leave of absence" for a period not to exceed six consecutive months, without reference to urgent and substantial personal reasons to care for such newborn or adopted child. When an employee who was granted a leave for child care applies for reinstatement the employee will be returned to the employees former classification and headquarters which the employee vacated. (Amended 1-1-91)
6
An employee shall be entitled to an additional "leave of absence" for a period not in excess of six consecutive
months for child care with the understanding that the employee may return to work provided a vacancy exists in the
classification and headquarters which the employee vacated, or in a classification lower thereto in the Line of
Progression at such headquarters.
If a vacancy of this kind does not exist after the second six consecutive months, the employee's service shall be terminated. (Entire Subsection Added 1-1-84)
101.3	COMMENCE AND END
A “leave* shall commence on and include the first workday on which the employee is absent without pay, and terminate with and include the workday preceding the day such employee returns to work. The conditions under which an employee shall be restored to employment on the termination dt the employee's "leave of absence" shall be clearly stated on the form on which application for the "leave" is made. (Amended 1-1-91)
101.4	STATUS
An employee's status as a regular employee shall not be impaired by a “leave of absence."
101.5	TERMINATION OF SERVICE
If an employee fails to return immediately on the expiration of the employee's "leave of absence," or if such employee accepts other employment while on "leave," except as provided in Section 101.6, or if such employee makes application for unemployment benefits under the California Unemployment Insurance Act while on “leave," such employee shall thereby forfeit the "leave of absence," and terminate Service with Company. (Amended 1-1-91)
101.6	UNION LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Subject to the provisions of Section 101.1 Company shall at request of Union grant a "leave of absence" without pay to any employee for the purpose of engaging in Union business. Such "leave" shall be for a period or periods not to exceed a total of 36 consecutive months. An employee who has returned to work lor Company following an absence on “leave* for Union business in excess of six months shall not be granted another such "leave1' until such employee has worked for a period equivalent to the time of the last continuous absence on “leave" for Union business. (Amended 1-1-91)
101.7	RETURN FROM UNION LEAVE OF ABSENCE
Unless an employee who is on “leave of absence" for Union business notifies Company that he/she will return to work at the end of the first six months of such absence, such employee's job shall be considered as vacant, and Company may fill it as provided in Title 205 in the case of a Division job, or as provided in Title 305 in the case of a General Construction job. When such employee returns to employment after an absence in excess of six months, such employee shall be employed in his/her former Bidding Unit or Department and former classification subject to the following: (Amended 1-1-91)
(a)	Such employee may elect to displace another employee, or, if Company offers an assignment to a job vacancy on which another employee with longer Service does not have a prebrd, the employee may elect to accept it. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	It such employee accepts such assignment, the location of such job shall thereupon become the regular headquarters. If there is no vacancy to which the employee can be assigned or elects not to accept an assignment to an existing job vacancy, placement in the Company shall be governed by Title 206 or Title 306, whichever is applicable. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	if the employee is a Division employee and elects to displace another employee, such employee shall displace that employee in his/her former Bidding Unit or Department and classification who entered such classification during the period of the “leave of absence and who has the least Service. If such displacement cannot be effected, the employee shall displace that employee in such Bidding Unit or Department and classification who has the least Service, except that the employee may not displace an employee whose Service is equal to or exceeds his/her own. If the last mentioned displacement cannot be effected, placement in the Company shall be governed by Title 206, and the job headquarters shall be the same as it was when the "leave of absence was granted. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	If he/she is an employee of General Construction and elects to displace another employee, he/she shall displace that employee in his/her classification and department of General Construction within his/her former promotion and demotion area who has the least Service, except that the employee may not displace an employee whose Service is equal to or exceeds his/her own. If this displacement cannot be effected, placement in the Company shall be governed by Title 306. (Amended 1-1-91)
7
101.8	MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE
An employee who leaves employment with Company to enter the military service or other service where reemployment rights are protected by law will be granted a "leave of absence" under the provisions of Sections 101.1 to 101-5, inclusive. Upon qualifying tor reemployment under any such law, and being reemployed the employee will be granted a further retroactive leave of absence" to cover the balance of the absence. (Amended 1-1-91)
101.9	FUNERAL LEAVE
(a)	If at all possible, a regular employee will be granted the actual time off with pay necessary to attend the funeral of a member of the immediate family, including the time the body may lie in state and the day of the funeral, and the time necessary to travel to and from the location of the funeral but not to exceed three workdays. Unused vacation or floating holidays may be granted to extend an employee's funeral leave beyond the three days Erovided for above or personal time off without pay for the time needed will be granted. The immediate family shall e limited to: an employee's spouse, parent, grandparent, grandparent-in-law, parent-in-law, child, grandchild, son-in-law, daughter- in-law, stepchild, brothers, sisters, half-brothers and half-sisters, foster parents, step-parents, aunts, uncles or an individual who was a member of the employee's immediate household at the time of death. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Consistent with the Company's operational needs, a regular employee may be granted the time off with pay necessary to attend the funerals of other persons the employee may be reasonably deemed to owe respect, but not to exceed one day.
(c)	Employees who have not attained regular status will be allowed time off without pay as provided for in (a) and (b) above.
101.10	JURY DUTY
Employees who are summoned to serve on a grand jury, trial jury, or a jury of inquest will be granted the necessary time off for this purpose under the following conditions:
(a)	Regular employees will be allowed the necessary time off with pay for jury duty which occurs within their scheduled working hours during the basic workweek. Such employees assigned to a third shift shall be rescheduled to a first shift during such a period of time at the straight rate of pay, and such employees assigned to a second shift who are required to report to the jury commissioner on a second consecutive workday or more shall be rescheduled to a first shift on a Monday-Friday basic workweek during such a period of time at the straight rate of pay. Such employees will be paid at their basic rate of pay. In the application of other provisions of this Agreement, such time off with pay for jury duty will be considered as time worked and, if dismissed by the court on any workday before the end of the employee's regular work hours, such employee shall return to work provided such dismissal occurs at least two hours before the conclusion of such hours of work. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(b)	Employees who have not attained regular status will be allowed time off without pay subject to the other provisions of (a) above.
(c)	Employees shall advise their supervisor on the workday following receipt of notice that they are required to report for jury duty service. The employee may be required to provide receipt of such notice to their supervisor. (Amended 1-1-88)
101.11	WITNESSES
Regular employees will be given the necessary time off to appear as a witness in administrative, civil or criminal cases under the following conditions:
(a)	Employees who are required to appear as witnesses on behalf of Company will be treated with respect to the provisions of this Agreement as though they were employed in their customary work.
(b)	Employees who are subpoenaed to appear in litigation in which Company has no interest and is not a party, but nonetheless involves an employee's presence as to matters arising out of and in the course of their employment with Company will be paid at their regular straight-time rate of pay for the time required to appear or testify (but not more than eight hours in any one normal workday), less any remuneration they are entitled to by law except that travel and other expenses for which they are reimbursed which are not subject to income tax will not be included when computing such remuneration.
(c)	Following dismissal of the employee-witness by the court or administrative agency on any workday before the end of the employee’s regular work hours, the employee shall return to work provided such dismissal occurs at least two hours before the conclusion of such hours of work. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	In all other instances, an employee who has been subpoenaed as a witness in any matter not provided for above will be excused from work, without pay, for the time necessaiy for such administrative or court appearance.
8
I
101.12	ADOPTION
Regular employees will be allowed up to 8 hours of time off with pay (as necessary) for court appearances in connection with child adoption procedures. Such time may be taken in increments of one hour or more. (Amended
TITLE 102.	GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
102.1	STATEMENT OF INTENT - NOTICE
The provisions of this Title have been amended and supplemented from time to time. Company and Union have now revised and consolidated this Title in its entirety to provide a concise procedure for the resolution of disputes.
It is the intent of both Company and Union that the processing of disputes through the grievance procedure will give meaning and content to the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The parties are in agreement with the policy expressed in the body of our nation's labor taws that the mutual resolution of disputes through a collectively bargained grievance procedure is the hallmark of competent industrial self-government. Therefore, apart from those matters that the parties have specifically excluded by way of Section 102.2, all disagreements shall be resolved within the scope of the grievance procedure.
Union agrees to provide grievantfs) with a copy of any settlement reached at the grievanfs last known address. Such copy shall be sent oy certified, U.S. mail, or handed to the grievant, within 30 calendar days of the signing of the settlement.
102.2	GRIEVANCE SUBJECTS
Disputes involving the following enumerated subjects shall be determined by the grievance procedures established herein:
(a)	Interpretation or application of any of the terms of this Agreement, including exhibits thereto, letters of agreement, and formal interpretations and clarifications executed by Company and Union.
(b)	Discharge, demotion, suspension or discipline of an individual employee,
(c)	Disputes as to whether a matter is proper subject for the grievance procedure.
102.3	TIME LIMITS
(a)	Filing
It is the intent of Company, Union and the employees that timely filed grievances shall be settled promptly, (i) A local grievance is timely tiled when submitted by the Union Business Representative or his/her alternate (hereinafter either is referred to as “Business Representative-) in writing on the form adopted for such purpose to the Director, HR Service Center, 245 Market Street, San Francisco or his/her alternate (hereinafter either is referred to as "Human Resources Advisor "); or (ii) a Business Manager grievance is timely filed when submitted by Union’s Business Manager to Company’s Industrial Relations Director (iii) within the following time periods: (Amended 10-1-03)
(1)	A grievance which involves the discharge of an employee must be filed not later than 14 calendar days after the employee is notified in writing of the discharge. Whether or not a grievance is filed, Company shall, at Union's request, state in writing the reasons therefore within two workdays of such request. (Amended 1-191)
(2)	A grievance which does not involve the grlevanfs discharge must be filed not later than 30 calendar days after the date of the action complained of, or the date the employee became aware of the incident which is the basis for the grievance, whichever is later. The Company shall, at Union's request, state in writing the reason for an employee's discipline, demotion or suspension within seven calendar days of receipt of such request by Union.
(3)	Business Manager grievances which may be filed pursuant to (a)(ii) above shall concern contractual interpretation matters which have system-wide or classification wide implications. Business Manager ?rievances shall not involve an employee’s discharge, demotion, discipline, promotion, demotion or transfer. (Added -1-00)
(b)	Steps One Through Five Extension of Time Limits
Either the Company or Union members of any of the Committees provided for in each of the following grievance Steps One through Five may, if they agree that further determination of fact is required, request an extension of time which may be granted by the other. In no event shall any extension by either or both parties exceed one additional time period provided for at the step where the extension is granted.
9
102.4	FINALITY
The resolution of a timely grievance at any of the steps provided herein shall be final and binding on the Company, Union and the grievant. A resolution at a step below Step Five, while final and binding, is without prejudice to the position of either party, unless mutually agreed to otherwise.
(a)	If an employee has been demoted, disciplined or dismissed from Company's service for alleged violations of a Company rule, practice or policy and Company finds upon investigation that such employee did not violate a Company rule, practice or policy as alleged, Company shall reinstate the employee and pay the employee for all time and benefits lost thereby plus interest on such reinstated pay in the amount of 71/2% annum.
(b)	In the event of a “continuing grievance" as set forth in Section 102.9 and Attachment A, a retroactive wage adjustment shall be made as provided therein.
(c)	Provided further that nothing contained herein shall restrict or inhibit the parties or the Board of Arbitration from reducing the amount of a retroactive wage adjustment to an otherwise successful grievant where, in their absolute discretion, the equities of the situation do not call for the employee to receive a full retroactive wage adjustment.
102.5	ADJUSTMENTS
Company will make a reasonable effort to effectuate remedies provided for in a grievance settlement within 30 calendar days of such settlement
102.6	STEPS
STEP ONE
SHOP STEWARDS
Except for disputes involving an employee's discharge, demotion, suspension, discipline or qualifications for promotion or transfer, the initial step in the adjustment of a grievance shall be a discussion between Union's shop steward (or grievant or Business Representative if no shop steward is assigned to the work area) and the foreman or other immediate supervisor directly involved. The foreman and shop steward may discuss the grievance with the general foreman or other supervisor of corresponding authority. The purpose of such discussion shall be to reach a satisfactory disposition of the grievance but shall not waive or delay the filing requirements set forth in Section 102.3 above. Discussions shall be at such time and place as not to interfere with the work then in progress. (Amended 1 -1 -
Shop stewards shall be employees of Company, and Union may designate as many shop stewards as it deems necessary for the proper administration of its affairs and for the administration of the provisions of this Agreement.
STEP TWO
LOCAL INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE
Immediately following the filing of a timely grievance, a Local Investigating Committee will be established. The Committee will be composed of the Human Resources Advisor, the Business Representative, the exempt supervisor whose decision is involved in the grievance, and the shop steward representing the department involved. (Amended 1-1-00)
(1)	The Human Resources Advisor and Business Representative will arrange for meetings of the Committee at times and places convenient for the persons involved. (Amended 1-1-00)
(2)	The Committee shall meet as soon as reasonably possible and shall make a full and complete investigation of all of the factors pertinent to the grievance. If necessary to gain all of the information required to resolve the grievance, the Committee may hold investigative interviews with other persons involved in the dispute. Except for good cause to the contrary, the grievant shall be permitted to be present during these interviews. The grievant wilt not be a party to the disposition of the grievance, nor is the gnevant’s concurrence required for the Committee to reach a settlement of the grievance. Grievant, however, does nave the right to point out the existence of other facts or witnesses favorable to gnevant’s case.
Notwithstanding the foregoing prohibition, with the written consent of the Union's Business Manager, or designee, the members of the Local Investigating Committee may include the grievant where such employee is also the shop steward representing the department involved in the grievance. In this limited situation, the shop steward/grievant may be a party to the disposition of the grievance. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(3)	(a) Withrin 30 calendar days following the filing of a grievance which does not concern an employee's qualifications for promotion or transfer (except as provided in the next paragraph for Inter-regional or General Office Departmental prebids or transfer applications), or the employee’s demotion, suspension or termination of employment, the Local Investigating Committee shall prepare a report of its findings, which shall include: (i) a mutually agreed-to brief narration of all the events and factors involved in the dispute, and (ii) the Committee's
10
mutually agreed-to findings with respect thereto. If the Committee has reached an agreeable disposition of the grievance, the report shairalso contain a statement to Chat effect and the reasons therefore. (Amended 1-1-88)
Inter-regional or General Office Departmental prebids or transfer applications shall be subject to the further limitation, however, that the report of the employee's present Regional or General Office Departmental Local Investigating Committee shall be forwarded within 15 calendar days from the date a report was requested by the bypassing Region or General Office Department and further, the latter Committee must dispose of the grievance, in the manner described above, no later than 15 calendar days thereafter. (Amended 1-1-88)
If the grievance is not resolved in 30 calendar days following its being timely filed, either Company or Union may request "Certification to Fact Finding" for a local grievance, or referral to the Review Committee for a Business Manager's Grievance. (Amended 1-1-00)
The referral in either event shall be accompanied by the report referred to above. The referral shall also include either an agreed-to summary or separate summaries or the reasons (facts or factors in dispute) why the Local Investigating Committee could not resolve the grievance.
If either party requests "Certification to Fact Finding," copies of the report and the request shall be forwarded to the Chairman and the Secretary of the Review Committee. If the request is not received within the seven calendar days following the expiration of time limits stated for resolution by the Local Investigating Committee, the grievance will be automatically referred to Fact Finding. Business Manager Grievances not resolved by the LIC within the time limits in Step Two(3) (a) will be automatically referred to the Review Committee. (Amended 1-1-00)
(3) (b) Within 15 calendar days following the filing of a grievance which does concern an employee's qualifications for promotion or transfer (except as provided above for Inter-regional or General Office Departmental prebids or transfer applications), or an employee's demotion, suspension or termination of employment, the Local Investigating Committee shall prepare a report of its findings as set forth in Subsection (a) above.
If such grievance is not resolved in 15 calendar days following its being timely filed, the grievance must be referred to and accepted by the Fact Finding Committee. The referral snail also include the report referred to above and either an agreed-to summary or separate summaries of the reasons (facts or factors in dispute) why the Local Investigating Committee could not resolve the grievance. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
STEP THREE
FACT FINDING COMMITTEE
The Fact Finding Committee shall be composed of the Chairman of the Review Committee or his/her designee, the Secretary of the Review Committee or his/her designee, and the Human Resources Advisor and the Business Representative involved in the preceding step. (Amended 1 -1 -00)
The Fact Finding Committee shall hold hearings or meet at such places and times as it deems necessary to resolve the grievance, rt the grievance is resolved by the Fact Finding Committee before the expiration of the 30 calendar days following the date of referral from the preceding step, the Committee shall issue an agreed-to "Memorandum of Disposition," copies of which shall be distributed to each member of the Committee and to the grievant, and such others as the Committee determines.
If the Fact Finding Committee has not settled the grievance within 30 calendar days following receipt of or acceptance of certification, it may, by mutual agreement of the Secretary and Chairman, be:
(1)	referred to arbitration; or
(2)	referred to the Region or General Office Department Joint Grievance Committee; or
(3)	referred back to the Local Investigating Committee tor further information and/or instructions as to the grounds for settlement; or
If none of the foregoing can be mutually agreed to, the complete grievance file shall be referred to the Review Committee. (Amended 1-1-88)
Region or General Office Department Joint Grievance Committee (Deleted 1-1-00)
STEP FOUR (Title Amended 1-1-00)
REVIEW COMMITTEE
The Review Committee shall consist of four representatives designated by Company's Director of Industrial Relations, one of whom shall serve as Chairman of the Committee, and four representatives designated by the Union, one of whom shall serve as Secretary of the Committee. Company will not assume payment or any expense or lost time incurred by Union members of the Review Comm ittee.
The Chairman of the Committee shall maintain an agenda of the current cases referred to the Committee. So long as there are cases pending on the agenda, the Committee shall meet at least once each calendar month.
11
These monthly meetings shall be scheduled for the fourth Thursday of each month unless the Chairman and Secretary agree to meet more often. (Amended 10-1-03)
A.	PRE-REVIEW COMMITTEE PROCEDURE
After the Industrial Relations Department receives a Business Manager's Grievance or the file from the Local Investigating Committee or Fact Finding Committee as provided for in the foregoing, four copies shall be submitted to the Union’s Business Office. Thereafter, and prior to docketing, the Chairman and the Secretary of the Review Committee shall meet at a mutually agreeable time and place for the following purposes: (Amended 1-1-00)
(i)	To allow Company to indicate whether or not it will implement the correction asked for. In the event Company takes such action, the grievance will, upon agreement of Union, be considered closed; or
(ii)	To allow Union to indicate whether or not it will summarily reject the grievance. In the event Union fakes such action, the grievance will, upon agreement of Company, be considered closed; or
(iii)	To determine whether or not the file forwarded for review contains sufficient facts to enable the Review Committee to formulate a decision. In the event it is determined the file Is incomplete, it shall forthwith, and prior to docketing, be returned to the source of referral for correction or supplementation.
(iv)	To number and docket cases not disposed of by subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) above; and
(v)	To prepare a statement of issues and to endeavor to reach a preliminary understanding of grounds for settlement.
(vi)	To appoint a Local Investigating Committee to investigate and prepare a Joint Statement of Facts for Business Manager Grievances. (Added 1-1-00)
B.	REVIEW COMMITTEE PROCEDURE
After the Pre-Review Committee meeting, referrals not disposed of shall automatically be added to the Review Committee Agenda.
(i)	Cases for which preliminary grounds for settlement have been reached in the Pre-Review Committee meeting shall have priority over other cases. The parties shall, as expeditiously as possible, determine whether the preliminary grounds are dispositive of the matter. In the event it is not, the matter shall be treated in the same manner as any other referral.
(ii)	Other referrals - Within 30 calendar days of docketing a grievance, the Company shall submit, in writing, a 'Preliminary Disposition" of all new cases placed on the Agenda. Company may have a continuance for an additional 30 calendar days or until the next Review Committee meeting, whichever is later, to submit such Preliminary Disposition.
(iii)	After receipt of the Preliminary Disposition, Union shall have 30 calendar days or until the next scheduled Review Committee meeting, whichever is later, to submit to the Company a "Counter-Preliminary Disposition."
(iv)	After receipt of Union's "Counter-Preliminary Disposition," a matter may, at the option of either party, be set over to the next scheduled Committee meeting if, in the view of either party, compromise or settlement appears possible. Within 30 calendar days thereafter or at the conclusion of the next scheduled meeting, whichever occurs later, the matter must be disposed of by mutual agreement, in writing, by one of the following methods:
(1)	Settlement.
(2)	Acceptance of Company's "Preliminary Disposition."
(3)	Acceptance of Union’s "Counter-Preliminary Disposition."
(4)	Close the Review Committee file and remove it from its Agenda by notifying the Company's Director of Industrial Relations and the Union's Business Manager that the case is "suspended. Following such notice, the Union's Business Manager and Company's Director ot Industrial Relations shall, within 15 calendar days, meet for the purpose of proposing an interim consultative disposition of the issues involved or, at their option, refer the case to an Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee as provided for pursuant to the provisions of Title 400 of the Physical Labor Agreement. (Amended 10-1-03)
If a matter so suspended has not been referred to an Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee for interim negotiations within 15 calendar days of the receipt of the case from the Review Committee and, provided further, if no other disposition is made within that time period, the case may, within five calendar days of the expiration of said 15 calendar days, be filed for arbitration pursuant to the applicable provisions of the applicable Labor Agreement then in effect between tine parties. If not filed for arbitration or if the 15-calendar-day limits are not waived as provided for hereafter, or if the grievance has not been withdrawn, the grievance shall be considered finally settled without prejudice.	•
12
If Ad Hoc Negotiations are agreed upon within the time periods provided, the Committee will meet and confer at the earliest date that can be arranged between them. The Committee will meet thereafter as often as both parties deem necessary to effect an early disposition of the issues involved. The Committee is empowered to render a final, binding disposition of the case. Such decision will be reduced to writing, signed by both Union and Company, and distributed by each to Union members and Company’s management as each deems necessary to effectuate the decision.	-
If an Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee is unable to reach a disposition of the "suspended" case within 180 days of the date the case was suspended, and if within that period of time neither party has notified the other in writing of their intent to submit said case to arbitration, then at the expiration of said 180 days, the case shall be automatically closed without prejudice, unless there is mutual agreement that the case be terminated by other means.
While "suspended," the preliminary disposition proposed by either party may, upon mutual agreement of the parties, be placed into effect anywhere without prejudice to either party. If both have submitted preliminary dispositions that provide for different methods ol resolving the issues, either or both may, by mutual agreement, be put into effect tor the purpose of determining which, if either, is mutually acceptable to the parties as a solution.
To provide a favorable atmosphere for negotiating a settlement of the issue referred to an Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee and to encourage the trial of preliminary dispositions proposed by either Company or Union, the period of "suspension* will insulate Company from additional monetary liability, if that is involved in the case, in the following manner: The Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee is empowered to mutually determine in an appropriate case, the amount of retroactive wage adjustment which will accompany its disposition of the case. In no event, however, will such period of retroactive wage adjustment exceed the period of time beginning with the date the grievance was originally filed and ending with the 30th calendar day following the date the Union notifies Company of their election to "suspend."
The period of suspension shall end, and the insulation of Company of further liability shall cease whenever either party notifies the other of its desire to submit the case to arbitration.
(5)	Referral to arbitration.
(6)	Withdrawal of the grievance by Union without prejudice.
(v)	Unless the parties mutually agree in writing to the waiver of the applicable time limitation in any specific instance, the failure to strictly comply with the time limits provided above shall result in:
(1)	Granting, at the option of the Union! of the correction sought by the grievance if Company does not submit its "Preliminary Disposition* within the time limits set forth in Item (ii) of this PartB, or
(2)	The closure of the case without adjustment and without prejudice.
(vi)	Either party may request a Review Committee hearing. Such hearing will be scheduled at the earliest time possible, but shall not delay or extend the running of time limits set forth in Part B of this Procedure.
STEP FIVE (Title Amended 1-1-00)
ARBITRATION
A. TRIPARTITE BOARD
Either Company or Union may request, within the time limits provided in the foregoing steps, that a grievance which is not settled at one of the steps provided above be submitted to arbitration.
An Arbitration Board shall be appointed on each occasion that a grievance is timely submitted to arbitration Pursuant to the foregoing provisions or this Title. The board shall be composed of two members appointed by dmpany, two members appointed by Union, and a fifth member appointed pursuant to the procedure set forth in the following Subsection B. Such fifth member shall act as Chairman or the Arbitration Board and conduct hearings and render a decision in accordance with the appropriate Submission Agreement.
B, SELECTION PROCEDURE
The parties to an arbitration proceeding will make a good faith effort to mutually agree to the selection of the Chairman. Ii they cannot, each party shall nominate two candidates from the panel established by Company and Union, Subsection C. If the parties are still unable to agree upon the selection of a Chairman, then the Chairman shall be chosen by lot from the panel names submitted.
C.	PANEL OF ARBITRATORS
1	A panel of not more titan ten arbitrators shall be established and renewed annually by the Company and the
।	Union on January 1 of that year. Each party shall have the right to name five panelists who will remain on the panel
during the calendar year.	.
I
I
13
102.7	INDIVIDUAL DISPUTE ADJUSTMENT
Pursuant to the provisions of Subsection 9(a) of the Labor Management Rotations Act of 1949, as last amended, no provision of this Title shall be construed to restrict or prohibit an individual employee or group of employees from presenting disputes to Company and to have such disputes adjusted without the intervention of Union, provided that the adjustment shall not be inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement, and that Union shall be given an opportunity to be present at such adjustment. (Amended 1-1-91)
An employee's election under this Section shall not preclude the employee's later consenting to Union's filing a grievance on his/her behalf if the employee is not satisfied with the results. Such grievance, however, must be filed within the time limits provided in Section 102.3, and such time limits are not delayed or suspended by the grievant's original choice to pursue the dispute without Union's intervention. {Amended 1 -1 -91)
Unless the employee consents to Union's later filing of a timely grievance, the procedures and grievance "steps" set forth in the foregoing Sections of this Title are not available to the employee.
102.8	ENABLING CLAUSE
By written agreement between Company and Union, other provisions may be substituted for or added to the provisions of this Title.
102.9	ATTACHMENTS
In addition to the provisions of Section 105.5 of this Agreement, the Master Apprenticeship Agreement, the Benefit Agreements, Training Agreements, and other special agreements that may be executed from time to time under Section 102.8, the provisions of this Title shall also include the following attachments which are set out elsewhere in this Agreement.
(a)	Continuing Grievances
(b)	(Deleted 1-1-94)
(Entire Title Amended 1-1-80)
Attachment A
LABOR AGREEMENT INTERPRETATION
SUBJECT:	Retroactive Wage Adjustment ~ Continuing Grievances
SECTION 102.2 - Physical Agreement
SECTION 9.2 - Clerical Agreement
For the purpose of determining the extent of a retroactive wage adjustment resulting from the submission of a continuing grievance timely filed under the applicable provisions of Section 102.2 or 9.2, the following procedure will be observed. For this purpose, a "continuing grievance" is defined as a continuing course of conduct allegedly in violation of the Labor Agreement as opposed to a single isolated and completed transaction.
1.	The period of retroactive wage adjustment shall not exceed thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date of filing such grievance in writing in the form and manner prescribed by Section 102.2 or 9.2, whichever is applicable, unless
2.	It can be established that sometime prior to filing the grievance, as provided above, the grievant requested his or her supervisor to make the same correction, during the period of that continuing course of conduct, and a supervisor of gnevant, who is authorized to make the correction, had declined to do so. The period of retroactive wage adjustment in this case (or an adjustment made pursuant to the provisions of Section 102.7 or 9.7) shall commence with the date it can be established that grievant made such request. In either event, however, if the request was made within thirty (30) calendar days of the day the alleged violation first occurred, the adjustment shall commence with the first day the violation occurred.
It is further understood and agreed that this interpretation shall in no way limit Company's right to make further wage adjustments which result from unintentional or inadvertent errors which are not alleged to be a matter of law or interpretation of the Labor Agreements.
For Union:	/s/ Ronald T. Weakley
Its Business Manager
Date: March 17,1969
For Company: /s/ I.W. Bonbright
Its Manager oflndustrial Relations
Date: March 17,1969
14
Attachment B (Deleted 1-1-94)
TITLE 103.	HOLIDAYS
103.1	HOLIDAY ENTITLEMENT
Only regular employees who are not on a “leave of absence" and who:
(a)	are paid for the workdays immediately before and after the holiday, or
(b)	are off work with permission, but without pay, tor reasons of illness or disability, on the workdays immediately before and after the holiday, or
(c)	are paid for the workday either before or after the holiday but are off work with permission without pay on the other day,
shall, except as provided in Section 1037, be entitled to have the following holidays off with pay when they fall on a workday in such employee's basic workweek:
New Year's Day
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Washington's Birthday Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day
Veterans Day Thanksgiving Day Friday after Thanksgiving Christmas Day Three Floating Holidays
(January 1)
(3rd Monday in January)
(3rd Monday in February)
(last Monday in May)
(July 4)
(1st Monday in September)
(November 11)
(4th Thursday in November)
(December 25)
(see Section 103.3)
(Amended 1-1-94)
103.2	(Deleted 1-1-88)
103.3	FLOATING HOLIDAYS
(a)	An employee may select any day as a floating holiday, except those holidays listed under Section 103.1, either during the vacation sign-up provided for in Section 111.13 or during the year. Except in emergencies, employees shall make a good faith effort to notify their supervisor at least 24 hours in advance for all floating holidays which are not scheduled in accordance with Section 111.13. A supervisor may, however, limit the number of employees in a classification at a headquarters who may be off on a floating holiday on any given day. If more employees elect a specific day as a floating holiday than can be permitted to be off on that day, the preference will be given in order of service to employees who sign up during the annual vacation sign-up. Under no circumstances may an employee with greater service "bump* an employee who has signed up for a given floating holiday earlier in the year. (Amended W-1-03)
(b)	Employees are strongly encouraged to schedule and take Floating Holidays during the calendar year in which they are granted. However, any unused Floating Holiday hours as of December 31of each year will be converted to vacation hours and will be deferred pursuant to Section 111.11(a). (Added 10-1-03)
103.4	SUNDAY HOLIDAYS
When any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the holiday. However, those employees scheduled to work on Sunday at the straignt-time rate shall observe that Sunday as a holiday and the following Monday shall not be treated as a holiday. (Amended 1-1-91)
103.5	(Deleted 1-1-91)
103.6	HOLIDAY ON EMPLOYEE'S NON-WORKDAY
H a holiday falls on a regular employee's non-workday, such employee shall be entitled to have one additional workday off with pay. Such day shall be scheduled in conjunction with the employee's next scheduled vacation under the provisions of Title 111, except that such day may be taken prior to the employee’s next scheduled vacation with the approval of the supervisor in charge. In no event shal the additional day be taken prior to the date of the holiday. By agreement between the employee and the Company, the employee may elect to take one day's pay at fire straignt-time rate lor each holiday that falls on his/her non-workday. Such election shall be exercised within ten workdays after the holiday falls on an employee’s non-workday. Tne provisions Of this Section shall not apply to part-time employees. (Amended 1-1-88)
15
103.7	WORK ON HOLIDAYS
(a)	Regular employees in the classifications listed below may be regularly scheduled to work on holidays which fall on their workdays and shall be compensated therefore as provided in Title 208. The number of such employees regularly scheduled to work on a holiday shall be kept at a minimum consistent with operational requirements. By agreement between the employee and the Company, the employee may take one additional workday off with pay
Classifications listed in Exhibits III, IV and V
Roving Operator
Water System Operator
Classifications subject to the provisions of Section 202.5.
if the Company determines that the services of an employee, who is regularly scheduled to work on a holiday, are not required on the holiday, such employee, upon being notified by Company any time prior to quitting time of such employee's workday next preceding the holiday, shall then take the holiday off with pay and the employee’s name shall be considered to be removed from the schedule for such day. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	A regular employee may be required to perform prearranged or emergency work on a holiday which falls on a workday in The employee's basic workweek in which event the employee shall, in addition to his/her noliday pay, be compensated therefore as provided in Title 208 or 308. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	(Deleted 1-1-88)
103.8	PAY FOR HOLIDAY WORK ON NON-WORKDAY
If an employee is required to work on a holiday which falls on a non-workday or on a workday outside his/her basic workweek, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation at one and one-half times the employee's straight rate of pay for all time worked on such day. (Amended 1-1-91)
103.9	HOLIDAY PAY FOR PROBATIONARY OR CASUAL EMPLOYEES
A probationary or casual employee shall not be entitled to pay for a holiday unless such employee works on such day, in which event the employee shall be paid at one and one-half times the straight rate of pay for the time so worked. (Amended 1-1-91)
103.10	(Deleted 1-1-97)
103.11	(Deleted 1-1-97)
103.12	HOLIDAY PAY-TIME CARD UPGRADE
The holiday pay of an employee, who works in other than his/her regular classification on a time card basis, shall be based on the rate of payor his/her regular classification. (Amended T-1-91)
103.13	HOLIDAY PAY - OTHER THAN TIME CARD UPGRADE
The holiday pay of an employee, who is temporarily upgraded other than on a time card basis, shall be based on the rate of pay ol the job to which the employee is temporarily upgraded. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
103.14	ERROR
ff an employee is misinformed as to his/her holiday entitlement, such employee will not be required to reimburse the Company for any excess day(s) taken if such employee pointed out the error to his/her supervisor in writing. (Amended 1-1-91)
in those cases where an employee has not pointed out the error to his/her supervisor in writing beforehand, the employee may elect to (a) reimburse the Company for the wages paid for the excess day(s), or (b) have such excess day(s) be deducted from his/her current vacation entitlement, if any, or (c) have such excess day(s) be deducted from his/her next year's holiday entitlement and if none, vacation entitlement. (Added 1-1-91)
103.15	(Deleted 1-1-94)
TITLE 104.	MEALS
104.1	* INTENT
The provisions of this Title shall be interpreted and applied in a practical manner which shall conform to the intention of the parties in negotiating with respect to meals; namely, that a comparable substitute shall be provided when employees are prevented from observing their usual and average meal practices or are prevented from eating a meal at approximately the usual time therefore.
16
I I I
I
104.2	MEALS - EMERGENCY OUTSIDE WORK HOURS AND NON-WORKDAYS - GENERAL
If Company requires an employee to perform emergency work on the employee's non-workday or wholly outside of the employee's regular work hours on workdays, it shall, if possible, provide the employee with a meal at intervals of approximately four hours for as long as such work continues, but such employee snail not be required to work more than five consecutive hours without a meal if one can be provided. This Section shall be construed not to apply to cases wherein work extends beyond regular quitting time on a workday.
104.3	MEALS - EMERGENCY PRIOR TO WORK HOURS
If Company requires an employee to perform emergency work on workdays starting two hours or more before regular work hours and such employee continues to work into regular work hours, the employee shall provide for one meal on the job and Company shall provide other meals as required by the duration of the work period, but if such emergency work starts less than two hours before regular work hours the usual meal arrangements shall prevail. If tn any of the foregoing cases Company does not give an employee an opportunity to eat a breakfast and prepare a lunch before reporting Tor work, it shall provide such meals. The meals provided for in this Section shall be eaten at approximately the usual times therefore and the usual practice relating to lunch periods on workdays shall prevail. (Amended 1-1-91)
104.4	MEALS - WORK BEYOND QUITTING TIME
If Company requires an employee to perform work for more than one hour beyond regular work hours, it shall provide the employee with a meal approximately one hour after regular quitting time and with meals at intervals thereafter of approximately four hours but not more than five hours for as long as the employee continues such work. (Amended 1-1-91)
104.5	MEALS - PREARRANGED WORK ON NON-WORKDAYS
When an employee is required to perform prearranged work on non-workdays during regular work hours the employee shall observe the lunch arrangement which prevails on his/her workdays. If such work continues after regular work hours Company shall provide the employee with meals in accordance with the provisions of Section 104.4 hereof. (Amended 1-1-91)
104.6	MEALS - PREARRANGED WORK - OUTSIDE WORK HOURS
If Company requires an employee to perform prearranged work wholly outside of regular work hours on either workdays or non-workdays such employee shall be permitted to have time off for a meal approximately four hours but not more than five hours after the employee starts work, such meal to be furnished by the employee at the employee's own expense. The time necessarily taken for any such meal up to one-half hour shall be at Company expense. (Amended 1-1-91)
104.7	MEALS - PREARRANGED WORK - EXTENDED HOURS
It prearranged work as described in Section 104.6 hereof continues after the meal provided for in said Section, Company shall provide subsequent meals at intervals thereafter of approximately four hours but not more than five hours for as long as such work continues.
104.8	MEALS - PREARRANGED WORK BEFORE REGULAR HOURS
If Company requires an employee to perform prearranged work starting two hours or more before regular work hours on workdays or non-workdays and such employee continues to work into regular work hours, the employee shall provide for one meal on the job and Company snail provide other meals as required by the duration of the work period. The meals provided for in this Section shalibe eaten at approximately the usual times therefore and the usual practice relating to lunch periods on workdays shall prevail. (Amended 1-1-91)
104.9	MEALS - REIMBURSEMENT WHEN PURCHASED
Company shall reimburse an employee for the cost of a meal under the provisions of this Title when such meals are purchased by the employee. (Amended 1-1-88)
104.10	MEALS - REIMBURSEMENT AND TIME TAKEN
(a)	Company shall pay the cost of any meal which it is required to provide under this Title, and shall consider as hours worked the time necessarily taken to consume such meal, except, however, that when a meal is taken at Company expense following dismissal from work the time allowance therefore shall be one-half hour. If an employee who is entitled to a meal under the provisions of this Title prior to work, during or upon dismissal from work does not accept such meal the employee shall nevertheless be entitled to such time allowance of one-half hour for each meal missed and meal reimbursement as provided in (b) below. The foregoing shall not apply to an employee's regular lunch period. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
17
(b)	At the employee's option. Company shall pay an allowance for any meal which it is required to provide in accordance with the following schedule:
1.	Prior to reporting to work:
(i)	Meal nearest regular starting time	$ 8.00
(ii)	Meal nearest midpoint of regular hours	$ 8.00
(irQ	Meal nearest regular quitting time	$15.00
2.	Meal following dismissal from work	$15.00
3.	Meal missed during a work period	$15.00
The allowances referred to above may be paid by separate check and shall be issued on a weekly basis.
(Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	"Regular hours, starting time, lunch period and quitting time" on a non-workday are the same as those of a workday. (Added 1-1-84)
104.11	TIME INTERVALS
In determining time intervals for the purpose of providing meals there shall not be included any travel time from an employee's home nor any time allowed for meals.
104.12	OVERTIME MEALS FOR SHIFT EMPLOYEES
The provisions of this Title shall appfy to shift employees as foltows:
(a)	The employee may arrange to have a meal purchased for herself/himself and delivered to the job. In such event, Company shall pay die cost or the meal and reasonable commercial delivery charges, if any, associated with such meal or (Amended T-1-88)
(b)	when held over from the employee's previous shift, the employee may take the meal upon dismissal from work and Company shall pay the cost of the meal and one-half hour for the time to consume such meat, or in lieu thereof, the employee may elect to receive a flat payment in accordance with the schedule set forth in 104.10(b) plus a time allowance of one-half hour, or (Amended 1-1-88)
(c)	such employee may provide the meal(s) on the job, and the Company shall pay the employee an allowance of $8.00 for each meal. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	If an employee is not assigned to shift work which requires the employee to remain on the job, the employee shall follow the same overtime meal practice as any other employee, and Ine time necessary to eat the meal shall be considered work time. (Amended 1-1-88)
104.13	SHIFT EMPLOYEES
Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, shift employees and other employees whose workday consists of eight consecutive hours shall be permitted to eat their meals during work hours and shall not be allowed additional time therefore at Company expense.
104.14	MEALS - REGULAR WORK HOURS ON WORKDAYS
Except as provided in Sections 104.3 and 104.8 hereof, nothing contained herein shall be construed to require Company to provide meals during regular work hours on workdays.
104.15	MEALS - RESIDENT EMPLOYEES
This Title shall apply to resident employees. Where Company determines that it is not practicable to provide meals on the job for resident employees, as herein provided, they shall provide their own meals and Company shall reimburse them for the cost thereof not to exceed $8.00 for each meal. (Amended 1-1-91)
TITLE 105.	SAFETY
105.1	PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS
(a)	The safety rules of the state having jurisdiction shall be observed by the parties hereto. It is recognized that the Employer has the exclusive responsibility for providing a safe and healthful workplace.
(b)	Company shall make reasonable provisions for the safety of employees in the performance of their work. It shall provide each new employee, and each employee who has transferred into an electric generating or gas compressor plant, with a safety indoctrination during the first five days of employment, which shall include, where
18
appropriate, giving such employee a copy of the Accident Prevention Rule Book and an indication of the applicable Sections therein.
(c)	Company and Union shall cooperate in promoting the realization of the responsibility of the individual employee and supervisor with regard to the prevention of accidents.	,
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-91)
105.2	PROMULGATION OF ACCIDENT PREVENTION RULES
(a)	Company reserves the right to promulgate reasonable accident prevention rules for employees and to insist on the observance of such rules. Except in emergencies, at least 14 days before a new or revised accident prevention rule is put into effect and disseminated in writing, Company shall inform Union of the substance of such rule for its comments and possible referral to the Health and Safety Committee as provided for in Section 105.3 below. (Amended 1-1-80)
(b)	Nothing in the Accident Prevention Rules is intended to conflict with applicable Federal or State heafth and safety laws, rules and regulations. In the event any applicable Federal or State health or safety rules are revised or adopted so that any provisions of the Accident Prevention Rules are in conflict therewith, such rules shall be revised as provided in Subsection (a) above.
1OS.3	HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE
(a)	Members - There shall be established immediately a Company-Union Heafth and Safety Committee consisting of not more than ten members, five of whom shall be appointed by Company's Director of Industrial Relations from among its employees and five of whom shall be appointed by Union from among its members. (Amended 10-1-03)
(b)	Purpose - The purpose of the Committee will be to further promote safe working conditions and safety awareness on the part of both supervisors and other employees; negotiate with respect to additions to or revisions of the Accident Prevention Rules; discuss serious industrial accidents where not prejudicial to the legal position of either the employee or Company, and report hazardous conditions; adjust grievances relating to any provision of this Title; and such other related agenda items as either party may request.
(c)	Chairman-Secretary - The Chairman and the Secretary of the Committee shall be appointed by the Company. The Secretary will prepare meeting agendas and keep the minutes of the meeting which will be distributed to the Committee members.
(d)	Meetings - The Committee provided for herein shall meet quarterly on the third Wednesday in the months of February, May, August, and November unless it is mutually agreed in writing to schedule any such meeting on a different date or to cancel it. (Amended 1 -1-83)
In addition to the foregoing, the Committee shall also meet on a mutually convenient date at the request of the Union's Business Manager or the Company's Director of Industrial Relations. (Amended 10-1-03)
(e)	Agenda - An agenda for each meeting shall be prepared by the Secretary and distributed to the Committee prior to each such meeting. The Committee members, the Company or the Union may submit items for discussion to the Secretary at least two weeks prior to any scheduled meeting date. Items so submitted that are within the scope of (b) above will be listed on the agenda prepared by the Secretary.
105.4	TIME
The time spent in connection with the work of this Committee by Union's Committee members who are employees of the Company shall be paid by Company, and Union shall reimburse Company for such expenditures in accordance with the provisions of the letter agreement dated July 6,1977. (Amended 1-1-80)
105.5	GRIEVANCES
(a)	Grievances concerning any provision of this Title shall be filed and processed in accordance with the provisions of Title 102-Grievance Procedure-except that: (1) prior to the discussion of such grievances at a Division Local Investigating Committee, the Union shall give Company sufficient notice so that arrangements can be made to have a Company Safety Supervisor present at me meeting to act as a consultant to any such Committee; and (2) Union's Business Manager may in lieu of Union referring such grievances to a Fact Finding Committee or the Review Committee as provided for in Title 102, upon giving 15 calendar days' written notice to Company's Director of Industrial Relations, request that such grievance be forwarded to the Committee provided for herein for inclusion on the agenda of its next quarterly meeting or request that a special meeting be called for the purpose of adjusting such grievance. The Committee may, in its discretion, conduct a hearing on any grievance forwarded to if (3) Adjustment-the decision of a majority of the members of the Committee shall be final and binding on Company, Union, and the aggrieved employee, if any, provided that this decision does not tn any way add to, disregard, or modify any of the provisions or this Agreement. The Committee in its discretion may issue written decisions in a form agreeable to the Committee in cases which have been timely referred to the Committee; or it may refer a case back to any level of the Grievance Procedure provided for in Title 102 of this Agreement, along with written instructions it may wish to issue to the Committee to which the case is referred. (Amended 10-1-03)
(b)	By written agreement, Company and Union may replace or modify the Safety Grievance Procedure provided for in Subsection (a) above at any time during the term of this Agreement. (Amendecr 1-1-80)
105.6	ELECTION OF REMEDY
(a)	The parties, in their belief that the health and safety of employees is of mutual concern to the Company, the Union and the employees, will mutually strive to resolve disputes with respect to health and safety issues. To that end Union agrees to raise ail health and safety issues with Company before availing itself of any other remedy provided by Federal or State law or regulation for the settlement of disputes over health and safety issues. Union agrees that it will, in addition, encourage any individual employee in the bargaining unit who may believe that he/she has a complaint with respect to a safety matter to exhaust these remedies before electing any individual recourse to investigate and adjust such matters as may be provided by Federal or State law or regulation. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	No employee shall be discharged for refusing to work on a job, a piece of equipment, or under conditions which present a real and apparent hazard to the employee's life or health. (Amended 1-1-80)
105.7	ELECTRICAL LIMITS
(a)	■ Except in cases of trouble and emergency work involving immediate hazard to life or property, an employee shall not work alone dangerously near energized fines of more than 600 volts.
(b)	Only qualified employees shall take clearance on electrical equipment. (Relocated 1-1-83 from 207.5)
105.8	SAFETY INSPECTION COMMITTEES
Safety Inspection Committees shall continue to function in the prevention of accidents by ascertaining unsafe working conditions and recommending measures to be taken for correction thereof. There shall be as many such Committees in each Division as may be warranted by the extent of the territory of such Division and the number of emolovees therein, but in no event shall there be less than two such Committees in any Division. Division Managers shall make appointments to the Safety Inspection Committees from among nominees selected by Union for their respective Divisions. Union shall annually provide each Division Manager with a list of ai least three nominees for each Committee; one of such nominees shall be appointed in the spring and another prior to September 7 for a term of one and one-half years. Each such Committee shall continue to be composed of three non-supervisory employees who shall be selected from different departments or shops, except that, where practical, an additional member shall be appointed from a General Construction crew which is headquartered within the physical boundaries of the Division. Committee members shall serve for three periodic inspections. The chairman of each such Committee shall be the Division employee who has served on said Committee for the two preceding inspection periods. Each Committee shall make not less than two inspections annually of Company's properties and activities in its designated territory. One of such inspections should be made between January 1 and June 30 of each year and the other of sucn inspections during the month of September prior to "Fire Week." Members of such Inspection Committees shall have time off with pay for the purpose of making said inspections and reports and shall be reimbursed by Company for expenses incurred therefore. (Amended 1-1-80)
105.9	WALK-AROUND INSPECTIONS
Union may select from among its members, individuals who shall serve as employee representatives in walk-around inspections conducted by authorized Federal or State agencies. Union shall keep Company advised as to such selectees. Time spent in such inspections by employees shall be considered and compensated for as their regularly assigned work.
105.10	INDUSTRIAL INJURY REPORTS
(a)	In the event of a serious injury or fatal accident involving any employee covered by this Agreement, Company shall notify Union as soon as possible, but not later than 24 hours after such occurrence. (Added 1-1-88)
(b)	To the extent feasible, Company shall submit a quarterly summary of all lost-time industrial injuries to Union. Such summary is to be submitted at least 15 days in advance of regularly scheduled meetings of the Company-Union Health and Safety Committee. (Amended 1-1-88)
TITLE 106.	STATUS
106.1	. EMPLOYMENT DATE
As used in this Agreement, "employment date" means the latest date on which an employee began a period of Service with Company.
20
I
106.2	COMPANY
As used tn this Title, the term "Company** shall include:
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
Standard Pacific Gas Line, Inc.
Pacific Gas Transmission Company
Alberta and Southern Gas Company
Alberta Natural Gas Company
Pacific Service Employees Association
Alaska California LNG Company
• Calaska Energy Company
Eureka Energy Company
Gas Lines, Inc.
Natural Gas Corporation
Pacific Gas Marine Company
Pacific Transmission Supply Company
(Amended 1-1-80)
106.3	SERVICE
Service is defined as the length of an employee's continuous employment since his/her Employment Date with Company, a Predecessor Company, any Company or association named in Section 106.2 above, and as provided hereafter in Section 106.4. The continuity of an employee's Service shall be deemed to be broken by termination of employment for any reason or layoffs for lack of work which is in excess of the time provided for in Subsection (a) below. The following periods of absence shall count as service for purposes of this Agreement and shall not constitute a break in service: (Amended 1-1-88)
(a)	Absences caused by layoff for (ack of work so long as such employee has been absent less than thirty continuous months. (Amended 1-1-94)
(b)	Absence on a leave of absence authorized by the Company pursuant to the provisions of Title 101 provided the employee returns to active work with Company immediately folrowing the leave of absence. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	Absence because of illness or injury as long as the employee is entitled to receive sick leave pay or is entitled to receive benefits under the provisions of the Voluntary Wage Benefit Plan, a state disability plan, the Long-Term Disability Plan, or a Workers' Compensation Law, provided that the employee returns to active work with Company immediately following recovery from the illness or injury. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(d)	Absence for military service or service in the Merchant Marine so long as the employee returns to active work with the Company within the period during which the employee's reemployment rights are protected by law. (Amended 1-1-91)
(e)	Absence for Union business pursuant to the provisions of Section 101.6.
If an employee fails to return to active work within the above time limits for any reason except death or disability, Service shall be deemed terminated as of the expiration of the time limit. (Amended 1 -1-91)
An employee who is rehired after a break in Service shall be treated as a new employee for all purposes, and Service and compensation before the break tn Service shall not be recognized for any purpose under any provisions of this Agreement. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
106.4	ACQUISITIONS
In the acquisition of another company, the Service of the employees involved in such acquisition may be established by written agreement between Company and Union.
106.5	REGULAR STATUS
(a)	Regional or General Office Departmental Employees
(1)	Regional or General Office Departmental employees shall be designated as probationary and regular, depending on the length of their Service. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(2)	New employees shall be hired as probationary employees at a daily rate of pay not less than the minimum wage established for tne classification of work to be performed. As long as a probationary employee retains such status, the employee shall not acquire any Service, or rights with respect To leave of absence, holidays, job bidding and promotion, demotion and layoff, sick leave, vacation, or similar rights and privileges. (Amended 1-1-91)
(3)	On the completion of such employee's first six months of Service which, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 106.3 above, is uninterrupted by absence lor more than a cumulative total of 30 days due To (i)
21
layoff, (ii) sickness or disability, or (iii) any other reason, a probationary employee shall be given a status of a regular employee, a definite job classification, and placed on a weekly rate. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(4)	The transfer of a probationary employee from one job to another without interruption of work time shall not be considered an "interruption" of such six months' period of Service.
(b)	General Construction
(1)	General Construction employees shall be designated as casual or regular. A regular employee who has completed less than one year of Service extended by layoffs or absences of 30 consecutive days or more, may be terminated for inadequate work performance without recourse to the grievance procedure.
(2)	A casual employee is one who is hired at a daily wage rate for an indeterminate period of time and who, regardless of length of service with Company, does not, as long as the employee retains such status, acquire any service, vacation, sick leave, leave of absence, or similar rights and privileges. (Amended 1-1-91)
(3)	When a casual employee has completed six months of service with Company at its established rates of pay, such employee shall be given the status of regular employee, provided that he/she meets Company's qualifications for continued employment. As used herein, six months of service is defined as a minimum of 115 days of work in any period of six consecutive months at the straight rate of pay, provided, however, that if by reason of absence due to inclement weather or holidays in such period an employee was prevented from working a total of 115 days, such period shall be extended by not more than the total number of days of such absence. (Amended 1-1-91)
. .	A regular employeeis one who has qualified for transfer from the status of casual employee
and whose pay has been established at a weekly wage rate.
106.6	PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT
(a)	A part-time employee is any employee whose regularly scheduled workweek is less than 40 hours. Regular part-time employees who attained part-time status on or before December 31, 1990 shall be entitled to Service and prorated vacations and sick leave based on the ratio of total straight-time hours worked in a year by the employee to the iuii-iitne equivalent hours (2,080 hours per calendar vear), unless otherwise noted. Regular pan-time employees who attained part-time status on or after January 1, 1991 shall be entitled to Service and prorated benefits, vacations and sick leave based on the ratio of total straight-time hours worked in a year by the employee to the full-time equivalent hours (2,080 hours per calendar year), unless otherwise noted. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	A part-time employee who attains regular status or a regular full-time employee who accepts part-time status on or after January 1,1991 shall be eligible to receive the following benefits:
(1)	Group Life Insurance and Long-Term Disability coverage, and Retirement Plan and Savings Fund Plan benefits as provided in the Benefit Agreement.
(2)	Medical, Dental and Vision plan coverage as provided in the Medical, Dental and Vision Benefit Agreement.
(3)	Vacation allowance as provided in Title 111, but prorated based on the ratio of total straight-time hours worked in a year to 2,080 hours.
(4)	Sick Leave as provided in Title 112, but prorated based on the ratio of straight-time hours worked in a year to 2,080 hours. Sick leave may only be taken on those days or for those hours that an employee is asked or scheduled to work and is unable to work due to illness or non-indusfrial injury.
(5)	Paid holidays when regularly scheduled to work on that day. Such holiday payment shall be in proportion to the amount of time which the employee would have worked on that day if it were not a holiday.
(Added 1-1-91)
106.7	INTERMITTENT EMPLOYEES
(a)	An intermittent employee is one who does not work any set schedule of hours per day or days per week, but who is on call to Jill in on any schedule on an as-needed basis. During sickness or vacation relief periods, however, such employee may be assigned to work the schedule and hours of the absent employee if such an assignment cannot be made pursuant to the provisions of Subsection 205.3(a) or any Relief Agreement.
(b)	Intermittent employees will attain regular status upon the completion of six months of continuous service. Continuous service is defined in Section 106 5 as being uninterrupted by (1) discharge, (2) resignation, or (3) absence for more than a cumulative total of 30 days due to (i) layoff, (ii) sickness or industrial disability, or (iii) other causes. If an employee is off for more than 30 days during a six-month period, a new six-month qualifying period will begin upon return to work. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	An intermittent employee who attains regular status or a regular employee who accepts intermittent status shall be eligible to receive the following benefits:
22
(1)	Group Lite Insurance and Long-Term Disability coverage, and Retirement Plan and Savings Fund Plan benefits as provided in the Benefit Agreement.
(2)	Medical, Dental and Vision plan coverage as provided in the Medical, Dental and Vision Benefit Agreement.
(3)	Vacation allowance as provided in Title 111, but prorated based on the ratio of total straight-time hours worked in a year to 2,080 hours.
(4)	Sick Leave as provided in Title 112, but prorated based on the ratio of total straight-time hours in a year to 2,080 hours. Sick leave may only be taken on those days and for those hours that an employee is asked or scheduled to work and is unable to work due to illness or non-industrial injury.
(5)	Paid holidays when regularly scheduled to work that day. Such holiday payment shall be in proportion to the amount of time which the employee would have worked on that day if it were not a holiday.
(Entire Subsection Amended 1-1-91)
106.8	OVERTIME
Part-time and intermittent employees shall receive the overtime rate of pay set forth in Title 208 for hours worked in excess of eight hours in a day or 40 hours in a week, or on the sixth or seventh day worked in a week or on a holiday.
106.9	PROGRESSIVE WAGE INCREASES
Part-time and intermittent employees shall receive progressive wage increases (where applicable) upon completion of 1,040 hours of work at the straight-time rate of pay at an established wage step.
106.10	LIST
As soon after the end of each calendar year as it is practicable to do so, Company will furnish Union with a list showing the name, social security number, home address, employment date, and classification of each employee calculated to the end of such year.
106.11	INFORMATION
Upon an employee's request, Company shall give such employee any information of record concerning his/her status as an employee of Company. Such requested information shall be furnished during normal business hours and as soon as practicable, but within 28 calendar days from the date of the request. (Amended 1-1-91)
106.12	TEMPORARY ADDITIONAL EMPLOYEE (Added 1-1-91)
In order to make assignments lor occasional or seasonal work, Company may hire temporary additional employees in accordance with the following conditions:
(a)	Company shall first fill all temporary vacancies pursuant to Subsection 205.3 or 305.4 wherever possible.
(b)	Temporary additional employees shall attain regular status upon the completion of 1,040 hours in any 365 day period. Temporary additional employees shall not be eligible for sick pay, holiday pay, vacation pay, insurance coverage, pension coverage or items of similar nature, except as specifically provided herein.
(c)	The utilization of any temporary additional employee shall be considered as "contracting out of work* tor the purposes of Letter Agreement 88-104, but such employees will not be considered as working in the affected department tor the purposes of Letter Agreement 88-104.
(d)	Company shall utilize temporary additional employees in place of any agency employees.
TITLE 107.	MISCELLANEOUS
107.1	ANTI-ABROGATION CLAUSE
Company shall not by reason of the execution of this Agreement (a) abrogate or reduce the scope of any present plan or rule beneficiafto employees, such as its vacation and sick leave policies or its retirement plan, or (b) reduce the wage rate of any employee covered hereby, or change the conditions of employment o' any such employee to the employee's disadvantage. The foregoing limitation shall not limit Company in making a change in a condition of employment if such change has been negotiated and agreed to by Company and Union. (Amended 1-1-91)
23
107.2	SAFETY STRAPS
Initially employees shall furnish their own safety straps, which shall conform to Company specifications. When a safety strap is worn out in Company service, or is condemned by Company, it shall be replaced at no cost to the employee.
107.3	PERSONAL TOOLS
(a)	Company will continue its practice of supplying tools and equipment to employees where it presently does so.
(b)	Company shall provide the employee a list of personal tools the employee must provide. (Such lists may be changed only by agreement between Company and Union.) When the employee cannot practicably transport such tools to and from (he job headquarters daily, Company shall provide space for the safe storage of such tools. In the event that any of these listed personal tools which have been stored on Company's premises or in a Company vehicle are destroyed or damaged by fire, storm or flood, or are stolen (subject to evidence by the employee of the theft), Company snail reimburse the employee for any such loss which is in excess of any reimbursement for the tools such employee may receive from an insurance carrier. (Amended 1-1-91)
TITLE 10S. SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS FOR INDUSTRIAL INJURY
108.1	BENEFIT DESCRIBED
(a)	When an employee is absent by reason of injury arising out of and in the course of the employment with Company which comes within the application of the Workers' Compensation and insurance Chapters of the State Labor Code, the employee shall be eligible for supplemental benefits for the duration of temporary disability. Such benefits shall commence with the first workday of absence immediately following the day of the injury. The amount of the supplemental benefit payable shall be 75 percent of an employee's basic weekly wage rate divided by five, less the sum of any payments to which the employee may be entitled under the Workers' Compensation and Insurance Chapters of the State Labor Code and benefits from the Voluntary Wage Benefit Plan which provides benefits in lieu of unemployment compensation disability benefits provided for in the California Unemployment insurance Code. (Amended 1-1 -00 to be applicable to employees sustaining injuries 1 -1 -00 or after)
(b)	Any supplemental benefits paid during the first week of disability shall be considered as a credit against disability compensation which may be retroactively due under provisions of the Workers' Compensation and Insurance Chapters of the State Labor Code. Supplemental benefits paid for the first aggregate 182 days of absence shall be considered as a credit which may be applied to any permanent disability settlement. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
108.2	LIGHT DUTY
An employee who is absent by reason of industrial disability may be returned to work and given temporary Sht duties within his/her ability to perform. The duration of any such period of temporary work shall be determined by impany. Employees shall be compensated at the rate of pay of their regular classifications while engaged in sucn temporaiyduties. (Amended 1-1-91)	.
TITLE 109.	APPRENTICESHIP TRAINING
109.1	An Apprenticeship Committee consisting of three representatives of Union and three representatives of Company shall be established. The representatives appointed by Union shall be employees of Union or employees of Company. The representatives appointed by Company shall be employees of Company, one of whom shall be designated as Charman of the Apprenticeship Committee. Company will not assume payment of any expense or lost time incurred by Union representatives of the Apprenticeship Committee.
109.2	The functions of the Apprenticeship Committee shall consist of matters relating to the entrance requirements of employees for apprenticeship training and the discussion and analysis of such subjects as methods of grading, related training, means of progression, etc. By agreement in writing, Company and union may adopt programs or plans recommended by the Apprenticeship Committee. The development and administration of apprenticeship training programs shall continue to be the responsibility of Company.
TITLE 110.	PREMIUM PAY
110.1	SHIFT DEFINITIONS
All eight hour work periods regularly scheduled to begin at 4 a.m. or thereafter but before 12 o'clock noon shall be designated as first shifts. AITeight hour work periods regularly scheduled to begin at 12 o'clock noon or thereafter but before 8 p.m. shall be designated as second shifts. All eight hour work periods regularly scheduled to begin at 8 p.m. or thereafter but before 4 am. shall be designated as third shifts.
24
110.2	AMOUNT OF SHIFT PREMIUM
(a)	No shift premium shall be paid for the first shift. An hourly premium of 41/2 percent of the weighted average straight-time rate of all employees represented by Union (rounded to the nearest full cent per hour) shall be paid for work performed in the second shift, and an hourly premium of 9 percent of the weighted average straight-time rate of all employees represented by Union (rounded to the nearest full cent per hour) shall be paid for work performed in the third shirt. An employee will be paid the shift premium, if any, in effect for such employee's regular work hours for work performed on a regular workday where all work performed is contiguous with regular work hours. An employee will be paid the shift premium, if any, in effect for the shift in progress at the time such employee reports tor work (exclusive ol travel time) when work is performed on a regular workday where such work is not contiguous with regular work hours. An employee will be paid the shift premium, if any, in effect for time worked on such employee's non-workday based on the shift in progress at the time the employee starts work (exclusive of travel time). (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	The weighted average straight-time rate referred to in Subsection (a) hereof shall be calculated annually oy adding any genera) wage increase effective on January 1 to the computed weighted average straight-time rate as of the December 31 immediately prior, except as provided for in (c) below. The effective date of any change in shift premium shall be January 1. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	When all employees represented by Union are not granted equal increases, or where the effective date is not the same, the calculation snail be computed by adding the appropriate general wage increase to the appropriate group's weekly payroll ol the month immediately prior to the effective date of the general wage increase and adding the totals of the groups together to ascertain the total weekly payroll of the groups of employees represented by the Union. The sum of those amounts should be divided by the total number of employees represented by the Union and divided by 40. (Added 1 -1 -91)
110.3	OVERTIME RATE
When a shift premium is applicable to time worked at the overtime rate of pay, the applicable multiplier shall be used in determining the applicable shift premium.
110.4	NON-WORKTIME
Shift premiums shall.be payable only for hours actually worked, and shall not be paid for non-work time such as holidays, sick leave, and vacation.
110.5	PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Shift premiums shall not be payable for work performed by part-time employees (as that term is defined in Section 106.6) who work less than eight hours per day.
110.6	DISCLAIMER
Nothing contained in Sections 110.1 to 110.5, inclusive, hereof shall be construed to modify or supersede any other provision of this Agreement with respect to hours of work, rates of pay, and working conditions.
110.7	SUNDAY PREMIUM
In addition to any other compensation due an employee, Company shall pay to ail employees regularly scheduled to work on Sunday, and who in fact work on a Sunday, an hourly premium for such work equal To the premium paid by Company for the third shift as provided in Subsection 110.2(a) of the Agreement. (Added 1-1-80)
110.8	RELIEF PREMIUM
Employees in relief classifications shall receive a premium equal to the appropriate rate of the designated classification plus $5.00 per week plus 8 times the hourly Sunday premium. (Added 1-1*91)
110.9	FIRE BRIGADE - STEAM AND NUCLEAR GENERATION
(a)	Employees who are assigned to perform fire protection and/or hazardous material emergency response duties at any work location, including training, instructing, and qualifying, and response to fire and hazardous waste spill emergencies, shall receive the following premium pay, compensated to the one-quarter hour, in addition to any other pay:
(1)	one time straight hourly rate of pay for time spent in actual fire response,
(2)	one-half time the straight hourly rate of pay for time spent in hazardous material response,
(3)	one-half time the straight hourly rate of pay for time spent in training, instructing, and
qualifying.
(b)	In the event there are more volunteers than needed, the individuals with the most seniority in the affected classifications shall be offered such assignments.
25
(c) In the event there are not a sufficient number of volunteers, the individuals with the least amount of
seniority in the affected classifications shall be assigned such duty contingent upon meeting the applicable
qualifications.
(Added 1-1-91)
TITLE 111.	VACATIONS
111.1	DEFINITIONS
(a)	Eligibility: The provisions of this Title apply only to regular employees.
(b)	A Regular Employee is an employee who has fulfilled the applicable requirements of Section 106.5 of this Agreement.
(c)	Earned Annual Vacation Allowance is the number of paid vacation days which an employee has earned in the previous calendar year. The number of paid vacation days will be determined by the straight-time days worked in the preceding calendar year and years of employment.
111.2	VACATION ALLOWANCE
(a)	A regular employee, who completes his/her first year of Service, shall be entitled to vacation with pay in accordance with the following table: (Amended 1-1-91)
Employment date: From	to inclusive	Days of Vacation
January 1	February 3	10
Februaiy 4 March 10	March 9 April 11	9 8
April 12	May 14	.	7
Mav15	June 16	6
Uurie 17	July 19	5
July 20	August 21	4
August 22	September 23	3
September 24	October 26	2
October 27	November 28	1
November 29	December 31	0
(b)	In the subsequent calendar years a regular employee shall be entitled to vacation with pay in accordance with the following table:
Subsequent Calendar Years Following Date of Employment
Workdays With Pay
2-5
6-15
10
16-21
15
22-29
30 and greater
20
25
30
(Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	(Deleted 1-1-91)
(d)	(Deleted	1-1-91)
(e)	(Deleted	1-1-91)
(f)	(Deleted	1-1-91)
111.3	SERVICE ANNIVERSARY VACATION - BONUS VACATION
(a)	In the fifth calendar year following his/her employment date and in each fifth calendar year thereafter,
Company shall grant each employee a service anniversary vacation of five workdays. A service anniversary vacation shall be in addition to the annual vacation allowance set forth in Section 111.2 above to which the employee may be otherwise entitled in that calendar year and the employee acquires no right as to all or any part of the service anniversary vacation unless the employee works in the calendar year in which it is granted. The service anniversary vacation, as herein provided, vests on the first day of each calendar year in which an employee qualifies for a service anniversary vacation, and must be taken in that calendar year. (The provisions of this Section shall not apply to part-time or intermittent employees.) (Amended 1-1-91)
26
(b)	In each of the first five calendar years following his/her employment date, an employee who has used five days or less of paid or unpaid sick leave in the preceding year shall be entitled to one day of bonus vacation in addition to any vacation allowance the employee is entitled to as set forth tn Section 111.2. An employee must complete one year of Service before becoming qualified for such day. In the tenth calendar year following an employee's employment date and in each fifth calendar year thereafter, an employee who has used 25 days or less of sick leave during the five preceding calendar years shall be entitled to five bonus days of vacation in addition to the vacation allowance the employee is entitled to as set forth in Section 111.2. In determining the number of sick days used in computing 25 days or less, no more than ten days or 80 hours will be charged to the employee in any one Ksar. The bonus vacation, as herein provided, vests on the first day of each year in which an employee qualifies for a onus vacation and must be taken in that calendar year. An employee acquires no right to all or any part of the bonus vacation unless such employee works in the calendar year in which it is granted. (The provisions of this Section shall not apply to part-time or intermittent employees.) (Amended 1 -1 -91)
111.4	PART-TIME AND INTERMITTENT REGULAR EMPLOYEES
A regular part-time or intermittent employee shall earn an annual vacation allowance as determined in the foregoing Section 111.2, but such allowance will be based on the ratio of the total straight-time hours worked by the employee in a year to 2,080 hours. (Amended 1-1-91)
111.5	FORFEITURE OF VACATION
(a)	An employee who is absent for 22 consecutive workdays or more in any calendar year by reason of leave of absence or layoff without pay for any reason, or for 110 workdays or more in any calendar year by reason of industrial disability, shall in the following calendar year forfeit for each 22 workdays of such absence 1/12th of the number of days of vacation to which the employee is entitled, to be computed to the nearest full day. An employee may, at his/her option, take the full vacation to which the employee would be otherwise entitled, in which event the employee shall receive no vacation pay for the number of days of vacation forfeited as herein determined. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	If any absence is for less than 22 consecutive workdays in duration because of leave of absence, or layoff without pay for any reason, or is for less than 110 workdays in duration because of industrial disability, an employee shall be entitled to a full vacation as provided for in Section 111.2. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(c)	Any employee who is affected under this Section shall be notified in writing, (Added 1-1-84)
(d)	The provisions of this Section do not apply to part-time employees.
111.6	VACATION ALLOWANCE WHEN LAID OFF FOR LACK OF WORK
An employee who has qualified for a vacation, and who is laid off for lack of work, shall be paid a vacation allowance under me provisions of Section 111.7. Thereafter if the employee returns to work and Service is not deemed to be broken under the provisions of Title 106, vacation allowance for the next calendar year shall be computed on the basis of 1/10th of the allowance provided lor in Section 111.2 for each 22 workdays remaining in the calendar year of the employee's return to employment (Amended 1-1-91)
111.7	TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
(a)	Any employee who terminates Service with the Company for any reason shall be paid a vacation allowance of 1/12th of his/her annual vacation for each 22 workdays worked beyond January 1 of the year in which he/she leaves the Company's service, plus any unused vacation earned in the calendar year(s) preceding severance provided the employeefs):
(1)	was first employed before December 31, 1969, and retired from the Company's service under the provisions of Company's Retirement Plan, or
(2)	was first employed after December 31,1969, or
(3)	vacation entitlement as of December 31, 1970, was calculated on the basis of the then existing provisions of Section 211.17 and Title 311 of this Agreement,
(Entire Subsection Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Any employee, other than an employee described in Subsection (a) above, whose Service with Company terminates shall, upon such termination, be paid only a vacation allowance equivalent to the unused vacation earned in the calendar year(s) preceding such termination.
111.8	HOLIDAYS DURING VACATION
If any of the holidays enumerated in Section 103.1 occurs during an employee's vacation it shall not be counted as one day of vacation. The employee shall receive pay for the holiday as such. If a holiday occurs on a non-workday in conjunction with an employee's vacation, the provisions of Section 103.6 shall be applicable. (Amended T-1-84)
27
111.9	PAY COMPUTATION
(a)	Except as otherwise provided in Subsections 111.9(b) and (c), vacation pay shall be computed at the straight rate of pay applicable to the employee's regular classification as of the time vacation is taken. (Amended
(b)	The vacation pay of an employee who works in other than his/her regular classification on a time card basis shall be based on the rate of pay of such employee's regular classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	The vacation pay of an employee who is temporarily upgraded at the time his/her vacation begins on other than a time card basis snail be based on the rate of pay of the classification to which the employee is temporarily upgraded. In no case, however, shall such upgraded rate of pay apply beyond the expiration date of the temporary upgrade. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	(Deleted 1-1-97)
111.10	SICK LEAVE
(a)	An employee shall not be required to use vacation in lieu of sick leave; provided however that (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	an employee who becomes sick or disabled while on vacation shall continue to receive vacation pay unless
(1)	the employee has been hospitalized for one day or more for which the employee otherwise would receive vacation pay; or
(2)	the employee's doctor has ordered the employee to remain in bed for two or more such days. (Amended 1-1-91)
111.11	DEFERRED VACATION
(a)	An employee may defer vacation in one year and add it to his/her vacation in the next following year, provided that the Company gives its approval thereto prior to December 1 of any year. In no event shall an employee defer vacation longer than one year, or be permitted to take more than a total of two vacation allowance years In any one vacation year, or take a vacation in advance of the year in which it is due. An employee may defer vacation in consecutive years provided that in no event shall the amount of vacation deferred exceed more than one yearns vacation allowance. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	If an employee forgoes any part of his/her vacation the Company shall pay for the time worked and, in addition, shall pay a vacation pay allowance, provided, however, that in no event shall an employee be permitted at his/her option to forego vacation tor the purpose of receiving vacation pay allowance in addition to pay for time worked. Time worked in lieu of time off for vacation shall not be considered overtime as such but shall be compensated at the rates of pay applicable to the work performed. (Amended 1-1-91)
111.12	STARTING DAY
For the purposes set forth in the following Section 111.13, vacation shall be scheduled in increments of one week or more to commence on Monday, except for an employee whose basic workweek starts on a day of the week other than Monday, where the vacation shall commence witfi the starting day of the employee's basic workweek. However, by prior arrangement with the employee's supervisor, an employee snail be allowed vacation in increments of one day or more on any day of the week, except where prohibited by operational needs or where necessary relief cannot be provided, or where tne payment of overtime to another employee would be required.
111.13	SCHEDULING
(a)	An employee desiring to use vacation during the months of January, February and March shall indicate a choice of vacation periods by the 15th day of December of the preceding year. Company shall post on appropriate bulletin boards in each headquarters a special sign-up schedule for this purpose. (Amended 1-1-91)
Not later than March 5 of each year Company shall post on appropriate bulletin boards another vacation schedule sign-up in each department in each headquarters where employees shall designate their choice of vacation periods for the months of April through December for that year. Such schedule shall be posted no later than March 15 on the appropriate headquarters' bulletin boards.	.
(b)	Regional or Department Employees Only
(1)	Company shall schedule vacations throughout the calendar year and shall prepare the annual vacation schedule on the basis of the sign-up giving effect where possible to the selection of employees in order of their Service. An employee may schedule in increments of one day or more. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(2)	To prevent undue interference with the proper and economic rendition of service to the public. Company may designate the number of employees at a headquarters, the number of employees within a classification at a headquarters or within a Bidding Area or the number of employees within a combined group of
28
classifications within a Line of Progression at a headquarters or within a Bidding Area which may be on vacation at one time. In such event there shall be a separate sign-up schedule for each such group and a vacation schedule shall be prepared for each group giving effect where possible to the selection of employees in order of their Service within the group designated. (Amended 1-1-91)
(3)	If an employee elects to divide his/her annual vacation into two or more periods on a sign-up schedule and it is possible for Company to give effect thereto, such employee shall be given preferential consideration over other employees in his/her selection of only one of such periods until all other employees within the group have indicated their first choice of a vacation period. Where more than one employee in a headquarters or group desires to divide his/her vacation into two or more periods on a sign-up schedule, there shall be subsequent sign-ups as required for selection of open periods not filled by the previous si^i-up. Sign-ups for additional periods shall be conducted in the same manner with the employee with the most Service having his/her choice of vacation periods not yet selected. In no event shall an employee be allowed more than five vacation periods of less than one week during any calendar year, exclusive of situations where an employee elects to use such vacation time in combination with other authorized time off entitlement. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(4)	Company may schedule vacation by crews in the interest of economy and efficiency of operation, in which event the vacation period for each crew shall conform as nearly as practicable to the dates selected by a majority of the crew members in the sign-up provided for herein. When vacations are scheduled by crews a member of one crew may exchange a vacation period with a member of another crew in the same classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	General Construction Employees
(1)	Company shall prepare the annual vacation schedule giving effect to the employees' selections where practicable and taking into consideration their Service. Vacations are to be scheduled in increments of one week or more, except that any employee may schedule up to five days per year in increments of one day or more. (Amended 1-1-80)
(2)	Company may schedule vacations by crews in the interest of economy and efficiency of operation.
(3)	If an employee elects to divide annual vacation into two or more periods on a sign-up schedule and it is practicable for Company to give effect thereto, such employee shall be given preferential consideration over other employees in the selection of only one of such periods. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
111.14	ERROR
If an employee is misinformed as to his/her vacation allowance, the employee will not be required to reimburse the Company for any excess day(s) taken if such employee pointed out the error to his/her supervisor in writing. In those cases where an employee has not pointed out tne error to his/her supervisor in writing before hand, the employee may elect to (a) reimburse the Company for the wages paid for the excess day(s), or (b) have such excess day(s) be deducted from his/her next year's vacation entitlement. (Amended 1-1-91)
111.15	VOLUNTARY VACATION TRANSFER
By local agreement between Company and Union, employees may voluntarily sell vacation and transfer the proceeds to an employee experiencing a medical emergency, (including a medical condition of a family member), who has insufficient leave available to cover their absence from work. In addition, and by local agreement between Company and Union, an employee may also sell vacation for the purpose of relieving personal financial difficulties experienced as a result of a medical emergency in his or her own family even though the employee may have paid leave available. (Amended 1-1-94)
111.16	UNANTICIPATED VACATION
Any combination of vacation hours, up to 16 per year, may be taken in increments of one hour or more, not to exceed six (6) consecutive hours at an employee's option. However, for employees in crew-based classifications and employees who work alone supervisory approval is required. (Added 1-1-00)	.
TITLE 112.	SICK LEAVE
112.1	QUALIFICATION AND RATE OF COMPENSATION
After completing one year of Service and for each year of Service thereafter, a regular employee shall be allowed sick (eave with pay for a total of 80 hours per calendar year. A regular part-time employee or intermittent employee shall be allowed sick leave with pay for such portion of 80 hours per calendar year as the ratio of straight-time hours worked in a year to 2,080 hours. (Amended 1-1-91)
112.2	ACCUMULATION
A regular employee, in addition to the annual sick leave allowed under the provisions of Section 112.1, shall be allowed further sick leave with pay which shall not exceed the total of unused annual sick leave in the eight years immediately preceding. (Amended 1-1-91)
29
112.3	ADDITIONAL SICK LEAVE AFTER 10 YEARS
In the calendar year in which Company anticipates that an employee may attain ten years of Service and in any calendar year thereafter, an employee whose sick leave record qualifies the employee in accordance with the formula shown below shall, upon exhausting his/her accumulated and current sick leave, be allowed additional sick leave, if needed, not to exceed 160 hours in such calendar year. (Amended 1-1-91)
(a)	For each of the preceding eight calendar years, calculate the employee's annual sick leave accrual a subtracting from 80 hours each year the hours (not exceeding 80 hours) of sick leave used in such year. , mended 1-1-91)
(b)	Total such annual sick leave accrual for the eight years involved.
(c)	If such total is 320 hours or more, the employee shall be qualified for the additional allowance.
(d)	Once the employee has qualified for such additional allowance, such additional allowance shall be
renewed in full on the first day of each succeeding calendar year.
112.4	ADDITIONAL SICK LEAVE AFTER 20 YEARS
In the calendar year in which Company anticipates that an employee may attain 20 years of Service, an employee who has qualified for additional sick leave under Section 112.3 shall, upon exhausting such additional sick leave as provided in Section 112.3, be allowed, if needed, an additional 160 hours in such calendar year. Once the employee has qualified for such additional allowance, such additional allowance shall be renewed in full on the first day ol each succeeding calendar year.
112.5	ORDER OF USE
Current sick leave shall not be applied until cumulative sick leave has been exhausted. Cumulative sick leave shall be applied in the order in which it accumulated.
112.6	HOURLY INCREMENTS
Sick leave shall be charged by the hour with no charge made for increments of iess than one liour . Such time off as that allowed for an employee’s personal medical and dental appointments shall be charged as sick leave.
112.7	HOLIDAYS
If a holiday occurs on a workday during the time an employee is absent on sick leave with pay, the employee shall receive pay for the holiday as such; and it shall not be counted as a day ol sick leave. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
112.8	ABUSE
Company may require satisfactory evidence of an employee’s illness or disability before sick leave will be granted. If an employee abuses the sick leave provisions of this Agreement by misrepresentation or falsification, the employee shall restore to Company all sick leave payments the employee received as a result of such abuse. In case of recurring offenses by the employee, Company may cancel all or any part of such employee's current and cumulative sick leave, and may treat the offense as it would any other violation of a condition of employment. Charges of alleged discrimination in the application of this Section shall be investigated by the Local Investigating Committee described in Section 102.6. (Amended 1-1-88)
112.9	TERMINATION DUE TO PHYSICAL DISABILITY
If a regular employee is required permanently to leave the Service of Company because of physical disability, the employee shall, on termination of employment, be entitled to an allowance which shall be the equivalent of the sick leave to which the employee would be entitled under the provisions of Sections 112.1, 112.2,112.3, and 112.4. (Amended 1-1-91)
112.10	LIGHT WORK
(a)	Except as provided in Section 108.2, if an employee's health or physical ability becomes impaired to such an extent that he/she cannot perform the work ol his/her classification, Company shall, if practical to do so, give such employee light work within his/her ability to perform for which he/she shall be compensated at the rate of pay established for such work. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(b)	It is Company's policy in the administration of Subsection 112.10(a) above to assign employees who are permanently partially disabled to such light work as may be available within the employee's current classification. When making such assignments within the employee’s classification, Company shall give consideration to whether or not the disability is industrially related, the employee's service, the operating requirements of the Bidding Area or Department, and the temporaiy assignments as provided in Section 108.2. For example, in the Electric Transmission and Distribution Department of the Divisions, Company will attempt to assign employees who can no longer meet the climbing requirement but who are otherwise qualified as journeymen to duties which require journeyman skills but do not require employees to climb on a regular basis. The foregoing shall not be interpreted to apply to more than one
30
journeyman, including classifications higher thereto in the normal Line of Progression, in ten in any headquarters and shall be administered on the basis of service and qualifications. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	Placement of Partially Disabled Employees: In the event an employee is disabled due to injury or illness and is returned to active payroll in a physical or clerical classification or is assigned to a classification designed for the employee with the prior written agreement of Union, the employee shall be paid in accordance with the following formula:
(1)	if the employee is returned to the classification held before the disability occurred, the rate of pay for such classification, or
(2)	if the employee has less than ten years of Service at the time of the employee's disability, the rate of pay of the classification to which assigned, or
(3)	if the employee has ten or more years of Service at the time of his or her disability; The rate of pay of the classification to which assigned plus four percent per year of Service (but not over 100 percent) times the difference between such rate of pay and the rate of pay of the employee’s regular classification immediately prior to the injury or illness which caused the employee's disability.
. An employee who returns to active payroll at a rate of pay calculated as in (3) above shall be limited to 50 percent of any general wage increase until such time as the partially disabled employee is receiving a rate of pay equal to the rate of the classification to which such employee is assigned. In no case will a partially disabled employee who is placed on the active payroll be paid less than 110 percent of such employee's current LTD rate of pay. (Added 1-1-83)	.
(d)	An employee who is disabled due to injury or illness who is able to return to active payroll and the classification held prior to such disability but is assigned to a classification with a lower rate of pay shall be entitled to the provisions as described above until such time as the employee is returned to his/her former status on an accelerated basis as provided in Sections 206.9 and 306.9. (Amended 1-1-91)
112.11	(Deleted 1-1-97)
112.12	(Deleted 1-1-97)
112.13	TIME CARD UPGRADE
The sick leave pay of an employee who works in other than his/her regular classification on a time card basis shall be based on the rate of pay of the regular classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
112.14	UPGRADE OTHER THAN TIME CARD
If an employee who is temporarily upgraded other than on a time card basis is absent by reason of illness or disability, the sick leave pay for such absence shall be based on the rate of pay of the job to which the employee is temporarily upgraded. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
112.15	RETURN FROM LTD
By written agreement between the Company and the Union and on an individual basis, an employee who qualified for and received benefits under provisions of the Long-Term Disability Plan of the Benefit Agreement between the Company and the Union may be returned to active Service.
112.16	FAMILY SICK LEAVE (Added 1-1-00)
(a)	In any calendar year, a regular full or part time employee shall be permitted to use the employee’s current available sick leave benefits, in an amount equal to the sick leave benefits that the employee would accrue for six months at his or her annual rate of entitlement, to attend to an illness of a child, parent, or spouse of the employee.
(b)	All conditions and restrictions that apply to an employee’s use of sick leave for his or her own illness shall apply to sick leave usage to attend to an illness or a child, parent, or spouse under this section.
(c)	An employee’s use of sick leave under this section does not extend the maximum period of leave to which the employee may be entitled under the California Family Rights Act or the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act.
For purpose of this section only, the following definitions shall apply:
(1)	“Child” means a biological, foster, or adopted child, a stepchild, or a legal ward.
(2)	“Parent" means a biological, foster, or adoptive parent, a stepparent, or a legal guardian.
31
PART II
REGION OR GENERAL OFFICE DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES
TITLE 200.	APPLICATION
200.1	The provisions ol Part II of this Agreement shall apply only to operation, maintenance and construction employees (including clerks in the offices of electric department foremen and technical clerks in steam and hydro generation) in each of the Compan/s geographical Divisions and Regions and the
Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations,
Materials Distribution Department,
Telecommunications Department of General Office,
Building Department of General Office,
Gas Meter Repair Plant,
Electric Meter Repair Facility,
Steam Generation Department,
Hydro Generation Department,
Nuclear Power Generation Department, and
Accounting and Computer Operations Department
(Amended 1-1-00)
Whenever the words "employee" and "employees" are used in this Part, they shall, unless otherwise noted, be construed to refer only to employees described above for whom Union is the exclusive bargaining representative. Where the context of this Part I makes it reasonable to do so, reference to "Region" or "Division" or Department" shall be construed to include and apply to the organizational units enumerated hereinabove. (Amended 1-1-88)
TITLE 201.	EXPENSES
201.1	TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS
Employees who are temporarily assigned to work at such distance from their established headquarters that it is impracticable for them to return thereto, or to their regular place of abode, shall for the duration of such assignment be allowed actual personal expenses for board and lodging and for other incidental items of expense approved in advance of the assignment, provided that they board and lodge at places designated by Company. The time spent by such employees in traveling to their temporary headquarters or their temporary place of abode at the beginning of a temporary assignment and from it at its conclusion and any expense incurred therein shall be paid by Company.
201.2	NON-WORKDAYS - EXPENSES
(a) If on their non-workdays any such employees remain at such designated places, their expenses for board and lodging on such days shall be paid by Company, but if they go elsewhere for their personal convenience, Company shall not reimburse them for any expense they incur thereby. II any such employees return to their homes for their non-workdays, including any holiday which immediately precedes or follows their non-workdays, Company at its option shall:
(1)	allow them for transportation the equivalent of any savings it realizes in their board and lodging costs, or
(2)	provide round trip transportation by Company vehicle between their temporary headquarters and their regular headquarters and pay them travel time in each direction, such travel time to be considered as time worked.
In the event that such employees board and lodge at a Company boardinghouse the allowance which may be made by reason of the savings in board and lodging costs will be based on the established charge to the employees who temporarily board and lodge at such boardinghouse.
(b> In lieu of (1) and (2) in Subsection (a) hereof and when such temporary assignment extends beyond the second consecutive workweek, except at the conclusion of such assignment, an employee may, in any succeeding workweek in which he/she does not work on a non-workday, elect to provide his/her own transportation between temporary headquarters and regular headquarters or place of abode, in which event Company shall give an allowance for actual time spent in travel time between such locations exclusive of stopovers. Such allowance snail be computed at the straight rate of pay of the employee's classification at the temporary headquarters. In addition, the employee shall be allowed transportation expense at the minimum common earner rate. (Amended 1-1-91)
201.3	LUNCH EXPENSE
(a)	Other than as provided in Subsection (b), employees who leave from and return to their established headquarters the same day shall not be reimbursed for lunch expense.
(b)	If an employee who works in an office or shop is temporarily required to be away from such work location and is thereby prevented from following his/her usual lunch arrangement Company shall reimburse the
32
employee for lunch expense if the employee had not been given notice of the temporary change prior to the close of the previous workday. (Amended 1-1-91)
201.4	MOVING EXPENSES
An employee who is required to change his/her residence from one locality to another for Company's convenience shall be reimbursed by Company for any expense the employee incurs thereby in moving his/her household goods, but no reimbursement shall be made by Company for expenses incurred by an employee in connection with a transfer which is made at the employee's request or the result of the employee's bid lor a job. (Amended 1-1-91)
201.5	TELEPHONE EXPENSES
Whenever Company requires an employee to install and maintain a telephone in his/her home the expense thereof shall be borne by Company. (Amended 1-1-91)
201.6	PERSONAL VEHICLE
An employee who is authorized by Company to use his/her personal vehicle in connection with his/her duties shall be entitled the maximum non-taxable vehicle mileage allowance allowed by the I.R.S., except that an employee covered under Standard Practice 552.3 will receive reimbursement as provideo therein. However, the application of the DMA shall not be reduced without agreement with Union. (Amended 1-1-00)
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR EMPLOYEES ATTENDING COMPANY TRAINING CLASSES
The provisions of Sections 201.1,201.2,202.4, and 202.23 shall not apply to an employee who is temporarily assigned to attend training classes at other than the employee’s regular headquarters. In such assignments, the following provisions of Sections 201.7 through 201.12 shall apply: (Amended 1-1-91)
201.7	DAILY TRAVEL
and the training location, he/she shall be given an allowance for the time involved which is in excess or the time normally taken in traveling between his/her living quarters and regular headquarters and such compensation shall be paid at the employee's regular straight rate of pay. Transportation between Irving quarters and the training location shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 201.9. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
201.8	TRAVEL AND EXPENSES - NON-COMMUTABLE LOCATION
(a)	If it is impracticable for an employee who attends training classes to return to the employee's regular headquarters or living quarters each day, Company shall, for the duration of the training assignment, provide such employee board andlodging, or. at its option, provide such employee with lodging and reimburse the employee for the reasonable cost for meals. With the advance approval of the supervisor in charge of the training classes, local transportation expense and other incidental expenses shall be paid by Company. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(b)	An allowance for reasonable travel time incurred by an employee in traveling between the employee's regular headquarters or living quarters and the training location at the beginning and at the end of the employee's training assignment shall be authorized. Such allowance shall be computed at the straight rate of pay of the employee's classification at the employee's temporary headquarters and shall also include reimbursement for reasonable cost of meals incurred while traveling. Transportation shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 201.9. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	If on an employee's non-workdays an employee remains at the training location, the employee's board and lodging on such days shall be provided by Company, or if Company does not provide board on such days, it shall authorize me employee to obtain such meals elsewhere and reimburse the employee for the reasonable costs incurred in obtaining such meals. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	If an employee elects not to utilize Company-designated board and lodging on his/her non-workdays, including any holiday which immediately precedes or follows his/her non-workdays, Company shall allow him/her for transportation the sum of $10.00 per day for each of such days. In lieu of such allowance, Company may provide transportation arrangements between the training location and the employee's living quarters or regular headquarters in accordance with Subsection 201.9(a). If such employee is scheduled to attend the training class for three consecutive weeks or more, transportation allowances under the provisions of Subsections 201 9(a), (b), or (c) will apply, commencing with the second weekend and every weekend thereafter for the duration of such scheduled attendance. (Amended 1-1-88)
201.9	TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS
In arranging transportation under the provisions of Section 201.7, and Subsections 201.8(b) and 201.8(d), Company, at its option, shall:
(a)	provide individual or group transportation by Company vehicle, or
33
(b)	authorize in advance of the assignment the use of an employee's personal vehicle, or
(c)	provide transportation by public carrier only, or In combination with other means specified in (a) above.
201.10	COMMON CARRIER
An employee who does not utilize the arrangements determined by Company under the provisions of Sections 201.7, 201.8(a) or 201.9 shall be reimbursed for travel expense at the minimum common carrier tare or its equivalent.
201.11	PERSONAL AUTOMOBILE
The provisions of Section 201.6 shall apply when an employee is authorized to use his/her personal vehicle as a means of transportation under the provisions of Subsection 201.9(b). (Amended 1-1-91)
201.12	HOURS IN TRAINING SCHOOLS
The regular hours of work of an employee on the days the employee attends training classes shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., with not more than one hour off for lunch between 11:00 am. and 2:00 p.m. When the lunch Kiriod is scheduled for less than one hour, adjustment of the hours of work to correspond thereto shall be made at e end of the afternoon work period. (Amended 1-1-91)
201.13	ENABLING CLAUSE
By written agreement between Company and Union, special provisions may be substituted for the provisions of Section 201.7 through Section 201.12, inclusive.
201.14	INTERVIEWS
An employee, who at Company request, is required to travel tor the purpose of attending an interview shall be reimbursed by Company for all reasonable costs incurred, including travel time during regular work hours on a workday, transportation or mileage rates, and board and lodging when authorized in advance. If at all possible, interviews and travel time will be scheduled on workdays during regular work hours. (Added 1 -1 -80)
TITLE 202.	HOURS
202.1	WORKWEEK AND BASIC WORKWEEK
A workweek is defined to consist of seven consecutive calendar days, and a basic workweek is defined to consist of five workdays of eight hours each. The days in the basic workweek shall be known as workdays and the other days in the workweek snail be known as non-workdays. Employees may be scheduled to work more or less than five days per week or for more or less than eight hours per day, but in any such event the basic workweek shall continue to be as herein defined.
202.2	BASIC WORKWEEK DESCRIBED	•
Except as otherwise provided herein, the basic workweek shall be from Monday through Friday, or from Tuesday through Saturday. The number of employees who shall be required to work the basic workweek of Tuesday through Saturday shall be kept at a minimum consistent with the rendition of adequate public utility service, and employees may be assigned to such workweek in rotation.
202.3	WORKWEEK CHANGES - PAYROLL PERIOD
In changing an employee's workweek, and in changing the days in an employee's basic workweek, Company shall, if possible, make any such change in a manner which will result in the employee having ten workdays at the straight rate of pay in the payroll period involved in the change.
202.4	HOURS • GENERAL RULE
In general, and except as otherwise provided herein, the regular hours of work shall be from 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 12:30 p.m. to4:30p.m., or from 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; provided, however, that the regular lunch period may be advanced or delayed one hour or less for any of the following reasons, namely, (a) when work which must necessarily be performed on facilities serving a customer of Company can most conveniently be performed during such customer's lunch period; (b) when work must necessarily be performed by reason of an interruption to utility service or other emergency having occurred; (c) when work must necessarily be performed to eliminate a hazard to life or property; (d) when the Company foreman or other supervisor ano the employees involved mutually establish a different lunch period or agree to a temporary change in the regular lunch period; or (e) when prearranged or emergency overtime work starting after 6:00 a.m. and before 7:00 a.m. results in advancing the lunch period to provide for the meal to be eaten no more than five hours after work began. A change in lunch period for any of the foregoing reasons shall not be deemed to require the payment of overtime except that if the regular lunch period is advanced or delayed for more than one hour for any of the reasons herein listed (a), (b),
34
and {c), the employees involved shall be paid at the overtime rate for work performed in the regular lunch period and may eat their lunch on Company time. (Amended 1-1-88)
202.5	HOURS - SPECIAL CASES
(a)	Transmission and Distribution: In addition to the hours and conditions outlined in Section 202.4 above, employees in the Electric Transmission and Distribution Departments and the Gas Transmission and Distribution Departments may be regularly scheduled to work the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and from 12:00 noon to 3:30 p.m. or the hours of 930 am. to 1:00 p.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. The basic workweek of employees assigned either of the regular schedule of hours listed above shall be from Monday through Friday. Company shall notify the Union of any change in hours provided for by this Subsection 30 days prior to the institution of work hours which differ from those previously in effect at a headquarters. In general, assignment to hours of other than 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. will be offered to employees in order of Service. If there are insufficient volunteers, assignments will be made on the basis of least Service.
(b)	Steam Generation Maintenance: In addition to the days of work outlined in Section 202.2 above, employees engaged in Steam Maintenance may be regularly scheduled to workdays other than Monday through Friday. Thirty aays prior to the establishment of basic workweeks other than as provided in Section 202.2 at any plant or group of plants, Company will notify Union of its plans and the means by which Company’s needs with respect to proper operation and maintenance of the plant will be met. Such means will be within the conditions already contained in this Agreement or Interpretations or Clarifications previously negotiated between the parties. For the purposes of this Section an employee who is presently a non-traveler and volunteers on a 10-4 schedule shall retain non-traveling status if the employee returns to a 5-2 schedule at the headquarters at which such employee held non-traveling status. (Amended 1-1-84)
(c)	Employees in the Pipe Line Operations Department who are engaged in maintenance work on pipe lines and in compressor stations maybe excepted from the provisions of Sections 202.2 and 202.4,
202.6	SHIFT EMPLOYEE DEFINED
When by reason of the nature of the operation of a plant or other property of Company one or more eight hour watches must be maintained therein, an employee who is assigned to duty on any of such watches shall, for tne purpose of this Agreement, be known as a shift employee. Attached hereto, marked Exhibit III, and made a part hereof is a list of the classifications which come within the foregoing definition of shift employee.
202.7	SERVICE EMPLOYEE DEFINED
An employee who is assigned to work which directly relates to the rendering of utility service to Company's customers including work on the facilities of such service, snail be known as a service employee. Attached hereto, marked Exhibit IV, and made a part hereof is a list of the classifications which come within the foregoing definition of service employee.
202.8	WORKWEEK AND HOURS - SHIFT AND SERVICE EMPLOYEES
(a)	The workweek of shift employees and service employees shall be regularly scheduled. It may start on any day of the week and at any hour of tne day. The five workdays and two non-workdays in the workweek of shift and service employees in any plant or department may be arranged in cycles of one, two or more weeks, provided that any such arrangement shall first be agreed upon by Company and Union.
(b)	When an employee whose regular work hours are 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. with half-hour for lunch is upgraded to replace a service employee whose regular work hours are either 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. or 8:30 a.m. to 5:0o p.m., the upgraded employee will work a schedule of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. during the first workweek involved in such upgrade, if such employee is needed after 4:30 p.m. during such first workweek, the employee will, nonetheless, work between 12:30 p.m. and 1:00 p.m. and be paid at the overtime rate lor all time worked after 4:30 p.m. During succeeding workweeks, the upgraded employee will work the scheduled hours of the service employee whom such upgraded employee is relieving. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	When an employee whose regular work hours are 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. is temporarily upgraded to provide extra help in a service classification, such employee shall normally retain his/her regular work hours and status as a "Day Employee." If, however, additional temporary help is needed during hours other than 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., a temporary schedule may be established by agreement between Company and Union under the provisions of Subsection (a) hereof. Such agreement shall provide whether or not the work periods involved will rotate among all the service employees in the appropriate classifications at the headquarters involved. (Amended 1-1-91)
202.9	HOURS - SHIFT AND SERVICE
The workday of service employees who report for their day's work between 12 o'clock noon and 1:00 a.m. inclusive, and the workday of shift employees shall consist of eight consecutive hours.
202.10	RESIDENT EMPLOYEE DEFINED
Employees who are employed in the classifications of Station Attendant, Water Facilities Maintenanceman, and in similar classifications shall be known as resident employees. Attached hereto, marked Exhibit V, and made a
35
part hereof is a list of the classifications which come within the foregoing definition of resident employee. (Amended 1-1-80)
202.11	WORKWEEK ANO HOURS - RESIDENT
The workweek of resident employees shall be regularly scheduled and may start on any day of the week and at any hour of the day, and the hours of work of such employees shall be regularly scheduled; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to (im It the right of Company to establish a basic workweek for resident employees other than as provided in Section 202.2 hereof, and to establish hours of work for such employees other than as provided in Section 202.4.
202.12	RELIEF RESIDENT CONDITIONS
When employees who relieve resident employees are required to spend time traveling from station to station, and between any station and their headquarters on their workdays such travel time shall be considered as hours worked, and any time spent by such employees in so traveling on their non-workdays shall be considered as overtime. In connection with such travel they shall be entitled to a vehicle mileage allowance at the mileage rates which Company may establish from time to time.
202.13	MILEAGE
From time to time Company may fix a maximum allowance which shall be paid to a resident employee who uses his/her personal vehicle in connection with his/her duties. Such maximum allowance shall be based on the average number of miles traveled by the resident employee per month in the performance of his/her work. On request of Union, Company shall provide it with the details of the computation ol any such maximum allowance. (Amended 1-1-91)
202.14	HOURS - BOARDING HOUSE EMPLOYEES
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 202.4. the eight regular hours of work of employees who are employed in boarding houses maybe spread over a period of not more than 13 hours each day.
202.15	HOURS AND WORKWEEKS - GENERAL SERVICES
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to limit the right of Company to establish a basic workweek other than as provided in Section 202.2 hereof, or to establish hours of work other than as provided in Section 202.4 hereof, lor employees assigned to work which cannot conveniently or practicably be performed at the times established by said Sections. The foregoing reservation shall be deemed to apply to such employees as janitors, warehouse, shop and garage employees. (Amended 1-1-80)
202.16	HOURS CHANGES - PUBLIC AUTHORITIES OR AGREEMENT
(a)	The regular hours of work established herein may be changed by Company at the request or direction of public authorities, provided, however, that before any sucn change is made Company shall discuss it with Union. Company shall not be required to pay overtime compensation by reason of any change made as provided in this Subsection.
(b)	Such hours of work and the basic workweek may also be changed by agreement between Company and Union.
202.17	CHANGE OF HOURS - FIRST FOUR DAYS
(a)	Company may schedule employees to work for periods of eight hours at other than their regular work hours when additional shifts are required in any of the following situations:
(1)	Emergency condition involving the maintenance, construction, or repair of plant or station equipment;
(2)	Installation of new or additional facilities of such character that work thereon cannot be completed during regular work hours or must be continuous until completed;
(3)	Conditions involving the need for the extended utilization of pipe-wrapping and meter shop facilities and work involving cleaning debris from the water intake of hydro or power plants where extra precautionary measures are required to protect such property
(4)	Conditions which require the manning of a plant or station which is normally unattended or is to be unattended upon completion.
(b)	Company shall pay overtime compensation for all work performed outside of regular work hours for the first four workdays or any such situation. On the fifth workday, provided that such day falls on an employee's regularly scheduled workday, and thereafter for the duration of any such situation. Company shall pay the straight rate of pay for work performed on workdays during the hours of work established under this Section. If any such situation extends beyond four workweeks, Company and Union may agree to rotate the assignment of employees thereto, but
36
in such event the overtime compensation herein provided for will not be paid to any employee for more than the first four workday period worked outside of regular work hours.
(c)	If an additional work period is established under this Section which would require an employee to work beyond 3:00 a.m„ the employee on such work period shall be allowed to eat on Company time approximately four hours after the starting time of the work period.
(d)	This Section shall apply only to employees whose regular work hours are between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except as provided in Section A(2) of the 202.17 Clarification. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-80)
202.18	RETURN TO REGULAR HOURS
When an employee resumes the regular schedule of work hours after discontinuance of a change made as provided in Section 202.17 hereof, the employee shall be compensated at the straight rate of pay for work performed during such employee's regular work hours on the first such workday, provided that at least eight hours has elapsed between completion of work on the former shift and reporting for work on the employee's regular schedule of work hours. If not, such employee shall be entitled to a rest period of eight consecutive hours following dismissal from work. However, the employee may nonetheless be required to report for work at any time during the first day of such change. The employee s rate of pay on such first workday shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 208.11 as though the employee had qualified for a rest period" under such Section. (Amended 1-1-91)
202.19	REGULAR HEADQUARTERS
Except as provided in Sections 202.20 to 202.23, inclusive, an employee shall report to a Company headquarters to which the employee has been regularly assigned and shall return thereto at the conclusion of the day's work. The time spent in traveling between such headquarters and the job site shall be considered as time worked. (Amended 1-1-91)
202.20	PRE-JULY 1962 EXCEPTIONS
Section 202.19 shall not apply in any area tn which on June 30,1962, it is the established practice to require employees to report for work at other than regularly established Company headquarters.
202.21	REMOTE REPORTING
(a	) When the Company determines a need for employees to report for work at other than their regularly established assigned headquarters, such employees, while assigned to such temporary assembly sites, shall report at the beginning of the workday and return thereto at the conclusion of the workday.
(b	) An assembly site is defined as a temporary reporting location for employees assigned under this Section.	.
(c	) Each employee who volunteers and is assigned to an assembly site shall receive an expense allowance which ineWes: 1) any additional parking fee and bridge tolls incurred, and 2) if the assembly site located from the headquarters is:
YEAR	(i) less than 15 miles	(«) more than 15 miles
2003	$16.50	$23.25
2004	17.25	24.25
2005	18.00	25.25
Such allowance shall be increased on each January 1 thereafter by the same percentage as the average hourly rate for Regional Physical employees is increased and rounded to the nearest 25 cents. (Amended 10-1-03)
(d	) If in the opinion of Company or Union Section 202.21 and its ’application” paragraphs are not working as intended by the parties, either party may reopen the Agreement with respect to such section and its' "application" provisions. In such case, it is the intent that Company and Union meet and agree on those measures required to correct identified Job Siting problem areas.
In the event there is an ongoing problem with staffing at an assembly site, local Company and Union representatives will meet to ascertain what the problem maybe and attempt to resolve it.
Application
1.	This shall include Gas and Electric T&D Crews and any other Department as agreed to in writing by the Union Business Managerand the Director of Industrial Relations. (Amended 10-1-03)
2.	Job Siting may be used for any combination of New Business, Reconstruction or Maintenance jobs.
3.	Job Siting shall apply only to job locations within the service area of the headquarters assigning the
work. In the event insufficient volunteers are obtained under the provisions of paragraph 4 below, volunteers from adjacent service areas may then be used.
37
4.	A volunteer sign-up list will be posted in the headquarters no less than three workdays prior to the establishment of a temporary assembly site. The sign-up sheet shall include the location of the reporting site, the classifications required and an estimate of the work period involved.
5.	Section 202.19 (Regular Headquarters) of the Agreement shall not apply to any employee who volunteers and is appointed to report directly to an assembly site.
6.	A system of rotating remote reporting assignments shall be established and reduced to writing in each department in a headquarters. If a system cannot be agreed upon, it will be resolved pursuant to Subsection 202.21(d) of the Physical Agreement.
7.	If a volunteer employee requests to be removed from the assembly site for cause, the employee shall be reassigned to the regular assigned headquarters. If an employee requests to be removed and a qualified volunteer is available, no cause is needed.
8.	Com pany shall provide for safe storage of an em ployee's tools.
9.	All Titles and Sections of the Agreement shall apply as if the employee were still at the employee's
regular assigned headquarters, except as provided below:
(i)	Section 202.19 as provided for in paragraph 5 above;
(ii)	Section 205.3 for temporary upgrades at the employee's regular assigned headquarters lasting less than one week;
(iii)	Overtime assignments at the employee's regular assigned headquarters which are an extension at either end of the regular workday;	■
(iv)	Other overtime assignments where the employee's personal tools are stored at the assembly site. Company will provide appropriate bags for employees who volunteer to transport such tools to and from their homes. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-88)
202.22	TEMPORARY HEADQUARTERS ,
Section 202.19 hereof shall not apply to employees temporarily engaged in work at locations which qualify them for the expense allowance provided for in Section 201.1 hereof Such employees, while assigned in sucn location, shall report to a designated work headquarters and shall travel to and from such established headquarters and the place where board and lodging are furnished up to 15 minutes each way on their own time. Such travel time which is in excess of 15 minutes each way shall be considered as time worked. Transportation between the location where the employees board and lodge and such designated headquarters shall be arranged for by Company.
202.23	TEMPORARY HEADQUARTERS - COMMUTING
Section 202.19 hereof shall not apply to an employee who has been temporarily assigned to work at a regularly established Company headquarters other than his/her regularly assigned work headquarters and who, by voluntary arrangement approved by the Company supervisor in charge, reports directly to such temporary headquarters. Cinder the provisions of this Section, travel to and from an employee's home and such temporary headquarters shall be considered as time worked. The provisions of Section 201.6 shall apply to the use of an employee's personal vehicle. (Amended 1-1-91)
202.24	EXCHANGE OF SHIFTS
Shift or service employees within the same classification may exchange shifts or work periods provided that any such exchange takes place within the respective workweeks of the employees involved ana does not require the payment of overtime compensation, and provided, further^ that employees within the same classification and work group whose schedules are established under the provisions of Sections 202.5, 202.11 or 202.15 may exchange workdays and/or work hours when the supervisor in charge gives approval thereto. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
TITLE 203.	INCLEMENT WEATHER PRACTICE
203.1	Regular employees who report for work on a workday, but are not required to work in the field because of inclement weather or other simitar cause, shall receive pay for the lull day. During such day they may be held pending emergency calls, and may be given first aid, safety or other instruction, or may be required to perform miscellaneous work in the yard, warehouse, or in any other sheltered location.
203.2	Probationary employees who report for work on a workday but are not required to work in the field because of inclement weather or other similar cause shall be paid only for the time they work or are held by Company, except, however, that they shall be paid compensation for not less than two hours.
203.3	If an employee, who is assigned to dual classifications on either a regular basis or a temporary basis, other than a time card basis, and who works in such dual classifications on a recurring schedule determined in advance, is not required to work by reason of inclement weather, inclement weather pay under the provisions of Sections 203.1
38
and 203.2 shall be based on the rates of pay which would have been applicable had the employee continued to work as scheduled. (Amended 1-1-91)
203.4	If an employee, who is assigned to dual classifications on either a regular basis or a temporary basis other than a time card basis, but does not work on a predetermined recurring schedule, is not required to work by reason of inclement weather the employee's inclement weather pay shall be based on tne rate of pay for the classification worked on the workday next preceding the day of absence except, however, if the classification in which the. employee would have been required to work was determined in advance, inclement weather pay shall be based on the rate of pay of such classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
203.5	The inclement weather pay of an employee who works in other than his/her regular classification on a time card basis, shall be based on the rate of pay of the regular classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
203.6	The inclement weather pay of an employee, who is temporarily upgraded other than on a time card basis, shall be based on the rate of pay or the job to which the employee is temporarily upgraded. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
TITLE 204.	WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
204.1	PAYDAY
(a)	Wages shall be paid at biweekly intervals on Fridays for a two weeks1 payroll period ending not less than four nor more than ten days prior to the pay date, provided that if the regular pay date falls on a holiday payment shall be made on the preceding workday.
(b)	Company shall make direct deposit or regular pay available to all employees. (Added 1-1-91)
204.2	WAGES - DUAL AND PROGRESSION
(a)	(Deleted 1-1-97)
(b)	An employee who has accumulated sufficient time in a classification having a time progression shall ha	to tha	rinyt	atari in ctii^h iMaecifinotinn I trMrf	ei iph	tho movimum rot-a theranf tho
lIG	IW 4< * W	livAt	M > W WP i W'V' ■	* VI <	W » VW iWV'WV W IHWKfllVIll imw viwrwii	• W U ’V
purpose of wage rate progression in a temporary classification, the time worked by an employee in other than his/her regular classification snalralso be accrued in such temporary classification. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	The "Wage Progression" of an employee who is absent on leave of absence without pay for more than ten consecutive workdays will be delayed by a period of time equivalent to such leave of absence. The “Wage Progression" of an employee in a beginning or other negotiated training classification who is absent for more than 25 consecutive workdays because of an industrial injuiy as defined in Section 108.1 or lor an illness or disability and is receiving sick leave with pay as provided for in Section 112.1, will be delayed by the period in excess of 25 consecutive workdays.
(d)	(Deleted 1-1-97)
204.3	TEMPORARY UPGRADE
When an employee is temporarily assigned to work in a classification higher than his/her regular classification such employee shall be paid for the time worked in Hie higher classification at the rate therefore, provided that such time worked is not less than two hours during the day. Such time worked may be accumulated over an eight hour period by intervals of not less than one-half hour. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
204.4	NEW CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
(a)	When Company wishes to establish temporary classifications and wages or temporarily modifies fob content for the purpose of improving efficiency of operations, Company will give Union 30 days written notice of its intention to conduct any such efficiency experiment. Upon request from Union, the parties will meet and confer during the 30-day period before implementation, thereby giving Union an opportunity to familiarize itself with the experiment. The duration of any such efficiency experiment will not exceed six months without Union's concurrence. Company will, on a weekly basis, provide Union with all data compiled or derived from such experimentation. Based on such experimentation, Company and Union may then establish permanent classifications and wages or permanently modify job content in accordance with Subsection (b) below.
(b)	Upon the written request of one party to the other, the parties agree to open discussions during the term of the Agreement to discuss additional classifications, wages therefore, and normal Lines of Progression. Upon agreement thereon by Company and Union, such changes may be implemented. (Amended 1-1-91)
204.6	WAGE RATE ON UPGRADE OR PROMOTION
Except as provided in Subsection 204.6(a) and 204.7, an employee who is regularly or temporarily assigned to a classification having a higher maximum wage rate shall be paid at the highest wage rate of the following;
(a)	the first step of the wage progression of such classification which is higher than the employee's present wage rate, or (Amended 1-1-91)
39
(b)	the wage step in the higher classification determined by the time previously accumulated in such higher classification, as provided for in Subsection 204.2(b), or	.
(c)	the top rate of pay of such higher classification if the employee has previously been demoted or displaced, pursuant to Title 206, from a classification having a higher wage rate than the classification to which the employee is assigned. (Amended 1-1-91)
204.6	WAGE RATE - ASSIGNED LOWER CLASSIFICATION
(a)	When Company appoints an employee from another Line of Progression to a beginner's classification and such employee is receiving a rate of pay less than the maximum rate of pay provided for in the beginner's classification to which the employee is appointed, such employee shall retain his/her present wage progressive step and be credited with time spent in such step but not to exceed six months toward the next progressive wage increase. The rate of pay lor the wage progressive step the employee is now in will be adjusted to the rate of pay for such corresponding step for die beginner's classification in the new Line of Progression which relates to his/her time progression and the employee shall receive further applicable increases in accordance with Subsection 204.2(b). (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	An employee who is receiving in his/her present classification a rate of pay the same or higher than the maximum rate of pay established for the classification to which he/she is being appointed shall receive the top rate of pay established for the classification to which the employee is being appointed. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	When Company appoints an employee from a classification covered under the Clerical Labor Agreement to a beginner's cfassification covered under this Agreement, such employee shall be paid at the first step of the wage progression of the new classification which is higher than the employee's present wage rate. (Amended
(dl Employees who have received notice of displacement and vacate their base position by successful bid, transfer or who are displaced into a lower paying position will maintain their rate of pay for up to three years or until such time as the rate of pay in the new position is equal to or greater than that of the employee’s frozen rate of pay, whichever comes first. If at the end of three years, an employee is still paid above the top of the rate for the classification held, the employee will be placed at the fop of the rate for that classification. During the time that an employee's pay remains above the wage range of the position into which he/she bid, the employee will not receive General Wage increases or Progressive Wage Increases. (Added 1-100)
204.7	APPRENTICE WAGE RATES
(a)	In each instance, except as provided in Subsection (b), when an employee is appointed to fill a vacancy in an apprentice classification for the first time, such employee shall be placed at the beginning rate in such apprentice classification.
(b)	Based on Company and Union written agreement and the employee's current knowledge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability which relate directly to prior performance or journeyman duties and which supplant need for training in an apprenticeship, the employee may be placed in a wage step above the beginning rate. (Added 1-1-80)
TITLE 205.	JOB BIDDING, PROMOTION AND TRANSFER
205.1	INTENT
(a)	The provisions of this Title shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with the parties' purpose and intent in negotiating the job bidding, transfer^ and promotion procedures contained herein, namely that when employees are qualified by knowledge, skill and efficiency and are physically able to perform the duties of a job, the employee with the greatest Service snail receive preference in accordance with the sequence of consideration outlined in Subsection 205.5(b), and Section 205.7 for an appointment to fill a vacancy, and that Company shall endeavor to expedite the filling of job vacancies. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	In filling vacancies In classifications described in Section 200.1, Company shall observe the above-stated purpose and intent in applying the provisions of this Title and the related provisions of Title 206, "Demotion and Layoff Procedure." Any alleged arbitrary or discriminatory disregard of this policy shall be subject to review under the grievance procedure. (Amended 1-1-88)
I	(c) A vacancy created by an employee's absence on "leave" or by reason of industrial disability shall be
1 deemed to be a temporary vacancy. (Added 1-1-88)
I 205.2 PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES
I	A probationary employee shall not be entitled to consideration under the provisions of this Title or Title 206.
40
205.3	FILLING TEMPORARY VACANCIES
(a)	Whenever a vacancy occurs in any job classification, Company may temporarily fill it by assignment. In making temporary assignments to fill job vacancies, Company snail first consider employees in Relief classifications, and then, when practicable, consider the employees at the headquarters in which the job vacancy exists in the order of their preferential consideration under Section 205.7. The foregoing shall apply whether or not the vacancy is one which must be filled on a regular basis.
(b)	If the vacancy cannot be filled as outlined in (a) above, and if there is no next lower classification in the headquarters, and the temporary vacancy is for more than one week, and the Company still desires to fill the temporary vacancy, the senior qualified prebidder within the Bidding Unit residing within a commutable distance (30 miles or 45 minutes road time) from the temporaiy headquarters shall be offered the vacancy. (Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	Except in limited circumstances where the requirement is justified, temporary vacancies shall only be filled by employees who have qualified for such promotion in the same manner as would be required if the employee were to fill the job vacancy on a permanent basis. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
205.4	PREBID PROCEDURE
Any regular employee of Company may submit a prebid on any existing job classification and headquarters for which the employee desires consideration in accordance with the following procedure provided the employee does not exceed a combined maximum number of 150 prebids and transfers. This maximum will not apply to employees subject to the provisions of Title 206. (Amended 10-1-03)
(a)	Eligibility: To be valid, an employee's prebid must be entitled to preferential consideration under the provisions of Section 205.7. A list of existing classifications by headquarters with appropriate prebtd numbers Is available in each headquarters where employees in the bargaining unit regularly report for work. (Amended 1 -1 -83)
(b)	Forms: Prebids must be submitted on the form provided by Company or via Bid Express, the telephone input system. (Amended 1 -1 -94)
(c)	Mail: Prebids may be submitted to Company by either United States or Company mail.
(d)	Timeliness: Company shall not consider any prebid which was received by Company less than
eight calendar days prior to the date the fully authorized job vacancy report was received ano date stamped by the Human Resources Department to fill a job vacancy in the classification and headquarters on which the prebia was made. Only those prebids valid as of the date stamped on the job vacancy report will be considered to fill such vacancy Subsequent prebids may be considered only after that list has been exhausted. At that point where there are no qualified prebids on file. Company may fill the job at its discretion under the provisions of Section 205.13. (Amended 10-1-03)
(e)	Date of Receipt: The date of receipt will be the date of the U.S. postmark if legible. If such postmark is illegible or if the prebid is submitted by Company mail, the date of receipt will be the Industrial Relations' date stamp.
(f)	Acknowledgment: Company will acknowledge receipt of all prebids within 15 calendar days from the date of receipt and without rejecting the prebid notify the employee in writing (via e-mail for employees who submitted prebids via e-mail) of any known reason which might preclude the employee's filling the classification on which the employee has submitted a prebid, including information regarding testing programs which must be completed. Information on whether or not an employee has completed such programs is available from the employee’s Human Resources Department. (Amended 10-1-03)
(g)	Cancellation of Prebids: Prebids are valid for a period of one year from the date of receipt or until such time as the employee changes classification and/or headquarters, or until such time as the employee rejects an appointment to the classification and headquarters (and shift, if appropriate) on which the prebid was made. Company will notify an employee of the cancellation of employee's prebids as indicated below. Cancellation shall be effective as follows:
(1)	at the expiration of one year from the date of the prebid and after 15 calendar days' advance notice from Company,
(2)	upon the employee's declining an appointment to the classification and headquarters on which tie prebid was submitted, (Amended 1-1-88)
(3)	30 calendar days after any employee's change of headquarters or classification which does
not affect his or her status as a prebidder, and after 15 calendar days' advance notice from Company,
(4)	immediately upon an employee's change of classification and/or headquarters which affects his or her status as a prebidder,
(5)	immediately upon receipt of authorization from an employee to cancel a prebid, or
(6)	upon receipt of authorization from the local Human Resources Department to cancel prebids because a job is deleted from the directory or an employee improperly designates rights, as provided in Section
41
206.9, with notification to the employee by the local Human Resources Department of such cancellation. In the latter cases, the employee's prebid will be given the appropriate 205.7 consideration for 15 calendar days from the time the local Human Resources Department notifies employee of such cancellation. (Amended 1-1-88)
(h)	New Jobs ait a Headquarters: The Company shall post, on all bulletin boards throughout the System, a notice describing all new classifications at existing headquarters or any job at a new headquarters in the Company, on the first or fifteenth of any month, as soon as such jobs are authorized to be filled. Such notice shall remain posted until the next Directory listing the new classification is posted on the bulletin board, but not less than 15 days. If no prebids are received 18 days after the date shown on the notice, or at the point there are no qualified bids on file, Company will have 60 days to fill the vacancy under the provisions of Section 205.13. (Amended 1-1-88)
(i)	An employee who is the senior, qualified bidder to more than one vacancy, which is currently being filled, shall be given the option of accepting the classification and headquarters desired. (Added 1-1-88)
(j)	Prebid Directory: The Company shall identify all prebidable classifications covered under the Physical and Clerical Agreements. Such identification'shall include tne location, function and prebid number. (Added 1-1-91)
(k)	Accepting Job Offer: An employee will be expected to provide a response by the next business day if s/he is offered a position that wifi not result m the employee needing to relocate his/her residence,
An employee will be expected to reply within 48 hours of receiving a job offer request when accepting the offered position will result In the employee needing to relocate his/her residence. Under certain circumstances of hardship or operational needs, the supervisor offering the position may grant up to 72 hours for the employee to respond. Further, based on operational needs, an employee may be granted the use of a floating holiday or vacation day to assist in determining whether or not to accept a job offer. Failure to respond in the aforementioned time frame will cause the employees bid to forfeit.
An employee who is scheduled to go on vacation is encouraged to voluntarily leave a phone number with his/her supervisor at which s/he can be reached if a job offer is extended. As an alternative, an employee may voluntarily leave his/her supervisor a prioritized list of vacancies s/he will accept if offered a position. This list will expire after the vacation period is ended. In no case will an employee be bypassed for an offer due to being on vacation. (Added 10-1-03)
205.5	FILLING BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATIONS
Whenever Company intends to fill a beginner's classification, Company shall fill it in the following sequence:
(a)	Transfers made by regular employees who are entitled to preferential consideration under Section 206.9.
(b)	Priority 1 vacancies as defined in Exhibit VII shall be filled by employees entitled to consideration pursuant to Title 600. When a vacancy occurs and a Priority 1 Transfer is on file, awards shall be made under 205.7(b) to employees with at least one of year service, giving consideration to the employee with the greatest Service on a system-wide basis. If a Priority 1 award is not made, the vacancy shall be filled as provided for Tn (c) or (d) below. When a Priority 1 classification is newly established at a headquarters, Company shall post the vacancy as provided by 205.4(h). (Priority 1 status transfer.) (Amended 10-1-03)
If a vacancy in a beginner's classification is not filled in accordance with the provisions of (a) and (b) above, it will be filled in the following manner:
(c)	Company shall make unrestricted appointments in filling one-half of the vacancies in beginner’s classifications. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	In making appointments to fill the remaining one-half of the vacancies in beginner's classifications in each Line of Progression in a given headquarters, Company shall give preferential consideration to regular physical and clerical employees with at least one year of service, unless transferring to a part-time classification with a higher wage rate or from a part-time position to a full-time position, who have previously requested in writing a transfer to fill such vacancies. An employee who is the senior, qualified transferee to more than one vacancy, which is currently being filled, shall be given the option of accepting the classification and headquarters desired. Preference for appointment shall be given to the employee in each classification who has the greatest Service in the following sequence: (Amended 10-1-03)
(1)	To such physical and clerical employees in the Bidding Unit where the vacancy exists. (Priority 2 status transfer) (Amended 1-1-91)
(2)	To any other such physical or clerical employees. (Priority 3 status transfer)
The provisions of this Subsection shall be applicable to a beginner's classification in a Line of Progression at a headquarters where a transfer application for such vacancy is on file and the number of unrestricted appointments under provisions of Subsection 205.5(c) exceeds transfers.
42
All transfer requests must be submitted by United States or Company mail on a form provided by Company. Transfer requests also may be submitted via Bid Express, the telephone input system. The date of receipt shall be the postmark date if delivered by U.S. Mail, or Industrial Relations date stamp if delivered by Company mail or if the U.S. postmark is illegible. In no event shall the Company consider any transfer application which was received by Company less then eight calendar days prior to the established control date. The control date is first established on the date the fully authorized personnel requisition is received and date stamped by the local Human Resources Department to fill a job vacancy in the classification and headquarters on which the transfer application was made. If the transfer listing is exhausted without a successful candidate, a new control date will be established. This new control date will be the date of the decline or. bypass of the last transfer applicant. Transfers which were not timely under the original control date but were received eight days prior to the new control date will then be given consideration. If the vacancy cannot then be filled by transfer, it may be filled by unrestricted appointment - no transfers on file. (Amended 1-1-94)
(e)	Company shall acknowledge receipt of all transfer applications within 15 calendar days from date of receipt and, without rejecting such applications, notify in writing (via e-mail for employees who submitted transfers via e-mail) an employee who submits a transfer application of any known reason which might preclude the employee from tilling the classification on which the employee has submitted a transfer application, including information regarding testing programs which must be completed. Information on whether or not an employee has completed such programs is available from the employee's Human Resources Department. (Amended 10-14)3)
(f)	Within ten calendar days after the first of each month. Company shall, within each Bidding Unit or Department, provide Union information on beginning job vacancies that have been filled the previous month as follows: (Amended 1-1-91)
(1)	Name of individual, social security number, employment date and classification.
(2)	Classification of vacancy filled.
(3)	Department and Headquarters of vacancy filled.
(4)	Date vacancy filled.
(5)	Show whether vacancy is regular or part-time.
(6)	Show whether vacancy is filled by transfer, new hire or new hire - no transfers on file.
(g)	Attached hereto, made a part hereof and marked Exhibit VII, is a list of such beginner's classifications. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-84)
(h)	Cancellation of Transfers; Applications for Transfer are valid for a period of one year from the date of receipt or until such time as the employee changes classification and/or headquarters, or until such time as the employee rejects an appointment to the classification and headquarters on which the transfer application was made. Company will notify an employee of the cancellation of employee's applications for transfer as indicated below. Cancellations shall be effective as follows:
(1)	At the expiration of one year from the date of the transfer and after 15 calendar days advance notice from Company,
(2)	Upon the employee's declining an appointment to the classification and headquarters on which the transfer was submitted, (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(3)	30 calendar days after any employee's change of headquarters or classification, which does
not affect his or her priority status as a transfer, and after 15 calendar days advance notice from Company,
(4)	Immediately upon an employee's change of classification and/or headquarters which affects his or her priority status as a transfer,	.
(5)	Immediately upon receipt of authorization from an employee to cancel a transfer, or
(6)	Upon receipt of authorization from the local Human Resources Department to cancel transfers because a job is deleted from the directory or an employee improperly designates rights, as provided in Section 206.9 with notification to the employee by the local Human Resources Department of such cancellation. In the latter cases the employee's transfer will be given the appropriate consideration for 15 calendar days from the date of notification. (Amended 1-1-91)
(i)	Accepting Job Offer: An employee will be expected to provide a response by the next business day if s/he is offered a position that will not result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence.
An employee will be expected to reply within 48 hours of receiving a job offer request when accepting the offered position will result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence. Under certain circumstances of hardship or operational needs, the supervisor offering the position may grant up to 72 hours for the employee to respond. Further, based on operational needs, an employee may be granted the use of a floating holiday or vacation day to assist in determining whether or not to accept a job offer. Failure to respond in the aforementioned time frame will cause the employee s bid to forfeit.
43
An employee who is scheduled to go on vacation is encouraged to voluntarily leave a phone number with his/her supervisor at which s/he can be reached if a job offer is extended. As an alternative, an employee may voluntarily leave his/her supervisor a prioritized list of vacancies s/he will accept if offered a position. This list will expire after the vacation period is ended. In no case will an employee be bypassed for an offer due to being on vacation. (Added 10-1-03)
205.6	POSTBIDDING PROCEDURE {Deleted 1-1-88)
205.6	FORFEITURE
If an employee is the senior qualified bidder for a job vacancy and turns down a bona fide offer for such vacancy, such employee's prebid or transfer application on such vacancy shall be canceled Such employee’s prebid or transfer application to such classification and headquarters need not be considered for a period of six months. Exceptions to the aforementioned will be as follows:
(a)	Such employee shall retain rights to consideration for appointment under Section 205.13; and
(b)	An employee who after declining a bona fide offer to a vacancy at a given headquarters attains preferential bidding rights under Title 206 shall not De subject to the provisions of this Section. {Amended 1-1-91)
(c)	Employees bidding to System Operator classifications. (Added 1 -1 -91)
205.7	SEQUENCE OF CONSIDERATION
Whenever a vacancy occurs in any job classification which the Company intends to fill on a regular basis, Company shall fill it by award as soon as practicable. Prebids on any job covered by this Subsection shall be given preferential consideration in the following sequence:
(a)	Bids made by employees who are entitled to preferential consideration under Section 206.9.
(b)	Bids made by regular full-time employees in the Bidding Unit in which the vacancy exists who are:
-	in the same classification as that in which the job vacancy exists, or
-	in classifications which are higher thereto in the Lines of Progression as shown in Title 600, or
-	at the top rate of pay ol the next lower classification in the normal Line of Progression, except as otherwise provided in any applicable apprenticeship agreement.
(c)	Bids made by regular employees who are:
-	in the same classification as that in which the job vacancy exists, or
-	in classifications which are higher thereto in the Lines of Progression as shown in Title 600, or
■	- at the top rate of pay of the next lower classification in the normal Line of Progression,
except as otherwise provided in any applicable apprenticeship agreement.
(d)	Bids made by any regular employee in the physical or clerical bargaining unit within the Company.
(e)	Bids made by any regular employee of Company. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-88)
205.8	(Deleted 1-1-88)
205.9	PREFERENCE BY LENGTH OF SERVICE
(a)	When employees in the same preferential sequence as provided in Section 205.7 are each qualified by knowledge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability for appointment to a job, the bid of the employee with the greatesfService shall be given preference for appointment. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(b)	In the event a conflict arises as to seniority between two (2) or more employees whose seniority date is the same, the following will be the sequence of consideration for the purpose of a tie-breaker:
(1)	any prior service as a Company employee shall be taken into consideration and the employee whose prior service is greater shall be deemed to have the greater seniority;
(2)	the employee who first successfully completed all preemployment tests shall be deemed to have the greater seniority;	’
(3)	the employee whose application was first filed with the Company will be deemed to have the greater seniority; or
44
(4)	the parties will determine which employee is deemed to have the greater seniority by a mutually agreed-upon method of chance, such as a coin flip. (Added 1-1-88)
(c)	In the implementation of Title 206, the parties may agree to a process different than the above. (Added 10-1-03)
205.10	TIME LIMITS ON BIDDING
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Title, Company shall not give consideration to any application for transfer or prebid submitted by an employee who has changed Unes of Progression within the preceding 12 calendar months or who has entered a training classification within tne preceding 1z calendar months, if the consideration of such application for transfer or prebid would result in such employee returning to his or her last previous Line of Progression. Training classification is defined as a classification for which there exists a negotiated training program. (Amended 1-1-91)
205.11	BYPASS FOR LACK OF QUALIFICATIONS
(a)	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Title, Company may reject the bid of any employee who does not possess the knowledge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability required for the job on which the bid is made. Additionally, the bid of an employee to a classification having a higher maximum wage rate will be rejected if the employee has been under active counseling tor poor work performance during the previous 12 months. Active counseling for the purpose of this Section is defined as: during the previous twelve month period (1) two or more instances in which the employee has received written reminders, (2) a decision-making leave or (3) a demotion with cause. (Amended 1-1-S4)
(b)	Company may give tests to assist in determining an employee's qualifications. By written agreement, Company and Union may adopt testing programs for determining employee's qualifications for promotion. An employee's failure to pass such fests in accordance with a Company and Union-approved program shall result in rejection of the employee's bid without further consideration. The employee shall nave the nght to review the examination and the correct answers unless there are no alternate versions of the examination, in which event the employee can review the examination without the correct answers. Any review shall be conducted with a management employee. (Amended 1-1-91)
205.12	DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS VIII and IX
(a)	Attached hereto, made a part hereof, and marked Exhibit VIII, is a list entitled "Job Comparisons" in which are listed certain classifications in General Construction, and opposite each, the classification in the Region or General Office Department which is deemed the same as the former for the purpose of Section 205.7. (Amended 1*1*88)
(b)	Attached hereto, made a part hereof, and marked Exhibit fX, is a list of "Classifications" in the different departments which are considered as the same for the purposes of Sections 205.7 and 206.4. (Amended 1-1-88)
(c)	Upon written agreement thereon by Company and Union, additions, deletions or any other change may be made or substituted to tne following exhibits:
Exhibit VII - Beginner's Classification
Exhibit VIII - Job Comparisons
Exhibit IX - Same Classifications	.
205.13	APPOINTMENT TO UNBID VACANCY
(a)	If Company does not within the time provided in Section 205.4 hereof receive any bids on a job which has been authorized for filling, or does not receive a bid from an employee who possesses the qualifications set forth in Section 205.11 hereof, it may in its discretion make a final appointment to such job. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	When an apprentice or a journeyman classification is to be filled, the negotiated Qualifying Examination shall be given to employees, applicants, or new hires entering the classification. In the absence of a Journeyman Qualifying Examination, the appropriate Apprenticeship or Training Qualifying Examination shall be given. (Added 1-1-88)	.
205.14	WORKING FOREMAN OR LEAD CLASSIFICATIONS
(a)	In making an appointment to fill a job vacancy in a classification involving personal contact by the employee with the public, or a technical classification, or a classification in which an employee must exercise supervisory duties, Company shall consider bids of employees submitted as herein provided, out Company may nevertheless make an appointment to fill such vacancy on the basis of ability and personal qualifications.
(b)	In making an appointment to fill a vacancy in a classification in which an employee must exercise supervisory duties, Company, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 205.7, shall give preferential consideration to
45
the bids submitted by employees who have a combined total of one year or more of experience in the journeyman classification or classifications higher thereto in the normal Line of Progression.
205.15	NOTIFICATION TO UNION OF BYPASS
When an employee is to be appointed to fill a job vacancy in preference to an employee with greater Service, [jrovided in Section 205.7, Company shall notify Union of the decision prior to sucn appointment. (Amended
205.16	RIGHTS TO GRIEVANCE
Any employee aggrieved by Company's application and interpretation of the job bidding and promotion policies established herein may thereon invoke the grievance procedure of this Agreement.
205.17	APPOINTMENT DUE TO URGENT NECESSITY
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Title, Company by agreement with Union, may appoint, to fill a job vacancy, any employe who requests such appointment for reasons of urgent necessity, such as impairment of the employee s health or that of a member of the employee's family, or the lack of adequate educational facilities for the employee’s children in the locality in which the employee has been employed, provided, however, that an appointment shall not be made hereunder to a classification which has a wage rate higher than the classification of the employee who requests the transfer. For consideration under this Section, an employee shall submit to the Company, by united States mail, a letter outlining reasons for such request in accordance with Letter Agreement 91-99 (See Exhibit XIII - Procedures to be Utilized in Connection with Hardship Transfers.) When a vacancy occurs at a location that could alleviate the employee's problem, Company and Union may agree in writing to the appointment of the employee to such vacancy. (Amended 1 -1 -94)
205.16	EXCHANGE OF HEADQUARTERS
Company, by written agreement with Union, may consent to an exchange of headquarters between employees in the same classification and Une of Progression without reference to the foregoing provisions of this Title.
205.	19 ENABLING CLAUSE
By written agreement between Company and Union, other provisions may be substituted for the provisions of this Title.
205.	20 POSTING OF JOB AWARDS
(a) (Deleted 1-1-88)
Company shall post biweekly on the bulletin boards in each headquarters within the system a list of all ob awards made through prebids and through transfers since the last list was posted. Such list will include the ob vacancy number (where appropriate) and headquarters, the appointed employee's name and Service, and the Agreement Section relied upon tor the award. (Amended 1-1-88)
205.	21 TOP RATE OF PAY OF THE NEXT LOWER CLASSIFICATION
For the purpose of clarification, the lop rate of pay of the next lower classification'' is defined as the top wage rate of that classification which has the lowest maximum wage rate of the group of classifications combined and indicated as the next lower to any particular higher classification.
To be entitled to preferential consideration under Subsection 205.7(b) or (c), except as otherwise provided in any applicable apprenticeship agreement, an employee receiving the "top rate of pay of the next lower classification" as defined above must have worked in such listed "next lower classifications,'’ or the "same or higher classifications" for a period of time equal to or greater than the time required to progress from the starting wage rate to the top wage rate for that "next lower classification" having the lowest maximum wage rate.
Where a clerical classification is among a group of classifications listed in Exhibit VI as "next lower" in a physical Une of Progression, the physical classification with the lowest maximum wage rate shall prevail in determining the amount of time required to be worked in such listed "next lower classifications." (Amended 1-1-88)
205.	22 QUALIFICATIONS FOR GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES BIDDING/TRANSFERR1NG TO REGION OR GENERAL OFFICE DEPARTMENT JOBS
An employee in General Construction must pass the appropriate agreed-to employment test battery before the employee's bld to fill a job vacancy in a Region or General Office Department under the provisions of Title 205 will be considered.
Such employee shall be entitled to two opportunities to pass the test referred to above. The second attempt to pass such test must be a minimum of three months from the date of the initial attempt. However, where the parties have agreed that certain classifications, other than normal entry level, have substantially identical tasks In General Construction as in the Regions or General Office Departments, successful performance by an employee in such
I
46
classification will be considered as presumptive evidence of meeting the appropriate agreed-to test requirements. Additionally, a former General Construction employee who has become a Region or General Office Department employee at the journeyman level or below must meet the agreed-to test battery to meet the employment requirements for Region or General Office Department employees before being promoted to a Working Foreman job on other than a temporary basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, successful performance as a temporary Work ng Foreman in a Region or General Office Department for a cumulative total of six months or more shall be presumpt ve evidence of meeting such requirements.
An employee in General Construction, other than an employee in a journeyman classification in the same Line of Progression as that in which the vacancy exists, must pass the appropriate agreed-to apprentice entrance tests, as designated in Paragraph A of the Master Apprentice Agreement before the employee's bid to fill a vacancy in an apprentice or a journeyman classification will be considered. The employee shall be entitled to retest following failure on the same schedule as a Region or General Office Department employee. (Amended 1-1-88)
TITLE 206.	DEMOTION AND LAY OFF PROCEDURE
206.1	GENERAL RULES (REGULAR EMPLOYEES)
The provisions of Title 206 which are applicable to employees with one continuous year of service in cases of displacement, demotion, or layoff due to lack of work or the return of an employee from leave of absence for Union business or military service shall be applied in such manner as to give effect to the foltowing: (Amended 11-94).	.
(a)	Employees shall be given as much notice as practicable of Company's proposed action. Following such notice, and prior to the date of the proposed action, employees to be affected oy the procedure due to lack of work shall be considered as though they had already been demoted, and, notwithstanding the provisions of Title 205, have their bids to fill vacancies, in the normal Line of Progression, considered undertne provisions of Section 206.9. Subsection 206.1(b) through Section 206.14 shall apply to employees being displaced or demoted due to lack of work or employees being displaced by another employee due to lack of work. (Amended 1-1-00)
(h)	An employee's Service, as defined in Section 106.3 shall be the determining factor in the application of this Title.	.
(c)	Where a vacancy in an appropriate classification exists, the filling of such vacancy in accordance with the appropriate provisions of this Title shall be substituted for the displacing of another employee as provided herein. (Amended 1-1-00)
(d)	An employee may not elect to displace another employee whose Service is equal to or greater than hismer own. An employee may not displace an employee in a classification having a wage rate higher than that of hisi/her own classification except where such classification is considered to be the same in accordance with a Line of Progression as provided for the Title 600 and Exhibit IX - “Same Classifications" or where such classification is a beginners classification. (Amended 1-1-00)
(e)	Employees shall be demoted, displaced, laid off, or effect elections under the provisions of this Title on the basis of their regular classification, headquarters and Line of Progression at the time of any such action.
(f)	In the application of the Title, an employee shall not be placed in a job unless qualified to perform the duties.
fa) In the application of this Title, part-time employees and intermittent employees are considered to be a dinerent classification than full-time employees under the same job title. Part-time employees and intermittent employees will not be able to displace full-time employees, regardless of seniority. Part-time employees can only displace other part-time employees in the same or lower classifications within their normal Line of Progression. Intermittent employees can only displace other intermittent employees in the same or lower classifications within their normal Lines of Progression. (Added 1-1-88)
(h)	No regular full-time employee will be displaced, demoted, or laid off due to the usage of part-time employees. Further, at a headquarters where Title 206 is to be implemented, all part-time employees shall be affected prior to regular full-time employees. (Added 1-1-91)
206.2	NOTICES
The following notices shall be given in connection with the demotion, displacement and layoff provisions of this Title: (Amended 1 -1 -00)
(a)	Company will give all employees as much notice as possible of an impending displacement, but in no case less than 14 calendar days. Further, Company will give an employee who is to be demoted or displaced due to lack of work as much notice thereof as possible, but in no case less than 14 calendar days. (Amended 1-100)
(b)	AH employees will be given an opportunity to notify the Company, through the completion of the employee option form, of their preferential order in which Section 206.3 through 206.7 shall be administered. This information will be kepton file for use in any displacement action and may be updated by the employee at anytime
up to 2 days prior to the start of a displacement action. Preferential consideration shall be given to employees in
the order of their Service, while Company shall endeavor to give effect to an employee’s preference in the order
he/she has indicated. Length of Service shall be the determining factor where two or more employees express a
preference for a single location. Company shall notify an employee as to the specific location to which such
employee will be transferred. (Amended 1-1-00)
(c)	An employee’s failure to give the notice prescribed in Subsection (b) will result in the Company applying the following preference sequence: t) 206.3 to immediate next lower classification; 2) regular sequence of consideration of 206.4 to Area, then Unit, then System; 3) 206.5 to Area and then Unit; 4) 206.6 to Area, then Unit, then System; and 5) 206.7 layoff. (Amended 1-1-00)
(d)	Any transfer resulting from the application of this Section will be made effective at any time after the expiration of ten workdays from the giving of the notice provided for in Subsection (a). (Amended 1-1-86)
(e)	By agreement between Company and Union, the notice periods in this Section may be extended. (Added 1-1-91)
206.3	DEMOTION IN LINE OF PROGRESSION
When a demotion or displacement is to be made in a classification at a Company headquarters, the employee with the least Service in such classification shall be demoted to the next lower classification in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression. An employee shall be demoted on a step by step basis; that is, the employee shall first be demoted in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression for his/her classification to the next lower classification and, at such step, if the employee is subject to further demotion, the employee may exercise the election provided for in Section 206.4 or Section 206.5, as tne case may be. If successive demotions must be made, the same procedure shall apply at each step until the employee is either placed in another job or is laid off. If more than one demotion is to be made, the within procedure shall first be applied to the highest classification to be affected, and then to successively lower classifications. (Amended 1-1-91)
206.4	ELECTIONS TO CHANGE HEADQUARTERS OR DEPARTMENT
(a)	Elections to retain department: An employee with three years or more of Service, who is to be demoted or displaced as provided in Section 206.3 has the following elections within his or her department: (Amended 1-1-00)
(1)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department within the Demotion Area who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-91)
(2)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department within the Demotion Unit who has Ine least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-94)
(3)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department in the System who has the least Service, (Amended 1-1-00)	.
(b)	Elections to change department; An employee with three years or more of Service, who is to be demoted or displaced as provided in Section 206.3 also has the following elections: (Added 1-1-00)
(1)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification in the Demotion Area who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-00)
(2)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification in the Demotion Unit who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-00)	.
(Deleted 1-1-00)
(3)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification in the System who has the least Service. (Amended 1-1-00)
(c)	An employee with less than three years of Service who is to be demoted or displaced as provided in Section 206.3 has the following elections: (Amended 1-1-00)
(1)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department within the Demotion Area who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-91)
(2)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification and department within the Demotion Unit who has tne least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-94)
(3)	may elect to displace that employee in the same classification within the Demotion Area who has the least Service, or if no such election is available; (Amended 1-1-91)
- (4) may elect to displace that employee in the same classification within the Demotion Unit who has the least Service. (Amended 1-1-94)
48
(d)	An employee who has been demoted or displaced, as provided in Section 206.3, before exercising the election provided by Subsection (a) hereof, may exercise such elections as if the demotion has not occurred. (Amended 1-1-00)
(e)	Under a systemwide application of Title 206, the three year service requirement under Sections 206.4 and 206.6 will be waived. (Addea 1-1-00)
206.5	ELECTION TO RETURN TO PREVIOUS LINE OF PROGRESSION
(a)	If an employee cannot effect a demotion or displacement in accordance with Section 206.3 and, if in addition, such employee does not for any reason effect an election in accordance with Section 206.4, the employee may, if such employee has previously worked for at least six months in any other classification in another Line of Progression in Company, elect to displace that employee in such classification and Line of Progression in the employee's Demotion Area who has the least Service. An employee may exercise an election under the provisions of this Section only when it is for the purpose of returning to the Line of Progression in which the employee worked immediately prior to entering the Une of Progression from which the election was exercised. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(b)	If an employee cannot effect a demotion or displacement in accordance with Section 206.5(a) above, the employee may, if he/she has previously worked for at least six months in any other classification in another Line of Progression in Company, elect to displace that employee in such classification and Une of Progression in such employee's Demotion Unit who has the least Service. An employee may exercise an election underlhe provisions of this Section only when it is for the purpose of returning to the Une of Progression in which the employee worked immediately prior to entering the Line of Progression from which the election was exercised. (Amended 1-1-97)
206.6	BUMPING EMPLOYEE IN BEGINNER S JOB
(a)	If the Company cannot effect a demotion or displacement of an employee in accordance with Section 206.3 and, if in addition, such employee does not tor any reason effect an election in accordance with Section 206.4 or 206.5, he/she may elect to displace that em cloves in the Demotion Area, in a beginning classification who has the least Service for which he/she meets the qualifications of the transfer. (Amended 1-100)
(b)	if the Company cannot effect a demotion or displacement of an employee in Subsection (a) hereof, such employee may elect to displace that employee in the Demotion Unit in a beginning classification, who has the least Service, for which the employee meets the qualifications of a transfer. (Amendea 1-1-00)
(c)	If the Company cannot effect a demotion or displacement of an employee in Subsections (a) and (b) hereof, if the employee has been employed three years or more, such employee may elect to displace that employee in the Company in a beginning classification, who has the least Service, for which the employee meets the qualifications for a transfer. (Amended 1-1-00)	•
206.7	LAYOFF
(a)	An employee can elect layoff in lieu of exercising options under 206.3, 206.4, 206.5 or 206.6. Further, an employee who does not effect a displacement under any of the elections in Section 206.3, 206.4, 206.5, and 206.6, will be laid off. (Amended 1-1-00)
(b)	An employee who is not affected by this Title may elect to take a layoff under this Title, without employing applications of Sections 206.1 through 206.6, thereby reducing the number of employees affected. Such employee shall have preferential rehire rights as provided under Section 206.13. This option for layoff is restricted to employees in impacted classifications and headquarters. (Added 1-1-00)
206.8	MOVING ALLOWANCE
(a)	When an employee is displaced under the provisions of this Title because of lack of work at his/her headquarters, and the employee's new headquarters is beyond commutable distance from his/her residence, Company shall reimburse the employee for the reasonable costs incurred in connection with moving his/her household in a sum not to exceed $2,400. (Amended 1-1-94)
(b)	Reasonable costs as referenced above shall include and are restricted to: (Amended 1-1-94)
(1)	Transportation of the employee and his/her immediate family to the new headquarters location (one trip only). (Amended 1-1-94)
(2)	Meal and motel expenses for the above incurred on moving day when movers cannot complete the move on the same day. (Amended 1-1-94)
(3)	Moving of furniture and household goods to the new residence. (Amended 1-1-94)
(4)	Cost of containers to be used in moving less applicable credits for returned items, such as, barrels, wardrobes and boxes. (Amended 1-1-94)
(5)	Reasonable insurance on furniture and household goods. (Amended 1-1-94)
49
(6)	Installation of television antenna and cable connections. (Amended 1-1-94)
(7)	Piping and wiring costs to accommodate moved appliances. (Amended 1-1-94)
(8)	Reasonable costs of any kind and all non-refundable deposits and/or hook-up fees for water, garbage, telephone, gas and electric, (Amended 1-1-94)
1 94)	expenses not speeifieally covered above are excluded from payment under this Section. (Amended 1 -
Although there is no time limit on when the move should occur, notice of intent to move must be filed by the employee within 90 days after his/her transfer in order to quality for reimbursement of moving expenses outlined above. All requests for reimbursement for moving expenses must be presented together with proper receipts before payment can be granted. (Amended 1-1-00)
(c)	"Beyond commutable distance," as used above, shall mean a new headquarters located more than 45 minutes or 30 miles from his/her present residence. (Amended 1-1-94)
(d)	An employee is not required to move within a commutable distance (45 minutes or 30 miles) to become eligible for a moving allowance, but must move closer to the new headquarters to qualify. (Added 1-1-00)
206.9	ACCELERATED PROMOTION
For the purpose of enabling employees who have been demoted or transferred under the provisions of this Title, or to enable employees who have been on or are on Long-Term Disability status, to return to their former status (includes former classification and department and/or any other intermediate classification in the department and in the Line of Progression), on an accelerated basis, Company will give preferential consideration in the following sequence to the bids and transfer applications submitted by such employees on any job vacancy:
(a)	Bids and transfer applications submitted by employees who formerly worked in such job classification and headquarters, and who were transferred from such headquarters, demoted from such classification, or were placed on Long-Term Disability status from such headquarters. An employee’s bid or transfer application shall not be considered under this Subsection if.following demotion or transfer the employee has not exercised each opportunity available to return to a job in his/her former classification and headquarters. (Amended 1-1-91)	.
(b)	Bids and transfer applications submitted by employees listed in Subsection (a) above who formerly worked in such job classification and Area. (Added 1-1-00)
(c)	Bids and transfer applications submitted by employees listed in Subsection (a) above who formerly worked in such job classification. (Amended 1-1-00)
(d)	Should an employee return to a classification and/or Line of Progression under the provisions of Section 206.13 other than one from which such employee was demoted, transferred or laid off, such placement shall not be considered as voluntarily removing himself/herself from the Line of Progression to which such employee would have accelerated promotional rights under the provisions of this Section. (Amended 1-1-00)
In considering, under Subsections (a), (b) or (c), bids or transfer applications received from two or more employees on the same job, Company shall give preferential consideration to the bid or transfer application submitted by the employee who has thegreatestService. (Amended 1-1-00)
An employee who has been demoted or transferred under the provisions of this Title who thereafter voluntarily removes him/herself from the Line of Progression to which the employee was previously transferred or demoted shall not be given consideration under this section. (Amended 1-1-91)
206.10	DEMOTION INTO UNIT FROM OUTSIDE
(a)	When by reason of lack of work at the employee's headquarters the Company demotes into a classification in the collective bargaining unit a supervisory or other employee who was not at the time of demotion a member of such unit such employee shall thereupon be entitled to exercise the rights set forth in this Title. (Amended
(b)	In no case shall such demoted employee be placed into a classification that is higher than the classification held prior to leaving the bargaining unit subject to Subsection 206.1(f). (Added 1-1-88)
(c)	Company shall not demote into the collective bargaining unit a supervisor or other employee who was hired or left the bargaining unit on January 1,1991 or thereafter. (Added 1-1-91)
50
206.11	NOTICE OF LAYOFF
When it becomes necessary for Company to lay off employees because of lack of work Company shall give employees involved as much notice thereof as practicable, but in no event shall a regular employee be given less than ten workdays' notice of layoff, provided, however, that notice of layoff need not be given to employees who are employed on a probationary basis. (Amended 1-1-88)
206.12	ENABLER
By written agreement between Company and Union, special provisions may be substituted for the provisions of this Title.
206.13	REEMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS
(a)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, a regular employee who has been laid off for lack of work pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement for a period not in excess of thirty months and who had one or more years of Service at the time of layoff shall be entitled to preferential rehire on the basis ol Company Service at the time of layoff, providing that the laid-off employee keeps the Company informed in writing of the current mailing address and telephone number for contact and the Part II Bidding Unit(s) and/or Part III Promotion-Demotion Geographical Areafs) for which reemployment will be accepted and whether the laid-off employee wants to be considered for part-time employment. The employee will be notified of the proper method for informing the Company. Company shall maintain one address to which the above notice may be mailed.
(b)	When a vacancy exists tn a:
(i)	beginning classification covered by this Agreement, or;
(it) classification above beginning level that is not filled pursuant to the provisions of Section 205.7 (a) through (d) or Section 305.5 of this Agreement, or;	■
(iii)	part-time position that is not filled pursuant to the provisions of Section 205.5 (a), (b) or (d) of this Agreement.
Company shall provide notice of openings for reemployment as follows:
(1)	By calling the last telephone number furnished by the laid-off employee and offering reemployment. If contacted by telephone, such employee must advise Company whether or not such employment will be accepted within three working days and the employee must be available for work within seven calendar days.
(2)	If the laid-off employee cannot be reached by telephone, Company shall forward notice by Certified Mail Return Receipt Requested or openings for reemployment to the last mailing address as furnished by the laid-off employee.
Within three working days after such notice is received at such mailing address, such laid-off employee must advise Company whether or not the reemployment offer will be accepted, and the employee must be available for work within seven calendar days after so advising Company. If the certified letter is returned undeliverable, such employee will be considered terminated, and the next employee on the laid-off list may be notified of the opening.
(3)	To expedite rehiring, more than one employee may be notified of an opening, but priority shall be given to employees in the order orService at the time of layoff, if no employee remains on the laid-orf list, the provisions of Section 205.5 will be invoked.
(4)	Company shall not be required to contact laid-off employees when the openings for reemployment is outside the Part II Bidding Un’it(s) and departments and/or the Part til Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area(s) and department(s) tn which such employee has indicated a desire to accept reemployment.
(5)	If Company cannot contact the laid-off employee by telephone and if no reply is received by Company within three working days after notice is received at the employee's marling address, or if the laid-off employee does not accept reemployment to a full-time position or report for work within the time periods provided in this Subsection, such employee will be considered terminated, with no further reemployment rights under this Section, and the next employee on the laid-off list may be notified of the opening. If ihe laid-on employee declines an offer of part-time employment, such employee will not be considered for reemployment to future part-time positions.
(6)	An employee returning to a classification under the provisions of this Section must possess the necessary skills, ability ana physical qualifications to perform the duties of the position to which he/she returns.
(c)	The Certified Mail Return Receipt in (b) above shall be retained by the Company for a period of one year after the notice was mailed to the laid-off employee and shall serve as proof of such notice actually being mailed. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-94)	■
51
206.14	JOURNEYMAN RETENTION
If in the application of the provisions of this Trile an employee in a classification which, in the normal Line of Progression, is higher than an apprentice classification can effect a displacement in such classification, the former shall not take such apprentice classification, but shall be given the rate of the classification next higher thereto (Amended 1-1-80)
DEMOTION OTHER THAN FOR LACK OF WORK
Except for Sections 206.9 and 206.12 the foregoing Sections 206.1 through 206.14 appty only to an employee demoted for lack of work. Demotion for any reason other than for lack of work Is providedfor as follows: (References Amended 1-1-80)
206.15	DEMOTION OF UNIT EMPLOYEE
An employee who is demoted for any reason other than for lack of work may be placed in a vacancy created in such employees headquarters by the promotion of one or more employees to fill the job which the demoted employee vacated. If no such vacancy occurs the employee may be demoted to a vacancy in a lower classification in the Demotion Area in which he/she is employed or if no such vacancy occurs, the employee may be demoted to a vacancy in a lower classification in the Region in which he/she is employed. In the application of this Section, an employee shall be demoted to a vacancy in the first successively lower classification which the employee is qualified tofRI. (Amended 1-1-91)
206.16	DEMOTION OF NON-UNIT EMPLOYEE INTO UNIT
(a)	A supervisory or other employee who was not at the time of demotion a member of the collective bargaining unit but who formerly worked in a classification which is in such unit may be demoted for any reason other than for lack of work into a previously existing vacancy in such unit within the Demotion Area in which the employee is employed or into a vacancy which has been created in any Demotion Area by the concurrent transfer or promotion of an employee out of such unit in connection with such demotion, (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(b)	In no case shall such demoted employee be placed into a classification that is higher than the classification held prior to leaving the bargaining unit subject to Subsection 206.1(f). (Amended 1-1-84)
(c)	Company shall not demote into the collective bargaining unit a supervisor or other employee who was hired or left the bargaining unit January 1,1991 or thereafter. (Addedi-1-91)
206.17	RELOCATION OTHER THAN FOR LACK OF WORK
When it becomes necessary to relocate individuals, crews, or groups of employees in a headquarters/office due to the closing of a reporting headquarters/office or when such relocation is necessitated by a shift of workload or other economic consideration, either of which is expected to be permanent, and where the number and the classification of jobs in the Demotion Area will be unchanged, the following procedure shall be followed: (Amended 1-1-91)
(a)	All employees in a headquarters/office, including those on leaves of absence, off sick, on vacation, or off on disability, shall be considered on the basis of Service, as defined in Section 106.3, in the following Subsections.
(b)	Employees with the greater Service shall be given the first opportunity to relocate.
(c)	In the event there are insufficient volunteers) for such relocation, the employee^) with the least Service in the affected classifications shall be relocated.
(d)	Each employee in Subsection (c) above shall be given as much notice as possible of the impending relocation and such employee may elect either:
(1)	to fill any vacancy in the employee's classification in the Demotion Area in which the employee is assigned, notwithstanding Subsection 205.6(a) or (Amended 1-1-91)
(2)	to fill the vacancy in the employee's classification created at the new location where such job is relocated.
(e)	An employee so displaced in Subsections (b) and (c) above shall be given preferential consideration under Section 206.9 to return to such employee's former headquarters/office.
(f)	An employee relocated in accordance with Subsection (b) or (c) above shall be entitled, when appropriate, to the provisions of Section 206.8.
(g)	Unassigned classifications, as provided for in the Master Apprenticeship Agreement, relocated under the provisions of this Section shall be immediately reclassified as "Assigned" to the headquarters/office where such job is to be relocated.
52
(h)	Company shall not implement the provisions of this Section for the purpose of subverting Titles 201, 202, or 205.
(Entire Section Added 1-1-80)
206.18	TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
Company shall continue to provide Union with as much notice as practicable of technological changes in its business which may have a significant effect on its workforce. In such circumstances, Company and Union snail then meet to study and endeavor to adopt appropriate solutions, such as retraining or special pfacement, as may be practicable before Company implements the provisions of Titles 206, 306, and 19 of the Physical and Clerical Agreements. (Added 1-1-88)
TITLE 207.	MISCELLANEOUS
207.1	(Deleted 9-1-53 - See Section 107 J)
207.2	(Deleted 7-1-00)
207.3	(Deleted 7-1-62)
207.4	(Deleted 7-1-60)
207J (Relocated to 105.7(b) 1-1-83)
TITLE 208.	OVERTIME
208.1	DEFINITION
Overtime is defined as (a) time worked in excess of 40 hours in a workweek, (b) time worked in excess of eight hours on a workday, (c) time worked on a non-workday, (d) time worked on a holiday as provided for in Title 103, and (e) time worked outside of regular work hours on a workday. Company shall not be required to pay overtime compensation more than once for any single period of time worked. Overtime shall be cumulated each day and shall be compensated to the one-quarter hour.
208.2	RATE AND DOUBLE TIME CONDITIONS	.
(a)	In general, overtime compensation at the rate of one and one-half times the straight rate of pay shall be paid to employees for overtime as defined in Items (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 208.1; except that
(b)	the time worked in excess of 12 consecutive hours and continuing until the employee is dismissed from such work shall be paid at the rate of two times the employee's straight rate of pay, or
(c)	if, following an employee's dismissal from work or on an employee's non-workday or holiday which the employee is schedulea to have off, the employee is called out for work, the employee shall be paid at two times the employee’s straight rate of pay for all work performed outside the employee's regular work hours or on a non-workday or holiday which the employee is scheduled to have off. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(d)	The time worked in excess of eight hours on the employee's second of two scheduled days off counting from the first day of the basic workweek snail be paid at the rate of two times the employee's straight rate of pay provided such employee has performed work on the first scheduled day off. Employees scheduled tonave four consecutive days shall be entitled, in addition to the above, to pay at the rate of two times the employee's straight rate of pay for the time worked in excess of eight hours on the fourth scheduled day off, provided that such employe has also performed work on the third scheduled day off.
(e)	For purposes of this Section, an employee’s "regular hours of work" shall be the same on a non-workday as those regularly scheduled for such employee on a workday.
208.3	(Deleted 7-1-57)
208.4	TRUCK DRIVERS
In the event that the truck driver of a crew is required to work in excess of eight hours per day in connection with loading, unloading, and garaging trucks such excess time shall be considered as scheduled work time and shall • be compensated for at the overtime rate.
208.5	TIME OFF IN LIEU OF OVERTIME - PROHIBITED
Company shall not require employees to take equivalent time off during a workday in lieu of overtime compensation.
53
208.6	TRAVEL TIME - EMERGENCY
Employees who are called from their homes for emergency work on their non-workdays, or on holidays which they are entitled to have off, or outside of their regular work hours on workdays shall be paid overtime compensation for the actual work time and travel time in connection therewith.
208.7	TRAVEL TIME - CALL OUT BEFORE WORK HOURS
If an employee, who is called out for emergency work outside of such employee's regular work hours on a workday, continues to work into or beyond the employee's regular work hours the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for actual travel tim e only from his/her home. (Am ended 1 -1 -91)
208.8	TWO-HOUR MINIMUM - EMERGENCY
The minimum time for which overtime compensation shall be paid under the_provisions of Section 208.6 shall be two hours, except that if an employee who is called out for emergency work outside of his/her regular work hours on workdays continues to work into or beyond regular work hours he/she shall be paid overtime compensation only for travel time as provided in Section 208.7 and for actual work time up to regular work hours unless the provisions of Section 208.11 are applicable. When an employee is called out for emergency work during his/her lunch period the minimum time provision hereof shall not be applicable, but such employee shall be paid at the overtime rate of pay for the actual time worked during the lunch period. (Amended 1-1-91)
208.9	TWO-HOUR MINIMUM - SERVICE OR RESIDENT EMPLOYEE
If a service or resident employee is called for emergency work more than once in the 24 hour period from midnight to midnight, minimum overtime compensation as provided in Section 208.8 hereof shall be paid only for the first call outside of such employee's regular work hours on workdays or at any time-on his/her non-workrfays; for subsequent calls overtime compensation shall be paid for actual work and travel time as herein provided. For the purpose of this Section concurrent calls or successive calls without a break in work time shall be considered as a single call. If by reason of a call a service or resident employee works less than two hours and into regular work hours such calf shall not be considered as a first call for the purpose of the minimum overtime compensation provision of Section 208.8 hereof. (Amended 1-1-91)
208.10	(Deleted 7-1-62)
208,11	REST PERIODS
If an employee has worked for eight hours or more at the overtime rate during the 16 hour period immediately preceding the beginning of the employee's regular work hours on a workday, such employee shall be entitled to a rest period of sight consecutive hours on the completion of such overtime work.
(a)	There shall be included as part of the eight hours worked at the overtime rate in such 16 hour period any travel time and mealtime to which the employee is entitled when emergency or prearranged work is performed except that any travel time and mealtime to which the employee is entitled after being dismissed from work shall not be included as hours worked tn such period, but it shall be included in the computation of the eight hour rest period. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Hours worked prior to any eight hour rest period in which the employee does not work shall not be included in computing another period of overtime work.
(c)	If the eight hour rest period in whole or in part overlaps the employee's regular work hours the employee will receive pay at the straight rate for the extent of the overlap, except that the time taken during such overlap for any meal to which the employee is entitled on dismissal shall be paid for at the overtime rate. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	If the employee is called back to work during his/her eight hour rest period a new rest period will commence at the conclusion of such work. (Amended 1-1-91)
(e)	(1) If the rest period overlaps the employee's regular work hours but does not extend into the
second half of the employee's workday, the empfoyee shaft be excused from reporting for work until the beginning of the second half of the employee's workday, and in such an event the employee shall be paid for the time between the expiration of the rest period and the end of the first half of such workday. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
(2)	If the rest period extends into the second half of the employee's workday, the employee shall be excused from reporting for work until the following workday, and in such event the employee shall be paid for the time between the expiration of the rest period and the employee’s regular quitting time on such day. (Amended 1-1-88)
(3)	In the application of the foregoing, an employee, due to operational needs, may be required to report to work at the end of the employee's rest penod. (Amended 1-1-88)
54
(f)	An employee entitled to a rest period hereunder may nevertheless be required to work during regular work hours on a workday without having had a rest period of eight consecutive hours, in which event the employee shall be paid at two times the straight rate of pay for all work performed until the employee has been relieved from duty for at least eight consecutive hours. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
208.12	PREARRANGED OVERTIME
When, at the request of the supervisor in charge, an employee reports for prearranged work (a) on workdays outside of his/her regular work hours, the employee snail be paid overtime compensation for actual work time and travel time in connection therewith, provided, however, that if such employee continues to work into or beyond the employee's regular work hours, such employee shall be paid overtime compensation only for travel time from the employee's home and tor actual work time up to the employee's regular work hours unless the provisions of Section 208.11 are applicable; (b) on non-workdays or on holidays, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for actual work time and for travel time in connection therewith. For the purpose of this Section prearranged work is deemed to be work for which advance notice has been given by the end of the employee's preceding work period on a workday. However, Company shall make a good faith effort to notify the employee at least 24 hours in advance of the need to perform prearranged overtime work on non-workdays of holidays. (Amended 1-1-88)
208.13	MINIMUM PAY
The minimum time for which overtime compensation shall be paid under the provisions of Section 208.12 shall be two hours, except that if an employee, who has been notified to report for prearranged work outside of his/her regular work hours on workdays, continues to work into or beyond regular work hours, tne employee shall be paid overtime compensation only for actual work time up to regular work hours, and for travel time as provided in Section 208.12 hereon (Amended 1-1 -91)
208.14	MINIMUM PAY-CANCELLATION
If an employee is instructed by his/her supervisor to report for prearranged work on a non-workday or on a holiday which the employee is entitled to take off with nay, and such work is canceled, the emptoyee siiaii be paid overtime compensation tor a minimum of two hours, inclusive of any travel time as provided for in Section 208.12, if the employee is not given notice of the cancellation of such work by the end of his/her preceding work period on a workday. (Amended 1-1-91)
208.15	(Deleted 7-1-62)
208.16	EQUAL DISTRIBUTION - PREARRANGED OVERTIME
(a)	Prearranged overtime work shall be distributed among employees in the same classification and in the same location as equally as is practicable. The Company will post accumulative prearranged overtime worked or credited as worked for each person each month. The method for practicable equalization of prearranged overtime should be developed at each location by agreement between Company and Union. Such procedure should be in writing and signed by both parties. Whether procedures are developed or not, it is incumbent on Company to comply with tne provisions of this Subsection concerning equal distribution. Where an imbalance cannot be justified, paying the aggrieved employee(s) is an appropriate remedy after the end of the accounting period, although this does not preclude other local agreements. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	An employee who is scheduled to be off on vacation shall not be scheduled for work under this Section for the period between the end of the employee's last regular day of work preceding the employee's vacation and the start of the employee's first regular day of work following the vacation. An employee who is off due to illness or injury shall not be scheduled for work under this Section until tne employee returns to work on a regular workday.
208.17	SHORTCHANGE
If Company establishes a regular schedule by which a shift employee will have less than 16 hours off between shifts, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for any time worked in the 16 hour interval following the end of his/her last preceding regular shift. If a schedule which provides for less than 16 hours off between shifts is established by agreement between Company and Union the within provision for the payment of overtime compensation shall not apply. (Amended 1-1-91)
208.18	CHANGE OF SHIFTS
When a shift or service employee is transferred from one schedule of workdays or work hours to another the employee shall not be entitled to overtime compensation for work performed during regular work hours of any day involved in the transfer, provided that (a) the employee has been notified of such transfer not less than 24 hours in advance of the starting time of the new shift or work period; (b) the employee has had a minimum of eight hours off between shifts or work periods; (c) as a result of such transfer the employee has not been required to work more than 40 hours at the straight rate in any workweek involved; and (d) the employee has not been required to work more than two short changes in the workweek involved. (A short change is defined as a transfer from one schedule to another with but eight hours off between shifts or work periods.) (Amended 1-1-91)
55
208.19	NON-SHIFT EMPLOYEE ASSIGNED TO SHIFT
(a)	When by reason of an emergency in the operation of a plant or other property an employee, other than a shift employee, is transferred from his or her regular schedule to a shift schedule which has been regularly established he/she shall be entitled to overtime compensation for the first eight hour shift, unless the employee has been ^notified of such transfer at least 24 hours in advance of the starting time of such shift schedule. (Amended
(b)	Section 208.18 and Subsection 208.19(a) shall not apply in the case where an employee works outside of his or her regularly scheduled work hours for one day or less, but in such case Subsection 208.1(e) shall apply. Sections 208.18 and 208.19 shall apply when an employee is returned to the schedule of workdays or work hours from which the employee had previously been transferred under the provisions of said Sections. (Amended 1-1-88)
208.20	RELIEF SHIFT EMPLOYEES
An employee who is classified to perform relief duties shall be available for duty in revolving shifts on any day of the week, and may be assigned for the relief of any shift in any such occupations without advance notice. Such employee shall not as the result of such relief assignments be paid overtime compensation for work performed during the regular work hours of such shift, provided, however, that in the event that the employee shall be required to report for work without having had 12 hours off following the end of his/her last preceding work period the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for any time worked in the 12 hour period following the end of his/her last preceding work period. A work period is defined as any eight hour shift or extension thereof. (Amended 1 -1-91)
208.21	(Deleted 1-1-97)
208.22	HOLIDAY PAY
An employee in a classification listed in Subsection 103.7(a) who reports to work on a holiday in accordance with his/her regular schedule shall, in addition to the holiday pay, be entitled to compensation at the overtime rate of pa^ for,he wor^ Peri°d 'nvotvecl shall not be entitled to travel time in connection therewith. (Amended
208.23	THREE WEEK LIMIT
Except where a hazard to life or property exists, employees will not be required to work more than three consecutive weeks without having two consecutive days off. In the application of this Section, if a regularly established shift (as defined in Clarifications Sections 208.23, 308.15 and 202.17) begins on one workday and ends on the next, it will count as one day toward the three week limit. (Amended 1-1-91)
TITLE 209.	(Deleted 1-1-74) See Title 112
TITLE 210.	(Deleted 1-1-74) See Title 106
TITLE 211.	(Deleted 1-1-71) SeeTitlem
TITLE 212.	EMERGENCY DUTY
212.1	GENERAL PRINCIPLES
(a)	The provisions of this Title shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with the parties' purpose and intent in negotiating a voluntary on-call system for emergency duty contained herein, namely that when employees volunteer for emergency duty they are making a definite commitment to be readily available tor call-out; ano in turn, Company will call the volunteer with the least amount of recorded emergency overtime hours. When there are insufficient volunteers available for emergency duty, Company will continue to require employees to report for work on an emergency basis.
(b)	Employees shall not be required to be on-call, however, Company with Union's cooperation shall establish a call-out procedure for employees who volunteer to be readily available for duty in case of emergency. Assignments of emergency work shall be distributed and rotated as equitably as practicable among qualified employees in the same classification and in the same location who have volunteered to be available. The time during which an employee is available for duty shall not be considered as hours worked.
212.2	ANNUAL AND WEEKLY SIGN-UP
(a)	Company will prepare a list at each headquarters of those employees who volunteer for emergency work. In calling employees to respond to emergency situations involving immediate hazard to life or property,
56
Company will give preferential consideration to employees whose residences are located within 30 minutes automotive travel time, under ordinary travel conditions, from their headquarters. For emergencies not involving immediate hazard to Ute or property, Company will givepreferential consideration to employees whose residences are located within 60 minutes automotive travel time. This list will start on January 1 and continue until December 31 at which time a new voluntary call-out list will be prepared. On January 1, the accumulated overtime will be reduced to zero for all employees. This procedure is to be continued annually (hereafter. (Amended 10-1-03)
(b)	In administering Subsection (a) above, Company shall establish a sign-up procedure whereby a form will be posted in each headquarters on Monday of each week soliciting voluntary sign-up overtime for the period of the following Friday at 4:30 p.m. through the next Friday at 8:00 a.m. The list should provide for sign-ups by classification. It is to be removed on Tuesday evening and reposted Wednesday afternoon showing the names of those who have volunteered by classification, with the employees having the least overtime accrued at the head of the list. Until quitting time on Thursday afternoon, employees whose names appear on the list will have the opportunity to remove themselves from the call-out roster or note in writing on the list that all contact information is correct. This open period will allow employees to reevaluate their commitment after they determine where they stand in the call-out sequence. Employees who do not take the opportunity to remove their names from the roster will be expected to meet the commitments of availability as described earlier in this interpretation. (Amended 1 -1 -00)
(c)	Employees who do not remove themselves from the call-out roster as provided for above nevertheless shall be allowed the opportunity to remove themselves during the week under the following conditions:
(1)	Regular scheduled attendance for educational purposes with advance notice.
(2)	Participation in civic or church activities with advance notice,
(3)	Ail other instances limited to twice a week with advance notice.
212.3	CALL OUTS AND RESPONSE
In the event employees are called for emergency overtime and refuse or cannot be reached, they will nevertheless be credited on the appropriate list with equivalent overtime in the same amount as received by triose who did the work. Company is only required to make an attempt to contact by telephone an employee during an emergency period and such employee will be charged only one refusal. "An attempt" includes redialing a telephone number once when a busy signal or no answer results from the first attempt. In the case of an employee on sick during his/her regular work hours, the employee will not be called nor be credited with equivalent overtime until he/she returns to work on a regular workday. An employee who left work for a doctor or dentist appointment shall be considered as available for emergency call-out. An employee who is called out but unable to work due to illness will nevertheless be credited for equivalent overtime in the same amount as the person who actually performs the work. The employee will not be called again nor credited with any further equivalent overtime until he/sne returns to work on a regular workday. When an employee is on vacation or is working or is scheduled to work prearranged work, who would otherwise nave been called for overtime, the employee win not be credited with the equivalent overtime if he/she does not work it. For the purpose of this procedure, vacation will begin when an employee leaves his/her work headquarters on the last workday and ends when the employee reports back to work. (Amended 1-1-91)
212.4	RECORDS
During each week, the General Foreman's clerical force or equivalent will post the overtime worked or credited as worked lor each person for that week and will, at the end of the week, run up a new accumulated total, update the list, post them, and distribute them to the supervisor concerned with overtime call-out for the next week. Overtime so posted as worked shall be actual work time. In order that it may be apparent whether overtime was actually received or credited as if worked under Section 212.3 above, the latter will be circled" on the lists to show the difference. Both normal and "circled" hours will be added together in running up the new accumulated totals. An employee who signs the list provided for in Subsection 212.2(a) but not the current weekly list, and who is called out, shall be credited with all overtime hours worked.
212.5	NEW EMPLOYEE ON UST
A new hire, a person coming back off of a leave of absence, or a person not previously volunteering for emergency duty will initially be credited with one hour more than the maximum accrued m his/her classification. In other words, the employee would "go to the bottom of the list." (Amended 1 -1-91)
212.6	ADDITION DUE TO BIDDING, ETC.
A person bidding into or demoted to a new classification or new headquarters, or a person coming back off of an extended sickness will initially be credited with mean accumulated hours for the new classification and headquarters. In other words, the employee would "go to the middle of the list" on the assumption that overtime had been equitably distributed at his/her previous headquarters. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
212.7	TEMPORARY UPGRADES
Employees temporarily upgraded, whether on a time-card basis or not, shall have overtime worked or credited at tne temporary rate posted to their permanent classification.
57
212.8	EXTENSION OF WORKDAY
For purposes of this procedure when overtime results because of unanticipated continuation of the workday, such overtime will be recorded as emergency overtime.
212.9	MAJOR EMERGENCY
In the event of an emergency situation where more than 50 percent of the employees in a given headquarters are called out, an employee refusing or who cannot be reached will nevertheless be credited with the mean overtime of those working dunng the given emergency situation.
212.10	SERVICE EMPLOYEES	.
In the distribution of emergency overtime for service personnel, the purpose and intent described in Subsection 212.1(a) shall be applicable; but the current call-out procedure shall remain in effect unless specifically changed by written agreement between the Human Resources Advisors and the appropriate Business Representative. (The call-out procedures currently tn effect should incorporate the sequential order of call-out; the rotation of call-out, if any; and the provisions for calling out additional help or replacing an absent employee.) (Amended 1-1-94)
212.11	GRIEVANCE SETTLEMENTS
In the event that a grievance arises over the administration of this procedure, the following methods will be used in adjusting the dispute:
(a)	When it has been determined by the Local Investigating Committee that it was impractical to use the emergency overtime call-out procedure, the actual overtime worked wilfbe charged to those employees who worked and the grievance settled without adjustment.
(b)	When it has been determined by the Local Investigating Committee that the Company made a mistake in the administration of this procedure, the Company will pay the aggrieved employee for the time lost. However, if it has been determined that the employee contact information was incorrect, the Company will not be required to pay the employee for any time lost caused by incorrect contact information, on the call-out list furnished by the employee. (Am ended 1 -1 -00)
(c)	When it has been determined by the Local Investigating Committee that the overtime was improperly assigned to an employee in another classification or crew in another service area thereby making equitable distribution impossible, (he aggrieved employee(s) will be paid for the time that was lost.
(d)	Employees who received overtime payment for time not worked as a result of a misapplication of this Section will nevertheless be credited on the appropriate list the amount paid as if they had actually worked.
(e)	If during an accounting period an employee fails to respond when called on more than six separate occasions, the employee will be removea from the voluntary call-out list for that period, (/(mended 1 -1-91)
212.12	ENABLER
By written mutual agreement between the local Human Resources Advisor and the local Business Representative of Union, other call-out procedures may be developed locally. Such local agreement must include a 30-day cancellation clause by either party. If voluntary agreement is not reached, the provisions of Title 212 will remain In effect. (Amended 10-1-03)
TITLE 213.	(Deleted 7-1-57)
TITLE 214.	(Deleted 1-1-74)
PART III
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES ONLY
TITLE 300.	APPLICATION
300.1	The provisions of Part III of this Agreement shall apply only to field employees of General Construction, and those employees regularly assigned to a General Construction Service Center. Whenever the words "employee* and ‘‘employees* are used in this Part they shall, unless otherwise noted, be construed to refer only to such employees for whom Union is the exclusive bargaining representative.
58
301.1 APPLICATION
TITLE 301.	EXPENSES-FIELD EMPLOYEES
Employees who are transferred from a present headquarters to one at a new location, or who are reemployed at a new location within thirty months after layoff for lack of work at a previous location, shall be allowed expenses as provided for in Section 301.4. Transfer to a new location or reemployment at a new location shall mean one of the following: (Amended 1-1-94)
(a)	a change from an established job headquarters or point of assembly location within an employee's own Residence Area to a location outside such area; or;
(b)	a change from an established job headquarters or point of assembly location at which the current expense status is based; (Amended 1-1-83)
(c)	(Deleted 1-1-83)
301.2	MILEAGE MEASUREMENT
(a)	Expense allowances provided for in Sections 301.4 and 301.9 shall be paid, or free board and lodging provided for in Section 301.5 shall be allowed, to an employee only when the job headquarters or point of assembly to which the employee has been transferred or reemployed is outside the boundary of the employee's Residence Area, except as provided in Subsection 301.4(b).
(b)	All road mile measurements for the purpose of establishing Residence and per diem expenses shall be determined by measuring distances on road maps acceptable to Company and Union. However, when it is not possible to obtain such map measurements, a field check to the nearest measurable point shall be made. Routes selected for road mile measurement shall be accessible by automobile. Accessible by automobile is defined as a route that is: (1) reasonable and practical, (2) regularly maintained in reasonable repair, and (3) is safely traversable in a standard 2-wheel drive passenger car. (Amended 1-1 -88)	.
(c)	The city or town designated for an employee's Residence must be listed as having a permanent population in the current Rand McNally Standard Reference Map and Guide of California, and must be included in the Company system.
301.3	RESIDENCE DEFINITION
An employee's Residence and Residence Area shall be determined and used to establish eligibility for expense allowances in accordance with the following:
(a)	An employee's Residence is defined as the principal place of abode in the Company system in which the employee normally resides (1) on a regular basis and from which the employee commutes daily or weekly to work locations, or (2) one which the employee has a financial responsibility to maintain and to which the employee returns to live on most weekends while on work assignments at more distant job locations. An employee establishes a Residence by filing a Residence Certificate. Except employees hired after December 31, 1999, shall have their residence defined in 301.3.c.(2). (Amended 1-1-00)
(b)	An employee's Residence Area is defined as a zone extending 25 road miles from the city hall of the city or town in which the employee's Residence is located. If the employee's Residence is not located in a city or town, the 25 road mile zone will be measured from the city hall of the city or town nearest to such Residence. If there is no city hall in the aforementioned city or town, the 25 road mile zone will be measured from the principal street intersectton of the main business district.
(c)	Per Diem Eligibility
(1)	An employee who, prior to 1-1-88, is newly hired, rehired more than 30 months after layoff due to lack of work or renfred after any other type of termination must designate a Residence as defined in Subsection 301.3(a) or (d). However, this employee shall not be eligible for per diem expenses as provided in Section 301.4 until the employee is transferred to a job location more than 25 road miles from the city hall of the city or town in which the employee was hired or rehired. If the hiring or rehiring location is not established within the limits of a city or town, the 25 road miles will be measured from the city half of the nearest city or town. If there is no city hall in the aforementioned city or town, the 25 road miles will be measured from the principal street intersection of the main business district.
(2)	An employee who, after 12/31/87, is newly hired, rehired more than 30 months after layoff due to lack of work or renired after any other type of termination must designate a Residence as defined in Subsection 301.3(a) or (d). An employee who is hired after December 31,1999 shall have his/her Residence based on his/her hiring location or the location where that employee transfers or pre-bids to under Section 305.7. However, these employees shall not be eligible for per diem expenses as provided in Section 301.4 until these employees are transferred: (Amended 1-1^00)
(i)	to a location more than 50 road miles from the city hall of the city or town in which the employee was hired or rehired, so long as the employee continues to report to a job headquarters that is within the boundaries of the Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area in which such employee was hired or rehired, or
59
(ii)	to a location more than 25 road miles from the city hall ol the city or town in which the employee was hired or rehired and in a different Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area than that in which such employee was hired or rehired,
(ii	i) such employee shall not become eligible for per diem as a result of an exchange or rotation pursuant to Section 301.18 provided that the next transfer returns the employee to the original hiring area (as defined above), except that while tne employee is working within a commuting distance (as defined in Subsection 301.18(b)) of such employee's residence area, the employee may receive per diem as provided in Section 301.4.
(iv)	The Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area referenced in this Section are those contained in Exhibit 1 II of this Agreement or as amended from time to time by agreement of Company and Union. (Entire Subsection । Amended 11-88)
(d)	Change of Residence
'	(1) An employee may change Residence as defined in Subsection 301.3(a) at any time: however,
। the employee may have only one Residence at a time. An employee who changes Residence under this Subsection I must fife a new Residence Certificate immediately. The new Residence Certificate will become effective on the dale । of the change of Residence, except employees hired after December 31,1999. (Amended 1-1-00)
(2) Since the payment of per diem expenses is based upon the location of the employee's Residence, the employee is vouching that the Residence Certificate does, in fact, identify a Residence (as defined in Subsection 301.3(a)) and not temporary living accommodations. Any employee who knowingly falsifies or delays filing such a Residence Certificate shall be required to reimburse the Company for any overpayment of per diem and shall be subject to disciplinary action, including discharge, except employees hired after December 31, 1999. (Amended 1-1-00)
301.4	EXPENSE ALLOWANCES
Subject to the provisions of this Title, employees who provide their own board and lodging shall be entitled to per diem expense allowance as follows:
(a)	Each scheduled day an employee works in the basic workweek or is prevented from performing such scheduled work by inclement weather conditions covered in the Title 303; each day an employee reports for prearranged or emergency work on a non-workday; holidays which fall on a workday in the basic workweek provided such an employee works on the adjacent workday or such day is also observed as a holiday pursuant to Fhe provisions of Title 103; each non-workday during which an employee is required to take more than four hours of travel time under the provisions of Section 301.11.
Zone	Road Mlles from the City Hall or Principal Intersection * of Employee's Residence to the Reporting Location	Amount of Per Diem
1	More than 25 but 35 or less	$ 6.25
2	More than 35 but 45 or less	10.50
3	More than 45 but 55 or less	14.00
4	More than 55 but 65 or less	19.25
5"	More than 65	25.00
(Amended 10-1-03)
Employees in Zone 5 have a choice. They can elect to commute and receive $25.00 or choose to stay overnight and receive $25.00 plus full reimbursement for lodging. The employee must indicate on the daily time card which choice s/he has made tor that day. Per Diem for employees receiving expenses while in Zone 1-4, or while commuting in Zone 5 will be paid on fhe regular payroll. The lodging and the $25.00 meal reimbursement for employees in Zone 5 who elect to stay overnight will not be subject to payroll taxes or withholding taxes. See Subsection 301.21 for further clarification on this Subsection. (Amended 10-1-03)
*The principles set forth in Subsection 301.3(b) also dictate whether the city hall or principal intersection is to be used for this purpose. (Amended 1-1-94)
"When an employee volunteers to work in excess of 52 weeks in Zone 5 s/he will be paid the $25.00 per day and reimbursement for lodging and the payment will be subject to payroll and withholding taxes. (Added 10-1 -03)
(b)	If a new Residence is established by an employee who is being transferred to, or is presently reporting at. a job headquarters location which is outside the present Residence Area but inside the proposed Residence Area, the employee will be eligible to receive per diem expenses at the per diem rate established for Zone 1 only until the completion of 52 consecutive weeks at his or her current headquarters location (measuring from the date the employee was transferred to the current headquarters). If such 52 consecutive week period has elapsed when an employee makes such a Residence change, the employee will not be eligible for per diem expenses until he or she is transferred to a job location outside his or her new Residence Area (Amended 1 -1 -83)
60
I
I
(c)	An employee cannot qualify for per diem expense allowances and/or increase his/her per diem by moving his/her Residence further from his/her job headquarters. Such employee's per diem status and/or rate of per diem shall remain unchanged until his/her next following transfer. (Amended T-1-91)
(d)	The continuity of the consecutive workweek periods referred to in Subsection (b) shall not be broken by the special assignment of an employee under Section 301.9, but such workweek periods shall be extended by a period or time equal to the period of time of such special assignment.
(e)	When an employee who maintains a temporary residence while on a job that is outside his/her Residence Area, or the employee who is receiving expenses under Subsection 301.4(b), is unable to work due to illness, he/she shall be allowed per diem expense for up to five workdays during any single period of illness. Employees who have temporary residences will qualify for this allowance by providing evidence that this residence was maintained during the period of illness. (Amended 1-1-91)
301.5	COMPANY PROVIDED FACILITIES
Employees may elect to use Company-provided camp and boarding facilities in lieu of providing their own board and lodging pursuant to Section 301.4 or Subsections 301.9(b) or (c), in which case Company shall provide such employees board and lodging for the duration of the periods they work at locations where board and lodging facilities are made available. Such camp and boardinghouse facilities shall be of reasonable quality. (Amended 1-1-84)
301.6	IN LIEU OF EXPENSES
An employee may receive expense allowances under Section 301.4 or 301.9, or the employee may elect to use the Company-provided board and lodging referred to in Section 301.5; however, the employee will not be allowed to receive benefits under more than one section at the same time.
(Amended 1-1-84)
301.7	MOVING EXPENSES
If an employee is moved from one camp to another on a single project Company shall reimburse him/her tor traveling expense and for other expenses incurred therein in transporting his/her household goods. (Amended 1-1-91)
301.8	PROJECTS
Provisions will be negotiated on an individual project basis, as needed, with the Union. (Amended 1-1-91)
301.9	SPECIAL ASSIGNMENT-FIELD EMPLOYEES
When the Manager in charge orders that an employee be temporarily detached from the employee's established headquarters and assigned to a temporary, emergency, or special job at another location outside the employee's Residence Area with the expectation that ne or she shall return to such headquarters within a 30-day period, or orders that an employee be sent on a special temporary assignment to a location outside the employee's Residence Area, while enroute between jobs, the employee snail be eligible to elect either opton (a) or (b) below.
(a)	Such employee shall be reimbursed for actual board and lodging expenses incurred therein for a period not to exceed 30 consecutive days. Reimbursement for actual expenses shall be made after the employee submits an Expense Account accompanied by receipts for lodging and receipts and justification for any meals which exceed the amounts specified in Subsection 104.10(b). All expenses are expected to be reasonable and appropriate for the geographical location in which the temporary assignment is located. Upon such employee's request. Company shall provide such employee with an appropriate monetary advance on his or her anticipated board and lodging expense reimbursements. It such temporary, emergency, or special job location is at a headquarters or point of assembly at which Company-provided board and lodging are available, the employee shall not be eligible to select the provisions of this option (a) but shall be eligible to select the provisions of option (b) below. If an employee's temporary, emergency, or special job assignment continues beyond 30 consecutive days, it shall not thereafter retain its temporary character but shall be deemed to be a transfer io a new headquarters, in which event the employee shall be entitled to a per diem allowance under the provisions of Section 301.4. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	While on special temporary assignment at one location an employee may elect to receive for the gariod on special assignment, a per diem allowance equal to the amount such employee is eligible to receive under ubsecton 301.4(a) in lieu of reimbursement for actual expenses provided for in this Section for:
(1)	each scheduled day he or she works in his or her basic workweek or is prevented from performing such scheduled work during inclement weather conditions covered in Title 303;
(2)	each day he or she reports for work on a non-workday and;
(3)	holidays which fall on a workday in his or her basic workweek, provided that the employee works on an adjacent workday or such day is also observed as a "holiday" pursuant to the provisions of Title 103.
(c)	Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, a series of short assignments (30 days or less each) by an employee in the Station Communications, Instrumentation, or Protection Group or Gas Instrumentation and Control
61
Group or the Field Mechanical Services Group Lubrication or Crane crews or the Line Department Tower Group or any other group(s) hereafter agreed to by Company and Union shall be considered a special temporary assignment for the duration of such series of assignments. In no event shall the employee be paid expenses at two locations concurrently. Such series of assignments will not constitute changes in headquarters for the purposes of Section 301.1. (Amended 10-1-03)
(d)	Any continuous period of attendance at a Company training class which has been agreed to between Company and Union shall be considered a special temporary assignment for the duration of such assignment and shall qualify for expenses as provided in Subsections 301.9(a) and (b) above, except, however, while on such training assignment an employee whose residence Is more than 50 road miles away from such training facility may be required to utilize board and lodging which is provided by Company, tn lieu of receiving per diem or full expenses. An employee whose residence is located between 25 and 50 miles of the training facility may elect to utilize the Company provided board and lodging or a per diem expense allowance as provided for in Subsection (b) above. Such board and lodging shall be or reasonable quality. Such assignment will not constitute a change in headquarters for the purposes of Section 301.1. T ravel to such classes shall be as provided in Section 301.11. (Amended 1-1-88)
(e)	Employees who are sent on special temporary assignment and are required to use Company transportation to the temporary location will be provided transportation to the extent reasonably possible and subject to the availability of appropriate Company vehicie(s) for meeting their personal needs. (Amended 1 -1 -88)
301.10	ILLNESS WHILE IN CAMP
Notwithstanding the foregoing sections of this Title, an employee shall not be entitled to an expense allowance for any day he or she is absent from duty by reason of illness, or other personal reason except as provided for in Subsection 301.4(e). Camp and boarding house facilities shall, however, be available at no cost for not more than five days during a period of illness of an employee who has elected to receive board and lodging under Section 301.5. (Amended 1-1-84)
301.11	TRAVEL ALLOWANCE
(a)	When an employee is transferred to a new job headquarters or point of assembly, the employee shall be compensated for either (1) the actual time the employee spends traveling from his/her former job headquarters or point of assembly, exclusive of stopovers or (2) one hour (or each 45 miles or portion thereof traveled, whichever is greater. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	Where possible, all travel time pursuant to this Section 301.11 shall be taken during regular work hours on a workday, ana shall be compensated at the straight rate of pay tor the classification the employee will hold at his or her new headquarters or point of assembly, except that if Company requires an employee to travel for more than four hours outside of regular work hours or on a non-workday the travel time in excess of four hours shall be paid at one and one-half times the straight rate erf pay for the classification the employee will hold at his or her new headquarters or point of assembly. (Amended 1-1-68)
(c)	When transportation facilities therefore are not furnished by Company or other mode of transportation Is not authorized in advance, reimbursement of transportation expense at the maximum non-taxable vehicle mileage allowance allowed by the IRS shall be made. (Amended 1-1-00)
*(d	) The foregoing provisions of this Section do not apply if the employee Is transferred from one headquarters or point of assembly to another headquarters or point of assembly arid each of the following provisions apply: (Amended 1-1-91)
(1)	both locations are 25 road miles or less from each other; and	.
(2)	both locations are within 60 road miles of the employee's residence area; and
(3)	the employee normally commutes from home to both locations. (Amended 1-1-91)
(e) Company shall make a good faith effort to notify an employee at least 24 hours in advance of a change in headquarters or point of assembly. (Added 1-1-94)
’Note: Exception, if more than one such transfer is made in a workday, the employee shall receive mileage pursuant to Subsection 301.11(c) and shall be allowed actual travel time during regular work hours. (Subsection Added 1-1-88)
301.12	VEHICLE DRIVER PROVISIONS
If a driver of a vehicle cannot be released from duty when the crew is moved to a new location, and is required to return to his or her former headquarters to remove personal effects, such employee will be allowed round trip travel time under Section 301.11. In addition, if appropriate arrangements to transport the employee back to the former headquarters cannot be provided by the Company, the employee will be allowed the mileage expenses provided in Section 301.11 for his/her return to the former headquarters.
62
301.13	TRANSFER - GENERAL CONSTRUCTION SERVICE CENTERS
(a)	An employee holding a General Construction Service Center classification shall not be subject to transfer to other job locations as are field employees and shall not be entitled to a per diem allowance or other expense allowance, except as provided for in Subsection (b) below, while at the Center. If, however, such an employee transfers to the field, the employee shall file a Residence Certificate, as provided in Section 301.3, on or before the date of such transfer; any per diem expenses due the employee will be based on such Residence Certificate. (Amended 1-1-84)
(b)	If an employee is transferred to a General Construction Service Center as a result of the application of Title 306 of this Agreement the employee shall be entitled to a Relocation Allowance equal to the applicable per diem amount for field employees, as provided for in Subsection 301.4(a), based upon the employee's Residence (as defined in Subsection 301.3(a)) at the time of the transfer, except that the maximum Allowance shall not exceed that of the Zone 3 per diem amount. Such Relocation Allowance shall be paid for each scheduled day the employee works in his/her basic workweek and each holiday which falls on a workday in his/her basic workweek, and shall continue (1) for 26 weeks from the date of the employee’s placement in the Service Center, or (2) until he/she returns to a Service Center from which he/she transferred under the provisions of Title 306, or (3) until he/she is otherwise transferred, whichever occurs first. (Amended 1-1-91)
301.14	SPECIAL ASSIGNMENT - SERVICE CENTER EMPLOYEES
When an employee who is holding a General Construction Service Center classification is assigned to temporary work at such distance from the established headquarters at the Center that It is impracticable to return thereto or to the employee's regular place of abode, actual personal expenses for board and lodging for the duration of such assignment shall be allowed. All expenses are expected to be reasonable and appropriate for the geographical location in which the temporary assignment is located. The time spent by such an employee in traveling io such temporary job at its beginning and from it at its conclusion and any expense incurred therein snail be paid by Company. (Amended 1-1-83)
If on an employees non-workdays any ouch employee remains at such temporary headquarters, expenses for board and lodging on such days shall be paid by Company, but if the employee goes elsewhere for personal convenience, Company shall not reimburse the employee for any expense that the employee incurs thereby. If any such employee returns home for non-workdays, including any holiday which immediately precedes or follows the employee's non-workdays, Company at its option shall: (Amended 1-1-83)
(a)	allow the equivalent of any savings it realizes in the employee's board and lodging costs, or
(b)	provide round-trip transportation by Company vehicle between the temporary headquarters and the tegular headquarters at the Center and pay travel time in each direction, such travel time to be considered as time worked.
301.15	(Deleted 1-1-84)
GENERAL
301.16	HARDSHIP TRANSFERS
(a)	Notwithstanding anything contained herein, Company by agreement with Union may transfer any employee who requests such a transfer tor substantial reason. Such transferred employee shall not be entitled to travel time or reimbursement of transportation expense. Upon written request from an employee, submitted concurrently to Company and Union on the appropriate form, Company and Union shall give such request good faith consideration. Any transfer granted under tne provisions of this Section shall remain in effect until the substantial reason which justified the transfer no longer exists or for a period not to exceed 6 months, whichever Is less, unless Company and Union agree to an extension of the time period in increments not to exceed six additional months. (Amended 1-1-88)
(b)	If granted a hardship under the provisions of Subsection (a) above and upon the conclusion of the period for which a hardship transfer was granted Company transfers the employee back to the previously assigned ob headquarters where the hardship was granted, such employee shall retain the same per diem status as previously leld at that job headquarters. If such employee Is transferred to a different job headquarters from where the hardship was granted, such employee shall be eligible for per diem pursuant to the provisions of Sections 301.3 and 301.4. (Added 1-1-88)
301.17	EXPENSE ALLOWANCE ERRORS
If an error is made in the expense allowance to which an employee is entitled which results in an overpayment to the employee, the employee shall not be required to reimburse the Company beyond the first 60 days of such overpayment. However, extenuating circumstances may relieve the employee of responsibility of reimbursement for overpayment of less than 60 days,
301.18	WORK ASSIGNMENT - RESIDENCE CONSIDERATION
The parties recognize that the work of General Construction may often require working at a job location outside of an employee's residence area. The parties also recognize the Company's right to transfer employees at its
63
discretion to perform the work assigned to General Construction. Nevertheless, it is the Company's intent to attempt to place employees as close to their residence as possible, commensurate with General Construction's work assignments.
(a)	Such intent may include the exchange of headquarters between employees in same or equivalent classifications who possess simitar skills, knowledge and abilities and who mutually agree to such an exchange.
(b)	Further, such intent may take into consideration the rotation, when practical, at reasonable intervals, of those employees in the same or equivalent classifications who possess similar skills, knowledge and abilities who have worked long distances from their residence area with those employees who have remained within a reasonable commuting distance (75 road miles or less but not more than 1-1/2 hours normal travel time) of their residence areas for similar periods of time. For the purpose of this Section “reasonable intervals" is considered to be approximately 6-12 months. Employees in Apprentice classifications may be required to forego consideration for rotation, due to training requirements, for the duration (X their apprenticeship.
<c) Employees who exchange headquarters pursuant to Subsection (a) above shall not be eligible for the travel allowance provided for in Section 301.11. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-88)
301.19	CLERICAL AND ROUTINE CLERICAL ASSISTANT
(a)	Company may assign Clerical Assistants to work at a project or to work at permanently established field offices. A permanently established field office is defined as the office of a General Foreman or Superintendent. Such permanently established field office must maintain a minimum clerical staff of one Senior Field Clerk and one First Field Clerk and/or Routine Field Clerk at all times while the Clerical Assistant classification is assigned to such field office. No more than one Clerical Assistant may be assigned to a single field office.
(b)	Employees holding this classification are not eligible for per diem or expenses and are not subject to transfer unless written agreement with Union is obtained. "However. Clerical Assistants may submit transfer applications to Routine Field Clerk pursuant to Section 305.5. Consideration will be on a system-wide Promotion-Demotion Area, consistent with Exhibit II of the Agreement. An employee classified as a Clerical Assistant who files a transfer application will at the same time file a Residence Certificate as provided in Section 301.3. If such employee is subsequently the successful bidder to Routine Field Clerk, per diem or expenses due the employee will be based on such Residence Certificate.
(c)	Employees holding this classification may be sent on special assignment for up to five days for training and shall be compensated pursuant to the pay provisions of Subsection 301.9(a) or (b).
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-91)
301.20	ENABLING CLAUSE
By written agreement between Company and Union, special provisions may be substituted for the provisions ofthisTitle. (SectionAdded 1-1-88)
301.21	CLARIFICATION TO SUBSECTION 301.4(a) (Formerly Exhibit XV) (Amended 10-1-Q3)
1.	Company may establish a list of motels in the area. An employee may elect to stay at any motel/hotel in the area which is on the Company established list in which event employee shall use the normal method of payment as established by Company (i.e. P-Card, Corporate Credit Card, or other method adopted by Company) where payment is made by Company1 If the employee elects to utilize other facilities, he/sne must pay the associated cost and submit an Expense Reimbursement form. The cost of such other facility shall be reasonable. The determination of the reasonableness of the cost of such facility shall be subject to review in a manner agreeable to Company and Union. If agreement cannot be reached on the acceptability of the cost of the facility, Union may address the issue in the grievance procedure.
If an employee elects to utilize other facilities, and submits an Expense Reimbursement form, Company shall reimburse such employee in a reasonable period of time.
2.	Facilities placed on the Company established list shall be of reasonable quality. Disputes related to the reasonableness of the facility shall be subject to review in a manner agreeable to local Company and Union representatives. If agreement cannot be reached on the acceptability of a facility, Union may address the issue in the grievance procedure.
Company shall utilize as a reference for identifying acceptable facilities, travel reference materials such as the California Automobile Association rating system or the Best Western rating system. Additional facilities not on the Company established list may be utilized if approved in advance by Company, and are subject to the same reasonableness requirements for cost and quality as above. AH facilities included in the California Automobile Association rating system or the Best Western rating system, with the exception of those that are rated (four star), shall be assumed to be on the Company established list.
3.	Motels/hofeZs on the Company list shall be located not more than five (5) road miles and/or fifteen (15) minutes travel time from the employee's regular headquarters, if such headquarters is located in an incorporated area. If the headquarters is in an unincorporated area, both board and lodging facilities must be located not more than 15 road miles of the headquarters provided that such board and lodging are within two road miles of each other. See note (4) below for an exception to this provision.
64
4,	In the city/county of San Francisco, motels/hotefc on the Company list shall be located not more than fifteen (15) road miles and/or thirty (30) minutes travel time from the employee’s headquarters. Further, such facilities shall not be located in a city or town that requires crossing a toll bridge to reach. (Cannot cross Bay Bridge, Golden Gate Bridge, San Mateo Bridge, etc.)
5,	Motefs/hotefe on the Company list shall provide, at minimum, the following conveniences:
a)	In-room telephone (does not include charges associated with use of the in-room phone).
b)	Cable television (does not include charges for use of pay-per-view channels).
6.	Company cannot require two or more employees to share a facility. However, two or more employees may elect to share a facility. In the event two or more employees elect to share a facility, and all do not incur an expense, it is understood that only those who incur an expense are entitled to a reimbursement.
7.	Employees who elect to utilize a travel frailer or motor home for lodging may do so. In such cases, employees may utilize the services of a campground or similar facility in the vicinity of the job headquarters. The normal method of payment established by Company shall be used tor the payment at such facilities. In the event the normal method of payment established by the Company is not available at the facility selected by the employee, such employee will be required to submit receipts on an Expense Reimbursement Form. Employees who utilize such facilities shall be entitled to the same conveniences as are provided to employees electing to utilize a motel (such as electric, water, telephone, cable television hookup, etc.).
8.	Where it is reasonably possible to do so, and where the associated costs would be the same or less as for a motel/hote/, an employee (or several employees) may elect to rent an apartment on a month-to-month basis. Agreement with local management must be reached on a case-by-case basis, however, prior to such rental. There must be a reasonable expectation that the involved employee(s) will remain at the headquarters for a period of time sufficient to make such rental economically feasible.
3. An employee entitled to receive lodging at Company expense need not either commute on consecutive days or stay over night on consecutive days. Such employee may elect to commute on one or more days during a workweek or may elect to stay over night on one or more nights during a workweek,
10.	An employee entitled to receive lodging at Company expense is entitled to lodging during a work week the same number of times as the number of work days and non-work days worked during the work week. The nights of lodging are not required to be on the same days as the workdays and non-work days. For example, an employee who works a regular 4 day/1O hour Monday through Thursday schedule may elect to receive lodging reimbursement for Sunday-Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday nights or for Monday-Tuesday-Wednesday-Thursday nights. If such employee was required to work overtime on Sunday in this example, such employee may elect to receive lodging reimbursement for Saturday through Wednesday nights or for Sunday Through Thursday nights. If such employee were required to work overtime on "Friday in this example, such employee may elect to receive lodging reimbursement for Sunday through Thursday nights or for Monday through Friday nights.
TITLE 302.	HOURS
302.1	BASIC WORKWEEK AND BASIC WORKWEEK DEFINED
A workweek is defined to consist of seven consecutive calendar days, and a basic workweek is defined to consist of five workdays of eight hours each. The days in the basic workweek shall be known as workdays and the other days in the workweek snail be known as non-workdays. Employees may be scheduled to work more or less than five days per week or for more or fess than eight hours per day, but in any such event the basic workweek shall continue to be as herein defined.
302.2	BASIC WORKWEEK
The basic workweek shall be from Monday through Friday.
302.3	CHANGES
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 302.2 hereof. Company's Foreman or other Supervisor and the employees involved, together with Union, may mutually establish a different basic workweek of five consecutive workdays.
302.4	(Deleted 7-1-56)
302.5	HOURS-GENERAL
In general, and except as otherwise provided herein, the regular hours of work shall be from 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 12:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., or from 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 1 p,m. to 5 p.m.; provided, however, that the regular lunch period may be advanced or delayed one hour or less for any of the following reasons, namely, (a) when work which must necessarily be performed on facilities serving a customer of Company can most conveniently be performed during such customer's lunch period; (b) when work must necessarily be performed by reason of an interruption to utility service or other emergency having occurred; (c) when work must necessarily be
65
performed to eliminate a hazard to life or property; or (d) when the Company foreman or other supervisor and the employees involved mutually establish a different lunch period or agree to a temporary change in the regular lunch period. A change in lunch period for any of the foregoing reasons shall not be deemed to require the payment of overtime, except that if the regular lunch period is advanced or delayed for more than one hour for any of tne reasons herein listed (a), (b), (c), the employees involved wilt be paid at the overtime rate for work performed tn the regular lunch period and may eat their lunch on Company time.
302.6	HOURS - BOARDINGHOUSE
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 302.5 hereof, the eight hours of work of employees who are employed in boardinghouses may be spread over a 13 hour period each day.
302.7	OVERTIME - HOURS CHANGE
Further notwithstanding the provisions of Section 302.5 hereof, Company may change the regular hours of work of any employee when necessary, in which event overtime compensation shall not be paid for time worked outside of regular work hours except during the first four workdays following such change.
(a)	As used in this Section, "regular hours of work" are those defined in Section 302.5; i.e., 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 12:30 p.m. to4;30p.m., or from 8 a.m. to 12 o'clock noon and from 1 p.rri. to 5 p.m.
(b)	The provisions of this Section shall not be applicable unless an employee is assigned hours of work other than regular hours of work for a period estimated as more than four consecutive workdays.
(c)	A further change of work hours, following an assignment as provided in Subsection (b) above, shall result in the payment of overtime the first four workdays after such further change for hours worked outside of regular work hours and outside those hours from which the employee was just changed. If any such situation extends beyond two workweeks, Company and Union may agree to rotate the assignment of employees thereto, but in such event the overtime compensation herein provided for will not be paid to any employee for more than the first four workday period worked outside of regular hours. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	Overtime compensation shall not be paid under this Section 302.7 for time worked during regular hours of work as defined in Subsection (a) above.
(e)	The provisions of this Section are not applicable where:
(1)	the regular hours of work, as established in Section 302.5, are changed by Company at the request or direction of public authorities, provided, however, that before any such change is made Company shall discuss it with Union, or
(2)	such regular hours of work are changed by agreement between Company and Union.
In neither instance shall Company be required to pay overtime compensation by reason of such change.
302.8	(Deleted 1-1-80)
302.9	NORMAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
When employees are engaged in work on electric power lines, water distribution systems or gas pipelines, ob headquarters shall be established at a location reasonably convenient to board and lodging or to a local ransportation system, oral a Company Service Center or other Company facility where employees customarily report for work, and the time spent in traveling between job headquarters and work sites shall be considered as time worked.
302.10	OTHER REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
When regular employees are engaged in work other than that described in Section 302.9 hereof, the following shall govern the reporting practice and payment for travel time:
(a)	Assembly Point: In an unincorporated area except as provided in Subsection (c) hereof, an assembly point shall be designated for each job at a location reasonably convenient to board and lodging and the travel between such point ano the work site shall be considered as time worked.
(b)	Travel Time: In a town or a metropolitan area, employees may be required to report at the work site on their own time.
(c)	Camp Provided: On a station or hydro job when living quarters are provided by Company: (Amended 1-1-80)
(1)	When travel from such facilities to the work site is 30 minutes or less each way, such employees shall report at the work site.
(2)	When travel from such facilities to the work site requires more than 30 minutes, the travel time each way in excess of 30 minutes shall be considered as time worked.
66
(3) if the work site is inaccessible to automotive transportation such travel shall be to a
designated point which is accessible. Accessible to automotive transportation is defined as a route that is (a)
reasonable and practical, (b) is safely traversable in a standard 2-wheel drive passenger car, and (c) is regularly
maintained in reasonable repair. (Amended 1-1-88)
302.11	NON-CAMP CONDITIONS
A location reasonably convenient to board and lodging as referred to in Sections 302.9 and 302.10 hereof shall mean any location within the city limits of an incorporated city where board and lodging are available; or, in an unincorporated area, a location where the board and lodging are within 15 road-miles of the headquarters or assembly point and provided further that such board and lodging are within two road-miles of each other, and which is accessible by automobile. Accessible by automobile shall be as defined in Subsection 301.2(b). Where the headquarters is in an unincorporated area, such board and lodging may be either in an unincorporated area or in an incorporated city, (Amended 1-1-88)
TITLE 303.	INCLEMENT WEATHER PRACTICE
303.1	SHELTERED WORK
Regular employees who report for work on a workday, but are prevented from working in the field because of inclement weather or other similar cause shall, if practicable, be held pending emergency calls, or may be given first aid, safety or other instruction, or may be required to perform miscellaneous work at locations unaffected by inclement weather conditions. (Amended 1-1-83)
303.2	SHOW-UP TIME (FIRST HALF)
If an employee reports for work on a workday in his/her basic workweek and is not required to work because of inclement weather, lack of materials, or similar cause beyond his/her control, or if such employee, having started work on a workday in his/her basicworkweek^ is required to discontinue it for any^of the foregoing reasons, the G«Tip!oyos shsll bs coiiipGnScuGd for ths *«rno mO/smG works or is held at the worksite. Such compensaLion shall be at the rate of pay which would have been payable had the employee worked at his/her scheduled work, but in no event shall a regular employee be paid less than four hours compensation or a casual employee less than two hours compensation. (Amended 1-1-91)
303.3	MINIMUM (AFTER SECOND HALF)
If a regular employee after working more than 4 hours on a day in his/her basic workweek is prevented from continuing work for the remainder of such day because of inclement weather the employee shall be paid eight hours compensation for such day at the rate of pay which would have been payable had the employee worked the full day. (Amended 1-1-91)
303.4	EXPENSES
When a regular employee is directed by the foreman or supervisor in charge not to report for work on any day in the employee’s basic workweek because of inclement weather, or other similar cause beyond the employee's control, the employee shall be paid the Zone 3 per diem amount (as provided in Section 301.4) or regular per diem, whichever is greater, or, if the employee lives at a Company-operated or Company-designated boardinghouse or camp, the employee shall not be charged for board and lodging on such day. (Amended 1 -T-91)
303.5	CLOSE DOWN DECISION
The decision to close down a job or a portion of a job and send employees home under this Title shall be made by a supervisor when, in the supervisor’s reasonable judgment, the weather, ground, or other conditions at the worksite make it impractical to work efficiently, productively or safely. The decision will be made by an exempt supervisor who personally examined the conditions at the worksite and who has evaluated the availability of other miscellaneous work or training as provided for in Section 303.1, except in those cases where such a supervisor is not able to personally examine such worksite. When the exempt supervisor is unable to personally examine such worksite, he/she shall consult with a bargaining unit supervisor who is familiar with such worksite. If an employee is sent home and conditions improve to the point at the employee's worksite that work can be performed efficiently, productively and safely, the Company will make a good faith effort to call the employee back to work on the earliest workday possible regardless of the number of days off originally anticipated. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
TITLE 304.	WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
304.1	WAGE PROGRESSION
■	(a) The "Wage Progression" of an employee who is absent on leave of absence without pay for more
than ten consecutive workdays will be delayed by a period of time equivalent to such leave of absence. The "Wage Progression" of an employee in a beginning or apprentice or other training classification who is absent for more than 25 consecutive workdays because ofan industrial injury as defined in Section 108.1 or for an illness or disability and
67
is receiving sick leave with pay as provided for in Section 112,1, will be delayed by the period in excess of 25 consecutive workdays,
(b)	Except as provided in Section 304.5 below, an employee who is assigned to a classification having a higher maximum wage rate shall be paid at the first step of the wage progression of such classification which is higher than his/her present wage rate, or at the wage step in the higher classification determined by the time previously accumulated in such higher classification, as provided for in Subsection 304.1(a), whichever is tne greater. (Amended 1-1-91)	y
(c)	An employee who is demoted due to lack of work to a classification in such employee's current Line of Progression having a lower top wage rate is entitled to the rate of pay previously held in the lower classification or the rate of pay in the tower classification equal to or next lower to his/her present rate of pay, whichever is higher. Employees with 24 months or more in their current classification who have received notice of displacement and vacate their base position by successful bid, transfer or who are displaced into a lower paying position will maintain their rate of pay for up to three years or until such time as the rate of pay is equal to or greater than that of the employee's frozen rate of pay, whichever comes first. If at the end of three years, an employee is still paid above the top of the rate for the classification. During the time that an employee's pay remains above the wage range of the position into which he/she bid, the employee will not receive General Wage Increases or Progressive Wage Increases. (Amended 1-1-00)
(d)	An employee who is demoted to a classification outside of the employee's current Line of Progression having a lower wage rate will be placed at the wage step appropriate to the employee's level of qualifications. (Amended 1-1-80)
304.2	TEMPORARY UPGRADE
When an employee is temporarily assigned to work in a classification higher than the employee's regular classification the employee will be paid for time worked in the higher classification at the rate therefore, provided that such time worked is not less than two hours during the day. However, an employee who previously held the higher classification on a permanent basis will be paid lor time worked in the higher classification at the rate therefore provided that the time worked is not less than one hour. Such time worked may be accumulated over an eight-hour period by intervals of not less than one-half hour. (Amended 1-1-88)	.
304.3	PAYDAY
Wages shall be paid at biweekly intervals on Fridays for a two-week payroll period ending not less than four nor more than ten days prior to the pay date, provided that if the regular pay date falls on a holiday payment shall be made on the preceding workday. Company shall make direct deposit available to those employees who elect to utilize such. (Amended 1-1-88)
304.4	NEW CLASSIFICATIONS AND WAGE RATES
Upon agreement thereon by Company and Union, additional regular classifications, wages therefore, and normal Lines of Progression may be established, and the wages, duties and Line ol Progression di any classification (Added	such agreement’ C°mPany may establish temporary classifications and wages therefore.
304.5	APPRENTICE WAGE RATES
(a) in each instance, except as provided in Subsection (b), when an employee is appointed to fill a vacancy in an apprentice classification for the first time, such employee shall be placed at the beginning rate in such apprentice classification.
' (b) Based on Company and Union written agreement and the employee's current knowledge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability which relate directly to prior performance of journeyman duties and which supplant need for training in an apprenticeship, the employee maybe placed in a wage step above the beginning rate. (Added 1-1-80)
TITLE 305.	JOB BIDDING AND PROMOTION
305.1	BIDDING ON REGION JOBS
Any regular employee of General Construction who is in the unit described in Section 300.1 may submit a bid by United States or Company mail to Company on any job under the provisions of Title 205 or Title 18 of the Clerical Agreement and such bids will be entitled to consideration as provided for in such Title. (Amended 1-1 -94)
305.2	QUALIFICATIONS FOR GENERAL CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES BIDDING/ TRANSFERRING TO DIVISION JOBS
An employee in General Construction must pass the appropriate agreed-to employment test battery before the employee's bid to fill a Regional or Department job vacancy under the provisions of Titfe 205 will be considered. (Amended 1-1-91)
68
Such employee shall be entitled to two opportunities to pass the test referred to above. The second attempt to pass such test must be a minimum of three months from the date of the initial attempt. However, where the_parties have agreed that certain classifications, other than normal entry level, have substantially identical tasks in General Construction as in the Regions or Departments, successful performance by an employee tn such classification will be considered as presumptive evidence of meeting the appropriate agreed-to test requirements. Additionally, a former General Construction employee who has become a Regional or Department employee at the journeyman level or below must meet the agreed-to test battery to meet rhe employment, requirements for Region or Department employees before being promoted to a working foreman job on other than a temporary basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, successful performance as a temporary working foreman in a Region or Department for a cumulative total of six months or more shall be presumptive evidence of meeting such requirements. (Amended 1-1-91)
An employee in General Construction, other than an employee in a journeyman classification in the same Line of Progression as that in which the vacancy exists, must pass the appropriate agreed-to apprentice entrance tests, as designated in Paragraph A of the Master Apprenticeship Agreement before the employee's bid to fW a vacancy in an apprentice or a journeyman classification will be considered. The employee shall be entitled to retest following failure on the same schedule as a Regional or Department employee. (Amended 1-1-91)
305.3	(Deleted 7-1-66)	-
305.4	TEMPORARY UPGRADES
(a)	When it is necessary to effect a temporary upgrade Company shall give preferential consideration to the regular employee who has the greatest Service among those who:
(1)	are qualified for the upgrade, and
(2)	have at least six months of Service, and
(3)	are in the classification next lower, in the normal Line of Progression, to the classification to which the upgrade is being made, and	■
4
(4)	are working on the shift where the upgrade is needed, and
,	(5)	(i)	are working at the assembly point where the upgrade is needed, or
(ii)	when unanticipated vacancies occur and/or when operating conditions require, are in the crew or Service Center or project section where the upgrade is needed. (Amended 1 -1 -00)
Upgrades under Subsection 305.4(a)(5)(H) shall be limited to five consecutive workdays or less, except that upgrades to classifications which require the employee to exercise supervisory duties shall be limited to ten consecutive workdays or fess.
(b)	Further notwithstanding the foregoing, Company shall have the right to select for temporary upgrade a qualified employee who is working outside the assembly point or shift where the upgrade is needed, provided that such employee has greater Service than the employee who otherwise would have been awarded the upgrade.
(c)	Temporary upgrades normally are limited to 20 consecutive workdays, but may extend beyond 20 consecutive workdays when an employee is upgraded to replace one or more employees who are absent from work.
(d)	Each month Company shall provide Union with a list of temporary upgrades effected during the prior month. Such list shall include eacn upgraded employee's name, social security number, job headquarters, promotion-demotion area, the classification^) to which each employee was upgraded and the hours each employee worked in such classifications). This list snail be cumulative, reflecting hours worked in upgraded classification(s) during the prior 13 payroti periods. Additionally, each job headquarters will be furnished with a copy of that portion of the list which shows the upgrades effected in the Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area (as defined in Section 305.5) in which such headquarters is located. Employees shall be permitted to review the list upon request. (Amended 10-1-03)
305.5	PROMOTION (SIX MONTHS OR MORE SERVICE) (Amended 1 -1 -00)
Employees who have six months or more of continuous Service with Company (as defined in Section 106.1) shall be given preferential consideration as follows for promotions occurring in the department of General Construction in which they are employed: (Amended 1-1-00)
(a)	In the case of each such promotion such preferential consideration shall first be given to that employee who qualifies under the provisions of Section 306.9, then to that employee who has the greatest Service and is at the top rate of pay in the classification next lower in the normal Line of Progression to the one in which the vacancy exists, provided that the employee is fully qualified to perform the duties of the job which is vacant, and provided further that the employee is headquartered in the area in which the vacancy exists. As used herein, the term ’'area'' means the geographic promotion-demotion area established by agreement between Company and Union as indicated in Exhibit II, General Construction Promotion-Demotion Geographic Areas, which is attached hereto and made a part hereof. (Amended 1-1-88)
69
(b)	Employees, other than those with preferential rights under Section 306.9, who have turned down a temporary upgrade opportunity that was known in advance to last for five or more workdays (10 or more workdays for positions which require the employee to exercise supervisory duties) shall not be entitled to consideration for promotion for a period c< 90 calendar days thereafter. An employee who declines a temporary upgrade shall sign and date a temporary upgrade form indicating he/she is not interested in the upgrade and further indicating awareness that he/she will not be considered for promotion for a 90 calendar day period. (Added 1-1-94)
(c)	A permanent upgrade form shall be used so that employees can indicate interest in and qualification for permanent upgrade to classifications higher in the normal Line of Progression. Such forms shall be signed and dated by the employee and the employee’s supervisor, following which a copy of the completed form shall be returned to the employee. Such form shall remain in effect until either the employee is promoted to a higher classification or for one year from the date signed by the employee. An employee may revise and resubmit a permanent upgrade form at any time. (Added 1 -1 -91)
(d)	Notwithstanding anything therein contained to the contrary, Company may make appointments to jobs requiring the employe to exercise supervisory duties on the basis of ability and personal qualifications. (Added
(e)	At least once each month Company shall submit to Union a list of promotions in each geographic sromotion-demotion area in General Construction. Such list shall include the name of the employee promoted, the ocatton and title of the original vacancy, and the employment date of the promoted employee. Such list shall also nclude the name, employment date and classification of each employee in the area and normal Line of Progression where the promotion was made who has an employment date earlier than the employment date of the promoted employee. (Added 1-1-91)
305.6	HARDSHIPS
Company shall have the right to make transfers in the case of employees whose health or physical condition makes it advisable to relieve them from duty in occupations which are hazardous or which involve physical or mental strain, and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to restrict or restrain Company in the exercise of such right.
305.7	GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PREBID PROCEDURE
Any regular employee of Company may submit a prebid on any existing job classification and promotion/demotion geographic area, as defined in Exhibit II of the Agreement for which the employee desires consideration in accordance with the following procedure provided the employee does not exceed a combined maximum number of 150 prebids and transfers. This maximum will not apply to employees subject to the provisions of Title 306. (Amended 10-1-03)
(a)	Eligibility: To be valid, an employee's prebid must be entitled to preferential consideration under the provisions of Section 305.5 or the provisions of Subsection (b) below. A list of existing classifications by promotiondemotion geographic area with appropriate prebid numbers is available in each headquarters where employees in the Physical bargaining unit regularly report for work.
(b)	Filling of Vacancies: whenever a vacancy occurs in any job classification which the Company intends to fill on a regular oasis, once the current provisions of Section 305.5 have been exhausted, Company shall fill the remaining vacancies as soon as practicable and in the following sequence:
(1)	Bids made by employees who are entitled to preferential consideration under Section 306 9 who are out of the Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area of the vacancy;
(2)	Bids made by regular Title 300 General Construction employees in order of seniority who are:
(a)	in the same department but in a different Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area, who are either
(i)	in the same classification as that in which the job vacancy exists, or
(ii)	in classifications which are higher thereto in the Lines of Progression, or
Sat the top rate of pay of the next lower classification in the normal Line of _____ . ____ rwise provided in any applicable apprenticeship agreement.
(b)	from all other Title 300 employees from any other department (Amended 10/1/03)
(3)	Bids made by any regular Title 200 Division employee in order of seniority,
(c)	Forms: Prebids must be submitted on the form provided by Company or via Bid Express, the telephone input system.
(d)	Mall: Prebids may be submitted to Company by either United States or Company mail.
(e)	Timeliness: Company shall not consider any prebid which was received by Company less than eight
calendar days prior to the date the fully authorized job vacancy report was received and date stamped by the Human Resources Department to fill a job vacancy in the classification and promotion-demotion geographic area on which
70
J
the prebid was made. Only those prebids valid as of the date stamped on the job vacancy report will be considered to fill such vacancy. Subsequent prebids may be considered only after that list has been exhausted. At that point where there are no qualified prebids on file, Company may fill the job at its discretion in the same manner as described in Section 205-13- (Amended 10-1-03)
if) Date of Receipt: The date of receipt will be the date of the U.S. postmark if legible. If such postmark is illegible or if the prebid is submitted by Company mail, the date of receipt will be the Industnal Relations’ date stamp.
<g>	Acknowledgment: Company will acknowledge receipt of all prebids within 15 calendar days from the date of receipt and without rejecting the prebid notify the employee in writing (via e-mail for employees who submitted prebids via e-mail) of any known reason which might preclude the employee's filling the classification on which the employee has submitted a prebid, including information regarding testing programs which must be completed. Information on whether or not an employee has completed such programs is available from the employee's Human Resources Department. (Amended 10-1-03)
(h)	Cancellation of Prebids: Prebids are valid for a period of one year from the date of receipt or until such time
as the employee changes classification or until such time as the employee rejects an appointment to the classification in a specific promotion-demotion geographic area (and shift, it appropriate) on which the prebid was made. Company will notify an employee of the cancellation of employee’s prebids as indicated below. Cancellation shall be effective as follows;
(1)	at the expiration of one year from the date of the prebid and after 15 calendar days' advance notice from Company,
(2)	upon the employee’s declining an appointment to the classification in a specific promotion-demotion geographic area on which the prebid was submitted,
(3)	30 calendar days after any employee’s change of classification which does not affect his or her
status as a prebidder, and after 15 calendar days advance notice from Company,
(4)	immediately upon an employee’s change of classification which affects his or her status as a prebidder,
(5)	immediately upon receipt of authorization from an employee to cancel a prebid, or
(6)	upon receipt of authorization from the local Human Resources Department to cancel prebids because a job is deleted from the directory or an employee improperly designates rights, as provided in Section 306.9, with notification to the employee by the local Human Resources Department of such cancellation. In the latter cases, the employee’s prebid will be given the appropriate 305.5 consideration for 15 calendar days from the time the local Human Resources Department notifies employee of such cancellation.
(i)	New Jobs In a Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area: The Company shall post, on all bulletin boards throughout the System, a notice describing all new classifications in any promotion-demotion geographic area on the first or fifteenth of any month, as soon as such jobs are authorized to be filled. Such notice shall remain posted until the next Directory listing the new classification is posted on the bulletin board, but not less than 15 days. Ii no prebids are received 18 days after the date shown on the notice, or at the point there are no qualified bids on file, Company will have 60 days to fill the vacancy in a manner as described in the provisions of Section 205.13.
An employee who is the senior, qualified bidder to more than one vacancy, which is currently being filled, shall be given the option of accepting (he classification and promotion-demotion geographic area desired.
(i)	Prebld Directory; The Company shall identify all prebidable classifications covered under the Physical and Clerical Agreements. Such identification shall include me location, function and prebid number.
(k) Accepting Job Offer: An employee will be expected to provide a response by the next business day if s/he is offered a position that will not result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence.
An employee will be expected to reply within 48 hours of receiving a job offer request when accepting the offered position will result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence. Under certain circumstances of hardship or operational needs, the supervisor offering the position may grant up to 72 hours for the employee to respond. Further, based on operational needs, an employee may be granted the use of a floating holiday or vacation day to assist in determining whether or not to accept a job offer. Failure to respond in the aforementioned time frame will cause the employees bid to forfeit.
An employee who is scheduled to goon vacation is encouraged to voluntarily leave a phone number with his/her supervisor at which s/he can be reached if a job offer is extended. As an alternative, an employee may voluntarily leave his/her supervisor a prioritized list of vacancies s/he will accept if offered a position. This list will expire after the vacation period is ended. In no case will an employee be bypassed for an offer due to being on vacation. (Added 10-1-03)
305.8 FILLING BEGINNER’S CLASSIFICATIONS (Added 10-1-03)
Whenever Company intends to fill a beginner's classification, Company shall fill it in the following sequence:
71
(a)	Transfers made by regular employees who are entitled to preferential consideration under Section 306.9 who are;
1.	in the same Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area as the vacancy, then;
2.	out of the Promotion Demotion Geographic Area as the vacancy.
(b)	Company shall make unrestricted appointments in filling one-half of the vacancies in beginner’s classifications.
(c)	In making appointments to fill the remaining one-half of the vacancies in beginner’s classifications in each Line of Progression in a given department in a promotion-demotion geographic area, Company shall give preferential consideration to employees with at feast one year of service, unless transferring to a part-time classification with a higher wage rate or from a part-time position to a full-time position, who have previously filed a transfer to fill such vacancies. An employee who is the senior, qualified transferee to more than one vacancy, which is currently being filled, shall be given the option of accepting the vacancy desired. Preference for appointment shall be given to the emfM^ee for each vacancy in each classification who has the greatest Service in the following sequence: (Amended
(1)	Title 300 General Construction employee in the same department as the vacancy.
(2)	Any other Title 300 General Construction employee.
(3)	Title 200 Division employees.
The above provisions shall be applicable to a beginner’s classification in a Line of Progression in a promotion-demotion geographic area where a transfer application for such vacancy is on file and the number of unrestricted appointments exceeds transfers.
AU transfer requests must be submitted by United States or Company mail on a form provided by Company. Transfer requests also may be submitted via Bid Express, the telephone input system. The date of receipt shall be the postmark date if delivered by U.S. Mail, or Industrial Relations date stamp if delivered by Company mail or it the U.S. postmark is illegible. In no event shall the Company consider any transfer application which was received by Company less then eight calendar days prior to the established control date. The control date is first established on the date the fully authorized personnel requisition Is received and date stamped by the local Human Resources Department to fill a job vacancy in the classification and promotion-demotion geographic area on which the transfer application was made. If the transfer listing is exhausted without a successful candidate, a new control date will be established. This new control date wilt be the date of the decline or bypass of the last transfer applicant. Transfers which were not timely under the original control date but were received eight days prior to the new control date will then be given consideration. If the vacancy cannot then be filled by transfer, it may be filled by unrestricted appointment - no transfers on file.
(d)	Company shall acknowledge receipt of all transfer applications within 15 calendar days from date of receipt and, without rejecting such applications, notify in writing (via e-mail for employees who submitted transfers via e-mail) an employee who submits a transfer application of any known reason which might preclude the employee from filling the classification on which the employee has submitted a transfer application, including information regarding testing programs which must be completed. Information on whether or not an employee has completed such programs is available from the employee’s Human Resources Department. (Amended 10-1-03)
(e)	Within ten calendar days after the first of each month. Company shall, within each department identified in Exhibit II and by promotion-demotion geographic area, provide Union information on beginning job vacancies that have been filled the previous month as follows: (Amended 10-1-03)
(1)	Name of individual, social security number, employment date and classification.
(2)	Classification of vacancy filled.
(3)	Department and promotion-demotion geographic area of vacancy filled.
(4)	Date vacancy filled.
(5)	Show whether vacancy is regular or part-time.
(6)	Show whether vacancy is filled by transfer, new hire or new hire - no transfers on file.
SFor the purposes of this agreement, beginner’s classifications are those listed in Exhibit VII, General instruction Field and Service Center classifications.
(g)	Cancellation of Transfers: Applications for Transfer are valid for a period of one year from the date of receipt or until such time as the employee changes classification or until such time as the employee rejects an appointment to the classification and promotion-demotion geographic area on which the transfer application was made. Company will notify an employee of the cancellation di employee’s applications for transfer as indicated below. Cancellations shall be effective as follows:
72
(1)	At the expiration of one year from the date of the transfer and after 15 calendar days advance notice from Company,	.
(2)	Upon the employee's declining an appointment to the classification and promotion-demotion geographic area on which the transfer was submitted,
(3)	30 calendar days after any employee’s change of classification, which does not affect his or her
priority status as a transfer, and after 15 calendar days advance notice from Company.
(4)	Immediately upon an employee’s change of classification which affects his or her priority status as a transfer,
(5)	Immediately upon receipt of authorizations from an employee to cancel a transfer, or
(6)	Upon receipt of authorization from the local Human Resources Department to cancel transfers because a job is deleted from the directory or an employee improperly designates rights, as provided in Section 306.9 with notification to the employee by the local Human Resources Department of such cancellation. In the latter cases the employee's transfer will be given the appropriate consideration for 15 calendar days from the date of notification.
(h)	Accepting Job Otter} An employee will be expected to provide a response by the next business day if s/he is offered a position that will not result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence.
An employee will be expected to reply within 48 hours of receiving a job offer request when accepting the offered position will result in the employee needing to relocate his/her residence. Under certain circumstances of hardship or operational needs, the supervisor offering the position may grant up to 72 hours for the employee to respond. Further, based on operational needs, an employee may be granted the use of a floating holiday or vacation day to assist in determining whether or not to accept a job offer. Failure to respond in the aforementioned time frame will cause the employee s bid to forfeit.
An employee who is scheduled to go nn vacation is encouraged to voluntarily leave a phone number with his/her supervisor at which s/he can be reached if a job offer is extended. As an alternative, an employee may voluntarily leave his/her supervisor a prioritized list of vacancies s/he will accept if offered a position. This list will expire after the vacation period is ended. In no case will an employee be bypassed for an offer due to being on vacation. (Added 10-1-03)	■
305.9	POSTING OF JOB AWARDS (Added 10-1-03)
Company shall post biweekly on the bulletin boards in each headquarters within the system a list of all job awards made through prebids and through transfers since the last list was posted. Such list will include the job vacancy number (where appropriate) and the Promotion/Demotion Geographic Area, the appointed employee's name and Service, and the Section of this Agreement relied upon for the award.
305.10	PREFERENCE BY LENGTH OF SERVICE (Added 10-1-03)
(a)	When employees in the same preferential sequence as provided in Section 305.7 are each qualified by knowledge, skill, efficiency, adaptability and physical ability for appointment to a job, the bid of the employee with the greatest Service shall be given preference for appointment.
(b)	In the event a conflict arises as to seniority between two (2) or more employees whose seniority date is the same, the following will be the sequence of consideration for the purpose of a tie-breaker:
(1)	any prior service as a Company employee shall be taken into consideration and the employee whose prior service is greater shall be deemed to have the greater seniority;
(2)	the employee who first successfully completed all preemployment tests shall be deemed to have the greater seniority;
(3)	the employee whose application was first filed with the Company will be deemed to have the greater seniority; or
(4)	the parties will determine which employee is deemed to have the greater seniority by a mutually agreed-upon method of chance, such as a coin flip.
(c)	in the implementation of Title 306, the parties may agree to a process different than the above.
73
i
TITLE 306. DEMOTION AND LAYOFF PROCEDURE
306.1	EMPLOYEES (TWO OR MORE YEARS SERVICE)
The provisions of this Title 306 which are applicable to regular employees with two years or more of Service in cases of displacement, demotion or layoff due to lack of work or the return of an employee from leave of absence for Union business or military service, but not to layoffs due to inclement weather, lack of material and similar causes, shall be applied in such manner as to give effect to the following:
(a)	Provided that the employee is fully qualified to perform the duties of the classification to which such employee is to be demoted or transferred, Service, as defined in Section 106.3, shall be the determining factor in the application of this Title.
(b)	An employee may not elect to displace another employee with equal or greater Service. An employee may not displace an employee in a classification having a wage rate higher than that of such employee's classification except where such classification is considered to be the same in accordance with a Line of Progression as provided tor in Title 600.
(c)	Where referred to in this Title, the Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area shall be as listed in Exhibit I), General Construction Promotion-Demotion Geographic Areas. (Amended 1-1-88)
(d)	Company shall designate the employees to be displaced under the provisions of this Title.
(e)	When it becomes necessary to move an employee because of lack of work, Company shall given the employee as much notice as practicable. (Amended 1-1-91)
306.2	GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
When a demotion is to be made in a classification within a Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area, the employee with the least Service in such classification shall be demoted to the next lower classification in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression. An employee shall be demoted on a step-by-step basis; that is, such employee shall be first to be demoted in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression for the employee's classification to the next lower classification, [f successive demotions must be made, the same procedure shall apply at each step until the employee is either placed in another job or is laid off. If more than one demotion is to be made, the within procedure shall first be applied to the highest classification to be affected and then to successively lower classifications.
306.3	BUMPING (TWO OR MORE YEARS OF SERVICE) *
(a)	An employee who has two or more years of Service and who is to be demoted pursuant to Section 306.2 may, in lieu thereof, elect to displace an employee who (1) has less Service than the displacing employee, (2) is in the displacing employee's current classification and (3) is in the same General Construction Department.
(b)	If an employee with two or more years of Service cannot effect a displacement provided for in Subsection (a) above and cannot effect a demotion to the next lower classification in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression pursuant to Section 306.2, the employee may elect to displace an employee who (1) has less Service than the displacing employee and (2) is in the next successively lower classification in the reverse order of the normal Line of Progression in the same General Construction Department. (Amended 1-1-91)
306.4	BUMPING (FIVE OR MORE YEARS OF SERVICE)
(a)	An employee with five or more years of Service who cannot effect a demotion pursuant to Section 306.2 and who cannot effect a displacement provided for in Section 306.3, may elect to displace an employee who (1) has less Service than the displacing employee and (2) is in the displacing employee's current classification in a different department of General Construction. If such displacement is not possible, the employee may elect to displace an employee who has less Service than the displacing employee and who is in the next lower or successively lower classification in the reverse order of the normal Une of Progression.
(b)	An employee with five or more years of Service who cannot effect a demotion pursuant to Section 306.2 and who cannot effect a displacement provided for in Section 306.3 or Subsection 306.4(a), may elect to displace an employee who,
(1)	has less Service than the displacing employee, and
(2)	is in a General Construction Department in which the displacing employee previously worked for one year or more in the preceding four years, and
(3)	is in a classification the displacing employee previously held for six months or more in such General Construction Department in the preceding four years, or is in a classification lower thereto in the same Line of Progression.
An employee may not effect a promotion under the provisions of this Subsection,
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-84)
74
306.5	BUMPING (FOUR OR MORE YEARS OF SERVICE)
(a)	. An employee with four or more years ol Service who cannot effect a demotion pursuant to Section 306.2, and who cannot effect a displacement provided for in Section 306.3 or 306.4, may elect to displace that employee who (1) has less Service than the displacing employee and (2) is in the beginner's classification in a different Line of Progression in the same General Construction Department.
(b)	An employee with four or more years of Service who cannot effect a demotion pursuant to Section 306.2, and who cannot effect a displacement provided for in Section 306.3 or 306.4 or Subsection 306.5(a), may elect to displace an employee who (1) has less Service than the displacing employee and (2) is in a beginner's classification in a different department of General Construction. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-84)
306.6	RIGHTS TO A BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION IN REGION
An employee with five or more years of Service who cannot effect a demotion pursuant to Section 306.2 and who cannot effect a displacement provided for in Section 306.3,306.4, or 306.5, may elect to:
(a)	Fill a vacancy in a beginner's classification in the Regions in the same normal Une of Progression (as set forth in Title 600 and Exhibit Vilfand Exhibit A of the Agreement applying to Office and Clerical Employees) as the one occupied by the employee at the time the initial Title 306 action began.
(b)	If an employee cannot effect a placement in accordance with Subsection (a) above, the employee may displace the Region employee with the least Service in a beginner's classification in tne same normal Une of Progression as the one occupied by the displacing employee at the time the initial Title 306 action began, providing such displacing employee was a journeyman or higher at the time the initial Title 306 action began. The General Construction employee may not displace a Region employee whose Service is greater than his/her own. A journeyman is defined as a classification having a formal negotiated training program.
(c)	In the application of this Section, the General Construction employee within the 10 workday lay-off notice period must be able to meet the same qualification requirements that Region employees must meet,
(d)	An employee who enters a beginner's classification under the provisions of this Section:
(1)	shall not have any rights under Section 206.9, but shall have accelerated rights to return to his or her former classification and department of General Construction or to a successively lower classification in the normal Line of Progression to such classification. If the employee declines to return, sucn employee loses Section 306.9 rights,
(2)	’ may return to another General Construction department if such employee can be placed within any such General Construction department within one year from the date of displacing info a Region beginner's classification.	1
(e)	A placement into a Region vacancy under the provisions of this Section shall count as a transfer under the provisions of Subsection 205.5(c) or Subsection 18.5(b), as appropriate. (Amended 1 -1 -94)
306.7	LAYOFFS
(a)	If there is no job to which Company can demote an employee under Section 306.2, or if the employee does not effect a displacement under any of the provisions of this Title, the employee will be laid off.
(b)	When it becomes necessary for Company to lay off an employee because of lack ol work, Company shall give the employee as much notice as practicable, but in no event shall a regular employee be given less than five working days notice, and an employee who has five or more years of Service shall be given not less than ten working days'notice. (Amended 1-1-91)
306.8	JOURNEYMAN RETENTION
If in the application of the provisions of this Title an employee in a classification which, in the normal Line of Progression, is higher than an apprentice classification can effect a displacement in such classification, the former shall not take such apprentice classification but shall be given the rate of classification next higher thereto.
306.9	ACCELERATED PROMOTION - TRANSFER
For the purpose of enabling employees who have been demoted and/or transferred under the provisions of this Title, or to enable employees who have been or are on Long-Term Disability status to return to their former classificatlonfs) and Lines of Progression on an accelerated basis, Company shall give preferential consideration, pursuant to Title 305, to employees who formerly worked in such job classification® and Lines of Progression in accordance with the following:
75
I
(a)	An employee will be given preferential consideration for promotion within his/her present General Construction Department to return to the highest classification held immediately prior to demotion under this Title. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Where written notice has been provided to Company by an employee who has been transferred to or reemployed tn other General Construction Departments or Lines of Progression under the provisions of Title 306, Company shall return such employee to any classification previously held, which the Company intends to fill, in the employee's original or intermediate Line(s) of Progression to which the employee has indicated he/she will return. (Amended 1-1-94)
An employee who declines to return to a classification in a former Line of Progression for which he/she has indicated willingness to return will forfeit any further preferential rights to return to such Une of Progression. Such employee will retain preferential rights to those Lines of Progression the employee has not declined. (Amended 1-1-94)
In considering notices received from two or more employees under the provisions of this Subsection (b), Company shall give preferential consideration to the notice made by the employee who has the greatest Service.
(c)	When appropriate medical recommendations indicate that an employee on Long-Term Disability can return to active employment, the employee will be given preferential consideration to return to Ine last classification held prior to going on LTD or to a lower classification he/she is capable of filling in his/her former department or another department of General Construction, subject to the provisions of 2.14(a)(2) of the Benefit Agreement, e.g., such placement will be in the highest available classification commensurate with such employee's reduced capabilities, if any. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	When Company intends to fill a vacancy or increase the number of employees in a classification in a General Construction Service Center, preferential consideration shall be given to those employees who (1) have been displaced from such Service Center under the provisions of Title 306 and have provided Company with written notice that they desire to return to such Service Center, and/or (2) have been demoted, pursuant to Title 306, from the subject classification or one higher thereto in the normal Line of Progression.
An employee who declines to return to a Service Center under the provisions of this Subsection (d) will forfeit any further preferential rights to return to such Center under these provisions.
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-84)
306.10	SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
By written agreement between Company and Union, special provisions may be substituted for the provisions of this Title 306.
306.11	SUPERVISORIAL DEMOTION
When by reason of lack of work in his or her department, the Company demotes into a classification in the collective bargaining unit a supervisor or other employee who was not at the time of demotion a member of such unit, such employee shall be placed in the classification held prior to leaving the bargaining unit consistent with the provisions oi Subsections 306.1(a) and (b) and thereupon be entitled to exercise the rights set forth in this Title. (Amended 1-1-88)
306.12	DEMOTION INTO UNIT FROM OUTSIDE
(a)	A supervisory or other employee who was not at the time of demotion a member of the collective bargaining unit, but who formerly worked in a classification which is in such unit, may be demoted for any reason other than lack of work into a classification in such unit provided that no employee in such unit shall be displaced by such action.
(b)	In no case shall such demoted employee be placed into a classification that is higher than the classification held prior to leaving the bargaining unit subject to Subsection 306.1(a). (Amended 1-1-88)
306.13	TERMINATION NOTICE
At such time an employee’s Service with the Company terminates, such an employee shall be notified in writing if he/she is eligible for rehire or not eligible for rehire. The form shall be signed by the appropriate supervisor and, n available at the time of termination, by the employee. One copy of the executed form shall be presented to the employee. In the event the employee is unavailable on the date of termination, Company shall, on such date, mail one executed copy of the form to the terminated employee's last known address. (Amended 1-1-91)
76
306.14	REEMPLOYMENT PROVISIONS
(a)	Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, a regular employee who has been laid-off for lack of work pursuant to the provisions ol this Agreement for a period not in excess of thirty months, and who had one or more years of Service at the time of layoff shall be entitled to preferential rehire on the basis of Company Service at the time of layoff, providing that the laid-off employee, keeps the Company informed in writing of the current mailing address and telephone number for contact and tne Part 111 Promotion-Demotion Geographical Area(s) and/or Part II Bidding Unit(s) for which reemployment will be accepted and whether the laid-off employee wants to be considered for part-time employment. The employee will be notified of the proper method for informing the Company. Company shall maintain one address to which the above notice may be marled.
(b)	When a vacancy exists in a:
(i)	beginning classification covered by this Agreement, or;
tn) classification above beginning level that is not filled pursuant to the provisions of Section 305.5 or Section 205.7 (a) through (d> of this Agreement,
Company shall provide notice of openings for reemployment as follows:
(1) By calling the last telephone number furnished by the laid-off employee and offering reemployment. If contacted by telephone, such employee must advise Company whether or not such employment will be accepted within three working days and the employee must be available for work within seven calendar days.
Slf the laid-off employee cannot be reached by telephone. Company shall forward notice by n Receipt Requested for openings for reemployment to the last mailing address as furnished by such employee.
Within three working days after such notice is received at such mailing address, the laid-off employee must advise Company whether or not the reemployment offer will be accepted, and the employee must be available for work within seven calendar days after so advising Company. If the certified tetter is returned undeliverable, such employee will be considered terminated, and ihe next employee on the laid-off list may be notified of the opening.
(3)	To expedite rehiring, more than one employee may be notified ol an opening, but priority shall be given to employees tn tne order of Service at the time of layoff.
(4)	Company shall not be required to contact laid-off employees when the opening for reemployment is outside the Fart III Promotion-Demotion Geographic Area(s) and departments) and/or the Part II Bidding Unrt(s) and department(s) in which such employee has indicated a desire to accept reemployment.
(5)	It Company cannot contact the laid-off employee by telephone and If no reply is received by Company within three working days after notice is received at the employee's mailing address, or if the laid-off employee does not accept reemployment to a full-time position or report for work within the time periods provided in this Subsection, such employee will be considered terminated, with no further reemployment rights under this Section, and the next employee on the laid-off list may be notified of the opening. If the laid-on employee declines an offer of part-time employment, such employee will not be considered for reemployment to future part-time positions.
(6)	An employee returning to a classification under the provisions of this Section must possess the necessary skills, ability and physical qualifications to perform the duties of the position to which he/she returns,
(c)	The Certified Mail Return Receipt shall be retained by the Company for a period of one year after the notice was mailed to the laid-off employee and shall serve as proof of such notice actually being mailed.
(Entire Section Amended 1-1-94)
306.15 TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES
Company shall continue to provide Union with as much notice as practicable of technological changes in its business which may have a significant effect on its workforce. In such circumstances, Company and Union shall then meet to study and endeavor to adopt appropriate solutions, such as retraining or special placement, as may be practicable before Company implements the provisions of Titles 206, 306, and 19 of the Physical and Clerical Agreements. (Added 1-1-88)
TITLE 307, (Deleted 9-1-53)
TITLE 308.	OVERTIME
308.1	DEFINITION
Overtime is defined as (a) time worked in excess of 40 hours in a workweek, (b) time worked in excess of eight hours on a workday, (c) time worked on a non-workday, (d) time worked on a holiday as provided for in Title 103, and (e) time workedToutside of regular work hours on a workday. Company shall not be required to pay overtime
77
compensation more than once for any single period of time worked. Each overtime period worked shall be compensated to the nearest one-quarter hour. (Amended 1-1-68)
308.2	RATE AND DOUBLE-TIME CONDITIONS
(a)	In general, overtime compensation at the rate of one and one-half times the straight rate of pay shall be paid to employees for overtime as defined in Items (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 308,1; except that
(b)	the time worked in excess of 12 consecutive hours and continuing until the employee Is dismissed from suct) work shall be paid at the rate of two times the employee's straight rate of pay, or
(c)	if, following an employee's dismissal from work or on an employee's non-workday or holiday which the employee is schedufeato have off, the employee is called out for work, the employee shall be paid at two times the employee's straight rate of pay for all work performed outside the employee's regular work hours or on a non-workday or holiday which the employee is scheduled to have off, (Amended 1-1-88)
(d)	The time worked in excess of eight hours on the employee's second of two scheduled days off counting from the first day of the basic workweek snail be paid at the rate of two times the employee's straight rate of pay provided such employee has performed work on the first scheduled day off. Employees scheduled to nave four consecutive days shall be entitled, in addition to the above, to pay at the rate of two times the employee’s straight rate of pay 1or the time worked in excess of eight hours on the fourth scheduled day off, provided that such employee has also performed work on the third scheduled day off. (Amended 1 -1 -80)
SFor purposes of this Section, an employee's "regular hours of work" shall be the same on a iy as those regularly scheduled for such employee on a workday.
308.3	VEHICLE DRIVERS
in the event that the truck driver of a crew is required to work in excess of eight hours per day in connection with loading, unloading and garaging trucks such excess time shall be considered as scheduled work time and shall be compensated for at the overtime rate.
308.4	COMPENSATORY TIME OFF
Employees shall not take equivalent time off during a workday in lieu of overtime compensation. (Amended 1-1-88)
308.5	CALL-OUT-NON WORKDAYS
Employees who are called from their living quarters for emergency work on their non-workdays or on holidays which fall on a workday, or outside of their regular work hours on workdays shall be paid overtime compensation for the actual work time and travel time in connection therewith.
308.6	CALL-OUT - WORKDAYS
If an employee, who is called out for emergency work outside of such employee's regular work hours on a workday, continues to work into or beyond the employee's regular work hours the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for actual travel time only from his/her Jiving quarters. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
308.7	TWO HOUR MINIMUM
The minimum time for which overtime compensation shall be paid under the provisions of Section 308.6 shall be two hours, except that if an employee who is called out for emergency work outside of his/her regular work hours on workdays continues to work into or beyond regular work hours he/she shall be paid overtime compensation only for travel time as provided in Section 308,6 and for actual work time up to regular work hours unless the provisions of Section 308.14 are applicable, (Amended 1-1-91)
308,8	PREARRANGED OVERTIME
When, at the request of the supervisor in charge, an employee reports for prearranged work (1) on workdays outside of his/her regular work hours, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for actual work time and travel time in connection therewith, provided, however, that if such employee continues to work into or beyond the employee's regular work hours such employee shall be paid overtime compensation only for travel time from the employee's living quarters and for actual work time up to regular work hours unless the provisions of Section 308.14 are applicable; (2) on non-workdays outside of the employee's regular work hours, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for actual work time and travel time in connection therewith, provided^ however, that if such employee continues to work into or beyond regular work hours, travel time only from his/her living quarters shall be paid for; and (3) on non-workdays during regular work hours, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation only for actual work time. For the purpose of this Section prearranged work shall be deemed to be work for which advance notice has been given by the end of the employee’s preceding work period on a workday. However, Company shall make a good faith effort to notify the employee at least 24 hours in advance of the need to perform prearranged overtime work on non-workdays or holidays, (Amended 1-1-88)
78
308.9	MINIMUM PAY
The provisions of Section 308.8 as to travel time shall not apply when the prearranged work starts less than two hours before regular work hours.
308.10	MAXIMUM TRAVEL TIME
The maximum time for which travel time in any one direction shall be paid under the provisions of Section 308.8 shall be one-half hour.
308.11	MINIMUM PAY - CANCELLATION
If an employee is instructed by his/her supervisor to report for prearranged work on a non-workday, or on a holiday which the employee is entitled to take off with pay, and such work is canceled, the employee shall be paid overtime compensation for a minimum of two hours, inclusive of any travel time as provided in Section 308.8, if the employee is not given notice of the cancellation of such work by the end of his/her preceding work period on a workday. (Amended 1-1-91)
308.12	DISTRIBUTION
(a)	Prearranged overtime work shall be distributed among employees in the same classification and on the same job assignment as equally as is practicable. (Amended 1 -1 -80)
(b)	An employee who is scheduled to be off on vacation shall not be scheduled for work under this Section for the period between the end of the employee's last regular day of work preceding the employee’s vacation and the start of the employee's first regular day ol work following the vacation. An employee who is off due to illness or injury shall not be scheduled for work under this Section until the employee returns to work on a regular workday.
308.13	(Deleted 9-1-54)
308.14	REST PERIODS
If an employee has worked for eight hours or more at the overtime rate during the 16 hour period immediately preceding the beginning of the employee's regular work hours on a workday, such employee shall be entitled to a rest period of eight consecutive hours on the completion of such overtime work. (Amended 1-1-91)
(a)	There shall be included as hours worked at the overtime rate in such 16 hour period any travel time and mealtime to which the employee is entitled when emergency or prearranged work is performed, except that any travel time and mealtime to which the employee is entitled after being dismissed from work shall be.included in the computation of the eight hour rest period. (Amended 1-1-91)
(b)	Hours worked prior to any eight hour rest period shall not be included in computing another period of overtime work.
(c)	If the eight hour rest period in whole or in part overlaps the employee's regular work hours, the employee will receive pay at the straight rate for the extent of the overlap, except that the time taken during such overlap for any meal to which the employee is entitled on dismissal shall be paid for at the overtime rate. (Amended 1-1-91)
(d)	If the employee is called back to work during his/her eight hour rest period, a new rest period will commence at the conclusion of such work. (Amended 1 -1 -91)
(e)	(1) If the rest period overlaps the employee's regular work hours but does not extend into the
second naif of the employee's workday, the employee may be excused from reporting for work until the beginning of the second half of the employee's workday, and in such event the employee will be paid for the time between the expiration of the rest period and the end of the first half of such workday. (Amended 1-1-91)
(2)	If the rest period extends into the second half of the employee's workday, the employee may be excused from reporting for work until the following workday, and in such event the employee will be paid for the time between the expiration of the rest period and the employee's regular quitting time on such day. (Amended 1-1-91)	.
(3)	In the application of the foregoing, an employee, unless otherwise instructed, shall be deemed to be excused from reporting to work for the period between the end of the employee's rest period and the reporting time as designated by the applicable subdivision. (Amended 1-1-91)
(f)	An employee entitled to a rest period hereunder may nevertheless be required to work during regular work hours on a workday without having had a rest period of eight consecutive hours, in which event the employee shall be paid at two times the straight rate of pay for al) work performed until the employee has been relieved from duty for at least eight consecutive hours. (Amended 1-1-91)
308.15	THREE WEEK LIMIT
Except where a hazard to life or property exists, employees will not be required to work more than three consecutive weeks without having two consecutive days off.
79
(a)	The terms and provisions of this Section shall be applicable to all employees described in Section 300.1.
(b)	This Section means that, except for the three exceptions noted below, there is an absolute prohibition against requiring an employee to work more than three consecutive weeks without having two consecutive days off. There is no penalty provided for a violation of the provisions of this Section since the ban is absolute.
If an employee has performed work on 21 straight days, the employee must be granted the next two days off. If the next two days off occur on regular workdays for that employee, such employee snail, nonetheless, be granted the days off at the straight-time rate of pay.
(c)	Employees may work beyond the 21 consecutive day limit only under the following conditions:
(1)	Any work situation involving an Immediate hazard to life or property. This does not include situations limited to a loss of money or revenue only.
(2)	Employees voluntarily working emergency overtime.
If an employee is called out for emergency duty and declines to respond because of having worked 21 straight days, the employee shall be excused with no penalty.
(3)	Any prearranged work where it is clear that the assignment to such work is voluntary on the part of the concerned employee.
(d)	"Day" as used in this Section 308.15 refers to calendar day.
For the purposes of this Section 308.15, the time of day when a work period occurs or the length of any given work period is immaterial. If any work is performed on a given day (except as noted below), such day shall be included in the accumulation of 21 straight days.
"Work* as used in this Section 308.15 is defined as time for which an employee is paid while actively working at such employee's assigned job. This definition does not include travel time, time paid for a meal after dismissal from work and prearranged overtime cancellation payments when the employee has not reported for work. Nor does it include shifts which overlap calendar days by a period of one hour or (ess.
(1)	Any non-workday or holiday on which an employee is not regularly scheduled to work, where an employee volunteers for overtime work (see (c)(2) and (3) above) shall not be included in the determination of 21 straight days, and such days will count as days off whether or not the employee works. (Application of this Section will be made to other regular workdays where employee does not work, e.g., jury duty, etc.)
(2)	(a) One day off during the first seven consecutive days worked shall constitute a break
in the 21 -day accumulation.	.
(b) One day off after seven consecutive days of work shall not constitute a break in the 21-day accumulation; however, such a day off shall not be counted as a day of work. The count towards 21 consecutive days shall continue upon the employee's return to work. For example, if an employee who has worked 13 consecutive days takes a single day off, the day such employee returned to work shall be the 14th day towards the accumulation of 21 consecutive days.
(3)	Successive workweeks of six days worked and one day off are permissible with no requirement of granting Iwo consecutive days off. (Entire Section Amended 1-1-84)
TITLE 309.	(Deleted 1-1-74) See Title 112
TITLE 310.	(Deleted 1-1-74)
See Title 106
TITLE311.	(Deleted 1-1-71)
See Title 111
PART IV
TITLE 400. INTERIM NEGOTIATIONS
400,1	From time to time during the term of this Agreement, grievances which have been timely filed concerning the interpretation and application of the provisions of this Agreement may be "Suspended" pursuant to the provisions of a Letter Agreement dated November 1, 1973, as amended March 8, 1974. Additionally, Company and Union may agree to enter Into Interim negotiations to clarify, modify, add to, or delete from the provisions of this Agreement. This Title authorizes the establishment of Ad Hoc Negotiating Committees from time to time to resolve such disputes. (Amended 1-1-94)
80
400.2	An Ad Hoc Negotiating Committee established by this Title shall be composed of members appointed by Union and members appointed by Company's Manager of Industrial Relations. Each party may appoint any number of members who they deem best suited to resolve the particular dispute before the Committee. The members appointed by each, however, shall be kept to a reasonable number consistent with the principles of effective bargaining, and each shall appoint a spokesman from amongst those appointed to the Committee.
400.3	The time spent by Union's Committee members in conjunction with the purpose o1 this Title and who are employees of the Company shall be paid by Company, and Union shall reimburse Company for such expenditures in accordance with the provisions of the Letter Agreement dated July 6,1977.
400.4	The Committee is authorized to settle the dispute referred to it and issue a final and binding decision thereto and to issue Letters of Agreement or Letters of Interpretation revising and adding to this Agreement where necessary to effectuate the Committee's settlement. Without such agreement neither Party may implement any change to this Agreement unless specifically provided for in this Agreement. (Amended 1-1-94)
PARTV
TITLE 500. TERM
500.1 TERM
This Agreement, having taken effect as of September 1,1952, and having thereafter been amended from time to time shall continue in effect as further amended herein for the term of October 1,2003 through December 31, 2007, and shall continue thereafter from year to year unless written notice of termination shall be given by either party to the other 60 days prior to the end of the then current term. The Company and Union acknowledge that, in the event the Company forms new Affiliated Acquiring Entities that are bound by this Agreement, this Agreement and any amendments thereto shall remain in effect until December 31, 2007, or until separate agreements are negotiated to apply to each new Affiliated Acquiring Entity, whichever is earlier. Further, upon either party's request, any new Affiliated Acquiring Entity and the Union shall engage in good faith negotiations to develop separate agreements. (Amended 10-1-03)
500.2	AMENDMENT - NOTICE
Except as provided otherwise herein, if either party desires to amend this Agreement, it shall give notice thereof to the other party 120 days prior to the end of the then current term, in which event the parties shall commence negotiations on any proposed amendment as soon as practicable after such notice has been given. Failure of the parties to agree on such proposed amendment shall not cause termination of this Agreement unless either party has given notice of termination as provided in Section 500.1. (Amended 1-1-80)
500.3	GENERAL WAGE INCREASES
(a)	Effective October 1, 2003, the basic wage rates established for October 1, 2003 in Exhibit X of this Agreement shall be increased by four percent. (Amended 10-1-03)
(b)	Effective January 1,2004, the basic wage rates established for January 1,2004 in Exhibit X of this Agreement shall be increased by four percent. (Amended 10-1-03)
(c)	Effective January 1,2005, the basic wage rates established for January 1, 2005 in Exhibit X of this Agreement shall be increased by four percent. (Amended 10-1-03)
(c)	(Deleted 1-1-97)
(e) Either party may re-qpen this Agreement with respect to the subject of wages by giving notice of such re-opening to the other party 60 days prior to January 1,2006 and January 1, 2007. (Added f 0-1-03)
500.4	APPROPRIATE UNIT CHANGE
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 500.1, either party may give to the other 30 days written notice of the proposed amendment of this Agreement in the event that an administrative or judicial tribunal having jurisdiction to do so shall determine that the unit described in Section 2.1 hereof is inappropriate for the purpose of collective bargaining.
500.5	CONFLICT OF LAW
Any provision of this Agreement which may be in conflict with any Federal or State law, regulation or executive order shall be suspended and inoperative to the extent of and for the duration of such conflict.
In the event any provision of this Agreement is suspended or declared inoperative by reason of the operation of this Section, the parties shall meet within 30 days to negotiate a substitute provision which will, as nearly as possible, reflect the intent of the suspended clause in a lawful manner. (Amended 1-1-84)
81
500.6	CANCELLATION DUE TO BREACH
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 500.1, either party may forthwith terminate this Agreement in the event that the other breaches its obligation as set forth in Section 3.2 hereof. Notice of termination snail be given in accordance with the terms of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as last amended.
500.7	RECISIONS
This Agreement cancels and supersedes that certain agreement entered into on August 1, 1947, by Company and Union, and all amendments, continuations and extensions thereof, or that agreement dated September 1,1950, between Locals 1245 and 1324,1.B.E.W., and all amendmentsand extensions thereof.
PART VI TITLE 600. JOB DEFINITIONS AND LINES OF PROGRESSION
Attached hereto, made a part hereof, and marked Exhibit VI, is a listing of the Section numbers and Exhibits, under which Company and Union have entered into separate Supplementary Agreements setting forth the Job Definitions and Lines of Progression for certain classifications of tne Operating, Maintenance and Construction employees as referred to in Part I, Section 100.1 and Part II, Section 200.1 and certain classifications of General Construction employees as referred to in Part I, Section 100.1 and Part II), Section 300.1 of this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto by their duly authorized representatives have caused these
presents to be executed this	day of ^0 V’Crrt /?£	2003.
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
Its Vice Preside
iator of Industrial Relations
And Bv: Its Director And Ctiifet N
LOCAL UNION NO. 1245 OF INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD O American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations)
CTRICAL WORKERS (affiliated with the
82
EXHIBIT!
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE
LETTER AGREEMENT NO. 93-121-PGE
Decembers, 1993
Local Union No. 1245
International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO
P.O. Box 4790
Walnut Creek, CA 94598
Attention: Mr. Jack McNally
Gentlemen:
Company proposes to amend the Educational Assistance Program (Exhibit I of the Physical Agreement and Exhibit B of the Clerical Agreement) as attached, effective January 1,1994. The proposed amendments will provide qualified employees with payment in advance from PG&E to approved educational institutions. Under this proposal, qualified employees will receive payment in advance by an Official Tuition Voucher as direct payment to the institution for tuition and covered fees. Additional minor “clean-up” changes to Exhibit I are also contained within the attached proposal.
If you are in accord with the foregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed copy of this letter to the Company.
Yours very truly,
PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY
By: /s/David J. Bergman
Director and Chief Negotiator
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and agrees thereto as of the date hereof.
LOCAL UNION 1245, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO
March 7,1994
By: /s/Jack McNally
Business Manager
The Company shall provide a program of partial reimbursement for tuition and required textbooks, as follows:
Eligibility
A.	Any regular full-time employee on the active payroll of the Company, except employees in an apprentice classification covered by the provisions of the Master Apprenticeship Agreement, is eligible to participate in the plan. Employees on Long Term Disability may be eligible for reimbursement as determined on a case-by-case basis. Qualified employees may apply for payment In advance to the school.
B.	Courses must be accredited by one of the following:
□	One of the six Regional Associations of Schools and Colleges through a regular program of instruction, a correspondence program, an extension division, or an evening division;
□	The California Department of Education.
83
n The Directory of Accredited Private Home Study Schools approved by the Accrediting Commission of the National Home Study Council; or,
□	Schools selected by the Company
Approved courses are those that add to your effectiveness in your job. Courses that contribute to your overall development may also be approved.
C.	Proof of successful completion of an approved course with a grade of "C" (or equivalent) or better in each course is required in order to qualify lor a tuition refund.
D.	Employees eligible for State or Federal Veteran’s Assistance will be reimbursed the difference between the Veteran’s reimbursement percent and PG&E’s.
E.	Attendance at these courses shall not interfere with the regular working hours of the employee.
Procedure
□	An employee who desires to receive tuition refund must submit a completed Tuition Refund application to his/her supervisor for approval, prior to enrollment in a course of study. The completed Tuition Refund application must contain details of the course for which payment in advance will be sought and if the employee is qualified for financial assistance through a Federal or State Veteran’s Education Assistance, an outline of those program benefits must be attached.
□	Employees should submit this request for approval at least 30 days prior to the enrollment date to allow ample time for processing.
□	Upon review and approval of the Tuition Refund Application, employees will receive payment in advance by an Official Tuition Voucher in the amount of tuition and fees and a Textbook Reimbursement Form within the established employee reimbursement limit as direct payment to the institution for tuition and covered fees.
□	The employee must provide proof of successful completion of an approved course with a grade of “C” (or equivalent) or better, in each course, and copies of receipts indicating moneys paid for textbooks, within 30 calendar days to the Plan Office.
□	If an employee has received payment in advance and does not successfully complete the course within one year from the term ending date or does not provide passing grades or proof of satisfactory completion within 120 calendar days of the end of the course, he/she is responsible for repayment to PG&E of the tuition and fees advanced. This requirement will be waived in the event the employee is unable to complete an approved course due to Company initiated transfer or excessive mandatory overtime.
Payment In Advance
Payment in advance for approved courses of study will be provided at a rate of 75 percent or 90 percent of direct costs. Direct costs apply only to registration fees, tuition, required textbooks, laboratory fees, and other charges made by the institution. Costs of material and equipment purchased separately by the employee are not covered.
A.	Refunds under the current Tuition Refund Program will be made only for those approved coursed begun on or after January 1, 1971. Payment in advance under the revised Tuition Refund Program will be provided only for those approved courses begun on or after January 1,1994.
B.	Where the institution includes the costs of textbooks and/or supplies in its charges or fees, a refund of 75 percent of the direct costs will be made (e.g., ICS, La Salle, etc.).
C.	In all other cases, a refund of 90 percent of the direct cost charged by the institution will be made (e.g., City or State Colleges, Heald’s etc.).
D.	Payment in advance will be made only for courses in which regular employee enrolled after completion of six months or more of continuous service. Employees who voluntarily terminate employment with PG&E or are discharged for cause must repay PG&E for any tuition and fees advanced.
E.	There is an annual limit of $1,200 per employee per calendar year. Requests for payment in excess of this limit will be considered only if:
1.	The course or courses are of a special nature, and
2.	Such course or courses are not available elsewhere, and
3.	It is unlikely that such course or courses will be repeated in the foreseeable future.
84
EXHIBIT II
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PROMOTION-DEMOTION GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
For Use With Titles 305 and 306
CLERICAL SERVICES (All Departments) (including Camp and Kitchen Employees)
0) Systemwide
GAS CONSTRUCTION
Construction Operation, promotion-demotion area systemwide
Humboldt and North Bay Divisions
Sacramento, Sierra and Vaca Valley
North Valley Division
San Francisco/Peninsula
East Bay
Stockton
San Jose and Coast Valleys
Technical Classifications, promotion-demotion area systemwide
San Joaquin
LINE CONSTRUCTION
1) Humboldt, North Bay and San Francisco Divisions.
21 Shasta, De Sabla. Colgate, Drum and Sacramento.
3)	San Joaquin and Stockton
4)	San Jose and Coast Valleys
5)	Paint Section: Humboldt, North Bay, San Francisco, Drum, Sacramento, Shasta, De Sabla, Stockton, Colgate, and East Bay
6)	Paint Section: Coast Valleys, San Jose, and San Joaquin
7)	East Bay
FLEET MANAGEMENT
r
2
3
4
5
6
7
8'
Humboldt and North Bay Divisions Shasta, De Sabla and Colgate Sacramento, Drum and Stockton
East Bay
Coast Valleys, San Francisco and San Jose
San Joaquin
General Construction Davis Service Center
Field Mechanical Inspectors and Working Foreman B's, promotion-demotion areas systemwide
STATION, SUBSTATION, AND HYDRO CONSTRUCTION
1) 2'। 31 41 51 61
7
North Bay and Humboldt Divisions
Shasta, De Sabla, Colgate, Drum and Sacramento
East Bay
San Francisco
Coast Valleys and San Jose
San Joaquin and Stockton
Technical Classifications, promotion-demotion area systemwide
Exhibit II - Promotion - Demotion Geographic Areas provide the same geographic boundaries as the original 13 Divisions and Departments in existence prior to 1987.
85
EXHIBIT III
CLASSIFICATIONS OF SHIFT EMPLOYEES
ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Assistant Operator
Division Operator
Grid System Control Operator
GAS DEPARTMENT
Compressor Engineer
Fireman
Gas Operator In Training
Operator-in-T raining
System operator
Plant Utility Worker Shift Utility Worker Watch Engineer
SYSTEM MAINTENANCE & TECHNICAL SUPPORT/GAS SYSTEM OPERATIONS
Gas System Operator
Gas System Operator-in-Training
Gas Supply Coordinator (PIO)
Gas Transmission Operator (PIO)
Operator - Mechanic
Operator Mechanic I
Operator Mechanic II
Senior Gas Transmission
Operator (PIO)
Senior Operator Mechanic (PIO)
BUILDING DEPARTMENT
Building Engineer	Lead Building Engineer
NUCLEAR POWER GENERATION DEPARTMENT
Chemical and Radiation Protection Technician
Control Operator
Control Room Assistant
Fire Captain
Firefighter
Nuclear Operator
STEAM GENERATION DEPARTMENT
Assistant Control Operator
Assistant Power Plant Operator
Auxiliary Operator
Control Operator
Senior Control Operator Shift CARP Helper Shift Control Technician Shift Ftrewatch Shift Utility Plant Clerk Shift Utility Worker
Power Plant Operator
Senior Control Operator
Senior Power Plant
Operator
Steam Heat Engineer
EXHIBIT IV CLASSIFICATIONS OF SERVICE EMPLOYEES ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Cableman Cableman's Utility Worker Night Cable Splicer Night Groundman Night Manhole Pumpman Night T&D Assistant GAS DEPARTMENT	Night T&D Equipment Operator Patrolman Street Light Maintenanceman Troubleman
Chartperson Service Representative Service Mechanic	Service Operator Steam Serviceman Night Fieldperson
WATER DEPARTMENT
Water Treatment Plant Operator
86
EXHIBITV CLASSIFICATIONS OF RESIDENT EMPLOYEES ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
Electrician - Helms
Electrical Machinist - Helms
Electrical Technician - Helms
Electric Maintenance Crew Foreman - Helms
First Hydro Clerk - Helms
Utility Worker - Helms
Relief System Operator
* Helms
Station Attendant - Hydro
System Operator - Helms
Telecommunications Technician - Helms
WATER DEPARTMENT
Water Systems Repairperson - Helms
GARAGE DEPARTMENT
Utility Equipment Mechanic - Helms
EXHIBIT VI
*Job Definitions and Lines of Progression
Section No.	Exhibit	Department
600.1	VI	Division Gas and Steam Heat Department
600.2	Vi-A	Materials Distribution Division Materials including Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations and Davis warehouse of General Construction
600.3	Vl-B	Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation
600.4	Vl-C	Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations
600.5	Vl-D	Division Garage
600.6	Vl-E	Gas Meter Repair Plant
600.7	Vl-F	Division Customer Services
600.8	Vl-G	Division Water
600.9	Vl-H	Division and General Office Building Departments
600.10	Vl-J	Accounting and Computer Operations Department
600.11	Vl-K	Service Centers (Davis and Oakland) General Construction
600.12	Vl-L	Division Electric
600.13	Vl-M	Field Employees - General Construction
’See Pal vi, Title 600, Job Definitions and Lines of Progression.
EXHIBIT VII
BEGINNER'S CLASSIFICATION
ASSISTANT PUMP TESTER
2482 Customer Services
AUXILIARY OPERATOR*
1560 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation
87
COOK'S UTILITY WORKER
0964 Electric - Operating
0965 Electric - Operating
0966 Electric - Operating
ELECTRIC T&D ASSISTANT
1096 Electric Transmission and Distribution
FIREFIGHTER
0545 - Nuclear Generation - Fire Department
GARAGEMAN
0880 General Services - Garage
GARDENER
0890 General Services - Building Service
0890 Electric - Maintenance
GAS SUPPLY COORDINATOR*
1836 Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations
GAS SYSTEM OPERATOR-IN-TRAINING
1588	Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations
GAS TRANSMISSION OPERATOR*
1576	Gas System Maintenance & Techn ica) Support/Gas System Operations
GROUNDMAN
0910 Electric - Transmission and Distribution
METER READER 2785 Gas Service
NIGHT GROUNDMAN*
0913 Electric - Transmission and Distribution
NIGHT T&D ASSISTANT
1098 ElectricTransmission and Distribution
HOUSEKEEPER
0980 Electric - Operating
0983 Electric - Operating
0984 Electric - Operating
1050 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Operating
1050 General Services - Building Service
1050 Materials Distribution - Warehouse Operations
1050 Materials Distribution - Decoto Pipe Yard and Plant
JANITRESS
1060 General Services - Building Service
1060 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Operating
MAINTENANCE ASSISTANT 1
0057 Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations
MATERIALS HANDLER*
1210 Materials Distribution - Warehouse Operations
1213 Materials Distribution - Warehouse Operations - Utility
NUCLEAR OPERATOR***
1699 Nuclear Power Generation - Operating
OPERATOR-IN-TRAINING*
1554 Electric - Operating
PIPEPERSON
1960 Materials Distribution - Decoto Pipe Yard and Plant
PLANT ASSISTANT
0055 Gas - Meter Repair Plant
88
PLANT UTILITY WORKER 0937 Gas - Measurement and Control
ROUTINE HYDRO CLERK 0265 Electric - Hydro - Clerical
ROUTINE PLANT CLERK 0294 Steam Generation - Clerical	.
0294 Nuclear Power Generation - Clerical**
SHIFT FIREWATCH • (DCPP) 0547 Nuclear Power Generation - Technical Maintenance
SHOP METERPERSON 1489 Electric - Meter
SHIFT UTILITY WORKER 0950 Gas - Measurement and Control
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INSTALLER 2406 Electric - Maintenance
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OPERATIONS ANALYST 2417 Electric - Maintenance
TELECOMMUNICATION UTILITY WORKER 0925 Electric - Maintenance
TRAVELING UTILITY WORKER 0498 - Materials Distribution Electric and Utility
UTILITY PLANT CLERK (DCPP) 0296 Nuclear Power Generation - Clerical 0297 Nuclear Power Generation - Clerical - Shift
UTILITY WORKER 0920 Materials Distribution - Machine Shop 0921 Electric - Maintenance - Drum 0921 Electric * Operating - Drum 0922 Electric - Maintenance - Helms 0922 Electric • Operating - Helms 0923 Materials Distribution - Electric and Utility 0924 Electric - Meter 0925 Electric - Maintenance 0926 Electric - Operating - Hydro 0927 General Services - Building Service 0928 Nuclear Power Generation - Operating 0929 Nuclear Power Generation - Building Services 0930 Gas - Transm ission and Distribution 0935 Gas System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System Operations 0938 Nuclear Power Generation - Technical - Chemical ana Radiation Protection 0939 Nuclear Power Generation * Technical - Chemical and Radiation Protection - Shift 0940 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Mechanical 0942 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Electrical - Traveling 0943 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Electrical 0944 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Technical 0945 Water 0946 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Technical - Traveling 0963 Steam Generation and Nuclear Power Generation - Mechanical - Traveling
’Will not be considered a beginning job foFbidding purposes for employees in the same Line of Progression, but will be considered as a beginning job for all other employees.
•’Will not be considered a beginning job for bidding purposes for Utility Plant Clerks-DCPP, but will be considered as a beginning job for all other employees.
***Will not be considered a beginning job for bidding purposes for Assistant Power Plant Operator, Auxiliary Operator, or higher classification, but wirbe considered a beginning job for all other employees.
(Amended 1-1-97)
NOTE: For those classifications indicated by an asterisk (*) or a double asterisk (**) or a triple asterisk (***), refer to the Job Definitions and Lines of Progression for that classification for further information.
89
0053 Clerical Assistant 0245 Routine Field Clerk 0885 Field Garageman 0916 Camp Utility Worker
0314 Routine Shop Clerk
0882 Garageman
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION
FIELD CLASSIFICATIONS
0947	Utility Worker
0956 Kitchen Utility Worker 1926 Painter Utility Worker 2584 Waitress C
SERVICE CENTER CLASSIFICATIONS
1212 Materials Handler
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION
Carpenter, A or Carpenter, Service Center
Clerk, Field
Clerk, Shop, Senior
Clerk, Shop, First,
Clerk, Shop, Routine
Clerk, Shop, First
Clerk, Shop, Routine Cook
Driver, T ruck
Driver, Truck, Heavy or Special
Driver, Truck, Line Electrician
Electrician, Apprentice
Field Clerk, (3 years & up)
Field Clerk (Less than 3 years)
Field Clerk, Senior
Field Clerk (3 years & up)
Field Clerk, (Less than 3 years)
Fitter, Street
Foreman, Labor
Foreman, (Sub or Working)
Foreman, Sub (Garage)
Garageman, Service Center Garageman, Field
Utility Worker
Utility Worker, Kitchen
Lineman
Lineman, Apprentice
Machinist, SC
Materials Handier
Mechanic, Gas
Mechanic, Hydro or Sub
Mechanic, Equipment (Garage) or
Mechanic, Field Garage “A
Mechanic, Equipment Apprentice (Garage) or Mechanic, Field Garage “B”
Operator, Backhoe
Operator, Compressor
Operator, Crane
Operator, Equipment, Miscellaneous
Operator, Hole Digger
Operator, Tractor
CorD
A or B
Operator, Trencher Painter
Painter, SC
Spacer, Cable
Technician, Communication
Technician, Apprentice Communication
Technician, Gas
Technician, Electrical
EXHIBIT VIII JOB COMPARISONS
REGIONS
Carpenter
Clerk, Field
Clerk, Plant or Hydro, Senior
Clerk, Plant or Hydro, First
Clerk, Plant or Hydro, Routine
Foreman’s Clerk
Assistant Foreman’s Clerk Cook
Driver, Truck, or Driver, Truck, Light
Driver, Truck, Heavy Driver, Truck, T&D Electrician
Electrician, Apprentice Foreman’s Clerk Assistant Foreman's Clerk Clerk, Plant or Hydro, Senior Clerk, Plant or Hydro, First Clerk, Plant or Hydro, Routine Fitter, Apprentice Foreman, Labor
Foreman, Sub or Leader, Gas Crew Foreman, Sub (Garage)
Garageman ’
Garageman
Utility worker
Utility Worker, Cook’s
Lineman
Lineman, Apprentice Machinist
Materials Handler Fitter, Apprentice Mechanic, Electric Maintenance Mechanic, Equipment (Garage)
Mechanic, Equipment, Apprentice (Garage)
Operator, Equipment, Heavy Fieldperson
Operator, Equipment, Heavy Fieldperson
Operator, Equipment, T&D
Driver, Tractor
Light
Heavy
Operator, Equipment, Heavy Painter Painter
Rigger
Splicer, Cable
Technician, Telecommunications
Technician, Apprentice Telecommunications Technician, Gas Control
Technician, Electrical
90
Towerman
Towerman, Apprentice
Welder
Welder, Apprentice
Welder, Arc
Welder, Oxygen Acetylene
Lineman, Apprentice
Lineman, Apprentice
Fitter or Welder
Fitter or Welder, Apprentice
Fitter or Welder
Fitter or Welder
The foregoing comparison of jobs is general and does not necessarily connote that the jobs which are compared have identicaTduties or that performance in one job of itself qualifies an employee for a "comparable” job.
See also Sections 205.22 and 305.2
Exhibit VIII does not currently contain all appropriate comparisons and should not be an exclusive resource for the purposes intended.
EXHIBIT IX
LIST OF CLASSIFICATIONS COMMON TO MORE THAN ONE DEPARTMENT AND THE DEPARTMENTS BETWEEN WHICH SUCH CLASSIFICATIONS ARE CONSIDERED THE SAME FOR PURPOSES OF TITLES 205 AND 206.
The attached list indicates the departments and subdepartments in which the classification listed will be considered as the same classification within the meaning of Sections 205.7,205.8 and 206.4 of the Agreement. This list does not necessarily connote that the jobs within tne several departments have identical duties or that performance of the job in one department of itself qualifies an employee for the same classification in another department.
Unless so provided in the departmental Lines of Progression, the fact that a classification is considered as next lower to another in one department does not mean that the same job is next lower to the higher job in another department.
CLASSIFICATION
Carpenter
Telecommunication Technician
Apprentice Telecommunication
Technician
Tractor Driver, Heavy
Tractor Driver, Light
Truck Driver, Heavy
Truck Driver, Light
Truck Driver
Electric Crew Foreman
Electric Maintenance Crew Foreman
Electric Shop Crew Foreman
Electrician
Electrician
Apprentice Electrician
Labor Foreman
Maintenance Crew Foreman
(Mechanical)
Machinist
Apprentice Machinist
Materials Handler
Materials Leadman Mechanic Mechanic-Rigger
DEPARTMENTS
Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance
Electric Maintenance
Electric Maintenance, Water
Electric Maintenance, Water .
Electric Maintenance, Water, Gas T&D,
Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Steam
Generation, Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Water, Gas T&D,
Materials Distribution
Electric T&D, Electric Maintenance,
Steam Generation, Materials
Distribution
Electric T&D, Electric Maintenance,
Materials Distribution
Steam Generation, Nuclear Power
Generation
Electric Maintenance, Steam
Generation, Nuclear Power
Generation, Materials Distribution
Electric T&D, Electric Maintenance,
Water
Electric Maintenance, Steam
Generation, Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Steam
Generation, Nuclear Power
Generation, Gas Plant, Gas
System Maintenance & Technical Support/Gas System
Operations, Materials
Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Steam Generation, Nuclear Power Generation, Materials Distribution
Materials Distribution
Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Gas Plant, Steam Generation, Nuclear Power
91
Painter
Rigger Mechanic-Rigger
Certified Welder
Welder
Apprentice Welder
Generation
Garage, Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Steam
Generation, Nuclear Power Generation
Steam Generation, Nuclear Power Generation, Materials Distribution
Electric Maintenance, Gas Plant
Electric Maintenance, Steam Generation, Nuclear Power Generation
Exhibit IX does not currently contain all appropriate common classifications and should not be an exclusive resource for the purpose intended.
EXHIBIT X
PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY BASIC WAGE SCHEDULE - FORTY-HOUR WEEK BASIS OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION EMPLOYEES
See Separate Book
92
EXHIBIT XI
LETTER AGREEMENT 87-165-PGE PRODUCTIVITY ENHANCEMENT COMMITTEES
August 17,1987
Pacific Gas and Electric Company 245 Market Street
San Francisco, CA 94106
Attention: Mr. I. W. Bonbright, Manager of Industrial Relations
Gentlemen:
This letter shall supersede Letter Agreement No. 87-83-PGE
Since January 1987, Company and Union have had discussions regarding a work efficiency experiment at the District headquarters in Livermore, California. We have also previously discussed preliminary plans for similar trials at other locations. In order to provide a consistent approach to the Livermore experiment and to other work efficiency experiments, the Union proposes that the Manager of Industrial Relations and the IBEW Business Manager may agree to the establishment of individual work efficiency experiments and that the following conditions ~be applicable:
1.	Company and Union may agree locally to the specific conditions of each experiment including the criteria to be used to judge the productivity and the quality of the work, except that changes in the conditions of any Labor Agreement requires an agreement between the Manager of Industrial Relations and the appropriate Union Business Managers).
2.	Each experiment will have an Advisory Committee to consist of Company members, IBEW members, Engineers and Scientists of California, MEBA, and at least one consultant to be agreed to by the parties. The number and size of the Advisoiy Committee shall be determined by the Committee.
3.	Each experiment will have a local Steering Committee and a consultant to be agreed to by the parties. The size of this committee is to be determined locally. The Steering Committee may also utilize representatives from various departments on a subcommittee basis, as they deem appropriate.
4.	Upon completion of the experiment, any modified bargaining unit work assignments agreed to during the experiment will be returned to the original unit.
5.	There will be no layoffs for lack of work or demotions for lack of work in the headquarters in which the experiment is located during the period of the experiment.
6.	During the experiment, local supervision and the employees involved shall be responsible for getting work done in a timely manner using all available resources.
7.	Any party to an individual work efficiency agreement may cancel the agreement upon 30 day's notice to the other party(s).
If you are in accord with the foregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed copy of this letter to the Union.
Very truly yours,
LOCAL UNION 1245, IBEW
.	By/s/ Jack McNally
Business Manager
The Company is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.
■	PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
1 September, 1987	By/s/ I. Wayland Bonbright
Manager of Industrial Relations
93
EXHIBIT XII
ADDENDUM TO TITLE 206 AND 306 DEMOTION AND LAYOFF PROCEDURE
JOB SECURITY
During the course of 1990 General Negotiations the parties spent a great deal of time addressing the issue of job security with particular emphasis on the ability of Company to place non-bargaining unit employees into the bargaining unit. Company agreed that Letter Agreement 88-104 would remain in effect which limits Company's ability to place non-bargaining unit personnel into the bargaining unit Further, in the application of Titles 206 and 306 of the Physical Agreement and Title 19 of the Clerical Agreement, Company agrees mat should such placements occur, bargaining unit employees in the department and headquarters will not be impacted by demotion, displacement or layoff for the next three years subsequent to the placement of the non-bargaining unit employee into the bargaining unit, unless such employee leaves that headquarters for any reason. Employees at the headquarters in that department during the three year period will not be impacted by demotion, displacement, or layoff, unless such demotion, displacement or layoff is unrelated to the placement of the non-bargaining unit employee into the bargaining unit, in which event the original non-bargaining unit employee will be affected first if the number of employees in that department and headquarters is being reduced.
Example 1.	Supervisor is returned to Lineman position in Antioch. The Supervisor must be placed in a vacancy as such placement cannot result in a displacement, demotion or layoff.
Example 2.	Eight months after the Supervisor’s return to the bargaining unit, another Lineman bids out of the Antioch headquarters. Assuming there is no contracting of Electric T&D work, therefore, no 88-104 implications, the headquarters may elect to not fill the vacancy and reduce through attrition.
Examples. Thirteen months after the Supervisor’s return to the bargaining unit, Hie Concord Electric T&D Department effects a displacement for lack of work and a Lineman has 206,4 rights into Antioch. Since Antrochis not reducing in the Electric T&D Department, the affected Lineman in Antioch would be ihe one witi'i the least seniority, which may or may not be the former Supervisor.
Example 4.	Fifteen months after Hie Supervisor’s return to the bargaining unit Antioch decides to downsize the Electric T&D Department by reducing the number of Linemen by one. Since a reduction is taking place, the Supervisor is the first to be demoted, displaced or laid off.
Example 5.	At any time the Supervisor leaves the Antioch Electric T&D Department and headquarters for any reason (bid, transfer, displacement), the headquarters and department has returned to status quo and may be reduced through demotion, displacement or layoff. •
EXHIBIT XIII
LETTER AGREEMENT NO. R1-91-99-PGE
November 1,1991
Local Union No. 1245
International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO
P.O. Box 4790
Walnut Creek, CA 94546
Attention: Mr. Jack McNally, Business Manager
Gentlemen:
This cancels and supersedes our letter dated July 23,1991 to reflect changes proposed in Union's letter of October 25, 1991. Pursuant to Sections 205.19 and 18.17 of the Physical and Clerical Agreements, Company proposes the following procedures for the application of the hardship transfer provisions of the Physical and Clerical Agreements (i.e., Sections 205.17 and 18.15). The purpose of these Sections was to allow the Company, through agreement with the Union, to fill a job vacancy by appointing an employee who requests the position for reasons of urgent necessity. Urgent necessity includes impairment of the employee's health or that of a member of the employees family or the lack of educational facilities for the employee's children in the location in which he/she is currently employed.
Following are the procedures to be utilized:
1.	An interested employee must write to the Human Resources Department of his/her division (or General Office department), explaining the circumstances and request a transfer pursuant to the provisions of Section 205.17 (physical) or Section 18.15 (clerical), whichever is applicable.
94
2.	The Division or Department Human Resources Department must then undertake a preliminary investigation to determine whether or not a bona fide reason exists to apply the appropriate section. For situations involving impairment of an employee's health or that of a member ot the family, medical documentation is required.
3.	If the Human Resources Department believes that the matter should be pursued, they then contact the IBEW . Business Representative assigned to that area and both will make a thorough investigation to determine whether a hardship exists. If they agree a hardship exists, then they must then prepare a list of alflocations in the Company that could alleviate the problem.
4.	This list must be forwarded to the Human Resources Manager and Business Representative of each division (and/or General Office department] where such a location is identified. Each of these locations must also agree, in writing, that hardship transfer consideration should be afforded the employee. To avoid conflicting responses to an employee, all of the divisions solicited for hardship consideration should communicate with each other.
5.	The first vacancy in any of the listed locations to any classification to which the employee is qualified to fill that does not have a higher wage schedule than the employee's current classification must be offered to the employee. If the employee declines such offer without a substantial reason or the Company does not make such an offer, the entire matter shall be dropped at this point, and the 205.17/18.5 request is invalidated.
6.	If the individual accepts the offered position, a written agreement must then be prepared and signed by both the host and receiving Division Human Resources Managers and IBEW Business Representatives. A copy or such agreement should be forwarded to the Manager of Industrial Relations and the IBEW Business Manager, as well as all of the other locations earlier identified.
While the Division Human Resources Manager and IBEW Business Representative must send a hardship request to each suitable location, employees must also submit bids and transfers to each of these locations. The’ bias and transfers must be to every classification that would qualify in alleviating the hardship. If an employee declines a bona fide bid or transfer job offer, without a substantial reason, or if they refuse to submit bids and transfers to appropriate positions in all of the locations identified, his/her hardship would also be invalidated.
Many hardship requests are location specific. This appears to be an attempt by some employees to relocate using the hardship provisions rather than the normal bid and transfer procedure. Those location specific requests must be viewed very carefully to ensure that the locationfs) requested is/are the only location(s) that would alleviate the employee's hardship. Often there are many locations that would accommodate the employee's particular situation. All of those locations must be included for consideration.
*
Often times employees send hardship requests directly to the Division Human Resources Department(s) in the locationfs) where they wish to be considered. Those requests must be returned to the employee's Human Resources Department for consideration and processing.
This agreement may be cancelled by either party upon 30 days written notice to the other of such cancellation.
If you are in accord with the loregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed copy of this letter to Com pany.	-
Very truly yours,
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
By /s/R.L. Bailey
Manager of Industrial Relations
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.
LOCAL UNION NO. 1245, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO
Feb 3,1992
By /s/ Jack McNally
Business Manager
95
EXHIBIT XIV
SEVERANCE
A.	Application
Employees laid off pursuant of Section 206.7 and 306.7 of the Physical Agreement will receive the Severance Package as defined below.
Title 200 employees with less than one year of service will not be eligible for the severance program. Title 300 employees with less than two years of service will not be eligible for the severance program.
B.	Formula
a)	Four weeks pay (base classification) plus two weeks' pay for each year of service.
b)	A lump sum payment of $5,000 to partially off set COBRA and life insurance conversion coverage. The employee has no obligation to use it for COBRA conversion or continued life insurance coverage.
c)	Payment is dependent on signing of the agreed to Severance Agreement and Release.
d)	Employees who are rehired, pursuant to Sections 206.13 and 306,14 of the Physical Agreement, within 12 months of lay-off and are subsequently laid off for lack of work within 12 months of being rehired will receive a prorated severance. The prorated severance amount will be equal to the difference between the severance amount(s) the employee previously received and the severance amount calculated using the employee’s current years of service.
(Amended 1-1-00)	■
ATTACHMENT 1
SEVERANCE AGREEMENT AND RELEASE (Amended 10-1-03)
This Severance Agreement and Release is made and entered into between Mr./Ms.__
and the Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E). Mr./Ms and PG&E (collectively referred to as
"the parties'), in their wish to compromise, resolve, settle, and terminate any dispute or claim between them with respect to Mr./Ms.employment with PG&E and severance therefrom, have agreed as follows;
1.	Effective close of business,Mr./Ms.shall be laid off from PG&E employment.
2,	On____________, or seven calendar days following the execution of this Severance Agreement and
Release, whichever is later, PG&E shall pay to Mr./Ms.the amount of, less applicable deductions. Mr./Ms.agrees that he/she is responsible for paying any taxes on the amount paid to him/her pursuant to this Severance Agreement and Release. If Mr./Ms.is rehired within 30 calendar days of layoff, then PG&E's obligation to pay is null and void. The parties agree that the payment provided in this paragraph is in addition to, and does not affect, any payment and benefit to which Mr./Ms.may be otherwise entitled under PG&E's compensation, performance incentive, stock option, and other benefit programs.
3.	Mr./Ms.__________represents that he/she does not have any pending claim, charge or action in or with
any federal, state or local court or any administrative agency relating to his/her employment against PG&E, its officers, attorneys, agents, employees, subsidiaries, parent company, assigns, affiliated companies and successors. If Mr./Ms. does have pending claims described in the preceding sentence, Mr./Ms. ________agrees that such claims are covered by the release aspect of this Severance
Agreement and Release and that he/she shall take all necessary action to seek dismissal with prejudice of each claim, within two business days after the effective date of this Severance Agreement and Release.
4.	In consideration for the payment which PG&E shall provide Mr./Ms.under this Severance Agreement and Release, MrVMs.in behalf of his/herself, his/her heirs, estate, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns, releases and agrees to hold harmless PG&E, its officers, attorneys, agents, employees, subsidiaries, parent company, assigns, affiliated companies, and successors, from all actions, causes of action, claims, disputes, judgments, obligations, damages, liabilities of whatsoever kind and character, relating to Mr./Ms.employment with PG&E, including his/her employment severance and any action which led to the severance. Specifically, Mr./Ms.understands and agrees that the actions, causes of action, claims, disputes, judgments, obligations, damages, and
96
liabilities covered by the preceding sentence include, but are not limited to, those arising under any federal, state, or local law, regulation, or order relating to civil rights (including but not limited to employment discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, ancestry, physical or mental handicap or disability, medical condition, veteran status, marital status, pregnancy, and sexual orientation}, wage and hour, labor, contract, or tort.
5.	Mr./Ms.understands and agrees that the Severance Agreement and Release extends to all claims of every nature and kind whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, past or present, and all rights under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code are hereby expressly waived. Such section reads as follows:
A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his/her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known to his/her must have materially affected his/her settlement with the debtor.
6.	Mr./Ms.agrees not to initiate, participate or aid, in any way, in any lawsuit or proceeding upon any claim released by him/her under this Severance Agreement and Release. The preceding sentence, however, shall not prohibit Mr./Ms.  from participating in any judicial or administrative proceeding that relates to the subject matter of, or any claim covered by, this Severance Agreement and Release, if he/she is compelled to do so by a properly-issued subpoena or valid court order. PG&E also acknowledges that Mr./Ms.may be legally required to appear and testify at a deposition, court hearing or trial, or otherwise respond to a subpoena. In the event of any such subpoena, court order, or request, Mr ./Ms.shall notify PG&E's Human Resources Department as soon as possible.
7.	Mr ./Ms.represents and agrees that prior to signing this Severance Agreement and
Release, he/she returned to PG&E all originals and copies of all files, memoranda, records, software, credit cards, identification cards, keys, and any other property of PG&E or its affiliates which he/she had in his/her possession, custody or control. Mr./M$.further agrees that his/her violation of this paragraph shall constitute a material breach of this Severance Agreement and Release.
8.	Mr./Ms.agrees not to use, disclose, publicize, or circulate any secret, confidential or proprietary information concerning PG&E, its subsidiaries, parent company, or affiliates, which has come to his/her attention during his/her employment with PG&E, unless his/her doing so is consistent with any rights he/she may have under any applicable whistleblower laws, is authorized in writing by PG&E or is required by law, including subpoena. Before making any legally-required disclosure, Mr ./Ms._shall
give PG&E as much advance notice as possible. Mr./Ms.further agrees that his/her violation of this paragraph shall constitute a material breach of this Severance Agreement and Release.
9.	Mr./Ms.agrees not to make, issue, endorse, publicize, or circulate to any person or entity statements or remarks that can reasonably be construed as disparaging toward PG&E, including its officers, directors, attorneys, agents, employees, assigns, parent company, subsidiaries, affiliated companies and successors, or any aspect of its operations. Mr./Ms.also agrees that, if called upon to do so, he/she will cooperate with, and provide reasonable assistance to, PG&E to protect and further its lawful interests in all judicial, administrative, investigative, and legislative proceedings involving PG&E or any aspect of its operations. The parties agree that this paragraph does not affect Mr./Ms._’s legitimate
exercise of his/her rights under applicable whistleblower laws or his/her obligation to comply with all validly-issued court or administrative orders, including subpoenas. Mr./Ms.further agrees that his/her violation of this paragraph shall constitute a material breach of this Severance Agreement and Release.
10.	Mn/Ms. ____________. agrees that, If he/she engages in a material breach of this Severance
Agreement and Release, PG&E shall not be required to make any unmade payment due under this Severance Agreement and Release, and he/she shall repay lo PG&E the payment he/she received under this Severance Agreement and Release within seven (7) calendar days upon written demand by PG&E. The parties agree that this paragraph shall not apply to the lawful exercise of any right Mr./Ms. _______________may have under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act and that such matters shall be governed by the provisions of said act.
97
11.	Mr./Ms.understands that if he/she engages, or has engaged, in misconduct that would warrant his/her termination of employment under PG&E’s employee conduct standards and the collective bargaining agreement’s just cause standard, he/she shall forfeit his/her right to sign this Severance Agreement and Release.
12.	Any dispute regarding any aspect ol this Severance Agreement and Release, including its validity, interpretation, or any action which would constitute a violation of this Severance Agreement and Release (hereinafter referred to as an ’’arbitrable dispute") shall be resolved by an experienced arbitrator, selected by the parties in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The fees of the arbitrator and the cost associated with producing a transcript of the proceedings shall be paid in equal shares by Mr./Ms.___________________and PG&E. The parties agree that arbitration shall be the exclusive remedy for
resolving arbitrable disputes and that the decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding. The judgment rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having competent jurisdiction. The prevailing party in any such arbitration shall be entitled to costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees. In addition, any party who attempts to pursue an arbitrable dispute in any forum other than arbitration shall be liable for costs and attorneys’ fees incurred by the other party in seeking to compel arbitration. The parties agree that this paragraph shall not apply to the lawful exercise of any right Mr./Ms.may have under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act and that such matters shall be governed by the provisions of said Act.
13.	Mr./Ms.________________agrees that, if he/she initiates an administrative, judicial, arbitral, or other similar
proceeding, to bring a claim released by this Severance Agreement and Release or to challenge the validity of this Severance Agreement and Release, PG&E shall not be required to make any unmade payment due under this Severance Agreement and Release and he/she shall repay to PG&E the payment he/she received under this Severance Agreement and Release concurrent with his/her initiation of the proceeding. Mr./Ms.
's failure to make the prescribed repayment shall be a basis for rejecting his/her claim and/or his/her attempt to challenge the validity of this Severance Agreement and Release. MrVMs._
also agrees that, if the claim he/she brought or his/her attempt to challenge the validity of this Severance Agreement and Release is rejected, he/she shall pay to PG&E any loss, cost, damage, or expense, including, without limitation, reasonable attorney fees PG&E incurred in the proceeding, within seven (7) calendar days from the final decision rejecting his/her claim or attempt. Further, notwithstanding the foregoing, if Mr./Ms.
obtains against PG&E a monetary judgment or settlement for a claim released under this Severance Agreement and Release, the payment he/she received under this Severance Agreement and Release shall be deducted from any such monetary judgment or settlement. The parties agree that this paragraph shall not apply to the lawful exercise of any right Mr./Ms.may have under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act and that such matters shall be governed by the provisions of said Act.
14.	This Severance Agreement and Release shall not be considered an admission of liability or a violation of any applicable contract, law, rule, regulation, guideline, or order of any kind.
15.	W./Ms.agrees that all claims he/she may have arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act before he/she signs this Severance Agreement and Release are covered by paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Severance Agreement and Release and that his/her waiver of those age discrimination claims is an integral part of the release aspect of this Severance Agreement and Release. Therefore, consistent with the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, MrJMs.  states that he/she was given this Severance Agreement and Release on, and understands that he/she has 45 calendar days from until, to consider the Severance Agreement and Release.
Further, Mr./Ms.  understands that, if he/she signs this Severance Agreement and Release, he/she may revoke it within seven (7) calendar days of the agreement's execution. To revoke this Severance Agreement and Release, Mr./Ms.____________must submit to the local Human Resources
Department, a signed statement to that effect by close of business of the seventh (7th) day. Mr./Ms. _________________understands and agrees that this Severance Agreement and Release will not take effect until the expiration of the seven-day revocation period. Further, Mr./Ms.may elect to consider the severance package for /ewer than 45 days, at his/her own option, but is under no obligation to shorten the period. If Mr./Ms.elects to consider the severance package for fewer than 45 days at his/her option and executes this Severance Agreement and Release before the 45-day consideration period has expired, said employee may receive the severance payment before the 45-day consideration period, but only after the seven-day revocation periods has expired. In no event, however, shall Mr./Ms.
98
receive the payment until he/she has completed his/her consideration period, which may be less than 45 days at his/her option, as well as the seven-day revocation period.
16.	This Severance Agreement and Release sets forth the entire agreement between the parties and fully supersedes any and all prior agreements or understandings between the parties pertaining to the subject matter of this Severance Agreement and Release. This Severance Agreement and Release, however, shall not affect any right either party has or may have against the other regarding Workers' Compensation claims and Supplemental Benefit payments made for those claims. The parties agree that this Severance Agreement and Release may not be modified or canceled in any manner except by a writing signed by Mr./Ms.and an authorized PG&E official. If any provision of this release is found to be unenforceable, all other provisions will remain fully enforceable.
17.	Mr./Ms.____________________states that he/she has read this Severance Agreement and Release in its
entirety, that he/she has been given the necessary time to consider its contents, that he/she fully understands its terms, that he/she has been advised that he/she should consult legal counsel of his/her choosing, that the only promises made to him/her to sign are those stated herein, and that he/she is signing this Severance Agreement and Release voluntarily.
PLEASE READ CAREFULLY. THIS SEVERANCE AGREEMENT AND RELEASE INCLUDES A RELEASE OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
PACIMC GAS AND LCECTPflU COMPANY EMPLOYEE
Social Security
DATE-----------------:---------------- DATE-----------
EXHIBIT XV (Deleted 10-1-03)
CLARIFICATION TO SUBSECTION 301.4(a) (Moved to 301.21 effective 10-1-03)
EXHIBIT XVI
CONTRACTING
(Applicable to Title 200 and 300)
It is recognized that Company has the right to have work done by outside contractors. Company will not make a contract with any other firm or individual for the purpose or with the effect of dispensing with the services of employees who are engaged in maintenance, operating or construction work.
It is the general intent of the parties to have bargaining unit employees perform bargaining unit work.
In the exercise of the right to contract work. Company shall observe the provisions of this exhibit.
94-53 Committee
1.	An eight person 94-53 committee shall be established consisting of four individuals appointed by each party.
2.	The committee shall meet at least quarterly; however, either party may cali for a meeting.
3.	The purposes of the committee are to (1) assure compliance with this agreement; (2) assure appropriate steps are taken prior to contracting of work in a department; (3) assure compliance with this agreement prior to the utilization of the lack of work provisions of Title 206 or 306 in any department; ancT(4) review all contracting out of bargaining unit work.
99
Pre-Contracting Out Provisions
1.	Prior to contracting out work normally performed by the bargaining unit Company shall perform such work by the use of optimum use of voluntary overtime if at all possible. This shall be defined as being able to accomplish the work with the utilization of bargaining unit employees on a straight time and overtime basis if the work can be accomplished in a reasonable time frame.
2.	Exhaust the provisions of 206.13 and 306.14.
3.	Assure no use of contracting or hiring hall personnel has occurred within twelve months of any involuntary layoff in a department or have the number ot regular bargaining unit positions brought up to the level in place prior to such involuntary layoff.
Pre Title 206 or 306 Provisions
Prior to the use of the lack of work provisions of Title 206 or 306 that will result in involuntary layoff Company shall first;
1.	Meet with the Union to discuss the possible use of such provisions and assure compliance with the Agreement.
2.	Eliminate all use of contracting and hiring hall personnel on a system-wide basis in the affected department initiating involuntary layoffs.
3.	In the event an employee is displaced into or displaced out of a department using hiring hall employees, a listing of hiring hall positions will be provided to such displaced employees. A list of Hinng Hall positions, if desired, will be provided to displaced employees subsequent to their 206 or 306 assignment. Such displaced employees will be given seven calendar days to prioritize the hiring hall positions if elected. Assignments into the prioritized positions wifi be based on seniority and qualifications. However, this will not result in an employee being placed into a classification having a higher wage rate as provided for In Sections 206.1 and
4.	In the event an employee is displaced into a department that is contracting, the following will apply; Departments included in Letter Agreement 95-54 will be required to absorb the displaced employee or cease contracting before executing subsequent displacements. Those departments not included in Letter Agreement 95-54 that are impacted by displacements may continue the displacement process regardless of contracting status.
Prior to the use of the lack of work provisions of Title 206 and 306 that will not result in involuntary layoff Company shall first:
1,	Meet with the union to discuss the possible use of such provisions and assure compliance with the Agreement.
2.	Eliminate all use of contracting and hiring hall in that department.
Departmental Contracting Out of Work Provisions
1.	All contractors will pay employees prevailing wage as defined by California Labor Code Part 7, Chapter 1, Article 2, Section 1/70, 1773 and 1/73.1. Further, the parties continue to encourage use of IBEW and union friendly contractors.
2.	Company will maintain accurate records for all hours worked by bargaining unit employees and hiring hall employees on a departmental basis.
3.	Company is to assure that all contractors furnish, on a departmental basis, all hours worked by contractor employees and submit a certified copy of their payroll, including benefits, for each pay period. Failure on the part of the Company or contractor to comply with this agreement shall result in immediate cancellation of the contract between the Company and the contractor.
4.	Inspection of work contracted out will be performed by regular bargaining unit employees consistent with current practices including provisions of 95-54 and pole replacement work.
5.	On a quarterly basis, Company shall hire additional bargaining unit employees in the event hours worked by hiring hall personnel and contractors exceed 20% of the total numbers of hours worked by bargaining unit employees for the previous twelve months. The number of employees to be hired will be equivalent to the numbers of hours worked by contractors and hiring hall personnel in excess of 20% divided by 2080.
6.	On a quarterly basis, the bargaining unit may only be reduced by attrition when the utilization of contract and hiring hall personnel has been at a 10% or lower ratio for the prior twelve months in that department, with the exception of Gas and Electric T&D which maybe at a 15% or lower ratio for the prior twelve months.
100
Department for this Exhibit
The departments for the purpose of this exhibit are:
Title 200 and 300
1.	Gas T&D (Title 200 and 300)
2.	Electric T&D (Title 200 and 300)
Title 200
1	Electric Substation Maintenance
2.	Substation Operations
3.	Hydro Maintenance
4.	Hydro Operating
5.	Electric Meter
6.	Electric Office
7.	Hydro Clerical
8.	Telecommunications
9.	Gas M&C
10.	Gas Service
11.	Gas Meter Repair
12.	Water
13.	Materials Warehouse
14.	Material Pipe Line Yard & Plant
15.	Materials Machine Shop
16.	Materials Electric Utility & Hydro Maintenance
17.	General Services Garage
18.	General Services Building Services
19.	Accounting & Computer Operations	.
20.	Steam Operating
21.	Steam EiectricafMaintenance
22.	Steam Mechanical Maintenance
23.	Steam Technical Maintenance
24.	Steam Clerical
25.	Steam Firewatch
26.	Gas System Maintenance
27.	Gas System Operations
Title 300
1.	Fleet
2.	Clerical
3.	Station, Substation and Hydro Construction
General Provisions
1.	Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, or either party exercise their cancellation rights, letter agreements 91-20, 92-56, 96-10/, 97-53 and 95-60 shall remain in effect.
2.	Gas Service Department including Meter Readers fall under the provisions of Section 24.5, of the Clerical Agreement.
3.	The parties will meet to discuss special circumstances such as the current needs in Substation Construction where an exemption to the percentages detailed in “Departmental Contracting Out of Work Provisions” items 5 and 6 are needed.
4.	If incidental contracting occurs without impact to the bargaining unit the provisions of this agreement will not be considered violated; The hours of the incidental contracting are counted toward the total contracting in the department.
EXHIBIT XVII
METER READER EXHIBIT (SEE SEPARATE BOOKLET)
101
SUPPLEMENT to SECTION 1.7

102
SUPPLEMENTS
LABOR AGREEMENT INTERPRETATION
SUBJECT:	Comparable Substitute for Usual and Average Meals (Meals at Home)
TITLE 104 - MEALS - Physical Agreement
TITLE 16 - MEALS - Clerical Agreement
Section 104.1 of the Physical Agreement and Section 16.1 of the Clerical Agreement state that provisions of the Meal Titles shall be interpreted and applied in a practical manner which shall conform to the intention of the parties in negotiating with respect to meals; namely, that a comparable substitute shall be provided when employees are prevented from observing their usual and average meal practices or are prevented from eating a meal at approximately the usual time therefore.
In the Company's Guidelines with respect to the application of Title 104 originally issued in October 1965 and amended in October 1966 and July 196S, the following statement is made with respect to the definition of a comparable substitute: .
"The meal provided...should but may not be quite the same as the meal would be at the same time if eaten
at home. Dependent upon the circumstances present at the time, and where practical or possible, a comparable substitute to the missed meal should be furnished.
'It may be necessary to provide meals at times of the day or night when the employee would not observe a customary mealtime...The meal provided, again dependent upon the circumstances of that situation, should be such as to adequately compensate for the need for food resulting from working beyond or before customary mealtime.
There have been no maximum cost limits for meals agreed upon because the cost of meals may vary due to such factors as the time of day, location, conditions and other circumstances. However, the requirement of reasonableness in the selection of a 'comparable substitute1 for the meal missed should be followed."
The following guidelines, but not necessarily in the order listed, should be kept in mind by both employees and supervisors in determining whether or not a meal purchased as a comparable substitute is or is not reasonable.
1.	The cost of meals at the average restaurant available in the general area, but excluding such luxury items as filet mignon or combination steak and seafood dinners. The foregoing is not intended to mean menu averaging.
2.	The availability of restaurants which can provide a comparable substitute within a reasonable distance of the job site or between the job site and the headquarters.
3.	The breakfast, luncheon or dinner menu where comparable substitutes are available, but excluding extra a la carte items. The foregoing does not preclude ordering a la carte when that is all that is available nor does rt preclude a la carte desserts with dinner meals.	.
4.	The weather or other extreme working conditions to which the employees have been subjected.
5.	The amount by which the time limits in the Agreement and in the Guidelines have been exceeded, with some consideration as to whether or not sandwiches and a hot beverage have been supplied on the job. Except for lunch, the foregoing does not imply that sandwiches and a hot beverage are to be considered as a comparable substitute nor is it intended to mean that employees are to be worked routinely nor excessively beyond the aforementioned time limits.
For Union: /s/ L. L. Mitchell
Its Business Manager
Date: June 26,1974
For Company: /s/1. W. Bonbright
Its Manager of Industrial Relations
Date: June 13,1974.	.
103
SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 205 BIDDING UNITS (1)		
BIDDING UNIT ONE		
AREA ONE		
Berkeley El Cerrito	Pinole Richmond	Rodeo
AREA TWO		
Alameda	Emeryville	Oakland
AREATHREE		
Antioch	Contra Costa Power Plant	Orinda
Avon	Lafayette	Pittsburg
Brentwood Concord	Martinez Moraga	Pittsburg Power Plant Walnut Creek
AREA FOUR		
Fremont	Newark	San Ramon
Hayward	Pleasanton	Sunol
Livermore	San Leandro	Union City
Gas Meter Repair - Fremont	Electric Meter Repair Shop-	
	Fremont	
BIDDING UNIT TWO (2)		
AREA FIVE		
Belmont	Half Moon Bay	San Mateo
Burlingame AREA SIX	Redwood City	
Hunters Point Power Plant Oakland Power Plant	Potrero Power Plant	San Francisco
AREA SEVEN		
Brisbane Colma	Daly City	San Bruno
	Pacifica	South San Francisco
BIDDING UNIT THREE		
AREA EIGHT		
Ignacio Mill Valley	Olema	San Rafael
Novato	Point Reyes	Sausalito
AREA NINE		
Cloverdale, Inc.	Healdsburg	Santa Rosa
Geysers Power Plant	Petaluma	Sebastopol
Geyserville Guerneville	Rohnert Park	Sonoma
AREA TEN		
Boonville	Lakeport Mendocino	Potter Valley
Clearlake Highland		Ukiah
Covelo	Middletown	Willits
Fort Bragg AREA ELEVEN	Point Arena	
Benicia	Napa	Vallejo
Calistoga	St. Helena	
104
BIDDING UNIT FOUR
AREA TWELVE
Arcata
Bridgeville Eureka
BIDDING UNIT FIVE
AREA THIRTEEN
Brighton
Cameron Park
AREA FOURTEEN
Cordelia Davis Dixon
BIDDING UNIT SIX
AREA FIFTEEN
Big Bend Village Big Springs Bucks Lake Caribou Centerville Chico
BIDDING UNIT SEVEN
AREA-SIXTEEN
Arbuckle Colusa Dobbins East Nicolaus Gridley
BIDDING UNIT EIGHT
AREA SEVENTEEN
Anderson
Burney Cassel Central Valley Cloverdale Coming Cottonwood Fall River Mills
BIDDING UNIT NINE
AREA. EIGHTEEN
Alta
Auburn Colfax Downieville
BIDDING UNIT TEN
AREA NINETEEN
Groveland Jamestown Long Bam Modesto
Ferndale Fortuna Garberville
Folsom Placerville
Fairfield Rio Vista Vacaville
Greenville Hamilton City Lake Almanor
Magalia Nelson
Orland
Lincoln Marysville Mendan Oroville
Forest Glen Hat Creek Hayfork Junction City Manton Montgomery Creek Paynes Creek
Dutch Fiat Emigrant Gap Fresn Pond
Newman Oakdale Patterson Pinecrest
Humboldt Bay Power Plant Weott
Willow Creek
Sacramento
West Sacramento Winters Woodland
Paradise Prattville Quincy Rodgers Fiat Storne Willows
Smartville Wheatland Williams Yuba City
Red Bluff Redding Round Mountain Trinity Center Weaverville Whitmore Wildwood
Grass Valley Nevada City Roseville
Sonora Tuolumne Turlock Twain Hart
105
AREA TWENTY		
Angels Camp	Jackson	San Andreas
Arnold	Lodi	Stockton
Bellota	Manteca	Tracy
Hathaway Pines BIDDING UNIT ELEVEN AREA TWENTY-ONE	Martell	Victor
Capitola AREA TWENTY-TWO	Santa Cruz	Watsonville
Cupertino Los Gatos AREA TWENTY-THREE	Mountain View	Sunnyvale
Coyote	Milpitas	San Martin
Gilroy BIDDING UNIT TWELVE AREA TWENTY-FOUR	San Jose	Santa Clara
Auberry	Dinuba	Piedra
Avenal	Five Points	Reedley
Caruthers	Fresno	Riverdale
Clovis	Huron Kerman	Sanger
Coalinga		Selma
Corcoran AREA TWENTY-FIVE	Lemoore	Springville
Arvin	Ridgecrest	Tehachapi
Bakersfield	Rosedale	Trona
Boron Buttonwillow AREA TWENTY-SIX	Taft	Wasco
Chowchilla	Los Banos	Merced
Dos Palos	Madera	North Fork
Firebaugh BIDDING UNIT THIRTEEN (4)	Mariposa	Oakhurst
. AREA TWENTY-SEVEN		
Carmel	Monterey	Salinas
Hollister	Moss Landing Power Plant	Soledad
King City	Pacific Grove	
AREA TWENTY-EIGHT		
Arroyo Grande	Morro Bay Power Plant	Santa Maria
Atascadero	Paso Robles	Santa Ynez
Diablo Canyon Power Plant Lompoc BIDDING UNIT FOURTEEN MATERIALS DISTRIBUTION BIDDING UNIT FIFTEEN HYDRO GENERATION BIDDING UNIT SIXTEEN	San Luis Obispo	Solvang
GAS SYSTEM MAINTENANCE & TECHlCAL SUPPORT/GAS SYSTEMS OPERATIONS		
106
BIDDING UNIT SEVENTEEN
(Deleted 1-1-94)
BIDDING UNIT EIGHTEEN (3)
Materials
Reprographics
Mail
Design Drafting
T elecommunications
Garage
Building and Maintenance Operations
BIDDING UNIT NINETEEN
San Francisco Computer Center
Fairfield Computer Center/Data Recording Section
Vice President & Comptroller's Organization (Including Customer Accounting and West Sacramento Billing Center)
NOTES:
1)	The Bidding Unit will be the geographical area listed in 1 through 13 above, unless a work group or department is specifically designated as a separate bidding unit, such as Hydro Generation
2)	Bidding Unit Eighteen Garage, Building and Materials employees are 205.5(d)(1) and 205.7(b) bidders to Garage, Building and Materials classifications in Bidding Unit Two.
3)	Bidding Unit Two Garage, Building and Warehouse employees are 205.5(d)(1) and 205.7(b) bidders to Garage, Building and Materials classifications in Bidding Unit Eighteen.
4)	DER, DCPP employees are 205.5(d)(i), 205.7(b) and 18.5(c)(1) bidders to Bidding Unit Thirteen.
SUPPLEMENT TO TITLE 206 DEMOTION UNITS (1)
DEMOTION UNIT ONE
AREA ONE		
Berkeley El Cerrito	Pinole Richmond	Rodeo
AREA TWO		
Alameda Emeryville	Oakport	Oakland
AREA THREE		
Antioch Avon Brentwood Concord	Lafayette Martinez Moraga	Orinda Pittsburg Walnut Creek
AREA FOUR		
Fremont Gas Meter Repair - Fremont Elec. Meter Repair - Fremont Hayward	Livermore Newark Pleasanton San Leandro	San Ramon Sunol Union City
DEMOTION UNIT TWO (2)		
AREA FIVE		
Belmont Burlingame	Half Moon Bay Redwood City	San Carlas San Mateo
107'
area sjx
San Francisco	*
AREA SEVEN
Brisbane	Daly City	San Bruno
Colma	Pacifica	South San Francisco
DEMOTION UNIT THREE
AREA EIGHT		
Ignacio	Olema	San Rafael
Mill Valley	Point Reyes	Sausalito
Novato		
AREA NINE		
Cloverdale, Inc, ,	Healdsburg	Santa Rosa
Geyserville	Petaluma	Sebastopol
Guerneville	Rohnert Park	Sonoma
AREA TEN		
Boonville	Lakeport	Potter Valley
Clearlake Highland	Mendocino	Ukiah
Covelo	Middletown	Willits
Fort Bragg	Point Arena	
AREA ELEVEN		
Benicia	Napa	Vallejo
Calistoga	St. Helena.	
AREA TWELVE		
Arcata	Ferndale	Humboldt
Bridgeville	Fortuna	Weott
Eureka	Garberville	Willow Creek
DEMOTION UNIT FOUR
AREA THIRTEEN
Brighton Cameron Park	Folsom Placerville	Sacramento
AREA FOURTEEN		
Cordelia Davis Dixon	Fairfield Rio Vista Vacaville	West Sacramento Winters Woodland
AREA FIFTEEN		
Big Bend Village Big Springs Bucks Lake Caribou Centerville Chico	Greenville Hamilton City Lake Almanor Magalia Nelson Orland	Paradise Prattville Quincy Rodgers Flat Storrie Willows
AREA SIXTEEN		
Arbuckle Colusa Dobbins East Nicolaus Gridley	Lincoln Marsyville Meridian Oroville Smartville	Table Mountain Wheatland Williams Yuba City
108
AREA SEVENTEEN
Anderson	Forest Glen	Red Bluff
Burney	Hat Creek	Redding
	Hayfork	Round Mountain
Central Valley	Junction City	Trinity Center
Cloverdale	Manton	Weaverville
Coming	Montgomery Creek	Whitmore
Cottonwood	Paynes Creek	Wildwood
Fall River Mills		
AREA EIGHTEEN
Alta	Dutch Flat	Grass Valley
Auburn Colfax	Emigrant Gap Fresh Pond	Nevada City Roseville
Downieville		
DEMOTION UNIT FIVE
AREA NINETEEN
Groveland	Newman	Sonora
Jamestown	Oakdale	Tuolumne
Long Barn	Patterson	Turlock
Modesto	Pinecrest	Twain Hart
AREA TWENTY		
Angels Camp	Jackson	San Andreas
Arnold	Lodi	Stockton
Bellota	Manteca	Tracy
Hathaway Pines	Martell	Victor
AREA TWENTY-ONE		
Auberry	Five Points	Piedra
Avenal	Fresno	Reedley
Caruthers	Helms	Riverdale
Clovis	Huron	Sanger
Coalinga	Kerman	Selma
Corcoran	Kettleman	Springville
Dinuba	Lemoore	
AREA TWENTY-TWO
Arvin	Hinkley	Tehachapi
Bakersfield	Ridgecrest	Trona
Boron	Rosedale	Wasco
Buttonwillow	Taft	
AREA TWENTY-THREE
Chowchilla	Los Banos	Merced
Dos Palos	Madera	North Fork
Firebaugh	Mariposa	Oakhurst
DEMOTION UNIT SIX		
AREA TWENTY-FOUR		
Capitola	Santa Cruz	Watsonville
AREA TWENTY-FIVE		
Cupertino Los Gatos	Mountain View	Sunnyvale
AREA TWENTY-SIX		
Cinnabar	Gilroy	San Martin
Coyote	Milpitas	Santa Clara
Edenvale	San Jose	
109
AREA TWENTY-SEVEN
Carmel Hollister King City AREA TWENTY-EIGHT	Monterey Pacific Grove
Arroyo Grande	Paso Robles
Atascadero	Pismo Beach
Buellton	San Luis Obispo
Lompoc	Santa Maria
Salinas Soledad
Santa Ynez Solvang Templeton
DEMOTION UNIT SEVEN
HYDRO GENERATION
AREA TWENTY-NINE
Northern Area
AREA THIRTY
Central Area
AREA THIRTY-ONE
Southern Area
DEMOTION UNIT EIGHT
GAS SYSTEM MAINTENANCE/GAS SYSTEM OPERATIONS (including Gas Chart Office)
DEMOTION UNIT NINE
MATERIALS DISTRUBTION
Emeryville, Fremont, and Decoto Pipe Yard only
DEMOTION UNIT TEN
(Deleted 1-1-94)
DEMOTION UNIT ELEVEN
GENERAL OFFICE
Building
Reprographics
Building and Maintenance Operations Telecommunications
Garage
Computer Operations
Vice President & Comptroller's Organization (including Customer Accounting) Design Drafting
DEMOTION UNIT TWELVE
STEAM GENERATION
NUCLEAR POWER GENERATION
AREA THIRTY-TWO
Geysers Power Plant in Demotion Areas 8, 9,10 and 11.
AREA THIRTY-THREE
Pittsburg and Contra Costa in Demotion Areas 1,2,3 and 4.
110
AREA THIRTY-FOUR
Oakland, Potrero and Hunters Point in Demotion Areas 6 and 7.
AREA THIRTY-FIVE
Morio Bay, Moss Landing, Diablo Canyon in Demotion Areas 27 and 28.
AREATHIBTY^IX	.
Humboldt Baiy Power Plant in Demotion Area 12.
NOTES:
1)	The Demotion Unit will be the geographical area listed in 1 through 6 above, unless a work group or department is specifically designated as a separate demotion unit, such as Hydro Generation,
2)	Demotion Unit Eleven Garage, Building and Materials employees have 206.4, 206.5 and 206.6 demotion rights to Garage, Building and Materials classifications in Demotion Unit Two.
3)	Demotion Unit Two Garage, Building and Materials employees have 206.4, 206.5 and 206.6 demotion rights to Garage, Building andTAaterials classifications in Demotion Unit Eleven.
CRITICAL CLASSIFICATIONS
Local Union No. 1245	March 8,1974
International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers, AFL-ClO
P.O. Box 4790
Walnut Creek, California 94596
Attention: Mr. L.L. Mitchell, Business Manager
Gentlemen:
This letter cancels and supersedes all previous proposals submitted to you on the same subject.
As discussed with you on numerous occasions, it has become increasingly difficult for the Company to properly staff and maintain qualified personnel in certain journeyman classifications ana locations in the system. In an attempt to solve this problem, Company proposes the following:
1.	When the complement of a journeyman classification is 10% or more below the desired strength for 90 days or more at a specific headquarters, Company may upon giving written notice to Union designate the apprenticeship leading to such journeyman classification, the journeyman classification, and classifications above the designated journeyman classification, as critical classifications. Non-apprenticeship situations shall be handled in accordance with Paragraph 8 below.	r
2.	In order to bring the complement at the affected headquarters to the desired level, Company will initially seek volunteers system-wide for assignment to such critical classifications through the postbid procedure. Employees voluntarily transferring to the critical classifications shall be designated critical and be subject to the conditions outlined below. If sufficient employees are obtained in this manner to alleviate the critical situation, no further action will be taken. If, however, a sufficient number of employees are not obtained for critical status, Company shall designate all apprentices appointed after the date critical status was applied at that headquarters as 'critical apprentices/
3.	(a) Except as provided in (b) below, employees on critical status shall be paid 8% above their basic
weekly rate as provided for in Exhibit X.
(b) Employees in a critical apprenticeship status shall be paid the following percent adjustment above their basic weekly rate as provided for in Exhibit X:
Start	3%
End 6 months	4%
End 1 year	5%
End 18 months	6%
End 24 months	7%
End 30 months	8%
4.	Employees on critical status will not have their prebids or postbids for vacancies in or below their present classifications nor their application for transfer considered for any job outside of their existing headquarters or outside of their Line of Progression.
111
5	A journeyman’s "critical" status shall be for a period ol three years with the exceptions set forth in Item 6 below. However, by mutual agreement, the "critical classification" designation may be lifted on either an individual or on a total basis. Apprentices on critical status complete their training at the "critical" headquarters.
6.	Apprentices designated as critical who progress to unassigned journeymen status shall continue on "critical" status for two additional years under the conditions outlined above. If the desired strength has been met at the concerned headquarters, the unassigned journeyman may replace the senior journeyman on criticar status who desires such replacement. Upon his release from "critical status, the 8% weekly allowance and the freeze on bidding and transfer rights will cease.
7.	Company will give the Union and the involved employees 90 days' notice of the cancellation of the "critical classification designation. However, upon cancellation by Company, employees on critical status shall continue to receive the appropriate weekly allowance for the remainder of their applicable term or until such time as they bid or transfer to another classification or headquarters.
8.	In critical situations where a formal apprenticeship is not involved Company proposes to apply the 8% weekly allowance and the freeze on bidding ano transfer rights to the journeyman classification under the conditions outlined above. However, in each instance, the added weekly pay and the total length of the bid or transfer freeze for classifications leading to such non-apprentice journeymen snail be established by agreement between Company and Union. Such agreement shall be, to the extent possible, consistent with the framework outlined above for apprentice situations.
If you are in accord with the foregoing and agree thereto, please so indicate in the space provided below and return one executed copy of this letter to Com pany.
Yours very truly,
PACIFIC GAS And ELECTRIC COMPANY
By /s/ I.W. Bonbright
Manager of Industrial Relations
The Union is in accord with the foregoing and it agrees thereto as of the date hereof.
LOCAL UNION NO. 1245, INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS. AFL-CIO
July 1,1974
By /s/L.L. Mitchell Business Manager
112
Printed by IBEW Local Union 1245 Members
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO
LOCAL UNION 1245
P. O. Box 2547, Vacaville, CA 95696
30 Orange Tree Circle, Vacaville, CA 95687
(707) 452-2700