AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS COMPANY
ON BEHALF OF ITS CUSTOMER OPERATIONS LOCATIONS
(DISTRICT OFFICES, CREDIT AND COLLECTION CENTER, CUSTOMER PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER, CUSTOMER INQUIRY CENTERS, CUSTOMER BILLING CENTERS, AND THE TELEPHONE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
1	AND
UWUA, AFL-CIO/ LOCAL 601
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2005
THROUGH APRIL 30, 2011
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS COMPANY
ON BEHALF OF ITS CUSTOMER OPERATIONS LOCATIONS
(DISTRICT OFFICES, CREDIT AND COLLECTION CENTER, C USTOMER PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER, CUSTOMER INQUIRY CENTERS, CUSTOMER BILLING CENTERS, AND THE TELEPHONE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
AND
UWUA, AFL-CIO/ LOCAL 601
EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2005
THROUGH APRIL 30, 2011
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article	Subject	Page
Preamble................................5
1	Representation and Recognition..........6
II	Union-Company Relationship .............7
III	Bulletin Boards.........................9
IV	Maintenance of Membership...............9
V	Salaries ..............................11
VI	Hours of Work and Overtime ............13
VII	Telephones. Traveling and MealExpenses . 27
VIII	Holidays ..............................29
IX	Vacations..............................33
X	Leaves of Absence .....................40
XI	Reinstatement After Return from Sendee
in the Armed Forces of theUnited States .. 46
XII	Probationary Period ...................47
XIII	Seniority ..............................48
XIV	Promotions and Transfers...............54
XV	Grievances and Arbitration.............61
XVI	Disciplinary Action ...................66
XVII	Employee Benefits .....................67
XVIII	Meetings between Union and
Company Representatives ...............70
XLX	Legislative ...........................71
XX	Duration of Agreement..................71
List of Positions Eligible for Union Membership....................................74
3
EXHIBITS
Exhibit	Subject	Page
A Salary Grades, Salary Ranges and Salary Progression Steps - Weekly Rates -Effective 4/1/2005 .................... 77
Effective 5/1/2006 .................... 85
Effective 5/1/2007 .....................93
Effective 5/1/2008 ....................101
Effective 5/1/2009 ....................109
Effective 5/1/2010 ....................117
B	Statement of Progression Policy .......125
C	Letters of Agreement and Memorandums
of Agreement...........................134
Index .................................203
4
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC & GAS COMPANY
ON BEHALF OF ITS
CUSTOMER OPERATIONS LOCATIONS DISTRICT OFFICES, CREDIT AND COLLECTION CENTER, CUSTOMER PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER, CUSTOMER INQUIRY CENTERS, CUSTOMER BILLING CENTERS, AND
THE TELEPHONE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
AND
UWUA, AFL-CIO/LOCAL 601
For the purpose of facilitating the peaceful adjustment of differences that may arise from time to time, and of promoting harmony and efficiency, to the end that the Company and the Union may mutually benefit, this Agreement is made by and between Public Service Electric and Gas Company, its successors and assigns (hereinafter called the Company .) on behalf of its District Offices. Credit and Collection Center, Customer Payment Processing Center, Customer Inquiry Centers, Customer Billing Centers, Telephone Services Department and the UWUA, AFL-CIO/ LOCAL 601 (hereinafter called the Union),
5
The parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
REPRESENTATION AND RECOGNITION
Recognition of Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO/Local 601
SEC. 1. Local 601 of the Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO (having been accepted by the Company as the successor in interest to the Utility Co-Workers' Association) which was previously certified as a result of elections conducted by the National Labor Relations Board (Case No. 2RC-787 - District Offices and Customer Payment Processing Center and Customer Inquiry and Accounting Centers; Case No. 22 RC-4595 - Telephone Services Department) and through the agreement of the parties, as the bargaining agency for those employees constituting the bargaining unit in all of the Company's District Offices, Credit and Collection Center, Customer Payment Processing Center, Northern Inquiry Center, Northern Customer Billing Center, Southern Inquiry and Customer Billing Center and Telephone Services Department is hereby recognized by the Company as the exclusive bargaining representative for all employees in said bargaining unit.
Employees Covered by Agreement
SEC. 2. The employees, whom this Agreement covers, include all of the employees of the Company’s District Offices, Credit and Collection Center, Customer Payment Processing Center, Customer Inquiry Centers, Customer Billing Centers and Telephone Services Department except employees in supervisory, confidential, and Marketing Services Department specialist positions. The employees covered by this Agreement are shown in the “Lists of Positions Eligible for Union Membership,” dated May 1,
6
Article J	- Continued
2005, which is attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Except as specifically noted otherwise, every reference made throughout this Agreement to “District Offices’' shall be considered to include the Credit and Collection Center, Customer Payment Processing Center, the Northern Inquiry Center, the Northern Customer Billing Center, the Southern Inquiry and Customer Billing Center and every reference made to “Manager" shall be considered to include District Managers, the Manager - Credit and Collection Center, the Manager - Customer Payment Processing Center, the Manager - Northern Inquiry Center, the Manager Southern Inquiry and Customer Billing Center, the Manager Northern Customer Billing Center, and the Manager - Telephone Services Department.
It is understood that employees in supervisory and confidential positions may perform work assignable to employees of the bargaining unit, when occasion requires.
ARTICLE II UNION-COMPANY RELATIONSHIP
Rights of Management
SEC. 1. The management of the Company and the direction of the working forces, including but not restricted tc the right to hire, suspend, discharge for proper cause, promote, demote, or transfer, and the right to determine the size of the working forces, are recognized to be in the Company, but each employee covered in this Agreement shall have the right provided in this Agreement for the adjustment of grievances.
7
Article H - Continued
Maintenance of Uninterrupted and Continuous Service
SEC. 2.
a.	The Company agrees that as long as this Agreement is in force there shall be no lockout of employees covered by this Agreement.
b.	The Union agrees that as long as this Agreement is in force, it will not call, engage in, participate in, or sanction any strike whatsoever, either slowdown, sit down, sympathetic, general or any kind.
c.	However, it is understood that if either party refuses to exhaust the arbitration remedies provided for in this agreement, Section 3 of Article XX may be applied.
Non-Coercion of Employees
SEC. 3, There shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion by the Company or any of its agents against any employees because of their membership in the Union or because of any lawful activities on behalf of the Union; and the Union, its members, and its agents, shall not coerce employees into membership in the Union and shall not solicit membership in the Union during the working hours of any employee involved.
No Subterfuge to Defeat or Avoid Terms of Agreement
SEC. 4. Neither the Company nor the Union, through their officers, members, representatives, agents, or committees shall engage in any subterfuge of any kind for the purpose of defeating or evading the terms of this Agreement.
Non-Discrimination
SEC. 5, The Company and the Union agree that the provisions of this Agreement shall not discriminate against any individual because of race, color, religion, sex, age, disability, Veteran status or national origin.
8
ARTICLE III
BULLETIN BOARDS
Use of Bulletin Boards
SEC. 1. The Company shall provide one bulletin board in each office which shall be solely for the Union's use in posting notices. Such notices shall be restricted to:
(a)	Notices of meetings of the Union;
(b)	Notices of its elections;
(c)	Notices of its appointments to office and the results of its elections; and
(d)	Notices of its social, educational, or recreational affairs;and, provided further, that such notices shall contain nothing political or controversial or reflecting upon the Company, any of its employees, or any labor organization among its employees. The Company may refuse to permit the posting of notices or other material which would violate any of the provisions of this paragraph.
ARTICLE IV
MAINTENANCE OF MEMBERSHIP
Maintaining Membership
SEC. 1.
(a)	Present Employees
All employees who on the date of signing of this Agreement were members of the Union in good standing with respect to initiation fees and dues, and all employees who become members after that date shall, as a condition of employment, maintain their membership in the Union in good standing with respect to initiation fees and dues, for the period of this Agreement.
9
Article IV - Continued
(b)	New Employees
All persons except part-time 301 Consumer Adviser Assistants, hired for job classifications within the bargaining unit, shall, as a condition of employment, be required to affiliate with the Union on the 30th consecutive calendar day after the date of their employment or on the 30th consecutive calendar day after the date of the signing of this Agreement, whichever is later, and maintain membership in the Union in good standing with respect to initiation fees and dues during the period of this Agreement.
No Coercion of Employees Into Membership in Union
SEC. 2. The Union agrees that neither it nor any of its officers or members will intimidate or coerce employees into membership in the Union. If any dispute arises as to whether there has been any violation of this pledge, it shall be handled in accordance with the grievance procedure, provided in Article XV of this Agreement.
Notice of Lapse In Membership
SEC. 3. In the event that any Union members allow their membership in good standing to lapse for nonpayment of initiation fees or dues, they shall receive due notice, in writing, from the Secretary of the Union, or from the Secretary of the Local Council, with a copy to the Manager, and shall have 10 consecutive calendar days thereafter in which to re-establish their membership. Should they fail to re-establish their membership in good standing with respect to initiation fees or dues, within the said period, their employment, upon request by the Union, shall be terminated.
10
Article IV - Continued
Check-Off of Union Dues
SEC. 4. The Company will deduct from four paychecks each month one quarter of the monthly Union dues of each Union member who, in writing, voluntarily authorizes the Company to do so on a payroll deduction authorization form acceptable to the Company. Such deductions shall be remitted to the Union monthly at the earliest convenient date.
ARTICLE V SALARIES
Position Classification by Salary Grades, Salary Ranges, and Salary Progression Steps
SEC. 1. Effective April 1, 2005, salary rates shall be those set forth in Exhibit "A" (“Salary Giades, Salary Ranges, and Salary Progression Steps. Weekly Rates -Effective April 1, 2005") attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Effective May 1. 2006, salary' rates of all employees compensated in accordance with Exhibit “A" will be increased 3.250% based on rates in effect on April 30,2006. The salary rates shall be those set forth in Exhibit “A" ("Salary Grades, Salary Ranges, and Salary Progression Steps, Weekly Rates - Effective Mav ]. 2006'") attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Effective May 1, 2007. salary rates of all employees compensated in accordance with Exhibit “A" will be increased 3.250% based on rates in effect on April 30,2007. The salary rates shall be those set forth in Exhibit "A" ("Salary Grades, Salary Ranges, and Salary Progression Steps, Weekly Rates - Effective May 1, 2007") attached hereto and made a part hereof.
11
Article V - Continued
Effective May 1, 2008, salary rates of all employees compensated in accordance with Exhibit “A” will be increased 3.250% based on rates in effect on April 30,2008. The salary rates shall be those set forth in Exhibit “A” (“Salary Grades, Salary Ranges, and Salary Progression Steps, Weekly Rates - Effective May 1, 2008") attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Effective May 1, 2009 salary rates of all employees compensated in accordance with Exhibit “A" will be increased 3.250% based on rates in effect on April 30,2009. The salary rates shall be those set forth in Exhibit “A” ("Salary Grades, Salary Ranges, and Salary Progression Steps, Weekly Rates - Effective May 1, 2009") attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Effective May 1, 2010, salary rates of all employees compensated in accordance with Exhibit “A" will be increased 3.250% based on rates in effect on April 30,2010. The salary rates shall be those set forth in Exhibit “A” (“Salary Grades, Salary Ranges, and Salary Progression Steps, Weekly Rates - Effective May 1, 2010") attached hereto and made part hereof.
Salary Adjustments
SEC. 2 Effective April 1,2005 a training rate has been incorporated into the maximum step of each nomenclature. In consideration for this additional compensation for each nomenclature, the General Requirements under the Job Specifications Preamble has been modified to include training. It is understood that once an employee has attained the maximum rate in any position, they can be utilized for training in any position, once they are deemed qualified, without upgrading.
12
Article V - Continued
The Letter of Agreement number 70 entitled “Job Specifications" dated May 1, 2002 shall no longer apply.
Statement of Progression Policy
SEC. 3. The “Statement of Progression Policy" is attached hereto as Exhibit “B" and made a part hereof.
Job Specifications
SEC. 4. The manual entitled “Job Specifications -Customer Operations", dated May 1, 2005. is by reference incorporated in this Agreement.
Weekly Payment of Salaries
SEC. 5. Payday shall be the second Thursday following the close of the basic payroll week. If a holiday is observed on a Thursday or Friday, employees will be paid on the next to the last regular day of work preceding the holiday. Payment shall include all compensation earned during the basic payroll week.
Employees may elect to receive their pay by electronic funds transfer or have their pay mailed. The pay for employees selecting the electronic funds transfer option will be transferred to their accounts on the Wednesday preceding the holiday that falls on Thursday or Friday.
ARTICLE VI
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
Basic Workweek
Sec. 1. The basic payroll week shall begin at 12:01am Monday and end at 12:00 midnight on the following Sunday.
13
Article VI - Continued
Full Time Employees: The basic workweek (unless otherwise provided by law) for full-time employees shall consist of forty hours; there shall be five scheduled basic workdays, and two consecutive days off. Changes in the scheduled workweek of full time employees will generally be made known one week in advance. If a change is made in the schedule with less than forty-eight hours notice to the employee, hours worked outside the previous schedule shall be considered as overtime.
The workweek schedule for all permanent full-time employees will be Monday through Friday with the following exceptions:
308. 305 - Northern and Southern Inquiry Centers S390, S391, S392 - Telephone Services Department All nomenclatures - Customer Payment Processing Center
Basic Workweek	Consecutive Days Off
Monday - Friday	Saturday, Sunday
Tuesday - Saturday	Sunday, Monday
Wednesday - Sunday	Monday, Tuesday
Thursday - Monday	Tuesday, Wednesday
Friday - Tuesday	Wednesday, Thursday
Saturday - Wednesday	Thursday, Friday
Sunday - Thursday	Friday, Saturday
369/370	
Basic Workweek	Consecutive Davs Off
Monday - Friday	Saturday, Sunday
Tuesday - Saturday*	Sunday, Monday*
Thursday - Monday**	Tuesday, Wednesday**
• No more than four permanent Meter Readers at
each meter reading location.
14
Article VJ - Continued
* No more than two permanent and two temporary summer Meter Readers at each meter reading location. Employees working Thursday through Monday will be assigned only “scrap” on Sundays.
365
Basic Workweek
Monday - Friday
Consecutive Days Off
Saturday, Sunday
Tuesday - Saturday* Sunday, Monday*
* Can have one employee on this shift if more than one 365 in the location (See Letter dated July 5. 2001)
306
Basic Workweek
Consecutive Days Off
Tuesday - Saturday*** Sunday, Monday***
*** No more than one permanent Field Service Representative per location where more than one is located.
Temporary Part Time Employees: The schedule for part-time employees shall not be restricted to five days. There shall be no predetermined work schedule for part-time employees.
Basic Workday
SEC. 2. Full-Time Employees: The basic workday for full-time employees shall consist of eight hours of work. The daily hours of work shall be continuous, except that a meal period of one-half hour, and not included as working time, shall be allowed.
15
Article VI - Continued
The daily hours of work in District Offices and Customer Service Centers shall be from 7:30am to 4:00pm.
A maximum of four permanent Meter Readers at each meter reading location may be assigned to an 11:30am to 8:00pm work schedule. No employee will be required to work this schedule. Additional temporary summer employees may be assigned to an 11:30am to 8:00pm work schedule. Employees on this work schedule shall be assigned “scrap” after 4:30pm with no assignments scheduled after 7:30pm Such assignments shall be made taking into consideration the safety of the employees. It is understood that employees who are confronted by any situation or condition considered hazardous to their safety, shall leave the area immediately.
Customer Payment Processing Center
The daily hours of work for all employees at the Customer Payment Processing Center shall be from 2:00am to 4:30pm with the following shifts. Separate shift selections will be conducted in accordance with letter of Agreement titled “Annual Shift Selection”:
2:00am to 10:30am 3:00am to 11:30am 4:00am to 12:30pm 5:00am to l;30pm 6:00am to 2:30pm 7:00am to 3:30pm 8:00am to 4:30pm
Telephone Department
The daily hours of work in the Telephone Department shall be 8:00am to 4:30pm, 3:00pm to 11:30pm and 11:00pm to 7:30am.
16
Article VI - Continued
The regular schedule of work for all Telephone Services Department employees shall be posted one week in advance. If a change is made in the posted schedule without at least twenty-four hours’ notice to the employee, hours outside the previous schedule, worked within the twenty-four hours following said notice, shall be considered as overtime.
Customer Inquiry Departments
The daily hours of work in the Customer Inquiry Department at the Northern Inquiry Center and the Southern Inquiry and Customer Billing Center shall be from 7:45am to 4:15pm except for 305 Group Supervisors-Service. 308 Service Representatives, 346 Internet Inquiry Representatives* and 309 Customer Assistance Representatives. Such employees shall be scheduled to one of the following shifts:
5:00am to 1:30pm
6:00am to 2:30pm
7:00am to 3:30pm
8:00am to 4:30pm
9:00am to 5:30pm
11:30am to 8:00pm
3:00pm to 11:30pm 11:00pm to 7:30am
* 7:00am to 3:30pm Monday through Friday; 8:00am to 4:30pm. Monday through Friday; 9:00am to 5:30pm Monday through Friday or 9:00am to 5:30pm Tuesday through Saturday.
Separate shift selections will be conducted for the following employees in accordance with letter of Agreement titled “Annual Shift Selection":
17
Article VI - Continued
•	305 Group Supervisors - Service
•	309 Customer Assistance Representatives
•	308 Customer Service Representatives
•	346 Internet Inquiry Representatives
Credit and Collection Center
The daily hours of work at the Credit and Collection Center shall be 7:00am to 9:15pm
All employees in the Credit and Collection Center shall be subject to shift selection and may be scheduled to one of the following shifts:
362 Group Supervisor Collection and Credit:
7:00am 7:30am
8:00am 11:30am 12:30pm 12:45pm
to 3:30pm to 4:00pm to 4:30pm to 8:00pm to 9:00pm to 9; 15pm
367 & 3678 Senior Credit and Collection Representative:
7:00am to 3:30pm
7:30am to 4:00pm
8:00am to 4:30pm
8:30am to 5:00pm
9:00am to 5:30pm
367 A Credit and Collection Representative:
7:00am to 3:30pm
7:30am to 4:00pm
8:00am to 4:30pm
18
Article V! - Continued
8:30am
9:00am 9:30am
11:30am 12:30pm
to 5:00pm
to 5:30pm
to 6:00pm
to 8:00pm
to 9:00pm
353 Stenographer and 354 Typist Clerk:
8:00am to 4:30pm
9:00am to 5:30pm
11:30am to 8:00pm
Shift selections at the Credit and Collection Center will be based on Combined Office seniority among each nomenclature within the department. Separate shift selections will be conducted in accordance with letter of Agreement titled "Annual Shift Selection":
Customer Accounts Departments
The daily hours of operation for all employees in the Customer Accounts Department in the Southern and Northern Customer Billing Centers shall be from 6:45am to 1:00am Employees shall be scheduled to one of the following shifts:
6:45am to 3:15pm
7:45am to 4:15pm 4:30pm to 1:00am
Effective May 1. 2002, it was agreed that those permanent full time employees currently in positions in the Customer Accounts Department on May 1, 2002 shall not be required to work on shifts that extend beyond 4:15pm Should it become necessary to staff the 4:30 shift, a Senior
19
Article VI - Continued
Bookkeeper position will be filled to assume the responsibilities necessary in overseeing duties of the late shift employees. Further, daytime positions will not be reduced as a result of the second shift.
Variations
Changes in the work schedules of employees who are subject to variations shall, as a matter of general practice, be made known one week in advance. However, if a change is to be made in the announced schedule without at least fortyeight hours’ notice to the employee, hours outside the previous schedule, worked within the forty-eight hours following said notice, shall be considered as overtime. Variations shall be permitted and may be assigned by the Company as the conditions of work require, as follows:
Fftgltitfn
All employees at the CSCs, and 365, 350 353, 370, 302, 354 positions at the District Offices
368, 364 at the District Offices
362 positions
at the District Offices
All permanent employees at the CPPC except the 381 assigned to the CPPC on or before May 1,1996
Maximum Variation
1/2 hr. before 7:30am;
2 hrs. after 4:00pm
1/2 hr. before 7;30am;
1 hr. before 7:30am;
1 hr. prior to the scheduled start time
20
Article V! - Continued
S391 in the Telephone	1 hr. before 8:00am
Services Department 1 hr. after 4:30pm
Temporary Part-Time Employees: There shall be no predetermined work day for part-time employees. As a matter of general practice, the Company will provide a schedule one week in advance.
Overtime Pay for Hours Worked in Excess of Basic Schedule
SEC. 3. Overtime shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times for all hours worked outside of the i egularly scheduled basic workday or basic five-day workweek, with the exception of overtime worked on the employee’s second consecutive day off {see Section 41 or on a holiday (see Article VIII).
In the event that an overtime assignment scheduled for an employee's first or second regularly scheduled day off or on a holiday is canceled less than two hours before it was to begin or within the first four hours of the overtime assignment, the employee shall be paid for four hours at the applicable overtime rate. When overtime is scheduled for an employee's first or second regularly scheduled day off, a minimum of four hours shall be scheduled.
Work on Second Day Off
SEC. 4. When employees are required to work on the second of their regularly scheduled days off, they shall be paid at two times their regular rates of pay for all work performed on that day, with the exception of work performed on a holiday that falls on an employee's second consecutive day off (See Article VIII).
21
Article VI - Continued
Overtime Not To Be Offset By Compensating Time Off
SEC. 5. Employees who have worked overtime shall not be given time off without pay on a regularly scheduled workday to equalize that overtime.
Call>Back Pay
SEC. 6. In the event employees are called back to work outside their regularly scheduled hours, they shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (with the exception of work performed on a holiday or the second of their regularly scheduled days off, which shall be paid at the contract rates), and be paid for a minimum of four hours’ work, if less than that number of hours’ work is performed. This minimum will be the minimum for all call-back work done, and will not apply separately to each call-back for an employee called back more than once on the same day. Overtime performed immediately before or immediately after regular scheduled hours, or immediately before or immediately after a meal recess is not “call-back” work, and shall not be subject to any minimum.
Overtime Assignments and Assignments to Work in a Higher Classification to be Distributed on Equitable Basis
SEC. 7. Overtime required shall be assigned and distributed as equitably as practicable, first among qualified employees within the department in which the overtime occurs, and then among qualified employees in other departments, as required. In the event it is necessary to require overtime, to the extent practicable, such assignments shall be made in the inverse order of Combined Office seniority. No employee shall be required to work more than 16 consecutive hours with time out for meals, except in an emergency. Employees who have worked 16 or more
22
Article VI - Continued
consecutive hours shall be entitled to an eight-hour rest period before returning to work, except in an emergency. If such rest period extends into the regularly scheduled workday, they shall suffer no loss of pay.
Overtime records shall be posted in an appropriate location and be periodically updated so that they remain reasonably current.
Assignments to work in a higher classification shall be assigned and distributed as equitably as practicable, first among employees within the department who are qualified and available, and then among employees in other departments who are qualified and available. Upgrading records shall be posted in an appropriate location and be periodically updated so that they remain reasonably current.
Night Premium
SEC. 8. Full-time employees filling vacant positions through the posting process after May 1. 1996. shall be paid the appropriate premium for the scheduled basic workday hours worked between 6:00pm and 7:00am on Monday through Friday and all scheduled hours worked on Saturday and Sunday The premium, effective May 1,2005, shall be $ 1.55 per hour, and increased as follows: effective May 1, 2006. to S1.60 per hour; effective May 1,2007, to $ 1.65 per hour; effective May 1. 2008. to SJ.70 per hour: effective May 1, 2009. to SI.75 per hour; effective May 1. 2010, to $ 1.80 per hour.
Employees in positions subject to shift reselection prior to May 1. 1996. the majority of whose scheduled basic workday hours in a week occur within the period 4:00pm to 8:00am. shall be paid a premium for the scheduled basic workday hours worked. The premium, effective May 1,
23
Article VI - Continued
2005, shall be, Si.55 per hour, and increased as follows: effective May 1,2006, to $ 1.60 per hour, effective May 1, 2007, to $1.65 per hour; effective May 1,2008, to $ 1.70 per hour; effective May 1, 2009, to SI.75 per hour; effective May 1, 2010, to $1.80 per hour. Employees who are in positions prior to May 1, 1996, who work the 11:30am to 8:00pm work schedule are considered to have worked the majority of hours in the 4:00pm to 8:00am period, and accordingly shall be paid night premium. This premium shall not be paid for any work performed for which overtime is paid.
Part-time employees shall not be eligible for night premium.
No Employees Required To Stand By
SEC. 9. In accordance with present practices in the District Office and the Telephone Services Department, the Company shall not require any employee to stand by at home, awaiting call in event of emergency.
Work Schedule in Extreme Weather
SEC. 10. The Manager will discuss with the local Union representatives, in advance, the general principles to be followed in the event of extreme storms, involving ice, sleet, or snow, in arranging work schedules for employees assigned to field work, to insure that such work will be satisfactorily performed. In such discussion, appropriate consideration shall be given to the extent of outside meter reading involved in various units.
The provisions of this Section shall not apply to rain storms.
The Company shall not assign Meter Readers, except those assigned to the 11:30am to 8:00pm work schedule, to read meters during dark hours.
24
Article VI - Con*inued
Work During Scheduled Lunch Period
SEC. 11. Employees may be directed to change their lunch period to start one-half hour before or one-half hour after the regularly scheduled time without extra compensation.
However, when employees are directed to postpone or advance their lunch period for more than one-half hour, they shall receive one-half time additional compensation for all time worked during their regularly scheduled lunch period.
This provision applies to changes in lunch periods which are occasioned by unusual conditions, and which are made on short notice. It does not apply to a change in lunch period, regardless of the reason, when the employee is given more than two hours’ notice, nor when the change in lunch period is the result of an employee request. Employees assigned to work in the field are not eligible for additional compensation due to variations in lunch schedules.
When employees are directed to work during a part of their regularly scheduled lunch period, and then receive only the balance of their lunch period, time worked during the regularly scheduled lunch period will be in excess of the daily scheduled hours and. as such, will be paid for at the rate of time and one-half.
Work On Other Than Regular Shift
SEC. 12.
(a)	308 Service Representatives at the Northern Inquiry Center and the Southern Inquiry and Customer Billing Center may be directed to temporarily change their work hours to another shift, in order to fill temporary vacancies in permanent positions which are due to absence for any reason or for training purposes, without extra compensation, on
25
Article VI - Continued
any one or more of the regularly scheduled basic workdays.
However, if the employees are not given at least 48 hours notice prior to the time they are to start work
Under the new schedule of hours, they shall be given four additional hours pay in addition to their regular pay.
This provision does not apply at the end of the temporary assignment when employees resume their regular schedule, provided there is at least an eight hour interval between the two scheduled work periods. If there is not at least an eight hour work interval between the scheduled work periods, they shall be paid at one and one-half times their regular rate for the second scheduled period. In applying the above, hours shall not be considered as having been changed if the starting or quitting time, as a temporary replacement on an existing schedule, is one hour earlier or less either before or after the employee’s regularly scheduled starting or quitting time. No change in an employee's basic workday schedule shall be made for less than eight hours.
(b)	If employees are not given at least five calendar days’ notice prior to the time they are temporarily transferred from their regular basic five day workweek to another basic five day workweek schedule involving different days off. they shall assume the days off of the new schedule and during the first seven days of their new assignment be paid at one and one-half or two times their regular rate of pay for work performed on the first or second scheduled day off under their former schedule. This does not apply at the end of the temporary assignment when employees resume their regular schedule, provided there is at least an eight hour
26
Article VJ - Continued
interval between the two scheduled work periods. If there is not at least an eight-hour interval between their scheduled work periods, they shall be paid overtime at the applicable rate for the second scheduled period. No change in schedule shall be made for less than eight hours.
Temporary transfers made under (a) or (b) above shall not exceed ninety days.
After the first week employees shall be paid at the straight time rate for work on the days off of their former basic five-day workweek schedule. In any payroll week there shall not be more than one overtime premium day at one and one-half times regular rate and one at two times regular rate for work performed on scheduled days off. If in any one payroll week the change to the new schedule or return to regular schedule would result in employees working one or two days less than under their regular schedule, due to the way scheduled days off occur under the two schedules, they shall be given employment at the straight time rate so as to give them full employment and payment for the week.*
* See Exhibit “C”, Letter No. 14 for additional detail
ARTICLE VII
TELEPHONES, TRAVELING AND MEAL EXPENSES
Telephone Expenses
SEC. 1. If the Company in writing requires an employee covered by this Agreement to have a telephone at home, the Company shall pay all costs incidental to its service for Company use.
27
Article VII - Continued
Traveling Expenses
SEC. 2. Employees shall be paid traveling expenses incurred in the performance of their assigned duties.
Meal Expenses
SEC. 3. When employees are required to work more than two hours’ overtime after their regular schedule, or more than two hours’ overtime before their regular schedule, effective May 1, 2005 the Company shall pay $13.25 meal expense, in addition to the applicable overtime rate, subject to the conditions outlined in the following paragraph.
Effective May 1, 2006, the Company shall pay $13.50 meal expense. Effective May 1, 2007, the Company shall pay $13.75 meal expense. Effective May 1, 2008. the Company shall pay $14,00 meal expense. Effective May 1, 2009, the Company shall pay $14.25 meal expense. Effective May 1,2010, the Company shall pay $14.50 meal expense.
Meal time shall not be considered as time worked.
Employees who are required to work overtime as a result of a “call-back” and who, during the period of the “call-back”, work into or through a meal period, as defined below, shall be paid meal expense.
Meal Periods
Midnight to 12:30am
6:30am to 7:00am
Noon to 12:30pm 6:30pm to 7;00pm
Employees who are required to work on their first or second regularly scheduled day off and who work, in
28
Article VII - Continued
addition to their eight regularly scheduled hours of their basic workday, more than two hours beyond their scheduled basic workday, shall be paid meal expense.
Employees who are required to work on their first or second regularly scheduled day off for a period other than their eight regularly scheduled hours of their basic workday shall be paid a meal expense after ten hours of work.
Employees who are required to continue work for more than two hours beyond their scheduled quitting time shall be paid a meal expense and shall be paid an additional meal expense for each consecutive five hours worked thereafter, with meal time off (without pay) if required. When overtime is planned in advance, the Company will schedule substantially more, or substantially less, than two hours’ work, so that there will be no question about the payment of meal expense.
ARTICLE VIII HOLIDAYS
Holidays Observed
SEC. 1. The following days shall be recognized as full holidays:
New Year’s Day Presidents Day Good Friday Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Thanksgiving Day	-	January 1 -	Third Monday in February -	First Friday after Palm Sunday -	Last Monday in May -	July 4 -	First Monday in September -	Fourth Thursday in November or as Proclaimed by the Governor of the State of New Jersey 29
Article VIU - Continued
Friday After	Friday following
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day	December 25
or the days on which they are publicly observed.
In addition to those holidays listed above, permanent employees will be entitled to three “Floating Holidays’’ to be taken as operating conditions permit during the calendar year.
If selected, two (2) of the following days will be guaranteed as a floating holiday: Martin Luther King's Birthday, Election Day, Veterans Day and the employee’s birthday. At the time employees normally select vacation, they may designate one or two of the above days as a holiday. An employee electing Martin Luther King's birthday and/or their birthday if it falls between January 1 st and March 1st, as a guaranteed floating holiday, must schedule at least 30 days prior to that date. If the employee’s birthday falls on a regularly scheduled day off or on a holiday, the employee may select the workday before or after the scheduled day off or holiday. In such cases, the employee will be granted the day off. If the employee selects any other day, the day will be granted subject to operating conditions.
If the date on which an employee elects to take a floating holiday has been approved by management and that employee is subsequently required to work on that day, at the employee’s option, he/she will be permitted to reschedule the day or work at the holiday premium rates.
Permanent employees having less than one year of service may elect to split one “Floating Holiday”. Such time off may be taken in segments of either one (a maximum of two), two, four or six hour(s). Requests for
30
Article VI11 - Continued
time off, under this provision shall be granted, operating conditions permitting.
When New Year's Day, Independence Day and Christmas Day fall on Saturday, they will be observed on the preceding Friday.
When New Year's Day, Independence Day and Christmas Day fall on Saturday, Meter Readers and Field Service Representatives with a basic workweek of Tuesday - Saturday will work on the preceding Monday, their second scheduled day oft' and be off on Saturday. Meter Readers with a basic workweek of Thursday - Monday will work on the preceding Wednesday, their second scheduled day off, and be off on Saturday.
When New Years Day. Independence Day and Christmas Day fall on Sunday, Meter Readers with a basic woikweek of Thursday - Monday will work on the preceding Wednesday, their second scheduled day off. and be off on Sunday.
For the week that includes Easter Sunday, Meter Readers with a basic workweek of Thursday - Monday will work on the preceding Wednesday, their second scheduled day off, and be off on Easter Sunday.
Meter Readers and Field Service Representatives with a basic workweek of Tuesday - Saturday will be assigned to a Monday - Friday workweek during the week which includes Thanksgiving Day.
Meter Readers with a basic workweek of Thursday -Monday will be assigned to a Monday - Friday workweek during the week which includes Thanksgiving Day. Such employees will be off on Wednesday, Thursday. Friday and Saturday and resume their former schedule on Sunday.
31
Article VIII - Continued
There will be no penalty or premium payments made to employees for these schedule changes.
During their first and last years of employment, permanent employees shall be entitled to one Floating Holiday for each trimester (January - April, May - August, September - December) or part, worked during that calendar year.
Holiday Pay
SEC. 2. All employees are entitled to holidays off with regular pay, if the holiday is observed on their regularly scheduled workday. When such employees are required to work on a holiday which falls on their regularly scheduled workday, they shall be scheduled for a minimum of four hours work and given the regular holiday pay and. in addition, one and one-half time for all time worked within their regularly scheduled working hours on the holiday. Hours worked outside their regularly scheduled working hours on a holiday shall be paid for at two and one-half times.
The inquiry function at the Northern Inquiry Center will be staffed on a limited basis on all holidays. Employees absent without pay on the basic workday immediately before a holiday (or the day on which it is publicly observed) and also absent without pay on the basic workday immediately following the same holiday, shall receive no pay for that holiday.
Employees shall be given the regular holiday pay of eight hours at straight time when any of the holidays are observed on their regularly scheduled days off. When employees are required to work on a holiday that is observed on their regularly scheduled day off, they shall be
32
Artic’? VIII - Con*inued
scheduled for a minimum of four hours work and given the regular holiday pay and. in addition, one and one-half times for all time worked within the regularly scheduled hours of work of the schedule to which they are normally assigned. All other hours worked on a holiday observed on an employee’s regularly scheduled day off shall be paid at two and one-half times.
When employees are called out to work on a holiday (the day on which it is publicly observed) they shall be paid for a minimum of four hours' work at the applicable rate. This minimum will be the minimum for all call-back work done on that holiday, and will not apply separately to each call-back for an employee called back more than once on the same holiday.
When employees are assigned to work in a higher classification on both the entire working day immediately preceding a holiday for which they are paid, and the entire working day immediately following that holiday, they shall be paid the appropriate rate in the higher classification for that holiday.
ARTICLE IX VACATIONS
Length of Vacation
SEC. 1. Permanent and full time temporary employees having ten months or more of service on May 1 shall be entitled to two weeks of vacation in that year, with ten days’ pay of eight hours each. Those permanent and full time temporary employees who have had a shorter period of service shall have one day vacation with pay of eight hours for each month of service starting with one day if employed
33
Article IX - Continued
in April of the year, two days if employed in March of the year, and so forth, up to ten days if employed in July of the previous year. When an employee’s vacation entitlement ends in a part day, that part day shall be rounded off to the next full day of vacation.
Length of Vacation Long-Service Employees
SEC. 2. Permanent and full time temporary employees shall have the following vacation entitlement, with pay:
Years of Service on or before October 1st
6 years	3	weeks (15	days)
15 years	4	weeks (20	days)
21 years	5	weeks (25	days)
30 years	6	weeks (30	days)
Permanent employees and full time temporary employees with more than six months of service may take vacation that they have accrued for the following year during the current year, providing operating conditions permit and providing it does not interfere with scheduled vacations. Requests for such vacations should be based on unforeseen circumstances of an urgent nature. Accrued vacation may not be scheduled at the time vacations are selected.
Normal Vacation Period
SEC. 3. The normal vacation period shall be between May 1 and September 30 and shall apply to all employees. Permanent employees with two weeks or less vacation entitlement may take their total entitlement during the normal vacation period. Permanent employees with more than two weeks vacation entitlement may take their total
34
Article IX - Continued
entitlement less one week during the normal vacation period, with the following exception:
All employees who work in a field credit and collections process, or are in a 367A, 367, 3678 and 362 nomenclature in the Credit and Collection Center, with vacation entitlement of more than three weeks may take a maximum of three weeks of their entitlement during the normal vacation period. These employees will be required to select either the last 4 workdays of the year or the week of July 4th as vacation. The days should be noted during the vacation scheduling and will not affect the department’s vacation allotment for those weeks.
During the period June 15 through the week that includes Labor Day, the minimum number of employees permitted off in a working unit (as described in Section 5) at any given time shall be determined by dividing the entitlement of the working unit as described in the paragraph above, by 20 (rounded up or down based on .5).
During the periods of May 1 to June 14 and the week that follows Labor Day week through September 30th. the minimum number permitted off at any given time shall be 1/2 the number (rounded up or down based on .5) determined in the paragraph above.
Vacations Outside Normal Period
SEC. 4. Employees who desire to have their vacation other than during the normal vacation period may apply to the Management, through regular department channels. Approval of the request will be made where it is practicable to do so. The Company will permit one-half the number off during June 15 through Labor Day week, not to exceed two; unless Management determines that more than two can
35
Article IX - Continued
be off. The Company will permit two times the number off on Veteran’s Day (or the day on which it is publicly observed).
Scheduling Vacations
SEC. 5. Employees in each department or working unit shall be given the opportunity to select their vacation in the order of Company service. Each employee’s first and second choice shall be up to a maximum of two consecutive calendar weeks. Each subsequent choice shall be up to a maximum of one calendar week. If the employee desires to split a vacation choice, taking less than the maximum period allowed, no other choice will be permitted until all employees with less Company service in the department or working unit have determined their choice. In no case shall an employee who desires to split a vacation choice be permitted to take less than one day at a time, subject to the following exception: Employees may elect to split three of their current year’s vacation days. Such time off may be taken in segments of either one (a maximum of six), two, four or six hour(s). Requests for time off under this provision shall be granted operating conditions permitting.
Vacation schedules and what constitutes the appropriate “working units” for the purpose of considering employees’ choice as to vacation period, will be discussed by local Management with the local Union representatives prior to February 1st of each year.
The provisions of this Section shall apply to all vacations during the period from May 1 to the end of March of the following year.
Changes in Vacation Schedule
SEC. 6. If conditions arise (either because of the
36
Article IX - Continued
exigencies of the business or because of personal considerations of employees) requiring changes in the vacation schedule, such changes shall be made by arrangement between the Company and the employee or employees affected. These changes shall be posted, and if the posting is not made at least five working days before the date the vacation schedule is affected, the Union shall be informed before the change is posted.
When an employee is selected for a position within another working unit, the employee’s Supervisor will review the vacation schedule to determine if the employee's scheduled vacation creates a conflict with others in the department. If a conflict exists, the Supervisor will review the matter with the employees involved and will make every reasonable effort to resolve the conflict. If such conflict cannot be resolved, the newly-assigned employee will be required to change his/her vacation schedule.
Holiday During Vacation
SEC. 7. Should any holiday, agreed upon in Article VIII, Section I. be observed on one of the employees' regularly scheduled basic workdays within their basic 5-day workweek while they are on vacation they shall be entitled to an additional day off with pay at the beginning or end of their vacation if operating conditions permit; otherwise, an additional day off with pay will be scheduled at a time mutually convenient to both employee and Company.
Posting Vacation Schedules
SEC. 8. Vacation schedules shall be completed and posted on bulletin boards for each occupational group by April 1.
37
Article IX - Continued
Advance Payment of Salary
SEC. 9. On the last working day before they leave for vacation, employees shall be given the salary due on the paydays falling within their vacation period. Effective January 1,1998 vacation advances will be eliminated.
Employees will be given the option, during annual enrollment, to sell up to five days of unused vacation entitlement for the current plan year, in full day increments (1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 full days). Employees who choose this option to sell any vacation days, will receive a lump-sum amount based on their base pay as of January 1 of the plan year. The payment will be made as soon as practicable after January 1. This payment will not be included in the employee's pension calculation, and will not be matched in the Thrift Plan.
Employees who elect to sell vacation days during annual enrollment and subsequently use the days before the payout is made, will receive a reduced payment based on days remaining.
Employees must be eligible for at least three weeks (15 days) of vacation based on actual service with the Company as of September 30 of the prior plan year to be eligible to participate.
Administration of Vacation Schedules
SEC. 10. If immediately prior to the start of their scheduled vacation, employees are temporarily off duty due to illness or injury, such employees shall have the right to have their vacation rescheduled and the Company shall assign to such employees a new vacation period that is mutually agreeable. Such vacation may be rescheduled during the following year within thirty calendar days after
38
Article IX - Continued
the employee returns to work and the rescheduled vacation shall be taken as soon as practicable, provided operating conditions permit. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to employees who become ill or are injured during the course of their scheduled vacation, except as follows. Employees who are hospitalized following the start of their vacation may reschedule that portion of their vacation spent as an in-patient. Certification of in-patient hospitalization will be required.
When a death in family occurs immediately prior to the start of or during an employee's vacation, the employee may reschedule that portion of such scheduled vacation which otherwise would have been granted as time off with pay in accordance with Article X, Section 3. of this Agreement.
Vacations for Employees Leaving Company
SEC. 11. Employees with more than six months of service who leave the Company shall be granted a vacation if taken before the date of separation, or given vacation pay if they work up to the date of separation. The vacation granted in such cases shall, for permanent employees with more than six months but less than six years of service be one day, with pay of eight hours, for each month of service starting with the preceding July 1 (subject to a maximum of ten days’ vacation), and for permanent employees with more than six years of service be one and one-half days, with pay of twelve hours, for each month of service starting with the preceding July 1 (subject to a maximum of fifteen days’ vacation), and for permanent employees with more than fifteen years of service be two days, with pay of sixteen hours, for each month of service starting with the preceding July 1 (subject to a maximum of twenty days' vacation), and for permanent employees with more than twenty-one
39
Article IX - Continued
years of service be two and one-half days, with pay of twenty hours for each month of service starting with the preceding July 1 (subject to a maximum of twenty-five days* vacation), and for permanent employees with more than thirty years of service be three days, with pay of twenty-four hours for each month of service starting with the preceding July 1 (subject to a maximum of thirty days’ vacation). Employees with six months or less of service who leave the Company shall not be granted a vacation or given vacation pay.
Employees being retired on pension shall be granted payment for unused current and accrued vacation time.
Where the separation is due to the death of a permanent employee or a full time temporary employee while the employee is on the active payroll or on leave of absence in accordance with Article X. Section 6, of this Agreement, the heirs or estate shall receive the employee's accrued vacation pay, but no less than a payment of 15 days ’ pay of 8 hours each.
ARTICLE X LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Full-Time Representative of Union
SEC. 1. Any permanent employee who is selected to serve as a full-time representative of the Union, upon request by the Union, after reasonable notice to the Company, shall be granted a leave of absence without pay during the term of office, and shall continue to accumulate seniority and service credit toward pension throughout the leave of absence, in calculating the pension of such an employee, the "earnings" factor during the period of the
40
Article X - Continued
leave of absence shall be based on the hourly rate in effect in the employee’s permanent job classification at the time of the request. During the term of this Agreement, expiring April 30, 2011. the pension calculation for the full time representative of the Union shall be consistent with that of the membership. Each leave of absence shall expire at the end of one year and be renewable for any subsequent year. Requests for each initial and renewed leave of absence shall be made by letter to the Industrial Relations Manager. In the event that such a request is made by the Union, the Company and the Union will negotiate the terms and conditions pertaining to such leave of absence.
The total number of employees for whom the UWUA. AFL-CIO/ UCA Local 601, may request the Company to grant a leave of absence for this purpose shall not at any time exceed two unless increased by mutual consent.
The full-time representative of the Union may apply for posted vacancies subject to the provisions of Article XIV, Section 1, Promotions and Transfers - Posting Vacancies and Applications, of the Agreement. If selected for a posted vacancy, the appropriate salary rate and occupational seniority shall become effective on the date he or she actually begins performing in the position.
Delegates to Union Conventions
SEC. 2. Employees designated by the Union to serve as accredited delegates to conventions or similar meetings shall, after reasonable notice to the Company, be granted a leave of absence without pay for sufficient time for this purpose, provided the conditions of work at the time are such that the employees' services can be spared. The number of employees who are on leave of absence for this purpose shall not at any time exceed two from each office
41
Article X - Continued
unless increased by mutual consent. Every reasonable effort will be made to so arrange the work that the employee designated as a delegate, or the employees' alternate, can be given leave for this purpose.
Funerals
SEC. 3. Time off with pay shall be granted to a permanent employee in the event of a death as follows:
(a)	Where the deceased was the father, mother, brother, sister, wife, husband, child, father-in-law or mother-in-law of the employee, the employee shall be given time off of three consecutive working days.
(b)	Where the deceased was the grandfather, grandmother or grandchild of the employee, the employee shall be given time off between the death and burial up to a maximum of one working day.
(c)	The days off as defined in (a) above shall be any three consecutive working days, exclusive of holidays as defined in Article VIII, Section 1, during the period beginning with the day of death and concluding with the second working day following burial, as requested by the employee.
In such cases, the employee shall be given pay for eight hours for each day of absence which is within the basic five-day workweek.
In the administration of this provision if, on the day of death, an employee leaves work after having worked a partial day, the day shall be treated in either of the following ways at the employee's option:
(a)	The day will not count as one of the allowable days off and the hours not worked on the day of death will be without pay. or
42
Article X - Continued
(b)	The day of death may be counted as one of the allowable days off and the employee will be paid for the hours not worked. In all cases, when the time off begins with the day of death and the employee is absent with pay (holiday, vacation, illness, etc.) or on a regularly scheduled day off on the day of death, the following workday will be counted as the first day off.
Funerals - Unusual Circumstances
SEC. 4. In exceptional cases not covered by the preceding section, individual consideration will be given by the Manager based upon the circumstances in the case. In those cases where the circumstances, in the opinion of the Manager, do not appear to warrant granting the employees' requests, the Manager will confer in advance with the Union representative before reaching a decision. Time off granted under this provision will not be made part of an employee's unavailability record for purposes of discipline. Operating conditions permitting, one Union representative will be permitted up to four hours’ time off with pay to attend the funeral service of a deceased active employee from that location. The provisions of Article XV shall not apply to these cases. If a dispute arises, it shall be handled as provided for in Article XVIII, Section 2.
Jury Duty
SEC. 5. Permanent employees shall be granted time off with pay for jury duty. In such cases the employees shall be given pay for eight hours for each full day of absence which is within their basic five-day workweek.
When jury duty requires employees' absence from work, they shall be required to report to the office each morning prior to going on jury duty only if they can work two or more hours before leaving to report for jury duty.
43
Article X - Continued
After the completion of jury duty on any day, employees shall report to work for the remaining portion of the day that falls within their regularly scheduled working hours if they thereby can work two or more hours.
Employees assigned to a shift other than the 8:00am to 4:30pm or the 8:30am to 5:00pm shifts shall be temporarily assigned to the 8:00am to 4:30pm or the 8:30am to 5:00pm shifts upon starting the first day of jury duty, subject to the following:
(a)	Normally, the days off for such employees during the period of jury duty will be Saturday and Sunday. However, prior to the first day of jury duty, the employees' days off under their regular schedule will be changed to Saturday and Sunday only if it is necessary to insure that they will have two days off in a payroll week.
(b)	Employees shall report to work on the temporary shift when they can do so in accordance with the second and third paragraphs of this Section.
(c)	When such employees are notified of their final day of jury duty or a change in their final day of jury duty, they shall inform the Company on the day notified.
(d)	Employees will resume their regular schedule on the day following the last day of jury duty. However, if this would result in less than five days at straight time pay (including jury duty) during the payroll week, the employees will be scheduled to work at straight time on one or both of the days off under their regular schedule in order to provide five days at straight time. If the resumption of their regular schedule would result in more than five days at straight time (including jury duty) during the payroll
44
Article X - Continued
week, they will retain one or both of the days off under their temporary schedule to provide for a maximum of five days at straight time during the payroll week.
(e)	In the case of Grand Jury, which is normally scheduled one day a week, employees’ shift schedules will not be changed, except when a day off coincides with a day of Grand Jury duty, in which case the employee will be given another day off in the payroll week. The employee will not be required to work any shift on a day of Grand Jury duty.
(f)	There will be no penalty or premium payments made to employees selected for jury duty for schedule changes occasioned by such jury' duty.
Leave of One Week or More for Personal Reasons
SEC. 6. Permanent employees shall be granted a leave of absence without pay. after reasonable notice to the Company provided that the conditions of work at the time are such that their services can be spared. The leaves of absence shall be one week for each full year of service up to and including a maximum of thirteen weeks, and in no event shall the Company be required by this Article to grant any employee a total leave of absence exceeding thirteen weeks in any consecutive five-year period. During these leaves of absence, seniority and service shall accumulate. Employees who overstay such leaves will be terminated on the date the leaves expired. Employees who resign during the leaves will be terminated on the date of notification to the Company of intention to resign prior to the expiration of the leaves. If employees accept employment, or engage in business, elsewhere during such leave, without consent of the Company, their employment with the Company shall be deemed to have terminated on the date the Company became aware of such activities or sooner if the date is known.	,,
ARTICLE XI REINSTATEMENT AFTER RETURN FROM SERVICE IN THE ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES
Regular Employees Who Return From Military Service
SEC. 1. Any permanent employee who enters upon active duty or active duty for training in the armed forces of the United States and who, under Federal Law. is entitled to reinstatement upon release from such service, shall be reinstated in accordance with the provisions of the law. If the employee is not returned to the exact position held prior to entrance into the armed forces, the Manager will confer with the Union in advance before assigning such employee to another position.
Physical Examination
SEC. 2. Employees who meet the conditions of Section 1 of this Article and who desire to return to work upon completion of military service, shall be given a physical examination, after which they shall be notified immediately as to their rejection or acceptance. “Physical examination'* is understood to include X-rays, laboratory work, or other conditions which may delay the examining surgeon’s decision.
“M.S.R.” Employees Who Return From Military Service
SEC. 3. The provisions of Section 1 will not apply to persons who are employed as “military service replacements” (M.S.R.) and who are in such status with the Company at the time they leave for service in the armed forces of the United States under the provisions of the
46
Article XI - Continued
Federal Law, except to the extent that such “military service replacements” are entitled to reinstatement under Federal Law upon release from service.
Release of “M.S.R.” Employees
SEC. 4. It is understood that when the services of a “military service replacement” (M.S.R.) employee are no longer required, because of the return of an employee from military service leave of absence, the Company has the right to discontinue the military service replacement employee. However, if “M.S.R." employees who are discontinued, apply for reemployment they shall be given preferred consideration in view of their experience with the Company, and if they are reemployed within two years they shall have the seniority accumulated during their prior service with the Company.
ARTICLE XII PROBATIONARY PERIOD
Probationary Period for Permanent and Temporary Employees
SEC. 1. All employees who have not completed their probationary period shall be dischargeable at the sole discretion of the Company, without regard to the other provisions of this Agreement. Once an employee has completed their probationary period the Union may initiate a grievance, which shall proceed in accordance with Article XV, Section 1.
Persons or employees who were hired directly into a permanent position (never holding a part time or temporary position in UWUA Local 601 or UCA bargaining unit) shall be on probation for a period of twelve (12) months.
47
Article XII - Continued
By the end of the first six (6) months of employment the capabilities and progress of the new employee will be reviewed and discussed with the employee and the Union.
Any temporary employee (part time or full time) who was hired prior to May 1, 2005 and has had no break in service will be considered to have satisfactorily passed their probationary period.
In the case of a change in reporting relationship from temporary employee (part time or full time) to permanent employee, it is understood that if the employee has already completed 1044 hours (the equivalent of six months) of work they shall be deemed to be on probation for a period of nine (9) months from the date on which they were made permanent. If such employees have not satisfied the 1044 hours of work requirement as set forth in the previous sentence, they shall be deemed to be on probationary for a period of twelve (12) months from the date on which they are made permanent. It is understood that the provisions of this paragraph are applicable to time worked from the most recent date of hire and do not imply that any additional benefits have been granted or affect any other existing terms and conditions for temporary employees.
The provisions of this Section do not modify the Agreement as it relates to the trial period.
ARTICLE XIU SENIORITY
Determination of Service
SEC. 1. The aggregate of all periods of employment in the Company, and any predecessor company, any subsidiary of the Company, or any company now or formerly affiliated
48
Article XIII - Continued
with it in the Public Service organization, as shown by the records of the Company, shall be known as “service”. The provisions of this Article shall apply to permanent employees.
Determination of Seniority
SEC. 2.
(a)	Length of service in a specific position or classification shall be known as "occupational seniority”.
(b)	Length of total combined service in District Offices, Northern Customer Inquiry Center, Southern Inquiry and Customer Billing Center, Northern Customer Billing Center, the Credit and Collection Center, the Customer Payment Processing Center and the Telephone Services Department shall be known as "Combined Office seniority”.
1.	Employees transferred by rhe Company from one District Office to another District Office, as a result of consolidation of two or more District Offices, shall retain their "Combined Office seniority".
(c)	Length of service in the Telephone Services Department prior to May 1, 1996 shall be known as "Telephone Services Department Seniority".
Posting of Seniority Lists
SEC. 3. The Company shall prepare annually, as of December 31, revised service, occupational seniority. Combined Office seniority and Telephone Services Department Seniority lists and provide the Union with two copies. These lists shall be posted on, or before, January 15.
49
Article XIII - Continued
The Company shall prepare annually, as of June 30, a list of the additions to and the deletions from the lists previously posted and provide the Union with two copies. These updated lists shall be posted on, or before, July 15.
Grievances Relating to Seniority
SEC. 4, Any grievance arising relative to service or seniority, or both, shall be handled as hereinafter provided for under Article XV.
Layoff and Recall
SEC. 5. If it becomes necessary to affect a layoff (or separation) in the District Office or the Telephone
Services Department, the Company will confer with the Union, in advance, to discuss the positions which shall constitute the occupational group (or groups) affected, for the purpose of applying the provisions of Article XIII, Section 3. If the layoff is a direct result of a technological change, the Company shall notify the Union at least three months in advance of the anticipated layoff. Employees shall be laid off (or separated) in the inverse order of their Combined Office* seniority, subject to the conditions specified below.
In the specific position in which a reduction in force is to be accomplished, the employee with the least occupational seniority, shall be laid off, provided the employee has least Combined Office* seniority within the office. If the employee has not, the employee shall be returned to the employee’s previous position in the employee’s former occupational group or one in the same salary grade, whichever is agreed by the Company and the Union to be more practicable. From the reconstituted arrangement of the personnel of that occupational group,
50
Article XIII - Continued
the selection for layoff shall be made, provided under this arrangement the employee subject to layoff in such group has the least Combined Office* seniority within the office. If such is not the case, additional rearrangements of the type heretofore described shall be made until the employee to be laid off has, except when such would be impracticable, the least Combined Office* seniority within the office.
In those cases in which an employee so concerned shall have had no position other than the employee's present position within the District Office or Telephone Services Department, and provided the employee does not have least Combined Office* seniority within the office, then the employee may elect the option to be placed in his/her previous position at his/her former location if a permanent vacancy exists in that position. If the employee declines the option, or if a vacancy does not exist in the employee's previous position at the former location, then the employee shall be assigned to another position at the current location for which the employee is qualified in the same salary grade, or if that is impracticable, the employee shall be assigned to a lower classification agreed upon by the Company and the Union. An employee assigned to a lower classification under the foregoing conditions shall be given the option of being placed in his/her previous position at his/her former location when a permanent vacancy exists in that position. If there is no position in any lower classification at the current location for which the employee has the necessary qualifications, the employee shall then be laid off.
In addition to the recall rights outlined below, an employee who has been laid off shall have the option of being placed in his/her previous position at his/her former location if a permanent vacancy occurs in this position within the two-year period following the date of layoff.
51
Article XIII - Continued
When a permanent vacancy occurs in a position from which employees were bumped, such employees shall be given the option, in the order of occupational
seniority, to return to the vacant position before it is posted or before employees are recalled.
An employee declining the option of returning to his/her former position within his/her current location or previous position at his/her former location shall forfeit his/her right to such offers in the future. In all cases, employees who have been laid off shall have the right to be recalled before employees are given the option for placement.
Employees scheduled to be laid off may, provided they are qualified, displace a temporary employee. The employee will be reclassified as temporary, and the displaced employee shall be discontinued.
When additional employees are needed in a specific position, from which employees have been laid off, within a two-year period, such laid-off employees shall be offered the jobs before they are filled by the promotion or transfer of employees with less Combined Office* seniority or by the hiring of new employees. Recalls to such work shall be in the inverse order of layoff (last employees laid off shall be rehired first) provided that the physical condition (which is understood to include mental condition) of the former employee is no worse than it was at the time of separation. The Company shall not be required to recall any employee who has been laid off for a continuous period of more than two years at the time occasion arises to issue a recall. Employees recalled after layoff shall have, upon reemployment, the same seniority status they had attained at the time of their layoff. The salary to be paid shall be in accordance with the provisions of the plan of job evaluation.
52
Article XIII - - Continued
During the period of recall, if none of the employees who are on layoff are eligible for recall to a vacant position, the Company shall offer the position to such employees, in the inverse order of layoff, prior to hiring from the outside. In such cases the employee must possess the minimum qualifications for the position. Employees who accept such positions will not forfeit their recall rights to the specific positions from which they were laid off. If employees are recalled to positions other than the positions from which they were laid oft'and subsequently recalled to the positions from which they were laid off, such employees will be paid at the wage progression step at the time of layoff. In addition, employees who are offered, but decline a position, will not forfeit their recall rights. However, they will not be offered another of these positions until all other employees on layoff have been offered a position.
Upon failure of an employee to reply after ten (10) days’ or to return to work after twenty-one (21) days’ written notice, by registered mail return receipt by the Company, addressed to the last address on record, the employee shall forfeit the rights secured under this Agreement, and the Company shall have the right to recall the next employee in order of Combined Office* seniority, or if there is none available then a new employee may be hired.
* Telephone Services Department seniority shall serve as the criteria for layoff and recall within the Telephone Services Department.
Seniority of Union Officers in Layoff or Recall
SEC. 6. The procedure established in Section 5 of this Article shall be modified as follows, in the case of the stewards of the Local Council, elected officers of the Local Council (limited to four in number except in District Offices
53
Article XIII - Continued
which now have five), and members of the Executive Committee of the Union (limited to seven in number), in the event that the required reduction in force would result in the layoff of such employee during the term of office, the employee shall not be laid off as long as the required reduction in force can be accomplished by the layoff of another employee, even though the latter employee may have more Combined Office seniority, than the Union steward or elected officer. The Local Council shall provide the Manager in writing with the names of the stewards and elected officers.
ARTICLE XIV PROMOTIONS AND TRANSFERS
Promotions and Transfers - Posting Vacancies and Applications
SEC. 1. When a vacancy occurs or when a new position is created within the bargaining unit in the State (For posting purposes the state shall consist of the Northern Inquiry Center, Newark, Hackensack. Roseland, Harmon Cove, the Telephone Services Department, the Credit and Collection Center, the Southern Inquiry and Customer Billing Center. Northern Customer Billing Center, Cranford, Bridgewater*, East Gate, Burlington*. Princeton, and the Customer Payment Processing Center), the Company shall post a notice and a copy of the job specifications on the bulletin board at all locations in the state for a period of five consecutive calendar days; such notices shall state the salary range (minimum and maximum) for the position posted.
Temporary vacancies in salary Grades 1 through 7, shall be posted for three working days only in the location where
54
Article XIV - Continued
the vacancy exists. Temporary vacancies in salary grades 8 through 13 shall be posted in the state. Employees desiring to be considered should submit an application form, supplied by the Company, to their Manager; and on the form employees may if they wish, set forth their qualifications for the position. Employees who wish to be considered for a posted position during their absence should complete a semi-annual interest form which would be maintained at each District. The local interest forms will be updated on May 1, and November 1, of each year. It is understood that employees may change their elections at any time during the year.
If the notice is not posted within seven w orking days after the vacancy occurs, the Manager of the location where the vacancy exists will confer with the Union. If the vacancy is not to be filled, an announcement to this effect will be posted at that location.
The Company shall not be required to give consideration for the promotion to employees who;
a.	Have been in their current permanent position Jess than 12 months, with the exception of:
1.	Employees who entered their current permanent position prior to May 1, 2005.
2.	Permanent employees holding temporary positions who wish to bid a permanent position.
3.	Employees who have permanent restrictions placed upon them by the Medical Department which prohibit them from performing their current position.
4.	Non-probationary employees in positions that require a driver’s license who lose their driving privileges.
55
Article XIV - Continued
5.	Permanent employees designated as surplus.
6.	Employees, regardless of grade, wishing to bid Salary Grade 10 or higher positions.
b.	Employees who do not make application, or who did not file an interest form indicating a desire to fill the posted position. Employees who are absent from work during the update of the local interest file, including permanent and military service replacement (M.S.R.) employees in military service, and who have at least the minimum qualifications for the positions being filled, shall be considered to have filed an application for the position.
At each location the name and background data for the employee selected will be forwarded to the location where the vacancy exists within nine working days after the removal of the posting. It is understood that local disagreements on job selections are not subject to the grievance procedure, except at the location where the vacancy exists. Within fifteen working days after the removal of the posting, the Union will be consulted and will be notified of the selection before the promotion is made.
’Considered a separate location for posting purposes.
Qualifications for Promotions
SEC. 2. The manual entitled, “Qualifications for Promotion - Raters’ Guide”, dated May 1, 2005, is by reference incorporated in this Agreement.
In all bidding to classifications within the bargaining unit, including employees bidding on the position they presently hold, but at another location, full consideration will be given to each of the following qualifications in accordance with the procedures set forth in the aforementioned Raters’ Guide:
56
Article XIV - Continued
-	Supervision Required
-	Ability to Learn and Retain and Apply Instructions
-	Quality of Work
-	Quantity of Work
-	Work Methods
-	Customer/Employee Relations
-	Experience in Related Position(s)
-	Experience in Position Being Filled and/or of a Higher Salary Grade
-	Availability
-	Active Disciplinary Action
-	Indicated Ability to Perform Supervisory Duties (For Promotion to Classifications Which Include Any Supervisory Responsibilities')
Time spent in any department other than the department in which the vacancy exists shall be given appropriate consideration in evaluating qualifications for promotions as set forth in this Section.
Promotions Within the Bargaining Unit
SEC. 3. The Company agrees that in the event a vacancy occurs in the bargaining unit, covered by this Agreement, the selection of the employee to fill such vacancy shall be made from among qualified employees in the State. Employees shall be considered qualified for promotions and transfers when they meet the definition defined in Section 1 of this Article and have successfully completed twelve months in their current permanent position. Employees selected to fill permanent vacancies that exist, and cannot be released from their current positions within two weeks after the selection has been made, shall begin accruing occupational seniority in the new position starting on the fifteenth calendar day after the selection has been made. The “twelve months" referenced above shall begin on the date in which
57
Article XIV - Continued
the employee begins accruing occupational seniority in the new position. In the event of a combination of District Offices under one Manager, the offices so combined will be considered as one District Office.
An employee who is selected for and accepts a temporary summer position shall not be considered for other temporary summer positions in the same classification in the same calendar year.
An employee who is selected for a position shall not be awarded the position if he/she is unavailable to report to the new position within 30 calendar days from the selection, with the exception of permanent employees who are absent from work for military service or protected by law or otherwise covered under the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Additionally, all temporary summer positions in the Customer Accounts Department; in the Northern Customer Billing Center and the Southern Inquiry and Customer Billing Center will be for a minimum duration of 2 years. Successful candidates will not have to compete in the bidding process if the department needs to fill a temporary summer position the following year. First year temporary summer employees will not be required to return should they choose not to.
Promotion - lYial Period
SEC. 4. Employees who are promoted or transferred to positions in other classifications shall receive instructions and training in such positions and shall be given twelve months to qualify. At the time the selection is made the Manager shall confer with the Committee of the Local Council to determine if the trial period is to be waived or
58
Article XIV - Condnued
shortened. Employees who fail to meet the job requirements within this period agreed upon shall at any time during the trial period be reassigned to their former classifications or jobs without loss of seniority and at the appropriate rates of pay subject to the following exception.
No employee will be returned to his or her former position sooner than sixty days after assignment to the new position. ( Employees so reassigned shall, if applicable, be required to complete the remainder of an incomplete trial period in their former classifications or jobs.) The appropriate rates of pay for such employees shall be the rates which would have been earned if they had not left the position from which they were promoted. The Company shall be free to restore to their former status all employees affected thereby, in accordance with the provisions of Article XIII. Section 5. These other affected employees shall retain their higher rate of pay for a period equal to the time they were in the higher classification, with the further provision that the period shall not exceed 60 days. The Manager will notify the Union before such reassignments are made.
Promotions and Transfers -
Employees Re-Entering Bargaining Unit Positions and Other Changes in Organization
SEC. 5. The following provisions will apply in the event that an employee is selected to fill a position represented by the UWUA. AFL-CIO/ UCA Local 601, after having resigned from the Union.
It is understood that the Company will not unilaterally return, bump or place employees into bargaining unit positions after they have resigned from the Union. However, former UWUA, AFL-CIO/ UCA Local 601 or
59
Article XIV - Continued
UCA represented employees are not prohibited from being considered for entry level UWUA, AFL-CIO/ UCA Local 601, represented positions which have been posted in accordance with Article XIV of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. When former UWUA, AFL-CIO/ UCA Local 601 or UCA represented employees are the selected candidates for these vacancies, they shall be required to affiliate with the UWUA, AFL-CIO/ UCA Local 601, in accordance with Article IV of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, and the provisions below shall apply.
For a period of twelve months from the effective date of return to the bargaining unit, the parties will not consider applications submitted by the individual for promotion or transfer within the bargaining unit, as addressed in Article XIV of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Thereafter, individuals will be considered for promotions or transfers in accordance with all of the provisions of Article XIV, including consideration given for experience in all other UWUA, AFL-CIO/ UCA Local 601 and UCA represented positions held prior.
For a period of thirty-six months from the effective date of return to the bargaining unit, only that period of time, which has elapsed since the date of return will be considered in calculating “Combined Office Seniority”. Thereafter, total combined service in UWUA, AFL-CIO/ UCA Local 601 ,and UCA represented positions, including all service in such positions prior to the individual resigning from the UWUA, AFL-CIO/ UCA Local 601 or the UCA, shall be included in the calculation of “Combined Office seniority.”
It is further understood that the provisions outlined above will not apply to individuals who have returned to the bargaining unit prior to November 1,1995.
60
Article XIV - Continued
In the event that it becomes necessary to demote or reassign employees from positions within the bargaining unit to other positions in an equal or lower salary grade, within the bargaining unit, they shall assume their former occupational seniority, plus that accumulated in all equal or higher positions or classifications.
ARTICLE XV
GRIEVANCES AND ARBITRATION
Procedure for Settling Grievance
SEC. 1. Should any dispute or grievance arise between the Company and the Union, or any of its members, as to the performance, application, or operation of any provisions of this Agreement, not specifically settled in said Agreement, both parties shall endeavor to settle the question in the simplest and most direct manner. The procedure shall be as follows (unless any step thereof is waived, combined or extended by mutual consent):
FIRST:	Between the Union steward and the
supervisor. If not disposed of within three days (exclusive of Saturdays. Sundays and holidays), the matter may be taken up as provided for in step “SECOND" following:
SECOND: Between the Manager and/or the Manager's designated representatives and members of a local Committee appointed by the local chairperson of the Union (no fewer than two and no more than five, except for the limits defined in Article XVIII, Sec. 1 of the Agreement).
The party initiating the matter shall submit it in writing to the other. The written statement of the grievance shall
61
Article XV - Continued
include a full explanation of the nature of the grievance, the claimed basis for the grievance and references to Sections of the Agreement, if any, which are claimed to have been violated. Both parties shall confer promptly on the grievance and dispose of it as soon as possible, but in any event within ten days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays).
At the option of the local Union a further discussion in the second step shall be held. The President of the Union and the Industrial Relations Manager may participate in such meetings. The local Manager shall confirm the decision in writing within ten working days after it has been given in the final meeting in the second step. If a grievance is not presented in this step within forty-five calendar days after its occurrence, it shall no longer exist.
It is the desire of both the Union and the Company that grievances be disposed of locally. Both parties will make earnest efforts to accomplish that objective. In the event, however, that the matter is not settled locally through one of the above methods, it shall be carried to step “THIRD” below
THIRD: Between members of the Executive Committee of the Union (which shall not be in excess of seven in number) and the Vice President-Customer Operations or designated representatives. The grievance shall be in writing. The Company will meet with the Union within 120 days of receipt of the grievance at the third step. The Company and Union will meet on discharge cases within 60 days of receipt of the grievance at the third step. If the parties do not meet within the 60 day period on
62
Article XV' - Continued
discharge cases, the Union may file for step "FOURTH" below, unless waived by mutual consent A reply in writing shall be given within fifteen calendar days. If a grievance is not submitted in this step within forty-five calendar days after the reply was given in step "SECOND" above, it shall no longer exist.
FOURTH: It is the stated intent and purpose of both parties at all times to reach agreement by negotiation between the Company and the Union, without recourse to arbitration. In the event, however, that such dispute or difference is not settled, either party may request that the matter be referred to arbitration provided this request is made within 60 calendar days after the written reply was given in step “THIRD” above. The demand for arbitration must be submitted to the American Arbitration Association within 60 calendar days after the date of such request. If either of these time limitations are not met the grievance shall no longer exist. In addition, if a hearing is not held within one year of the date of the Union’s fourth-step letter, the grievance shall no longer exist. The one-year period may be extended only by mutual consent of the parties. In no case will the Company’s period of liability exceed sixteen months, except for discharge cases where the period of liability' will not exceed twenty-four months.
The arbitration board shall consist of three arbitrators. The Company shall choose one arbitrator and the Union
63
Article XV - Continued
shall choose one arbitrator, and these two shall then select a third arbitrator. If the said two arbitrators fail to agree within five (5) days upon the selection of a third arbitrator, the latter shall be selected from a list of arbitrators supplied by the American Arbitration Association. The parties may receive up to three lists of neutral arbitrators from the American Arbitration Association from which to select an arbitrator. Should the parties be unable to agree upon an arbitrator from the first two lists, a third list consisting of five names shall be forwarded to the parties. Each party may strike a maximum of two names and indicate the order of preference for the remaining three. The party initiating the grievance shall prepare a statement setting forth the exact nature of the grievance for submission to the arbitration board. After the appointment of the third arbitrator, the arbitration board shall meet for the purpose of reaching a determination in the dispute or difference, and the decision of the majority of the board, submitted in writing, to the Company and the Union, shall be final and binding upon both parties.
In the case of discharges, the above procedures shall be modified to the extent that a single arbitrator, selected in accordance with the above, shall be used. Accordingly, there will be no need for an arbitration board meeting following the close of the hearing.
Each party shall bear the expense of its own arbitrators and witnesses, and the expenses of the third arbitrator and any general expenses of the arbitration shall be borne equally by both parties.
Nothing herein shall be construed as restricting the right of an employee or group of employees to present their problems or requests directly to their supervisor or the Manager at any time. Any individual employee or a group
64
Article XV - Continued
of employees shall have the right at any time to present grievances to their employer and to have such grievances adjusted, without the intervention of the bargaining representative, as long as the adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of a collective bargaining contract or agreement then in effect; provided further, that the bargaining representative has been given opportunity to be present at such adjustment.
Time Off To Discuss Grievances With Company
SEC. 2. Members of the Committee of the Local Council and other authorized officials of the Union shall be allowed the necessary time off. without loss of pay, to discuss with the Company, grievances arising under this Agreement. Members of the Executive Committee of the Union shall be allowed the necessary time off, without loss of pay, to discuss matters of general policy and mutual problems with the Company, provided that no representatives of the Union shall absent themselves for such purpose from the District Office where they are employed, except with the knowledge of the Manager to attend a meeting which has been arranged with and agreed to by the Company.
Discussion of Grievances by Stewards
SEC. 3. Stewards or authorized officials of the Union may accept and discuss, on the premises and time of the Company, complaints and grievances presented by employees, provided that the time they devote to this purpose does not exceed reasonable limits, and does not interfere unduly with the performance of their regular duties as employees. No steward or authorized official of the Union shall be transferred from one department to another within the District Office, or from one District Office to
65
Article XV - Continued
another District Office, without prior consultation between the Committee of the Local Council and the Manager.
Submitting Complaints to Union by Company
SEC. 4. The Company may submit complaints to the Executive Committee of the Union if on a general basis, and to the Committee of the Local Council if the Local is involved, and if these are not settled they may be submitted to the grievance procedure starting with the third step.
ARTICLE XVI DISCIPLINARY ACTION
Disciplinary Action - Recourse to Grievance Procedure
SEC. 1. The Union may initiate a grievance in cases where an employee who has completed the probationary period has been disciplined, including suspension or discharge for cause from employment by the Company. The Union may also initiate a grievance on behalf of a full-time temporary employee who has completed one year of service or a part-time employee who has completed 2088 hours of work. Such grievances shall proceed as provided for in Article XV, Section 1, Procedure for Settling Grievance, starting at the “SECOND” step. If exonerated of the charge, the employee shall be returned to his or her position with full seniority rights and paid for all time lost due to being held out of service within the limitations referred to in Article XV, Section 1.
Processing of Discharge Cases
SEC. 2. The Company and the Union shall make a good faith effort to process as promptly as practicable those cases that involve the discharge of an employee.
66
Article XVI -- Continued
Disciplinary Records
SEC. 3. When employees establish a clear record in accordance with the Positive Discipline Program, earlier records of formal corrective actions will be disregarded in any review of their overall record.
ARTICLE XVII EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Employee Benefits Plans
SEC. 1.
(a)	During the period of the Agreement, the Company shall not suspend its Group Life Insurance Plan. Disability Benefits Plan, Medical Insurance Plan and Pension Plan, or diminish any of the benefits provided under said plans and the Union shall not request any changes in said plans. However, the Company will discuss these plans with the Union at its request.
(b)	Disputes or differences arising between the Company and the Union or its members as to the interpretation, application or operation of the provisions of this Section 1, Subsection (a) of Article XVII of the Agreement shall not be subject to arbitration under Article XV of the Agreement. However, it is understood that if the Company were to unilaterally increase the agreed upon employee contribution percentage, this specific matter could be arbitrated.
Separation Allowance
SEC. 2. For the duration of this Agreement but without commitment or liability thereafter, permanent employees
67
Article XVII - Continued
who have completed one year or more of service and who are discontinued because no further work can be found for them in any job classification in the Customer Operations locations defined in Article I. Section 2, shall be given an allowance of two week’s base pay for each full year of service. This allowance shall be in addition to any vacation pay given the separated employee. It is understood, however, that employees shall be entitled at any one layoff time to only such separation allowance as has not been previously paid them, at the rate of one and one-half week’s pay for each year of service.
Permanent employees who have completed one year or more of service and who are to be reduced in classification because of a curtailment of forces, may elect to be separated and take the allowance outlined above, but the provisions of Article XIII, Section 5 shall not apply.
No separation allowance will be paid to employees who are temporarily transferred or permanently transferred with their consent to another District Office, Credit and Collection Center, Customer Payment Processing Center, Northern Inquiry Center, Northern Customer Billing Center, Southern Inquiry and Customer Billing Center or to any other department of the Company or any Company affiliated with it in the Public Service organization. It is understood, for the purposes of this Section, that employees transferred to another District, due to the consolidation of the two District Offices shall be considered as having been transferred within the District and the employee shall have no option to refuse the assignment.
Cashiers1 Overages and Shortages
SEC. 3. The Company will retain all cash overages and assume responsibility for normal cash shortages of
68
Article XVII - Continued
employees assigned to the Cashiers Department, arising in the course of their regular duties. It is understood that the acceptance of responsibility for shortages by the Company will not include the following:
(a)	Shortages resulting from the unauthorized cashing of checks.
(b)	Shortages of abnormally large amounts, as determined by the Company.
It is further understood that employees assigned to the Cashiers Department who have repeated cash overages and shortages, shall be subject to transfer to other work, at the option of the Company, for which they are qualified. Such employees shall be informed, after prior warning, of the unsatisfactory status of their work by a personal interview in advance of the date of such transfer, and the Union shall be notified in writing.
Differential Pay for Obligated Reservists
SEC. 4. Any permanent employee who is required to serve a two-week period of active duty for training as a member of a component of the Ready Reserve of the Armed Forces of the United States, including the Army National Guard and the Air National Guard, will be paid by the Company, upon submission of the employee’s government pay voucher, the amount by which the employee’s Company base pay for the period exceeds the amounts paid to the employee by the government for such period as shown on the voucher. No more than one payment to an employee will be made during any government fiscal year.
Employees who elect to use their vacation for either or both of the two weeks of the training period are not entitled to differential pay during the vacation period.
69
ARTICLE XVIII
MEETINGS BETWEEN UNION AND COMPANY REPRESENTATIVES
Meetings Between Local Union Committee and Manager
SEC. 1. During the period of this Agreement, meetings shall be held upon request by either party between the Manager and/or the Manager’s designated representatives and a Committee appointed by the local chairperson of the Union which shall consist of not more than five members; except at the following locations:
Bridgewater East Gate Burlington NIC ccc NCAC	- not more than three - not more than four - not more than three - not more than four - not more than four - not more than four
Employees of the Telephone Services Department shall be represented by the local chairperson of the Newark District Office.
Meetings Between Executive Committee of Union and Vice President - Customer Operations
SEC. 2. During the period of this Agreement, quarterly meetings, except when waived by mutual consent, shall be held between the Executive Committee of the Union, which shall consist of not more than seven members, and the Vice President - Customer Operations or delegated representatives, for discussion of matters of general policy. Special meetings may be held in case of matters of urgent necessity.
70
Article XVIII - Continued
For contract renewal purposes, meetings will be held between the Company and a committee of the Union not to exceed nine members (excluding any members paid by the Union.)
ARTICLE XLX LEGISLATIVE
Partial Invalidation of Agreement by Present or Future Laws
SEC. 1. If any law now existing or hereafter enacted, or any proclamation, regulation, or edict of any State or National agency shall invalidate any portion of this Agreement, the entire Agreement shall not be invalidated.
Use of Personal Pronouns
SEC. 2. Any personal pronouns or other words used throughout the Agreement which designate an employee's sex shall not be construed to indicate preference for either sex.
ARTICLE XX DURATION OF AGREEMENT
Period Covered - Changes by Mutual Consent
SEC. 1. This Agreement shall become effective May 1, 2005, and shall remain in full force and effect until and including April 30, 2011. This Agreement shall continue from year to year after April 30, 2011. if the Union continues as the established and exclusive collective bargaining agent of employees, unless a written notice of desire to amend or terminate it is given by either party to the other at least 60 days prior to April 30, 2011. or at least 60 days prior to April 30 of any year thereafter. Changes in this Agreement may be made at any time by mutual consent.
71
Article XX - Continued
Renegotiation at End of Annual Periods
SEC, 2. During negotiations following such written notice, this Agreement shall continue in effect; and such new or amended Agreement as shall result from such negotiations shall be retroactive up to a maximum of fourteen (14) calendar days following the date of expiration of this Agreement.
Annulment Under Certain Conditions
SEC. 3. A refusal by the Company or the Union to exhaust the remedies provided by this Agreement for the final settlement of grievances through arbitration shall, at the option of the other party to the Agreement, annul this Agreement, upon written notice.
72
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be signed by their representatives duly authorized in all particulars to execute said Agreement, and their seals to be hereto affixed.
PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY
M. Pego Vice President -Human Resources
William Dwyer Industrial Relations
Manager
Kieran Brown
Assistant Secretary
Kenneth L. Garten District Manager Customer Operations PSE&G
UWUA, AFL-CIO/ UCA LOCAL 601
Edward J. Dickert
President
Michael Garcia
First Vice President
Richard Hobson
Executive Treasurer
Robert Houser Organizing Director UWUA
Michael Edwards Executive Secretary
73
LIST OF POSITIONS ELIGIBLE FOR UNION MEMBERSHIP
Employees hired and classified to the following
positions shall be eligible for membership in the		Union:
Code		Salary
Number	Position Title	Grade
303	Assistant to Supervisor	13
304	Group Supervisor - Construction	
	Inquiry	12
305	Group Supervisor - Service	12
306	Field Service Representative	10
306i	Bilingual Field Service Representative 10	
307	Customer Service Center Service	
	Representative	9
307i	Customer Service Center Service	
	Representative	9
308	Service Representative	9
309	Customer Assistance Representative	7
310	Service Usher	2
311	Service Clerk	1
317	Senior Bookkeeper	11
318	Special Bookkeeper - B	10
320	Special Bookkeeper	9
323	Bookkeeper	8
324	Bookkeeping Clerk	4
325	Assistant Bookkeeper	2
330	Supervising Cashier	12
333	Cashier	9
333i	Cashier	9
335	Teller - B	9
74
Code	Salary
Number	Position Title	Grade
336	Teller	6
336i	Teller	6
339	Senior Teller	11
342	Credit Representative	9
343	Group Supervisor - Credit	11
344	Demolition Process Inquiry	
	Representative	11
345	General Assistant	11
346	Internet Inquiry Representative	9
347	Correspondent	9
348	Payroll Clerk	9
350	General Clerk	2
351	Vault Clerk	3
352	Receptionist	9
353	Stenographer	4
354	Typist-Clerk	3
355	Clerk-Messenger	1
362	Group Supervisor - Collection	
	and Credit	12
363	Group Supervisor - Field Collection	12
364	Collection Support Representative	10
365	Group Supervisor - Meter Reading	11
367	Senior Credit and Collection	
	Representative	9
3678	Senior Credit and Collection	
	Representative	9
367A	Credit and Collection Representative	8
367B	Residential Credit and Collection	
	Representative	7
368	Collection Representative	9
369	Meter Reader - A	7
75
Code		Salary
Number	Position Title	Grade
370	Meter Reader	7
371	Collection and Meter Reading Clerk	1
372	MAMR Operator	8
380	Head Building Attendant	5
381	Building Attendant	4
392	Assistant to Supervisor - Customer Payment	
	Processing	13
394	Exception Processor	8
396	Payment Processor	3
301	Consumer Adviser Assistant	1
302	Marketing Assistan.	9
S390	Senior Telephone Operator	(*)
S391	Telephone Operator	(*)
S392	Relief Telephone Operate.	(*)
(*) Positions incorporated from previous Agreement between Public Service Electric and Gas Company on behalf of its Telephone Services Department and the Utility Co-Workers’ Association.
Employees classified to all District Office, Credit and Collection Center, Customer Payment Processing Center, Telephone Services Department and Customer Inquiry and/ or Accounting Center positions listed above, shall be eligible for membership in the Union.
It is agreed that where the duties of any occupation are changed, or where new occupations are established, the status of such occupation with respect to this eligibility list, will be determined by mutual agreement between the Union and the Company, based on the same principles as were observed in determining the list above.
May 1,2005
76
EXHIBIT MA"
PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY DISTRICT OFFICES, CREDIT AND COLLECTION CENTER, CUSTOMER PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER, CUSTOMER INQUIRY CENTERS, CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS CENTERS. AND THE TELEPHONE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
Nomen
JOI
3uJ
304
JUS
iiy.
3Ubq
Salary
Grade
Wage Rate
Weekly
IJoujh
Min
3 moi

5414 64 SIU 36b
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2005


5
6
1
S
2
io
11
Mai. Total Month 15	to Maiimum
54r>0 oc.
S5O7 2n M 2 (.?u
Mi
ill 8.14
MAX.
Soil bS
	Weekly Hnwly	6 MOS. $?5.5 5!8 34u	$£■ NJ SA, $20 11 4	b MOS fh 421 ^81	6_MUS $U4o 52	r. MUS $1,017.M $25 441	max. il.llbtdi 127 <x<i
13	Weekly	u MUS S0a5 72	9 MOS. : 1.024 >.8	■J MOS 3I.IU4 04	u MOS. $1,U3 12	Q MUS $1 NJ 24	b MOS SI.XU 2U
	Hvurh	S 'IM.1	1^*22	SJ7 6W	S2V 583		SVtM
12	Wwkh	IMPS HX7 lr>	MOS $8bb 44	9 MuS VM5 ■:	Q MOS, $I,U?4 88	»MOS $1,104 U4	b MOS 51.1X3 J?
	Hourly	51'ft. 7b	$21 .hr* I	$2? b4J	$25 .*22	$27 MJ!	!?■) 581
1 *	Weekly	S787.it,	$Mxi44	9 MOS S*45 72	$1,024 >.8	9 MOS $1 »qiq	»MOS ll.lxx 32
	Hourly	SIUnlM	$21 r*6l	$23 M3	$25 622	$27/01	IM 58J
in	Weekly	6 MOS. 1705 44	6 MOS V7b 48	b MOS, $847 48	SuVe 52	t. MOS.	MAX SI.I*? 7t>
	HiKirh	517 hlb	SN 412	$21 187	$22.^3	$24 741	527 1|9
10	Weekly	b MOS 57()\44	ft MUS S??o48	0 MOS. Ss47 4«	ft MOS. S9I85?	ft MOS $w84 M	Max ll.rxo 70
	Hourly	$|763>,	$10 412	$21 187	$22^3	$24 741	527 319
c MOS
S3u 330
530 8bn
b MOS
SW.S’y
M.1OS
51. 23 SOX
SI.243 08
b MOS
in ?:
5I.2U3UO
b MOS
MAX
10
<0
	N—w	Salary Grwfc	Wap Rate	Mta 1	2	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WratLY RATES - EFFECTIVE APRS. 1, 2005 255f2I2irUI2											B	Max. IS	Tatal Month hMnhnum
	W	9	Weekly Ftatriy	6 MOS. $628.7? $11,718	ftMOS. $693.68 $17 342	ftMQ& $758.60 $18965	6 MOS. $823.52 $20 588	624OS. $88848 $22212	6 MOS. $953.36 $23854	MAX $1X034* $25 837									36
	W7.|	0	Wccld> Hoorh	6 MOS. $628.72 $15 718	6 MOS. 3693.68 $17342	6 MOS. $758.60 SIS 965	6 MOS $82332 $20,588	6 MOS. $888 48 S222I2	6 MOS, $95336 $23,834	MAX $1,033.48 $25337									36
	308	4	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $628.72 $15,718	ftMQS. S693.68 317.342	6 MOS. $758.60 $18,965	6 MOS. $823.52 320.588	ftMQ5. $888.48 $22212	ftNKS, $953 36 $23334	ftftKK $95920 $23380	ftMoa $965 08 $24,127	6 MOS. $970 84 $24371	S976.76 $24,419	ftHoa $98264 124366	CMOS. $98844 $24.711	(lMqs, ftMoa $1.00008 31.011 84 $25 002 $25296		MAX SI.051.88 $26297	96
QO	W	7	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS 3483.84 $12,096	6 MOS $552.36 SI 3.809	6 MOS S62I.O4 SI $326	6 MOS. $689.76 $17,244	6 MOS $758.48 $18 962	6 MOS S827.I6 $20 679	6 MOS $836.16 $20 904	CMOS 3845.28 $21,131	6 MOS $8542* SI 1357	6 MOS $86336 S2I584	MAX $911.04 $22 776					60
	HIO	2	Weekly Hourly	3 MOS $19924 $9,981	6 MOS. $460.96 SI 1324	6 MOS $507 20 $12,680	6 MOS. $55336 $13*34	CMOS. $599.52 $14,988	MAX $697.08 S 17.427										29
	Ml	1	Weekly Hourly	ftMQS. $36*44 $9.211	(lMLEL $41464 $10,366	wa $460.96 Sit.524	6 MOS. $50720 $12 680	LMQS. $553 3d S 13.834	MAX $633.68 $15,842										27
	317	H	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS S775.*» $19 387	6 MOS. $844.96 S2I 124	6 MOS. $914.52 $22 863	6 MOS. $984.00 $24 600	6 MOS. $995.24 $24 881	6 MOS. SI.006.52 $25 163	6MOS. 6 MOS $l.0l’.76 $1,029.00 $25 444 S25 725		ftMQS $1.04024 $26 006	6 MOS. $1,051 56 $26 289	CMOS $1.062 84 $26 571	6.M0S, SI.074.08 $26 852	ftMQS, $1,085.32 S27 133	ftMQS. SI. 096.56 $17,414	MAX SI.14204 $28,551	96
	118	10	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $801.60 $20.(M0	6 MOS. $8.17.28 $21,432	6 MOS $912.96 $22,824	6 MOS $968.68 $24217	6 MOS. $975.00 S24.375	6 MOS. $981.36 $24536	CMOS $987 72 S24 c93	CMOS $994.04 $24,851	6 MOS. CMOS $1,000.44 $1,006 84 S25 0II S25.I7I		6 MOS. $1,013 16 $2.1.329	CMOS SI. 019.52 $25,488	6 MOS. SI.025.8* $25 647	CMOS. $1,032.24 $25 80C	MAX SI.072 80 $16,820	96
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS																		
	Salary	Wage	Min		WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE APRIL 1							,2005		Mat.				Total Montb
Nomen	Grade	Rale	1	4	J	4	5	ft	7	s	9	JO	u	12	u	14	15	to Maximum
			a MOS	0 MOS.	a Mos	ft MUS	ft MOS.	a MOS	o MOS.	ft MOS.	max							
	Q	Weekly	5t.85ixi	$740 72	3*	$8^2.12	$U(|7 X8	$9-3 Sb	Sifti 3ft	$175 28	$1.01388							4x
		Eluurly	$17,125	SISSIS	$|Q Wrt	S21 W	S22 ft97	$24 081	$24,234	$24 3!)2	$23 347							
			9 MOS.	9 MOS.	■> MOS.	9 MOS.	9 MOS.	“ MOS.	ft MOS.	a MOS	ft MOS	a M<>S.	a MOS	ft MUS	* MOS.	a MOS	MA.X	
32 J	8	Weekly	$57’ 72	$ft30 84	$684.00	$7.17 08	$7-ai 24	5841.44	$850.72	$ft57ift	$865 Ift	$872 4U	Sa79 M	$86ft.*4	$9i:| J2	SH5S0	$957 24	1 14
		Houri}	514 443	SI 5 77|	$17 ion	$18 427	$19.7Mi	$21.Mb	$21 2o8	$21 44i	$21 f>20	$21 810	$21 HI	$22 171	$22 533	$22 895	S23 931	
			ft MOS-	6_MOS	oMOS	ft MOS,	a MOS.	S MOS	ft MOS,	<■ MOS	6 MOS.	ft MOS	ft MuS	ft MDS	6 MOS	h M0S	MAX	
	4	Weekly	5444 80	$4b8 24	S5 31 7h	S5?5 In	$6l8o0	Sat, 1.92	$ar>8 88	$o75 80	5ft82 72	$6X0 lS4	$-.% a(i	$703 48	$717 40	$73l 2u	$772 3ft	9ft
		Hourly	SI 1 122	512 2Oo	$I3 294	$14 379	515 4n5	Ila 548	5 Ift 722	$|6 xu?	JI 7 Ubj	$17,241	$17.41?	$17 587	$17,933	$18 2XO	$10 3(W	
			5 MOS	o MOS	o MOS	ft MOS	ft MOS	MAA										
325		Weekly	$?9Q 24	$460 96	550'’ 2"	$553 3ft	$311 52	Spas J2										20
		Hourly	$9 9h|	Sil 524	5I2 asli	$13 834	$|4 1HX	$17 183										
			9 MOS	4 MOS	« MOS	Q MOS.	* MUS.	MAA										
310	12	Weekly	58'4 72	$J?3u8	$%0.28	S1,(B8^	1 SI.IU7 »’	$1,234.64										?4
		Houri}	S2O7r,8	$23 (i77	524 232	$25 9ftft	$27 ft9S	$1j j Xfth										
			ft MOS.	ft MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	a MOS	a MOS.	a MOS.	ft MOS.	6 MOS	ft MOS,	ft M<'s	ft MOS.	ft MOS	ft MOS	MAX	
333	0	Weekly	$480 04	$522.04	lJf.3 92	$ft05 7ft	$ft38 Ml	$ft7| x4	$704 88	$737 1ft	$770 Mo	$8i>4 00	$837.04	$87u Oh	$0l«3 08	$93ft Ift	$|,UU3 44	0ft
		Hourly	$12 rn>j	SI? 051	514 INS	$15,144	$15 970	Sit. 7,Jh	$17622	SIX 440	$19 274	S2M0«	520 u2a	$21 ■’52	522.'?7	$23 4ii4	$25 08ft	
			a MOS	6 MOS	a MOS	a MOS	a MOS.	o MOS	a MOS	a MOS.	ft MoS	ft MUS,	a MUS.	a Mi'S	b MO j	" MUS.	MAX	
lll-i	J	Weekly	$480.04	S522O4	$5ft3 0=	$ftfij 76	$638 NU	$ft7| 84	$704	$737 0ft	$770 1ft	S804a»0	$X3? <14	$870 08	$Q03 n8	59la la	$1,1X13.44	■Jh
		Hourly	iL’K'l	$13 051	$14,098	$15 144	$ 1 5 17i i	$|ft.71r.	$17 a??	$18 444	$19,274	$20 lOu	S2(| <ft	S21.7S2	$32 577	$23.4ii4	525 (An	
			nfelOS	o MOS	0 MGS	a MOS.	ft MOS	MAX										
335	Q	W'cckly	$ft01 ur$	S784 44	$830 72	SS7ft 88	$121.08	SUXll 44										.11
		Houri}	S17JUQ	SHftl 1	32G 7<i8	$21 122	$2J 077	525 08a										
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES -EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,2005
SriM? Wtp Mia	Mai. Total Mauth
£oW S>S 1	1	2	4 i i 1	1	2 If 11	12 D U IS W.Msfega
6 MOS	6 MOS,	6 MOS	6 MOS.	CMOS,	6 MOS,	6 MOS	6 MOS,	tMQS	6 MOS,	tMOi	UdQ&	&MQ&	&MQ&	MAX
336	6	Weekly	$396 24	$438.12	$430.04	$522.04	$563 92	$605.76	SfMJt	$646.68	$66716	$68752	$70804	$728 52	$769 36	SSI0 24	SIMAS	96
Hourly	$9,906	$10,953	$12001	SI3JMT	$14098	SIS 144	$15657	$16167	$16679	SIT 183	SI 7 701	$10213	S19234 $30256	$21622
6 MPS.	6 MOS,	6 MOS.	6 MOS,	6 MOS	6 MOS,	6 MOS,	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS,	6 MOS	6 MOS.	UK&	6 MOS.	MAX
3J6h	0	Weekly	$39624	$43812	$48004	$52204	$56392	$605 76	$626.2$	564668	$66716	$687.52	$708.04	$728.52	$76936	$81024	$864 88	96
Hourly $9906	510.951	$12,001	$13,051	$14,098	$15,144	$15,657	116.167	$16,679	$17,188	$17701	$18213	$19234	$20256	$21622
6 MOS,	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS,	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOM	6 MOS, 6 MOS. Ufifi, MAX
339 H Weekly $55620	S6O6A4	$657.52	$70804	$74432	$780.68	$817.00	$853 40	$88980	$926.08 $96244	$998.80	$1,035 16 51,07152 $1,142.04	96
Hourly	$13 905	$15,171	$16438	$17701	$1860!	$19517	$20425	S2IJ35	823245	$23 152	824.061	$24,970	$25	879 $26 788	$28,551
o
343
Weekly Hourly
344 II
Weekly Hourly
345 It
Weekly Hourly
34*	9
Weekly Hourly
347	9
Weekly Hourly
6MPS, $784.44 $19.611
6 MOS $758.12 $18 953
6 MOS. $758.12 $18,953
CMOS. $628 72 $15718
6 MOS. $686 08
$17 152
CMOS. $876 88 $21 922
6 MOS. $818.96 $20,474
6 MOS $818.96 $20 474
6 MOS. $693 68 $17,342
LMQS.
$740.24 $18,506
6 MOS. 6 MOS. $923 08 $96928 $23 077 524232
fcfeK& LMQL $879 72 $94060 $21993 $23515
6 MOS. 6 MOS $879.72 $940 60 $21,993 $23515
6 MOS 6 MOS. $758 60 $823.52 $18,965 $20,588
6 MOS. 6 MOS. $794 32 $848 56 $19,858 $21,214
6 MOS. MAX $1,03844 $1,142.04 $25,966 $28551
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. $955 72 $970 92 $986220 $23,893 524273 $24 655
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. $955 72 $970 9’ $986 20 $23 893 $24273 $24,655
6 MOS. 6 MOS 6 MOS. $888.48 $953 3t> $959.20 $22,212 $23,834 $23980
6 MUS 6 MUS. 6 MOS. $860 56 $872.60 $884.64 $21,514 $21,815 $22,116
6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	MAX
$1,00136 $1,016.60 $1,031.80 $1,01700 $1,06224 $1,077.48 $13)92.64 $1,142.04
$25,034	$25,415	$25,795	$26175	$26556	$26937	$27316	$28,551
6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	MAX
$1,001 36 $1,01660 $1,031.80 $1,047 00 $1,062 24 $1,077.48 $1,092.64 $1,142.04 $25,034	$25,415	$25,795	$26175	126556	$26 937	$27 316	$28 551
CMOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	MAX
$965.08	$970.84	$97676	$982 64	$98844	$1,000.08	$1.011.84	$1,051.88
$24 127	$24271	$24419	$24 566	$24 711	$25,002	$25,296	$26,297
6 MOS.	CMOS	CMOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	CMOS.	6 MOS.	MAX
$896.64	$908.60	$920.64	$932.64	$944 68	$«56 72	$968 76	$1,014 92
$22,416	$22,715	$23 016	$23 316	$23 617	$23,918	$24,219	$25,373
30
96
96
96
96
Nomen	Salary Grade	W«ge Rale	Min		
			1	2	3
			ft MOS		ft MOS.
us	Q	WLi-Uy	$727.40	$785 80	$1*43 9r.
		Hnurlj	$18 IftS	119 M3	12 I
			r. MO$	b MOS.	6 MOS
350	2	Week!.,	$41 ft 7o	14*6.72	1504 6IJ
		Hourly	$10 40	111 5IK	Sl2bl3
			ft MUS	b MOS.	* MoS.
$S |	X	Weekly	$4|4 M	S507 20	$553 3b
		Hiiiirh	$1(1 <ftft	$12 b80	113 834
			5 MQS	MOS	b MDS
\S2		WeekK	SOW 24	SAoCi^b	15n7.20
		Hourly	$9.68 1	$11 524	
			ft MUS	o MOS	ft MOS.
353	-1	Weekly	$5r.7 44	Sbl9 12	So 7b 72
		Houri*	$14 18ft	115478	Sib 7*8
			ft MOS	b MOS,	6 MUS
354	3	Weekly	$428 52	$470 SS	S312.36
		Hourly	$10 738	SI1 T72	$12 809
			3 MUS.	0 MOS.	* MOS,
355	1	Weekly	Slftft 44	S4M M	$4*0
		Hovrh	$8 211	110 JV.	Ml 524
			2.MQS	9 MOS	9 MOS
V'J	I j	Weekly	$787 |p	S*** 44	$945.72
		lluurly	Sjor.79	$21 *61	123 643
salary grades, salary ranges and salary progression steps
WEEKLY RATES ■ EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,2005
4	5	ft	7	8	9	to
* MOS	b MOS	ftM£g.	bMOS	6 MUS	ft MUS	b M-QS
S-JU2 20	24	^I-. 28	5923 28	$930.32	$0.17 44	$944.48
S22 355	$22 731	$22 $H17	$23 082	123 258	$27 47ft	S23/.12
* MOS.	b MOS	ftMQS,	MAX			
S54S.4K	$5^2 bO	$ftlft. Ip	$b<>5 32			
113.7J2	$14 815	$15 Aw	117.383			
6 MOS.	* MUS	MAX				
S5OT J2	$6*1 lb	$72ft 1’				
$14 088	Mb 52Q	$18 151				
b MUS	bMOS	MAX				
						
S553 3*	$590.52	$ft'>5 j.				
$13834	114 9\K	$17 383				
a MUS	* MOS,	MAX				
1^22 40	sr? 92	$856 4 a				
118 0*0	SI9 US	$21 412				
b MOS,	6 MUS.	ftJMQS,	6 MUS	b MOS.	ft Mi'S	6 MOS,
$553 bS	1395.12	$6 3ft 3p	1*41.44	Ib4h 48	$ft$l 52	$b5b So
S13.842	$14 878	$15.<irw	$1* 03b	11* 1*2	Sln2t8	lift 414
o MOS.	*Mtti	MAX				
$507 20	$533 3b	Sft.U f.g				
112 fi«0	SB 834	$15 842				
u	12	12	14	Mu. 15	Total Month to Maximum
ft MOS $051 48 $25 787	* MOS 1*58 32 $23 9r>3	b MOS $9h5 5b $24 134	bMOS $972 n«	MAX SI 013 88 S25 34 7	9b
					3b
					3D
					29
					5"
ft MOS $ftft.l.p4 $ Ip 541	b MOS, $b*6 b4 Sl*.66*	ri MOS Sr. Tn 80 ilb^O	ft MUS SbSft. 8 8 $17 172	MAX 172b 1? $18 153	■Jfl
					27
■> MOS OMOS -t MOS MAX $(.824 88 S(.((M.(M $(.<8372 $(.2.14 64 $25 *22 $27 ■■01 $20 583 $3u 8ht.
54
QO NJ
5*m*n		&&	Mb 1	2	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES- EFFECTIVE APRIL 1,2005 2	151111111111										21	11	Mu 13	TaMMMh MnhBn|
363	1?	Weekly fkvrfy	9 MOS m >6 $1967#	9 MOS 5366.44 S3! Ml	9 MOS $945.72 52364?	9 MOS 9 MOS 9 MOS 5IJJ24JW 51.104.04 51,18332 $25622 $27601 529 583			MAX $1,234.64 $30 866									54
M4	ID	Waklv Htwfy	6 MOS 5738-20 $18,455	6 MOS. 5830.72 520 768	6 MOS 587688 $21,922	6 MOS 5923JW 523.077	6 MOS $969.21 $24,232	MAX 51,072X0 $36,820										30
365	II	WeeHy Hearty	9 MOS. S787.1t SI 9.679	9 MOS. 5866.44 $21,661	9 MOS. 5945 72 $23,643	9 MOS 9 MOS	MAX $1,024.88 $1,104.04 51,21428 $25 622 $27 601 $30357												45
36?	9	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS 5727 80 $18 195	6 MOS $796.48 $19,912	6 MOS. 5865.16 $21,629	6 MOS 5933.88 $23,347	6 MOS $939.84 $23,496	6 MOS $945 84 $23,646	6 MOS $951.76 $23,794	6 MOS $957 72 523.943	6 MOS $963*4 $24,901	6 MOS $969 52 $24,238	6 MOS $97556 524389	6 MOS $98148 $24337	6 MOS $987 40 $24,685	6 MOS $99336 $24,834	MAX $1,033 48 $25837	96
	9	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. 5758.60 SI 8.965	6 MOS. $823.52 520.588	6 MOS. $888 48 522J12	6 MOS. $95136 123.834	6 MOS. $95420 $23,980	6 MOS 5965 08 $24,127	6 MCA. 5970 84 S2427I	6 MOS. $976 76 124.419	6 MOS. $98X64 S24566	6 MOS $988 44 124.71!	6 MOS $99432 524.853	6 MOS. $1.00008 525.002	6 MOS. 6 MOS $1,00592 51.01184 525.148 S25296		MAX $1,051 88 526.297	96
367A	M	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $552 36 SI 3.809	6 MOS. 563824 515.956	6 MOS. $698 88 517.472	6 MOS, $75U4fi S 18.985	6 MOS $819 92 520 498	6 MOS $880 52 $22,013	MAX $957.24 523.931									36
M7B	7	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS 5483.84 sum	6 MOS 5552.36 513 80#	6 MOS. $021.04 $15 526	6 MOS $689.76 $17 244	6 MOS 5758.48 $18,962	6 MOS. 5827.16 $20,679	6 MOS 5836.16 $20 904	6 MOS 5845.28 $21 132	6 MOS 5854.28 $21 357	6 MOS 5863.36 $21,584	MAX $911.04 $22 776					60
368	9	Weekly Hourly	CMOS. 5577 72 514 443	6 MOS. 5630.84 $15,771	6 MOS 5684.00 $17,100	6 MOS. $737.08 $18 427	6 MOS. $790.24 $19,756	6 MOS. $843.44 $2l.(W*i	6 MOS. 5856 32 $21 408	6 MOS. 586) 08 $21,727	6 MOS $881 96 $22,049	6 MOS. 5894.72 $22,368	6 MOS. $907 64 $22,691	6 MOS $920.44 $23,011	6 MOS $946.12 $23,653	6 MOS 5971.76 524.294	MAX $1,018.84 $25,471	
Nomen	Salary Grade	Wage Rate	Min 1	2	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, 2005 ^456284191112										u	14	M«». IS	Total Month to Maiimum
JftQ	7	Weekly Hn'jrK	b MOS $443 u« $11 077	o MOS. $48*. 3 2 $12,158	lj MOS 152u nii SI’ '40	6 MOS $57? 88 S14.322	b MDS. 5*1*20 $1*405	* Mt 15> $659 48 5ib487	bMOS. Sb79 2* $10 0x2	n MUS. Short '*o Si7 474	b MOS $718 80 517.070	b MOS. $73X.$h SIX4M	b Mi'S $75x 32 $189*8	bMOS 577B.O4 $10451	* MOS. $8)7 wj S2U 44(i	a MOS 5857.12 $21,428	MAX S«11 IM $22 776	9ft
pll	7	Weekly Hourly	7 MOS $44’08 111 077	b MUS. $4 8b 32 $12 158	5 529 b" $13 240	bMOS $*72 88 $14 322	O MOS $h|b 20 515 405	b MDS 5*59.48 $1*487	b MU£l $«79 28 51b 982	* MuS. Se><j8 4o 417 474	0 MOS. S? IK Ki' SI 7 970	ft M'>S $738 Sb $18464	* MOS $758 32 $18 058	$7^78 04 $19 451	* MDS, $817 bn $20 44n	6 MUS, $85? |2 $21 428	MAX $011.04 522 77#j	'*3
37]	1	W'eekly 1 lourly	1 MOS W 44 Sv’ll	b MOS. $414 M Slii.J**	0 MUS MOV ‘Jr. SI1.J24	bMOS. $507.20 512 b80	6 MUS $553 36 513.814	MAX $b3' 08 $15 842										77
37?	8	Weekly Itourly	0MDS S5?7 72 $ 14 443	■J MOS. $630 54 S1577l	0 MDS $*84 no $|7 |UO	Q MOS $717 08 518427	S’W 24 S|9 75 h	9 MOS $X4 i 44 $21 OSb	6 MUS $550 7? $21 2*8	0 MuS V’S ■ uf> S21 449	* Mi IS $8*5 lb $21 629	b MDS $872.40 521 K|0	* MuS $X79h4 $21 00|	b Mug 5866 84 522 Pl	* MDS soni *2 $22 533	ft MOS 5915 8u $22 895	MAX W7 J4 92’ ■<’ 1	114
3X0	5	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $*67 20 $12 *80	bMOS, 5*0*52 SI4 48S	$bbl 16 Slb.<24	b MOS. $69| ■>* 517 200	6 MOS, $738 2U $18 455	MAA SS18 bO $20 465										to
381	4	Weekly Hourly	b MOS, $5’0 44 $13 486	6 MUS 5501.52 $14 7x8	0 MUS, $*4 3 *n $ I* 000	b MOS. $605 80 517.395	* MOS $747.92 $18 b->8	MAX $831*92 $20 773										30
Wecklv
Hourly
9 MDS yjjji 72 *21 MJ
9 MDS, *1,024 kn
$25 *22
9-MOS.
$1,104 04 527 t>ni
9 MUS, 51,183 32
$2v 583
9 MOS.	9 MOS	b MOS.	6 MOS	b MDS	6 MUS.
$1.193 24 $1 20320 $1,213 2u $1 22? lb 51,10 Ok $I.?43uR $29 8? I	$ Ui.UHO	$ 3<> 3 ? U	S Am.5 7 m	$ 30 8 2 7	$31 .f>77
b MOS, b MOS, 6 MUS	b MOS. MaX
$1.2*3 90 SlJoJOO $ |.272 -to $1,282.92 J1.327 12
$31325 $31575 $31 <24 $32 073 $33,178
Weekly Hnvrlv
ft MOS, n MUS b MDS 6 M<j$, $504 bO $548.48 $592 nO 5b 3b 3 b $l?bl5 513. 712 $14815 $15909
b MDS. $ft*2.44 $1* 5bl
6 MOS $b88 48 $17 212
h MOS 6_MQS, b MOS b MOS $714 5ft $740 64 S7bbbS $702 72 $]7.8M	518 516 S 19.1*7 $|08)8
6 MUS,	b MQS	b MDS,	u MUS	MAX
$815 80	$844.8«	$8 70 02	5897 00	50*7 24
520 470	521.122	$21773	$22 425	$23 031
N»—	Salary GrW»	Wap Baft	Mia 1	2	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE APRS. 1,2005 3	15*112111111								11	11	Max. 11	Total Mootti toMaxfum
	5	Weekh Hourly	6 MOS. 5375*4 $9396	6 MOS 5414.12 $10353	6 MOS $452.48 $11312	6 MOS. 5490.80 512.270	6 MOS 5529JO 513.230	6 MOS, 5567.44 514 IM	6 MOS 5580.00 $14300	6 MOS 6 MOS 6 MOS 5592.60 5605.16 5617.60 514 815 SIS 129 515 440	6 MOS 5630.16 $15 754	tMOS 5642.76 $16069	6 MOS 5667.84 516.696	6 MOS 569300 $17325	MAX 573938 $18492	96
SK'MI		Weekly Hourly	6 MOS CTOIM 520.097	6 MOS 5846.44 521.161	MAX 5880.60 322.015											12
S39I		Weekly H nurty	6 MOS 5547.08 $13677	6 MOS 558936 514 ns	6 MOS 5632.56 SI5.8I4	6 MOS 5675.04 516 876	6 MOS $71836 SI7.O59	6 MOS 5761.16 519 029	MAX $79536 519 884							36
00	™ p.	Sl<*2		Weekly Hourly	1000 ha S547.08 51.167?	10(0 ha 5589 56 514 739	1000 tel 5632.56 515.814	IMO ha 5675 04 516.876	1000 ha 571836 317 959	1000 tai 5761.16 519.029	MAX 379536 319.884							6000 tai.
EXHIBIT "A"
PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY DISTRICT OFFICES, CREDIT AND COLLECTION CENTER, CUSTOMER PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER, CUSTOMER INQUIRY CENTERS, CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS CENTERS, AND THE TELEPHONE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES ANO SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2006
00
Ln
Nomen	Salary Grade	Wage BU£	Min 1	2	2	1	5	0	2	S	’	1£	11	12	12	H	Mai. 15	Total Month Maximum
VH	1	Weekly Hourly	1 MOS. $<Mj 44 $9 51 1	nMOS. $428 12 $10 7(11	* MOS 5475 $11 8^9	6 MOS <■ MOS £523 72 £5713o £I3"93 £14.2*4		MAX £n54 2* £lh 357							27
.102	4	Weekly Hourly	frMOS $18 91*	t- M< iS £830 7? 820.7m	nMOS 51D4.04 $22 OOI	6 MGS £977 28 £24 412	h MOS 51,050 72 $2h 2*8	MAX. SI.I5h 00 £28 5H.KI							.10
	1?	Weekly Hourly	V MOS $24412	■LMQi 5i.D5x.2O 455	9 MOS $1.139 9? 528 49*	1MQS, £1,221 xn SJo 545	9 MUS. $1,232 U4 $trt KOI	9_MOS 51,242.12 $31 05 X	*_MU5 $1,252*4 $31 31*	6 MOS 6 MUS 6 MOS. £1.262 92 £1.273.16 £1.283 48 £31 571	£i| 829 £32 087	fr MOS 51,291.72 $.12,143	6 MOS, oMUS SI.'04 08 £1.314 36 £32o02 £32 859	* MDS. $1,32*.h4 $35 IK	MAX $1 37028 ►	$34 2*7	114
304	i?	Weekly Hnurlv	9 MOS. SM2 7* $2u AI*J	9 MOS. $894 h() $22.16*	9 MOS. 5Q7M8 $?44|?	ILMkiS. £1.1'58 20 £26455	u MDS 51,119 « 2 $28 4^8	iMQS. SI 221 80 £30 545	MAX £1,274.80 £31.870						54
105	i:	Weekk Hourly	9 MOS J8l2 76 £20.319	iMliS. £894.6(1 £22 3*5	9 MOS. $97*48 $24412	9 MOS. £1.058.20 £26 455	9 MDS. $1 ,l?9 -j? $28 49ij	9 MOS £1.221 80 S3l> 545	MAX 51J74 SO $31 870						'4
’■to	III	Weekly Hourly	0 MOS. s?:s 40 SIS 210	0 MOS. £801 7; S20.043	* MOS, $k75 04 $21 87c.	6 MOS £948 40 £23 710	$1,021.80 $25 545	MAX SI.128 28 £28.207							10
3 On i	10	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS S728.4O SI* 2IO	tMQS £801 72 £2004 3	n MOS. £875 04 S2J 87a	6 MOS. Sa48 4(1 523 7|/j	xMOS £1.021 SO £.'5.54 J	MAX £1,128.28 £28 2u7							30
SALARY GRADES; SALARY RAMGES ARD SALARY PROGRESSKM STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY t. 2CC8
			fiat	Mhi 1	I	2	1	2	i	2	1	2	It	u	U	u	11	Mu. IS	TatriHuUk M MiiCmaer
				4J&&	ft MOS.	6 MOS,	6 MOS.	ft MOS.	ft MOS,	MAX									
	307	9	Wet Liv	W9I6	$71624	$7X328	$85031		1984 3ft	SI 3*7.08									36
			Hourly	il6<229	St7J0b	519382	52I-Z58	522 934	524309	X26l£77									
				6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	ft MOS.	MAX									
	307-1	9	Weekly	$649 Ft	17EO4	S783J8	SOT 32	591736	5984.36	51,067.08									3b
			Hourly	$16 229	SI7 906	$19,582	$21258	$22,934	$24,609	$26,677									
				6 MGS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	ft MOS.	6 MOS.	ft MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	MAX	
	JOB	4	Weekly	SM9I#	$7162*	J 783 2k	1X5032	$91736	$884 36	I9W40	1996.48	SIJ»2« 1I.0C852 SIAM60 $1.00040 SIJB2M $1.0*4 76 SkjOMOS							96
			Roady	5P6229	517.906	519382	521258	522.934	524 609	524 760	524 912	525 060	535213	525.365	525.515	525.815	526.119	$27 152	
				6 MOS	6 MOS	ft MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	ft MOS.	6 MOS	ft MOS.	6 MOS	ft MOS.	MAX					
	309	7	Weekly		5570.32	5641 24	5712.20	5783.16	5854.04	586336	5872.76	5882.08	$891.44	594068					60
			Hourly	$12 490	$14258	116031	$17,105	119.57ft	$21351	$21 584	$21119	$22052	122 28ft	$23317					
				3 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	MAX										
	310	T	Weekly	$41234	$475 96	5523 72	5571.36	5614.04	5719 7b										29
			Elouriy	110.306	511.894	113.093	$14,284	515.476	SI 7.999										
				(uMDS.	ft MOS.	6 MOS.	ft MOS	ft MOS.	MAX										
	311	|	Weekly	1380 44	$428 1?	$475.96	1523 97	1571 3ft	5654 28										27
			Hourly	S*>.511	510.703	5M.8Q9	513.093	514284	5lb357										
				6 MOS	6 MOS	CMOS	ft MOS.	ft MOS	ft MOS	6 MOS	ft MOS	6 MOS	ft MOS.	ft MOS	ft MOS.	6 MOS.	ft MOS	MAX	
	317	H	Weekly	5800.68	5872 44	S944J4	SI.0lft.ro SI,027.60		SI ,03924	51,050.84	Sl.to2.44	SI.074.CS $1,085.76		51,097.40	$1,109.00	$1,120.60	$1,13220 $1,179.16		Oft
			Hourly	520017	S2I RI 1	523 606	S25 4OO	525.690	525 981	52b 271	526 561	$26 852	527 144	527.435	$27,725	528.015	528.305	529.47*5	
				6 MOS.	ft MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	ft MOS.	ft MOS.	ft MOS.	ft MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	ft MOS	6 MOS	ft MOS	ft MOS.	MAX	
	Ills	10	Weekly	$827 68	5885 1b	5942 b4	51,000.16	51,006 72	51,01328	51,019.84	51,026.36	51,032 96	51,030.56	51,04b 12	51,052.68	$1,059 24	$1,065.80 SI, 107.68		
			Hourty	$20,692	122.12*	123 566	S25.004	$25,168	$25,332	$2$ 49ft	$25,659	$25,824	$25 989	$26,153	$26 317	$26 481	$26 645	127.692	
SALARY GRADES. SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS
WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1. 2006
Mln
Salary
Wage
Nomen	Grade	Rule	1	l	£	4	£	6	7	8	2	10	11	II	u	H	15
			6 MOS.	0 MOS	0MQ±	b MOS,	b MUS.	6 MOS	o MOS		MAX						
320	Q	WtvkJv	$70?28	VM.SIll	$V2 24	SB 7b £4	3i.'7 40	5194.38	SJ.iWOS*	SJ.WuO	$1.046 84						
		Hourly	$|7 6*2	sit 120	$20.55*	321 ■>Mb	$21435	S24 872	$25,022	$25 ns	52*. m						
			9 MOS	9 MOS.	* MOS	<MQ$.	i MOS	9MQS.	e> MOS	&MQS,	6 MOS	* MQS.	* MOS	b MOS,	6 MOS	s MOS.	MV\
X2*		Weekly	$5** 52	3b5l 3b	$7to.24	S7M im	S815 12	3870 88	$678	$885. *4	$893 28	$900 ?h	5^08 24	SHS.bh	5^30	3945 5b	5*88 3b
		Hourly	$14*13	Sib 284	$n.656	Sit 021,	S 20.11 h	S2I 772	$21 **0	$22 [4 ti	522 332	$22 519	$22 70*	322 M2	$23.26*	523 h3i	$24 7ni
			* MQS	6 Mi )S	*)_MOS	6M11S	b MuS.	0 Ml lb	<5 MQS.	6 MOS	b MuS	0 MOS	b MuS.	b MOS	b MQS	6 M< is	MAJi
J24	4	WeeUr	M.W. *6	55tU 12		55*3 88	ibis 72	■JPG 44		Jn-J7 7(7	S?<*W	$7t?u3	$7/v J4	S72o 3e	$740.72		
		Hi-urly	$11 464	312 mH	$13 72b	$14 847	SIS *8	S 17.1.86	$l?.2&b	IP 444	$17*23	$17 302	$17 3*1	518 151	S I* 51*	318875	$1**37
			5_MOS,	t- MOS	b_MDS,	b MPS	b MOS	MIX									
?25	2	Weekly	$412 24	3475 96	S52J 22	4571 5b	Sei 9.04	3717 92									
		Huuih	510 306	SI 1 8«v	5130*3	314 2*4 1	SIS 47b	317 948									
			*M0S,	Q MOS.	9 MOS.	1 MOS.	IMPS	Max									
Hll	12	Weekly	$$57 72	395108	5I.00G SO	SI.072 4u	SI 143 9b	51.274 Wl									
		Hourly	$21 443	323 827	$25 020	3?b 810	528.Ju	S3l 870									
			b MOS,	b MOS	b MDS,	b MOS	b MOS.	b MOS	6 MOS.	r. MDS	t. MQS.	6 MUS	6 MOS.	6 Mi is	6 MOS.	* MOs,	MAA
	4	Weekly	544* M	3539 IM	$5*2 26	Sb 24 48	Sb Ji St.	Set 3 b8	$727 HO	J7&I QA	$716 "-A	$8Mi It.	$8h4 24	3898.3b	$<>32 44	Slbb bO	u8
		1 lourly	$12 391	SI.1.4 7b	$14 557	$15 bp	S lb 48i	517.(42	$18 145	$1* l>44	SI* wul	S20 754	$21 t-Ofr	322.459	$23 31 1	324 165	$25*02
			ft MUS.	b MOS.	6 MOS	b MOS,	b Ml IS	b MOS	ft MOS	b MQS	ft MUS	0 MOS	n MUS	b MOS,	6 MUS	t.MOS	MAX
111 _i	M	Weekly	$495 64	SSW 04	$582 28	SbJ5 4K	Se5i5b	$691.Ml	$727 *(1	$7ft] Qh	$7'* m	$830 1*	$Xo4 24	3818 3b	$13144	$4fteb,r.O	$l,u3hi»8
		Huurly	$12 3*1	sn 47b	$14 557	SI5 617	$16 489	317 342	$1M*5	$HW9	$|QMH	52u 754	$21 «lh	322 459	$2* *31	$24 K5	$25*02
			6 MOS	b MOS	o MOS.	bNIQS	b MOS	Max									
335	4	Weekly	$?]4 4h	SMW Ie	S*57 72	SOOS 4(1	SIS'OS	SI ,(>3b 08									
		Hourly	$!7 8b2	S20 249	$21 443	S 121.15	323 827	S25 902									
Md. I<>i*l Month to M annul m
4X
Oh
Mb
in
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE HAY 1,2006
	Graft	Wip Bm	Ufa X	2	2	$	5	i	2	£	2	19	11	11	u	11	15	TaMMMtt
336	6	WeeWy Hourly	ftNQS, $409 12 510.228	6MO& 5452’6 sir so*	6 MOS $495 64 312391	6 MOS. $53»$H $13,476	6 MOS. $58218 $14 557	6 MOS. $625.48 515.637	6 MOS. $64664 $16,166	6MD6, $667 72 516.693	6 MOS, $688 84 $17221	6 MOS. $70988 $17,747	6 MOS, $73108 $18277	6 MOS. $75220 SIMO?	6M0& $79440 $19860	6 MOS, $83660 $20,915	MAX smm S22J23	
	0	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. 5409.12 510 228	6 MOS $45? To $11.309	6 MOS. $49564 $11391	6 MOS $539434 $13 476	6 MOS. 5582.28 $14557	6.9fi& $625.48 $15 637	6 MOS. $646,64 $16 166	6»fi£ $667.72 S 16.693	6 MOS. $688.84 $17221	6 MOS, $709X8 $17 747	6 MDS. $731.08 $18277	LMSS. $75220 $18 805	6 MOS, $794.40 $19860	6 MOS. $836.66 $20915	MAX $89300 522325	96
339	H	Watty Haurty	6 MOS 5574JS 5I4J57	6 MOS. $626,56 $15,664	6 MOS. 5678.92 516.973	6 MOS, $731.08 $18177	6 MOS $76852 $19113	6 MOS $80608 520.152	6 MOS $843.56 szuno	6 MOS $881.16 522019	6 MOS. $918.72 522.968	6MO& $956.20 $33,905	6 MOS. $993.72 $24X43	6 MOS, 6 MOS. 6 MOS MAX SIJBI28 $1X68.80 $1,10636 $1,179.16 $25,782 $26,720 $27 659 $29,479				%
oo oc
M3 II
6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS,	6 MOS, t MOS.	MAX
Weekly	$809.96	$905.40	S953.OS	$ 1,000X0 $1,072.40	Sl.m.16
Hourly	$20749	$22,635	$23X27	$25,020 $26,810	$29,479
II
345
II
Week]} Hourly	6 MOS $782.76 $19369	6 MOS $845.60 $21 140	6 MOS $908.32 $22708	6 MOS $97120 524280	6 MOS $986.80 524670	6 MOS. 6 MOS 5l.00Q.48 51.01828 $25 062 $25 457		6 MOS. 51,033X2 525 848	6 MOS 51.049.64 526.241	6 MOS. St.06536 526634	6 MOS $1.08104 527 026	6 MOS 6 MOS. $1,096.76 $1,11222 $27419 $27 813		6 MOS. MAX $1,128.16 $1,179.16 $28 204 $29 479	
	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	MAX
Weekly $782 76 $845.6(1 SOOS.32 $971.20 $986.80 $1.002.48 $1,01828 11,033.92 11,04964 51,065.36 SI.0SI.04 51,096.76 SI.112.52 SI, 128.10 SI.179.16
346
Hourly	$19 569	$21,140	$22,708	524.280	$24,670	$25,062 $25,457	$25,848	$26,241	$26,634	527.026	$27,419	$27 813	S28 2O4	$29479
	6 MOS.	LUOS,	bMOS.	bMOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS. 6 MOS.	thMifi,	6 MOS,	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	MAX
347
Weekly $649.16 S716 24 S783 28 $850 32 $91736 SW.Jt $99040 $9964$ $1,002.40 $1,008.52 51.014 60 SI.020 <41 SI.032 60 Sl.044 76 Sl.086.08 Hourly	$16,229	517 <816	SI9.582	$21,258	$22,934	$24,609	S24 760	524.912	525.060	525.213 S25.3o5 525.515	525 815	526.119	527.152
6 MOS.	6 MOS.	LMQS.	6 MOS	6 MOS,	6MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	0 MOS.	6 MOS	ftMQS,	bMOS.	6 MOS.	MAX
Weekly	$708.40	$764 32	$820 M	$876 16	$888.56	$900.96	$9(3 40	$925.80	$938.(6	$950 56	$96296	$975 40	$987.84	$(.00028	$(.(M792
Hourly	517.710	519 108	$20 504	521904	522 214	522.524	522 835	523 l«5	523 454	$23 764	524 074	$24385	524.696	$25,007	$26108
Nomen	Salary Grade	Wage Rale	Mln J	±	SALARY GRADES. SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2006 }45‘ZS»lfil1U										13	13	Mu. 15	Total Month IS Maiimum
MX	•j	Weekly Hourly	h MOS, 5751 04 518 776	ft MOS 1811 36 $20 284	a MOS. $871 40 $21 785	6 MOS $931 52 $23 288	6 MOS. S<Ox 80 $23 470	r. MOS. $946.08 $23 652	6 MOS. $953 32 523.813	b MOS. 5»ftO5b 524014	6 MoS J9b7 92 524.1%	6 MOS. $97$ 2o $24 38(i	6 MOS S%2 40 324 560	Its	6 MOS $M9b % 524.124	6 MO < $1,904 32 525 108	MAX 51.Wb. *4 52b l7l	
35IJ	2	Weekly HourJt	6 MUS S4?u32 SJfj 75g	6 MOS. $47$ 72 S) J 893	6 MOS $521 £H> $13,025	6 MOS, $566 32 $14 158	6 MOS Sr, II 88 $15 217	6 MOS. Sp57u4 $16 426	M^x $717.92 5)7 948									3 6
351	3	W«kh H.rnrly	6 MOS. S428 12 $10 70.1	6 MOS $523 72 $l?i«3	6 MOS. $571.16 $ 14 284	ft MUS, SM-hM 515 47n	6 MOS $682.68 SP067	MAX $74^ 72 SI87-U										3h
352	2	Weekly 11OUTly	5 MOS 5412.24 ilu 306	6 MOS $475 96 $11 8««	6 MOS. $523.72 $13	6 MOS 5571 3b 514 284	b MUS. 5b|i(M 5! 5 47*	MAX $717 Q? sn.^s										29
?5?	4	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS S5*<g8 514 M7	5^X24 515'JSI	6 MOS $6'J2 52 $17 313	b MOS. S745.K8 518 M7	STwmS 51*1 47?	MAX S8MJ2 522 108										
354	jt	Weekly 11 curly	ElMOS, 5-11 U87	p MOS $486 2>> $12,155	6 MOS. 552QJM 513 22o	6 MOS 5571 hK S14.2-J2	6 MOS. $614 48 $15 362	6 MOS Sb57(M Slft.42<?	6 MOS. $662 32 $16 558	ft MOS 5bft7A2 Slft.6«h	6 MOS. 5ft7? 72 Sib 818	6 MOS 5677 92 $|6 94h	ft MOIL 568? lb 317 (HQ	bMQS 5ft88 ^2 517 ?ih.	6 MOS Sb98 80 SIT 47(i	t- MOS, S7<>J 2D $|7 73'1	MAX $744 72 518 743	%
?55	1	Weekly Hourly	3 MOS IW44 50.511	6 MOS $428 12 ilu 7U3	ft MUS 5475 % 511 81^	6 MOS S*:\72	ft MUS 3571 3b 514 284	SftM 2» Sib 357										27
162	12	Weekly Ik-urly	a MOS. 5312 70 52(1 119	1 MOS $8<« 60 $22,365	4 MOS. $u 76.4 8 $24 412	MOS 51.058.20 526 455	i MOS. 51.I30 m2 528 498	^MQS 51.221 80 530 545	MAX 31.274 80 531 87u									54
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WffKLY RATES • EFFECTIVE MAY 1,2006
	Finn	"ill MJ Grade	W9 E^s	Kta 1	2	2	i	2	£	1	I	!	11	11	u	12	11	Msl 15	MMwtk ItMnhwa
	MJ	12	Wcefch Hourly	9 MOS 5312.76 $20 319	9MCJS, ISM.6Q d 365	9 MOS $976.48 $24412	9 MOS 9 MOS 51,05820 $1,139.92 $26,455 $28,498		224L2S. MAX $1J21J8O SIJ74X0 $30345 $31,870										54
	3M	10	Weekly Hauiy	6 MOS. $76220 5 19.055	6M0& $857 72 $21,443	6 MOS $905.40 $22,635	6 MOS S953 08 123 827	LMQS, MAX $1.000180 SI.IO7A8 $25 020 $27692											w
	365	H	Weekly Hourly	SLEKS, $812.76 S2OJ319	9 MOS. $894.60 $22365	9 MOS. $976.48 $24,412	9 MOS 9 MOS MAX $1,05820 $1,139.92 $1,253.76 $26,455 $28,498 $31,344												45
o	367	9	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $75148 $18,787	JtMCK. $82240 $20360	LMQS. $893 28 $22332	$96424 $24,106	6 MOS. $970.40 524-260	6 MOS $976.60 $24 415	6 MOS. $982.72 $24568	6 MOS. $988.88 $24 722	6 MOS $994.96 $24874	6 MOS. $1,00104 $25 026	6 MOS $1,00728 $25,182	ft MOS. $1.013 40 $25335	UK& $1.01932 $25,488	6 MOS. MAX $1,025.68 $1,067.08 $25,642 $26,677		
	3678	a	Weekly Hourly	tMQS. $783 28 819.582	6 MOS. $830.32 521258	6 MOS. $917.36 $21934	6 MOS. $984.36 $24,609	6 MOS. $990.40 $24,760	6 MOS $996.48 $24 912	6 MOS 6 MOS. $1,002.40 $1,008 52 $25,060 $25,213		6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS $1.01460 $1.02060 $1X126.64 525.365 $25315 525 666			6 MOS 6 MOS. $1,032.60 $1,038.64 $25 815 $25 966		6 MOS. MAX $1,044.76 $1,086.08 $26 119 $27 152		ot
	367A	8	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $570.32 514 258	6 MOS. $659.00 $16 475	6 MOS. 5 721.60 $18 040	6 MOS. $784.08 $19,602	6 MOS. $846.t>0 $21,165	6 MOS. 5909 16 $22,729	MAX $988 36 $24,709									36
	367B	7	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $499.60 S124O0	6 MOS. $570 32 $14,258	6 MOS. $641 24 $16,031	6 MOS. $712 20 $17,805	6 MOS. $783.16 $19,579	6JMQS, $854.04 $21,351	6 MOS. $863.36 $21,584	6 MOS. $872.76 $21,819	6 MOS. $882.08 $22 052	6 MOS. $891.44 $22 286	MAX $940.68 $23 517					60
	368	9	Weekly Hourly	ft MOS. 5596 52 $14,913	ft MOS $651 36 $16,284	oMOS. S706.24 SI 7.656	slMQS. $761.04 $19 026	ft MOS. $815.92 $20 398	6 MOS. $870.88 $21 772	6 MOS $884.16 $22,104	6 MOS. $897.36 $22,434	6 MOS. $910.64 $22,766	6 MOS. S973RO $23,095	ft MOS. $937.16 523.429	6 MOS. $950 36 $23,759	LMQS. $976.88 $24,422	6 MOS. $1.00336 $25 084	MAX $1,051.96 $26,299	96
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 200€

	Salary Grade	Wigr Rare	Min J	4	3	4	5	&	2	»	9	JO	u	J2	L2	>4	Mu. J5	Toul Month fo Maifawm
3b^	7	Weekly Hourly	bMOS. 5457 4* $11 437	$ W hi $12,554	b MOS 5540.84 $13 (.71	" M'-’S. $591 52 $ |4.7«8	LM.QS. $636 24 $15 90t>	ft MOS, $b8n 92 5i" 023	b MOS $701 3ft $17 53-1	bMOS. $72l.r.k 5L8U42	6 MUS, $742 16 $1 *.554	b MOS $7*2 5b SP0M	ft MOS $7Rl.nO $1*575	b MOS $803 36 $20 084	b MOS, 5844.20 $2! 105	6 M< 6 is85 1X1 $22,125	MAX 59411 6* $23 SI7	9ft
Wn	7	Weekly HnurK	ft MUS. $457 48 $11 437	5502.16 512 554	6 MOS, $546 84 $13 671	5591 52 414 788	6 MUS. Sb.lh 24 $15 906	LMQi $b80 92 $17 023	b Mi>5 S7I1I 1ft 517 5.14	ft MOS, $721 58 J18 042	6 MOS, 5742 16 $18 554	6 MuS, $762 56 $|9 U64	MOS $783 Mi $ |9 37;	bMOS 5803 3ft 520.084	(■MDS $(44 20 $21 105	b MOS 5883 00	MAX $940 08 $23 517	Oh
371	I	WcekK Hourly	3 MOS 5380 44 $9,511	b MOS, 5428 12 5lO7u3	b MOS $4■'5 «b 511.899	6 MOS. $523 72 $l3.u«3	0 MOS. $571 3b 514 284	MU $654.2* $16 157										27
V?		Weekly I lourly	u MUS. $596.52 $I49|?	y®s, $oji Jo Sir. 2*4	9 MOS $70b 24 $|7ft?b	'■> MOS $761.Q4 519 02b	9 MOS $M5 92 $20 JOS	9 MOS $870 *>. $21 772	b MOS, $87ft4U $21	6 MOS $8s5 84 $22 146	b_MOS $891.28 522 332	6 MOS $uu(l 76 $22 519	b MDS. 5*08 24 $22 Thb	6 MOS $915 hft $22,892	ft MOS 5*30 M $23 2bb	b MuS. $945 5b 523 b39	MAX $958 3b $24 709	1 14
iso	5	Weekly Hoiuh	6 MOS. $523 72 SI3W	tiMDS. 5t> 19 04 SI5 47r,	6 MOS. $6X2 o8 $17 067	6 MOS $71448 517 862	h MOS, $7b2 20 519 055	MAX 5>u5 24 $21 131										10
38 I	4	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS •■557 fif, $1.3 9??	ft MOS, Sftlu 76 5i5	6 MOS 5b64 52 $16 613	bMOS, 5718 44 $17 Obi	6 MUS $772 24 519.366	MAX S857 9ft 521 44*j										30
3<>2	n	Weekly Hourly	9 MDS $97fi4S 524 412	“ MOS S 1,058 2” $26 455	O-MOS, SI. I3« 92 $28 49$	9 M<JS $ 1J21 6(1 $30 545	9 MOS, $1,232 U4 $3<> 501	9 MOS. $1,242 32 $31,058	ft MOS $L 252.M $31 31b	b MDS SI.2ft2 92 $31 573	6 MUS $1,273 16 S31 *29	ft MOS. $1.28348 $32 087	bMOS, $1 2v3 72 $12,343	b MOS SI.304118 $32bO2	$1,314 36 $32,859	6 MOS $1.324 64 $33 116	MAX SI.170 2k $34 257	114
394	s	Weekly Hourly	o MOS 5521 00 $13025	6 MOS $566 32 $14 158	bMOS 5bl1 88 $15 297	6 MOS. $657 04 $ Io 426	6 MoS. $b84 00 $17,100	6 MOS $7|0 88 $17 ”72	6 MOS $737 80 5I8 44S	ft MOS S7b4.72 SI* 118	b_MOS. 579|.r<i $19 790	6 MQS $818 48 $2(1.462	b MOS 5845.44 S21 136	6 MOS. $872 3b 521 809	6 MOS $899.24 $22 4*1	ft MDS $y2b.lb $23 154	MAX 59£8 J6 524.709	So
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS
WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1,2006
Saiuy Wage Mta	Md. TatM MmuL
		Rite	1	2	2	4	£	&	I	I	1	u	U	12	u	H	11	
			6 MOS	6 MOS,	6 MOS,	6 MOS,	6 MOS.	6MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	bMOS	6 MOS,	6 MOS.	0MG6.	ftMOS.	ftMOS.	MAX	
396	3	Weekly	$388.08	$42720	$46720	$506 76	5546.46	$585 M	$598.88	$611 88	$624 84	$63768	$65064	$663 68	$68956	57I5J2	$763.72	96
		Hourly	$9 702	$10690	511680	$12669	$13660	S14647	$14,972	$15 297	$15621	515.942	516.266	SI6J92	517239	$17X88	$19,093	
S3*l
5391
SO
S392
Wrekh $83004
Hourly 520.751
6 MOS.
Weekly 5564.88
Hourly $t4122
1000 hra
Weekly $564 88
Hourly 514.122
6 MOS MAX $873 % $909 24
511.434 J22.73I
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 5608.72 5653.12 515218 516328
1000 tin I OOP bra $608 72 $653.12 515 218 516.328
A MOS 6 MOS 5697.00 5741.72 517425 $18543
IfflBJn 1000 bo $697 00 $74172 517425 $18543
6 MOS MAX $785.92 582124 $19,648 S2O53I
1000 bn MAX $785 92 582124 $ 19.648 520.331
6000 bn.
EXHIBIT "A"
PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC ANO GAS COMPANY DISTRICT OFFICES, CREDIT AND COLLECTION CENTER, CUSTOMER PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER, CUSTOMER INQUIRY CENTERS. CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS CENTERS. AND THE TELEPHONE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS
WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1. 2007
Xomcn
JGf
X’2
TH j
JiM
tu5
3Qh
3U6-i
Salary Grudt	Wage Rik	Min 1	2	J	4	£	6	2	8	4	10	11	12	u	14	Mai. 12	Total Mn nib Io Minimum
1	Weekly Hourly	3 MUS $ W 84 $9 821	'■ MOS $+42 W Sil 051	6 MOS $4<4 44 512 28b	a-MOS. 6 MUS. 55A>.7b $589 9h 5H 5P $14 744		MAX $675 56 H6 819>										27
4	Weekh Hourly	o MOS 5782 08 SIW2	b MOS 5857 72 521 44?	b MOS 5933 44 523.33*	" MOS SI.Mu 04 $25 226	bMOS $1 "84.88 527.122	MAX 51.193/41 $29 840										30
	Weekly Ik-urly	o MOS. Sl,w8 24 $25 20o	9 MOS $1.1)92 60 $2V< 15	9 MOS. 51.177 fin $2*425	■» MOS. $1,261 57 S11.53K	51.272’08 531 802	■J MOS. 51.2*2 72 $32 06*	6 MOS, 51,293.36 532 334	6 MUS. 51.304 6u S32.*on	IMPS, $1 314.'* $32.8*4	6 MVb $1 325 2" 531.HH	* MOS. 5IJ35 8O $33 395	0 MUS $1,346 4S $31/62	b MOS $1,3'708 $33 <?7	0 MUS $1.367 72 $14 193	MAX $1,41484 $35 37|	114
12	Weekly Hourly	9 MOS, $839 20 S2i*.^80	9 MOS $923 *8 523 092	9 MOS SI,(ms 24 $25 2^6	9 MOS. Sl.W’.hO $27 JI5	9 MuS 51.H7^ $29.42'	■4 MOS. $1,201.52 $.11 53K	MAX $1.316 24 $52 90									54
12	Weekly Hourly	9 MQS, 20 $20«8u	9 MOS 6S sivi'i;	9 MOS, $1,008 24 $25 2Ub	9 MOS $1.092 60 $27,115	w MuS. ii.ruiu $29 425	P MOS 51 261 52 531 '3*	MAX 51,32*24 $32 96b									54
III	Weekly Hourly	5752’o8 51**02	6 MOS S«27 S<) $2u 695	6 MOS. $9iiJ.48 $22 5H7	6 MOS. $u?u 24 S24 4S1	52*.37*	MAX 51.1649b $29 124										to
10	Weekly Ik-urly	bMOS, $752 08 $|8 Sir?	bMOS $827 80 520 *95	6 MOS. 5903 4K $22 587	6 Ml IS. $9>j 14 $24 481	6 MOS, 51.955 04 52c- 37b	MAX 51 164 9b $29 124										ill
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSKIN STEPS WEBCLY RATES* EFFECTIVE MAY 1,2007
	210KB	M-7 Cnrft	Wv Bet	Mb 1	1	1	i	2	i	1	1	3	If	11	12	11	if	Mu. IS	Tatafl Mentb ttMirimum
	W7	4	Wttkly Honrl>	6M0& $67028 Sit 757	9M05. $739.52 $18,488	6 MOS. $808 76 S3L219	6 MOS. $877.96 $21,949	6 MOS $94720 SZ3.680	6 MOS MAX $1,01636 SI.IOI.Td $25,409 527 544										M
		9	Weekly Hosrh	6 MOS S6T01S $16757	4MQS: $73932 S18 488	6 MOS $808.76 $20219	6 MOS $877.96 $21,949	6 MOS $94720 $23,680	6 MOS SIJH6J6 $25,409	MAX $1,10176 $27,544									36
	MB	9	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $670.28 116.757	6 MOS $73’32 $18,488	6 MOS. $808 76 $20219	6 MOS. $877.96 $21949	6 MOS $94720 $23,680	6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS 6 MOS $13)1636 $1.02260 SIJ028J8 $IA35jOO $13)4132 $25,409 $25,565 S25 722 $25875 $26,033					6 MOS 4MQS, 6 MOS. 6 MOS. MAX $1,047.60 Sl.O53.84> $IJ)66.I6 $1,078.72 $1,121.40 $76190 $26345 $26654 $26 968 $28035					96
3jD	34N	7	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $315.84 $12,896	6 MOS. $588.88 $14 722	6 MOS. $662.08 $16352	6 MOS $735.36 $18384	6 MOS. $808.64 $20216	6 MOS $881.80 $22045	6 MOS. $891.44 $22286	6 MOS. $901 16 $22329	6 MOS. $910.76 $22769	6 MOS. $920.44 $23 011	MAX $97128 S24282					60
	no	2	Weekly Hourly	3 MOS. $425 64 S 10.641	CMOS. $491 44 $12,286	6 MOS. $540.76 $13319	6 MOS $589.96 $14,749	6 MOS. $639.16 $15,979	MAX $743.16 118.579										29
	HI	1	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $392 84 $9,821	6 MOS. $442 04 SI1O5I	6 MOS. $491 44 $12286	6 MOS. $540 76 $13,519	6 MOS $589 *>6 $14,749	MAX $675 56 $16,889										2?
	H7	11	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $826.72 520.668	6 MOS. $900.80 $22,520	6 MOS. $974.96 $24,374	6 MOS $1,049.04 $26,226	6 MOS $1,0613)0 $26,525	6 MOS $1,073.04 $26,826	6 MOS $1.085 00 $27,125	6 MOS $1,097.00 $27 425	6 MOS $1,109.00 $27,725	6 MOS $1,121.08 $28,027	6 MOS $1,133.08 $28 327	6 MOS 51,145.04 SJS.636	6 MOS S1J57 04 S2BO26	6 MOS. $1,169.00 $29 225	MAX SUI 7.48 $30 437	96
	11K	10	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $854.60 $21 365	6 MOS. SO 13.96 $22 849	6 MOS. $973.28 $24,332	6 MOS SI.03 2.68 $25,817	6 MOS $1,039 44 $25,986	6 MOS $1,046.24 $26,156	6 MOS. $1,053 00 $26 325	6 MOS. $1,059 72 126 493	6 MOS $1.06636 126.664	6 MOS $1,073.36 $26,834	6 MOS $1,080.12 $27,003	6 MOS. SL.OSti 02 S27.I73	oMOS. SL0Q3.68 S27.J42	6 MOS. $1,100.44 127 511	MAX $1,143.68 $28,592	96
t-fl
330
.ns
J35
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1,2007
8’nmrn
Salary	Wage	Mio	M»i.	Total Month
Grade	Rate	1	2	3	4	5	t	2	8	9	ID	11	12	13	14	15	Io Muirnum
				
		6 MOS. 0 MOS 0 MOS 6 MOS 6 MOS. 0 MOS, 0 MOS. B MOS MAX		
u	Wee Uy	57'0.28 $’8968	$i.48 9h $'Xis. 44 $'«.’>* v| .027.24 SI 04144 $1.019 76 $1.0808*		48
	Hourly	SIS 257 519742 $21224 $22’11 $24 197	525 ti8I $25,830 $25 ««4 $2’022		
		9 MOS 9 MOS w MOS *> MOS ° MOS u MOS. 6 MOS 0 MOS, 6 MOS. 0 MOS 0 MOS 0 MOS, 0 MOS	6 MOS MAX	
8	Weekly	$61592	5072 50 5’2920 $’85 8i> $64244 $8^211 S'Xk. Of S914.64 $922 32 $9 In 04 $917 ?(, $945 44	$90092	$U7h?? SI .(CO 48	114
	Hourly	$15 398 $10,814 SIX21O $19 645 521 0ol $22 450 522 674 $22 866 $23 058 525251	$2 ' 444 $2’0.16 $24023	S24Jti8 S2\M2	
		6 MOS 6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. 0 MOS. 0 MOS 6 MOS 0 MOS 6 MOS. 0 MOS 6 MOS 0 MOS 0 MOS	ft MuS Maa	
4	Weekly	5474 32 $520.52 $506 8* $613 20 Sb59 48 $705 68 $71312 $’20 44 $72’ 84 S’35 24 S’42.64 $7fU»" $70480	$7UQ 5b S'CJHO	■Jo
	Huurly	51185* $13 013 514172 515 3'11 516 487 51’ 642 $1’82* 518011	518 190 518 381 $|8 Joo $18 750 510 12l>	$19 489 520 585	
		5 MOS, o MOS, o MOS 6 M< IS 6 MOS MAX		
i	W'eekly	$42.5.04	$49144	$540’n 55'9 96 5639 In $’4128		
	Hourly	$10641	$12 286 513.519 514.749 515 979	$18 532		
		9 MOS 9 MOS 9 MOS. 9 MOS. 9 MOS. MAX		
12	Weekly	58x500 $984 08 51,033.36 51.107 2* $l,|8| In $1.31624		54
	Huurly	522 140 524 002	$25*34 $2’682 528 529 532 900		
		6 MOS. 6 MOS. 0 MOS. 0 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. 0 MuS. 6 M<JS. 0 MOS. 6 MOS 0 MOS. 6 MUS. 6 MOS	6 MOS, M.AX	
9	Weekly	5511.70 $556 56 $60124 $045 84 $081410 5’10.24 $75148 $786 ’2 $82192 $857.16 5*92.16 $927 56 $«o2’6	SQ'jSiM	S !.!><>. 7 ft	■>h
	Hourly	$12’94	$13 914	515 031	516.146 $17 025 $1’906 $18’8’ $19,608	$20 548 $21429 $32 309 $23.ls9 $24 009	SJ-WI $2f$744	
		6 MOS. 6 MUS 0 MOS 6 MOS 0 MOS. 0 MUS 0 MUS. 6 MOS 6 MOS. 6 MOS. 0 MOS. 0 MOS. 0 MOS	0 MOS. MAX	
9	Weekh	$5H7o $556 56 $601.24 564 5 84 $08100 $7lo24 $75148 $786 ’2 5*2192 $85’16 $892 36 $92’ 56 $962.’b	S«)h04 Sl.C^Vh	
	Huurly	$12 794 $13914 $15 031 516 140 517 025 51’906 $18’87 INm.8 520 548 521429 $22'00 $23 18" $24l*>9	524 951	$26 744	
Weekly Hourly
b MOS o MOS S7V7 7J SxJo’fc
6 MO* h M£S. S8S51/> SW.84 S22.l4(i $2' VI
t. MOS $384 08
MAX
Sl.OftU 7ft $2o 744

\O o\
May	Wage	Mta
Nwueu Cn*	Rm	J	J
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1,2007
215423	2 If U 13
Mai. Total Moulb
13	14 IS to Maximum
6 MOS	bMOS.	LMS&	ClMSS.	6 MOS	bMOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS,	6.MOS,	bMOS.	tMQi	6 MOS.	6 MOS	bMOS.	MAX
3 In	6	Watty	S4ZZ44	$46708	$511 74	SS%54	$601J4	$645.84	S467.68	3689.44	$71124	373196	3734 84	3776.68	$820.24 3863.80	392204
Hourly	$10,561	311677	312.794	313.914	315.031	316146	316.602	317236	317 781	318.324	318.871	319417	320 50b	321.505	$23 051
6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS,	6 MOS.	LM0&	&MQS,	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS,	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	MAX
OtM	6	Watty	3422.44	3467.08	3511.76	$556.56	360124	364584	366768	3689.44	371124	$732.96	375484	37766*	382024 3863.80	$922.04
Hourly	110.561	311.677	311794	313 914	315.031	316.146	316.6*2	317236	317.781	318524	318.871	319.417	520306	$21395	$23 051
6MOS.	6MOS.	6MOS.	6MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	bMOS.	6MOS,	6 MOS	6MOS	6 MOS.	6MOS,	6MOS.	6MOS	MAX
339	II	Watty	3592.96	$64692	$701.00	$754.84	3793.52	$83228	$871.00	$90980	$948.60	$98728	$1X126.04	$|.06480	$1,103-56 $1.142 32	$1217.48
Hourly $14,824	$16,173	$17,525	$18,871	$19838	$20807	$21 775	322.745	$23,715	$24X82	$25,651	$26620	$27 589	$28 558	$30,437
96
96
*>t>
6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	tMQS,	6 MOS.	MAX
343 II Weekly $83628 $934.84 $984.08 $1,03336 $1.10728 $121748 Hourly $20,907	$23371	$24,602	525.834	$27,682	$30,437
30
344	11
345	11
34r>	4
347	9
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS Weekly 380820 $873 08 $937.84 Hourly 520205 521.82? $23,446
6 MOS 6 MOS 6 MOS Weekly $80820 $873 08 $937 84 Hourly $20205 $21,827 $23,446
6 MOS. bMOS. 6 MOS. Weekly	$67028	5739.52	$808 76
Hourly	$16 757	$18,488	520219
6 MOS. 6 MOS 6 MOS Weekly	$731 44	$789.16	$846.84
Hourly	$18,286	$14 724	$21171
6 MOS. 6 MOS. tMQS. 6 MOS $1,002.80 $1.018 88 $1.035 08 SIJ05I 40 $25 070 $25,472 $25,877 $26,285
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. $1.002 80 $1,01888 51.035.08 $1,051.40 $25 070 $25 472 $ 25 877 $26 285
bMOS.	6 MOS. 6MOS	6MOS
$877.96	$947.20	$1.(116.36	$1,022.60
$21,449	$23,680	$25409	$25 565
6 MOS. 6 MOS 6 MOS 6 MOS. $904.64	$91744	$93024	$943 12
$22 61b	$22,936	$23256	$23,578
6 MOS. 6 MOS 6 MOS 6 MOS. $1,067.52 $1X183.76 $1,100.00 $1,11620 $26,688 $27,094 $27,500 $27,905
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS 6 MOS. $1.06752 $1,083.76 $1,100.00 $1.11620 $26,688 $27,094 $27500 $27 905
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. $1,028.88 $1.035 00 $1,041.32 $1,047.6(1 $25 722 $25,875 $26,033 $26190
6MOS 6MOS. 6 MOS. bMOS. $955.92 $968.68 $981.48 $494 28 $23,898 $24 217 $24 537 $24,857
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS MAX $1.132 44 $1.148 68 Sl.lb4.84 $1,217.48
$28,311 $28,717 $29,121 $30,437
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. MAX $1.132 44 $1,148.68 $1,16484 $1,21748
$28 311 $28,717 $29,121 $30,437
6 MOS. 6 MOS bMOS. MAX $1,053.80 $1,066.16 $1,078 72 $1,121 40
$26 345 $26,654 $ 26,968 $28 035
6 MOS. CMOS. 6 MOS MAX $1,007 12 $1,01996 $1,032.80 $1,082.00 $25,178 $25 499 $25 820 $27 050
46
96
9b
96
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1,2007
Nomen	Grade	Wage Rale	MJb 1	2	5	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	Mu. IS	Month to Mm J mum
UK	u	Weekly Hourly	0 MOS $775.48 $19 3*7	6 MOS. $837 76 $20*44	0 MOS. S '.w 72 522 491	h-MUS, $961 *0 $24.OJ5	SlML'.S. sw? 824.233	£lML& Wn.<4 $24 421	6 MOS $9X4 32 $24 61)8	6 MOS. $Ul| Mil $24 795	6 MOS, $999 40 $24 9*'	6 MOS $1 006*2 $25 171	6 MOS $1,014 36 .$25 359	b MOS. SL02I 88 $75 547	ft MOS, $ I.O2i3b $25 714	6 MUS. $1,036 ■* $25 924	Max $1,080 88 $27	96
	?	Weekly Hourly	b MQS. $444 32 $11 108	6 MUS. 54-Jl 20 $12 280	fiMOS. $537 id SI 3 441	b MOS. $584 7b $14 b|i	6 MUS SbJl.M) $I5?i5	6 MOS. S67x.4O S In '*0	Max $741 2s SIS 532									36
351	1	Weekly Hourly	0 MOS $442 (14 Ml 051	b MOS $540 7ft $13 5|i	b MQS $5jw ift $14 74u	ft MOS. Sft.iu |n $15 979	6 MUS $704 c.8 $17o22	Max $774 1? $ 1* 353										111
352	-	Weekly Houriy	5 MOS $425 b4 StO 64 i	o MOS S49| 44 Si? 2&>	b MQS S540.7ft S13SN	b MOS, $fx° $(4,744	6 MOS. th 19 16 SI 5 *70	MAX $741 25 S IK 532										21
353	4	Weekly Hfturlv	6 MOS, SmU 02 $ 15 123	6 MOS. $6N> 04 Slt> 501	6 MUS $7 15 04 317 H7r.	b MUS $77n (2 $19.2'3	fr MOS. $825 08 $20 627	MAX $oi.in* $22X27										tn
J54	3	Weekly Hourly	bMOS. S45’QJ $11 448	r. MOS. S5O2.O« $12 550	n MUS. $'4f> 24 SI7 656	6 MOS. $590 28 $14 757	b MUS. S&34 4* S15 8b2	Sb78 4(1 Sl^.iftO	b MOS. Sft83 88 SI 7 in7	6 MQS, S6*i 24 SI7 231	6 MOS $M4 60 $|7 3b5	6 MOS, $b99 in $17 49m	oAl'JS $7U5 3o $1 7 6.14	0 MOS $7|(l 7? $|7 7bX	0 MOS $721.52 $1* 03*	b MOS. $7 0 2« $18 307	max $774 12 $1*35.1	96
355	1	Weekly Huurl y	3 MOS. $112 84 $9 821	0 MOS. $442 04 SI 1.051	CMOS. 5491 44 $12 2X6	6 MOS 5540 76 SIS5I»	o MUS S589 96 $14 749	$b?Vh $16881										27
Io2	12	Weekly Hourly	9 MOS 5831 20 520180	IMPS $123.6* $23 092	IMUS. SIJKI8 24 $25 2ub	1 MOS. $1. Cn2 6U $27 315	IMPS $1,177 u0 $29 425	* MOS $1,261 52 S31.518	MAX Sl..l|n24 $12 9Oo									54
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS
□o
Nwp	S^y GrWr	Wap Rrtr	Mn 1	2	2	4	5	ft	I	1	2	12	11	11		Max. B 15	Talal Mart
161	12	Weekly Howiy	9 MOS. $83930 $30980	9 MOS $92368 $23,092	9 MOS 5100824 $25206	9 MOS. 2.MKK, 9 MOS, $1,09260 $1.17700 $126132 $27315 $29,425 $31538			MAX $131624 $32906								54
364	16	W«kh Heuty	6 MOS. $751700 $19075	6 MOS $885.60 $22,140	utos, $934.84 $23371	6 MOS. S984.08 S24602	6 MOS. MAX $103336 $1.14368 $25834 $28392										50
365	ll	Weekly Hourly	9 MOS. $83930 $20 980	9 MOS, $923.68 $23,092	9 MOS 51,00824 $25 206	9 MOS. 9 MOS. MAX $1.09200 $1.177 00 $129432 $27,315 $29,425 $32363											45
367	9	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $775 92 $19,398	6 MOS $849.16 $21229	6 MOS. $92232 $23,058	6 MOS. $995 60 $24,890	6 MOS 6 MOS. 6 MOS. CMOS $1,001.96 $100836 $1.014 68 $l,O!l 04 $25,049 $25209 $25,367 $25526				6 MOS. $1.02732 $25 683	6 MOS. 6 MOS $1033 60 $1.04004 $35040 $26001		6 MOS $104636 $26 159	iMQS. 6 MOS. MAX $1052.68 $1059.04 $1,101.76 $26317 $26 476 $27,544		96
3678	9	Weekly Hourly	lmqs, $808.76 $202l«	6 MOS. $877.96 $21,949	6 MOS $947 20 $23 680	6 MOS. 6 MOS $1.01636 $1,022.60 $25,409 $25,565		6 MOS. $1,02838 $25,722	&MQ& $1,035 00 $25 875	6 MOS $1.04132 $26,033	6 MOS LMQfi. 6 MO& $1047.60 $1,053.80 $106004 $26,190 $26345 $26301			6 MOS 6 MOS. 6 MOS MAX $1,066.16 $1,072.40 $1,078 72 $1,121.40 $26,654 $26 810 $26,968 $28,035			96
3&7A	*	Weekly Hourly	OMQS. $508 88 $14 722	6 MOS. $680 44 $17,011	CMOS $745 08 $18,627	6 MOS. $809.56 $20 239	6 MOS. $874 12 $21,853	6 MOS. $938.72 $23,468	MAX $1020 48 $25,512								J6
367B	7	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $515.84 $12 896	6 MOS. $588.88 $14,722	6 MOS. $662 08 $16 552	6 MOS. $735.36 $18 384	6 MOS. $808.64 $20,216	U4QS. $881 80 $22,945	6 MOS $891.44 $22 286	6 MOS $901.16 $22,529	IlMQS. $910 76 $22,769	6 MOS. $920.44 $23.01!	MAX $■57128 S24 282				60
	4	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $01592 $15 398	6 MOS $672.56 $16814	6 MOS. $729.20 $18 230	6 MOS. $785 80 $19,645	6 MOS. $842.44 $21,061	6 MOS. $899.20 $22 480	6 MOS. $912 92 $22 823	6 MOS $926.56 $23,164	6 MOS. $940.24 $23 506	6 MOS $953 84 $23,846	6 MOS. 5967.M 524.19]	6MOS. $981.28 $24 532	6 MOS. SI.008 64 S25.216	6 MOS MAX $1036.00 $1,086 16 $25 900 $27 154	96
Nomen
Salary Grade
Wage Rate
Min I 2
SALARY GRADES. SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1. 2007
£	4	J	b
8	9	10 H 12	13
Max. Total Month
14	<o Maximum
3ft* 7	Weekly
Hourh
6 MOS $4 7j > $11 80*
b MOS. $5i8 4x $12 Ob?
ft MOS, $564 64 5 14 116
b MOS. $nI0 7^ S15 2b*
bMOS $ft5o M2 lit. 421
b MOS h MOS S7U3U8 8724 16 $17477 Six UM
b MOS b MOS * MOS. $74* | ft $7ftb28 J7X7 1h $18 62* $1*157 S1Q.6S4
0 MOS h MOS $808 48 $82*48 820 212 $20 737
b MOS, b MOS MAX $871 b4 $9H.7ft $97| in $21 7*1	$22 844	$24 282
HO 7	Weekly
Hourly
6 MOS,	6 MOS	o Mus	* MOS	ft MOS
$472 >	$51x48	5464 &4	$610 7ft	3>.f.h *2
$1180*	SI2*b2	U4 116	816 42*
b MOS, ft MDS	ft MUS. 6 MDS	ft MOS
$724 Jh $745 16 $7bb?8 5?37 3b
$|7J?7 $|s |(i4 $18629 $19 157 $14 684
6 MOS S808 48 820212
bMOS $82* 48 $20 717
b MDS.	MOS.	MAX
8871.64	Sup 76	$*71 28
$22 844
n |	|
Hourly
MAA $h7$ ?h $lb 889
H	Weekly
Hourly
9 MOS	9 MOS,	* MQS	9 MOS	* MOS,
8hl5*2	So72 St,	$72*.2D	S785.X0	8842 44
$15.3*8	$16814	$lb23O	819^5	S2I ON
o MOS,	f M'_>S.	o MUS.	b MOS	b MOS
$8**2O	$*lk.*b	$*I4M	$*22 32	$43004
$22 480	822 674	$?2 Hbh	$2105*	$23 25!
b MOS 8*3?.7b $23444
ft MOS, $945 44 $23 6 3ft
b MOS b MOS MAX $*tXi< $*7t,32 $l.n2O4x 524 023 $24 408	$25 5 1 2
Weekly
Hourly
b MOS. S!i4G 7b 513 51*
ft MOS. $(-39 lb 515*79
Weekly
Hourly
6 MOS 6 MOS. $57512 $ft30 64 $14.3 78	$|5 7hb
6 MOS b MOS 6 MOS MAX $704 88	$737 72 $787 i*i S872 72
$]7f,22	$18 443 Sl*ft75 $21818
b MOS. 6 MOS, ft MOS, MAX $ft86 12	$74| 8Q $7*7 Xb $8x5 84
$17 153 $18 545 $1**34 522.14ft
Weekly
Hourly
9 MOS.
$1,008 24 525.206
9 MOS. $1.0*2 60
9 MOS	9 MOS 9 MUS 9 MOS
$1,177 Ou $l.2bl 52 $l,272u8 51.282 72 $29 425	$j|538 $31 xu? $32 Obi
ft MOS ft MOS. 6 MOS.
$ 1.293.3ft 8l.304t.ir> $1,314 5ft
$32 334 $32ftOO $32.8b4
b MOS. bMOS b MOS $1,325 ?u $1 335 ad $1,346.48
$33 130 $33.3*5 $33 662
b MOS ft MOS, MAX $1.357 08 $1,367 72 $1.414 84 $33*27	$34 |*3	$15.37)
Weekly
Hourly
6 MOS $517 9ft $13 44*
b MOS. $584.70 $l4ft|*
6 MOS. $<■31 80 $15 7*5
bMOS ft MOS. 6 MUS $67X40 $70b24	$734 (Xl
$16960 $17 656 $18 350
6 Ml is ft MUS b MDS $7bl.S0 $78* bu $817j0 S19.U45 $1*740 $20 434
ft MDS 6 MOS. 6 MOS SK45 08 $872 92 $*00 72 $21 127	$21823 $22 518
h Mus $928 48 823.212
6 MUS $9^6.28 $2.1 *07
MAX $1.02048 $25 512
OOI
		"Wafp	■Sa 1	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSKM STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE HAY 1.20U7												11	Mkl IS	T««dM(mfh
				1	2	«	5	i	2	t	2	IS	11	12	u			
V*	J	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS MOOT! IICjOI*	6 MOS $44152 SEE 038	tMQ£ 548140 512.060	6 MOS 552324 513 081	6 MOS S5M.lt $14 104	6 MOS MO* 92 515. 123	6 MOS 5618-36 515*59	6 MOS $631X0 115 795	fcMDS. 564516 516.129	6 MOS 5658.44 516461	6 MDS S67IM 516.795	6 MOS. 568538 SI? 152	6 MOS $7fZ00 sit mo	6 MOS 573880 518.470	MAX S 788.56 519.714	
SWI		Weekly Hwrty	iMHS $857 04 531426	6 MOG S9Q2.36 522.55*	MAX 5938. M 523.470													12
S39I		Weekly Hourly	6 MOS 5583.24 514.581	6 MOS. $628.52 SIS 111	6 MOS $674 36 $16859	6 MOS. 57I9A8 SI? 991	6 MOS $765 84 SI9 146	ft MOS. $811.48 520.28?	MAX 5847.96 521 l®9									U
S392		Weekly Hourty	1000 hn 5583.24 514.581	lOS-blS $628 52 StS.713	I OOP to $67436 $16 159	J«®2n $71968 517.992	1000 hn 5765 84 519.146	1000 bn $811.48 520387	MAA 5847 96 521.199									£000 hn.
EXHIBIT "A"
PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY DISTRICT OFFICES. CREDIT AND COLLECTION CENTER. CUSTOMER PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER, CUSTOMER INQUIRY CENTERS, CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS CENTERS, AND THE TELEPHONE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2008
	Nomen	Salary Grade	Rate	Min 1	±	2	1	£	&	1	8	9	10	u	12	L!	Mat. 14	IS	Total Mnnlh 10 Maiimum
	.in I	1	Weekly Hflurlv	3 MOS 3405 m SIU Hl	545b 44 SI 1.4| I	o MOS. S5U7 44 S12.bSb	6 MOS. * MOS. J.55S 3o $609 1^ $13 050 115 229		MAX Sb47 52 SI 7 43*									27
S	?u2	4	Wttkk Hourly	MQS 5*U7 52 520 la«	* MuS S885.Ni $22 140	b MOS 54ft3.8u 524 ri'<	6 MOS S1.O41 34 32NO46	oMUS 31 120 lb 52SA-/4	MAX. 31 232 40 3?" 310									30
	30?	11	Weekly Hourly	9 MOS. SI ,04 | (M 5> 02*	9 MOS. $1,128.12 528 203	? MOS 51,215 28 530 382	4 MOS 51,102 *2 332 5M	■> MDS $1 31344 332 sin	9 MOS $1,324 44 $33,111	6 MPS. 31,335 4U $33,385	0 MOS. 6 MuS $1.346 40 $1.3'7.28 $33 660 $33 932		b MOS 51,168 28 534 207	6MQS 51,170.24 534 4SI	6 MUS $1.390 24 334 756	6 MOS 51,401 2u 535 0In	'■ MUS. max $1 412 20 31,4611.84 335 305 $36 521	1 14
	3l>4	i:	Weekly R burly	4 MOS, 58**.48 S?l br-2	9 MOS 5453 ^2 523 841	MOS f 1.041 (4 J2NU26	0 MuS, $1.12s 12 $28 203	13 MOS 31.215.28 $30 382	0 MOS, 51,102.52 532 563	MAX Sl.l'Oiq $33 976								54
	A*	12	Weekly Hourly	MOS 58bb48 52l.6b2	9 MOS, 5453 72 523 843	9 MDS. 31.041 <4 326 u2b	9 MOS. $1,128.12 $28 203	4 MOS. 51.215.28 Sin 382	9 MOS $1,302.52 332 563	MAX 51,35^04 5\107*								54
	;in5	10	Weekly Jk-Lirly	6 MOS $77h 52 SIU 413	6 MOS $*54 72 S31 3o8	oMOS $932.84 323321	6 MOS. $1,011 08 $25 277	6 MOS, 51.084 3b 527 234	MAX Sl.2u2 84 5.10 071									10
	JO*-i	Id	Weekly Hourly	S^b 52 514 A13	frMOS, $354 7? 521 3b8	6 MDS. 3032 *4 $23 321	6 MOS, Sl.oi 1 08 $25 277	6 MOS. $1.089 36 $27 234	MAX $1,202 84 330 071									ill
	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1,2008																		
	Neicu	Salary SEB*	IbW	Mta 1	2	1	4	i	9	1	1	2	12	11	11	u	14	Ms. J5	Tatal Month toHtoimuM
	307	9	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. s&OM $17300	6 MOS 576336 519X8®	6 MOR S835.06 $20X77	6 MOS 5906.52 522663	6 MOR $978.00 524.430	6 MOS. MAX 5IJM9.40 51.13760 $26,235 $28,440										Jfr
	3O7n	9	Weekly Hnoiy	LMDS, mm $17302	6 MOS. $763 56 119089	6 MOS. $835.08 $20X77	9.MQS, $906 52 $22,663	6 MOS. $978.00 $24,450	6 MOS, MAX SIJW9.40 $1,137.60 526235 $28,440										36
	J 08	0	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. 569108 $17302	bMOS. 5763-56 519X89	6 MOS $83508 $20 877	6 MOS, $90652 $22 663	6 MOS. $978 00 $24.4)0	6 MOS 6 MOS. $1.04940 $1X55X4 52623$ $26396		6 MOS 6 MOS. $1X62-32 $1X68X4 $26,558 $26716		6 MOS. {lMQS, $1X75.16 $1.08168 526.879 $27042		bMOS. 6 MOS 6 MOS, MAX $1,088.08 $1.10084 $1,113.80 $1,157.88 $27202 $27321 $37 845 $28,947				96
8 r-j	30®	7	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $532 64 $13,316	6 MOS. $608.04 S15.20I	6 MOS $683.60 $17,090	feMOS. $75928 $18,982	6 MOS. 5834.92 $20,873	6 MOS. $910 48 $22,762	$92044 $23X11	6 MOS. $930.48 $23262	tMQS. $94036 523.509	6 MOS. $95036 $23,759	MAX $1,002X8 $25 072					60
	S10	2	Weekly Hourly	3 MOS. WM 48 $10 987	6 MOS. 1507.44 $12 686	6 MOS $558 36 $13,959	tMQS. $609.16 515229	6 MOS. $659.96 $16,499	MAX $767 32 $19,183										29
	.111	1	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $405.64 $10 141	bMOS. $450.44 $11,411	6 MOS. $507 44 $12 686	6 MOS. $558.36 $13 959	6 MOS SbO9.lt> $15,229	MAX $697.52 $17,438										27
	317	11	Weekly Hourly	bMOS $853.60 KI 340	6 MOS. $930 08 $23,252	CMOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. $1,006.68 $1,083 16 $1.095 48 $25,167 $27070 $27,387			CMOS. $1,107.92 $27 698	6 MOS. $1.12028 $28 007	6 MOS. $1,132.68 $2831?	6 MOS $1,145 04 $28 62b	6 MOS. $1.15752 528.938	6 MOS. $1,169.92 $29248	bMOS. $1.18228 $29 55?	6 MOS. $1,194 64 $29 866	6 MOS. MAX $1207.00 $1.257 08 $30 175 531.437		96
	318	IQ	Weekly Hourly	o MOS. $882 40 5 22.060	6 MOS. $943 68 $23 592	6 MOS $1,004.92 $25 123	6 MOS. $1.06624 $26,656	iMQS, $1,073.24 $26 831	6 MOS $1.08024 $27,006	6 MOS. $1,087.24 $27,181	6 MOS. $1,094.16 $27,354	6 MOS. $1,101 24 $27,531	6 MOS. 51.108.28 $27 707	6 MOS $1.11524 $27 881	6 MOS. $1.12228 $38 057	CMOS. $1,129.24 $28 331	6 MOS 51.136 24 $28,406	MAX $1,180 88 $29 522	*6
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2008
	Nomen	Mlary Grade	Wage Rate	Mio 1	2	3	4	5	<!	z	8	9	io	11	12	13	14	Max. 15	Ton I Month IttMarlmum
	320	■J	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $754.04 SIS s5l	b MOS. 5815.3b $ JU 3x4	6 MOS. S876 So $21 u|4	6 MOS S9?8 01 $23,450	6 MOS. 59y9 V. 524 Q84	6 MOS. $1,1*0 64 $26.51*	6 MOS. $ 1.0*7.04 $26 676	* MuS 51.073 5* $26 839	MAX 5 Id lb 04 $?7 9ul							48
	32.'	8	Weekly Hourly	LJjslOS $635 do SIS S99	9 MQS. 5*94.44 SP36I	9 MOS. $752 92 SIS 833	9 MOS S«II 3* $20 284	9 MOS 5869.S4 521.746	9 MOS. 5928 44 $23,211	6 MOS. 593*44 523 411	6 MOS. $944 40 $23610	f MOS. $952 32 $23 80b	6 MOS. $9*0 2* 524 007	6 MOS $968.24 $24 2(16	b_MuS 597*.2O 524.405	6 MOS $992 16 $24 864	* MOS 5l.iX)S (iS 525.202	MAX $1,951 6S $26,342	114
	1’4	>1	Wee Uy Hourly	o MOS 1489 76 SI 2.244	6 Mus S537 44 SI 3 43*	S5b5 3? 514 633	* MQS, 563} 16 ST5 829	6 MuS, $6X0.92 5l7n23	6 MOS. $728 64 SI8 2|6	6 MOS 5^3* 32 $|X 40x	* MDS 5743 88 518.597	o MOS. S7SI 52 518 788	* Ml>S. $759 I* 51S97Q	6 MOS. $766 66 $|9 176	0 MUS, $774 4(i SN3HJ	* MOS $789 (A $|9 742	b MuS 5804.92 52u 123	MAX 5850.1b $21 254	4*
o	325	2	Weekly Hourly	5 MOS SI 19 48 SIU 987	6 Ml 'S $'.ll7 44 $12.68*	bMUS S55b 3b SLWJ	6 MOS. $609 I* 515 229	6 MDS. sit. 499	MAX $7*5 40 519 135										29
	33u	i:	WeekK Huurly	“ MOS. $914 40 S22 860	9 MOS SI .016 08 $25 40?	9 MOS, Sl.Oo*/*. $> 674	? MOS SI.143.2S $28 582	. * MOS. 1 51JI95b I $30 4*9	MAA SI.35^04 $3'976										54
	333	‘J	Weekly HiXirls	0 MOS S'O> 40 111 210	6 MOS $574 68 SI4 167	5620 80 515 520	6 Ml'S $666 84 $16*71	6 MOS. S703 |r. SI7 579	6 MOS $7.39.52 $18488	* MOS, $7^5 $1*3-^	* MOS 5812 32 52u JO*	6 MOS 5848*4 521.216	6 MOS 5885 04 522.12b	t-MOS. $y?l 3* 523.034	* MOS. $w57 ?2 523943	6 MUS $m94 ox 524 852	6 MOS SI.010.4 8 $25 76?	MAX $1,104 .'.6 $37B|4	96
	333 i	0	Wtrkly Hourly	6 MOS. $5’8 40 $13,210	6 MOS $574.68 SI4 167	* MOS 5*20 8" S15 5?ii	MOS 5*6*84 5lbb71	6 MOS $701 16 SI7 579	*MUS 5739 52 $]x4Xx	6 MOS. $775 92 $19,398	* MOS, 5812 32 529 308	6 MDS 584x.*4 521 216	6 MOS 5885 04 522 126	* MOS 5921.3b 523 u34	6 MDS. 5957 72 523 943	6 M< IS $994 08 $24 852	6 MOS. 51,030 48 525 7h2	MAA $1,104 56 $2? 014	9fl
	335	a	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $7*1.72 $|o 043	_t>_MO5 58b3 48 $21 5*7	6 MOS. 5914 40 S22 860	n MOS. S,J*5 24 524.131	6 MDS Sl.lltoiA 525 402	MAX $1,104 5* 5?7 614										3u
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSKIN STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1.2008
Ne—		W«»	Wi 1	2	2	1	2	1	2	1	2	11	11	11	n	H	Mn. IS	fatal Mastt
			LMQ&	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS		6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	&MQ&	6 MOS	6 MOS	MAX	
336	h	Weekly	$436JO	$48228	$528.40	$574 68	$620X0	$66684	$689.46	$711.88	$734 36	1756X0	$779.40	$801.92	184632	$891.88	$952JH	96
		Hwirty	S1O.9O5	112.057	$1)210	11436?	115520	$16,671	SI72M	$17 797	$18)59	$11X20	$19485	$20,048	$21173	S22.297	$23,801	
			tMQ£	6 MOS		bMOS	6 MOS.		6 MOS.	6 MOS.		LMQS.	4MQS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	MAX	
33<m	4	Weekly	1436.20	148228	$52840	$574.68	$620.80	366684	$689.40	mi 88	1ZM34	$75680	1779.40	180792	B46.O2	S891.88	$95204	96
		Hourly	$10 905	$12,057	113210	$14 367	115320	116.671	117235	$17,797	$18359	118.920	$19,485	$20X48	$21,173	$22,297	$23X01	
			6 MOS	6 MOS.		6 MOS	UKS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MUS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	MAX	
339	H	Weekly	561224	$667 96	$723X0	$779.40	$81932	$85936	$89932	$939.40	$979.44	$1,109.40 $1X59.40 51X9944 $1,139.44 $1,179.48 1125708						%
		Hooiy	$15,306	$I6.4H9	118X95	$19,485	$20 483	$21,484	$22483	$23 485	124.486	$25 485	$26485	$27,486	$28 486	$29,487	SU. 427	
M3 II
6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS MAX
Weekly	$863.48	$96534	$1,01608	11,066.96	$1,14338 1IJ57 CH
Hourly	$21,587	124 131	$25 402	$26,674	$28382 S31.427
344
Weekly Hourly
6 MOS $834 48 120 862
6 MOS. 1901 48 $22337
6 MOS.
1968.32
124208
6 MOS
11.031.40
125.855
6 MOS 6 MOS.
6 MOS
6 MOS
6 MOS.
6 MOS. LMQ1
SI.052.00 SI.068.72 SIJKS.HO SI. 10224 11,119.00 11,135 76 11,152 48
126.300 126 718
127.140 127156 127975 128394 128.812
6 MOS 11,16928
129232
6 MOS 11.18604
129.651
6 MOS. $1,202.72
130 068
MAX
11257.08
131.427
345	11 Weekly
llcurfy
6 MOS 6 MOS. 6 MOS.
1834.48 1901.48 1968.32
120.862 $223)7 124 208
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. 11.035.40 11.052 00 11,068.72
525.855 126.300 126 718
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS
11.085 60 11.10224 11,119.00
127.140 127556 127975
6 MOS 6 MOS. 6 MOS
11.1)5 76 11.152.48 $1,169.28
128.394 128812 129.232
6 MOS. 6 MOS. MAX
11.186 04 $1,202.72 11257.08
129.651 130.068 131.427
bMOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS.	6 MOS	bMOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	bMOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	MAX
346	9	Weekly	$692.08	$763.56	$83508	$906.52	$978.00	tl.049.40 $1,055.84 $1.062J2 $1,068x4 $1,075.16 SI.081 68 $1,083.08 11.100.84 SI.U3.80 $1,157.88
Hourly	$17,302	SI9 089	120 877	$22,663	$24 450	$26,235 $2b.396	$26 558	126 716	$26,879	$27 042	$27 202	127.521	127.845	$ 28 947
bMOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6MUS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6	MOS.	bMOS.	6MOS	6MOS.	6MOS.	6 MOS	bMOS	MAX
347	9	Weekly	$755.24	1814 84	1874 3b	1934 04	$947.28	$960.48 $073.80 $987 00 $1,000 lb $1,013.40 11.026 60 $1.0)9.88 $1,053.12 11.066 40 $1,117.20
Hourly	$18 881	$20,371	$21,859	$23 351	$23,682	$24012	$24,345	$24,675	$25004	125.335	$25.6b 5	$25997	$26,328	$26,660	$27,930
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RAI ES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2008
	Nomen	Salary Gride	Wage Bais	Mln 1	2	3	4	5	ft	7	8	9	10	u	U	13	14	Mu. 15	Total Month to Mulmum
				6MOS	6 MOS	ft MOS	ft MOS.	4 MOS.	6 MOS.	h MOS,	ft MOS	ft MOS.	ft MOS	ft MOS	ft MOS.	b MOS.	6 MOS	MAX	
	US	'J	Weekly	58Wb«	$865 (>0	5<8 96	$'>j3 08	$1.1X8)84	SI.W* nfl	Sl.oift 12	S l,”24 IM	$1,031 88	$1 [j39o8	St.047 3b	$1,055 12	S1.002 84	11.070 68	31.1 lb 04	9b
			Hourly	$20 01?	$21 o25	$23224	$24 82?	$25,021	$25 215	$25 4n8	$25 oOI	125 ’■»?	$25,992	$2yI 84	$2ft 378	S2o 571	$2ft 767	$27 901	
				o MuS.	ft MOS	ft MOS.	h MOS	ft MOS	ft Mt IS	Max									
	150		Werklv	1458 7b	3507 20	SSf.S 44	$ftO3.8D	$ft52 36	$7uti 48	57o5 40									3ft
			Hourly	Sil 469	$12 o*.(i	S13 8F.h	115.<*>5		$17,512	$W 135									
				ft MOS.	nMOS	ft MOS.	ftMOS.	ft MOS	MAX										
	351		Weekly	$4 5d 44	$55* 3ft	Wn Ift	Oft	$727.80	$799.28										3ft
			Hourly	511.411	SIW^	515 22*	$164^9	$1* 195	$|Q.QS2										
				5 MOS	6 MOV	6 MUS	ft MUS	6 MOS.	wax										
o	352		Weekly	$4 39.48	$507 44	555* 3h	$hM 16	$6W.Qi>	$7^5 4u										J 9
			Houri y	ilO-JsV	$12 iJi"	$11.9'1	$15 229	516 499	519 135										
				ft MUS.	ft MOS.	* MOS	ft MOS	f- MOS.	Max										
	353	4	Weekly	$ft?4 b0	$6X1.52	$738 2«	$7<J5 14	$851 92	$942 In										30
			Hourly	$15615	SI 7 038	SIM 45?	111879	$21 218	$23 5b9										
				6 MOS	6 MOS.	ft MOS.	ft MOS.	ft MOS	ft MOS	ft MOS	b MOS	6 MUY	6 MOS.	ft MOS	b MOS.	ft MOS	6 Mr	MAX	
	354	3	Week!.	$47?	5518 32	$5M uO	Soul 48	$85$ 12	S700 48	$706 12	$7| | 64	$7P 20	$722 7?	$728 32	$7U *4	S745 09	S75b 08	$709 28	
			Hourly	Sllitti	si: ■>;»	$14 100	SI5 237	Sl6 378	$17 512	$ 17 P51	$|7 79|	517.110	118 ut.8	$18 2u8	SIX 346	518 625	$18 902	$19982	
				’ MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	ft MOS	o MOS.	MAX										
		1	Wcfkty	$405 64	$456 44	5^07 44	$558 3b	Sotri Ift	S6u7 52										27
			Hourly	$10 Ml	$11 411	$12 r.8t.	$13 950	SIS 22’J	517.418										
				■jmqs.		i MOS	9 MOS	1 MOS.	* MOS	MAX									
	362	12	Weekly	$860 48	5^53 72	$1 UJI 04	5I.R8 12	$1.215 28	$1,302.52	$1,359.94									S4
			HuujK	121 m>2	521.K41	S2ft.D2ft	$28 2u3	530 382	$32 5ft3	533 97ft									

	Setary W»«» mt		Mb 1	2	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS										u	IS	Mn.	TriMert MM—fai
					3	i	WEEKLY RATES-EPHECIWE MAY 1,2008							u				
							S	ft	1	1	2	ia	11					
MJ	12	Weekly Hourly	SMQS. $8664* $21,662	9 MOS. 5953.72 $23X43	9 MOS SUM I.O4 $26K?6	USS. 9 MOS, iMQS. MAX $1,128.12 11.215.28 $1,30032 $1.35994 $28203 $30 382	$32363 $33 976												54
w	10	Weekly RoHrty	6 MOS $812.60 32OJI5	S9M.4G S2ZB60	6 MOS. $96524 $24 131	6 MOS. 6 MOS, MAX $I.OI6uO8 $1,066.96 $1,1*08* $25,402 $26 674 $29522												30
U5	11	Weekly Hourly	9 MOS. $866.48 $21,662	9 MOS. $953.72 $23 843	9 MOS. $1,041.04 $26,026	9 MOS 9 MOS. MAX $1.128.12 $1,21528 $1.33660 $28,203 $30382 $33,415												45
3o7	0	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS S801.lt $20,029	6 MOS. $876.76 $21,019	6 MOS $95232 $23,808	6 MOS (lMQS. $1,027.96 $13)3452 $25 699 $25,863		6 MOS. 6 MOS SIJ04I.I6 $1,04761 $26,029 $26,192		6 MOT 6 MOS $1,05424 $1,060.72 $26356 $26518		6 MOS $1.06720 $13173X4 $26,680 $26846		iMQi 6 MOS 6 MOS. MAX $1,08040 $1X86.92 $1.093 4* $1,137.60 $27,010 $27 173 $27,337 $28,440				96
k)7H	4	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $835.08 $20 877	LMQS. $90652 $22,663	6 MOS. $978.00 $24 450	6 MOS 6 MOS. 6 MOS. $1,049.40 $1,055.84 $1,062 32 $26,235 $26396 $26558			OMQS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS $1.068 64 $1,075.16 $1,08168 $26,716 $36 879 $27,042			6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. $13)88 08 $1,09452 $1,10034 $1,107.28 $27102 $27,363 $2 7 521 $27 682				6 MOS. MAX $1,113.80 $1,157X8 $27 845 $28,947		96
J67A	X	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $608.04 SI 5.201	6 MOS. S3 02.56 $17,564	6 MOS. $769.32 $19,233	tMQS. $835.88 $20,897	6 MOS. $902.56 $22564	6 MOS $969 24 $24231	MAX $1,053.68 $26,342									36
367B	7	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $532.64 $13,316	6 MOS 5*08.04 $15201	6 MOS. S631.60 $17,090	6 MOS. $759.28 $18,982	6 MOS. 1834 92 $20,873	6 MOS. $910.48 $22,762	6 MOS. $920.44 $23 011	StMQS. $93048 $23262	6 MOS $940.36 $23509	lmqs. $950.36 $23,759	MAX SI, 002.88 $25,072					60
36B	4	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $635.96 $15,899	6 MOS U94W 517 361	6 MOS. $752.92 $18 823	6 MOS. $811 36 $20284	6 MOS $869 84 $21 746	6 MOS $928.44 $23211	6 MOS S 942 60	CMOS. $956.68 $23 917	6 MOS. $970.80 $24270	CMOS, $<184.84 S24o21	6 MOS. $999 12 $24,978	6 MOS. $1.01320 $25 330	6 MOS $1,041.44 $26,036	6 MOS. $1,060.68 $26,742	MAX $1,121 48 $28 037	96
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS
WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1,2008
Salary Wage Mln	Max- local Monlb
Nomen	Grade	Rate	£	=	J	4	S	6	2	8	Q	10	II	12	13	14	15	to Maximum
			bMOS	ft MOS.	0 MOS	6 MOS	bMQi	6 MOS	t> MOS.	o MOS	6 MOS	ft MOS.	ft MOS.	9 MUS.	b MOS.	b MOS.	MAX	
?r.'J	i	Weekly	$4H7 7?	$5 IS .lo	$5 S 1.00	$630 ft4	$678 28	$725 9ft	5747 72	$769 40	5791 20	38129ft	5834 76	$85o 44	$900 0U	$943 48	$i.nr>2 88	4ft
		Hourly	M2 |91	SI3 384	S14 575	SI5 7t*j	$16^57	$18 149	JlShoy	$192’5	$|9 780	$2i> 124	$20 X6*»	$21,411	$22,500	$23587	$25,072	
			0 MOS	h MoS.	6 MOS	b MOS.	h MOS.	ft MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	ft MOS.	6 MOS	t! MOS	ft MOS	ft MOS	Max	
Pi?	i	WeekJy	$487 72	$535 36	$5UlW	LOOM	$D 78 2X	5725 9b	$747 72	$709 40	$791 20	3812.9ft	3834 7ft	$8''ft. 44	$9(1(1 u0	$943.48	$ 1.002 88	9o
		Hourh	M2 |9l	$13 384	$14 575	515 76ft	$16*157	$18 144	$ISh93	$19275	$H 780	$20 324	$20 X69	$21,411	$2 2.Son	$23.5R7	$25 072	
			3 MOS	6 MOS	h MOS	ft MOS	h MOS	MAX										
l?l	1	ft eekly	$405 64	345ft 44	5507 44	5558 36	SolN It.	So97 52										27
		Hourh	J Hi 141	Ml 411	SI 2 ftXft	513 959	$r.229	$17 438										
			9 MOS	MOS	9 MOS	» MOS	9 MOS.	9 MOS.	n MOS	t. MOS	b MUS	ft MOS.	ft MOS	ft MDS	6 MDS	6 MOS	MAX	
p;	X	Weekly	So 15 Uh	3ft94 44	$752 92	$811 3ft	5^6* 84	$^28 44	$«’t. 44	$944 4IJ	$^52 32	S’thu ?x	$-J6X 24	$97r..2H	$902.16	5l.nnx.nx	31.053. ft 8	114
		1 [ji-irtv	515 899	£17 361	SIS 103	$2u 284	S2I 74h	$22 211	$23 411	$2’019	323 >*08	S24ii07	S24 20ft	$24 4u5	$24 8N	$25 202	$26 342	
			bMOS	o Meis	bMOS.	0 MOS.	6 MDS.	MAX										
180		Weekly	$558 36	5659 9t>	$7J7 80	VM 72	S«i2.on	S°0l OU										3i>
		Hourly	$13,959	510 4*19	SIS l»5	$19043	$20 315	322 527										
			0 MOS	ft MOS	b MOS	6 MOS	bMOS	MAX										
3M	4	IKecklv	SfftJ >4	SMI |h	$708 44	$765 92	$823 28	$914 64										30
		Hourly	i 14 846	5Io 27u	SI7 7||	$19 I4X	S2O.582	$22 8bh										
			9 MOS	9 MOS.	9 MOS.	9 MOS.	9 MOS.	w MOS.	h MOS.	bMOS.	6 MOS	t. MOS	h MOS.	t. MOS	6 MOS.	0 MOS.	MAX	
	13	Weekly	$1,041 04	$1,128 J2	SI.215 28	SI.302 52	SI.11144	SM24 44	$l.."5.4v	$I..Mb40	SI.357.28	51.368 28	51 37-j 24	S1.39U24	si.401 :o	31.412 2u	5I.4OIJ X4	114
		Hourly	$2ft	SJX.20.1	$3uJ82	$32.5ftJ	532 836	$33 111	S33 385	$’’6t.l’	$33*32	$34 20 7	534 481	334 756	$25 fl.™	$35,305	$’o 521	
			6 MOS.	t> MOS	bMOS	b MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	0 MOS	6 M< 1S	ft MOS	h MOS	6 MOS	ft MOS.	6 MOS.	ft MOS	M<X	
V>4	ft	Wcekh	$555 44	$e<i3 8n	$052 >	S 700.48	$729 20	5757.88	S7's5 56	5815 2s	$84’ »t.	5872 56	$901 32	5930 on	3958 6X	39X7 3ft	51.053 ft*	9ft
		Hourly	$11ssb	315095	Sih ’u«	S17 512	Six 230	$1*.M7	3]9.<yq	$20,382	$21,096	$21.814	$22,533	$23 250	S23-J67	324 fj84	32ft 342	
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS
o QO
£ESk
3% J
S39O
S39|
sjn
WEEKLY RATES -EFFECTIVE NAY 1,2008 Wap Mia	Un. Total MoMh
Bsft 1	2	3	4 S 1	2	«	2	11	11	11	12 M 15 toMan—
6 MOS	6 MOS.	LMQS.	6 MOS,	6 MOS,	6 MOS.	6 MQS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	MAX
Weekly	MU 76	$455 88	M98W	$54028	$58252	5624.60	$63*48	S65ZJ6	$66616	$679X4	$69364	$70756	$73$ 16	$76284	$81420	96
Hourly	$10344	$11397	$12,452	$13307	S 14.563	$15615	515.963	$16,309	SI6654	$16996	$17341	$17 689	$18379	$19071	$20355
6 MOS.	6 MOS	MAX
Weekly $8*4 92 593172 596932	12
Hoorly	$22 123	$23.29.3	$24 231
6 MOS	<LbK&.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	LMQS.	MAX
Weekly	$602.20	$648 96	$696,211	$743 OS	$790.76	S837.8S	M75.52	36
Hwrty	$15 055	$16224	$17,407	$18577	$19,769	$20,947	$21888
IQOOtm	1000 hra	IQOtlhra	1000 hra	lOOOtm	1000 lira	MAX
Weekly	$60220	$648.96	$696.28	$743.08	$740.76	$837 X8	$815.52	6000	hrs.
Hourly	$153)55	$16224	$17,407	$18,577	$19769	$20,947	$21888
EXHIBIT "A"
PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY DISTRICT OFFICES. CREDIT AND COLLECTION CENTER, CUSTOMER PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER.
CUSTOMER INQUIRY CENTERS, CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS CENTERS, AND THE TELEPHONE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
Nomen	Salary Grade	Wage Rife	Min 1	7	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2009 JlSSlS’lfiUlL									13	Mai. H 1£	Total Month In Matimum
<[i|	1	Weekly Hourly	3 MOS $-418 84 $1I147|	bMQS $471 28 SH.^2	6 MOS $521.41) $13094	6 MOS 6 MOS. $570.52 So2>.40 $14 413 SIS 724		MAX $7?ij 20 $18005								27
302	9	Weekly Hourly	bMOS 5833 80 52lOi4?	ft MOS. $914 40 $22 SbD	MOS. $<hj5 |2 $24 378	6 MOS SI ,075 77 $20,893	6 MOS $1 ISbbfi S2««J5	MAX SI.272 48 $31 M2								.in
3u3	1?	Wee My 1 IoiltI y	y MOS, $1,^4 88 52b 872	'1 MOS. SI.164 00 $29,120	9 MOS 5I_254 Su 531.370	0 MOS S 1.344 88 $33 622	9 MOS $1,310.16 $33 904	MOS. 51.36? 52 534 188	0 MOS. 0 MOS. $ 1.37h Ki> $1 390 1 r, $.M47Q	$14 754	|>MH$ $1,401 40 $15035	ft MOS S 1.412 7b $35 319	6 MOS SI.424.08 $35 602	ft MOS, 51.4.15 44 535 88b	ft MUS. $l.44o 7b 53ft. if -9	ft MOS MAX 51,458 12 $!.^"8 V Sih 45?	$37 7o8	114
304	12	WeekJv Hourly	9 MUS S8'*lb4 $223ft6	9 MOS S484 7J $24 b|H	‘j MOS, 51,074.88 $2b 872	9 MOS. $1.104 80 S2» 120	9 MDS. $1,254 su 531.370	9 MOS 51.344 88 533 622	MAX $1,403.24 $35 081							54
	12	Weekly Hourly	9 MOS $8-Mo4 $22 36b	9 MOS $984 7> 524.018	9 MOS $1.074.8 8 52h8?2	4 MOS $1,164.80 $29 |20	9-MU5. $1,254 O $31 370	9 MOS. $1,344 8^ 533 b22	MAX SI.4U3 24 535081							54
30b	IU	Weekly Hourly	0 MOS. $801 76 J.’U 044	6 MOS. $8*2 5? $22 063	EMUS, $0d3 ib $24 079	6 MOS. 51,0439b 52b.W	6 MOS $1,124.80 $28 120	MAX $1,241 90 $31 049								30
30t-i	10	Weekly Hourly	0 MOS. $801 76 5211 044	bMOS. $8s?52 $22<«3	oMOS S-Jbi Io $24 07«	b MOS $1,04396 S26.CN9	u MOS. $1,124.80 $28 120	MAX $1,241 46 $31 049								3u
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEBQYRATES -EFFECTIVE MAY 1,2MB
	litesa	Satan Gfwfr	Wage fact	Mia 1	1	2	4	2	ft	2	i	I	11	u	u	u		Mm, IS	Traifttartk
	an	9	Weekly Hourly	a MO& $714 60 $(7,865	6 MOS. $788.40 $19 710	S86224 $21356	6 MOS, $936.00 £23.400	& MOS, 1IJ09.80 1Z5.245	6 MOS, MAX $1,083.52 SI.I74.6O 5ZTM8 129 365										36
	3O7h	9	Weekly Hourly	tMW $71460 $17 865	6 MOS $788.40 $19,710	6 MOS. $862.24 $21556	6 MOS. $93600 $23 400	6 MOS. 6 MOS, MAX $1,009.80 $1,083.52 $I.I74j6(i $25,245 $27088 $29 365											36
		9	Weekly Howty	6 MOS $714.60 $17,865	6 MOS. $788.40 $19,710	6 MOS. $86224 521.556	6 MOS. $936.00 $23 400	6 MOS. 6 MOS 6 MOS, 6 MOS. $17009 80 $!,083_52 $1,090.16 $1,006 88 $25,245 £27.088 $27254 $27,422				6 MOS. 6 MOS fc JMQS, SI,10340 $1,110.12 $1,11684 $27,585 $27 751 $27921			6 MOS. $1.123 44 $28086	6 MOS, 6 MOS MAJ $1,136*4 $1,150.00 $1,19552 $28,416 $28 750 $29 888			96
o	3£»	7	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $54996 $13,749	6 MOS $627.80 SIS 605	6 MOS. $705.84 $17 646	$783 96 $19599	6 MOS. $862JB $21,552	6 MOS. $940.08 $23 502	6 MOS. $956 36 £23.759	6 MOS. $960 72 $24 0(8	6 MOS $970*2 $24273	6 MOS. $981.23 $24,532	MAX $1.035 48 $25,887					60
	310	2	Weekly Hourly	3 MOS. $453.76 $11344	6 MOS. $523 96 $13,099	6 MOS 557632 $14 413	6 MOS. $628.96 SI5 724	6 MOS. $681 44 $17,036	MAX $792^8 $19,807										29
	311	I	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $418.84 $10,471	6 MOS. $471.28 $11 782	6 MOS $523.96 $13,099	6 MOS. $576.52 $14413	6 MOS. $628.96 $15 724	MAX $72020 $18,005										27
	317	II	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $881 36 $22,034	6 MOS $960.32 $24 008	JtMQS. $1.039 40 $25,985	6 MOS. $1,118.36 $27,959	6 MOS $1,131.08 $28 27?	6 MOS. $1,143.96 $28,599	CMOS $1.15*72 $28,918	6 MOS. $1.16952 $29238	6 MOS. $1,182.28 $29,557	6 MOS. $1,195 16 $29,879	6 MOS $1,207.96 $30 199	6 MOS. $1,220.72 $30,518	JlMQS, $1,233.48 $30,837	6 MOS. $1246.24 $31,156	MAX $1,297.96 $32 449	96
	3l«	10	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $911.08 $22,777	6 MOS. $974 36 $24 359	6 MOS. SI.037.60 $25 940	6 MOS. $1.10092 $27 523	6 MOS $1,108.12 $27,703	6 MOS $1,11536 $27 884	6 MOS. $1,122.60 $28 065	6 MOS $1,129.72 $28,243	6 MOS. $1,137.04 $28 426	6 MOS. $1,144.32 $28 608	''MOS. $1,15152 $28,788	6 MOS $1,158.76 $28 969	6 MOS. 6 MOS. MAX $1,165.96 $1.173 20 $1,219.28 $29,149 $2*330 $30,482			96
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2009
	Sal try	w«ge	Mln	Mal,	Total Monlh
Nomen	Grade	Bali	12	2	■>	£6	2	S	5	m	U	12	12	14	15	Io Mulmum
			ft MOS CMOS 1. MOS ft MOS. 0 MOS ft MuS ft MOS ft MOS. MAX		
3^0	Q	Weekh	ll'n 5r» $841 88 S'AO Ok $4p« 52 51 93" 84 51.04$ 12 5l.mi.72 $1,108 4a 51.152 32		45
		Hourly	S 14.464 121 U47 $22^27 S24 213	$25 ?<■(.	37S	$27 543	$27 712	S2* W		
			9 MOS 4 MuS. 9 Mos. 9 MOS 4 MOS 4MOS, ft MOS. ft MUS ft MOS ft MOS, ft M<JS o MOS, ft MOS	ft MOS. MAX	
	X	Weekly	So5o o4 $71704 $777 40 lai? ir, $848 12 $95804 $060 88 $o?5.12 $481.28 $40152 5944 72 $ 1.007 Oo $1,024 44	$1,049 84 $1.08? 90	H4
		Hourly	5104,6 $17 926 $19435	$20444 $22453 $23 400 $24 172 $24 378 $24 582 $24 788 $24943	525.144 $25 n 11	$20 021	527 144	
			ft MOS. ft MVS. o MOS. ft MQS ft MOS. ft MUS. ft MOS. ft MuS ft MQS. o M< 'S ft MOS ft MuS. ft MQS.	ft MOS MAX	
3M	4	Weekly	$505 ft* $554 92 So04 3ft 5ft53 ?ft $70308 $75138 $7o0 28 $708.08 $?7$on $783 x4 $791.72 5744ftO $815 30	$R3iu8 S877 $0	■Jn
		Houris	$12 64? $13873 SI5.IV> $10 344	$17 577	$188118 $14 007	S|9J(l2	$14344 $|4 540	$14,743 Sjuul.l $20384	$20,777	$21445	
			5 MOS, ft MOS ft MOS 0 MOS. 0 MOS. MAX		
325	■»	Weekly	$453 Th 5523 96 $576.52 $i>2(*	$6Mi.44 S79u 28		
		Hourly	511.344 $13,044 $14413 $15 724 5l?O.3ft $14 757		
			9 MOS	4 MOS 4 MQS, u MOS 9 MuS MAX		
110	12	Weekly	$Q44 12 SI.fi4O.l2 SI .101 o4 SI .ISO 44 $|,?5w.2" SI.403 24		
		Hourly	S23ttf3 S2&22S $27,541 S2*>5|] SU.W	OKI		
			ft MOS. ft MOS. ft MQS 0 MOS ft MOS. ft MuS 0 MOS. ft MOS ft MOS, ft MOS 0 MOS ft MOS. ft MOS.	0 MOS MAX	
333	w	Weekly	$54'00 $593 30 $64100 $088.52 $720 04 $763 5ft 5801.10 5818.72 $8?o ?4 $4|38o 595132 $488.88 $|.ij?o40	SLUM 00 SIJ-inqK	'^b
		Hourly	SUMI' 514814 $10 025	$17213 $18151	514.084 520024 $J09o8 $2l'Ji> $22 845	523 783 $24 722	$25 ooO	S26MH1 5-2*51?	
			ft MOS ft MUS ft MOS ft MOS o MuS 6 MQS ft MOS 0 MUS. ft MUS o MOS. ft MOS. 6 MUS. ft MOS	oMOS MAX	
? 3 ?-j		Weekly	$545 60 5593 3ft SMloO $088 52 572o 04 Slot.Jo $801 |r. $838 72 587ft 24	$413 80 $95112 $U!-.s s8 $1.02640	5l.0o4.lXl $1.143148	
		Houris	SI3o40 $14834 5|ft.O25 $I?2I3 $18 151 5I«O89 520924 SJOOp* $21 90ft $22845 523.783 524 7J2	$25 om>	$2ooi» 528 512	
			ft MUS. ft MOS 6 MuS 6 MOS. 6 MQS. MAX		
335	4	Weekb	$78648 $84156 $444.12 $44664 $ 1.044 1 2 S 1.140 4 8		30
		Hourly	$14602 $22,284 $23 603 $24 916	52o 228 $28.'12		
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS
WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE HAT 1. ZOOS
SAey Wage Mta	Mu. Taedk^rtft
jtHKD	1	2	2 d i 6	1	1 I 1? U 12 Li H IS bMuhw
6 MOR	6 MOS.	6 MOS	CMOS,	6 MOR	6 MOS.	6MOS	6 MOS.	6 MLS.	6MDS,	hML&,	6MOS	6MOS.	6 MOS	MAX
336	6	Weekh	3450.40	$49796	33*5.60	$59336	SMI JO	5683 52	$71184	3735JD4	$75X24	57JI W	$8M 76	SKEUB	$874.41	S920J88	$983X0	96
Hourly	SI 1260	if 1449	$13X40	$14,834	M6 0M	$17.21.1	$17 796	J IS.776	518 956	$19 535	I2O.H9	$20,700	$21062	123.022	$24 575
6 MOS	6 MDS	AMOS.	CMOS	6 MOS	AMDS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOR	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6M0S	6 MOS.	MAX
136-1	6	Weekly	3*50.40	$49796	5545.60	$59336	SMI 00	$688.52	S?ll 84	$7350*	$758.24	STS I 4C	$804.76	$82*00	$874.48	$920 88	$983 00	96
Hourly	$11260	$12*49	313640	114134	J 16.025	$17213	SIT 796	111.376	111956	S19 535	320.119	120 700	$21,862	$23022	.124.573
6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	EMQ&	AMDS	AMDS.	AMQ&	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS,	MAX
139 II Weekly $63216 $689.68 $74732 SHM.76 1845.96 3817 32 $92156 596996 $1X1128 $1.05256 SI.WJJH $1,13520 11.17641 $ I JI 7X4 $12177.96	96
Hourly SI5.8M	117242	$18.6*3	320.119	121149	322.113	123214	124 249	32528?	$26 314	127.346	328.380	329.412	130 446	$32 440
6 MOS	U)XS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	MAX
343 U Weekly 3891.56 3996.64 31,04912 31, NUM 31.13044 JIJ97.9* Hoort, $22 289	324.916	126228	$27541	$29.511	$72 44«
344	11
345	U
346	9
Weekly Hourly	6 MOS 1861.60 321.540	6 MOS. 3930.80 $23270	6 MOS $499 80 S 24.905	6 MOS. 6 MOR. 51,069.08 $1.0*620 326 727 327.155		6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	EMOS.	6 MOS. 51,103.48 31,1202* $1.11808 $1,155.40 $1,172X8 $1,189.96 51,20728 $1224 60 $1,241.84 $27,587	$28 022	$28,452	328.885	529317	329,749	$30,182	530.615	$31,046									MAX $129796 $32,449
Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. 3861 60 321.540	6 MOS. 3930.80 323270	6 MOS. S949»0 $M.ro	6 MOS. 51,069.08 326 727	6 MOS. 6 MOS. $1.08620 51.103.48 327 155 527.587		6 MOS. $1,120.88 $28 032	iMQS. $1.138 08 $28,452	6 MOS $1.155 40 328 885	6 MOS. $1,172 68 $29317	6 MOS. 31.189.96 329,749	6 MOS. SIJ07J8 $30,182	6 MOS. 6 MOS. $1224 60 $1,241.84 $30,615 $31,046		MAX $1 797.96 $32 440
Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $714 60 $17 865	6 MOS. 3788 40 319.710	o MOS, S8&2.24 S2I.556	LMQS. 3936.00 523.400	6 MOS. 6 MOS 51.009.80 $1.08352 325245 527 088		6 MOS. 31.09016 327.254	6 MOS 51,096.88 $27 422	6 MOS. 6 MOS 6 MOS, 6 MOS $1,103.40 $1,110.12 $1,116.84 $1.123 44 327.585 $27 753 $27,921 $28,806				o MOS. S1.136.M 128 41b	6 MOS. MAX $1,15000 $1,195.52 $28,750 $29 888	
Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. 3779.80 319.495	LMQS. 3841 32 321 033	6 MOS $902.80 $22 570	6 MUS. 3964.40 324 110	6 MOS 3978 08 $24,452	6 MOS. 3991.72 324 793	6 MOS. $1,005.48 $25 137	6 MOS. $1.0193)8 325.477	6 MOS. 31.032.68 $25 817	6 MOS. CMOS. 6 MOS. 31.046 36 $1,060.00 31.073 68 $26,159 $26500 $26 842			6 MOS $1,087.36 S 27.184	6 MOS. $1,101.08 $27 527	MAX $1,153.52 $28,838
347	«
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2009
Nomen	Salary Grade	Wage Rafe	Min 1	2	3	4	5	6	7	s	9	10	11	12	13	14	Mm. 1!	Total Month to Mnilmuro
34*	0	Weekly Hourly	o MOS. 5*20 72 32(i e^eife	ft MOS. $xw3 |2 122 328	'■MUS $o$9 lb 523979	6 Mi'S SI 025 36 $25 f,14	6 MOS SI 033 40 S25 *35	6 MOS Sl.i4l.40 $26 035	b MOS 51,019 3ft $2b 234	$1.0573; S2b 433	6 MUS. 5I.On5 44 $26 636	(■.MOS, $I.U73 48 $26*37	6 MOS SI.OsI 40 S23O35	b MOS $1.089 44 $2723b	b MOS 51 097.40 527 435	bMOS $1,105.48 527 b37	MAX SI. 152 ?2 $28 81 >8	%
	-	Weekly Hourly	6 Mi »S $473 uS 111 842	6 MOS $523 72 $13 (N?	oMOS 5573 52 514.33*	b MOS Sft.23 44 $15 586	* MOS W3 5* tin 839	5 MOS. $723 28 $18 US?	MAX 579u 28 $19757									3b
351		Weekly H curly	6 MOS S47I 28 $11 7xj	ft MOS 557* 52 314 41 ?	ft MOS. k>23 ^0 SIS 724	ft MOS. $ft8l 44 51703b	oMoS. $751 4s $18 787	MAX 58?5 28 $20 632										in
352		Weekly Hourly	5 MOS $453.76 SI 1 344	ft MOS. $52* 9ft SI 3 OS*	b MOS $57* 52 $14 413	b MOS. $h28 Mi SI* 724	b MUS ji>8l 44 sroip	MAX $790 28 $10 75?										2-
3*3	4	WttkL HwurJy	MOS. $644 il? Slf. 12J	t- Mos S’ul 68 $17'92	6 MUS 5?62 28 $19,957	b MOS S82I 00 $20,525	bMOS S879.M 521 99|	MAX 1'01 40 $24 335										30
354	3	Weekly Hourly	tilts, $488.20 SI2 205	* MDS. 5*35.2n 513 3S1)	" MOS. $5*2.36 $14 559	bMOS. $b?9 32 $15,733	6 MOS Sb 76 44 Si*. 911	6 MOS $7?3 28 518.082	b MOS 5729.08 518 227	5714 80 $18 37u	* MOS $740 52 Jia 513	* MOS. $740 24 S IS b5b	6 MDS $752 00 $18 Win	r, MOS $75112 $18 043	0 MOS $7b9 24 519 231	ft MOS $780 b8 .519 517	MAX 5825 28 S2n 032	9 fi
355	1	Weekly Hourly	1 MOS. $4 11. 84 $ 10 471	oMOS 5471 >8 $11 782	6 MOS $52? *6 JI3U9O	6 MOS $570.52 $ 14 413	b MOS Sb28.96 $15 724	MAX S72O.2O $18 iO5										27
3b2	12	Weekly Hourly	9 MOS. 5*94 ft4 332 3bo	9 MOS. $084 72 $24 di	o MOS. SI.ON 88 $26 87 2	9 MOS $IJt>4 80 $29,120	9 MUS SI 254 80 S31.37O	u MOS 11.344.88 SO *22	MIX 51,4”3 24 $.15 <181									54
SALARY GRADES. SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES-EFFECTIVE HAY 1,2009
Miry Wip Ml"	Max.	Taed **—*-
Hua £o* BSE 1	2	2	1	5	*	1 I 8 is 11 U 12	14 IS taMpfawm
9 MOS	9 MOS. 9 MOS.	9 MOS	9 MOS	MAX
365	12	WaiLy	$89464	J9S4.72	HjtTMM Sl.IMM JiJMJC SIJ44JIS	$1.40324	54
Hourly	$22,366	$24,618	S26J72	$29. 120	S31 370	$33 622	SWOSI
6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	MAX
364	10	Waddy	$83904	SOM. 12	$996.64 $1,049.12 $1.10144 $1,219.28	30
Hourly	$20,976	$23,603	$24,916	$26228	$27341	S30.4&
9 MOS	9 MOS	9 MOS	9 MOS.	9 MOS	MAX
365	11 WcxUy $894.64 $984 72 SI,074X» $1,164X0 $1254 80 SI38004	45
Hoerty $22366	£>4618	$26,872	S29.I20	331370	$34501
		&MQS.		6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	tMQS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6MQS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	MAX	
J67	9	Weedy klmrty	$82720 $20 680	$905.28 S22.632	S98328 $24,582	$1,061.40 $1,068 16 $1.07500 $1,081.76 $1,08822 326.535 $26,704 $26 875 327 044 $27213					$1,09520 $1,101 92 $27,380 $27548		$1,108.76 $27719	$1.11552 $27,888	$1.12X28 $283)57	$112904 $28,226	$1,174.60 $29 165	96
3678	9	Weedy Hourly	6 MOS $86224 $21556	6 MOS. $936 00 $23,400	6 MOS 6 MOS $1,009.80 31.08352 $25,245 $27,088		6 MOS. $1,090.16 $27 254	6 MOS.	6 MOS. 6 MOS. $13196 88 $1.103 40 $1,110.12 $27,422 $27,585 $27,753			6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. $1,116.84 $1,123.44 $1,130.12 $27921 $28 086 $28253			6 MOS. $1,136.64 $28,416	6 MOS 6 MOS. MAX $1,143.28 $1,150 00 $1,195.52 $28 582 $28 750 $29 888			96
	8	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. 5627.80 $15,695	tMQS, 5725 40 $18 135	6 MOS. $794 32 $19,858	6 MOS $863,08 $21,577	6 MOS. 3931.92 $23298	6 MOS. MAX $J.0M>76 $1.087 96 $25 019 $27,199										36
3b7B	7	Weedy Hourly	6 MOS $549 96 313 749	6 MOS 3627.80 $15 695	6 MOS $705.84 317 646	6 MOS. $783.96 $19 5<M	6 MOS. $862 08 $21,552	6 MOS IW4J.D8 S2J 502	6 MOS. 5950.3b S23 7S<*	6 MOS. $960.72 $24,018	6 MOS. $970.92 $24,273	6 MOS. $981 28 $24,532	MAX S1JJ33.48 $25 887					60
368	4	Weekly Hourly	LMQS. $656.64 $16416	6 MOS. $717.04 317.926	6 MOS. 3777 40 $19 435	6 MOS. $837 76 $20 944	6 MOS. $898.12 $22,453	oMOS S958M S 2 3.066	6 MOS S973.24 £24.331	6 MOS. $987.80 $24 695	6 MOS. 6 MOS. $1,002.36 $1,01688 $25 059 $25,422		6 MOS. SI.O31.bO $23,790	6 MOS. $1,046.16 $26 154	tMQi $1,075.32 $26 883	6 MOS. $1,104 48 $27,612	MAX $1,157.96 $28 949	96
SALARY GRADES. SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2009
	Salary	Wage	Min													Mat.		Total Month
Nomen	Grade	R»te	1	i	£	4	5	6		£	9	15	H	12	13	14	15	tn Minimum
			6 MOS	6 MOS.	ft MOS.	6 MOS.	h MOS.	ft MOS	ft MOS	6 MuS	ft MOS.	ft MOS.	ft MUS.	t’MOi	a MPs	a MOS	MAX	
JftQ		Weekly	$5«3 r-O	S552 7ft	SoOI Jft	$65) 16	$700 36	$741 56	S_'72.l*4	$704 44	$816<	$*31 40	SXol 92	28	$129 28	$174 lb	51,035.48	9ft
		Hourly	si: ^ii	SB.SU	$15 049	Slft.27«	si?.sw	SIX 714	$ |9 3<i|	SUxftl	520 423	$20185	S21.548	522 107	$23 232	S24 J54	$25 *a7	
			a Mi >s	ft MOS	ft MOS	6 MuS	6 MOS.	6 MuS,	" MOS.	ft MOS.	ft MuS.	h M<_'S.	t> MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	b MOS	MAX	
37d	7	Weekly	S501 all	$552 7b	$601 46	$651.16	$7f/i.3b	$749.56	S772 114	$794 44	$*16 92	$83-4 40	$861 92	$884 28	$9J1 28	S*>74 la	SI.015 4X	9ft
		Hourly	si: wi	513.819	$15 041	Sift 271	$17,509	$|x^9	S19 301	$19861	$20 423	$20185	521.*4*	$22 im	$23 232	S24 354	s:5 xs:	
			3 MOS	ft MOS	6 MOS	ft MOS	ft MOS,	MIX										
_|71	|	Weekh.	S4I8 84	S47I 28	5523 46	ss^os:	$62* 9ft	$720 20										27
		Hourly	510 471	SU 7x2	Slliwu	$14 41 3	$15 724	$ IS <K'5										
			■IMPS	IMPS.	9 MPS	1 MOS.	1 MUS.	9 MOS	ft MOS	ft MUS	ft MC'S	6 MOS	ft MuS.	ft MOS	a MuS	MOS.	MAX	
372	8	Weekly	Sft*6 64	$717.04	$777 40	S«37 70	SX'ix 12	$958 64	Sit* KB	Si7? i:	$i83 28	$91152	$lli 72	$|.Dil7 9r.	SI n?4 44	$ 1,040 K4	S1 tisft Ma	114
		Hiiurly	$ |0 4|6	$l7 92b	$19 435	$2u 944	$22.4*3	523 ^,6	S24 172	S24 J7x	$24 582	$24 7g3	$24993	$25 Hl	s:s m i	$26 021	$2? in	
			& MOS.	ft MOS.	6 MC'S	ft MOS	ft MOS	MAX										
\ y.n	5	Weekly	S576 5?	Sb8l 44	$7S| 48	$786 48	SB 39.114	SQlO 40										in
		Hourly	SM4IJ	517 036	$18 78?	$|i m>2	$20 17 a	S23 2ftii										
			a MOS.	ft MC'S.	a MOS.	ft MPS.	ft MOS.	MAX										
381	4	Weekly	Sp|1 |a	SO72.12	$7*1 4K	$790 84	$*5UU4	$944 40										30
		Hourly	SIS JM	$lb8uS	$18 287	$|9 77|	$21 251	$23 610										
* MOS. * MOS,
H WeeMv Hourly
9 MUS. 9Mb. 4 MOS. MOS.
$1,074*8 $l IM8A JI.254 80 SI,344 88
S2ft872 $21 120 $31 J 70 $33 622
9 MOS MOS. $1,356 )b Sljft7 52 $33 004 $34 188
51J78 80 $1,390 |ft $|.40l 40
S 34 470 $34 754 $35 035
3«4
8	Weekly
Hourly
6 MuS 6 MC6. 157C52 $623.44 $14 33* $155*6
ft MOS. 6 MOS. $673.50 $723 28 Sl6*3i $18 082
6 MOS $752 $18 823
6 MOS, S782 52 $H563
6 MOS $812 12 $20,303
b MUS $841 Ki । $21 045
b MUS $871.40 $21.7x5
ft MOS. SI .41’ 76 S1'.JI«	b MOS $1,424 y* $?5 602	6 MUS SI,435 44 $15k80	a MOS SI.446 7a Sift 1*4	6 MGS $1 458 12 $36 453	$1.50^32 $37 70s
a MOS	6 MPS	6 MOS.	a MOS.	6 MUS	MAX
					
Sow QJ	$u in M	S<W)24	SOxo X4	$1,019 4a	$1,08716
s:2533	$23 266	$24 O' >6	s:j 74*	$25,437	$27 199
46
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES-EFFECTIVE HAY 1,2009
Nteg	Mery fiU&	Wrgr gg«I	6Sa 1	1	3	4	3	t	I	1	2	it	u	JI	13	11	■fax. 12	Total MmG JgJtaxteBg
			6 MOS	LMQS.	6 MOS	6 MOS,	6 MOS,	6 MOS,	&MK,	fcMQi	6 MOS,	6 MOS	&MQS.	6 MOS	6 MOS,	tMQfi.	MAX	
39ft	3	Weekly	S427.24	$470 72	$51421	$557. M	$601 40	$644 92	$659.24	$•>73.56	$687.14	S7DI.96	$71620	$730 56	j7»a	$787.64	$64048	96
		Ffoafy	Slfl.fttil	$11,768	$12,857	SH946	S15JB7	$16 I2J	$16431		nr m	JF73W	$17,905	$18264	SM977	JWWI	$21X17	
SW
6 MOS 6 MOS. MAX Weekly $913 68 $962.00 $1.00084 Rouriy	$22,842 $24050	$25,021
swt	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. S62IJS0 $15545	(lMQS. $67001 $16,752	6 MOS. $718.92 $17,973	6_MSS. $76724 $19 tai	6 MOS. SSI6M S2O.4I2	6 MOS $865.12 $21,628	MAX $904X0 SZ2600	
		lOTOlui	IQOOhn	1000 hi»	IQOOhra	IQOOha	IPWhn	MAX	
—	SJ92	Weekly	$621 SO	$670.08	$718.92	$76724	SK 16.48	$865.12	$904 00	MXMJhra.
05	H tidily	$15,545	$16 752	$17,973	$19,181	S2O412	$21,628	$22,600	
EXHIBIT "A"
PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS COMPANY DISTRICT OFFICES, CREDIT AND COLLECTION CENTER, CUSTOMER PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER, CUSTOMER INQUIRY CENTERS. CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS CENTERS, AND THE TELEPHONE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
\nmvn	Salary Grade	Wage Rafe	Mln 1	2	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS										11	14	Mai. 15	Total Monlb to Maiimum
					£	4	WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1,					2010 io	11	12				
							5	n	2	8	2							
301	1	Weekly H curly	3 MOS 541’48 sins 12	*MOS. $486(.0 $12 165	bMOS SMI 00 $13,525	f- MOS 6 MOS 5J«5 2x $M«4(> $14 882 $16215		MAX 5741 64 5IS 50)										27
102	9	Weekly Huurly	t> MOS SsmiQ2 s.’i vi	h MQS $<144 | ?	b MOS 51.027.48 $25 6X7	0 MOS 51.11066 $27 7h7	51.1«4 20 32^855	MAX $1,311 84 532 846										3<>
3u3	13	Weekly Hourly	0 MOS 51.1(19.84 527 746	y MOS, SI.2H2 f>8 S3uO(i7	9 MOS. $1.2^5 60 $32 3M)	■j MOS $1,188 Mi 514 715	Sl/M"l24 535 Of*	9 MOS. 51,412 W 535 300	b MOS. Sl.423.04 335 $9|	6 MOS. 51.435 3o $35 8P4	h M(_IS $1,440 lb $3* 174	* MUS $1,458.*$ $3*.4*7	6 MOS 51.470.36 Slf. 759	6 MDS $1.4X2 |J S37 053	* MUS. <■ MO~>. $1.4wJ xu 3l.5u5 52 337 3J5 $37 638		MAX $1,557 3* $3\i?4	1 ] 4
304	12	Weekly Hjurly	9 MriS. $921 72 52.1.091	9 MOS. $1.01*72 $25 41*	9 MOS SI ,109 84 $27 74f.	9 MOS 51.202 xH 510 067	$1,215*0 $32 3-Xi	9 MOS. 51.18s fad 514715	MA2i 31.448 88 5’0.222									54
305	12	Weekly Hourly	9 MOS. 5921.72 523 0«}	o MOS. $1,010 72 S25418	9 MOS, SI .109 84 $27.74*	9 MOS. $ 1.202 08 510 On 7	4 MUS $1.215 60 $32 VjO	9 MOS $1,188.60 $14715	MAX 51.448 88 S3C.222									54
306	10	Wttkh Hourly	6 MOS $827 84 $20 696	6 MOS 5HI 20 $22 780	5994 4* $24 862	MdOS. 51,077 92 $36 948	6 MOS, SLIM 3h $29 034	MaX 51.282 32 532.058										30
306-1	10	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. 5X27 84 S2U t.96	6 MOS, SMI 1 20 S22.78I ।	6 MUS 5^94 48 524.8*2	o MUS. 51.077 92 526 948	bMOS 51.1*1.3* $2l»u34	max 51.282 32 532 058										
	Jfawen	Satay Gro*	Wage	MK 1	2	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESS©# STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1.2010										il		On IS	
						2	1	5	i	Z	s	2	If	11	12				
	JOT	9	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $73754 518446	CMOS. 5814.04 120 35!	CMOS. 189028 177 7V?	6MSXL SWA 44 S24.161	6 MOS, klpMZM S26M6	tMOS. H&X 11.11876 SI 21220 527369 $30320										56
	W7-I	9	Week}} Hourly	CMOS. $737 W 118 446	LMQfi. 1814.04 120 351	6 MOS 189028 S22257	6 MOS S966.44 S24 161	6 MOS 6 MOS MAX 51.04264 $1,11876 $1212.80 126,066 S27.969 530320											
	MW	■»	Weekly Haurfy	CMOS 5737 84 118446	6 MOS 1814.04 $20351	6 MOS. $89028 522257	6 MOS. 5966.44 524.161	CMOS. 6 MOS	CMOS	CMOS,	CMOS,	6 MOS	6 MOS,	6 MOS,	6 MOS.	CMOS,	MAX 1I.O42A4 $1,11876	1I,125j60	11,13236	11,13928	11,14626	51,153.16	11.15996	51,173.60	51,187.40	51234 40 526 066 527 969	$28,140	528 314	528 482	$28655	528 829	528899	529.340	$29685	S3Q860											46
oo	W*»	7	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $567.84 114.196	6 MOS. 1648 20 $16205	6 MOS 5728 80 118220	$809 44 120236	6 MOS. $89012 $22253	CMOS $970.64 $24266	6 MOS $98128 S24332	CMOS. $991 96 $24,799	6 MOS 6 MOS MAX 51.00248 $1X0320 11.06916 $25 062 $25330 $26,729							60
	111)	:	Weekly Hourly	3 MOS. $468.52 Sil 713	6 MOS. 154100 SI 3.525	6 MOS. $59528 114 822	LMQfi, $649.40 S16235	fiJMQS. 1703.60 SI7.59O	MAX 581804 120.451										29
	311	i	Weekly Hourly	CMOS 1432.48 $10 812	6 MOS S486.C0 112 Ic5	6 MOS. 1541 00 113.525	6 MOS 1595.28 114.882	CMOS. SM9 40 lie 235	MAX 1743 64 118591										27
	317	ii	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. 14)0.04 122.751	6 MOS. 1991 56 $24,789	6 MOS. 11,073.20 S 26.8 30	LMQS. 51,154 72 528.868	6 MOS. SI.167.84 129.196	6 MOS. ItMQS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. 11.IKI.16 11.194 32 112073c 11220.72 129529 129.858 130 189 130.518				6 MOS. 11.234.00 $30,850	6 MOS $124724 $31.1*1	CMOS tMQS. 6 MOS $1260.40 SI273 6O 11286.76 131.510 131.840 S32 169			MAX 51,340.16 133 504	96
	318	10	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS 1940 72 123518	ft MOS. 11.006 04 125.151	ft MOS. 11,07132 126.783	CMOS. 11.136.72 128 418	CMOS. SI.144 1c 128604	6 MOS. $1.15164 S28 79I	CMOS. 11,159.12 128 978	6 MOS. 11.166 44 129.161	CMOS 11,174 00 129.350	CMOS. 11,181 52 $29 538	CMOS. 11.188 9c 129 724	CMOS 11,140.44 $29,911	CMOS. ft MOS. MAX 11203.88 $1,211 36 11258.92 130.097 130.284 13I.47J			9b
Nomen 32<i	Salary Grade	Wage Rate Weekly HiwIy	Mln 1 6 MOS, $M)J 8* $20 097	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1.2010													Mu. 15	Total Month to Minimum 4R
				2 6 MOS $8h9?4 $21.711	3 h MQS, $934 52 $2J 3bJ	4 S Ij »kiD GO $25 ("i0	5 0 MOS, Sl.(b5 40 $26 ft35	6 ft MOS $1 130 T2 $2* 2ok	7 bMOS 51,137.5b $28 439	8 ft MOS, $1,144.52 $28 bl 3	9 MAX $1,18* X0 $29,745	10	II	12	1}	14		
323	8	W«Hv Hourly	9 MOS Sb 78 Pmi $|ft 950	9 MOS $740.30 $18 509	9 MQS, S*w2.ft8 $20 0h7	9 MQS, $86$ (KJ $21 b25	9 MOS. 5*27 3? $23 181	9 MOS $989 so $24 74?	bMUS. $9WJJ $24 958	6 MUS $|,UfW4 $25 171	6 MUS SI 61524 $25,381	b MOS. SI 021.7ft $25 594	6 MOS SI.032 24 S35 5U6	6MOS SI.U4G 72 $26018	b MOS $1.057 76 $2ft.44-|	6 MOS $1,074.68 $2ft.Xft7	MAX $1,123.32 $2* 00 3	114
32-1	4	Weekly Hourly	b MOS. $522 12 SI J.r»53	0 MOS. $572 9r. $14 324	ft MOS $c24 0u $15 rX«O	6 MOS $675 l>4 S10.S70	b MDS $72\9f> $1* 149	b MOS, $7 7r- «0 S 1* 420	$7A^UU $19 625	ft MOS 5 ■’91 (14 $|9K2ft	b MOS. S80I 20 $29 njo	0 MOS $*ii9 32 $2(1 333	vrus $2(i 437	n MUS S825 6" S2O04"	b MOS S841 88 $21 947	ft MOS. S*5x 12 $21 453	MAX $9Ub 16 $22 b?9	4ft
32?-		Weekly Houri*	5 MC»S $468.^2 SI 1 713	MOS. S541 uu 313.52^	bMOS, $595 28 $14 X82	ft MOS b MuS. $64*40 S^Ol.ftti Sib 235 $17 5<Ki		MAX $x|t$OU S2D 4uD										29
330	12	WeeH* Hourly	9 MUS $<4 80 $24 37u	9 MOS 41,083 2-j S27.WJ	$1,137 44 $28 436	9 MuS. $1.218 04 $30 471	9 MOS $T VHJ lb $32,504	MAX 51.448*8 $ ift 222										54
33'	Q	Weekly Hourly	0 MOS. S5r.3 3n $14 13*4	6 MOS. $612 68 $15 .’I?	6 MOS $bbl 84 Sift 54b	b MOS $71092 $17 77J	bMOS. $749 64 $18741	b MOS. $788 40 $I97IO	6 MOS. $827 20 $20,680	b MUS $8ftft.ixi $21 .Mu	bMOS $9(14 72 $22618	ft MOS, $m43 52 $23 58S	6 MOS $962 24 $24 55ft	b MUS SI 021 $25 52b	b MOS, $ 1	To $2ft 494	0 MOS. $1,106 OU $27 465	Max $ 1 17T 56 S 29.4 39	90
333-1	Q	Weekly Hourly	b MOS $5o3 3 b $]4 0*4	S6lVb8 $15 317	basis, $001.*4 $16 546	b MQS, $711192 $17,773	6 Mt'S. $749 64 SI 6 74 1	b MOS $738 -Ui $|u7|(j	b M1 *S $827.20 $20.b80	b MOS. $xt*i 00 S21 ft50	ft Mos. $*U4 7? $22 ftp.	i> MDS 5941 <52 $2? 5a8	Liies. 5982.24 $24 556	b MOS, $1,021 04 $25,526	6MDS $1 059 7b $2t>4Q4	h MUS SI.098 60 $27 44,5	MIX $1,17'? $0 $29439	Uft
535 o
Weekly Houris
b MOS. $* 12 04 420 301
0 MOS. $92u 5ft $23,014
h MD$	bMOS	6 MOS	MAX
$974 80 Si.029.04 $|.0XJ24 $1,177 5b 424 370	$25.72b $27 08 I $29 439
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PRDGRESSKMi STEPS WEEKLY RATES ■ bJ-hbCIIVE HAY 1,2010
120
N—eu
336
IM. i
JJ9
MJ 344
34J 346
347
	Wv BSt	Mia 1	2	1	2	3	4	1	>	1	19	u	12	u	B	Mau. 1!	TftilMfrt
		6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MDS,	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	MAX	
6	Weekly	$465.04	SSM.I6	$563.36	$61268	$661.84	$710.92	$73500	$75896	5782X1	$806.80	$83092	$85492	$902.92	$950184	$1,014.96	96
	Hasty	$11,626		$14,084	$15317	$16346	$17,773	$18375	$18,974	$19 572	$20,170	$20733	$21373	$22573	$23 771	S25.374	
		fcMOS.		6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS		6 MOS,	6 MOS	MAX	
6	Weekly	$465.04	S5l4 |«	$563 36	$61268	$66184	$71092	$735.00	$758.96	$782X8	$806X0	$830.92	$854.92	$90292	$95084	$1,014.96	9«
	Hourly	$11.626	SI 2.354	$14,084	$15317	$16346	$17 773	$1837$	$18974	$19372	520.170	$20,773	$21373	$22573	$23,771	$25374	
WeeHy Howly
Weekly Hourly
Weekly Hourly
Weekly Hourly
Weekly Hourly
Weekly Hourly
6 MOS 6 MOS. 6 MOS. $65272 $71212 $771 64 lit 318 $17803 $19,291
6 MOS 6 MOS. 6WOS. $830.92 $873.48 $91616 $20,773 $71,837 $22 904
6 MOS	6 MOS 6 MOS.
$958 76 $13)01.48 $1,044.16 $23 969 $25,037 $26 104
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS $1.08680 $1,12940 $1,17212 $27,170 $28235 $29303
6 MOS.	MAX
81.214.72 $1257 44 $1340.16
$30 368 $31,436 $33 504
%
6 MOS. $92036 $23,014
fcMQS. $889.60 $22240
6 MOS. $889.60 $22,240
6 MOS. $737 84 $18,446
6 MOS. $805.16 $20 219
6 MOS. 6 MOS $1X29.04 $1,08324 $25,726 $27,081
6 MOS. 6 MOS. MAX Sl.137.44 $121884 $1340.16
$28,436 $30,471
$33,504
30
6 MOS. $961 08 $24,027
6 MOS. $961 08 $24 027
6 MOS. $814 CM $20 351
6 MOS. $868 68
6 MOS. $1,03232 $25,808
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS.
6 MOS
$1,103.84 51.121.52 $1,139 36 $1,15732 $1.17508
$27 596 $28 038
$28,484 S28.933
$79377
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS $1,192.96 $1210.80 SI 288.64 $29,824 $30270 $30,716
6 MOS. U1QS, 6 MOS. MAX $1,246.52 $1364 40 $1282 20 $1,340.16
$31 163 $31 610 S32.O55
$33,504
96
6 MOS. $1.03232 $25,808
6 MOS $890.28
6 MOS $932 16 $23,304
6 MOS 6 MOS. $1,10384 $1,121.52
$27,596
SlMQS. $966.44 $24,161
6 MOS $995 76 $24 894
$28 038
ihKS. 6 MOS $1.13936 $1.15732
$28,484
$28,933
6 MOS. $1,175.08 $29,377
6 MOS, n MOS. 6 MOS. $1,192.96 $121080 $1,288.64
$29 824
$30270 $30,716
6 MOS. 6 MOS. 6 MOS. MAX $1346.52 $1364.40 $1282 20 $134016
S3! 163
$31610 $32,055 $33,504
96
6 MOS.
6 MOS
$1.042 64 $1,118.76
6 MOS.
6 MOS
$26 066
$2 7 969
$28 140
$28,314
6 MOS $1,139.28 $28,482
6 MOS. 6 MOS. $1,14620 $1,153 16
$28,655
$28,829
6 MOS 6 MOS 6 MOS MAX $l.l59 9t. $1,173.60 $1,187 40 $1,234.40
$’8,999
$29 340
$29,685 $30,860
96
6 MOS $1,009.88
6 MOS.
6 MOS
$1,023.96 $1,038.16
$25,599 $25,954
6 MOS.
6 MOS.
$1,052.20 $1,06624 $26 305 $26,656
6 MOS $1,080.40
$27,010
6 MOS. $1,094.48 $27362
6 MOS. 6 MOS. $1,108.60 $1.122 72 $27 715 $28068
6 MOS. MAX $1,136.88 $1,191 04 $28 422 $2« 776
96
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2010
Salary Wage Mln	Mai. Total Month
Nomen	Grade	Rale	1	£	J	4	<	b	7	$	9	10	H	12	L3	14	A5	to Maximum
348	Q	Weekly Hourly	C-MOS $.55160 $21 wo	ft MO S $022 16 $23 054	o MOS $**0.36 S24 75*	ft MOS $1.05x72 $ 2 ft. 4ft 8	6 MOV $ l.(*n 0" $2*.*75	o MOS $1,075.28 $26 88?	fr_MO5, SIA’S? 48 $27u87	*MOS. $1,0*1 6x $27 2*2	6 MUS. SI .lixi Ox $27,502	ft Mi V $1.IOS 40 $27 710	o MOS. $1.1 |ft.56 $27 914	6 Atf?^ $1,124 *8 $2S 122	a MUS, $1,133 U8 S28 327	6 MUS $1,141 44 $28 53*	MAX $1,189.80 $2» 745	ijr$
i.sn	2	Weekly Hourly	bMOS 548108 112 22^	ft MOS. $540 7ft $13 5IO	$59? lb $14 804	'■ MOS 5b4? 7; $16 091	b MOS $6*5 48 117 387	ft MOS. S74ft 80 $18 670	MAX $616 00 $20 400									36
351	?	Weekly Hourh	ft MOS. $48r, Ml $12 lt.5	bMOS $595 $14 882	h MOS 3640 40 $I*.2J5	SJMQS $7113 66 $17 5un	b MOS $775 -J2 $1* 39!>	MAX $*52 12 $21 303										30
35?		Weekly 1 k-udy	5 MOS $4nfl 5? SI 1.713	h Mos Sf-41 DO $13,525	bMOS $5*5.28 $14 S.!j2	6 MOS W4'>.4<i Mb 235	$703 60 SI 7.^*0	MAX $816 iX' $20 41X1										2*
V.l	4	Weekly Hourly	$*6^.88 Sit* 047	bMOS 1720.56 $t>x 164	6 MOS $787 08 il*b"^7	ft Mt )S $847 68 $21,102	6 MUS. 5*08.24 $22 7uh	MAX $1,005.04 $25 12o										3u
354	3	Weekly Hourly	ft MOS $504 08 $12 602	bMOS $552.60 $13.*15	6 MOS. SftOI 12 $15 033	ft MOS. $647 80 $lo 245	6 MOS $bW8 44 $17 461	6 MOS $746.80 SlXftHi	o MDS. 5752 80 $18 820	* MUS S75xt.x $ IS	$7fr4 6U SI* 115	bMOS $7A> 52 Sl*.2b3	6 MOS $776 44 $19 411	ft MOS $782 1ft $ 19 559	b MOS. $714 24 5H85b	ft MOS. $81* os $2" )$2	MAX $s52 12 $21 301	9h
J 55	1	Weekly Hourh	3 MOS $432 48 $10812	6 MOS, $486 60 M2 Ib5	ft MOS. $541 00 $1.1.525	bMOS $595 28 $14 882	6 MOS $64* 40 $16 235	MVX $741 64 $18 5*1										?7
lft2	12	Weckh Hourly	*1 M<JS $923 72 $23,093	9 MOS $1,016.72 $25 4|X	MOS. M jno.84 $27 746	9 MOS. J 1,202 b*-$30 0b7	* MOS. $1,295 bU $32 3*0	o MOS $1,188 60 $34 7I5	MAX $l.44«88 $3b 222									54
	SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1.2010																		
		Sefaey Graft	Wage facte	Mb 1	2	2	4	s	t	1	1	J	IS	11	12	12	Id	Msl IS	Tetri MMtk
	363	12	Weekly Hourly	9 MOS. $923 72 123.04)	9 MOS. $1.01672 $25,418	9 MOS. $1,104.84 $27,746	9 MOS. 9 MOS. 9 MOS. MAX $1,202.68 $1,295.60 $138860 $1,448.88 $30 067 $32,390 $34,715 $36,222												54
	364	10	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $86632 $21658	tMQS, 1474 80 $24 370	6 MOS $ 1.029.04 $25,726	6 MOS. £1,08324 sn.osi	6 MOS. $1,137.44 $2*436	MAX $125892 $31,473										W
	365	It	Weekly Hourly	$923.7? 523.043	9 MOS $1,016.72 $25,418	9 MOS. IMQi $1.10984 $1202.68 $27 746 $ 30 0b7		9 MOS. MAX $1295 60 $1.424 92 $32390 $35,623											43
r3 rj	367	9	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $854.1? $21353	LHQS, $434.72 $23,368	6 MOS. $1.01524 $25,381	6 MOS. $1,095.92 $27,398	6 MOS 6 MOS 6 MOS. $1,102.8* $1,109.96 $1,116.92 $27572 $27,749 $27 923			(lMQS, $1,123.92 $28j098	6 MOS.	6 MOS.	6 MOS	6 MOS	6 MOS.	6J4QS. $1,13080 $1,137.76 $1,144X0 $1,151.80 $1,158.76 $1.165 76 $28270	$28 444	$28620	$28,795	$28,969	$29,144						MAX $1,212.80 $30,320	96
	3678	9	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $890.28 $22257	6 MOS. $906.44 $24 161	6 MOS. $1.042 64 $26.0h6	6 MOS. $1,118 76 $27,969	6 MOS. $1,125 60 $28,140	6 MOS $1,13256 $28 314	6 MOS $1,139.2* $2*.482	6 MOS. $1,146 JO $28,655	6 MOS. &MQS, $1,153.16 $1,159 96 $28 *2<J $28,999		6 MOS. SI.I66.8K £29.172	6 MOS. 6 MOS $1.173 60 $1,180.44 $29 340 $2° 511		6 MOS MAX $1,187.40 $1234 40 $29 685 $30 860		%
	3b7A	3	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $648.20 $16,205	6 MOS $749.00 $18,725	6 MOS $820.16 $20504	6 MOS. $891.16 $22279	6 MOS. $962.24 $24,056	6 MOS. $1,033 32 $25 833	MAX $1,12332 $28,083									3b
	3b7B	7	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS. $567.84 $14,146	6 MOS. $64820 $16 205	6 MOS. $728 80 $18,220	6 MOS $809.44 $20 236	6 MOS $890 12 $22253	6 MOS. $970.64 $24,266	6 MOS. $981.28 $24,532	6 MOS. $991 96 $24,799	6 MOS. $1.002 48 $25 062	6 MOS. SI.013.20 $25 330	MAX SI.069.1b $2b 729					60
	368	9	Weekly Hourly	6 MOS $678.00 $16 950	LUQS. $740 36 $18 509	6 MOS. $802 68 $20,067	6 MOS $865 00 $21,625	6 MOS. $927.32 $23,183	6 MOS $989.80 $24 745	6 MOS. $1,004.88 $25 122	LMQ8. $1,019.92 $25 498	6 MOS. 6 MOS Sl.034.96 SI.M9.96 $25 874 $26249		6 MOS ¥1,005.16 S26.O29	6 MOS $1,080.16 $27,004	6 MOS. $1,110.28 $27 757	6 MOS MAX $1.140 40 $1,195.60 $28,510 $29,890		Ob
Nomen	Salary Grade	Wage Rare	Min 1	2	SALARY GRADES. SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES - EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 2010 345	J2	821011II										13		15	Toiil Month to Minimum
?b*	7	Weekly Hourly	0 MOS. $520 Ai > SI 3 WO	$57u7b 1142m	5b2l 52 $ 15 51x	f. MOS Sb72 12 Sin 80^	b MOS 572U2 5Eiu78	b MQS. 5 ^1 * 2 51*348	b MQS. $7U7 lb 5I*.*2*	b MUS. 5820 28 5 20.507	6 MOS 5843 48 521.0*7	n MOS S&bb 68 $21 *n7	ft MUS SKSft ftt. $22 249	b MuS 5913 04 $22 b2b	b MuS. $QSM48 523 957	n MOS. Sl.nrt? 84 525 I4n	MAX Sl.ftr.'j It, S2ft.7J'J	*b
3?n	7	Weekly Hourly	r. MOS WMOii SI 3.000	8 MUS $57n.7t> $14Jp9	b MuS. $ft21.'2 $I5 538	b MUS. 5*72 32 Sin *08	* MUS. 572? 12 518 <|7S	57?f^2 $N 348	6 MUS 57*7 lb 5I*.*2*	n MDS 582U 28 S20 '07	b MuS 5843.48 $21,087	* MOS $866 n8 $21 nn7	* MOS $X8* *b $22 24*	f Mt.’S. $U|3 U4 $22 S2ft	b MOS 5*5*48 523 ^87	n MUS. 51.005 84 525 I4n	MAX SI O0ftr.lt> sjft.7:"	at.
371	1	Weekly Hourly	3 MOS S4V.4* $10 XI2	b MUS. 5.4 X* bl> 512 k.5	* MfA S54I On SI? 525	t'MOa. $5*5 28 514.852	n MOS $*4*40 516235	MAX 5743.M 51K.59I										^7
37;	5	Weekly Hourly	0 MuS S^x.OT Sib ^50	* MOS, $740 3* $18'09	0 MOS $$u3 08 820 0ft7	« MOS Sst.5 00 $21 o25	* MOS 5*27 32 $23 183	■4 MOS $989. SO $24 745	b MuS 5**8.32 524*58	* MuS $1.00*4 $2' RI	n MOS, 51/11524 S2'.38l	51.023 7f, 525 5*4	ft MUS $1,032 24 $25 MU.	n MOS £1.040 72 $2hOIX	b MuS $1,057 -Jf, 52b 444	bMOS SI.n74 *8 $2* ^67	MAA $1,123 12 528 "83	114
WQ	f	Weekly Hourly	SLfcdlil 55*5 28 514 882	0 MOS S7U3W iiuw	b MOS. S775 *2 5l* 398	f. MOS. 8812 04 $?u Sul	ft MOS. 88ftf 32 $71 t.58	MAA $uftU 04 524 (lit.										in
381	3	Weekly Hourly	0 MOS. if33 12 SI 5 828	bMOS $n*4 20 sn 355	6 MOS $755 28 SI8 882	* MOS 581b 5* S2U 414	bMOS $877 ft« 521 *42	MAX $*75 12 524 378										?u
1Q2	13	WrtkN Hourly	0 MUS SI.IW M 82 7 74r.	» MOS SI.202.08 S3u Oft7	51.2^5 60 S32 3*0	y MQS. 5I.J8X bf> 5 34 715	9 MOS. 5l.4UI>24 535 00*	9 MOS. $1,412 Ou S3' 3W	ft MOS $1,423 M $35 fd	n MOS 51.435 3n $? 5 884	n MOS 51.44* ** $?h 174	bMOS 51,45 8.b« 53b 4b7	6 MOS. 5l.470.3n $)b7$w	b MQS. $1.4X2 12 537.051	n MQS. 51.4*3 80 537 34 '	$ 1 5u5 52 537 h.3x	MAX $1,557 It $3x 934	114
Weekly
Hourly
6 MOS, 55*2 In 114 804
6 MOS Sb43 7?
5l*.l*3
6 M<	b MOS	b MOS	b MOS	b MGS
5b^5 48	574ft.8O	5777.40	S8D7 *n	SM 52
$17,387	$]x.*70	SW-J35	520 I*J	5209b?
* MOS	ft MOS	"MOS	ft MuS	bMOS	bMOS	6 MQS	MAX
5«n* lb	58**72	$-J?0 2IJ	$9ft(i ft2	S-Nl 48	51.022.04	51.^52 64	51.123 32
521.72*	522.4*3	S23.255	$24 023	$24 787	525 55)	52b 316	528 083
SALARY GRADES, SALARY RANGES AND SALARY PROGRESSION STEPS WEEKLY RATES * EFFECTIVE MAY 1,2010
NlBtB	S-tary Graft	Wm^ Raff	MM 1	1	2	1	5	1	1	1	2	IS	11	12	12	11	Mil 15	TMriMMtb nrr-r- i
	3	Weekly Houty	6 MOS. $441 It $11. aw	6 MOS. 5436.04 $12151	6 MOS. $531.00 $13275	6 MQS $57600 $14,440	6 MOS. $621.04 $15526	6 MOS 5665.88 $16647	6 MOS 568068 $17,017	6 MOS $695 48 $17 387	6 MOS $71020 $17 755	6 MOS $72410 5E&C20	6 MOS $739.48 518.487	$75432 518858	6 MOS 5783 76	6 MOS. $81324 $20331	MAX $868.00 521 700	96
SJAO		Watty Hoarh	LtfiK. $943 40 123 581	6 MOS. $99328 $24,832	MAX $1,(B3.4O $25,835													12
SV*!		Weekly Hourly	LMQS. $64204 116.051	6 MOS. $691.88 $17297	6 MOS. $74232 $18558	6 MOS. S79220 $19,805	6 MOS 5843.04 S21 076	6 MOS. $89024 $22331	MAX $933 40 523335									36
S3»2		Weekly Hourly	IQOOhn $642.04 $16,051	1000 htt $691 88 $17,297	1000 hn $742.32 $18 558	tOOOhni $79220 $19,805	JOfflUnS $843 04 $21,076	1000 hra 589324 $21331	MAX 5933 40 $23 335									6000 hn
EXHIBIT “B”
STATEMENT OF PROGRESSION POLICY
General
In all references to salary treatment within this Agreement, the following guidelines shall apply:
Salary Rate Upon Assignment to a Position
(Note: See Letter of Agreement date 9/25'03for further clarification)
When employees are first assigned to any position, they shall receive:
(a)	The minimum salary indicated for that position, or
(b)	If they are promoted from another position in a lower salary grade (or, in the case of employees hired on or after May 22, 1996, a position with a lower maximum rate) and the salary they are then receiving is higher than the minimum salary for the newly assigned position but less than the maximum salary for that position, their salary will be raised to the next step of the scale for the newly assigned position.
If the employee is scheduled to receive a progression increase in his/her permanent position within the 14 calendar day period after a scheduled permanent promotion, the promotion shall be made effective on or after the scheduled date of the progression increase. Accordingly, in such cases, the promotional rate in the new position shall be based on the rate (including the progression increase) in the former position.
(c)	If employees are transferred from another position in the same salary grade (for employees hired on or after May 22. 1996, another position with the same maximum salary rate), their salary will not be changed as a result of such transfer.
125
(d)	In the case of new employees who have special training and experience, such employees may upon their employment be paid a rate in excess of the minimum salary (but within the range) for the position in which they are employed.
(e)	If employees have less than one month in a temporary or permanent position and are promoted to a position in a higher salary grade (for employees hired on or after May 22.1996, a position with a higher maximum rate), their salary rate upon assignment to the new position shall be based upon their salary rate prior to appointment to their existing temporary or permanent position.
Full-day and part-day temporary assignments to a higher position since January 1, 1975 together with time spent on temporary assignments in a higher position with a temporary change in nomenclature shall be credited to an employee’s progression time upon permanent or temporary assignment (including upgrading) to such higher position. “Higher position” is determined by the relative standing of salary grades in the case of Exhibit “A” or, in the case of Exhibit “Al”, the relative standing of the maximum rates of the positions.
In-Classification Progression
At the intervals indicated in the Salary Progression Rates, management will review the employees’ performance and progress in their assigned positions. If their performance and progress are satisfactory, the scheduled progression step will be made effective at the stated time as set forth in the Salary Progression Plan, until their salary equals the maximum rate specified for that position.
126
Procedure in Case In-Classification
Progression is Withheld
At any time during the interval between progression step salary increases, when it becomes apparent to management that a progression step increase may be withheld from any employees, because of substandard work, the Manager will confer with the individual employees and with the Union, in order to afford the individuals in question the opportunity to improve their work.
When the review made just prior to the end of the progression interval indicates that the employees have not made satisfactory progress on the job by demonstrated ability and performance so as to quality them for an increase to the next progression step, and for that reason an increase in pay is not warranted, the employees may be retained in their positions at the same rate, or be transferred, or separated from the payroll, but the employees shall be informed of such determination by a personal interview in advance of the date of the scheduled increase, and the Union shall be notified in writing. The Union may request a review of such a decision, provided such request is submitted in writing to the Manager within five working days of the date the Union receives the notification. The Manager will confer with the Union representatives, and inform them in writing of the results of the review, within five working days after receipt of the request for review. From this point on if the Union is dissatisfied with the Manager’s answer, the case may be taken up through the established grievance procedure, at step "SECOND," subject to the time limitation therein stated.
An employee so retained in a position at the same rate shall have the case reviewed within three months. If satisfactory progress on the job by demonstrated ability and performance has been made so as to qualify the employee for the previously withheld increase to the next progression step, the employee shall receive such next progression step
127
immediately and the period for the next progression step shall start on that date.
Salary Rate During Temporary Period in Higher Classification
Employees hired prior to May 22,1996 shall continue to be compensated in accordance with the guidelines set forth in Exhibit “A”, and as outlined below when assigned to work in a higher classification. Employees hired on or after May 22, 1996 who are assigned to work in a higher classification shall receive an additional $1.00 to their hourly wage rate for time spent performing the assigned work in the higher classification, provided that the total hourly wage does not exceed the maximum hourly wage rate for the position to which they are upgraded. In cases where the addition of $ 1.00 to their hourly wage rate would exceed the maximum rate for the position to which they are upgraded, they shall receive the maximum rate for the position to which they are upgraded for each applicable hour.
Employees hired prior to May 22, 1996, who are assigned to work in a higher classification shall be paid for the time worked, but for no less than one hour, the starting rate for the higher classification, or if their existing rate is higher than said starting rate, they shall receive the next step above their existing rate. This minimum will be the minimum for all work in the higher classification and will not apply separately to each assignment to work in such higher classification for an employee so assigned more than once during the same workday. Employees hired on or after May 22, 1996, who are assigned to work in a higher classification shall be paid for the time worked, but for no less than one hour, at the applicable rate as established in the paragraph above. It is not the intention of the Company that employees perform work in a higher classification without specific assignment.
128
It is the sole responsibility and prerogative of management to determine whether it is necessary to fill a temporary vacancy by assignment of another employee to that work. When such temporary vacancy is filled, it shall be by an employee who is qualified to do the work. It is understood and agreed that employees in the same or higher classifications, who are qualified to do the work, may be assigned by management to fill temporary' vacancies, if such employees are available.
If the temporary vacancy is filled by upgrading, and if the period of the temporary vacancy is expected to exceed forty-five calendar days, the vacancy shall be posted in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV.
Employees who are temporarily promoted to higher classifications shall be returned to their permanent positions if unavailable to perform in the temporary positions, and if replaced by other employees through the re-posting of such vacancies. The effective date of return to the permanent position shall be the date when the re-posted temporary vacancy is filled.
Salary Rate in the Event of
Assignment to Lower Classification
Employees hired prior to May 22, 1996 shall continue to be compensated in accordance with the guidelines set forth in Exhibit “A", and as outlined below, when assigned to work in a lower classification. Employees hired on or after May 22, 1996 shall continue to be compensated in accordance with the guidelines set forth in Exhibit “Al”, and as outlined below, when assigned to work in a lower classification.
Employees assigned for a temporary period to a lower classification shall receive their regular rate of pay during the period of that assignment.
129
If the assignment is to be made permanent, the case will be reviewed with the Union and the employee will then be notified. Employees with more than 6 months’ service shall be given a rate above minimum in the lower classification which gives credit for their total service in positions of equal or higher grade/classification covered by payroll recommendation. Their new rate shall be applicable ninety calendar days after the date of assignment.
Employees with more than 6 months' service, who voluntarily apply for a posted vacancy (either permanent or temporary) in a lower classification shall be given a rate above minimum in the lower classification which gives credit for their total service in positions of equal or higher grade/classification covered by payroll recommendation. Their new rate shall start immediately upon assignment to the new position.
Employees who become incapacitated for their regular work may, at the option of the Company, be placed at any work they can do at an appropriate rate of pay and without regard to the seniority provisions of the Agreement. The Company will first consider available positions for which the employee qualifies in the District prior to placing the employee elsewhere in the area (areas are defined as follows: The Northern area shall consist of Newark, Hackensack, Roseland, Hannon Cove and the Telephone Services Department. The Southern area shall consist of the Southern Customer Inquiry and Accounting Center, East Gate, Bridgewater, Princeton, and the Customer Payment Processing Center. The Northern Inquiry Center, Northern Accounts Center, Cranford and the Credit and Collection Center shall be included in both the Northern and Southern areas). “Appropriate rate of pay” shall be determined by the circumstances in each individual case, including length of service with the Company, and shall not be considered to be limited by the maximum rate of pay of the position to which such employee is assigned. Further, in the case of
130
employees, who, at the time of their assignment to a lower position because of incapacity, are 60 years of age or over, their existing rate shall not be lowered by virtue of the assignment to the lower-rated job. Incapacitated employees, with five to twelve years’ service who have not been placed by the Company, will be paid separation allowance upon discontinuance in accordance with Article XVII, Section 2.
Incapacitated employees who have been placed in a position because of their incapacity may be subsequently reassigned, at the option of the Company, and without regard to the seniority provisions of this Agreement, to a position that they can fill, within the area, in a salary grade/c las si fi cation equal to or above that of the position to which they have been assigned, but below the salary grade/classification of their position prior to assignment due to physical disability. Incident to such reassignment they shall be given an “appropriate rate of pay" to be determined following the same considerations which applied at the time of their first assignment because of incapacity. In the event the employee provides medical certification of ability to perform in the position from which originally downgraded, and such certification is approved by the Company doctor, the employee may be assigned at the option of the Company, to that position.
If employees who are 60 years of age or over, are assigned to a lower classification not for incapacity, but because of the elimination of their jobs, their existing rate shall not be lowered by virtue of the assignment to a low er-rated job.
Reclassification
The classification of employees agreed upon at the start of the job evaluation program has been jointly determined as an equitable basis for initiating the plan. It is not
131
intended to serve as the basis for determining the number of employees to be assigned to each classification in each office in the future.
It is understood and agreed that the Company has the right to arrange work assignments, subject to the provisions of the job specifications, and that in the future, as changes in organization occur, this will result in certain redistribution of the number of employees by classification; for example, in the event a 323 Bookkeeper, who is so classified at the start of this plan, vacates the position, the work may be so arranged that the employee, who, in effect, fills the vacancy will perform the duties described under the Classification of Assistant Bookkeeper, and will be assigned to that position. As changes in organization occur, reductions will be made in the number of employees in the higher classifications until the proper ratio exists in accordance with the job descriptions.
Postponement of Increase Because of Absence
The date on which an increase is due will be postponed by the number of working days which an employee is away from work, with or without pay, in excess of the following number of working days (during the salary progression step interval) because of illness, sick leave, disciplinary action, layoff or leave of absence of more than one week at a time (except military service leave of absence): 6 days for a 6-month progression step interval, and 9 days for a 9-month progression step interval. Separate absences of one or more full days and individual leaves of absence of more than one week (including holidays observed on days in the basic workweek which fall during the leave of absence), for the above purposes, within the salary progression step interval shall be accumulated to determine the total days of absence. A holiday occurring during a full-day disability absence, does not count as a day of disability absence and
132
accordingly shall not be included in the total days of absence. A holiday occurring during a period when the employee is being paid at State Plan rate is counted as a day of disability and shall be included in the total days of absence.
In the case of an employee who has entered, or who enters, military service and whose scheduled increase is due after the last day worked, such increase will not be applicable in determining any compensation payable by the Company (Military Service Salary Roll) during any portion of the time the employee is on military leave of absence.
Increase Under Wage Progression
Schedule for Employee Returning
From Military Service
When employees return from military service as defined in Article XI, Section 1, of the Agreement, their rate of pay shall reflect, in accordance with existing practice in District Offices, all salary adjustments which they would have received had they not entered military service.
The adjusted rate, as determined above, will be payable effective with the employees’ reinstatement on the Company’s active payroll.
133
Exhibit «CW
Letters of Agreement and Memorandums of Agreement Between Public Service Electric & Gas Company On behalf of its Customer Operations locations (District Offices, Credit and Collection Center, Customer Payment Processing Center, Customer Inquiry Centers, Customer Accounts Centers, and The Telephone Services Department
And
UWUA, AFL-CIO/ UCA Local 601
The following letters of agreement and memorandums of agreement between the Company and the Utility CoWorkers’ Association have been mutually agreed upon by both parties for inclusion in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The items included do not represent a complete collection of all such letters and memorandums. Accordingly, those items which have not been included remain in effect and shall continue to be complied with by both parties.
Some of the times which are included have been modified to reflect certain revisions. Such revisions have been noted, where applicable. In the event that a question or dispute arises over the interpretation of any of these letters and memorandums, particularly in cases where items have been consolidated or modified in any way, the original document shall be used as the basis for resolving the matter.
134
Index
No,	Subject	Date	Page
1.	Temporary Assignments	10/22/47	141
	Commercial Offices - Plan for Calculation of Salary Reductions - Employees Downgraded Due to Physical Disability	11/1/50	141
3.	Memorandum Concerning Performance of “Eligible” Work by "Ineligible" Employees	6/9/53	143
4.	Second Step GrievanceProcedure	5/11/61	145
5.	Consideration of Permanent and Military Service Replacement (M.S.R.) Employees in Military Sendee for Posted Vacancies	6/26/67	146
6.	Language Interpreting Assignments	3/18/69	148
7.	Retention of Wage Rate -Employees with Eighteen or More Years of Combined Office Seniority Who Are Affected by a Layoff or Curtailment -	6/9/75	152
8.	Bridging Periods of Sendee - Temporary Employees	5/1/77	153
9.	Resolving Company-Union Problems in Branch Offices	5/1/77	153
10.	Creation of 8 Temporary -Part-time G35O General Clerk Positions - CPPC	6/9/78	154
11.	Employees Injured on Overtime	5/1/80	155
12.	Safety Prescription Glasses	5/1/80	156
13.	Shift Assignments - Union Representatives	10/6/80	157
135
Sublett
Date Page
14.	Implementation of Article VI, Section 12, Work on Other Than	5/1/82	158
15.	Regular Shift (See supplemental letter “Floater Positions in Inquiry" dated 5/1/2002) First Level Supervisory	5/1/82	159
16.	Positions and Confidential Positions Annual Shift Selection	5/1/82	160
17.	Consolidation of Two	5/1/84	161
18.	Bargaining Units (Eliminated 1996 negotiations) Validated Tests	5/1/87	161
19.	Meter Reader Transportation	5/1/87	161
20.	(Eliminated 2002 negotiations) Monthly Salary Listing of	5/1/87	161
21.	Employees Tape Recorders at Company-	5/1/87	162
22.	Union Meetings Reconfiguration of Shifts	5/1/87	162
23.	During Annual Shift Selection Process No-Pay status for Employees	5/1/87	163
24.	Attending Optional Second-Step Meetings Health Insurance Coverage	5/1/87	163
25.	for Temporary Employees Company/Union Health Care	5/1/87	164
26.	Cost Containment Committee Extractor Equipment	5/1/89	165
27.	(Eliminated 2002 negotiations) Tuition Aid Plan	5/1/89	165
28.	(Eliminated 1996 Negotiations, see L.O.A. No. 59) Time Off for Personal Reasons	5/1/89	165
136
£111* Subject
29.	Reclassify G371 toG350
30.	Typing Requirements G350
31.	Reclassify G369 Meter Readers A to G370 Meter Readers
32.	Performance Appraisals
33.	Procedure for Filling Vacancies in Meter Reader, Field Service Representative and Collection And Credit Representative Positions and Annual Shift Selection (Eliminated 2005 negotiations)
34.	Mileage Allowance (Modified to replace May 1. with January 1 date 2002 negotiations)
35.	Parking Allowance (Eliminated 2002 negotiations)
36.	Transfers - Meal and Commuting Expense (Eliminated 1996 Negotiations, see L.O.A. No. 56)
37.	Qualifications for Promotions Task Group
(Eliminated 1996 Negotiations, see Art. XIV)
38.	Annual Schedule Selection -Positions Subject to Variations
39.	Sub-Committee to Discuss Feasibility of Including Employees Covered by Telephone Services Agreement Under CSMS Agreement (Eliminated 1996 negotiations)
40.	Floating Holidays
(Eliminated 2002 negotiations)
Date	Page
5/1/89	166
5/1/89	166
5/1/89	167
5/1/92	167
5/1/92	167
5/1/92	168
5/1/92	168
5/1/92	168
5/1/92	169
5/1/92	169
5/1/92	169
5/1/92	170
137

Subject
Date Page
41.	Reimbursement of Petty Cash Expenses in Employees' Paychecks	5/1/92	170
42.	Meter Reading Uniforms	5/1/92	171
43.	Procedure to Decrease Number of “Off-Shift” Personnel	5/1/92	171
44.	Footwear for Field Personnel	5/1/92	172
45.	Initial Staffing of 11:30am to 8:00pm Shift - G367 Collection and Credit Representatives (Eliminated 2002 negotiations)	5/1/92	173
46.	Post-Selection Tests for G307 Customer Service Center Service Representative, G308 Service Representative, G367 Collection and Credit Representative and K302 Marketing Representative Positions (Eliminated 2002 negotiations - See Letter “Pre-Selection Tests” dated 5/1/2002)	5/1/92	174
47.	Field Service Representatives Physically Disconnecting Electric Meters	5/1/92	174
48.	Establishing of V.I.P. Safety Committee	5/1/92	174
49.	Meter Reading Uniforms (Shorts)	5/1/96	175
50.	Combined Office Seniority -Telephone Services Employees	5/1/96	175
51.	Performance Incentives 1997-2000 (Eliminated 2002 negotiations)	5/1/96	176
52.	Meter Reader Transportation (Modified 2002 & 2005 negotiations)	5/1/96	176
53.	Parking Allowance	5/1/96	177
138
No.	Subject	Date	Page
54.	Assignment of Work in Collection Department	5'1'96	178
55.	Meter Reading Workday (Job Site Reporting Letter Modified 2002 & 2005negotiations)	5/1/96	178
56.	Transfers (5/1/96 letter Modified 2002 & 2005 negotiations)	5/1/02	180
57.	Temporary Part Time Employees Hired After May 1. 1996(5/1/96 letter Modified 2002 & 2005negotiations)	5/1/02	182
58.	Full Time Temporary Meter Readers (5/1/96 letter Modified 2005 negotiations)	5/1/96	185
59.	Tuition Aid Plan	5/1/96	186
60.	Employee Payback of Transition Advances	5/1/96	188
61.	Remote Reporting for Training	5/1/96	188
62.	Job Security (5/1/96 letter Modified 2005 negotiations)	5'1/96	189
63.	Shift Selection in the Customer Payment Processing Center	5/1/02	189
64.	Shift Selection in the Credit and Collection Center	5/1/02	189
65.	Floater Positions in Inquiry	5/1 /02	190
66.	Pre Selection Testing	5/1/02	191
67.	Reading of Water Meters	5/1/02	192
68.	Use of Two Way Communication Devices	5/1/02	192
69.	Bilingual Customer Service Positions (5/1/02 letter Modified 2005 negotiations)	5/1/02	193
139
		Date	Page
70.	Job Specifications	5/1/02	194
71.	Change in Vesting Requirements - Savings Plan	5/1/02	195
72.	Collector/Meter Reader Position	5/1/02	195
73.	Pension Benefit Equity	5/1/02	195
74.	Employment Stams of Full Time Meter Readers Hired on or After May 1, 1996(5/1/02 letter Modified 2005 negotiations)	5/1/02	196
75.	Modifications to 308 Service Representative Progression Steps (Eliminated 2005 negotiations)	5/1/02	197
76.	Modifications to 367A Credit & Collection Representatives Progression Steps (Eliminated 2005 negotiations)	5/1/02	198
77.	Modifications to Qualifications for Promotion	5/1/02	198
78.	Prescription Drug Program (Modified 2005 negotiations)	5/1/02	198
79.	Work hours for Employees Working in the Customer Accounts Center Prior to 5/1/02	5/1/05	199
80.	Work hours for Employees Working in the Customer Billing Centers Who are on Early Shifts During the Pilot Program	5/1/05	199
81.	Wage Chart and Statement of Progression Policy	9/25/03	200
82.	Explore Possible Modifications to Upgrading	5/1/05	201
83.	Committee to address Union	5/1/05	202
Concerns for 308, 368, 368m, 367, 367a and 354 positions
140
No. 1
October 22, 1947
Temporary Assignments
It is understood that employees may be temporarily assigned to other kinds of work of equal or lesser grade within their capabilities. However, the Commercial Manager shall discuss in advance with the Union, the general principles to be followed in selecting employees for such temporary assignments. Such discussion shall include consideration of the effects such temporary assignments shall have upon the workload in the occupational group from which the assignment is made, and upon the assigned employee's workload upon return to the employee’s regular classification. Disagreements between the parties to such discussion may be resolved by use of the grievance procedure outlined in the current Agreement between the Company and the Union.
In instances where the necessity for temporary assignment cannot be foreseen, sufficiently in advance to permit discussion with the Union, and therefore, cannot be scheduled in advance, the above procedure shall not apply.
2^2
November 1, 1950
Commercial Offices Plan for Calculation of Salary Reductions -Employees Downgraded Due to Physical Disability (Effective November 1,1950)
Schedule of Percentages to be Used in Determining Rates Applicable to Employees Downgraded Because of Disability
141
Age Plus Sendte Years	Percentage Applicable	Age Plus Service Years	Percentage Applicable
90 or over	100%	65	50%
89	98	64	48
88	96	63	46
87	94	62	44
86	92	61	42
85	90	60	40
84	88	59	38
83	86	58	36
82	84	57	34
81	82	56	32
80	80	55	30
79	78	54	28
78	76	53	26
77	74	52	24
76	72	51	22
75	70	50	20
74	68	49	18
73	66	48	16
72	64	47	14
71	62	46	12
70	60	45	10
69	58	44	8
68	56	43	6
67	54	42	4
66	52	41	2
		40	0
NOTES
Age is determined to nearest birthday from the date of assignment.
Service is determined to nearest anniversary from the date of assignment No reduction shall be made in the salary of any employee downgraded due to physical disability, whose service period is 25* years or more.
142
*(Service period reduced from 35 to 30 effective May 1, 1969: 30 to 25 effective May 1, 1971. )
Percentages Applicable shall be applied to the difference between the maximum rate for the employee's job prior to downgrading, and the maximum rate for the job to which the employee is downgraded.
No. 3	June 9, 1953
MEMORANDUM CONCERNING
PERFORMANCE OF “ELIGIBLE” WORK
BY “INELIGIBLE” EMPLOYEES AGREEMENT REFERENCE: Art. L Sec. 2
Specific provision in the Agreement covering performance of “eligible” work by "ineligible" employees is as follows:
"...It is understood that employees in supervisory and confidential positions may perform work assignable to employees of the bargaining unit, when occasion requires.”
The following general principles shall govern such work performance by ineligible employees:
1.	Basically, ineligible supervisors have bona fide supervisory responsibilities and authority.
a.	However, depending upon the size of the department and circumstances, supervisory duties may not require the full time of the supervisor. The supervisor can, under such circumstances, perform “eligible" work as occasion requires.
b.	In addition, a supervisor may perform routine work covering:
143
Lunch period
Emergencies and to handle special rush work Illness
Vacations
Expediting service to customers; for example, Supervisor-Service will handle customers.
Present practice of performance of eligible work is to be continued. Examples:
The Supervisor-Service will continue to handle customers.
2.	However, the plan should not be applied to permit so-called “abuses”.
Ineligible supervisors should not be assigned to "eligible” work which would result in depriving eligible employees of overtime, except where this may be a by-product of the above (Example: Supervisor-Service handling customers during peak period just before 4:30pm).
Ineligible supervisors should not be assigned to such work to avoid overtime on special jobs (Example: Work of the type involved in the gas load survey in February and March, 1953).
3.	Ineligible supervisors shall not be assigned to “eligible” work for the sole purpose of avoiding the upgrading of an employee to perform necessary work.
Examples:
The Supervisor-Customer Accounts should not go into a station and do the full-time job of a Senior Bookkeeper in order to avoid a temporary upgrading of another employee to the Senior Bookkeeper position. However, the Supervisor-Customer Accounts can handle the work
144
assignment functions of a Senior Bookkeeper in the temporary absence of the Senior Bookkeeper when it is not necessary to fill the temporary Senior Bookkeeper vacancy.
The Supervisor-Customer Accounts can assist in locating errors in cycle balances in the absence of a Senior Bookkeeper, but should not perform the normal balancing operation.
Notes:
1.	The second sentence of l.a has been modified to eliminate gender identification.
2.	l.b has been modified to delete references to Supervising Cashier.
No, 4	May 11. 1961
SECOND STEP GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
As part of the negotiation of the Agreement to be effective May 1. 1961, a change was agreed upon in the grievance procedure as it relates to the second step of that procedure. This change will provide in the future for the attendance, if the Union desires, of the President of the Union, or in the President's absence, another member of the Union Executive Committee, at second-step discussions under certain conditions as follows:
1.	Matters may be discussed informally, as at present, between the Commercial Manager and representatives of the Union outside of the grievance procedure.
2.	As at present, local consideration of a second-step grievance, as such, shall be preceded by the submission of the grievance in writing by the party initiating it.
145
3.	Upon completion of the local second-step discussions, the Commercial Manager shall state a decision and shall permit the Union representatives up to three working days (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) to request the optional second-step meeting. The present 10 working day period for confirming the decision in writing shall start with the workday following the decision to use or not to use the optional meeting provision or following the optional meeting, whichever is later.
4.	It is fully understood that the Company may designate any Management representatives it wishes to attend meetings held under the optional second-step procedure.
5.	It is further understood by the President of the Union shall in no way increase the extent of time away from work by local office employees beyond what would be expected in the absence of this procedure, except for the time required to attend the optional meeting.
Very truly yours,
D. S. Lord
Manager - Industrial Relations
Notes: Gender identification has been eliminated throughout.
See supplementary letter dated 5/1/87.
No. 5	June 26, 1967
CONSIDERATION OF PERMANENT AND
MILITARY SERVICE REPLACEMENT (M.S.R.) EMPLOYEES IN MILITARY SERVICE FOR POSTED VACANCIES
During negotiations of the Agreement between the
Company and the Union, effective May 1, 1967, it was
146
agreed to amend Article XIV, Section 1, Promotions and Transfers - Positing Vacancies and Applications, to provide for considering permanent and military service replacement (M.S.R.) employees in military service as having filed an application for a posted vacancy provided such employees have at least the minimum qualifications for the position being filled.
This letter will confirm the understanding reached covering the various aspects involved in the administration of the amendment to the Agreement as follows:
1.	Permanent and “military service replacement" (M.S.R.) employees in military service shall be considered as applicants for job vacancies posted during their absence provided such employees have at least the minimum qualifications for the position being filled.
2.	(Revised in accordance, with the letter to “Benjamin Percario, President, Utility Co-Workers' Association", dated December 18, 1975.)
When an employee in military service is considered as an applicant for a job vacancy and is the successful candidate, the permanent position to which the employee has been promoted shall be reserved until return from military service. However, while in military sendee the employee shall earn all progression credit in the position to which the employee was promoted. When the employee returns from military service the employee shall be reinstated in the permanent position to which the employee was promoted and shall receive all progression credit the employee would have earned had the employee not been in the military. A trial period shall be established in accordance with Article XIV, Section 6, of the Agreement.
3.	The temporary vacancy created because a permanent
147
position is being reserved for an employee in military service shall be filled on a temporary assignment basis pending the return of the employee from military service. Effective on the date of reinstatement, all employees affected thereby will be returned to their former status.
4.	When an employee is awarded more than one promotion while in military service, the promotion to the last position shall be effective on the date of the employee’s reinstatement and shall be administered as outlined in the preceding paragraphs. In such cases, the temporary vacancy in the position to which the employee in military service was first promoted will become a permanent vacancy upon selecting the employee in military service for another promotion.
5.	Where possible, the Commercial Manager will notify the employee in military service of the employee’s selection for promotion and that the position will be reserved for the employee pending the employee’s return from military service unless the employee declines the future promotion.
Very truly yours,
F. A. Brock, Jr.
Manager - Industrial Relations
Note: Gender identification has been eliminated throughout.
No. 6	March 18, 1969
LANGUAGE INERPRETING ASSIGNMENTS
This is to confirm the understanding reached between the Company and the Union regarding interpreting at the office for customers unable to communicate in English.
It is understood and agreed that employees working
148
within the office demonstrating bilingual ability may be called upon to perform as interpreters for inquiries received by telephone, mail or in person from customers unable to communicate in English. When an employee is designated to interpret and performs as an interpreter, the employee shall be paid for such interpreting at the appropriate step of the rate one salary grade above the salary grade in which the employee is assigned, or an additional $1.25 per hour, whichever is greater. Employees performing less than ten hours of interpreting in a week will be paid at the higher rate for a minimum of ten hours for that week. The minimum upgrading of ten hours in a week may be less than ten hours in a week may be less than ten hours if the employee is not at work for a full week. Attached are some examples of the application of the minimum upgrading provision.
It is further understood and agreed that interpreting assignments will be distributed equitably among qualified employees on a weekly basis, so that in each office one employee will be designated to receive such assignment each week, provided a qualified employee is available to receive such assignments. A record will be maintained in each office of the weekly rotational assignments and the time spent in such assignments.
Should an employee designated for interpreting in a specific week be away from work when an interpreting assignment is to be made, then a second qualified employee may be designated and will become eligible for minimum upgrading on the basis of two hours per workday so assigned. Under such circumstances, the second designated employee will not lose a turn in rotation for receiving future interpreting assignments.
The minimum upgrading provision of ten hours per week will apply only to interpreting assignments in the language predominantly requiring interpretation in the
149
office. When an employee is assigned to interpreting in a language other than the principal language requiring interpretation, the employee shall be upgrade on the basis of two hours per workday so assigned. An employee possessing multilingual ability will be upgraded on the basis of minimum upgrading of ten hours for the week, or two hours per workday so assigned, as appropriate, regardless of the number of languages used in interpreting assignments.
It is also understood and agreed that the weekly rotational and minimum upgrading provisions referred to above apply solely to language interpretation assignments to employees working within the office.
Very truly yours, F. A. Brock, Jr.
General Manager - Industrial Relations
Notes: Gender identification has been eliminated throughout.
The letter was amended effective 5/1/89 to include option to increase pay rate by $1,00/hr-
The letter was amended effective 5/1/91 to include option to increase pay rate by $1.25/hr.
EXAMPLES OF APPPLICATION OF MINIMUM UPGRADING FOR LANGUAGE INTERPRETING ASSIGNMENTS
Example No. 1
Employee “A” is designated to receive interpreting assignments for a given week and performs as an interpreter
150
on Monday. However, the employee is absent from work for the balance of the week. Employee “B” is designated to replace employee “A" for interpreting assignments for the balance of the week and performs as an interpreter on Friday of the week.
In this case, employee “A” would receive minimum upgrading of two hours for Monday. Employee "B" would receive minimum upgrading of eight hours for the days of Tuesday through Friday. Employee “B" would not lose a turn in rotation for receiving future interpreting assignments.
Example No. 2
Employee “A" is designated to receive interpreting assignments for a given week and performs as an interpreter on Monday morning. During lunch hour of employee “A”, a need arises for interpreting in the language predominately requiring interpretation, and employee “B” is assigned to such interpreting. Employee “A” returns to the office and during the afternoon becomes ill and is directed to go home, returning to work on Friday of that week. Employee “B” is designated to replace employee “A" for interpreting assignments and performs as an interpreter on Thursday. There were no other interpreting assignments in that week.
In this case, employee "A” would receive minimum upgrading of fours hours for Monday and Friday, the two days the employee was at work. In addition, employee “B" would receive minimum upgrading of two hours for the lunch-hour assignment on Monday, plus minimum upgrading of six hours for Tuesday through Thursday. Employee “B” would not lose a turn in rotation for receiving future interpreting assignments.
Example No. 3
Employee "A" is designated to receive interpreting
151
assignments for a given week and performs as an interpreter on Tuesday. The employee is at work for the full week, except for the holiday on Thursday. In this case, the employee would receive minimum upgrading of eight hours, for the days the employee was at work.
Example No. 4
Employee "A” is designated to receive interpreting assignments for a given week. However, the need for interpreting arises during the lunch hours of employee “A” on Monday, Tuesday and Friday; employee “A” performs no interpreting assignments, while employee “B*' performs such assignments during the lunch hours of employee “A”. In this case, employee “A” would receive no upgrading, but employee “B” would receive minimum upgrading of six hours for the three days so assigned. Neither employee “A’’ nor employee “B" would lose a turn in rotation for receiving future interpreting assignments.
No, 7	June 9,1975
WAGE RETENTION
During negotiation of the Agreement, effective May 1, 1975, the company stated that in the event of a layoff or curtailment it would endeavor to retain the wage rate of employees with eighteen or more years of Combined Office seniority unless prudent financial judgment dictates that such a policy cannot be supported at the time.
The implementation of this policy may require transferring of such employees to different job classifications and, if necessary, providing for their transfer to other District Offices.
Very truly yours.
F. A. Brock, Jr.
General Manager - Industrial Relations
152
Note: Commercial Office Seniority changed to Combined Office Seniority effective 5/1/87.
No. 8	May 1, 1977
BRIDGING PERIODS OF SERVICE -TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
During negotiation of the Agreement (Commercial Offices) effective May 1, 1977, it was agreed that when more than one temporary employee are in the same position, and one of the positions is to be discontinued, the employee with the least amount of time spent in that position, including time spent in that position during previous periods of temporary employment, shall be terminated.
Very truly yours,
F. A. Brock, Jr. 8/23/77
General Manager - Industrial Relations
No. 9	May 1. 1977
RESOLVING COMPANY-UNION PROBLEMS IN BRANCH OFFICES
During negotiation of the Agreement (Commercial Offices), effective May 1, 1977, it was agreed that when the local Union Chairperson brings a Company-Union problem in the Branch Office to the attention of the Commercial Manager, and states specifically the nature of the problem, the Commercial Manager and Union Chairperson shall attempt to resolve the problem without leaving the Commercial Office. If the problem cannot be resolved locally, the Commercial Manager and Union Chairperson shall visit the Branch Office to continue efforts to resolve the problem.
Very truly yours.
F. A. Brock. Jr. 8/23/77
General Manager - Industrial Relations
153
No. 10	June 9, 1978
CREATION OF 8 TEMPORARY PART-TIME G350 GENERAL CLERK POSITIONS - CPPC
This letter confirms discussions held regarding the Company's plans to create eight temporary part-time G35O General Clerk positions at the Customer Payment Processing Center, due to the “peak conditions” that exist on certain days and the need to process all payments on the day received.
The eight temporary part-time G350 General Clerk positions will be posted at the Customer Payment Processing Center on or about July 3.1978.
The conditions of employment for the temporary part-time employees will be as follows:
1.	Employees will be required to join the Utility Workers Union of America, AFL-CIO Local 601.
2.	Employees will be entitled to only the following benefits:
a.	State Plan Illness Benefits
b.	Blue Cross/Blue Shield or HMO Health Insurance Plans
c.	Holiday pay if employee works the full day before and after the holiday
3.	There will be no predetermined work schedule. Employees with the least number of hours worked will be called first.
4.	Once employees are called into work, they will work at least 4 hours on that day, provided they report for work by 11:00am
5.	Employees will be upgraded to a higher classification only after all full-time employees have been asked.
154
6.	Employees will be assigned to work overtime only after all full-time employees have been asked.
7.	Employees will be paid at the rate of one and one-half times for all hours worked in excess of the 8-hour basic workday or 40-hour basic workweek.
8.	Employees will qualify for wage progression increases following the completion of 1.044 hours worked.
9.	Employees will be permitted to bid for vacancies in permanent positions at the Customer Payment Processing Center as they occur prior to posting the vacancy statewide.
10.	Employees will be permitted to bid for vacancies in temporary positions resulting from long-term illness absence.
Very truly yours,
F. A. Brock, Jr.
General Manager - Industrial Relations
Note: See letter dated 5/1/87 concerning health insurance coverage for permanent employees only.
No. 11	May 1, 1980
EMPLOYEES INJURED ON OVERTIME
This is to confirm the agreement reached during the 1980 Negotiations regarding employees injured on overtime for whom medical treatment is required.
Permanent employees who are injured while working outside the regular hours of their basic 5-day workweek, and are required to leave the job that day to be given
155
medics] treatment, shall be paid, at the applicable rate, for reasonable time to receive such treatment, not exceeding two hours.
Very truly yours,
C. P. Travisano
Manager - Industrial Relations
Commercial Operations
No, 12	May 1, 1980
SAFETY PRESCRIPTION GLASSES
This is to confirm the agreement reached during the 1980 Negotiations (Commercial Offices and Customer Payment Processing Center) with regard to providing safety prescription glasses for employees in the following nomenclatures:
G306 - Field Service Representative
G362 - Group Supervisor - Collection and Credit G365 - Group Supervisor - Meter Reading G368 - Collection Representative
G369 - Meter Reader - A
G370 - Meter Reader
G380 - Head Building Attendant
G381 - Building Attendant
It was agreed that the Company will provide, at no cost to the employee, safety prescription glasses, including frame and lens, for those employees who wear prescription glasses. It was also agreed that the employee would obtain his/her prescription for the safety glasses at no cost to the Company.
Very truly yours.
C. P. Travisano
Manager - Industrial Relations
Commercial Operations
156
No. 13	May 1, 1980
SHIFT ASSIGNMENTS - UNION REPRESENTATIVES
This letter confirms the agreement reached on September 25. 1980, with regard to certain Union representatives subject to shift work at the Customer Inquiry and Accounting Centers.
Members of the Executive Committee of the Union (limited to 7 in number, including memberfs) on full-time leave of absence), the Chairperson - northern Customer Inquiry and Accounting Center and the Chairperson-Southern Customer Inquiry and Accounting Center, if subject to shift work, shall be given the option of working the 8:00am to 4:30pm shift, Monday to Friday.
A Union representative covered in the above paragraph, if assigned to a shift other than 8:00am to 4:30pm (Monday - Friday), shall exchange his/her shift assignment with the employee having least Combined Office seniority on the 8:00am to 4:30pm shift (Monday - Friday), unless another employee on the 8:00am to 4:30pm shift is willing to exchange shifts.
If in any one payroll week the change to the new schedule would result in an employee working less than 40 hours, due to the way in which the scheduled days off occur under the two schedules, the employee shall be scheduled to work at the straight time rate so as to give him/her 40 hours for the week. The Company will not assume any additional costs resulting from such changes in shift assignments.
Very truly yours.
C. P. Travisano
Manager - Industrial Relations
Commercial Operations
Note: Center Seniority changed to Combined Office Seniority effective 5/1/87.
157
No, 14	May 1, 1982
IMPLEMENTATION OF ARTICLE VI, SECTION 12 WORK ON OTHER THAN REGULAR SHIFT
During negotiation of the Agreement (CAMS) effective May 1,1982, it was agreed to add the above Section to the Agreement. As agreed, the Company will designate six G308 Service Representative positions at the northern Customer Inquiry and Accounting Center and four G308 Service Representative positions at the southern Customer Inquiry and Accounting Center as “floaters”. The regular schedule for the employees who fill these positions will be Monday to Friday, 8:00am to 4:30pm However, the employees who fill these positions will be subject to transfer to different shifts and/or workday schedules on a rotational basis. The terms and conditions of such transfers are outlined in Article VI. Section 12.
In order to designate the positions involved, as permanent Service Representative vacancies occur in the Monday to Friday, 8:00am to 4:30pm work schedule, Service Representatives, in the order of Combined Office seniority, will be asked if they want to work the open (“floater") schedule. Employees selecting these positions will be informed of the “floating” requirement. In the event that the schedules are not filled by employees exercising their option, the positions will be posted in accordance with Article XIV, Section 1, of the Agreement. The “Notice of Vacancy in Organization” will include the “floating” requirement. The employees who fill these positions will not be permitted to reselect shifts on an annual basis.
Although it is not expected to occur frequently, in the event that all of the “floaters” are utilized, a maximum of six Service Representatives at the northern Center and four Service Representatives at the southern Center may be transferred. Such employees will be transferred from the 8:00am to 4:30pm or 9:00am to 5:30pm work schedules
158
(Monday to Friday) or if additional employees are necessary, from the 7:00am to 3:30pm work schedule (Monday to Friday), depending on operating conditions.
Very truly yours,
R. J. Stickle
Manager - Industrial Relations
Customer and Marketing Services
Note: Center Seniority changed to Combined Office Seniority effective 5/1/87.
(See supplemental letter “Floater Positions in Inquiry” dated 5/1/2002)
No, 15	May 1, 1982
FIRST LEVEL SUPERVISORY POSITONS AND CONFIDENTIAL POSITIONS
During negotiation of the Agreements effective May 1. 1982, it was agreed to delete Article XIV7, Section 4, Promotion - First Level of Supervision, from the three Agreements. The letter of Agreement dated November 30, 1954 is also deleted. It was also agreed to delete Article XIV. Section 5. Promotion - Confidential Positions, from the Customer and Marketing Services Department Agreement.
It was further agreed that in the unlikely event that the Company discontinued the P.O.W.E.R. Program the provisions of said Article XIV as contained in the Agreement effective May 1, 1980, would be immediately reinstituted.
Very truly yours,
R. J. Stickle
Manager - Industrial Relations
Customer and Marketing Services
159
Note: The letter was amended effective 5/1/92 to replace reference to 'iCOS” Program with “P.O.W.E.R.” Program.
No, 16	May 1, 1982
ANNUAL SHIFT SELECTION
This letter superseded the letter dated December 22, 1980 and confirms the understanding reached during Customer system discussions concerning the annual selection of shifts at the northern and southern Customer Inquiry and Accounting Centers.
On an annual basis, to begin one year after the initial staffing of a Center has been completed, the Company shall permit employees, except those who have been designated as “floaters”, to reselect shifts. Employees will be given shift selection forms to complete. These forms will be used for shift selection. The selection of shifts will be based on Combined Office seniority. If the manpower requirements for certain shifts are not filled by employees having exercised their options, then assignments to these shifts shall be made, as required, in the inverse order of Combined Office seniority.
Very truly yours,
R. J. Stickle
Manager - Industrial Relations
Customer and Marketing Services
Notes: See supplementary letter dated May 1, 1987 concerning the reconfiguration of shifts.
Center Seniority changed to Combined Office Seniority effective 5/1/87.
160
No, 17
May 1, 1984
CONSOLIDATION OF TWO BARGAINING UNITS
(Eliminated, 1996 negotiations.)
No. 18
May 1. 1987
VALIDATED TESTS
During negotiation of the Agreement (CAMS) between the Company and the Union, effective May 1, 1987. it was agreed that all G369/G370 Meter Readers must satisfactorily pass meter reading tests in order to qualify for the Meter Reader position, with the exception of employees who are:
1)	Hired before May 1, 1987.
2)	Downgraded to the Meter Reading position due to incapacity,
3)	Recalled to the Meter Reader position, or
4)	Bumped to the Meter Reader position due to a curtailment.
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No. 19	May 1, 1987
METER READER TRANSPORTATION
(Eliminated 2002 negotiations)
No. 20	May 1,1987
MONTHLY SALARY LISTING OF EMPLOYEES
This letter confirms notification given to the Union during negotiation of the Agreement (CAMS), effective May 1, 1987.
161
The Company will provide the Union, on a monthly basis, with a salary listing of employees.
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No. 21	May 1, 1987
TAPE RECORDERS AT COMPANY-UNION MEETINGS
This letter confirms notification to the Union during negotiation of the Agreement effective May 1, 1987, of the Company's plans to disallow the use of tape recorders in Company-Union meetings.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No, 22	May 1,1987
RECONFIGURING OF SHIFTS DURING ANNUAL SHIFT SELECTION PROCESS
This letter supplements the letter dated May 1, 1982, concerning the annual selection of shifts at the northern and southern Customer Inquiry and Accounting Centers.
During negotiation of the Agreement effective May 1, 1987, it was agreed that the selection of shifts will be based on Combined Office seniority.
In addition, it was agreed that the Company may reconfigure shifts during the annual shift selection process. The Company will not reconfigure shifts during the annual shift selection process in the southern Customer Inquiry and Accounting Center until the 1989 annual shift selection.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
162
No. 23	May 1, 1987
NO PAY STATUS OF EMPLOYEES ATTENDING OPTIONAL SECOND-STEP MEETINGS
This letter supplements the letter dated May 11, 1961, concerning “optional” second-step grievance meetings.
During negotiation of the Agreements effective May 1, 1987. it was agreed that local office employees in attendance at such meetings will not be paid by the Company.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No, 24
May 1, 1987
HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
During negotiation of the Agreements effective May 1, 1987, it was agreed that health insurance coverage will not be made available to anyone other than permanent employees. Temporary employees enrolled in coverage before May 1, 1987. may continue that coverage.
Very truly yours.
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
Note: See supplementary letters numbered 57 and 58, dated May 1. 1996.
163
No. 25	May 1, 1989
COMPANY/UNION HEALTH CARE COST CONTAINMENT COMMITTEE
During negotiation of the Agreements (CAMS, TELE) effective May 1, 1989, the Company and the Union agreed to establish a Health Care Cost Containment Committee, as follows:
Purpose
The purpose of this Committee is to explore ways to control the cost of health care as it relates to health plans in which represented employees participate.
Committee Responsibilities
The Committee will review experience and cost containment provision data as they relate to PSE&G plans for represented employees.
The Committee will periodically meet with insurers, administrators and other health care specialists to learn of the current techniques used in containing health care costs and their possible application at PSE&G.
The Committee will review the financial results of each Plan for represented employees to learn how health care dollars are being spent and to explore possible ways to reduce costs.
No actions of this Committee will be binding on either the Company or on Unions representing employees of the Company.
Committee Members
The Committee shall consist of the Manager - Industrial Relations, the Industrial Relations Managers, the Benefits Planning Manager and one designated individual from each bargaining unit. If the Union designee is an active
164
employee, such employee shall be paid for meeting and travel time when meetings are held. Other individuals designated by the Company or by a Union may be asked to participate in discussions from time to time.
Committee Meetings
The Committee shall meet as required and agreed upon by both the Company and the Union participants on the Committee.
Very truly yours.
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No. 26	May 1, 1989
EXTRACTOR EQUIPMENT
(Eliminated 2002 negotiations)
No. 27	May 1. 1989
TUITION AUD PLAN
(Letter eliminated 1996 negotiations, see letter number 59. dated May 1, 1996.)
No. 28	May 1, 1989
TIME OFF FOR PERSONAL REASONS
During negotiation of the Agreements (CAMS, TELE) effective May 1, 1989. it was agreed that when an employee desires time off for personal reasons, each request will be considered on its merits by management and based on operating conditions.
In all cases time off granted will be without pay.
The above covers absence for personal reasons which are not covered by specific provisions.
165
Note: The letter entitled as above, dated 1945, has been deleted.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No, 29	May 1, 1989
RECLASSIFY G371 TO G350
During negotiation of the Agreement (CAMS) effective May 1,1989, it was agreed to reclassify all G371 Collection and Meter Reading Clerks to G35O General Clerks. Affected employees who are not qualified to type will not be required to do so.
Very truly yours, R. N. Turken Industrial Relations Manager
No, 30	May 1,1989
TYPING REQUIREMENTS G350
During negotiation of the Agreement (CAMS) effective May 1, 1989, it was agreed that any applicant selected to fill a permanent or temporary G350 General Clerk position must meet the typing requirement of the position as outlined in the Job Specification in order to qualify for this position, with the exception of employees who are:
1)	Downgraded to the position due to incapacity;
2)	Recalled to the position, or
3)	Bumped to the position due to a curtailment.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
166
No, 31
May 1. 1989
RECLASSIFY G369 TO G370
During negotiation of the Agreement (CAMS) effective May 1, 1989, it was agreed to reclassify all G369 Meter Readers - A to G370 Meter Readers.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No. 32	May 1,1992
PERFORMANCE APPRAISALS
This letter supersedes the letter dated May 1. 1980, and confirms agreement reached during negotiation of the Agreements (CSMS, TELE), effective May 1. 1992. Effective May 1, 1992, employees will be provided with a copy of their completed Performance Appraisal Form upon their request.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No, 33
May 1, 1992
PROCEDURE FOR FILLING VACANCIES IN METER READER. FIELD SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE AND COLLECTION AND CREDIT REPRESENTATIVE POSITIONS AND ANNUAL SHIFT SELECTION
(Eliminated 2005 negotiations)
167
No. 34	May 1, 1992
MILEAGE ALLOWANCE
Effective May 1, 1992, the Company will increase the mileage allowance to the new I.R.S. limit for specifically authorized use of personal automobiles on Company business.
In the event of future increases in the I.R.S. limit, the allowance shall be increased accordingly on the following May 1.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
Note: During 2002 negotiations, this letter was modified to replace the May 1 date for future adjustments to take effect on January 1 in accordance with I.R.S. guidelines.
No. 35	May 1, 1992
PARKING ALLOWANCE (Eliminated 2002 negotiations)
No. 36	May 1, 1992
TRANSFERS - MEAL AND COMMUTING EXPENSE
(Eliminated 1996 negotiations, see letter number 56.)
168
No, 37
May 1. 1992
QUALIFICATIONS FOR PROMOTIONS TASK GROUP
(Eliminated 1996 negotiations, see Article XIV,
Section 2.)
No, 38
May 1. 1992
ANNUAL SCHEDULE SELECTION - POSITIONS SUBJECT TO VARIATIONS
During negotiation of the Agreement (CSMS), effective May 1, 1992, it was agreed that employees in positions subject to variations, as defined in Article VI, Section 2. shall be permitted to reselect schedules on an annual basis in the order of Combined Office Seniority.
It is understood that the Company maintains the right to increase or decrease the number of employees assigned to a schedule at any time, or to revise variations at any time.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No. 39	May 1, 1992
SUB-COMMITTEE TO DISCUSS FEASIBILITY OF INCLUDING EMPLOYEES COVERED BY TELEPHONE SERVICES AGREEMENT UNDER CSMS AGREEMENT
(Eliminated, 1996 negotiations.)
169
No. 40	May 1,2002
Modify Letter of Agreement
FLOATING HOLIDAYS
During negotiation of the Agreements (CSMS/TELE) effective May 1, 1992, the Company guaranteed that it would not request to convert any additional fixed holidays to floating holidays.
The days listed below represent fixed holidays which were converted to floating holidays during prior negotiations:
Lincoln’s Birthday	- Floating Holiday
Columbus Day	- Birthday as a Floating Holiday
Veterans Day	- Floating Holiday
Very truly yours,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
Note: Modified LOA “Floating Holidays" dated
5/1/1992
No, 41	May 1,1992
REIMBURSEMENT OF PETTY CASH EXPENSES IN EMPLOYEES’ PAYCHECKS
This letter confirms notification given to the Union during negotiation of the Agreements (CSMS,TELE) effective May 1, 1992 of the Company's plans to include reimbursement of all petty cash expenses in employees’ paycheck.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
170
No, 42	May 1. 1992
METER READING UNIFORMS
During negotiation of the Agreement (CSMS) effective May 1, 1992, it was agreed that employees who are provided meter reading uniforms will be responsible for cleaning their own uniforms.
For a one year transition period, beginning prior to May 1, 1993 and ending one year later, the Company shall pay each Meter Reader and Group Supervisor - Meter Reading an additional $2.00 per week and each Collection Representative an additional $1.00 per week for the cleaning of their own uniforms.
The Company agrees that during the one year transition period, no employee in the above job classifications will be disciplined for failure to properly maintain his or her uniform.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
Note: Letter supplemented by letter number 49, entitled Meter Reading Uniforms (Shorts)
No 43	May 1. 1992
PROCEDURE TO DECREASE NUMBER OF “OFF-SHIFT” PERSONNEL
This letter confirms agreement reached during negotiation of the Agreements (CSMS, TELE) effective May 1, 1992.
As agreed, when it is necessary to decrease the number of permanent employees on any shift other than Monday to Friday. 7:30am to 4:00pm. and increase the number of
171
employees on another shift, the following procedure shall be utilized. Employees on the shift being decreased, in the order of Combined Office Seniority, shall be offered the position on the shift being increased. In the event there are no volunteers, the principle of “last in-first out” shall apply in determining which of the employees shall be assigned to the shift being increased.
The above procedure does not apply to employees in the Northern and Southern Inquiry Centers, or to a reduction in workforce in which case Article XIII, Section 5, shall apply.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No. 44	May 1, 1992
FOOTWEAR FOR FIELD PERSONNEL
During negotiation of the Agreement (CSMS) effective May 1, 1992, it was agreed that the Company will provide slip resistant footwear to all permanent and temporary G370 Meter Readers, G365 Group Supervisors - Meter Reading, G306 Field Service Representatives and G368 Collection Representatives as part of the uniform program. The terms of this agreement are as follows:
All such employees shall wear the shoes or boots as part of the uniform program unless an employee produces documentation which specifically states that he or she can not wear the shoes or boots for medical reasons. Under such circumstances, the company will pay the employee a maximum of $125.00 in the case of Meter Readers and Group Supervisors - Meter Reading, or a maximum of $98.10 in the case of Field Service Representatives and Collection Representatives. This allowance is to be applied toward the purchase of shoes or boots with slip resistant soles that are acceptable to the Company. Under no
172
circumstances shall the wearing of sneakers or other footwear be permitted unless they are of a design that is approved by the Company.
Employees shall pay 10% of the cost. Meter Readers and Group Supervisors - Meter Reading may obtain a maximum of two pairs each year. Field Service Representatives and Collection Representatives may obtain a maximum of one pair each year. An employee may order one additional pair at 10% of the cost by demonstrating to the supervisor that one of the pairs previously obtained has been worn-out.
An employee who through negligence damages the shoes or boots so that they can no longer be worn, or loses them, and does not have another pair of the uniform shoes or boots to wear shall be required to purchase another pair paying the full cost.
The shoes are intended for business use only and similar to other uniform garments shall not be worn for personal use.
Very truly yours.
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No. 45	May 1, 1992
INITIAL STAFFING OF 11:30am TO 8:00pm SHIFT - G367 COLLECTION AND CREDIT REPRESENTATIVES
(Eliminated, 2002 negotiations)
173
No. 46	May 1, 1992
POST SELECTION TESTS (Eliminated, 2002 negotiations - See Letter “Pre-
Selection Tests” dated 5/1/2002)
No. 47	May 1, 1992
FIELD SERVICE REPRESENTATIVES PHYSICALLY DISCONNECTING ELECTRIC METERS
During negotiation of the Agreement effective May 1. 1980, as an exception to duty number 13 of the G306 Field Service Representative job specification, it was agreed that such employees would not be required to physically disconnect electric meters.
Confirming the agreement reached during negotiation of the Agreement (Customer Services, Marketing Services) effective May 1, 1992, Field Service Representatives may be assigned to physically disconnect electric meters. They shall be informed on the previous workday of such assignment.
Very truly yours,
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No. 48	April 7, 1992
ESTABLISHMENT OF V.I.P. SAFETY COMMITTEE
This letter confirms our agreement to establish a statewide Voluntary Involvement and Participation (V.LP.) group to address safety concerns.
This group shall be established to provide an open forum for employees to express their opinions, ideas and
174
suggestions with regard to matters pertaining to employee safety and the prevention of accidents. In addition, the group will:
•	Review possible safety programs for presentation to departmental employees
•	Review and analyze safety statistics and
•	Make recommendations with regard to its activities
The Committee shall consist of three Union members to be selected by the Union President and three management employees and will meet quarterly. Minutes of the meetings shall be sent to the Union President. Employees participating on the Committee will be eligible for travel and meal expense if a meal is not provided.
Very truly yours.
R. N. Turken
Industrial Relations Manager
No. 49	May 1,1996
METER READING UNIFORMS (SHORTS)
During negotiation of the Agreement between the Company and the Union effective May 1, 1996, it was agree that the Company will provide two (2 ) pair of shorts for summer use to G370 Meter Readers who express an interest.
Very truly yours.
Joanne M. Walsh
Industrial Relations Manager
No. 50	May 1, 1996
COMBINED OFFICE SENIORITY - TELEPHONE SERVICES EMPLOYEES
As agreed during negotiation of the Agreement effective
175
May 1, 1996, employees in the Telephone Services Department will begin to accrue Combined Office Seniority effective May 1, 1996.
Very truly yours, Joanne M. Walsh Industrial Relations Manager
No. 5 J	May 1, 1996
PERFORMANCE INCENTIVES 1997 - 2000
(Eliminated, 2002 negotiations)
No, 52	May 1.2005
Modify Letter of Agreement
METER READER TRANSPORTATION
This letter supersedes letters dated May 1,1987, May 1, 1996 and May 1, 2002 entitled, “Meter Reader Transportation.’’ During negotiation of the Agreement between the Company and the Union, effective May 1,2002 it was agreed that 369/370 Meter Readers hired on or after August 31,1987 must have and maintain, in good operating condition, a motor vehicle for use in performing assigned duties. The employee’s personal vehicle must meet all safety and insurance requirements provided for by law.
Meter Readers will not be required to use their personal vehicles on assignments designated by the district as a car assignment.
If the assignment requires the use of a personal vehicle, and the vehicle is under repair because it cannot be driven, a Company vehicle or transportation will be afforded to the Meter Reader for up to five days in any one calendar year.
Permanent 369/370 Meter Readers, hired before August 31.1987. may use their personal vehicles or use Company
176
transportation to perform assigned duties; on an annual basis if any of these Meter Readers elect to utilize their personal vehicle for an entire year, and job site report, they will receive a S500 lump sum payment in addition to the mileage reimbursement.
The Company will provide all Meter Readers who use their personal vehicles to perform assigned duties with automobile insurance liability coverage in excess of their personal liability insurance coverage. This additional insurance coverage will protect the employee from claims arising out of accidents occurring during their assigned workday. In addition. Meter Readers will be reimbursed the appropriate mileage expense.
Very truly yours.
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
Note: Modified LOA "Meter Reader Transportation” dated 5/1/2002
No. 53	May 1, 1996
PARKING ALLOWANCE
This letter confirms agreement reached during negotiations of the Agreement effective May 1, 1996 and supersedes the letter dated May 1, 1992 entitled. "Parking Allowance.”
As agreed, (he Company will discontinue payment of the $3.00 per day parking allowance to Meter Readers in the Newark District Office for each day they use their personal vehicle in the performance of their assigned duties. This agreement will remain in effect for as long as free parking is provided for these employees. In the event that the free parking arrangement is discontinued, the parking
177
allowance will be reinstated.
Very truly yours, Joanne M. Walsh Industrial Relations Department
No. 54	May 1, 1996
ASSIGNMENT OF WORK IN COLLECTION DEPARTMENT
This letter confirms agreement reached during negotiations of the Agreement dated May 1, 1996 and modifies the terms of the Letter of Agreement dated December 2, 1991.
The assignment of work in the Collection Department shall no longer be made on the basis of Combined Office Seniority.
Very truly yours,
Joanne M. Walsh
Industrial Relations Manager
No, 55	May 1,2005
Modify Letter of Agreement
METER READER WORKDAY
Meter Reading Portion of the Workday
The development of meter reading assignments is unique to each route and is difficult to precisely define. However, each assignment is developed based on the following criteria and with the primary objective of ensuring a safe, fair, and productive workday.
Time available to Meter Readers is defined by the Collective Bargaining Agreement. From this total workday time allotment, there are a number of components that need to be accounted for. Most importantly, among these
178
components are the health, safety, and well being of employees. Other components consist of breaks, lunch, and variable office and travel time that result in the uniqueness of each assignment.
Also to be considered is ’'interval'’ time that is needed to complete an assignment.
After determining the net effect of all the variables identified above, the reading portion of the assignment is established. Therefore, when evaluating the appropriate read time for a field assignment, each District should use an average individual monthly read time of 5.5 hours as a guideline for Meter Readers assigned a regular route.
Meter Readers who have a monthly average read time of over 5.5 hours can request to have assignments with an average read time over 5.5 hours, read on two consecutive months, reviewed for adjustment.
However, any Meter Reader’s regular assignment that shows a read time of more than 6 hours for two consecutive months, regardless of the average monthly read time, will be reviewed for health and safety purposes. The assignment will be reviewed no later than the next scheduled meter reading date or it will be adjusted based on the average time for the two-month period over 5.5 hours.
Job Site Reporting
As agreed during negotiation of the Agreement effective May 1, 1996, G369/370 Meter Readers hired on or after August 31, 1987 will report directly to their assignments within '.2 hour after their scheduled start time, unless otherwise directed.
Meter Readers hired prior to August 31, 1987, can volunteer to report directly to their assignments unless otherwise directed; or report to the District Office, at 7:30am These employees may also elect to job site report
179
but not arrive at their first stop earlier than whatever time it would have taken to get from their local office to that stop.
Very truly yours, William Dwyer Industrial Relations Manager
Note: Replaced LOA “Job Site Reporting*' dated
5/1/2002
No, 56	May 1.2002
Modify Letter of Agreement
Transfers
This Letter supersedes the Letter dated May 1, 1996. entitled, “Transfers’*. During negotiation of the Agreement effective May 1, 2002, it was agreed that employees will not be permanently transferred from District to District, Center to District, District to Center, or Center to Center, unless the employee consents to such transfer. In the event that the employee does not consent to the transfer, he/she shall have the option of bumping in accordance with Article XIII, Section 5, Layoff & Recall, of the Agreement, or being laid off and receiving separation allowance in accordance with the provisions of Article XVII. Section 2, Separation Allowance, of the Agreement.
The above paragraph does not apply to transfers within the District or permanent transfers due to office consolidations, closings, relocations, or temporary transfers out of district due to emergency conditions requiring evacuation, such as a bomb threat, fire, explosion, etc. The Company agrees to promptly discuss the circumstances of such emergency transfers with the Union.
Employees permanently transferred due to office consolidations, closings or relocations, from the period of
180
May I. 1996 through April 30. 1998 will be entitled to mileage expense for one month from the date of transfer if the transfer exceeds 10 miles. This will be measured as follows: The distance between the old and the new location using the most direct driving route. The commuting expense shall be determined by multiplying this distance by two and grossing up twenty five percent. No employee shall receive this expense when absent due to any reason or if selected to fill a posted vacancy which results in a transfer to another location.
The Company may transfer employees temporarily for the purpose of satisfying business requirements and/or performing work resulting from vacancies. When the Company determines that a transfer is necessary to perform the work of a permanent vacancy, and if the transfer is expected to exceed 60 calendar days immediately following notification, the vacancy shall be posted in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV. Employees who are temporarily transferred under these conditions will not be eligible to receive separation allowance. The Company will not require permanent employees to be transferred to work at another location before assigning temporary and part-time employees in accordance with inverse order of combined office seniority. These transfers will be made among the following locations:
-	Hackensack: to Harmon Cove
-	Harmon Cove: to Newark, Roseland, Hackensack
-	Roseland: to Newark, Harmon Cove, Cranford
-	Newark: to Roseland, Cranford, Harmon Cove
-	Cranford: to Newark. Princeton, Roseland, NIC. CCC
-	Princeton: to Cranford. East Gate, SICBC
-	East Gate: to Princeton, SICBC
-	CCC: to Cranford, NIC
-	NIC: to CCC, Cranford
-	SICBC: to East Gate. Princeton
181
The Company will limit transfers among permanent employees, on an individual basis, to the above locations to a maximum duration of fifteen days during the course of each calendar year.
Very truly yours,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
Note: Modified LOA "Transfers” dated 5/1/1996 Additional letters which affect transfers are: - Relocation of Cranford District Office and -Transfer of Harmon Cove Sales and Service Associates - dated June 30, 1999
-	Transfer of Accounting Department Employees and Move of Collection and Call Management Operations - dated July 9,1999
-	Employment Status of Full Time Meter Readers Hired on or After May 1, 1996 - dated May 1, 2005
No, S7	May 1,2005
Modify Letter of Agreement
TEMPORARY PART TIME EMPLOYEES
HIRED AFTER MAY 1,1996
Without either party waiving their respective positions relative to part time temporary employees, this letter confirms discussions held regarding the Company's plans to expand the use of temporary part-time positions, supplements the letter dated June 9,1978 entitled, “Creation of 8 Temporary Part-Time G350 General Clerk Positions CPPC”, and supersedes the letter dated May 1, 1987 entitled, “Health Insurance Coverage for Temporary Employees.”
182
Temporary part time employees are defined as employees with no set work schedule whose workweek is typically less than 20 hours per week. These employees are required to join the Utility Workers’ Union of American AFL-CIO Local 601.
Temporary part time employees shall be paid at the appropriate wage rate commensurate with their positions, as provided for in Exhibit “Al" of the Agreement. In addition, such employees shall be entitled to the following benefits:
-	State plan illness benefits.
-	Holiday pay if employees work the day before and the day after the holiday.
-	Employees will be paid the overtime rate of one and one-half times all hours worked in excess of the S hour basic workday or 40 hour basic workweek.
-	Employees will qualify for wage progression increases following the completion of 1,044 hours worked.
The following conditions shall also apply:
-	The schedule for part time employees shall not be restricted to five days and may include Saturday and Sunday.
-	There will be no predetermined work schedule.
-	Employees will be upgraded to a higher classification only after all full time employees have been asked.
-	Employees will be assigned to work overtime only after all full time employees have been asked.
-	Employees will be entitled to a fifteen-minute break for every four hours worked on any particular work day.
183
-	Employees may be transferred to any Customer Services location as the conditions of work require.
-	Employees will be considered only for vacancies in temporary position as posted in accordance with Article XIV
-	Once employees are called into work, they will work at least three hours on that day. except for the Collection Call Center where the minimum hours allowed will be lowered to two at the end of the workday.
-	The Company plans to utilize temporary part time employees as follows based upon hours paid to employees, by location:
Location
Ration of Hours Paid Full Time/Part Time
District Offices
Collection & Call Management Center, Inquiry and Accounting Centers
Customer Payment Processing Center
85:15
70:30
20:80
It is further understood that the Company will not curtail any full time employees for the purpose of replacing them with pan time employees. In the event of a curtailment, no full time employee will be curtailed before part time employees.
Very truly yours,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
Note: Modified LOA “Temporary Part Time Employees Hired After May 1, 1996“ dated 5/1/2002
184
No. 58	May 1, 1996
FULLTIME TEMPORARY METER READERS
Without either party waiving their respective positions relative to temporary employees, this letter confirms discussions held regarding the Company’s plans to expand the use of temporary positions. All Meter Readers hired after May 1,1996 will be hired as temporary employees and shall be subject to the terms and conditions as follows:
Pay is commensurate with Exhibit “Al".
State plan illness benefits.
Holiday pay if employees work the day before and the day after the holiday.
Employees will be paid the overtime rate of one and one-half times for all hours worked in excess of the 8 hour basic workday or the 40 hour basic work week.
After two years of service these employees will achieve "Permanent Special Designation” status.
As such, they will be eligible for health care benefits at the same contribution rates in effect for other permanent employees and will not be eligible for other benefits available to permanent employees. It is understood that in the event of transfer, layoff or curtailment, these “Permanent Special Designation” employees will not be eligible for separation allowance.
The following conditions shall also apply:
Employees will be upgraded to a higher classification only after all full time permanent employees have been asked.
185
Employees will be assigned to work overtime only after all full time permanent employees have been asked.
Employees will be entitled to lunches and breaks as administered to permanent employees.
It is further agreed that Meter Readers hired on or after May 1,1996 shall be subject to temporary transfers prior to permanent employees, between the following Districts as the conditions of work require:
From:	To:
Hackensack Harmon Cove Roseland Newark Cranford Princeton East Gate	Harmon Cove Newark, Roseland, Hackensack Newark, Harmon Cove, Cranford, Roseland, Cranford, Harmon Cove Newark, Princeton, Roseland Cranford, East Gate Princeton
In the event of curtailment, temporary Meter Readers will be laid off before permanent Meter Readers.
Very truly yours, Joanne M. Walsh Industrial Relations Manager
No, 59	May 1,1996
TUITION AID PLAN
During negotiation of the Agreement between the parties, effective May 1, 1996, it was agreed to make the following modifications to the Tuition Aid Plan as it applies to employees taking approved courses.
186
Employees pursuing undergraduate degrees shall receive tuition refunds according to the grades received: 100% for an “A". 90% for a "B”. and 80% for a “C". Courses taken on a pass/fail basis will be reimbursed at 80% if passed. The procedure of reimbursing undergraduates at 90% for an “A”. 80% for a “B”, and 10% for a “C”, will thereby be eliminated.
Employees pursuing graduate degrees will also be reimbursed according to the grades they receive. Courses for which a grade of “A” or “B" is received will be reimbursed at 100%, while a grade of “C” will be reimbursed at 70%.
Employees holding an undergraduate degree who take additional undergraduate courses will be reimbursed at the rate described above for undergraduate courses.
All fees incurred for both undergraduate and graduate courses including those previously considered ineligible, will be covered at a 50% rate. Text and related supplies remain ineligible for refund.
In addition, employees enrolled in approved training of a vocational nature will be reimbursed at the 80% rate, if passed. The Company will designate eligible training institutions and the criteria for eligibility for such vocational training.
Test fees incurred under the College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) will be eligible for tuition aid at 100% reimbursement.
Very truly yours,
Joanne M. Walsh
Industrial Relations Manager
187
No, 60	May 1.1996
EMPLOYEE PAYBACK OF TRANSITION ADVANCES
During negotiation of the Agreement, effective May 1, 1996, it was agreed that the Company would discontinue recovering transition advances from U.C.A. represented employees who leave the Company on or after May 1.1996. The foregoing applies to employees hired prior to July 1, 1984.
Very truly yours,
Joanne M. Walsh
Industrial Relations Manager
No, 61	May 1.1996
REMOTE REPORTING FOR TRAINING
During negotiation of the Agreement between the Company and the Union effective May 1, 1996, it was agreed that the Company may assign employees to remote report for training. It is understood that training may be provided at Company or non-Company locations such as hotels, conference centers and facilities of other companies. When assigned to remote report for training, employees will be allowed 30 minutes of travel at the beginning and end of the day. The provisions do not apply to facilities outside the state of New Jersey or more than 10 miles outside PSE&G service territory.
The applicable I.R.S. rate will be paid for remote reporting to all locations and will be calculated from the normal reporting location. Highway tolls and parking fees, where Company facilities are not available, will be reimbursed upon presentation of a receipt.
Very truly yours, Joanne M. Walsh Industrial Relations Manager
188
No 62
JOB SECURITY
May 1. 2005
The Company does not foresee the need to layoff employees during the term of this Agreement. However, if a curtailment becomes necessary, the Company will meet with the Union to discuss ways to minimize the effect on employees. One such way may be to conduct career assessments.
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
N^
May 1,2002
SHIFT SELECTION IN THE CUSTOMER PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER
During negotiation of the Agreement effective May 1. 2002, it was agreed that the employees assigned to the CPPC shall be permitted to reselect schedules on an annual basis based on Combined Office Seniority. One shift selection for 2002 will be offered prior to June 30, 2002. Those employees in permanent positions on the date of the signing of this agreement shall not be required to change their current shift until the 2003 annual shift selection.
Very truly yours,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
No 64	May 1,2002
SHIFT SELECTION IN THE CREDIT AND COLLECTION CENTER
This letter establishes the procedure for shift selection within the Credit and Collection Center.
During negotiation of the Agreement effective May 1. 2002, it was agreed that the employees assigned to the CCC
189
shall be permitted to reselect schedules on an annual basis based on Combined Office Seniority. One additional shift selection for 2002 may be offered prior to June 30,2002 to employees who did not have the opportunity for shift selection in January 2002. The offer will be for additional positions on an earlier shift. Those employees in permanent positions on the date of the signing of this agreement shall not be required to change their cunent shift for the duration of this agreement provided that they do not opt for a change in shifts.
Very truly yours, William Dwyer Industrial Relations Manager
No 65	May 1,2002
FLOATER POSITIONS IN INQUIRY
To cover for operational needs as well as the reasons listed in Article VI Section 12 (a) of the Agreement, a “Floater A" position will be established. The number of “Floater A” positions at the Northern Inquiry Center may be increased to up to six (6).
When a vacancy has occurred in the Floater position, a "Floater A” will be offered the position in order of combined office seniority for the position. The position of “Floater A” may be posted and the position filled utilizing the normal procedures outlined in the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The default shift for “Floater A” positions will be: 7:00am - 3:30pm 8:00am - 4:30pm 9:00am-5:30pm 3:00pm - 11:30pm
Floater A’s will select default shifts as outlined by Article VI, Section 12.
190
An employee who has filled the "Floater A" position will be entitled to shift premium for the scheduled basic workday hours in a week that occur within the period of 4:00pm to 8:00 a.m per Article VI Section 8 (paragraph 2) of the Agreement.
The four floater positions in SIAC will be eliminated and these affected employees will be placed on the 8:00am to 4:30pm shift until the next shift selection.
In addition to the current compliment of shifts at the Northern Inquiry Center, two new shifts, the 5:00am -1:30pm and 6:00am - 2:30pm shifts will be established. These shifts will be added to Article VI ■ Section 2.
Very truly yours.
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
No 66	January 18, 2006
PRE-SELECTION TESTING
This letter supersedes all prior letters of agreement pertaining to post selection tests.
Pre- Selection Testing will apply to all employees hired after May 1, 2002 who bid on the following positions:
302 Marketing Assistant
307 Customer Service Center Service Representative
308 Service Representative
367 Collection and Credit Representative
367A Inbound Collection and Credit Representative
344 Demolition Process Inquiry Representative
Employees required to take a Pre-Selection Test must pass the test to be able to bid on one of the positions above.
Pre-Selection Testing will be administered outside
191
normal business hours and will be taken on the employee’s personal time. Employees who do not pass the test can retake the test as often as the test is offered.
Respectfully,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
No 67	May 1,2002
READING OF WATER METERS
During negotiation of the Agreement, effective May 1, 2002, it was agreed that the reading of water meters, and other similar work including billing, payment receipt and processing, collection and inquiry, shall be performed by U.W.U.A. represented employees subject to the preamble to the job specifications. The U.W.U.A. will have exclusive jurisdiction for all water meter reading work for the duration of the current Agreement. This letter applies to work within the Company’s existing franchise territory, as long as the Company has valid contracts with municipalities or other entities to perform the work. The parties agree to negotiate any impact on the workforce as a result of reading of additional meters including any impact of reading meters outside of the existing franchise territory.
This letter supersedes all other letters of agreement relating to the reading of water meters.
Very truly yours,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
No 68	May 1,2002
USE OF TWO WAY COMMUNICATION DEVICES
In an effort to assist with the safety of employees and service to customers, field employees will be required to
192
utilize two-way conun unication devices, provided by the Company. It is not the primary intent of the Company to use two-way communication devices for disciplinary purposes. Management will not make assignments that are abusive in terms of time or distance. Disagreements are subject to the grievance procedure.
As with all company equipment, employees assigned a two-way communication device shall be expected to exercise reasonable care in safeguarding the devices.
Very truly yours,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
No 69	May 1.2005
BILINGUAL CUSTOMER SERVICE POSITIONS
During negotiation of the Agreement effective May 1. 2002, it was agreed to create new job specifications to reflect changing customer demographics. Establishment of these nomenclatures will enable us to better serve our customers. The following nomenclatures will be included for Bilingual Customer Service positions:
Field Service Representative
Customer Service Center Service Representative Cashier
Teller
As of May 1, 2005. it is understood that the Company will not exceed a staffing level of Bilingual Customer Service positions under the following guidelines:
• CSC Service Representatives:
d If there are 2 - 4 CSC Service Representatives, the Company may have up to one Bilingual CSC Service Representative
193
□ If there are 5 or more CSC Service Representatives, the Company may have up to two Bilingual CSC Service Representatives, except in the North Hudson CSC where the Company may have up to 3 Bilingual CSC Service Representatives.
• Field Service Representatives:
□ 1 - North Hudson CSC only, as long as there is one English speaking Field Service Representative position filled.
• Cashiers:
1	- Perth Amboy CSC only.
• Tellers:
□ At location where there is an English speaking Teller, the Company may have up to one Bilingual Teller, except in the North Hudson CSC where the Company may have up to 2 Bilingual Tellers.
Employees bidding into these positions will be required to demonstrate proficiency in the posted language with the passing of a pre-selection test.
Very truly yours, William Dwyer Industrial Relations Manager
No 70	May 1,2002
JOB SPECIFICATIONS
April 1,2005
(Eliminated 2005 negotiations with merging wage chart, all Job Specifications are considered to have the ability to training included in them)
194
No 71	May 1,2002
CHANGE IN VESTING REQUIREMENT -SAVINGS PLAN
During negotiation of the Agreement effective May 1, 2002. it was agreed to change the vesting requirement on the Company’s contribution to the Savings Plan from five years to immediate.
Very truly yours,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
No 72	May 1,2002
COLLECTOR/METER READER POSITION
(Letter of Agreement and Position eliminated January 23. 2006)
No 73	May 1,2002
PENSION BENEFIT EQUITY
The following applies during the term of this Agreement, which expires on April 30. 2005. The purpose of this section is to guarantee equity in the pension benefit under the Pension Plan of PSEG to UWUAL-601 members that is equivalent to similarly situated employees represented by other unions within PSE&G.
During negotiation of the Agreement effective May 1, 2002, it was agreed that this provision applies to an adjustment to the Final Average Earnings as defined in the Pension Plan of PSEG (“Final Earnings’ shall mean the average annual Compensation of a Participant for the five years of highest earnings within the last ten years of the Participant’s Credited Service.") of Plan participants through April 30, 2005. This provision does not apply to individuals who terminate employment and who are not eligible to retire.
195
The following adjustments to Final Average Earnings will be applied;
If retirement occurs between
May 1,2002 and April 30, 2003	11.2%
If retirement occurs between
May 1, 2003 and April 30, 2004	13.0%
If retirement occurs between
May 1, 2004 and April 30, 2005	14.2%
If retirement occurs after April 30,2005, that portion of the Final Average Earnings before May 1,2005, which are included in the individual's pension calculation, shall be adjusted by 14.2%.
Very truly yours,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
No 74	May 1,2005
EMPLOYMENT STATUS OF FULL TIME METER READERS HIRED ON OR AFTER MAY 1,1996
This letter confirms our Agreement regarding employment status for meter readers hired on or after May 1, 1996, and modifies the prior Agreements on this subject dated April 24,2000 and May 1,2002.
Meter Readers holding a meter reading position on May 1, 2002 who have less than six (6) months of service shall have their employment status converted from temporary to permanent. Meter Readers hired subsequent to that date shall be hired as permanent employees. The foregoing shall not apply to meter readers hired to fill a temporary vacancy.
After May 1,2006, Meter Readers hired prior to May 1, 2005 will not be subject to the 15-day transfer provision in Letter 56 - Transfers.
196
Employees entering Meter Reading positions after May 1,2005 may be permanently transferred once, during their first year in the position, between District locations (as defined on May 1, 2005) which have contiguous territory borders, for the purpose of satisfying business requirements without regard for Letter 56 - Transfers. At the completion of one year in the position these employees will be subject to the 15-day transfer provision in Letter 56 - Transfers.
In the event that a significant reduction in the work force becomes necessary the provision of the letter entitled. “Employment Status of Meter Readers Hired on or After May 1, 1996*' dated April 24, 2000 addressed under, “Employees, New to the Company. Hired Into Meter Reading Positions On or After May 1, 2000” shall apply. The Company will not hire temporary employees after laying off permanent employees.
The provisions of Article XIII. Section 5 shall apply to those laid off employees before the Company w ill re-enact the April 24, 2000 letter.
The above provisions do not apply to temporary replacements.
Very truly yours,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
No 75	May 1,2002
MODIFICATION TO 308 SERVICE
REPRESENTATIVE PROGRESSION STEPS
(Eliminated 2005 negotiations)
197
ftp 76	May 1.2002
MODIFICATION TO 367A CREDIT AND
COLLECTION REPRESENTATIVE
PROGRESSION STEPS
(Eliminated 2005 negotiations)
No 77	May 1,2002
MODIFICATIONS TO QUALIFICATIONS FOR PROMOTION
Note: The Interview Process in Qualifications for Promotions will be eliminated as of May 1, 2006 (See the QFP Rater’s Guide).
No 78	May 1,2005
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAM
(Modified 2005 negotiations)
APPLIES TO CHOICES AND BENEFITS 2000
Modify prescription drug co-payment:
Effective 1-1-06 Retail: $4 generic, $10 preferred brand $15 non-preferred brand (for one month prescription)
Effective 1-1-07 Retail: $6 generic, $15 preferred brand $20 non-preferred brand (for one month prescription)
For three months supply:
Effective 1-1-06 Mail $8.00 generic, $20 preferred brand $30 non-preferred brand
Effective 1-1-07 Mail $12 generic, $25 preferred brand $40 non-preferred brand
198
Currently: Retail $3 generic/$10 brand
Mail $3 generic of brand for 90 days supply *
After initial prescription plus two refills, maintenance drugs must be refilled thereafter at mail order only.
No 79	May 1,2005
WORK HOURS FOR EMPLOYEES WORKING IN THE CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS CENTERS PRIOR TO MAY 1. 2002
During negotiation of the Agreement effective May I, 2002. it was agreed that those permanent full time employees currently in positions in the Customer Accounts Department on May 1, 2005 shall not be required to work on shifts that extend beyond 4:15pm The Company also agrees, that should it become necessary to staff the 4:30 shift a Senior Bookkeeper position will be filled to assume the responsibilities necessary in overseeing duties of the late shift employees, ft was further agreed that daytime positions will not be reduced as a result of the second shift.
Very truly yours,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
No, 80	May 1,2005
WORK HOURS FOR EMPLOYEES WORKING IN THE CUSTOMER BILLING CENTERS WHO ARE ON EARLY SHIFTS DURING THE PILOT PROGRAM
During negotiation of the Agreement effective May 1, 2005, it was agreed, that the alternate work hours pilot program in the Billing Centers would be extended to July, 2005. Additionally, those permanent full time employees currently on shifts earlier than the 7:45am to 4:15pm shift.
199
and remaining in their current positions would not be required to work on the 7:45am to 4:15pm shift.
Very truly yours.
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
No, 81	September 25, 2003
WAGE CHART AND STATEMENT OF PROGRESSION POLICY
As agreed, the following provisions and points of clarification shall apply in the administration of the wage chart and Statement of Progression Policy.
The steps of progression in the 309, 320 and 367B positions shown as shaded on the attached spreadsheet will be eliminated and the column entitled “total months to maximum" shall be revised as illustrated. Any employee currently at one of the progression steps to be eliminated shall move up to the next higher step with no change to the timing of their progression.
In the case of promotion to a position with a higher top pay step, the rate of pay for the new position shall be the rate in progression which is at least fifty (50) cents higher than the employee’s current rate of pay. If the next higher step is the applicable top pay step and is less than fifty (50) cents, the employee shall receive the applicable top pay step. The provisions of this paragraph shall be applied to promotions retroactive to May 1, 2002 and progression credit will be adjusted accordingly.
In the case of upgrading for employees hired prior to May 22,1996, the rate of pay shall be the rate in progression which is at least fifty (50) cents higher than the employee's current rate of pay. If the next higher step is the applicable top pay step and is less than fifty (50) cents, the employee
200
shall receive the applicable top pay step. The provisions of this paragraph shall become effective fifteen (15) calendar days from the signing of this letter.
In the case of an employee moving to a position through the posting and bidding process with the same top pay step, the rate of pay for the new position shall be the rate in progression equal to the step received prior to being placed in the new position.
In the case of a permanent employee who has completed six months in their trial period in their current position and is moving to a position with a lower top pay step through the posting and bidding process, the rate of pay for the new position shall be the rate in progression higher than the step received prior to being placed in the new position. If the employee has not completed six months in their trial period, the new pay rate will be based on the pay received in the position they held prior to their current permanent position.
Respectfully.
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
No 82
May 1,2005
Align Upgrading Process
During negotiations of the 2005 Agreement, the Company and Union have agreed to meet in an effort to explore possible modifications to upgrading.
Very truly yours.
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
201
No 83	May 1,2005
Creation of a Sub-Team to Review Rates for Certain Positions
During negotiations of the 2005 Agreement, the Company and Union have agreed to create a Subcommittee to address the following concerns raised by the Union:
“Upward adjustment in salary and grade for the 308 Service Representative position, 368 Collection Representative position, the 368M CollectorZMeter Reader Representative position and the 354 Typist Clerk position,”
"Elimination of the 367A Credit and Collection Representative position, and convert all employees in that position to 367 Senior Credit and Collection Representative positions."
The Company and Union have also agreed that the subcommittee will consist of three management and three UWUA represented employees who shall begin meeting no later than June 1, 2005.
Very truly yours,
William Dwyer
Industrial Relations Manager
202
INDEX
Agreement	Page	Article,	Section
A			
Absence leaves of			
delegates to union conventions	41	X	■>
full-time representative of Union	40	X	1
funerals	42	X	3.4
jury duty of one week or more for	43	X	5
personal reasons	45	X	6
to discuss grievances	65	XV	2,3
Adjustments, salary	11	V	2-4
Administration of vacation schedules	38	LX	10
Advance payment of salary Agreement	38	IX	9
annulment of	72	XX	3
application of	6	1	1.2
changes by mutual consent	71	XX	1
duration of	71	.XX	1
employees covered by	6	I	2
partial invalidation of	71	XIX	1
Allowance, separation	67	xvn	2
Annulment of Agreement Arbitration, grievances	72	NX	3
benefits, excluded from	67	xvn	lb
disciplinary action funerals - unusual circumstances	66	XVI	1.2
excluded from	43	X	4
grievance procedure submitting complaints to Union	61	XV	1
by Company	66	XV	4
B			
Basic workday	15	VI	2
variation	15	VI	-I
Basic workweek	13	VI	1
203
Agreement	Page	Article,	Section
Benefits, employee	67	XVII	1-4
weekly payment of salaries	13	V	5
Bulletin boards			
changes in vacation schedules	36	IX	6
posting of new positions	54	XIV	I
posting of seniority lists	???	XII	3
posting of vacation schedules	37	LX	8
use of	9	III	1
c			
Call back	22	VI	■)
meal expense	28	VII	3
Cashiers' overages and shortages	68	xvn	3
Check-off of Union dues	11	IV	4
Classification, position	11	V	1
See also	13	V	4
Confidential positions	7	I	2
Complaints, to Union by Company	66	XV	4
D			
Delegates to Union conventions	41	X	2
Demotion of employee			
from outside of bargaining unit	59	XIV	5
from within the bargaining unit	59	XIV	5
rights of management in	7	II1	
Discharge of employee			
for loss of good standing	10	IV	3
on probation	47	XII	1
Discharge suspension (See Disciplinary action) Disciplinary action			
processing of discharge cases	66	XVI	2
recourse co grievance procedure	66	XVI	1
Disciplinary records	67	XVI	3
Discrimination by Company	8	113	5
Sec also	71	XIX	2
Disputes (see Arbitrations, grievances)
204
Agreement	Page	Article,	Section
Distribution of overtime	■n	VI	7
Duration of Agreement	71	XX	1
E			
Eligible for Union membership			
list of positions	75		
Employee benefits plan	67	XVII	1
Employees covered by Agreement	6	I	
Expense			
arbitration	61	XV	1
meal	28	VII	3
telephone	27	Vil	1
traveling	28	VII	"I
F			
Floaters	25	VI	12
G			
Grievances and arbitration			
(See Arbitration, grievances)			
Grievances relating to seniority'	50	XIII	4
Grievances			
right of individual employee			
to present	bl	XV	1
time off to discuss	65	XV	2,3
H			
Hiring			
recall prior to	50	XI ll	5
rights of the Company in	7	II	1
Holidays			
during absence without pay	28	Vil	
during vacation	37	IX	7
on regularly scheduled workday	32	VIII	
pay on	32	Vin	
recognition	29	VIII	1
205
Agreement	Page	Arfcte.	Section
Hours of work	29	VIII	1
basic workday	15	VI	2
basic workweek	13	VI	1
call-back pay	22	VI	6
rest period	22	VI	7
work on other than regular shift	25	VI	12
work on second day off	21	VI	4
I			
Illness or injury prior to vacation	38	IX	10
Invalidation of Agreement	71	XIX	1
J			
Job specifications	13	V	4
Jury duty	43	X	5
shift changes for	43	X	5
L			
Lapse in membership	10	rv	3
Layoff and recall	50	XIII	5
seniority of Union officers in	53	XIII	6
Leaves of absence (See Absence, leaves of)			
Lock-out, no	8	u	2
Lunch			
period	15	VI	2
rescheduling	25	VI	11
M			
Maintenance of membership	9	IV	1
Management, rights of	9	IV	1
Meal expense	28	VII	3
Meetings between Union			
and Company	70 :	xvni	L2
206
Agreement	Page	Article,	Section
Membership			
lapse in	10	IV	3
maintaining	9	IV	1
new employees	10	IV	lb
non-coercion of employees	8	II	3
Sec also positions eligible for. list of	10	IV	■>
soliciting Military service physical examination	s	II	3
upon return from	46	XI	2
replacements	46	XI	3.4
N			
New employees	10	IV	lb
New position created	54	XIV	1
Night premium Nomenclatures Non-coercion of employees	23 74-76	VI	$
by Company	8	II	3
into membership	8	11	3
See also	10	IV	
Non-discrimination	8	II	3.5
See also	71	XEX	T
Notice of lapse in membership	10	IV	3
Notice of vacancy o	54	XIV	1
Overtime, hours of work and			
rest period	15	VI 2	-5.7
P			
Partial invalidation of Agreement	71	XIX	1
Physical examination	46	XI	
Position classification	II	V	1,4
207
Agnrenot	Page	Article.	Section
Posting			
notices on bulletin boards	9	in	i
seniority lists	49	XIII	3
vacancies and applications	54	XIV	1
vacation schedules	37	LX	8
Probationary Period	47	xn	1
Progression policy, statement of	13	V	5
Promotions and transfers			
fUll-timc representative of Union	40	X	1
other changes	59	XIV	5
posting vacancies	54	xrv	1
qualifications	56	XIV	2
trial period	58	XIV	4
within bargaining unit	57	XIV	3
Q			
Qualifications for promotions	56	XIV	2
R			
Recall, layoff and	50	XIII	5
seniority of Union officers	53	XIU	6
Recognition, representation			
(See representation and recognition)			
Recognition of Union	6	1	1
Recognized holidays	29	VIII	1
Reinstatement after return from			
military service	46	XI	1
Renegotiation of Agreement	72	XX	2
Representation and recognition	6	I	1
employees covered	6	1	2
Rights of management	7	II	1
s			
Salary			
adjustments	12	V	2-4
advance payment of	38	IX	9
grades	11	V	1
208
Agreement	Page	Article,	St&ion
job specifications	13	V	4
lump sum distributions	13	V'	3
progression steps	11	V	I
ranges	11	V	1
weekly payment of	13	V	5
Saturday andor Sunday premium	23	VI	8
Seniority			
determination of	49	xni	2
determination of sen ice	48	XIII	1
grievances relating to	50	XIII	4
in promotions	56	XIV	"»
layoff and recall	50	XIII	5
lists, posting of	49	XIII	3
of Union officers	53	xni	6
while waiting to fill new position	57	XIV	3
Separation allowance	67	XVII	2
Service			
determination of	48	XIII	I
maintenance of uninterrupted	8	ii	
Shift selection	15.25	VI	2.12
Soliciting membership	8	ii	3
Split vacations	36	LX	5
Stand by, no employees required to	24	VI	9
Statement of progression policy	13	V	5
Strikes or equivalent	8	n	1
Subterfuge to defeat terms			
of Agreement	8	ii	4
Supervision			
demotion from first level of	59	XIV	5
not included in bargaining unit	6	I	
T			
Telephone expenses	27	VII	1
Time off to discuss grievances	65	XV	2.3
Transfer of employees			
rights of Company in	7	II	1
209
Asixemenl
Page Article, Section
cashiers department	68	XVII	3
Transfers and promotions (See promotions and transfers)			
Traveling expenses	28	vn	2
Trial period	58	XIV	4
u			
Union dues, check-off of	11	IV	4
V Vacancies			
filling of	57	XIV	3
posting for	54	XIV	I
within bargaining unit	57	XIV	3
Vacations			
advance payment of salary	38	DC	9
changes in schedule	36	IX	6
death in family	38	DC	10
employee leaving Company	39	IX	11
holidays during	37	IX	7
illness or injury prior to or during	38	DC	10
length of	33	DC	1
long service employees, length of	34	DC	
normal period	34	IX	3
outside normal period	35	DC	4
posting schedules	37	DC	8
scheduling	36	DC	5
split	36	DC	5
w Wages (See salaries)			
Work on second day off	21	V(	4
Work schedule in extreme weather	24	VI	10
Work schedule
(Sec hours of work and Overtime, hours of work and)
210
Printed in U.S.A.
Nextwave Web LLC, Paterson NJ