AMENDED AGREEMENT
Between
SAN DIEGO
GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY
And
LOCAL UNION 465

INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Effective Date----September 1, 2001 "
xl^i/oY
Date Executed---November 7, 2001
6077
/ .500
AMENDED AGREEMENT
Between
SAN DIEGO GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY

(730^
And
LOCAL UNION 465
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF
ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Effective Date - September 1, 2001 “

Date Executed - November 7, 2001
>630
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.......................................iv
AMENDED AGREEMENT..............................1
INTRODUCTION - Article 1.......................2
GENERALWORKING RULES-Article II............... 9
Scope....................................... 9
Definitions................................. 9
On-Call Crew............................... 11
Hours.......................................15
Flexible Work Schedules.....................15
ShiftPremiums...............................19
Wages...................................... 20
Overtime....................................23
Relief......................................27
Holidays....................................29
Vacations...................................31
Expenses....................................34
Seniority...................................40
Safety......................................48
Helicopter Operations.......................49
Severance Pay...............................49
WORKING RULES FOR ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION
AND DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT-Article III.......51
General.....................................51
Overhead....................................53
Underground - Lead Cover....................55
Underground - Non-Lead Covered..............57
Electric Maintenance Shop...................60
i
Tests and Communications....................61
Working Rules for Electric Troubleshooters..62
Relief Troubleshooters and Fault Van Crew Members..................62
Vehicle Operators...........................63
Switching Center Operators..................65
Relay Technicians...........................65
WORKING RULES FOR
GAS DEPARTMENT-Article IV...................,..66
Gas Distribution Crews......................66
Gas Service Specialist, Service Technicians, Appliance Mechanics, Helpers................69
Gas Meter Shop..............................69
Regulator Technician........................70
Compressor Stations.........................70
WORKING RULES FOR TRANSPORTATION & SHOPS DEPT. - Article V.....................71
- General ................................... 71
Transportation..............................71
WORKING RULES FOR STORES DEPARTMENT-ArticleVI..........................75
TURN-ON METERMEN/METER SERVICE PERSON AND METER READERS-Article VII.................76
APPRENTICES, STUDENT ENGINEERS-Article VIII................79
NEGOTIATION AND ARBITRATION-Article IX 80
ii
TERM-Article X
.85
WAGE SCHEDULE...............................88-94
Electric Transmission and Distribution Department.94-98
Gas Department...........................99-101
Street Repair Division......................101
Transportation Division................ 102-103
Shops Division..............................104
Facility Management Department..............105
Stores Department...........................106
Meter Reading Department....................107
Company-Wide Classifications................108
SICKLEAVEAGREEMENT........................... 109
General.....................................110
Time Off for Medical and Dental Appointments......111
Time Off- Funerals................................111
Time Off - Illness in Family/Pregnancy......112
Leave of Absence............................112
Sick Leave of Absence.............................113
Military Leave.................................... 113
Illness During Vacation.................... 113
Holidays During Sickness................... 114
Additional Vacation Allowance...............114
Protecting the Sick Leave Plan ............ 115
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING......................116
TABLE OF CONTENTS for LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING..........................117-118
iii
PREFACE
The following amended agreement is a consolidation of the text of an agreement effective August 17,1945 (executed January 8, 1946), and the following amendments:
Effective Date:	Date Executed:
August II. 1946	October 28, 1946
August 24, 1947	February 20, 1948
February 22, 1948	February 20, 1948
August 22, 1948	February 5, 1949
August 17, 1949	October 7, 1949
August 20, 1950	September 29, 1950
January J, 1951	December 19, 1950
April I, 1951	March 22, 1951
March I, 1952	June 2, 1952
March I, 1953	May 29, 1953
February 28, 1954	June 14, 1954
February 27, 1955	April 8, 1955
June 3, 1956	May 31, 1956
March 1, 1957	June 18, 1957
March 1, 1958	April 7, 1958
March 1, 1959	July 21, 1959
March 1, >960	February 29, I960
March 1, 1961	May 15, >961
March 1, 1962	April 6, 1962
March t, 1963	May 20, 1963
March I,.1964	April 13, 1964
March 1, 1965	May 3, 1965
Effective Date:	- — — =	_ =	- Date Eaeculed: =
March 1, 1966	February 23, 1966
March 1, 1967	August 14, 1967
March 1, 1968	March 19, 1968
March 1, 1969	March 21, 1969
March 1, 1970	March 17, 1970
March 1. 1971	August 2, 1971
March 1, 1972	March I. 1972
March 1, 1973	June 11, 1973
December 1, 1974	November 6, 1974
March 1, 1975	November 6, 1974
March 1, 1976	April 26, 1976
March 1, 1977	April 25, 1977
March 1, 1978	May 15, 1978
February 1, 1979	May 16, 1979
March 1, 1980	June 26, 1980
March I, 1982	May 24, 1981
March I, 1984	June 18, 1984
March 1, 1987	August 17, 1987
March 1, 1990	December 21, >990
March 1, 1994	October 3, 1994
March 1, 1996	November 8, 1996
September 1, 1998	March 18, 1999
September 1, 2001	November 7, 2001
iv
AMENDED AGREEMENT
This amended agreement entered into this 7th day of November, 2001, by and between San Diego Gas & Electric Company, of San Diego, California, its successors or assigns, together with such other properties of a public utility character as may hereafter be acquired, hereinafter referred to as the “Company,” and Local Union 465, of San Diego, California, of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, affiliated with the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, hereinafter referred to as the “Local Union,” covering all classifications of employees as scheduled in Exhibit “A” attached hereto.
WITNESSETH: That for the purpose of facilitating the peaceful adjustment of differences that may arise from time to time, and to promote harmony and efficiency to the end that the Company, the Local Union, and the general public may mutually benefit, the parties hereto contract and agree with each other as follows:
1
ARTICLE I
Introduction
1.1	The Company is engaged in public service requiring continuous operation, and it is agreed that recognition of such obligation of continuous service during the term of this agreement is imposed upon both the Company and its employee members of the Local Union. The representatives of the Company will meet with the business manager or authorized stewards of the Local Union in reference to any grievance brought up by an employee hereunder.
1.2	It is expressly understood and agreed that the services to be performed by the employees covered by this agreement pertain to and are essential to the operation of a public utility and to the welfare of the public dependent thereon, and in consideration thereof, and of the agreements and conditions herein by the Company to be kept and performed, the Local Union agrees that, with respect to the _ employees covered by this agreement or any of them, it will not call upon or permit them to cease or abstain from continuous performance of the duties pertaining to the positions held by them under the Company in accord with the terms of this agreement, and the Company agrees, on its part, to do nothing to provoke interruption of, or prevent such continuity of performance of said employees insofar as such performance is required in the normal and usual operation of the Company’s business.
13	The Local Union agrees for its members (who are employees of the Company) that they will individually and collectively perform loyal and efficient work and service, that
2
they will use their influence and best efforts to protect the property of the Company, and its service to the public, and that they will cooperate in promoting and advancing the welfare of the Company and the protection of its service to the public at all times.
1.4	The Company agrees that it will cooperate with the Local Union in its efforts to promote harmony and efficiency among all of the Company’s employees.
1.5	All employees of the Company coming within the classifications covered by Exhibit “A” of this agreement shall be required to share in the cost of maintaining and operating the Local Union as their collective bargaining agency in accordance with its rules, and shall be members thereof. It is understood that no employee will be laid off, suspended, or discharged for the reason that the employee has not tendered the periodic dues and the initiation fees uniformly required as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership until three days after the employee’s department head, or higher Company official, is cognizant of the fact that the employee has been duly notified that the employee has not tendered such dues and fees. The foregoing provisions shall not be construed as denying the Company the right to hire its employees regardless of whether or not such employees are members of the Local Union, but it is the intent of the parties hereto that newly hired employees covered by Exhibit “A” of this agreement shall become members of the Local Union after thirty days from the date of their employment. However, summer student employees and employees hired for temporary employment shall become members in good standing of the Local Union after ninety days from the date of their employment. Part -
3
time employees shall pay reduced fees based on hours worked
compared to the normal 40-hour week.
1.6	The Local Union and the Company agree that no solicitation for membership in any labor organization shall be carried on the Company property or on Company time without the mutual consent of the parties hereto.
1.7	It is understood and agreed that if, during the term of this agreement, mandatory laws applicable to and in conflict with any of the provisions hereto shall become effective and thereafter govern the parties in respect to such conflicting provisions, this agreement shall be subject to modification by mutual agreement of the parties hereto, covering the provisions which conflict.
1.8	It continues to be the policy of the Company and the Union not to discriminate against any employee on account of race, color, sex, religion, age, national origin, ancestry, handicap, medical condition, marital status, disabled veterans and veterans of the Vietnam era—The reference to “handicap” or “medical condition” above shall not apply to an employee who, because of his handicap or medical condition, is unable to perform the employee’s duties, or cannot perform such duties in a manner which would not endanger the employee’s health or safety or the health or safety of others. The reference to “marital status” above shall not affect the right of the Company to reasonably regulate for reasons of supervision, safety, security, or morale, the working of spouses in the same division, department, section or facility. Words used in this agreement in the masculine gender include the feminine.
4
1.9	Nothing in this agreement is intended or shall be used to violate any municipal ordinance, state law or safety standard, or any other legal public requirement, nor is it intended to allow public or personal danger to continue to the detriment of either the general public, the Company, or an employee.
1.10	This agreement shall be subject to amendment at any time by mutual consent of the parties hereto. Such amendment must be reduced to writing and state the effective date of the amendment.
1.11	Nothing in this agreement shall be construed as cause, for the Company to abrogate or reduce the scope of any plan or rule beneficial to the employees existing at the time of the adoption ofthis agreement with respect to vacations, holidays, sick leave, retirement annuity, or insurance. No employee whose classification remains unchanged at the time of the adoption of this agreement shall have the employee’s wages reduced by reason of such adoption.
1.12	The Company shall supply bulletin board space for the use of the Local Union in posting officially signed union bulletins.
1.13	In case the Company should contract any work which is normally done by employees of the bargaining unit, such as the construction of electric lines, gas lines or mains, the installation of switch gear, wiring of substations, etc., the Company shall, before awarding such contract, advise the contractor that the work is to be done under the terms and conditions ofthis agreement, and/or such other agreements as may be entered into between the contractor and bona fide
5
local unions of international organizations affiliated with the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations or other bona fide labor organizations. This section applies only to contracts for work which qualify under the construction job site exception defined in Section 8 (e) of the National Labor Relations Act. The Company will not subcontract work consistently performed by the regular forces purely for the purpose of conducting a reduction-in-force, unless federal, state, county or city ordinances require the Company to subcontract work previously performed by the regular forces.
When only one union contractor submits a bid for work which is to be subcontracted under the terms of the Amended Agreement, the Company may award the contract to a nonunion contractor on a competitive basis.
1.14	The right to employ in accordance with the provisions of this agreement, to promote, discipline, and . discharge employees, for proper cause, and the management of the property, are reserved by and shall be vested in the Company. The Company shall have the right to exercise discipline in the interest of good service and the proper conduct of its business.
1.15	The employees, through the representatives of the Local Union, shall have the right to a hearing on any difference of opinion as to the competency of any person to fill a new position or vacancy; of promotion or demotion; of discipline administered; or lay-offs or of discharge for proper cause. Such hearings shall be before the heads of the department to whom the employees involved are responsible, or the Manager - Labor Relations, and in case of failure to settle the differences,
6
then before a mediator and/or arbitrator, as provided in Article IX.
When practical, if discipline administered constitutes time off, demotion, or termination, the Company will notify the Local Union business office in advance of such action. Such notification shall not be cause to delay or restrict the rights of the Company to administer discipline. Non-notification shall have no bearing upon the merits of the disciplinary action.
1.16	The Company will deduct the prescribed monthly Union dues from the wages of employees who individually and voluntarily authorize such deductions. Any such authorization shall be made in writing, and on a form agreed upon by the Company and the Union. The Company will furnish the Union with a monthly record of those for whom deductions have been made, together with the amounts of such deductions. The Union will indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits, or any other form of liability as the result of making payroll deductions for membership dues.
1.17	The Company hereby agrees to honor contribution deduction authorizations from its employees who are union members in the following form:
I hereby authorize the Company to deduct from my pay the sum of one cent ($.01) for each straight time hour paid and to forward that amount bi-weekly to the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Committee on Political Education, 1125 Fifteenth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., 20005. This authorization is signed voluntarily and with the understanding that the IBEW-COPE will use the
7
money to make political contributions and expenditures in connection with federal, state, and local elections and that this voluntary authorization is in response to a joint fund raising effort by the IBEW and the AFL-CIO. (Effective August 17, 1987.)
The Union will indemnify and save the Company harmless from any claims, suits, or any other form of liability as a result of making payroll deductions described above.
1.18	Where practicable new employees will be introduced to their applicable Shop Steward within 30 days of assignment to new work location.
8
ARTICLE n
General Working Rules
Scope
11.1 The following general working rules are to apply to all employee classifications covered by this agreement unless specifically covered in departmental rules as hereinafter set forth.
Definitions
LL2 Employees shall be designated as provisional and regular. Provisional employees are employees with less than six months of continuous service with the Company. Service with the Company will be considered as continuous in the case of a provisional employee when the employee’s time off without pay has been due only to recognized holidays or to sickness not in excess of five days in that six months period.
Regular employees are employees with more than six months of continuous service with the Company as defined in the preceding paragraph.
In the event service is discontinuous, they will be granted regular status if their total accumulated service amounts to six months within the last 9-month period.
113 The application of the term “journeyman” to trades and classifications other than journeyman electrical workers as defined in Articles HI to V, inclusive, may, in the future, be determined by mutual agreement of the parties hereto, as may
9
likewise be the rules with respect to apprentices in these trades or classifications.
11.4	During the life of this agreement, in the event a new bargaining unit occupation is created by the Company, the rate for the new occupation shall be established by the Company with due regard to the content of the new occupation. Ifthe Union disagrees with the rate as determined by the Company, such new rate shall be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
II.5	“Established Headquarters” is considered to mean any headquarters established by the Company, with proper advance notice, for the purpose of engaging in construction or maintenance work covered by this agreement, where such work will continue indefinitely.
II.6	The Company, at its option, may establish “Camp Jobs” at any location where suitable board and lodging can be obtained or provided, but the determination as=to whether such work shall be a “Camp Job” shall be made, and the employees so notified in advance of the assignment.
“Camp Job" is considered to mean any location established by the Company for the purpose of engaging in work as covered in this agreement where such work will continue for a temporary period. After the application of this rule, regular working rules shall apply. (See sections 11.67 and 11.69 for “Expenses.”)
II.7	The Company, at its option, may establish “Reporting Locations” for the Construction and Maintenance workforce for the purpose of having employees report to
10
such locations prior to the beginning ofthe shift. The Company will determine the need for employees to report to such “Reporting Locations” based on the length of time such a reporting assignment is necessary. Selection of employees for “Reporting Locations” will be made from a voluntary sign-up list posted in the headquarters making the assignment. If insufficient volunteers sign up, then the job will not be performed under “Reporting Location” conditions. The Company shall provide for safe storage of employees’ tools. See Section 11.65 under the heading “Expenses” for the information concerning the payment of fees and allowances for such assignments.
II.8	On Call Crew/Call Outs
1.	Each location may have On Call Crews/Supplemental crews. These Crews will not be used in other districts if those districts have not established the On Call Crews procedures and unless they have exhausted their Call Out list.
2.	The Primary On Call Crew shall consist of an “A ” and *B” on call shift. The “A” shift will run from 7:00 AM Monday o 7:00 AM Friday and the “B” shift shall run from 7:00 AM Friday to 7:00 AM Monday.
The Supplemental list will consist of a daily sign up list. This shall be used as described below.
3.	Employees shall receive a premium of $30.00/day for week days starting Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday it 7:00 A.M. and $40/dayfor days starting Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Holidays when they have the On-Call Crew duty, provided they respond, when requested. FFfceJt days shifts are ror four days from 7:00 A.M. Monday to 7:00 A.M. Friday.
11
Weekend shifts are three days from 7:00 A.M. Friday to 7:00
A.M. Monday
4.	Primary shifts will be filled as follows:
A.	Primary shift assignments will be posted on the Wednesday* (Il days) before the two-week period in which theAandB shift assignments are performed. Employees may sign up for the shift assignments until noon on Friday* before the shift assignments are posted. Shift assignments will be made using the “AU Other” overtime list issued the Monday of the week in which the shift assignments are made.
B.	Voluntarily using the “All Other” overtime list by lowest number of hours.
C.	Assigning by “All Other’VDo Not Want overtime list by lowest number of hours.
D.	Or a combination of B and/or C above.
* If the Wednesday or Friday fall~dh a Holiday the preceding workday shall be used.
5.	Employees are responsible for the entire shift. Employees who accept or are assigned to the primary crew will continue to be ineligiblefor assignments that interfere with their primary crew responsibilities.
6.	The employer will designate the devices to be used when making contact of which the employee will select the primary number.
7.	Employees will be allowed to work no more than two consecutive on call shifts without a shift off.
12
8.	“Call Out Crew” size will be determined by location. When crew size is determined, it will be posted prior to accepting sign ups. Once posted, the crew size will be in effect at least one full quarter. When utilizing the on call crew, the full crew complement will be utilized.
9.	In cases where a primary crew member cannot fulfill part or all of the shift:
A.	The Supplemental lists will be utilized, The employee will receive the premium if the employee accepts the assignment.
B.	If there are no volunteers on the Supplemental list, the “All Other’VDo Not Want overtime list will be used to fill the crew if there is a call out, no premium will be paid to that individual.
10.	An employee who does not fulfill all or part of their shift obligation without a bonafide reason will be subject to the following:
A.	Loss of premium for that instance.
B.	Immediately ineligiblefor prearranged overtime plus: la offense-ineligible for next 2 full pay period loss of prearranged 2ni offense-ineligible for next 4 full pay period loss ofprearranged 3'* offense-to include additional discipline up to and including termination.
The employee prearranged overtime will be adjusted to reflect the average prearranged overtime in their classification
13
at their location. The method would be to add up all prearranged hoursfor that periodfor that classification at that location. Divide it by the number of individuals that worked prearranged during that periodfor that classification at that location. That number would be added to the prearranged hours of the individual.
II.	All other call outs shall be made as follows:
A.	After the primary shift assignments have been posted, employees may sign up for individual days (Supplemental List) during the two~week shift period. Sign ups must be done by 7:00 A.M. on the desired day.
Individuals may remove their namesfrom individual days (Supplemental List)providing they do so by 7:00 A.M. on the day they wish to be removed.
B.	Selection shall be based on the lowest number of “AU Other’' hours on the report in effect on the day the election is made.
C.	Supplemental crewmembers from the volunteer list are to receive the following premium to be paid if the employee is called out from the volunteer list: “A ” shift ($30) and “B” shift ($40).
D,	Any and all additional requirements will be filled with personnel from the supplemental lists. If unable to fill these requirements, the “all other/do not want” lists will be used.
E Employees on the Supplemental List will not be disciplined for availability, if on another company assignment.
14
12.	When the company determines that employee(s) on the Supplemental list are not meeting their commitments, they shall be subject to Section I OB (above).
13.	Apprentices will not be allowed to sign-upfor or accept on call assignments on days/hights that would interfere with school attendance.
Hours
11.	9 Eight consecutive hours (except for time out for meals) shall constitute a work day for all employees covered by this agreement Five days shall constitute a work week for al) employees, the days falling in sequence, unless otherwise specifically provided in the following departmental working rules.
11.	10 Hours of work shall normally be from 7:00 a.m. to 11100 a.m., and from 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. except as otherwise provided herein; and except further that rotating shifts and/or regularly scheduled shifts may be instituted to such extent and at such hours as may be required in the Company’s operations, and it is understood that such rotating and/or regularly scheduled shifts may be instituted regardless of the departmental provisions of Articles III to VII, inclusive. While such other shifts will normally be continuously uniform with respect to days of the week and hours of the day, it is provided further that by mutual consent of the parties hereto certain rotations of work days and hours may be instituted.
Flexible Work Schedules
11.	11 Flexible work schedules may be instituted by mutual agreement of both parties prior to presentation to the affected workgroup. These schedules will cover four 1 O-hour days or
15
nine days consisting of eighty hours. The schedules may be put in place for the entire department or portion thereof. Prior to a vote, the Company will post the details of the proposed schedule (hours of the day, days of the week, and expected duration, etc.). A two-thirds majority vote of the affected work group is required for implementation. These schedules shall be set between Monday and Friday and shall be consecutive work days.
The following will apply for schedules covering four 10-hour days or nine days consisting of eighty hours:
Sick Leave, Holidays, and Vacation will be allocated by hours.
Holidays will be covered as follows:
4/10’s: Work weeks with recognized set holiday(s) will revert to a 5-day, forty hour work week.
9/80’s: Employees will receive eight hours pay for each Holiday and have the option of charging the additional hour to a Floating Holiday, Vacation, or one hour “no pay” (not to be charged against personal time).
Employees on flexible schedules will be allowed up to two personal days a year (in lieu of sixteen hours).
Overtime will be administered as follows:
1 O-hour shifts: After the regular shift, the first hour of overtime will be time and one-half with doubletime thereafter.
16
9-hour shifts: After the regular shift the first hour wilt be time and one-half and double-time thereafter (for an 8-hour day, normal contract provisions apply).
A meal will be provided if work continues for more than one hour after the end of a shift for employees working 9 or 1 O-hour shifts. The normal provisions will apply per the contract for an 8-hour shift.
14-HourRule
Employees working flexible work schedules who fall under Article 11.46 of the Amended Agreement shall receive the following for the regular work period for which the employee has been relieved (Actual time not to exceed eight hours straight time pay).
1 O-hour shift = 4 hours straight time pay
9-hour shift = 3 hours straight time pay.
Bereavement Leave will be allocated by days per the Amended Agreement.
fury Duty Policy will apply per the Amended Agreement.
At the Union’s option, and with thirty days notice to the Company, an election may be held once a year to determine if an alternative schedule shall continue. This election may be held on Company time and will be jointly conducted. The Union and The Company retain the right to return to an 8-hour schedule with thirty days notice given to either party.
17
11.12	To facilitate the rotation of shifts, employees may change shifts with only eight hours off between shifts, provided such occurrences are three weeks or more apart.
11.13	When conditions of the work require, employees may be assigned to or employed for special shifts for a particular class of work at straight-time rates for eight-hour periods other than specified, provided the assignment shall continue for at least a normal five-day work week consisting of Monday through Friday. (For an employee who does not work a normal Monday-through-Friday schedule, substitute the first through the fifth work days in the workweek.) Special shifts for a shorter period shall be subject to the overtime rules. No work shall be performed under these conditions which can reasonably be done during regular working hours with due regard for the requirements of public service. Such shifts maybe instituted regardless of departmental provisions of Articles 111 to VII, inclusive.
11.14	When provision is made for employees or crews to rotate Saturday shifts, they shall have either the preceding or succeeding Monday off in the place of Saturday, as may be decided by the parties hereto. This rule shall be uniform by departments. To the extent that this shift rotation requires, employees may work thirty-two hours in one week and fortyeight in the next.
11.15	Employees working out of headquarters or shops shall travel from headquarters to headquarters, or shop to shop, on Company time; and employees shall report at the headquarters or shop in the district in which they are regularly employed. However, employees assigned to duty at the locations designated below for three days or more will report
18
for work at those locations at the regular starting time of employees in the department to which they are temporarily assigned:
Station A
Station B Power Plant
Silvergate Power Plant
Centre City District
Electric Building
Main Street Yard
NTC Central Steam Plant
and any other yard, shop or headquarters which may be established within a five-mile radius from Station A. If the assignment is for less than three days, the employee shall receive a travel allowance equal to one-half hour at the employee’s straight time rate for each such day.
11.16	Employees assigned to a job within the same department, district or headquarters having a different starting time, will receive no overtime pay for such change in starting time, provided they are notified the previous day, and provided the starting time does not differ from the regular starting time by more than one hour.
Shift Premiums
IL	17 An employee whose work period commences, for any reason, at 4:00 a.m. or thereafter, but before 12:00 noon, shall not receive a shift premium.
An employee whose work period commences, for any reason, at 12:00 noon or thereafter, but before 8:00 p.m., shall receive eighty-five cents ($.85) as of 3/1/97 per hour shift premium.
19
An employee whose work period commences, for any reason, at 8:00 p.m. or thereafter, but before 4:00 a.m., shall receive a one dollar and five cents ($1,05) as of 3/1/97 per hour shift premium.
11.18	The shift premium, if any, which is payable for an employee’s work period shall also be paid for any time worked by the employee as an extension or continuation of such work period.
11.19	The applicable overtime factor shall be applied to the shift premium at any time an employee’s work period is subject to both shift premium and overtime premium pay.
11.20	Travel time is subject to shift premium pay and shall also be used in determining which shift premium, if any, = shall be paid.=--------=--- ------- - ------- - — —
11.21	Shift premium shall be payable only for hours actually worked. They shall not be paid for holidays not worked, sick leave, vacations, etc.
IL22 For the purpose of shift premium application, commencement of work following such work period interruptions as meals periods, etc., shall not constitute commencement of a new work period.
Wages
11.23	The wage schedule for employees covered by this agreement is set forth in Exhibit “A” which is attached hereto and made a part hereof.
20
11.24	Pay days shall be at biweekly intervals. If a pay day falls on a holiday, the preceding work day shall be pay day.
11.25	In case an employee works at two classifications in the same half day, he shall receive the higher rate of pay for that half day. It is provided, however, that where there is a regularly scheduled job or class of work in which more than one classification is consistently involved, the employee so working shall receive the rate of pay for the actual time worked in each classification.
11.26	An employee placed on a temporary assignment of higher classification shall receive the prevailing rate of pay for the higher classification during the entire period of the assignment. The higher rate will prevail for holidays and jury duty only when the employee was upgraded both the immediate work day before and the immediate work day after the holiday or jury duty.
11.27	When a qualified employee is promoted to any position in which he or she has had no previous experience, he or she shall be given a reasonable break-in period with an experienced employee in that position, without an increase in pay for such break-in period.
11.28	Employees hired for temporary employment shall not be paid less than the regular company rate established for the classification in which they are working.
11.29	Provisional employees ordered to report for work, will be credited with at least two hours’ pay if weather conditions are so unfavorable that the supervisor directs that
21
no work be attempted. Regular employees reporting for work will not have pay deducted because of weather conditions when the supervisor directs that no field work be undertaken However, it is understood that such employees may be held at headquarters pending trouble calls, or may be employed in other miscellaneous work at headquarters.
11.30	Helpers who have been at the top Helper rate for one year or more, and who are promoted to jobs having the same starting rate as top Helper, shall receive Pay Group (7) for the first year in the higher position. If the Helper has not completed one year at the top Helper rate at the time of promotion, he shall take the first year book rate for the new job for such time as will complete one year, and thereafter will receive not less than Pay Group (7) for the balance of the first year in the new job. The second and subsequent years in the new job shall be at the book rate. -■ —
1131 Laborers will be raised at least one Pay Group if promoted or upgraded to Helper.
1132 An employee shall not have a fringed benefit reduced while engaged in pursuing a grievance if said employee’s presence at a grievance hearing is required by both parties or if the employee is subpoenaed to appear at the hearing by the Arbitrator or the NLRB. The foregoing does not apply to benefits that are based on a percentage of the employee’s base hourly rate of pay.
11.33	Aregular employee on Leave of Absence to serve as a Union officer in Local Union 465, IBEW, will receive the same benefits as do other regular employees on approved Leave of Absence.
22
1134 An employee receiving Workers’ Compensation as a result of an injury sustained in the course of his or her employment with the Company shall not have his or her sick leave entitlement, vacation, time in classification (except for Apprenticeships and other training programs) and seniority reduced as a result of such absence.
1135 Regular employees who are required by law to serve on juries will experience no loss of pay for up to but not exceeding 30 working days.
Overtime
1136 Overtime worked as a continuation of the regular shift will be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the first two hours of overtime, and double time thereafter. Intermission taken out for meals will be deducted in all cases, except if a crew is held over, under standby conditions, and such crew is released immediately at the conclusion of the meal period without resuming work.
1137 Double time will be allowed for all work on days when an employee is scheduled for a day off.
1138 Unless otherwise provided herein, all employees called out for overtime duty shall receive an amount not less than the equal of four hours straight-time pay. An employee will be considered as called out if the employee is required to work after the employee’s regular quitting time for the day, and after having been released. Notification to report for a regularly scheduled shift or any part thereof is not considered a call-out. A regularly scheduled shift is one of at least eight hours duration, posted in advance.
23
1139 Employees who report for prearranged work on work days, and who continue to work into regular work hours shall be paid overtime compensation for actual work time up to regular starting time (i.e., no travel time or minimum). For the purpose of this section, prearranged work is deemed to be work for which advance notice of at least 12 hours (before the work is to start) has been given. If such 12 hours’ notice is not given, or if the work is scheduled to start more than 4 1/2 hours before the employee’s regular starting time, it shall be considered a call-out and the minimum and travel time provision will apply.
11.40	Should an employee receive more than one call-out within a two-hour period, the employee shall be entitled to the minimum of two hours at double time on the first call only. For any time worked in excess of the two-hour minimum the employee shall be paid at the double time rate for the actual time involved.
11.41	When an employee is called out for overtime duty, the employee’s pay shall start 1/2 hour before the employee’s arrival at headquarters or at the job and shall end 1/2 hour after the employee is released. Travel time is to be considered working time.
If the employee is requested to arrive, and does arrive, at headquarters or on the job at a certain time under call-out provisions, the employee’s pay shall start 1/2 hour before such stipulated reporting time and shall end 1 /2 hour after the employee is released.
24
In cases where such call-out duty extends into the employee’s regular working hours, the terminal 1/2 hour shall not be allowed.
11.42	If an employee’s scheduled shift is canceled with less than eight hours notice the employee will be entitled to pay for at least two hours of work at overtime rates.
11.43	If an employee is called to report to work, and then later called and has that order canceled, or if prearranged overtime is canceled prior to the employee leaving the employee’s residence, the employee shall receive two hours at straight-time pay.
11.44	When contacted by telephone at home and required to give technical information necessary to the operations of the Company, an employee shall receive 0.2 hour at time and one-half for giving such information.
11.45	An employee who has earned 14 hours straight time pay at overtime rates during the 16 hours preceding the employee’s regular starting time may be relieved from duty for the employee’s succeeding regular work period unless the employee has been off duty for the five hours preceding the employee’s regular starting time or unless a majority of employees from the crew (over 50%) wish to work. They may work at straight time rates for the remaining hours of their regular shift if they have the 5 hours off (rest period) prior to 4 hours into their regular shift. If the rest period overlaps with the employees regular shift, the employee will be compensated for those hours that overlap, at their regular straight time rate, provided they report to work and finish their regular shift. If relieved from duty under these
25
circumstances, the employee shall receive two hours straight time pay for the regular work period from which the employee has been relieved. If required to work during the employee’s regular work period under these circumstances, the employee shall be paid at the rate of double time, plus they will receive an additional 2 hours of straight time pay. (Except as stated in Flexible Work Schedule Article II. 11).
Employees should not work more than 30 continuous hours without a five hour rest period.
11.46	If an employee is called out for overtime duty from the employee’s home, the employee is entitled to a minimum of two hours’ pay at overtime rates. If the two hours overlap into the employee’s regularly scheduled work shift, the straight time pay for that shift begins at the end of the two-hour period and ends at the regular quitting time. For example: If an employee whose regular starting time is 8:00 a.m. should be called to work at 7:00 a.m., the employee is entitled to be paid at the overtime rate from 7:00 a.m. until 9:00 a.m., and at the straight-time rate from 9:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. Should the employee continue on duty after 4:30 p.m., such additional time would be computed at the overtime rate.
11.47	If an employee is on the job waiting to begin the regular day and is instructed to start ahead of schedule, the employee shall receive double time up to the regular starting time, but not less than one-half hour at double time.
11.48	The regular lunch period of any employee or crew may be either advanced one hour or delayed one hour where required by necessity, under which circumstances no extra pay will be given. Should the lunch period be advanced or
26
delayed more than one hour, an extra half hour’s pay shall be allowed at the rate being paid for that day.
11.49	Except for relief employees relieving employees on rotating shifts, employees transferred from a day shift to a night shift shall be paid at the overtime rate, unless such transfer is for at least a normal five-day work week, consisting of Monday through Friday. (For an employee who does not work a normal Monday through Friday schedule, substitute the first through the fifth work days in the work week).
11.50	Overtime will be classified in two separate categories. One category will be “prearranged overtime,” which is all overtime that is scheduled and advance notice is given to the employee. The second category will be “all other overtime,” which excludes “prearranged overtime.” Overtime shall be divided as equally as is practicable in these two separate categories among those qualified and available in each classification.
11.51	For the purpose of Call-outs and Prearranged Overtime, employees on shifts may be utilized to perform work that begins up to four hours before their shift begins, and/or work that begins up to four hours after their shift ends, without regard to the “Pre Arranged” or “All Other” Overtime lists.
Relief
11.52	In transferring an employee from one shift to another, no loss in regular pay shall result. Except in emergencies, or where otherwise agreed upon by the parties hereto, an employee may be transferred from one shift to another with eight hours off duty between shifts with no overtime penalty. If the employee does not have eight hours
27
off duty between shifts due to overtime assignments, then the employee shall receive pay according to the following formulas:
Time Between Shifts	Pay Calculation
6 hours, but less than 8 hours	3 hours at double time 5 hours at straight time
4 hours, but less than 6 hours	6 hours at double time 2 hours at straight time
Less than 4 hours	8 hours at double time
The above pay calculations do not apply to situations covered in Section 11.53.
11.53	In providing for emergencyrelief for shift employees (as, for example, in case of illness) other employees from either rotating or regular shifts (and not necessarily working the same schedule of hours as the employee relieved) may be transferred to the relief duty and shall receive no overtime therefore, provided they have received at least sixteen hours’ notice of the impending transfer to the relief duty and are not required to work in excess of an average of forty hours per week in any two weeks. Employees returning from sick, accident, or other unscheduled absence must give at least eight hours’ notice before returning to work.
H.54 If an employee who is normally free on holidays relieves an employee whose shift permits no recognition of holidays, the employee shall receive double time pay for holidays worked during the first twenty-one calendar days of such relief, and after that period shall receive additional days off, or a vacation, as provided for in Section 11.59.
28
Holidays
IL55 Regular employees shall be entitled to have the following holidays off with pay when they fall on a workday in the regular work week:
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
New Year’s Day
Three (3) Floating Holidays*
Third Monday in February (President’s Day) Memorial Day July 4th Labor Day Thanksgiving Day Thanksgiving Friday** Day before Christmas*** Christmas Day
*l'or employees who become Provisional on or after the ratification date of this agreement thefollowing shall apply; provisional employees who become Regular employees during the calendar year will have prorated Floating Holidays according to the date they become a Regular employee and according to the following schedule: 3 Floating Holidays for employees who become a Regular employee between January 1 and March 31; 2 Floating Holidays for employees who became a Regular employee between April 1 and June 30; 1 Floating Holiday for employees who become a Regular employee between July 1 and September 30; and no Floating Holidays for employees who become a Regular employee after October 1. The Company may limit the number of employees who may be off on a floating holiday on any given day. In the scheduling of the floating holiday, consideration will be given to employees’ requests consistent with the operating needs of the Company.
29
**This shall be a holiday for all employees; provided that so many employees as the Company may deem necessary to retain for work will not be given a holiday on that day, but in lieu thereof shall receive one of the following at the Employee’s option:
(1)	Some other day to be specified by the Company which would result in four consecutive days off.
(2)	One day added to the employee’s vacation.
(3)	The normal pay for working on a holiday.
***The Day before Christmas holiday shall be observed on December 24, except when Christmas Day is on Saturday, Sunday, or Monday. If Christmas Day is on Saturday, the Day before Christmas shall be observed on the preceding Thursday. If Christmas Day is on Sunday or Monday, the Day before Christmas shall be observed on the preceding Friday. However, the Company may deem it necessary to retain certain employees for work on the Day before Christmas.
— -* Such employeeswill not be given a holiday on that day, but in= lieu thereof shall receive one of the following at the Employee’s option.
(1)	The day before New Year’s Day which shall be ascertained in the same manner as for the Day before Christmas above.
(2)	One day added to the employee’s vacation.
(3)	The normal pay for working on a holiday.
When one of these holidays falls on Sunday, the Monday following shall be a holiday.
30
When one of these holidays falls on Saturday, eligible employees shall receive one of the following at the Employee’s option:
(1)	A day off on the Friday before the Saturday holiday.
(2)	One day added to the employee's vacation.
(3)	The normal pay for working on a holiday.
11.56	All work on holidays mentioned in Section 11.55, except such as may be done by shift employees (whose schedule permits no recognition of holidays) regularly scheduled for work on those days, shall be paid for at the rate of double time.
11.57	Work shall not be scheduled for employees or crews in those groups where such employees or crews take occasional Saturday work in rotation, on those Saturdays which are holidays. If one of these employees or crews is presumed to get Monday off by reason of having worked Saturday, and that Monday is a holiday, then the employee or crew shall have Tuesday off.
Vacation
11.58	Vacations with pay will be granted as follows:
A provisional employee receives no vacation allowance.
Employees hired into full time positions after July 18th of the year shall receive 5 days of vacation upon becoming a Regular Employee.
Employees hired into full time positions on or before July IS* of the year will receive the following vacation allowance:
31
Date Hired	Available Days of Vacation upon becoming a Regular Employee
Dec. 12 - of preceding year to Jan. 16 of vacation year incl	5
Jan. 17 - Feb. 22, incl., of vacation year	4
Feb. 23 - March 30, inch, of vacation year	3
March 31 - May 6, incl., of vacation year	2
May 7 - June 11, incl., of vacation year	1
June 12 - July 18, incl., of vacation year	0
Regular Employees	Working Days Vacation
Regular employees having one year or more service as a regular employee as of July 1st.	10
Regular employees with five years or more of continuous service	15
Regular enployees with 15 years or more of continuous service	20
Regular enployees with 25 years or more of continuous service	25
Regular employees with 30 years or more of continuous service	30
32
Vacations will be granted throughout the year. In the scheduling of vacations, consideration will be given to employee requests consistent with the operating needs of the Company.
11.59	All shift employees who are regular employees whose shifts normally permit no recognition of holidays, shall be granted an additional vacation to the extent of holidays lost by reason of such shift work as compared with other regular employees working a normal Monday to Friday work week. The number of such additional days of vacation shall be based on the holidays lost between the end of the vacation of the prior year and the end of the vacation of the. current year. If the total vacation exceeds fifteen working days, only fifteen days need be consecutive, and any excess shall be allowed at other times at the mutual convenience of the Company and the employee. Employees entitled to more than ten days’ vacation allowance will, in case the Company finds it impracticable to schedule more than fifteen days of such vacations, be given one day’s pay (when mutually agreeable) for each day of vacation not granted.
The foregoing rule is not intended to discriminate against those employees who might be granted an “extended” vacation by reason of special rules of the Company.
11.60	In computing pay for vacation (or sick leave), employees who carry dual classifications shall be paid in proportion to the time worked at the different classifications during the year in question.
11.61	Upon termination of employment with the Company, an employee shall be paid for unused vacation allowance.
33
11.62	If an employee requests time off in addition to regular vacation, such request shall be granted at the employee’s expense, provided it does not inconvenience the operation of the Company, or increase operating expense.
11.63	Vacation requests must be submitted between November 1 st and January 31 st inclusive. Vacation schedules shall be posted on or before April 1 st, and no change in schedule shall be made without the mutual consent of both parties unless thirty days notice is given of such change.
An employee who resigns or is terminated shall have all unearned vacation that has been taken deducted from his or her final paycheck. If insufficient earnings are available in the final paycheck, the employee shall reimburse the Company for the amount of unearned vacation that has been taken.
Expenses
11.64	The payment for mileage allowance will be $.325 cents per mi Ie. Effective April 1,1999 the payment for mileage -allowance will be $.31 cents per mile. Future adjustments will be made according to effective dates of IRS published recommendations.
An employee being temporarily assigned from one established headquarters to another established headquarters, as defined in Section 11.5, may be furnished transportation at the Company’s option, or they may receive the following payment:
If the distance from the employee’s home does not exceed the distance from the employee’s home to the employee’s regular established headquarters, no payment will be received.
34
If the distance from the employee’s home to the location of the temporary assignment at another established headquarters exceeds the distance from the employee’s home to the employee’s regular established headquarters, the employee will receive payment for the additional commuting time at the straight-time rate of pay calculated at two minutes for each additional mile plus $.31 cents for each additional mile. In the event the additional round trip mileage is 15 miles or less, the minimum allowance will be 1/2 hour pay at the straight-time rate plus $.31 cents for each additional mile. (Effective April 1,1999).
An employee must submit statements for the additional distance, if any, traveled by the most direct route from the employee’s place of residence to the location of the temporary assignment. Falsification of distances traveled will result in discipline up to and including discharge.
11.65	An employee reporting to a “Reporting Location” as defined in Section II. 7 may receive the following allowances:
MileageZones: 0 - 9 miles =	$10.00
10 - 34 miles =	$20.00
35 + miles =	$25.00
Any additional parking fee and bridge tolls incurred when proper receipts are submitted.
An employee must submit statements as to the mileage traveled by the most direct route from the employee’s place of residence to the “Reporting Location.” Falsification of distances traveled will result in discipline up to and including discharge.
35
Section 11.64 shall not apply to employees who volunteer to report directly to a “Reporting Location.”
An employee may request to be released from the “Reporting Location” requirement if an acceptable qualified employee can be substituted. Substitutes from the subject list of volunteers will have first preference.
11.66 Employees shall provide their own midshift meal on regularly scheduled workdays and when working prearranged overtime.
For work performed before or after a regularly scheduled shift:
A meal will be provided if work commences 1.5 hours or more before the start of the employee’s regularly scheduled shift or prearranged overtime shift.
----A meal will be provided if work continues for more than 2.0 hours after the end of the shift. Another meal will be provided if work continues for more than 5,5 hours after that meal, and another meal will be provided if work continues more than 6.5 hours after that meal.
Mealtimes on call-outs shall be provided using the foregoing rules:
For call-outs on an employee’s scheduled day off, the employee’s shift hours shall be considered the same as those on the employee’s last regular workday. If an employee is changing shifts and is called-out after midnight on the day the shift change occurs, the employee’s shift hours shall be the hours of the regular shift that day. If called-out before midnight,
36
the shift hours shall be the same as those on the employee’s last workday.
For purposes of meals, prearranged work on Saturday, Sunday, holidays or when an employee is scheduled to be off, shall not be scheduled to start before 5:00 a.m. Prearranged overtime work scheduled to begin before 5:00 a.m., other than regularly scheduled shifts, shall be considered a call-out for determining meal allowances.
These mealtimes are to be subject to variations so that employees engaged in overtime work will continue to perform such duties and operations as are required for proper service to the public.
The Company may provide meals at the times indicated above, unless the employees are released on or before the mealtime. Where it is not practical for the Company to provide such meals, the Company shall reimburse the employee $8.75 as of 3/1/97 for such meal, regardless of whether it is breakfast, lunch or dinner.
n.67 Should an employee be away from headquarters more than one day on Company business, the Company shall provide the employee lodging and a sum of $35.25 as of 1/1/ 98 per day for meals and expenses. Any sum in excess of these amounts must be paid by the employee or will be deducted from the employee’s paycheck. This sum will be paid when an employee is assigned a camp job and must be away from home overnight. The daily allowance will be paid each full day the Company requires the employee to work at the remote location. As an example, if an employee leaves on Monday and returns on Friday evening, after working a full day on Friday, the employee would receive $176.25 as of 1/1/98
37
for meals and expenses. If, however, the employee does not work a full eight hours on the last day of the assignment, but returns to his or her headquarters at the normal quitting time, the employee would only receive the normal meals allowance, as specified in Section II.66, for two meals on that last day.
The Company shall endeavor to give at least one week’s notice to employees who will be required to be away from their established headquarters for one week or more. Such notice shall not be required for emergencies or due to conditions caused by a customer, supplier or an act of God.
If an employee returns home on weekends, the allowance will not be paid for the weekend.
11.68	A regular or provisional employee from an established headquarters who may be transferred at the Company’s request to work at another established headquarters, necessitating a change in residence, will be allowed expense of board and lodging for twenty-one calendar days following such transfer.
A regular or provisional employee from an established headquarters who is transferred by Company request to another established headquarters and does not change the employee’s place of residence will receive $.31 cents a mile round trip for 20 working days. The sum will be paid for the miles from the employee’s place of residence to the established headquarters only if the distance traveled is further than the distance from the employee’s place of residence and the original established headquarters. The sum paid is for a maximum of 20 working days and will not exceed the actual number of
38
days the employee reported to the new headquarters if less than 20 working days.
11.69	A regular or provisional employee from an established headquarters who may be assigned to a camp job will be allowed expense of board and lodging for the period while so assigned. An employee shall be allowed travel time and furnished Company transportation at Company expense to and from the camp job on weekends in lieu of board and lodging, if no work is scheduled or contemplated for that weekend. An employee may elect to commute from the employee’s place of residence to the camp job, but in no event will the employee be paid any expense over and above the cost of the board and lodging for the job, and the employee must furnish his/her transportation and must report for work at the designated starting time on each work day. Notification of election not to reside at the camp job must be given three work days prior to commencement of the assignment.
11.70	The Company may hire an employee at any established headquarters, and under such circumstances there will be no initial period of allowance or free board and lodging provided herein.
11.71	The Company will reimburse each employee required to obtain a Class A drivers license the difference between a Class C license (fee and the fee for the Class A, or other than Class C license) if such license is necessary for the employee to perform the employee’s job. Reimbursement will not be made for any particular class of license, more frequently than once every four years.
39
Seniority
11.72	Promotion shall be based on seniority, ability and qualifications; ability and qualifications being sufficient, seniority shall prevail. The seniority referred to in this case is that seniority accumulated in the specific department or division thereof in which the promotion is to be made, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties hereto. Employees will be allowed to bid down or laterally once through their employment with the Company.
The departments or divisions referred to above are as follows:
Electric Transmission and Distribution Department: Headquarters Division
Line Division
Tests & Communications Division
Maintenance and Underground Division
Cathodic Protection Division
Gas Department
Street Repair Division
Transportation and Shops Department:
Shops Division
Transportation Division
Stores Department (Logistics)
Facility Management Department
In bidding into the Meter Reading Department, promotion shall be based on seniority, ability, and qualifications; ability
40
and qualifications being sufficient, seniority shall prevail. The seniority referred to in this case is company-wide seniority.
Bidding rights to the Meter Service Person Classification are in the sequence of Tum-on Meterman, Relief Turn-on and personnel within the Gas Division.
Meter Service Person/Tum-on Metermen in the Meter Reading Department are eligible to bid and be accepted for the position of Gas Service Specialist. Their seniority forbidding on the Gas Service Specialist job shall be the date they became a Relief Turn-On Meterman.
Bidding Rights to the Service Technician are:
50% may come from the Meter Service Person, Tum-on Person, Relief Tum-on, and Meter Readers hired before March 18, 1999 and existing Header Truck Helpers and 50% from the Gas Dept. If one group has less than 50% of the successful bidders, the other group can make up the difference.
Switching Center Operator bids will be open only to Journeyman Electrical workers and will require distribution, transmission, and sub-station knowledge and experience which an individual would normally obtain as a Journeyman lineside employee or sub-station Journeyman Electrician.
The seniority of a journeyman shall begin at the time the employee is first rated as an apprentice, and if transferred temporarily after being apprenticed shall lose no seniority thereby.
41
Upon request, the Company shall make available cunent seniority lists for review by Employees.
11.73	A written bid for vacancy shall be posted within two working days in the department involved, and shall be considered open for two weeks. For the convenience of the Company, temporary assignments may be made for a period of thirty days until the bids are received and regular assignments are made. Employees shall not be required to exercise their seniority, but shall not sacrifice any future rights to bid on vacancies through failure to do so. Bids made for vacancies will be considered valid only for the current vacant position.
11.74	Regular employees may request transfer only from the specific job classification they currently hold to the same job classification at another Company location. The opportunity to transfer will be offered first to those who have so requested, commencing with the one having the longest record of continuous service with the Company, provided _ their ability, experience, and qualifications are sufficient and equal. Not more than three Requests for Transfer by any one employee shall be kept on file at any one time.
A Regular employee may request transfer from any job classification to the lowest position in another department or division. Regular employees classified as Laborers and Helpers may transfer to Helper positions in any department where Helper is the entry level position.
Requests for Transfer will only be considered valid for twelve months.
42
Employees who are forced transferred to another location may request a transfer to return to their original location. These transfer requests will be honored prior to any other transfer request on file to that location. Employees must resubmit a new transfer request each time the previous request expires in order to continue this preferential transfer provision. An employee may have only one preferential transfer request on file at a time and will forfeit the right if the employee refuses a transfer offer to the location on file.
11.75	Employees may be transferred to other departments, and if returned to their original department within two years will not lose their seniority rating. If assigned to another department for longer than two years, they may be returned to their original department with seniority based on that established at the end of the two-year period. The seniority of an employee who terminates and later is reemployed, shall start on the day the employee returns to work. These provisions do not apply if 11.82 is applicable.
11.76	When hiring new laborers it shall be the general policy of the Company, as far as practicable, to assign these employees to the gas distribution crews. When additional regular or provisional employees are needed in other departments, laborers already on the payroll shall be given first consideration, provided they have registered with the personnel office and filled out the proper forms requesting transfer. Employees with the longest continuous service with the Company will be given preference provided they are qualified.
11.77	In the event there is a reduction in force from a classification, the junior employee(s), based on classification
43
seniority in that classification, shall be reduced from the classification.
Such displaced employee(s) will then be assigned down to the next lowest classification in the department which (a) the employee(s) held on a regular basis and (b) the employee(s) has more departmental seniority than an employees(s) presently in that classification.
A reduction in force from this classification would result in the junior employee(s), based on classification seniority in this classification, being reduced from the classification in order to provide a position(s) for the previously reduced employee(s) with more departmental seniority.
This process would continue to the lowest classification in the department. Any reduction in force from this lowest classification would result in the junior employee(s), based on departmental seniority, being reduced from the classification — and released from the department. = = =, = —
In the event a displaced employee(s) (a) has never held another classification in the department on a regular basis or (b) does not have more departmental seniority than an employee(s) in a classification previously held, the displaced employee(s) may be assigned elsewhere in the bargaining unit as provided below.
Such displaced employees(s) will then be assigned down to the next lowest classification in the bargaining unit which (a) the employee(s) held on a regular basis and (b) the employee(s) has more departmental seniority (as defined in
44
Section 11.72) than an employee(s) presently in that classification.
Again, a reduction in force from this classification would result in the junior employee(s), based on classification seniority in this classification, being reduced from the classification in order to provide a position(s) for the previously reduced employee(s) with more departmental seniority.
Again, this process would continue to the lowest classification in the department. Any reduction in force from this lowest classification would result in the junior employee(s), based on departmental seniority, being reduced from the classification and released from the department.
In the event a displaced employee(s) is unable to obtain a position utilizing any departmental seniority, the employee may utilize Company seniority to obtain a position in the Laborer or Custodian classifications. Any reduction in force from the Laborer or Custodian classifications would result in the junior employee(s), based on Company seniority, being reduced from the classification and released from the bargaining unit.
A displaced employee(s) assigned to a classification previously held on a regular basis must be able to perform the basic elements of the job within one week. If the employee(s) is unable to do so, the employee(s) will be assigned down to the next lowest classification as provided for in this procedure.
A displaced employee(s) assigned to another department shall retain the right to bid on the classification from which
45
the employee(s) was displaced for a period of two years from such displacement date.
11.78	Employees with two or more years of service who are discharged in a reduction in force shall be given consideration for re-employment for a period of one year after their date of termination if job openings occur. If re-employed during that year, the employee will be reinstated with the credited service which the employee had accumulated at the time of his discharge. (Otherwise, the provisions of the next to the last sentence of Section 11.75 will prevail.) Re-employment will be offered, as vacancies occur, in the job classification held by the employee on the date of termination. Persons will not be recalled to job classifications to which a Company employee has a superior promotional right.
Employees discharged under the above conditions shall keep Human Resources advised of their address. The Company shall notify former employees of offers of re-employment in writing by certified or registered mail to the last.address on= record. Offers will be withdrawn if not answered within five working days and/or if the person does not report for work within ten working days. Persons who reject an offer, or who fail to answer within five days, or who fail to report within ten days will no longer be eligible for rehire with reinstatement of seniority. Persons who are unable to accept an offer because of a bona fide illness or injury may be retained on the list for reconsideration; however, no such injury or illness will be considered bona fide unless so diagnosed by a Company physician. The cost of such physical examination will be borne by the Company; but no travel or related costs will be paid or reimbursed by the Company.
46
11.79	No seniority shall be considered for an employee until the employee has been with the Company for six months, but after serving this period seniority shall be computed from the date hired. The Union will not accept, nor process a grievance involving the termination of an employee as an unsatisfactory probationer during the first six months of employment.
11.80	When it becomes necessary to determine the number of years, or the proportion of a year, that a regular employee has worked at a certain classification, and work therein has been intermittent, two hundred forty-one working days shall be taken as constituting a year’s work in such computations.
11.81	Any employee selected for office in the Local Union which requires part or all of the employee’s time, shall not lose seniority with the Company. It is understood that not more than two employees at one time will be granted leave of absence to accept such positions with the Union. Such leave shall be granted for one year at a time - such limitation being dependent on technological changes affecting the employee’s job -and not to extend beyond the employee’s normal date of retirement.
11.82	A bargaining unit employee who accepts a position out ofthe bargaining unit shall not accumulate seniority while occupying such position; such employee, ifqualified,maybe returned to a bargaining unit classification, at the option ofthe company, if a vacancy exists. An employee returning to a bargaining unit classification will retain only the seniority previously accumulated while a member of the bargaining unit.
47
11.83	Working Foremen and employees in charge of other employees must enforce all safety rules and regulations and ensure compliance by such employees.
11.84	Employees who fail to successfully complete an apprenticeship, training program or training requirements for a position will not be permitted to bid on the same position for six (6) months from the time they dropped out or were removed from the training/program. Additionally, employees who fail twice to successfully complete an apprenticeship, training program, or training requirements will not be permitted to be selected for training on any subsequent bid for the specific apprenticeship, training program or training requirements.
Safety
11.85	An employee shall not work on live high potential wires carrying more than 750 volts, unless assisted by another journeyman or a third-year apprentice, except in cases of emergency where lives may be in danger.
11.86	The company agrees to furnish such safety devices and first aid sets as may be needed for the safety of its employees, and the employees shall use them in the manner prescribed. The Union shall cooperate in promoting the realization of the responsibility of the individual employee with regard to the prevention of accidents.
11.87	The Company shall establish a Safety Coordinator position at each location. The Union shall appoint one member at each district headquarters who, as the Safety Coordinator, shall act as a liaison between the Union and Company on safety issues.
48
11.88	Employees who have a combination of, no doctor cases, and no preventable vehicle accidents and no safety violations within a calendar year will receive recognition in a manner to be determined by the company.
Helicopter Operations
11.89	Appropriate Safety Rules and Work Method Guidelines shall be established and maintained by the Company to direct the utilization of helicopters to support Company operations. These guidelines shall be designed to maximize the efficiency of operations and safety of all personnel. All personnel involved with helicopter operations shall be familiar with and perform their jobs in compliance with these guidelines.
11.90	Employees whose job requires them to be transported by a helicopter shall receive $10 a day premium for those days the employee is transported by a helicopter. This premium is in addition to regular pay.
Severance Pay
11.91	In the event of a change in control of the Company, the following provisions shall be applied:
A regular employee with four or more years of continuous service with the Company who is offered employment and required to move out of the existing service territory of the San Diego Gas & Electric Company and elects to terminate in lieu of accepting the position and moving, shall receive severance pay as indicated below or exercise the employee’s rights under Article 11.77. The maximum severance pay will
49
be 15 weeks’ pay. Severance allowance may be paid in a lump sum at the time of termination.
yfears of Continuous Pay Service Completed	Weeks of Base
4 years but less than 6	4
6 years but less than 8	5
8 years but less than 10	6
10 years but less than 12	7
12 years but less than 14	8
14 years but less than 15	9
15 years but less than 16	10
16 years but less than 17	11
17 years but less than 18	12
18 years but less than 19	13
19 years but less than 20	14
20 years or more	15
Severance allowance shall include continuation of health and basic life insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance, at 50% of the employee’s annual salary, for the period of severance allowance or a lump-sum for the present value to the employee, at the employee’s option.
50
ARTICLE HI
Working Rules for Electric Transmission and Distribution Department
General
ULI Eight hours shall constitute a day’s work, and employees shall normally report at headquarters in time to start at 7;00 a.m. The eight hours shall normally consist of four hours from 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m., and four hours from 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. and five days, Monday to Friday, inclusive, shall constitute a week’s work, except for special Saturday employees or crews as provided hereafter.
III.2	The job of Working Foreman - Electric will be required to perform work on overhead and/or underground projects. The Working Foreman - Electric may direct crews of up to four journeymen and one apprentice.
III3 If an employee bodily enters a manhole in service, there shall be an employee qualified in Vault Rescue in attendance at the surface, and at least one of such employees shall be a journeyman electrical worker.
m.4 The term “journeyman” or “journeyman electrical worker” as used in this Article, shall mean any electrical worker who has served the apprenticeship and has had at least three years’ experience in one or more branches of the trade.
m.5 Whenever three journeymen are assigned to any one piece of work, one of the journeymen shall be rated as a working foreman and shall be responsible for the work
51
performed. If more than three journeymen are so employed, there shall be a foreman in charge of the work. If the work be hazardous, the foreman shall not handle tools or do the class of work required of workmen, except when in charge of two or less workmen, or in case of emergency. This section does not apply to journeyman power plant electricians.
111.6	The Standards of Apprenticeship as established by the Local Joint Apprenticeship Committee shall govern apprentices. Disputes over the selection of apprentices shall be subject to the grievance procedure provided in Article IX.
111.7	The duties which helpers may properly perform shall be those specified by the memorandum which shall be on file with the Company and with the Local Union.
111.8	Whenever a laborer is qualified to use powder or other explosives, the employee shall, whenever practicable, do such work and receive an increased pay differentia] of$. 10 per hour.
111.9	When opportunities for promotion occur in a particular division of the Electrical Distribution Department employees already in that particular division shall be given preference for such promotion.
111.10	Klein Kord safeties, or equivalent, shall be furnished by the Company.
111.11	Line Assistant positions will be bid company wide and individuals will be awarded the position on the basis of established physical requirements, aptitude and skills tests, acceptable work history and seniority.
52
1.	Employees who are accepted into the position have 30 calendar days to return to their previous classification.
2.	The bid may be used for 60 days after initial selection to award additional positions.
3.	Employees who successfully enter and remain in the position will be guaranteed the opportunity to enter an apprentice lineman position within three years of entering position.
4.	Line Assistants must accept the apprentice lineman position when offered. Refusal to accept the position will result in transfer to other work if available and the employee may not re-enter the Line Assistant program.
5.	Employees accepted into the Line Assistant position may not bid other positions while in the program.
6.	Line Assistant shall be selected for the Apprentice Lineman position based upon division seniority and acceptable performance.
7.	Line Assistant may assist journeyman in completing their work and may not work on any energized equipment.
8.	Line Assistants are required to obtain and maintain a Class “A” license and will not receive any upgrades for operating vehicles.
Overhead
III.12	All framing of poles on the job, in headquarters, or pole yards shall be done by journeyman linemen or third-year apprentices, who may be assisted by helpers.
53
111.13	The erection of poles shall be done by regularly constituted line or pole crews. Every pole crew is to carry at least one journeyman lineman and either a working foreman ora foreman, except that machine digging crews may drop poles (45’ or less) into holes where only new construction is involved and where no hazard to life or property exists. The erection of bolted towers shall be done by regularly constituted line crews.
111.14	All service trucks shall be in charge of ajoumeyman electric worker who must be assisted by another journeyman or an apprentice or helper.
111.15	One two-man crew may be scheduled for Saturday work each week, such employees receiving Monday offinstead of Saturday. If at any future date the extent of the Saturday work requires an additional crew, this crew may be added. Insofar as possible, the Saturday duty shall be rotated among those eligible for such duty.
111.16	All work on service wires and conduits, including customers’ services, is to be done by journeymen electrical workers, assisted by apprentices or helpers where assistance is necessary.
III.	17 There shall be three journeymen, or two journeymen and a third-year apprentice on four-man crews working on energized conductors of 750 volts or more, except in case of emergency.
111.18	Three-man and four-man field crews consisting of two journeymen (or one journeyman and a third-year apprentice) plus one or two employees in lower classifications, shall include and be in the charge of a working foreman B. Three-man and four-man field crews consisting of three
54
journeymen, plus one employee in a lower classification shall include and be in the charge of a working foreman B. Four-man field crews consisting of four journeymen (or three journeymen and a third-year apprentice) shall include and be in the charge of a working foreman A. An apprentice may be added to an existing four-man crew, and such crew will include and be in the charge of a working foreman A. There shall be an Administrative Foreman or Relief Administrative Foreman in charge of all larger field crews and Administrative Foreman or Relief Administrative Foreman shall not handle tools or do that class of work required of workmen except in case of emergency. With respect to work in this group this rule supplants III.5.
111.19	An employee classified as a working foreman in accordance with Section 111.18 shall not be cut back to journeyman on any workday on which the employee has been given responsibility for a line truck and crew.
111.20	The Lineman in charge of and responsible for a two-man crew shall receive one pay grade above their rate.
III.21	A Lineman working for Electric Transmission Maintenance shall be rated Pay Group 11 A. A Working Foreman working for Electric Transmission Maintenance shall be rated Pay Group 13A. If like work is done by Linemen or Working Foremen in the Districts on 13 8KV, 230KV or500KV or energize 69KV transmission lines, the Linemen or Working Foremen shall receive upgrade to the above applicable Pay Groups.
Underground - Lead Cover
III.22	Journeyman Linemen & Working Foreman qualifying for Underground Transmission and Lead related
55
skills shall receive $00.75 per hour as a special skills pay rate. Electrical workers other than those currently qualified toperform Lead and Underground Transmission work will, while assisting in the termination or splicing of lead covered cable or the termination or splicing of nonlead covered cable of20,000 volts or above, or when making Cadwell splices on 15kv cable shall receive seventy five ($. 75) cents per hour in addition to their regular classification for a half-day in any half-day that the employee performs these duties. This additional sum is subject to the overtime premium.
111.23	Promotion to underground working foreman shall be based on seniority, ability, and qualifications. Ability and qualifications being sufficient, seniority shall prevail. Seniority shall be based on date of indentureship or date of hire as a journeyman.
111.24	Three-man and four-man field crews consisting of two journeymen (or one journeyman and a third-year apprentice) plus one or two employees in lower classifications, shall include and be in the charge of an underground working foreman B. Three-man and four-man field crews consisting of three journeymen plus one employee in a lower classification, shall include and be in the charge of an underground working foreman B. Four-man field crews, consisting of four journeymen (or three journeymen and a third year apprentice), shall include and be in the charge of an underground working foreman A. An apprentice may be added to an existing four-man crew and such crew shall include and be in the charge of an underground working foreman A. There shall be an Administrative Foreman or Relief Administrative Foreman in charge of all larger field crews, and the Administrative Foreman or Relief Administrative Foreman shall not handle tools or do
56
that class of work required of workmen except in the case of emergency. With respect to work in this department this rule supplants III.5.
Underground - Non-Lead Covered
III.25	The placing or pulling of non-Iead covered underground cable (including cable in duct); the installation of associated transformers and switches; and the connection, splicing, and terminating using prefabricated splicing and/or terminating components shall be done by journeymen electrical workers assisted, where necessary, by persons classified as helpers. The hand application of tape to cables rated below 6,000 volts shall be done by journeymen electrical workers assisted, where necessary, by persons classified as helpers. The hand application of tape to cable rated 6,000 volts or higher shall be done by underground working foremen or else by journeyman electrical workers who shall receive ninety ($.90) cents per hour (Effective November 8,1996) in addition to their regular classification wage only for actual time for performing such duty. This additional sum is subject to the overtime premium. Routine switching and refusing operations, including the operation of load-break connectors, at any voltage shall require only one journeyman electrical worker, unless it is necessary to bodily enter a manhole or splice box in which case the provisions of Section III.3 will apply.
IIL26 Installing metallic conduit to pull boxes or to main line switches and the fireproofing of cables where the relocation of primaries is not necessary, shall be done by journeymen electrical workers assisted by apprentices, helpers, and/or laborers. The relocation of primary cables shall be done by underground working foremen assisted by journeymen electrical workers and others, as necessary. It is understood
57
with respect to service duct runs that the cutting, threading, and placing ready for concreting of any metallic conduits shall be done by journeymen electrical workers assisted by helpers.
III.27	The inspection and testing and repairing or maintaining of underground equipment shall be done by two journeymen electrical workers (or one journeyman and a third-year apprentice) if live parts energized in excess of 750 volts are exposed in the course of the work. All work on energized parts of less that 750 volts can be done by a journeyman assisted by experienced helpers or apprentice linemen.
111.28	On services in excess of 250 volts, underground working foremen shall connect the Company’s service to the customer’s main line switch and/or the first point of feed of the customer’s wiring supplied by the underground system. On services less than 250 volts, a qualified journeyman electrical worker may connect such services at the customer’s first point of feed and at other points such as at junction boxes or pad mounted transformers except that where it is necessary to bodily enter a manhole or splice box'to'make such connections, two journeymen electrical workers (or one journeyman and a third-year apprentice) shall be present.
111.29	The installation of non-metallic junction boxes and ducts, and all splice boxes, handholes, and manholes shall require the presence of a journeyman electrical worker on the crew only if electrical conductors, transformers, meters, switches, capacitors, or regulators are being installed concurrently. However, the cutting of conduit with wire enclosed at the point of cutting shall be done by a journeyman electrical worker.
III.30	The Underground Lineman in charge of, and responsible for, ‘Tough-in trucks” manned by three or more
58
employees, including the employee in charge, shall receive a two pay group upgrade. The Lineman in charge of, and responsible for, a two-man underground crew, shall receive a one pay group upgrade.
111.31	Promotion to underground working foreman shall be based on seniority, ability, and qualifications. Ability and qualifications being sufficient, seniority shall prevail. Seniority shall be based on date of indentureship or date of hire as a journeyman.
1H.32 Three-man and four-man field crews consisting of two journeymen (or one journeyman and a third year apprentice) plus one or two employees in lower classifications, shall include and be in the charge of an underground working foreman B. Three-man and four-man field crews consisting of three journeymen, plus one employee in a lower classification, shall include and be in the charge of an underground working foreman B. Four-man field crews, consisting of four journeymen (or three journeymen and a third year apprentice), shall include and be in the charge of an underground working foreman A. An apprentice may be added to an existing four-man crew and such crew shall include and be in the charge of an underground working foreman A. There shall be an Administrative Foreman or Relief Administrative Foreman in charge of all larger field crews, and the Administrative Foreman or Relief Administrative Foreman shall not handle tools or do that class of work required of workmen except in the case of emergency. With respect to work in this department, this rule supplants 111.5.
111.33	Two-man underground crews may not be assigned to perform energized work within manholes, primary cable work on pothead poles or energizing or de-energizing live
59
front equipment on terminators, cable poles, switches, fuse
cabinets and transformers. Work on the secondary side of a
live front transformer shall not be restricted by this paragraph.
Electric Maintenance Shop
111.34	All transformer repairing and testing; winding coils, motors and transformers; repairing, constructing, and assembling of electrical equipment, maintaining, repairing and making additions to wiring systems, switchboards, switching equipment, and communication systems shall be done by journeymen electrical workers assisted by apprentices and helpers.
111.35	The Electrician in charge of and responsible for a two-man field crew will receive one pay grade above their rate. This does not apply to Electricians working within the property of Kearny Electric Maintenance.
111.36	Helpers shall be responsible for issuing material, transformers, and supplies from the transformer and cable yards; filtering oil; and supervising and cleaning and painting of transformers and the storing of transformer oil. The helper assigned to painting transformers with a spray gun shall receive additional compensation in the amount of $0.10 per hour for the actual time so engaged.
111.37	Employees working in the shop shall be under the supervision of a Shop Foreman, Supervisor, or Working Foreman at all times.
111.38	Employees may be employed as laborers in the maintenance shop for a six months’ trial period after which they shall be either promoted to helper, transferred to other work, or discharged.
60
111.39 Not more than three helpers and/or laborers shall be
under the oversight of any one journeyman.
111.40	Shop mechanics’ work shall consist of maintenance work on shop tools and equipment, and other work as assigned which is not journeymen electricians’ work.
111.41	Three-man and four-man field crews consisting of two journeymen (or one journeyman and a third-year apprentice) plus one or two employees in lower classifications, shall include and be in the charge of a working foreman B. Three-man and four-man field crews consisting of three journeymen, plus one employee in a lower classification, shall include and be in the charge of a working foreman B. There shall be a foreman in charge of all larger field crews, and such foreman shall not handle tools or do that class of work required of workmen except in case of emergency. With respect to work in this department this rule supplants III.5.
Tests and Communications
111.42	Journeyman Meter Testers may connect wires from the meter loops to the meter, and from the service to the meter, when such service wires have already been installed.
111.43	Journeyman Meter Testers may test lighting and power meters when the installation is under 600 volts A.C. potential.
II	1.44 When work is unavailable within the Meter Tester classification, Meter Testers may be assigned to Tum-on or Meter Service Person tasks for which appropriate training has been provided.
61
III.45	Four-man field crews, consisting of two journeymen (or one journeyman and a third-year apprentice), plus two employees in lower classifications shall include and be in the charge of a working foreman B. Four-man field crews consisting of three journeymen plus one employee in a lower classification shall include and be in the charge of a working foreman B. There shall be a foreman in charge of all larger field crews and such foreman shall not handle tools or do that class of work required of workmen except in case of emergency With respect to work in this group, this rule supplants HI.5.
Working Rules for Electric Troubleshooters
111.46	Troubleshooters will work an eight-hour day, five days per week (or ten days on, followed by four days off, at the Company’s option).
111.47	When Troubleshooters are called out and discover primaries are down, they shall be required to cut lines in the clear only, and service shall be restored by line crews, except - were the circuit can be de-energized, in which case the troubleshooters may de-energize the circuit and make the repair.
I1L48 The Company may, at its option, establish eight-hour work shifts for troubleshooters in any district.
I1L49 Troubleshooter shift schedules will be posted semiannually. Such shift schedules will not be changed without 30 days* notice.
Relief Troubleshooter and Fault Van Crew Members
111.50	An employee in a bid relief position is required to take shifts when assigned. Failure to do so will result in their being removed from the relief position and being
62
disqualified from bidding on the bid reliefposition at issue for two years. If returned to the bid reliefposition at issue, a second instance of failing to accept the shift assignment will result in permanent disqualification from the position.
Relief Troubleshooters and Fault Van Crew Members offered promotion to permanent positions in their district are required to accept the position, Failure to do so will result in their being removed from the relief position and being disqualified from bidding on the applicable Relief Troubleshooter or Fault Van Crew member position for two years. After returning to the Relief Troubleshooter or Fault Van Crew members position, a second instance offailing to accept a permanent position will result in permanent disqualification from the applicable position. Affected employees will be required to declare their Home District upon ratification of this Agreement. Home Districts maybe re-declared if the affected employee moves his place of residence subsequent to the original declaration.
Relief Troubleshooters will not be eligible for crew call outs or pre-arranged overtime or upgrades when filling assigned shifts. Fault Van members will not be eligible for crew call outs, prearranged overtime or upgrades during the scheduled work week.
Vehicle Operators
HI.51 Vehicle Operators shall be rated as Special Equipment Operator or Vehicle Operator A.
III.52	Driver-operators of the insulator washing equipment shall receive Special Equipment Operator pay for days so worked.
63
III.53	Class A operators shall mean those employees regularly employed to operate vehicles requiring a Class “A” California Drivers License, or rated above 26,000 lbs. GV WR.
III.54	Those employees in the following job titles driving construction vehicles not requiring a class “A” California Drivers License shall receive a premium of one pay group upgrade for actual time spent driving the vehicle with a minimum payment of two hours per day.
Apprentice Meter Tester I” Year
Clerk I” & 2nd Year
Helper
Instrument Technician (Gas) C P’ Year
Junior Clerk
Laborer
Material Handler
Meter Repair Specialist B Is' Year
111.55	Vehicle operators’ day’s work shall be from 7:00 a.m. to 11.00 a.m.,arid frorif fl :30 a;m. to 3:30 p.m , except that where necessary, in case of construction trucks, in order to load such trucks prior to the departing time and unload them after quitting time, such operators may be scheduled to work in excess of eight hours per day. Such excess time shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half for the actual time worked which is one-half hour per day as presently scheduled.
III.56	The provisions of this section likewise govern other rated employees who may drive construction trucks incidental to other work.
III.57	Relief vehicle operators shall take the rating of the vehicle operated.
64
111.58	It is understood that when bona fide vacancies occur for Class A vehicle operators, promotion shall eliminate the dual rate of the vehicle operator promoted.
Switching Center Operators
111.59	The hours of work shall normally be: from 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., and from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. However, shifts may be instituted to such extent and at such hours as may be required in the Company’s operations.
HI.60 Overtime shall be divided as equally as it is practicable among those qualified and available in the classification in the area.
Relay Technicians
HI.61 Relay inspecting and testing shall be done by relay technicians assisted byjoumeymen electrical workers where assistance is necessary.
III.62	Four-man field crews, consisting of two journeymen (or one journeyman and a third-year apprentice), plus two employees in a lower classification, shall include and be in the charge of a working foreman B. Four-man field crews consisting ofthree journeymen plus one employee in a lower classification shall include and be in the charge of a working foreman B. There shall be a foreman in charge of all larger field crews and such foreman shall not handle tools or do that class of work required of workmen except in case of emergency. With respect to work in this group, this rule supplants III.5.
65
ARTICLE IV
Working Rules for Gas Department
Gas Distribution Crews
IV	. I Eight hours shall constitute a days’ work and employees shall normally report at headquarters in time to start at 7:00 a.m. The eight hours shall normally consist of four hours from 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m., and four hours from 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., and five days, Monday to Friday, inclusive, shall constitute a week’s work.
I	V.2 When the opportunity occurs fora laborer to qualify as helper, the employee shall be given ten full working days at helper work in which to qualify.
IV	.3 The operation of pneumatic tools used by laborers shall be rotated among the laborers available on each crew as far as practicable.
1V.	4 The employees acting in the capacity of vehicle operators for crews may be scheduled to work in excess of eight hours per day. This excess time shall be paid for at the time and one-half rate for the actual time worked which is one-half hour per day as presently scheduled.
IV.5	When a welder in a hole is welding on gas mains, the employee shall have a helper, or higher rated employee, in immediate attendance for the full period of such operation.
I V.6 An employee who has worked as a dual-rated welder for two or more years, shall not be cut back more than two pay grades except in the case of a general reduction in the work force which involves layoffs.
66
IV.7 All future bid notices for welders will require
qualification in both gas welding and arc welding as a condition
of continued employment in the classification.
1V	.8 New Welder positions will be assigned to Metro C&O and Northeast C&O. New Welders shall be able to transfer between Metro C&O and Northeast C&O. Upon attaining the “Thereafter” rate, Welder transfers shall be honored to any of the Districts. The Company may fill a Welder vacancy on a temporary basis until a “Thereafter" Welder is assigned to fill the vacancy.
I	V.9 The duties which entitle an employee to the helper rate shall be those specified by the memorandum which shall be on file with the Company and with the Union.
IV	.10 A helper who has worked at the Thereafter rate for two or more years shall not be cut back in pay grade except in the case of a general reduction in the work force which involves layoffs, or in the case of a demotion for cause, or in the case of a refusal to transfer.
IV11 The welder in charge of, and responsible for, a two-man gas crew shall receive a two pay group upgrade.
IV.	12 If more than five employees are assigned to a gas construction crew, the employee in charge shall be upgraded to Foreman. This does not include support employees unless specifically assigned to the gas construction crew for four or more continuous hours. Such upgrade will be for actual time.
IV.1	3 The Working Foreman (Plastic Pipe) rate shall be paid to the employee in charge of a three-man or four-man crew installing plastic pipe.
67
IV. 14 Employees assigned to do arc welding shall receive additional compensation in the amount of sixty-five cents (S.65) per hour for the actual time so engaged. This premium does not apply to Certified Welder or Certified Shop Welder.
IV.15 Street Repair personnel may be assigned to work with and under the direction of a Gas Crew Leader when Street Repair work is required as a part of the job that day. The combined crew shall complete Gas and Street Repair functions associated with the job. When involved in street repair work, the senior Street Repair employee on the crew will direct the activity and receive Pay Grade 21B for the actual time with a 2-hour minimum.
Gas crews may perform rough concrete work.
Two-man Street Repair crews may be used to perform small asphalt and concrete jobs. The senior employee on the crew will receive the Pay Grade 19B for actual time spent.
The use of a particular tool does not determine whether an employee qualifies for the Concrete Finisher rate of pay.
Qualified gas personnel assigned to perform finished concrete work will be paid at the Concrete Finisher rate of pay. This rate of pay will be paid for the actual time finishing concrete.
IV16 Upon ratification of the 1994 Amended Agreement, Street Repair employees will begin accruing Gas Department seniority and may bid on Gas Department positions using that seniority.
Preference on bids within Street Repair will be given to existing Street Repair personnel.
68
Gas Service Specialist, Service Technicians, Appliance Mechanics, and Helpers
IV.17 Eight hours shall constitute a day’s work and employees shall normally report at headquarters in time to start at 8:30 a.m. The eight hours shall normally consist of three and one-half hours from 8:30 a.m. to 12 noon and four and one-half hours from 12:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m., and five days, Monday to Friday, inclusive, shall constitute a week’s work. Such employees as are required for adequate service shall work Saturday and Sunday shifts, and shall have corresponding time off at straight time on Friday or Monday. Saturday and Sunday Shifts shall be rotated among the available employees or crews.
IV. 18 All adjustments of gas appliances, and the changing and setting of meters and house regulators, shall be done by service specialists or service technicians, assisted by helpers when assistance is necessary. It is further provided that tum-on metermen and persons in the Gas Department receiving rates of pay at least equal to the service specialist’s rate, may be assigned to perform service specialist’s duties.
FV.19 An employee who has worked as a dual-rated service specialist for three or more years, shall not be cut back more than three pay grades except in the case of a general reduction in the work force which involves layoffs.
Gas Meter Shop
IV.20 Eight hours shall constitute a day’s work and employees shall normally report at headquarters in time to start at 7:30 a.m. The eight hours shall normally consist of four and one-half hours from 7:30 a.m. to 12 noon, and three and one-half hours from 12:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., and five
69
days, Monday to Friday, inclusive, shall constitute a weeks* work.
Regulator Technician
1V21 The Regulator Technician will receive fifty cents ($.50) per hour premium pay for actual time spent on construction, annual overhaul and repair of C.N.G Stations to support the NGV Program. This premium is subject to overtime factors. The premium will not be paid for inspection or troubleshooting, etc. of C.N.G Stations.
Compressor Stations
IV.22 The hours of work for shift employees shall be From J 1:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. and from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. Employees in the above classification shall receive two consecutive days off per week
IV.23 The hours of work for the maintenance crew shall be from 7:30 a.m. to 12 noon, and from 12:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
1V24 Helpers doing painting work on ladders, staging 6 in boatswain’s chairs erected for the purpose of painting anj structure shall receive additional compensation in the amoun of $.14 per hour. Painting, when done from permanen walkways or platforms equipped with railings, does not entitl the employee to the increased rate.
70
ARTICLE V
Working Rules for Transportation and Shops Department
General
V.l The transportation and shops divisions shall be considered separately for the purpose of promotional seniority. Separate seniority lists shall be made up for the transportation and shops divisions of the department, and shall show the date each employee entered the department, and shall be posted when this agreement takes effect. These lists shall be posted in each division of the department, and kept up-to-date at all times.
Transportation
V	.2 Vehicle operators shall be rated as “Special Equipment Operator” or ‘‘Vehicle Operator A.”
V	.3 Class A operators shall mean those employees regularly employed to operate vehicles requiring a Class “A” California Drivers License, or rated above 26,000 lbs. GVWR.
V	.4 Those employees in the following job titles driving construction vehicles not requiring a class “A” California Drivers License shall receive a premium of one pay group upgrade for actual time spent driving the vehicle with a minimum payment of two hours per day.
71
Apprentice Blacksmith 1” Year ApprenticeCarpenter 1” Year
Apprentice Painter Is'Year
Auto Parts Handler C
Clerk !!l& 2nd Year
Fleet Assistant
\Helper
Junior Clerk Laborer Material Handler
V.5 Vehicle operators’ hours of work shall be from 6:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m., and from 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
V.6 Relief vehicle operators shall take the rating for the vehicle operated, provided that if it is necessary for a regular Class “A” operator to operate a vehicle not classified as Class A or rated below 26,000 lbs. GVWR, the employee shall not have wages reduced. Temporary work shall be understood to mean a tour of duty of less than thirty calendar days.
Temporary relief assignments for transportation personnel in district operations will usually, but not necessarily, be made in the district involved using the senior qualified employee available in that district. Transportation Division seniority on a company-wide basis will govern for promotions, if ability and qualifications are sufficient.
Special Equipment Operator positions within Project Construction will be bid accepting only those fully qualified at the time of bid to operate backhoes and bobcats. Selection
72
will first be from Transportation and Shops seniority unit, then on a Company-wide basis.
Special Equipment Operator’s assigned to Project Construction will maintain seniority within the Transportation and Shops Division.
V	.7 Swampers on heavy duty pole delivery trucks, who’s pay rate is lower than VOA, shall receive a premium of one pay grade for a minimum of two hours.
V	.8 At least 50 percent of the required number of employees to,put all the available Special Equipment in operation shall be rated Special Equipment Operators.
At least 50 percent of the required number of employees to put all the available Class A equipment in operation shall be rated class A operators.
It is understood that when bona fide vacancies occur for Class A or Special Equipment Operators, promotion shall eliminate the dual rate of the vehicle operator promoted, and the employee shall be subject to rate reduction on the basis as stated in V.6.
V	.9 Special Equipment Operators must accept training when it is available, and successfully qualify on all pieces of special equipment for which they are trained. Failure to qualify on any one piece of special equipment at their assigned headquarters, after receiving training, will result in removal from the classification of Special Equipment Operator.
V	.10 Mechanical work in the garage shall normally be done by Fleet Auto Mechanics. When helpers or Fleet
73
Assistants are required they shall work under the direction of the employee in charge of the job.
V.ll The line of progression in the Fleet Maintenance Section shall be Fleet Auto Mechanic, Field Mechanic, District Auto Mechanic, and Working Foreman (Garage).
V.ll The Fleet Assistant position will perform duties such as fueling vehicles, checking fluid levels, performing oil changes and lubrications, changing tires, delivering parts and vehicles and driving between locations.
V	.13 District Mechanics can oversee no more than four employees (including themselves).
V	.14 Working Foreman shall be responsible for the work performed by five or more employees.
V	. 15 Fleet helpers successfully completing all requirements will be promoted to the position of second year Mechanic, per the terms of the 1998 Agreement, (per proposal of 2/26/99) . _
74
ARTICLE VI
Working Rules for Stores Department
VI	. 1 Overtime shall be equalized for all qualified storeroom employees at a specific location. When only one employee is required to report from the employee’s home to the place of work under call-out conditions, the employee will be paid at the minimum of the Lead Stockkeeper rate of pay. If more than one employee is called and required to work in the same storeroom under call-out conditions, only one employee shall receive the Lead Stockkeeper rate.
VI.	2 Material Handlerswill be raised at least one pay group if temporarily upgraded and replacing a Material Scheduler or when promoted to Material Scheduler. However, no one, after the effective date of this Agreement, who is not grandfathered with the previous Pay Groups for the Material Scheduler job, would receive more than Pay Group 20B when temporarily assigned or promoted to the Material Scheduler job.
VI.3	The Auto Crane operators in Logistics shall be rated as “Special Equipment Operators” for the actual time engaged in such work.
VI	.4 Personnel entering or being promoted into any Stores classification will be required to obtain and maintain a California Class “A” drivers license.
VL5 When driving a Class “A” vehicle, Stores personnel will receive one pay group upgrade for time spent operating the vehicle, to and from the assignment, with a minimum payment of two hours per day.
75
ARTICLE VTI
Turn-On Metermen/Meter Service Person and Meter Readers
V	II.1 A seniority list shall be made up for the employees in this department, and shall be posted when this agreement takes effect.
VI	I.2 Personnel within the Meter Services Person classification may be assigned to perform all of the Turn-on Meterman classification work and the majority of tasks which fall within the Gas Service Specialist classification. These tasks include, but are not limited to:
A.	Turning on/shutting off gas and electric meters;
B.	Changing out electric meters under the following conditions:
•	Obsolete meters
---- Damaged meters (non-hazardous situations only)
•	Residential meters, as part of the Random Sample Program, provided these are incorporated in their normal daily routing
C.	Changing gas meters (including changing glass and insulating link). Changing gas regulators, seasonal light-up work, restoration of service, adjustment of gas and air to main burners and pilots, and cleaning of lint from air mixers.
D.	Issuing follow-up orders for appliances requiring calibration or disassembly. See Letter of Understanding (Personnel Upgraded to Gas Service Specialist Classification, Dated June 18, 1984).
76
VII	.3 Bidding rights to the Meter Service Person classification are in the sequence of Tum-on Meterman, Relief Turn-on, Meter Reader hired before March 18, 1999 and personnel within the Gas Department.
VII.	4 Employees who carry the “Relief Turn-on Meterman” classification will receive the Tum-on Meterman rate when performing Tum-on Meterman tasks.
V1	I.5 Call-In Meter Readers shall be permitted to bid on full-time Meter Reader positions. Selection shall be based on their qualifying date as a Call-In Meter Reader. When Call-In Meter Readers are successful bidders, they shall be given credit for hours worked for determining their appropriate Pay Group.
V	II.6 Unless agreed to by the parties, there shall be no more than 40 Call-In Meter Readers on the premise at any one time.
VI	I.7 Call-in Meter Readers may work up to 1,500 hours per calendar year.
VII	.8 Beginning in 1999, employees working over 1,000 hours in a calendar year will receive pension and 401 k benefits.
VII.	9 Meter Readers will be allowed “early release” after 7 hours on the clock, provided that they complete their assignment for the day.
VII	.10 If a route is audited and found to be too long, the requester will be compensated with overtime, for the amount of time the route is found to be too long, from the date of the audit request. (Per existing practice, a meter reader must read
77
a route for three months before an audit request will be accepted.)
VI	1.11 Regular Meter Readers hired before March 18, 1999 may bid on lower level positions or a job at the same pay group using their company seniority. Qualifications being sufficient as determined by the hiring supervisor, seniority shall prevail.
VII	.12 Regular Meter Readers hired before March 18, 1999 may use their company seniority to bid on positions in the Gas Department, Electric T&D Department, Transportation and Shop Department and the Stores Department. Qualifications being sufficient as determined by the hiring supervisor, seniority shall prevail.
VIL13 Laborersand Helpers hired before March 18,1999 will maintain their department seniority over Meter Reader company seniority.
VI	1.14 In case of a reduction in force, Meter Readers may not use their company seniority to displace Laborers unless they have held the Laborer classification.
VIL	15 In the event of a reduction in force, Meter Readers hired after March 18, 1999 will not be able to use company seniority to secure a position in the laborer classification.
V1L16 Meter Readers that elect to ride the bus or trolley from the office to the start of their assigned route and back again from the end of their route, will be compensated the cost of the bus or trolley fees by the Company.
78
ARTICLE Vni
Apprentices, Student Engineers
VII	I.l Apprentices shall remain at their third-year rate until such time as openings occur for journeymen. An apprentice having served the apprenticeship shall not be removed in favor of a new apprentice until the former has been made a journeyman.
VI	II.2 Before an apprentice may be classified as a journeyman the employee shall be first examined by the Local Union Examining Board and certain persons who may be designated by the Company, who will pass on the employee’s qualifications. This section shall not apply to apprentice power plant electricians.
VII	I.3 Student engineers employed in the operating department shall, after three months’ employment in any classification, be paid not less than the regular rate in that classification.
79
ARTICLE IX
Negotiation and Arbitration
IX.	1 The Company and the Local Union agree to meet and deal with each other through their duly accredited officers and committees, representing the parties hereto, on matters relating to hours, wages, seniority, and promotions within the classifications scheduled in Exhibit “A” hereof, demotions, discriminations, discharges, and lay-offs not made in accord with seniority, and compulsory transfers from one department to another.
IX.2	Any employee, steward, together with such committee as may be necessary, may present a grievance regarding the interpretation, application of this agreement or disciplinary action taken by the Company directly to the supervisor or through the authorized representative of the Local Union to the manager of the department involved. There is no responsibility on the part of the Company to accept for adjustment or to adjust a grievance which is presented after ten working days from the date of the occurrence which is the basis for the grievance.
If no settlement is reached in this step, the grievance shall be presented in writing to the Manager/Director of the Department by the steward or the authorized representative of the Local Union within ten days of the supervisor’s decision.
The manager/director of the department shall render a decision within a reasonable period. If no settlement is reached in this step, the grievance shall be presented in writing to the
80
appropriate Vice President, or designee, within ten working days after the departmental decision has been rendered.
Within ten working days from receipt of such grievance, the Director of Labor Relations shall investigate the grievance and, with such Company representatives as may be deemed necessary, shall meet with the authorized representative of the Local Union, who may be accompanied by a committee of the employees of the Company, to endeavor to settle the grievance.
In case of failure to agree, the matter in dispute shall be submitted within the next ten working days to a mediator from either the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service or the State of California Conciliation Service, as jointly agreed upon by both parties. If the mediator fails to effect an agreement between the parties, the Union may refer the case to arbitration. Any such referral must be made within 30 calendar days of the date of the mediation.
The resolution of a timely grievance at any of the steps shall be final and binding on the Company, Union and grievant, except that, a resolution at a step below the third step, while final and binding, does not set precedent in future instances for either the Company or the Union, or may not be referenced or used in any other proceeding including arbitration, unless mutually agreed to by representatives of the Labor Relations Department and the Union Business Manager.
Failure of either party to abide by the time limits set forth in this section shall result in a forfeiture of the grievance (without prejudice) to the other party, provided, however, that the parties may extend said time limits by mutual agreement.
81
1X	.3 Any di (Terences that may arise between the Company and the Local Union concerning wage reviews at dates specified in the agreement, or concerning amendments to the agreement at any termination date, which the representatives of the Company and the Local Union are unable to settle, shall be submitted, at the request of either party to arbitration. The Company and the Local Union agree that the decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties.
I	X.4 Each party shall bear the expense of preparing and presenting its own case. The expense of the arbitrator and incidental expenses mutually agreed to in advance shall be borne equally by the parties hereto.
IX	.5 Procedures for Selection of Arbitrators
The parties agree to select a panel of arbitrators to which grievances will be submitted.
The panel shall consist of 14 arbitrators.
The panel will be selected in the following manner:
♦	Company and Union will each submit names of arbitrators to the other. Any arbitrator agreed to by both parties will be on the panel.
♦	If Company and Union are unable to agree on 14 arbitrators, a list of arbitrators affiliated with the National Academy of Arbitrators for Southern California shall be obtained. The Company and the Union shall then have alternate strikes from that list until the number of arbitrators needed to complete the panel remain on the list. Those
82
remaining arbitrators shall become members of the panel.
♦	Individual arbitrators may be removed from the panel unilaterally by either Company or Union after one year.
♦	Neither party may unilaterally remove more than two arbitrators from the panel in any calendar year.
♦	No arbitrator may be removed from the panel unilaterally once the arbitrator has been selected to hear a particular grievance until all proceedings associated with the grievance have been concluded and the time allowed by law or agreed to by the parties to confirm, correct, or vacate the arbitrator’s award has passed.
♦	The selection, retention, and/or removal of arbitrators shall be confidential.
♦	If the number of arbitrators on the panel falls below 14, the procedures set forth above shall be used to select a number of arbitrators sufficient to comprise a full panel of 14.
An arbitrator for a grievance shall be selected from the panel in the following manner:
♦	Within 5 days of a grievance being moved to arbitration, the parties will meet to select an arbitrator.
♦	The names of 7 arbitrators from the panel shall be drawn randomly and shall comprise the “case panel." The Company and Union shall alternatively strike names from the case panel until one name remains, who shall be the
83
arbitrator. The party striking first shall be decided by a coin toss.
The Company and Union agree to jointly advise the arbitrator in writing of his/her retention.
If an arbitrator is unwilling or unable to serve, a new arbitrator shall be chosen from a new case panel.
The Company and Union will jointly advise the arbitrator that his/her decision is required within 30 days after receipt of closing arguments or briefs.
After 10 arbitrations have been completed under this procedure, either party may notify the other in writing that it no longer wants to use it. Should this occur, the parties will resume using the procedure set forth in the Amended Agreement in effect on March 1, 1994.
84
ARTICLE X
Term
This agreement shall take effect on the 1st day of September 2001, for the period from the 1st day ofSeptember 2001, to the last day of August 2004, inclusive, and shall continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter unless written notice is given by either party hereto to the other at least 60 days prior to the annual anniversary date requesting that the agreement be canceled.
If not canceled, as above provided, then this agreement shall continue in effect from year to year; however, it is further provided that if either party desires to amend the agreement as of any anniversary date, then it shall so notify the other party in writing at least 60 days prior to that anniversary date. If a notice of amendment has been filed with either party by the other then this agreement shall remain in full force and effect until an amended agreement is concluded.
It is understood between the parties that the current provisions of the contract between the parties allows either party to provide written notice of cancellation. Such notice must be provided at least sixty days prior to the expiration date of the Agreement or the annual anniversary of the contract if it has been extended by mutual agreement.
Either party giving notice of cancellation will do so prior to beginning formal contract negotiations.
85
So long as the notice of cancellation is given at least sixty days prior to the annual anniversary date, and prior to the commencement of negotiations, it prevails over any notice of intent to amend by the other party, regardless of whether the notice to cancel or the notice to amend is given first. In the situation described in this paragraph, there shall be no arbitration in the event the parties are unable to agree on a new contract, unless they mutually agree to submit the issues to arbitration.
If the above amendments include revision of wage rates, then such newly established wage rates shall be effective on September 1, 2004 for those employees who retire on or after September 1, 2004 and those active employees on the payroll on the date this agreement is executed.
During the term of the agreement, employees base wages sha 11 be adjusted per Exhibit “A”.	--= ■ ■ ~	- -
Bargaining unit employees shall be provided an opportunity to eam additional compensation pursuant to the performance-based pay plan which shall have three elements consisting of a corporate incentive component, a team component and a minimum eligibility for individual participation component. For full details of the plan, see Letter of Understanding.
86
The Company will provide by September 6, 2002, a one time retention payment of Three Hundred Fifty Dollars ($350.00) per employee, to all Bargaining Unit Employees who were employed by the Company on September 1,2001, and who remain active employees on September 1,2002.
Agreed to this 7th day of November, 2001.
SAN DIEGO GAS & ELECTRIC IBEW LOCAL UNION #465
James A. Marshall Director - Labor Relations Steve Williamson Labor Relations Advisor Dave Elstrom Director- C&O Beach Cities James J. Boland Director - North Coast -C&O Kathryn Frost Director - Service Center	David A Moore Business Manager/ Financial Secretary John C. Hunter President Craig Leatherman Vice President Dale Reeh Committee Member Al Montgomery Committee Member
87
WAGE SCHEDULE FOR SAN DIEGO GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY EMPLOYEES COVERED BY AGREEMENT WITH LOCAL UNION 465, IBEW
WAGESCHEDULEA
Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective		
	09/01/2001	09/01/2002	09/01/2003
01A	$19.70	$20.29	$20.90
02A	$20.36	$20.97	$21.60
03A	$20.76	$21.38	$22.02
04A	$21.96	$22.62	$23.30
05A	$23.04	$23.73	$24.44
06A	$23.85	$24.57	$25.31
07A	$27.30	$28.12	$28.96
08A	$27.76	$28.59	$29.45
09A	$28.46	$29.31	$30.19
10A	$28.75	$29.61	$30.50
HA	$29.67	$30.56	$31.48
12A	$30.15	$31.05	$31.98
13A	$31.05	$31.98	$32.94
14A	$31.64	$32.59	$33.57
88
WAGESCHEDULEB
Pav Gfoud	Hourly Rate Effective		
	09/01/2001	09/01/2002	09/01/2003
01B	$9.27	$9.55	$9.ii4
02B	$9.71	$10.00	$10.30
03 B	$10.18	$10.49	$10.80
04B	$10.64	$10.96	$11.29
05B	$11.26	$11.60	$11.95
06B	$12.22	$12.59	$12.97
07B	$13.31	$13.71	$14.12
08B	$14.46	$14.89	$15.34
09B	$15.59	$16.06	$16.54
10B	$16.30	$16.79	$17.29
11B	$16.88	$17.39	$17.91
12B	$17.20	$17.72	$18.25
I3B	$17.79	$18.32	$18.87
14B	$18.43	$18.98	$19.55
89
WAGE SCHEDULE B (continued)
Pav Groun	Hourly Rate Effective		
	09/01/2001	09/01/2002	09/01/2003
15B	$18.94	$19.51	$20.10
16B	$19.58	$20.17	$20. 78
17B	$19.96	$20.56	$21.18
18B	$21.12	$21.75	$22.41
19B '	$21.75	$22.40	. $23.07
20B	$22.16	$22.82	$23.50
21B	$22.94	$23.63	$24.34
22B	$23.66	$24.37	$25.10
23 B	$24.08	$24.80	$25.54
24B	$25.00	$25.75	$26.52
25 B	$26.24	$27.03	$27.84
26B	$26.69	$27.49	$28.31
27B	$27.37	$28.19	$29.04
28 B	$27.65	$28.48	$29.33
29B	$28.15	$28.99	$29.86
99B	$45.48	$46.84	$48.25
90
WAGESCHEDULEC
Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective		
	09/01/2001	09/01/2002	09/01/2003
01C	$10.61	$10.93	$11.26
02C	$10.93	$11.26	$11.60
03C	$12.93	$13.32	$13.72
04C	$15.14	$15.59	$16.06
05C	$16.40	$16.89	$17.40
06C	$17.30	$17.82	$18.35
07C	$18.35	$18.90	$19.47
08C	$20.51	$21.13	$21.76
91
WAGESCHEDULED
Pav Groua	Hourly Rate Effective		
	09/01/2001	09/01/2002	09/01/2003
	$19.13		$20.29
02D	$19.78	$20.37	$20.98
03 D	$20.16	$20.76	$21.38
04D	$21.32	$21.96	$22.62
05 D	$22.36	$23.03	$23.72
06D	$23.18	$23.88	$24.60
07D	$26.96	$27.77	$28.60
08D	$27.65	$28.48	$29.33
09D	$27.92	$28.76	$29.62
1OD	$28.43	$29.28	$30.16
11D	$29.22	$30.10	$31.00
12D	$29.69	$30.58	$31.50
92
WAGE SCHEDULE E
Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective		
	09/01/2001	09/01/2002	09/01/2003
01E	$19.51	$20.10	$20.70
02E	$20.17	$20.78	$21.40
03 E	$20.56	$21.18	$21.82
04E	$21.75	$22.40	$23.07
05 E	$22.82	$23.50	$24.21
06E	$23.63	$24.34	$25.07
07E	$24.80	$25.54	$26.31
08E	$25.75	$26.52	$27.32
09E	$27.03	$27.84	$28.68
10E	$28.45	$29.30	$30.18
HE	$29.39	$30.27	$31.18
12E	$29.85	$30.75	$31.67
13E	$30.28	$31.19	$32.13
93
EXHIBIT “A”
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/2091	9/1/2002	9/1/200J
^orrmnications Technirtan	10E	28.45	29.30	30.18
Distribution Systems Operator 1“ year 2flJ year Thereafter	8E HE 13A	25.75 29.39 31.05	26.52 30.27 31.98	27.32 31.18 32.94
Distribution Systems Operator - Trainee (Lineman) 1* 6 months 2"* 6 months Upon completion oftraining . . _	HA 12A 13A	29.67 30.15 31.05	30.56 31.05 31.98	31.48 31.98 32.94
Distribution Systems Operator - Trainee (Troubleshooters) Upon completion of training	I3A	31.05	31.98	32.94
Ditfribution Systems Operator - Trainee (Substation Electrician) /* 6 months 2*6 months Upon completion of training	09D IOD 13A	27.92 28.43 31.05	28.76 29.28 31.98	29.62 30.16 32.94
Distribution Systems Operator - Trainee (Working Foreman) Upon completion of training	13A	31.05	31.98	32.94
94
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION AND
DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT (conf d.)
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Distribution Systerrs Operator, Apprertice 1st 6 norths	01E	19.51	20.10	20.70
2nd 6 norths	02E	20.17	20.78	21.40
3rd 6 norths	03E	20.56	21.18	21.82
4th 6 months	04E	21.75	2240	23.07
Sth 6 norths	05E	2282	23.50	24.21
Thereafter	06E	23.63	24.34	25.07
Electric Meter Tester 1° year	20B	2216	2282	23.50
2"1 year	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Thereafter	24B	25.00	25.75	2652
Electric Meter Tester [trah to per LOU 4/6/98)	25 B	2624	27.03	27.84
Electric Instrumert Technician 1“ year	23B	24.08	24.80	25.54
21' year	25B	2624	27.03	27.84
Thereafter	26B	2669	27.49	28.31
Elec trie hn	26B	2669	27.49	28.31
Electrician, Apprertice la 6 norths	01D	19.13	19.70	20.29
2”16 norths	02D	19.78	20.37	20.98
3rd 6 norths	03D	20.16	20.76	21.38
441 6 norths	04D	21.32	21.96	22.62
5®16 norths	05D	2236	23.03	23.72
Thereafter	06D	23.18	23.88	24.60
Electrician Assistant 1” year	08B	14.46	14.89	15.34
2* year	11B	1688	17.39	17.91
Thereafter	12B	17.20	17.72	18.25
95
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION AND
DISTRIBUTION DEPARTM ENT (cont’d.)
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Electronic Control Tech -				
Pwr Del	27B	27.37	28.19	29.04
Fault Finding Crew Member	11A	29.67	30.56	31.48
Fault Findrig Specialist	12A	30.15	31.05	31.98
Hazardous Material Tecfrticiar	18B	21.12	21.75	22.40
Line Assistant				
1* year	1 IB	16.88	17.39	17.91
Thereafter	I2B	17.20	17.72	18.25
Line Checker				
1" jcar	I9B	21.75	22.40	23.07
Thereafter	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
Linernin	I0A	28.75	29.61	30.50
Lineman ( Transmission) _	_ liA	29.67	30.56	31.48
Lineman, Apprentice				—
1“ 6 months	OIA	19.70	20.29	20.90
2rd 6 months	02A	20.36	20.97	21.60
3rd 6 months	03A	20.76	21.38	22.02
4* 6 rronthi	04 A	21.96	22.62	23.30
5*6 rronlhs	05A	23.04	23.73	24.44
'Ihereafter	06A	23.85	24.57	25.31
Meter Test Electrician	26B	26.69	27.49	28.31
Meter Test Electrician,				
Apprentice				
1“ 6 months	15B	18.94	19.51	20.10
2'11 6 months	16B	19.58	20.17	20.78
3s1 6 months	17B	19.96	20.56	21.18
4” 6 rronlhs	I8B	21.12	21.75	22.40
5” 6 months	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
Thereafter	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
96
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION AND
DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT (cont’d.)
Job Position	Pay Group	Howdy Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Meter Test Electrician, Working Foreman	29B	28.15	28.99	29.86
Patroller (Electric) la year	I6B	19.58	20.17	20.78
2nd year	17B	19.96	20.56	21.18
Thereafter	I8B	21.12	21.75	22.40
Patroller (Transmission) la year	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
Thereafter	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Radio Inspector	12A	30.15	31.05	31.98
Relay Technician	HD	29.22	30.10	31.00
Shop Mechanic Is year	14B	18.43	18.98	19.55
21*1 year	I6B	19.58	20.17	20.78
Thereafter	19B	21.75	22.40	23.07
Substation Electrician	08D	27.65	28.48	29.33
Transmission System Operator layear	08E	25.75	26.52	27.32
2riJ year	HE	29.39	30.27	31.18
Thereafter	13A	31.05	31.98	32.94
Troubleshooter	12A	30.15	31.05	31.98
Wording Foreman A	12D	29.69	30.58	31.50
Workhg Foreman A, Underground	12A	30.15	31.05	31.98
Workiig Foreman B, Underground	11A	29.67	30.56	31.48
Working Foreman - Electric	13A	31.05	31.98	32.94
Working Foreman -Electric Transmission	13A	31.05	31.98	32.94
97
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION AND
DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT (cont’d.)
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Working Foreman -Electric Maintenance Shops	HD	29.22	30.10	31.00
Working Foreman -Substation	HD	29.22	30.10	31.00
Working Foreman -Digging Crew)	19B	21.75	22.40	23.07
Workhg Foreman -System Operator	I4A	31.64	32.59	33.57
98
GAS DEPARTMENT
1	Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/7/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Compressor Operator Is year	18B	21.12	21.75	22.40
2nd year	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
Thereafter	25B	2624	27.03	27.84
Dispatcher Specialist iM 6 months	18B	21.12	21.75	22.40
2nd 6 months	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
2"d year	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Thereafter	24B	25.00	25.75	2652
Dispatcher Specialist, Lead	25B	2624	27.03	27.84
Diver	99B	45.48	46.84	48.25
Electrician	26B	2669	27.49	28.31
Equipment Technician	16B	19.58	20.17	20.78
Fitter	17B	19.96	20.56	21.18
Inspector A Is* year	23B	24.08	24.80	25.54
3rd year	24B	25.00	25.75	2652
Thereafter	25B	2624	27.03	27.84
Inspector B 1st year	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
2"1 year	23B	24.08	24.80	25.54
Thereafter	24B	25.00	25.75	2652
Instrument Control Technician (Gas)	27B	27.37	28.19	29.04
Instrument Technician (Gas) -A la year	24B	25.00	25.75	2652
Thereafter	25B	26.24	27.03	27.84
Instrument Techncun (Gas) -B	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Instrument Technician (Gas) -C Is* year	14B	18.43	18.98	19.55
2nd year	17B	19.96	20.56	21.18
Thereafter	19B	21.75	22.40	23.07
99
GAS DEPARTMENT(cont’d.)
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Locator	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
Mapnuker	16B	19.58	20.17	20.78
Mechanic (Gas) 1“ year	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
Thereafter	23B	24.08	24.80	25.54
Mechanic, Appliance 1" year	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Thereafter	23B	24.08	24.80	25.54
Mechanic, Appliance (G&E)	24B	25.00	25.75	26.52
Mechanic, Apprentice (Gas) 1“ year	15B	18.94	19.51	20.10
2rd year	I6B	19.58	20.17	20.78
3* year	I8B	21.12	21.75	22.40
Thereafter	I9B	21.75	.22.40	23.07
Meter Repair Specbfet A	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Meter Repar Specialist 13 1" year	I4B	18.43	18.98	19.55
2,d year	17B	19.96	20.56	21.18
Thereafter	19B	21.75	22.40	23.07
Patroller (Gas) 1“ year	16B	19.58	20.17	20.78
2nd war	18B	21.12	21.75	22.40
Thereafter	19B	21.75	22.40	23.07
Regubtor Technician 7“ year	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
2^ year	24B	25.00	25.75	26.52
Thereafter	25B	26.24	27.03	27.84
Regubtor Teclrricbn - Asst A	18B	21.12	21.75	22.40
Regubtor Technician - Asst B	15B	18.94	19.51	20.10
Regubtor Tectnicbn - Asst C	14B	18.43	18.98	19.55
100
GAS DEPARTMENT (cont’d.)
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate EfTective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Service Specialist (Gas) Is* year 2nl year Thereafter	15B 18B 2IB	18.94 21.12 22.94	19.51 21.75 23.63	20.10 22.40 24.34
Service Technician (Gas) la year 2r*1 year Thereafter	15B 18B 22B	18.94 21.12 23.66	19.51 21.75 24.37	20.10 22.40 25.10
Utility Service Specialist	15B	18.94	19.51	20.10
Weider (Gas) Is* year 2"1 year Thereafter	01E 04E 06E	19.51 21.75 23.63	20.10 22.40 24.34	20.70 23.07 25.07
Welder, Gas & Shops Certified	07E	24.80	25.54	26.31
Working Foreman	09E	27.03	27.84	28.68
Working Foreman - Gas <£ Shops Certified Welder	09E	27.03	27.84	28.68
Working Foreman (Plastic Ppe)	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
GAS DEPARTMENT STREET REPAIR DIVISION
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Concrete Finisher	16B	19.58	20.17	20.78
Street Repar Specialist (Formerly Vehicle Operator A) Is* year Thereafter	17B 18B	19.96 21.12	20.56 21.75	21.18 22.40
Working Foreman (Street Repair)	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
101
TRANSPORTATION & SHOPS DEPARTMENT
TRANSPORTATION DIVISION
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Auto Mechanic, District	24B	25.00	25.75	26.52
Auto Mechanic, Fleet la year	16B	19.58	20.17	20.78
2,rl year '	17B	19.96	20.56	21.18
3"1 year	19B	21.75	22.40	23.07
4lh year	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
Thereafter	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Auto Parts Handler A	19B	21.75	22.40	23.07
Auto Parts Handler B r year	16B	19.58	20.17	20.78
Thereafter	18B	21.12	21.75	22.40
Auto Parts Handler C*** Is year	08B	14.46	14.89	15.34
•’ 2nd year	= 09B	15.59	16.06	16.54
3d year	I0B	16.30	16.79	17.29
4lhyear	11B	16.88	17.39	17.91
5* year	12B	17.20	17.72	18.25
t^year	13B	17,79	18.32	18.87
Thereafter	14B	18.43	18.98	19.55
Auto Parts Handler, Lead 1" year	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
Thereafter	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Fleet Assistant 1“ year	02 B	9.71	10.00	10.30
2nd year	03B	10.18	10.49	10.80
3d year	04B	10.64	10.96	11.29
Thereafter	05B	11.26	11.60	11.95
*** Hired after June 18, 1984
102
TRANSPORTATION & SHOPS DEPARTMENT TRANSPORTATION DIVISION (Cont’d)
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Fleet Helper (Maintenance) la year	09B	15.59	16.06	16.54
2"d year	10B	16.30	16.79	17.29
3rd year	11B	16.8S	17.39	17.91
Thereafter	I2B	17.20	17.72	18.25
Fleet Helper (Operations) 1" year	05B	11.26	11.60	11.95
2“* year	06B	12.22	12.59	12.97
3rd year	07B	13.31	13.71	14.12
4*" year	08B	14.46	14.89	15.34
S®1 year	09B	15.59	16.06	16.54
601 year	10B	16.30	16.79	17.29
7lh year	11B	16.88	17.39	17.91
Thereafter	12B	17.20	17.72	18.25
HazardoiK Substance Specialist 1st year	16B	19.58	20.17	20.78
2nd year	18B	21.12	21.75	22.40
Thereafter	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Mechanic, Field	23B	24.08	24.80	25.54
Special Equipment Operator la year	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
Thereafter	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
Vehicle Operator A 1st year	17B	19.96	20.56	21.18
Thereafter	18B	21.12	21.75	22.40
Working Foreman (Auto Paint Shop)	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Working Foreman (Garage) 1st year	24B	25.00	25.75	26.52
Thereafter	25B	26.24	27.03	27.84
103
TRANSPORTATION & SHOPS DEPARTMENT
SHOPS DIVISION
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Carpenter	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
Carpenter, Apprentice 1" year	14B	18.43	18.98	19.55
2rtl year	16B	19.58	20.17	20.78
Thereafter	18B	21.12	21.75	22.40
Concrete Finisher	I6B	19.58	20.17	20.78
Laboratory Technicians I* year	I6B	19.58	20.17	20.78
r* year	I SB	21.12	21.75	22.40
3* year	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
Thereafter	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Machinist 1“ year	2IB	22.94	23.63_	24.34
Thereafter	23B	24.08	24.80	25.54
Machinist, Apprentce 1 “ year	15B	18.94	19.51	20.10
2ralyear	I7B	19.96	20.56	21.18
Thereafter	I9B	21.75	22.40	23.07
Mechanic, Manterance	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
Mechanic, Shop 1“ year	14B	18.43	18.98	19.55
2m year	16B	19.58	20.17	20.78
Thereafter	19B	21.75	22.40	23.07
Paiiter	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
Sheet Metal Mechanic	20B	22.16	22.81	23.50
Welder (Shops)	21B	22.94	23.63	24.34
Welder, Certified Shop	23B	24.08	24.80	25.54
Workrg Forernm (Wckii^ Shop) 1* year	24B	25.00	25.75	26.52
Thereafter	25B	26.24	27.03	27.84
104
FACILITY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Dock Clerk	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
Electrician	26B	26.69	27.49	28.31
Gardener A 1“ year	12B	17.20	17.72	18.25
year	14B	18.43	18.98	19.55
Thereafter	15B	18.94	19.51	20.10
jardener A**** l“year	09B	15.59	16.06	1654
2"1 year	10B	1630	16.79	17.29
Thereafter	1 IB	1688	17.39	17.91
Gardener B 1" year	05B	11.26	11.60	11.95
2"1 year	06B	12.22	12.59	12.97
3rd year	07B	13.31	13.71	14.12
4* year	08B	14.46	14.89	15.34
S’1 year	09B	15.59	16.06	16.54
year	10B	16.30	1679	17.29
1	J Thereafter	11B	16.88	17.39	17,91
Gardener B***‘ 1” year	02B	9.71	10.00	10.30
2nd year	03B	10.18	10.49	10.80
3 "“year	O4B	10.64	10.96	11.29
4* year	05B	11.26	11.60	11.95
.‘Gyear	06B	12.22	12.59	12.97
6ft year	07B	13.31	13.71	14.12
Thereafter	08B	14.46	14.89	15.34
Locksmith	19B	21.75	22.40	23.07
Mechanic (Birikljng & Grounds) 1“ year	19B	21.75	22.40	23.07
2nd year	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
3 rd year	21B	22.94	23.63	2434
Thereafter	22B	23.66	24.37	25.10
3/orkng Foreman (Facilities)	29B	28.15	28.99	29.86
*** Hired after October 3, 1994
105
STORES DEPARTMENT
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003 |
Material Handier 1® 6 months	UB	16.88	17.39	1 17.91
Next 12 Months	12B	17.20	17.72	18.25
Next 12 Months	14B	18.43	18.98	19.55
Thereafter	17B	19.96	20.56	21.18
Matera! Handler* 1“ 6 months	09B	15.59	16.06	16.54
Next 12 Months	I0B	16.30	16.79	17.29
Thereafter	I1B	16.88	17.39	17.91
Material Scheduler 1" year	16B	19.58	20.17	20.78
2^ year	17B	19.96	20.56	21.18
Thereafter	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
Receiving Shpprig Clerk	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
Stockkeeper, District	22 B	23.66	24.37	25.10
Stockkeeper, Lead	I9B	21.75	22.40	23.07
* Entering the classification after March 18, 1999
106
METER READING DEPARTMENT
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
Meter Reader				
1st 6 months	05C	16.40	16.89	17.40
Next 12 Months	06C	17.30	17.82	18.35
Next 12 Months	07C	18.35	18.90	19.47
Thereafter	08C	20.51	21.13	21.76
Meter Reader*				
la 6 months	01C	10.61	10.93	11.26
Next 12 Months	02C	10.93	11.26	11.60
Next 12 Months	03C	12.93	13.32	13.72
Next 12 Months	04C	15.14	.15.59	16.06
Thereafter	05C	16.40	16.89	17.40
Meter Services Person	20B	22.16	22.82	23.50
Tum-On Meterman	19B	21.75	22.40	23.07
: Entering the classification after March 18,1999
107
COMPANY-WIDE CLASSIFICATIONS
Job Position	Pay Group	Hourly Rate Effective Date		
		9/1/ 2001	9/1/ 2002	9/1/ 2003
He^er 1“ year	07B	13.31	13.71	14.12
2"’ year	08B	14.46	14.89	15.34
3d year	09B	15.59	1606	1654
4* year	10B	16.30	16.79	17.29
5* year	1 IB	1688	17.39	17.91
6* year	12B	17.20	17.72	18.25
7* year	13B	17.79	18.32	18.87
Thereafter	14B	18.43	18.98	19.55
Heber**** Is year	05B	11.26	11.60	11.95
2nd year	06B	12.22	12.59	12.97
3d year	07B	13.31	13.71	14.12
4lh year	08B	14.46	14.89	15.34
S^year	09B	15.59	16.06	1654
6*1 year	10B	16.30	16.79	17.29
7* year	1 IB	16.88	17.39	17.91
Thereafter	12B	17.20	17.72	18.25
Laborer*** 1“ year	05B	11.26	11.60	11.95
2rd year	06B	12.22	12.59	12.97
3d year	■ 07B	13.31	13.71	14.12
4* year	08B	14.46	14.89	15.34
591 year	09B	15.59	16.06	1654
Thereafter	10B	16.30	1679	17.29
Laborer**** 1“ year	02B	9.71	10.00	10.30
2^ year	03B	10.18	10.49	10.80
3d year	04B	10.64	10.96	11.29
4"’ year	05 B	11.26	11.60	11.95
5*1 year	06B	12.22	12.59	12.97
Thereafter	07 B	13.31	13.71	14.12
***Hired after June 18,1984
****Hired after October 3,1994
108
SICK LEAVE AGREEMENT
This Agreement made as of the 11th day of June, 1973, between San Diego Gas & Electric Company, herein called “Company,” and Local Union No. 465, of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, herein called “Union,”
Witnesseth:
Whereas, Company has a sick leave plan which has applied to Company employees for many years, and
Whereas, Section 1.11 ofthe Amended Agreement between the Company and the Union has provided in part as follows:
“Nothing in this agreement shall be construed as cause for the Company to abrogate or reduce the scope of any plan or rule beneficial to the employees existing at the time of the adoption of this agreement with respect to...sick leave...”
and,
Whereas, Union is desirous of having such sick leave plan included in an Agreement with the Company and
Whereas, Company has no objections to such sick leave plan being included in such Agreement,
Now, therefore, it is hereby agreed by and between said parties as follows:
Key provisions of the Company sick leave plan for Union-represented employees are as follows:
109
General
1.	The allowance of sick leave with pay is for regular employees only. There must be a good-faith basis for the application for, and approval of any such compensation since it is not intended to be used to cover time lost as a result of excessive indulgence or hazardous pastimes. Sick leave will not be allowed when absence is due to, willful misconduct, or any injury incurred while self-employed or employed by others than the Company.
2.	“Current” sick leave is an annual allowance primarily intended to provide for illness during a particular year. “Extended” sick leave, accumulated from a portion of previous current allowances, is primarily intended to alleviate distress during prolonged illnesses when the current allowance has been exhausted.
3.	Application for pay from the extended sick leave reserve must be accompanied by a doctor’s statement; but, at the discretion of the Company, the doctor’s statement may be waived. Granting of pay from an employee’s current sick leave or extended sick leave allowance is subject to approval by the employee’s supervisor.
4.	Each employee who is a regular employee on or before January 1 of any calendar year will be allowed 10 working days (80 hours) current sick leave with pay during that year. An employee who attains regular status during the year will receive a prorated allowance.
5.	A regular employee whose absence continues into a new calendar year will receive the full 10 days (80) hours current sick leave allowance for the new year, effective at the beginning
110
of that year, if employee received full pay on the last normal work day of the preceding year. An employee who does not have sufficient continuous sick leave or vacation to provide full pay through the last normal work day of the year shall not be allowed to take time off without pay for the last work day of the year. If employee does not receive full pay on the last normal work day of the preceding year, the employee is not entitled to any current sick leave allowance until employee returns to work. At that time the employee’s current sick leave allowance will be prorated for the balance of the year.
6.	At the end of the calendar year, all of the employee’s unused current sick leave allowance will be transferred to the employee’s extended sick leave allowance.
Time Off For Medical and Dental Appointments
7.	Employees should attempt to receive necessary medical and dental attention while on their own time. Approval to charge such time off for medical or dental appointments to current or extended sick leave (in half hour increments) will be granted to an employee provided the following conditions are met:
(a)	Absence from work will be kept to a minimum.
(b)	The employee can be spared from the job without the necessity of providing a relief employee.
(c)	Approval for such time off is obtained in advance.
Time Off - Funerals
8.	An employee may be granted up to three days off with pay when there is a death in the employee’s immediate family. “Immediate family” shall be defined as spouse, mother or father, son or daughter, brother or sister, and grandmother or grandfather.
Ill
An employee may be granted up to one day off with pay to attend the funeral of other relatives, provided that:
(a)	close relationship or moral obligation exists.
(b)	The relative is a father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, aunt or uncle.
(c)	The Company is satisfied that the employee’s absence is valid.
Time Off - Illness in Family/Pregnancyof Wife
9.	An employee may be granted time off when their spouse or minor children, who reside in the employee’s household, are ill and their presence is required at home to care for them or to make arrangements for their care. Time off may also be granted to an employee when his wife, who resides in the employee’s household, reaches the end of pregnancy, and the employee is needed to take his wife to the hospital, to remain at the hospital during delivery of the child, or to care for other minor children in the family. Such time off may be granted by the employee’s department head. Time off, may be charged to current sick leave, with a maximum of ten days in a calendar year. Extended sick leave may not be used for time off for illness of a spouse or minor children or during the pregnancy and delivery of a newborn child by a spouse.
Leave of Absence
10.	A reduction in an employee’s current sick leave allowance will be made if an employee takes a leave of absence in excess of thirty calendar days. The basis for such reduction will be a ratio of the number of working days off without pay to the total number of working days in a year (taken to be 261 days). This ratio, applied to eighty hours and rounded to the nearest half hour, will give the amount of reduction.
112
Example:
Two months leave of absence spanning 44 working days 44/261=17%
17%X80hours=13.6
The employee’s current sick leave allowance would be reduced by 13.5 hours.
Sick Leave of Absence
11.	A regular employee who will be off work for a pro-longed period without pay due to illness or injury, and who has exhausted all sick leave, vacation benefits, and floating holidays may be granted a Sick Leave of Absence. Such leave shall be equal to the employee’s length of service but not to exceed one year. If the employee is unable to return to work at the end of the leave, or if at any time during the leave it becomes conclusive that the employee will be unable to return to work, the employee will be terminated.
Military Leave
12.	A leave of absence for military duty will not cancel an employee’s extended sick leave reserve. Any remaining current sick leave the employee has will be transferred to their extended sick leave reserve in accordance with paragraph 6.
The company will utilize up to 80 hours per year military leave in calculating Pay For Performance for employees who are on such authorized leave.
Illness During Vacation
13.	If an employee becomes seriously ill immediately preceding or during their vacation period and is confined to bed or to a hospital, they may request approval for such time to be charged to their sick leave. Such request (which should be
113
accompanied by a doctor’s certificate) shall be submitted
promptly and shall require Company approval.
Holidays During Sickness
14.	Employees who are off without pay on the work days immediately before and after a holiday, will not receive pay for the holiday.
Additional Vacation Allowance
15.	At the employee’s option, between their 62nd and 65th birthdays, additional vacation time will be given and will be charged to the employee’s extended sick leave reserve. Such additional vacation will betaken in compliance with the rules governing vacation.
16.	This additional vacation allowance shall be the following percentages of the employee’s extended sick leave which stand to their credit at the time the additional vacation is started:
(a) Between employee’s 62nd and 63rd birthdays — 10% (b) Between employee’s 63rd and 64th birthdays — 10% (c) Between employee’s 64th and 65th birthdays — 20% (with a guaranteed minimum of 5 days)
17.	An employee who elects to retire early, after reaching their 55th birthday and before their 62nd birthday, may receive additional vacation in the year they elect to retire. This additional vacation time will be 10% of the employee’s extended sick leave reserve which stands to their credit at the time the additional vacation is started. This additional vacation will serve as terminal leave and therefore can only be taken just prior to and in conjunction with the date the employee has elected to take early retirement. If, for any reason, the employee’s early retirement is canceled, the employee must
114
pay back to the Company the cash equivalent of any additional
vacation taken prior to the cancellation of the early retirement.
(Effective May 30, 1982)
Protecting the Sick Leave Plan
18.	Disciplinary action will be taken by the Company in any case where it finds abuse. The Company may require a certificate from a physician or other evidence that an illness or injury is bona fide. Excessive time off which interferes with an employee’s performance on the job may be cause for dismissal. It is agreed that employees who consistently use up cunent sick leave allowances are unsatisfactory employees. The Union Agrees to share the responsibility in protecting the sick leave plan from abuses by any of its members, recognizing that the plan is intended to provide pay coverage under situations of actual need outlined in the foregoing paragraphs.
The Group Health Plan, the Comprehensive Major Medical Plan, the Pension Plan, the Savings Plan and the Dental Plan are covered by separate Agreements between I.B.E.W. Local Union #465 and the San Diego Gas & Electric Company.
Summary Plan Descriptions of the above are published by SDG&E in an Information for Employee’s booklet.
115
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
Between SAN DIEGO GAS & ELECTRIC and _____ _
LOCAL UNION 465 INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
116
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDINGS,
MEMORANDUM AGREEMENTS, ETC.
Following are certain Letters of Understandings, Memorandums, etc., which the Union considers to be of sufficient importance to be published. (As certain of these have been altered for the purpose of clarity they are not intended to represent exact duplicates of the original documents.) It should be understood that others exist, but are of such limited scope that their publication serves no useful purpose. Among these are grievance settlements, arbitration awards, and old parole agreements. The Union has these on file, and they may be seen upon request.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Stewards Agreement................................. 119
I - Electric Transmission & Distribution Dept......122
Working Foreman-Digging Crew...................123
Helpers Referred to in III.....................123
Use of Shift Employee’s 4 hrs. Before or After.125
II - Gas Department................................127
Helpers Duties.................................128
Personnel Upgraded to Gas
Service Specialist Classification..............129
Turn-on Meterman and Service Specialist Duties ... 129
Inspector A - Orange County District...........130
Seniority......................................131
Inspector A ...................................132
Storeroom Laborer..............................133
117
Gas & Shops Certified Welder and Working Foreman Gas Field Experience.............13^
III - IVansportation & Shops Department..............136
Helpers & Laborers Duties.......................13'
District Auto Mechanic Remote Activities........13S
Welding Pre-fab Shop Helpers....................14C
IV - Meter Reading Department........................141
Vacation Schedule for Meter Readers and Turn-On Metermen.............................142
Meter Services..................................143
V - Company-Wide Letters of Understanding............147
Clarification of Call-Out Situations............148
Upgrades in District Operating Dept, and Central Services Dept........................150
’ “ Addendum to Upgrade in District Operating Dept. ’ and Central Services Dept........................152
Two Days Off for Personal Business..............153
Equal Seniority in Union Classifications........154
Light Duty - Work Related Injuries..............155
Service Order Management Technology.............156
Emergency Response Program......................158
Direct Access...................................158
New Hire Call Out Guidelines....................164
Travel Status...................................166
Jury Duty.......................................167
Classification of Worker’s Comp during Provisional Period...............................167
Classification ofPay during Temp Assignment.....168
118
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Re: Steward Provisions
In settlement of the 1976 Negotiations between San Diego Gas & Electric Company and Local 465 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the following understanding has been agreed upon:
Provisions for Stewards are established to be effective May 9, 1976, as follows:
A Appointments
A written list of the names of the Stewards and any changes n the list made thereafter, shall be given to the Vice President Personnel or his designated representative at least 24 hours prior to the effective date of the assumption of the duties of such Stewards, if possible, but in any event before such Stewards perform any duties. Such notification shall be made by the Business Manager or his designated representative.
No employee shall serve as a Steward while on leave of absence. A Steward must be an employee of the location he/ >he represents, and must hold a Union job classification. A Steward must be a regular employee as defined in Section II.2 af the Amended Agreement.
When a location for which a Steward is assigned is closed, ar effectively discontinues operations, the authorization for a Steward in that area will be discontinued.
119
B.	Duties
A Steward may perform the following duties:
(1)	Present to an aggrieved employee’s immediate supervisor or manager at the 2nd step, grievances which have been submitted by an employee in his jurisdiction for adjustment.
(2)	Investigate any such grievance so it can properly be presented to the appropriate manager or director, for the further processing thereof.
C.	Reporting
It is understood and agreed that Stewards are employed to perform full-time productive work for the Company except when performing those duties specified in (1) and (2) above Accordingly, before performing any grievance work as provided herein, the Steward shall report to his regular place of work
Failure’ oh the part of the Steward tonotify the appropriate supervisor in advance of any time spent in the processing of grievances or the handling of Union business will be the basis for disciplinary action.
When the presence of a Steward is desired by an aggrieved employee, he shall inform his immediate supervisor, who will arrange for the release of the Steward.
Grievance handling and processing shall be confined to the beginning and end of the shift, unless the nature of the grievance is such that it can be handled only at some other time oftheday in which the case the Steward will be released as soon as he can be replaced by an employee of sufficient skill on a straight time basis.
120
D.	Rules
1)	Stewards shall not be compensated for any time spent in the processing of grievances.
2)	Stewards shall perform duties in a manner, and at a time which is not disruptive to the work processes.
3)	A Steward will not be accorded any special privileges by the Company nor will he be given any special consideration in seniority, promotion, reduction in forces, or the like.
121
I
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION
& DISTRIBUTION DEPARTMENT
LETTERS OF UNDERSTANDING
122
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
^^e^Workin^Foremai^Digging^Crew^^
In settlement of the 1971 Negotiations between San Diego & Electric Company and Local 465, of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the following understanding has been agreed upon:
The Working Foreman (Digging Crew) rate shall be paid to the Vehicle Operator A in charge of a three-man or four-man hand-digging crew.
Agreed to this 2nd day of August, 1971.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING ET&D DEPARTMENT - HELPERS REFERRED TO IN HI
L Line Crew Helpers
They may be used in the digging of holes and like work. They may be used in the handl ing of pike poles and like work in setting poles. They must be used on the ground in the fitting of cross arms, including the boring of holes and attaching hardware and insulators. They may be assigned to the driving in of pole steps and such work on poles while the poles are on he ground, but may not do any framing of poles or attachment of arms, brackets, ground wires or any of the pole equipment except when assisting journeymen.
123
2.	Helpers - TYansformer Work
Helpers may disassemble, clean and paint cores and cases, but may not reassemble the transformer or make electrical connections.
3.	Helpers - Meter Shop and Repair Shop
Helpers may, when assisting a journeyman, do the bending, cutting and threading of conduit, pulling of wires, may do ladder work incidental to the installation but are not to make electrical connections.
4.	Helpers - Repair of Pole Top Switches
Helpers may disassemble, clean and roughly reassemble the switches, journeymen are to accomplish the finished job.
5.	Helpers-Street Light Repair
Helpers may disassemble and clean the parts, but may not reassemble or make electrical connections. ““
6.	Manufacture of Fuses, etc.
The manufacture of fuses as now carried on in Company shops may be done by helpers but not by laborers. Other processes not mentioned but carried on as part of Company shop work are to be decided along the same general lines as outlined in the specific cases on other pages of Parol Agreements.
124
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
USE OF SHIFT EMPLOYEE’S 4 HOURS BEFORE OR AFTER
This letter of Understanding is entered into this 20”' day of May 1999 by and between San Diego Gas and Electric Company (Hereinafter referred to as “Company”) and IBEW Local Union #465 (Hereinafter referred to as “Union").
Whereas the Company and the Union recognize that there is need for clarification on shift employees overtime, and
Whereas, the contract currently provides that:
For the purpose of Call-outs and Prearranged Overtime, employees on shifts may be utilized to perform work that begins up to four hours before their shift begins, and/or work hat begins up to four hours after their shift ends, without regard to the “Pre Arranged” or “All Other” Overtime lists.
Therefore, the Company and the Union agree as follows:
1.	In the case where more than one employee would be eligible for the pre-arranged work or the call outs occurring before or after their shift, the “prearranged” overtime list or “all other” overtime list will be used to determine which order the shift employees would be allowed the opportunity to work the overtime.
2.	Relief employees filling shifts will be allowed to work either pre-arranged or call out overtime if it will result in a lower final cost to the Company.
125
Reliefs will also be allowed to work pre-arranged or call-outs during the four hours periods prior to utilizing regular employees who are not assigned to the shifts.
3.	In the case of Electric Troubleshooters, the shifts involved are the early shift, which is considered the first shift of the day at a headquarters, and the late shift, or the last shift of the day at a headquarters. On the early shift the permanent troubleshooters will be utilized first, then any relief working the early shift that day. After the last shift, only the permanent troubleshooters on that shift will be utilized before going to the appropriate overtime list.
IN WITNESS THEREOF, the parties have executed this instrument on the date indicated above.___
126
II
GAS DEPARTMENT
LETTERS OF
UNDERSTANDING
127
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
GAS DEPARTMENT - DUTIES ENTITLING AN EMPLOYEE TO HELPER PAY
REFERRED TO IN IV
1.	Repairing Leaks and Locating Pipes - Helper’s Pay
Repairing leaks at meter sets, in house piping, or in underground lines, or using pipe locators to locate concealed or underground lines. (A man is not entitled to a helper’s rate for unskilled work as for example, excavating or barring holes for locating leaks, or the incidental spotting of leaks while excavating or barring.)
2.	Helper’s Pay for:
. Relighting appliances on customers’ premises and making minor adjustments after interruptions to service.
3.	Pipe Wrapping - Helper’s Rate of Pay
Actually wrapping pipe in the field by applying the specified protective covering. (Assisting the pipe wrapper does not entitle a man to a helper’s rate as for example, cleaning and priming the pipe preparatory to wrapping, rolling up wrapping material.) (Effective September 1, 1967)
Agreed to this 14th day of August 1967.
128
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
PERSONNEL UPGRADED TO GAS SERVICE SPEC//LEJST CLASSIFICATION
Personnel (usually Helpers) temporarily upgraded to “Gas Service Specialist” to perform limited gas service work such as change meters, or seasonal light-ups, should be re-instructed to make no adjustments to appliances other than adjustment of air to main burners and pilots and cleaning of lint from air mixers.
Any work needed on appliances involving calibrations, disassembly or other adjustments is to be referred by a followup order to qualified Gas Service Specialist.
Please make certain that temporarily upgraded personnel are so instructed.
Agreed to this 18th day of June, 1984.
F. R. Bater
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Tiirn-On Meterman and Service Specialist Duties
In settlement of the 1978 Negotiations between San Diego Gas & Electric Company and Local 465 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the following understanding has been agreed upon:
129
Tum-on Metermen may perform limited gas service work in accordance with the regulations appearing in the instructions of the current Amended Agreement under the heading “Personnel Upgraded to Gas Service Specialist Classification” (above). In performing such duties, Turn-on Metermen will be paid at the Turn-on Meterman rate. Service Specialist may be assigned to perform Tum-on Meterman duties, and will be paid therefor at the Service Specialist rate.
Agreed to this 15th day of May, 1978.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Inspector A - Orange County District -Construction Department
In settlement of the 1982 Negotiations between San Diego Gas & Electric and LbcalUnion 465"of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the following understanding has been agreed upon:
An Inspector A, located at the Orange County District Construction Department, will not be eligible to have a Request for Transfer honored to leave the Orange County District Construction Department for an Inspector/! position at any other Company location until he has completed three years of work as an Inspector/! at the Orange County location. After the three year period, any Request for Transfer will be subject to Article II, Section 74, of the Amended Agreement.
Agreed to this 24th day of May 1982.
130
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Seniority
Gas Production/Distribution
In settlement of the 1994 Negotiations between the Company and the Union, the following understanding has been agreed upon:
The Gas Distribution Division and Gas Production Division will be merged into one Gas Department. Seniority within the Department will be based on the total Gas Department time (old Production Division and old Distribution Division) an employee has accrued. Any job bids, that in the past would have been given preference to the old seniority division will in the future show preference to the new Gas Department Seniority List.
All classification in Exhibit A from the old Production and Distribution Division will now be under the new Gas Department.
In Article IV of the Amended Agreement, the Gas Production Division heading will be changed to Compressor Stations.
Add: “Electrician” classification to Exhibit A under Gas Department.
131
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Inspector A
In settlement of the 1994 Negotiations between the Company and the Union, the following understanding has been agreed upon:
Inspector Classifications
A.	Establish New Position - Inspector A (Pay Grade 25B)
1)	Company establishes minimum qualifications
2)	Selection criteria established jointly - to include tests, past performance, interviews, etc.
3)	Bid group - Gas Department
4)	Allow Gas Working Foreman to bid on position and if successful to start at Pay Grade 25B
5)	Selection shall be jointly conducted by the parties 6) Qualification being equal and sufficient, seniority shall prevail in awarding of bids
B.	Additional duties of Inspector A
1)	Identification of unacceptable cable pole configurations
2)	Inspection of metering equipment, working space, pull sections, etc.
3)	Identification and recognition ofcable/conduit size, type and usage
4)	Knowledge of municipal rules, regulations relating to excavation in franchise position; and permitting process
5)	“Hand shoot” grade elevations and measure alignment from grade-stakes
132
6) Demonstrate knowledge and proficiency in relevant
computer mainframe applications (i.e., DPSS, CICS,
PINS, etc.)
7) Identify field conditions that generally would not allow construction to flow in an orderly manner and initiate field change orders, requests for deviation from standards or other follow-up with appropriate employees.
NOTE: This is not intended to be a comprehensive list, but rather a sampling of additional responsibilities expected to be performed by a higher level inspection employee.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Storeroom Laborer
In settlement of the 1994 Negotiations between the Company and the Union, the following understanding has been agreed upon:
A.	Company may fill "Laborer” position in Stores Department
B.	Incumbents will have Stores Department seniority for bid and upgrade
C.	Initially will fill Laborer positions at three locations: Miramar, Northeast Storeroom, and Metro Storeroom
D.	12-month Sunset Clause to allow parties to discuss any problems
E.	General Duties
1.	Straighten up Storeroom and Yard by doing sweeping or general clean-up
133
2.	Assist Storeroom personnel with rearranging Storeroom area
3-	Assist with physical work related to Storeroom operations
a.	Re-stacking/Re-palletizing
b.	General housekeeping
c.	Yard and Storeroom cleanup
d.	Work under the direction of Material Handler e. Moving stock within the Yard
f.	Janitorial work
g.	Would be upgraded for deliveries
NOTE: This represents general duties and is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all duties that may be performed by the Storeroom Laborer.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Gas & Shop Certified Welder Bid &
Working Foreman Gas Field Experience
The settlement of the 1995-1996 negotiations between SDG&E (hereinafter referred to as “Company”) and Local Union 465 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (hereinafter referred to as “Union”), the parties agree to the following:
For the initial bid only, for the occupation of Gas & Shop Certified Welder, the incumbent welders in the Shops Division & the Pre-Fab Shop have preferential bid rights.
Shops Division personnel will begin to accumulate Gas Department seniority upon selection for the
134
position, provided they successfully complete the program.
In order that these employees in the Pre-Fab and Weld Shop may obtain the necessary experience to qualify for the Working Foreman Gas position, individuals who hold the newly established occupation of Gas & Shop Certified Weider -pay grade 7E - will, operational requirements permitting, be provided the opportunity to obtain the necessary field experience.
When individuals in the new occupation, who are currently welders in the Shops Division, are provided the opportunity to gain field experience, they will be paid at their cunent rate of pay while working in the field.
It is further agreed that those individuals who do not enter, or fail to qualify for, the new occupation, will be assigned any work within the shop that they are qualified to perform.
Agreed to this 12th day of June, 1996.
135
Ill
TRANSPORTATION
AND SHOPS
DEPARTMENT
LETTERS OF
UNDERSTANDING
136
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING CENTRAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
TRANSPORTATION AND SHOPS, STREET REPAIR SHOP HELPERS’ AND LABORERS’ DUTIES
Dear Mr. Hughes:
May 20, 1963
You recently indicated that you were interested in having a list of laborer and helper duties in the Street Repair Section. Accordingly, we have prepared such a list. It is not all-inclusive as for duties presently performed by such personnel, nor, can we foresee all duties which will be performed in the future.
Helper
a.	Concrete placing and grading.
b.	Breaking out concrete around underground conduits.
c.	Construction of concrete forms, such as for gas vaults, electric vaults, meter bases, vale boxes, transformer pads and curbs.
d.	Asphalt raking, ironing and rolling.
e.	Spraying or placing asphalt emulsions.
Laborer
a.	Pick and shovel work, including use of pneumatic tools.
b.	Loading and unloading materials.
c.	Cleaning of tools and equipment.
Very truly yours,
C. P. de JONGE - Vice President - Distribution
137
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
District Auto Mechanics at Remote Activities
WHEREAS, the position of District Auto Mechanic was created on May 16, 1960, without agreement by the San Diego Gas & Electric Company and Local Union 465 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workersasto the duties of said District Auto Mechanics, and
WHEREAS, District Auto Mechanics, at one time or another, have been assigned to garages at Oceanside, Escondido, Eastern, Southern, Rose Canyon, Kearny, and Orange County Operations Department without agreement, and
WHEREAS, a District Auto Mechanic is presently assigned to the garage at the Orange County Operations Department without agreement by the parties as to the conditions for such assignment, and
WHEREAS, Fleet Maintenance Section personnel are regularly or occasionally assigned to garages remote from their established headquarters without agreement by the parties as to the conditions for such assignments, and
WHEREAS, the parties are desirous of establishing the conditions under which the District Auto Mechanic rate will be paid at remote activities.
NOW, therefore, it is hereby agreed by and between said parties as follows:
138
Auto Mechanics or Field Mechanics will be upgraded to District Auto Mechanic in accordance with Section 11.26 of the Amended Agreement between the parties when all of the following conditions (except as noted) are satisfied:
1.	The one-way distance (airline miles) to the remote activity is greater than 25 miles from the established headquarters.
2.	The Auto Mechanic or Field Mechanic assigned to the remote activity is in charge of at least two subordinate employees, one of which must be higher than a Helper - exception is the Orange County Operations Department.
3.	Work must involve mechanical repair and overhaul -not just routine service.
4.	Selections of persons to be upgraded to District Auto Mechanics will be based on qualifications, skill, availability, and fleet maintenance requirements as determined by the Company.
5.	At least 30 vehicles must be assigned to the remote activity - exception is the Mountain Empire Operations Department.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDINGSigned this 21 st day of May, 1976.
139
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Welding Pre-Fab Shop Helpers
In settlement of the 1976 Negotiations between San Diego Gas & Electric Company and Local 465 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the following understanding has been agreed upon:
Effective May 9, 1976, Helpers assigned to the Welding pre-fab shop will be upgraded to Fitter when performing the duties performed since January, 1972, by J. R. Cornell, R. C Couch, V. Lieras, R. B. Chavez, and M. W. Siplyak while they were assigned to that shop.
Agreed to this 26th day of April, 1976.
140
IV
METER READING DEPARTMENT
LETTERS OF
UNDERSTANDING
141
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Vacation Schedule For Meter Readers
And Turn-On Metermen
As a result of a series of joint and separate meetings with the assistance of Commissioner Fay B. Dunmire, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, the members of the Board of Arbitration hereby unanimously agree to the following settlement of the dispute on the scheduling of vacations for Meter Readers and Tum-on Metermen:
1.	Seniority lists for vacation scheduling will be posted on or before December 1. After requirements of the job are considered, Meter Readers with at least 15 years of job seniority on the Meter Readers’ seniority list will be given their choice of vacation “ in order of seniority'on such list. Also, after requirements of the job considered, Turn-on Metermen with at least J 0 years of job seniority on the Tum-on Metermen’s seniority list will be given their choice of vacations in order of seniority on such list. Job seniority will be based upon completion of 10/15 years of seniority on the job prior to July 1 of the current vacation year. All such vacation requests must be submitted by December 31.
2.	The scheduling of vacations for all other Meter Readers and Tum-on Metermen will be made in accordance with the Company’s guidelines for vacation scheduling.
142
If you agree by the above, please sign in the space indicated below. (One copy is for your files and one signed copy should be returned to our files.)
Very Truly Yours, J. J. Holley
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Meter Services
This letter of understanding is entered into this 6th day of May, 1997 between SDG&E and the IBEW Union Local 465.
Whereas the parties are interested in resolving the issues that exist regarding the application and utilization of the SORT Technology and both parties support the productivity enhancements and the customer service improvements that result from the flexibility provided by the new SORT Technology, the parties agree to the following:
1.	The parties agree that only one Service Tech or Gas Service Specialist per district will be allowed to take vacation October 1 through January 31. The parties agree to revisit this policy after Service Tech training is complete in 1999.
2.	Retired employees may be called in to help with the peak season between October 1 and January 31. They may perform the duties that the Company
143
qualified them to perform within the classification they held prior to retirement. They will be limited to working an 8 hour shift, but may complete the job they are working on if it runs into overtime They may be assigned a new job on overtime only when all regular employees in that classification have been offered overtime or in case of disasters/ emergencies. There will be a limit of 20 retired employees on site as long as customer wait time for seasonal or appliance adjustments do not exceed 5 working days (Monday - Friday). Should wait times exceed 5 working days, additional retirees may be called in to work.
3.	Retirees may be called in to “backfill” for regular employees working on contract jobs (e g., Camp Pendleton) as needed, not to exceed 1 call-in for each regular employees assigned to a contract job Retirees will be released immediately upon termination or completion of the contract job.
4.	Relief Turn-On Personnel who have volunteered for Service Tech training will be assigned to Beach Citics, North Coast, North East, South Bay or Eastern as determined by the Company ‘s operational needs, as quickly as practical, but no later than September I, 1997. Relief Turn-On Persons who do not volunteer for Service Tech training will stay in their Meter Reading/Relief Turn-On position. They may perform Relief Turn-On duties after all the Relief Turn-On persons that volunteered for Service Tech training have been assigned Turn-On work. ReliefTum-on persons
144
who fail to complete Service Tech training or qualify for the new position will remain in their current job classification working out of their assigned district.
5.	All future Meter Reading vacancies will be filled with Call-ins. However, if the number of regular Meter Readers falls below 70 or if after five years SDG&E does not begin the transition to automated Meter Readers, the parties will meet and bargain over the issue.
6.	Call-In Meter Readers are permitted to transfer to entry level positions or bid on jobs in the Gas Department or Company-wide bids under the current contract. Successful bidders or transfers will be brought in as probationary regular employees and their seniority will be based on the date of becoming a regular employee.
7.	Existing Troubleshooters and existing Relief Troubleshooters may volunteer to perform the new duties outlined in the Arbitrator’s Decision. These duties will be seasonal gas light-ups and tum-on gas orders. All new Relief Troubleshooters will be required to perform all the duties outlined in the Arbitrator’s Decision when they become Relief Troubleshooters and when they become Troubleshooters. In addition to their regular duties, all existing Troubleshooters and existing Relief Troubleshooters will be required to perform the following duties:
145
•	Change of Account Orders (Meter Read Only)
•	Gas and Electric Reread orders
•	Gas and Electric Shut off Orders
•	Off but registering gas
•	All electric service work
8.	Meter Testers may be assigned to install gas and electric meter modules and telephone connections for AMR for CT/480V meter installations (large commercial type panels.) We further agree that if and when AMR is expanded to other types of meter installations (classes of customers) we will review the classifications authorized to perform this work
146
COMPANY WIDE
LETTERS OF
UNDERSTANDING
AFFECTING VARIOUS
CLASSIFICATIONS
&
DEPARTMENTS
147
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CLARIFICATION OF CALL-OUT SITUATIONS
Sept 15, 1957
Dear Mr. Hughes:
Following are five (5) items submitted by the Company with reference to the clarification of circumstances arising out of call-out situations. In this proposal, consideration has been given to the Union’s suggestion as to clear wording. Further, all five items have been informally agreed to by both parties in previous sessions. I understand that at one time or another during the lengthy discussion of call-out procedure, the Union membership has had opportunity to scrutinize these items and has found them acceptable.
1.	If an employee is permitted to start work later than his usual starting time, or is permitted to take time off without pay during his working day, and at the conclusion of his regular day be kept on thejob, his overtime shall start at the end of his regular working day.
2.	If an employee be in the immediate vicinity of headquarters, having been released at the end of his regular working day, and be called back and assigned work, he shall be paid for the time worked at the double-time rate for a minimum of two hours with no travel allowance. For the purpose of this section, “immediate vicinity of headquarters" shall mean while on Company property or before departing in a private or public conveyance.
148
3.	if an employee is working at the time-and-one-half rate after the end of his regular work day, time out for meals shall not count as time worked in determining the start of the double-time period.
4.	Travel time as stipulated in Article II, Section 42, is to be considered working time.
5.	If a man be notified before quitting time on Friday of a preschedulcd overtime on Saturday or Sunday for the purpose of construction or maintenance work (that overtime to fall within the regular working hours of his classification), he shall be paid as follows:
Actual Work Hours on the Job	Paid Hours
Less than 3.1 hours	Actual hours worked plus 1.0 hour travel time, but not less than a total of 2 hours at double time.
3.0 hours to 4 hours	4 hours at double time; no travel time.
Over 4 hours	Actual hours worked; no travel time.
If the Union finds the above provisions acceptable, please indicate such acceptance by your signature below. (One copy is for your files and one signed copy should be returned for our files.) We submit that this proposal should go far in clarifying points of difference that may arise with reference to call-out matters.
Sincerely yours,
H. A. Noble
149
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Upgrades In District Operating Department And Central Services Department
In accordance with Article IX of the Amended Agreement between the San Diego Gas & Electric Company and the Local Union No. 465,1.B.E.W., the undersigned were selected to serve as a Board of Arbitration to hear the “King case.”
With the assistance of Federal Mediators, E. Marvin Sconyers and H. H. Atkins, in a series of joint and separate meetings, the members of the Board of Arbitration hereby unanimously agree to the following understanding regarding upgrades in the District Operating Department and the Central Services Department:
In order to provide men for temporary vacancies, or a_ temporary need for extra men, in job levels 8 and above caused by unscheduled absences or needs of short duration (up to five days), any previously qualified man may be used. He shall be paid the rate for the job, except as modified by the contract, for the full duration and may elect to accrue the time so spent to his regular classification.
After the maximum five-day period, the temporary vacancy must be filled by the senior qualified man in the appropriate bidding unit in that district.* Whenever expedient, the man so filling a temporary vacancy may be replaced by the senior qualified man in the appropriate bidding unit before the end of the five-day period.
150
It is not the intent here that a prolonged temporary vacancy
shall be filled by a series of five-day replacements.
*Central Services is considered as a district hereunder.
It is also not the intent here to postpone or delay proper bidding ofjob vacancies which appear to approach the status of “permanency.”
In order to provide men for temporary vacancies, or a temporary need for extra men, in job levels 7 and below caused by unscheduled absences or needs of moderate duration (up to thirty days), any qualified man may be used as relief. He shall be paid the rate for the job, except as modified by the contract, for the full duration and may elect to accrue the time so spent to his regular classification or toward advancement in the temporary job.
It is not the intent here that aprolonged temporary vacancy shall be filled by a series of thirty-day replacements.
It is also not the intent here to postpone or delay proper bidding ofjob vacancies which appear to approach the status of “permanency."
151
Addendum to Letter Of Understanding Upgrades In District Operating Department And Central Services Department (King Case)
Job levels referred to as 7 and below
Apprentice Blacksmith 1" Year
Apprentice Carpenter 1“ Year
Apprentice Machinist 1 ” Year
Apprentice Mechanic 1 “ Year
Apprentice Painter 1“ Year
Auto Parts Handler C
Clerk
Gardener A
Gardener B
Helper
Instrument Technician (Gas) C I*1 Year
Junior Clerk
Laborer
Locksmith
Material Handler
Meter Reader 1“ Year
Meter Repair Specialist B 1“ Year Regulator Technician P'Year Service Specialist l“Year Service Technician I “Year
Utility Serviceman
152
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Two Days Off For Personal Business
In settlement of the 1984 Negotiations between San Diego Gas and & Electric and Local Union 465 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the following understanding has been agreed upon:
Employees may take two (2) days of a year, without pay, to conduct personal business. Requests will be granted only if Company operations permit. No time off without pay will be granted beyond the two-day maximum, unless absolutely unavoidable, and the burden of proof as to unavoidability is on the employee. Absence in excess of the two (2) days without pay for personal reasons constitutes unsatisfactory performance on the part of the employee.
Union officers absent without pay to conduct official Union business, employees absent without pay who are required to attend NLRB, arbitration or grievance hearings, or Union Executive Board members absent without pay to attend official functions ofthe International office of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers will not have such absences counted against the maximum of two days time off for personal, business, provided that the Business Manager of Local Union 465, IBEW, or his assistant, has notified the Manager-Labor Relations, or his assistant, in advance, of the reason for and duration of the absence and requested that the employee be released for one ofthe above stated purposes. Such a request will be granted unless it would interfere with Company operations.
Agreed to this 18th day of June, 1984.
153
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Equal Seniority In Union Classifications
WHEREAS, there sometimes occurs incidents of two o more Union-classified employees sharing the same hiring-in department, division and/or classification date, and
WHEREAS, there has never been any previous agreement between IBEW Local 465 and San Diego Gas & Electric Company as to how a seniority date will be determined when this circumstance occurs.
BE IT NOW RESOLVE, that both parties agree - by affixing their authorized signatures to this agreement - to revert to alphabetical surname order to determine the senior person whenever two or more employees have equal seniority, and whose ability, experience and qualifications are sufficient and equal. _____________ ...... .= = — - -	=	— -
Agreed to this 6th day of February, 1975.
154
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Light Duty — Work Related Injuries
This Letter of Understanding is entered into this 2nd day f June, 1995 between San Diego Gas & Electric Company hereinafter referred to as “Company”) and the IBEW Union ^ocal #465 (hereinafter referred to as “Union”).
Whereas the parties are desirous of allowing greater flexibility in the assignment of Temporary Light Duty for .vork related injured employees,
The parties agree to the following:
The Company will assign initial periods of Temporary Light Duty for up to 30 scheduled days. Requests for extensions beyond this period will be reviewed on a case by case basis.
The Company will assign Temporary Light Duty, as determined available by the Company, first within the regular payrolled classification at the assigned headquarters.
Where the Company determines the productive Light Duty Work is not available within the regular payrolled classification at the assigned headquarters, then the Company may assign tasks outside the individual’s regularly payrolled classification and/or headquarters.
The employee shall be paid at his/her normal classification rate regardless of work tasks assigned or
155
classification in which they are working. Employee shall be paid for hours worked at the employee’s norma classification rate.
If the employee is asked to report to a differen headquarters for the Light Duty, then travel mileage will be paid as appropriate as provided by the Amended Agreement.
Necessitated change of schedule during a payroll week to facilitate the assignment of Light Duty shall be made without penalty of overtime under the provisions of the Amended Agreement.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Service Order Management Technology
„ In the settlement of the-1995 Negotiations between San Diego Gas & Electric Company and Local 465 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the following, understanding has been agreed upon:
With the introduction of the new Service Order Management Technology, the Union has raised the concern regarding how this technology will be used relative to disciplinary action against an employee.
The parties have discussed the purpose of the new technology and how it will be utilized to manage the service order process, including efficient management of the workforce.
156
This letter is to address the assurance that the Company as made relative to its use of discipline.
•	The Company will not use the technology and the resulting volume of information for the sole purpose of disciplining employees.
» The Company does not intend to assign someone in supervision to study the system information just to find an employee to discipline.
•	It is understood that the performance data in the system may be used to counsel an employee regarding performance issues and may be a part of documenting a progressive discipline case with an employee
•	It is further understood that data/information from the system such as employee location, timely response to automated dispatch/assignment to an emergency order, etc., (two areas as illustrative examples only), may be used by the Company to support disciplinary action given to an employee.
Agreed to on this 12th day of June, 1996.
157
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING Emergency Response Program
In the settlement of the 1995 Negotiations between San Diego Gas & Electric Company and Local 465 of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the following understanding has been agreed upon:
It is agreed that the Emergency Response language, Letter of Understanding - Emergency Response Program of the utility agreement shall be modified to credit for a response in the calculation of the I in 5 response rate an occurrence of emergency response which starts during the employee’s regularly scheduled shift and if the emergency restoration work requires him/her to work 4 or more hours beyond the end of his/her regularly scheduled shift.
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
Direct Access
This Letter of Understanding is entered into this 28th day of October, 1997, between San Diego Gas & Electric Company (Hereinafter referred to as “Company”) and the IBEW Local Union 465 (Hereinafter referred to as “Union”.)
Whereas the Company is committed to handle the additional work load caused by restructuring, and
158
Whereas the Company will continue to handle normal work load of peak periods during Direct Access implementation, and
Whereas the Company and the Union are committed to mprove working conditions, reduce costs and improve service o our customers.
Therefore, the Company and the Union agree as follows:
1)	To support any additional workload that can not be handled by the Meter-testers, a maximum of 8 Kearny Electricians will be trained to handle all types of Direct Access Electric Metering installations. The Kearny Electricians may be utilized to augment the Meter-Testers for direct access work for 6 months or until the Meter-Tester training is complete, or whichever comes first. After that the Kearny Electricians will be used to supplement the Meter-Testers for Direct Access work.
2)	Fifteen (15) existing Call-In Meter Readers will be made Meter Readers. This is a one-time offer. All future openings will be filled according to the May 6, 1997 Letter of Understanding.
3)	Fifteen (15) existing Call-in Meter Readers will be trained to perform Relief Tum-On work. These employees will be trained in 1998. SDG&E reserves the right to establish future vacancies after the 15 are trained.
159
4)	[See Letter of Understanding - Direct Access, datec April 6, 1998] All Journeyman Meter Testers Electricians (Test Electricians) and Meter Tes Electricians must qualify to perform the Direc Access metering duties.
Meter Testers not accepting the training for the new pay grade 25 B or 26B shall remain at pay grade 24 B.
Journey Meter Tester and Electrician (Test Electrician) job duties will be combined into one classification called Meter Test Electrician at a pay group 26B. The new Meter Test Electrician will perform all the duties of existing Electricians and Journeymen Meter Testers. Existing Meter Testers will be given one opportunity to “train-up" for the new Meter Test Electrician position or Journeyman Meter Tester pay group 25B.
Upon successful completion of the requirements for pay grade 25 B, Journeyman Meter Testers may volunteer for training for the position of Meter Test Electrician pay grade 26B.
Journeyman Meter Testers shall select the training, for the pay grade 25B or 26B, which they want to accept prior to the beginning of training.
Existing Journeyman Meter Testers may volunteer as follows;
160
Journeyman Meter Tester pay group 25B
•	All existing meter tester duties
•	All direct access metering
•	Install or replace test blocks and test switch barriers
*	Replace test blocks and/or change damaged test block
devices
•	Set new single and three phase TOU/IDR meters for both self contained and transformer rated meter installations
•	Rewire and/or replace test switch, meter socket, and current transformer wiring
•	Wire secondary and primary de-energized metering installations (including voltage and current transformers along with test switches and other associated devices)
•	Install energy management systems, secondary current transformer installations (including isolation relays)
•	Install and wire recorder/data logger on electric meter panel (direct access metering)
•	Remove covers from underground pull sections for investigation by Meter Revenue Protection (600 volts or less)
*	Change damaged clips or meter sockets
•	Replace wires in self-contained and transformer rated installations
•	Replace faulty current transformers and/or voltage transformers (600 volts or less)
•	Extend telephone lines from the minimum point of entry (MPOE) to the meter socket or data logger and make connections between the telephone line and the meter or data logger
161
Meter Test Electrician pay group 26B
•	All existing meter tester duties
•	All direct access metering
•	All Journeyman Meter Tester pay group 25B duties
•	All existing Electrician duties
The following are some examples of the Meter Test Electrician duties
•	Install temporary TOU/IDR watt-hour meter in existing meter socket or hard wire
•	Replace faulty current transformers and/or voltage transformers
•	Rewire energized primary metering installations (2 Journeymen required)
•	Install billing recorders, and run conduit
•	Install data loggers on pole top installations and pad-mount transformers
•	Install instrumentation for power quality
’ measufefncrits-“ = ~	—
•	Set and check watt-hour meters, poll top and padmount transformer installations for Meter Revenue Protection
•	Special installation wiring, as an example the electric vehicle charging installations
•	Successfully complete climbing school.
Existing Journeyman Meter Testers (pay group 24B or 25B) will be required to perform all the “new” duties that they have qualified to perform at their present rate of pay. Existing Electricians may volunteer and be trained for Meter Tester duties at the pay group 26B.
162
Electricians (Test Electricians) shall select if they will or will not accept the Meter Tester Training.
Meter Tester upgrades to pay grades 25B and/or 26B will begin after successfully completing the training.
Meter Testers that believe they can perform the duties listed above under pay group 25B may volunteer to be tested to demonstrate their ability to perform all of the duties safely, according to procedure. If a Meter Tester passes the test, they will be promoted to the pay group 25B. If a Meter Tester is unable to pass the test, they will be required to attend and pass the training class before they will be promoted to the pay group 25B.
Training for pay group 25B and 26B will be offered in order of seniority at Company convenience. Meter Testers who cannot successfully complete training and qualify for pay group 25 B and/or 26B will remain at their current pay grade.
Apprentice Meter Test Electricians will be paid as follows:
Pay Group	
Is' six months	15B
2nd six months	16B
3rd six months	I7B
4th six months	18B
5lh six months	20B
Thereafter	21B
Journeyman Meter Test Electrician 26B
163
5)	SDG&E will hire 20 Call-In employees to work during the “peak light-up season,” through February 1, 1998. These employees will be trained to perform the following duties:
•	Re-Reads
-	OBR’s
•	G&E S/O
-	G&E C/A
This is a one-time agreement and at SDG&E’s discretion, employees may be offered a Call-In Meter Reading position after February 1, 1998. After completion of training, they will be paid at a pay group 18B.
6)	Helpers volunteering to assist Meter Services during our peak season, may volunteer to be trained to perform Turn-On Meterman duties. These employees will be paid at a Pay Group 18B. Helpers ■ - -- — that perform only light-up duties will be paid at a Pay Group 15B (Utility Service Specialist).
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
NEW HIRE CALL OUT GUIDELINES
The following provisions will apply for on-call and callout and pre-arranged overtime assignments when New Hires, Apprentices of Line Assistants are on the on-call, call-out or prearranged overtime lists:
Service Crew
Two new hires can be called out on the service crew regardless of their status, provided they are qualified.
164
»VF3 Crew (Overhead or Underground)
1 - Established Foreman (regular or relief)
1 - Established Journeyman Lineman
1 - New Hire in training or Apprentice of Line Assistant
¥F4Crew
1 - Established Foreman (regular or relief)
1 - Established Journeyman Lineman
1-	New Hire in training
1	- Apprentice of New Hire in training or another established Journeyman Lineman or Line Assistant
OR
1-	Established Foreman (regular or relief)
2-	Established Journeyman Lineman
1 - Apprentice or New Hire in training or another established Journeyman Lineman of Line Assistant
As is always the case, additional personnel maybe called jt at the Foreman’s request for safety.
Once a New Hire in training has accepted a call out, bsequent New Hires in training on the list will be skipped til the established Journeyman Lineman requirements are et
New Hires in training will be designated by an asterisk on e call out list. When an asterisk no longer designates a New re, that individual will be established as a Journeyman neman.
Agreed to July 15, 1999
165
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CONCERNING TRAVEL STATUS
04/18/00
When traveling overnight for the purposes of training tb following shall apply;
When traveling on Saturday or Sunday, employees sha be paid at one half their normal straight time rate of pa Travel time will begin upon departure from the employee home airport and end with their direct arrival at their hotel designated training facility. Upon returning, travel time w be considered from the time the employees leave their hotel designated training facility until their arrival at their hon airport. In no case shall an employee receive pay exceedir the equivalent of eight hours pay at straight time rates.
When traveling Monday through Friday the employee appropriate rate of pay will be paid during normal workir hours. If travel goes beyond working hours, the one half straight time pay provision shall apply.
The company shall provide the employee lodging a reimburse the employee a sum of $35.25 per day for mee and all other expenses.
While in training, a maximum 8 of hours per day will paid at the appropriate straight time rates.
166
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING
CONCERNING JURY DUTY
07/05/00
When summoned for Jury Duty, per Article 11.35 of the agreement, an individual’s shift may be changed one day at a ime to accommodate the period of jury service. This change vi 11 not result in an overtime premium payment.
CLARIFICATION LETTER
TO DAVE MOORE
CONCERNING: 11.34 WORKER’S COMP
DURING PROVISIONAL PERIOD JUNE 4, 2001
Dear Mr. Moore:
In an effort to clarify the interpretation and original intent ' Section 11.34 of the agreement it is understood that the ntract language in that section applies only to employees ho have attained the contractual status as a “Regular” nployee.
As a further point of clarification, in Section II.2 of the reement regarding Provisional employees, the term, sickness not in excess of five days...” in paragraph 2 of t section, does not include industrial injuries. To further rify this section, the Company and Union has agreed to the lowing in those cases:
167
In case or cases of industrial injuries where the employee is off work, or on light duty for longer than five days, their status as a provisional employee shall be extended in the amount of time offbeyond five days, but not to exceed a total of six months.
If the foregoing clarifications are consistent with your understanding of the language at issue, please acknowledge by signature and return to my attention.
LETTER TO DAVE MOORE
RE: LETTER OF CLARIFICATION OF
SECTION 11.26
CONCERNING TEMPORARY ASSIGNMENTS JUNE 4, 2001
Dear Mr. Moore:
In an effort to further clarify Section 11.26 of the agreement the following understanding is agreed to by the parties. If the employee is placed in different temporary assignments, of: higher rate of pay, on the immediate work day before and the immediate work day after the holiday or jury duty, tht employee shall receive, for the holiday or jury duty at issue the rate of pay in effect on the immediate work day before th< holiday or jury duty.
168
sag-
a	Sempra Energy*utility
James Marshall
Manager."
Labor Relations
8306 Century Park Court, CP41A, San Oiego, CA 92123-1593 Tel:'858.637.7924 Fax: 858.637.7954 Pager: 619.9782808 jmarshall9sdge.com
ELECTED OFFICERS
DAVID A. MOORE
Business Managcr/Financial Secretary
JOHN HUNTER...........  President
JAMES CRAIG LEATHERMAN Vice-President CYNTHIARELPH   Recording Secretary MARTY HUNTER...............Treasurer
HfU*1
Local Union 465
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 229 W. Washington Street, San Diego, CA 92103-1997 (619)297-2875 • (800)339^969
