Cornell University ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref(o)cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Wisconsin Power & Light Company and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), AFL-CIO Local 965 (2003)
K#: 6080
Employer Name: Wisconsin Power & Light Company (Alliant Energy)
Location: Wl
Union International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), AFL-CIO
Local: 965
SIC: 4930
Sector: P
NAICS: 221
Number of Workers: 1450
Effective Date: 06/01/03
Expiration Date: 06/01/07
Number of Pages: 136
Other Years Available: Y
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell edu/
/ o
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article	Title	Page
Agreement.............................................. 1
Method of Negotiation and Enforcement.................. 1
Method of Arbitration and Enforcement.................. 3
Cooperation .........................................   4
Successor Clause....................................... 4
Equal Employment Opportunity........................... 5
Labor Management Council..................■............ 5
I (A)	Management............................................. 7
i	(B)	Salaried Employees..................................... 8
II	Union Membership and Dues........................................ 8
111	Seniority............................................. 11
IV	Reducing Forces....................................... 13
V	Recall to Work........................................ 16
VI	Posting for Filling Vacancies and New Positions......	16
VII	Union Business........................................ 18
VIII	Leave of Absence...................................... 18
DC	Return to Work After Injury........................... 18
X	Charges Against Employees............................. 19
XI	Charges Against the Company........................... 20
XII	Attendance at Hearings, Jury Duty and
Annual Military Training .......................... 20
XIII	Pay Day............................................... 20
XIV	Meals................................................  20
XV	Travel ............................................... 22
XVI	Safety ............................................... 24
XVII	Call-Back Minimum..................................... 24
XVIII	Foremen............................................... 24
XIX	Energized Lines....................................... 24
XX	Vacations............................................. 25
XXI	Sick Leave............................................ 28
XXII	Weather .............................................. 28
XXI11	Rest Period........................................... 28
XXIV	Absent From Work...................................... 29
XXV	Contracting Work...................................... 30
XXVI	Apprentices........................................... 31
XXVII	Partially Disabled Employees.......................... 32
r
Article	,Title	Page
XXVJII Transfers, Promotions and Demotions........................... 33
'" XXIX' ■” Temporary Substitutions...........-7-v.	........ 35
'	’ XXX ' ’ '''r Hours for'Clerical Employees /...'.	........ 37
...	XXXL Hours for Physical'Employees................................... 40
■ ■ XXXll	Holidays'and Holiday Pay.........,..................... 48
, XXXlil ” Premium Pay ............................. ......	49
’■ XXXIV ' ,. .Unclassified Jobs'.;,...................................51
XXXV ' ! Special Rates and Trial Periods .. ..':..................... 51
: XXXVI ’’ Wage Schedule for Physical Positions 1	1
'	■*' •' May 18, 2003 - November 27, 2004..	52
XXXVI! Wage Schedule for Clerical Positions May 18, 2003’November'27'. 2004	........... ,64
A:- XXXVi ■ Wage Schedule for Physical Positions:	'
' November 28,2004 - November 26,2005................... 68
: "‘XXXVII Wage'Schedule for Clerical Positions
1	’	November 28, 2004 - November 26, 2005............... 80
XXXVI Wage Schedule for Physical Positions ' ■	November 27.2005 -May 27, 2006...................... 84
XXXVI I ’ Wage Schedule for Clerical Positions l	' November 27, 2005 - May 27, 2006 .......................... 96
XXXVI .Wage Schedule for Physical Positions ’ 'May'28,2006-^3^26,■2007-..;.-..'.?.:.;........................... 100
XXXVII Wage Schedule for Clerical Positions '	'	May 28. 2006 - May 26. 2007 ......................  112
. i	.■
Appendix 1	Calt-Oui Practice For Shill Employees.:.....:......... 116
Appendix 2	Alternate Work Schedules	.'................ 117
Appendix 3	Job Sharing Program ..-.'.................:........... 121
index........	     125
AGREEMENT	” ;A
This Agreement, entered into this 14th day of. April 2004, between Wisconsin Power and Light Company, a subsidiary of Alliant Energy, its assigns, successors or firms owned and controlled by it dr which may be later acquired by it, who may be referred to hereinafter as the "Company'1 and Local Union Number 965 of the Internationa) Brotherhood of Electrical Workers affiliated with the AFL-CIO (hereinafter referred to as the "Local Union") representing the employees in the collective bargaining units tor which the Local Union has been certified as the exclusive collective bargaining representative, by the National Labor Relations Board in Cases 13R3223 and 13R3249, covers all work performed by employees of the different classifications scheduled in Exhibit "A" attached hereto. All items set forth in said Exhibit "A" shall be made a part hereof as fully as 11 incorporated herein. This Agreement cancels the previous Agreement entered into on the 28th day of January 2000.
This Agreement shall take effect as of the first day of June, 2003 for a period of four years and shall continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter, unless written notice is given by either party hereto to ,the other on or before ninety (90) days prior to. June 1, 2007, or any annual expiration date thereafter, requesting that the Agreement be amended or cancelled. If amendment is desired, the contents of the amendment must be submitted in writing by, either party hereto to the other not later than sixty (60) days prior to said annual expiration date.	.
WITNESSETH: That for the purpose of facilitating the peaceful adjustment of differences that may arise from time to time and promote harmony and efficiency to the end that the Company, the Local Union and general public may mutually benefit, the parties hereto contract and agree wilh each other as follows, to wit: -
METHOD OF NEGOTIATION AND ENFORCEMENT
The Company and Local Union agree to meet and deal with each other through their duly accredited officers and committees (during the period of time this Agreement or any extension thereof Is in effect) on the application and construction of the terms and provisions of this Agreement as they relate to hours, wages, benefits, seniority, promotions within the classification scheduled in Exhibit "A" hereof, demotions, discriminations, discharges, layoffs which are not made in accord with seniority, compulsory transfers, arid any other conditions of employment of the employees of the Company covered in this Agreement.
Should any differences arise concerning the application and construction of the terms and provisions contained in this Agreement and in the Agreement covering Retirement Plan B and the Equitable Group Annuity Plan (AC-288), the Agreement covering the Comprehensive Medical Expense Benefits Plan, the Agreement covering the Dental Expense insurance Plan B, and the Agreement covering the Employees' Retirement Savings Plan B - [401 (k)] to the extent provided in said other Agreements between the parties hereto they shall be settled in the following manner:
Step (1) The matter shall be first presented and discussed by the empioyee(s) involved and with the immediate supervisor. '' ''	;
If the matter is not resolved,-the-employee(s) shall have five (5) regular working days tri which to request a meeting on the matter with Managements representative: In either case-above, the employee(s) may request Union representation and the Management representative shall give an oral answer within five (5) regular working days of such meeting.’ '	■	"
Step (2) If this meeting fails to bring about a mutually satisfactory settlement, the difference shall then be referred in writing to the Manager at District. Generating Station Manager, Area or General Office Department Head to whom the employee(s) involved is (are) responsible and the Chief Steward (or their respective designated representative). This written referral must be completed within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the alleged offense was known to have occurred. A meeting involving the Manager, Chief Steward, involved empldyee(s), and such other Company employee(s) or witness(es) as either party may feel would assist in resolving the matter shall be conducted within seven (7) regular working days of the date the written statement of the dispute was received: The Manager shall, within seven (7) regular working days after the completion of the meeting, provide a written response to the written dispute for consideration by the employee(s) and Chief Steward. Extension of time limits stiall'onty apply if mutually agreed to by the parties.
Step' (3) If the Manager's' response to the written dispute is not acceptable to the employee(s) and the Chief Steward, the Union shall within ten (10) regular working days after receiving'the Manager's response, request in writing a meeting to include the Business Manager (or designated representative) of the Local Union and the Managier of Labor Relations (or designated representative). This meeting shall be held within ten (10) regular working days after receipt of this request by the Manager of Labor Relations (or designated representative).
Within ten (10) regular working days'of the conclusion of this meeting, the Manager of Labor Relations (or designated representative) shall send the Business Manager (or designated representative) of the Local Union the Company's written proposed resolve to the dispute. Extension of time limits shall only apply if mutually agreed to by the parties.
Step (4) If the resolution proposed by the'Manager bf Labor Relations (or designated representative) is not acceptable, the Business Manager (or designated representative) of the Local Union may, within fifteen (15) regular working days of its receipt, notify the Manager of Labor Relations (or designated representative) of the Company of the intention to appeal the case to arbitration. The Company and Local Union agree that the decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties.
2
METHOD OF ARBITRATION AND ENFORCEMENT,' . , ,
Ail differences that may arise concerning the application and construction of , the terms and provisions contained in this Agreement and in, the Agreement covering Retirement Plan B and the Equitable Group Annuity Plan (AC-288), the Agreement covering the Comprehensive Medical Expense Benefits, F^lan, the Agreement covering the Dental Expense Insurance Plan B, and the Agreement covering the Employees' Retirement Savings Plan B - [401 (k)J to the extent provided in said other Agreements which , are not. agreed uppn by the representatives of the Company and the Local Union, as hereinbefore provided in paragraphs captioned "Method of Negotiation and Enforcement", .shall, be submitted at .the timely written request of either party to an arbitrator. ■, . .
At the request of either parly, both parties agree to mutually submit a request to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for the nomination of a panel of five (5) arbitrators. Upon mutual agreement, the parties may request additional, panels or may choose an arbitrator not provided by the FMCS. The arbitrator shall be chosen by each party striking two (2) names from the list. The ord^r pf. striking shall be first by the party requesting the arbitration and then alternating until all but one of the nominees has been stricken and that one shall be .the. arbitrator and both parties agree to be bound by the nomination and appointment, in such manner. The form for striking the names from the panel used by ,the parties shall have attached to it a notice of the name of the arbitrator selected, in triplicate, directed to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, the arbitrator selected, and the other party which shall be signed by the last party striking from the list and furnished immediately, by certified mail to the parties to whom the notice is directed. In the event the arbitrator selected should not be able to serve, another panel shall be requested and the arbitrator determined in like manner from the new list.	' .	'	,	.	.
The request to the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall outline the Arbitration Conditions. The agreed upon Arbitration Conditions are as follows:
1.	The date of hearing shall be set within sixty (60) regular working days of notification of selection. .	.
2.	The hearing will Include an oral opening statement, presentation of evidence and oral summation. The parties will dispense with the court reporter and upon mutual agreement may submit post-hearing briefs or arguments. Post-hearing briefs or arguments, if any, shall be submitted no later than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the hearing.
3.	A decision with opinion will be rendered wilhin sixty (60), regular working days from conclusion of hearing.
Each party shall bear the expense of preparing and presenting its own case. The expense of the arbitrator and incidental expense, mutually agreed to in advance, shall be borne equally by the Company and the Local Union.
3
COOPERATION
The Local Union agrees for its members that they will individually and collectively perform.loyal and efficient work and service, that they will use their influence and best efforts to protect the property of the Company, the public and the Company's service to the. public, and that they will cooperate In promoting and advancing the welfare of the Company and the protection of its service to the public at all times.
The Company agrees that it will cooperate with the Local Union in the future as it has in the past in promoting harmony among al! of its employees.
The Company and the Union are committed to meeting the needs of the customer by continuously improving the way we perform our 'daily work. Recognizing this as akey to future success^ both parties encourage employees to participate iri this effort. ■' '
SUCCESSOR CLAUSE
This agreement shall he binding upon the successors of Wisconsin Power and - Light Company and no provisions, terms or obligations contained herein shall be affected, modified, altered or changed in any respect whatsoever by the sale, conveyance, transfer or assignment, consolidation or merger of Wisconsin Power and Light Company operations covered by this agreement or affected, modified, altered or changed in any respect whatsoever by any change of any kind in the legal status, ownership or management of Wisconsin Power and Light Company operatioris covered by this-agreement; or by change geographical or otherwise, in the location or place of business of Wisconsin Power and Light Company.
Wisconsin Power and Light Company agrees to notify the union of any proposed sale, conveyance, assignment, transfer, consolidation or merger and to provide and continue to provide any and al) Information about the sale conveyance, assignment, transfer, consolidation and merger. Such notification shall be at the earliest possible time, consistent with sound business judgment.
If Wisconsin Power and Light Company fails to notify the union and to provide the relevant information, fails to make a good faith effort to secure an enforceable agreement of the successor’to assume Wisconsin Power and Light Company obligation under this agreement, provided that such an effort is not inconsistent with applicable labor law, Wisconsin Power and Light Company will be liable to the union for any and all damages sustained by the union and the bargaining unit employees from such failure.
4
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
It shall be the objective of the Company and Local Union 965,;LB.E!W„ to provide equal opportunity' in employment and promotion -to all person's’ covered b/the terms of this Agreement without regard to race; religion, color.sex.age, national origin, ancestry, handicap, disabled and Vietnam - era veteran status, marital status, sexual orientation or arrest record.	■
LABOR MANAGEMENT COUNCIL	'
The Company and the Union agree that it is essentia! to, sound labor management relations and to the economic progress of the Company and. its employees to make constant improvements in the Company's operations in order to maintain efficiency and control costs. To accomplish this goal, it is essential that employees understand the basis for changes affecting their employment and working conditions.
it is also agreed that periodic discussions between the Union and the Management can promote good labor relations by preventing relaxation of standards with respect to training, consideration of employees for promotions, or the application.of job specifications, and other working conditions not involving change.	,	'	.	... .	....
For these purposes a Labor Management Council,shall be established .and shall meet at least three (3) times a year; in March, July and,November, commencing in 1965. The Labor Management Council shall discuss changes that may.be under consideration by the Company or occurring in the industry, and ways and means of getting information about them to employees. The Labor Management Council shall consider and discuss changes planned by the Management as they affect employees for the purpose of, answering employees' questions or eliminating rumors and misunderstandings.. It shall, provide ways and means for communicating information as to how these changes have been put into effect. It shall also refer to the grievance procedure any cases that may come to its attention where individual employees may have been discriminated against or deprived of any rights under this contract. .
The Labor Management Council shall consist of four (4) officers of the Company and four (4) members selected by the Local Union to represent the varied interest of employees in the collective bargaining units covered by this contract.
This Labor Management Council will be In addition to and. will supplement and not supplant existing bargaining committees, grievance procedures and other methods of communication.
There is attached hereto and made a part hereof as fully as if incorporated herein Exhibit "A" covering the working conditions, classifications, wage rates, hours and other conditions of employment of all the employees of the Company covered in this Agreement.
5
WISCONSIN POWER AND LIGHT	LOCAL UNION 965
COMPANY , ■ . INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD a subsidiary of ALLIANT ENERGY OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
President
By:
Shawn L. Reents Business Manager and Financial Secretary
Corporate Secretary
Company Negotiating Committee:
Megan C. Dyer Patrick J. Kelly Jerry L. Lokenvitz ' ’
Union Negotiating Committee: Robert J. Jung
' Holly K. Kaiser
' Gary L. McGrath
6
EXHIBIT A CONTRACT BETWEEN WISCONSIN POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY
■ ■	and ” ’■	-
' LOCAL UNION’965,1.B.E.W.	‘
'	April 14,2004'	; J;	’
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT <
> ,	6/1/03-5/31/07	..
ARTICLE I. (A) MANAGEMENT
( 1)	The right to employ, promote, discipline, and discharge employees and the management of the properties is reserved by and shall be vested in the Company in accord with other provisions of this Agreement. The Management has the right to employ, in each * of the. different classifications covered by this Agreement and at whatever location it deems advisable, as many employees as it considers necessary for the satisfactory operation, maintenance, construction, clerical, or other work of the Company.
( 2)	(a) It is agreed, however, that promotions and demotions shall be based,. ■ upon ability, qualifications, and* seniority. Where ability and qualifications of two (2) or more employees are substantially equal for that position, then seniority shall prevail.
(b)	Where an employee presently holds the classification in which the job vacancy occurs such employee shall be considered first for filling the posted vacancy before other candidates are considered. When two (2) or more employees in the same classification bid the position, seniority or time in classification, as appropriate, shall prevail.
(c)	Where an employee holds a Special Temporary classification and a vacancy occurs and no regular status employee(s) applies, the Special Temporary employee's application is forwarded to the hiring supervisor. If such employee meets the minimum qualifications of the posted position, he/she would be interviewed for the vacant position before the Company would consider outside applicants.
( 3)	The employees, through the representatives of the Local Union, shall have the right to a hearing on any differences of opinion as to promotions or demotions, of discipline administered, or layoffs or discharge. Such hearings shall follow the procedure set forth in Method of Negotiations and Enforcement, and in case of failure to settle the difference, then before the arbitrator.
7
( 4)	_ The selection of applicants for training as apprentices shall not be ' ‘ :: corisideredas’'promotions* as referred to iri (2)'abdV6, The Company 1’reserves the right to select those they consider the rndht likely to succeed.
( 5)' ’The'Company and the .Local-Union shall bargain as to the wages, hours, ■ 'and working conditions of new or revised classifications. Prior to ■ agreement as to wages, the Company may fill the new or revised ’ ‘’ classification at the rate they propose with the rate of pay eventually J-agreed upon by the Company and the Local'Union to be retroactive to the date of filling the new or revised classification. ■	:
(’6) ' If an employee's performance during the initial six (6) months' probationary period, in the opinion of the Company is unsatisfactory, the Company shall have the unrestricted right to discharge such an employee, A discharge during this initial probationary period shall not be subject to " ’ the provisions of paragraph (2) of this Article. Regular status employees shallhave a‘trial period as outlined in Article XXVIII, Transfer, Promotions and Demotions, Paragraph (2).	'
(B) ' SALARIED EMPLOYEES '	’
Salaried employees will hot normally perform duties regularly done by hourly represented employees except under the following conditions:
(■’f j ! < Emergency'situations’where time and the protecting of life, property or equipment call for immediate action rather than waiting for an hourly employee to respond,
(2)	Training and instruction situations. '	'
(	3) Diagnostic, testing or experimental work requiring total capabilities beyond those of the hourly employee, _
ARTICLE IL UNION MEMBERSHIP AND DUES
( 1)	It is agreed that ail of the employees represented by the Local Union shall, ' as a condition of employment by the Company, become members of the Local Union within thirty (30) days after the signing and approval of this Agreement. All persons employed after the date of this Agreement in the bargaining units for which the Local Union was certified as the collective bargaining representative by the National Labor Relations Board in Cases 13R3223 and 13R3249 shall, as a condition of employment, become members of the Local Union after thirty (30) days of employment. All employees who become members of the Union shall as a condition of
’ employment, ' maintain their membership in the Local Union in good standing for the duration of this Agreement. Payment or tender of ' payment of initiation tees and dues uniformly required as a condition of membership shall constitute membership in good standing.
( 2)	The Company agrees that it will send written notification to the Local Union representative within a week of the hiring of a new employee
8
-a1 ’■ ■ ■	,	■,	v.i.'■.	.; ,
coming under this Agreement. The Local Union agrees that it will diligently endeavor to collect the initiation fees and’dues. regularly required as a condition of membership, and it further agrees that it will not ask for the discharge of an. employee for failure to pay or tender payment of said initiation fee or dues until after the employee is more than thirty (30) days delinquent After the Company has received written, notice from the Union, it shall have thirty (30) days in which to persuade the delinquent employee to tender payment before it shall be required to discharge said delinquent employee. Such written notice from the Union, shall be sent to the Manager at District, Generating Station Manager, Area, or General Office Department Head under whose supervision the employee works, together with a copy to the Company's Manager of Labor Relations.
( 3)	Cadets or similar employees paid on a monthly basis who are assigned to work temporarily with classes covered by this Agreement as a part of their scheduled training shall be exempt from the requirements of this Union membership Article or any Union permit requirements. - .
( 4)	During the term of this Agreement the Company will .deduct monthly Union, membership dues authorized by the Local Union under the following, conditions:	.	t
(a)	Such dues are uniformly required from each Union member of the class to which an employee belongs..	...	’
(b)	The Company has been presented with an individual order therefore constituting a written assignment voluntarily signed by the employee personally.
(c)	Such order or assignment Is terminable or revocable at the end of any year of its life or at the termination of this Agreement, whichever occurs sooner, upon the giving of-written notice by the employee by registered mail, return receipt requested, to the Corhpany and the Local Union at least ten (10) days before the end of such year or the termination of this Agreement, whichever occurs sooner. .
( 5)	Such deductions shall commence with the calendar, month next following the month in which the Company receives such written assignment for such deductions from the employee.
( 6)	Deductions shall be made from earnings during the first and second pay period of each calendar month except for those employees who have no earnings during the first pay period tor whom the deductions shall be from earnings for the second pay period and shall be remitted to the Local Union on or before the end of the month in which the deductions were made.
( 7)	No deductions will be made from the earnings of any employee for any month for which no wages are received from the Company for the entire
9
month or works for the entire month on work outside,of the collective bargaining units, .	'' r;
( 0) ; The Union agrees to maintain accurate records with respect to all of such written' assignments’and all revocations thereof arid to furnish the Company with accurate information as to the amounts of dues to be checked off pursuant thereto, and the Local Union agrees to save the " J’ ' Compahy harmless and to indemnify the Companyfor any financial loss "' ’ caused to the Company arising out of or by reason of action taken or not taken by the Company for the purpose of complying with any of the , provisions of this section or in reliance on any list, notice or assignment ,, furnished under any of such provisions.
( 9)' * Assignments given pursuant hereto shallbe in the following form:
'	/	AUTHORIZATION FOR CHECK OFF
J	OF UNION DUES TO THE
WISCONSIN POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY
I.hereby authorize and direct Wisconsin Power and Light Company to deduct from my pay, ari amount equal to the dues arid initiation fees in the amounts fixed in' accordance with By-Laws of Local Union #965 and the Constitution of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers arid to pay same to said Local Union in accordance with the terms of the bargaining agreement between the employer and the Union,
This authorization is voluntarily made in order to pay my fair share of the Union's cost of. representing .me for the purposes of collective bargaining, and this authorization is not conditioned on my present or future membership in the Union.
This authorization shall be irrevocable for a period of one year from the date hereof or until the termination, date of said agreement, .whichever occurs sooner, without regard to whether I am a member of the Union during that period, and I agree that this authorization shall be automatically renewed and irrevocable for successive periods of one year unless revoked by written notice to you and the Union ten (10) days prior to the anniversary of this authorization. The payments covered by this authorization are not deductible as charitable contributions for federal income tax purposes.	. ,
Name (Printed)	' ’	... Signature
Date	Department #
10
ARTICLE III. SENIORITY	>	*	" i
( 1)	Seniority shall apply in accordance with the following1 rules on a group-wide .basis, and a single seniority list shall prevail for each-seniority, group, subject to special .rules hereafter stated for transfers,; merger of seniority groups, etc.	.	■■	..
( 2)	Complete seniority lists will be provided to the Unio'n and will be made available to regular employees for their inspection. Such, lists will be revised as of December 31 of each year.	. ■
( 3)	Seniority groups for all employees covered by this Agreement and referred to in this Agreement are (1) Baraboo, (2) Beaver Dam, (3) Beloit, (4) Dane County, (5) Fond.du Lac, (6) Janesville, (7) Elkhorn, (8) Monroe, (9) Portage, (10) Ripon, (11) Tomah, (12) Sheboygan, (13) Berlin and (14) Mineral Point Districts; (15) Blackhawk-Rock River, (16) Edgewater, (17) Nelson Dewey, (18) Columbia, (19) Kilbourn and (20) Prairie du Sac Generating Stations;, arid/(21) Northern Area, (22) Southern Area, (23) General Office, (24) Janesville Customer Service Center and (25) Poynette Central Maintenance Facility.
( 4)	The employee's seniority in any seniority group is the accumulated time' employed in that seniority group, plus any accumulated seniority to which the employee is entitled under other provisions of this Article, but not under seniority provisions existing previous to the ratification of'this. Article.	"'	‘ ”s.
( 5)	A new employee does not have any seniority standing during the initial six (6) months’ probationary period. On completion of this: probationary period, the employee has seniority standing computed as of the date the employee began continuous Company employment.	1
( 6)	A temporary employee does not accumulate seniority during any period of temporary employment: Whenever a "special temporary" employee is changed to regular employee status without any break in employment, such employee's seniority will start with the first day of continuous employment as a "special temporary" employee.'	'
( 7)	(a) An employee who transfers to another seniority group when his/her
job has not been eliminated, shall have accumulated seniority within the seniority group from which he/she transferred up to the date of transfer and accumulates seniority in the new seniority group from the date of transfer, plus any seniority that may have previously accumulated in that seniority group.	‘
(b) An employee who has transferred from a seniority group [as referred to in Article III., paragraph (3)] which subsequent to the transfer is eliminated, shall carry the accumulated seniority from the eliminated seniority group to the current seniority group.
11
( 8)	An employee who transfers from one seniority group.to another because ’ 1 , : the job ’was eliminated' or, the employee’ was; ''bumped" due to “ organizational or operational changes, shall have trie fight at the time of ' ' ‘ ' transfer, to choose between either (1) taking all accurtiutated seniority in ' -the seniority group from’which'the employee was transferred Into the new seniority group or (2) leaving the accumulated seniority in the group from which the employee was transferred. An employee taking option number 2 may bid on job postings within that seniority group on the basis of that ’ ” ( seniority. .	' '
(‘9)‘ An employee subject to a transfer to another ‘seniority group, due to '	organizational or operational changes, may' exercise the provisions of
"bumping' as defined In Article iv, or may exercise the provisions set forth _ in (1) and (2) of paragraph (8).	,
(io) “ (a) Any employed who has been or may be transferred from a position ‘ covered by this Agreement to a position outside ’the bargaining unit accumulates seniority in the seniority group from which he/she was transferred for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of the . transfer. During the ninety (90) day trial period in such a position the \ ‘ “employee has the right to return to the former position if that \	1 employee so desires, if an employee's trial period is extended
''	beyond the original ninety (90) days as described in paragraph (2) of
Article XXXV, he/she continues to accumulate seniority for the entire 'triai period and has the right to return to the former position if the :	' /' employee so desires during such an extended trial period. The
”	’ employee does not accumulate further seniority while filling a
" position not covered by this Agreement.'	■
($)'. ; Ari' employee in a position outside the bargaining unit with ‘ ' accumulated bargaining unit seniority .canriot use that seniority to 1' ' displace an active bargaining unit employee nor may he/she use that . accumulated seriiority in a job bidding situation to a position covered ‘	. by this Agreement: When an employee iri' a position outside the
bargaining unit secures a position which returns them to the bargaining unit, upon completion of their probationary period, the employee's seniority shall be computed and commence as of the
. start date into the bargaining position' permanently. Also, if an “ employee outside the bargaining unit bids and secures a Journeyman position, which is listed in Article VI, paragraph (1) (a), . .their accredited time shall be computed and commence from the “ time they returned to the bargaining position.
(11)- In the case of a merger of established seniority groups, either in total or in part, the existing seniority status of employees involved shall be combined to establish the seniority list for the enlarged seniority group.
(12)	Employees of another company who become employees of this Company in connection with the acquisition of a property by this Company shall
12
, have seniority rights from the beginning ,date of ,’their continuous employment in the acquired area with the former company. Such seniority right shair.be in the seniority group into which such acquired property is merged or in a new seniority group, if any, created on an operational basis by the, Companyout of such purchased property. ’
(13)	When the seniority of two or more employees is equal in a seniority group, the length of service with the Company shall govern. When the seniority of such employees cannot be determined on length of service with the Company, as above provided, then the determination of seniority rank shall be made by lot by the employees involved in the presence of a Company and a Union representative.	’
(14)	The legal requirements governing the reemployment of veterans returning from Military Service shall supersede and outrank any seniority provisions of this Contract. Other employees affected by returning veterans shall exercise the provisions of Article IV.	,
ARTICLE IV. REDUCING FORCES	.
( 1)	The Company shall have the right to determine how many it will employ or retain in each of the different classifications covered by this Agreement. When the Company determines that a job is to be eliminated, the Company will post a notice of such job(s) affected on the bulletin board in that seniority group and each employee affected is to be given at least six (6) months' advance notice of such a change in writing, with a copy to the Chief Steward. Where the number employed in a classification within a seniority group [as defined above in Article III (3)] is to be reduced because of lack or curtailment of work, changes in Company's operation, or similar reason not due to individual employees, the employees in that classification, with the lowest seniority standing, shall be the first to' be laid off. When the classification to.be reduced is utilized in more than one department within a seniority group, the least senior employee in the department at the location where the curtailment of work has occurred, will be the first to be laid off. Regular employees, who are laid off because of a reduction in the number employed in a classification and who have sufficient qualifications to fill some other equivalent or lower paid classifications, may replace other employees employed in such equivalent or lower paid classification within any seniority group where the employee laid off has a seniority standing, providing their seniority standing is higher than the employees they replace. The determination regarding the employee's seniority standing is made on the date the employee designates in writing the intentions to bump another position. Maximum rates of pay shall be the basis for determining whether a given classification is an equivalent or lower paid classification as referred to in this Article. This right of "bumping" is limited only to those employees who are being laid off because ol lack of work, changes in operating practices, returning veterans, or similar reasons having no relation to the individual employees.
13
( 2)	Employees receiving the notification referred to above [six (6) months '; ' minimum] ‘will1 have sixty (60) calendar days from the date they are notified in which to notify Management of their desire to exercise their bumping rights by designating the classification and/or employee to be bumped. c''1 Each'employee notified of a bump in a'sequence rdf bumps wit) have '• s’’twenty”(20) calendar days’ih which'to designate a desire to exercise * " bumping rights by notifying Management of the classification and/or employee to be bumped. All bump designation's will be completed within ■ ! the Original notification period except'as rioted below. Each bump will be completed no later than the effective date of the work force reduction except as noted below. A bumped employee who does not have any bumping rights shall have the balance of the original notification period to ■ ■ exercise the provisions of Article VI (Posting for Filling Vacancies and New Positions), if an employee is notified of a bump with less than twenty - (20) calendar days left of the original notification period, :the employee will ■ have twenty (20) calendar days in which to either; (1) exercise their ’ f' bumping rights, if any, or (2) exercise the provisions of Article VI (Posting
” 1 for Filling Vacancies and New Positions).'
C3p ' When a position is abolished at a location and is established at another - ? ' location in the same seniority group, the employee whose position is abolished shall have 'bumping* rights as described in this Article, provided the employee does not elect to accept the same position at the new location. '	'	’	'	'
( 4)	(a) If a Reduction in Forces or bump occurs in a classification that
■’ includes both Journeymen arid' Apprentices, the least senior ;	" employee in the lowest level of the apprenticeship would be the
'	" affected person. :The first year of an apprenticeship would be the
'	' " lowest level in making this determination. An Apprentice's current
'	■ ’ rate of pay shall be the basis for determining whether a given
. classification is an equivalent'or lower paid classification as referred to in this Article.	r .
(b) A Journeyman whose job is eliminated or bumped may use his/her local seniority as a Journeyman in that position to bid that position al his/her former location.	’
( 5)	1 (a) Employees whose jobs are eliminated because of a net reduction in staff, and who have received the notification as described in ' paragraph (1) above, or employee's who are bumped as a result of an organizational change resulting in a net reduction in staff, shall be eligible to elect transition pay benefits. Transition pay will be the '■ employee's current hourly rate for a period of sixty (60) calendar days which coincides with the date in which an employee must notify Management of their desire to exercise their bumping rights as described in paragraph (2). Employees electing to leave the Company will be given the option to work the balance of the original six month notification period minus the sixty (60) calendar days of
14
transition-pay... Employees electing to work during; this, period may ...continue to bid positions up to the point transition, pay begins. ,
. For employees electing to leave the Company but y^ork. the original six month notification period minus the sixty (60) calendar days of transition, medical benefits will continue for toe balance of this original six (6) .month notification period. Employees electing to leave without working this period may elect to purchase COBRA coverage at the end of the transition pay period. .	■
(b)	Employees with at least five.(5) years of service shall.be eligible for an additional payment of 1.25 . weeks of separation pay at their regular wage rate for each full year of service, if an employee has less than a full year of service it will be prorated for that year. Under no circumstances will the minimum payment be less than 6.25 weeks, nor will it exceed 37.5 weeks, which is equal to 1.25 weeks x 30 years of service. For part-time employees greater than 50%, the payment amounts will be prorated based on accumulated seniority divided by 365 days. Years of service will be determined by an employee's accumulated seniority with the Company. For those employees eligible for separation pay, a lump sum payment will be generated by the Company and will be included in the employee's gross income. Such payment will not be included in the pension plan calculation.
(c)	Employees electing this option shall not be.eligible for any of the provisions under Article IV. Reducing Forces or Article V. Recall To Work, with the exception of those employees who are eligible for temporary supplemental retirement income as described in paragraph (6). An employee given a reduction in forces notice shall have the right to elect not to receive this benefit and exercise their seniority rights under Article IV. Reducing Forces and Article V. Recall to Work. Employees terminated for Just cause will not be eligible for such benefits.
( 6)	Employees whose jobs are eliminated and have received the notification described in paragraph (1) above or employees who are bumped as the result of an organizational change and who are age 55 years or older, shall be eligible to receive temporary supplemental retirement income payments described in Retirement Plan B, Article VI - Retirement Income At Early Retirement Date, 6.4 Supplemental Retirement Income.
In the event the retiree dies prior to attaining age 62, a surviving spouse will continue to receive the supplemental payments until the retiree would have been age 62. The supplemental payments will be discontinued immediately if the surviving spouse remarries or dies. Employees can elect to delay commencement of their Early Retirement Income and be in receipt of the Temporary Supplemental Retirement Income. An employee
15
must notify the Company when to start the Retirement Income. The age 'factoral this commencement date will apply, \
ARTICLE V.	RECALL TO WORK	. ^1
When recalling employees to work, those of a seniority group who have been laid off within’ the past one (1) yeafwho were most recently laid off on account of previous curtailment dr change of work shall be the first in that group to be reemployedi providing they are qualified to return to work, have sufficient ability, and a re available. When such employees are reemplbyed ’ within one (1) year, their seniority time arid rights shall be restored as of the day they were laid off. All time out of service due to layoffs shall be deducted in the computation made in years, of service. Upon failure to return to work within ten (10) working days after due notice by the Company, full seniority time'and rights shall be forfeited. Personal or telephone notice to the employee or a registered letter to the employee's last known address shall be. considered due notice?
ARTICLE VI.	POSTING FOR FILLING VACANCIES AND NEW POSITIONS
( 1)	The position of Local Representative, positions #J01145 and #J01146, shall be posted on a Company-wide basis for ten (1 of calendar days.
-u - ‘	-* ’■	"	■ '	■	‘	'
■“ (a) The positions of Line Technician, Single Phase Meter Tester, Electric Meter Technician, Electrician, Garage Mechanic, Garage Mechanic (Evening), Engineering Technician and Gas Technician shall be posted Company-wide for ten (10) calendar days. As \ between employees bidding the job and qualified as Journeymen in ' these respective classifications (or related classifications), length of service In the appropriate classification, shall be the deciding factor ,	in awarding the open position. In the event two or more Journeymen
’have the same length of service in the appropriate classification, ' then the starting date with the Company will govern in awarding the open position. In the event the starting date with the Company is the same, then the determination shall be made by lot. This is the only ' exception to the normal seniority' application in the selection
.' process.'	'
.	(b) The position of Lead Line Technician will be posted company wide.
/ Preference will be given to any qualified company applicant.
'	(c) All other positions, except as identified in paragraph (1) (a) above,
are to be posted simultaneously for ten (10) calendar days on a local and Company-wide basis,' with first preference to be given to any qualified local applicants. If no qualified local applicants are available, consideration will be given to qualified applicants on a Company-wide basis.	.
( 2)	(a) All employees (except apprentices) having less than one (1) year of
service with the Company are ineligible to bid a position which would be a lateral or demotion. Such employees, however, will be eligible to bid from one starting or entry level position to another within
16
$1 4l j i n,	: *	i-j1	u	■ Jr ■ s/ i ■] ।,
his/her seniority group. He/She is also eligibleto bid.from part-time to full-time or full-time to part-time in the same job classification and within the same seniority group. ■. {U ( i;. ;	. .,..; :u,
(b) An employee is limited to one lateral, and one demotional job .move per twelve (12) month period. The twelve (1'2).,month period, commences with the expiration date of the job posting. This limitation does not apply to employees returned to their/pbsitibn by the company during the trial'period, or as a result of a reduction in forces. ,	‘	' ,/,/	. / ,
( 3)	When a position is posted and filled and the selected applicant decides to return to his/her former position within the trial period, the Company shall, have the option as to reposting the. vacancy or of filling the position from the original list of candidates within ninety (90) days of the date the selected applicant starts the new position. A note .to. this effect shall be. made on the job posting,
( 4)	When a position is posted and not filled in ninety (90) days, it shall be reposted before being filled. In all cases the Chief Steward where the vacancy exists and all applicants are to be notifiod by the Company within ten (10) days after the posted position is titled.	.
( 5)	When applications for apprentice positions are to be considered, a note to this effect will be made on the Company-wide posting for the Journeyman position.	.	'	.
( 6)	If no qualified employee applies under the preceding sections of this Article, the position may then be filled under the other provisions of this Agreement.
( 7)	When an employee who is no longer able to do his/her regular work because of physical disability is assigned to a vacancy or a new position, of equal or lower rate, no vacancy posting is required for that position.
( 8)	When a position Is abolished at*a location and is established at anolher location in the same seniority group, the employee whose position is abolished may fill the position at the new location without following the usual job posting procedures. If the employee does not elect to take the position at the new location, then the position at the new location is to be posted as provided in this Article.	'
( 9)	Employees with the same classification having different position numbers due to shift assignments and other non-rotating shift positions may realign within their classification by shift based on seniority prior to the posting of vacant positions.	'
(10)	A bargaining unit employee will be released to his/her new position within six (6) weeks of accepting the new position. If the employee is unable to
17
be released the Manager of Labor Relations will contact the Union Business Manager or AssistantBusiness Manager.
ARTICLE VII.	UNION BUSINESS	' !	_ ;
(1)	Employees of the Company, who may be called upon to transact business for the Local Union which requires their absence from duty with the Company, shall, upon twenty-four (24) hours or more notice to their „	. immediate supervisor and with permission from'the Manager, Department
7_‘ Head, or Area Superintendent, be allowed to'absent themselves without >r pay for sufficient time to transact such'business.
( 2)’,,' It is further agreed that any employee of the Company who may be \ elected or appointed to the office of Business Manager and Financial ,, ‘ Secretary, or office of Assistant Business Manager, in the Local Union " that will require the employee to absent himself or herself from duty to the ’■ / Company, sfialii'at the expiration of term of office, be reinstated to the
' individual's former position including all of the individual's seniority rights, including seniority accumulated during the leave of absence, providing j . .. that the individual is then physically qualified to return to work. It Is
1	■ understood that in case of return of such an individual, other employees : 7'"will/consent to such demotions ds are necessary to make room for the
. returning employee. In the event the Business Manager or Assistant ■ " " Business Manager should be physically unable to perform the work in
their prior classification, they will be returned Io that classification and be . ,L . .eligible for Article XXVH, “Partially Disabled Employees" or total r ; permanent disability from that classification. ’
ARTICLE VIII.	LEAVE OF ABSENCE
A maximum of sixty (60) days' leave of absence may be granted to any employee, for reasons' other than illness' and recuperation therefrom with the written approval 'of the Manager at District,. Generating Station Manager, Area, or General Office Department Head provided that the,employee can be spared from duty. Such leave'of absence may be extended with the written approval of the President of the Company and while On* such leave of absence, the employee shall not be deemed to have forfeited seniority rights. In case of absence, of over sixty (60).days, an employee shalj be permitted to return to work only if physically qualified to do so. If the employee remains away for more than the written leave, or if the employee accepts employment elsewhere , while on such leave of absence, without written permission of . the Company, employment with the Company shall be deemed to have terminated.
ARTICLE fX. RETURN TO WORK AFTER INJURY .
Any employee of the Company covered by this Agreement who is injured while on duty shall be entitled, upon recovery, to the employee's former position with full seniority rights, provided he/she is physically qualified to return to work, and provided the injury was not due to carelessness on the employee's part. It is agreed that before an employee who was injured while on duty can be refused reemployment because the injury was caused by carelessness, the employee(s) must be granted a hearing with the right to have. representatives of the
18
Brotherhood present andthat the extent of carelessness and.the employee's past safety record shall be carefully considered before the final decision’is reached, it is understood that when such an employee is returned to ,work;,.pth^(employees will consent to such demotions as are necessary to return the employee to his/her former position.	.	.	.	.	.	.	'
ARTICLE X. CHARGES AGAINST EMPLOYEES
( 1)	(a) Individual conversations between supervisors and employees are discussions and will not be considered averbal warning, however, they could be referenced in subsequent discipline. For example: if a . supervisor has discussed tardiness on several occasions with an employee and the problem continues, references to these ' discussions can.be made In a verbal or written letter of discipline. Supervisors are encouraged to discuss their concerns with employees prior to taking disciplinary action such as a verbal or written warning as part of the Company’s progressive .'discipline process.	.	...
(b) Verbal warnings shall include the employee and a Union representative as part of the discussion. The supervisor should clearly state that the meeting is part of a verbal warning. These . verbal warnings ’ may be referenced in future , disciplinary proceedings. ’	.	. •
( 2)	Charges against an employee shall be specific and called to the employee’s attention in writing within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the offense was known to have occurred or it will be deemed there was no violation. If the employee against whom charges have been brought wishes to deny such charges, the employee shall have ten (10) regular working days (Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays not Included) after the charges have been brought to his/her attention in which to notify the Management that the employee wants a hearing on the question and specify how much time is needed to prepare a defense.	,
( 3)	If the Manager at District, Generating Station Manager, Area or General Office Department Head and the Chief Steward fail to agree on the handling of the charges or the punishment of the offense, then the matter shall go immediately to Step (3) of the grievance procedure as outlined in the Method of Negotiation and Enforcement, and in case of failure to settle the difference, then before the arbitrator.
( 4)	If, after witnesses have been’ heard, the charges are not sustained, then ' the employee's record shall be cleared of such charges, and the employee shall be reimbursed for any loss of wages that have resulted from the incident. It is understood that an employee who Is returned to his/her position as a part of a grievance resolution will replace the least senior employee in that classification. No discipline, by suspension, shall be administered to any member - of the Local Union which shall permanently impair seniority rights.
19
ARTICLE XL CHARGES AGAINST THE COMPANY
The Local Union' shall notify the Company Irv writing of any violation of the Agreement by the Company within thirty (30) calendar ■ days from the date the offense was known to have occurred or it will be deemed that no violation has occurred, if the charges ardfound to be correct, the’Company shall be required to rridke adjustments for the entire period of such violation. Failureto resolve the charges shall immediately subject the issue to the provisions set forth in Method of Negotiation and Enforcement, and in case of failure to settle the difference, then before the arbitrator,	‘	'
ARTICLE XII. ATTENDANCE AT HEARINGS, JURY DUTY AND ANNUAL _____ MILITARY TRAINING
(1) When employees are required by the Company to attend court inquests, hearings, or similar meetings, they shall receive- their regular daily wage . . for .each such day, and shall be reimbursed for their traveling expenses ’ while away from their homes while attending such hearings.
(.2) .. When an employee is chosen to fulfill a lawful obligation to serve on a jury ; or is under summons or subpoena to appear as a witness in a legal action whprA the employee is not a party, has no direct or indirect financial , , < .interest in the outcome of the action and the occasion for the employee ’ " ’ being a witness does hot arise out of a compensated activity in which the employee engaged in on a regular basis, (other than employment with the . Company), the Company will pay the employee the difference between "'the', amount/of compensation received for such service and the 'employee's regular pay for each day of such service. If an employee reports for such duty and'is excused by the court, the employee is expected to report back to work as soon as possible. The employee is ’ paid at his/her regular rate for the hours worked, in addition to the .	* compensation as a part of jury duty or summons or subpoena (not
including mileage). In no case will the employee receive less than his/her regular day's pay. ' '	' '	"	’	'
( 3) An employee who has completed six months of service with the Company will be paid the difference'between his/her armed service pay and
' Company wage for a period of two (2) weeks per year while on a required armed service training period. In the event military orders would require service beyond that time, the employee may request an extension of military leave for a period of up to five (5) additional workdays provided such is supported by the military orders. Those employees who do not qualify under these terms will have the option of taking all or part of their vacation during the training period or taking the entire period without pay.
ARTICLE XIJ1. PAYDAY	,
Pay days shall be every other Friday (biweekly). When pay day falls on a holiday, pay day shall be the last working day before that holiday. .
ARTICLE XIV. MEALS '	.	.
( 1)	When it becomes necessary for employees who are covered by this
20
Agreement, to work overtime, they shall receive meal allowances , per the following guidelines:	■■	....	.-.
(a)	When it becomes necessary for employees to continue work,.one * and one-half. (1-1/2) hours after iheir regular quitting time, ,a;meal: allowance of $15 00 shall be paid . .	.	. .
(b)	An employee works one and one-half (1-172) consecutive hours of. overtime immediately preceding the basic scheduled workday, a meal allowance of $9.00 shall be paid.	t s ... , .
(c)	When it becomes necessary for employees to work unscheduled overtime, they shall, receive meal allowances per the following:
1.	For overtime work that occurs any time during 5:30 A.M. to 7:00 A.M., a meal allowance of $9.00 shall be paid.
2.	For overtime that occurs any time during 11:3b A.M. to 1:30 P.M., a meal allowance of $9.00 shall be paid.'
3.	For overtime work that occurs any time during 6:00 P.M. to 7:30 P.M., a meal allowance of $15.00 shall be paid. '
4.	Employees that work the night shift will receive a meal allowance of $9.00 if required to work overtime during their normally scheduled lunch period. '	■
(d)	If an employee is required to work six (6) consecutive hours of overtime, they shall receive a meal allowance of $15.00 and then receive an additional meal allowance of $15.00 for each additional six (6) consecutive hours of overtime work until released from work.
(e)	Once qualified to receive meal allowances covered in (d), employees shall continue to receive meal allowances covered in (d) until released from work and will not receive any additional allowances listed In (a), (b) or (c).	'
(f)	. An employee who works nine and a half (9-1/2) consecutive hours on a scheduled overtime workday shall be paid a meal allowance of $15.00.	>	"
(g)	Any time following a release from work (including time out for meals) for which no wage payment is made that results in an interruption of one (1) hour or less between overtime assignments or between ah overtime assignment and the basic scheduled workday, will not serve as a break in continuity and so far as the application of these overtime meal allowance rules are concerned. Employees will not be paid for the time required for meals except where it is imperative that they remain at work or must immediately return to resume work.
21
(2)	When employees . covered by this Agreement are kept away from b; headquarters overnight, the Company will pay for their meals and lodging. '■ Employees may elect to be reimbursed for'the reasonable, costs of their meals associated with such overnight stay or be paid 'meal allowances as . follows: .......	.	.
'	' Breakfast	$ 9.00 '	‘
Lunch	$ 9.00	'
;	.	Dinner	$15,00
( 3)	■ Wisconsin ;power, and Light Company will establish procedures for ■ ’’'payment of, a* "storm duty expense" allowance of twenty-eight dollars .	‘ ($28.00) per day for each full day that an employee is required to assist
another utility during the period of storm emergency restoration. '
( 4)	Employees covered by .this Agreement who are returned to headquarters :' at the end of the workday or have elected to job-site report, are to carry
' their lunch or be responsible for securing their own lunch at their own , expense during the scheduled lunch period. Whenever the employee is .	’ required by the company to work during their regularly scheduled noon
lunch period, the employee will receive a noon meal allowance of $9.00 and the appropriate overtime equal to the time worked during the lunch period. Overtime and a noon meal allowance will not be paid in the event an employee elects to finish work during that scheduled lunch break.
(a)	Employees who carry their lunch and eat at the job site shall take a one-half (1/2) hour unpaid lunch break.
(b)	Employees shall take a one (1) hour unpaid lunch break if they leave the job site. Employees may use the Company vehicle to secure lunch but travel time is on the employee's own time.
('5) Employees when working beyond twenty-five (25) miles of headquarters, . ' when lodged, will be allowed to travel year round on Company time to the nearest location in order to secure' a Company paid noon meal. Employees who carry their lunch and eat at the job site will be paid a noon
/ meal allowance of $9.00. Under either option the time to eat the meal is
• unpaid. ■	■	■ ■	:	■
( 6) A vote willi be taken for crew situations and the majority will determine : what option is used. Management may approve more than one option if . crews can figure out ways to use them without a loss in productive work time.	■
ARTICLE XV.	TRAVEL
( 1)	Employees have two options as it relates to travel between headquarters
and the job site. If the headquarters is less than twenty-five (25) miles, the -employee may, with management approval, job-site report or choose to travel between the job site and headquarters on company time. If headquarters is twenty-five (25) miles or greater, the employee may job-
22
I
site report or choose to receive lodging and meals af company expense.' . Employees, when lodged, will be allowed single rooms if available within a reasonabie'traveijng distance. '	'	’ ?
( 2)	Employees electing to job site-report with management approval will receive job-site reporting allowances as follows:
Range	.?';Rpad (Headquarters-' -‘/Jot) Site).,' i	/ Job-Site Reporting A '•. w/Personat Vehicle : - t:r,.	m . -.3 * si -	Job-Site Reporting w/ Company ’ i Vehicle :	Job-Site Reporting From Motel
1	0 to less than 10 Miles	$8.00	$ B.OO .	$8.00
2	10 Miles to less than 25 Miles	* $12.00 + % Performance True Up	$12.00	. $12.00 .
3	25 Miles to less than 45 Miles	$25.00 + NMA	$12,50	$12.50
4	45+ Miles	$36.00 + NMA	$18.00	.$18.00
■Range 2 Performance .. Individual Performance . Actual Individual Percentage Determines Payout:
% of Individual Participation	True Up	Total / Occurrence
72-100%	$12,00	($24.00)
68-71%	$ 8,00	($20.00)
62 - 67%	$ 6.00	($18.00)
Below 62%	'	■ No True Up,. ■	
(3) A job-site reporting allowance may be elected by the employee instead of board and lodging which is furnished when the work location is more than
twenty-five (25) miles from the employee’s headquarters location. If the employee elects this job-site reporting allowance, he/sha is not eligible for the evening meal and breakfast the following morning nor will the Company be liable for overnight room accommodations. The employee normally must state his/her election for a given week by the preceding Friday noon, however, such an election may be changed during the
scheduled work week if there is no interference with work schedules, lodging arrangements, etc. Travel will be on the employee's own time and he/she is to furnish his/her own transportation. For reasons of safety and work performance this election is normally not to be granted If an employee must travel more than two (2) hours each way per day. Enough qualified employees must always be available to drive equipment to headquarters or to another job site. Apprentices who are attending classes at the training center are not eligible for this travel allowance. Apprentices on district training assignments are eligible for the allowance in emergency travel situations as approved by Management.
23
( 4)	Employees may elect to job-site report in excess of twenty-five (25) miles 5 i:"	'■ of the employee's headquarters at 'the 'beginning and at the end of their
normal work week, A job-site reporting allowance as'lifted in the job-site reporting allowance chart in Article XV, paragraph (2) will be paid to employees when exercising this option. The job-site'1 reporting allowance '' will be based on'the distance between the headquarters and the job site.
“Employees may; with Management approval, use’ a company vehicle to job-site report. The job-site report allowance will be paid as listed in the r job-site reporting allowance chart in Article XV, paragraph (2).
ARTICLE XVI.	SAFETY	b
(’j) ' The Company recognizes that safe working conditions are of prime ■ ’	importance'and it shall take every reasonable precaution to protect the
J ■' safety 'and welfare of the employees at their work. The Company shall ~;l " J furnish, as now provided, all necessary and approved safety equipment to ' , \ employees as required by the Company safety rules and it is the rule of " both parties to this Agreement that the necessary safely'equipment be used by air employees.	■ '
( 2)	For the mutual benefit of the employees and'the Company, the Union and the Company agree to cooperate in the promotion of safety among the " ' r'! employees and will lend active support'and encouragement to see that r ‘ ' employees comply with all applicable safety requirements. '
ARTICLE XVII.	CALL-BACK MINIMUM
( 1)' :A minimum of two (2) hours' pay at the appropriate overtime rates shall be allowed to all employees who are called back to work after having been r released from their regular daily work.
( 2)	The minimurh call-back shall not apply to calls to work which occur within a one (1) hour period preceding the employee's regular starting time. It is .to, apply only to work AFTER the employee has been released at the end qf'ttie day of when called out on that employee's day off. When called for emergency work while off for noon, the time required is to be paid for at one' and one-half (1-1/2) times the regular rate for a^minimum of not less than one:half (1/2) hour but in ho case more than the regular noon hour.
ARTICLE XVIII.	FOREMEN
(1)	A Foreman in charge of a line crew of five (5) or more employees working on energized wires or equipment shall not be required to do work with tools.""
(	2) A Foreman in charge of a line crew of four (4) or less employees shall do work except where such work by the Foreman would interfere with proper supervision of the job and the safety of the employee in his/her charge.
ARTICLE XIX.	ENERGIZED LINES
When working on energized lines in excess of 480 volts, it shall be the policy to
24
have a Journeyman,or a Third Year or Fourth Year Apprentice,assisting each Journeyman working on suchjines.	’	. .	.. .
ARTICLE XX.:	VACATIONS .	.. .	'	-
( 1)	The, Manager at District, Generating Station Manager, andArea or General Office Department Head is responsible for property scheduling the annual vacations of employees reporting to the Department.Head or Manager in accordance with the following provision:	,
( 2)	Prior to April i of each calendar year, employees entitled to vacations will be consulted and from such consultation a working schedule,for vacation periods shall be established. Employees will be eligible to-schedule, Jn rotating sequence, the first (1st) and second (2nd) weeks of their vacation' and then the balance of the third (3rd), fourth (4th);and fifth,(5th) weeks. The Company in determining the vacation schedule will respect the wishes of employees as to the time of taking their vacation insofar as the needs of service will permit. If the vacation schedule for an employee's working group within the seniority group should conflict, seniority shall prevail. At no time, due to position, will seniority have to be sacrificed in preparing vacation schedules.	.	.
( 3)	Regular full-time employees shall be eligible for a vacation with pay in accordance with the following provisions; Vacations will be earned during one (1) calendar year and taken the following calendar year. The year of employment shall be defined as the first calendar year, .and each succeeding calendar year is counted for those with continuous employment. '	.	. .	, .	‘
( 4)	Following is a schedule of vacation the employee earns for completing the listed calendar year, and the vacation the employee is entitled to take during the listed calendar year:	.
	Vacation Earned	Vacation Entitled
	For Completed	To Take During
Calendar Year	Calendar Year	Calendar Year
1st	2 Weeks	0 Weeks
2nd	2 Weeks	2 Weeks’
3rd thru 5th	2 Weeks	2 Weeks
6th	3 Weeks	‘	2 Weeks
7th thru 13th	3 Weeks	3 Weeks
14th	4 Weeks	3 Weeks
15th thru 22nd	4 Weeks	4 Weeks
23rd	5 Weeks	4 Weeks
24th thru 28th	5 Weeks	5 Weeks
29th	6 Weeks	5 Weeks
30th and Over	6 Weeks	6 Weeks
* But not earlier than 10 full months after employment.
25
( 5)	Employees eligible to take vacation in excess of five (5) weeks must
'	schedule’ and take that excess vacation time' during .the months of
January, February, March and April. When an employee is to be retired, , . he/she may schedule vacation in excess of five (5) weeks in accordance with' Article XX, paragraph (15) (b) of the contract,
( 6}’ Regular part-time employees who work 50% dr more of full-time but less than full-time, will be eligible for prorata vacation based oh the percent of full-time hours (2088 hours) worked. Such prorata vacation shall be to the
‘ nearest'tenth of an hour. The previous calendar year (or fraction thereof for new employees) is to be used to determine the number of vacation days for which such employees are entitled.
( 7)	Temporary employees and regular employees who work less than 50% of. full-time are not eligible for vacation.
(,'8| The.normal vacation referred to above shall be reduced by eight (8) hours for each accumulated thirty (30) days of the following types of absences:
(a) All time spent on leave of absence for reasons other than military
..	... .service.	,	.....
* ' /(b). Ali/time/absent on employee's own account for reasons other than ' military service and Union business.	'	.
(	9) Regular pay for regular employees employed on an hourly basis shall be -forty (40) hours at the regular hourly, rate.for each full week of vacation ' ' and eight (8) hours at .the regular hourly rate shall be the full pay for each _ . .additional workday of. vacation tg which they are entitled.
(10)	All vacations shall be taken on consecutive days unless the Company and .the employee agree on a different division of the vacation time. The supervisor may authorize vacation time in one-half (1/2) day increments provided the.employee provides advance notice and.there is adequate staff to cover the work of the department. It is recognized there are some situations such as crews and:shift work, for example, where vacations of less than one (1) day are very difficult to allow. Management shall have
' the right to require employees entitled to. more than two (2) weeks of vacation to take the additional vacation at' a different time if taking the additional vacation interferes with the operations of the Company.
(11)	Employees shall be paid for any vacation stilt due for services up to the preceding January 1, provided they have completed ten (10) full months of employment and give the Company at least two (2) weeks notice in
. advance of a resignation or is discharged. (This two (2) weeks advance notice is working time and exclusive of vacation time.) Employees in or after the eleventh (11th) calendar year, who fail to give at least two (2) weeks advance notice are still eligible for vacation up to the preceding January 1.	.	.	,
26
(12)	Vacation due will be prorated from the preceding japuary'1 to the date of leavingfor the’following employees: .. . ,
(a)	Employee who resigns in or after the eleventh (1 1 th) calendar year and who gives the Company at least two (2) weeks’ notice in advance of his/her resignation. [This two (2) weeks’ advance notice is working time and is exclusive of vacation time.]	‘
(b)	Employee who is discharged" in or after the eleventh (.11 th) calendar year. ,	. J
(c)	Employee who is laid off for lack of work or ’for reasons beyond his/her control.	.,	. .
(13)	In determining the amount of pay to which an employee is entitled in lieu of vacation upon termination of employment as outlined in paragraph (12) above, employment for fifteen (15) calendar days in the same month shall count as a full month, but employment for Jess than that shall not count at all.	,
(14)	When a holiday, as listed in Article XXXII, paragraph (1), occurs during an employee’s scheduled vacation, that employee shall be entitled, at his/her option, to an extra day’s vacation or pay in lieu thereof, provided the employee gives notice of his/her option at the time the vacation is scheduled.	.	..	.
(15)	When an employee is to be retired, he/she may al his/her option either:
(a)	At any time withinthe six (6) months before the retirement date take all remaining vacation.	.	_	..
(b)	At any time within the six (6) months before the retirement date take * all vacation earned in the previous year prior to that retirement date and for that portion of the vacation earned since the preceding January 1st, receive pay In lieu of vacation.
(16)	(a) If an employee is disabled tor regular work and is on the Workers' Compensation payroll and has not been able to take vacation due for that year, that employee shall be paid the regular wage for vacation time and also the compensation payment for that length of time.
(b) If an employee is hospitalized, during their vacation period, the number of days verified as hospital confinement may be rescheduled as vacation, provided the vacation time can be rescheduled in the same calendar year.
(17)	Employees called back to work from vacation shall be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rate for all work performed, or two (2) times
27
L
_ their regular rate for all work performed on Sundays.and holidays. Eight ’ ..	(8) hours vacation shall be restored for .each vacation flay, or part thereof
that is worked.' For this determination, a vacation day is a. twenty-fou r (24) hour period from 12:01 A.M. to 12:00 midnight on any day that would , (. otherwise be a regularly scheduled workday for the employee.
(18)	. ’ Employees may carry over one (1) week of vacation (40 hours) to the next year. This vacation carryover must be taken in a one (1) week increment '" in January or February. It cannot adversely affect another employee's vacation or create an overtime situation. An employee's decision to ... . :carryover.vacation;must be made by December 15. Management has ; final approval of the carryover'an'd vacation scheduling.
(19)	Vacation time shall not accumulate from one year to another.
ARTICLE XXI.	SICK LEAVE
A sick leave will be granted all regular ■ employees, the details of which are outlined in .Sick.Leave Plan B dated April 14, 2004.	,	,
ARTICLE XXII.	WEATHER	■
The Company will not require employees covered by this Agreement to work out of doors during heavy and severe storms unless such work is necessary in order to.prqtect life, and property orto maintain service to the public. When in doubt as to. whether, working but of .'doors .is unreasonable, an attempt to work by actual trial .shall .be :. made. . When .weather'conditions make . working outdoors unreasonable, the employees.agree to do such other work as is available indoors or to study the Company construction standards or other matters which will improve their ability to work better and safer.
ARTICLE XXIII.	REST PERIOD
( 1)	■ If an employee works a period of .four (4) or more consecutive overtime hours, or a total of four (4) or more overtime hours after midnight and is released from work, eight (8) hours shall elapse, provided that employee is not required for emergency work, before he/she returns to work without loss of pay for regular scheduled time.
(2)	Earned rest period is that period when an employee rests during his/her : regular scheduled working hours. An employee required to work into this earned rest period shall be paid at two (2) times his/her regular rate. If the employee isrequired to work beyond the expiration of the earned eight (8) - hour rest period, a rate of two (2) times the regular rate shall continue until released from work. When an employee is called back to work during the earned rest period he/she shall be paid at two (2) times the regular rate until released from work.
( 3)	When an employee is called back to work after having qualified for a rest period as provided in paragraph (1) above, the expiration of the rest period is extended by the number of hours worked during that rest period.
28
( 4)	(a) Resit’time starts when an employee is released from work or if a meal is eaten, then upon the completion of the time to eat the meat up to brie (1) hour.	'	.	.
(b) If, after expiration of an employee's’rest time, there are four (4) hours or less time remaining in the employee's scheduled work day, the employee may take vacation time or off own account'for the remaining scheduled work hours. These requests’ must be approved by local management. "	"
An employee called back to work during the remainder of his/her scheduled work day will be paid straight time for these hours. Employees who took vacation time for the remainder of the day and are called back, will not have the vacation restored but will be allowed to take the unused portion at a later date. , __
ARTICLE XXIV.	ABSENT FROM WORK	? \
( 1)	Employees absent from work for reasons other than sickness of the employee, as defined in the Family Medical Sick Leave Act, vacation,Jury duty or death in the immediate family as outlined below, are not to be'paid for such time off duty. ’	’	‘	:
( 2)	In case of death of a member of an erriployee’s immediate family as outlined below, a regular hourly rate employee shall be allowed to be’ absent from work three (3} days without’ loss of pay after proper1 notification to the supervisor. For the application for this rule an employee's immediate family includes the following only: ’	■ ;
(a)	The employee's spouse or children,
(b)	The employee's father and mother (dr)' the employee's legal guardians. .,•••:	.
(c)	The employee's brothers and sisters. ■
( 3)	In case of death of a member of an employee's immediate family as outlined below, a regular hourly rate employee, shall, upon request to the Manager or Department Head, be allowed to be absent from work without loss of base pay up to but not exceeding three (3) days in order to make arrangements for the funeral; attend the service, and for travel time. For the application for this rule an employee's immediate family includes the following only: . .	.
(a) The father and mother of the employee's spouse (or) the employee’s spouse’s legal guardians.
■ (b) The employee's or spouse's stepfather, stepmother, or stepchildren.
(c) The employee's son-in-law or daughter-in-law.
29
f „ . -(d):., The brothers and sisters of the employee's spouse..
(e) The spouse of the employee's brothers and sisters.
. ... (f) The employee's grandchildren.	\	.
(.4) For the' following relatives the employee shall be granted not to exceed '' two (2) days: .	.	' , '	.
' 1 ■"	- ’I I * " ' ’	-	-	- r •
'	(a) The 'employee's grandparent, great, grandparent or great great
grandparent. '	"
... (b) The employee's spouse's grandparent, great grandparent or great \	. great grandparent.	,	.
( 5)	For the following relatives the employee shall be granted not to exceed . .	one (1) day,
(a)	The employee's stepsisters or stepbrothers.
(b)	..The employee's spouse's stepsisters or stepbrothers, ,
(c)	The employee’s aunts and uncles.
( 6).	-An employee who is requested to serve as a pallbearer can take up to ' one (1) day off work without loss of pay,
( 7)	. Time off to attend ah employee or retiree's funeral is granted depending "	\ oh* the Company’s operating and customer needs. Management
‘ determines if employees can be spared and for how long.
(. 8) If an employee is on vacation or flexible holiday when there is a death that , ,is covered in the above language, the employee's yacation/flexible holiday shall be reinstated up to the time listed in this Article,, '.	-
(9) In the event additional time is needed for other, purposes as outlined ।	above, it will be taken as vacation or off own account.
ARTICLE XXV.	CONTRACTING WORK
( 1)	The Company agrees that it will not contract any work which is ordinarily ■ and customarily done by its regular employees if, as a result thereof, it would become necessary to lay off or reduce the rate of pay of any such employees.
( 2)	The Company will inform the Business Manager of the Local Union of any work that is to be done by a contractor in cases where:
(a)	Such work is in the job classifications covered by this Agreement, and
30
(b)	There are employees in such classifications who’usually perform such work at the location where it is to be done.
ARTICLE XXVI.	APPRENTICES	.
( 1)	All apprentices are to be moved up into the next higher apprentice classification on or before the anniversary date of their entering the apprentice position,‘provided they qualify on all applicable training guide subjects and pass the exam. The Company will examine the apprentice and upon passing the examination, the apprentice will be advanced to the next level effective at the beginning of the next lull pay period.
( 2)	(a) A First Year Apprentice may work on the ground or aloft under the
direct supervision of a Foreman or Journeyman as long as he/she does not come within reaching or falling distance of energized lines of any voltage. r
(b)	A Second Year Apprentice may do all the work of a First Year Apprentice. Under the direct supervision of a Foreman or Journeyman, this apprentice may:
1.	Work on lines and equipment energized to not more than 300 volts to ground.
2.	Work with a Journeyman or Foreman when within reaching distance by hand of energized primary lines and equipment' provided they have been covered by rubber protective equipment. Such protective equipment must be installed and removed by a Journeyman dr Foreman. If all energized lines cannot be adequately covered by protective equipment, then the installation is to be deenergized and grounded,
(c)	A Third Year Apprentice may do all the work of First and Second Year Apprentices. Under the direct supervision of a Foreman or Journeyman, the apprentice may:
1.	In a learning capacity do the progressively more difficult work of a Journeyman.
2.	When working on or within reaching distance by hand of energized lines or equipment energized in excess of 480 volts, the Journeyman or Foreman must also be aloft with the apprentice.
(d)	A Fourth Year Apprentice may:
1.	Perform line work the apprentice is qualified to do when under the direction of a Journeyman or Foreman.
31
. ........ 2- Install protective equipment or work on energized lines when
-:’-r ' ? '	- under the 'direct supervision of a' Jourhejlfpan or Foreman
.... ..... within the provisions of Article XIX. '
( 3)	For purposes of interpretation, a "deenergized" line is meant to be one which.is not connected to an electrical source of supply.’"Dead" lines shah mean lines not connected Jo an electrical source of supply and
. properly grounded. Before any work is attempted on a "dead" line, the ’ line must also be holdcarded. "Live primary" shall be interpreted to mean energized lines in excess of 480 volts or more potential. Working on live primary lines does not mean working on the same pole which carries such
. Jines, rather it means actually doing some work on such primary lines.
ARTICLE XXVII.	PARTIALLY DISABLED EMPLOYEES
(,.t) When, in the opinion of the Company doctor after consultation with the ' ' employee's doctor, a regular full-time employee cannot perform his/her ' ' regular work because of partial disability but can perform other work, the following plan shall be applicable:	'
. " . All such cases are to be handled by a special committee consisting of (1) J " the employee's Manager at District,' Generating Station Manager, Area or . ’ .General Office Department Head, (2) the Chief Steward for the employee's work group,. (3) the Local Union's Business Manager (or .designated representative), (4) . the ..Company's Manager of Labor ' Relations (or designated representative). If the case involves the Chief Steward, then the Local Union's President shall take that individual's
. . place on the committee. This committee may call on anyone who may be ... , ' able to furnish pertinent information’ ’ It is their duty to handle each case \ . impartially and to treat all employees uniformly insofar as their personal
' qualifications and abilities are concerned. If the employee's condition , changes or the Company determines the need for a periodic review, this .. committee shall also handle such reviews. ' .	-
( 2)	For a period of sixty (60) working days after returning to work or from the date it is determined that the employee is unable to perform his/her regular .work, such an employee will receive the regular wage rate even though doing work other than the regular job.
( 3)	. if at the end of this sixty (60) day period it is determined that such an employee is unable to return to the regular job but is able to perform other work, then the policy outlined in paragraph (1) of this Article on the
. ., handling of partially disabled employees'will be observed. The committee ' will determine a job classification which is appropriate, for the work the employee is able to perform, as well as a proper pay rate taking into account the following schedule:
All Non-Work Related Injuries ’	80% of Regular Pay Rate
32
Years of Company Service.. 0-19 Years of Service For Work Related Injuries
For Work Related Injuries -20 Years and Over :
A Pay Rate That is Not Less Than
'	85% of Regular Pay Rate
90% of Regular Pay Rate
An employee in this status will be required to provide medical documentation to the company regarding their condition on an annual basis or if the employee's condition changes. ,
( 4)	It is not necessary to post a job to whicKsuch employees are assigned as described in paragraph (7) of Article VI of this Agreement. „	, ..
1	' k	r I I i . 1
( 5)	It is understood that an employee who is removed from Article XXVII status and returns to his/her former classification without restriction will replace the least senior employee in that classification.
( 6} Employees classified under Article XXVII status and who are age, 55 years or older, may elect early retirement under the Retirement Plan B and, in addition, receive a supplemental monthly payment equal to $2.00 times their months of credited service in.Retirement Plan B to a maximum of 30 years (360 months). The supplemental monthly payment shall continue until the employee attains age 62 or dies, whichever occurs earlier.	,	.
In the event the retiree dies prior to attaining age 62, a surviving spouse will continue to receive the supplemental payments until the retiree would have been age 62. The supplemental payments will be discontinued immediately if the surviving spouse remarries or dies. Employees can elect to delay commencement of their Early Retirement Income and be in receipt of the Temporary Supplemental Retirement Income. An employee must notify the Company when to start the Retirement Income. The age factor at this commencement date will apply.
ARTICLE XXVIII.	TRANSFERS, PROMOTIONS AND DEMOTIONS
( 1 > A regular, fulftime employee who has completed the probationary period established at the time current employment began and who is promoted to a class of position carrying a maximum rate higher than that of the current position, shall receive, if qualified, a promotional increase to the minimum of the job to which he/she is being promoted or the nearest step on the new job immediately above the present rate, in no case shall the promotional increase be less than the amount of the next time step of the job the employee is vacating or, if at the maximum rate of this job, the step immediately preceding the maximum rate. Any pay rate above the rate specified in the two preceding sentences shall be based on past experience, training, etc., of the employee involved. If the Management does not find the employee satisfactory during the trial period on the new
33
job, the employee shall be returned to the former job .at.the former rate of ■ P3y- . ■ \ ' ■
(2)	Trial periods shall’be: ’ ’ L ’	'	, '?7. 1 ' ‘
"(a) An employee, who, is promoted shall have a trial'period in the new \ ' ’position of ninety (90) days and shall be entitled to return to the :	. former position during such a ninety (90) day trial period. ' '
(b)	1. Ari employee who laterally transfers to a different job
classification outside the seniority group shall have a trial ' period in the new position of ninety (90) days.
1	... .2. ,^n employee who laterally transfers within the same job y. \ \	’ classification ^outside the seniority group shall have a trial
J , period in the riew position bf sixty (60) days. .
J ' 3. An employee who laterally transfers to a different job ; J	. classification within the seniority group shall have a trial period
in the new.position of sixty (60) days.	‘ '
\.. ' * 4i’ . An employee who laterally transfers within the same job i	classification, within the 'seniority group but outside the
i,.	headquarters'shall have a trial period of thirty (30) days.
" ” '	5. An employee who laterally transfers within the same job
classification with the' same seniority and headquarters shall . . .. have no trial period.	. ,
(c)	An employee who takes a demotion outside the geographic area .. shall have a trial period in the new position of thirty (30) days and . .. shall be entitled to return tothe .former position during such a thirty .	... (30) day trial period. Ah employee who.takes a demotion within
headquarters,'will have no trial period,,
.	' (d) If the transfer is outside, the bargaining unit, paragraph (10) of
Article Hl shall apply to that employee's seniority rights.
( 3), If an employee.requests a transfer or is demoted for cause to a position haying a lower maximum than that'of the present position, that employee shall receive the minimum rate of the new position immediately upon such transfer or demotion. Any pay above the "minimum* of the range shall be . decided by trie Company.	'
( 4). In the event an employee is promoted or transferred to a position formerly held, and tor which he/she has the necessary qualifications, the wage rate - for the position shall be no less than the same wage step in that range to which the employee had previously progressed. . ■. .. , ’
34
ARTICLE XXIX. TEMPORARY SUBSTITUTIONS	' <
( 1)	In order to meet the Company's service requirements, to provide tor relief during vacations and sick leave, and to provide work when an employee's normal work is slack, an employee, when qualified, may be assigned'as needed by Management to perform duties of other job classifications which he/she is competent to perform and which generally have the same physical requirements and whose maximum rates of pay are equal to or less than the maximum rate for the employee's regular job.
( 2)	Occasionally a regular full-time employee is assigned to substitute in a higher paid position. The employee temporarily substituting in a higher position shall receive ihe minimum rate of pay of the higher position or the step in the higher position which equals or is greater than the amount of the next time step on the employee's regular job, or if the employee is at the maximum rate of the regular job, the step 'immediately preceding the maximum rate of that regular job. Please note the exclusion to the first three steps of the wage schedules depending on the position and the employee’s start date as identified in Article XXXVII. Wage Schedule tor Physical Positions and Article XXXVIII. Wage Schedule for Clerical Positions. When an employee who is filling a lower paid position is assigned to perform the duties of his/her former higher paying position, the employee shall be paid at the wage.step formerly held in the range of the higher position and this rate shall be for no less than eight (8) hours of pay in any work day regardless of the number of hours the employee performs the duties of the higher position.
( 3)	In no case shall the temporary substitution clause be used to avoid filling a budgeted position.
( 4)	(a) When a line crew of three (3) or more' employees is sent to work without a regular Chief Line Technician, a Journeyman will be designated by the Company to act in the capacity of Foreman. The Journeyman so designated shall receive a rate of pay for Chief Line Technician (Small Crew), Position No. J01129 when acting as Foreman for one (1) or more hours in any one (1) day. When an employee backfills for a Lead Line Technician or is designated by the Company to act in a capacity of a Foreman of a crew of five (5) or more, he/she shall receive a rate of pay for the Lead Line Technician position as outlined in paragraph (2) of this Article.
(b)	When a gas crew of three (3) or more employees is sent to work without a regular Chief Gas Technician, a Journeyman will be designated by the Company to act in the capacity of Foreman. The Journeyman so designated shall receive a rate ol pay as outlined in paragraph (2) of the Article for either Chief Gas Technician (Small Crew), Position No. J01230 or No. J01231, or Chief Gas Technician (Large Crew), Position No. J01228 or No. J01229, depending on the number of employees in the crew, when acting as Foreman for one (1)or more hours in any one (1) day.
35
(c)	A lead rate of 55c will be paid, when two joup^eyrpan technicians in . , substation construction and maintenance, line,, gas'or line clearance ,,’ 7. 7... are working as, a crew. absent an hourly supervisor, The salaried 7', , .7 .-supejyisor has sole discretion to designate the leadjechnician. This j. .payrnent'wil) riot be made when two employees ; of different ,'7 , . , classifications are working together excluding those situations where
....	. a line technician and an electrician are working as a crew.
(' 5)' ' When' a line clearance crew is sent out to work without a regular Foreman, the Company shall appoint a qualified employee to act as
,,	Foreman. The employee appointed to act as Foreman shall receive the
’	\	rate of pay as outlined in paragraph'(2) of this Article, if the crew consists
.. of three (3) or more employees,, including the acting Foreman when acting
1.	’ . as Foreman for. one,(1) or more hours in any one (1) day.
( 6)	' When a substation, crew of three (3) or more employees is sent to work as a crew without a regular substation crew Foreman, a Journeyman will be
. designated to. act in the capacity of Foreman. The Journeyman so .	. .designated shall receive a rate of pay as outlined in paragraph (2) of this
\7,, Article, when.acting as Foreman for one (i) or more hours in any one (1) • '.day-	' .	.	‘
( 7).	when .there, are occasional needs which make it necessary to use qualified employees in higher-paid job classifications for varying periods 777; :■ of time,'assignments to higher-paid job classes will be made: (a) when it
. ..becomes necessary to operate an older generating plant unit which may ", . -.not be regularly operated, (b) when the proper complement of employees ...	, is needed on the coal'crews for more than a five (5) day per week
.operation,..for more than a one. (.1),. shift coal operation at the Nelson
. '	Dewey Generating Station, or when it becomes necessary to coal-fire the
.	boilers at the Blackhawk Generating Station, (c) when meter testing •
. schedules are such that temporary additional help is needed for certain
; testing, (d) when additional.truck driving help is needed for short periods in the Area Stores operations, (e) when an additional Offset Press Operator is needed in the Administrative Services section of the General ... Office, (f) when:an Area .Stpres.Material.Handler,performs Area Stores „. Truck - Crane Operator duties with the .yard load lifter equipment, and (g) .	' when an employee is substituting due to another employee being on a
temporary project assignment. (See GOL dated 1-27-93 on this subject.) Substitutions for these exceptions shall be paid as outlined in paragraph (2) of this Article and the employee shall be credited with al! hours toward the hours required for advancement to the next wage step in that classification. .	,	.
( 8)	When a position becomes vacant without at least thirty (30) days' notice, Management may fill such positions on a temporary substitute basis for a period of not to exceed sixty (60) days after the position is vacated.
36
ARTICLE XXX. HOURS FOR CLERICAL EMPLOYEES ;	~
( 1)	Recognizing the necessity, in a Company furnishing‘essential service to the public oh a twenty-four (24) hour basis, of meeting local customs and conditions, of furnishing the'type of service generally offered in the various communities, and of the important nature of the type of work done, the employees covered by this Agreement accept the obligation to perform overtime work. The parties hereto agree to the following rules for ‘ scheduling working hours and the payment of overtime, tor clerical workers.	'	.	■	•
( 2)	Since we serve the public on a twenty-four (24) hour a day basis and since employees’ jobs are tied'in with the work schedule of other employees it is essential that employees are on their jobs'as scheduled and that they report for work on time. If an employee is unable to be at work as scheduled or will be late, that employee must inform the Company in advance of the regular starting time. ’
( 3)	(a) The standard week for the clerical employees covered' by the
Agreement shall be forty (40) hours, consisting normally of five (5) eight (8) hour days except in offices where there is only one (1) clerical employee, where the office is open on a schedule of five and one-half (5-1/2) days per week, or where a schedule of four (4) full and two (2) half days is desired by the Management and the majority of the employees affected. The Company may schedule four (4) full and two (2) half days in offices open five and one-half (5-1/2) days per week. In offices where the regular scheduled hours are other than five (5) eight (8) hour days per week the schedule is subject to the regular grievance procedure it the employees feel the schedule . is not fair. It is the intent of both parties to this Agreement that these five (5) days shall be consecutive whenever practicable. If clerical employees work on a Tuesday through Saturday schedule, the starting time for those employees shall be the same'as the starting time for employees in that work group who work oh a Monday ' through Friday work week basis.
(b)	Clerical employees are eligible to work an Alternate Work Schedule consisting of alternate starting times and 4-10 hour days. Requests to work an alternate work schedule are subject to Management approval. Alternate work schedules may be cancelled by the Union or Company with thirty (30) days written notice to the other party. Refer to Appendix 2 for Alternate Work Schedule Program.
(c)	Employees are eligible to job share a full-time position with Management approval. Refer to Appendix 3 for Job Sharing
, Program.	’
(d)	Under norma! operating conditions, the Company will provide a lunch intermission of thirty (30) minutes or one (1) hour between the hours of 11:30 A.M. and 1:30 PM for Field Offices and between the
37
... . hours of 11:00,A.M. and 1:00 P.M. for the General Office, Business ;requirements may require some' adjustment' to the lunch '" ' ' ' ' ■intermission, '	■	'1	'
-r • •	•	■	,	■	. . ■ ■	,	•
( 4)	Shift schedules may be established for those data processing center employees so designated in Article XXXVIII as shift positions. The shift ■ '. employees,' except those in relief classifications; shall receive a four (4) 7;' . week advance notice of any change in.their schedule. For.such shift ' employees the regular hours of employment shall be eight (8) consecutive , hours'per day, five (5) days per week Monday through Friday, holidays ... . 1"included, in accordance with any one of the shift provisions in (a) or (b) ' below." ■	■	■	'
(a) A two (2) shift operation where one employee relieves, another employee tb carry oh simitar work shall consist of sixteen (16) t i consecutive hours of eight (8) hours per shift within the hours of ' '' 6:30"A.M; and 10:30P.M. The relief person for these shifts when ’	" not relieving a vacated shift position shall work days 8:00 A.M. to
5:00 P.M. ' The second shift shall receive the established evening ...r. . shift premium.
(tj) An end-to-end three (3) shift operation consisting of a shift from 6:30 A.M. to 2:30 P.M., a second shift from 2:30 P.M.'to 10:30 P.M., J' ...', . and a third shift from 10:30 P.M. to 6:30 A.M. The hours per shift ' $hall be eight (8) consecutive hours per day. The second shift shall receive the established evening shift premium and the third shift . . .	. shall receive the established night shift premium.
'	(c). ' Shifts shall hot be rotated and the employees in each classification
shall have shift preference in accordance with their seniority in that . particular group. An employee may be moved to other shifts for training purposes for not to exceed forty-eight (48) hours in any three (3) month period, provided he/she receives a seven (7) calendar day notice of such change. When a shift employee's regular shift falls ' .on.a holiday or a day celebrated as a holiday, Management determines whether the employee .is . needed on-the shift, based on
'	' the work requirement on such a day. Whether the employee works
or has the holiday off,,the holiday is paid as prescribed in paragraph
. (2) of Article XXXII.	"	..
( 5)	The Company may schedule the work hours of the employees covered by this Agreement so as to meet the needs of the business and local conditions providing the daily schedule of working hours of any employee is.completed within an elapsed time of nine (9) hours when only one (1) meal time is included or ten (10) hours when two (2) meal times are included.
( 6)	The Company.may deviate .from the scheduled week if the needs of the business require it and provided at least forty-eight (48) hours' notice in
38
advance is given the employees affected. Employees may deviate from the scheduled work week to meet their personal requirements provided ths Management can make the necessary arrangements' at rib increase in costs. .	.	>.
( 7} Employees shall be .paid at two (2) times their regular rate as overtime pay for all work done on a Sunday and for all work done on any of the holidays listed in Article XXXII Employees shall be paid two times their rate for hours worked after sixteen (16) consecutive hours of work until released from work. They shall be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2). times their regular pay as overtime pay for ail other work done under the following conditions:
(a)	All work in excess of forty (40) hours in any work week.
(b)	All work done in excess of eight (8),hours in any calendar day except when an employee is making up time taken off on own account in accordance with the second sentence in paragraph (6) above.
(c)	Employees who are absent from work on an ‘own account’ basis without pay, during all or any part of their regular work day or work week, will not be paid at the overtime rate, except for work on Sundays and holidays, until they have worked eight (8) hours in a day or forty (40) hours in a week, excluding hours already paid for at an overtime rate, ’	‘	;
( 8)	Employees shall not be required to take time off for overtime worked or to be worked. This, however, shall not prevent the Management from rearranging schedules as granted in paragraphs'(5) and (6) of this Article.
( 9)	Sunday shall not be scheduled as any part of the standard week and shall be the last day of the work week.'	'
(10)	(a) When an employee has been scheduled for overtime work which is not an extension to his/her normal scheduled work day, ten (10) hours' notice shall be given to cancel such scheduled overtime. If less than ten (10) hours' notice is given to the employee, he/she will receive two (2) hours' pay at his/her straight time hourly rate. If the employee is not notified of the cancellation of overtime and reports for work, then the employee will receive two (2) hours of pay at the appropriate overtime rate.
(b) When scheduled overtime is an extension of the normal scheduled work day, four (4) hours’ notice shall be given to cancel such overtime. If four (4) hours notice is not given the employee will receive the lesser of (1) two (2) hours paid at 1-1/2 times the employees regular wage rate or (2) the actual scheduled overtime hours paid at 1-1/2 times the employees regular wage rate. This
39
, provision does not apply if the cancellation is due to acts beyond the '1 Company's control.	■ ' '"7 "'..	.
ARTICLE XXXI. HOURS FOR PHYSICAL WORKERS " /
(.'1),;. Recognizing the necessity,, in a Company furnishing essential service to the public on a twenty-four (24) hour basis, of meeting local customs and conditions, of furnishing the type of service generally offered in the ’’ ; various communities, and of the important nature of the type of work ■1:’. done, the employees covered by this Agreement accept the obligation to ’ perform overtime work, The parties hereto agree to the following rules for scheduling working hours and the payment of' overtime for physical ... .....workers. ,	................... ..
(2)	" (a) ’ Since we serve the public ,0n a twenty-four (24) hour a day basis and '	", . since employees' jobs are tied in with the work schedules of other
'. .	■ 'employees, it is essential that employees are on their jobs as
' '. , ,'7 scheduled and, that they report for work on time. If an employee is ..’ <t. , 1 unable to be at work as scheduled or will be late, that employee
1..., '' must'inform the Company hi advance of the regular starting time.
.' „J’ ''(b) ’ Employees are’ eligible to. job share a full-time position with •	..Management approval. ‘ Refer to. Appendix 3 for Job Sharing
t-?'.’. / .Program.	' ' ,	.	;
(,:3). (a) The scheduled work week for the employees covered by this ’ ,= Agreement shall be .forty (40) hours, consisting normally of five (5) \ .eight (8) hour days except as maybe specifically modified elsewhere ' in this Agreement. '	'	.
7 (b). Physical employees are eligible to work an Alternate Work Schedule " ..., 'consisting of alternate starting times arid 4-10 hour days. Requests ’ to work an alternate work schedule are subject to Management
' approval/ Alternate work schedules may be cancelled by the Union . or Company with .thirty (30) days written notice to the other party.
.	Refer to'Appendix 2 for Alternate Work Schedule Program.
( 4)	For outside crews, the regular hours of employment shall be eight (8) hours per day with the starting time.to be 8:00 AM focal time. The Company will provide a lunch intermission of thirty (30) minutes or one (1) hour between the hours of 11:30 AM and 1:30 PM The length of the , intermission for lunch shall be as the majority of the employees affected may determine. However, when the Company furnishes the meal, a one (1) hour lunch period shall be taken unless the Foreman determines that the crew can actually complete the noon meal within a thirty (30) minute
.	period and are ready to return to their job site. In the case of individual
■	employee meal situations where no supervisor is present, each employee
decides with respect to whether a one-half (1/2) hour or a one (1) hour lunch period is taken.	. .	,
40
The regular scheduled week shall be from Monday through Friday, both inclusive. Should the service rendered the public by the'Company require more than five (5) days’ regular service per weelf ( involving .the (work of such outside crews, the’ Company'may establish’'another,,tegular scheduled week, beginning at the starting time Tuesdayand ‘terminating at the quitting time Saturday. The starting time for employees who work on a Tuesday through Saturday schedule is to be the same as the starting time for employees In that work group who work' on a Monday’ through Friday basis. Persons so employed shall alternate weeks so that
. Saturday work is distributed fairly.	,	' .|i;. , .
( 5)	(a) For shift workers the regular hours of employment shall be eight (8) consecutive hours per day, five (5) days per week, Sundays and ‘	holidays included when they fall on an employee's regular shift,'
except as provided for in (5) (b) and (c) below. The days per week shall be consecutive as nearly as practicable. The starting time of the day shift ot the eight (8) hour shifts shall be no earlier than 7:00 A.M. and no later than 8:00 AM The specific starting time of the shifts and whether the shifts shall rotate shall be decided by the choice of the majority of the employees affected in each, plant, or substation or place of employment It shifts are not rotated, the employees shall have preference in accordance with their seniority in that particular group. Shift workers except those in relief classifications shall receive a forty-eight (48) hour notice of any change in their schedule. Shift employees who have requested' training may be scheduled for training purposes as an "extra employee" on any shift, provided they receive a forty-eight (48) hour notice regarding such training assignments and a reiiefman is available to fill in on the day shift for the employee who will receive training. The relief man's work week shall be Monday through Friday unless substituting a vacated shift position, in accordance with the Call-Out Practice for Shift Employees (Appendix 1). When a relief operator Is scheduled to relieve a shift employee, this shift schedule shall not be revised for vacation or holiday requests made after the schedule is determined unless there is mutual consent between the relief operator and the employees involved. If consensus cannot be reached, Management will make the final decision. All time worked in excess of the above scheduled hours shall receive the appropriate overtime premium,
(b) When operating conditions require only one or two shifts per day in a generating station, the starting time for such eight (8) hour shifts shall be determined by the Management of the Company based on the requirements of such conditions. Prior to making such determination, Management will discuss the matter with the affected employees. Starting time shall not be changed more often than a
' four (4) week period without the consent of both parties. Employees who are not needed at their regular duties may be assigned either
41
.. , .on a shift or..nonTshift. basis to other duties, in accordance with "	* " Article XXIX, "temporary Substitutions".... (
.. .	.(c) . When operating conditions require only one (1) or two (2) shifts per
,	day .in a .substation or in a service'dispatcher or dispatcher
'	\ ... . operation, the .starting time for such eight (8) hour shifts shall be
' ",.Z“ . determined by ..the Management of the’ .Company based on the requirement of .such conditions. A two (2) shift cycle shall be a .	. .. .	.	.position where one (1) employee relieves another employee to carry
■ ’	.	’	oh the same work and shall, consist of sixteen (16) consecutive
..	hours of eight (8)hours per shift within the hours of 5:00 AM and
’	14:00 P.M. A one (1) shift position will be a N/S (non-shift or shift)
t .(."position’ of either, a one (1) employee operation or a two (2)
V;, ■.!• employee overlapping shift where the regular hours of employment ■ -	. will be eight (8) hours per day, Monday through Friday within the
. ',	.. hours of 6:00 A.M.to 6:00 P.M. ,	'
,.,(d) When a shift worker's regular shift or "trick" falls on a holiday or a ..	. .. day celebrated as a holiday, Management determines whether the
,.	.. .. .. employee is needed, on the shift, based on the load and service
;. • requirements on such a day. Whether the employee works or has Jii'i the holiday off, .he/she receives holiday pay as described in ..... / . .. ’ paragraph (2) of Article XXXII. ’	’ .
?■: . ,(e) ( During, the major planned overhauls or major repair work requiring - more than one "trick* per day at the major generating stations, shift .^workers on forty-eight (48).hours' notice can be assigned to work on , : ■ ,. such , maintenance work. In such instances, they will receive their regular base.:wage rate,’ and. they will work the same hours and have . .. the. same.lunch intermission , as . the . non-shift maintenance employees with whom they work. Such shift employees who are assigned to work at hours .when 50% or more bf-their work hours fall ,.	. - between 3:30 P.M. and 11:30. P.M. shall receive fifty-eight cents
. .. ; . 458c) per hour in addition to their regular base rate, white those who . work at hours where 50% or more of their work hours fall between
11:30 P.M. and 7:30 A.M. shall receive seventy cents (70C) per hour ... . in addition to their base rate. Shift employees who are not working at their regular shift position will perform such maintenance work as they are qualified to do during the entire time the crew to which they , are assigned is working on such major-overhaul or repair project.
(0 . 1. For shift workers on a five shift schedule, the regular hours of employment shall be eight (8) consecutive hours per day, five - (5) days .per week, Sundays and holidays included when they fall on an employee's regular shift. The days per week shall be
.	• consecutive as nearly as practicable. The starting time of the
■ day shift of the eight (8) hour shifts shall be no earlier than
.	7:00 A.M. and no later than 8:00 A.M. The specific starting
42
I j
1
' time of the shifts shall be decided by vote of the majority of the employees affected in each plant. ■	■	■
2.' in' the event a fifth shift' schedule is implemented, the employees and the shifts will be on a five week* rotating basis. Relief for a full week's duration will be provided by qualified personnel from the relief shift scheduled for that week (i.e., Sunday through Saturday). Relief for individual absences will
* be provided by substitution first ’ if available prior to using a qualified person from the relief shift. If substitution or qualified relief from the relief shift is not available, the Company will call personnel in accordance with the Call-Oiit Practice For Shift Employees (Appendix 1). Scheduled work days of the week In ' ' which the employees are assigned to the relief shift will normally be Monday through Friday unless substituting a
■	vacated shift position. Shift workers, except those assigned to
the relief shift, shall receive a forty-eight (48) hour notice of any change in their schedule. Shift employees' who have requested training may be scheduled for training purposes as an extra employee on any shift, provided they receive a forty-eight (48) hour notice regarding such training assignments and a person assigned as relief is available to fill in on the day shift for the employee who will receive training. When a person designated as relief is scheduled to relieve a shift employee, the shift schedule shall not be revised for vacation or holiday requests made after the schedule Is determined unless there is mutual consent between the relief operator and the employees involved! If consensus cannot be reached, Management will make the final decision. AH time worked in excess of the above scheduled'hours shall receive the appropriate overtime premium.
( 6) (a) For other workers the regular hours of employment shall be eight (8) hours per day and the regular scheduled week from Monday through Friday, both inclusive. Starting time for other than Building , Custodian t‘s and Building Custodian h's, Garage Mechanics, Garage Mechanic Helpers, Master Garage Mechanics, Courier Drivers, Trouble and Service Technicians, Chief Plant Material Handlers, Plant Stores Helpers, Lead Service Technicians, Service Specialists (Gas & Electric), Service Technicians, Service Maintenance Workers, Service Technician Apprentices, Lead Engineering Technicians, Engineering Technicians, Engineering Technician Apprentices, and non-shift Generating Station
. employees shall be 8:00 A.M., local time with an intermission for lunch of thirty (30) minutes or one (1) hour. The length of the intermission for lunch shall be as the majority of the employees affected may determine. However, when the Company furnishes the meal, a one (f) hour lunch period shall be taken unless the employee can actually complete the noon meal within a thirty (30)
43
minute, period. ;and is ready to return to the job site. The Company wilj 'schedule,,a definite lunch period, between. 11:30 AM and ’' ' ’ *1:30P'M Should the service rendered the public bythe Company through the employees covered by this paragraph necessitate more . than a five (5) day week, the Company may, establish another . 7 regular scheduled week starting at regular starting time Tuesday and J ... terminating at quitting’time Saturday.. The starting time for ^employees who work on a Tuesday through . Saturday schedule is to ’ ’ .'. , ’ '.be the,same astha starting time for employees.in that work group who work bn a. Monday through. Friday, basts. Employees so (.. / employed shall alternate work weeks so that Saturday work is ’ '	’ distributed fairly.	,	,
. . ..(b)., 1. For Building Custodian I's, Building Custodian Il's, Garage ' .. . , . Mechanics, Garage Mechanic Helpers, Master Garage /Mechanics, Courier Drivers, Lead Engineering Technicians, Engineering Technicians, and Engineering Technician
.;. .Apprentices, the starting time shall be determined by the job ... ./'	.’ • requirements, but their hours shall be consecutive except for
..;/:	time off fora meal the same as others in this class.
2/ Building Custodian I's, Building Custodian H's, Master Garage v . ...J. Mechanics', Garage Mechanics and Garage Mechanic Helpers ,’	may be scheduled on a six (6) day week or "split day" daily
’ "	‘ schedule providing the schedule for each employee is regular
and not changed without at least forty-eight (48) hours' notice ...	.. ..... in advance.	...	.	...
. .. (c) The.starting time for Chief Plant Material Handlers, Plant Stores ,	.. Helpers, and Garage Parts Storekeepers shall be from 7:00 A.M. to
„/ .	8:00 AM as determined by the job requirements. The starting time
..	‘ for Lead. Service Technicians,,Service Specialists (Gas& Electric),
Service Technicians, Service Maintenance Workers ‘and Service ... technician Apprentices shall be from 7:00.A.M. to 9:00 A.M. as ,	.' determined by the job requirements. The starting time for Customer
Field Representatives shall be .from 7:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. when . , collecting. The hours for the above jobs shall be consecutive except for time off for a meal. Management will give the employees ’ involved one calendar week advance notice of its intent to establish staggered starting times. Such schedules shall continue for increments of no less than five (5) working days. One calendar .. week advance notice would be giveri to the employees to alter their scheduled starting times unless, the employees involved mutually agree to exchange starting times. Ail changes are subject to supervisory approval,
(d)	Non-shift employees at the major hydro generating stations and substations who temporarily fill shift jobs shall be considered as shift employees with regards to their hours providing they are given at
44
least forty-eight (48) hours' notice in advance of such, change. Such non-stlift employees are not to be used as shift employees when qualified shift employees are available. ’' . , ,
(e)	1. For coal yard employees other than the Columbia and
Edgewater Generating Stations, the Company may establish work schedules designed to distribute employees over the seven' (7) days of each week in accordance with operating needs by a rotating schedule equitably distributing weekend time off among all coal yard workers at each steam plant location. A seven (7) day work schedule will not be established for less than a "shift cycle" period. '
2.	For coal yard employees at the Columbia and Edgewater Generating . Stations, the Company' may establish an "end-to-end" three (3) shift operation. The starting time of the day shift shall be no earlier than 7:00 A.M.'and no later than 8:00 AM The specific starting time of the shifts shall be decided by the choice of the majority of the employees affected. Shifts shall not be rotated and employees shall have shift preference in accordance with their seniority in that . ‘ particular group. The work schedule will distribute employees over the seven (7) days of each week in accordance with operating needs by a rotating schedule equitably distributing weekend time off among all coal yard wo'rkers.
3.	in emergencies due to unusual coat deliveries an "end-to-end" two (2) shift operation may be established for coal yard 'employees at the Nelson Dewey Generating Station for not to exceed ninety (90) days in any calendar year? The shifts are to be scheduled from 8:00 AM. to 4:00 PM for seven (7) days per week and from 4:00 PM to 12:00 midnight for five (5) days per week, Monday through Friday. Shifts shall not be rotated and employees shall have shift preference in accordance with their seniority in that particular group except that employees who are needed on the 4:00 PM to 12:00 midnight shift to fill the necessary complement of positions will be assigned to this shift on either (1) a voluntary basis or (2) by rotating the employees who have the required qualifications for this second shift work on a lateral transfer or temporary substitution basis. The employees are to be given at least one (1) week's advance notice before a two (2) shift operation is established and also if their shift schedule is to be changed.
4.	Whils such schedules are in effect, Saturday and Sunday work in accordance with such schedules shall be paid for on a straight time basis. While such schedules are in effect, holidays will be scheduled as workdays if they tall on an employee's regularly scheduled day. .
45
a; , ,; JO.. When there are sufficient customer requirements, Management may ! ' 1' ' ■' schedule not to exceed two (2) Service Department, employees, in
such manner that the Service Department personnel are available , . between 8:00A.M. and 5:00 P.M, The starting, time shall be 77 7' 7. ’'determined by the job requirements but the hours shall be
■ ■ • consecutive except for'time off for a meal, If nd employee voluntarily accepts this schedule, it shall be rotated among the employees affected.
(.7) . The Company may not, in. order to eliminate emergency or occasional ’ ' 7.overtime, change the regular scheduled, hours beyond the limits ■' vJZ.sstebiished in (3), (4) and (5) of this Article. ■
(78)., ‘ The length of the lunch intermission shall not be changed more often than once In three (3) months without the consent of both parties.
( 9)Employees, except shift, workers, shall be paid at two (2) times their regular rate as overtime pay tor all work done on a Sunday. Shift ,, . employees and coal yard employees who work on a Sunday outside of 77 ,'their regularly, scheduled hours shall be paid at two (2) times their regular "	rate, for sucn. work. When shift employees and coal yard employees are
required to work on their first scheduled day off of the work week, that day
^ ,.f .j . shall, be treated as Sunday and shall be paid at two (2) times their regular ,77-’ .rate for such hours worked. Ail .employees shall be paid at two (2) times their regular rate as overtime pay for all work done on any of the holidays listed in Article XXXII. Employees shall be paid two times their rate for ., ,. .hours worked after sixteen (16).consecutive hours of work until released t; from work^ . Al) employees shail.be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times ,..7.: their regular rate.as overtime pay for'all other work done under the
. 7 following conditions:
... (a)k. All ^ork ip excess of forty (40) hours in any work week,
(b) All work done in excess of eight (8) hours in any calendar day.
'	(c) All. work' done by employees except shift.employees, during their
'	,,, regularly scheduled, lunch period. Employees required to do such
' work during their regularly scheduled lunch period shall be granted , . sufficient time, with pay, not to exceed the length of their regularly scheduled lunch period, to eat their lunch.
(d) Employees who are absent from work on an "own account" basis . without pay, during all or any part of their regular workday or work week, will not be paid at the overtime rate, except for work on
. . Sundays and holidays until they have worked eight (8) hours in a day or forty (40) hours in a week, excluding hours already paid for at an overtime rate.	,
46
(10)	Employees sjnall not be required to take time off for overtime worked or to be worked?;
(11)	Except for shift workers and coal yard employees, Sunday shall not be scheduled as a pah of the standard week and shall be the last day of the work week. ■'	,
(12)	While the regular hours for non-shlft generating station employees (except those employed on the "evening or night maintenance crew" as described in paragraph (13) of this Article] are between 6:00 A.M. and 6:00 PM, the Management may, under the following conditions, make, temporary changes in the regular daily schedules for workers in the major'generating stations only. This may not be used to eliminate short daily overtime, period, but only when the planned work requires sixteen (16) dr more’ hours' work per day until the job is completed. The Management may not change the regular scheduled days of work during the week for such employees, only the hours within the calendar day. ’
(a)	Where major planned overhaul requires a working schedule of more , than one (1) "trick" per day provided the Company gives the employees affected at least one (1) week's advance notice.
(b)	Where major emergency repair work requires a change in schedules provided the Company gives the employees affected at least forty-eight (48) hours' advance notice. ■	;
(13)	(a) The Management may schedule an "evening maintenance crew* at the Columbia, Edgewater and Rock River Generating Stations, The starting time for such a crew will coincide with the end of the working period established for the "day crew'. The hours shall be consecutive except for time off for a meal. The meal period shall.be thirty (30) minutes or one (1) hour. The length of the meal period shall be as the majority of the employees affected may determine.
(b) The Management may schedule a “night maintenance crew" at the Columbia and Edgewater Generating Stations. The starting time for such a crew will coincide with the end of the working period established for the "evening crew*. The hours shall be consecutive except for time off for a meal. The meal period shall be thirty (30) minutes or one (1) hour. The length of the meal period shall be as the majority of the employees affected may determine.
(14)	(a) Employees assigned to the day, evening and night maintenance
crews [as referenced in paragraph (12) and (13) above], may have their schedules changed for purposes of training, job selection and Journeyman testing provided they are notified of the schedule change by Friday of the preceding week with at least 48 hours notice.
47
t_ fb) It is recognized that there is occasional need tor employees to "■ ‘•substitute-in the absence of the Foreman on the mechanical or 1 r/:" ’ ■ electrical maintenance crews. An' employee assigned to substitute ■ -l:" '	• ‘frni be'given at least 48 hours notice to change from days, evenings
“•	’ ’ '' or "nights and at least eight (8) hours shall; elapse before the
‘	'' employee returns to work. ■	■	1 ■
(15)" '(a) ’When an employee has beeri'scheduled for overtime work which is ■ ■ ■ 'not an extension'to his/her normal scheduled'WOrk day, ten (10) '':t 11 ' hours* notice shall be given to cancel such scheduled overtime. If . less than ten (10) hours’ notice is given to the employee, he/she will receive two (2) hours' pay at his/her straight time hourly rate. If the employee is not notified of the cancellation of overtime and reports for work, then the employee will receive two (2) hours of pay at the '■appropriate overtime rate.	'
(b) When scheduled overtime is an extension of the normal scheduled work day, four (4) hours' notice shall be given to cancel such h ' ' overtime, if four (4) hours notice is not given the employee will
‘ receive the lesser (1) two (2) hours paid at 1-1/2 times the employees regular wage rate or (2) the actual scheduled overtime hours paid at 1-1/2 times the employees regular wage rate. This ■ provision does' not apply if the'cancellation is due to acts beyond the Company’s control. -	‘	'
ARTICLE XXXII. HOLIDAYS AND HOLIDAY PAY
C 1) .(a) ’ 'Holidays, for the purpose"of this Agreement, shall be New Year's ‘......... Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, 4th of July, Labor Day,
1 '	' Thanksgiving Day, the Friday following Thanksgiving, December 24,
Christmas Day and New Year's Eve Day, or the days celebrated as such, and shall not be included in the regular hours.of employment.
..Effective June 1, 1993, if a holidayas described in this paragraph '	‘'	faits on a Saturday .and is observed' on that Saturday, an employee
■ „	'	may receive pay in lieu of the.holiday or schedule an extra day off
'L'	using the same guidelines for scheduling one day of vacation.
(b)	In addition to the" holidays listed in paragraph (1) (a) above,
'	employees shall be granted a flexible holiday. The Company will
guarantee time off at the option of the employee with 48 hours' advance notice, and insofar as the needs of service will permit. The employee election shall not pyramid premium pay. In the event the employee does not schedule a flexible holiday, the Company will provide up to eight (8) hours pay at the straight time hourly rate.
(, 2) . Each regular full-time employee as well as temporary full-time employees will be paid eight (8) hours at the basic straight time rate for each of the legal holidays (or day celebrated as such) listed in this Article regardless of the day of the week on, which they fall and whether or not the day is worked provided the employee works all ’of the regularly scheduled work
48
days immediately before and, after said holiday ,or,, has what the Management considers a reasonable .cause for,,not .working. Regular part-time .ernployees.who work less than 50% of fuilrtimp.pre not eligible tor any holiday, pay. Part-time employees who work 50% or more of full-time but less than full-time, will receive prorated holiday pay to the nearest hour at the basic straight time rate. The two (2) completed pay periods of work (or fraction thereof for. new employees), immediately prior to the holiday are to be used to determine the amount of.holiday pay. Holidays worked by an employee will be further compensated as follows:
(a)	Two (2) times the regular rate for ail work done on the holiday (or day celebrated as such). ,
(b)	When December 24 and December 31 falls on a Sunday, an employee may receive pay in lieu of the holiday or schedule a day off the same as scheduling a single day of vacation. ........
(c)	When a holiday falls on a Sunday, shift workers and coal yard employees who work Sunday and are off on Monday shall have the option to designate which day shall be the holiday.
(d)	Shift employees when working a ten (10) or twelve (12) hour shift will receive holiday pay for these hours.	.
( 3) Shift personnel and coal yard, employees shall have the. option..$of selecting either Sunday or Monday as the holiday when the celebrated' holiday is a Monday, provided that the system and generating station re-’ quirements do not require unit operation, and the shift personnel are scheduled to work Sunday. .	,
ARTICLE XXXIII. PREMIUM PAY	'
( 1)	Shift positions shall be defined as any position where one (1) employee relieves another employee to carry on the same work, whether for two (2) or three (3) "tricks" or shifts per day or whether for five (5), six (6) or seven (7) days per week. Two'(2) shifts or "tricks" shail 'cover sixteen (16) consecutive hours of eight (8) hours per shift or "trick". Three (3) shifts or "tricks" shall cover twenty-four (24) consecutive hours of eight (3) hours per shift or‘trick".	,.
( 2)	In addition to the employee's regular wage rate, a shift premium shall be paid for work performed in the shift job classifications marked *S" under the wage schedule. The shift premium shall also be paid for the Master Garage Mechanic (Evening), Garage Mechanic (Evening)'and Garage Mechanic Helper (Evening). This shift premium shall be sixty-six cents (66c) per hour for the evening shift and seveniy-elght cents (78c) per hour for the night shift.	.
For the day shift, no shift premium shall be paid.
49
( 3)	The Evening Shift is that regularly established shift in which 50% or more of the work hours fall between 3:30 PM and 11:30 PM
( 4)	The Night Shift is that regularly established shift in which 50% or more of the work hours fall between 11:30 PM and 7:30 AM
( 5)	In addition to the employee's regular wage rates, ninety-five cents (95c) an hour as premium shall be paid for ail regularly scheduled work performed on Sunday in the shift job classifications marked "S" under the wage schedule. Overtime work performed by shift workers on Sunday, will be paid for as provided in Article XXXI, paragraph (9),
( 6)	For all regularly scheduled work on Sunday, coat yard employees shall be paid ninety-five cents (95c) an hour as premium in addition to their regular straight time rate.
( 7)	Shift premium shall be paid only for the time actually worked.
( 0) Shift employees required to work overtime, whether on “call-backs’’ or beyond their scheduled shift, shall receive, for the overtime hours, the shift premium established for the shift on which the overtime occurs. The same overtime provisions that apply to the employees' overtime hours shall also apply to the shift premium for these overtime hours.
(	9) Employees who do not return to headquarters at night because of distance or other conditions shall receive an idle-time premium for the evening they are away from headquarters of fifty cents (50c) per hour for each hour worked during that day. A one dollar ($1.00) idle time premium will be paid when working beyond one and one-half (1-1/2) hours from headquarters on non-commodity work outside the franchise territory. For non-com modity work beyond one and one-half (1-1/2) hours, the company would annually request volunteers to sign up.
(10)	(a) A premium of seventy-five cents (75c) per hour shall be paid for
hours actually worked to employees in those job classifications
• which are identified as Columbia, Edgewater and Rock River Evening Crews as referred to in Article XXXt, paragraph (13) (a) and (b). This premium shall also apply to non-shift employees scheduled to work with the evening Maintenance Crew as referred io in Article XXXI., paragraph (13) (a) and (b). This premium is in lieu of a lessor evening or night shift premium.
(b) A premium of seventy-eight cents (78d) per hour shall be paid for hours actually worked to employees in those classifications which are identified as Columbia and Edgewater Night Crews as referred to in Article XXXi, paragraph (13) (a) and (b). This premium shall also apply to non-shift employees scheduled to work with the night Maintenance Crew as referred to in Article XXX), paragraph (13) (a)
50
and '(b)? This premium is in lieu.pt a lessor .evening or night shift premium. -	’ '	'	''' ' '	1 ' '	'*
(11)	(a) Generating'Station Maintenance employees, who have established and maintained certification in the Certified Welding Program shall be paid a welding premium in the amount of one. dollar and ten cents ($1.10) per hour for all hours paid. ''
(b) Chief Gas Technicians and Chief Corrosion Technicians,, who are designated as welders will receive a premium of fifty-two cents (52c) per hour for all hours^	‘
ARTICLE XXXIV.	UNCLASSIFIED JOBS.	"	’
Should there be employees of the Company engaged in performing work the nature of which is not identical but similar to work performed by employees within the classifications listed herein, such employees shall be governed, by this Agreement.
ARTICLE XXXV.	SPECIAL RATES AND TRIAL PERIODS	?
( 1)	A wage rate that is below the standard wage rate may be established for an employee who has had no past experience performing the class of work for which the employee is being selected. This below standard rale must be mutually agreed upon in writing by both the Chief Steward (or designated representative) and the Manager (or similar Company, representative). This rate may not continue in effect longer than the' employee's first ninety (90) days in this position unless the Chief Steward (or designated representative), the Business Manager of the Local Union (or designated representative), the Manager (of similar Company representative) and the Company's Manager of' Labor Relations (or designated representative) have given their written approval for such extension. This written approval shall specify in detail the steps necessary to end this substandard wage rate. - • ■	*
( 2)	An employee may have the trial period extended upon written approval'of the Local Union's Business Manager and the Company's Manager of Labor Relations, after consultation with the Chief Steward (or designated representative) and the Manager (or similar Company representative). An employee shall be entitled to return,to the former position during such an extension. ■	-
51
L_.
. 05/18/03 - 11/27/04
ARTICLE XXXVI—WAGE SCHEDULE FOR PHYSICAL POSITIONS 05/18/03-11/27/04
ENGINEERING
	NO. J01245 J01246 J01249 JQ1244	POSITION Engineering Technician	 Engineering Technician Apprentice 		 Lead Engineering Technician*" 	
	GARAGE	
	J0H15	Garage Mechanic		
	JO1116	Garage Mechanic (Evening! 		
	JQ1120-JQ1123	Garage Mechanic Apprentice	
	JQ1117	Garage Mechanic Helper 	
N)	J01119	Garage Mechanic Helper (Evening! 	
	JO1112	Garage Mechanic II	
	JOU 16	Garage Parts Storekeeper		
	JOI 113	Master Garage Mechanic”	
	JO1114	Master Garage Mechanic (Evening)**		
GAS AND WATER
JO1239 J01240	Chief Corrosion Technician 		 Chief Corrosion Technician - Welding"* (1)	
JQ122B	Chief Gas Technician (Large Crew)"'	
J01229	Chief Gas Technician (Large Crew) ■ Welding” |2|..,.	
(Each step represents a six-nwcrth increment}
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP S	STEP 6	STEP 7	STEP 8
N	$25.16	$25.66	$26.08 '	$26.54	$27,08			
	{See Apprentice Schedule)							
N	$25.02	$25.8?	$26 71	$27.52	$28.45			
N '	$24.91	$25,28	$25.67		$25.99			
N	$24.91	$25.28	$25.67		$25.99			
	(See Apprentice Schedule)							
N	$17.35	$17.98	$18,62	$19,27	$19,59	$20,10		$20,65
N	$17.35	$17.9E	$18.62	$19.27	$19.59	$20.10		$2065
N	$21.66	$21.96	$22.30		$22.61			
N	$21.34	$21.B7	$22.37	$22.91	$2320	$23.71		$24.10
H	$26.67	$26.93	$27.20		$27 77			
N	$26.67	$26.93	$27.20		$27.77			
N	$27,12	$27.41	$27.97		$28.25			
N	$27,64	$27,93	$28.49		$2977			
N	$27,56	$27.84	$20.42		$28.71			
N	$28.08	$28,36	$26.94		$29.23			
“Supervisory position
(11 Rate established atm rate forJ01239 by amciuni ol welding premium,
12) Rate established above rate for JOI 228 by amount oi welding premium.
GAS AND WATH1 loom.)
NO.	POSIDON
J01230	Chief Gas Technician (Small Crew)** ...................... N
JOI 231	Chief Gas Technician (Small Crew) - Welding** (3) ........ N
J01238	Gas Technician............................................ N
J01237	Gas Technician - Welding.................................. N
J01241-J01243	Gas Technician Appren tice...............................
J01236	Lead Regulation Technician**.............................. N
JOI 232	Regulation Technician .................................... N
J01233J01235	Regulation Technician Apprentice.........................
UNE AND RELATED
JO1149	Chief Line Clearance Technician** ........................ N
J01129	Chief Line Technician (Small Crew)** ..................... N
y,	JOI 141	Heavy-Duty Earth Borer Operator........................... N
w	JO1154	Infrared Technician....................................... N
J03783	Lead Line Technician ..................................... N
JOI 135-JO1138 Line Apprentice.............................................
JD1151-J011S2 Line Clearance Apprentice ...................................
J02849	Line Clearance Specialist................................. N
JO1150	Line Clearance Technician................................. N
JO1153	Line Clearance Truck Operator............................  N
JO1130	line Crew Leader" ........................................ N
JD1139	Line Equipment Operator .................................. N
(Each step represents a six-month increment)
STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
$27.12	$27.41	$27.97		$26.25			
$27.64	$27.93	$28.49		$28.77			
$24.16	$24.41	$24.91		$25.16			
$25.20	$25.73	$25.99		$26.25			
(See Apprentice Schededule)							
$26 36	$26.64	$27.19		$27.46			
$24.40	$24.92	$25.17		$25.69			
{See Apprentice Schedule)							
$25.99	$26.30	$26.68		$27.15			
			$29.62				
$21.33	$21.66	$22.36	$22.89	$23.13	$23.62		$24.04
$23.76	$24.29	$24.85	$25.32	$25.84	$26.38		$26.88
$29.78	$30.20		$30.57				
(See Apprentice Schedule)							
(See Apprentice Schedule)							
$26.50	$26.81	$27.19		$27.70			
$23.13	$23.32	$23.69		$24.35			
$18.82	$19.35	$19.84	$20.37	$20.55	$20.97		$21.22
$28.23	$28.55		$28 90				
$20.82	$21.31	$21.83	$22 33	$22.63	$22.93		$23.23
"Supervisory position
|3) Rate established above rate for 301230 try amount of welding premium.
Note: Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1982 who fill start/entry level physical positions ae exempt from the first three 13) steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1987 who fill physical positions other than starVermy level or journeyman positions are exempt Iron the first three |3) steps.
UNE AND RELATED [Conti	(Each step represents a six-month increment)
		STEP		STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
J01142	Line Patroller				 N	121.52	$22.03	$22.55	$23.05	$23.55	$23.99		$24.33
J01131	Line Technician			..		 N	$27.20	$27.62		$28.07				
JOI140	Line Truck Operator			■ N	$20.22	$20.75	$21.26	$21.75	$22.02	$22.33		$22.54
J01145	Local Representative [Electric)** 			 N	$27.84	$28.12	$28.33		$28.85			
J01146	.	Local Representative (Gas& Electric!** (4)			 N	$28.26	$28.54	$28.75		$29.08			
J0114B	Local Service Gas Representative*' 			 N	$26.67	$27.03	$27.40		$27.78			
J01147	Local Service Representative’* 				 N	$26.67	$27.03	$27.40		$27.78			
J01143	Trouble and Service Technician [Electric)				 N	$27.30	$27.86		$28.07				
JO1144	Trouble and Service Technican (Gas & Electric) (41			 N	$27.71	$28.28		$28.49				
JO1132	Utility Technician 				 N	$24.42	$24.70		$25.17				
J01133-J01134	Utility Technician Apprentice			ISee A pprentice S ch ed ule)							
METERING										
JO1161	Ch i ef El ectric Meter Techn ici a n “ *		.	. N	$2778	$2831	$28.74		$29 Z4			
JOI 155	Electric Meter Technician 		.. N	$2650	St?R fif	$77 08		$27.68			
J01157-J01160	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice 			(See Annrentire Schedule!							
JO1175	'	Gas Meter Technician				 N	$23.54	$23 77	$24 04		$24 24			
J01176-J01177	Gas Meter Technician Apprentice 					(See Apprentice Schedule)							
JO1169	Gas Metering Specialist** 		.... N	$25 65	$26 13	$26.60		$27.10			
J01171 -JO1173	GasMeteringSpecialistAppremice 			(See Apprentk e		Schedule)					
JO1170	Ga s Metering Specialist - Welding * ‘ 			 N	$26.07	$26.30	$26.52		$26.80			
JOI 174	Instrument and Meter Repair’Technician			 N	$25.65	$25.87	$26.03		$26.82			
’'Supervisory position
(4) Rate is established at i .5% stove the rate shown fot electric position.
Note: Employees on ihe Union payroll as of June 1,1982 who fill stan/entry level physical positions are exempt from the first tliee (3) steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1987 who fill physical positions other then starVentry level or journeyman positions are exempt from the first three (3| steps.
METERING (conL)
NO.	POSTTION
JO1156	Lead Electric Meter Technician .......................... N
JOI 163-J01164 Single Phase Meter Apprentice..............................
J01162	Single Phase Meter Tester...............................  N
JO117B	Water Meter Technician..................................  N
SERVICE
J01179	LeadSenrice Technician**................................. N
J02476	Service and Relief Dispatcher ..........................  N
JO1190	Service Dispatcher ...................................... N
JD1181	Service Specialist (Gas & Electric)...................... N
J01183	Service Technician ...................................... N
JO1188-JOI 189	Service Technician Apprentice ..........................
„ JO1184	Service Worker..........................................  N
ut
VI
STORES
J01197	Area Stores Equipment Operator.........................   N
JO1196	Area Stores Material Handler ...........................  N
JO1199	Area Stores Semi-Truck Driver..........................   N
J01200	Area Stores Truck - Crane Operator .....................  N
J01198	Area Stores Truck Driver...............................   N
J01195	Chief Area Storekeeper" ................................. N
JOI194	Chief Area Storekeeper (large Crew)* ‘.................   N
JOI 204	Chief Plant Material Handler** ........................   N
JO1193	Lead Area Stores Material Handler (Evening)” ..........   N
JD1192	local Material Coordinator..............................  N
(Each step represents a six-month increment)
STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
1	2 '	3	4	5	6	7	8
$27.68	$27.82	$28.24		128.95			
(See Apprentice Schedule)							
$22.61	$22.85	$23.05		$23.46			
$21.64	$22.16	$22.65	$23.19	$23.51	$23.73		$24.24
$28.29	$28.69		$29.0B				
$19.81	$20.33	$20.94	$21.44	$21.75	$22.15		$22.34
$17.92	$10.39	$18.94	$19.41	$19.60	$20.03		$20.21
$26.18	$26.55		$26.94				
$23 28	$23.62		$23.93				
(See Apprentice Schedule)							
$19.87	$20.30	$20.72	$21.14	$21.56	$21.98	-	$22.40
$20.60.	$21.12	$21.62	$22.11	$22.39	$22.70		$22.90
$18.82	$19.35	$19.84	$20.37	$20.60	$20.97		$21.25
$21.13	$21.64	$22.13	$22.65	$23.07	$23.32		$23.59
$21.98	$22.47	$23.01	$23.51	$23.76	$24.28		$24.59
$19.16	$19.69	$20.18	$20 69	$21.10	$21.27		$21.63
$24.63	$25.14	$25.66	$26.14	$26.55	$26.75		$27.22
$2538	$25.85	$26.29	$26.74	$27.17	$27.62		$2607
$22.12	$22.65	$23.19	$23.74	$24.24	$24.76		$25 29
$19.86	$20.41	$20.94	$21,49	$21.72	$22.12		$22.41
$21.34	$21.87	$22.37	$22.91	$23.20	$23 71		$24.10
"Supervisory position
PHYSICAL 05/18/03 - 11/27/04
	SUBSTATION CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE				(Each step represents a six-month increment)						
				STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
	NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	J0T213	Chief Concrete Technician** ....			. N	$23.95	$24 S3	$24.90	$25.37	$25.89	$26.11		$26.B3
	J012O6	Chief Electrician’' 		. N	$30.59	$31.00		$31.44				
	JOI 205	Electric Equipment Maintenance Specialist"		. N	$30.37	$30 78	$31.18		$31.46			
	JOI 207	Electrician		. N	$27.39	.128.43 apprentice		$28.89				
	J0120B-J01211	Electrician Apprentice			(See j		Schedule)					
	JQ1212	Electrician's Helper	 -	.. N	$18.99	$19.51	$20.03	$20.51	$2086	$2120		$21.43
	JOI 214	Filtering Equipment Operator 		.. N	$21.42	$21,9?	$22.44	$22.97	$23 23	$23.76		$24.26
	JOI 215	Heavy Trailer-Truck Driver 		.. N	$22.17	$22.66	$23.20	$23.71	$24.04	$24.52		$24.85
	.101210	Truck-franR flnarafrir fUnaw OuM			N	$2217	$22.66	$23.20	$23.71	$24.04	$2452		$24.85
	SUBSTATION OPERATION										
	J01218	Chief Water Works Operator 			.. N/S	$25.14	$25.66	$26.14	$25.68	$2705	$27.42		$27.78
<J1 cn	JOI 221	Dispatcher					.. N/S	$21.69	$22.20	$22.72	$23.22	$23.53	$23.78		$24.10
	J01217	Dispatcher & Substation Maintenance Inspector 		., N/S	$22.57	$23.10	$23.62	$24.11	$24.46	$24.65		$25.08
	J01225	Distribution Center Dispatcher		.. S	$21.69	$22.2(1	$22.72	$23.22	$23.53	$23.78		$24.10
	JOI 223	Maintenance & Belief Substation Operator (Ripon)		.. N/S	$22.57	$23.10	$23.62	$2411	$24.46	$24.65		$25.08
	J0I22G	Substation & Combustion Turbine Maintenance Inspector & Operator 		.. N/S	$22.79	$23.36	$23.85	$24.38	$24,72	$24.91		$25.33
	JOI 222	Substation & Water Works Operator (Ripon)		.. N/S	$21.69	$2220	$22.72	$23 22	$23.53	$23.78		$24.10
	J01219	Substation Maintenance Inspector & Relief Dispatcher		.. N/S	$22.57	$23.10	$23.62	$24.11	$24.46	$24.65		$25.00
	JOI 224	Tool and Equipment Coordinator 		.. N	$21.49	$21.95	$22.36	$22.81	$23 28	$23.73		$24.13
"Supervisory position
Note: Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1962 who fill start/entry M physical positions one exempt from the first Wee (3) steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1,1987 who I ill physical positions other than start/entry level or journeyman positions are e> amp' from the first three (3) steps.
MISCELLANEOUS				[Each step represents a six-month increment}						
			STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
JOI 250	Building Custodian I* 				... N	$14,86	$15.53	$16.13	$16.75	$16.94	$17.30		$17,52
J01251	Building Custodian II*			... N	$13.10	$1383	$14.44	$15.09	$1524	$15.53		$15.87
J01259	Customer Field Representative			... N	118.07	$18.57	$20.09	$20.60	$20.97	$21.25		$21.50
J0J257	Laborer* 		... N	$14.53	$15.18	$15 78	$16.41	$16.77	$17.20		$17,52
JOI 256	Laborer Semi-Skilled*		... N	$15.31	$15.95	$16.58	$17.20	$17.59	$18.00		$18.36
JOI 260	Meter Reader			... N	$15.02	$15.95	$16.87	$17.30	$17.61	$17.85		$16.06
J0I258	Senior Customer Field Representative”			... N	$21.54	$21.93	$22.31	$22.70	$23.08	$23.46		$23.85
JOI 253	Utility Laborer			... N	$15.31	$15.85	$16.58	$17.20	$17.59	$18.00	$16.36	$18.92
JOI 252	Utility Operator	 		... N	$18.08	$18.78	$19.49	$20.19	$20.88	$21.60	$22.30	$23,01
J01254	Utility Worker 'A*...		... N	$17.62	$18.32	$19.02	$19.73	$20.44	$20.98	$21.70	$22.40
J01255	Utilitv Worker 'B*	 		... N	$15.31	$1585	$1659	$17.20	$17.58	$18.00	$18.36	$18.92
PLANT POSITIONS - FUELS										
J01273	Equipment Operator ■ Fuels 		... N/S	$23.42	$24.00	$24.54	$25.04	$25.40	$25.78		$26.18
J03663	lead Ash Site Operator"			... N/S	$25.67	$26.27	$26.78	$27.35	$27.67	$28.10		$28.51
J01271	LeadEquipmentOperator-Fuels”		... N/S	$25.67	$26.27	$26.78	$27.35	$27.67	$28.10		$28.51
JOI 272	Relief Equipment Operator ■ Fuels			...N/S	$23.83	$24.50	$25.08	$25.60	$25.97	$26.36		$26.76
OPERATING										
JOI 267 .	Combustion Turbine Technician		... N	$25.99	$26.43	$26.85	$27.28	$27.71	$28.16		$28.89
J0T270	Equipment Operator-Operations 				... S	$23.42	$24.00	$24.54	$25.04	$25.40	$25.78		$26.18
JOI 266	Master Combustion Turbine Technician*’		... N	$29.64	$30.03	$30.43		$30.02			
J02B46	Master Unit Operator - (Small Steam Plant)* ’ 		... S	$28 04	$28.43	$2982		$30.21			
J02847	Master Unit Operator - (Smail Steam Rant ■ Licensed)**....	... $	$29 57	$29.96	$30.35		$30.75			
JOI 268	Rant Equipment Operator		... S	$25.22	$25.73	$26.31	$26.83	$27.38	$27.58		$28.08
J01269	Plant Equipment Operator - (Licensed) (5) 		... S	$25.74	$26 25	$26.83	$2735	$27.90	$28.10		$2B.60
’Starting or entry level position	"Supervisory position
Rate establirted alwre the rate tar JO J26S by $0.52 premium amount.
PHYSICAL 05/18/03 - 11/27/04
OPERATING (cent)	(Each step represents a six-month increment)
	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP STEP
NO.	POSITION	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
401274	Plant Stores Helper	 N	$18.82	$19,35	$19.84,	$20.37	$20.60	$20.97	$21.25
401265	Relief Unit Operator 	 S	$26.31	$26.85	$27.40	$27.91	$28.23	$28.57	$28.98
401263	Unit Operator (Large Steam Plant) 	 S	$26.31	$26.85	$27.48	$27.91	$28.23	$28.57	$28.98
J01264	Unit Operator (Small Steam Plant)	  S	$25.22	$25.73	$26.31 MAINTENANCE 401316	Maintenance Electrician 	   N	$27.59	$27.91	$28.50 401315	Maintenance Electrician (Evening)	  N	$27.59	$27,94	$28.50 J01341 -J01344 Maintenance Electrician Apprentice 	)	 (See	Apprentice Schedule) J01321	Maintenance Instrument and Control	 N	$27.59	$27.94	$28.50 J01345-J01340 Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice	  (See	Apprentice Schedule) JO1322	Maintenance Instrument and Control (Nelson Dewey/Rock River)	 N	$27.59	$27.94	$28.50 J01349-J01350 Maintenance Instrument and Control |HR/ND) Apprentice -1 st & 2nd Yr	(See Apprentice Schedule) J02843	Maintenance Instrument andContral (RR/NO) Apprentice - 3rd Year...	(See Apprentice Schedule) 401317	Maintenance Technician ■ Electrical		 N	$28.15	$29.51	$29.06 401351-J01354 Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprentice 	 (See	Apprentice Schedule) J01323	Maintenance Technician - Electrical (Columbia/Hydros)	 N	$2815	$28.51	$29.06 401318	Maintenance Technician-Electrical (Evening Crew)	  N	$28.15	$29.51	$29.06 J01313	Maintenance Technician-Mechanical 	  14	$26.68	$27.02	$27.44 JOI300-J01311 Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice 	 (See	Apprentice Schedule) 401325	Maintenance Technician ■ Mechanical (Evening) 	 hi	$26.68	$27.03	$27.44 401327	Maintenance Technician ■ Mechanical (Night)	   N	$26.69	$27.03	$27.44 J01312	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical - Welding		 N	$27.14	$27.49	$27.92 J01324	Maintenance Technician-Mechanical-Welding (Evening)	 N	$27.14	$27.49	$27.92				$26.83	$27.38 $28.89 $28.89 $28.89 $28.89 $29.49 $29 48 $29.48 $27.77 $27.77 $27.77 $28.29 $28.29	$27.58	$28.08
Note: Emplcryees on the Union paytoll as of June 1.1982 who fill stoitf entry level physical positions are exempt from the first three |3) steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1,1987 who fill physical positions other than start/enuy level or journeyman positions are exempt from the first three (3) steps.
r
	MAINTENANCE (CONT.)				(Each step represents a six-month increment)						
				STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
	NO.	rosmoN		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	S
	J01326	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical - Welding INight) 		N	$27.14	$27.49	$27.92		$28.29			
	301306	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical/Combustion Turbine Technician	N	$26.07	$26.54	$27.00	$27.44	$27.89	$28.34		$28.77
	J01291	Master Maintenance Electrician** 				N	$29.77	$30.10	$30.62		$31.00			
	J01295	Master Maintenance Electrician lEvening}” 		N	$29.77	$30.10	$30.62		$31.00			
	J01288	Master Maintenance Instrumant and Control’*		N	$29.77	$30.10	$30.62		$31.00			
	J01287	Master Maintenance Instrument and Control IND/RRI" 		N	$29.77	$30.10	$30.62		$31.00			
	JO1294	Master Maintenance Technician (Rock Riverl**	;		N	$30.18	$30.52	$31.05		$31.44			
	J01292	Master Maintenance Technician - Electrical’* 		N	$30.18	$30.52	$31.05		$31.44			
	J01296	Master Maintenance Technician - Electrical (Evening Crowl" 		N	$30.18	$30.52	$31.05		$31.44			
	J012B6	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical ILarge Crew)" 		N	$29.95 '	$30.36	$30.76		$31.16			
	JO1299 .	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crew} (Evening}"	N	$29.95	$30.35	$30.76		$31.16			
	J01301	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical ILarge Crew) (Night.	N	$29.95	$30.36	$30.76		$31.16			
cn	301285	Master Maintenance Technician ■ Mechanics) (Large Crew) - Welding’*	N	$30.40	$30.77	$31.27		$31.69			
CD	J0129B	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical ILarge Crew) ■									
		Welding (Evening)*’		N	$30.40	$30.77	$31.27		$31.69			
	J01300	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical ILarge Crew):									
		Welding INightr*		N	$30.40	$30.77	$31.27		$31.69			
	J01290	Master Maintenance Technician • Mechanical (Small Crew)** 		N	$28.81	$29.21	$29.52		$38.28			
	J01303	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) (Evening)**	N	$28.81	$29.21	$29.52		$30.26			
	JO1305 .	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) (Night)" .	N	$28.81	$29.21	$29.52		$30.26			
	J01289	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) ■ Welding"	N	$29.39	$29.82	$30.11		$30.81			
	J01302 .	Master Maintenance Technician Mechanical (Small Crew) -									
		Welding (Evening)**		N	$29.39	$29.82	$30.11		$30.81			
	J31304	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Smal) Crew) -									
		Welding (Nightl"		N	$29.39	$29.82	$30.11		$30.81			
Supervisory position
- 11/27/04
RESULTS - LABORATORY			STEP 1 ISee / $23.99 (See i $26.45	{Each step represents a six-month fnwement)					
NO. JG1280-J01282 JQ1283 J01284 J01277	posmoN laboratory 8 Instrument Control Apprentice	 Laboratory Technician 	 Laboratory Technician Apprentice 	 Master Laboratory Technician** 			 N 	 N		STEP 2 Apprentice $24.33 Apprentice $26.77	STEP 3 Schedule) $24.71 Schedule) $27.15	STEP 4	STEP STEP 5	6 $2504 $27.53	STEP 7	STEP 8
HYDRO PLANTS									
J01357	Chief HydroMechanic(POS-KIL)** 			 N	$2708	$27 TO	$28.18	$28.63	$29.00 $29.38		$29.78
J01360	Chief Hydro Mechanic ■ Welding IPDS-KUJ*' 							..... N	$27.77	$28.30	$28.80	$29.36	$29.75 $30.13		$30.55
JO1355	Maintenance Operator Technician (POS-KIL) 				N/S	$23.85	$2438	$24.98	$25.37	$25.76 $26.1 B		$26.56
J01356	Maintenance Operator Technician ■ Welding |PDS-KIL)			 N/S	$24.42	$24.91	$25.42	$25.94	$25.32 $26.74		$27.12
MISCELLANEOUS										
O)	JOI 261	Planner/Schedoler			  N	$26.42	$2691	$27.46	$27.99	$20.58	$29.02	$29.49
	J01262	Plant Safety Coordinator			  N	$24.72	$25.27	$25.75	$26.29	$2660	$27,02	$27.40
"Supervisory position
Note: Employ® on the Union peyroil as of June 1,19B2 who fill start/entry level physical positions are exempt from the to three 13) steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1® who (ill physical positions other than stan/entry level or journeyman positions are e>empi hero the first three 13) steps.
General Office - Physical Positions
BUMJDNG				(Each step represents a tix-morrth increment)						
			STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	POSIDON		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
JD1127	General Office Materials Handler" 			 N	JI 6 22	$16.72	$17.24	$17.73	$18.01	$18 32		$18.61
JO1126	General Office Services Worker’ —			 hi	$16.22	$16 72	$17.24	$17.73	$18.01	$18.32		$18.61
ENGINEERING										
J01103	Electrical Protective Equipment Technician’* 				 N	$24.46	$24.95	$25.46	$26.00	$26.45	$26.93		$27.14
JO1108	Electrical Protective Equipment Test er			 N	$23.95	$24.47	$24.96	$25.47	$25.99	$26.43		$26.67
JO1106	Electrical Technician						 N	$28.92	$29.44	$29.93	$30.45	$30.77	$31.21		$31.59
J02848	Lead Relay and Electrical Technician 				 N	$3052	$31.08	$31.60	$32.13	$32.48	$32.94		$33.34
JOI105	Meter Laboratory Technician						 N	$26.68	$27.18	$27.73	$28.23	$28.63	$28.90		$29.42
JO1107	Relay Technician				 N	$2830	$20.83	$29 36	$29.85	$30.26	$30.75		$31.15
J01101	Surveyor 1” 	,					 N	$2623	$26.74	$27.22	$27.77	$28.34	$28.77		$29.24
JO1102	Surveyor II				 N	$22.06	$22.57	$23.10	123.62	$24.04	$24.35		$24.62
JO1103	Surveyor Aid 1 		 					 N	$18.97	$1947	$20.00	$20.48	$20.88	$21.22		$21.43
J01104	Surveyor Aid II				 N	$16.53	$17.06	$17.55	$18.06	$18.35	$18.72		$18.87
FORMS. SHIPPING AND RECEIVING										
J01Q9B	Forms Shipping and Receiving Worker			 N	$16.22	$16.56	$16.91	$17.25	$17.59	$17.93	$18.27	$18.61
LOAD DISPATCHING
J01110	Load Dispatcher			 S	$29.82	$30.33	$30.84	$31.35	$31.59	$31.97	$32.45
J01111	SOC Control Technician 			 N/S	$26.30	$26.79	$27.32	127.84	$28.27	$28.63	$29.00
'Starting«entry level position
'Supervisory position
MAIL SERVICES			(Eact) step represents a six-month increment)							
			STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	position		'T'	2	3	4	S	6	7	8
JO11OO	Automated Mail Processor			 N	$1462	$15.61	$16.52	$1741	$18.30	$18.68	$19.26	$19.77
J01099	Lead Automated Mail Processor** 			 N	$17.09	$18.08	$19.02	$19.91	$20.75	$21.60	$22 23	$22.32
JO1092	Courier Driver* 			 N	$18.97	$19.E2	$20.20	$20.85	$21.10	$21.52		$21.75
J01093	Belief Courier Driver* 			 N	$10.97	$19.62	$20.20	$20.85	$21.10	$21.52		$21.75
PRINTING SERVICES										
J01097	Bindery Operator				 N	$12.85	$13.59	$14.31	$15.03	$15.76	$16.48	$17.20	$17.93
JO 1094	LeadOffsetPressOperator"*			 N	$17.09	$17.87	$18.64	$19.43	$20.20	$20.98	$21.75	$22.55
J01095	Offset Press Operator ( 					 N	$15.49	$16.26	$17.06	$17.84	$18.61	$19.39	$20.17	$20.95
JOI 096	Offset Press Operator II 			 N	$14.62	$15.61	$16.52	$17.41	$18.30	$16.68	$19.26	$1977
TELECOMMUNICATIONS										
JOI 091	Telecommunications Technician 			 N	$24.17	$24.61	$25.21	$25.71	$2624	$26.75		$27.32
Starting a entry level position "Supervisory position
Note: Employees w the Union paytoll as of June 1.1982 wtio fill start/entry M physical posit tore are exempt from the first three I3| st aps
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1,198? who fill pfrrysicat positions other than stanjentry level nr journeyman positions are e tempi hunt the first three (3| steps.
APPRENTICE SCHEDULE
NO. POSITION
JO1160	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice-1st Year*"*.............$21.59
JO1159	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice-2nd	Year***............$22,70
JO1158	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice-3rd Year***............ $23.80
JO1157	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice-4th	Year***............$24.91
JOI 211	Electrician Apprentice-1 st Year** *........................ $22.53
J01210 Electrician Apprentice-2 nd Year’**................................$23.69
JD12O9	Electrician Apprentice-3rd Year***.......................... $24.95
JOI 208 Electrician Apprentice-tth Year”*...........:.................... $26.00
JOI 249	Engi fleering Technician Apprentice! st Year* * *............$21.12
J01248	Engineering Technician Apprentice-2rtd Year***...............$22 21
J01247	Engineering Technician Apprentice-3rd Year*”.................$23.29
JOI 246	Engi neering Technicia ri Apprentice-4th Year ’".............$24.37
JO1123	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-1st Year’**...................... $20.27
J01122	Garage Meehan ic Apprent iced Yea r* “.......................$21.31
JO 1121	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-3rd Year’ *"......................$22.35
JO1120	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-4th Year”’......................  $23.39
W JO1125 Garage Mechanic II Apprentice-1st Year’”.................................$19.44
J01124	Garage Mechanic II Apprentice-2nd Year'”...................  $20.35
JO1177	Gas Meter Technician Apprentice-1 st Year”*..................$20.85
JO1176	Gas Meter Technician Apprenbce-2nd Year***...................$21.82
JO1173	Gas Metering Specialist Apprentice-1st Year”*................$22.22
JO1172	Gas Metering Specialist Apprentice-2nd Year* ”...............$23.31
J01171	Gas Metering Specialist Apprentice-3rd Year***...............$24.39
J01241	Gas Technician Apprentice-] st Year*’*.......................$20.63
JOI 242	Gas Technician Apprentice-2nd Year’**........................$21.64
JO1243	Gas Technician Apprentice-3rd Year’*’........................$22.64
JOI 284	Laboratory Technican Apprentice-1 st Yeat (6).............   $22.54
J01138	Line Apprentice-1st Year’**..................................$21.89
JO1137	Line Apprenticed Year"*......................................$23.02
JO1136	Line Apprentice-3rd Year*”.................................  $24.14
JO1135	Line Apprentice-4th Year"*...................................$25.20
‘"Apprentice program rates are based on the maariiTium Journeyman rate:
Four Year	78%— 1st year,	Ind year, 86%—3rdyear, 90%—4th year.
Three Yean	82%—1st year. B6%—Zndyear, SOIL—3rd year.
TwoYeac	86%—Istyear, 9D%—Ind year.
NO.	POSIDON
JO1152	Line Clearance Apprentice-1 st Year**’ ....................$20.94
JO1151	Une Clearance Apprentice-2 nd Year***................................  $21,92
J01344	MaintenanceElectricianApprentice-lstYear*".............................$22.53
J01343	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice-2nd Year*"..........................$23.69
JOI 342	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice-3rd Year"*..........................$24.85
J01341	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice-4th Year***.......................  $26.00
JOI 348	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice-1 St Year*"..$22.53
JOI 347	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice-2nd Year***..$23.69
J01346	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice-3rd Year***..$24.85
JOI 345	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice-4th Year’ **,.$26.00
JD135D	Maint. Instrument and Control Apprentice (RR/NDHst Year"*... $23.69
JOI 349	Maint. Instrument and Control Apprentice IRR/NDt-Znd Year" $24.85
J02843	Maint. instrument and Control Apprentice (RR/ND)-3rd Year*".. $26.00
J01354	Maintenance Technician -	Electrical Apprentice-1 st Year* *'...........$22.99
JOI 353	Maintenance Technician ■	Electrical Apprentice-2nd Year*”.............$24.17
J01352	Maintenance Technician -	Electrical	Apprentice-3rd Year**'.$25.35
JOI 351	Maintenance Technician -	Electrical Apprentice-4th Year***............$26.53
JOI 311	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice-1 st Year (7).$22.07
JOI 310	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprenticed Year (7).... $23.20
JOI 309	Maintenance Technician ■ Mechanical Apprentice-3rd Year |7).... $24.33
J01306	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice-4th Year (7).$25.46
JOI 233	Regulation Technician Apprentice-1 st Year’”...............$21.07
JOI 234	Regulation Technician Apprenticed Year" *..............................$22,09
JOI 235	Regulation Technician Apprentice-3rd Year’*’...........................$23.12
JO1189	Service Technician Apprentice-1 st Year"*..............................$20,58
J01188	Service Technician Apprem ice-Znd Year”"...................$21.54
J01164	Single Phase Meter Apprentice-1st Year’**............................  $20,18
JOI 163	Single Phase Meter Apprenticed Year**......................$21.11
JD1134	Utility Technician Apprentice-1st Year’**............................  $21.65
JO1133	Utility Technician Apprenticed Year* **..............................  $22.65
|6| Rate based at 90% of maximum Journeyman rate, |7) Rate based on the maximum rate for position JOI 312.
- 11/27/04
ARTICLE XXXVII—WAGE SCHEDULE FOR CLERICAL POSITIONS 05/18/03-11/27/04 Field Clerical Positions
ACCOUNTING AND CUSTOMER			(Each step represents a six-month increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.1															
RELATIONS		STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
NO.	POSITION																	
JOI072	Customer Setvice	,	$12.43	$12.94	$13-44	$13.96	$14.30	$14.71	$15.10	$15.47	$15.89	$1527		$1675		$17.28		$17.61	$17.98
J01071	Senior Customer Service Representative"		$19.30	$19.77	$20 26	$20 79	$21.13	$21.43	$21.87	$22.25	$22.57	$22.95	$23.32	$23.67		$24.03			
ENGINEERING																		
J01073	Area Operations Representative ...	$12.43	$1294	$13.44	$1396	$14.30	$14.71	$15.10	$1547	$15.89	$16 2?		$16.75		$17.28		$17 61	$17.98
JO1080	Assistant Project Designer		$14.67	$15.11	$15.52	$15.94	$1637	$16.77	$17.20	$17.64	$1806	$18.46		$18.92		$1932		$19.73	$20.15
JOI081	Map Drafter I		$14.67	$15.18	$15.67	$15.15	$18.52	$16.91	$1728	$17.6?	$18.00	$18.39	$18.76	$1914		$19.73		$20.15	
J01U82	Map Drafter II ‘				$10.78	$11 30	$11.79	$12.31	$12.73	$13.15	$1364	$14.07	$14 54	$15.00	$15.44		$1590		$1637		$17.55
JOI 063	Technical Assistant		$19.31	$19.78	$2028	$20.90	$21.20	$21.60	$21.99	$22.41	$22.61	$23.21	$23.64	$2403		$24.39			
STORES																		
J01075	Area Stores Clerk		$15.39	$15.89	$16.37	$1686	$17.26	$17.67	$18.07	$18.45	$18.92	$1927	$19.68		$20.72		$20.65		
JD1074	Senior Area Stores Clerk 			$20.03	$20 50	$21.00	$2149	$21.89	$22 28	$22.67	$23.07	$23.46	$23 85	$24.30	$24 6?		$25.01			
JOI 077	Sourcing Buyer Assistant		$15.39	$15.89	$163?	$1886	$17.28	$17.67	$18.07	$18.45	$18.92	$1927	$19.69		$20.22		$2061		
J01078	Sourcing Inventory Assistant		$15.39	$15.89	$16.37	$16.86	$17 28	$17 67	$18.07	$18.45	318.92	$19.27	$1968		$20.22		$20.61		
GENERAL																		
JOI084	Clerk 		$11.60	$12.07	$1258	$13.10	$13.47	$13.81	$14.19	$14.58	1114.90	$15.30		$15.74		$16.23		$16.72	$17.19
J01086	Clerk-Stenographer 			$12.00	$12.47	$12.97	$13.4?	$13.81	$14.15	$14.53	$1486	$15.25	$15.61		$16.07		$1653		$17.05	$17.55
"Starting or envy level position ' 'Supervisory Position
Note: Employees on the Union Payroll as at June 1.1387 me exempt from theta three steps ot a clerical position.
General Office Clerical Positions
	ACCOUNTING AND TREASURY				(Each step represents a six-month increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one lull year after step 16-1															
				STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
	NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	J01D06	Accounting Clerk 			$1644	16.96	$17.45	$17.94	$18.33	$1867	$19.02	$19.38	$1973	$20.13	$20.48		$21.09		$2131		
	J01011	Assistant Work Order Technician .		JI 5 22	$1574	$1625	$16-73	$17.11	$17.52	$17.92	$18.33	$18.68	$19.09	$19.46		$20.05		$20.47		
	JOI005	Senior Accounting Clerk				11946	$1999	$20.46	$20 94	$21.33	$21.73	$22.13	$22.53	$22.90	$23.28	$23.67	$24 05		$24.42			
	' J01008	Treasury Clerk 			$16.44	$16.96	$17.45	$17.94	$18.33	$18.67	$19.02	$1936	$1973	$2013	$2046		$21.09		$21.31		
	JC1O10	WorkOrderTechnician 			$2003	$2050	$2100	$21.49	$21 89	$22 2B	$22.67	$23.07	$23.46	$23.85	$24.30	$24 67		$25.01			
	CUSTOMER ACCOUNT!®																			
	J01030	Customer Billing Representative ..		$20 03	$20.50	$21.00	$21.49	$21.89	$2226	$22.65	$2302	$23.38	$23.79	$24.12	$24 52		$24.90			
	JO1028	Lead Remittance Processor** ....		JI 7.09	$17.59	$1608	$18.60	$19.02	$19.46	$19.91	$20.30	$20.75	$21.19	$21.60		$22.23		$22.32		
	JO1029	Remittance Processor 			$12.0)	$12.51	$12.98	$13.49	$1383	$14.19	$1453	$14.66	$15.25	$15.61		$16.07		$16.53		$17.05	$17.55
	DATA PROCESS!®																			
V? in	J01025	Oats Entry Operator 1			$1201	$12.61	$1298	$1349	$13.83	$14.19	$14.53	$1486	$15.25	$1561		$16.07		$16.53		$17.05	$17.55
	J01026	InlwmetionTechnologyOperaWr .	. S	JI 7.37	$17.97	$18,34	$18.66	$1919	$19.61	$19.91	$20.24	$20.59	$20.91	$21.28		$21.92		$22.03		
	JD1D24	Lead Data Entry Operator**			$1652	$17.04	$17.52	$17.99	$18.33	$1860	$18.92	$1919	$19.47	$19.76	$28.09		$20.69		$21 03		
	JO1020	Relief Data Processing Equipment																		
		Operator		. S	$17.37	$17.87	$18.34	$18.86	$19.19	$1951	$1991	$20.24	$20.59	$20.91	$21.28		$21.92		$22.03		
	JOI022	Belief Information Services																		
		Control Clerk 		MS	$13 60	$14.06	$14.58	$15.04	$1551 ■	$15.92	$1636	$16.76	$17.24	$17.61		J18.15		$1869		$18.75	$18.82
	JD1027	Relief information Technology																		
		Operator		. s	$17.37	$17.97	$18.34	$18.86	$1919	$19.51	$19.91	$20.24	$20.59	$20.91	$21.28		$21.92		$22.03		
'"Supervisory Position
- 11/27/04
O)
cd
ENGINEERING
NO. POSmON
J01O47 CADD Technical Support Specialist
ICivill...........................
J01M1 CADO Technical Support Specialist (Electric) ................................
J010S7 CADO Technician I (Civil)... ......
J01036 CADD Technician I (Electric) ......
J01O39 CADO Technician 11 (Chit) ..........
JO 1038 CADO Technician II (Electtic) ...
JO IMO CADD Technician (II................
J01035 Drafter III .......................
JIJ1044 Electric Systems Clerk............
JO1043 Engineering Records Clerk ... .....
J 01052 Geographic Information System and Dispatch Technician ...................
J01051 Geographic Information System
Representative....................
JO2497 Geographic Informalion System Technician ................................
J02499 Lead Geographic Information System Technician**......................S
JOIN? System Protection Technician.........
J01G46 Technical Assistant................
JOINS Transmission Technician.............
HELPDESK
J01O16 Client Service Specialist) ........
J91017 Client Service Specialist II.......
J010I9 Relief Client Service Specialist...
[Each step represents a six-month increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.)																
STEP STEP STEP			STEP 4	STEP 5	STEP 6	STEP STEP		STEP 9	STEP 10	STEP 11	STEP 12	STEP 13	STEP 14	STEP 15	STEP 16	STEP 17
1	2	3				7	8									
$21.95	$22.45	$22.95	$23 43	$2381	$2428	$24.64	$25.04	$2540	$2508	$26 28	$26.69		$26.93			
$27.95	$22.45	$22.95	$23.43	$23.81	$2428	$24.64	$25.04	$25.40	$25.88	$26.28	$26.69		$26.93			
$21.47	$21.97	$22.46	$22.97	$23.36	$23.79	$2417	$24.60	$24.96	$25.3?	$2577	$26.21		$2645			
$21.47	$2197	$22.46	$22.97	$23.36	$2379	$24.17	$24.60	$24.95	$2537	$25.77	$26.21		$26.45			
$19.43	$1993	$26.42	$20.91	$21.31	$21.72	$2213	$22.53	$22.90	$23.29	$2368	$24.08		$24.46			
$19.43	S19S3	$2342	$20.91	$21.31'	$21.72	$22.13	$22.53	$2280	$23.29	$23.68	$24®		$24.46			
$1503	$15.53	$16-02	$1652	$16.91	$17.23	$17.62	$18.06	$1844	$18.82	$19.19		$1977		$20.18		
$15.03	$15.53	$16.02	$16.52	$1691	$17.28	$17.62	$18.06	$18.44	$18.82	$19.19		$19.77		$2018		
$1492	$15.36	$1582	$16.27	$18.72	$17.17	$17 52	$1807	$1853	$18.97	$19.41		$1905		$2035		
$14.58	$15.04	$15.57	$16.06	$16.43	$16.82	$17.25	$17.61	$1801	$18.40	$10.82		$19.38		$19.92		
$19.31	$1978	S2D.Z8	$20.80	$21.20	$21.60	$21.99	$22.41	$22.81	$23 21	$23.64	$24.03		$2439			
$14 58	$15.04	$15.57	$16.06	$16.43	$16.02	$1725	$17.61	$18.01	$18.40	S1B82		$19.38		$1992		
$19.31	$1978	$20.28	$20.80	$21.20	$21.60	32199	$22.41	R2.81	$23.21	$23 54	$24.03		$24.39			
$21.19	$21.64	$22-13	$22.67	$23.07	$23.46	$23.85	$24.29	$24.67	$25.08	$25.49	$25.88		$26.24			
$20.03	$20.50	$21.80	$21.49	$2188	$22.28	$22.67	$23.07	S2346	$23.85	$24.30	$2467		$25.01			
$19.31	$19.78	$20.28	$2080	$21.20	$21.60	521,99	$22.41	$22.81	$23.21	$23.54	$24.03		$24.39			
$21.19	$21.65	$22.16	$22.64	$23.07	$23.42	$23.83	$24.18	1124.64	$25.02	$2539	$25.78		$2612			
$1914	$19.65	$23.09	$20.52	$20.97	$21.44	$21.86	$22.32	$22.77	$2323		$23.76					
$1744	$17.93	$18.39	113.86	$19.28	$19.70	$20.11	$20.53	$20.94	$2137	$21.82		$22.55		$22.66		
$1914	$19.65	$20®	$20.52	$2097	$21.44	$2186	$2232	$22.77	$23.23		$23 76					
"Supervisory Position
Wole: Employees on the Union Payroll as of June 1,1987 are exempt from the first three steps of a clerical position.
MAI CENTER		STEP 1 $1645 514.29	(Each step represents a six-month increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.)															STEP 17
			STEP STEP		STEP STEP STEP			STEP STEP STEP			STEP 10 $21.46 $1872	STEP STEP		STEP 13	STEP STEP STEP			
	NO. POSTDON JC2879 Lead Mail Center Coordinator" ... 301063 Mail Center Coordinator 			2 $17.14 $1480	3 $17.59 $15.30	4 $1827 $15.79	5 $1874 $1630	6 $1942 $16.75	7 $19.88 $17.26	8 $2033 $17.73	9 J2I.02 $18.27		11	12 $22.15 $19.30		14 $22.85 $19.81	15	16	
	MATERIALS MANAGEMENT AND																	
	FUEL SERVICES																	
	JOI033 Materials Management Clerk 		$1236	$1285	$1337	$1366	$14.38	$14.91	$15.44	$1597	J16.52	$17.07		$17.58		$18.10		$1824	$1835
	J01034 Senior Fuel Services Clerk		$15.27	$15.74	$16.25	$15.73	$1711	$17.5?	$17.92	$18.33	$18.68	$19.09	$19.46		(20.05		$2047		
	REALESTATE																	
	JOI 070 Real Estate Technical Assistant ....	$17.80	$1827	$18.69	$19.12	$19.54	$20.00	$2041	$20.64	$21.27	$21.69	$22.11	$22.55		$22.99			
	RECORDS																	
	JOI 054 Records Clerk		$12.01	$12.51	$12.98	$13.49	$13.63	$14.19	$14.53	$14.86	$1525	(15.61		$16.07		$16.53		$1705	$17.55
	JOI 053 Senior Records Clerk 		$16.58	$17.09	$17.58	$19.07	$1844	$18.80	$19.14	$1949	$1984	$20 20	$20.57		$21.21		$21.41		
	SHAREOWNER SERVICES																	
	JOI 004 Shareowner Services Representative	$13.67	$1419	$14.65	$15.15	$15.57	$15.95	$16.37	$16.77	$17.20	$17.61	$10.07		$18.62		$19.16		$19.32
	MISCELLANEOUS																	
	J01069 Administrative Services Clerk 		$12.01	$1251	$12.98	$13.49	$13.93	$14.19	$1453	$14 86	$15.25	$15.61		$16.07		$1653		$17.05	$17.55
	J01065 Clerk		$12.01	$12.51	$12.98	$1349	$13.63	$14.19	$14.53	$14.86	$15.25	$15.61		$16.07		$16.53		$17 05	$17.55
	J0106B Corporate Receptionist 		$12.01	$12.51	$12.98	$13.49	$13.83	$14.19	$1453	$14.66	$15.25	$15.61		$16.07		$1653		S17.1K	$17.55
	J01023 Document Management Technician	$16.86	$1737	$17.87	$1834	$18.72	$19.14	$1955	$20.03	$2041		$21.02		$21.23				
	J01060 Graphics Technician 1		$14.92	$15.41	$15.92	$16.41	$1633	$17.38	$17.90	$18.36	$18.8?	$19.37		$1997		(20.37			
	JOt 059 Graphics Technician II 		$13.67	$14.19	$14.65	$15.15	$15.64	$16.13	$1663	$17.09	$17 59	$18.07		$18.62		$19.16		$1825	$19.32
	J03G34 Lead Graphics Technician' * 		$17.61	$18 27	$18.73	$1917	$19.61	$20 06	$20.51	$20.95	$2139		$2207		$22.29				
	J01067 Stenographer-Receptionist 		$12.39	$12.89	$13 30	$13.87	$14.26	$14.6?	$1500	$15.36	$15.70	$16.08		$1656		$1706		$17.45	$17.8?
	J01064 Word Processor-Operator 		$1201	$1251	$12.96	$1349	$13.63	$14.19	$14.53	$14.86	$1525	(15,61		$16.07		$16.53		$17.05	$17.55
	"Supervisory position																	
Tl
li
/28/04 - 11/26/05
ARTICLE XXXVI—WAGE SCHEDULE FOR PHYSICAL POSITIONS 11/28/04-11/26/05
	ENGINEERING				(Each step represents a six-month increment)						
				STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
	NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	J01245	Engineering Technician			 N	$25.98	$26.49	$26.93	$27.40	$27.96			
	JOI 246 J01249	Engineering Technician Apprentice 					I Sea Apprentice Schedule)							
	J01244	Lead Engineering Technician" 				 N	$25.83	$2671	$27.58	$28.41	$29.37			
	GARAGE										
	J0111S	Garage Mechanic			 N	$25.72	$26.'<0	$26.50		$26.83			
	JO1116	Garage Mechanic (Evening) 			 N	$2572	$26.10	$2650		$26.83			
	JO1120-J01123	Garage Mechanic Apprentice			(See Apprentice Schedule)							
0)	J01117	Garage Mechanic Helper			 N	$17.91	$18.56	$19.23	$1990	$20.23	$20 75		$21.32
00	J01119	Garage Mechanic Helper (Evening! 		;.		 N	$17.91	$18.56	$19.23	$19.90	$20.23	$20.75		$21.32
	JO1112	Garage Mechanic (I			 N	$22.36	$22.69	$23.02		$23.34			
	J01118	Garage Parts Storekeeper				 N	$22.03	$22.58	$23.10	$23.65	$23.95-	$24.48		$24.88
	J01113	Master Garage Mechanic**.. i			 N	$27.54	$27.81	$28.08		$28.67			
	J0H14	Master Garage Mechanic (Evening)**							 N	$27.54	$27.81	$28.08		$28.67			
	GAS AND WATER										
	J01239	Chief Corrosion Technician**			 hl	$28.00	$28.30	$28.88		$29.17			
	JOI 240	Chief Conrosion Technician - Welding** (11			 N	$28.52	$28.82	$29.40		$29.69			
	JOI 228	Chief Gas Technician (Large Crewl"			 N	$28.46	$28.74	$29.34		$29.64			
	JOI 229	Chief Gas Technician (Large Crew) ■ Welding “ {2)			 N	$28.98	$29.23	$29.86		$30.16			
"Supervisory position
(11 Raia established above rata lor J01239 by amount of welding premiom.
(2| Rate established alm rale for JOI 228 by amount of welding premium.
GAS AND WATER IconL)	(Each step represents a six-month incnmant)
STEP STEP STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	POSmON	12	3 J81230	Chief Gas Technician [Small Crew}" 	 N	$28.00	$28.30	$28.88 J0123T	Chief Gas Technician (Small Crew) • Welding" (31 	 N	$28.52	$28 82	$29.40 J01238	Gas Technician 	 N	$24 95	$25.20	$25.72 JO1237	GasTechnician-Welding	 N	$26.02	$26.57	$26.83 J01241-J01243	Gas Technician Apprentice	  (See	Apprentice Schededule) J01236	lead Regulation Technician’*	 N	$27.22	$27.51	$28.07 J01232	Regulation Technician 	  N	$25.19	$2573	$25.99 J01233 J01235	Regulation Technician Apprentice	 (See	Apprentice Schedule) WE AND RELATED J01149	Chief Line Clearance Technician" 	 N	$26.83 $27.15 $27.58 J01129	Chief Line Technician (Small Crawl" 	 N oj J01T4T	Heavy-Duty Earth Borer Operator	 N	$22.02	$22.57 $23.09	4 $30.58 $23.63	5 $29.17 $29.69 $25.96 $27,10 $28.35 $26.52 $28.03 $23.88	6 $24.39	7	8 $24.82
«	J01154	infrared Technician	 N	$24.53 $25.08 $25.66	$26.14	$26.68	$27.24		$27.75
J03783	Lead Une Technician 	 N	$30.75	$31.18 J01135-J01138	Une Apprentice    	 (See	Apprentice Schedule) J01151-JO1152	Line Clearance Apprentice	 (See	Apprentice Schedule) J02849	Une	Clearance Specialist	 N	$27.36	$27.68	$28.07 J01150	Une	Clearance Technician 	 N	$23.88	$24.08	$24.67 JO1153	Une Clearance Truck Operator	 N	$19.43	$19.98	$20.48	$31.56 $21.03	$28.60 $25.14 $21.22	$21.65		$21.91
J01130	line Crewleader" 	   N	$29.15	$29.48 J01139	Line Equipment Operator 	 N	$21.50	$22.00	$22.54	$29.84 $23.06	$23.37	$23.68		$23.98
"Supervisory position
|3) Rate established above rate for JOI 230 try amount of welding premium.
Note: Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1, 1982 who fill s tartfentry level physical posit ions are exempt from the firs t three (3) steps.
Employees rm the Union payroll as of June 1.1SH7 who till physical positions other than startfentry level or journeyman positions are exempt from the first three |3) steps
PHYSICAL 11/28/04 - 11/26/05
UNE AW RELATED (Conti				(Each step represents a six-month increment)						
			STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
JOU 42	Line Patroller					 N	$22.22	$22.75	$23,20	$23.80	$24.32	$24.77		$25.12
J01131	Line Technician				 N	$2806	$2852		$28.98				
J01140	Line Truck Operator				 N	$20.86	$21.42	$21.95	$22.46	$22.74	$23.06		$23.27
JOI 145	Local Representative (Electric)** 			 N	$28.74	$29.03	$29.25		$29.58			
JOI146	Local Representative (Gas & Electric)*’ (4|			 N	$29.17	$29.47	$29.69		$30.02			
JOI148	Local Service Gas Representative" 				 N	$27.54	$27.91	$28.29		$28.68			
J01147	Local Service Representative"				 hl	$27.54	$27.91	$28.29		$28.68			
JO1143	Trouble and Service Technician (Electric)			 hl	$28.19	$28.77		$28.98				
J01144	Trouble and Service Technican (Gas & Electric) (4) 				...... N	$28.61	$29.20		$29.41				
JOI 132	Utility Technician 			 N	$2521	$25.60		$25.99				
J01133-J01134	Utility Technician Apprentice			(See Apprentice Schedule)							
O METERMG										
JO1161	Chief Electric Meter Technician** 			 N	$28.68	$29.23	$29.67		$30.19			
JO1155	Electric Meter Technician			...... ■ N	$27.36	$27 55	$27.96		$28.58			
JO1157-JOI 1B0	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice 				ISee Apprentice Schedule)							
JO1175	Gas Meter Technician				...... N	S24.31	$24 54	$24.82		$25.03			
JOI 176-J01177	Gas Meter Technician Apprentice			(See Apprentice Schedule)							
J01169	Gas Metering Specialist**				 N	$26.48	$26.98	$27.46		$27.98			
J01171-J01173	Gas Metering Specialist Apprentice 			(See Apprentice Schedule)							
J0117D	GasMeteringSpecialist-Welding** 			 N	$26.92	$27.15	$2738		$27.67			
JO1174	Instrument and Meter Repair Technician			 N	$26.48	$26.71	$26.94		$27.69			
"Supervisory position
(4| Rate is established at 1.5% above the rate shown tot electric position.
Mote: Employ ees on the Union pay roll as of June 1.1902 who fill stari/entry level physical positions are exempt from the first three |3| steps.
Emptoyset on the Union paptill as ofJune 1,1987 who fill physical positions other than start/entry level a journeyman positions are erempt from the first three (3) steps.
METERING (coot)
NO. posmoN J01156	Lead Electric Meter Technician ........................... N
JOI 163-J01164 Single Phase Meter Apprentice...............................
J01162	Single Phase Meter Tester................................. N
JO1178	Water Meter Technician.................................... N
SERVICE
JO1179	Lead Service Techn ician * *.............................. N
JQ2476	Service and Relief Dispatcher ............................ N
JO119O	Service Dispatcher........................................ N
JOT 181	Service SpecialisttGas & Electric).......................  N
J01183	Service Technician ....................................    N
JOT 188-J01189 Service Technician Apprentice	'...........................
JO1184	Service Worker...........................................  N
STORES
J01197	Area	Stores	Equipment Operator ............... N
J01196	Area	Stores	Material Handier ................. N
J01199	Area	Stores	Semi-Truck Driver................. N
JO12GO Area Stores Truck - Crane Operator.....................:............. N
JO1198	Area	Stores Truck Driver.................................   N
J01195	Chief Area Storekeeper** .................................. N
JO1194	Chief Area Storekeeper (Large Crewl**..................... N
JOI 204	Chief Plant Material Handler'* .......................... hl
J01193	lead Area Stores Material Handler lEverimg)'* ............. N
JO1192	Local Material Coordinator................................. N
(Each step represents a sot-month increment)							
STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
$28.53	$28.72	$29.16 (See Apprentice Schedule! $23.34	$23.59	$23.80 $22.34	$22.88	$23.39			$23.94	$29.89 $24.22 $24.27	$24.50		$25.03
$29.21 $20.45	$29.62 $20.99	$21.62	$30.03 $22.14	$22.46	$22.87		$23.07
$18.50	$18.99	$19.56	$20.04	$2032	$20.68		$20.87
$27.03 $27.41 $24.04	$24.39 (See Apprentice Schedule! $20.52 $20.96 $21.39			$27.82 $24.71 $21.63	$22.26	$22.69		$23.13
$21.27	$21.81	$22.32	$22.83	$23.12	$23.44		$23.64
$19.43	$19.98	$2048	$21.03	$21.27	$21.65		$21.94
$21.82	$22.34	$22.85	$23.39	$23.82	$23.97		$24.36
$22.69	$23.20	$23.76	$24.27	$24.53	$25.07		$25.39
$19.78	$20.33	$20.84	$21.36	$21.79	$21.96		$22.33
$25.43	$25.96	$26.49	$26.99	$27.41	$27.62		$28.10
$26.20	$26.69	$27.14	$27.61	$28.05	$28.52		$28.98
$22.94	$23.39	$23.94	$24.51	$25.03	$25.56		$26.11
$20.51	$21.07	$21.62	$22.19	$22.43	$22.84		$23.14
$22.03	$22.58	$2310	$23.65	$23.96	$24.48		$24.88
'Supervisory position
SUBSTATION CONSTRUCTIONS MAINTENANCE				(Each step represents a six-month increment)						
			STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	rosmoN		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
J01213	Chief Concrete Technician" 			 N	$24.63	$25.17	$25.71	$26.19	$26.73	$26.96		$27.50
J01206	Chief Electrician M 			 N	$31.58	$32.01		$32.46				
JOI 205	Electric Equipment Maintenance Specialist**		..... N	$31.36	$31.78	$32.19		$32.48			
JOI 207	Electrician					 N	$28.90	$29.35		$29.63				
J01208-J01211	Electrician Apprentice				(See Apprentice Schedule)							
J01212	Electrician's Helper			 N	$19.61	$20.1*	$20.68	$21.18	$21.54	$21.89		$22.13
J01214	Filtering Equipment Operator	j			 N	$22.12	$22 63	$23.17	$23.72	$23.98	$24.53		$25.07
J01215	Heavy Trailer-Truck Driver 			 N	$22.89	$2340	$23.95	$24.48	$24.82	$25.32		$25-66
J01216	Truck-Crane Operator IHeavy Duty) 		..... N	$22.89	$23.40	$23.95	$24.48	$24.82	$25.32		$25-66
SUBSTATION OPERATION										
J01218	Chief Water Works Operator ... i.					 N/S	$25.96	$26.4'1	$26.99	$27.55	$27.83	$28.31		$28.68
J01221	Dispatcher				N/S	$22.39	$22.92	$23.46	$23.97	$24.29	$24.55		$24.89
' J01217	Dispatcher 8 Substation Maintenance Inspector 			N/S	$23.30	$23.85	$24.39	$24.89	$25.25	$25.45		$25.90
J01225	Distribution Center Dispatcher			 S	$22.39	$22.92	$23.46	$23.97	$24.29	$24.55		$24.B8
J01223	Maintenance & Relief Substation Operator (Ripon)		.... N/S	$23.30	$23.85	$24.39	$24.89	$25.25	$25.45		$25.90
J01226	Substation & Combustion Turbine Maintenance									
	Inspector & Operator 			N/S	$23.53	$24.12	$24.63	$25.17	$25.52	$25.72		$26.15
J01222	Substation 8 Water Works Operator | Ri pan)			N/S	$22.39	$22.92	$23.46	$23.97	$24.29	$24.55		$24.88
J01219	Substation Maintenance Inspector 8 Relief Dispatcher ..		N/S	$23.30	$23.85	$2439	$2439	$25.25	$25.45		$2590
JOI 224	Tool a nd Equ ipment Coordi nator 			 N	$22.19	$22.64	$23.09	$23.55	$24.04	$24.50		$24.91
"Supervisory position
Note: Employees on We Union payroll as ol June 1.1982 who f il stony entry level [ivsital positions are exempt from the first three (3| steps
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1,188/ who fill physical positions other than start/entry level a journeyman positkxis are exempt from the first three 131 steps.
nmscaLANEOUS				(Each step represents a six-month increrrwnt}						
			STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	postdon		1	2	3	4	S	6	7	8
JOI 250	8uilding Custodian I* 		.. N	$15.34	$16.03 $14.28	$16.65	$17.29	$17.49	$17.86		$18.09
JOI 251	Building Custodian ir		.. N	$13.61		$14.91	$15.58	$15.74	$16.03		$16.39
JOI 259	Customer Field Representative		.. N	$1969	$20.21 $15.67 $16.47	$20.74	$21.27	$21.65	$21.94		$22.20
JOI 257	Laborer" 		.. N	1500		$16.30	$16.94 $17.76	$17.32	$17.76		$18.09
JOI 256	Laborer Semi-Skilled"		.. N	$15.81		$17.13		$10.16	$18.59		$18.96
• JOI 260	Meter Reader 		.. N	$15.51	$16.47	$17.42	$17.86	$1018	$18.43		$18.65
JOI 256	Senior Customer Field Representative**		.. N	$22.24	$22.64	$23.04	$23.44	$23.83	$24.22		$24.63
JOI 253	Utility Laborer			.. N	$15.81	$16.47	$17.13	$17.76	$18.16	$18.59	$18.96	$19.53
JOI 252	Utility Operator		.. N	$18.67	$19.40	$20.12	$20.85	$21.57	$22.30	$23.02	$23.76
JOI 254	Utility Worker'A"		.. N	$19.19	$18.92	$19.64	$20.37	$21.10	$21.66	$22.41	$23.13
JOI 265	Utility Worker'S*'...		.. N	$15.81	$16.47	$17.13	$17.76	$18.16	$18.59	$18.96	$19.53
_ PLANT POSTDONS-FUELS										
<*>	JD1273	Equipment Operator-Fuels 		.. N/S	$24.18	$24.78	$25.34	$25.85	$26.23	$26.62		$27.03
J03663	Lead Ash Site Operator"*		.. N/S	$26.50	$27.12	$27.65	$28.24	$28.57	$29.01		$29.44
JOI 271	LeadEquipmentOperator-Fuels”		.. N/S	$26.50	$27.12	$27.65	$28.24	$28.57	$29.01		$29.44
JOI 272	Relief Equipment Operator - Fuels		.. N/S	$24.71	$25.30	$25.90	$26.43	$2681	$27.22		$27.63
OPERATING JOI 267	Combustion Turbine Technician		.. N	$26.83	$27.29	$27.72	$28.17	$28.61	$29.06		$29.83
JOI 270	Equipment Operator ■ Operations		.. S	$24.18	$24.78	$25.34	$25.85	$26.23	$26.62		$27.03
JD1266	Master Combustion Turbina Technician**		.. N	$30.60	$31.01	$31.42		$31.82			
JD2B46	Master Unit Operator - (Small Steam Plant)*’ 		.. S	$29.98	$30.39	$30.79		$31.19			
J02B47	Master Unit Operator - (Small Steam Plant - Licensed)"		.. S	$30.53	$30.93	$31.34		$31.75			
JOI 268	Plant Equipment Operator., 		.. S	$26.04	$26.57 $27.09	$27.17	$27.70	$28.27	$28.48		$28.99
J01269	Plant Equipment Operator ■ {Licensed) |5) 		.. S	$26.56		$27.69	$28.22	$28.79	$29.00		$29.51
'Starting or entry level position "Supervisory position (51 Rate established aim the rate fa JOI 268 try $0.52 premfan amount.
	OPERATING (coot.)			(Each step represents a six-month increment)							
	NO. JOI 274 J01265 J01263 J01264	rosmoN Plant Stores Helper	 Relief Unit Operator 	 Unit Operator (Large Steam Plant] 	 Unit Operator (Small Steam Plant)		N S S S	STEP 1 $19.43 $27.17 $27.17 $26.04	STEP 2 $1998 $27.73 $27.73 $26 57	STEP 3 $20,48 $28.29 $28.29 $27.17	STEP 4 $21.03 $28.82 $28.82 $27.70	STEP 5 $2127 $2915 $2915 $28.27	STEP 6 $21.65 $29.50 $29.50 $28.46	STEP 7	STEP 8 $21.94 $29.92 $29.92 $28.99
	MAMTE NANCE										
	J01316	Maintenance Electrician 		N	$2849	$28.85	$29 43		$29 83			
	J01315	Maintenance Electrician (Evening)	 		N	$28.49	$28.85 Apprentice S7RK5	$2943		$29.83			
	J01341-JO1344	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice 	 			(Sea) S2849		Schedule! S7943					
	JOI 321	Maintenance Instrument and Control	 		N					$29.83			
	J01345-J01348	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice			(See Apprer tice Schedule 1							
	JOI 322	Maintenance Instrument and Control (Nelson Oewey/Rock River)		N	$28.49	$28.85	$29.43		$29.83			
	J01349-J01350	Maintenance Instrument and Control IRR/NO) Apprentice -1 st & 2nd Yr		(See Apprentice Schedule)							
	J02843	Maintenance Instrument and Control IflR/NDI Apprentice - 3rd Year...		(See Apprentice Schedule)							
	JO1317	Maintenance Technician - Electrical 		N	$29.06	$29.44	$30.00		$30.44			
	J01351-J01354	Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprentice			(Sen Annrertice Schedule!							
	JO1323	Maintenance Technician ■ Electrical IColumbia/Hydros)		N	$29.06	$2944	$30 00		$39.44			
	J01318	Maintenance Technician - Electrical (Evening Crew) 		N	$29.06	$29.44	$30.00		$30.44			
	J01313	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical 		N	S27 55	$27 91	S7Bm		$28.67			
	J01308-J01311	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice 					(See Apprentice Schedule!							
	JOI 325	Maintenance Technician-Mechanical (Evening! 		N	$27.55	$27.91	$29.33		$28.67			
	JOI 327	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Night) 		N	$27.55	$27.91	$28.33		$28.67			
	JOI 312	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical - Welding 		N	$2802	$28,38	$28.83 $28.83		$29 21			
	JOI 324	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical - Welding (Evening) 		N	$28.02	$28.38			$29.21			
Note: Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1982 who fill start/entry level fhysiral positions are exempt from the first three (31 steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1,198? who fill physical positions other than statt/erdry level«journeyman positions are exempt tram the first three (31 steps.
MAINTENANCE (CONT.)				(Each step represents a six-month increment)						
				STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP STEP	STEP
	NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	6
	J01326	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical - Welding INight} 		N	$20.02	$28.39	$28.83		$29.21		
	J01306	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical/Combustion Turbine Technician	N	$26.92	$27.40	$27.88	$28.33	$28.80	$29.26	$29.71
	JOI 291	Master Maintenance Electrician" 		N	$30.74	$31.09	$31.62		$32.01 .		
	J01295	Master Maintenance Electrician (Evening)” 		N	$30.74	$31.09	$31.62		$32.01		
	J01288	Master Maintenance Instrument and Control”		N	$30.74	$31.08	$31.62		$32.01		
	JOI 287	Master Maintenance Instrument and Control IND/RRJ” 		N	$30.74	$31.08	$31.62		$32.01		
	J01294	Master Maintenance Technician (Rock Riverl”		N	$31.16	$31.51	$32.06		$32.46		
	J01292	Master Maintenance Technician - Electrical" ’ 		N	$31.16	$31.51	$32.06		$32.46		
	JOI 296	Master Maintenance Technician - Electrical (Evening Crewl* * 		N	$31.16	$31.51	$32.06		$32.46		
	J01286	Master Maintenance Technician- Mechanics I ILarge Crew)* “ 		N	$30.92	$31.35	$31.76		$32.17		
	J01299	Master Maintenance Technician'- Mechanical (Large Crew) (Evening! ”	N	$30.92	$31.35	$31.76		$32.17		
	J01301	Master Maintenance Technician-MechanicallLarge Crew) {Night)" * .	N	$30.92	$31.35	$31.76		$32.17		
	J01285	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crew) - Welding”	N	$31.39	$31.77	$32.29		$32.72		
UI	J01296	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crew) -								
		Welding lEvening)*"		N	$31.39	$31.77	$32.29		$32.72		
	JOI 300	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical ILarge Crew)-								
		Welding (Nightl**	 /		N	$31.39	$31.77	$32.29		$32.72		
	J01290	Master Maintenance Technician-Mechanics) ISmal) Crew)” 	 .	N	$29.75	$30.16	$3049		$31.24		
	J01303	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) (Evening)"'	N	$29.75	$30.16	$30.48		$31.24		
	J01305	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) (Night)” .	N	$29.75	$30.16	$30.48		$31.24		
	JO1209	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) - Welding”	N	$30.35	$30.79	$31.09		$31.81		
	J01302	Master Maintenance Technician • Mechanical (Small Crew) ■								
		Welding (Evening)""		*...	N	$30.35	$30.79	$31.09		$31 81		
	J01304	Master Maintenance Technician ■ Mechanical (Small Crew) -								
		Welding INight)*"			N	$30.35	$30.79	$31.09		$31.61		
''Supervistry position
co
RESULTS - LABORATORY
(Each step icpt manto a sbr-month increment)
	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP STEP
NO.	POSITION J01280-J01262 Laboratory & instrument Control Apprentice	 J012B3	Laboratory Technician 	 J01284	Laboratory Technician Apprentice 	 JOT 27 7	Mast er Laborato ry Technic ian’ ‘  		1	2	3 		(See Apprentice Schedule! 	 N S24.77 $2512 $25.51 		(See Apprentice Schedule) N $27.31	$27.64 S2B.03			4	5 $25.85 $28.42	6	7	8
HYDRO PLANTS							
J01357	Chief Hydro Mechanic (POS-KIL)” 			 N $27.96	$28.50	$29.01	$29.56	$29.94	$30.33	$30.75
JO 1360	Chief Hydra Mechanic - Welding (POS-KH.)** ..				 hl $28.67	$29.22	$29.74	$30.31	$30.72	$31.11	$3154
J01355	Maintenance Operator Technician (PDS-KIL) 			 N/S $24.63	$25.17	$25.71	$25.19	$26.60	$27.03	$27.42
JOI 356	Maintenance Operator Technician - Welding (PDS-KIL)			 N/S $25.21	$25.72	$26.25	$26.78	$27.18	$27.61	$28.00
MISCELLANEOUS							
JD1261	Planner/Schedoler				 N $27.28	$27.81	$28.35	$28.90	$29.51	$29.96	$30.45
J01262	Plant Safety Coordinator				 N $25.52	$26.09	$26.59	$27.14	$27.46	$27.90	$28.29
’'Supervisory position
Note: Employees w the Inion payroll as of June 1.1382 who lilt starVenuy Ie vei physicai posit ices are exempt from the fit st three (3| st-'ps
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1987 who fill physical positions other than stan/entiy level or journeyman positions ae exempt from the first three (3) steps.
BUUNNG		General Office • 		  N 	  N	Physical Positions							
			STEP 1 $10.75 $16.75	(Each step represents a six-month increment)						STEP 8 $19.21 $19.21
				STEP 2 $17.26 $17.26	STEP 3 $17.80 $17.80	STEP 4 $18.31 $18.31	STEP 5 $18.60 $18.60	STEP 6 $18.92 $18.92	STEP 7	
NO. JOI127 JOI 126	POSIDON General Office Materials Handler* 		 General Office Services Worker*												
ENGBtEHING JOI109	Electrical Protective Equipment Technician*	*	  N	$25.25	$25.76	$26.29	$26.85	$27.31	$27.81		$28.02
JOI108	Electrical Protective Equipment Tester....		 N	$24,73	$25.27	$25.77	$26.30	$26.83	$27.29		$27.54
J01106	Electrical Technician						  N	$29.86	$30.40	$30.90	$31.44	$31.77	$32.22		132,62
JO2848	Lead Relay and Electrical Technician		 N	$31.51	$32.09	$32.63	$33.17	$33.54	$34.01		$34.42
JQ11O5	Meter laboratory Technician 					  N	$27.55	$28.06	$28.63	$29.15	$29.56	$29.84		$30.38
J01107	■	Relay Technician						  N	$29.22	$29.77	$30.31	$30.82	$31.24	$31.75		$32.16
JOI101	Surveyor I" 						 N	$27.00	$27.61	$28.10	$28.67	$29.26	$29.71		$30.19
JOI102	Surveyor II..						  hl	$22.78	$23.30	$23.85	$24.39	$24.82	$25.14		$25.42
J01103	Surveyor Aid!					  N	$19.59	$20-10	$20.65	$21.15	$21.56	$21.91		$22.13
J01104	Surveyor Aid II								   N	$17.07	$17.61	$18.12	$18.65	$18.95	$19.33		$19.48
FORMS - SHIPPING AND RECEIVING J01098	Forms Shipping and Receiving Worker,...			i...	 N	$16.75	$17.10	$17.46	$1781	$16.16	$18.51	$18.86	$19.21
LOAD DISPATCHING J0H10	Load Dispatcher	■.				 S	$30,79	$31.32	$31.84	$32.37	$32.62	$33.01		$33.50
J01111	SOC Control Technician					 N/S	$27.15	$27.66	$28.21	$28.74	$29.19	$29.56		$29,94
‘Starting or entry level positron
‘Supervisory position
	MAIL SERVICES				(Each step represents a abr-month incrament)						STEP 8 $204 f $23.05 $22.46 $22.46
	NO. J01100 J01O99 JOI 092 JOW93	posmoN Automated Mail Processor	 Lead Automated Mail Processor” 		 Courier Ormer’ 	■-	 Relief Courier Driver*						 N 	 N 	 N 		 N	STEP 1 $15.10 $17.65 $19.59 $19.59	STEP 2 $16.12 $18.67 $20.26 $20.26	STEP 3 $17.06 $19.64 $20.06 $20.86	STEP 4 $17.98 $20.55 $21.53 $21.53	STEP 5 $18.89 $21.42 $21.79 $21.79	STEP 6 $19.29 $22.30 $22.22 $22.22	STEP 7 $19.89 $22.95	
	PRINTING SERVICES JO1097	Bindery Operator	 JOI 094	Lead Offset Press Operator”	 JOI 095	Offset Press Operator 1	 J Cl 1096	Offset Press Operator II  				 N 	 N 	 N 	 hl	$13.27 $17.65 $15.99 $15.10	$14.03 $1845 $16 79 $1612	$14.78 $19.25 $17.61 $17.06	$15.52 $20.06 $18.42 $17.98	$1627 $20.86 $19.21 $16.89	$17.02 $21.66 $20.02 $19.29	$17.76 $22.46 $20.83 $19.89	$1851 $23.28 $21.63 $20.41
00	TELECOMMUNICATIONS J 01091	Telecommunications Technician 				 N	$24.96	$25.47	$26.03	$26.55	$27.09	$27.62		$2821
‘Starting or Bitty level position **Supaviswy position
Note: Employees on the Union payroll as of Jure !, 1362 who fill start/endy level physical positions are exeiitpf from die first three (3) steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as ttf June 1.1981 who fill physical posit i wrs o then t han start/en try level or journeyman positions <*e estempl from the first three (3| steps.
APPRENTICE SCHEDULE
	NO.	posmoN		NO.	posmoN	
	J01160	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice-1st Year***			$22.29	JO1152	Une Clearance Apprentice-1st Year"*		. $21.62
	J011B9	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice-2nd Year***			$23.44	J01151	Line Clearance Apprentice-2nd Year*’*			.$22.63
	JOI 158	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice-3rd Year***					 $24.58	J01344	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice-1 st Year*"					.. $23.27
	J01157	Electric Meter Technician Apprsntice-4th Year*'*			$25.72	J01343	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice-2nd Year’**			. $24.46
	J01211	Electrician Apprentice-1st Year"*							$23.27	J01342	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice-3rd Year’** 				..$25.65
	JOI 210	Electrician Apprentice-2nd Year***			$24.46	J01341	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice-4th Year*’*		.. $26.85
	J01209	Electrician Apprentice-3rd Year***							 $25.65	J01348	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice-1 st Year***		.. $23.27
	J01208	Electrician Apprentice-4 th Year***			$26.85	J01347	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice-2nd Year*"....	.. $24.46
	J01249	Engineering Technician Apprentice-1 st Year** ’				$21.81	J01346	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice-3td Year*"....	.$25.65
	JOI 249	Engineering Technician Apprentice-2nd Year***			$22.93	J01345	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice-4th Year*".....	.. $2685
	J01247	Engineering Technician Apprentice-3rd Year*’*			$24.06	J01350	Maint Instrument and Control Apprentice (RH/ND)-lst Year"’..	. $24.46
	J01246	Engineering Technician Apprentice-4th Year***			$25.16	J01349	Mai nt. Instrument and Control Apprentice (Rfi/ND)-2nd Year*",	.. $25.65
	JOI123	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-1 st Year* * ’			$2093	J02843	Maint. Instrument and Control Apprentice (RR/NOJ^rd Year*”	..$26.85
	JO1122	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-2nd Year***					$22.00	J01354	Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprentice-1 st Year’**			.. $23.74
	J01121	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-3rd Year"*			$23.07	J01353	Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprentice-2nd Year***		. $24.96
	J01120	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-4th Year*’*			$24.15	J01352	Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprentice-3rd Year***		. $26.18
to	J01125	Garage Mechanic II Apprentice-1 st Year***				$20.07	J01351	Maintenance Technician ■ Electrical Apprentice-4th Year***		..$27.40
	JOI 124	Garage Mechanic II Apprentice-2nd Year’”				 $21.01	J01311	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice-1st Year (7)....	. $22.78
	J01177	Gas Meter Technician Apprentice-1st Year***			$21.53	JO1310	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice-2nd Year (7)...	.. $23.96
	J01176	Gas Meter Technician Apprentice-2nd Year**’			$22	53-	J01309	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice-3rd Year (7)...	. $25.12
	JOI173	Gas Metering Specialist Apprentice-1 st Year’**.....			$22.94	J01308	Maintenance Technician ■ Mechanical Apprentice-4th Year (7)...	...$26.20
	J01172	Gas Metering Specialist Apprentice-2nd Year***				$24.06	J01233	Regulation Technician Apprentice-1st Year*’ *		..$21.75
	JO1171 ■	Gas Metering Specialist Apprentice-3rd Year***					 $25.18	J01234	Regulation Technician Apprenticed Year"*			.. $22.81
	J01241	Gas Technician Apprentice-1 st Year*’*			$21.30	J01235	Regulation Technician Apprentice-3rd Year"*			.. $23.8?
	J01242	Gas Technician Apprentice-2nd Year***			$22.34	J01189	Service Technician Apprentice-1st Year"*				..$21.25
	JOI 243	Gas Technician Apprentice-3rd Year**'				$23.38	J01188	Service Technician Apprentice-2nd Year**’			...$22.24
	J012B4	Laboratory Technican Apprentice-1st Year |6|			$23.27	JOI164	Single Phase Meter Apprentice-1st Year*’*...			..$20.83
	J01138	Line Apprentice-1 st Year***			$22.60	JOI163	Single Phase Meter Apprentice-2nd Year**		..$21.80
	JOI137	Line Apprentice-2nd Year’**			$23.76	J01134	Utility Technician Apprerrtice-lstYear*"		...$22.35
	J01136	Line Apprentice-3rd Year***							$24.92	JOI133	Utility Technician Apprenticed Year"*			...$23.39
	J01135	Line Apprentice-4th Year* **				$26.08			
(6) Rate based at 90% of maximum Journeyman rate.
{Il Rate based on the madmrim rate fa position J013‘i2.
‘"Apprentice program rates are based on the maximum Journeyman rata Four Year:	?8%—1 styear, 82%—2nd year. 86%—3rd year. 90%—dth year,
three Year: 62%—1st year. 86%—2nd year, N%—3rd year.
Two Year	86%—1 st year, 90%—2nd year.
ARTICLE XXXVII—WAGE SCHEDULE FOR CLERICAL POSITIONS 11/28/04-11/26/05 Field Clerical Positions
	ACCOUNTING AND CUSTOMER		[Each step represents a six-month increment except step 17, Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.1															
	RELATIONS	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	NO. POSITION J01Q72 Customer Service Representative ... JO 1071 Senior Customer Service	$12.83	$13.36	$13.86	$14.41	$14.76	$15.19	$15.59	$15.97	$16.41	$16.80		$17.29		$17.84		$18.18	$18.56
		$19.93	$2041	320-92	$21.47	321.82	$22.19	$22.58	$22.97	$23.30	$23.70	$24.06	$24.44		$24.81			
	ENGINEERING																	
	J01073 Arse Operslraris Representative ....	$1283	5)336	$13.88	$14.4)	$14 76	$15.19	$15.59	375,97	$16.41	$16.80		$17.29		$17.84		$18.18	$1656
	JOI080 Assistant project Designer				$1515	$15.60	$1602	$1646	$16.90	$17 32	$17.76	$18.21	$18.65	$1906		$1953		$1995		$20.37	320.80
go	301081 Map Drafter 1 		$15.15	$15.67	$16.18	$16.67	$17.06	$1746	$17.84	$18.19	$18.59	$18.99	$18.37	$19,76		$2037		$20.80	
0	JD1082 Map Drafter II'..			$11.13	$1167	$1217	$12.71	$13.14	$13.56	$1408	$14.53	$15.01	$15.49	$1594		$16.42		$1690		$18.12
	J01083 Technical Assistant 		$1994	$20.42	$20.94	321.48	$21.09	$22.30	$22.70	$23.14	$23.55	$23.96	$24 41	$24,01		$25.18			
	STORES JO1075 Area Stores Cleft			$15.89	$16.41	$16.®	$1741	$17.84	$18.24	$18.66	$1905	$19.53	$19.90	$2032		$20.88		$2132		
	J01074 Senior Aiea Stores Clerk ......	$20.68	$21.17	$2168	$22.19	$22.60	$23.00	$2341	$23.82	$24.22	$24.63	$25.09	$2547		$25.82			
	J01077 Sourcing Buyer Assistant		$15.89	$16.41	$16®	$17.41	$17.84	$18.24	$18 66	$19.05	$19.53	$19.90	$20 32		$20.88		$21.28		
	JO 1076 Sourcing Inventory Assistant		315.B9	$16.41	$16.90	$17.41	$1784	$18.24	$18.66	$19.05	$1953	$19.90	$20.32		$2088		$21.28		
	GENERAL JO10B4 Cleric		$11.98	$12.46	$12.99	$13.53	$13.91	$1426	$14.65	$15.05	$15.38	$1580		$16.25		$1676		$17.26	$17.75
	J01086 Clerk-Stenographer 					$12.39	$12.88	$1339	$13.91	$1426	$14.61	$15.00	$15.34	$1575	316.12		$16 59		$17.07		$1760	$18 tZ
"Starting or entry level position * * Supervisory Positron
Note: Employees on the Union Payroll as o# June 1.1987 are exempt horn the tint three steps of a clerical position.
General Office Clerical Positions
ACCOUNTING AND TREASURY			STEP	(Each step represents a six-month Increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after nep 16.)															
				STEP STEP STEP			STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP STEP		STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	posmoN		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	S	9	10	IT	12	13	14	15	IS	17
JD1006	Accounting Uerk			SIB 97	$17.51	S18.D2	J1B52	$18.93	$19.28	$1964	$20.01	$20.37	$20.78	$21.15		$21.78		$22.00		
J01011	Assistant Wert Oder Technician ,		$15.77	$16 25	$16.78	$17.27	$17 67	$18.00	$1850	$1853	$19.29	$19.71	$20 09		$20.70		$21.14		
J01005	Senior Accounting Clerk			S20.09	$20.63	$21.12	$21.62	$22.02	$22.44	$2285	$23.26	$23.64	$24.04	$24.44	$24.83		$2521			
JOI 008	Treasury Clerk 				SI 6.97	$17.51	$18.02	$1852	$18.93	$19.28	$1964	$2001	$20.37	$2078	$21.15		$21.78		$22.00		
J01010	Work Order Technician 			$20.68	$21.17	$21.68	$22.19	$2260	$23.00	$23.41	$23.82	$24.22	$2463	$25.09	$25.47		$25.82			
CUSTOMER ACCOUNTING																			
J01030	Customer Billing Representative ..		$2068	$21.17	$21.68	$22.19	$22.60	$22.98	$2339	$23.77	$24.14	$24.56	$24.90	$2532		$2571			
JOI028	Lead Remittance Processor** ....		$17.65	$1616	$18.67	$19.20	$1964	$20.00	$2056	$20.96	$21.42	$21.88	$22.30		$22.95		$23.05		
JOI029	Remittance PrncAS&nr . 			SI 2 40	$12.92	$13.40	$13.93	$14.28	$14.65	$1500	$15.34	$15.75	$16.12		$1656		$17.07		$17.60	$18.12
DATA PROCESSING																			
JOI 025	Data fntry Operatori			$12.40	$12.92	$13.40	$13.93	314 28	$14.65	$15.00	$1534	$15,75	$16.12		$1659		$17.07		$17.60	$18.12
JOI 026	Information Technology Operator .	. S	$17.93	$1845	$18.94	$1947	$1981	$20.14	$2056	$20 90	$21.26	$21.59	$21.97		$22.63		$22.75		
J01024	Lead Data Entry Operator**			$17.06	$17.59	$1809	$1857	$18.93	$1920	$1953	$19.81	$20.10	$20.40	$26.74		$21.36		$21.71		
J01020	Relief Data Processing Equipment																		
	Operator		. S	$17.93	$18.45	$18.94	$19.47	$19.81	$20.14	S20.56	$20.90	$2126	$21.59	$21.97		$22.63		$22.75		
JOI 022	Relief Information Services																		
	Control Clerk 		N/S	$14.04	$14 52	$15.05	$15.53	$1601	$16.44	$15.89	$17.30	$17.80	$18.18		$18.74		$19.30		$19.36	$1943
JO1O27	Relief Information Technology																		
	Operator		. S	$17.93	$18.45	$18.94	$1947	$19.8)	$20.14	$2056	$20.90	$21.26	$21.59	$21.97		$22.63		$22.75		
'Supervisory Position
4-11/2B/05
ENGINEERING			(Each step represents a six-month increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.)																
			STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
	NO.	POSITION	1	2	3	4	6	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	JO1042	CADD Technical Support Specialist																	
		(Civil)....		$22.66	$23 18	$23.70	$24.19	$24.58	$25.07	$2544	$2505	$26.23	$26.72	$27.13	$27.56		$27.81			
	J91041	CADD Technical Support Specialist																	
		(Electric)				$22.06	$23.18	$23.70	$2419	$24.58	$25.97	$25.44	$25.85	$2623	$26.72	$2713	$27.56		$27 81			
	J01G37	CAOO Technician 1 (Civil) 			(22.17	$22.68	$23.19	$2372	$24.12	$24.56	$24.96	£25.40	$25.77	$26.19	$26.61	$27.06		$27 31			
	J01036	CADD Technician 1 (Electric! 		12217	$22.68	£23.19	$23 72	324.12	$24.56	$24%	$2540	$2577	$26 19	$26 61	$2706		$27.31			
	J01C39	CADDTechnician IllCivil) 			(20.06	$20.58	$2108	$21 59	$22.00	$22.43	$22.85	$23.26	$23.94	$24.05	$24.45	$24.86		$2525			
	J0I038	CADD Technician II (Electric)		$20.06	$20.58	$2108	$21.59	122,00	$22.43	$22.85	$23.26	$23.64	$24 05	$24.45	$24.88		$25.25			
	J01040	CADO Technician III		$15.52	$16.03	$16.54	$17.96	$17 46	$17.84	$18.19	$1865	$19.04	$19.43	$19 81		$2041		$20.84		
	JOI 005	Drafter III 		$15.52	$1603	$1654	$17.06	$17.45	$17.84	$18.19	$18.65	$19.04	$19.43	$19,81		$20.41		$20.04		
	JQ1D44	Electric Systems Clerk	1		$1540	$1586	(16.33	$16.80	$17.26	$17.73	$1019	$18.66	$19.13	$19.59	$20.04		$2050		$21.01		
	JOI 043	Engineering Records Clerk		$1505	$15.53	$16.08	$16.58	$16.96	$17.37	$17 81	$18.18	$18.60	$19.00	$1943		$20.01		$20.57		
	JOI 052	Geographic Information System																	
M		end Dispatch Technician .. 		$1994	$20.42	$20.94	$21.48	$21.89	$22.30	$22.70	$23.(4	$2355	$23.96	$2441	$24.81		£25.18			
	J01051	Geographic Information System																	
		Representative		$15.05	$15.53	$16.08	$16.58	$16.96	$1737	$17.91	(18.18	$19 60	$19.00	$19.43		$20.01		$20.57		
	J02497	Geographic Information System																	
		Technician 		$1934	$2042	$20.34	$21 48	$21 89	$22 30	$22.70	$2314	$23,55	$23 96	$24 41	$24.81		S2S 13			
	J02499	Lead Geographic Information																	
		System Technician**	S	$21.83	$22.34	$22.85	$2341	$23.82	$24.22	£24.63	$25.08	$25.47	$25.90	$2632	$26.72		£27,09			
	JOI 047	System Protection Technician		$20.68	$21.17	$21.59	$22.19	$22.60	$23.00	$23.41	$23.82	$2422	$24.63	$25.09	$25.47		$2582			
	JOI 046	Technical Assistant 		$1994	$20.42	$2094	$21.48	$2189	$2230	$22.70	$23.14	$23.65	$23.95	$24 41	$2481		$25.18			
	JOINS	Transmission Technician		$21.96	$22.35	$22-88	S23.38	$23 82	$2419	$24.60	$24.97	$25.44	$25.83	$2822	$26.82		$26.97			
HELPDESK
joioie	Client Service Specialist; 		J18.26	$2029	$20.74	$21.19	$21.65	$22.14	$22.57	$2305	$23.5?	$23.98	$2453	
J01017	Client Service Speciafrst II. 		.	$18.01	$18.51	$1999	$19,47	$1991	$2004	$20.76	$21.20	$21 62	$22.06 $22.53	$22.97	$2340
J01019	Relief Client Service Specialist ....	$19.76	$20.29	$29.74	$21.19	$2165	$2214	$22 57	$23.05	$23.51	$2398	$24.53	
"Supervisory Position
Note: Employees tn the Union Payroll as of June 1.1987 ate exempt from the first three steps trf a clerical position.
8
MAD. CENTER		(Each step represents a six-month increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.)															
	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STB*	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO POSITION JO2B79 LeadMailCnnterCoordinator" .... JO1D63 Mail Center Coordinator 		1 $16.98 $14 75	2 $17.70 $15.28	3 $18.16 $15.80	4 $18.86 $1630	5 $19.35 $16.83	6 $20.05 $17.29	7 $20.53 $17.82	8 $20.99 $13.31	9 $21.70 $1886	10 $22.18 $19.33	11	12 $2288 $19.93	13	14 $2359 $2045	15	16	17
MATERIALS MANAGEMENT AND																	
FUEL SERVICES J0UI33 Materials Management Clerk		$12.78	$13.27	$13.80	$1431	$14.65	$15.39	$15.94	$16.49	$17.06	$17.62		$1615		$18.69		$18.83	$18.95
JOI 034 Senior Fuel Services Clerk		$15.77	$16.25	$16.78	$17.27	$17.67	$1809	$18.50	$13.93	$19.29	$19.71	$2009		$20.70		$21.14		
REAL ESTATE J0107D Real Estate Technical Assistant ...	$18.38	$1886	$1930	$19.74	$26.18	$20.65	$21.07	$21.52	$21.96	$22.39	$22.83	$23.28		$23.74			
RECORDS J01054 Records Clerk		$12.40 $17.12	$12.92	$1340	$1393 $18.66	$14.28	$1465	$15.00	$15.34	$15.75	$16.12		$16.59		$17.07		$17.00	$18.12
JO1053 Senior Records Clerk 			$17.64	$18.15		$1904	$19.41	$19.76	$2012	$20 48	$20.86	$21.24		$21 90		$22.11		
SHAREOWm SERVICES JD1004 Shareowner Services Representative	$1411	$14 65	$15.13	$15.64	$16.08	$1647	$16.90	$17.32	$17.76	$18.18	$18.66		$1923		$19.78		$19.95
MISCELLANEOUS JOI Of® Administrative Servicer Ctert		$12.40	$12.92	$13.40	$1390	$14.28	$14.65	$15.00	$15.34	$15.75	$1612		$16.59		$17.07		$17.60	$1812
J01K5 Clerk		$12.40	$12.92	$13.48	$13.93	$14.28	$1465	115.00	$15.34	$15.75	$16.12		$16.59		$17.07		*1760	$18.12
J01D68 Corporate Receptionist 		$12.40	$12.92	$1340	$1393	$14.28	$14.65	$15.00	$15.34	$15.75	$16.12		$16.59		$17.07		$17.60	$18.12
J011123 DocumentManagementTechnician .	$17.41	$17.93	$1045	$18.94	$19 33	$19.76	$20.19	$2068	$21.07		$21.70		$2192				
JOI 060 Graphics Technician 1		$15.40	$15.91	$16.44	$16.94	$17 48	$17.94	$18.48	$18.96	$19.48	$20 00		$20.62		$21.03			
	$1411	$14.65 $18.66	$15 13	$15.64	$16.15	$1555	$17.17	$17.55	$18)6	$18.66		$19.23		$19.78		$19.89	$19.95
303634 Lead Graphics Technician-* 		$18.18		$19.34	$19.79 $1432	$20.25	$20.71	$21.18	$21.63	$22.09		$22.79		$2301				
J01067 Stenographer-Receptionist 		$12.79	$1331	$1381		$14.72	$1516	$15.49	$1586	$16.21	$16.60		$17.10		$17.61		$18.02	$18.45
JOI 064 Word Processor-Operator 		$12.40	$12.92	$1340	$13.93	$14 28	$14 65	$15.00	$15.34	$15.75	$16.12		$15.59		$17.07		$17.60	$18.12


05/27/06
ARTICLE XXXVI—WAGE SCHEDULE FOR PHYSICAL POSITIONS 11/27/05-05/27/06
ENGINEERING	[Each step represents a six-month increment)
		STEP		STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
J01245	Engineering Technician					 N	$26.82	$27.35	$27.81	$28.29	$28.87		
J01246-J01Z49	Engineering Technician Apprentice 				(See Apprentice Schedule)						
J01244	Lead Engineering Technician” 			 N	$26.67	$27.58	S2B.48	$29.33	$30 32		
GARAGE									
JO1115	Garage Mechanic 	 			 N	$26.56	$26.95	S27.36		$27 70		
JO1115	Garage Mechanic (Evening) 			 N	$26.56	$26.95	$27.36		$27.70		
J0112G-J01123 Garage Mechanic Apprentice.......................................... (See	Apprentice Schedule)
J01117	Garage Mechanic Helper				 N	$18.49	$19.16	$19.85	$20.55	$20.89	$21.42	$22.01
J01119	Garage Mechanic Helper (Evening) 						 N	$18.49	$19.16	$19.85	$20.55	$20.89	$21.42	$22.01
J01112	Garage Mechanic II				 N	$23.09	$23.43	$23.77		$24.10		
J01118	Garage Parts Storekeeper								 N	$22.75	$23.31	$23.85	$24.42	$24.73	$25.28	$25-69
J01113	Master Garage Mechanic*’			 N	$28.44	$28.71	528.99		$29.60		
JO1114	Master Garage Mechanic (Evening)*'				 N	$28.44	$2871	128.99		$29.60		
GAS AND WATER									
J01239	Chief Corrosion Technician”			 N	$28.91	$29.22	129.82		$3012		
JD1240	Chief Corrosion Technician - Welding” (1)			 N	$29.43	$29.74	130.34		$30.64		
JO1228	Chief Gas Technician (Large Crew)”				 N	$29.38	$29.67	130.29		$30.60		
J01229	Chief Gas Technician ILarge Crew) ■ Welding” (2|					 N	$29.90	$30.13	130.81		$31.12		
"Supervisory position
111 flats established above rate for JO 1239 by amount of welding premium. I2| Rate established above rate for JO) 228 by amount of welding premium.
	GAS AND WATER (cont)	(Each step represents a six-month increment)
	STS*	STEP STEP STEP STEP STEP STEP STEP
	NO. ,	POSIDON	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	J01230	Chief Gas Technician (Small Crew)'* 	  N	$28.91	$29.22 $29.82	.	$30.12
	J01231	Chief Gas Technician (Small Crew) - Welding** (3) 	 N	129.43	$29.74 $30.34	$30.64
	J01238	Gas Technician	 N	’ $25.76	$26.02 $26.56	$26.62
	J01737	Gas Technician -Weldino	 N	S26.fi?	$27.43 $27.70	$27.98
	.101741 JOI 243 Gas Technician Aonremtica ... 		... 	 ISea Annrentice Schededulel	
	J01236	Lead Regulation Technician**	  N	$23.10	$28.40 $28.98	$2927
	JOI232	Renulation Technician 		 N $26 01	$26.57	$26.83	$27.38
	J01233J01235 Regulation Technician Apprentice 	  (See	Apprentice Schedule)	
	UNE AND RELATED	
	JO1149	Chief line Clearance Technician** 	 N	$27.70	$28.03 $28.45	$28.94
	JOI 129	Chief Line Technician (Small Crew)** 	  N	$31.57
CO	J01141	Heavy-Duty Earth Borer Operator	  N	$22.74	$23.30 $23.84 $24.40 $24.66 $25.18	$25.63
(JI	JOI 154	Infrared Technician	 .	N $25.33	$25.90 $26,49 $26.99 $27.55 $28.13	$28.65
	.103783	Lead Une Technician 	 N $31.75	$32.m	$32.59
	J01135J01138 Line Apprentice	   (See	Apprentice Schedule)	
	JOI 151 JO1152 Line Clearance Apprentice	 ..	(See Apprentice Schedule)	
	J02849	Line Clearance Specialist	  N	$28.25	$28.58 $28.90	$2953
	JOI 150	Line Clearance Technician	 N	$24.66	$24.86 $25.47	$25.96
	JO1153	Line Clearance Truck Operator	 N	$20.06	$2063 $21.15 $21.71	$21.91 $22.35	$22.62
	J01130	Line Crew Leader** 	 N	$30.10	$30.44	$30.81
	J01139	Line Equipment Operator 	 N	$22.20	$22.72 $23.27 $2381	$24.13 $24.45	$24.76
"’Suparvtsory position	■
[3) Rate established above rate For J0123J by amount cf welding premium.
Note: Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1982 who till start/entry level physical positions are exempt from the first three 13) slaps.
Employees on the Union payroll as o( June 1.198) who fill physical positions other than start/entry M or journeyman positions are exempt from the first three (3) steps.
I
I
1
	UNE AND RELATED (Cant)	(Each step represents a six-month increment)
		STEP STEP STEP STEP STEP STEP STEP STEP
	NO.	rosmoN	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	JO1142	Line Patroller		hl $22.94	$23 49	$24 04	$24 57	$25.11	$25.58	S25.94
	JO1131	Line Technician		N $26.99	$2945	$29.92
	J01 TAO	Line Truck Operator					N $21.56 $2212 $2266 $23.19 $23 48 $23.81	$24 03
	JO H 45	Loca 1 Represen tative (Electric)* *				N $29.67 $2997 $3020	$3054
	J01146	Local Representative IGas & Elecvic)** (4)			N $30.12 $30.42 $30.65	$31.00
	JO1148	Local Service Gas Representative** 		N $28.44 $28.82 $29.21	$29.61
	JO)147	Local Service Representative"			fil $28.44	$26.62	$2921	$29.61
	JO1143	Trouble and Service Technician (Electric)		N $29.11	$29.71	$2992
	JOT 144	Trouble and Service Tschnican (Gas & Electric) (4)			N $29.55	$3016	$30.37
	JO1132	Utility Technician 			N $26.03	$2643	$26.83
	JO1133-JOI134	Utility Technician Apprentice			(See Apprentice Schedule J
CD O)	METERING	
	JO1161	Chief Electric Meter Technician** .... 	 .	..	N $29.61	$3018	$3063	$31 IT
	JO1155	Electric Meter Technician										N $28.25 $28.45 $28.87	$29.51
	J01157-J01160 Electric Meter Technician Apprentice 			(See Apprentice Schedule)
	J01175	Gas Meter Technician			M $25.10	$25 34	$25,63	$25.84
	JO117S-JO1177 Gas Meter Technician Apprentice 			(See Apprentice Schedule)
	J01169	Gas Metering Specialist•*		H $27.34	$27.86 $26.35	$26.89
	JO1171 -JO1173	Gas Metering Specia list Apprentice 		(See Apprentice Schedule)
	JOl 170	Gas Metering Specialist ■ Welding* * 	 ..	N $27.79	$28.03 $28.27	$28.57
	JO1174	Instrument and Meter Repair Technician			N $27.34	$27.58	J27.82	$28.59
"Sopenisory position
tflfeie is established st 1.5% above itie rate shown for electric position.
Note: Employees on the Union payroll as rtf June 1,1982 vdio fill siartfentty Ievel physical postdons are exempt from the first three (3| steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of Juns 1.1561 who fill physical1 positions other than start/ontry level or journevman positions are wempt Iran the first three 131 steps.
ME7ERWG (axrtj
(Each step represents a six-month increment)
NO.	POSmON
JOI 156	Lead Electric Meter Technician ................... N
301163J01164 Single Phase Meter Apprentice........................
JOI162	Single Phase Meter Tester......................... N
JO1170	WaterMeterTechnician.............................. N
SERVICE
JO1179	Lead Service Technician**..................................... N
JD2476	Service and Relief Dispatcher ...............................  N
J0119D	Service Dispatcher............................................ N
JO1181	Service Specialist (Gas & Electric!........................... N
J01I83	Service Technician ........................................... N
J01188-JO1109	Service Technician Apprentice ...............................
JO1184	Service Worker ............................................... N
STORES
J01I97	Area Stores Equipment Operator.............................. N
J01196	Area Stores Material Handler ............................... N
JO1199	Area Stores Semi-Truck Driver............................... N
J01200	Area	Stores	Truck-Crane Operator............................ N
JO1198	Area	Stores	Truck Driver.................................... N
J01195	Chief Area Storekeeper** ................................... N
J01194	Chief	Area Storekeeper (Large Crew)”........................ N
J012O4	Chief Plant Material Handler** ............................. N
J01193	Lead	Area Stores Material Handler (Evening)*' .............. N
JO1192	Local Material Coordinator.................................. N
STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
$2351	$29.65	$30.11		$3986			
(See Apprentice Schedule)							
$2410	$24.36	$24.57		$25.01			
$23.07	$23.62	$24.15	$24.72	$25.06	$25.30		$25.84
$30.16	$30.58		$31.01				
$2111	$21.67	$22.32	$22.86	$23.19	$23.61		$23.82
$19.10	$19.61	$20.20	$20.69	$20.98	$21.35		$21.55
$27.91	$28.30		$28.72				
$24.82	$25.18		$25.51				
(See Apprentice Schedule)							
$21.19	$21.64	$22.09	$22.54	$22.98	$23.43		$23.88
$21.96	$22.52	$23.05	$23.57	$23.87	$24.20		124.41
$20.06	$20.63	$21.15	$21.71	$21.96	$22.35		$22.65
$22.53	$23.07	$23.59	$24.15	$24.59	$24.75		$25.15
$23.43	$23.95	$24.53	$25.06	$25.33	125.88		$26.22
$20.42	$20.99	$21.52	$22.05	$22.50	$22.67		$23.06
$26.26	$26:80	$27.35	$27.87	$26.30	$28.52		$29.01
$27.05	$27.56	$28.02	$28.51	$28.96	$29.45		$29.92
$23.58	$24.15	$24.72	$25.31	$25.84	$26.39		$26.96
$21.18	$21.75	$22.32	$22.91	$23.16	123.58		$23.89
$22.75	$23.31	$23.85	$24.42	$24.73	$25 28		$25.69
“Supewiswytssitoi
I
	SUBSTATION CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE				(Each step represents a six-month increment}						
				STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
	NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	JOI 213	Chief Concrete Technician"' 		.... N	$25.43	$25.99	$26.55	$27.04	$27.60	$27.84		$28.39
	JO1206	Chief Electrician*' 					.... N	$32.61	$33.05		$33.51				
	J01205	Electric Equipment Maintenance Specialist”		.... N	$32.38	$32.81	$33.24		$33.54			
	JO1207	Electrician		... N	$29.84	$30.30		$30.80				
	J012Q8-J01211	Electrician Apprentice					(See Apprentice Schedule)							
	J01212	Electrician's Helper				.... N	$29.25	$20.79	$21.35	$21.87	$22.24	$22.60		$22.85
	J01214	Filtering Equipment Operator		.... N	$22.84	$23.37	$23.92	$24.49	$24.76	$25.33		$2588
	J0I215	Heavy Trailer-Truck Driver 			.... N .	$23.63	$2416	'$24.73	$25.28	$25.63	$2614		$26 49
	J01216	Truck-Crane Operator (Heavy Duty) 		.... hl	$23.63	$24.16	$24.73	$25.28	$25.63	$26.14		$26.49
	SUBSTATION OPERATION										
00	J0121B	Chief Waterworks Operator			.... N/S	$26.80	$27.35	$27.87	$28.45	$26.84	$29.23		$2961
03	JOI 221	Dispatcher			.... N/S	$23.12	$23.66	$24.22	$24.75	$2508	$25.35		$25.69
	J01217	Dispatcher & Substation Maintenance Inspector 		.... N/S	$24.96	$24.63	$25.18	$25.70	$26.07	$26.28		$25.74
	J0TZZ5	Distribution Center Dispatcher				.... S	$23.12	$23.66	$24.22	$24.75	$25.08	$25.35		$25.69
	J01223	Maintenance & Relief Substation Operator (Ripon)		.... N/S	$24.06	$24.63	$25.18	$25.70	$26.07	$26.28		$26.74
	J01226	Substation & Combustion Turbine Maintenance									
		Inspector & Operator 		.... N/S	$24.29	$24.90	$2543	$2599	$26.35	$26.56		$27.00
	J01222	Substation & Water Works Operator (Ripon)		.... N/S	$23.12	$23.66	$24.22	$24.75	$25.08	$25.35		$25.69
	JD1219	Substation Maintenance Inspector & Relief Dispatcher ....	.... N/S	$24.06	$24.63	$25.IB	$25.70	$26.07	$26.26		$26.74
	J01224	Tool and Equipment Coordinator 		.... N	$22.91	$23.38	$23.94	$24.32	$24.82	$25.30		$25.72
"Supervisoty position
Note; Employees tn the Union payroll as of June 1.1982 who f i II s tart/en t ry level physical posil kre ar e exempt from the first tira (31 steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1 ffi? who fill physical positions other than start/emry level or jour dayman positions are etanf t from the firs t thtee {31 steps.
MISCELLANEOUS			(Each step represents a six-month increment)								
				STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
	NO.	POSIDON		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	JO125O	Building Custodian 1* 					 N	515.84	$16.55	$17.19	$17.85	$1006	$18.44		$18.68
	JO1251	Building Custodian II’							 N	$14.05	$14.74	$15.39	$16.09	$16.25	$16.55		$16.92
	JO1259	Customer Field Representative				 N	$20.33	$20.87	$21.41	$21.86	$22.35	$22.65		$22.92
	JO1257	Laborer* 			 N	JI 5.49	$16.18	$16.83	JI 7.49	$17.88	$18.34		$18.68
	JO1256	laborer Semi-Skilled*			 N	$16.32	$17,01	$17.69	$18.34	$18.75	$19.19		$19.58
	JO12BD	Meter Reader						 N	$16.01	$17.01	$17.99	JI 8.44	$18.77	$19.03		$19.26
	J0T258	Senior Customer Reid Representative"			 N	$22.96	$23.38	$23.79	$24.20	$24.60	$25.01		$25.43
	JOI 253	Utility Laborer					 N	S16.32	$17.01	$17.69	$18.34	$18.75	$19.19	$19.58	$20.16
	JOI 252	Utility Operator					 N	$19.28	$20.03	$20.77	$21.53	$22.27	$23.02	$23.77	$24.53
	JOI 254	Utility Worker "A"							 N	S18.78	$19.53	$20.28	$21.03	$21.79	$22.36	$23.14	$23.88
	JOI 255	UtilityWorker'B'							 N	S16.32	$17.01	$17.69	$18.34	$18.75	$19.19	$19.58	$20.16
	PLANT POSITIONS - FUELS										
	J01273	Equipment Operator - Fuels 							 N/S	$24.97	$25.59	$26.16	$26.69	$27.08	$27.49		$27.91
	JO3663	Lead Ash Site Operator**					 N/S	$27.38	$28.00	$26.55	$29.16	$29.50	$29.95		$30.40
	JOI 271	Lead Equipment Operator - Fuels**			 N/S	$27.36	J2B.00	$26.55	$29.16	$29.50	$29.95		$30.40
	JOI 272	Relief Equipment Operator-Fuels			 N/S	$25.51	$26.12	$26.74	J27.29	$27.68	$28.10		$28.53
	OPERATING										
	JOI 267	Combustion Turbine Technician			 N	$27.70	$28.16	$28.62	$29.09	$29.54	$30.03		$30.80
	JD1270	Equipment Operator - Operations					 S	$24.97	$25.59	$26.16	$26.69	$27.08	$27.49		$27.91
	J01266	Master Combustion Turbine Technician**		..		 N	$31.58	$32.02	$32.44		$32.85			
	J02B46	Master Unit Operator - (Small Steam Plant)** -	 ...	..... S	$30.95	$31.38	$31.79		$32.20			
	JD2B47	Master Unit Operator- (Small Steam Plant - Licensed)**..		 S	$31.52	$31.94	$32.36		$32.78			
	JOI 268	Rant Equipment Operator			..... S	$26.89	$27.43	$28.05	$28.60	$29.19	$29.41		$29.90
	JD1269	Plant Equipment Operator ■ (Licensed) (51 			 S	$27.41	$27.95	$28.57	$29.12	$29.71	$29.93		$30.45
■Starting w entry level position ‘‘Supervisory position
(5) Rale established above rhe rate far JOI 268 by 10.52 premium arrow!
OPERATING (coot)		STEP 1		(Each step represents a six-month increment)						STEP 8
				STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	STEP 6	STEP 7	
NO.	POSITION									
JOI274	Plant Stores Helper			 N	$20.06	$20.63	$21.15	$21.71 ■	$21.96	$22.35		$22.65
J012S5	Relief Unit Operator 			 S	$28.05	$28.63	$29.21	$29.76	$30.10	$30.46		$30.89
JOI 263	Unit Operator (large Steam Plant)			 S	$28.05	$28.63	$29.21	$29.76	$30.10	$30.46		$30.89
J01264	Unit Operator (Small Steam Plant!			 S	$26.89	$27.43	$28.(6	$28.60	$29.19	$29.41		$29.93
MAWTE NANCE
v> o
J01316	Maintenance Electrician 		N	$29.42 $29.79 $30.39	$30.80
J01315 J01341-J01344	Maintenance Electrician (Evening!		 Maintenance Electrician Apprentice 		N	$29.42	$29.79	$30.39 (See Apprentice Schedule)	$30.80
J01321 J01345-J01348	Maintenance Instrument and Control	 Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice		N	$23.42	$29.79	$30.39 (See Apprentice Schedule)	$30.80
J01322 J01349-J01350 J02843	Maintenance Instrument and Control (Nelson Dewey/Rock River)	 Maintenance Instrument and Control (RR/ND) Apprentice -1 st & 2nd Yr Maintenance Instrument and Control (RR/ND) Apprentice - 3rd Year...	N	$29.42 $29.79 $30.39 (See Apprentice Schedule) (See Apprentice Schedule)	$30.80
J01317 JU1351-J01354	Maintenance Technician-Electrical 			 Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprentice 		N	$30.00 $30.40 $30.98 (See Apprentice Schedule)	$31.43
J01323	Maintenance Technician ■ Electrical (Columbia/Hydros)			N	$30.00 $30.40 $30.98	$31.43
J01318	Maintenance Technician - Electrical (Evening Crew) 		N	$30.00	$30,40	$30.98	$31.43
J01313 J01308-J01311	Ma intenance Techn ician - Mechanics I 	 Maintenance Technician ■ Mechanical Apprentice 		'N	$28.45	$28.82	$29.25 (See Apprentice Schedule)	$29.60
J01325	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Evening) 		hl	$28.45 $28.82 $29.25	$29.60
JD1327	Maintenance Technician-Mechanical (Night)		N	$28.45	$28.82	$29.25	$29.60
J01312	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical - Welding 		hl	$28.93	$29.30	$29.77	$30.16
J01324	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical - Welding (Evening) 		hl	$26.93	$29.30	$29.77	$30.16
Note Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1982 who fill start/entry level physical positions are exempt from tie first three |3| steps.
Empltnws on the Union payr ell as of J one 1,1987 who f i 11 phy steal positions other t ha n stan/en try level or journeyman posit ions are exempt from the first three 13) steps.
MAINTENANCE (CONT.)				(Each step represents a six-month inownent)						
				STH>	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STH> STEP	STEP
	NO.	position		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
	J01326	Maintenance Technician ■ Mechanical - Welding IN ight) 		N	$28.93	$29.30	$29.77		$30.16		
	J01306	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical/Combustion Turbine Technician	N	$27.79	$28.29	$28.79	$29.25	$29.74	$30.21	$30.68
	J01291	Master Maintenance Electrician*' 		N	$31.74	$32.09	$32.65		$3305 $33.05		
	J01295	Master Maintenance Electrician {Evening}"* . 			N	$31.74	$32.09	$32.65				
	J01288	Master Maintenance Instrument and Control”		N	$31.74	$32.09	$32.65		$33.05		
	JOI 287	Masts Maintenance Instrument and Control (ND/RR)** 		N	$31.74	$32.09	$32.65		$33.05		
	J01294	Master Maintenance Technician (Rock River)”		N	$32.17	$32.53	$33.10		$33.51		
	J01292	Master Maintenance Technician - Electrical*’ 			N	$32.17	$32.53	$33.10		$3351		
	JOI 296	Master Maintenance Technician - Electrical (Evening Crewl** 		N	$32.17	$32.53	$33.10		$33.51		
	JOI286	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crew)** 		N	$31.92	$32.37	. $32.79		$33.22		
	JOI 299	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crew) (Evening)’*	N	$31.92	$32.37	$32.79		$3322		
	J01301	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crew) (Night)* * .	N	$31.92	$32.37	$32.79		$33.22		
(D	J01285	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crew) - Welding*’	N	$32.41	$32.80	$33.34		$33-78		
	J0129B	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crew) -						s		
		Welding (Evening)”			N	$32.41	$32.80	$33.34		$33.78		
	J013Q0	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crew) ■								
		Welding (Night)” 			N	$32.41	$32.80	$33.34		$33.78		
	J01290	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew)** 		N	$30.72	$31.14	$31.47		$32.26		
	JOI 303	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) (Evening)’*	N	$3072	$31.14	$31.47		$32.26		
	J013Q5	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) (Night)*' .	N	$30.72	$31.14	$31.47		$32.26		
	' J01289	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) - Welding**	N	$31.34	$31.79	$32.10		$32.84		
	JOI302	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) -								
		Welding (Evening)’*	    .	N	$3134	$31.79	$32.10		$32.84		
	JOI 304	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) -								
		Welding (Night)”		N	$31.34	$31.79	$32.10		$32.84		
"Supervisory position
It
RESULTS - LABORATORY	(Eacti step represents a six-month increment]
			STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP STEP	STEP
NO.	POSIDON		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
JO12BO-J01282	Laboratory & Instrument Control Apprentice			(See Apprentice Schedule)						
J01283	Laboratory Technician 			 N	$25.58	$25.94	$26.34		$26.69		
JOI 284	Laboratory Technician Apprentice			(See Apprentice Schedule)						
J01277	Master Laboratory Technician"			 N	$26.20	$28.54	$28.94		$29.34		
HYDRO PLANTS									
J01357	Chief Hydro Mechanic (PDS-KIL)" 			 N	$2887	$29.43	$29.95	$3052	$30.91	$3132	$31.75
JOI 360	'	Ch ief Hydro Mechanic - Welding (PD S-KIL)'' 			 N	$29.60	$30.17	$30.71	$31.30	$31.72	$32.12	$32.57
JOI 355	Maintenance Operator Technician IPDS-KIL) 			 N/S	$2543	$25.99	$26.55	$27.04	$27.46	$27.91	$28.31
JOI 356	, Maintenance Operator Technician - Welding (P0S-KIL1			 N/S	$26.03	$26.56	$27.10	$27 65	$28.06	$28.51	$28.91
MISCELLANEOUS										
CD Kh	J01261	Planner/Scheduler				 N	$28.17	$28.71	$29.27	$29.84	$30.47	$30.93	$31.44
	J01262	Plant Safety Coordinator 			 N	$26.35	$26.94	$27.45	$28.02	$2835	$28.61	$29.21
"Supervisory position
Note: Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.19B2 who fill start/aitry level physical positions are exempt from the first three |3| steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1987 who till physical positions other than start/amy level or journeyman positions are exempt from the first three (3) steps.
General Office - Physical Positions
BUILDING				 N 	 N	STEP 1 $17.29 $17.29	[Each step represents a six-month increment)						STEP 8 $19.63 $19.83
					STEP 2 $17.82 $17.82	STEP 3 $18.38 $18.38	STEP 4 $1891 $18.91	STEP 5 $19.20 $19.20	STEP 6 $19.53 $1953	STEP 7	
	NO. JA1127 JO1126	POSITION General Office Materials Handler* 	 General Office Services Worker’										
	ENGmEERWG J011D9	Electrical Protective Equipment Technician” ..		 N	$26.07	$26.60	$27.14	$27.72	$26.20	$26.71		$28.93
	JOI108	Electrical Protective Equipment Tester			 N	$25.53	$26.09	$26.61	$27.15	$27.70	$28-16 $33.27 $35.12		$28.44 $33.68
	JO1106	Electrical Technician				 N	$30.83	$31.39	$31.90	$32.46	$32.80			
	J02848	Lead Relay and Electrical Technician			 N	$32.53	$33.13	$33.69	$34.25	$34.63			$35.54
	JOI105	Meter laboratory Technician 				 N	$20.45	$28.97	$29.56	$30.10	$30.52	$30.81		$31.37
	J01107	Relay Technician				 N	$30.17	$30.74	$31.30	$31.82	$32.26	$32.76		$33.21
	JOI101	Surveyor 1” 			 N	$27,96	$28.51	$29.01	$29.60	$36.21	$30.68		$31.17 $26.25
<0	J011Q2	Surveyor II			 N	$2352	$24.06	$24.63	$25.18	$25,63	$2596		
w	JO1103	Surveyor Aid 1			 N	$20.23	$20.75	$21.32	$21.64	$22.26	$22.62		$22.05
	JOI104	Surveyor Aid II	 .		 N	$17.62	$18.18	$18.71	$19.26	$19.57	$19.96		$20.11
	FORMS. SHIPPING AND RECEIVING										
	J01098	Forms Shipping and Receiving Worker			 N	$17.29	$17.66	$18.03	$18.39	$16.75	$19.11	$19.47	$19.83
	LOADDKPATCHNG										
	J01110	Load Dispatcher 				 S	$31.79	$32.34	$32.87	$33.42	$33.68	$34.08		$34.59
	JQ1111	SOC Control Technician 			 N/S	$28.03	$28.56	$29.13	$29.67	$30.14	$3052		$30.91
'Starting or entry level position
"Supervisory position
[i
c£>
C*
MAIL SERVICES
NO.	POSITION
JO110O	Automated Mail Processor.........................    N
J01099	Lead Automated Mail Processor** .................... N
J01092	Courier Driver* ...................................  N
JO 1093	Relief Courier Driver' ...........................   N
PRNTWG SERVICES
JO1Q97	Bindery Operator.................................... N
JOI 09+	lead Offset Press Operator"...................... .	N
J01C95	Offset Press Operator I........................ ...	N
J01096	Offset Press Operator II ........................    N
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
JO । (Bl	Telecommunications Technician ...................... N
(Eadi step represents a six-month increment)							
STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
$15.59	$16.64	$17.61	$18.56	$19.50	$19.92	$20.54	$21.07
$18.22	$19.28	$20.28	$21.23	$22.12	$23.02	$23.70	$23.80
$20.23	$20.92	521.54	$22.23	$22.50	$22.94		$23.19
$20.23	$20.92	521.54	$22.23	$22.50	$22.94		$23-19
$13.70	$14.49	$15.26	$16.02	$16.80	$17.57	$18.34	$19.11
$18.22	$19.05	$19.88	$20.71	$21.54	$22.36	$23.19	$24.04
St 6.51	$17.34	$18.13	$19.02	$19.83	$20.67	$21.51	$22.33
$15.59	$16.64	$17.61	$18.56	$1950	$19.92	$20.54	$21.07
$25.77	$26 30	526,88	$27.41	$27.97	$28.52		$29.13
"Starting or entry level position "Supervisory position
Note: Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1,198? who till startfmtry level physical positions are exempt from the first three (31 steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1, 1987 who fill physical positions other than start/W Iwe) or jarmepert positions aro exempt tan the first three (3) steps
APPRENTICE SCHEDULE
NO. POSITION
JOI t BQ	E lectric Meter Technician Apprentice-1 st Year* ”........$23.02
JO1159	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice-2nd Year***.........$24.20
JO1158	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice-3rd Year**’.........$25.38
JO115?	Electric Meter Technician ApprenticMth Year"'............$26.56
JOI 211	ElectricianApprentice-lstYear*”......................... $24.02
J01210	Electrician Apprenticed Year*"...........................$25.26
J01209	Electr ician Apprentice-3rd Year* ”......................$26.49
J01208	Electrician Apprentice-4th Year’",.......................$27.72
J01249	Engineering Technician Apprentice-1st Year’"...........  $22.52
J01248	Engineering Technician Apprenticed Year***.............  $23.67
JO1247	Engineering Technician Apprentice-3rd Year’”.............$24.03
J01246	Engineering Technician Apprentice-4th Year"*.............$25.98
JOI 123	Garage Mechanic Apprentice- 1st Year***..................$21.61
JO1122	Garage Mechanic Apprenticed Year”*.....................  $22.71
JOI 121	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-3rd Year***...................$23.02
& JO1120	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-Ath Year*”..................  $24.93
ui J01126	GarageMechanicifApprentice-lstYear***....................$20.73
J01124	GarageMechanicll Apprenticed Year***.................... $21.69
JO1177	Gas Meter Technician Apprentice-1 st Yea r* * ’......... $22.22
J01176	Gas Meter Technician Apprenticed Year* * ’...............$23.26
J01173	Gas Metering Specialist Apprentice-1 st Year***........  $23.69
J01172	Gas Metering Specialist Apprenticed Year’"...............$24.05
JOI 171	Gas Metering Specialist Apprentice-3rd Year*"............$26.00
J01241	Gas Technician Apprentice-lst Year"*......................$21.99
JOI242	Gas Technician Apprenticed Year***.....................  $23.07
J01243	Gas Technician Apprentice-3rd Year"*.....................$24.14
J012B4	Laboratory Technican Apprentice-1 st Year |6)............$24.02
JO1138	Une Apprentice-lst Year***...............................$23.34
JOI T37	Une Apprenticed Year*"...................................$24.53
JO1136	Line Apprentice-3rd Year***............................. $25.73
J01135	Line Apprenticed Year*"..................................$26.93
NO. POSTOON
JO1152	Li ne Clearance Apprentice-1 s t Year * * *............. .,	$22.33
JO1151	Line Clearance Apprenticed! Year***.............................$23.36
J01344	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice-lst Year***..................$24.02
J01343	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice-2nd Year’”...................$25.26
J01342	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice-3rd Year**’..................$26.49
J01347	Maintenance Electrician Apprantice-4th Year* * *................$27.72
J01348	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice-1 st Year* "...... $24.02
J01347	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprenticed Year"'.......$25.26
J01346	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice-3rtf Year* **.$26.49
J01345	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprentice-4th Year*”....$27.72
JOT 350	Maint. Instrument and Control Apprentice (RR/ND)-1 st Year* * *... $25.26
J01349	Maint. Instrument and Control Apprentice (fWNDjd Year*"..	$26.49
J02843	Maint. Instrument and Control Apprentice (RR/ND)-3rd Year**’..	$27.72
JOT 354	Mai ntenance Technician - Elec t ri cal Apprentice-1 st Year* ’ ’.$24.52
J01353	Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprentice-2nd Year***......... $25.77
J01352	Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprentice-3rd Year*".........$27,00
JO 7 35 T	Mai ntenance Technician ■ Electrical Apprentice-4ih Year’ * *.....$28.29
J01311	Maintenance Technician ■ Mechanical Apprentice-lst Year |7).$23.52
J01310	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprenticed Year (71... $24.73
J01309	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice-3rd Year (7)....	$25.94
JOT308	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice-4 th Year (7)....$27.14
J01233	Regulation Technician Apprentice-lst Year*".....................$22.45
J01234	Regulation Technician Apprenticed Year***.......................$23.55
JO7235	Regulation Technician Appremice-3rd Year”*....................  $24.64
J01189	Service Technician Apprentice-lst Year*".....................,..$21.94
J01188	Service Technician Apprentice-2nd Year”*........................$22.96
J01164	Single Phase Meter Apprentice-1 st Year’’*....................,.$21.51
J01163	Single Phase Meter Apprenticed Year"........................... $22.51
J01134	UtilityTechnicianApprentice-lstYear*".........................  $23.07
J01133	Utility Technician Apprenticed Year*"...........................$24.15
•"Apprentice program rales are based on the maximum Joumepren rate: four Year	78%—1 st Year. (£%—2nd Yea, 96%—3rd year. 90%—4th yea.
Three Year:	82%—Istyear, 86%—2nd year. 90%—3rd year.
TwoYear: 86%-lstyear. 90%—2nd year.
(6) Rata based at 90% of maximum Journeyman rale.
(7| Rate based on the maximum rate for petition JOI 1(2.
AL 11/27/05 - 05/27/06
ARTICLE XXXVII—WAGE SCHEDULE FOR CLERICAL POSITIONS 11/27/05-05/27/06 Field Clerical Positions
co o>
ACCOUNTING AND CUSTOMER		(Each stop represents a six-month increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.1															
RELATIONS	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	IT	12	13	14	15	16	17
NO. POSmON J01072 Customer Service Representative ... JO107; Senior Customer Service	$13.75	$1379 £21.07	$14.33	$14.88	$15.24	$1568	$16.10	$16.49	$16.94	$17.35		$17 95		$18.42		$1877	$19.16
Representative** ,..,		$20.58		$21.60	$22.17	$22.53	$2291	$2331	$23.72	$2406	$24.47	$24.86	$25.23		$25.62			
ENGINEERING																	
J01O73 Area Operations Representatrve ...	$1325	$13 79	$14.33	$14 88	$1524	$15.68	$16.10	$16.49	$16.91	$17 35		$17.85		$18.42		$18.77	$19.16
JO186O Assistant Project Designer	 ..	$15.64	$16.11	$1654	$16.99	$17.45	$17.68	$18.34	$18.60	$19.26	$1968		$20.16		$20.60		$21.03	$2148
J01 061 MapDrafter I ....... 		$1564	$16.18	$16.71	$17.21	$1761	$18 03	$18 42	$1878	$19.13	$1961	$20.00	$20,40		$21.03		$21.43	
J01092 Map Drafter ir		 ...	$11.49	$1205	$12.57	$13.12	$13.57	$14.02	$1454	$15.00	$15.53	$15.99	$1846		$1695		$17.45		$1871
JOI083 Technical Assistant 			$20.59	$21.08	$2162	$22.18	$22 60	$23.02	3’3.44	$23.89	$24.3?	$24.74	$2520	$25.62		$26.00			
STORES JOl 075 Area Stores Clerk 		$16.41	$1694	$17.45	$17 98	$19.42	$18.63	$19.27	$19.67	$20.15	$20.55	$20.98		$21.56		$22.01		
J01074 Senior Area Stores Clerk		$21.35	$21 85	$22.38	$22.91	$23.33	$2375	$24.17	$24.59	$2501	$25.43	$2591	$2630		$26.66			
JO1O77 Sourcing Bu^er Assistant		$16.41	$16.94	$17.45	$17.99	$18.42	$18.83	$19.27	$19.67	$20.16	$20.55	$20.98		$21.56		$2197		
301078 Sourcing inventory Assistant		$1641	$15.94	$17.45	$1793	$1642	$1883	$19.27	$19.67	$26.16	$20.55	$20.98		$21.56		$21.97		
GENERAL .101084 Clerk				$12.37	31296	$13.41	$13.97	$14.36	$1472	$15.13	$15.54	$1568	$16.31		$16.78		$17 30		$1782	$1833
J01086 Clerk-Stenographer 		$12.79	$13.30	$1383	$1496	$1472	$15.08	$1549	$15 84	$16.26	$1664		$17.13		$17.62		$1817	$18.71
‘Starting or entry level position ' 'Supervisory Position
Note: Employees on the Union Payroll as of June 1,1 SB? are exempt from tbs First three steps of a clerical position.
General Office Clerical Positions
ACCOUNTING AND TREASURY	(Each rtep represents a abt-month increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.)
		STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STB*	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STB*	STB*
NO.	posmoN	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	S	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
J01006	Accounting Clerk .		$17.52	$ta.08	$18.61	$19.12	$19.55	$1991	$2028	$20.66	$21.03	$71.46	(21.84		(22 49		$22.72		
J4J7O17	Assistant Work Order Technician ...	$1628	$16.78	$17.33	$1783	(18.24	$18.68	$19.10	(19.55	(19.92	$20.35	$20.74		$21.37		$21.83		
J01005	Senior Accounting Clerk		$20.74	(21.30	$2181	$2232	$22.74.	$23.17	$23.59	$24.02	$24.41	(24.82	(25.23	$25.64		$26.03			
JO I GOB	Treasury Clerk 		$17.52	(1808	$16.61	$19.12	$19.55	$19.91	$2026	$20.66	$21.03	$21.46	$21.84		$22.49		$22.72		
J01010	Work Order Technician 		$21.35	(21.86	$27 3B	(22.91	$23.33	(23.75	$24.17	$24.59	$25.01	$25.43	$25.91	$26.30		(26.66			
CUSTOMER ACCOUNTING													
JB1030 Customer Billing Representative ....	(21.35	$21.86	$22.38	$22 91	(2333	$23.73	$24.15	$24.54	$24.92	$25.36	$25.71	$26.14	$26.55
J01028 LeadflemittancePracessor"		$1822	(18.75	$19.28	(19.82	$20.28	(20.74	(21.23	$21.64	$22.12	$22.59	$23.02		$23.70	$23.80
JO1(J29 Remittance Processor 		$12.80	$13.34	$13.84	$1438	$14.74	$1513	$15.49	$15.84	$1626	$16.64		$17.13	$17.62	$18.17 $18.71
DATAPROCESSMG
J01025 Data Entry Operator I............ J1280	SI 3,34 113.84 $1438 $14.74 $15.13 $1549 $15.84 $16.26 $16.64	$17.13	(17.62	(18.17 (18.71
JQ1O26	WomafionTwhntfowOperator..	$ $18.51	$19.06	$19.56	$20.10	$2045	$20.79	$21.23	$21.56	$21.96	$22.29	$22.66	$23.37	$23.49
J01024	Lead Data Entry Operator**..	$17.61	$18.16	(18.68	$19.17	$19.55	$19.87	(20.16	$20.45	$20.75	$21.06	$21.41	$22.05	$22.42
J01020 Relief Data Processing Equipment Operator........................... S	$18.51 $19.05 (19.56 $20.10 $20.45 $20.79 (21.23 $21.58 $21.95 $22.29 $2268	$23.37	$23.49
J01022 Relief Information Services Control Clerk ................... N/S	$14.58 $14.99 (15.54 $10.03 $16.53 $16.97 (17.44 (17.86 $1838 (1877	$19.35	(19.93	$19.99 (20.06
J01027 Relief Information Technology Operator........................... S	$18.51 $19.05 (19.56 $20.10 $2045 $20.79 $21.23 $2158 $21.95 (22.29 $22.68	$2137	$23.49
"Supervisory Ptom
CLERICAL 11/27/05 - 05/27/06
ENGINEERING			(Each step represents a six-month increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.)																
			STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
	NO.	position	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	U	15	16	17
	JOI M2	CADO Technical Support Specialist																	
		(Civil)					$23.40	$23 93	$24.47	$24.98	$2539	$25.88	$2627	$26.69	$27.08	$27.59	$28.01	$28.46		$29.71			
	JOltMt	CMS Technical Support Specialist																	
		(Electric)			$23.40	$2393	$24.47	$2498	$2538	$25.88	$26.27	$2669	$27-08	$27.59	$28.01	$28.46		$20.71			
	JOI (07	CADD Technician 1 {Civil)			$22.89	$23.42	S23.94	124.49	$2490	$25.36	$25.77	$2623	$26.61	127.04	$27.47	$27.94		$2820			
	JOI 036	CAD 0 Technician 1 (Electric! 		$22.89	$23.42	$23 94	$24.49	$24.90	$25 36	$25.77	$26.23	$2661	$27.04	$27.4?	$27.94		$2820			
	■ J01039	CADD Technician 11 (Civil! 		$20.71	$2125	$21.77	$2229	$2272	$23.16	$23.59	$24.02	$24.41	$24.83	$25.24	$2567		$26.07			
	JOI 038	CADD Technician II (Electric)		SZ0.71	$21.25	$21.77	$22.29	$2272	$23.16	$23.59	$24.02	$24.41	$24.83	$25.24	$255?		S26O7			
	JOI 040	CADO Technician 111		$1602	$16.55	J17.O8	$17.61	$18.03	$18.42	$18.78	$19.26	$19.66	$20.06	$20.45		$21.07		$2152		
	JOI 035	Oralter 111 		$16.02	$16.55	$1708	$17.61	$18.03	$1842	$18.78	$19.26	$19.66	$20.06	$2045		$21.0?		$21.52		
	JQ1044	Electric Systems Clerk		$1590	$18.38	$16.86	$17.35	117.62	$1831	$18.78	$19.2?	319.75	$20.23	$20.69		$21.17		$21.69		
	JOI 043	Engineering Records Cierf:		$1554	$16.03	$1660	$1? 12	$17.51	$1713	$1839	$10.77	$1930	$7982	$20.66		$20.66		$21.24		
CO	J0HJ52	Geographic Information System																	
CO		and Dispatch Technician		$20.59	$21.06	$21.62	$22.18	$22.60	$23.02	$23.44	$2389	$24.32	$24.74	$2520	$25.62		$26 00			
	JOI 051	Geographic Information System																	
		Rejwesentative				$15.54	$16.03	$1660	$17.12	$17.51	$17.93	$18.39	$1877	$19.20	$19.62	$20.06		$20.66		$21.24		
	JO2497	Geographic Information System																	
		Technician 		$20.59	$21.06	$21.62	$22.18	$22.60	$23.02	$23.44	$2389	$24.32	$24.74	$25.20	$25.62		$26.00			
	J02499	Lead Geographic Information																	
		System Technician**	S	$22 59	$23.07	$23 59	$24.17	$24 59	$2501	$25.43	125.50	J26.3I)	$26.74	$2718	$27.59		$27,97			
	J01047	System Protection Technician		$21.35	$21.86	$2238	$22.91	$23.33	$23.75	$24.17	$24.59	$2501	$25.43	$25.91	$26.30		$26.66			
	J01045	Technical Assistant 		$20.59	£21.08	$21.62	$22.18	$22.60	$23.02	$23.44	$23.69	$24.32	$24.74	$25.20	$2562		$26.00			
	J01O45	■Transmission Technician		$22.59	$23.08	$2362	$24.14	$24.59	$2497	$25.40	$25.78	$26.2'	$2667	$27.07	$27.49		127.65			
	HELPDESK																		
	JOI016	Client Service Specialist 1 		$20.40	$2095	$2141	$21.88	$22.35	$22.86	$2330	$23.80	$24.27	$24.76		$25.33					
	JOI017	Client Service Specialist II		$18.60	$1911	$1961	$20-10	$2056	$21.00	$21.43	$2189	$22.32	$22.78	$23.26		$23.72		$2416		
	J01019	Relief Client Service Specialist		$20.40	$2095	$21.41	$21.86	$22.35	$22.86	$23.30	$23.80	$24.27	$24.76		$25.33					
•’SupervisoryPos/tion
Mote: Employees on the Union Payroll as of June 1,1987 are acempt from the first three steps of a clerical position.
MAU. CENTER		STEP 1 JI 7.53 $15.23	(Each »tep repreeentaa six-month increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after step 18.)															STEP 17
	NO. POSmON JQ2879 Lead Mail Center Coordinator” .... JOI063 Mail Center Coordinator 			STEP 2 $18.28 $15.78	STEP STEP STEP			STEP S $20.70 $17.85	STEP 7 $21.20 $18.40	STEP 8 $21.67 $18.91	STEP STEP		STEP 11	STEP 12 $2362 $2058	STEP STEP STB’ STEP				
				3 $16.75 $1631	4 $19.47 $16.83	5 $1998 $17.38				9 $22,41 $19.47	10 $22.90 $19.96			13	14 $2436 $21.11	15	16	
	MATERIALS MANAGEMENT AND																	
	FUEL SERVICES																	
	J01033 Materials Management Clerk 		$1320	$13.70	$1435	$14.78	$15.33	$15.89	$16.46	$17.03	$17.61	$1819		$18.74		$1930		$19.44	$19.57 '
	J01034 Senior Fuel Services Clerk		$16.28	$16.78	$1733	$17.83	$18.24	$18.68	$19.10	$19.55	$19.92	$20.35	$20.74		$21.37		$21.83		
	REAL ESTATE																	
	XI070 Real Estate Technical Assistant ....	$18.98	$19.47	$1993	$20.38	$20.84	$21.32	$21.75	$22.22	$22.67	$23.12	$2357	$24.04		$24.51			
	RECORDS																	
	J01054 Records Clerk			$12.80	$13.34	$13.84	$14.38	$1474	$15.13	$15.49	$15.84	$16.26	$16.64		$17.13		$17.62		$1817	$18.71
CD CD	JOI 053 Senior Records Clerk 		$17.68	$18.21	$18.74	$10.27	$19.66	$20.04	.$20.40	120.77	$21.15	$21.54	$21.93		$22.61		$22.83		
	SHAREOWNER SERVICES																	
	JOI 004 Shareowner Services Representative	JI 4.57	$15.13	$15.62	$16.15	$16.60	$17.01	$17.45	JI 7.86	$18.34	$18.77	$19.27		$19.85		$20.42		$20.60-
	MISCELLANEOUS.																	
	J01069 Administrative Services Clerk		JI 2.80	$13.34	$13.84	$14.38	$14.74	$15.13	$15.49	$1584	$1626	$16.64		$17.13		$17.62		$18.17	$18.71
	J0TQ55 Clerk......		JI 2.80	$1334	$13.84	$14.38	$14.74	$15.13	$15.49	$15.84	$16.26	$16,64		$17.13		$17.6?		$18.17	$18.71
	J01068 Corporate Receptionist 		*12-00	$13.34	$13.84	$1438	$14.74	$15.13	$15.49	$15.84	$1626	$16.64		$17.13		$17.62		$18.17	$18.71 -
	J01023 Document Management Technician .	$17.98	$18.51	$19.05	$19.56	$19.96	$20.40	$2085	$21.35	$21.75		$22.41		$22.63				
	JOI 060 Graphics Technician 1				$15.90	$16.43	$16.97	$17.49	$18.05	$18.52	$19.08	$19.58	$20.11	$20.65		$2129		$21.71			
	JOI 059 Graphics Technician 1! 		$1457	$1513	$15.62	$16.15	$16.67	$17,19	$17.73	$18.22	$18.75	$19.27		$19.05		$20.42		$2054	$20.60
	J03634 lead Graphics Technician’* 		$18.77	$1047	$19.97	$20.43	$20.91	$2138	$2187	$22.33	$22.81		$23.53		$23.76				
	XI067 Stenographer-Receptionist 		$13.21	$13.74	$14.26	$14.79	$15.20	$15.59	$1599	$16.38	$16.74	$17.14		$1766		$18.18		$18.61	$19.06
	XI064 Word Processor-Operator 		$12.80	$13.34	$13.84	$14.38	$14.74	$15,13	$1549	$15.64	$16.25	$16.64		JI 7.13		$17.62		$18.17	$18.71
"Supervisory position
100
05/28/06 - 05/26/07
ARTICLE XXXVI—WAGE SCHEDULE FOR PHYSIC AL POSITIONS 05/28/06-05/26/07
ENGKSEfflNG			[Each step represents a six-morrtti increment)							
			STEP 1 $27.71 (See $27.55	STEP 2 $28.25 apprentice $28.49	STEP 3 $28.73 Schedule) $29.42	STEP 4 $29.22 $3030	STEP 5 $29,82 $3132	STEP 6	STEP 7	STEP 8
NO. J01245 J01246-J01249 J01244	POSTON Engineering Technician ... 	 Engineering Technician Apprentice 	 Lead Engineering Technician** 				 hl 	 N								
GARAGE										
joins	Garage Mechanic 	.				 N	$27.44	$27.84	$28.26		$28.61			
J01116	Garage Mechanic (Evening) 			 N	$27.44	$27.84	$28.26		$26.61			
JC1120-J01123	Garage Mechanic Apprentice					(See Apprentice Schedule)							
J01117	Garage Mechanic Helper				 N	$19.10	$19.79	$20.51	$21.23	$21.58	$22.13		$22.74
J01119	Garage Mechanic Helper (Evening)				 N	$19.10	$19.79	$20.51	$21.23	$21.58	$22.13		$22.74
J0H12	Garage Mechanic II			 N	$23.85	$24.20	$24.55		$24.90			
J01118	Garage Parts Storekeeper			 N	$23.50	$24.08	$24.64	$25.23	$2555	$26.11		$26.54
JOU 13	Master Garage Mechanic’*				 N	$29.38	$29.66	$29.95		$30.56			
J01114	Master Garage Mechanic (Evening)’*			 N	$29.38	$2966	$29.95		$30.58			
GAS AND WATER										
J01239	Chief Corrosion Technician**			 N	$2986	$30.18	$30.80		$31.11			
J01240	Chief Corrosion Technician - Welding** (1)				 N	$30.38	$30.70	$31,32		$3153			
J01228	Chief Gas Technician (Large Crew)**			 N	$30.35	$30.65	$31,29		$31.61			
J01229	Chief Gas Technician (Large Crew) - Welding** (2|..			 N	$30.87	$31.17	$31,81		$32.13			
"Supervisory position
|1| Rate estahl isiied above rate for J01239 by amount ol welding premium.
(2) Rate estabhstied above rate for JO 1229 by amount of welding premium.
GAS AND WATER (corrt)		STEP		(Each step represents a six-month incramant)						STEP
				STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
NO. JOI 230	rosmoN Chief Gas Technician (Small Crew)" 		... N	1 $29.86	2 $30.18	3 $30.80	4	5 $31.11	6	7	8
JOI231	Chief Gas Technician (Small Crew) - Welding* * (3) 		.... N	$30.36	$30.70	$31.32		$31.63			
JOI 238	Gas Technician		.... N	$26.61	$26.88	$27.44		$27.71			
J01237	Gas Technician - Welding		.... N	$27.76	$28.34	$28.61		$2890			
J01241-JOI 243	Gas Technician Apprentice			(See Annrentica Schededule)							
J01236	Lead Regulation Technician" 		.... N	$29.03	$29.34	$29.94		$30 24			
JOI 232	Regulation Technician 		.... N	$26.87	$27.45	$27.72		$28.28			
J01233-J01235	Regulation Technician Apprentice			(See Aucrentice Schedule)							
										
LINE AND RELATED Jt) 1149	Chief 1 ine Clearance Technician ** 			.... hl	$28.61	$28.95	$29.39		$29.90		T	
J01129	Chief line Technician (Small Crew)"		.... N				$32.61				
J01141	Heavy-Duty Earth Borer Operator		.... N	$23.49	$24.07	$24.63	$25.21	$25.47	$26.01		$26.48
J01154	Infrared Technician		.... N	$26.17	$26.75	$27.36	$27.88	$28.46	$29.06		$29.60
J03783 J01135-J01138	Lead line Technician 	 Line Apprentice 		.... N	$32.60 $33.25 (See Apprentice Schedule) (See Aonrentice Schedule)			$33.67				
JOI151-J01152	Line Clearance Apprentice										
J02849	Line Clearance Specialist		.... N	$29.18	$29.52	$29.94		$30.50			
J01150	Une Clearance Technician 		... N	$25.47	$25.68	$26.31		$26.82			
JOT 153	Line Clearance Truck Operator		... N	$20.72	$21.31	$21.85	$22.43	$22.63	$23.09		$23.37
JO1130	Une Crew Leader** 		... N	$31.09	$31.44		$31.83 $24.60				
J01139	Une Equipment Operator 		... N	$22.93	$23.47	$24.04		$24.93	$25.26		$25.58
’'Supervisory pcstlion
(3| flats established above rate for JOI230 by amount of welding premium.
Note: Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1,1982 who hit start/entry level physical positions are exempt from the first three O| steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1,1987 who fill physical positions other than start/entry level or journeyman positions era exempt from the fret three (3| steps.

T
UNE AND RELATED (Cont)	(Each step represents a six-month increment)
102
		STEP		STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO. JOT 142	POSITION Line Patroller		N	1 $23.70	2 $24.27	3 $24.83	4 $2538	5 $2594	6 $26.42	7	8 $25.80
J01131	Line Technician	 		N	$29.95	$30 42		$30.91 $23.96				
J01140	Line Truck Operator			N	$22.27	$22.85	$23.41		$24.25	$24.60		$24.82
JOI 145	Local Representative (Electric)*' 		N	$3065	$30.96	$31.20		$31.55			
JOI 146 J01148	Local RepresentativefGas&Electricr* (4|	 ... Local Service GasRepresentative'* 		N N	$31.11 $29.30	$31.42 $29.77	$31.67 $30.17		$32.02 $30.59			
J01147	Local Service Representative** 		N	$29.30	$29.77	$30.17		$30.59			
JC1143 JOI 144	Trouble and Service Technician (Electric)			 Trouble and Service Technican |Gas & Electric) (4)		N N	$30.07 $30.52	$30.69 $31 15		$30.91 $31.37 $27.72				
JOI 132	Utility Technician 		N	S26 8S	$27.10						
JOI 133-JC1134	Utility Technician Apprentice 			(See Apprentice Schedule)							
METERING JOI 161	Chief Electric Meter Technician*"		N	$30.59	$31.18	$31.64		$32.20			
J01155	Electric Meter Technician					N	$29.18	$2939	$29 82		$30.40			
JOI1&7-JO116O J01175	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice 	 Gas MeterTechnician		N	|See Apprentice Schedule) t $25.93	$26.18	$26.48 (See Apprentice Schedule! $28.24	$20.78	$29.29				$26.69			
JOI 176-JOT 177 JO1169	Gas Meter Technician Apprentice 	 Gas Metering Specialist*’		N					$29.84			
JQ1171-J01173 J01170	Gas Metering Specialist Apprentice 	 Gas Metering Specialist - Welding*’ 			hl	(See Apprentice Schedule) $2871	$20 95	$29 20				$29.51			
J01174	Instrument and Meter Repair Technician		N	$28.24	$28.49	$28.74		$29.53			
"Supervisory position
|4| Rate is eslabl istied at 1.5% above the rate shown tor electric position
Note; Empkiysesoo the Union payroll as of June 1.1982whofilt start/entjy level physical positions are exempt from the first three (3) steps
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1,1987 who fit! physical positions other than slart/emry level or journeyman positions are exempt Iran the first three |3I steps.
Mb itMNG (contl
	NO. J01156 J01163-J0T164 JO1162 J0I178	posmoN lead Electric Meter Technician 	 Single Phase Meter Apprentice	 Single Phase Meter Tester	 Water Meter Technician	
	SERVICE JO1179	Lead Service Technician**	
	J02476	Service and Relief Dispatcher 	i..
	JO1190	Service Dispatcher 	
	JD1181	Service Specialist (Gas & Electric)	
	J0T183	Service Technician 	
	J01188-J01189	Service Technician Apprentice 	
	h	J01184	Service Worker	
o to	STORES J01197	Area Stores Equipment Operator	
	J01196	Area Stores Material Handler ... 	
	J01199	Area Stores Semi-Truck Driver	
	JOI 200	Area Stores Truck - Crane Operator	
	JO1198	Area Stores Truck Driver	
	J01195	Chief Area Storekeeper** 	
	JO1194	Chief Area Storekeeper (Large Crew)*'	
	JD12O4	Chief Plant Material Handler** 			
	J01193	Lead Area Stores Material Handler (Evening)’* 	
	JO1192	Local Material Coordinator	
(Each step represents a six-month increment)								
	STEP 1	STEP 2	STEP 3	STEP 4	STEP 5	STEP 6	STEP 7	STEP 8
N	$30.48	$30.63	$31.10		$31.86			
	(See Apprentice Schedule)							
N	$24.90	$25.16	$25.38		$25.84			
N	$23.83	$24.40	$24.95	$25.54	$25.89	$26.13		$26.69
N	$31.16	$31.59		$32.03				
N	$21.81	$22.39	$23.06	$23.61	$23.96	$24.39		$24.61
N	$19.73	$20.26	$20.87	$21.37	$21.67	$22.05		$22.26
N	$28.83	$29.23		$29.67				
N	$25.64	$26.01		$26.35				
	(See Apprentice Schedule)							
N	$21.89	$22.35	$22.82	$23.28	$23.74	$24.20		$24.67
N	$22.88	$23.26	$23.81	$24.35	$24.66	$25.00		$25.22
N	$20.72	$21.31	$21.85	$22.43	$22.68	$23.09		$23.40
N	$23.27	$23.83	$24.37	$24.95	$25.40	$25.57		$2598
N	$24.20	$24.74	$25.34	$25.89	$26.17	$26.73		$27.09
N	$21.09	$21.68	$22.23	$22.78	$23.24	$23.42		$23.82
N	$27.13	$27.68	$28.25	$2B.79	$29.23	$29.46		$29,917
N	$27.94	$28.47	$28.94	$29.45	$29.92	$30.42		$30.91
N	$24.36	$24.95	$25.54	$26.15	$26.69	$27.26		$27.85
N	$21.88	$22.47	$23.06	$23.67	$23.92	$24.36		$24.68
N	$23.50	$24.08	$24.64	$25.23	$25.55	$26.11		$26.54
"Siperviswy position
I
toi
SUBSTATION CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE	(Each step represents a six-month increment)
		STEP		STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	position		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	S
J01213	Chief Concrete Technician” 			 N	$26.27	$26.65	$27.43	$27.93	$29.51	$28.76		$29.33
JOI 206	Chief Electrician*' 				 N	$33.69	$34.14		$34.62				
JOI 205	Electric Equipment Maintenance Specialist” 				 N	$33.45	$33.89	$34.34		$34.65			
JQ1207	Electrician			 N	$30.82	$31.30		$31.62				
J01208-J01211	Electrician Apprentice.............................................. (See	Apprentice Schedule)
JOI 212	Electrician's Helper				.... N	$20.92	$21.48	$2205	$22.59	$22.97	$23.35	$23.60
J01214	Filtering Equipment Operator		.... N	$23.59	$24.14	$24.71	$25.30	$25.58	$26.17	$26.73
J01215	Heavy Trailer-Truck Driver 			.... N	$24.41	$24.96	$25.55	$26.11	$26.48	$27.00	$27.36
J01216	Truck-Crane Operator (Heavy Duty) 		.... N	$24.41	$24.96	$25.55	$26.11	$26.48	$27.00	$27.36
SUBSTATON OPERATION J01218	Chief Water Works Operator			.... N/S	$27.68	S2B.25	$20.79	$29.39	$29.79	$30.19	$30.59
J01221	Dispatcher 		.... N/S	$23.88	$24.44	$25.02	$25.57	$25.91	$26.19	$26.54
J01217	Dispatcher & Substation Maintenance Inspector 		.... N/S	$24.85	$25.44	$26.01	$26.55	$26.93	$27.15	$27.62
JD1225	Distribution Center Dispatcher			.... S	$23.88	$24.44	$2502	$25.57	$25.91	$26.19	$26.54
JOI 223	Maintenance & Relief Substation Operator (Ripon)		.... N/S	$24,85	$25.44	$26.01	$26.55	$25.90	$2715	$27.62
JOI 226	Substation & Combustion Turbine Maintenance Inspector & Operator 		.... N/S	$25.09	$25.72	$26.27	$26.85	$27.22	$27.44	$27.89
JOI 222	Substation & Water Works Operator (Ripon)			.... N/S	$23.88	$24.44	$25.02	$25.57	$25.91	$26.19	$26.54
J01219	Substation Maintenance Inspector & Relief Dispatcher ....	.... N/S	$24.85	$25.44	$26.01	$26.55	$26.93	$27.15	$27 62
JOI 224	Tool and Equipment Coordinator 				... N	$23.67	$24.15	$24.63	$25.12	$25.64	$26.13	$26.57
"Supervisory position
Note: Employees on the Union payroll as ol June 1,1982 who till stan/entry M physical positions are exempt from the hist three (3) steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1,1987 who fill physical postlions other than statt/entiy level or journeyman positions are exempt from the first three (3) steps.
MISCELLANEOUS		STEP		(Each step represent* a six-month increment)						STEP
				STEP	STB*	STEP	STB*	STEP	STEP	
NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
JOI 250	Building Custodian 1*			 N	116.36	$17.10	$17.76	$18.44	$18.66	$19.05		$19.30
J01251	Building Custodian II*			 N	JI 4.51	$15.23	$15.90	$16.62	$16.79	$17.10		$17.48
JOI 259	Customer Field Representative				 N	$21.00	$21.56	$22.12	$22.68	$23.09	$23.40		$23.68
JOI 257	Laborer* 			 N	$16.00	$16.71	$17.39	$18.07	$18.47	$18.95		$19.30
JDJ2SB	Laborer Semi-Skilled*			 N	$16.86	$17.57	$18.27	$18.95	$19.37	$19.82		$20.23
JOI 260	Meter Reader				 N	$16.54	$17.57	$18.58	$19.05	$19.39	$19.66		$19,90
JOI 258	Senior Customer Field Representative**			  N	$23.72	$24.15	$24.58	$25.00	$25.41	$25.84		$26.27
JD1253	Utility Laborer						  N	$16.86	$17.57	$18.27	$18.95	$19.37	$19.82	$20.23	$20.83
J01252	Utility Operator			 N	$10.92	$2069	$21.46	$22.24	$23.00	$23.78	$24.55	$25,34
J01254	Utility Worker "A"..,			 N	$19.40	$20.17	$20.95	$21.72	$22.51	$23.10	$23.90	$24.67
J01255	Utility Worker "B"			 N	$16.66	$17.57	$18.27	$18.95	$19.37	$19.82	$20.23	$20.83
	PLANT POSITIONS-FUELS									
o cn	J01273	Equipment Operator - Fuels 			  N/S	$25.79	$26.43	$27.02	$27.57	$27.97	$28.40	$28.83
	J03663	Lead Ash Site Operator**			 N/S	$28.26	$28.92	$29.49	$30.12	$30.47	$30.94	$31.40
	J0127I	Lead Equipment Operator - Fuels** 					 N/S	$28.26	$28.92	$29.49	$30.12	$30.47	$30.94	$31.40
	J01272	Relief Equipment Operator - Fuels 						 N/S	$26.35	$26.98	$27.62	$28.19	$28.59	$29.03	$29.4?
OPERATING
J01267	Combustion Turbine Technician			... N	$28.61	$29.11	$29.56	$30.05	$30.51	$31.02	$31.82
JD1270	Equipment Operator - Operations					... S	$25 73	$26.43	$27.02	$27.57	$27.9?	$28.40	$28.83
JOI 266	MasterCombustiunTurbineTechnician**		... N	$32.63	$33.08	$33.51		$33.93		
J02846	Master Unit Operator - (Small Steam Plant!** 		... S	$31.97	$32.42	$32.84		$33.26		
JD2B47	Master Unit Operator - (Small Steam Plant - Licensed)'*....	... S	$32.56	$32.99	$33.43		$33.86		
J01268	Plant Equipment Operator			... S	$27.78	$28.34	$28.98	$29.54	$30.15	$3038	$30,92
J01269	Plant Equipment Operator ■ (licensed) (5) 			... S	$28.30	$28.86	$29.50	$30.06	$30.67	$30.90	$31,44
‘Starting or entry level position * ‘Supervisory position
(5) Rate established above the rate for J01268 by SO W premium amount
PHYSICAL 05/28/06 - 05/26/07
OPERATING Icontl		STEP		(Eirch step represents a six-month increment)						STB*
				STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	
NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
J01274	Plant Stores Helper..								 N	$20.72	$21.31	$21.85	$22.43	$22 68	$23.09		$2340
JOI 265	Relief Unit Operator 				 S	$2898	$2957	$30.17	$30.74	$31.09	$31.47		$31.91
J01263	Unit Operator |Large Steam Plant) 					 S	$28.90	$29.57	$30.17	$30.74	$31 09	$31.47		$31.91
JO1264	Unit Operator (Small Steam Plant)				 s	$27.78	$Z8.34	$28.90	$29.54	$30.15	$30.38		$30.92
106
MAINTENANCE						
J01316	Maintenance Electrician 				N	$30.39	$30.77	$31.39	$31 82
JO1315	Maintenance Electrician (Evening!				N	$30.39	$30.77	$31.39	$31.82
J01341-J31344	Maintenance Electrician Apprentice 				(See Annrentice Schedule!			
JO1321	Maintenance Instrument and Control					N	$30.39	$30.77	$31.39	$31.82
J01345-J01348	Maintenance instrument and Control Apprentice 				/See Armrentice SrhAdtilel			
J01322	Maintenance Instrument and Control (Nelson Dewey/Rock River)		N	$30.39	$30.77	$31.39	$31.82
J01349-J01350	Maintenance Instrument end Control (RR/ND) Apprentice ■ 1st 5 2nd Yr		(See Apprentice Schedule)			
J02843	Maintenance Instrument and Control (RR/ND) Apprentice - 3rd Year...		(See Apprentice Schedule)			
J01317	Maintenance Technician-Electrical 		N	$30.99	$31.40	332.00	$32.47
J01351-J01354	Maintenance Technician - Electrics 1 Apprentice 			(See Apprentice Schedule)			
J01323	Maintenance Technician ■ Electrical (Columbia/Hydros) 		N	$30.99	$31 40	$32.00	$32.47
J0131B	Maintenance Technician-Electrical (Evening Crew)		N	$30.99	$31.40	$32.00	$32.47
J01313	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical 				N	$7939	$29 77	$30 27	$30.58
J0130B J01311	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice 			(See Apprentice Schedule)			
JOI 325	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Evening) 		N	$29.39	$29.77	$30.22	$30.58
J01327	Maintenance Technician -Mechanical (Night) 		N	$29.39	$29.77	$30.22	$30.58
J01312	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical ■ Welding 		N	$29.08	$30.27	$30.75	$31.16
J01324	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical - Welding (Evening) 				N	$29.08	$38.27	$36 75	$3136
Now: tmpteyees on the Union payroll as of June 1,1982 whu fill start/entry level physical positions are exempt from the first three (3) steps
Employees m the Union payroll as of June 1.1987 who fill physical positions other than start/entry lesel or journeyman positions are eternal from the first three 13} steps.
MAINTENANCE (CONT.)		(Each step represents a six-month increment)							
		STB*	STEP	STEP	STEP	STB*	STEP	STB*	STEP
NO.	posmoN	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
J0132B	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical - Welding (Night) 	 N	$2988	$30.27	$30.75		$31.16			
J01306	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical/Combustion Turbine Technician N	$28.71	$29.22	$29.74	$30.22 .	$30.72	$31.21		$31.69
JOI 291	Master Maintenance Electrician*' 	  N	$32.79	$33.15	$33.73		$34.14			
J01295	Master Maintenance Electrician (Evening)" 	 N	$32.79	$33.15	$33.73		$34.14			
J01288	Master Maintenance Instrument and Control"	 N	$32.79	$33.15	$33.73		$34.14			
JOI 287	Master Maintenance Instrument and Control (ND/RR)" 	 N	$32.79	$33.15	$33.73		$34.14			
JOI 294	Master Maintenance Technician (Rock River)"	    N	$33.23	$33.60	$34.19		$3462			
JOI 292	Master Maintenance Technician - Electrical" 		 N	$33.23	$33.60	$34.19		$34.62			
JO1296	Master Maintenance Technician - Electrical (Evening Crew)*’ 	 N	$33.23	$33.60	$34.19		$34.62			
JD1286	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crew]*' 	 N	$32.97	$33.44	$33.87		$34.32			
J01299	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (large Crewl (Evening)" N	$32.97	$33.44	$33.87		$34.32			
J01301	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (large Crew) (Night)" . N	$32.97	$33.44	$33.87		$3432			
JO12BS	Master Maintenance Technician- Mechanical (Large Crew) - Welding" N	$33.48	$33.08	$34.44		$34.89			
JOI 298	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crewl -								
	Welding (Evening)"	   N	$33.48	$33.88	$34.44		$34.89			
JOI 300	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Large Crew| -								
	Welding (Night]"	  N	$33.48	$33.86	$34.44		$34.89			
301290	MasterMaintenanceTechnician-Mechamcal(SmallCrew)" 	 N	$31.73	$32.17	$32.51		$33.32			
J01303	Master Maintenance Technician ■ Mechanical (Small Crew) (Evening!** N	$31.73	$32.17	$32.51		$33.32			
JQ1305	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) (Night)** . N	$31.73	$32.17	$32.51		$33.32			
JOI 289	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) - Welding** N	$32.37	$32.84	$33.16		$33.92			
JO1302	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) ■								
	Welding (Evening)"	 N	$32.37	$32.84	$33.16		$33.92			
J01304	Master Maintenance Technician - Mechanical (Small Crew) -								
	Welding (Night)**	 N	$32.37	$32.84	$33.16		$33.92			
"Supervisor position

RESULTS - LABORATORY
(Each step represents a six-month increment)
108
		STEP		STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
NO.	POSITION		1	2	3	4 ,	5	6	7	8
J01280-JD128Z	Laboratory & Instrument Control Apprentice 				(See Apprentice Schedule)							
J01283	Laboratory Technician 			 N	S26.42	$26 80	$2721		$27.57			
JO 1284	Laboratory Technician Apprentice				I See Apprentice Schedule)							
.101277	Master Laboratory Technician** 								 N	$29.13	$29.48	$29.90		$30.31			
HYDRO PLANTS										
J01357	Chief Hydro Mechanic (PDS-KIL)** . 	 ..		 N	$29.82	$30,40	$3094	$31.53	$31.93	$32.35		$32-80
JOI 360	Chi ef Hyd ro Meehan ic - Wei di ng (PDS Kill* * 				 N	$30.58	$31.17	$31.72	$32.33	$3277	$33.18		$33.64
J01355	Maintenance Operator Technician (PDS-KIL) 			 N/S	$26.27	$26.85	$27.43	$27.93	$2837	$28.83		$29.24
JOI 356	Maintenance Operator Technician - Welding (POS-KID			 N/S	$26.89	$27.44	$27.39	$28.56	$28.99	$29.45		$29.86
MISCELLANEOUS										
J01261	Planner/Scheduler			 N	$29.10	$29.66	$30.24	$30.82	$31.48	$31.95		$32.48
J01262	Plant Safety Coordinator 				 N	$27.22	$27.63	$29.36	$28.94	$29.29	$29.76		$30.17
"Supervisory position
Note: Employees or the Union payroll as of June 11882 who fill start/entty level physical positions ate exempt from the first three (31 steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1.1987 who fill physical positions other than start/eniry level or journeyman positions are exempt from the first three |3) steps
General Office - Physical Positions
109
BUILDING
NO.	POSHKJN
JO1127	Genetai Office Materials Handler* .....................   N
J01126	General Office Services Worker*.........................  N
ENGINEERING
JOT 109	Electrical Protective Equipment Technician**...........   N
JOI 108	Electrical Protective Equipment Tester..................  N
JO1106	Electrical Technician.................................    N
J02B4B	Lead Relay and Electrical Technician...................  hl
J01105	Meter laboratory Technician ...........................   N
JO1107	Relay Technician.......................................   N
J01101	Surveyor!" ............................................ N
J0I102	Surveyor It............................................   N
JO1103	Surveyor Aid 1......................................... N
JO1104	Surveyor Aid II........................................ N
FORMS • SHIPPING AND RECEIVING
JOI 098	Forms Shipping and Receiving Worker........................ N
LOAD DISPATCHING
J01110	Load Dispatcher........................................ S
J0I111	SOC Control Technician ................................ N/S
(Each step represents a six-month increment)							
STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8
$17.86	$18.41	$18.99	$19.53	$19.83	$20.17		$20.48
$17.86	$18.41	$18.99	$19.53	$19.83	$20.17		$20.48
126.93	$27.48	$28.04	$28.63	$29.13	$29.66		$2988
$26.37	$26.95	$27.49	$28.05	$20.61	$29.11		$29.38
$31.85	$32.43	$32.95	$33.53	$33.88	$34.37		$34.79
$33.60	$34.22	$34.80	$35.38	$35.77	$36.28		$36.71
$29.39	$29.93	$30.54	$31.09	$31.53	$31.83		$32.41
$31.17	$31.75	$32.33	$32.87	$33.32	$33.86		$34.31
$28.88	$29.45	$29.97	$30.58	$31.21	$31.69		$32.20
$24.30	$24.85	$25.44	$26.01	$26.48	$26.82		$27.12
$20.90	$21.43	$22.02	$22.56	$22.99	$23.37		$23.60
$18.20	$18.78	$19.33	$19.90	$20.22 ■	. $20.62		$20.77
$1786	$18.24	$18.62	$19.00	$19.37	$19.74	$20.11	$20.48
$32,84	$33.4t	$33.95	$34.52	$34.79	$35.20		$3573
$20 95	$29.50	$30.09	$30.65	$31.13	$31.53		$31.93
"Starting or entry level position
"Supervisory position
CAL 05/28/06 - 05/26/07
MAIL SERVICES			 N 	 N 	 N 	  N	(Each step represents a six-month increment)							
NO. JfJIlOO J01099 J01092 JO1093	POSITION Automated Mail Processor		 Lead Automated Mail Processor" 	 Courier Driver" 			 Relief Courier Driver" 		 				STEP 1 $16.10 $10.82 $20.90 $20.90	STEP 2 $17.19 $19.92 $21.61 $21.61	STEP 3 $16.19 $20.95 $22.25 $22.25	STEP 4 $19.17 $21.93 $2296 $22.96	STEP 5 $20.14 $22.85 $23.24 $23.24	STEP 6 $20.58 $23.78 $23.70 $23.70	STEP 1 $21.22 $24.48	STEP 8 $21.77 $24.59 $23.96 $23 96
PRINTING SERVICES										
JD1097	Bindery Operator					 hl	$14.15	$14.97	$15.76	$16.55	$17.35	$18.15	$18.95	$19.74
J01094	Lead Offset Press Operator*’				 N	$18.92	$19.68	$20.54	$21.39	$22.25	$23.10	$23.96	$24.83
JOI095	Offset Press Operator 1			 N	$17.05	$17.91	$1878	$19.65	$20.48	$21.35	$22.22	$23.07
J01096	Offset Press Operator II 		...			 N	$16.10	$17.19	$18.19	$19.17	$20.14	$20.58	$21.22	$21.77
TELECOMMUNICATIONS										
J01091	Te lecommun icati tms Techn ic ran 			 N	$26.62	$27.17	$27.77	$28.31	$28.89	$29.46		$30 09
'Startwig or entry level position	*' Supervisory position
Note: Empfoyeas on the Union paytoll as ol June 1.1982 who fill start/entry level physical posters are exempt from the first three (3) steps.
Employees on the Union payroll as of June 1,1987 who fill physical positions other than start/entry level or journeyman positions are exempt Irom the first three 131 steps.
APPRENTICE
Na	POSIDON
JO1160	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice-lst Year'"..........$23.77
JOI 159	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice-2nd Year***.........$24.99
JOI 158	Electric Meter Technician Apprenticed Year*’*............$26.21
JO1157	Electric Meter Technician Apprentice4th Year***............ $27.43
JOI 211	ElectricianApprierrtice■tstYear**•...................... $24.82
J01210	Electrician Apprentice-Znd Year"*....................... $26.09
J01209	Electrician Apprentice-3rd Year***.......................$27.37
JOI 208	Electrician Apprenticed Year*'*..........................$28.64
JOI 249	Engineering Technician Apprentice-lst Year***............$23.26
JOI 248	Engineering Technician Apprentice-Znd Year**’............$24.45
JO 1247	Engineering Technician Apprentice-Sr d Year***...........$25.65
JOI246	Engineering Technician Apprenticed Year"*................$26.84
JO1123	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-lst Year"* —................  $22.32
JO1122	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-Znd Year*"....................$23.46
JO1121	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-3rd Year***.................  $24.60
J01120	Garage Mechanic Apprentice-4th Year*"..................  $25.75
J01125	GarageMechanictl Apprentice-1 st Year’ * *.  .'..........$21.41
JO1124	Garage Mechanic II Apprerrtice-2nd Year*"............... $22.41
JO1177	Gas Meter Technician Apprentice-1 st Year***.............$22.95
JO1176	Gas Meter Technician Apprenticed Year"*..................$24.02
JOI 173	Gas Metering Special ist Apprentice ■ 1 st Year* ‘ *.....$24.47
JO1172	Gas Metering Specialist Apprenticed Year*”...............$25.66
J01171	Gas Metering Specialist Apprentice-3rd Year***...........$26.86
J01241	Gas Technician Apprentice-lst Year”*...................  $22.72
JOI 242	Gas Technician Apprenticed! Year’**......................$23.83
JOI243	Gas Technician Apprentice-3rd Year*”.....................$24.94
JOI 284	Laboratory Technican Apprentice-1 st Year (6|..........  $24.81
JO1138	line Apprentice-lst Year”*................................$Z4.11
JO1137	line Apprenticed Year***................................ $25.35
JO1136	line Apprenticed Year’ ’*................................$26.58
J01135	Line Apprenticed Year*"................................. $27.82
* * 'Apprentice program rates ere based on the maximum Journeyman rate:
Few Year	7B%— Istyear, 823s—2nd year, 86%—3rd year. 90%—4th year.
Three Year	BZft—1 st year, 06S—2nd year, 90%—3rd year.
Two Year	Istyear, 90S—2nd war.
SCHEDULE
NO.	POSITION
JO1152	Line Clearance Apprentice-lst Year***.....................$23.07
JO 1151	Une Clearance Apprenticed Year* * *...........-.............$24.14
JQ1344	Maintenance	Electrician Apptentice-1 st Year* * *....... $24.82
J01343	Maintenance	Electrician Apprenticed Year"’...............$26.09
J01342	Ma intenance	Electrician Apprentice-3rd Year* **..........$27.37
J01341	Mai ntenance	Electrician Apprenticed Year*" ............$28.64
J01348	Maintenance Instrument and Control	Apprentice-1 st Year * *.$24.82
J01347	Maintenance Instrument and Control	Apprentice-Znd Year***...$26.09
J01346	Maintenance Instrument and Control Apprenticed Year*".......$27.37
JOI 345	Maintenance Instrument and Control	Apprenticed Year**.......$28.64
JOI 350	Maint. Instrument and Control Apprentice (RR/NDJ-1 st Year*”... $26.09
J01349	Maint. Instrument and Control Apprentice (RR/ND)-2nd Year***.. $27.37
JQ2843	Maint. Instrument and Control Apprentice (RR/ND)-3rd Year"*., $29.64
JOI354	Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprentice-lst Year**’...$2533
JQ1353	Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprentice-?^ Year"*....$26.83
J01352	Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprenticed Year***.....$27.92
J01351	Maintenance Technician - Electrical Apprenticed Year* ’*....$29.22
JOI 311	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice-1 st Year (71.$24,30
J01310	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprentice-2nd Year (7),,.. $25.55
JOI 309	Maintenance Technician • Mechanical Apprenticed Year (7).... $26.80
J01309	Maintenance Technician - Mechanical Apprenticed Year (7)...$28.04
J01233	Regulation Techn ician Apprentice- IstYear**................$23.19
J01234	Regu lation Techn ician Apprenticed Year*"..................$24.32
J01235	Regulation Technician Apprentice-3rd Year***..............$25.45
J011B9	Service Technician Apprentice-1 st Year***..................$22.66
J01169	Service Technician Apprentice-Znd Year"*....................$23.72
J01164	Single Phase Meter Apprentice-lst Year"*....................$22.22
JO1163	Single Phase Meter Apprentice-Znd Year’'....................$23.26
JQ1134	Utility Technician Apprentice-lst Year"*....................$23.84
JO1133	Utility Technician Apprenticed Year"*.....................  $24.95
(6)	Rate based at 90S of maximum Journeyman rate.
(7)	Rate based on the maximum rate fur position J01312.
112
ARTICLE XXXVII—WAGE SCHEDULE FOR CLERICAL POSITIONS 05/28/06-05/26/07 Field Clerical Positions
ACCOUNTING AND CUSTOMER		(Each step represents a six-month increment except step 17, Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.1															
RELATIONS	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP
	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
NO. POSITION J01O77 Customer Service Representative ... JOI 071 Senior Customer Service	$1369	$14.25	$14 80	$15 37	$1574	$1620	$16.63	$17 00	$17.50	$17 92		$1644		$19.03		$19.39	$1979
Representative"		$21.26	$21.77	$22.31	$22.90	$2327	$23.67	$24.08	$24 50	$24.85	$25.28	$25.58	$26.06		$26.47			
ENGINEERING JOI 073 Area Operations Representative ...	$13.69	$14.25	$14.80	$15.37	$1574	$16.20	$16.63	$17.03	$17.50	$17.92		$16.44		$19.03		$19.39	$19.79
J01080 Assistant Project Designer		$16.16	$1664	$17 09	$17.55	$1803	$18.47	$16.95	$19.42	$19.90	$2033		$20.83		$21.28		$21.72	$22.19
J01081 Map Drafter I 			$16.16	$16.71	$17 26	$17.78	$18.19	$18.62	$19.03	$1940	$19.82	$20.26	$20.66	$21.07		$21.72		$22.19	
JO1O82 Map Drafter 11’		$11.37	$12.45	$12.98	$13.55	$14.02	$14.48	$15.02	$15.50	$16.01	$16 52	$17.00		$17 51		$16.03		$19.33
J01083 Technical Assistant		$21 27	$21.73	$22.33	$22.91	$23 35	$23.78	$24 21	$24.68	$2512	$25.56	$25.03	$26.47		$26.96			
STORES J01075 Area Stores Clerk.. 		$16.95	$17.50	$18.03	$18.57	$1903	$19.45	$19.91	$20.32	$20 83	$21.23	$21.67		$22.27		$22.74		
J01074 Senior Area Stores Clerk ...		$22.05	$22.58	$23.12	$23.57	$2410	$24.53	$24.97	$25.40	$2584	$2627	$2677	$27.17		$27.54			
301077 Sourcing Buyer Assistant		$16 95	$17.50	$18.03	$18.57	$19.03	$1945	$19.91	$20.32	$20.83	$21 23	$21.67		$2227		$22.70		
J0W78 Sourcing Inventory Assistant		$1695	$17.50	$18.03	$18.57	$19.03	$1945	$19.91	$20.32	$20.83	$21.23	$21.67		$22.27		$22 70		
GENERAL J01O84 Clerk	 		$12.78	$1328	$13.85	$14.43	$14.83	$1521	$1563	$16.05	$16.40	$16.85		$17 33		$17.87		$18.41	$19 93
J0W86 Ctert-Stenographer ...			$13.21	$1374	$14 29	$14.83	$15.21	$15.58	$16.00	$16.36	$1680	$17.19		$17.70		$18.20		$18.77	$19.33
"Starting or entry level position '"Supervisory Position
Note: Employees on the Union Payroll as of June 1.1987 are exempt from the list tfirea steps of a clerical position.
General Office Clerical Positions
	ACCOUNRNG AND TREASURY			(Each step reprewmu » eix-month Increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one lull year after step 16J															
			STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STH*	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STEP	STH*
	NO.	POSITION	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	TO	11	12	13	14	15	16	17
	J0HM6	Accounting Cleric 			$18.10	$18.68	$1322	$19.75	$2020	$20.57	$20.95	$2134	$21.72	$2217	$22.56		$2323		$23.47		
	J01011	Assistant Work Order Technician ...	$16.82	$17.33	$17.90	$18.42	$1884	$19.30	$1973	$2020	$20.58	$21X12	$21.42		$22.08		$22.55		
	J01D05	Senior Accounting Clerk		$21.42	$22.00	$2253	$23.06	$23.49	$23.93	$24.37	$24.81	$25.22	$25.61	$26.06	$26.49		$26.89			
	J01008	Treasury Clerk 		$1810	$18.68	$1922	$1975	$20.20	$2057	$20.95	$21.34	$21.72	$22.17	$22.56		$23.23		$23.47		
	J01010	Work Order Technician 			$22.05	$22.58	$23.12	$23.67	$2410	$24.53	$2497	$25.40	$25.84	$262?	$26.77	$27.17		$27.54			
	CUSTOMS ACCOUNTING																		
	JOI030	Customer Billing Representative ....	$22.05	$22.58	$23.12	$23.67	$24.10	$24.51	$24.96	$25.35	$25.74	$26.20	$26.56	$27.00		$27.43			
	J01028	Lead Remittance Processor" 		$1882	$1937	$19.92	$20 47	$20.95	$21.42	$21.93	$2235	$22.85	$2334	$23.78		$24.48		$24.59		
	J01029	Remittance Processor 		$13.22	$13.78	$14.30	$14.85	$15.23	$1563	$16.00	$16.36	$16.88	$17.19		$17.70		$1820		$1877	$1933
	DATA PROCESSING																		
O	J01025	Data Entry Operatori		$13.22	$13.78	(1430	$14.85	$15.23	$15.63	$16.00	$16.36	$1688	$17.19		$17.70		$1820		$1877	$1933
	J01026	Information Technology Operator .. S	$19.12	$19.68	$20.21	$20.76	$21.12	$21.48	$21.93	$22-29	$22.67	(23.03	$23.43		$24.14		$24.27		
	J01024	lead Data Entry Operator"				$18.19	$18.78	$19.30	$19.80	(20.20	$20.47	$20.83	$21.12	$21.43	$21.75	$22.12		$2276		$23.16		
XII020 Relief Data Processing Equipment Operator..................................... S	$19.12 $1966 (20.21 $20.76 $21.12 $21.48 $21.93 $22.29 $2267 $23.03 $23.43	$24.14	$24.27
XI022 Relief Information Services Control Clerk.............................. N/S	$14 98 $1548 $16.05 $16.56 $17.08 $17.53 $18.02 $18.45 $18.99 $19.39	$19.99	$2059	$20.65 $20.72
JO1O27 Relief Information Technology Operator....................................  8	$19.12 $19.68 $20.21 $20.76 $21.12 $21.48 $21.93 $2229 $22.57 $23.03 $23.43	$24.14	$24.27
'Supervisory Position
114
ENGINEERING
NO. POSITION
JO1042 CADO Technical Support Specialist (Civil)...................................
JOI 041 MOD Technical Support Specialist (Electric)................................
J01037 CADD Technician I (Civil}..........
JOI 036 CADD Technician I (Electric) .....
JOI 039 CADD Technician II (Civil) .......
J01O38 CADD Technician II (Electric)......
J01G40 CADD Technician ill............... •
JQ1035 Drafterill ........................
J01044 Electric Systems Clerk.............
J01O43 Engineering Records Clerk.........
J01052 Geographic Information System and Dispatch Technician ..................
J01O51 Geographic Information System Representative...........................
J02497 Geographic Inf ormatitm System Technician .........................
JO2499 Lead Geographic Information System Technician'*..................... S
JO 1047 System Protection Technician......
JO1O46 Technical Assistant................
JOI 045 Transmission Technician...........
HELPDESK
JOI 016 Client Service Specialist I ......
J01017 Client Service Specialist II.......
J01019 Relief Client Service Specialist...
{Each step represents a six-month increment excupt step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.1																
STEP STEP STEP			STEP 4	STEP 5	STEP 6	STEP STEP		STEP 9	STEP 10	STEP 11	STEP 12	STEP 13	STEP 14	STEP 15	STEP 16	STEP 17
1	2	3				7	8									
$24.17	$24.72	$25.28	$2580	$2622	$26.73	$27.14	$27.57	S27.97	$2850	$28.93	$29 40		$2966			
$24.17	$24.72	$2528	$25.80	$26.22	$26.73	$27.14	$27 57	$27.97	$28.50	$28.93	$29.40		$2966			
$23.65	$24.19	$2473	$25.30	$2572	$26.20	$26.62	$2710	S27.49	$27 93	$28.38	$28 86		$29.13			
$23.65	$24.19	$24.73	$2530	$25.72	$26.20	$26.62	$27.10	:i27.49	$27.93	$28.38	$28.86		$29.13			
S21.39	$21.95	$22-49	123.03	$23.47	$23.92	$24.37	$24.81	$25.22	$25.65	$26.07	$26 52		$2693			
$21 39	$21.95	$22.49	$23 03	$23.47	$23 92	$24 37	$24.81	ti2522	$25.65	$2607	$26.52		$26.93			
$1655	$17.10	$17.64	$1819	$18 62	$1903	$1940	$19.90	120.31	$2872	$21.12		$21.77		$22 23		
$16 55	$17.10	$17.64	$18.19	$1862	$1903	$19.40	$1990	120.31	$2072	$21.12		$2177		$22.23		
$1642	$16.92	$17.42	$17.92	$18.41	$1891	$1940	$19.91	120.40	$20.90	$2137		$21.87		$22.41		
$1605	$16.56	$17.15	$17 68	$1909	$1852	$1900	$1939	1,1983	$2027	$20.72		$21.34		$21.94		
$21.27	521.78	$22.33	$22 91	$23 35	$23.78	$24 21	$24.68	82512	$25.56	$26.03	$26.47		$2686			
$16.05	$16.56	$17.15	$17.69	$1809	$18.52	$19.00	$19.39	$19.83	$20.27	$20.72		$21.34		$21.94		
$21.27	$21 78	$22.33	$22.91	$23.35	$23.78	$24.21	$24.68	125.12	$2556	$26.03	$26.47		$26.86			
$23.34	$23.63	$2437	$24.97	$25.40	$25.84	$26.27	$2675	827.17	$27.62	$28.08	$28 50		$28.89			
$22.05	$22.58	$2312	$2367	$24.10	$24.53	$24.97	$25.40	$25.84	$26 27	$26.77	$27.17		$27.54			
$2127	121.78	$22.33	$22.91	$23.35	$23.78	$24.21	$24.68	$25.12	$25.56	$26.03	$26.47		$76.86			
$2334	$23.84	$24.40	$24.94	$25.40	$2579	$26.24	$26.63	$27.14	$27.55	$27.96	$28.40		$28.77			
$2107	$21 64	$22.1?	$22 60	$23.09	$2361	$24 07	$24.59	S25.07	$25.58		$2617					
$19,21	$19.74	$2026	$2076	$21.24	$2169	$22.14	$22.61	12306	$23.53	$24 03		$24.50		$24.96		
$21.07	$21.64	$22.12	$22.60	$23 09	$23.61	$24.07	$24.59	12507	$25.58		$26.17					
"Supervisory Position
Note: Employees on the Union Payroll as of June 1,1987 are exempt from the first three steps ol a clerical position.
MAL CENTER		STEP 1 $18.11 $1S.73	lEaeh step represents a six-month increment except step 17. Step 17 occurs one full year after step 16.1															STEP 17
			STEP STEP		STEP STEP STEP			STEP STEP STEP			STEP 10 $23.66 $20.62	STEP STEP		STEP 13	STEP STEP STEP			
	NO. posmow J02879 LeadMailCenterCoordinatrx"* .... J01063 Mail Center Coordinator 			2 $1898 $16.30	3 $1937 $16.85	4 $20.11 $1739	5 $20.64 $17.96	6 $21.38 $1844	7 $21.90 $1901	8 $22.39 $1953	9 $23.15 $20.11		11	12 $24.40 $2126		14 $25.16 $21.81	15	16	
	MATERIALS MANAGEMENT AhD																	
	FUEL SERVICES																	
	J01C33 Materials Management Clerk		513.64	$14.15	$1472	$1527	$15.84	$10.41	$17.00	$17.59	$1819	$18.79		$1936		$1994		$20.08	$20.22
	JQ1D34 Senior Fuel Services Clerk		$16.82	$17.33	$17.90	$18.42	$18.84	$1930	$1973	$20.20	$2058	$21.02	$21.42		$22.08		$22.55		
	REALESTATE																	
	JOI070 Real Estate Techrecal Assistant	$19.61	$20.11	$20 59	$21.05	$21.53	$22.02	$2247	$22.95	$23.42	$23.08	$24.35	$2483		$25.32			
	RECORDS																	
	JQ1054 Records Clerk		$13.22	$13.78	$14.30	$14 85	$1523	$1563	$16.00	$16.36	$16.80	$17.19		$17.70		$18.20		$1877	$1933
	JD1O53 Senior Records Clerk		$18.26	$18.81	$19.36	$19.91	$20.31	$2070	$21.07	$21.46	$21.85	$2225	$2265		$23.36		$23.58		
in																		
	SHAREOWNER SERVICES																	
	JD10M Shareowner Services Representative	$15.06	$15.63	$16.14	$16.68	$17.15	$17.57	$18.03	$18.47	$18.95	$19.39	$19.91		$20.51		$21.09		$21.28
	MISCELLANEOUS																	
	JD1069 Administrative Services Clerk		$1322	$13.78	$1430	$1435	$1523	$15.63	$16 00	$1636	$16.80	$17.19		$17.70		$1820		$1877	$19.33
	JDT065 Clerk		$13.22	$13.78	$1430	$14.85	$15.23	$1863	$16.00	$16.36	$1680	$17.19		$17.70		$1820		$18.77	$19.33
	J0106B Corporate Receptionist 		$13.22	$1378	$1430	$14.85	$15.23	$15.63	$16.00	$16.36	$1680	$17.19		$17.70		$1820		$18.77	$19.33
	JD1023 Document Management Technician .	$18.57	$19.12	$19.68	$20 21	$20 62	$2107	$21.54	$22.05	$22.47		$23.15		$23 38				
	J01060 Graphics Technician 1	.	$16.42	$10.97	$17.53	$1807	$18.65	$19.13	$19.71	$20.23	$2877	$2133		$21.99		$22.43			
	J01059 Graphics Technician II 		$15.05	$15.63	$16.14	$16.68	$17.22	$17.76	$18.32	$1882	$1937	$19.91		$20.51		$21.09		$21.22	$21.28
	J03634 Lead Graphics Technician” 		$1939	$2011	$20.63	$21.10	$21.60	$22.09	$22.59	$23.07	$23.56		$2431		$24 54				
	J01067 Stenographer-Receptionist 				$13.65	$14.19	$14.73	$15.28	$15.70	$16.10	$16.52	$16.92	51729	$17.71		$1824		$18.78		$19.22	$19.68
	J01064 Word Processor-Operator . 		$13.22	$13.78	$14.30	$14.85	$1523	$15.63	$16.00	$16.36	$16.80	$17.19		$17 70		$18.20		$18.77	$19.33
“Supervisory position

T
APPENDIX 1
CALL-OUT PRACTICE FOR SHIFT EMPLOYEES
Occasionally, due to sickness or other reasons, a regular shift employee is unable to report for work. When a vacancy of this type is created and it is determined that the position is to be filled, the following is done tn this order:
1.	Five Shift Operations or Less
a.	The preferred method to fill the vacancy referred to above shall be substitution, providing the employee Is qualified for the particular job, in order to free up weekends and scheduled days off as much as possible for those people assigned to relief.
b.	Call or make arrangements with a relief operator or an employee who is scheduled relief that week (straight time) provided that the employee on scheduled relief has at least eight (8) hours rest time before reporting to work and eight (8) hours rest time after finishing work before their regular scheduled work day.	■
c.	Call employee of same classification or employee scheduled relief that week (overtime) by order on overtime list, provided they have at least eight (8) hours rest time before reporting to work on overtime and eight (8) hours rest after finishing overtime work before their regular scheduled work day.
d.	Cail an employee of a higher classification who is qualified and fits the above rest time provisions.
e.	Ask operator to stay over and call employee in early to split shift. This should be avoided, if possible, for safety reasons.
116
APPENDIX 2
ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULES
The company and union agree the following Alternate Work Schedules are optional to employees but require management approval. The parties recognize that there are some situations such as crew work that may limit or change these options available to employees under these programs.
1.	Alternate Starting Times	,
a.	The standard week shall be forty (40) hours, consisting normally of five (5) eight (8) hour days.
b.	The work weeK will be on a Monday through Friday basis, unless altered by provisions of the bargaining agreement.
c.	Scheduled work hours for day position employees will be between the hours of 6:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. Work hours for other than day positions will need to be adjusted accordingly.
d.	The starting time will be between the hours of 6:00 AM and 9:00 A.M. (by half hour increments) as determined by the job requirements.
e.	Requests for schedule changes need to be completed by noon of each Thursday for the following week.
f.	Management reserves the right to approve or deny alternate work schedules based on the needs of the business. Schedules may need to be altered by Management due to sick time, death, peak work load, emergencies, or for other reasons Management concludes is important. This could include requiring crews to start at the same time, take the same lunch break or return to the normal work schedule.
g.' Employees are expected to take at least one-half (1/2) hour lunch.
h.	Make-up time: Employees excused from work for personal reasons may have the option to make up all or part of the excused time dependent upon supervisor approval. It is recognized that there are some situations such as crew and shift work for example, which makes make-up time very difficult to allow. In addition, specific conditions which must be satisfied are;
1)	The absence is approved by the immediate salaried supervisor.
•	2) The make-up work time must occur during the work week in which
the excused absence occurred. The work week begins on Sunday and ends the following Saturday.
117
3)	The arrangement for make-up time must be mutually agreed to by the employee and the salaried supervisor. The salaried supervisor ensures that the work to be done and/or the supervision available during the make-up time is appropriate.
4)	Time cannot be made up on Sundays or holidays.
i.	An employee joining a crew because of a new or changed work assignment will be expected to work the same hours as already established by the crew or process they are joining.
2.	4-10 Hour Days
a.	Seventy-five (75%) of the employees on a crew must be in favor of 4-10 hour days before it will be implemented. Substitution upward is allowed in order to facilitate 4-10 hour days. Resource Electrical Crews and General Office Survey Crews may not switch from one option to the other more often than once every four weeks. An employee joining a crew because of a new or changed work assignment will be expected to work the same hours as already established by the crew or process they are joining.
b.	Scheduled work hours for day position employees working 4-10 hour days will normally be no earlier than 6:00 A.M. and no later than 6.00 P.M., with a one-half (1/2) hour lunch. Starting times for other than day positions will need to be adjusted accordingly.
Resource Electrical Crews normal 10 hour day will be 7:00 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. For extenuating circumstances crews may start as early as 6:00 A.M. with management approval.
c.	The work week will be on a Monday through Friday basis, unless altered by provisions of the bargaining agreement. Work will be scheduled on Monday through Thursday and Tuesday through Friday.
d.	For those employees whose work is impacted by daylight hours, a 4-10 hour day work schedule must not be used beyond the end of daylight savings time. By mutual agreement, the option could begin earlier or extend later in the year provided sufficient daylight is available to do the work safely.
e.	All employees shall be paid at two (2) times their regular rate as overtime pay for all work done on any of the holidays listed in Article XXXII. All employees shall be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rate as overtime pay for all other work done on the following conditions:
1)	All work done in excess of forty (40) hours in any work week.
2)	All work done in excess of ten (10) hours in any calendar day period.
118
3)	All work dons by employees during their regularly scheduled lunch period. Employees required to do such work during their regularly scheduled lunch period shall be granted sufficient time, with pay, not to exceed their regularly scheduled lunch period to eat their lunch.
4)	Employees who are absent from work on an own account basis without pay during any or all of their regular work day or work week will not be paid at the overtime rate except for work on Sundays and holidays until they have worked ten (10) hours in a day or forty (40) hours in a week excluding hours already paid for at an overtime rate.
*•
5)	Rest time will remain at eight (8) hours and will be handled in accordance with the Contract.
f.	Vacation, sick leave, jury duty, bereavement leave, and military leave will be converted to hours. An employee who is off for any of the foregoing reasons will be charged for ten (10) hours. If an employee has less than a full day of vacation remaining at the end of a year, the Company will buy back the remaining hours of vacation that are less than one full day or the employee, with Management approval, may use the remaining hours.
g.	During the week of a holiday employees (excluding the exceptions noted below) will return to the traditional 5'8 hour day work week. Eight (8) hours pay will be paid for holidays.
Resource Engineering Technicians, Resource Gas Crews, Substation Maintenance and Construction Crews, Electrical Meter Department employees, Electrical Technicians and Relay Technicians when traveling, will receive ten (10) hours pay for holidays. An effort will be made to create a schedule during the week of a holiday so that employees can celebrate a holiday that occurs on a Monday,
Resource Electrical Crews and General Office Survey Crews are eligible for ten (10) hours holiday pay. An effort will be made to create a schedule during the week of a holiday so that employees can celebrate a holiday that occurs on a Monday through Friday as one of their originally scheduled work days. If this is not possible employees will be paid holiday pay in the manner that a Saturday holiday is now paid.
h.	For reasons of safety and work performance, employees will normally not be granted the daily travel allowance if an employee must travel more than one and one-half (1-1/2) hours each way per day to or from the report site and home. Supervisors will monitor the questions of safety, fatigue and morale. They will monitor the number of occurrences the daily travel allowance is being used in the 4-10 hour day trial. The Company reserves the right to deny the daily travel allowance based on safety concerns.
119
i.	Management reserves the right to approve or deny 4-10 hour schedules based on the needs of the business. Schedules may need to be altered by Management due to sick time, death, peak work load, emergencies, or for other reasons Management concludes is important. This could include requiring crews to start at the same time, take the same lunch break or returning to the normal work schedule.
120
APPENDIX 3
JOB SHARING PROGRAM BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES
1.	Definition of Job Sharing
Job sharing is an alternative work pattern designed to meet the changing needs of employees. It is an optional work schedule whereby two employees share the responsibilities of one full-time budgeted position. Through job sharing, employees who choose to work less than full time are able to maintain the same level of responsibility and continue to contribute to the organization.
2.	Eligibility
Employees in non-supervisory positions are eligible to participate in job sharing.
3.	Request to Job Share
An employee who is interested in job sharing must submit a request in writing to the salaried supervisor. The supervisor will review the job and the department's needs relative to the request to determine its applicability to the job sharing concept. The review should include, but is not limited to the following guidelines:
a.	Does the job consist mainly of a series of tasks or projects which can be divided between the job sharers?
b.	Can the job be divided so that the responsibilities of each job sharer will remain at the current job level? ’
c.- Are the duties defined such that the supervisor can accurately assess each job sharer's performance?
d.	The intent is for jobs to be split equally so as to ensure continuity and contact between job sharers. Supervisors have the flexibility to address individual circumstances and departmental needs.
e.	All job sharers are required to meet the full qualifications of the position being shared.
f.	Can this job be legitimately split and still meet the needs of the business?
g.	Does the job share increase the cost of operations such as wages, equipment, office space, etc.?
121
h.	Does the job share negatively impact the Company’s ability to effectively run the business?
Management will retain the authority to approve or reject a job sharing request. The cost center manager will have final authority to approve and to dissolve job sharing arrangements. It should be understood that job sharing is the sharing of one full time authorized budgeted position.
4.	Request Rejected
If after reviewing the job sharing request, it is determined that a position cannot be shared or that the needs of the business cannot be met in a job sharing format, the employee will be notified by the supervisor.
5.	Request Approved
It it is determined that the job in question is appropriate to be shared and that the needs of the business can be met effectively with a shared job format, the job sharing arrangement should be reviewed with the appropriate Employee Services Administrator in Employee Relations. The purpose of the review is to ensure a complete understanding and consistent application of the job sharing policy and agreement.
To fill the other half of the job sharing position, the supervisor will complete the Hourly Position Requisition form (WPL 5128-C) and the Position Requisition Supplemental Information form. The other half of the job sharing position will be filled through the normal posting process.
6.	Job Sharing Agreement
A job sharing agreement will be completed by the supervisor and signed by the job sharing partners and the cost center manager. The agreement will be reviewed in detail with each job sharer. A copy of the agreement form is attached.	'
122
JOB SHARING AGREEMENT BARGAINING UNIT EMPLOYEES
The purpose of this document is to set forth an agreement and an understanding between job sharers and the Company regarding work schedules, work assignments, compensation and benefits. It is not intended to constitute an employment contract between the participants and the Company. It is understood that participants are employees at will as set forth in the "Information Please", Employee Resource Book.
Department: ■ Work Location: 
Job Sharer;  Job Sharer: 
Effective Date of Job Sharing Arrangement:
1.	Work Schedule
The job will be shared 50%-50% by two people. Each job sharer will work the hours indicated below until modified by mutual agreement between the job ' sharers and their supervisor. The intent is for jobs to be split equally so as to ensure continuity and contact between job sharers. Supervisors have the flexibility to address individual circumstances and departmental needs.
(Job Sharer)
(Job Sharer)
(Work Schedule}
(Work Schedule)
2.	Work Assignments
Each job sharer will be assigned to the same supervisor who will be responsible for work assignments. It should be understood that job sharing is the sharing of one full time authorized budgeted position.
3.	Compensation
Job sharers are compensated for the position at an hourfy pay rate as referenced in the Union agreement, Article XXXVII, Wage Schedule For Physical Positions and Article XXXVIII, Wage Schedule For Clerical Positions.
4.	Benefits
Job sharers who work 50% of a full time schedule are eligible for the following benefits prorated based on the number of hours worked:
-	Holidays
-	Sick Time
-	Tuition Reimbursement
-	Vacation
123
The following benefits are covered in full and the employee must continue to pay the monthly premium for health insurance (premium is not prorated):
-	Health Insurance
-	Dental Insurance
-	Vision Insurance
Job sharers who work 50% of a full time schedule are eligible to participate in the following on the same basis as full time employees:
-	Long Range Savings Plan*
-	Life Insurance Program
-	Pension Plan*
-	Disability Benefits
* Employees must provide a minimum of 1,000 hours of service during the preceding 12 months of employment to be eligible for these benefits,
5,	Review Process
The cost center manager will review the status of the job sharing arrangement with the salaried supervisor and the job sharers periodically throughout the program. If it is determined that a job sharing arrangement is not meeting the needs of the business, Management has the authority to dissolve the arrangement. If this occurs, both job share employees will receive a reduction in forces notice per Article IV of the Agreement.
6.	Communication
Job sharers agree to maintain open communication with each other and their supervisor regarding the status of the work, unavoidable work schedule changes and any other changes pertinent to the position,
7.	Company Policies and Procedures
Job sharers are subject to the conditions of all Company policies and procedures not specifically addressed in this agreement.
The foregoing constitutes an agreement and an understanding of the job sharing arrangements described herein, and it is understood that this agreement may be terminated at any time. This is agreed to by:
(Signature of Job Sharer)	(Date)
(Signature of Job Sharer)	(Date)
(Signature of Immediate Supervisor)	(Date)
(Signature of Cost Center Manager)	(Date)
124
INDEX
ABSENCE From work Leave of	Page 29-30 10	Article XXIV VIII	Paragraph
ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULES			
Appendix 2	117-120		
APPRENTICES			
Advancement	31	XXVI	1
Limitations	31-32	XXVI	2,3
Selection	8	I	4
ARBITRATION	3		
BIDDING JOBS	16-18	VI	
BUMPING RIGHTS	13-16	IV	
CALL BACK			
Application	24	XVII	2
From vacation	27-28	XX	17 '
Minimum pay	24	XVII	1
Shift premium pay	50	XXXIII	8
CALL-OUT PRACTICE FOR SHIFT			
EMPLOYEES			
Appendix 1	116		
CHARGES			
Against company	20	XI	
Against employees	19	X	
CLASSIFICATIONS			
Bargaining for new or revised	8	1	5
CONTRACTING WORK			
□one by regular employees	30	XXV	1
Notifying Local Union	30-31	XXV	2
COOPERATION	4		
COURT INQUEST	20	XII	1
125
DATA PROCESSING Shift worker	Page 38	Article XXX	Paragrapl* 4
DEATH			
Employee's spouse or children	29	XXIV	2
Immediate family	29-30	XXIV	2.3
Other relatives	30	xxtv	4.5
Vacation or time off own account	30	XXIV	9
Vacation reinstated	30	XXIV	a
DEMOTIONS	33-34	XXVIII	
Limitations	17	VI	2b
Trial period	34	XXVIII	2c
Wage rate	34	XXVIII	3
DISABILITY			
Alternate work while partially disabled	32-33	XXVII	1.2,3
Partially disabled employee	32	XXVII	1
Pay rate	32-33	XXVII	3
Posting job	33	XXVII	4
Retirement	33	XXVII	6
Return to regular status	33	XXVII	5
Vacation pay white on			
Workers' Compensation	27	XX	16a
DISCIPLINE			
Verbal	19	X	1
Written	,	19	X	2
EMPLOY			
Rights of company	7	1	1
ENERGIZED UNES	24-25	XIX	
Work done by apprentices	31-32	XXVI	2.3
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY	5		
FOREMEN			
Substitution for	’	35-36	XXIX	4,5.6
Work allowed	■ 24	XVI fl	1.2
4-10 HOUR DAYS
Appendix 2
118-120
126
	Page	Article	Paragraph
FUNERAL PAY	29-30	XXIV	
Employee or retiree	30	XXIV	7
Pallbearer	30	XXIV	6
GRIEVANCE			
Procedure	1-2		
Right to hearing	7	I	3
HEADQUARTERS			
Travel time to and from	’	22	XV	1
HOLIDAYS			
Designation	49	XXXII	2b,2c,3
During vacation	27	XX	14
Flexible	48	XXXII	1b
List	48	XXXII	1
Pay	48-49	XXXII	2
Work on	49	XXXII	2a
HOURS	,			
Clerical employees	37-40	XXX	
Other employees	43-46	XXXI	6
Outside crews	40-41	XXXI	4
Physical employees	40-48	XXXI	
Shift employees	41-43	XXXI	5
IDLE TIME PREMIUM	50	XXXIII	9
JOBS, UNCLASSIFIED	51	XXXIV	
JOB SHARING PROGRAM			
Appendix 3	121-124		
Clerical	37	XXX	3c
Physical	40	XXXI	2b
JOB-SITE REPORTING	22-24	XV	
Allowances	23	XV	2
Beyond 25 miles	23	XV	3,4
Lodging and meats	22-23	XV	1,3
Use of company vehicle	24	XV	4
JURY DUTY	20	Xlf	2
LABOR MANAGEMENT COUNCIL	5
127
J
LAYOFFS	Page 13	Article IV	Paragraph 1
LEAVE OF ABSENCE	18	VIII	
LINE CLEARANCE CREWS			
(Temporary substitution)	36	XXIX	5 ■
MANAGEMENT	7-0	I	
MEALS			
Clerical schedule	37-38	XXX	3d,5
Crew situations	22	XIV	6
Eaten at job site	22	XIV	4,5
Eligibility (company purchased)	20-22	XIV	1,2,4,5
Length of lunch	37-38	XXX	3d
	40-46	XXXI	4,5e,6a,8
Other physical employees scheduling			
and length	43-44	XXX)	6a
Outside crews	40-41	XXXI	4
Overnight	22	XIV	2,5
Overtime	20-21	XIV	1
Night Shift	21 ~	XIV	1c4
Work during	21	XIV	1g
	46	XXXI	9c ■
MILITARY OBLIGATIONS	20	XII	3
NEGOTIATION AND ENFORCEMENT	1-2		
NOT FULLY TRAINED OR QUALIFIED	51	XXXV	1,2
Written approval	51	XXXV	1.2
OVERTIME			
Cancellation (clerical)	39-40	XXX	10
Cancellation (physical)	48	XXXI	15
Oblige lion to work (clerical)	37	XXX	1
Obligation to work (physical)	40	XXXI	1
Pay (clerical)	39	XXX	7	,
Pay (physical)	46	XXXI	9
Rest period	28	XXIII	1,2
Time off (clerical)	39	XXX	8
Time off (physical)	47	XXXI	10
PART-TIME EMPLOYEES			
Holidays	48-49	XXXI1	2
Vacation	26	XX	6,7
126
PAY DAV	Page 20	Article XIII	Paragraph
PAY	„■ Holiday	/< 48-49 *	XXXII	2
Holiday during vacation	27	XX	14
in lieu of vacation	26-27	XX	11-13
01 partially disabled employees	32-33	XXVII	2.3
Temporary substitutes	35	XXIX	2
Vacation	26	XX	9
POSITION Abolishing	17	VI	8
Apprentice	17	VI	5
Establish	17	VI	8
Not filled	17	VI	4
Return to former	17	VI	3
POSTING			
Abolished position	17	VI	8
‘ And physical disability	17	VI	7
For vacancies and new positions	16-18	VI	
Non-rotating shift positions	17	VI	9
Of entry-level jobs	17	VI	2
Same job classification	7	I	2b
Special temporary consideration	7	I	2c
PREMIUM PAY	49-51	XXXIII	
Certified Welding Program	51	XXXII)	iia
Chief corrosion technicians |	and chief gas technicians	51	XXXIII	11b
Evening and night maintenance crew	50-51	XXXIII	10
Shift workers	49-50	XXXIII	2.5.7,8
. Sunday	50	XXXIII	5.6
PROBATIONARY PERIOD	8	1	6
PROMOTIONS	33-34	XXV111	
Basis	7	1	1
Hearings on	7	1	3
Selection for apprentices	8	1	4
Trial period	34	XXVIII	. 2a
Qualifications	7	I	2
Wage rate	33-34	XXVIIJ	1.4
RECALL TO WORK	16	V	
129
REDUCING FORCES	Page 13-16	Article IV	Paragraph
REPORTING TO WORK			
Clerical	37	XXX	2
Physical	40	XXXI	2a
REST PERIOD	26-29	XXIII	
Option of vacation or OOA	29	XXIII	4b
Qualification	2B	XXII!	1
Starts when	29	XXIII	4a
Working into	28	XXIII	2,3
RETURN TO WORK AFTER INJURY	18-19	IX	
RIGHTS OF COMPANY	7	1	1
RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEE	7	1	3
SAFETY	24	XVI	
SALARIED EMPLOYEES (HOURLY WORK)	6	1	(B)
SCHEDULING EVENING OR NIGHT			
MAINTENANCE CREW	47-48	XXXI	13,14
SENIORITY	11-13	III	
Accumulation	11	III	4
Acquisition of new property	12-13	111	12
Demotion	7	1	2a
Determination	13	III	13
Eliminated seniority group	11	111	7b
Employee outside bargaining unit	12	III	10
Job vacancy - same classification	7	1	2b
Job elimination or bumping	12	111	8,9
Lists	11	III	2
Merging of seniority groups	12	III	11
Probationary period (new employee)	11	III	5
Promotion	7	1	2a
Rules	11	III	1
Seniority groups	11	III	3
Special temporary employee	11	III	6
Temporary employee	11	III	6
Transfer	11	111	7a
Vacation scheduling	25	XX	2
Veterans	13	III	14
130
	Page	Article	Paragraph
SHIFTS	.			
Definition	49	XXXII)	1
Data processing	38	XXX	4
Evening	50	XXXIII	3
Night	50	XXXtl)	4
SICK LEAVE	28	XXI	
SPECIAL RATES	51	XXXV	1
SPECIAL TEMPORARY			
Employ	7	1	2c
Seniority	11	III	6
STANDARD WORK WEEK			
Clerical	37-38	XXX	3
Physical	40-47	XXXI	3,11
STORM DUTY EXPENSE	- 22	XIV	3
I SUCCESSOR CLAUSE	4		
TEMPORARY SUBSTITUTIONS			
Gas Crew	35	XXIX '	4b
Higher paid classifications	36	XXIX	7
Lead pay	36	XXIX	4c
Line clearance crew	36	XXIX	5
. Une crew	35	XXIX	4a ■
Rate of pay	35	XXIX	2
Substation crew	36	XXtX	6
Unfilled position	36	XXIX	3
Use	35	XXIX	1
Vacant position	36	XXIX	8
TIME OFF			
Clerical	38-39	XXX	6
TRANSFERS	33-34	XXVIII	
At own request	34	XXVD1	3
Filling vacancies and new positions	16-17	VI	2
To formerly held position	34	XXVIII	4
Trial period	34	XXVIII	2b,2d
131
	Page	Article	Paragraph
TRAVEL	22-24	XV	
Job-site reporting allowances	23	XV	2
Job-site reporting beyond 25 miles	23	XV	3,4
Job-site reporting, lodging and meals	22 23	XV	1.3
Job-site reporting - use of company vehicle ■	24	XV	4
TRIAL PERIOD	8	1	6
Extension	51	XXXV	2
Length	34	XXVIII	2
Return during	34	XXVIII	2
Return to former position and posting	17	VI	3
UNION BUSINESS	18	VII	
Notifying company	18	Vil	1
Return to work after leave	18	VII	2
UNION MEMBERSHIP AND DUES	8-10	ii	
Authorization Io; check off of dues	10	II	9
Cadets	*	9	II	‘ 3
Conditions	8	ii	1
Dues deduction	9-10	II	4-7
Length ot time required to join	8-9	II	2
VACATION	25-28	XX	
And call-back	27-28	XX	17
And holiday	27	XX	14
Carry over	28	XX	18
Entitlement	25	XX	4
Half-day	26	XX	10
Non-accu mutation	28	XX	19
Pay	26	XX	9,11
Part-time employees	26	XX	6
Prorated	27	XX	12
Reduction	26	XX	8
Retirement	27	XX	15
Scheduling	25-26	XX	1.2,5.10
Sickness	27	XX	16a-b
Temporary employees	26	XX	7
Terminations	26-27	XX	11-13
Year earned	25	XX	3.4
WAGES			
Bargaining of	8	1	5
WEATHER	28	XXI)	
132
SSO Alliant ML! ENERGY
Ct,,1