AGREEMENT.................................i
JOINT MISSION............................1
I.	BARGAINING REPRESENTATION...........2
II.	MANAGEMENT AND UNION RIGHTS.........2
III.	DISCRIMINATION....................  3
IV.	SENIORITY RIGHTS.....................3
V.	BENEFITS.............................5
VI.	PAYROLL DEDUCTION OF DUES............9
VIL	NEW EMPLOYEES.......................10
VIII.	MANAGEMENT........................10
IX.	GENERAL WORKING CONDITIONS..........10
X.	GRIEVANCES.........................16
XI.	ARBITRATION.........................18
XII.	WAGE RATES.........................19
XIII.	SAFETY............................20
XIV.	RELEASE OF EMPLOYEES FOR BROTHERHOOD DUTIES......................21
XV.	DISABLED EMPLOYEES..................22
XVI.	LEGALITY...........................23
XVII.	DURATION OF AGREEMENT.............23
ENERGY DELIVERY SPECIFIC LANGUAGE, EXHIBIT A WAGE RATES AND FOOTNOTE.....ED-1
ENERGY SUPPLY SPECIFIC LANGUAGE, EXHIBIT A WAGE RATES AND FOOTNOTES, EXHIBIT B...ES-1
TECHNOLOGY & SUPPORT SERVICES
SPECIFIC LANGUAGE, EXHIBIT A WAGE RATES AND FOOTNOTES.............TSS-1
Agreement
THIS Agreement, made and entered into as of April 1, 2004 and between TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Florida, its successors and assigns, and LOCAL Union 108, of the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, affiliated with the AFL-CIO, is an Amendment to the Agreement existing between the Company and the Union on behalf of all Employees of the Company now or hereafter employed by the Company in the classifications and departments listed in this Agreement, This Agreement shall be binding on the Company’s successors whether effected voluntarily in the event of an assignment or by operation of Law in the event of a merger or consolidation.
In the event the Company reorganizes by creating separate corporations tor one or more of its operating units covered under this Agreement, the Company will cause any such separate corporation(s) to bargain in good faith with the Union, and the Union will bargain in good faith with any such separate corporation (s) to establish a separate labor agreement(s) for such corporation(s). Further, if State or Federal legislation is enacted during the term of this Agreement which establishes retail competition in the electric utility industry, the Union agrees that upon request by the Company, negotiations will be opened to revise this Agreement. The Company agrees that in the absence of such request(s), the existing Agreement will apply.
Joint Mission
We are committed to a partnership that creates joint responsibility for continuous economic improvement. By working together, we will provide quality products and services to our Customers through efficient and effective procedures.
Our joint commitment to the long-term success of our Company will help to ensure employment security and the well-being of all. Each of us plays an important role in the continued success of our Company. By focusing on personal performance, the Employees and the Company prosper.
Our success must be based on a high commitment to values which include respect for the dignity of individuals, quality production and services, flexibility, open communication, recognition of effort and achievement, opportunities for personal growth and development, and the dedication to the continuous improvement of every aspect of the business.
1
I.	Bargaining Representation
The Company recognizes the right of its Employees to organize and to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing. The Union is hereby recognized as the exclusive collective bargaining representative with respect to rates of pay, hours of work and other conditions of employment for all Employees of the Company in the classifications listed in Exhibit “A", attached and made a part hereof.
The Company and the Union agree to meet and deal with each other through their duly accredited officers and committees on ail matters covered by the terms of this Agreement.
Should there at any time be Employees in the Electrical Department of the Company of the classifications listed in Exhibit “A", on properties of the Company not listed herein, who are engaged in performing the same class of work as Employees covered by this Agreement, who desire the Union to represent them, the representatives of the parties hereto shall meet on five (5) days written notice from either party to the other, or at a date mutually agreed to by them, for the purpose of negotiating with respect to wages, hours and other conditions of employment for such Employees, and in the event of failure to fully agree, the points of difference shall be settled by arbitration in the manner provided herein.
II.	Management and Union Rights
The services provided by the Employees covered by this Agreement are essential to the operations of a public utility, in the locations listed in Exhibit “A", and to the welfare of the public we serve. The Union agrees that the Employees covered by this Agreement will not be called upon or permitted to cease or abstain from the continuous performance of their duties.
Management agrees to do nothing to provoke interruption of or prevent continuity of Employees performance of duties. Disagreements which may arise between us regarding this contract shall be settled in the manner described in Article X.
The Union agrees that its members will use their best endeavors to protect the interest of our Company, to conserve resources, and to furnish the highest quality of service. We will cooperate in promoting the welfare and advancement of the Company, and its Employees covered by this Agreement. There shall be no transaction of Brotherhood business on Company time unless approved by management.
We agree to meet and deal with each other through duly accredited officers and committees on matters covered by the terms of this Agreement.
2
III.
Discrimination
Any and all Employees have the right to join or not to join the Brotherhood, as they individually prefer, it being agreed that there shall be no discrimination for or against any Employee on account of membership in the Brotherhood, or interference with any Employees in joining or desiring to join the Brotherhood. And, likewise, no Employees shall be discriminated against for non-membership in the Brotherhood, and neither the Brotherhood nor any Employee shall attempt to intimidate or coerce any Employee of the Company into joining or continuing in the Brotherhood, or interfere with the Employee in any way because of failure or refusal on the Employee's part to join the Brotherhood.
The Company agrees not to discriminate for or against the Brotherhood or its members for membership therein, or for any service they may be requested to perform because of such membership, provided such performance is not detrimental to Company’s interests, or because of any office they may hold in the Brotherhood. The Company further agrees not to discharge, lay off or demote any covered Employee except for cause or under circumstances specified in this Agreement.
IV.	Seniority Rights
A.	Employees accrue seniority based upon length of continuous service with the Company and in the departments and classifications in which they have been employed.
B.	Where ability and fitness are relatively equal, seniority shall be the controlling factor in matters of promotion.
C.	Company seniority added to department seniority in the department in which the job is posted shall be the applicable seniority for all starting jobs. Starting jobs being defined as:
CLASSIFICATION
Apprentice Lineman.....................
Meter Mechanic C.......................
Appr. Substation Electrician...........
Telecommunications Electrician I.......
Garage Mechanic I......................
Production Apprentice..................
Associate Energy System Electrician....
Special Helper.........................
Coal Handler I.........................
DEPARTMENT
line
Meter
Substation
Telecommunications Fleet Services
Power Plants - Tampa Energy Delivery Systems Facility Services Stevedoring Services
3
For promotions, within the department, to all vacancies having a higher rate of pay than the starting job, the applicable seniority shall be classification seniority (cumulative continuous time spent in the starting job and any progressively higher paid job in the department) within Exhibit “A". Where two or more Employees are awarded the starting job on the same date, the Employee with the greatest cumulative continuous time in the department shall be considered to have the greatest classification seniority.
D.	Management will notify all Employees of job opportunities by posting notices on bulletin boards seven (7) working days in advance and will post the selection(s) within thirty (30) calendar days of the close of the bidding period.
The Company shall post on the proper bulletin boards the name of the Employee selected to fill the job permanently. It is understood that for each vacancy only one lateral move per headquarters location is permitted. The Company will, therefore, not be required to post twice at the headquarters of the original vacancy, nor will it be required to post twice at any headquarters where a vacancy or sequence of vacancies are created by lateral moves. The Company has the right to transfer the junior Employee in location and classification having an excess, should this procedure result in an improper distribution of manpower. (As referred to in the previous sentence, the junior Employee will be the Employee with the least Company seniority.) It is understood that an Employee may be limited to one lateral transfer in the Employee’s classification in any twelve (12) month period under the provisions of this article. In the initial staffing of a newly created headquarters, a lateral transfer during the preceding twelve (12) months shall not disqualify an Employee, and Employees who are transferred because of excess manpower shall not have such transfer construed as a “lateral transfer” in the preceding sentence.
E.	Employees demoted for inability to perform the duties required shall be placed at the bottom of the seniority in consideration for the job from which demoted.
F.	In all cases of demotions and layoffs in connection with a reduction of personnel, seniority shall prevail where competencies are relatively equal. However, the president and treasurer of Local 108 will have super seniority in the matter of layoffs. Department seniority in all classifications shall first be applied on a departmental system-wide basis. Following this, the Company will transfer any Employee still subject to demotion or layoff to a covered job in another department, providing such Employee has the Company seniority and competencies to transfer. The criteria used to measure competencies for demotions and layoffs will be the Universal Dimensions (Commitment to Excellence [Work Standards], Teamwork, Adaptability, Own the Outcome, Initiative, Judgment, Fostering Open Dialogue). The Department Head and Local Management, along
4
with the Employee Status Review Committee will review the case(s) to ensure consistent application.
In those situations where contractors are working on site and workforce reductions must be made, the Company will assign covered employees to available work and reduce contractors that are doing regular work normally performed by covered employees.
G.	When Employees are laid off as outlined above, such Employees shall retain, for a period not to exceed twenty-four (24) months, the seniority which they held at the time they were laid off. When Employees are again employed, the Employees laid off shall be offered re-employment in accordance with their seniority with the Company, where competencies are relatively equal and assuming ability and fitness to perform the duties of the open classification, which shall include an approved medical examination by the Company doctor, of mental and physical qualifications. If a former Employee is notified to return to work and the Employee fails to reply within five (5) days from the date of notification by REGISTERED MAIL at the Employee’s last known address, and fails to report within ten (10) days, the Employee shall lose seniority and the Company will be relieved of any obligation to again offer employment unless in the military service as hereinafter defined.
H.	All Employees who are laid off for an indefinite period and who retain their seniority as provided above, who have been in the service of the Company continuously for more than two (2) years immediately preceding the layoff, shall receive layoff allowance in the amount of two (2) weeks pay for each full year of continuous service up to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks pay [minimum eighty (80) hours] at the Employee’s regular straight time rate, provided, however, that such layoff allowance shall be paid only for time actually lost because of such layoffs. Layoff allowance shall be paid at the time of layoff.
I.	The Company agrees to furnish the Brotherhood a seniority roster of all Employees under this Agreement, by departments, and to keep such roster up to date by supplemental information at yearly intervals.
J.	It is the policy of the Company to fill existing vacancies from its own Employees whenever possible, consistent with the efficient operation of its business and service. In cases where a vacancy is filled from outside the organization, the person employed shall be placed at the foot of the seniority roster in the department and classification where employed.
V.	Benefits
A.	The Company agrees to continue the carrying of group life insurance, pension plans, savings plan and hospitalization on all covered Employees.
5
B.	Holidays - Every Employee covered by this Agreement shall be entitled to the following holidays with pay:
New Year's Day Good Friday Memorial Day Fourth of July Labor Day Thanksgiving Day Day After Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Day
Christmas Day Birthday Holiday Floating Holiday
It is understood that the Employee's birthday holiday may be scheduled, with the concurrence of the Company, at any time during the calendar month in which the Employee’s birthday occurs. It shall be the responsibility of the Employee to schedule his/her birthday holiday at least seven (7) days in advance of the first day of the month in which the Employee’s birthday occurs. When an Employee’s birthday holiday or vacation day(s) are taken in conjunction with his/her rest days, the Company will endeavor to grant those rest days off, if requested by the Employee.
The floating holiday may be scheduled with the concurrence of the Company at any time during the year. It will be the responsibility of the Employee to schedule the floating holiday at least seven (7) days in advance.
For “S" and “NS" Employees, if a holiday falls on an employee’s regular workday, the holiday shall be observed on that day. If a holiday falls on a rest day, the nearest regularly scheduled workday shall be observed as the holiday.
It is recognized that the business needs of locations may require scheduling for holiday observance different from the provisions of the above paragraph. In that event, work schedules shall be determined by the affected locations taking into consideration the business needs and the desires of the employees. The Company will endeavor to allow the employees their holiday off if the employee so desires.
“SH” Employees will observe the holiday on the holiday. When an “SH” Employee’s holiday occurs on the Employee’s day off, the Employee will be paid eight (8) hours holiday pay at the regular straight time rate.
6
When a holiday occurs on an Employee’s regularly scheduled workday but the Employee is not required to work, the Employee will be paid for the straight time hours that would have been worked.
For “NS”, “S" and “SH” Employees, when a holiday occurs on an Employee’s regularly scheduled workday and the Employee is required to work, the Employee will be paid their regular scheduled hours (8,10,12) as holiday pay and overtime pay for ail hours worked on the holiday. It is understood that a day off without pay may be granted to such Employees where the needs of the service will permit.
C.	Vacations - Vacation allowance for the current year shall be determined by the length of service with the Company on December 31st of the current year in accordance with the following schedule:
Length of Service on 12/31 of Current Year	Vacation Allowance Current Year
Less than six (6) months	0 Weeks
Six (6) months or more but less than thirteen (13) months	1 Week
Thirteen (13) months or more but less than six (6) years	2 Weeks
Six (6) years or more but less than fourteen (14) years	3 Weeks
Fourteen (14) years or more but less than twenty-one (21) years	4 Weeks
Twenty-one (21) years or more	5 Weeks
Scheduling of vacation time shall be based on seniority. If the Employee splits vacation time, seniority shall count towards the first choice only. An Employee may carry over one (1) week of vacation to the following year, an additional one (1) week of vacation carry-over may be granted with the concurrence of the Company. Employees will be allowed to carryover less than a week of vacation and employees are encouraged to use them on a single day basis during the first quarter of the year. The Company may schedule vacations as it may be necessary to meet the needs of the service.
7
All carry-over vacations must be used during the year it is carried into. This additional one (1) week of vacation carry-over provision may be terminated by either party upon thirty (30) days written notice.
If employees are required to work during their vacation, they shall receive one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked on vacation days in addition to their vacation pay.
Employees shall be entitled to one (1) week vacation in the first calendar year after completion of six (6) months of continuous employment.
Employees who have unused vacation allowance under the above schedule and leave the service of the Company shall be entitled to pay in lieu of such vacation provided they have completed at least six (6) months of continuous service.
D.	Leave for Sickness - Five (5) days sick leave with pay per calendar year will be provided to Employees covered under this Agreement, if it is necessary because of their own sickness or non-occupational accident. After three (3) consecutive working days of sickness, the Employee will be required to present a doctor's certificate covering the hours used.
When the Employee has used the current year and any carry-over sick leave, Management will allow a supplemental five (5) days sick leave with pay per calendar year. This supplemental five (5) days of sick leave may be used only when the Employee is hospitalized or the Employee presents a doctor’s certificate covering the days used. All doctor’s certificates provided will count towards the “supplemental” days regardless of the order the sick days are used, up to five (5) days. Employees who havo no carry-over and use five (5) days of supplemental, must provide a doctor’s certificate for the next five (5) days. Previous sentence does not apply to Employee(s) who have carry-over from previous years. Unused supplemental sick feave will not be carried over to any subsequent year(s) except as specified in the Intent Book.
Five (5) days of sick leave allowance can be used for family illness provided the family member requiring care resides within the home of the employee or is the parent of the employee or spouse.
If available, the Employee may use carryover sick time, up to 5 days, in addition to the above paragraph.
Employees may carry over unused sick leave allowance at the end of the calendar year into the next calendar year, not to exceed 15 days. When the Employee has used the carry-over and current year sick leave, additional sick leave may be allowed, if required, under the conditions in the first paragraph of this section in any calendar year based on the
8
Employee’s average annual usage of sick leave in any three (3) years of the preceding four (4) calendar years as determined by the following table:
Average	Additional Sick Leave
Days Used	Allowance
Efir£alendacYear	(% Straight Time Wages) Up to 120 days at....
One (1)	100 %
Two (2)	100%
Three (3)	85%
Four (4)	75%
Five (5)	65%
Consideration for additional sick leave will be given to each Employee on the merits of the individual case.
E.	Funeral Leave - When a death occurs in an Employee’s immediate family, the Employee shall be allowed, after proper notification to the Company, two (2) working days off to attend the funeral without loss of pay at the regular straight time rate. An additional day at the regular straight time rate shall be allowed if required for travel outside the Company’s service area, providing the Employee’s regularly scheduled off-day does not coincide with such third day. Immediate family is defined as follows: Employee’s spouse, children, mother, father, grandmother, grandfather, grandchildren, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, step-mother, step-father or step-children.
F.	Court Attendance - Employees shall not suffer any loss of pay when required to attend court in any capacity applicable to the operation of the Company or when called for jury duty. Each Employee shall give Management notice on the next working day after receipt of summons.
G.	Leaves of Absence - Leaves of absence will be considered on a case by case basis. Employees leaving the Company for a period exceeding six (6) months lose seniority.
VI.	Payroll Deduction of Dues
The Company agrees upon the written individual request of any Employee who is a member of the Brotherhood, and until such authority is revoked in writing by such Employee, to deduct from the pay of such Employee such amount as the Employee shall specify as dues payable to the Brotherhood. The total sum deducted for this purpose shall be paid by the Company to the designated financial agent in accordance with such authorization. The Company shall furnish to the financial agent designated
9
by the Brotherhood as soon thereafter as convenient a list of the Employees who have authorized such deduction and the amount to be deducted for each. The Brotherhood shall reimburse the Company an agreed upon amount to cover the cost of collecting and accounting.
VII.	New Employees
New Employees in all classifications covered by this Agreement are on a six (6) months probation. This provision is not subject to the grievance procedure. During the probation period, the Company may at its option transfer, lay off or dismiss Employees.
Upon satisfactory completion of the probationary period, the Employee's rights under this Agreement shall be governed by the date of employment.
VIII.	Management
Management will identify and communicate the annual corporate goals and objectives of our Company. Management’s rights will be exercised to ensure safe and effective operations of the business.
The right to hire, promote, suspend, lay off, demote, transfer, discharge and re-employ Employees and the management of the properties of the Company shall be vested exclusively in the Company and the Company shall have the right to determine how many Employees it will employ or retain in the operation and maintenance of its business, together with the right to exercise full control and discipline over its Employees in the interest of proper service and in the conduct of its business, except as expressly provided in this Contract.
IX.	General Working Conditions
Hours of Work
A.	To provide quality service to our Customers, flexible scheduling for Employees will be necessary.
B.	To furnish quality and continuous service to the public, there must be certain variations in working periods. In such cases Employees will work on irregular but definitely assigned schedules.
C Shift Differentials:
A shift differential will be applicable to all employees who meet the following criteria. Where fifty (50) percent or more of the scheduled straight time hours worked on a shift or schedule are between 3:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m., seventy (70) cents per hour for all hours actually worked on such
10
shift or schedule will be paid. Where fifty (50) percent or more of the scheduled straight time hours worked on a shift or schedule are between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., ninety (90) cents per hour for all hours actually worked on such shift or schedule will be paid. Where the majority of the scheduled straight time hours worked on a shift or schedule are between 7:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., zero (0) cents per hour for all hours actually worked on such shift or schedule will be paid. No shift differential shall be paid for any overtime hours worked, work on a holiday unless the holiday is part of the Employee’s regular schedule or for any time not actually worked.
Straight Time Weekend Premium:
Saturday-one (1) dollar per hour; and Sunday - one (1) dollar and seventy-five (75) cents per hour.
D.	The regular work week shall be from 12:01 a.m. Monday to 12:01 a.m. Monday of the following week. The irregular work week shall end on the shift ending nearest to midnight Sunday and the succeeding work week will begin immediately thereafter.
E.	Employees covered by this Agreement shall consist of nonshift (NS), shift (SH) and scheduled (S) Employees. Eight (8) hour days will be scheduled by the Company. Ten (tO) and twelve (12) hour days will be scheduled with the concurrence of the Union and the Company.
F.	Non-shift Employees designated in Exhibit “A" as “NS", will work consecutive five (5) eight (8), four (4) ten (10) or alternating three (3) and four (4) twelve (12) hour days per work week, Monday to Friday, inclusive, between the limits of the hours 5 a.m. to 6 p.m. for Transmission crews; and between the limits of the hours of 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. for all other “NS” Employees; daily, exclusive of meal periods, provided, however, that regular schedules may be changed upon forty (40) hours advance notice and twelve (12) hours notice to return to original schedule, except that this notice shall not be required where change in schedule is made necessary by absence of an Employee. No Saturday, Sunday or holiday work will be regularly scheduled for the general classifications above the percentage listed in Exhibit "A.”
As the number of “NS" employees decrease, the Company shall maintain a 50% “NS” core number by classification for the Substation and Line Department (Exhibit “A" - excluding utility worker, special utility worker, apprentice and serviceman).
G.	Shift Employees designated in Exhibit “A” as “SH" and Operating Employees regularly scheduled to work in shifts (either overlapping shifts, two-shift, or three-shift operation) in any department will work five (5) eight (8), four (4) ten (10) or alternating three (3) and four (4) twelve (12) hour days per work week, consecutive where possible,
11
provided, however, that regular schedules may be changed and prearranged overtime or holiday work canceled upon forty (40) hours advance notice and twelve (12) hours notice to return to original schedule, except that this notice shall not be required where change in schedule is made necessary by absence of an Employee. Sunday and holiday work may be regularly scheduled, but, whenever possible, rest days shall be consecutive. Relief shift Employees shall work varying schedules as necessary to relieve the above shifts on rest days, vacations, Employee absences and to supplement the basic crews for various parts of their regular schedules. Their rest days will vary but shall be designated in schedule notices. (Schedules shall be posted on proper bulletin boards by Thursday p.m. for the following week.)
Employees may be assigned to other available work in the plant for which they are qualified. Nothing herein shall prevent the Company from changing to schedules that vary from these when it is necessary to do so in the interest of serving the generation requirements in the most economical and/or reliable manner possible or for the purpose of training Employees.
H.	Employees designated in Exhibit “A” as “S” shall be scheduled Employees and assigned to work on irregular but definite assigned schedules of five (5) eight (8), four (4) ten (10) or alternating three (3) and four (4) twelve (12) hour days per work week, consecutive where possible. Schedules may be changed upon forty (40) hours advance notice and twelve (12) hours notice to return to original schedule, except that this notice shall not be required where change in schedule is made necessary by absence of an Employee. When work is required for a holiday, it will be done in accordance with the provisions of Article IX - Overtime (A).
I.	The principle of sharing the work is recognized by the parties hereto, and they hereby agree, in any period of manpower surplus or of falling off of work, to cooperate to spread work without undue penalty upon the Company.
J.	Except in emergencies, the Company agrees that it will not permit supervisory Employees to perform manual work performed by bargaining unit Employees for the purpose of depriving regular bargaining unit Employees of work or employment.
K.	Provisions for Travel and Resource Sharing.*
All Departments: Employees assigned to work at locations greater than seventy (70) miles one way from their normal headquarters will receive seventy (70) dollars per day for meals and lodging or the Company may, at its option provide meals and lodging. Storm restoration practices will remain unchanged. All loading and unloading of Company vehicles shall be done on Company time. The Company may at its option, assign
12
Employee(s) to travel on Company time in Company vehicles. In all departments, the travel allowance will not be included in the employee’s pay, but will be paid monthly by separate check.
Overtime
A.	All prearranged and emergency overtime shall be distributed as equitably as practicable among Employees in their respective classifications in each department or location. The sharing of emergency overtime shall not delay work nor increase costs. Each department shall keep its overtime record posted.
B.	All overtime hours worked will be paid for at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the rates set forth in Exhibit “A” for each classification. Employees shall not be required to take time off to offset overtime hours worked.
Whenever an Employee is required to work without having had eight (8) or ten (10) consecutive hours off, such hours worked shall be accumulative, and when such total reaches sixteen (16), any additional hours worked shall be compensated at two (2) times the regular straight time rate until Employee shall have had eight (8) or ten (10) consecutive hours off. Prior to or after an Employee has worked sixteen (16) hours as specified above, the Company may, at its option, grant the Employee eight (8) or ten (10) consecutive hours off duty. If any of the off-duty hours fall within or overlap into the Employee’s next regularly scheduled straight time work period, the Employee shall be paid for all such hours off-duty within the Employee’s regular straight time work period at the Employee’s regular straight time rate.
Employees shall be paid two (2) times the regular straight time rate for all hours worked on the last rest day in any one work week (as defined in Article IX, Hours of Work, D); provided the Employee has worked all regularly scheduled hours and six (6) or more hours on all other rest days. Employees who take two (2) hours or less off during the week and work at least six (6) hours on all other rest days are still eligible for double time on their last rest day.
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as requiring the Company to work an Employee at two (2) times the Employee’s regular straight time rate.
C.	We recognize that the need to provide quality service will require Employees covered under this Agreement to respond to emergency call-outs. Employees called out on emergencies shall receive not less than two (2) hours pay from the time of call at one and one-half (1-1/2) times the appropriate classification rate set forth in Exhibit “A".
13
D.	Employees required to work on overtime in the interval between three (3) and seven (7) hours immediately preceding the start of the next regularly scheduled work day shall be paid the appropriate overtime rate for all hours worked until the Employee has had eight (8) or ten (10) consecutive hours off duty. This provision does not apply to overtime worked between the hours of 7 a.m. and 4 p.m. for employees working regular schedules between the hours of 2 p.m. and midnight. The Company may, at its option, give the Employee eight (8) consecutive hours off duty, except that on the second and all consecutive sleep-in days, not more than ten (10) hours including meals will be allowed. When performing disaster restoration work for other utilities, the consecutive ten (10) hours sleep-in provision will not apply. If any of the off duty hours fall within or overlap the Employee’s next regularly scheduled work period, the Employee shall be paid for all such hours off duty within the regular work period at the straight time rate.
E.	Employees required to stand by prepared to work, outside their regular working hours, will be paid the appropriate overtime rate. All Employees are “On Call” and may be requested to keep their headquarters informed as to where they may be reached. “On Call” time will be unpaid time.
F. The following hours of labor shall be deemed overtime hours:
NS		- > All work on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays or rest days.
NS, SH, S	>	All work on holidays or rest days.
NS, SH, S	>	AH hours over regular schedule per day.
NS, SH, S	>	All hours over forty (40) per week.
NS		-> Transmission crews and Sliqh Avenue
	Garage - Unscheduled work before 5	a.m. and after 6 p.m. All other NS - Unscheduled work before 6	a.m. and after 6 p.m.
NS, SH, S	>	All off-schedule work, including all work in the forty-eight (48) hours next following a change in schedule, where proper notice of change in schedule is not given. Employees may be returned to their original schedule with twelve (12) hours notice.
14
Meals
A.	The Company will provide or pay the reasonable cost of a meal for Employees who continue to work after the close of the regular work day for more than two (2) hours after an eight (8) hour shift, or more than one (1) hour after a ten (10) or twelve (12) hour shift; and at intervals of six (6) hours thereafter.
The reasonable cost of a meal is $12.00. When a meal is not provided, Employees will be reimbursed for meals earned on their next regular paycheck.
B.	The Company will provide or pay the reasonable cost of a meal when:
(1)	Employees are called out to work emergency overtime between the hours of 7 a.m. and 9 a.m., 12 noon and 2 p.m., or 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. After qualifying for the first meal in the intervals previously described, Employees continuing to work will qualify for their next meal every six (6) hours thereafter.
(2)	Employees are called out and work six (6) hours and at each six (6) hour interval thereafter as long as they continue to work.
(3)	Employees are required to work pre-arranged and emergency overtime beginning one and one-half (1-1/2) hours or more ahead of their regular schedule and continue to work within one and one-half (1-1/2) hours or less of their regular schedule. One-half (1/2) hour will be paid when a meal is obtained ahead of the starting time.
C.	Employees that may be required to miss an earned meal for the purpose of providing Customer service during emergencies or job continuity will receive one (1) hour pay at the appropriate rate and the reasonable cost of a meal. The hour(s) pay for the earned meal(s) missed will be added to the end of the time period worked. Only one (1) hour will count toward off-duty hours; giving the Employee nine (9) consecutive hours off-duty. NOTE: This hour will not count towards earning additional meals.
D.	Employees in charge of the work shall be responsible for observance of the meal provision.
E.	The Company shall provide or pay the reasonable cost of all meals and lodging for Employees when they are required to remain away from the regularly assigned headquarters overnight.
15
Inclement Weather
A. Employees shall not be required to work outdoors in rainy weather except in an emergency. The supervisor shall be responsible for observing this clause, it is understood, however, that this rule shall not apply to those Employees whose normal duties require them to work outdoors regardless of weather conditions. Raincoats and rain hats and other special equipment shall be provided for those Employees who are usually required to work in wet weather, and a sufficient amount shall be kept on hand. Employees shall be compensated for any lost time during regular working hours on account of rainy weather.
In an effort to provide good customer service and remain cost effective, it is understood that services that are being delayed because of rainy weather may be installed in such rainy conditions where safety is not a factor and where these services will be scheduled to be done later on in the day at overtime rate. Scheduled outages for commercial or industrial customers will be worked in inclement weather, where safety is not a factor, if delay would significantly impact that customer. It is not the intent of this paragraph to routinely work Employees in the rain, but rather to provide service to Customers in a timely, cost effective manner. Management and Employees are to exercise good judgement when the decision to work in rainy weather is made. The provisions of this paragraph may be terminated by either party upon 30 days written notice.
X.	Grievances
A.	The Company agrees to meet jointly with not more than five (5) accredited representatives of the Brotherhood, whose names shall have been certified to the Company by the Brotherhood, for the settlement of all grievances or disputes arising under this Agreement between the parties hereto.
B.	If any disagreement or dispute arises between the parties hereto as to meaning or interpretation of the terms of this Agreement, or as to the rights of either party hereunder, the matter shall be handled in the simplest and most direct manner and, unless the procedure or any part thereof is waived by mutual consent, the matter shall be taken up immediately as follows:
Step 1: Between the Employee concerned and the immediate Supervisor as promptly as possible, but not later than ten (10) days after the alleged contract violation. If no mutually satisfactory solution is found within ten (10) days after the meeting between the Employee and the Supervisor, and the Employee and/or the Brotherhood desire to pursue the grievance, a written statement of the grievance shall be filed with the Company within ten (10) days of the answer (Supervisor to Employee).
16
It the Employee can show that there was no knowledge of the contract violation within the ten (10) days specified in the paragraph above, the Employee may bring such grievance as promptly as possible, but not later than ten (10) days after the date that it is established that such knowledge of the contract violation was first acquired; provided, however, in no event shall a grievance be initiated more than thirty (30) days after the alleged contract violation.
Step 2: When the grievance is submitted in writing as provided in Step 1 above, a meeting between the Brotherhood Grievance Committee and a Vice President of the Company or his/her authorized representative will be held within ten (10) days of the receipt by the Company of the written grievance. Within ten (to) days after the conclusion of this meeting the Company will mail its decision to the Brotherhood.
Step 3: If no mutually satisfactory solution is reached in Step 2 as provided above, the Brotherhood shall notify the Company in writing within ten (10) days after receipt of the Company's Step 2 answer of its desire to proceed to Step 3. Within ten (10) days after the Company receives the notice of the Union’s desire to proceed to Step 3, a meeting will be held between the Brotherhood Grievance Committee and the President of the Company or his/her representatives. Within ten (10) days after the conclusion of this meeting, the Company will mail its decision to the Brotherhood. If the matter has not been satisfactorily disposed of in this step, then either party may demand arbitration of the grievance by giving written notice to the other party within the next ten (10) day period.
If either side fails to observe the time limit specified above, the side making the failure shall be deemed to have forfeited its case unless the time limits are extended by mutual Agreement.
Any Employee covered by this Agreement who has been suspended or discharged shall have the right to challenge the just cause of the suspension or discharge and have the case taken up by the accredited representatives, heretofore mentioned, with the duly accredited representatives of the Company, and such cases where, upon investigation, it is found and is mutually agreed upon by the representatives of the Brotherhood and the representatives of the Company that such Employee was suspended or discharged without just cause, the Employee shall be reinstated to the former position and paid the wages to which the Employee would have been entitled had the Employee continued in the Company's employment during the period of suspension or discharge.
It being distinctly understood and agreed that when an Employee is to be disciplined for violation of the Company’s rules, regulations, or practices, the Company shall have five (5) days to investigate the violation, or alleged violation, and that if disciplinary action is to be taken for the violation, such Employee shall be notified in writing and given the reason
17
for the disciplinary action, and that such disciplinary action shall be taken not later than five (5) days after the five (5) days allowed for investigation, which five (5) days for the investigation shall commence from the notification of the Company of any such violation.
When reports of violation other than routine report of Supervisors are brought to the Company's notice too late to comply with this rule, necessary time shall be allowed for investigation and disciplinary action. Nothing herein shall abridge the right of the Company to relieve or discharge Employees because of lack of work.
Before anything unfavorable to an Employee is entered in 1he Employee’s official personnel file, the Employee will be furnished a copy. At the time the entry is to be discussed with the Employee by the Supervisor, the Employee may be accompanied by a representative of the Brotherhood if the Employee desires. At the time an Employee is to be disciplined, the Employee may request an available-representative of the Brotherhood to accompany the Employee. Any Supervisor’s personal notes will remain his/hers until entered into the Employee’s official personnel file.
In determining the time within which the acts herein are required, Saturdays, Sundays and observed holidays shall be excluded.
XI.	Arbitration
When any dispute arises between the Company and any Employee covered by this Agreement as to the meaning of any of the provisions of this Agreement or as to acts done or omitted to be done under the provisions of this Agreement over which the parties heretofore cannot mutually agree, after pursuing the grievance procedure provided above, the same shall be submitted to a Board of Arbitration composed of three (3) disinterested persons, one arbitrator to be chosen by the Company, one by the Brotherhood and the two arbitrators thus elected shall choose a third arbitrator.
If either shall fail to appoint its arbitrator within ten (10) days after the written request for arbitration is presented to the other party, then the party so failing to make its selection shall forfeit its claim. If the two members of the Board of Arbitration are unable to agree upon a third arbitrator within ten (10) days after their first meeting, the Directorof the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service shall be called upon to submit a list of names of seven (7) arbitrators of which the parties shall alternately strike three (3) each, and the remaining name on the list shall be the third arbitrator. The Board of Arbitration so constituted shall hear all evidence and arguments on the points in dispute and the written decision of a majority of the members of the Board of Arbitration shall be binding and final on the parties hereto. In each case the Arbitrators shall make written findings setting forth the facts on which the decision is based and their reasoning applicable
18
thereto. The Arbitrators shall not impose upon the Brotherhood or !	the Company any obligation not expressly assumed under the
I	provisions of this Agreement, and shall not otherwise amend or
supplement this Agreement. The parties hereto shall each pay the arbitrator of its own selection, and they shall jointly pay the third arbitrator and the other legitimate joint expenses of such arbitration, each party paying its own expenses incurred in preparing and | presenting the case.
XII.	Wage Rates
A.	Employees' compensation will consist of pay rates as set forth in Exhibit “A". All rate ranges are based on skills, ability, established criteria and/or 6-month intervals. Whenever the word “Relief is used before a classification, it does not constitute bidding into that classification. The employee is paid the rate for that classification when working in it. The Employee shall receive the rate of pay for vacation based on the classification in which the Employee works the most hours in the previous year.
B.	Employees will be compensated for their commitment to responsibility when leading a work crew.
When a supervisor is not on-site and a journeyman is, or journeymen are, designated as in charge of the work with three (3) or more Employees (in the Line Department and Substation Department two (2) or more), the senior journeyman or journeymen on the crew having the required fitness and ability will be paid one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour above the appropriate classification straight time rate.
C. Whenever an Employee is relieving, substituting, or assigned for a two (2) hour period or more in any one working day in a job other than his/her regular work, he/she shall be paid his/her regular hourly rate or the minimum rate of pay for such job, whichever is higher, except that an Employee entitled, by experience in the classification in which he/she is substituting, to receive a rate higher than the minimum for that classification shall receive such higher rate. Whenever an Employee is relieving, substituting, or assigned for more than a four (4) hour period in any one working day in a job other than his/her regular work, he/she shall be paid for the time worked from the start of such period until the end of the working day at his/her regular hourly rate or the minimum rate of pay for such job, whichever is higher, except that an Employee entitled, by experience in the classification in which he/ she is substituting, to receive a rate higher than the minimum for that classification shall receive such higher rate. Such Employee, if qualified, shall follow the regular work schedule for the classification in which he/ she is relieving or substituting or assigned.
19
XIII.	Safety
A.	No Employee shall be allowed or required to take any undue risk in the performance of duties which the Employee considers unsafe to the Employee or co-workers.
B.	It shall be the responsibility of each Employee to comply with all established SAFE WORK PRACTICES. All Employees are expected to perform job tasks for which they have the skill, ability and can perform safely.
The Company will provide;
1.	rubber gloves
2.	rubber goods
3.	rain gear
4.	properly equipped medical kits
5.	safety eyewear
1.	approved climbers
2.	climber pads
3.	climber straps
4.	replacement gaffs
5.	safety straps
6.	body belts
7.	tool pouch and holster
In the performance of all work, the Company is required to see that sufficient and experienced workers equipped with necessary safety devices are on the job to handle the work properly and safely.
The safe performance of all work is a mutual concern of the Union and the Company. It shall be the responsibility of the Employee to report any unsafe work assignment to the Company and to detail to the Company any additional manpower, equipment, training or instruction that the Employee requires to complete the work assignment in a safe manner. The provisions of this paragraph will not be used by the Company to intimidate an Employee or by an Employee to avoid work assignments that the Employee considers undesirable.
C- Training is most important in accomplishing safety and efficiency on the job. Management will promote and support training activities so that our Employees develop and maintain the skills necessary to continue as an efficient and competitive workforce.
D.	All contract work shall be done entirely by the contractor’s personnel.
E.	When working alone, the Employee shall not enter the uncovered energized primary area, except where this is necessary to remove immediate hazards to life or property, and the Employee can do so without undue hazard.
20
F.	A committee will be formed in each department of the Company covered by our Agreement. The departmental committee will consist of two journeymen in the department to be selected by the Union and two Employees from the department to be selected by the Company. A fifth person to serve as secretary and moderator to the departmental committee will be selected by the Company for the Safety Department for each of these committees. Each departmental committee shall review that portion of the Safety Manual that pertains to its department and recommend to the Company any revisions in practices, rewording for clarity of existing language, and any additions to or deletions from the Safety Manual.
Those sections of the Manual which are general in nature and Company wide in scope will be reviewed by a general committee selected in the same manner as the departmental committees.
XIV.	Release of Employees for Brotherhood Duties
A.	When the needs of the service permit, the Company agrees to excuse without pay from the Company duty a Brotherhood Officer or member whose services are required for Brotherhood work, upon the request of the Brotherhood made in writing and at least one (1) day in advance; provided, however, that releases of this character shall not exceed fifteen (15) days in one calendar year.
B.	Employees covered by this Agreement, who are members of the Brotherhood's committees representing the Local Union 108, will be allowed time off to attend meetings with Company officials. They shall give their immediate supervisors reasonable notice in advance of their desire to attend such meetings. The number of representatives of the Brotherhood in attendance in such meetings on Company time shall be limited to the number reasonably necessary to transact the business at hand, but not more than five (5), except meetings for the renegotiation of this Agreement, in which case the number may not be more than eight (8). The Company shall pay such Employees at their regular rates for time lost from their regular work white actually attending such meetings, but in no case will time spent in attending such meetings be taken into account in computing overtime. Except as provided above, there shall be no transaction of Brotherhood business on Company time where Employees are on duty.
C.	Should an Employee covered by this Agreement be elected or appointed to a full-time office in the Union (Local Union or International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers), the Company agrees that the Employee will be given a leave of absence for the period of this Agreement or any extension thereof, and that the Employee will be permitted to return to the Employee’s former or nearest classification in the same line of work with full seniority rights, provided the Employee returns for reinstatement within thirty (30) days after release from said job and provided the Employee has
21
the necessary skills and the medical examination does not indicate the Employee is physically or mentally incompetent to perform the work required. The Employee will be allowed a two (2) month refamiliarization period, where required. It is understood, however, that any necessary demotions made in carrying out the provisions of this paragraph shall not be made the basis of any grievance.
XV.	Disabled Employees
A.	If an examination by the Company doctor reveals that a regular Employee is disabled to the extent that the Employee cannot perform the normal duties of the Employee's classification, the Employee will be given the following considerations:
(1)	When the Company doctor determines that the Employee is permanently disabled for the performance of the duties of the Employee’s present classification, the Company will endeavor to assign the Employee to another job or jobs, if available, for which the Company doctor finds the Employee qualified, provided in the judgment of the Company, the Employee has the required ability and fitness to perform such work.
Such assignments may be made without following the provisions of Article IV and shall not be subject to the Grievance procedure. Any Employee so assigned shall retain all the Employee’s seniority which the Employee had accrued at the time of the assignment and consideration will be given to the Employee’s bid on other classifications for which the Employee may qualify himself/herself.
(2)	The Employee shall be compensated at the Employee’s regular rate of pay until the new assignment has been made. After the Employee’s assignment to a new classification the Employee shall receive the regular rate of pay for that classification. If the rate of pay for this assignment is less than the Employee’s previous rate, the Employee shall receive an additional amount equal to four percent (4%) of the difference between the rates multiplied by the number of years of Company seniority, not to exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of such differential in the rates. Once the rate for the Employee's assignment has been determined it shall not be subject to any general wage increase until such time as the regular rate for the Employee’s new classification reaches or exceeds the rate so determined above.
Nothing in this article shall limit the right of the Company to discipline its Employees for just cause.
The Union recognizes the value to the Employees covered by this Agreement of the provisions contained in this Article and agrees that it is the obligation of such Employees to make a conscientious attempt to achieve a normal rate of recovery from their disabilities and to keep the
22
period of temporary disability to a minimum. It is understood that any Employee whose conduct either on or off the job definitely impedes the Employee’s normal rate of recovery shall be subject to disciplinary action.
B.	In case of injury on the job, the supervisor shall see that medical care, transportation, and hospitalization, as required, are furnished as promptly as possible, and every effort shall be made to provide proper care and treatment as long as needed. Department heads shall be held responsible for carrying out the above.
XVI.	Legality
Any provision of this Agreement which is in conflict with any state or federal law shall be inoperative, but a« other provisions shall continue in full force and effect.
XVII.	Duration of Agreement
A.	This Agreement, as amended, when signed by the Company and the Brotherhood and approved by the International Office of the Brotherhood and the President of the Company, shall become effective as of April 1,2004 and remain in full force and effect until and including March 31, 2007, and from year to year thereafter.
B.	Either party desiring to change or terminate this Agreement must notify the other in writing at least sixty (60) days prior to March 31, 2007. Whenever notice is given for changes, the nature of the changes desired must be specified in the notice and such matters shall not be subject to arbitration, unless it is mutually agreed to submit the matter to the arbitration procedure specified in Article XI herein. Until a satisfactory conclusion is reached in the matter of such changes, the original provision shall remain in full force and effect.
C.	This Agreement and its corresponding Intent Books shall not be amended or supplemented except by Agreement of the parties hereto, reduced to writing and duly signed by each.
The schedules of wage rates marked Exhibit “A”, which are attached to and made a part of this Agreement, amending the original Agreement of August 20,1946, are effective with the payroll period beginning January 1,2004; March 28, 2005; and March 27, 2006.
All provisions contained in said Agreement of August 20,1946, as heretofore last amended by said Agreement of 2004, other than those herein amended shall be and remain in full force and effect.
23
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Union cause this Agreement to be executed in their respective names and on their behalf by their proper officers thereunto duly authorized at Tampa, Florida, this 1st day of April, 2004.
TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY
Approved:
W. N. Cantrell President
Senior Vice President
Human Resources & Services
Director, Employee Relations
TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY
UNIT 6 OF LOCAL UNION 10ft OF THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Attest:
Designated Chairman
LOCAL UNION 108 OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL
WORKERS
R. Floyd Suggs	\ t	Robert Thomas
Business Agent	President
APPROVED FOR INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Edwin 0. Hill International President
API? 2 0 2304	|
I -ifi zzt&iitt'Hr.aiiF&fa J
24
ENERGY DELIVERY SPECIFIC LANGUAGE, EXHIBIT A WAGE RATES AND FOOTNOTES
IX.	General Working Conditions
A.	Provisions for Travel and Resource Sharing.
Transmission & Distribution (Energy Delivery): When the Company temporarily assigns an employee to another established headquarters, the employee will receive a daily travel allowance for each day worked equal to the LR.S. allowable rate, multiplied by the mileage difference between the employee’s home to temporary headquarters assignment minus the employee's home to regular headquarters assignment.
Transmission & Distribution (Energy Delivery) Show*Up Provisions: Each location will establish travel crews to meet business needs. These crews will be staffed according to local crew pick criteria. Employee’s staffing travel crews will receive an additional fifty (50) cents per hour while serving on the travel crew. Travel Crew Employees will be expected to show up at the shift starting time at any site within fifteen (15) miles one way of their normal headquarters with no travel pay or paid travel time. Travel Crew Employees assigned to show up at the shift starting time at locations greater than fifteen (15) miles one way from their normal headquarters will receive the LR.S. allowable rate multiplied by the round trip mileage difference in addition to the additional fifty (50) cents per hour, but no paid travel time. The Company may at its option assign employees to travel on Company time in Company vehicles.
Xftl. Safety
A.	A Lineman or Cable Splicer working alone may open and close disconnects and do high voltage switching when it may be done without entering the energized primary area. A Lineman, Troubleman, Lead Substation Electrician or Cable Splicer is expected to perform any work the Employee can do safely.
When working alone, the Employee shall not enter the uncovered energized primary area, except where this is necessary to remove immediate hazards to life or property, and the Employee can do so without undue hazard.
On night work there shall be at least two (2) workers on the work unit, both of whom shall be Linemen or Cable Splicers or a combination of either; except, that two (2) Servicemen may perform night work on secondary and service conductors. All work that involves the moving of an energized primary line conductor on a three phase circuit there shall be at least two Linemen assigned to the work.
ED-1
B.	Overhead distribution line work — On all energized primary overhead line work there shall be at least two (2) Linemen with a radio-equipped vehicle assigned. This work unit may install and remove overhead taps and/or grounds where it may be done without entering the energized primary area. When the work being performed by this unit requires an Employee io be in the energized primary area or to move an energized primary line conductor, such work shall be performed from an insulated aerial device. While energized primary work is being performed, there shall be at (east one (1) Employee who is an Apprentice Lineman III or higher classification on the ground at all times.
On de-energized overhead line work or work on lines energized at not more than 600 volts, a work unit shall consist of at least two (2) workers one of whom shall be a Lineman and the other shall be at least an Apprentice Lineman III or higher classification. This work unit may perform associated service work as part of their job assignment.
A Serviceman and at least an Apprentice Lineman III may be assigned to an overhead service work unit.
C.	Underground distribution—A work unit consisting of at least two (2) workers, one (1) of whom shall be a Lineman or a Cable Splicer and the other a Support Person, shall be assigned when primary conductors or transformers are being installed or where primary cable terminations are being made. This work unit may install and remove overhead taps and/or grounds where it may be done without entering the energized primary area. A work unit consisting of one (1) journeyman, (Lineman or Cable Splicer), can perform make up work on new U.R.D. transformers and secondary hand holes that have never been energized (residential only).
When a Lineman or a Cable Splicer is not assigned but a Serviceman is assigned, the work shall be limited to the installation of and work on secondary and service conductors and secondary terminations; except that this work unit may switch, test for voltage and ground, when it may be done without entering the energized primary area.
It is understood that a Serviceman may make secondary terminations and set meters on existing service conductors.
D.	Underground cable work — Not less than two (2) qualified Employees as determined in Exhibit “A”, one (1) of whom shall be a journeyman, shall be assigned to work in each vault, manhole, or handhole, when working on energized conductors or equipment. However, one (1) journeyman may perform work in energized secondary handholes of 600V or less.
ED-2
E.	A Substation work unit shall be staffed with a supervisor and at least two (2) Lead Substation Electricians when working in the energized primary area on substation equipment which is energized more than 600 volts between conductors. When a second Lead Substation Electrician is not present, work shall be limited to work on equipment energized at not more than 600 volts between conductors.
ED-3
EXHIBIT “A" TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY RATES OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS COVERED BY IBEW: Effective January 1, 2004
LINE DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Eastern Service Area, Western Service Area, Plant City,
Winter Haven, South Hillsborough, Dade City and Energy Control Center
Fifty (50) percent of “NS" classifications at each location may be scheduled Monday - Sunday, 5:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. It is understood that scheduling work on Sunday will be kept to a minimum.
ED-4
2B,40	SH	TROUBLEMAN	28.60				
2B	NS	CABLE SPLICER	27.61				
2B,24	NS	APPRENTICE CABLE SPLICER	20.69	21.43			
28,8	NS	LINE PATROLMAN	27,61				
2B	S	SERVICEMAN	25.64				
	s	TOOLROOM & SUPPLYMAN	18,94	19.30	19.57	19.92	20.24
			20.61	21.18			
2B, 41	NS	LINEMAN	27.22	27.61			
26,41	S	LINEMAN	27,22	27.61			
2B,7,19	NS	APPRENTICE LINEMAN					
28,7,19	S	APPRENTICE LINEMAN					
23		APPRENTICE LINEMAN IV	20.69	21.43	21.79	22.46	23.12
22		APPRENTICE LINEMAN III	19.13	19.91	20.24		
21		APPRENTICE LINEMAN II	16,73	17,07	17.41		
20	S	APPRENTICE LINEMAN 1	15.81	16.25			
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
‘Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
28,7,25	NS	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	20.88	21.24	21.55	21.86	22.66* 23.19
2B,7,25	S	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	20.88	21.24	21.55	21.86	22.66* 23.19
2B.7.25	NS	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	18.88	19.25	19.60	19.83	20.23
28,7,25	S	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	18.88	19.25	19.60	19.83	20.23
2B	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.57	13.13	13.70	14.26	
2B	s	UTILITY WORKER	9.71	10.29	10.85	11.41	
	s	LIGHTING REPAIRMAN	18.35				
	s	UNDERGROUND SERVICEMAN	21.63				
METER DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area and Plant City				27.32				
	2B,4,5	S	METER MECHANIC A					
m	2B,5,12,17	S	METER MECHANIC B	20.53	21.31	22.00	22.74	25.73
o				26.13				
Ui	2B,17	s	METER MECHANIC C	17.48	17.85	18.23	18.61	19.00
				19.36	19.82			
		S	TRANSLATOR OPERATOR ANALYST	18.94	19.30	19.57	19.92	20.24
				20.61	21.13			
	2B	s	METER WORKER	17.60	17.77	18.16		
	2B	NS	METERMAN	24.66	25.34			
	16, 30	NS	METER CLERK	18.94	19.30	19.57	19.92	20.24
				20.61	21.13			
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
2B	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.57	13.13	13.70	14.28
2B	S	UTILITY WORKER	9.71	10.29	10.85	11.41
	S	SERVICEMAN	25.64			
	S	SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE	19.77	20.14	20.50	20.76
SUBSTATION DEPARTMENT;
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area
Fifty (50) percent of "NS” classifications at each location may be scheduled Monday - Sunday, 5:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. It is understood that scheduling work on Sunday will be kepi to a minimum.
	2B	NS	LEAD SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN	26.73	27.22	27.61
	2B	S	LEAD SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN	26.73	27.22	27.61
	2B,7,19	NS	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN			
rn	26,7,19	S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN			
o		S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN IV	21.43	21.79	22.46	23.12
	22	S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN III	19.91	20.24	20.69
	21	S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN 1)	16.73	17.41	19.13
	20	S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN 1	15.81	16.25	
	2B,7,26	NS	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	20.88	21.24	21.55	21.86	22.66* 23.19
	2B,7,26	S	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	20.88	21.24	21.55	21.86	22.66* 23.19
	20,7,26,29	NS	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	18.88	19.25	19.60	19.83	20.23
	2B,7,26,29	S	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	18.88	19.25	19.60	19.83	20.23
		NS	TOOLROOM & SUPPLYMAN	18.94	19.30	19.57	19.92	20.24
				20.61	21.18	
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
‘Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
	NS,S NS,S	SENIOR SUBSTATION MATERIALS SPECIALIST SUBSTATION MATERIALS SPECIALIST	20.57 20.54	21.26 20.89	21.92 21.26	22.33 21.62	22.78 21.92
2B	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.57	13.13	13.70	14.28	
2B	S	UTILITY WORKER	9.71	10.29	10.85	11.41	
	NS	SENIOR TRANSFORMER REPAIRMAN	26.41*				
	NS	TRANSFORMER REPAIRMAN	23.62	25.05*			
	NS	APPRENTICE TRANSFORMER REPAIRMAN	18.88	19.01	19.22	19.48	
	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.57	13.13	13.70	14.28	
	S	UTILITY WORKER	9.71	10.29	10.85	11.41	
m ENERGY DELIVERY SYSTEM DEPARTMENT:
P WORK LOCATIONS: Energy Control Center 1A,1B,1C S	ENERGY SYSTEM ELECTRICIAN
1B,1C	S	ASSOC. ENERGY SYSTEM ELECTRICIAN
28.41	29.27	29.56		
22.40	23.09	23.81	24.54	25.30
26.09				
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
‘Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
ENERGY DELLV-ERY FLEET $ERVIQESDEP_ARTMEblT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Eastern Service Area, Western Service Area, Plant City, Winter Haven and South Hillsborough.
(Fifty (50) percent of the “NS” classifications may be scheduled “S*at the Sligh Avenue Garage. At all other Garage locations, the employees shall be scheduled “S.”) All Saturday and Sunday work shall be compensated at overtime rates, except that fifteen (15) percent of the Garage employees may be scheduled for Saturday (6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.).
	NS	LEAD GARAGE MECHANIC (CSA ,ESA, SH)	27.22				
14D,15	NS	GARAGE MECHANIC III	24.94	25.64			
14B-C.15	NS	GARAGE MECHANIC I)	18.34	19.30	20.24	21.12	22.05
14A.15	NS	GARAGE MECHANIC I	13.60	14.54	15.51	16.44	17.41
	NS	PAINT & BODY SPECIALIST	22.27				
	S	SPECIAL HELPER SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	20.23	20.88	21.24	21.55	
m	S	HELPER-SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	18.88	19.25	19.60	19.83	20.23
£	S	HELPER-SPECIAL SERVICEMAN	15.12	15.33	15.65	16.03	
	S	HELPER SERVICEMAN	12.21	13.60	13.80	14.00	
	S	SENIOR PARTS CLERK	20.57	21.26	21.92	22.33	22.78
	S	PARTS CLERK	20.54	20.89	21.26	21.62	21.92
	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.57	13.13	13.70	14.28	
	S	UTILITY WORKER	9.71	10.29	10.85	11.41	
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
"Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
ENERGY DELIVERY WAREHOUSING & MATERIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Dade City, Eastern Service Area, Western Service Area, Plant City, South Hillsborough, and Winter Haven
	S	LEAD MATERIALS SPECIALIST (CSA & ESA ONLY)*	24.28			
	S	ED MATERIALS SPECIALIST III	20.57	21.26	21.92	22.33
	S	ED MATERIALS SPECIALIST II	17.23	17.90	18.58	19.22
	S	ED MATERIALS SPECIALIST I	14.28	14.53	15.21	15.87
	S	MATERIALS AND TOOLS ANALYST	17.90	18.58	19.22	19.91
			21.26	21.92		
	NS	PARTS CLERK	20.54	20.89	21.26	21.62
	NS	PARTS AND MATERIAL CLERK	20.54	20.89	21.26	21.62
	S	TOOLROOM AND SUPPLYMAN	18.94	19.30	19.57	19.92
m c <b			20.61	21.18		
	ENERGY DELIVERY TOOL REPAIR FACILITY DEPARTMENT:					
	WORK LOCATION: Eastern Service Area					
	S	SENIOR TOOL REPAIRMAN	25.64			
	S	TOOL REPAIRMAN	23.62	24.28		
	S	APPRENTICE TOOL REPAIRMAN	18.88	19.01	19.22	19.48
22.78 19.91 16.55
20.57
21.92 21.92 20.24
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
ENERGY DELIVERY INVESTMENT RECOVERY:
WORK LOCATION: Central Operations Center
s	LEAD MATERIALS PROCESSOR	22.17	22.86	23.51	23.94
s	MATERIALS PROCESSOR	14.87	15.43	16.07	16.62
s	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.57	13.13	13.70	14.28
24.38
17.22
ENERGY DELIVERY RADIO SHOP:
WORK LOCATION: Energy Control Center
5, 36A, 368 S		RADIO ELECTRICIAN II *	26.93	27,80	28.66	29.27
5, 36C	S	RADIO ELECTRICIAN 1 *	22.00	22.74	23.49	24.21
19	S	RADIO WORKER *	16.57	16.74	17.13	
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
EXHIBIT “A” TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY
RATES OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS COVERED BY IBEW: Effective March 28, 2005
LINE DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Eastern Service Area, Western Service Area,
Plant City, Winter Haven, South Hillsborough, Dade City and Energy Control Center
Fifty (50) percent of “NS” classifications at each location may be scheduled Monday - Sunday, 5:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. It is understood that scheduling work on Sunday will be kept to a minimum.
ED-11
2B.4D	SH	TROUBLEMAN	29.46				
2B	NS	CABLE SPLICER	28.44				
2B,24	NS	APPRENTICE CABLE SPLICER	21.31	22.07			
2B,8	NS	LINE PATROLMAN	28.44				
2B	S	SERVICEMAN	26.41				
	S	TOOLROOM & SUPPLYMAN	19.51	19.88	20.16	20.52	20.85
			21.23	21.82			
2B, 41	NS	LINEMAN	28.04	28.44			
2B, 41	S	LINEMAN	28.04	28.44			
2B,7,19	NS	APPRENTICE LINEMAN					
2B,7,19	S	APPRENTICE LINEMAN					
23		APPRENTICE LINEMAN IV	21.31	22.07	22.44	23.13	23.81
22		APPRENTICE LINEMAN III	19.70	20.51	20.85		
21		APPRENTICE LINEMAN II	17.23	17.58	17.93		
20	S	APPRENTICE LINEMAN 1	16.28	16.74			
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
26,7,25	NS	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	21.51	21.88	22.20	22.52	23.34	23.89
28,7,25	S	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	21.51	21.88	22.20	22.52	23.34	23.89
26,7,25	NS	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	19.45	19.83	20,19	20.42	20.84	
26,7,25	S	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	19.45	19.83	20.19	20.42	20.84	
2B	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.95	13.52	14.11	14.71		
26	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.00	10.60	11.18	11.75		
	S	LIGHTING REPAIRMAN	18.90					
	S	UNDERGROUND SERVICEMAN	22.28					
METER DEPARTMENT:								
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area and Plant City								
26,4,5	S	METER MECHANIC A	28.14					
m 2B,5,12,17	S	METER MECHANIC B	21.15	21.95	22.66	23.42	26.50	
9			26.91					
m 26,17	S	METER MECHANIC C	18.00	18.39	18.78	19.17	19.57	
			19.94	20.41				
	S	TRANSLATOR OPERATOR ANALYST	19.51	19.88	20.16	20.52	20.85	
			21.23	21.76				
26	S	METER WORKER	18.13	18.30	18.70			
2B	NS	METERMAN	25.40	26.10				
16, 30	NS	METER CLERK	19.51	19.88	20.16	20.52	20.85	
			21.23	21.76				
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
2B	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.95	13.52	14.11	14.71
2B	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.00	10.60	11.18	11.75
	S	SERVICEMAN	26.41			
	S	SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE	19.77	20.14	20.50	20.76
SUBSTATION DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area
Fifty (50) percent of “NS" classifications at each location may be scheduled Monday - Sunday,5:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. It is
	understood that scheduling work on Sunday will be kept to a minimum.								
	2B	NS	LEAD SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN	27.53	28.04	28.44			
	2B	S	LEAD SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN	27.53	28.04	28.44			
m	2B,7,19	NS	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN						
o	2B,7,19	S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN						
w		S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN IV	22.07	22.44	23.13	23.81		
	22	S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN III	20.51	20.85	21.31			
	21	S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN II	17.23	17.93	19.70			
	20	S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN I	16.28	16.74				
	2B,7,26	NS	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	21.51	21.88	22.20	22.52	23.34	23.89
	2B,7,26	S	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	21.51	21.88	22.20	22.52	23.34	23.89
	2B,7,26,29	NS	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	19.45	19.83	20.19	20.42	20.84	
	2B,7,26,29	S	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	19.45	19.83	20.19	20.42	20.84	
		NS	TOOLROOM & SUPPLYMAN	19.51	19.88	20.16	20.52	20.85	
				21.23	21.82				
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
	NS.S NS,S	SENIOR SUBSTATION MATERIALS SPECIALIST SUBSTATION MATERIALS SPECIALIST	21.19 21.16	21.90 21.52	22.58 21.90	23.00 22.27	23.47 22.58
2B	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.95	13.52	14.11	14.71	
2B	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.00	10.60	11.18	11.75	
	NS	SENIOR TRANSFORMER REPAIRMAN	27.20				
	NS	TRANSFORMER REPAIRMAN	24.33	25.80			
	NS	APPRENTICE TRANSFORMER REPAIRMAN	19.45	19.58	19.80	20.06	
	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.95	13.52	14.11	14.71	
	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.00	10.60	11.18	11.75	
ED-14
ENERGY DELIVERY SYSTEM DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Energy Control Center 1A,1B,1C S ENERGY SYSTEM ELECTRICIAN
1 B,1 C S ASSOC. ENERGY SYSTEM ELECTRICIAN
29.26	30.15	30.45		
23.07	23.78	24.52	25.28	26.06
26.87				
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
ENERGY DELIVERY FLEET SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Eastern Service Area, Western Service Area, Plant City, Winter Haven and South Hillsborough.
(Fifty (50) percent of the “NS” classifications may be scheduled “S” at the SHgh Avenue Garage. At all other Garage locations, the employees shall be scheduled “S. ”) AU Saturday and Sunday work shall be compensated at overtime rates, except that
fifteen (15) percent of the Garage employees maybe scheduled for Saturday (6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.).								
		NS	LEAD GARAGE MECHANIC (CSA ,ESA, SH)	28.04				
	14D.15	NS	GARAGE MECHANIC III	2569	26.41			
	148-C.15	NS	GARAGE MECHANIC II	18.89	19.88	20.85	21.75	22.71
	14A.15	NS	GARAGE MECHANIC I	14.01	14.98	15.98	16.93	17.93
		NS	PAINT & BODY SPECIALIST	22.94				
		S	SPECIAL HELPER SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	20.84	21.51	21.88	22.20	
m		S	HELPER-SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	19.45	19.83	20.19	20.42	20.84
		S	HELPER-SPECIAL SERVICEMAN	15.57	15.79	16.12	16.51	
cn		S	HELPER SERVICEMAN	12.58	14.01	14.21	14.42	
		S	SENIOR PARTS CLERK	21.19	21.90	22.58	23.00	23.46
		S	PARTS CLERK	21.16	21.52	21.90	22.27	22.58
		S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.95	13.52	14.11	14.71	
		S	UTILITY WORKER	10.00	10.60	11.18	11.75	
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
ENERGY DELIVERY WAREHOUSING & MATERIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Dade City, Eastern Service Area, Western Service Area, Plant City, South Hillsborough, and Winter Haven
	S	LEAD MATERIALS SPECIALIST (CSA& ESA ONLY)	25.01				
	S	ED MATERIALS SPECIALIST III	21.19	21.90	22.58	23.00	23.46
	S	ED MATERIALS SPECIALIST II	17.75	18.44	19.14	19.80	20.51
	S	ED MATERIALS SPECIALIST 1	14.71	14.97	15.67	16.35	17.05
	S	MATERIALS AND TOOLS ANALYST	18.44	19.14	19.80	20.51	21.19
			21.90	22.58			
	NS	PARTS CLERK	21.16	21.52	21.90	22.27	22.58
	NS	PARTS AND MATERIAL CLERK	21.16	21.52	21.90	22.27	22.58
m	S	TOOLROOM AND SUPPLYMAN	19.51	19.88	20.16	20.52	20.85
□ o>			21.23	21.82			
ENERGY DELIVERY TOOL REPAIR FACILITY DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATION: Eastern Service Area
S	SENIOR TOOL REPAIRMAN	26.41		
S	TOOL REPAIRMAN	24.33	25.01	
S	APPRENTICE TOOL REPAIRMAN	19.45	19.58	19.80
20.06
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
ENERGY DELIVERY INVESTMENT RECOVERY:
WORK LOCATION: Central Operations Center
S	LEAD MATERIALS PROCESSOR	22.84	23.55	24.22	24.66	25.11
S	MATERIALS PROCESSOR	15.32	15.89	16.55	17.12	17.74
S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.95	13.52	14.11	14.71	
ENERGY DELIVERY RADIO SHOP: WORK LOCATION: Energy Control Center 5, 36A, 36B S	RADIO ELECTRICIAN II	27.74	28.63	29.52	30.15	
5, 36C	S	RADIO ELECTRICIAN 1	22.66	23.42	24.19	24.94	25.67
19	S	RADIO WORKER	17.07	17.24	17.64		
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
EXHIBIT “A” TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY RATES OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS COVERED BY IBEW: Effective March 27, 2006
LINE DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Eastern Service Area, Western Service Area, Plant City,
Winter Haven, South Hillsborough, Dade City and Energy Control Center
Fifty (50) percent of "NS" classifications at each location may be scheduled Monday - Sunday, 5:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. It is understood that scheduling work on Sunday will be kept to a minimum.
ED-18
2B,40	SH	TROUBLEMAN	30.34				
2B	NS	CABLE SPLICER	29.29				
2B,24	NS	APPRENTICE CABLE SPLICER	21.95	22.73			
2B,8	NS	LINE PATROLMAN	29.29				
2B	S	SERVICEMAN	27.20				
	S	TOOLROOM & SUPPLYMAN	20.10	20.48	20.76	21.14	21.48
			21.87	22.47			
2B, 41	NS	LINEMAN	28.88	29.29			
28,41	S	LINEMAN	28.88	29.29			
26,7,19	NS	APPRENTICE LINEMAN					
26,7,19	S	APPRENTICE LINEMAN					
23		APPRENTICE LINEMAN IV	21.95	22.73	23.11	23.82	24.52
22		APPRENTICE LINEMAN 111	20.29	21.13	21.48		
21		APPRENTICE LINEMAN II	17.75	18.11	18.47		
20	S	APPRENTICE LINEMAN I	16.77	17.24			
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
2B.7.25	NS	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	22.16	22.54	22.87	23.20	24.04	24.61
2B,7,25	S	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	22.16	22.54	22.87	23.20	24.04	24.61
2B,7,25	NS	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	20.03	20.42	20.80	21.03	21.47	
2B,7,25	S	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	20.03	20.42	20.80	21.03	21.47	
2B	s	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	13.34	13.93	14.53	15.15		
2B	s	UTILITY WORKER	10.30	10.92	11.52	12.10		
	s	LIGHTING REPAIRMAN	19.47					
	s	UNDERGROUND SERVICEMAN	22.95					
METER DEPARTMENT:								
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area and Plant City								
2B,4,5	s	METER MECHANIC A	28.98					
26,5,12,17	s	METER MECHANIC B	21.78	22.61	23.34	24.12	27.30	
			27.72					
2B.17	s	METER MECHANIC C	18.54	18.94	19.34	19.75	20.16	
			20.54	21.02				
	s	TRANSLATOR OPERATOR ANALYST	20.10	20.48	20.76	21.14	21.48	
			21.87	22.41				
2B	s	METER WORKER	18.67	18.85	19.26			
2B	NS	METERMAN	26.16	26.88				
16, 30	NS	METER CLERK	20.10	20.48	20.76	21.14	21.48	
			21.87	22.41				
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
2B	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	13.34	13.93	14.53	15.15
2B	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.30	10.92	11.52	12.10
	S	SERVICEMAN	27.20			
	S	SERVICE REPRESENTATIVE	19.77	20.14	20.50	20.76
ED-20
SUBSTATION DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area
Fifty (50) percent of “NS” classifications at each location may be scheduled Monday - Sunday, 5:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. It is understood that scheduling work on Sunday will be kept to a minimum.
2B	NS	LEAD SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN	28.36	28.88	29.29
2B	S	LEAD SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN	28.36	28.88	29.29
2B,7,19	NS	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN			
2B,7,19	S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN			
	S	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN IV	22.73	23.11	23.82	24.52
22	s	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN III	21.13	21.48	21.95
21	s	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN II	17.75	18.47	20.29
20	s	APPRENTICE SUBSTATION ELECTRICIAN I	16.77	17.24	
2B,7,26	NS	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	22.16	22.54	22.87	23.20	24.04 24.61
28,7,26	S	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	22.16	22.54	22.87	23.20	24.04 24.61
2B,7,26,29	NS	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	20.03	20.42	20.80	21.03	21.47
2B,7,26,29	S	GROUNDMAN EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	20.03	20.42	20.80	21.03	21.47
	NS	TOOLROOM & SUPPLYMAN	20.10	20.48	20.76	21.14	21.48
			21.87	22.47	
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
	NS,S NS,S	SENIOR SUBSTATION MATERIALS SPECIALIST SUBSTATION MATERIALS SPECIALIST	21.83 21.79	22.56 22.17	23.26 22,56	23.69 22.94	24.17 23.26
2B	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	13.34	13.93	14.53	15.15	
2B	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.30	10.92	11.52	12.10	
	NS	SENIOR TRANSFORMER REPAIRMAN	28.02				
	NS	TRANSFORMER REPAIRMAN	25.06	26.57			
	NS	APPRENTICE TRANSFORMER REPAIRMAN	20.03	20.17	20.39	20.66	
	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	13.34	13.93	14.53	15.15	
	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.30	10.92	11.52	12.10	
ED-21
ENERGY DELIVERY SYSTEM DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Energy Control Center
1 A,1 B,1 C S ENERGY SYSTEM ELECTRICIAN
1B.1C S ASSOC. ENERGY SYSTEM ELECTRICIAN
30.14
23.76
27.68
31.05
24.49
31.36
25.26
26.04
26.84
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
ENERGY DELIVERY FLEET SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Eastern Service Area, Western Service Area, Plant City,
Winter Haven and South Hillsborough
(Fifty (50) percent at the “NS" classifications may be scheduled “S” at the Sligh Avenue Garage. At all other Garage locations, the employees shall be scheduled “S.”) All Saturday and Sunday work shall be compensated at overtime rates, except that fifteen (15) percent of the Garage employees may be scheduled for Saturday (6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.).
14D,15	NS NS	LEAD GARAGE MECHANIC (CSA ,ESA, SH) GARAGE MECHANIC III	28.88 26.46	27.20
14B-C.15	NS	GARAGE MECHANIC II	19.46	20.48	21.48	22.40	23.39
14A.15	NS	GARAGE MECHANIC 1	14.43	15.43	16.46	17.44	18.47
	NS	PAINT & BODY SPECIALIST	2363	
m	S	SPECIAL HELPER SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	21.47	22.16	22.54	22.87
o	S	HELPER-SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	20.03	20.42	20.80	21.03	21.47
ho N)	S	HELPER-SPECIAL SERVICEMAN	16.04	16.26	16.60	17.01
	S	HELPER SERVICEMAN	12.96	14.43	14.64	14.85
	S	SENIOR PARTS CLERK	21.83	22.56	23.26	23.69	24.16
	S	PARTS CLERK	21.79	22.17	22.56	22.94	23.26
	s	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	13.34	13.93	14.53	15.15
	s	UTILITY WORKER	10.30	10.92	11.52	12.10
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
ENERGY DELIVERY WAREHOUSING & MATERIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Dade City, Eastern Service Area, Western Service Area, Plant City, South Hillsborough, and Winter Haven
	S	LEAD MATERIALS SPECIALIST (CSA& ESA ONLY)	25.76				
	S	ED MATERIALS SPECIALIST III	21.83	22.56	23.26	23.69	24.16
	s	ED MATERIALS SPECIALIST II	18.28	18.99	19.71	20.39	21.13
	s	ED MATERIALS SPECIALIST 1	15.15	15.42	16.14	16.84	17.56
	s	MATERIALS AND TOOLS ANALYST	18.99	19.71	20.39	21.13	21.83
			22.56	23.26			
	NS	PARTS CLERK	21.79	22.17	22.56	22.94	23.26
	NS	PARTS AND MATERIAL CLERK	21.79	22.17	22.56	22.94	23.26
m	S	TOOLROOM AND SUPPLYMAN	20.10	20.48	20.76	21.14	21.48
o			21.87	22.47			
M W							
	ENERGY DELIVERY TOOL REPAIR FACILITY DEPARTMENT:						
	WORK LOCATION.	r Eastern Service Area					
	S	SENIOR TOOL REPAIRMAN	27.20				
	S	TOOL REPAIRMAN	25.06	25.76			
	S	APPRENTICE TOOL REPAIRMAN	20.03	20.17	20.39	20.66	
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
ENERGY DELIVERY INVESTMENT RECOVERY:
WORK LOCATION: Central Operations Center
s	LEAD MATERIALS PROCESSOR	23.53	24.26	24.95	25.40	25.86
s	MATERIALS PROCESSOR	15.78	16.37	17.05	17.63	18.27
s	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	13.34	13.93	14.53	15.15	
ENERGY DELIVERY RADIO SHOP:						
WORK LOCATION: Energy Control Center						
5, 36A, 36B S	RADIO ELECTRICIAN II	28.57	29.49	30.41	31.05		
5, 36C	S	RADIO ELECTRICIAN I	23.34	24.12	24.92	25.69	26.44	27.21
19	S	RADIO WORKER	17.58	17.76	18.17			
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
ENERGY DELIVERY - EXHIBIT “A” FOOTNOTES
ED-25
(1 A) Employee must be competent and demonstrate through formal and practical evaluation an understanding of and the ability to troubleshoot state-of-the-art digital and analog electronics equipment to the circuit board level and to the component level. Employee must also be competent and demonstrate through formal and practical evaluation, an understanding of and ability to troubleshoot the required field control systems and/or the master station control systems.
(1B)	Must have CTIA A+ Certification, or achieve this certification within one (1) year to stay in classification.
(1C)	Must have Associate in Science (A.S.) in Electronics Degree from a state accredited institution.
(2B)	Employees in this classification will receive an annual credit of one hundred and eighty dollars ($180) to be applied to the purchase of Flame Retardant Clothing through the approved vendor.
(4)	To qualify, the employee must have demonstrated through formal and practical evaluation an understanding of and the ability to install, troubleshoot and maintain state-of-the-art electro-mechanical metering, digital electronic and analog electronic equipment to the component level. Formal evaluation shall include successful completion of Company approved advanced electronics courses.
ED-26
(5)	To remain in this classification, the employee shall maintain competency by satisfactorily completing approved training programs.
(7)	All employees entering the Apprentice Lineman and Apprentice Substation Electrician classifications after March 1992 will be designated “S” (Scheduled). All employees entering the Special Equipment Operator and Groundman Equipment Operator classifications after March 1998 will be designated “S” (Scheduled). The above listed classifications will remain “S" until eligible to bid “NS” as per Article IX (F) (50% “NS" core language). Employees entering Apprentice Lineman or Apprentice Substation Electrician classifications prior to March 1992 cannot be scheduled as •S’.
(8)	This classification will be filled from employees qualified as Lineman, consistent with efficiency and service.
(12)	To qualify, the employee must have satisfactorily completed a prescribed course of study and demonstrated through
practical evaluation an understanding of and the ability to install, troubleshoot and maintain state-of-the-art electromechanical metering and digital and analog electronic equipment to the circuit board level.
(14A	) To qualify for Garage Mechanic I, the employee must have at least one Garage Mechanic I required A.S.E., and the written test portion of the C.D.L. (Class A) completed.
(14B)	To qualify for Garage Mechanic II, the Garage Mechanic I must have completed A.S.E. certifications and competencies (Steering/Suspension, Electrical/Electronic Systems, Brakes [light vehicles], Air Conditioning, Preventive Maintenance), one Garage Mechanic II certification, two (2) years of on-the-job (OJT) training. Re-certifications will not be required.
ED-27
(14C) To qualify for Garage Mechanic III, the Garage Mechanic II must have either the Fluid Power Society (F.P.S.) or the American Welding Society (A.W.S.) [vertical and overhead] certification, all Garage Mechanic I and II certifications and competencies, and three (3) years Garage Mechanic II experience.
(14D) The Garage Mechanic III must acquire the remaining Fluid Power Society (F.P.S.) or the American Welding Society (A.W.S.) [vertical and overhead) certification within twelve (12) months to remain at the Garage Mechanic III. If the Garage Mechanic III does not pass the certification, the employee will return to the Garage Mechanic II until the employee passes the certification.
(15)	Employees in this classification with six (6) months or more of employment on January 1 will receive an annual credit of two hundred and fifteen dollars ($215) to be applied to the purchase of tools. Employee must provide receipt showing cost and business need for reimbursement.
(16)	Classification to be deleted when it becomes vacant.
(17)	The employee may progress at an interval less or more than six (6) months. Progression to next pay step will be based on successful completion of skill modules. If the opportunity is not afforded for training, the employee will progress at six (6) month intervals.
(19)	To qualify, each employee must have completed the applicable evaluation program and demonstrated the requisite knowledge, skills, abilities and other attributes.
(20)	Line: Will climb poles and structures at training center and de-energized poles / structures in the field. Substation: Will climb steel structures and de-energized equipment following successful completion of appropriate training modules.
(21)	Line: Will climb poles/structures, work voltages less than 600V. Substation: Will work voltages less than 600V.
(22)	Line: Will work energized primary with Lineman. Substation: Will work energized primary with a Lead Substation Electrician at step lll/Two.
m 9 (23) M 00 (24)	Will work energized primary. Any employee awarded a bid or temporarily assigned as a bottom-step Apprentice Cable Splicer must be at least an Apprentice Lineman IV. To qualify for advancement beyond the bottom-step rate, each employee must have satisfactorily demonstrated the requisite knowledge, skills, abilities and other attributes in performing the duties associated with network protectors and secondaries. Cable Splicer rate applies after 13,000 volt paper lead splice has proved satisfactory. For cable crews, these rates apply for all work in vaults or cable in ducts or on risers and direct burial cable, except that mechanical stress cone units may be installed by Linemen.
ED-29
(25)	Time spent in this classification shall not constitute seniority time to become Apprentice Lineman for those entering these classifications between May 18,1957 and October 10,1981. Employees awarded the bid must satisfy established requirements.
(26)	Time spent in this classification shall not constitute seniority time to become Apprentice Substation Electrician for those entering this classification between May 18, 1957 and October 10, 1981. Employees awarded the bid must satisfy established requirements.
(29)	Employees in this classification will be responsible for truck storekeeping and material record keeping.
(30)	To qualify, employee must demonstrate a typing proficiency of forty (40) corrected words per minute, prior to being awarded the job.
(36A	) Must have Associate in Science (A.S.) in Electronics Degree from a state accredited institution or equivalent work experience.
(36B)	Must have NARTE Junior Technician Certification to enter classification. To remain in classification, the employee must
demonstrate through practical evaluation an understanding of and the ability to install, troubleshoot and maintain state-of-the-art telecommunications equipment to the board level.
ED-30
(36C) Must have NARTE Junior Technician Certification or Associate of Science (A.S.) in Electronics Degree from a state accredited institution to enter classification. Must have NARTE Junior Technician Certification, or higher, within two years to remain in classification. To remain in classification, the employee must demonstrate through practical evaluation an understanding of and the ability to install, troubleshoot and maintain state-of-the-art telecommunications equipment to the board level.
(40)	From January 1,1998 forward, employees entering the Troubleman classification will retain their classification seniority when bidding back to Lineman or Relief-Troubleman; and existing Troubleman will begin to accrue time from January 1, 1998 forward as classification seniority defined in the contract, Article IV C. From January 1,1998 forward, anyone in the troubleman classification prior to 1998 bidding down to Lineman, Lineman-Relief-Troubleman or Relief-Troubleman will constitute a break in classification seniority back to January 1,1998.
(41)	Lineman bidding to Lineman-Relief-Troubleman / Relief Troubleman prior to 1998 will not constitute as bidding Troubleman. Time spent as Lineman-Relief-Troubleman and/or Relief Troubleman will count as Lineman classification seniority.
ENERGY SUPPLY SPECIFIC LANGUAGE, EXHIBIT A WAGE RATES AND FOOTNOTES
IX.	General Working Conditions
A.	Permanent Off-Shift Differential:
In Energy Supply Maintenance - All employees on permanent off-shifts (3-11, 11-7) will have a base wage adder of $1.00 per hour for all hours paid (applied same as ES fifty (50) cents).
B.	Provisions for Travel and Resource Sharing:
Power Plants-Tampa (excluding ES Designations):
When the Company temporarily assigns an employee to another established headquarters, the employee will receive a daily travel allowance for each day worked equal to the I.R.S. allowable rate, multiplied by the mileage difference between the employee’s home to temporary headquarters assignment minus the employee's home to regular headquarters assignment.
When resource sharing at locations within fifteen (15) miles one way of their normal headquarters, Employees will receive an additional fifty (50) cents per hour for all hours worked during this assignment, with no travel pay or paid travel time. When resource sharing at locations greater than fifteen (15) miles one way from their normal headquarters, employees will receive the I.R.S. allowable rate multiplied by the round trip mileage difference in addition to the fifty (50) cents per hour, but no paid travel time. Employees are required to show up at the shift starting time. Provisions for ES Designations are defined in Footnote 3, Exhibit A.
C.	Stevedoring Services - Hours of Work
The normal scheduled hours of work for all regular full-time Employees will be a twelve (12) hour shift based on a cycle of thirty-six (36) hour and forty-eight (48) hour workweeks. (See Exhibit B.) The Company and the Union agree that twelve (12) hour shift Employees should normally be scheduled to work an average of fourteen (14) twelve (12) hour shifts in each twenty-eight (28) day shift cycle insofar as continuous operations permit. Every reasonable effort will be made to see that Employees are scheduled to work an average of fourteen (14) twelve (12) hour shifts per cycle.
The normal schedule for twelve (12) hour shift Employees shall be from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. in accordance with the attached twelve (12) hour shift schedule including a thirty (30) minute paid lunch period. The lunch period will begin between the fourth (4th) and sixth (6th) hour of the scheduled shift. Employees on continuous operation
ES-1
work schedule are to report directly to their workstation at their designated start time, unless otherwise instructed. Employees must remain at their workstation until relieved. It is recognized that in certain cases in order to facilitate the work of some departments, it may be necessary for certain individuals to work odd schedules. Such schedules may be eight (8) hour shifts, Monday through Friday, ten (10) hour shifts, Monday through Thursday or Tuesday through Friday when forty (40) hour notice is given. However, it is understood that such odd schedules will be held to a minimum. The normal workday for twelve (12) hour shift Employees shall be a continuous twenty-four (24) hour period beginning at 7.00 a.m. on each calendar day. The normal workweek for these Employees shall begin at 7:00 a.m., Sunday to Sunday. Employees will be given two (2) twenty (20) minute paid breaks per shift.
ES-2
EXHIBIT “A" TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY
RATES OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS COVERED BY IBEW: Effective January 1, 2004
ENERGY SUPPLY FLEET SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Big Bend, Gannon and Bayside
At Energy Supply Garage locations (Big Bend, Gannon and Bayside), the employees shall be scheduled "S”. All Saturday and Sunday work shall be compensated at overtime rates, except that fifteen (15) percent of the Garage employees may be scheduled for Saturday (6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.).
15		S	LEAD GARAGE MECHANIC	27.22				
	14D.15	S	GARAGE MECHANIC III	24.94	25.64			
	14B-C.15	S	GARAGE MECHANIC II	18.34	19.30	20.24	21.12	22.05
	14A.15	S	GARAGE MECHANIC I	13.60	14.54	15.51	16.44	17.41
m w		S	SPECIAL HELPER SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	20.23	20.88	21.24	21.55	
&		S	HELPER-SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	18.88	19.25	19.60	19.83	20.23
		S	HELPER-SPECIAL SERVICEMAN	15.12	15.33	15.65	16.03	
		S	HELPER SERVICEMAN	12.21	13.60	13.80	14.00	
		S	SENIOR PARTS CLERK	20.57	21.26	21.92	22.33	22.78
		S	PARTS CLERK	20-54	20.89	21.26	21.62	21.92
		S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.57	13.13	13.70	14.28	
		S	UTILITY WORKER	9.71	10.29	10.85	11.41	
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
•Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
ES-4
POWER PLANTS-TAMPA DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Big Bend, Gannon, Bayside and Hookers Point
2A,10, 35	SH	COMBINED CYCLE SPECIALIST	24.83	25.65	26.48	27.32	28.13
			28.96	29.80			
	SH	WATCH ENGINEER	27.36	27.94	28.51	29.27	
	SH	CONTROL CENTER OPERATOR	26.55	26.98			
		BT/CT OPERATOR (BIG BEND)	26.20				
	SH	BOILER TURBINE OPERATOR	24.02	24.45	24.87	25.22	25.64
19,28	SH	AUXILIARY OPERATOR	15.81	16.25	17.24	18.22	19.15
			20.14	21.18			
					(38A)		(38B)
3.38A-F	S	CONTROLS ANALYST	20.01	20.24	20.63	21.18	21.42
				(38C)		(38D)	
			21.82	22.25	22.55	25.88	26.52
			(38E)	(38F)			
			26.98	28.09			
3,6,18	S	WATER & FUELS ANALYST	20.01	20.24	20.63	21.18	21.42
			21.82	22.25	22.55	25.88	26.52
			26.98				
3	S	ELECTRICIAN	18.30	18.52	18.70	19.04	19.41
			19.77	20.41	21.12	25.16	25.88
3,9	S	MACHIN IST-BLADER	19.67	20.16	20.63	21.26	21.72
			22.37	22.78	23.35	26.87	
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
‘Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
3		S	MACHINIST	19.67 22.37	20.16 22.78	20.63 23.35	21.26 26.38	21.72 26.54
	2A,3,11,37	S	MECHANIC/CERTIFIED WELDER	26.54				
	2A,3,11,37	S	MECHANIC/CERTIFIED WELDER ‘ES’	26.54				
	3	S	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	18.30	18.52	18.70	19-02	19.41
				19.77	20.41	21.12	25.16	25.88
	3	S	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC ‘ES’	18.30	18.52	18.70	19.02	19.41
				19.77	20.41	21.12	25.16	25.88
	13	S	FUEL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	24.97	25.64			
	31	s	FUEL HANDLER	19.11	19.60	19.92	20.23	21.18
	3,27	s	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	20.88	21.24	21.55	21.86	22.66* 23.19
		s	MATERIALS & TOOLS ANALYST	17.90	18.58	19.22	19.91	20.57
				21.26	21.92			
m co	3,19	s	PRODUCTION APPRENTICE	12.21	12.88	13.60	14.20	14.94
yi				15.61	16.30	16.98	18.30	18.52
				18.70	19.02	19.41	19.77	20.41
				21.18				
	3,19	s	PRODUCTION WORKER	12.21	12.88	13.60	14.20	14.94
				15.61	16.30	16.98	18.30	18.52
				18.70	19.02	19.41	19.77	20.41
				21.18				
		s	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.57	13.13	13.70	14.28	
		s	UTILITY WORKER	9.71	10.29	10.85	11.41	
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
‘Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
ENERGY SUPPLY WAREHOUSING & MATERIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT:							
	WORK LOCATIONS: Big Bend, Gannon, Bayside and Centra! Energy Supply Stores					..	
	S	ES MATERIALS SPECIALIST III	20.57	21.26	21.92	22.33	22.78
	S	ES MATERIALS SPECIALIST II	17.23	17.90	18.58	19.22	19.91
	S	ES MATERIALS SPECIALIST I	14.28	14.53	15.21	15.87	16.55
	S	MATERIALS AND TOOLS ANALYST	17.90	18.58	19.22	19.91	20.57
			21.26	21.92			
	NS	PARTS CLERK	20.54	20.89	21.26	21.62	21.92
	NS	PARTS AND MATERIAL CLERK	20.54	20.89	21.26	21.62	21.92
	S	TOOLROOM AND SUPPLYMAN	18.94	19.30	19.57	19.92	20.24
			20.61	21.18			
m	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.57	13.13	13.70	14.28	
8? 6	S	UTILITY WORKER	9.71	10.29	10.85	11.41	
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
ENERGY SUPPLY STEVEDORING SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATION: Big Bend OPERATIONS:		
SH	TOWER OPERATOR II	21.34
SH	TOWER OPERATOR I	18.70
SH	BARGE OPERATOR	18.17
SH	PAYLOAD OPERATOR	17.60
SH	COAL HANDLER III	15.29
SH	COAL HANDLER II	12.30
SH	COAL HANDLER I	11.64
MAINTENANCE:		
SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL IV	21.95
SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL III	21.34
SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL II	18.17
SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL I	16.33
SH	HYDRAULICS LEVEL II	21.95
SH	HYDRAULICS LEVEL I	20.20
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
‘Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
2A	SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL IV
2A	SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL III
2A	SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL II
2A	SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL I
SH PAINT CREW II SH PAINT CREW I
ES-8
Basic Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
20.83
20.20
18.17
16.33
18.17
17.43
Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
EXHIBIT “A” TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY
RATES OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS COVERED BY IBEW: Effective March 28, 2005
ENERGY SUPPLY FLEET SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Big Bend, Gannon and Bayside
At Energy Supply Garage locations (Big Bend, Gannon and Bayside), the employees shall be scheduled “S".
All Saturday and Sunday work shall be compensated at overtime rates, except that fifteen (15) percent of the
Garage employees may be scheduled for Saturday (6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.).							21.75	22.71
	15 14D.15 14B-C.15	S S S	LEAD GARAGE MECHANIC GARAGE MECHANIC III GARAGE MECHANIC II	28.04 25.69 18.89	26.41 19.88	20.85		
m	14A.15	S	GARAGE MECHANIC 1	14.01	14.98	15.98	16.93	17.93
w		S	SPECIAL HELPER SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	20.84	21.51	21.88	22.20	
		S	HELPER-SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	19.45	19.83	20.19	20.42	20.84
		S	HELPER-SPECIAL SERVICEMAN	15.57	15.79	16.12	16.51	
		S	HELPER SERVICEMAN	12.58	14.01	14.21	14.42	
		S	SENIOR PARTS CLERK	21.19	21.90	22.58	23.00	23.46
		S	PARTS CLERK	21.16	21.52	21.90	22.27	22.58
		S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.95	13.52	14.11	14.71	
		S	UTILITY WORKER	10.00	10.60	11.18	11.75	
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
ES-10
POWER PLANTS-TAMPA DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Big Bend, Gannon, Bayside and Hookers Point
2A,10, 35	SH	COMBINED CYCLE SPECIALIST	25.57	26.42	27.27	28.14	28.97
			29.83	30.69			
	SH	WATCH ENGINEER	28.18	28.78	29.37	30.15	
	SH	CONTROL CENTER OPERATOR	27.35	27.79			
		BT/CT OPERATOR (BIG BEND)	26.99				
	SH	BOILER TURBINE OPERATOR	24.74	25.18	25.62	25.98	26.41
19,28	SH	AUXILIARY OPERATOR	16.28	16.74	17.76	18.77	19.72
			20.74	21.82			
					(38A)		(38B)
3.38A-F	S	CONTROLS ANALYST	20.61	20.85	21.25	21.82	22.06
				(38C)		(380)	
			22.47	22.92	23.23	26.66	27.32
			(38E)	(38F)			
			27.79	28.93			
3,6,18	S	WATER & FUELS ANALYST	20.61	20.85	21.25	21.82	22.06
			22.47	22.92	23.23	26.66	27.32
			27,79				
3	S	ELECTRICIAN	18.85	19.08	19.26	19.61	19.99
			20.36	21.02	21.75	25.91	26.66
3,9	S	MACHINIST-BLADER	20.26	20.76	21.25	21.90	22.37
			23.04	23.46	24.05	27.68	
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
3	S	MACHINIST	20.26 23.04	20.76 23.46	21.25 24.05	21.90 27.17	22.37 27.34
2A,3,11,37	S	MECHANIC/CERTIFIED WELDER	27.34				
2A,3,11,37	S	MECHANIC/CERTIFIED WELDER ‘ES’	27.34				
3	S	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	18.85	19.08	19.26	19.59	19.99
			20.36	21.02	21.75	25.91	26.66
3	S	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC ‘ES’	18.85	19.08	19.26	19.59	19.99
			20.36	21.02	21.75	25.91	26.66
13	S	FUEL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	25.72	26.41			
31	S	FUEL HANDLER	19.68	20.19	20.52	20.84	21.82
3,27	S	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	21.51	21.88	22.20	22.52	23.34 23.89
	S	MATERIALS & TOOLS ANALYST	18.44	19.14	19.80	20.51	21.19
m			21.90	22.58			
« 3,19	S	PRODUCTION APPRENTICE	12.58	13.27	14.01	14.63	15.39
_I			16.08	16.79	17.49	18.85	19.08
			19.26	19.59	19.99	20.36	21.02
			21.82				
3,19	S	PRODUCTION WORKER	12.58	13.27	14.01	14.63	15.39
			16.08	16.79	17.49	18.85	19.08
			19.26	19.59	19.99	20.36	21.02
			21.82				
	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.95	13.52	14.11	14.71	
	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.00	10.60	11.18	11.75	
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
ENERGY SUPPLY WAREHOUSING & MATERIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT:						
WORK LOCATIONS: Big Bend, Gannon, Bayside and Central Energy Supply Stores S	ES MATERIALS SPECIALIST 111	21.19	21.90				22.58	23.00	23.46
S	ES MATERIALS SPECIALIST II	17.75	18.44	19.14	19.80	20.51
S	ES MATERIALS SPECIALIST I	14.71	14.97	15.67	16.35	17.05
S	MATERIALS AND TOOLS ANALYST	18.44	19.14	19.80	20.51	21.19
NS	PARTS CLERK	21.90 21.16	22.58 21.52	21.90	22.27	22.58
NS	PARTSAND MATERIAL CLERK	21.16	21.52	21.90	22.27	22.58
S	TOOLROOM AND SUPPLYMAN	19.51	19.88	20.16	20.52	20.85
m	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	21.23 12.95	21.82 13.52	14.11	14.71	
w	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.00	10.60	11.18	11.75	
M
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
ENERGY SUPPLY STEVEDORING SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATION: Big Bend OPERATIONS:
	SH SH	TOWER OPERATOR II TOWER OPERATOR 1	21.98 19.26
	SH	BARGE OPERATOR	18.72
	SH	PAYLOAD OPERATOR	18.13
	SH	COAL HANDLER III	15.75
m	SH	COAL HANDLER II	12.67
to	SH	COAL HANDLER 1	11.99
CO			
	MAINTENANCE:		
	SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL IV	22.61
	SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL III	21.98
	SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL II	18.72
	SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL 1	16.82
	SH	HYDRAULICS LEVEL II	22.61
	SH	HYDRAULICS LEVEL 1	20.81
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
2A	SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL IV	21.45
2A	SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL III	20.81
2A	SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL II	18.72
2A	SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL 1	16.82
	SH	PAINT CREW II	18.72
	SH	PAINT CREW 1	17.95
ES-14
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
EXHIBIT “A” TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY
RATES OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS COVERED BY IBEW: Effective March 27, 2006
ENERGY SUPPLY FLEET SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Big Bend, Gannon and Bayside
At Energy Supply Garage locations (Big Bend, Gannon and Bayside), the employees shall be scheduled “S"
All Saturday and Sunday work shall be compensated at overtime rates, except that fifteen (15) percent of the
	Garage employees may be scheduled for Saturday (6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.).							
	15 14D.15 14B-C.15	S S S	LEAD GARAGE MECHANIC GARAGE MECHANIC III GARAGE MECHANIC II	28.88 26.46 19.46	27.20 20.48	21.48	22.40	23.39
m	14A,15	S	GARAGE MECHANIC 1	14.43	15.43	16.46	17.44	18.47
in co		S	SPECIAL HELPER SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	21.47	22.16	22.54	22.87	
cn		S	HELPER-SERVICEMAN OPERATOR	20.03	20.42	20.80	21.03	21.47
		S	HELPER-SPECIAL SERVICEMAN	16.04	16.26	16.60	17.01	
		S	HELPER SERVICEMAN	12.96	14.43	14.64	14.85	
		S	SENIOR PARTS CLERK	21.83	22.56	23.26	23.69	24.16
		S	PARTS CLERK	21.79	22.17	22.56	22.94	23.26
		S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	13.34	13.93	14.53	15.15	
		S	UTILITY WORKER	10.30	10.92	11.52	12.10	
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
ES-16
POWER PLANTS-TAMPA DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Big Bend, Gannon, Bayside and Hookers Point
2A.10, 35	SH	COMBINED CYCLE SPECIALIST	26.34	27.21	28.09	28.98	29.84
			30.72	31.61			
	SH	WATCH ENGINEER	29.03	29.64	30.25	31.05	
	SH	CONTROL CENTER OPERATOR	28.17	28.62			
		BT/CT OPERATOR (BIG BEND)	27.80				
	SH	BOILER TURBINE OPERATOR	25.48	25.94	26.39	26.76	27.20
19,28	SH	AUXILIARY OPERATOR	16.77	17.24	18.29	19.33	20.31
			21.36	22.47			
					(38A)		(38B)
3.38A-F	S	CONTROLS ANALYST	21.23	21.48	21.89	22.47	22.72
				(38C)		(38D)	
			23.14	23.61	23.93	27.46	28.14
			(38E)	(38F)			
			28.62	29.80			
3,6,18	S	WATER & FUELS ANALYST	21.23	21.48	21.89	22.47	22.72
			23.14	23.61	23.93	27.46	28.14
			28.62				
3	S	ELECTRICIAN	19.42	19.65	19.84	20.20	20.59
			20.97	21.65	22.40	26.69	27.46
3,9	S	MACHINIST-BLADER	20.87	21.38	21.89	22.56	23.04
			23.73	24.16	24.77	28.51	
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
	3	S	MACHINIST	20.87	21.38	21.89	22.56	23.04	
				23.73	24.16	24.77	27.99	28.16	
	2A,3,11,37	S	MECHANIC/CERTIFIED WELDER	28.16					
	2A,3,11,37	S	MECHANIC/CERTIFIED WELDER ‘ES’	28.16					
	3	S	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC	19.42	19.65	19.84	20.18	20.59	
				20.97	21.65	22.40	26.69	27.46	
	3	S	MAINTENANCE MECHANIC ‘ES’	19.42	19.65	19.84	20.18	20.59	
				20.97	21.65	22.40	26.69	27.46	
	13	S	FUEL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	26.49	27.20				
	31	S	FUEL HANDLER	20.27	20.80	21.14	21.47	22.47	
	3,27	S	SPECIAL EQUIPMENT OPERATOR	22.16	22.54	22.87	23.20	24.04	24.61
		S	MATERIALS & TOOLS ANALYST	18.99	19.71	20.39	21.13	21.83	
m				22.56	23.26				
i n w	3,19	S	PRODUCTION APPRENTICE	12.96	13.67	14.43	15.07	15.85	
				16.56	17.29	18.01	19.42	19.65	
				19.84 22.47	20.18	20.59	20.97	21.65	
	3,19	S	PRODUCTION WORKER	12.96	13.67	14.43	15.07	15.85	
				16.56	17.29	18.01	19.42	19.65	
				19.84 22.47	20.18	20.59	20.97	21.65	
		S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	13.34	13.93	14.53	15.15		
		S	UTILITY WORKER	10.30	10.92	11.52	12.10		
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
ENERGY SUPPLY WAREHOUSING & MATERIAL SERVICES C			lEPARTMENT:			
WORK LOCATIONS: Big Bend, Gannon, Bayside and Central Energy Supply Stores S	ES MATERIALS SPECIALIST III	21.83	22.56				23.26	23.69	24.16
S	ES MATERIALS SPECIALIST II	18.28	18.99	19.71	20.39	21.13
S	ES MATERIALS SPECIALIST I	15.15	15.42	16.14	16.84	17.56
S	MATERIALS AND TOOLS ANALYST	18.99	19.71	20.39	21.13	21.83
NS	PARTS CLERK	22.56 21.79	23.26 22.17	22.56	22.94	23.26
NS	PARTS AND MATERIAL CLERK	21.79	22.17	22.56	22.94	23.26
S	TOOLROOM AND SUPPLYMAN	20.10	20.48	20.76	21.14	21.48
m	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	21.87 13.34	22.47 13.93	14.53	15.15	
w	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.30	10.92	11.52	12.10	
00
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
ENERGY SUPPLY STEVEDORING SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATION: Big Bend
ES-19
OPERATIONS; SH SH	TOWER OPERATOR II TOWER OPERATOR I	22.64 19.84
SH	BARGE OPERATOR	19.28
SH	PAYLOAD OPERATOR	18.67
SH	COAL HANDLER III	16.22
SH	COAL HANDLER II	13.05
SH	COAL HANDLER I	12.35
MAINTENANCE; SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL IV	23-29
SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL III	22.64
SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL II	19.28
SH	ELECTRICIAN LEVEL I	17.32
SH	HYDRAULICS LEVEL!)	23.29
SH	HYDRAULICS LEVEL I	21.43
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
2A 2A 2A 2A
SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL IV
SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL III
SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL II
SH	MAINTENANCE LEVEL I
SH	PAINT CREW II
SH	PAINT CREW I
ES-20
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
22.09 21.43 19.28 17.32
19.28 18.49
ES-21
ENERGY SUPPLY - exhibit “A” FOOTNOTES
(2A) Employees in this classification on January 1 will be eligible to receive a one hundred and eighty dollars ($180) clothing allowance if they submit the appropriate request form prior to December 31 of the preceding year. Bayside Combined Cycle Specialists who qualify for the $0.50 per hour welding certification, will receive the annual clothing allowance. Stevedoring Services Maintenance Mechanics, who are certified welders, will receive the annual clothing allowance.
(3) An employee who bids into this classification designated as Energy Supply (ES) will be assigned a home base but not a permanent headquarters. The employee will receive an additional fifty (50) cents per hour over the regular rate of the classification when working at home base; plus an additional fifty (50) cents per hour when traveling. If the employee is required to report to a location more than forty (40) miles from their home base main gate, the employee will also be paid the I.R.S. allowable rate for each mile in excess of forty (40) miles each way.
(6)	To qualify, employee must have satisfactorily completed an approved advanced course of study in chemistry.
(9)	To qualify, employee must demonstrate proficiency as a Machinist and as a Blader and must maintain this proficiency.
(10)	For selection, must pass Operations Test Battery (OTB) and Technical Knowledge Test (TKT) plus satisfactorily complete dimension interviews.
ES-22
(11)	When a Mechanic-Certified Welder bids to Maintenance Mechanic, the employee doing so must have department seniority on all other bidders to be awarded the position.
(13) Fuel Equipment Operator shall perform any of the functions and operate any of the equipment involved in the fuels operations.
(14A) To qualify for Garage Mechanic I, the employee must have at least one Garage Mechanic I required A.S.E., and the written test portion of the C.D.L. (Class A) completed.
(14B)	To qualify for Garage Mechanic II, the Garage Mechanic I must have completed A.S.E. certifications and competencies (Steering/Suspension, Electrical/Electronic Systems, Brakes [light vehicles], Air Conditioning, Preventive Maintenance), one Garage Mechanic II certification, two (2) years of on-the-job (OJT) training. Re-certifications will not be required.
(14C) To qualify for Garage Mechanic III, the Garage Mechanic II must have either the Fluid Power Society (F.P.S.) or the American Welding Society (A.W.S.) [vertical and overhead] certification, all Garage Mechanic I and II certifications and competencies, and three (3) years Garage Mechanic II experience.
(14D) The Garage Mechanic III must acquire the remaining Fluid Power Society (F.P.S.) or the American Welding Society (A.W.S.) [vertical and overhead] certification within twelve (12) months to remain at the Garage Mechanic III. If the Garage Mechanic III does not pass the certification, the employee will return to the Garage Mechanic II until the employee passes the certification.
ES-23
(15)
{16)
(18)
(19)
(27)
(28)
Employees in this classification with six (6) months or more of employment on January 1 will receive an annual credit of two hundred and fifteen dollars ($215) to be applied to the purchase of tools. Employee must provide receipt showing cost and business need for reimbursement.
Classification to be deleted when it becomes vacant.
To qualify to progress beyond the third step, employee must have satisfactorily completed an approved course of study in chemistry.
To qualify, each employee must have completed the applicable evaluation program and demonstrated the requisite knowledge, skills, abilities and other attributes.
Time spent in this classification shall not constitute seniority time to become a Fuel Equipment Operator or Production Apprentice within the Production Department. Employees awarded the bid must satisfy established requirements.
Employees entering the classification of Auxiliary Operator shall follow the line of progression through the operating crew. Employees of the operating crew shall not accumulate seniority for any other classifications outside of the operating crew within the Power Plants Tampa Department except to Production Apprentice, Fuel Handler, Controls Analyst and Water and Fuels Analyst.
ES-24
(31) Fuel Handler shall perform any of the functions and operate any of the equipment, with the exception of the bulldozer, locomotive, carry dozer, water wagon, mobile stacker reclaimer (WL-50), Grade-All, stacker and fuels control room involved in the fuels operation.
(35)	Skills criteria: Multi-skilled position, must have required single journeyman level skill for entry.
(37)	To qualify tor the Mechanic-Certified Welder classification, employees must have satisfactorily completed (1) the
Maintenance Mechanic test qualifier; (2) the Mechanic-Certified Welder test qualifier; and a minimum of the fifth step in the Maintenance Mechanic classification or the comparable in Production Apprentice.
(38A) To qualify, the employee must have completed the first year requirements of the approved training and development program.
(38B) To qualify, the employee must have completed the second year requirements of the approved training and development program.
(38C) To qualify, the employee must have completed the third year requirements of the approved training and development program.
(38D) To qualify, the employee must have completed the fourth year requirements of the approved training and development program.
(38E) To qualify, the employee must have completed the fifth year requirements of the approved training and development program.
(38F) To qualify, the employee must have completed the advanced requirements of the approved training and development program.
ES-25
ES-26
EXHIBIT B - STEVEDORING SERVICES
SCHEDULE - 4 TEAMS -12 HOURS PER DAY M = DAYSHIFT Fn~] = NIGHTSHIFT O = OFF
TEAM	M	TUE	W	TH	F	SA	SU	M	tue	w	TH	F	SA	SU	M	TUE	w	TH	F	SA	SU	M	TUE	W	TH	F	SA	SU
A	N	N	o	0	N	N	N	O	o	N	N	0	O	o	.b;	0	0	0	£>	0-	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	o
B	0	0	•D	0 		0	0	0	N	N	o	0	N	N	N	0	0	N	N	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	D	0	J
C	O	0	N	N	0	0	0	P'	•0"	0	0	D	0		0	0	liwl		0	0	0	N	N	0	0	N	N	1 N
D	0	D	0	0	• o’	D	0	0	0	0	D	0	0	0	N	N	0	0	N	N	N	0	0	N	N	0	0	0
TECHNOLOGY & SUPPORT SERVICES SPECIFIC LANGUAGE, EXHIBITAWAGE RATES AND FOOTNOTES
IX.	General Working Conditions
A.	Provisions for Travel and Resource Sharing;
Technology and Support Services: Employees required to show up at shift starting time at locations other than their normal headquarters will receive a daily travel allowance for each day worked equal to the I.R.S. allowable rate, multiplied by the mileage difference between the employee’s home to temporary headquarters assignment minus the employee’s home to regular headquarters assignment, but no paid travel time. The Company may, at its option, assign Employees to travel on Company time in Company vehicles.
TSS-1
EXHIBIT “A” TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY
RATES OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS COVERED BY IBEW: Effective January 1,2004
FACILITY SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Energy Control Center, Data Center-Ybor, TECO Plaza,
Big Bend, Gannon and Bayside					
	S	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC	24.36	24.94	25.64
	S S	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - HVAC * FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC I - HVAC *	25.11 22.60		
w cn	S S	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - ELECTRICAL* FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC I - ELECTRICAL *	21.73 19.78		
	S S	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - PLUMBER * FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC I - PLUMBER *	22.60 21.34		
	S S	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - GEN TRADE * FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC I - GEN TRADE *	18.96 17.90		
Base Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
‘Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
	S	APPRENTICE FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC	18.30 19.77	18.52 20.41	18.70 21.12	19.02	19.41
32,33	S	SPECIAL OPERATOR	18.88	19.25	19.60	19.83	20.23
34	s	SPECIAL HELPER	15.81	16.25	16.74	16.98	
	s	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.57	13.13	13.70	14.28	
	s	UTILITY WORKER	9.71	10.29	10.85	11.41	
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Eastern Service Area, Data Center-Ybor and TECO Plaza
	S	NETWORK CONTROL ELECTRICIAN *	30.77			
5,36A, 36B S		TELECOMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIAN II *	26.93	27.80	28.66	29.27
5, 36C	S	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIAN I *	22.00	22.74	23.49	24.21
19	S	TELECOMMUNICATIONS WORKER	16.57	16.74	17.13	
Base Wage Rates Effective 1/1/2004
Classification Adjustments Effective 4/1/2004
EXHIBIT “A” TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY RATES OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS COVERED BY IBEW: Effective March 28,2005
FACILITY SERVICES DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Energy Control Center, Data Center-Ybor, TECO Plaza, Big Bend, Gannon and Bayside
TSS-4
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC	25.09	25.69	26.41
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - HVAC	25.86		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC 1 - HVAC	23.28		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - ELECTRICAL	22.38		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC 1 - ELECTRICAL	20.37		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - PLUMBER	23.28		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC 1 - PLUMBER	21.98		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - GEN TRADE	19.53		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC 1 - GEN TRADE	18.44		
Wage Rates Effective 3/2872005
	S	APPRENTICE FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC	18.85 20.36	19.08 21.02	19.26 21.75	19.59	19.99
32,33	S	SPECIAL OPERATOR	19.45	19.83	20.19	20.42	20.84
34	S	SPECIAL HELPER	16.28	16.74	17.24	17.49	
	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	12.95	13.52	14.11	14.71	
	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.00	10.60	11.18	11.75	
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT:
WORK LOCATIONS: Eastern Service Area, Data Center-Yborand TECO Plaza
	S	NETWORK CONTROL ELECTRICIAN	31.69				
5,36A,36B	S	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIAN II	27.74	28.63	29.52	30.15	
5,36C	S	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIAN 1	22.66	23.42	24.19	24.94	25.67
19	s	TELECOMMUNICATIONS WORKER	17.07	17,24	17.64		
Wage Rates Effective 3/28/2005
EXHIBIT “A” TAMPA ELECTRIC COMPANY RATES OF JOB CLASSIFICATIONS COVERED BY IBEW: Effective March 27,2006
FACILITY SERVICES. DEPARTMENT
WORK LOCATIONS: Central Service Area, Energy Control Center, Data Center-Ybor, TECO Plaza, Big Bend, Gannon and Bayside
TSS-6
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC	25.84	26.46	27.20
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - HVAC	26.64		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC 1 - HVAC	23.98		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - ELECTRICAL	23.05		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC I - ELECTRICAL	20.98		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - PLUMBER	23.98		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC 1 - PLUMBER	22.64		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC II - GEN TRADE	20.12		
s	FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC 1 - GEN TRADE	18.99		
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
	S	APPRENTICE FACILITY SERVICE MECHANIC	19.42 20.97	19.65 21.65	19.84 22.40	20.18	20.59	
32,33	S	SPECIAL OPERATOR	20.03	20.42	20.80	21.03	21.47	
34	S	SPECIAL HELPER	16.77	17.24	17.76	18.01		
	S	SPECIAL UTILITY WORKER	13.34	13.93	14.53	15.15		
	S	UTILITY WORKER	10.30	10.92	11.52	12.10		
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT:								
WORK LOCATIONS: Eastern Service Area, Data Center-Ybor and TECO Plaza								
	S	NETWORK CONTROL ELECTRICIAN	32.64					
5,36A, 36B	S	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIAN II	28.57	29.49	30.41	31.05		
5, 36C	S	TELECOMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIAN I	23.34	24.12	24.92	25.69	26.44	27.21
19	S	TELECOMMUNICATIONS WORKER	17.58	17.76	18.17			
Wage Rates Effective 3/27/2006
TSS-8
TECHNOLOGY & SUPPORT SERVICES • EXHIBIT “A” FOOTNOTES
(5) To remain in this classification, the employee shall maintain competency by satisfactorily completing approved training programs.
(16)	Classification to be deleted when it becomes vacant.
(19)	To qualify, each employee must have completed the applicable evaluation program and demonstrated the requisite knowledge, skills, abilities, and other attributes.
(32)	This classification to mix, pour and finish concrete and/or run fence, sprinkler or spray crews. lime spent in this classification prior to January 1,1996 shall not count as classification seniority.
(33)	Special Operator will be eligible to bid to Apprentice Building Service Mechanic.
(34)	To qualify, each employee must have completed the Building Service Department evaluation program and demonstrated the requisite knowledge, skills, abilities and other attributes.
(36A	) Must have Associate in Science (A.S.) in Electronics Degree from a state accredited institution or equivalent work experience.
(36B) Must have NARTE Junior Technician Certification to enter classification. To remain in classification, the employee must demonstrate through practical evaluation an understanding of and the ability to install, troubleshoot and maintain state-of-the-art telecommunications equipment to the board level.
(36C) Must have NARTE Junior Technician Certification or Associate of Science (A.S.) in Electronics Degree from a state accredited institution to enter classification. Must have NARTE Junior Technician Certification, or higher, within two years to remain in classification. To remain in classification, the employee must demonstrate through practical evaluation an understanding of and the ability to install, troubleshoot and maintain state-of-the-art telecommunications equipment to the board level.
TSS-9