MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT BETWEEN
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
and The Following Local Unions of
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
No.	345	Mobile
No.	833	Jasper
No.	904	Tallassee
No.	391	Gadsden
No,	801	Montgomery
No.	841	Birmingham
No.	1053	Demopolis
No.	796	Dothan
No.	2077	Wilsonville
Covering Employees in Power Generation and Steam Heat, with Certain Exceptions
DATED September 14, 2004
K (o i O&
“There can be no operating condition which justifies our employees taking the slightest chance in performing their work. We want them always to take the safe way, even though our service may suffer thereby, or our costs be increased.”
J. M. Barry
CONTENTS
Page
Article I	Scope...........................2
Article II	Term - Extension - Modification 3
Article III	Bargaining - Representation -
No Discrimination...............4
Article IV	Management......................7
Article V	Promotions - Demotions - .......
Reductions......................8
Article VI	Grievances.....................26
Article VII	Arbitration....................30
Article VIII	General Working Conditions ....31
Article IX	Wages and Classifications......62
Article X	Loyalty and Efficiency.........63
Article XI	No Strikes or Lockouts.........63
Article XII	Safety.........................64
Article XIII	Text Deleted...................65
Article XIV	Special Rules - Hydro Plants	..65
Article XV	Special Rules - Steam Plants	..66
Article XVI	Text Deleted...................69
Article XVII	Text Deleted...................70
Article XVIII	Co-Operative Student
Training Program ..............70
Article XIX	Employee Training..............70
Article XX	Posting Rules..................71
Exhibit A	Hourly Wage Schedules..........75
Exhibit B	Job Schedules for
Generating Plants.............105
Exhibit C .................................110
Exhibit D	Meals.........................173
Exhibits	Travel........................181
Exhibit F	Hydro Secondary	Reporting
Table.........................183
Subject Index..............................184
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into the 14th day of September, 2004, by and between ALABAMA POWER COMPANY, a public utility corporation of the State of Alabama, its successors or assigns, hereinafter called the Company, party of the first part, and LOCAL UNION NO. 345, LOCAL UNION NO. 633, LOCAL UNION NO. 904, LOCAL UNION NO. 391, LOCAL UNION NO. 801, LOCAL UNION NO. 841, LOCAL UNION NO. 1053, LOCAL UNION NO. 796, and LOCAL UNION NO. 2077, of the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, hereinafter collectively called the Brotherhood, party of the second part;
WITNESSETH THAT:
WHEREAS, the Company is engaged in the business of supplying electric service to the public in the larger portion of the State of Alabama and for that reason all employees of the Company, including those covered by this agreement, are charged with special obligations and responsibilities that do not exist in the case of the ordinary business enterprise; and
WHEREAS, the efficient operation of the production properties of the Company is a necessary step in the performance of its duty to continue to supply adequate and dependable service to the public;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and for the purpose of facilitating fair, orderly, and prompt adjustment of any disputes that may from time to time arise and of promoting harmony and efficiency in the oper
1
ation of the production properties of the Company, the parties hereto contract and agree with each other as follows, to-wit
ARTICLE I
Scope
This agreement covers the production and steam heat employees of the Company except supervisors, clerks, and professional employees; that is, those employees who are engaged in the operation and maintenance of the generating and steam heat properties of the Company, including any new plants, extensions or additions which may be put Into operation during the term of this agreement, but exclusive of superintendents and assistants, supervisors, foremen, chemists, engineers, and administrative support personnel. All employees presently covered by this agreement are included In the classifications set forth in the wags schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A and the words "employee* and "employees" as used in this agreement will refer only to employees included in such classifications.
The individual Memoranda of Agreement covering 1) Power Generation, 2) Distribution and Support and 3) Power Delivery Transmission are to be considered as one Agreement for the purposes of contract ratification; contract extension, modification or termination; and other administrative purposes.
2
ARTICLE II
Term - Extension - Modification
(a)	This agreement becomes effective on September 14, 2004.
(b)	This agreement will remain in effect through August 15, 2009, and will continue In full force and effect from year to year thereafter from August 15 of each year through August 15 of the next year, unless changed or terminated as provided In paragraph (c) of this Article II.
(c)	Either party desiring to change or terminate this agreement will notify the other party in writing of such desire at least sixty (60) days prior to August 15,2009, or the expiration date of any yearly extension thereafter. However, changes may be made at any time by mutual consent and it is understood that such changes will be made from time to time as may be necessary to comply with the applicable provisions of all Federal and State laws. The Company and the Brotherhood further agree that, upon due written notice from either, they will meet to amend the agreement to conform to the appropriate laws.
(d)	During the term of this agreement, the Business Manager or President of the Local Union, Construction Representative or System Council U-19 and the appropriate level of local supervision can mutually agree to develop work rules and/or procedures for a specific situation or location that may vary from those established in this agreement. Should no mutually agreeable change be made, the niles and procedures established in this agreement will remain in effect.
3
ARTICLE III
Bargaining - Representation - No Discrimination
(a)	The Company recognizes the right of its employees to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing; and recognizes the Brotherhood as the exclusive representative of the employees covered by this agreement for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, working conditions, and other conditions of employment herein provided for.
(b)	Employees will have the right to join or not to join the Brotherhood as they individually prefer, it being agreed that there will be no discrimination for or against any employee by reason of membership or non-membership in the Brotherhood; no attempt to coerce any employees into joining or not joining the Brotherhood against their will and no Interference with any employees on account of joining or refusal to join the Brotherhood either on the part of the Company or the Brotherhood or any employees who are members of the Brotherhood.
(c)	The Company and the Brotherhood affirm the continuation of their policy and practice that there will be no discrimination for or against any employee In matters covered by this agreement because of the employee's race, color, religion, sex, age, disability or national origin; no employee will be coerced, threatened, or intimidated either on the part of the Company or the Brotherhood because of race, color, religion, sex, age, disability or national origin or for protesting any alleged discriminatory treatment in matters covered by
4
ARTICLE III (continued)
this agreement. When the male or female gender is used, it will apply to both sexes.
(d)	In the event Act No. 430 of Acts of Alabama adopted August 28, 1953, is modified, repealed, rendered inoperative by Alabama or Federal legislation or declared invalid by the Supreme Court of Alabama or the Supreme Court of the United States so as to permit the operation under the laws of Alabama of paragraph (c) of Article III of the agreement between the parties hereto, dated April 11, 1947, as amended, such paragraph will become a part of this agreement and will be in full force and effect as if made a part hereof with respect to all employees who are members of the Brotherhood on the date of such modification, repeal or invalidation of such Act.
(e)	The Company agrees to deduct dues to the Brotherhood from the pay of each employee, either a present or future member of the Brotherhood, who files with the Company a written authorization for such deduction; it being understood that the Company will continue to deduct such dues from any employee who is promoted or transferred out of the bargaining unit unless such employee withdraws the deduction authorization. Such deduction will be made and remitted in accordance with said authorization, which will be in the following form:
PAYROLL DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION For Dues to INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Local Union No.
5
ARTICLE III (continued)
I,_________________________, a member of
the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, hereby authorize and request Alabama Power Company to deduct from any wages due me on the second payday in each calendar month the sum specified by the Financial Secretary of the above Local Union and to pay the same to the Financial Secretary of the above Local Union for me, and in my behalf, as my monthly dues to said Local Union. This payroll deduction authorization will remain In effect unless and until withdrawn by me by notice In writing to the Company.
Date______________________________________
Signature_________________________________
Witness___________________________________
The System Council Business Manager will be notified when current monthly dues which are authorized by an employee are not deducted and the reason such dues were not deducted.
(f)	The Company agrees to deduct from the pay of an employee voluntary contributions to the Brotherhood's Committee on Political Education fund, if such employee files with the Company a written authorization for such deduction. It Is understood that such deductions will continue to be made by the Company until the employee withdraws the deduction authorization. Such deductions will be made and remitted to each local union in accordance with said authorization, which will be in the following form:
6
ARTICLE III (continued)
PAYROLL DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION FOR VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO I.B.E.W.
COPE FUND
Employee #____L.U. #____S.S.#____
I,________________, a member of the
I.B.E.W., hereby authorize and request Alabama Power Company to deduct from any wages due me on the second payday in each calendar month the sum of_______, and to
pay the same to the Financial Secretary of the above local union in my behalf as my voluntary contribution to the COPE fund of said local union. This payroll authorization will remain in effect unless and until withdrawn by me by notice in writing to the Company.
DATE_____SIGNATURE_______WITNESS_____
(g) The Brotherhood will hold the Company free and harmless from any claims or damage from any party whatsoever arising out of making or failing to make such deductions as identified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this Article III and will indemnify the Company against any and all such claims and damage.
ARTICLE IV
Management
The right to hire and discharge employees and the management of the properties are reserved by and will continue to be vested exclusively in the Company. The Company will have the right to determine how many employees it will employ or retain, together with the
7
ARTICLE IV (continued)
right to exercise full control and discipline in the interest of proper service and the conduct of its business. In making promotions as provided for in Article V hereof the Company will be the judge of competency. The provisions of this article will not abridge the rights of employees as set forth in any applicable provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE V
Promotions - Demotions - Reductions
(a)	Vacancies and new jobs covered by this agreement will be filled on the basis of seniority and competency. Competency being sufficient, seniority in the various Lmits as hereinafter defined will prevail, except that vacancies or new jobs In the classification of laboratory instrument technician I, laboratory instrument technician II, assistant telecommunications electrician, meter tester, and assistant meter tester, will be filled on the basis of competency, and In filling such vacancies or new jobs, seniority wMI be considered only if competency Is equal. Seniority will be reckoned by the following units: (1) Generating Plante and Birmingham Steam Heating System; (2) General Shops; (3) Instrument Service Center; (4) Appliance Service; (5) Telecommunications Electricians; (6) Supply Chain; (7) the Birmingham geographic dhri-sion, including the, General Garage, and Corporate Fleet Services as a group; (8) Eastern geographic division; (9) Southern geographic division; (10) Western geographic dhri-sion; (11) Mobile geographic division; and (12) Southeast geographic division, each as a sep
8
ARTICLE V (continued)
arate unit. For employees hired after date of ratification, jobs will be awarded to the senior qualified applicant as Indicated on the Job posting by ths following bld groups: Barry/Theodore/ Washington County; Gadsden; Gaston / PSDF; Gorges; Greene County; Miller; Hydro Generation; Birmingham Steam Heat; and Power Generation. If there are no qualified applicants from within the designated group(s) as Indicated on the Job posting, applicants from any of the other bid group In power generation seniority unit will be considered as secondary bidders. If there are no qualified applicants as primary or secondary bidders thsn the job would be filled by applicants from any available source. Hydro Generation, Gadsden and Birmingham Steam Heat vacancies will be posted and filled within the Power Generation seniority unit. Employees hired Into Hydro Generation, Gadsden and Birmingham Steam Heat will be allowed to bld on all Jobs posted within the Power Generation seniority unit as primary bidders. In staffing nsw generating plants vacancies will be posted In the Power Generation seniority unit. To effectuate the seniority provisions of this agreement, new seniority lists will be prepared and distributed by the Company dated December 31 and June 30 of each year, the midyear list being limited to employees' names and seniority. Such lists will include all employees to whom any seniority has accrued as of that date, arranged according to the foregoing twelve (12) units. Such lists will be revised semiannually and will determine seniority of employees therein. In making such revisions the position of employees in their respective
9
ARTICLE V (continued)
lists wil be rated according to the added time which has accrued to them in their respective units.
Current employees as of the date of ratification of this agreement will not be affected by these new bid groups.
Ths Company will not Initiate discussions regarding a change to bld groups or seniority units In Generation during ths next negotiations between the two parties In 2009.
For the purpose of determining seniority, service with the Company win be deemed to be continuous unless It has been interrupted for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months. Seniority will not accrue during layoffs due to lack of work. Seniority will accrue during interruptions in service because of illness; leave of absence for Union business; leaves required by law under the Family Medical Leave Act; during periods of suspension due to disciplinary reasons; leave required by law for military service; brief absences for personal business; or any mutually agreed upon reasons. Service with the company will continue to accumulate during disciplinary layoff or suspension with respect to an employee's eligt)il-ity tor vacation. Any employee who voluntarily resigns from the service of the Company or who has been rightfully discharged will forfeit all previous seniority rights. In the event two (2) or more employees are employed on the same date, seniority of such employees will be determined by the date of birth of such employees.
10
ARTICLE V (continued)
(b)	When vacancies or new jobs occur in any unit, to be filled in which there are no available qualified employees in such unit, and employees are transferred from other units into such unit to fill such vacancies or new jobs, their seniority in the new unit to which they are transferred will be that which accumulates during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit. After twelve (12) months in the new unit, their seniority will be their seniority in their former unit plus seniority accumulated in the new unit. When vacancies or new jobs are filled by transferring employees from other departments or jobs not covered by this agreement, their seniority in the unit to which they are transferred will be that which accumulates during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit. After twelve (12) months in the new unit, their seniority will be based on the length of their continuous service with the Company, If this continuous service began in a classification covered by the bargaining unit, plus seniority accumulated during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit. When employees are transferred to the Instrument Service Center from another unit, their seniority will be the same as in the unit from which they were transferred. Seniority of all employees laid off for lack of work will not be lost unless their respective employment is interrupted for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months during which such employees do not work for or make time with the Company unless they are offered employment in their former or equivalent classification at locations designated by the employees and they fell to accept the same and report for work within a period of two (2) weeks. When it is necessary to increase forces of the Company in the classifications
11
ARTICLE V (continued)
covered by this agreement, former employees whose employment was discontinued by the Company through a reduction of forces and whose seniority has not bean lost will be offered re-employment on the basis of seniority at the locations designated by the employee provided they are available and competent In the event a vacancy or new job is not filled as set forth above preferential consideration will be given to former employees whose seniority has been lost. However, refusal of temporary employment will not constitute grounds for Interrupting seniority. An Interruption of employment due to leave of absence will not cause employees to lose their seniority, but seniority will not accumulate except as provided for in this Article V (a). Any employee who voluntarily resigns from the service of the Company, or who has been rightfully discharged, will lose all previous seniority rights and other rights growing out of previous continuous service with the Company.
(c)	Competency for filling a job will be construed as requiring of the employee:
1.	The necessary mental and physical qualifications of the individual to do the job satisfactorily.
2.	The necessary training and experience to perform the essential duties of the job, either Immediately or after a brief breaking-in period [two (2) to three (3) weeks] at the new location or job; It being understood that a new worker in a Job would not usually display the same proficiency as one who had been in the job longer.
12
ARTICLE V (continued)
3.	For promotions to any classification above that of helper, the necessary ability to progress within a reasonable time to the next higher classification in the particular line of work and to fill such classifications satisfactorily, and ultimately to progress to the classification of journeyman.
(d)	A classification will be deemed to be "higher if the maximum schedule rate of pay Is higher.
(e)	Vacancies or new jobs in any classification except that of helper will be filled on the basis of seniority and competency by promoting or transferring employees unless there are no qualified employees available and except as otherwise provided herein. In the event of such vacancy or new job, the Company will promptly post notice on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected [except as set out in sub-paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) below], and will promptly mail copies of such notices to the representatives of the Brotherhood designated to receive such notices in the respective units. A good faith effort will be made to communicate all permanent jobs posted from all seniority units across the Company. The Company's failure to comply with this provision will not be subject to the grievance procedure. Ail notices will clearly identity vacancies or new jobs as to location. Exchange of the position of employees in the same classification between crews in the same line of work at the same location may be arranged by agreement between a Local Union representing such employees and the Company, however, nothing herein will be construed to prevent temporary transfers of
13
ARTICLE V (continued)
employees between crews. Notices of job vacancies will be sent only to the President of each Local affected and to the System Council U-19, with the understanding that any employee who so desires may make application for such job vacancies and such applications will be considered In the event the job Is not filled from within the seniority unft. The Company will likewise post notice as promptly as possible in the event any job becomes vacant and is to be discontinued. The Company may fill a vacancy or new job temporarily with any available qualified employee. In filling any such vacancy or new job temporarily at any location the Company will endeavor to utilize local employees, taking into account seniority and competency; it being understood that they must be able to perform the necessary duties of the job. Time spent in filling any such vacancy or new job temporarily, and experience gained while thus employed, will not militate against any other employee of greater seniority who may make application for the jobs as provided for later in this Article V. Such employees filling vacancies or new jobs temporarily will be paid at the minimum rate of pay for the vacancies or new jobs while so temporarily employed, unless their regular rate of pay is higher, In which event they will continue to receive their regular rate of pay. For a period of ten (10) days after the notice Is posted any employee in the unit affected may apply for transfer to the vacancy or new job. Application blanks for this purpose will be provided by the Company at each generating plant and steam heat, or application may be made by letter. One (1) copy will be sent to the respective Company representative of the unit affected as follows: Senior Vice President,
14
ARTICLE V (continued)
Fossil-Hydro Generation or designated representative for fossil and hydro generating plants and Birmingham Steam Heating System. One copy will be retained by the employee. No application will be considered unless it reaches the above-named Company representative of the unit affected within ten (10) days after the notice of vacancy or new job is posted. Within twenty-five (25) days after the notice of vacancy or new job is posted, the Company will designate an employee from the qualified applicants, if any, to fill the vacancy or new job and will promptly post notice on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected (except as set out below) of the employee so designated, A copy of such notice will be sent only to the President of the Local Union of the location affected and to the System Council U-19. Applicants from the unit to whom jobs are awarded will have five (5) days within which to accept or decline such jobs after the date when such awards are posted and will promptly notify their respective immediate supervisors in writing of their decision to accept or dedine such jobs, but if no such notice is given the supervisors, the employees will be deemed to have accepted the jobs awarded them. Employees may decline no more than one (1) vacancy or new job awarded them during a calendar year. If the employee to whom the job is awarded declines the job, the Company will proceed promptly to fill same from the remainder of the list of bidders, if any be qualified, without reposting the vacancy subject to the same conditions governing the original award. If the vacancy or new job is filled by an applicant from the unit but Is not filled according to seniority, the filling will be considered as temporary for a further period of fifteen (15)
15
ARTICLE V (continued) days after the notice of the filling of the vacancy or new Job is posted, during which time It may be made the basis of a grievance. In cases where no applications are received from qualified employees within the unit, applications received from employees In other units will be considered and notices will be posted on the same basis as set out above. Incases where no applications are received from qualified employees, the vacancy or new Job will be filled from any available source and notice to the effect will likewise be posted company wide within twenty-five (25) days after the notice of the vacancy or new Job has been posted. Where notice that the vacancy or new job will be filled from any available source Is posted, applicants who have not been awarded the job will have fifteen (15) days from the date of posting such notice during which time their failure to receive the job may be made the basis of a grievance. Applications received as a result of any available source postings will be considered, however, the filling of such vacancy by any available source wifi not be made the basis of a grievance. If the job Is not filled within ninety (90) days after posting as above outlined then the vacancy or new job will be reposted as required for bidding under the initial above procedures. When such job is filled, copies of notices of fillings will be sent to Brotherhood representatives authorized to receive original vacancy notices. The successful applicant for a vacancy will be moved to such vacancy within thirty (30) days from date of job award notice, except In the case of Jobs created In connection wftti the staffing of new plants, units, or crews and new operations, in which case, the successful applicant will be transferred within thirty (30) days from the
16
ARTICLE V (continued)
anticipated date of such staffing, which date will be specified on the job notice. The following will constitute exceptions to the method of posting notices described above:
1.	TEMPORARY JOBS - Notices of vacancies or new jobs in classifications covered by this agreement which are temporary, that is, expected to last ninety (90) days or less, will be posted only at the respective generating plants, or steam heat where such vacancies or new jobs occur. However, if any such temporary new job lasts for more than ninety (90) days, It will be discussed with the local committee of the Brotherhood and if it appears that it will become permanent, it will be posted on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected, and treated as a permanent new job as described above under this paragraph (e).
Senior employees in a classification will be allowed the opportunity to change schedule when temporary jobs are posted in their classification. This schedule change will be only for the duration of the temporary job and will occur only once per temporary job assignment.
Whenever a temporary job is filled by the Company, notice of such filling will be promptly posted at the respective generating plant or steam heat where filled.
17
ARTICLE V (continued)
Whenever job vacancies created by employees bidding and receiving temporary vacancies or new jobs are posted, such resulting vacancies will be posted as temporary vacancies. Whenever the employees filling the initial temporary vacancies or new jobs return to their former permanent jobs, or bid Into other permanent jobs, temporary Jobs which resulted from such initial temporary vacancies or new jobs will be terminated.
Employees who bid and receive temporary jobs or vacancies will, upon the termination of such temporary jobs or vacancies, be returned to their former jobs provided such jobs have not been abolished or occupied by a senior employee as a result of a reduction of forces. In the event of a reduction of forces while employees are filling temporary jobs or vacancies, such employees will be considered as filling their former jobs for the purposes of such reduction of forces.
2.	Deleted.
3.	INSTRUMENT SERVICE CENTER -Notices of vacancies or new jobs at the Instrument Service Center will be posted on all bulletin boards, but only those employees who have had experience in electronic instrument testing and repair, Instrumentation and control, or meter test work or the equivalent will be considered for such vacancies.
18
ARTICLE V (continued)
(f)	Employees in the classification of apprentice, who have attained competency to advance to journeyman, but who after accumulating four (4) years In apprentice classifications have not been promoted to journeyman will be offered advancement to the classification of journeyman at locations In their respective seniority unit where the services of an additional journeyman can be utilized to best advantage. In the event an employee in the apprentice classification is offered advancement to the journeyman classification under the provisions of this paragraph (f), and Is subsequently advanced to journeyman at a location where no journeyman vacancy exists, the Company will retain the option for a period of one year to place a journeyman from that same crew into a vacancy of the same classification at that same location which may subsequently be created or become vacant.
Vacancies in journeyman classifications may be held open for a maximum of twenty-one (21) days prior to the date on which such employees1 four (4) years combined accumulated service is completed during which time it may be filled by such employees. Also, the assignment of such employees to a definite location may be delayed for a period not in excess of twenty-one (21) days if it is anticipated that vacancies in the journeyman classifications for which they are eligible may occur during that period.
In case apprentices elect to decline advancement so offered at another location but elect to remain at their then present location, they will continue to retain the classification of apprentice during future employment
19
ARTICLE V (continued) unless promoted or transferred on application made by them and considered In the manner prescribed for applying for and filling vacancies and new jobs which are thereafter posted.
In the event employees are determined not physically qualified due to an Injury, but are otherwise deemed competent for advancement under the provisions of this paragraph, the Com-pany will re-evaluate the employees' competency within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of initial eligibility for advancement; if the employees are determined competent, they shall be advanced in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph effective on the date of advancement.
Employees who have attained the journeyman classification but are displaced from such journeyman classification and moved into a lower classification due to a rollback caused by the settlement of a grievance, an employee's return from a leave of absence, a reduction in forces, or incompetency, will not be eli-gble to advance to the journeyman classification until their combined accumulated service as a journeyman and/or as an apprentice equals four (4) years provided such employees do not elect to progress to journeyman under the terms and conditions of the bidding procedure as outlined In this Article V. At the time employees' Individual combined accumulated service as a journeyman and/or as an apprentice equals four (4) years and provided the employees are competent to advance to journeyman, they will be offered advancement to the classification of journeyman at a location in their seniority unit where the services of an additional journeyman can be utilized to best advantage.
20
ARTICLE V (continued)
Employees who have attained the journeyman classification but who choose of their own free will to bid into a lower classification will not be eligible for progression from apprentice to journeyman under the provisions of this paragraph or paragraph (k) of this Article V, until they satisfy the original requirement for apprentice progression, that is, until their respective accumulated service in the apprentice classification is equal to four (4) years after bidding out of the journeyman classification.
When, as a result of a reduction of forces, journeymen whose respective combined accumulated service as journeymen and/or as apprentices equals four (4) years or more move into a lower classification other than apprentice, they may, when an apprentice opening is available, bid on the apprentice job in accordance with the bidding procedure as outlined in paragraph (e) of this Article V; and if awarded such available apprentice job will immediately be promoted to the journeyman classification in that line of work. If they are not able to perform such work at the journeyman level, they will be demoted as set out in paragraph (i) of this Article V and will not be permitted any future claim to progression from apprentice to journeyman under the provisions of this paragraph.
(g)	When employees are transferred and raised from a classification to a higher classification or if employees are transferred permanently from one location to another by the Company without application or request from the employees, the Company will pay their moving expense to the new place of residence in the general vicinity of their new location.
21
ARTICLE V (continued)
Employees who are transferred to another location in their unit to avoid being laid off, will pay their own moving expense.
Relative to the movement of mobile homes, the Company agrees to pay certain expenses incurred as a result of moving mobile homes. Such expenses will be limited to escorts for mobile homes fourteen (14) feet in width or wider; disconnecting of utilities; taping of windows as necessary; and other preparations necessary to secure the internal portion of the mobile home for movement. In addition, the Company will pay the expenses associated with the movement of a heat pump(s) and/or a central air conditioning unh(s).
When management identifies a need for workforce reallocation in a classification, employees in that classification wil be offered the opportunity, by seniority, to relocate to the location where the need exists. In return, the Company will offer compensation in the amount of one month's base salary, less applicable taxes, for the voluntary move, in addition to the regular moving expenses. It Is understood that If this reallocation does not take place a rollback will be Implemened.
(h)	If, in filling a vacancy or new job In a classification covered by this agreement, employees are transferred upon their request and application to a lower classification, their rate of pay in the lower classification will be at the minimum of such classification unless their training and experience justify a higher rate in that classification.
22
ARTICLE V (continued)
(i)	When job awards are made under the seniority provisions of this agreement and displacements are made due to incompetency during the first twelve (12) months following the job awards, the employees will be returned to their former jobs and other employees awarded jobs in the sequence will also be returned to their former jobs. Employees displaced on account of incompetency will pay their own return moving expenses.
(j)	The Company has the right to lay off or discharge any employee for sufficient and reasonable cause, but the employee will be advised of the reason or reasons for such layoff or discharge; and the Brotherhood will, upon request, be advised of the reason or reasons for such layoff or discharge.
(k)	The Company will endeavor to provide the Union with reasonable notice in the event of a reduction in forces. In case of a reduction of forces or displacement from classifications due to incompetency, except as provided for In paragraph (i) of this Article V, it is agreed that such reduction of forces or displacements will be made In reverse order of seniority, except as provided below, in each of the separate seniority units as defined In paragraph (a) of this Article V. Employees so displaced may roll into existing vacancies or new jobs which are of an equivalent or lower classification rather than displacing other employees, or the employees may have the option to return to any job classification in their seniority unit, provided they had formerly held such classification in that seniority unit and are competent, and if their seniority will allow such return. Employees laid off as a result of a
23
ARTICLE V (continued) reduction of forces or demotion will initially designate locations or, subsequent to layoff, additional locations where reemployment is desired for the purpose of recall from layoff. Locations so designated will be any of the six (6) geographic divfelons, any generating plant, Power Delivery Transmis-sion, and/or the General Services Complex. Vacancies not filled through the initial posting or vacancies in the helper classifications at the respective locations as designated will be offered to employees on layoff who are subject to recall as set forth in paragraph (b) of this Article V. In the event of a reduction of forces, employees in the classification of helper who have been displaced as a result of such reduction of forces will have the option of taking a layoff rather than displacing another employee.
The Company will agree to coordinate the application of rolling Into a vacancy by identifying existing vacancies within a seniority unit and provide this to the Union at least three (3) work days prior to the commencement of a reduction in forces or displacement The Union will determine the desire and seniority of employees who might want to move to such vacancies under the provision of Article V, paragraph (e) of the Contract.
In case of a reduction of forces journeymen whose combined accumulated service as a journeyman and/or as an apprentice equals four (4) years or more will retain their journeyman classification provided there is either a journeyman or apprentice in their seniority unit with less seniority whose job they are competent to perform and whom they choose to displace. In the event a journeyman displaces an
24
ARTICLE V (continued) apprentice and retains the journeyman classification as provided above, the Company will retain the option for a period of one year to place a journeyman from that same crew into a vacancy of the same classification at that same location which may subsequently be created or become vacant.
It is understood that the employees retained as a result of the reduction of forces will result in classifications and competency sufficient for the work to be done and that no employees will be retained to fill a job for which they are not qualified, and it is further understood that layoffs in the reverse order of seniority win be worked out promptly with representatives of the Brotherhood, and will usually result in laying off employees with the least seniority in the particular units.
In the event of a reduction of forces in the Instrument Sendee Center, transfers will be made in reverse order of length of service at the Instrument Service Center and such employees will be transferred back to the units from whence they came with total seniority accumulated up to the time of such transfers from the Instrument Sendee Center for all the purposes of this agreement.
(I)	In the event that a reduction of forces or staffing adjustment may be necessary, the Company and Union may agree to apply any such severance or early retirement plan as may be approved and in effect at the time.
(m)	Text Deleted
25
ARTICLE VI
Grievances
(a)	The Company agrees to meet and treat with the duly accredtted officers and committees that are elected or selected by the Brotherhood upon all questions and grievances that may arise between the parties hereto during the life of this agreement. Every effort will be made by the parties hereto to settle disputes promptly and at the location where they arise. A local Unlon/Company committee will be formed as needed to discuss disputes for resolution using the mutual gains process before a formal grievance is filed. It being the desire of the parties to settle grievances promptly, the Brotherhood will endeavor to provide the avaHable information as to date of occurrence, feds and circumstances giving rise to the grievance, contract provisions allegedly violated, employees involved, and remedy sought Such Information wHI be furnished to the Company prior to the first step of the grievance procedure, but may be amended prior to any subsequent step of the grievance procedure as may be necessary to reflect new information. It Is understood, however, that failure to provide such information as set forth above, will not prejudice the position of the Brotherhood in any grievance.
As necessary for settlement, grievances will be reduced to writing and handled in two successive steps at the Plants (Fossil and Hydro), Birmingham Steam Heat or other mutually agreed location as follows:
Step 1. Between the aggrieved employees and / or representatives of the Brotherhood acting in their
26
ARTICLE VI (continued) behalf, and their respective immediate supervisor, the supervisor in general charge of the operation in which the grievance arose, and the Plant Manager-Fossil, Manager - River System, Operations Superintendent -Birmingham Steam Heat and/or their designated representatives as the case might be.
Step 2. Between the aggrieved employees and / or representatives of the Brotherhood acting in their behalf and the Manager-Labor Relations, together with the Senior Vice President-Fossil-Hydro Generation, Vice Presi-dent-Birmingham Division, and / or their designated representatives, as the case might be.
In the event any grievance is not settled by any of the preceding steps of the grievance procedure, it may be submitted to arbitration. The Brotherhood will have a maximum of ninety (90) days from the date of the Company's written decision in the final step in which to give written notice to the Company that a grievance is not satisfactorily settled and that the Brotherhood desires to submit the grievance to arbitration as provided in Article VII of this agreement.
The Company's decision will be reduced to writing and a copy furnished to the Brotherhood as soon as possible after the conclusion of each grievance step.
27
ARTICLE VI (continued)
If a stenographic report Is made of the proceedings of any such meeting by the Company or the Brotherhood, a typewritten copy will be famished to the other party within five (5) days.
(b)	It being the desire of the parties hereto to settle grievances promptly, it is agreed that no grievance will be considered unless it is brought to the attention of the Company as a grievance in the manner provided for herein within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of the facte giving rise to the same or within fifteen (15) days of filling a vacancy as provided in Article V (e). ft is farther agreed that a maximum of fourteen (14) days will be allowed from the receipt of such notice that a grievance exists until such grievance will be handled as provided in Step 1 of this Article VI, paragraph (a). Upon completion of Step 1 as provided in this Article VI, paragraph (a), the Brotherhood will have a maximum of twenty-one (21) days from the date of the Company's written decision in which to give notice to the Company that such grievance is not satisfactorily settled, and that the Brotherhood desires to proceed to the next higher step. Upon receipt of the notice that the Brotherhood desires to proceed to the next higher step as provided in this Article VI, paragraph (a), the Company will have a maximum of ton (10) days to complete such step. Failure to comply with the time limits as set forth above will serve to terminate the grievance, and such grievance, if terminated, cannot be brought up the second time. However, should the Company fail to comply with such time limits as set forth above, the grievance may be moved to the next succeeding step. Notwithstanding the provision of this Article VI, paragraph (b), time limits as speci-
28
Article VI (continued) fled herein may be extended by mutual agreement.
(c)	Employees who have been suspended or discharged will have the right to have their respective case taken up as a grievance by the officers or committees of the Brotherhood with the duly accredited officers of the Company; and in such cases where it is found that such employees that have been suspended or discharged were unjustly suspended or discharged, they will be reinstated to their former position and other employees affected will be displaced pursuant to Article V, paragraph (i) where such reinstatement is within twelve (12) months of the employees1 discharge otherwise the terms and conditions of Article V, paragraph (k) will apply with respect to other employees affected. Further they will be paid the wages to which they would have been entitled had they continued in the Company's employment during the period of suspension or discharge.
(d)	Disagreements with respect to Workers' Compensation and similar Issues which are also controlled by Local, State or Federal Laws, are not subject to the grievance process.
If for whatever reason a Workers' Compensation claim which was initially disallowed is later accepted, the following will apply:
1.	All employee benefits will be fully restored.
2.	The Company will not request any reimbursement from the employee for
29
ARTICLE VI (continued) the difference between what the employee was paid and Workers' Compensation.
(e) The Company will pay reasonable travel expenses for Company employees involved In the grievance process.
ARTICLE VII
Arbitration
In case of a dispute concerning the interpretation of any of the provisions of this agreement that cannot be settled by the Company and local representatives of the Brotherhood, they will refer the dispute to a board of arbitrators composed of three (3) members. Each of the parties hereto will select one (1) member of this board, and the third member will be selected jointly by the parties through the American Arbitration Association (AAA), Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS), or any other like organization approved by mutual agreement of the parties to provide this service. If the parties cannot mutually agree on FMCS or another like organization, the AAA will be the default service provider. The parties will have tan (10) working days from the receipt of any valid panel provided by the approved service to Identify their selections for the third member. In the event the two (2) members of the board of arbitration fail to select a third member, the parties will jointly request the provider appoint a third member. Both parties will be bound by such appointment In the event one of the parties refuses or fails to join
30
ARTICLE VII (continued)
in such request, the party in default will forfeit its case. The decision of any two (2) members of the board in agreement on the matter in dispute will be binding on both parties hereto. When the dispute involves interpretation of wage schedules, any decision rendered will be retroactive to the date on which the dispute originated. Each of the parties hereto will pay the compensation and expense of the member of the board appointed by it; and the expense, and also the compensation, of the third member of the board will be borne equally by the parties hereto.
The board of arbitration will be governed wholly by the terms of this agreement and will have no power to add to or change its terms.
ARTICLE VIII
General Working Conditions
(a)	New employees will be on probation for the first six (6) months of their employment. During the trial period the Company may, at its option, transfer, lay off, or dismiss such employees, but they will enjoy all other rights and benefits provided for in this agreement. In filling any job from among probationary employees, competency being equal, the length of service of the employees in the probationary period will prevail and upon the completion of the six (6) months probationary period the seniority of such employees will commence and will be dated back to the date of their employment. However, the Brotherhood may discuss with the Company any cases of discrimination respecting such employees.
31
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
(b)	Each new full-time employee will be aflowed a maximum of one (1) week [l.e. forty (40) hours] sick leave with pay upon completion of the initial employment probationary period as described In Article VIII, paragraph (a), if such sick leave is necessary because of the employee's own sickness.
Each full-time employee will be allowed an additional maximum of one (1) week [i.e. forty (40) hours] sick leave with pay upon completion of the initial six (6) months of continuous employment with the Company following such probationary period if such sick leave te necessary because of the employee's own sickness.
Thereafter, the Company will allow two (2) weeks {i.e. eighty (80) hours] sick leave with pay per calendar year to each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an immediately prior continuous period of six (6) or more months if such sick leave Is necessary because of the employee's own sickness. Employees will be allowed forty (40) additional hours sick leave in any calendar year following a year in which the employee did not use any sick leave.
Employees may use a maximum of forty (40) hours per calendar year accumulated basic sick leave for unavoidable absences caused by disability or sickness In the family, defined as a parent, spouse or child (Including a step-child who resides In the household or Ie a legal dependent of the employee's spouse).
32
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
An employee may accumulate unused sick leave up to a maximum of one thousand forty (1040) hours, Including sick leave for the then current year. Under no circumstances will an employee be entitled to more than one thousand forty (1040) hours sick leave with pay in any calendar year.
Unless it is impossible to do so, employees or member of their immediate family will notify their respective immediate supervisors of such sickness and its probable duration as much in advance of the starting time of their shift as may be possible. Repeated failure to report for work without giving such notice will be grounds for disciplinary action or discharge. Should employees foil to notify supervision before the end of the second day of such absence, they will not qualify for sick leave with pay unless It can be shown that it was Impossible for them to give or cause such notice to be given to their supervisors. In the event of absence due to sickness, supervisors may make such reasonable investigations as they deem desirable, and the Company may require a doctor's certificate as to the nature of the sickness causing such absence from work. Failure to give notice as required or to supply a doctor's certificate if required will forfeit all rights of sick leave with pay during the particular absence from work. The Brotherhood will cooperate with the Company to prevent or eliminate abuses of sick leave privileges.
Employees who are laid off due to a reduction In forces, but who return to the employ of the Company in a permanent job within a period of twenty-four (24) months from the date of such layoff, will retain any unused
33
ARTICLE VIII (continued) accumulated sick leave to which they were entitled at the time of their layoff; and will be eligible for such unused accumulated sick leave upon re-employment in a permanent position.
(c)	The Company will continue to give two (2) weeks [i.e. eighty (80) hours] vacation with pay during each calendar year to each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an immediately prior continuous period of one (1) or more years.
Each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an immedtate-ly prior continuous period of one (1) year or more will be eligible for three (3) weeks [i.e. one hundred and twenty (120) hours] vacation with pay at the beginning of the calendar year In which the employee will accumulate seven (7) or more years of service, so long as such service was not broken by resignation or discharge for cause.
Each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an immediately prior continuous period of one (1) year or more will be eligible for four (4) weeks [i.e. one hundred and sixty (160) hours] vacation with pay at the beginning of the calendar year in which the employee will accumulate fifteen (15) or more years of service, so long as such service was not broken by resignation or discharge for cause.
Each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an Immediately prior continuous period of one (1) year or more will be ellgfole for five (5) weeks [I.e. two
34
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
hundred (200) hours] vacation with pay at the beginning of the calendar year in which the employee will accumulate twenty-five (25) or more years of service, so long as such service was not broken by resignation or discharge for cause.
Each full-time employee will accrue vacation on December 31st for the succeeding year. The employee must have been employed for at least a continuous period of one (1) year and must be employed on December 31 st in order to accrue the vacation. The employee is not required to work in the succeeding year in order to qualify for vacation. For the purposes of vacation only, a calendar year will begin on December 31st of the previous year and end at midnight on December 30th of the current year. All existing requirements to accrue vacation will remain as stated.
Vacations will not be cumulative; however, employees will be allowed to carry from one (1) calendar year to the next up to eighty (80) hours vacation. Vacations may be arranged in advance of March 15 with their respective supervisors giving full weight to seniority provided that the full vacation allowance is scheduled on consecutive days. However, employees who choose to select vacation periods which are not consecutive will be entitled to exercise ttieir seniority in the selection of the first such vacation period. Subsequent selections of vacation periods will not be made until all other employees have had an opportunity to make selections under the same conditions. Vacations will be taken at such time as will not unduly interfere with the efficiency of opera-
35
ARTICLE VIII (continued) tions. Employees who have not selected their vacations on or before March 15 will have to select periods that are untaken after that date and such periods will then be selected and scheduled in order of requests made. Employees will not be required to take their vacations in units of less than one (1) week [l.e. seven (7) consecutive days].
Employees scheduled for vacation wil not be subject to being called out on their off days or holidays which are continuous with their vacation period, if employees are scheduled for vacation, which is less than five (5) consecutive days, on a day continuous with their off days or holidays, such employees will be subject to being caNed out during such off days or holidays. Nothing contained in this paragraph will prevent an employee from being called out In an emergency situation.
Should employees be recalled for emergency duty while on vacation, the Company will defray any extra expenses which they may incur as a result of such recall including transportation and other reasonable expense back to the place from whence they were recaRed, or to any equivalent point. If they desire to resume their vacation at the conclusion of the emergency, additional vacation time will be granted them in lieu of time lost as a result of such recall, including time spent in traveling incidental to such recall.
If a holiday occurs during employees1 vacation, they will be allowed an additional day off with pay at the beginning or end of their vacation.
36
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
In the event of a death in the employees’ immediate families while such employees are on vacation, Article VIII, paragraph (t) of this agreement will apply, provided the employees' respective supervisors are promptly notified. Such employees will be allowed to reschedule that portion of their vacation covered by the above mentioned Article VIII (t), consistent with the terms and conditions of this Article VIII, paragraph (c).
If employees leave the service of the Company and they are eligible for a vacation as stated above, they will be paid for same, provided such employees have not been dis* charged and provided in case of resignation they have given two (2) weeks notice of their intention to resign from the Company.
In the event employees resign from the employ of the Company, they will be paid only for that unused vacation to which they were eligible as of the date the notice of resignation Is received.
(d)	Insofar as possible without interfering with the necessary operations of the various units, the following holidays will be observed and granted without loss of pay: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day (or such other national holiday as may be established in lieu thereof), Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve Day, and Christmas Day. "Rie holidays will be ob-served on the days on which they occur. As much notice as possible will be given to employees re-qulred to work on holidays; however, schedules as posted will constitute notice to employees who are required to work on hol
37
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
idays. When employees work on a holiday they will be paid at one and one-half (1%) times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked on the holiday, and in addition thereto they will receive pay for eight (8) hours at their regular straight time rate. When a holiday falls on the emptoyees' respective off-day they will be allowed a day off in lieu thereof within thirty (30) days, or, if the Company concludes that it will not be able to grant time off In lieu of such holiday, it will pay for the same at regular straight time rates. If a holiday fells on the employees' respective off-day and it is necessary to call out or to prearrange the employees to perform work, they will be paid at one and one-half (1H) times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked, and In addition thereto, they will receive pay for eight (8) hours at their regular straight time rate.
if a holiday occurs during employees' vacation, they will be allowed an addtttonai day off with pay at the beginning or end of their vacation.
Employees will be allowed to bank holidays according to the following:
If a holiday faHa on a regular scheduled workday and the employee works eight (8) hours or more, the employee may be paid eight (8) hours at the straight time rate and request the holiday be banked. If more than eight (8) hours are worked, all hours over eight (8) hours will be paid at one and one-half (1!4) time. Employees working shifts other than eight (8) hours per day will be allowed to bank the entire shift, hour for hour, If they work their regular scheduled hours or more on a hoL
38
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
kiay and are paid at the straight time rate for such regular scheduled hours worked. All hours worked outside regular scheduled hours will be paid at one and one-half (114) time. Holidays that occur on an employee's off day may only be banked as eight (8) hours. For holidays that occur on a regular scheduled workday and are not banked, all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours will be paid at one and one-half (114) time. An employee may bank up to five (5) holidays. Should employees change to a longer schedule, they must use dock time or vacation to make up the difference when taking a banked holiday. If they change to a shorter schedule, they will be paid for the difference or have the option of taking the excess hours off as if it were vacation.
Banked holidays can be carried over from year to year, but at no time can an employee have more than five (5) days banked. Banked holidays must be taken in blocks of hours equal to the regular scheduled workday, arranged for like a day of vacation. Employees may request payment for banked holidays in blocks of hours equal to the regular scheduled work day, with payment made at the current straight time rate in the employee's regular paycheck.
At least twenty four (24) hours prior to the beginning of a holiday each supervisor will make known if the needs and conditions are such that members of the work group may volunteer to work on the holiday and thus bank the holiday for future use. If more ask to work than are needed then seniority will be the basis for selecting those asking to bank a holiday.
39
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
It Is not the Company's intention to change schedules on a temporary basis to avoid paying for more than eight (8) hours.
(e)	The Company will continue its present policy of carrying group life insurance at Ils own expense on all full-time employees who have been in the employ of the Company for a continuous period of six (6) months or more, so long as such Insurance continues to be available to the Company at substantially the present rates and under substantially the present oondffions.
Employees returning from layoff as a result of reduction of forces within twenty-four (24) months of such layoff wiH be entitled to the amount of non-contributory groiqa life insurance to which they were entitled at the time of layoff.
Spouses of deceased pre-retirement employees who are covered at the time of the employee's death by the family plan may continue to participate In the ARC medical benefits plan at employee rates until they are covered by a non-APC sponsored medcal plan.
The Company adopted a Pension Plan covering certain of its employees, including those now represented by the Brotherhood, on July 1, 1944. Such Pension Plan has been amended from time to time since its adoption and the Company has entered into supplemental pension agreements with the Brotherhood relating to such plan.
(f)	Employees performing jury duty will be paid their regular rates for time lost from
40
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
their regular work while so serving. Employ* ees who are permanently discharged from such jury duty will be expected to report such discharge as soon as practicable to their respective supervisors. The Company agrees to allow sufficient time off with pay for voting, not to exceed two (2) hours, to those employees whose work on election day does not otherwise permit sufficient time to vote.
(g)	Employees who are members of the Brotherhood's committees representing the Local Unions above-mentioned will be allowed time off to attend meetings with Company officials. They will give their respective supervisor, or in the supervisor's absence, the supervisor's designee, reasonable notice in advance of their desire to attend such meetings. The number of representatives of the Brotherhood in attendance at such meetings on Company time will be limited to the number reasonably necessary to transact the business at hand. The Company will pay such employees at their regular rates of pay for time lost from their regular work as a result of attending such meetings.
Officers and authorized delegates not to exceed four (4) from each Local Union, who are called upon to transact business for the Local Union or the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, which temporarily requires their absence from duty, will, upon written request to their department supervisor, be allowed sufficient time for such business without pay.
It is understood, however, that except for the foregoing there will be no transaction of
41
ARTICLE VIII (continued) Brotherhood business, including solicitation, on Company time or on any property of the Company where employees are on duty.
(h)	Should employees become Business Manager in Alabama for the above-mentioned Local Unions or accept a full-time position with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or the Alabama Labor Council, the Company agrees that they will be given a leave of absence for the period of this agreement, or any extension thereof, and that they will retain and accumulate seniority and service just as though they continued to work for the Company, and that they wiH be permitted to return to their former or an equivalent classification with the Company immediately upon conclusion of their term as such, and provided they are competent to fill the position. It is understood, however, that any necessary demotions made in carrying out the provisions of this paragraph (h) will not be made the basis of any grievance.
Service time will accrue for employees who are on a Union Leave of Absence. Employees who return from a Union Leave of Absence will be eligible for retroactive accrual of service time for purposes of vacation, service awards and retirement plaques.
(i)	Employees who are required to work outside In the rain will be furnished raincoats or rain suite (as agreed on locally) and rain hate. Employees required to work in water will be furnished rubber boots. The Company will endeavor to provide a reasonable assortment of sizes of such equipment. Such equipment will remain the property of the Company, will
42
ARTICLE VIII (continued) not be devoted to personal use, and will be turned in when not actually required. If any employees desire such individual equipment for their own use, upon written request, the Company will supply it at thirty per cent (30%) of the cost to the Company (including cost of handling), but in that event such equipment will be kept readily available by employees to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph. The Company will also make replacements of such individual equipment at thirty per cent (30%) cost at reasonable intervals.
(|) Text Deleted
(k)	Paragraphs 1 through 5: Text Deleted.
When employees are designated by their supervisors to work in a higher covered classification or temporarily relieve or substitute for employees of a higher covered classification than their own, they will be paid at the minimum rate of the higher covered classification only for those hours worked In that classification. Ths senior competent employee available In the respective crew or shift will be designated to work In the higher covered classification. Employees will continue to receive the pay of their own classification If they are required to work in a lower classification.
When management deems it necessary to substitute andfor perform the duties of a supervisor, contract specialist or other non covered jobs as determined by management, the company will designate someone
43
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
to substitute and they will be paid an additional one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per hour while being substituted and affective August 15, 2007, two dollars ($2.00) per hour.
(I)	When an employee is offered a promotion by the Company and for any reason fails to accept It, such failure will not affect the employee's seniority or status, except as provided in paragraph (e) of Article V.
(m)	Any employee who is called for work while off duty will be given as much notice as possible.
(n) Where it is practicable to do so, any employees who are unable to report for work will send word to or notify their respective superintendent, supervisor or foreman of such inability and its probable duration. Such notice will be given as much in advance of the starting time of their shift as may be possible. Repeated failure to report for work without giving such notice or without good and sufficient reason will be grounds for disciplinary action or discharge.
(o)	Employees will keep their respective supervisors informed of their correct home or living quarters address.
(p)	The Company will not use superintendents, assistant superintendents, supervisors, or foremen to displace employees In classifications covered by this agreement; however, nothing In this agreement will be construed to prevent them from doing such work in emergencies, in training employees, or in the
44
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
inspection and adjustment of equipment, and performing incidental tasks which contribute to the obvious efficiency of the crew or work group, but will not displace a covered employ* ee. It is not the parties1 intent for these classifications to become working classifications that can perform routine bargaining unit work without limitations. Such classifications1 primary responsibility is to supervise work being performed. The above referenced incidental tasks do not include the foremen doing routine switching or using tools.
(q)	When employees are recalled for work and report for duty after a regular work period or on one of their regular off-days, they will be paid for actual time spent working or standing by, plus an additional amount equal to their overtime rate of pay for one hour for the inconvenience Involved in such recall, but in no event will they receive less than two (2) hours pay at their overtime rate.
Employees who are provided Company vehicles for the purpose of such recalls and respond to the recalls from their homes, will not be eligible for the one hour at the overtime rate to compensate for the inconvenience of the recall. Such employees will be paid for the actual time spent working or standing by but in no event will they receive less than two (2) hours pay at their overtime rate.
When employees are recalled for work and report for duty while they are off duty during their regular scheduled lunch period, they will receive overtime pay for the actual time worked at a minimum of one-half (%) hour up to the length of their scheduled lunch
45
ARTICLE VIII (continued) period and will bo allowed adequate time to complete eating their meal.
When employees are required to report to work on a scheduled workday after having been released on one of their scheduled workdays and were notified to this effect before the end of their last scheduled work period, they wiH be paid the equivalent of three (3) hours at the overtime rate or the actual hours worked, whichever Is greater, except as set out below.
When employees are required to report in advance of the normal starting time on one of their scheduled days of work, and were notified to this effect before the end of their previous scheduled workday, they will be paid at their overtime rate for all time worked prior to their normal starting time.
When employees are required to report for work on one of their off-days and were notified to this effect before the end of their last previous scheduled work period or In the event a prearranged overtime assignment begins on a regular work day and extends into an off-day or begins on an off-day and extends into another off-day, they will be paid the equivalent of four (4) hours at the overtime rate or the actual hours worked, whichever Is greater. A regular off-day will consist of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours commencing with the end of the preceding regular work day [as defined in paragraph (v), Article VIII] or a preceding regular off-day.
(r)	When employees are ordered to stand by subject to call, a definite place and period of time will be designated by their
46
ARTICLE VIII (continued) supervisor. Time thus spent standing by will be considered as hours worked.
(s)	So far as may be practicable and consistent with the efficient performance of work to be done, the Company will distribute overtime work equitably among the employees covered by this agreement over reasonable periods of time in the various units, locations and lines of work therein; the various lines of work corresponding generally to the principal journeyman classifications and being: (1) warehousing, (2) plant operations, (3) steam heat operations -Birmingham, (4) fuel handling, steam plants only, and (5) plant maintenance.
In consideration of differences in work locations, overtime issues will be handled by mutual local agreements. Once established, these local agreements will serve as the definition of ’equitable" distribution of overtime and will outline the policy to be followed in each local area. These agreements will address as a minimum the following interests:
-	on call arrangements such as A&B lists, crew on call, etc.
-	the need for timely response, particularly on a holiday and weekends
-	consequences clearly stated for either party not adhering to agreement
-	a sunset provision
Should no mutual agreement be reached the existing overtime procedures will be utilized.
47
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
Records showing the distribution of overtime In accordance with the above will be made available for Inspection by designated representatives of the Brotherhood at plant offices. Lists of overtime at intervals of four (4) weeks accumulated from beginning to end of each year win be posted at the plants, and Birmingham Steam Heat
(t) In the event an employee has a personal need and Is unable to work on a regular workday, subject to the approval of supervision and without loss of efficiency or payment of overtime, the employee may make it up without loss of pay by working Immediately before or after any regular scheduled work period in the same work week, working an off-day in the same workweek, using a day of vacation, or using a banked holiday.
If employees are absent from work because of a death in their Immediate family, they will be allowed time off with pay as follows:
1.	Three (3) days death leave will be granted, as deemed necessary by the employee in the event of a death of the employee's spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, stepchildren, children, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, half-brothers, half-sisters or the spouse's parents, stepparents, grandparents, brothers, sisters, haff-brothers or half-sisters. Time off as stipulated in this item (1) must be taken within thirty (30) days of the death.
2.	Up to three (3) consecutive days funeral leave will be granted, including off-
48
ARTICLE VIII (continued) days, for the purpose of traveling to, attending and returning from the funeral service of the employee's son-in-law, daughter-in-law or any relative regularly residing In the household of the employee concerned.
(u) Shift employees may elect to work rotating or non-rotating schedules by functional operating groups. The preferences of such employees will also be regarded, by seniority, in scheduling shifts and off-days upon request to the supervisor in general charge of the operation. All employees encompassed by the Power Generation Agreement are "Shift Employees".
Shift employees at generating plants may elect to work a modified form of fixed shift schedule under the following conditions:
1.	During the month of September of each calendar year, an election will be held by the Union to determine whether shift employees, by functional operating groups at each location, desire to work fixed shift schedules. The Company agrees to comply with the wishes of each functional operating group at each location following receipt of an official notice from the Union certifying the election results supplied no later than October 15 of each year. Upon proper receipt of such notice, the Company will post a schedule, allowing for a thirty (30) day notice, to go into effect on the first Saturday following January 1.
2.	For the purpose of applying this agreement, the following will be deemed as functional operating groups:
49
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
a.	E&l Journeymen, Electricians, Instrument Servicemen, Apprentice E&l Journeymen, and Helpers
b.	Mechanics, Apprentice Mechanics, Machinists, Welders, Apprentices, and Helpers
c.	Warehousemen-Plant, Materialman and Helpers
d.	Plant Control Operators, Assistant Plant Control Operators, and Helpers
e.	Fuel Handling Department
f.	At Birmingham Steam Heating System:
1.	Boiler Operators
2.	Mechanics and Boiler Operator -Mechanics (where applicable)
3.	The term "fixed shift schedules” as used in this paragraph does not In any way affect the Company's rights to reschedule employees as provided in paragraph (w) of this Article VIII. Specifically, this includes, but is not limited to, the right to reschedule employees in designated relief positions on a regular basis to meet the requirements of the Company.
4.	The present methods of allowing employees to select vacant positions on the schedule will continue; but if problems unique to fixed shift schedules should develop, the Company and the Union will meet and resolve these problems.
50
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
Employees in each functional work group in Power Generation will be allowed to vote, one time per year, for the purpose of splitting into teams or remaining in functional work groups for the purposes of overtime distribution and vacation scheduling.
A shift differential in addition to the rates set forth In wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A will be paid to employees who work on the evening or night shifts as follows:
Evening Shit - Where the majority of the scheduled hours worked are between 3 p.m. and 11 p.m., 700 per hour for all hours actually worked. Effective August 15, 2007, the dtf ferentlal will be increased to 750 per hour.
Night Shift - Where the majority of the scheduled hours worked are etween 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., 850 per hour for all hours actually worked. Effective August 15,2007, the differ ential will be Increased to 900 per hour.
No shift differential will be paid for any time not actually worked.
(v)	The regular workweek will consist of seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods starting immediately after Friday midnight, or at the shift change nearest Friday midnight in the case of shift employees, as defined in paragraph (u) above. The regular
51
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
daily work period will consist of a continuous period including eight (8) scheduled hours of work, plus scheduled time for a meal. However, it is understood that the commencement of the meal period may be advanced or delayed thirty (30) minutes by the Company so long as the meal period is not reduced or extended. In cases where the commencement of a meal period Is advanced or delayed more than thirty (30) minutes by the Company, time spent working during the regular scheduled meal period will be paid for at the overtime rate and the employee will be allowed sufficient time for the meal and If any part of this time falls outside their regular scheduled meal period it will be considered time worked. The regular workday will consist of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours commencing with the starting time of the work period; except that no workday will carry over from one regular workweek to the next.
(w)	All employees will be paid at the rates shown for their respective classifications in the wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A for all time worked during their scheduled hours of work. Employees will be scheduled to work five (5) regular dally work periods in each workweek on consecutive workdays, as far as may be practicable. Off-days will be consecutive except In the case of periodic changes of shifts or when daily work periods are changed by giving at least thirty (30) days notice as provided for in this paragraph (w). The various employees will be notified of their regularly scheduled work periods by posting notices in the respective plants. The Company may change such regularly scheduled five (5) consecutive dally work periods by giving at least
52
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
thirty (30) days prior notice of such change. Employees may be rescheduled for temporary periods upon at least thirty-six (36) hours prior notice stating the probable duration. Employees rescheduled with less than 36 hours but more than 24 hours notice will receive a $0.50 cents an hour premium for all hours worked during the first two weeks of the temporary schedule. Employees will be paid one and one-half (1%) times the rates shown for the respective classifications in the wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) in any regular workweek and for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any regular workday and for all hours worked outside of those regularly scheduled; provided, however, that overtime rates will not be paid for hours worked tn excess of eight (8) in any workday brought about by periodic changes of shifts or by granting requests of individual employees; and, provided further, that overtime rates will not be paid more than once for the same hours worked. Employees may be allowed to work schedules other than eight (8) hours as specified in applicable Memoranda of Under-standing.
(x)	Text Deleted.
(y) Employees who are instructed to report for duty before they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty since the end of their last scheduled work period and who so report will be paid at the overtime rate for all hours worked thereafter until they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty. Employees who are instructed to report for duty six (6) hours or more before their next
53
ARTICLE VIII (continued) regular scheduled starting time following an off day will continue to be paid at the overtime rale for all time worked until they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty. However, in either instance at the completion of the work for which the employee so reported, the Company may at its discretion continue the employee at work or give them eight (8) hours off duty and if any part of the eight (8) hours off duty falls within or overlaps Into the employee's next regular scheduled work period, they will be paid for all such hours off duty within their regular scheduled work period at the straight time rate.
Any employees continuing to work beyond their regular scheduled work period will be paid at the overtime rate for all hours worked thereafter until they have had eight (fl) consecutive hours off duty and if any part of such eight (8) hours off duty falls within or overlaps Into the employees1 next regular scheduled work period, they will be paid for all such hours off duty within their regular scheduled work period at the straight time rate. In those instances where travel time is applicable in applying the terms and conditions of the eight (8) hour rest period provision, such travel time will be considered as a portion of such rest period provision.
(z) Employees who may be temporarily Incapacitated by a lost-time accident and who recover to the extent that the Company Medical Director certifies them for "light duty," or any employees who suffer or develop a temporary physical disability to the extent that they are no longer competent to perform satisfactory work in their classification may be placed on any work which Is available (including their
54
ARTICLE VIII (continued) regular Job) and which they can perform without prejudice to their physical condition. Such employees will be paid at the proper rate for the classification to which they are assigned.
In the event employees are determined by the Company Medical Director to be permanently or indefinitely physically disabled so that they can no longer satisfactorily perform their work in their classification, the Company will undertake to mutually agree with the Brotherhood upon the assignment of such employees to any classification without regard to the provisions of Article V, paragraph (e), and such employees will be paid at the rate of the classification to which they are assigned.
In the event employees are determined by the Company Medical Director to be permanently or indefinitely physically disabled so that they can no longer satisfactorily perform their work In their classification, the employees will be given the option of exercising rights covered In Article V, paragraph (k) of this agreement, provided there are classifications available that employees can perform without prejudice to their physical condition and further provided that the employees will not be precluded from exercising other available options.
Permanently disabled employees electing to exercise the roll rights given under this paragraph, who are subsequently determined to be incompetent to perform the duties of their new classification during the first 12 months following the roll back, will be demoted under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (k). The ensuing roll back will be conducted under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (I).
55
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
1.	Permanently disabled employees electing to exercise roll rights given under the above, may be considered for rolling into classifications which are filled on the basis of competency.
2.	Permanently dnabted employees eligible to exercise roll rights under this paragraph, who elect to go on LTD when eligible, will not be eligible to exercise roll rights.
Employees on Disability, Extended Disability, or Long Term Disability leaves of absence on or after September 2,1992, will be granted service credft, not to exceed twenty-four (24) months, upon return to work.
(aa) Subject to the orders of their supervisors, employees are responsible for the proper discharge of their respective duties within the scope of their training and experience, and any negligence or failure in this respect will constitute grounds for disciplinary action or discharge after proper Investigation.
(bb) When employees are required by the Company to work temporarily at some location other than the place where they regularly work, the Company will pay any reasonable and necessary traveling and living expenses required by such temporary employment.
If the Company provides overnight traveling accommodations, it will pay only for time spent in traveling during regularly scheduled hours on scheduled workdays or off-days just as though such time were worked. If the Company provides traveling accommodations
56
ARTICLE VIII (continued) other than by Company car or truck, it will pay for all time spent in traveling just as though such time were worked. In such cases, If employees desire to provide their own transportation or to determine their own mode, route, and time of traveling to and from such temporary employment, they will make mutually satisfactory arrangements with their respective supervisor in advance as to the time and expense to be paid for by the Company and as to the time and place where they will report.
If traveling is by Company car or truck the Company will pay for all time spent traveling just as though it were time worked. If in lieu of utilizing a Company car or truck, which will make the trip in any event, employees desire to provide their own transportation, they will pay their own transportation expense but will receive time as if they had traveled by such Company car or truck.
In the event employees who are working temporarily at some location other than the place where they regularly work and would normally have their room and board paid for at the temporary location as provided for in the first sentence of this paragraph (bb) chooses to return to their home after each da/s work, the Company will provide their evening and morning meals at the temporary location and at the option of the employees the Company will allow such employees for traveling or transportation expenses the amount that would otherwise be paid by the Company for the employees1 lodging.
(cc) When employees are required to incur any extra expense by reason of being
57
ARTICLE VIII (continued) required by the Company to work before, after, or in excess of their scheduled hours of work in any day, such reasonable and necessary extra expense will be defrayed by the Company.
Meals will be provided or paid for as set forth In Exhibit D, entitled Procedures Relating to Providing or Paying for Meals.
Travel expense will be paid for as set forth in Exhibit E, entitled Memorandum of Agreement-Payment for Travel Expense for Employees Required to Work Overtime.
(dd) Employees will have a permanently assigned headquarters which will also be the employees' usual reporting place; provided, however, that this provision will not require employees to report to such assigned headquarters if instructed by their supervisor to proceed to discharge their duties without reporting to such headquarters. Employees will not be permanently transferred from one such assigned headquarters to another except through the operation of the provisions for filling vacancies or new jobs provided for in Article V hereof. The first sentence of this paragraph will not be construed to require employees to report each date to their assigned headquarters if in the nrmai performance of their duties such reporting Is not necessary, unless the employees are instructed to report to such headquarters by their respective supervisor.
Where employees are required to report or quit at some headquarters or reporting place, the Company will pay for time spent In traveling between the job and such headquar
58
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
ters or reporting place, plus any time spent working at such headquarters or reporting place.
For Hydro Generation plants, all Joto filled after January 1, 2005, may be posted at management's discretion to specify either a) a single headquarters or b) a primary headquarters with secondary locations as listed In Exhibit (F). Employees filling such jobs may be assigned on a daily basis to report at the beginning of any subsequent work shift to any of the specified primary or secondary locations.
Employees filling such Jobs will bo entitled to a mileage expense determined by the difference In mileage from a) their home to the primary location and b) their home to the assigned reporting location to the extent that differential mileage exceeds thirty (30) miles one way. No other provisions of Article VIII providing travel time or meal expense by reason of working away from assigned headquarters will apply while working at locations specified on the job posting.
(ee) Along with their paycheck for each pay period the Company will furnish to all employees a statement showing the number of hours for which they are paid at straight time rates; the number of hours for which they are paid at overtime rates; and the number of hours worked in substitution during the payroll period covered by such paycheck; together with the respective rates of pay.
59
ARTICLE VIII (continued)
(If) Work In rain, sleet or snow will be held to such minimum as is reasonably necessary for the protection and preservation of the property of the Company and for the rendition of safe, economical and satisfactory service to the public. It is understood that routine work, excluding performing work on energized lines or equipment, will be performed during periods of light rain.
(99) Th® Brotherhood will be permitted to use space on bulletin boards of the Company in operations where members of the Brotherhood are employed, under the terms of this agreement, for posting official notices of the Brotherhood to its membership.
(hh) When the Company requires any employee to have a telephone, It will notify such employee In writing of this requirement. In such case, the Company will pay the telephone bill of the employee (except personal long distance charges) until the requirement is canceled In writing. No employee's telephone number will be listed under the Company's name in the telephone directory.
(ii) In the event a report of commendation, or a disciplinary notice summary letter is placed in the personnel file of an employee, a copy of the document will be famished such employee.
In case a disciplinary notice is given, the employee concerned will be given a letter summarizing the discussion. If the employee chooses, a representative from the Brotherhood may be present at time of such dtecus-sion. If the employee thinks unfair treatment is
60
ARTICLE VIII (continued) given, a grievance may be initiated and such discussion, by mutual agreement, may be considered the first step of the grievance procedure. The letter summarizing a disciplinary notice will not be made a part of the official files of the Company until the outcome of the grievance has been determined.
(jj) If employees who are instructed to climb a steel radio tower over 100 feet in height believe that due to their physical or mental limitations or their lack of skill they cannot perform the job safely and so inform their supervisor, they will not be required to climb such tower.
(kk) The following Is the Company's new Tool Policy In Ite entirety: The Company will pay to eligible employees 70% of the reasonable receipt for approved personal tool purchases. Employees will be furnished a list of tools authorized to be purchased based on their classification.
When an employee Is awarded a permanent job, the employee will be responsible for purchasing, within a reasonable time frame, the tools necessary for that classification. During work schedules, ths employee must have those tools available for use at the work site. Prior management approval Is necessary to purchase or replace authorized or approved toola.
Tools, except for specialty tools stocked by the Company, will be acquired by the employee through direct purchase from outside vendors. The employee will be responsible to ensure purchased tools
61
ARTICLE VIII (continued) meet current ANSI Standards. Reimbursement will be made through the expense account procedure with reimbursement on the employee's paycheck.
Employees will be responsible for replacing tools under warranty. The Company will not replace tools which are not under warranty when the tool Is available In a brand that la under warranty. However, worn or broken tools acquired prior to ths date of ratification of this agreement may bo replaced on a case, by case basis. Broken or worn tools which are not available with a warranty may bo replaced at the 70/30 split.
Lost or stolon tools may be replaced at the Company's expense on a case-by-caae basis.
Employees will have ownership of personal tools and will be responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of those tools.
ARTICLE DC
Wages and Classifications
(a)	Salaries to be paid the various classifications of employees will be at the rate set forth In salary schedules attached hereto and made apart hereof as Exhibit A provided, however, that no employees' salaries will be reduced because they are above the rale shown In such salary schedules for the classification in which they are regularly working when this agreement becomes effective. All
62
ARTICLE IX (continued)
permanent regular employees covered by this agreement will be paid on an hourly wage basis. In all cases hourly rates for the respective classifications will be used in computation of overtime, time lost and time worked in substitution for employees in higher classifications.
(b)	The number and classification of employees required for the regular full operation and maintenance of the generating plants of the Company at the present time is set forth in job schedules attached as Exhibit B of this agreement, subject to the notes included as part of such exhibit; but the Company does not agree to continue such numbers and classifications of employees except as they may be required for the work to be done.
ARTICLE X
Loyalty and Efficiency
Employees of the Company, members of the Brotherhood, agree that they will perform loyal and efficient work and service; that they will use their influence and best endeavors to protect the property of the Company and its interests; and that they will cooperate with the Company in promoting and advancing its welfare and prosperity.
ARTICLE XI
No Strikes or Lockouts
In view of the grievance and arbitration provisions of this agreement, the Brotherhood
63
ARTICLE XI (continued)
agrees that during the term hereof it will not authorize, Instigate, support or encourage any strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees, and the Company agrees that during such term there will be no lockout of employees. The Brotherhood will not be liable to the Company on account of any strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees not authorized, instigated, or encouraged by It and participation by any employee In any such strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees will constitute grounds for immediate discharge.
ARTICLE XII
Safety
(a)	Both parties agree to cooperate in promoting safety throughout the various operations of the Company covered by this agreement.
(b)	It will be the duty of supervision to see that a sufficient number of experienced workers, equipped with the customary safety devices necessary for the safe performance of the job, are available for any work which is undertaken in any operation of the Company covered by this agreement.
(c)	Violation of safety rules of the Company after a warning has been given will be deemed sufficient reason for disciplinary action or discharge of offending employees.
64
ARTICLE XII (continued)
(d)	Whenever an investigating committee is appointed by the Company to investigate an accident affecting employees, it will include at least two (2) members of the Local Union affected familiar with the line of work in which the accident occurred, to be selected from an adequate list supplied by the Brotherhood for each unit covered by this agreement. The Company agrees to investigate promptly accidents involving employees upon written request from the Brotherhood.
(e)	In the event a report of any investigating committee is deemed unfair to an employee, this may be taken up by the Brotherhood as a grievance as provided for in Article VI.
(f)	In emergencies all employees are expected to perform to the best of their ability consistent with safety; but employees not working under direct supervision will request additional competent assistance when confronted by work which would be dangerous for them to undertake by themselves.
ARTICLE XIII
Text Deleted
ARTICLE XIV
Special Rules - Hydro Plants
(a)	The Plant Operators on shift will be responsible for the detailed operation of their respective plants, subject to the orders and
65
ARTICLE XIV (continued)
supervision of the respective plant superintendents and foremen, and in accordance with system operating procedures for the respective plants.
(b)	Electricians must be thoroughly experienced In power plant electrical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of this work with only general supervision.
(c)	Mechanics must be thoroughly experienced in power plant mechanical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of this work with only general supervision.
(d)	Hydro Journeymen on shift will be responsible for the detailed operation of their respective plants, subject to the orders and supervision of the respective plant superintendents and foreman and In accordance with operating procedures for ths respective plants. They must bo thoroughly experienced In power plant electrical and mechanical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of this work with only general supervision.
ARTICLE XV
Special Rules - Steam Plants
(a)	In the steam plants, the boiler or plant control operators on shift will be responsible for the detailed operation of their respective boiler, turbine, or control room areas to which they are assigned subject to the orders and
66
ARTICLE XV (continued)
supervision of the respective plant manager / supervisor or foreman.
(b)	Deleted.
(c)	Deleted.
(d)	Deleted.
(e)	Assistant plant control operators on shift must be qualified to handle detailed oper* ation of equipment in the several plant areas assigned and to intelllgentty assist the plant control operators in the plant operation.
Within Fossil Generation, the duties of Assistant Plant Control Operator will include switching for Maintenance. Training will be provided to employees expected to perform switching beyond their previous level of experience. The above changes will be implemented provided they conform to applicable state and federal laws.
(f)	Electricians and E&l Journeymen must be thoroughly experienced in power plant electrical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of such work for their respective plants with only general supervision.
Employees classified as Electrician in Fossil Generation will be reclassified to E&l Journey-man as soon as they demonstrate competency for the new classification. Employees reclassified to this new classification will be placed at that step of the rate range corresponding to their position in the former classification. This reclassification will establish a new progress increase date.
67
Article XV (continued)
Employees classified as Electrician In Fossil Generation will be offered an opportunity to demonstrate the required competency for the new classification by making available CK&S testing at the employee's request. In the event of a failure, the employee must wait six (6) months before being eNgble for retesting. The Company agrees not to remove an incumbent Electrician from that job classification due to such employee's failure to qualify for the E&l Journeyman.
Electricians, E&l Journeyman and E&l Apprentice will be considered in one work group for the purposes of schedule election, job assignments on straight time and overtime, overtime distribution, and vacation scheduling.
(g)	Mechanics must be thoroughly experienced in power plant mechanical maintenance work and must be capable of handing safely and efficiently all phases of such work for their respective plants with only general supervision.
(h)	Machinists must be thoroughly experienced in power plant machine tool work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of such work for their respective plants with only general supervision.
(i)	Apprentices must be experienced helpers, capable of assisting in the maintenance of power plant electrical, Instrument, and mechanical equipment, and must have the necessary qualifications to develop into higher class workers. They may be used on either electrical, Instrument, or mechanical work. In the maintenance personnel of any steam plant
68
Article XV (continued)
the number of apprentices will not exceed one (1) for each two (2) journeymen, including electricians, E&l journeymen, mechanics, and welders.
(j)	At a minimum helpers must be able to do unskilled work in connection with the maintenance or operating jobs to which they are assigned and must display aptitude for their work and ability to acquire necessary skill to qualify them for promotion. Helpers must be capable of assisting In the maintenance and operation of power plant electrical and mechanical equipment
(k)	In order to be able to avoid a reduction of forces at the steam plants due to temporarily reduced operation schedules, the Company will continue its policy of giving employment in the maintenance and operating crews to experienced operating workers who would otherwise be laid off, giving proper weight, however, to seniority, competency, and availability of work. This provision will not be construed as requiring the Company to employ an operating worker on maintenance work in a lower classification and pay the worker in excess of the rate provided for such classification in the wage schedules, Exhibit A of this agreement.
ARTICLE XVI
Text Deleted
69
ARTICLE XVII
Text Deleted
ARTICLE XVIII
Co-Operative Student Training Program
Recognizing the reeponslblllty of the Company for the training and development of engineering personnel to meet future needs and objectives of the Company, the parties agree that, notwithstanding the seniority provisions of this agreement, the Company will have the right to utilize co-operative student employees to fill new Jobs or vacancies In classifications below that of apprentice, provided such student employees are competent to fulfill the duties of the job. The Company will undertake to agree with the Brotherhood on a guiding principle concerning the placement of co-op students in bargaining unit classifications.
ARTICLE XIX
Employee Training
Recognizing the need for training employees for advancement to certain classifications and the improvement in skill of certain other employees In classifications they already hold, discussions will be held between sentatives of the Company and the Brotherhood in an effort to develop plans for such training.
70
Article XX
Posting Rules
The rules in regard to hours and working conditions as set forth herein will be posted in the respective generating plants, to which they apply and the rules so posted will be observed until changed as provided for in this agreement.
71
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Brotherhood have each caused these presents to be executed In their respective names and on their respective behalves by their proper officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the day and year first above written.
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
By Jerry L. Slewart Sr. Vice President Power Generation
By David H. Cooper
Manager
Labor Relations
Approved For
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
Charles D. McCrary
President & Chief Executive Officer
Attofft'
William E. Zales, Jr.
Vice President, Secretary & Assistant Treasurer
72
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Local Union No. 345, Mobile, Alabama
By D. Wayne Sheffield
Local Union No. 833, Jasper, Alabama
By Mike Christopher
Local Union No. 904, Tallassee, Alabama
By C. E. Clark, Jr.
Local Union No. 391, Gadsden, Alabama
By Alan R, Wagnon
Local Union No. 801, Montgomery, Alabama
By Keith C. Williams
Local Union No. 841, Birmingham, Alabama
By Dwight W. Rush
Local Union No. 1053, Demopolis, Alabama
By Cary R. Bryant
Local Union No. 796, Dothan, Alabama By Arthur G. James, Jr.
Local Union No. 2077, Wilsonville, Alabama
By Roy Green, Jr.
Approved For:
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Edwin D. Hill
International President
Attest:
William E. Frederick
Business Manager, System Council U-19
73
EXHIBIT A (2004)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
September 14, 2004-Auguet 14, 2005
75
EXHIBIT A (2004) POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT Hourly Wago Schedules for period September 14,2004 - August 14,2005 Generating Plante and Steam Heat
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
1.	Maintenance - FoesIVHydro Plante
004105	Elect & Instr Journeyman	$24,988	$25,042	$25,095	$25,162	$
005503 004108	Elect & Instr Journeyman 1 Electridan-Pwr Sup	24.988 24.554	25.162 24.636	24.687	24.738	
004109	Machinist	24.554	24.636	24.687	24.738	
004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	24.554	24.636	24.687	24.738	
005497 004113	Mechanic Welder	24.554 24.554	24.738 24.636	24.687	24.738	
004121	Mechanic-Diesel	24.554	24.636	24.687	24.738	
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	24.554	24.636	24.687	24.738	
004167	Warehousemen Plant	24.554	24.580	24.636	24.646	24.687
24.738
EXHIBIT A (2004) continued
Job No. Classification	Minimum to Maximum
1. Maintenance - Fossil/Hydro Plants (continued)
004168	Materialman	$22,499 23.077	$22,668	$22,869	$22,919	$22,999
004104	Elect & Instrument Appr	20.466 23.556	21.084 24.988	21.702	22.320	22.938
004143	Equip Operator	20.285	20.349	20.403	20.496	20.562
004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	19.943	20.971	22.001	23.031	24.554
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	19.943	20.008	20.087	20.153	20.218
004894	Apprentice Meeh-Diesel	19.943	20.008	20.087	20.153	20.218
004161	Helper-Plant	12.202 13.774 16.200	12.533 14.064 16.870	12.905 14.472	13.087 14.867	13.285 15.553
EXHIBIT A (2004) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maxhnian
2.	Hydro Plant Operation
004875	Hydro Journeyman	$25,199	$25,319	$ $	$
004876	Operator-Electrician	25.031	25.108		
004877	Operator-Mechanic	25.031	25.108		
004114	Plant Operator	24.554	24.636	24.687	24.738	
3.	Steam Plant Operation
004116	Plant Control Opr	25.352	25.433	25.497	25.577	
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	24.554	24.636	24.687	24.738	
004148	Ast Pit Control Opr	20.824	20.890	20.968	21.022	
004143	Equip Operator	20.285	20.349	20.403	20.496	20.562
004161	Helper-Plant	12.202	12.533	12.905	13.087	13.285
		13.774	14.064	14.472	14.867	15.553
		16.200	16.870			
EXHIBIT A (2004) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
4. Birmingham Steam Heating System
004105	Elect & Instr Journeyman	$24,988	$25,042	$25,095	$25,162	$
004109	Machinist	24.554	24.636	24.687	24.738	
004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	24.554	24.636	24.687	24.738	
004117	Boiler Operator	24.554	24.636	24.687	24.738	
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	19.943	20.008	20.087	20.153	20.218
004161	Helper-Plant	12.202	12.533	12.905	13.087	13.285
		13.774	14.064	14.472	14.867	15.553
		16.200	16.870			
005211	Boiler Operator*Mechanlc	24.988	25.042	25.095	25.162	
5. Cogeneration						
008207	Cogen Journeyman	26.494	26.536	26.609	26.676	
* These classifications at Steam Plants only.
EXHIBIT A (2004) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all ctasslflcations and locations:
(1) Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When ernptoyses are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the deference between the step immedtately below and the step immetfiately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
g (2) When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they wfll start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established m the prior classification.
(3) Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
EXHIBIT A (2005)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15,2005-August 14,2006
81
EXHIBIT A (2005) POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15,2005 - August 14,2006 Generating Plants and Steam Heat
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
1. Maintenance - Fossil/Hydro Plants
004105	Beet & Instr Journeyman	$25,738	$25,793	$25,848	$25,917	$
005503	Elect & Instr Journeyman 1	25.736	25.917			
004108	Electrician-Pwr Sup	25.291	25.375	25.428	25.480	
004109	Machinist	25.291	25.375	25.428	25.480	
004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	25.291	25.375	25.428	25.480	
005497	Mechanic	25.291	25.480			
004113	Welder	25.291	25.375	25.428	25.480	
004121	Mechanic-Diesel	25.291	25.375	25.428	25.480	
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	25.291	25.375	25.428	25.480	
004167	Warehousemen Plant	25.291	25.317	25.375	25.387	25.428
25.480
EXHIBIT A (2005) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
1. Maintenance - Fossii/Hydro Plants (continued)
004168	Materialman	$23,174 23.769	$23,348	$23,555	$23,607	$23,689
004104	Elect & Instrument Appr	21.080 24.263	21.717 25.738	22.353	22.990	23.626
004143	Equip Operator	20.894	20.959	21.015	21.111	21.179
004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	20.541	21.600	22.661	23.722	25.291
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	20.541	20.608	20.690	20.758	20.825
004894	Apprentice Mech-Diesel	20.541	20.608	20.690	20.758	20.825
004161	Helper-Plant	12.568 14.187 16.686	12.909 14.486 17.376	13.292 14.906	13.480 15.313	13.684 16.020
EXHIBIT A (2005) continued
Job No. Classification			Minimum tc	> Maximum	
2. Hydro Plant Operation 004875 Hydro Journeyman	$25,955	$26,079	$	$	$
004876 Operator-Electrician 004877	Operator-Mechanic 004114	Plant Operator	25.782 25.782 25.291	25.861 25.861 25.375	25.428	25.480	
3. Steam Plant Operation 004116 Plant Control Opr	26.113	26.196	26.262	26.344	
004124 Hvy Equp Opr	25.291	25.375	25.428	25.480	
004148 Ast Pit Control Opr	21.449	21.517	21.597	21.653	
004143 Equip Operator	20.894	20.959	21.015	21.111	21.179
004161	Helper-Plant	12.568	12.909	13.292	13.480	13.684
	14.187 16.686	14.486 17.376	14.906	15.313	16.020
co cn
EXHIBIT A (2005) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
4. Birmingham Steam Heating System
004105	Elect & Instr Journeyman	$25,738	$25,793	$25,848	$25,917	$
004109	Machinist	25.291	25.375	25.428	25.480	
004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	25.291	25.375	25.428	25.480	
004117	Boiler Operator	25.291	25.375	25.428	25.480	
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	20.541	20.608	20.690	20.758	20.825
004161	Helper-Plant	12.568	12.909	13.292	13.480	13.684
		14.187	14.486	14.906	15.313	16.020
		16.686	17.376			
005211	Boiler Operator-Mechanic	25.738	25.793	25.848	25.917	
5. Cogeneration						
008207	Cogen Journeyman	27.289	27.332	27.407	27.476	
*These classifications at Steam Plants only.
EXHIBTT A (2005) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1) Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be In the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
8	(2) When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they
will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but If they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
o oo o<0 o o o o o o o 3 o ® o o o a o o c; 3 o.;: x; 3;; 3
EXHIBIT A (2005) continued
Job No.		Classificatioi	Job No.		Classification	Minimum to Maximum				
	4. Birmingham Steam Heat!			1. Maintenance	i - Fossll/Hydro Plants (continued)					
	004105 004109	Elect & Instr Machinist		004168	Materialman	$23,174 23.769 21.080 24.263 20.894 20.541	$23,348	$23,555	$23,607	$23,689
00	co N	UI	004110 004117 004146 004161	Mechanic-Pt Boiler Opera Apprentice-F Helper-Plant	8	* 004104 004143 * 004145	Elect & Instrument Appr Equip Operator Appr Mech-Pwr Sup		21.717 25.738 20.959 21.600	22.353 21.015 22.661	22.990 21.111 23.722	23.626 21.179 25.291
				004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	20.541	20.608	20.690	20.758	20.825
	005211	Boiler Oper		*	004894	Apprentice Mech-Diesel	20.541	20.608	20.690	20.758	20.825
				004161	Helper-Plant	12.568	12.909	13.292	13.480	13.684
	5. Cogeneration					14.187 16.686	14.486 17.376	14.906	15.313	16.020
008207 Cogen Joan
•These classifications at S
EXHIBIT A (2006) POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT	td
Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15,2006 - August 14,2007	Inimum to Maximum
Generating Plante and Steam Heat	
wn Job No. Classification	Minimum to Maximum	
ual	$ $ $
1. Maintenance - FosalVHydro Plante	
on. * 004105 Elect & Instr Journeyman $26,510 $26,567 $26,623 $26,694	$	25.428	25.480
9	005503	Elect & Instr Journeyman 1 26.510	26.694	
004108 Electridan-Pwr Sup	26.049	26.136 26.190	26.245	wj	
* 004109 Machinist	26.049	26.136 26.190	26.245	
004110 Mechanic-Pwr Sup	26.049	26.136 26.190	26.245	26.262	26.344
005497 Mechanic	26.049	26.245	25.428	25.480
004113	Welder	26.049	26.136 26.190	26.245	21.597	21.653
* 004121	Mechanic-Diesel	26.049	26.136 26.190	26.245	21.015	21.111	21.179
004124 Hvy Equip Opr	26.049	26.136 26.190	26.245	13.292	13.480	13.684
004167 Warehousemen Plant	26.049	26.077 26.136	26.149	26.190	14.906	15.313	16.020
26.245	
EXHIBIT A (2006) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
1. Maintenance — Fossll/Hydro Plants (continued)
004168	Materialman	$23,869 24.482	$24,046	$24,262	$24,315	$24,400
004104	Elect & Instrument Appr	21.712	22.368	23.024	23.679	24.335
		24.991	26.510			
004143	Equip Operator	21.520	21.588	21.646	21.744	21.814
004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	21.158	22.248	23.341	24.434	26.049
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	21.158	21.226	21.310	21.380	21.449
004894	Apprentice Mech-Diesel	21.158	21.226	21.310	21.380	21.449
004161	Helper-Plant	12.945	13.296	13.691	13.884	14.094
		14.613	14.920	15.353	15.772	16.500
		17.187	17.897			
EXHIBIT A (2006) continued
Job No.	Classification			Minimum to Maximum		
2. Hydro Plant Operation						
004875	Hydro Journeyman	$26,734	$26,861	$	$	$
004876	Operator-Electrician	26.555	26.637			
004877	Operator-Mechanic	26.555	26.637			
004114	Plant Operator	26.040	26.136	26.190	26.245	
3. Steam Plant Operation						
004116	Plant Control Opr	26.896	26.982	27.050	27.135	
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	26.049	26.136	26.190	26.245	
004148	Ast Pit Control Opr	22.092	22.162	22.245	22.302	
004143	Equip Operator	21.520	21.588	21.646	21.744	21.814
004161	Helper-Plant	12.945	13.296	13.691	13.884	14.094
		14.613	14.920	15.353	15.772	16.500
		17.187	17.897			
XZxZx.xz^z	\	\ z ■ z s -	\
/X/\zx'.7k''x/xz^/^/x,\/V/x/x/x-x/x/xzx/xz-x/^/
EXHIBIT A (2006) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
4. Birmingham Steam Heating System
004105	Elect & Instr Journeyman	$26,510	$26,567	$26,623	$26,694	$
004109	Machinist	26.049	26.136	26.190	26.245	
004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	26.049	26.136	26.190	26.245	
004117	Boiler Operator	26.049	26.136	26.190	26.245	
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	21.158	21.226	21.310	21.380	21.449
004161	Helper-Plant	12.945	13.296	13.691	13.884	14.094
		14.613	14.920	15.353	15.772	16.500
		17.187	17.897			
005211	Boiler Operator-Mechanic	26.510	26.567	26.623	26.694	
5. Cogeneration						
008207	Cogen Journeyman	28.107	28.152	28.229	28.301	
These classifications at Steam Plants only.
EXHIBIT A (2006) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classfflcatlons and location*:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in ths amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals In event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase wiH be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
r8
(2)	When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience In that classification or a related classification, they wfll start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established In the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
EXHIBIT A (2007)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2007-August 14, 2008
93
EXHIBIT A (2007) POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15,2007 - August 14,2006 Generating Plante and Steam Heat
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
1. Maintenance - Fossll/Hydro Plante
	•	004105	Elect & Instr Journeyman	$27,438	$27,497	$27,555	$27,629	$
£	*	005503	Elect A Instr Journeyman 1	27.438	27.629			
		004108	Electridan-Pwr Sup	26.961	27.051	27.107	27.163	
	*	004109	Machinist	26.961	27.051	27.107	27.163	
		004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	26.961	27.051	27.107	27.163	
		005497	Mechanic	26.961	27.163			
		004113	Welder	26.961	27.051	27.107	27.163	
	*	004121	Mechanic-Diesel	26.961	27.051	27.107	27.163	
		004124	Hvy Equip Opr	26.961	27.051	27.107	27.163	
		004167	Warehousemen Plant	26.961	26.990	27.051	27.064	27.107
				27.163				
oooooooooooooooooooooo
EXHIBIT A (2007) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
Maintenance - FossIVHydro Plants (continued)
004168	Materialman	$24,705 25.339	$24,890	$25,111	$25,166	$25,254
004104	Elect & Instrument Appr	22.472 25.865	23.151 27.438	23.829	24.508	25.187
004143	Equip Operator	22.274	22.344	22.403	22.505	22.578
004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	21.898	23.027	24.158	25.289	26.961
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	21.898	21.969	22.056	22.129	22.200
004894	Apprentice Mech-Diesel	21.898	21.969	22.056	22.129	22.200
004161	Helper-Plant	13.398 15.124 17.786	13.762 15.443 18.524	14.170 15.891	14.370 16.324	14.587 17.078
EXHIBIT A (2007) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
2. Hydro Plant Operation
004875 004876 004877 004114	Hydro Journeyman Operator-Electrician Operator-Mechanic Plant Operator	$27,669 27.485 27.485 26.961	$27,801 27.569 27.569 27.051	$ 27.107	$ 27.163	$
Steam Plant Operation 004116 Plant Control Opr		27.837	27.926	27.997	26.084	
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	26.961	27.051	27.107	27.163	
004148	Ast PR Control Opr	22.865	22.938	23.024	23.083	
004143	Equip Operator	22.274	22.344	22.403	22.505	22.578
004161	Helper-Plant	13.388	13.762	14.170	14.370	14.587
		15.124 17.788	15.443 18.524	15.891	16.324	17.078
EXHIBIT A (2007) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
4.	Birmingham Steam Heating System
004105	Elect & Instr Journeyman	$27,438	$27,407	$27,555	$27,629	$
004109	Machinist	26.961	27.051	27.107	27.163	
004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	26.961	27.051	27.107	27.163	
004117	Boiler Operator	26.961	27.051	27.107	27.163	
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	21.898	21.969	22.056	22.129	22.200
004161	Helper-Plant	13.398	13.762	14.170	14.370	14.587
		15.124	15.443	15.801	16.324	17.078
		17.788	18.524			
005211	Boiler Operator-Mechanic	27.438	27.407	27.555	27.629	
5.	Cogeneration 008207 Cogen Journeyman	29.091	29.137 29.218	29.291
*These classifications at Steam Plants only.
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be In the amount shown by the steps above and wil be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase wiH be equal to the difference between the step Immediately below and the step immediately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases In their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
EXHIBIT A (2008)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2008-August 14,2009
99
8
EXHIBIT A (2008) POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15,2008 - August 14,2009 Generating Plants and Steam Heat
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
1.	Maintenance - FossIVHydro Plante
004105	Elect & Instr Journeyman	$28,398	$28,459	$28,520	$28,596	$
005503	Elect & Instr Journeyman 1	28.398	28.596			
004108	Electrician-Pwr Sup	27.905	27.998	28.056	28.114	
004109	Machinist	27.905	27.998	28.056	28.114	
004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	27.905	27.998	28.056	28.114	
005497	Mechanic	27.905	28.114			
004113	Welder	27.905	27.998	28.056	28.114	
004121	Mechanic-Diesel	27.905	27.998	28.056	28.114	
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	27.905	27.998	28.056	28.114	
004167	Warehousemen Plant	27.905	27.934	27.998	28.012	28.056
28.114
>K/x7x/x z x / X / X y x i x / X / x / X / x z X / x / X ' x / X zx/x/x/x/x/
EXHIBIT A (2008) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
1. Maintenance - Fossil/Hydro Plants (continued)
004168	Materialman	$25,569 26.226	$25,761	$25,990	$26,047	$26,138
004104	Elect & Instrument Appr	23.259	23.961	24.664	25.366	26.068
		26.771	28.398			
004143	Equip Operator	23.053	23.126	23.187	23.293	23.368
004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	22.664	23.833	25.003	26.174	27.905
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	22.664	22.738	22.828	22.903	22.977
004894	Apprentice Mech-Diesel	22.664	22.738	22.828	22.903	22.977
004161	Helper-Plant	13.867	14.243	14.666	14.873	15.098
		15.654	15.983	16.447	16.896	17.675
		18.411	19.172			
EXHIBIT A (2008) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
2.	Hydro Plant Operation
004875 004876 004877 004114	Hydro Journeyman Operator-Electrician Operator-Mechanic Plant Operator	$28,638 28.447 28.447 27.905	$28,774 28.534 28.534 27.998	$ 28.056	$ 28.114	$
Steam Plant Operation 004116 Plant Control Opr		28.812	28.904	28.976	29.067	
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	27.905	27.998	28.056	28.114	
004148	Ast Pit Control Opr	23.666	23.741	23.829	23.891	
004143	Equip Operator	23.053	23.126	23.187	23.293	23.366
004161	Helper-Plant	13.867	14.243	14.666	14.873	15.098
		15.654 18.411	15.983 19.172	16.447	16.896	17.675
)OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
103
EXHIBIT A (2008) continued
Job No. Classification
Minimum to Maximum
4. Birmingham Steam Heating System
004105	Elect & Instr Journeyman	$28,398	$28,459	$28,520	$28,596	$
004109	Machinist	27.905	27.998	28.056	28.114	
004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	27.905	27.998	28.056	28.114	
004117	Boiler Operator	27.905	27.998	28.056	28.114	
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	22.664	22.738	22.828	22.903	22.977
004161	Helper-Plant	13.867	14.243	14.666	14.873	15.098
		15.654	15.983	16.447	16.696	17.675
		18.411	19.172			
005211	Boiler Operator-Mechanic	28.398	28.459	28.520	28.596	
5. Cogeneration						
008207	Cogen Journeyman	30.109	30.157	30.240	30.316	
These classifications at Steam Plants only.
EXHIBIT A (2008) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the dHference between the step immediately below and the step immerfiately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dhricfing by twelve (12).
EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS
Ar HYDRO PLANTS
105
Classification	Lay Dam	Yates-					
		Mitchell Jordan		Martin Thurlow		Smith Dam	Bankhead Dam
		Dam	Dam	Dam	Dam		
Mechanics		-	1	-		-	-
Apprentices	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Helpers-Plant	2	2	2	3	1-1	1	2
Operator-Mechanic	-	-	-	1	1-	-	-
Operator-Electrician	-	-	1	2	-	-	-
Hydro Journeyman	4	3	2	2	2-3	3	2
EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS
A-HYDRO PLANTS
	Classification	Weiss Dam	Henry Dam	Logan-Martin Dam	Holt Dam	Bouldin Dam	Harris Dam
	Mechanics		■	-		1	-
8	Apprentices	-	-	-	-	-	-
	Helpers-Plant	2	2	2	2	2	1
	Operator-Mechanic	-	-	•	-	-	-
	Operator-Electrician	-	1	-	-	-	-
	Hydro Journeyman	3	3	2	2	3	3
EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS
BSTEAM PLANTS
107
Classification	Barry	Gadsden	Gorges	County	Greene Gaston
Plant Control Operators	32	6	24	11	26
Asst Plant Control Oper	42	14	48	16	41
Heavy Equipment Oper	8	1	7	2	12
Equipment Operators	17	3	26	5	32
Miller

EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS
B-STEAM PLANTS
	Classification	Barry	Gadsden	Gorgas	County	Greene Gasion	Miller
	E & 1 Journeyman	25	3	22	12	22	34
	Electricians	2	-	-	-	1	-
8	Mechanics	27	4	30	10	25	39
	Mechanics-Diesel	-	-	2	-	-	2
	Machinists	1	-	1	1	1	1
	Warehousemen-Plant	3	-	-	-	3	3
	Materialman	1	1	4	1	1	-
	Helper-Plant	40	2	21	15	23	12
	Welders	7	1	5	2	5	4
	Apprentice Pwr Supp	10	-	-	2	3	5
	Apprentice E&l	6	-	4	-	4	1
oooo ooo ooooo c ooo o oooo o
OOO;
EXHIBfT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS
	C - COGENERATION PLANTS
Classification	Theodore Cogen	Washington Co Cogen
Cogen Journeyman	11	10
109
C-NOTES
(A) These schedules, including footnotes, show the number of jobs - by classification and by plants-required to be filled for the full, normal operation of the generating plants as presently constituted.
EXHIBFTC OPERATING AGREEMENT OUTSTANDING MOUs WITH LANGUAGE THAT EXISTS AS OF 2004
(Language that la still applicable but not Incorporated Into the body of the Contract)
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT POWER GENERATION & STEAM HEAT 2004 NEGOTIATIONS September 14,2004
Wages
1.	The following general wage increase adjustments will be made over the five year term of thio contract
All classifications will be increased as shown below:
September 14,2005	3X1%
August 15,2005 3.0% August 15,2006 3.0%
August 15,2007 33%
August 15,2008 33%
If the CPI - Urban exceeds 5% for 2007, the Company and the Union will meet to discuss the appropriateness of the August 15,2005 general increase.
2.	All employees will participate In the Company's PPP plan or other short term Incentive plan that Ie In effect and for which they are eligible during the term of this agreement, participation
110
being prorated to cover the period from the September 11, 2004 through the end of 2004, for the 2004 plan year, and full participation beginning In the 2005 plan year and each year thereafter during the term of thia agreement. Any such plan will be designed and implemented solely by Company Management and participation will be subject to the same provisions as all other participants. The plan will not be subject to the grievance and arbitration process. Ths incentive target for employees covered by this agreement will be 3.5% for 2004 prorated for September 11 through December 31,2004 and 5% for each year thereafter during the term of this agreement
3.	Benefits
The Company Is committed to offering quality and economical benefit programs on a cafeteria-style basis. This method Is particularly suitable for accommodating Increased employee diversity, evolving family structures, and changing family needs. The Company Is also committed to evaluating current benefit providers at a Southern Company system-wide level because of our Increased buying power and exploring opportunities with these and other vendors to get a bettor value or product.
The Company will continue to offer a choice of health cars plans and will appropriately share in the cost of medical premiums.
111
a.	During 2005, the choices and monthly premium contributions are as follows:
Total Premium Company Cost Employee Coat
Carrier	Single
BCBS PMD	$286.40
Blue Crose Blue Shield PPO Basic Option	260.70
Standard Option*	28640
Enhanced Option	336.60
Family Single Family Single Family $800.20 $252.00 $584.10 $3440	$216.10
753.10	252.00	584.10	17.70	169.00
800.20	252.00	584.10	3440	216.10
940.70	252.00	584.10	84.60	356.60
*Tho 2005 Core Plan will be the Blue Cross Blue Shield PPO Standard Option.
b.	During 2004 through 2009, the Com-pany's monthly premium contributions and Core Plan selection will be as follows: The Core Plan will be determined annually by the Com-pany. Criteria for selection of the Core Plan will include requirements for the quality of healthcare products and services to be comparable to the current Core Plan. The Company will select the Core Pion and contribute a dollar amount up to 73% of the total premium of family medical coverage or 88% of the total premium for single medical coverage based on the Core Plan. For any plans with premiums greater than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute a dollar amount up to 73% for family coverage, or for single coverage, 88% of the Core Plan. The balance of the premium will be paid by the employee. However, for plans with total premiums less than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute no greater than 100% of the total premium of such plans.
c.	During ths term of this contract, the Company will meet with the Union semiannually to discuss trend data, the APC medical re-servee, and premium-to-ooet ratios to communicate premium estimates for years 2005 through 2009.
d.	Spouses of deceased preretirement employees who are covered
113
at the time of the employee's death by the family plan may continue to participate In the APC medical benefits plan at employee cost until they are covered by a non-APC sponsored medical plan.
For all participants In any APC medical plan, the Company agrees to provide an Integrated Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Managed Menial Health Plan as a part of the medical plans offered. During 2004, the vendor will be Value Options. The current plan design aspects will Includs:
Inpatient Mental Health: $250 deductible Including chemical dependency, 10% co-insurance, $500 maximum out of pocket, no annual day limit, In-network coverage only.
Outpatient Mental Health: No deductible, $15 copay, no vlalt limits In-network, out of network covered at 50% up to 20 visits per year.
Inpatient Chemical Dependency: $250 deductible Including mental health, 10% co-lnsurance, $500 maximum out of pocket, 60 days lifetime, In-network coverage only.
Outpatient Chemical Dependency: No deductible, $15 copay, no visit limits In-network, In-network coverage only.
114
EAP: Three (3) visits at 100%, then $15 co-pay per visit, In-network only, Includes legal referrals, financial referrals, childcare and elder-care referrals.
f.	Ths Company will continue to offer LTD Insurance with premiums as set forth below:
a.	The provider will be UnumProvident with the following monthly rates for the years 2004 and 2005:
73C per $100 of covered pay for 60% Base Salary coverage (36.5c per $100 covered by the employee and 36.5c per $100 by the Company).
45C per $100 of covered pay for 50% Base Salary coverage (8.5* per $100 covered by employee and 36.5* per $100 by the Company).
b.	During the remaining term of this agreement, the premium for the 60% coverage option will be shared equally (50% Company and 50% employee). The same Company contribution will be made for the 50% Base Salary coverage option.
g.	The Company will continue to offer Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance as a Personal Choice option in the Southern Company flexible benefits plan.
115
116
For the year 2005, the vendor will be AIG Insurance with the rates as follows:
Coverage	You
Potion	only
You + fihIU
You + You + spouse SBfiuas awLchlld
$ 50,000	$ 140	$ 1.40	$ 1.90	$ 2.10
100,000	240	240	340	440
200,000	440	5.60	740	840
300,000	740	840	1140	12.60
400,000	9.60	11.20	15.20	1640
500,000	12.00	1440	19.00	21.00
h.	The Company will offer an enhanced denial Insurance plan as a Personal Choice option In the Southern Company flexible benefits plan during the term of the contract The vendor will be Delta Denial.
For the year 2005, the following plans and monthly rates will be offered:
Premium	Delta Dental	Delta Dental
GflfegfiDC	LOW Option	High Option
Emp. Only	$1543	$28.73
Emp. + Family	4843	7840
4.	Future needs for certified welding will be met through employees in the mechanic classification as determined by management. The Company will determine how many mechanics will be certified. Mechanice who are certified welders will be paid a premium of $.40 per hour. Existing welders who pass CK&S requirements for Mechanics will also receive the $.40 per hour premium. As far as may be practicable, separate vacation and schedule selections will be maintained for Mechanics and Welders. Management reeervee the right to limit the number of certified Welders off at any given time. The Company agrees not to remove a current welder from that Job classification due to such employee's failure to qualify for the Mechanic Classification. The Company agrees not to remove a current Mechanic from that Job classification due to such employe's tailure to meet welding certification. Welding certification will be offered to Mechanics by seniority.
5.	Upgrade of Plant Control Operator: Each step of the classification of Plant Control Operator will be Increased by 25$ per hour.
6.	The modification of bld groups for filling Jobs In Article V (a) does not alter present seniority accumulation provl-clone and It does not change roll righto presently outlined in the contract.
117
7.	Unless specifically changed by the 2004 negotiations, all previous MOU's, MOA's, working conditions, compensations, policies, and benefits will remain in effect.
OTHER AGREEMENTS
The Company and the Union agree to establish a committee to delete unnecessary language, to correct errors In the language, to update language and perform editing of the Agreement as needed, without changing the Intent of the Agreement.
118
1998 Power Generation MOU August 14,1998
12.	During the term of this agreement, the Company will continue to reimburse employees required to hold a Commercial Drivers License, the cost of renewing such license above the cost of a private drivers license and the Company will pay for the first medical examination required for license renewal.
13.	Pay Calculations and Delivery
a.	The Company may take advantage of technological advances in performing future pay calculations. Rounding will no longer be an issue.
b.	The Company and Union recognize the cost savings associated with direct payroll check deposit and we jointly agree to use our best efforts to convince our fellow employees to participate. This might include prize drawing for participants.
14.	Job Bids
"Job Net" or any other bid system available in the future may be used for posting jobs at any time the following parameters can be maintained:
a.	Bid Security
b.	Bid Confirmation
c.	Existing method of Bid input used for the Contract Bid System (CBS).
119
d.	Compliance with Article V of the contract
21.	In recognition of the competitive nature of warehousing functions, the parties agree that the following changes will be made:
a.	Grandfather in their present classification all Warehousemen at the Plants for any present and future wage increases.
b.	Future Warehousemen vacancies at the Plants that the Company deems necessary to fill will be filled as Materialmen.
120
SIMPLIFIED GUIDELINES FOR VOLUNTARY TRAINING AT ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
August 15,1998
1.	Since this training is offered on a voluntary basis, employees will not be compensated for travel time to and from the training location which occurs outside the employee's scheduled or rescheduled hours.
2.	These guidelines apply to any training situation away from the employee's normal work location with exceptions noted In the footnotes of these guidelines.
3.	Each employee attending the training session whose permanent residence is greater than 50 miles from the training location is entitled to lodging (single occupancy when available) paid for by the Company.
Employees who choose to lodge at the training location will be eligible for mileage reimbursement for one round trip between his/her permanent residence and the training location for each week of training.
4.	Each employee attending the training session may elect to commute to the training location each day, using his personal vehicle, and will be reimbursed at the Company's prevailing rate for actual mileage up to maximum of 200 miles round trip each day.
If an employee who qualifies for lodging commutes daily to and from the training
121
center, he will not be provided lodging, but will be reimbursed for mileage as above.
Mileage will be computed by determining the most direct round trip route between the employee's permanent residence and training location, and by determining the most direct round trip route between the employee's permanent residence and permanent headquarters. Mileage will be paid for the entire commute, up to 200 miles, If the training commute exceeds the normal commute. If the training commute is less than the normal commute, no mileage reimbursement will be made.
. Mileage for employees who do not have normally assigned permanent head quarters will be computed by determining the most direct round trip route between the employee's permanent residence and training location, not to exceed 200 miles round trip.
5.	The Company will furnish or pay for breakfast, lunch and dinner if the employee is "lodging" and will furnish or pay for lunch If the employee is 'commuting.'
The method of providing meals varies as follows:
a.	For In-plant Fomil Training of Fossil and Hydro Employees:
The Company shall provide each "lodging" employee who is on a temporary training assignment an expense allowance equal to two meals
122
per day while training al a temporary location. If the mid shift meal is not furnished for the 'lodging" employee, they will receive an additional expense allowance for the noon meal.
The Company shall provide each "commuting" employee who is on a temporary training assignment his lunch meal only.
b.	For Hydro Training at Other Than Fossil Plants, for Operating Divisions and PDT:
For "lodging" employees, the Company will provide breakfast at the lodging facility, lunch at the training location and will reimburse the employee for dinner on an expense account.
For "commuting" employees, the Company will furnish or pay for lunch only.
6.	The per diem provisions outlined under the Power Delivery Transmission Agreement shall not apply to covered employees participating In a training session.
Footnote: For training purposes, the Company will not pay for lodging for the following:
a.	Training employees permanently headquartered at Gorges Steam Plant on temporary training assignment at Miller Steam Plant.
123
b.	Training employees permanently headquartered at Miller Steam Plant on temporary training assignment at Gorges Steam Plant
124
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING POWER GENERATION AND STEAM HEAT AGREEMENT
1995 NEGOTIATIONS
7.	For participants in the ARC medical plan administered by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama, the Company agrees to implement a Prescription Drug Program integrated with major medical. The following plan design aspects will be administered:
a.	Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama will maintain a network of pharmacies in Alabama which have agreed to participate in the Participating Pharmacy Program.
b.	Employees will save, on average, 15% when purchasing prescriptions from a network pharmacy.
c.	Once the major medical deductible of $300.00 is satisfied, generic drugs will be reimbursed at 100%, brand name drugs will be reimbursed at 80% of usual customary and reasonable charges.
d.	For prescription drugs purchased from a non network pharmacy, benefits will be payable to the employee, according to the existing Major Medical Plan.
16.	The Company can agree to remove all written disciplinary records from the employee's personal file except as noted
125
below as of the effective date of this agreement providing that the Union agrees to withdraw all pending arbitration cases involving discipline that did not result In termination, and further providing that such employee has no legal action pending against the Company.
The Company cannot agree, however, to remove discipline issued for violations of the Company's Drug and Alcohol Policy. In addition, the Company cannot agree to remove any written discipline resulting In multiple day suspension issued under the old progressive discipline policy after January 1,1995.
All discipline issued after June 1, 1995, under the Non-punitive Discipline System, will be removed according to the policy's guidelines.
17.	The Company will administer a Drug and Alcohol random testing program to the entire employee population Including those now covered by the Department of Transportation regulations covering the commercial drivers license.
The procedures now in effect for the testing program for employees with Commercial Drivers Licenses will be extended to all employees with the exception that the non-CDL group will be tested at a rale of 10% of that population per year. Employees covered under this agreement (other than those with a CDL) will be combined with other non-covered Company employees to form the non-CDL testing pool.
126
Implementation of post-accident drug and alcohol testing will be applicable to all employees including those currently under the Department of Transportation testing program as follows: a) Vehicular accidents - any accident meeting one or more of the following criteria 1) human fatality 2) one or more vehicles towed away from the scene of an accident 3) injury or injuries immediately treated away from the scene of an accident 4) Alabama Power Company driver receives a traffic citation relating to the accident; b) Non-Vehicular accidents - all doctor attention cases.
Upon an employee's request, a split sample will be tested and the Company will pay for the additional test at a laboratory designated by the Company.
28.	The Company can agree to a roving crew concept for the Power Generation area as set forth below:
a.	Existing employees will be used to form the crew (no new authorizations)
b.	Employees will be allowed to sign, by seniority, for the roving maintenance crew once per year.
c.	Make-up of the Crews will be as follows:
ECG BAR MIL GOR GCSP GAD TOTAL
Mechanics	8	8	8	8
E&l J’men	2	2	2	2
Weldera	4	4	4	5
4	1	37
0	0	8
1	0	18
127
d.	Based on needs and conditions, the Company will determine the make-up and schedule of each crew.
e.	If the positions can not be filled by existing Journeymen, it is understood that upgrading, by seniority, may be necessary to obtain the allotted positions at each location and to fill behind these positions when they are working at other locations.
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS
The Company has decided to make the following changes based on concerns voiced by our employees during these negotiations. The decision to change these items follows the principles outlined in the current Memoranda of Agreement which reaffirm the Company's right to exercise full control and discipline In the conduct of its business and to be the Judge of competency.
31.	Time limits for expiration of disciplinary action notices in the Company's new Non-punitive Discipline Policy are hereby reduced as follows:
1st level notice-12 months to 6 months 2nd level notice -18 months to 12 months 3rd level notice - 24 months to 18 months
All other provisions of the policy remain unchanged.
32.	Those sections of existing CK&S Testing Procedures which reference three (3) year
128
and/or five (5) year time limits on maintaining competency to hold or substitute in a tested classification will be changed to remove these time limits for employees presently qualified (by job or CK&S) as of January 1,1995 or thereafter.
Based on the Company's commitment to revise testing to include knowledge required on feeder tests, the requirement in Power Generation that the employee must be qualified on the feeder classification prior to qualification for Hydro Journeyman, Mechanic, Diesel Mechanic, E&l Journeyman, Welder, and Machinist will be removed.
129
Amendment Memorandum of Agreement Power Generation - Maintenance June 18,2004
The following Is an amendment to the Memorandum of Agreement; Power Generation - Maintenance dated January 17, 2004, between Alabama Power Company (Company) and the nine Local Unlona of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers System Council U-10 (the Union).
Hern 10 will be amended to read aa follows:
10. Once an employee Is awarded and accepts an apprentice Job, the employee will be restricted from bidding to lower classifications during the time the employee Is in the apprentice classification, unless the employee obtains Managsmsnt approval to do so.
Ths Union and Company agree to allow employees holding ths Apprentice Mechanic classification to ba awarded an E & I Apprentice Job for the first successful E & I Apprentice posting at each of the plants affected In this agreement After the first successful E & I Apprentice posting at each affected plant, after the signing of this amendment, Apprentice Mechanics will bo restricted from bidding to an E & I Apprentice classification during ths time the employee Is In the Apprentice Mechanic classification, unless ths smployee obtains Management approval to do so.
130
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT POWER GENERATION - MAINTENANCE January 17,2004
The following agreement between Alabama Power Company (the Company) and the nine Local Unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers System Council U-19 (the Union) is entered Into by the parties as a result of discussions between Company and Union representatives with provisions as set forth below:
1.	The provisions of this agreement will apply to employees located at Barry Steam Plant, E. C. Gaston Steam Plant, Green County Steam Plant, Gorges Steam Plant, and Miller Steam Plant covered by the Power Generation Agreement only. These provisions will not apply to other Memoranda of Agreement between the parties, nor will they apply to any other location under the Power Generation Agree* ment.
2.	Vacancies In the Mechanic and E&l Journeyman classifications will be posted as a dual posting for both the journeyman and apprentice classifications (i.e. Mechanlc/Apprentics Mechanic or E&l Journeyman/E&l Apprentice). The vacancy will be filled by the senior qualified bidder and at the level of that person's qualification (l.e.; If the employee Is qualified to be a Journeyman, the position will be filled as a journeyman. If the employee Is only
131
qualified as an apprentice, the Job will be filled as an apprentice.)
3.	Prior to entering a Mechanic or E&l Journeyman daaalflcation, employees will be required to complete the appropriate Maintenance Training Program, as evidenced by successfully completing all classroom requirements and demonstrating the ability to perform the duties of a Journeyman as set out in the Program, and complete all CK&S requirements. The requirement of completing the appropriate Maintenance Training Program will not apply In the event of a rollback for any employee who has previously held the dasslflca-tfon and is otherwise competent
4.	Employees who are classified as or have previously been classified as a Mechanic or E&l Journeyman, not to Include substitution or temporary Jobs, and are otherwise competent will be exempted from the requirement In Item 3 of completing the Maintenance Training Program In their line of progression before they can be awarded the journeyman job. Employees classified as Heavy Equipment Operator (not to include substitution or temporary jobs) that have passed the Mechanic CK&S requirements as of the date of this agreement will bo exempted from completing the Mechanic Training Program before being awarded a Mechanic Job.
132
5.	Currently, the Mechanic Training Program Ie a two (2) year program and the E&l Journeyman Training Program Ie a three (3) year program. The content and duration of these programs may be modified by the Company as needed. The Company agrees to discuss with the Union any changes In the duration of the training prior to Implementation. Mutual agreement of the parties must be obtained for changes which result In an Increase In the duration of either program of 6 months or more from the original program length stated herein.
6.	Apprentices may receive written or verbal fob assignments (I.e. work orders) from supervision, journeymen, or other deelgnated employees. The work assigned will be baeed on their skills and formal training.
7.	Apprentices may work on straight time without journeyman direction or super-vialon while demonstrating and/or developing skills. Once an apprentice has demonstrated competence in a skill or set of skills, the apprentice may be assigned such straight time work as if the apprentice Ie a journeyman. With regard to overtime assignments, apprentices may be assigned to assist a journeyman on callouts or prearranged work, except for outages, where they may be assigned any work for which they are competent. Journeymen will be expected to handle callout overtime.
133
8.	Apprentices will be progressed to the applicable journeyman classification at ths location designated on their job posting when they have successfully completed the structured Maintenance Training Program and have passed the CK&S requirements for ths Journeyman position. Mechanic or E&l Journeyman vacancies may be posted for both Miller Steam Plant and Gorges Stsam Plant on ths same posting. Ths posting will designate in the comments section to which plant ths Job will be assigned If It is filled at the Journeyman level on the Initial posting.
9.	Apprentices that do not demonstrate satisfactory progress toward successful completion of the Maintenance Training Program alter remedial help is given will be displaced from the classification as outlined In Article V, paragraph (I) or 00 of the contract Any Apprentice who Is unable to pase the CK&S requirements for ths Journeyman classification within ninety (90) days after successful completion of the Maintenance Training Program will be rolled as outlined In Article V, paragraph (k).
10.	Once an employee Ie awarded and accepts an apprentice Job, the employee will be restricted from bidding to lower classifications during ths tlms the employee Is In the apprentice classification, unless the employee obtains Management approval to do so.
134
135
11.	Apprentices that demonstrate satisfactory progress toward successful completion of the Maintenance Training Program will have their pay adjusted by the pay schedule below:
Apprentice Mechanic	24 Months &
Start 6 Months 12 Months 18 Months CK&S Qualified 19.36	20.36	21.36	22.36	23.84
Upon completing the applicable training program and passing the CK&S qualification, the employee will be placed In the Mechanic - Power Supply classification. After 6 months of satisfactory progress as a Mechanic - Power Supply, the employee will be placed at the top of the classification, at a rate of $24.02.
Apprentice E&l	36 Months &
Start 6 Mos 12 Mos 18 Mos 24 Mos 30Mos CK&S Qualified
19.87	20.47	21.07	21.67	22.27	22.87	24.26
Upon completing the applicable training program and passing the CK&S qualification, the employee will be placed in the E&l Journeyman classification. After 6 months of
satisfactory progress as an E&l Journeyman, the employee will be placed at the top of the classification, at a rats of $24.43.
12.	Both the Company and the Union will hold the neutral arbitrator's award on case 30-300-00496-02 (01-1-PA) In abeyance for a period of two (2) years from the date of the signing of this agreement Neither party will use the tentative award as a guide or precedent In any matter during this period. If the Company has not notified the Union of Its Intent to terminate this agreement as set forth In item 14 below at the conclusion of the two (2) years, the award will become void and neither party will use the award In any future proceedings. Ths Union agrees to withdraw the Intent to arbitrate the following grievances:
(a)	ECG-01-028
(b)	ECG-03-001
(c)	ECG-03-021 (d) ECG-03-022 (e) ECG-03-023
13.	Unless specifically referenced above, the terms and conditions of the basic Power Generation Agreement shall apply
14.	This agreement will remain In effect for a minimum of twelve (12) months. This agreement may be cancelled by either party by giving a sixty (60) day notice In writing to the other party. Upon can-
136
collation of thia agreement, the pay acale In Item 10 will revert to negotiated escalation of the Auguat 15, 2003 rates In the Power Generation Agreement. Such cancellation will not apply to any Maintenance Training Program In progreaa until It la completed.
Thia agreement ehall not be ueed to set a precedent for the eeme or similar situations In the future and will not prejudice either party's position regarding the Issues contained herein. Thia agreement Ie entered into this 17th day of January, 2004,
137
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BIRMINGHAM STEAM HEAT BOILER OPERATOR-MECHANIC
December 15,2003
Ths following agreement between Alabama Power Company, IBEW System Council U-10 and Its nine Local Unions Is entered into by ths parties as a result of discussions bstwssn Company and Union representatives with provisions as set forth bslow:
NOW, THEREFORE, H Is hereby agreed between the Company and the Union that the following will apply at Birmingham Steam Heat:
1.	The following classification and rate schedule will bo established In Exhibit A, Item 4 of ths Power Generation Memorandum of Agreement:
Bolter Operator-Mechanic 21260 2441324464 2M2S
2.	To demonstrate competency for ths nsw classification, employees not already qualified for the two Independent classifications must pass existing CK&S testing requirements for ths Boiler Operator classification and/or ths Mechanic classification as needed.
3.	Within 30 days of signing this agreement ths Company will post one (1) Bollsr Operator-Mechanic vacancy, to replace the Mechanic Job now vacant, as per Article V, paragraph (e) of the current Power Generation Memorandum of Agreement
138
4.	There will be a one job net addition at Birmingham Steam Heat within twelve (12) months unless conditions change making It unnecessary to operate the South Side Steam Plant for peak load. If operation of the South Side Steam Plant for peak load Is unnecessary, all future vacancies at Birmingham Steam Heat, except that of Helper, will be posted as either Boiler Operator, Mechanic, or E&l Journeyman. Should Management determine future operation of the South Side Steam Plant Is unnecessary, Management will advise Sie Union In a timely manner.
5.	Existing Mechanics and Boiler Operators at Birmingham Steam Heat will not be rolled as a result of filling a Boiler Operator-Mechanic Job. Existing Mechanics and Boiler Operators will not be required to qualify as a Boiler Operator-Mechanic.
6.	Effective with this agreement, Mechanics and Boiler Operator - Mechanics will be considered In one work group for the purposes of schedule selection, job assignments on straight time and overtime, overtime distribution, and vacation scheduling.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not preclude management's right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number and classification of employees employed at each location and
139
their work assignments. This agreement ehall not be used to eat a precedent for the came or similar situations In the future.
140
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT ARBITRATION SERVICES November 20,2003
Ao a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are embraced in this Memorandum of Agreement
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
1.	Both parties need an arbitration service that is efficient, economical, and meets their needs.
2.	Both parties agree to modify the second and third sentences in the first paragraph of Article VII in the Generation and the Distribution and Support contract agreements and In Article IX In the Transmission contract agreement to read as follows:
Each of the parties hereto will select one (1) member of this board and the third member will be selected Jointly by the parties through the American Arbitration Association, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS), or any other like organization approved by mutual agreement of the parties to provide this service. If the parties cannot mutually agree on FMCS or another like organization, the American
141
Arbitration Association will bo ths default service provider. The parties will have ten (10) working days from ths receipt of any valid panel provided by the approved service to Identify their selections for ths third member.
Unless specifically referenced above, the terms and conditions of ths Basic Memorandum of Agreement will apply.
142
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT COGENERATION PROJECT STAFFING
AUGUST 1, 2000
The following agreement between Alabama Power Company, IBEW System Council U-19 and its nine Local Unions is entered into by the parties as a result of discussions between Company and Union representatives with provisions as set forth below:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between the Company and the Union as follows:
1.	Cogeneration projects staffed by Alabama Power Company will have an all Journeyman multi-skilled work force.
2.	Employees must be dual qualified as a minimum and must include POO qualification (PCO-E&I, PCO-M) to be awarded this job.
3.	Employees dually qualified (PCO-E&I, PCO-M) will have one year from report date to qualify as a Cogeneration Journeyman or be rolled as outlined In Article V, paragraph (i). (Ref. paragraph 8. d. below)
4.	All dual craft and multicraft employees at the facility will comprise one functional work group and be considered one classification for purposes of shift selection and vacation scheduling.
5.	Vacation and shift schedule selections will be completed after all jobs are filled.
143
6.	During the first six weeks after reporting to a job at the Cogen facility, employees may request to return to their previous job and location under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (I) of the existing Memorandum of Agreement. After this six weeks period employees will be restricted from bidding on vacancies outside the Cogen for a period of 18 months, except to a higher classification.
7.	After the six-week waiting period, the employee will be awarded a one-month's salary of a Cogen Journeyman as a relocation bonus (Footnote 1). The Company will pay reasonable moving expenses associated with moving household furnishings by a Commercial Moving Company approved by the Company, provided it is sixty (60) miles farther from their existing home to their new work location than it is from their existing home to their old work location. Example: Now an employee lives 30 miles from their work location. If it is 90 miles or farther from their existing home to new work location, they would receive the moving expense (Footnote 1).
8.	It is the Company's Intent that employee qualification will be determined by existing or new CK&S test Instruments as follows: (Footnote 2)
a.	Cogeneration Journeyman Test will test for each discipline. This test will not qualify employees for any other job.
b.	Plant individual classification CK&S tests (Mechanic, E&l, PCO).
144
c.	Dual craft employees will be allowed to test three times in the one-year transition period.
d.	Hydro Journeymen who are qualified under Fossil POO guidelines are considered qualified for Cogen Journeyman.
9.	Company will provide a System Description for the use of employees who wish to pursue qualifications.
10.	The Cogen Journeyman classification will not be used at existing Company facilities (i.e. inside the fence).
11.	With regard to Strikes or Lockouts, the Union and Company agree to abide by Article XI of the Power Generation Memorandum of Agreement. Additionally, the Union will not strike at a cogeneration project prior to providing the Company 30 days notice that a strike vote has occurred. However, such a strike vote will not occur until the basic Power Generation Memorandum of Agreement has terminated.
12.	The Union agrees never to picket a customer's facility.
13.	Employees awarded jobs at cogeneration facilities should recognize their unique position of representing Alabama Power Company and every effort should be made to maintain excellent customer relations.
145
14.	This Memorandum of Agreement Is applicable to Cogeneration Projects at Washington County and Theodore. However, by mutual agreement of both parties, this Memorandum of Agreement may be extended to include additional cogeneration projects.
15.	Unless specifically referenced above, the terms and condKlons of the bask: Power Generation Memorandum of Agreement will apply.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and is applicable to Cogeneration facilities. This agreement will not preclude management's right to exercise full control of the work force, Including the determination of the number and classification of employees employed at these locations and their work assignments. This agreement will not be used to set a precedent for the same or similar situations in the future and will not prejudice either party's position regarding the Issues contained herein.
FOOTNOTES
(1)	Employees that are currently Cogen Journeymen on August 1, 2000, are exempted from 6 & 7 as long as they are In their present job. Employees are not subject to receive the one-month's bonus more than once.
(2)	Employees that have qualified for Cogen Journeyman by August 1,2000 under the Cogen MOA dated June 10, 1998 will be held to the qualification requirements of the MOA dated June 10,1998.
146
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING POWER GENERATION
COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB SECURITY NOVEMBER 12,1996
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are embraced in this memorandum of agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
2. In an effort to implement new practices that will ensure a competitive workforce the Company and the Union agree, where practical, to encourage that overtime be distributed by work teams; for a trial period up to one year. Both parties agree that in many areas where Team Overtime is in effect there have been fewer grievances and higher productivity. If major inequities occur in the distribution of overtime, during this trial period, Management and Union will make the necessary changes to address concerns.
8.	Employees working and being paid in a higher classification (upgrade, substitution, and temporary jobs) may be utilized on a voluntary basis to perform lower classification work on overtime and be paid the lower rate when such is cost effective.
147
9.	Management and the Union mutually agree that certain activities/efforts are meaningful and worthwhile in the pursuit of decreasing our product's cost. To that end both bargaining unit and non-bargaining unit employees will be encouraged and supported In their participation in these activities. Potential areas include but are not limited to:
a.	Investigation of a business unit concept for Welder, Machinists, Motor / Breaker Repair and Electronic card repair, as well as all other functions which make business sense.
b.	Market testing plant processes.
d. Communicate results of dtecusslons surrounding MOU.
11.	Consideration of the utilization of Roving Crews wil be based on good business practices and economics, as determined by the Management. Management and Union agree to meet to discuss methods to reduce average man-hour cost. These discussions will specifically address per diem in lieu of actual additional expenses and any other way to reduce costs.
Because the reduction in cost will directly affect bargaining unit employees who participate In roving crews, methods to reduce cost recommendations will be formulated by Union Representatives. Management will act only in an advisory capacity.
148
12.	The Union agrees to cooperate in the Company's welfare and use their influence to promote the Interest of the Company's competitive position in an ever-changing industry environment. The Company and Union agree to seek opportunities to improve efficiencies and fully utilize our workforce.
149
SOUTHERN NUCLEAR OPERATING COMPANY, ALABAMA POWER COMPANY, IBEW LOCAL 796 AND IBEW SYSTEM COUNCIL U-10
POWER GENERATION JOB BIDDING MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING November 30,1995
On August 21, 1986, Alabama Power Company and the nine local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers System Council U-19 agreed to separate Farley Nuclear Plant from the Power Generation seniority unit A ten year timeframe was established, during which time covered personnel at Plant Farley would maintain their seniority for bidding purposes only to the Power Generation seniority unit This agreement expires January 1,1996 and the parties are interested In establishing a method for power generation personnel to transfer between Alabama Power and Southern Nuclear. The parties agree to the following:
Effective January 1, 1996, Alabama Power vacancies or new jobs within Power Generation will be posted at Farley Nuclear Plant simultaneously with the posting of such jobs at Alabama Power. Plant Farley bidders will be considered after all bids from Alabama Power Company personnel are dispositioned, prior to the vacancy or new job being posted to any available source. Seniority for Plant Farley personnel will be based on the seniority provisions agreed upon between Southern Nuclear and IBEW Local 796 and System Council U-19.
150
Likewise, Southern Nuclear will post Plant Farley vacancies or new jobs within the Power Generation seniority unit of Alabama Power, simultaneously with the posting of such jobs at Southern Nuclear. Alabama Power bidders will be considered after all bids from Southern Nuclear personnel are dispositioned, prior to the vacancy or new job being posted to any available source. Seniority for Alabama Power personnel will be based on the seniority provisions agreed upon between Alabama Power and the nine locals of the IBEW System Council U-19.
This agreement is not intended to alter qualifications, requirements, or competency considerations. Classifications not subject to the posting process will not be subject to this agreement.
151
12 HOUR SCHEDULE
August 14,1995
This agreement will be applicable to employees, work groups, and crews not presently covered by a 12 hour schedule.
Prior to implementing a 12 hour schedule the Company wNI notify the appropriate union official of Us intent to place an employee, work group, or crew on a 12 hour schedule. Such Union Representative will determine the interests of such employee, work group, or crew in being rescheduled to a 12 hour schedule. Provided a majority of affected employees are In favor of cooperating with the Company, such schedule will be implemented with at least a seven (7) day written notice from the dale the Union notifies the Company of Its concurrence with the schedule.
While on such twelve (12) hour schedule, the following will be applicable:
COMPENSATION
Since twelve (12) hour schedules may vary widely with more or less than forty scheduled hours in a workweek, an hourly adjustment factor may be necessary in order to compensate employees and maintain relatively level labor costs. Any adjustment factor would be established prior to offering a schedule for consideration.
152
SCHEDULE
The regular daily work period will be consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (v) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that the parties agree that during those periods that the agreed upon schedule is in effect, "twelve (12)" will be inserted In lieu of "eight (8)" where it appears in the second sentence of such paragraph.
The Parties agree to waive the requirements as set forth in the second sentence of Article VIII, paragraph (w). Accordingly, any reference to the word five is to be disregarded. The Parties agree to waive the requirements as sot forth In the third sentence of Article VIII paragraph (w) for employees working relief schedules only. The agreed upon schedule will determine what the dally work periods will be.
No overtime or meals will be paid for work performed within an employee's regularly scheduled hours while on the twelve hour schedule.
VACATIONS
Vacations will be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (c) of the Memorandum of Agreement, except that vacation will be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e. g. an employee scheduled for a twelve (12) hour work period would be charged twelve (12) hours vacation).
153
holidays
The terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d) will apply when the agreed upon schedule is in effect, except as set forth below.
When a holiday fells on an employee's regularly scheduled off day the employee will receive eight (6) hours holiday pay or be allowed a day off in lieu thereof consistent with the terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d). Should a holiday fall on an employee's regular scheduled work day the employee win receive twelve hours at one and one/half times the applicable rate plus the eight hour holiday pay. Should the employee be regularly scheduled for twelve hours on the day they take off they will be allowed to charge four (4) hours to vacation or dock.
SICK LEAVE AND VACATION
Sick leave and vacation will be taken consistent with the Memorandum of Agreement except that sick leave and vacation will be considered by hours and charged accordingly.
DEATH AND FUNERAL LEAVE
Death and Funeral Leave will be taken consistent with the Memorandum of Agreement
JURY DUTY
The provisions of Article VIII, paragraph (f), will apply relative to time off to perform jury duty.
154
RETURN TO REGULAR SCHEDULE
It will be at the discretion of the Company to determine when twelve (12) hour work schedules should end and same will be accomplished by giving at least thirty-six (36) hour notice.
155
10 HOUR SCHEDULE POWER GENERATION August 14,1995
This agreement will be applicable to all employees, work groups, and crews covered by the Power Generation Agreement.
Prior to implementing a four day, ten hour work schedule, the Company will notify the appropriate Union Representative of its intent to place an employee, work group, or crew on a four day ten hour schedule. Such Union Representative will determine the interests of such employee, work group, or crew In being rescheduled to the four day, ten hour schedule. Provided a majority of affected employees are In favor of cooperating with the Company, such schedule will be implemented with at least a seven (7) day written notice from the date that the Union notifies the Company of Its concurrence with the schedule.
While on such four day, ton hour schedule, the following will be applicable:
SCHEDULE
The regular dally work period will be consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (v) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that the parties agree that during those periods that the proposed schedule Is in effect, "ton (10)" will be Inserted in lieu of "eight (8)" where it appears In the second sentence of such paragraph.
The parties agree to waive the requirements as set forth in the second sentence of Article
156
VIII, paragraph (w). Accordingly, any reference to the word "five (5)* following the third sentence will be considered as "four (4)" when such schedule Is in effect.
No overtime will be paid for work performed within an employee's scheduled hours of work while working on a four day ten (10) hour schedule.
VACATION
Vacations will be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (c) of the Memorandum of Agreement, except that vacation will be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e. g. an employee scheduled for a ten (10) hour work period would be charged ten (10) hours vacation).
HOLIDAYS
The terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d) will apply when the proposed schedule is in effect, except as set forth below.
When a holiday falls on an employee's regular scheduled off day, the employee will receive eight (8) hours pay for that holiday al the straight time rate or be allowed a day off in lieu thereof consistent with the terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d). Should a holiday fall on employees' regularly scheduled work day and the employees do not work on such holiday, they will be paid eight (8) hours at the straight time rate for such holiday and be allowed to charge two (2) hours to vacation or dock time.
157
SICK LEAVE
Sick leave will be taken consistent with Article VIII (b) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that sick leave will be considered in hours and charged accordingly (e. g. An employee eligible for sick leave and absent due to an Illness who is regularly scheduled to work ten (10) hours, will be charged ten (10) hours sick leave).
JURY DUTY
The provisions of Article VIII, paragraph (f) will apply relative to time off to perform jury duty.
DEATH LEAVER UNERAL LEAVE
Death and Funeral leave will be granted consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (t) of the Memorandum of Agreement.
RETURN TO REGULAR SCHEDULE
It will be at the discretion of the Company to determine when such four day ten (10) hour work schedule should end and same will be accomplished by giving a thirty-six hour notice.
158
POWER SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT FACILITY OPERATION
May 9,1995
1.	Jobs at the PSDF will be considered as a separate reporting headquarters within the Fossil/Hydro/Steam Heat bid unit. For employees hired after September 14, 2004, PSDF and Gaston Steam Plant will be one bld group.
2.	Jobs will be posted and filled based on procedures outlined in the existing agreement except as provided in item 6. The proposed classifications and staffing schedule is outlined in attachment #1.
3.	During the first six weeks after reporting to a job at the PSDF, employees may request to return to their previous job and location under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (i) of the existing Memorandum of Agreement. After this six weeks period employees will be restricted from bidding on vacancies outside the PSDF for a period of 18 months, except to a higher classification.
4.	Although Item 2 will apply to the filling of these jobs, the employee must demonstrate a continuing ability to perform all job responsibilities and learn the new or additional concepts and knowledge necessary to operate and maintain the PSDF. Employees removed from PSDF as a result of unsatisfactory performance will return under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (i) or paragraph (k) of the existing Memorandum of Agreement.
159
5.	Alternative work schedules baaed on 4-10 hour days or a rotating 12 hour schedule may be utilized subject to approval by SCS and a majority of the affected personnel. In the event such schedules are utilized, no overtime will be paid for working more than 8 hours in a 24 hour period. Language in existing Fossil MOUs on 10 hour and 12 hour schedules would apply.
6.	In order to maintain the proper level of experienced employees at each generation site, the Senior Vice President of Power Generation at Alabama Power Company may disregard applications for Plant Control Operator from qualified applicants at any reporting headquarters where the loss might jeopardize unit operations at that location.
7.	Personnel who fill jobs or work at the PSDF under the provisions of this agreement will remain employees of APCo for purposes of wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment and APCo will act as a labor broker to SCS. SCS will provide direction, control, and supervision of these personnel while working at the PSDF. Before being awarded a job at the PSDF, each employee must acknowledge and give consent of this working relationship in writing (combined with item 10).
8.	Personnel accepting jobs at the PSDF might recognize that this is a unique research facility and when not performing the normal duties off their job, they will perform any other assigned duties within the scope of their training or ability.
160
9.	Employees who are headquartered at Gaston Steam Plant or the PSDF who are on temporary assignment at either location, will not be paid for a midshift meal.
10.	All personnel working at the PSDF must individually execute a nondisclosure agreement concerning confidential and/or proprietary information as specified by APCo and SCS.
11.	All items not addressed above will be handled in accordance with the existing Memorandum of Agreement Including any negotiated changes/additions not conflicting with other provisions of this agreement.
12.	At the conclusion of the contract to operate the PSDF between APCo and SCS, APCo Management and the Unions agree to meet and discuss the consequences of ending said agreement. Each party has an interest in facilitating and reducing the dislocation associated with the ending of the PSDF contract.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not preclude Management's right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number of employees employed within each classification. This agreement will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future.
161
Attachment 1
[This table was updated to reflect 2004 staffing levels]
PSDF OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROPOSED STAFFING SCHEDULE *
.Personnel______ Schedule___________________________________________________
162
1996	2004
Classification	Aug	Sept	Oct	Nov	Dec	Jan	Sept
rBu uorna uporan	14	14	14	14	14	20	16
Asst Plant Cent Opr.	4	4	4	4	4	8	8
Equ^ment Operator			2	2	2	2	
Mechanic		4	4	4	4	8	6
E&l Journeyman	3	3	3	3	3	3	8
Welder			1	1	1	1	3
Totals	21	25	26	26	28	42	43
* Actual starting dates and number of Jobs may vary.
Agreement Regarding Special Employer Relationship, Intellectual Property, and
Confidential Information
I.	Special Employer Relationship
I understand and acknowledge that while my wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment are set by contract with Alabama Power Company, and my Union, that APCo serves only as a labor broker to Southern Company Services for work at the Power Systems Development Facility (PSDF), and that my work will be subject to the direction, control, and the supervision of both SCS and APCo while working at the PSDF. I fully understand this and hereby give my express consent to this working relationship while I am working at the PSDF.
II.	Intellectual Property & Confidential Information
In consideration of my employment, and/or the continuation of my current employment at will, by Alabama Power Company (the "Company11) or any of the Company's direct or indirect subsidiaries or affiliates, whether presently or hereafter existing (collectively, the "Affiliates") and in connection with the Company's Intellectual Property Policy, I hereby agree as follows:
1.	When used in this Agreement:
a.	The term "Intellectual Property" means each invention, discovery,
163
Innovation, work product, design, process, article of manufacture, composition, computer program, or any new or useful improvements of any of the foregoing, and any trade secret, mask work, trademark or service mark, that relates in any way to the business of the Company or any Affiliate or the work I perform for the Company or any Affiliate and that is made by using the Company's or any Affiliate's time, personnel, facilities, or materials.
b.	The term "Trade Secret' means any information (i) which may have economic value from not being generally known to and not being readily ascertainable through proper means by, other persons who are able to obtain economic value from Us disclosure or use; and (ii) for which reasonable efforts under the circumstances have been made to maintain Ms secrecy; and in all events, "Trade Secret" will include, without limitation, technical and non-technical data, formulas, patterns, compilations, computer programs, plans, lists of actual or potential customers and/or suppliers, confidential business, pricing and marketing plans, and other customer and referral source Information in any form.
c.	The term "Confidential Information" means proprietary and confidential Information which Is not otherwise a Trade Secret and which is valuable to
164
and related to the business of the Company, any Affiliate, or any third party with whom the Company or any Affiliate has a business relationship (a "Third Party") and which is generally unknown to the public or to competitors of the Company or any Affiliate; or other items as the Company or any Affiliate may from time to time mark or otherwise identify as "confidential."
2.	a. I will disclose promptly and fully to the Company any Intellectual Property which I conceive of, develop, modify, work on, create, or reduce to practice. I agree that all Intellectual Property will be deemed to the greatest extent possible to be "works made for hire" as defined in the Copyright Act, as amended from time to time (17 USC Section 101 et. seq.) (the "Copyright Act"), and that the Company will have the exclusive, worldwide ownership of such Intellectual Property, and that no Intellectual Property will be treated as or be deemed a "joint work" (as defined in the Copyright Act) of mine and the Company or otherwise.
b. I agree to and do hereby assign to the Company, without further compensation, all right, title and interest in and to all such Intellectual Property and all patent, copyright, mask work, trademark, service mark, trade secret, or other rights therein related to such Intellectual Property. During and after my employment, I will exe
165
cute all necessary documents and will provide proper assistance (at the Company's expense) to enable the Company or an Affiliate to obtain, for itself or its assigns or nominees, registration of patents, copyrights, mask works, trademarks, service marks, or other legal protection for any such Intellectual Property.
c. I agree not to use, publish, or disclose (except as my duties as an employee of the Company or an Affiliate may require) any information related to such Intellectual Property during my employment. I further agree (except as my employment duties with the Company or an Affiliate may require) not to use, publish, transfer or disclose (i) any Confidential information or other proprietary information of the Company or any Affiliate during the term of my employment with the Company and/or any Affiliate and for a period of three (3) years Immediately following the last to occur of the termination of my employment with the Company or any Affiliate; or (ii) any Trade Secret of the Company, or any Affiliate, or any Third Party, for such time as such information constitutes a Trade Secret under applicable law.
3.	a. I acknowledge and agree that in the course of my employment by the Company or an Affiliate, I have been and will be given access to valuable Information of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or Third Parties which
166
Information is a Trade Secret or is Confidential Information. I agree that I will use such Trade Secrets and/or Confidential Information for the Company's and/or an Affiliate's business purposes only, and that I will not (other than as Instructed by a duly authorized representative of the Company or an Affiliate) copy, disclose, disseminate, communicate, transfer, or otherwise convey any item which (i) is a Trade Secret while it remains a Trade Secret under applicable law or (II) is Confidential Information for three (3) years immediately following the last to occur of the termination of my employment by the Company or any Affiliate.
b. Upon request at any time during my employment by the Company or by an Affiliate and on or before the last day of such employment, I will deliver to or leave with the Company or such Affiliate all copies of all materials and information of foe Company and any Affiliate, all Trade Secrets and all Confidential Information which may be in my possession or under my control, including all Instruments, tools, devices, materials, confidential or proprietary business documents, plans, records, drawings, computer programs, or other information relating to the business of foe Company, any Affiliate, or any Third Party. I hereby acknowledge and agree that to foe extent that I have executed a confidentiality or similar agreement
167
with any Third Party or the extent that I have agreed to comply with the terms of a confidentiality or similar agreement with any Third Party, I will continue to be bound by the terms of any such agreement even after the termination of my employment with the Company or any date.
4.	a. I agree that this Agreement (i) will be governed by the laws of the state of Alabama; (ii) will be binding upon and enure to the benefit of my heirs, executors, and administrators and the Company's successors and assigns (and to the extent that I am employed by any Affiliate, by the successors and assigns by such Affiliate), (iii) will continue after the termination of my employment with the Company and any Affiliate; and (hr) may not be amended, or terminated, except in a written Instrument signed on behalf of the Company (or an Affiliate, if such is appropriate) and by me. I acknowledge that while I cannot assign this Agreement or delegate my duties or obligations under this Agreement, the Company and its Affiliates may assign all or any part of this Agreement to another person or entity.
4. b. I also agree that (i) this Agreement supersedes and replaces any prior agreement, either oral or written, which I may have with the Company or any Affiliate that relates generally to the same subject matter; (ii) noth-
168
ing in this Agreement modifies my status as an employee at will of the Company or an Affiliate; and (ill) all rights and restrictions contained in this Agreement may be waived or may be exercised by the Company, any Affiliate, or the successors or assigns of either, as appropriate, separately and distinctly and to the full extent of applicable law, if any provision of this Agreement will be held to be illegal, invalid, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, I agree that the remaining provisions will remain in full force and effect.
169
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM August 2,1994
1.	The purpose of this program is to assist children of employees fatally injured at work in continuing their education by providing financial support for tuition and other educational expenses.
2.	The Company defines “fatally injured" as it is defined by Alabama Worker's Compensation Law. That means that the employee's death must occur within three years of an injury caused by an accident that occurs in the course of employment
3.	Participation and/or application under this program obligates the student to follow the various provisions and/or amended provisions as they may apply.
4.	The Program will be administered by Alabama Power Company's Human Resources Department through local Human Resources Representatives.
5.	Alabama Power Company may change or terminate the total program or any provision thereof. Human Resources will resolve any controversy involving this program or its application within its sole discretion. Such decisions will not be subject to appeal or challenge.
This Memorandum of Agreement Is entered into and becomes effective on this, the 2nd day of August, 1994.
170
POWER GENERATION ISSUES June 3,1994
Item 1. Switching - Establish a joint committee with equal representation (IBEW/APCO) at each plant to develop a procedure that will assign responsibility within their respective Plant's switchyards.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not preclude Management's right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number of employees employed within each classification. This agreement will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future. The intent of this agreement is not to expand or diminish the duties of the Assistant Plant Control Operators.
HYDRO GENERATION REORGANIZATION November 6,1992
5.	Employees classified as Plant Operator, Electrician or Mechanic in Hydro Generation on January 1, 1993 and not competent for one of the three new job classifications as described In four (4) above, will be reclassified to one of the three new job classifications as soon as they qualify on the appropriate COS test instrument. No such employee will be required to qualify for one of these new classifications during the term of the current labor agreement. If such employee qualifies for one of these new classifications during 1993, the employee will be placed at the top rate. Otherwise, reclassification will be in accordance with the basic Memorandum of Agreement.
171
6.	Beginning January 1, 1993, journeymen Jobs within Hydro Generation will be posted as either Operator Electrician or Operator Mechanic. Employees awarded these new jobs will have eighteen months In order to qualify for the Hydro Journeyman classification. Employees not qualifying for the Hydro Journeyman classification within this eighteen month period will be rolled out of the classification under the terms of Article V, paragraph (I) of the basic Memorandum of Agreement
7.	Beginning April 1,1995, journeymen jobs within Hydro Generation may be posted as Hydro Journeyman.
8.	The Company will agree to make good faith efforts to assist employees in qualifying for these new positions by Increasing training opportunities for employees within Hydro Generation specifically and more generally within Fossil Hydro.
172
EXHIBIT D ALABAMA POWER COMPANY POWER GENERATION
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT PROCEDURES RELATING TO PROVIDING OR PAYING FOR MEALS
STATEMENT OF POUCY
The Company will defray the reasonable extra costs incurred by or for employees for meals resulting from their being required to work overtime outside their scheduled or rescheduled hours and days; or as an alternative, at its option the Company will provide such meals at Company expense.
Employees who are eligible for meals will be provided such meals or at the employee's option, be paid a $10.00 meal allowance. Effective August 15, 2007, the meal allows ance will be Increased to $10.50. Effective August 15,2008, the meal allowance will be increased to $11.00.
GENERAL PRACTICES UNDER THE POUCY
1.	In practice, when a supervisor (or an employee designated to act In Heu of a supervisor) is present, the Company will "provide" the meeds, that is, pay for them directly to the restaurant, cafe, or boarding house. If there is no supervisor present (or anyone in lieu thereof) the Company will reimburse the employees for reasonable costs of meals similarly obtained as evidenced by proper vouchers or receipts for same to be surrendered upon reimbursement. The meals provided or paid
173
for are to be such as the employees would ordinarily purchase if on their own expense. The "reasonable" cost of meals will usually vary, depending on the particular meal, location and what sources are available. It is agreed to between the parties that meals will be paid for or provided by the Company in all conditions outlined herein if reasonably obtainable. Meals are "reasonably obtainable” if they occur during the usual hours of business of restaurants, cafes or boarding houses located within thirty (30) minutes travel, by available transportation of the job or if they can be obtained and delivered to the job. Employees will not be paid for meals missed because they were not "reasonably obtainable" at the time or for meals they elected to obtain at their homes or at their regular eating places or because they elected not to eat meals obtainable at the time; however, this will not prevent reimbursement to employees for meals brought to the job from their homes or their regular eating places by prearrangement with their supervisor.
2.	In general the Company will not pay for time spent eating meals unless employees are required to remain at woric or stand by al some definite location.
3.	In cases where the Company Is to provide meals the obligation Is on the supervisor in charge to see that they are provided, if available, and that they are adequate as to quality, quantity and timing. Timing Is understood to mean that meals will be made available at, or as nearly as practical at the normal regular mealtimes and approximately each six (6) hours thereafter until released from duty. In the case of long continued emergency woric
174
every reasonable effort is to be made to get meals or refreshments as necessary to maintain strength and morale.
4.	In cases where employees are to be reimbursed for meals the obligation rests on them to request reimbursement through the proper channels and to present satisfactory vouchers or receipts for payments made for such meals to the responsible supervisors. Employees are not to purchase meals for reimbursement except pursuant to instructions and authorization under this general policy.
5.	The intent and provisions of these practices will be interpreted and applied in accordance with the following general and specific procedures.
GENERAL PROCEDURES
A. WITH RESPECT TO ALL EMPLOYEES COVERED
I.When employees work only their scheduled hours and days in the usual manner at or from their usual headquarters or reporting places (i.e., places to which they report, from which they start work, and to which they return) they will provide their own meals immediately before, immediately after and between scheduled working periods in the same day at their own expense, except that during any day when an employee starts from and returns to such headquarters as usual but works his scheduled hours at a
175
location not normally serviced from such headquarters the Company will provide or reimburse the employee for the noon meal except as follows:
a.	Employees who are headquartered at Gaston Steam Plant or the PSDF who are on temporary assignment at either location will not be paid for a midshift meal.
b.	Employees assigned to Miller Steam Plant who are on a temporary assignment at Gorgas Steam Plant, or vice versa, will not be paid the mid-shift meal.
2.	When employees are required to spend one or more nights away from their regular headquarters or reporting place while working either or both scheduled or unscheduled hours and days, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals occurring between departure from and return to headquarters which they are unable to eat at their homes or at their regular eating places.
3.	When employees are required to work outside their regularly scheduled or rescheduled hours and days of work either at or away from their usual headquarters or reporting places as described below, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which are eaten during such periods.
4.	If between periods of work in the same day outside their regularly scheduled or
176
rescheduled hours and days employees prefer to eat any usual meals which occur during that day at their homes or at their regular eating places, and if they can be and are released for the time necessary to do so, the Company will not pay for such meals in as much as this would be at the option of the employees.
SPECIFIC PROCEDURES
B.WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEES ON NON-SHIFT WORK
Text Deleted
SPECIFIC PROCEDURES
C. WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEES ON SHIFT WORK
1.	Early Start:
Breakfast: In case employees on shift work are required to start work one hour or more before their regular starting time, and are notified to this effect before the end of their last scheduled work period, the Company will provide or pay for their breakfasts and if such employees normally bring their lunches, the Company will provide or pay for their lunches if not brought from home.
Dinner and Supper: In case employees are required to start work one hour or more before their regular starting time, and are notified to this effect prior
177
to the end of their last previous scheduled work period and as a result were unable to eat their usual meals at their homes or at their regular eating places, the Company will provide or pay for the meal or meals obtained elsewhere. In cases where the Company pays for or provides a meal under the provisions of this paragraph and such employees usually bring their lunches, the Company will also provide or pay for a meal or meals which occur during the shift.
2.	Working Beyond Shift Quitting Time: In case such employees are required to continue work more than two hours beyond their regular shift quitting time and as a result are unable to be at their regular eating places at mealtimes, the Company will provide or pay for the meals obtained elsewhere.
3.	Doubling-Over: When employees are required to double-over and work continuously through the next succeeding shift, the Company will provide or pay for meals which occur during the extra shifts.
4.	Call-Outs: If such employees are called out and as a result are unable to eat any usual meals which occur during such periods at their homes or at their regular eating places, the Company will provide or pay for such meals obtained elsewhere, and the time required for eating meals occurring during the period of such call-out will be counted as
178
time worked unless circumstances are such that the usual meal periods can be observed and the employees are permitted to obtain meals in a manner and at a place of their own discretion. If employees are called out any time prior to their normal starting time and as a result were unable to eat their usual meals at their homes or at their regular eating places or were unable to mate their usual arrangements for meals to be eaten during the shift, the Company will provide or pay for the meal or meals obtained elsewhere.
5.	Off-Days: For prearranged work assignments on an employee's off day, midshift meals will not be provided or paid. If an employee doubles on an off day, the Company will continue its practice of providing or paying for meals for the second shift. Otherwise, when employees are required to work on their off-days and have not been prearranged, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which occur during such periods when the employees are working at their overtime rates. If work starts and stops at the usual shift times, employees will provide their own meals immediately before and following such periods, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
6.	Premium Pay Shift: Employees who are working regularly scheduled shifts which are part of their normal forty (40) hour work week but who are working at an overtime rate for hours worked in
179
excess of eight (8) in a twenty-four (24) hour work period will provide their own mid-shift rnsals.
7.	Call-Out on Holiday: If such employees are called out to work on a holiday which occurs on the employee's regular scheduled work day, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which occur during such periods. If work starts and stops at the usual shift times, employees will provide their own meals immediately before and following such periods, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
180
EXHIBIT E ALABAMA POWER COMPANY POWER GENERATION DEPARTMENT
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT PAYMENT FOR TRAVEL EXPENSE FOR EMPLOYEES REQUIRED TO WORK OVERTIME
Subject to the limitations and provisions set forth in paragraph 2 below In respect to work on a call-out basis, the Company proposes the following to apply when employees are required to work on a prearranged basis on their off-day or on a work day when the overtime worked does not run into or is not a continuation of work beyond their regular schedule:
1.	The Company will reimburse employees who live five miles or more from their headquarters measured by the shortest traveled route for travel expense as follows:
a.	If travel is by public conveyance, the Company will reimburse the employee the actual expense incurred.
b.	If travel is by personal automobile, the Company will pay for use of car at the current rate per mile. This payment will be made to only one employee in the event several employees ride in the same car.
c.	Deleted
181
d.	In each case, Involving travel expense to be paid by the Company, the employees will be expected where practicable to reach an understanding with their respective supervisors as to the mode of travel and the expense involved, and the supervisors, at their option, may provide Company or other transportation rather than have the employees Incur expense for which they would otherwise be reimbursed.
2.	The Company will not pay travel expense when overtime work is on a call-out basis that does not extend into the next regular work period. However, the Company will reimburse employees for the travel expense In excess of their normal travel expense where they are required to work overtime on a callout baste which extends into the next regular work period; provided they do not receive pay for Inconvenience time In excess of the two-hour minimum for the call-out.
In no case will the Company utilize the call-out as a means of eliminating travel expense for which the employee would otherwise be reimbursed.
182
EXHIBIT F Hydro Generation
Primary	Secondary
Weiss	Henry
Henry	Weise Logan Martin
Logan	Henry
Lay	Logan Martin Mitchell
Mitchell	Lay Bouldin Jordan
Jordan	Mitchell Bouldin Martin Yates Thurlow
Bouldin	Mitchell Jordan Martin Yatee Thurlow
	
Martin	Yates Thurlow Jordan
Yates	Martin Thurlow Jordan Bouldin
Thurlow	Martin Yates Jordan
Smhh	Bankhead
Bankhead	smith Holt
Holt	Bankhead
183
SUBJECT NDEX
Subject	Article Paragraph Page
Absences llness...............VIII
Jury Duty...........VIII
Reporting...........VIII
Moling..............VIII
Making up excused absences.____VIII
To Meet with Company officials........VIII
To attend to Union businsss.......VIII
Leave of absence.....V
Business Manager ....VIII
Alabama Labor Council...........VIII
Death-
Immedtate Family ..VIII > -IfT*-J-rf-
ACCK38HIS
Investigating Committees............JOI
Apprentices Progression of........V
Qualifications of Steam Plants..........XV
Arbitration............VII
Assistant Plant Control
Operator Quaifications of......XV
Banking Holidays.......VIII
Bargaining Agent.......Ill
Bulletin Boards-Useof..VIII
Cati-Out-Notice of.............VIII
TimeAtiowance........VIII
Check-Off-Payrol Dues Deduction..........Ill
0)
CO
St 8*.83	88 » 8	8 6 6»± i 8 ±888
(m) (q)
(e)(9)	5-7
184
SUBJECT WDEX
stiipa	Aines raragrapn
Pago
COPE Fund.............Ill	(f)(g)	6-7
Classifications
Required..............IX	(b)	63
Commendation
Report................VIII	(ii)	60
Competency-Definition of...........V	(c)	12
Continuous Service-
Definition of for
Determining Seniority..........V (a)	8
Co-Operative Student Training Program........XVIII	70
Death-Immediate family ..VIII	(t)	48
While on Vacation.....VIII	(c)	37
Demotions
Account of incompetency..........V	(i)	23
At employee's request - bid down............V	(h)	22
Dfeabilities-
Permanent, temporary.............VIII (z)	54
Discharge or Suspension-.............V	G)	23
Appeal................VI	(c)	29
Discipline..............VIII	(aa)	56
....................VIII	(ii)	60
....................V	(j)	23
DiscfHinary Notice......VIII	(ii)	60
Dues Deduction..........Ill	(e)	5
Duty-Responsibitty for
Discharge of..........VIII	(aa)	56
Earty Start.............VIII	(q)	46
Educational Assistance Program.................Exhbit C	170
185
SUBJECT NDEX
SttjKt	Article Peragrqph Page
Efficiency.............JC	63
Emergency Work_________JOI	(f)	65
Equipment...............VIII	(I)	42
Extension of
Agreement............II (b)	3
Extra Expense -Meals..................Exhtxt D	173
Travel Expense.......Exhfcrt E	181
Functional Work Group ....VIII (u)	49
Four-Maar Progression
Provision............V (f)	19
Grievances
Due to Suspension or Discharge............VI	(c)	29
Procedure for Handling..............VI	(a)	26
Report, Accident
Investigating Committee..........JOI	(e)	65
Result of Disciplinary Notice................VIII	(ii)	60
Time Limitation on Handing..............VI	(b)	28
Vacancy not Med by seniority_________.V	(e)	13
Headquarters...........VIII	(dd)	58
Helpera-Qualificatlons of Steam Plante...........JCV	(])	69
Higher Classification-Definition of..........V	(d)	13
Holidays...............VIII	(d)	37
Hydro Plant Emptoyees-Dutiss of Number.......XIV	(a-d)	65-66
and classification
required...........IX	(b)	63
Reorganization.......ExftiM C 171
186
SUBJECT NEX
Subject	Article Paragsph
Reporting Locations Exhibit F Inconvenience Pay
Callout................VIII	(q)
Lunch.................VIII	(q)
Prearranged...........VIII	(q)'
Increasing Forces.......V	(b)
Former employeesconsideration of.....V	(b)
Former journeymen with combined service of four (4) years as journeyman anchor apprentice  V	(f)
Insurance
Life..................VIII	(e)
Intellectual Property and Confidential Information
Agreement (PSDF) ..Exhbit C Job Schedules...........Exhibit B
Jury Duty...............VIII	(f)
Layoffs.................V	ffi(k)
Light Duty..............VIII	(z)
Local Agreements........II	(d)
Lockouts................XI
Loyalty.................X
Machinist, Steam Plant Qualificaiions of.......XV	(h)
Management Retained rights.........IV
Right to lay off or dtecharge.... ....V	(j>
Meal Period_____________VIII	(v)
Meals - Provided For....Exhibit D
Mechanics-Qualifications
Hydro Plant...........XIV	(c)
Steam Plant...........XV	(g)
Modfficatton of
Agreement.............II	(c)	3
88 a KES <4 8 88«KESg88	§ 8	-	8 <J
187
SUBJECT NDEX
BUqBCK	MKS Hn^ipn I^QB
MOUs.................... Exhibit C	110
2004 Negotiations_____Exhibit C	110
1908 Negotiations..... Exhbit C	119
1996 Negotiations..... Exhbit C	125
MalntPn Amendment Exhibit C	130
Maintenance Paining Exhibit C	131
FMCS Arbitration
Service............. Exhibit C	141
Boier-Opr Meeh........ Exhbit C	138
12-Hour Schedule...... Exhbit C	152
10-Hour Schedde_______ Exhtort C	156
Co-Gen Project Staffing Exhblt C	143
Competitiveness & Job Sec............ Exhibit C	147
Educational Assistance........... Exhibit C	170
Farley Power Gen Bidding.............. ExhfoftC	150
Hydro Reorganization .. Exhbit C	171
Power Gen Issues...... ExhfoftC	171
PSDF.................. Exhbit C	159
Training - Voluntary.. Exhbit C	121
Moving Expense
In event of demotion .... V	0	23
In event of promotion.... V	(g)	21
Reduction of forces...V	(g)	21
No Discrimination....... Ill	(bXc)	4
Nonrotating Shift.......VIII	(u)	49
No Strike Clause........XI	63
Notice
Of absence to si^ienrisor..........VIII	(n)	44
Of change of addtess to supervisor ....... VIII	(o)	44
Of job vacancies......V	(e-k)	13-25
188
Sibject	Article Paragraph Page
Of recall to employee..............VIII	(m)	44
Of rescheduling.......VIII	(w)	52
Of standby............VIII	(r)	46
Number and Classification Required................IX	(b)	63
....................Exhbit B	105
Off-Day Definition of...........VIII	(q)	46
Prearranged work......VIII	(q)	46
Operators: Qualifications Hydro Plant.............XIV	(a)	65
Steam Plant...........XV	(a)	66
Overtime Distribution............VIII	(s)	47
Hoursand exceptions............VIII	(w)	52
Meals.................Exhibit D	173
Travel Expense........Exhibit E	181
When eight (8) hours off duty is not given ..VIII	(y)	53
Pension Reference.......VIII	(e)	40
Physicaly dsabted employee................VIII	(z)	54
Posting Rules...........XX	71
Prearranged Work-Off-Day ................VIII	(q)	46
Work-Day..............VIII	(q)	45
Probationary employees...............VIII	(a)	31
Progression Through Pay Schedule............Exhbit A	80
Promotions Declined.....V, VIII	(e),(l)	13,44
PSDF....................Exhbit C	159
Radto Tower -Wbrk on.................VIII (jj) 61
189
SUBJECT NEX
euppci	Macro raranapn rage
Raincoats and Rain Equip............-VIII	(0	42
Rates of Pay...........V	(h)	22
Hourly basis........IX	(a)	62
Rate Schedules......Exhibit A	75
Ratio -Steam Plants, Maintenance...........XV	0)	68
Reduction in forces -Basis of..............V	(IQ	23
Employeasin temporary jobs......V	(e)	17
Reduced Schedules -Steam Plante..........XV	(k)	69
Relocation of Employees Temporary.............VIII	(bb)	56
Reecheduting Regular periods........VIII	(w)	52
Temporary periods....VIII	(w)	52
Rest Period	VIII	(y)	53
Rotating Shifts........VIII	(u)	49
Safety Equipment.............JOI	(b)	64
Investigating Committees..........-XII	(d)	65
Precautions-Safe performance of job..............XII	(b)	64
Promotion of........XII	(a)	64
Rulefr-VkHaUon of...XII	(c)	64
Scheduled Work Days and Hours.............VIII	(w)	52
10 Hour Schedule....ExhHtC	166
12 Hour Schedule....Exhibit C	152
Scope-Employees and departments covered....!	2
190
SUBJECT INDEX
SUOpCt	AnKaB rVognpn HQB
Seniority Basis of reckoning......V	(a)	8
By operating units....V	(a)	9
During disciplinary suspension............V	(a)	10
Increasing forces.....V	(b)	11
In event of transfer..V	(b)	11
Interruptions in......V	(b)	11
Lists, preparation of.V	(a)	10
Of returned servicemen............V	(a)	9
Termination of........V	(b)	12
Shift Employees -Definition of...........VIII	(u)	49
Shift Differential......VIII	(u)	51
Sick Leave..............VIII	(b)	32
Standby-
Notice and time allowance........VIII	(r)	46
Statement of Hours and Pay Earned..............VIII	(ee)	59
Steam Plant Employees-Dutreeof ...............XV	(a-k)	66-69
Number and
dassificalion required............IX (b)	63
Strikes.................XI	63
Substitution - Temporary for another employee....VIII (10	43
Rate of Pay...........VIII	(k)	43
For Supervisor........VIII	(10	43
Supervisors - Working...VIII	(p)	44
Telephones..............VIII	(hh)	60
Temporary Job...........V	(e)	13
Term of Agreement.......II	3
Tool Policy.............VIII	(kk)	61
191
SUBJECT INDEX
QUKjBCt	much ran^ipn Hop
Training - Employee....-XIX	70
Travel Expense -Overtime...............Exhibit E 181
Between job and headquarters.........VIII (dd) 58
To temporary relocation...........VIII	(bb)	56
Vacancies Awarding................V	(e)	15
BasisIbrfiKig.........V	(e)	13
Biddngfor.............V	(e)	14
Testing for..........ExHMC 128
Instrument Service Center................V	(e3)	18
Outside of unit.......V	(e)	13
Posting notices.......V	(e)	13
Time Smit of transfer..V	(e)	16
Vacations	VIII	(c)	34
Voting- Time slowed....VIII	(f)	40
Work Day -Definition of...........VIII	(v)	51
Work in Rain, Sleet, or Snow................VIII	(fl)	60
Work-Off-day...........VIII	(q)	45
Work Schedules.........VIII	(w)	52
Work-Temporary location...............VIII	(bb)	56
Work Week-Definition of..........VIII	(v)	51
192
______________NOTES______________
193