Memorandum of agreement between
Alabama Powet Company
and the following local unions of
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
No. 345 - Mobile
No. 833 - Jasper
No. 904 - Tallassee
No. 391 - Gadsden
No. 801 - Montgomery
No. 841 - Birmingham
No. 1053 - Demopolis
No. 796 - Dothan
No. 2077 - Wilsonville
Covering employees in the power generation with certain exceptions
Dated June 27, 2014
Made and Printed in the U.S.A.
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
and
The Following Local Unions of
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
No. 345 -Mobile
No. 833 - Jasper
No. 904 - Tallassee
No. 391 - Gadsden
No. 801 - Montgomery
No. 841 - Birmingham
No. 1053 - Demopolis
No. 796 - Dothan No. 2077 - Wilsonville
Covering Employees in Power Generation and Steam Heat, with Certain Exceptions
DATED June 27, 2014
Bold print reflects changes in the contract language.
“There can be no operating condition which justifies our employees taking the slightest chance in performing their work. We want them always to take the safe way, even though our service may suffer thereby, or our costs be increased.”
J. M. Barry
ii
CONTENTS
Article 1	Scope	2
Article 11	Term - Extension -Modification	3
Article 111	Bargaining - Representation -No Discrimination	5
Article IV	Management	10
Article V	Promotions - Demotions -Reductions	11
Article VI	Grievances	33
Article VII	Arbitration	38
Article VIII	General Working Conditions	40
Article IX	Wages and Classifications	104
Article X	Loyalty and Efficiency	105
Article XI	No Strikes or Lockouts	106
Article XII	Safety	107
Article XIII	Text Deleted	108
Article XIV	Special Rules - Hydro Plants	108
Article XV	Special Rules - Steam Plants	110
Article XVI	Text Deleted	113
Article XVII	Text Deleted	114
Article XVI11	Co-Operative Student Training Program	114
Article XIX	Employee Training	115
Article XX	Posting Rules	115
Exhibit A	Hourly Wage Schedules	119
Exhibit B	Job Schedules for Generating Plants	154
Exhibit C	Memoranda of Agreement	163
Exhibit D	Meals	258
Exhibit E	Travel Expense	268
Exhibit F	Text Deleted	271
Subject Index		272
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into the 27th day of June, 2014, by and between ALABAMA POWER COMPANY, a public utility corporation of the State of Alabama, its successors or assigns, hereinafter called the Company, party of the first part, and LOCAL UNION NO. 345, LOCAL UNION NO. 833, LOCAL UNION NO. 904, LOCAL UNION NO. 391, LOCAL UNION NO. 801, LOCAL UNION NO. 841, LOCAL UNION NO. 1053, LOCAL UNION NO. 796, and LOCAL UNION NO. 2077, of the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, hereinafter collectively called the Brotherhood, party of the second part;
WITNESSETH THAT:
WHEREAS, the Company is engaged in the business of supplying electric service to the public in the larger portion of the State of Alabama and for that reason all employees of the Company, including those covered by this agreement, are charged with special obligations and responsibilities that do not exist in the case of the ordinary business enterprise; and
1
WHEREAS, the efficient operation of the production properties of the Company is a necessary step in the performance of its duty to continue to supply adequate and dependable service to the public;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and for the purpose of facilitating fair, orderly, and prompt adjustment of any disputes that may from time to time arise and of promoting harmony and efficiency in the operation of the production properties of the Company, the parties hereto contract and agree with each other as follows, to-wit:
ARTICLE I
Scope
This agreement covers the production and steam heat employees of the Company except supervisors, clerks, and professional employees; that is, those employees who are engaged in the operation and maintenance of the generating and steam heat properties of the Company, including any new plants, extensions or additions which may be put into operation during the term of this agreement, but exclusive of superintendents and assistants, supervisors, foremen, chemists, engineers, and administrative support personnel.
2
All employees presently covered by this agreement are included in the classifications set forth in the wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A and the words "employee" and "employees" as used in this agreement will refer only to employees included in such classifications.
The individual Memoranda of Agreement covering 1) Power Generation, 2) Distribution and Support and 3) Power Delivery Transmission are to be considered as one Agreement for the purposes of contract ratification; contract extension, modification or termination; and other administrative purposes.
ARTICLE II
Term - Extension - Modification
(a)	This agreement becomes effective on June 27, 2014.
(b)	This agreement will remain in effect through August 15, 2019, and will continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter from August 15 of each year through August 15 of the next year, unless changed or terminated as provided in paragraph (c) of this Article II.
3
(c)	Either party desiring to change or terminate this agreement will notify the other party in writing of such desire at least sixty (60) days prior to August 15, 2019, or the expiration date of any yearly extension thereafter. However, changes may be made at any time by mutual consent and it is understood that such changes will be made from time to time as may be necessary to comply with the applicable provisions of all Federal and State laws. The Company and the Brotherhood further agree that, upon due written notice from either, they will meet to amend the agreement to conform to the appropriate laws.
(d)	During the term of this agreement, the Business Manager or President of the Local Union, Construction Representative or System Council U-19 and the appropriate level of local supervision can mutually agree to develop work rules and/or procedures for a specific situation or location that may vary from those established in this agreement. Should no mutually agreeable change be made, the rules and procedures established in this agreement will remain in effect.
4
ARTICLE III
Bargaining - Representation - No Discrimination
(a)	The Company recognizes the right of its employees to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing; and recognizes the Brotherhood as the exclusive representative of the employees covered by this agreement for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, working conditions, and other conditions of employment herein provided for.
5
(b)	Employees will have the right to join or not to join the Brotherhood as they individually prefer, it being agreed that there will be no discrimination for or against any employee by reason of membership or non-membership in the Brotherhood; no attempt to coerce any employees into joining or not joining the Brotherhood against their will and no interference with any employees on account of joining or refusal to join the Brotherhood either on the part of the Company or the Brotherhood or any employees who are members of the Brotherhood.
(c)	The Company and the Brotherhood affirm the continuation of their policy and practice that there will be no discrimination for or against any employee in matters covered by this agreement because of the employee's race, color, religion, sex, age, disability or national origin; no employee will be coerced, threatened, or intimidated either on the part of the Company or the Brotherhood because of race, color, religion, sex, age, disability or national origin or for protesting any alleged discriminatory treatment in matters covered by this agreement. When the male or female gender is used, it will apply to both sexes.
(d)	In the event Act No. 430 of Acts of Alabama adopted August 28, 1953, is modified, repealed, rendered inoperative by Alabama or
6
Federal legislation or declared invalid by the Supreme Court of Alabama or the Supreme Court of the United States so as to permit the operation under the laws of Alabama of paragraph (c) of Article III of the agreement between the parties hereto, dated April 11, 1947, as amended, such paragraph will become a part of this agreement and will be in full force and effect as if made a part hereof with respect to all employees who are members of the Brotherhood on the date of such modification, repeal or invalidation of such Act.
(e)	The Company agrees to deduct dues to the Brotherhood from the pay of each employee, either a present or future member of the Brotherhood, who files with the Company a written authorization for such deduction; it being understood that the Company will continue to deduct such dues from any employee who is promoted or transferred out of the bargaining unit unless such employee withdraws the deduction authorization. Such deduction will be made and remitted in accordance with said authorization, which will be in the following form:
7
PAYROLL DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION For Dues to INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Local Union No._________________
I,, a member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, hereby authorize and request Alabama Power Company to deduct from any wages due me on the second payday in each calendar month the sum specified by the Financial Secretary of the above Local Union and to pay the same to the Financial Secretary of the above Local Union for me, and in my behalf, as my monthly dues to said Local Union. This payroll deduction authorization will remain in effect unless and until withdrawn by me by notice in writing to the Company.
Date
Signature _________________________
Witness ___________________________
The System Council Business Manager will be notified when current monthly dues which are authorized by an employee are not deducted and the reason such dues were not deducted.
(f)	The Company agrees to deduct from the pay of an employee voluntary contributions to
8
the Brotherhood's Committee on Political Education fund, if such employee files with the Company a written authorization for such deduction. It is understood that such deductions will continue to be made by the Company until the employee withdraws the deduction authorization. Such deductions will be made and remitted to each local union in accordance with said authorization, which will be in the following form:
PAYROLL DEDUCTION
AUTHORIZATION FOR VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO I.B.E.W. COPE FUND
Employee # L.U. #
S.S.#_____________
I, , a member of the I.B.E.W., hereby authorize and request Alabama Power Company to deduct from any wages due me on the second payday in each calendar month the sum of, and to pay the same to the Financial Secretary of the above local union in my behalf as my voluntary contribution to the COPE fund of said local union. This payroll authorization will remain in effect unless and until withdrawn by me by notice in writing to the Company.
9
DATE__________
SIGNATURE__________________
WITNESS-_________________
(g)	The Brotherhood will hold the Company free and harmless from any claims or damage from any party whatsoever arising out of making or failing to make such deductions as identified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this Article III and will indemnify the Company against any and all such claims and damage.
ARTICLE IV
Management
The right to hire and discharge employees and the management of the properties are reserved by and will continue to be vested exclusively in the Company. The Company will have the right to determine how many employees it will employ or retain, together with the right to exercise full control and discipline in the interest of proper service and the conduct of its business. In making promotions as provided for in Article V hereof the Company will be the judge of competency. The provisions of this article will not abridge the rights of employees as set forth in any applicable provisions of this agreement.
10
ARTICLE V
Promotions - Demotions - Reductions
(a) Vacancies and new jobs covered by this agreement will be filled on the basis of seniority and competency. Competency being sufficient, seniority in the various units as hereinafter defined will prevail, except that vacancies or new jobs in the classification of laboratory instrument technician I, laboratory instrument technician II, assistant telecommunications electrician, meter tester, and assistant meter tester, will be filled on the basis of competency, and in filling such vacancies or new jobs, seniority will be considered only if competency is equal. Seniority will be reckoned by the following units: (1) Generating Plants; (2) General Shops; (3) Instrument Service Center; (4) Appliance Service; (5) Telecommunications Electricians; (6) the Birmingham geographic division, including the Materials Distribution Center, General Garage, and Corporate Fleet Services as a group; (7) Eastern geographic division; (8) Southern geographic division; (9) Western geographic division; (10) Mobile geographic division; (11) Southeast geographic division; and (12) Supply Chain each as a separate unit.
1.	All current APC 1BEW covered employees working in APC Generation as of April 15, 2014 with
11
30 months or more seniority have primary bid rights within the APC Generation bid unit.
2.	Employees hired in APC Generation after October 15, 2011 and covered by the APC/ IBEW MOA will become primary bidders in the Generation bid unit after 30 months of seniority and service time.
3.	Employees hired in APC Generation after September 14, 2004 and covered by the APC I IBEW MOA will be allowed only one lateral job award or one downward job award in Generation every two years, from the date of the award. There is no limit for Generation employees concerning the number of job bids /job awards that are considered promotions. The Plant Auxiliary position is not a bid position so that position will continue to only bid on promotions and will not be considered for lateral moves.
For employees hired after September 14, 2004, jobs will be awarded to the senior qualified applicant as indicated on the job posting by the following bid groups with exception of items 1-3 listed above: Barry/Theodore/ Washington
12
County; Gadsden; Gaston/PSDF; Gorgas; Greene County; Miller; Hydro Generation; and Power Generation. If there are no qualified applicants from within the designated group(s) as indicated on the job posting, applicants from any of the other bid group in power generation seniority unit will be considered as secondary bidders. If there are no qualified applicants as primary or secondary bidders then the job would be filled by applicants from any available source. Hydro Generation and Gadsden vacancies will be posted and filled within the Power Generation seniority unit. Employees hired into Hydro Generation and Gadsden will be allowed to bid on all jobs posted within the Power Generation seniority unit as primary bidders. Employees who bid into Hydro Generation or Gadsden will be allowed to bid back to their immediately prior locations as primary bidders. In staffing new generating plants vacancies will be posted in the Power Generation seniority unit. To effectuate the seniority provisions of this agreement, new seniority lists will be prepared and distributed by the Company dated December 31 and June 30 of each year, the midyear list being limited to employees’ names and seniority. Such lists will include all employees to whom any seniority has accrued as of that date, arranged according to the foregoing eleven (11) units. Such lists will be revised semi-annually and will determine seniority of employees therein. In making such
13
revisions the position of employees in their respective lists will be rated according to the added time which has accrued to them in their respective units.
Current employees as of September 14, 2004, will not be affected by these new bid groups.
For the purpose of determining seniority, service with the Company will be deemed to be continuous unless it has been interrupted for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months. Seniority will not accrue during layoffs due to lack of work. Seniority will accrue during interruptions in service because of illness; leave of absence for Union business; leaves required by law under the Family Medical Leave Act; during periods of suspension due to disciplinary reasons; leave required by law for military service; brief absences for personal business; or any mutually agreed upon reasons. Service with the company will continue to accumulate during disciplinary layoff or suspension with respect to an employee's eligibility for vacation. Any employee who voluntarily resigns from the service of the Company or who has been rightfully discharged will forfeit all previous seniority rights. In the event two (2) or more employees are employed on the same date,
14
seniority of such employees will be determined by the date of birth of such employees.
(b)	When vacancies or new jobs occur in any unit, to be filled in which there are no available qualified employees in such unit, and employees are transferred from other units into such unit to fill such vacancies or new jobs, their seniority in the new unit to which they are transferred will be that which accumulates during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit. After twelve (12) months in the new unit, their seniority will be their seniority in their former unit plus seniority accumulated in the new unit. When vacancies or new jobs are filled by transferring employees from other departments or jobs not covered by this agreement, their seniority in the unit to which they are transferred will be that which accumulates during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit. After twelve (12) months in the new unit, their seniority will be based on the length of their continuous service with the Company, if this continuous service began in a classification covered by the bargaining unit, plus seniority accumulated during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit. When employees are transferred to the Instrument Service Center from another unit, their seniority will be the same as in the unit from which they were transferred. Seniority of all employees laid off for lack of work will not be
15
lost unless their respective employment is interrupted for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months during which such employees do not work for or make time with the Company unless they are offered employment in their former or equivalent classification at locations designated by the employees and they fail to accept the same and report for work within a period of two (2) weeks. When it is necessary to increase forces of the Company in the classifications covered by this agreement, former employees whose employment was discontinued by the Company through a reduction of forces and whose seniority has not been lost will be offered re-employment on the basis of seniority at the locations designated by the employee provided they are available and competent. In the event a vacancy or new job is not filled as set forth above, preferential consideration will be given to former employees whose seniority has been lost. However, refusal of temporary employment will not constitute grounds for interrupting seniority. An interruption of employment due to leave of absence will not cause employees to lose their seniority, but seniority will not accumulate except as provided for in this Article V (a). Any employee who voluntarily resigns from the service of the Company, or who has been rightfully discharged, will lose all previous seniority rights and other
16
rights growing out of previous continuous service with the Company.
(c)	Competency for filling a job will be construed as requiring of the employee:
1.	The necessary mental and physical qualifications of the individual to do the job satisfactorily.
2.	The necessary training and experience to perform the essential duties of the job, either immediately or after a brief breaking-in period [two (2) to three (3) weeks] at the new location or job; it being understood that a new worker in a job would not usually display the same proficiency as one who had been in the job longer.
3.	For promotions to any classification above that of plant auxiliary, the necessary ability to progress within a reasonable time to the next higher classification in the particular line of work and to fill such classifications satisfactorily, and ultimately to progress to the classification of journeyman.
17
(d)	A classification will be deemed to be "higher" if the maximum schedule rate of pay is higher.
(e)	Vacancies or new jobs in any classification except that of plant auxiliary will be filled on the basis of seniority and competency by promoting or transferring employees unless there are no qualified employees available and except as otherwise provided herein. In the event of such vacancy or new job, the Company will promptly post notice on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected [except as set out in sub-paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) below], and will promptly mail copies of such notices to the representatives of the Brotherhood designated to receive such notices in the respective units. A good faith effort will be made to communicate all permanent jobs posted from all seniority units across the Company. The Company's failure to comply with this provision will not be subject to the grievance procedure. All notices will clearly identify vacancies or new jobs as to location. Exchange of the position of employees in the same classification between crews in the same line of work at the same location may be arranged by agreement between a Local Union representing such employees and the Company, however, nothing herein will be construed to prevent temporary transfers of employees between crews. Notices of job vacancies will be
18
sent only to the President of each Local affected and to the System Council U-19, with the understanding that any employee who so desires may make application for such job vacancies and such applications will be considered in the event the job is not filled from within the seniority unit. The Company will likewise post notice as promptly as possible in the event any job becomes vacant and is to be discontinued. The Company may fill a vacancy or new job temporarily with any available qualified employee. In filling any such vacancy or new job temporarily at any location the Company will endeavor to utilize local employees, taking into account seniority and competency; it being understood that they must be able to perform the necessary duties of the job. Time spent in filling any such vacancy or new job temporarily, and experience gained while thus employed, will not militate against any other employee of greater seniority who may make application for the jobs as provided for later in this Article V. Such employees filling vacancies or new jobs temporarily will be paid at the minimum rate of pay for the vacancies or new jobs while so temporarily employed, unless their regular rate of pay is higher, in which event they will continue to receive their regular rate of pay. For a period of ten (10) days after the notice is posted any employee in the unit affected may apply for transfer to the vacancy or new job. Application
19
blanks for this purpose will be provided by the Company at each generating plant and steam heat, or application may be made by letter. One (1) copy will be sent to the respective Company representative of the unit affected as follows: Senior Vice President, Fossil-Hydro Generation or designated representative for fossil and hydro generating plants. One copy will be retained by the employee. No application will be considered unless it reaches the above-named Company representative of the unit affected within ten (10) days after the notice of vacancy or new job is posted. Within twenty-five (25) days after the notice of vacancy or new job is posted, the Company will designate an employee from the qualified applicants, if any, to fill the vacancy or new job and will promptly post notice on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected (except as set out below) of the employee so designated. A copy of such notice will be sent only to the . President of the Local Union of the location affected and to the System Council U-19. Applicants from the unit to whom jobs are awarded will have five (5) days within which to accept or decline such jobs after the date when such awards are posted and will promptly notify their respective immediate supervisors in writing of their decision to accept or decline such jobs, but if no such notice is given the supervisors, the employees will be deemed to have accepted the jobs awarded them. Employees may decline no
20
more than one (1) vacancy or new job awarded them during a calendar year. If the employee to whom the job is awarded declines the job, the Company will proceed promptly to fill same from the remainder of the list of bidders, if any be qualified, without reposting the vacancy subject to the same conditions governing the original award. If the vacancy or new job is filled by an applicant from the unit but is not filled according to seniority, the filling will be considered as temporary for a further period of fifteen (15) days after the notice of the filling of the vacancy or new job is posted, during which time it may be made the basis of a grievance. In cases where no applications are received from qualified employees within the unit, applications received from employees in other units will be considered and notices will be posted on the same basis as set out above. In cases where no applications are received from qualified employees, the vacancy or new job will be filled from any available source and notice to the effect will likewise be posted company-wide within twenty-five (25) days after the notice of the vacancy or new job has been posted. Where notice that the vacancy or new job will be filled from any available source is posted, applicants who have not been awarded the job will have fifteen (15) days from the date of posting such notice during which time their failure to receive the job may be made the basis of a grievance. Applications received as a
21
result of any available source postings will be considered, however, the filling of such vacancy by any available source will not be made the basis of a grievance. If the job is not filled within ninety (90) days after posting as above outlined, then the vacancy or new job will be reposted as required for bidding under the initial above procedures. When such job is filled, copies of notices of fillings will be sent to Brotherhood representatives authorized to receive original vacancy notices. The successful applicant for a vacancy will be moved to such vacancy within thirty (30) days from date of job award notice, except in the case of jobs created in connection with the staffing of new plants, units, or crews and new operations, in which case, the successful applicant will be transferred within thirty (30) days from the anticipated date of such staffing, which date will be specified on the job notice. The following will constitute exceptions to the method of posting notices described above:
1.	TEMPORARY JOBS - Notices of vacancies or new jobs in classifications covered by this agreement which are temporary, that is, expected to last ninety (90) days or less, will be posted only at the respective generating plants or steam heat where such vacancies or new jobs occur. However, if any such temporary new job lasts for more than
22
ninety (90) days, it will be discussed with the local committee of the Brotherhood and if it appears that it will become permanent, it will be posted on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected, and treated as a permanent new job as described above under this paragraph (e).
Senior employees in a classification will be allowed the opportunity to change schedule when temporary jobs are posted in their classification. This schedule change will be only for the duration of the temporary job and will occur only once per temporary job assignment.
Whenever a temporary job is filled by the Company, notice of such filling will be promptly posted at the respective generating plant or steam heat where filled.
Whenever job vacancies created by employees bidding and receiving temporary vacancies or new jobs are posted, such resulting vacancies will be posted as temporary vacancies. Whenever the employees filling the initial temporary vacancies or new jobs return to their former permanent jobs, or
23
bid into other permanent jobs, temporary jobs which resulted from such initial temporary vacancies or new jobs will be terminated.
Employees who bid and receive temporary jobs or vacancies will, upon the termination of such temporary jobs or vacancies, be returned to their former jobs provided such jobs have not been abolished or occupied by a senior employee as a result of a reduction of forces. In the event of a reduction of forces while employees are filling temporary jobs or vacancies, such employees will be considered as filling their former jobs for the purposes of such reduction of forces.
2.	Text Deleted.
3.	INSTRUMENT SERVICE CENTER -Notices of vacancies or new jobs at the Instrument Service Center will be posted on all bulletin boards, but only those employees who have had experience in electronic instrument testing and repair, instrumentation and control, or meter test work or the equivalent will be considered for such vacancies.
24
(f)	Employees in the classification of apprentice, who have attained competency to advance to journeyman, but who after accumulating four (4) years in apprentice classifications have not been promoted to journeyman will be offered advancement to the classification of journeyman at locations in their respective seniority unit where the services of an additional journeyman can be utilized to best advantage. In the event an employee in the apprentice classification is offered advancement to the journeyman classification under the provisions of this paragraph (f), and is subsequently advanced to journeyman at a location where no journeyman vacancy exists, the Company will retain the option for a period of one year to place a journeyman from that same crew into a vacancy of the same classification at that same location which may subsequently be created or become vacant.
Vacancies in journeyman classifications may be held open for a maximum of twenty-one (21) days prior to the date on which such employees' four (4) years combined accumulated service is completed during which time it may be filled by such employees. Also, the assignment of such employees to a definite location may be delayed for a period not in excess of twenty-one (21) days if it is anticipated that vacancies in the
25
journeyman classifications for which they are eligible may occur during that period.
In the event employees are determined not physically qualified due to an injury, but are otherwise deemed competent for advancement under the provisions of this paragraph, the Company will re-evaluate the employees’ competency within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of initial eligibility for advancement; if the employees are determined competent, they shall be advanced in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph effective on the date of advancement.
Employees who have attained the journeyman classification but are displaced from such journeyman classification and moved into a lower classification due to a rollback caused by the settlement of a grievance, an employee's return from a leave of absence, a reduction in forces, or incompetency, will not be eligible to advance to the journeyman classification until their combined accumulated service as a journeyman and/or as an apprentice equals four (4) years provided such employees do not elect to progress to journeyman under the terms and conditions of the bidding procedure as outlined in this Article V. At the time employees’ individual combined accumulated service as a journeyman and/or as an apprentice equals four (4) years and
26
provided the employees are competent to advance to journeyman, they will be offered advancement to the classification of journeyman at a location in their seniority unit where the services of an additional journeyman can be utilized to best advantage.
Employees who have attained the journeyman classification but who choose of their own free will to bid into a lower classification will not be eligible for progression from apprentice to journeyman under the provisions of this paragraph or paragraph (k) of this Article V, until they satisfy the original requirement for apprentice progression, that is, until their respective accumulated service in the apprentice classification is equal to four (4) years after bidding out of the journeyman classification.
When, as a result of a reduction of forces, journeymen whose respective combined accumulated service as journeymen and/or as apprentices equals four (4) years or more move into a lower classification other than apprentice, they may, when an apprentice opening is available, bid on the apprentice job in accordance with the bidding procedure as outlined in paragraph (e) of this Article V; and if awarded such available apprentice job will immediately be promoted to the journeyman classification in that
27
line of work. If they are not able to perform such work at the journeyman level, they will be demoted as set out in paragraph (i) of this Article V and will not be permitted any future claim to progression from apprentice to journeyman under the provisions of this paragraph.
(g)	When employees are transferred and raised from a classification to a higher classification or if employees are transferred permanently from one location to another by the Company without application or request from the employees, the Company will pay their moving expense to the new place of residence in the general vicinity of their new location. Employees who are transferred to another location in their unit to avoid being laid off, will pay their own moving expense.
Relative to the movement of mobile homes, the Company agrees to pay certain expenses incurred as a result of moving mobile homes. Such expenses will be limited to escorts for mobile homes fourteen (14) feet in width or wider; disconnecting of utilities; taping of windows as necessary; and other preparations necessary to secure the internal portion of the mobile home for movement. In addition, the Company will pay the expenses associated with the movement of a heat pump(s) and/or a central air conditioning unit(s).
28
When management identifies a need for workforce reallocation in a classification, employees in that classification will be offered the opportunity, by seniority, to relocate to the location where the need exists. In return, the Company will offer compensation in the amount of one month’s base salary, less applicable taxes, for the voluntary move, in addition to the regular moving expenses. It is understood that if this reallocation does not take place a rollback will be implemented.
(h)	If, in filling a vacancy or new job in a classification covered by this agreement, employees are transferred upon their request and application to a lower classification, their rate of pay in the lower classification will be at the minimum of such classification unless their training and experience justify a higher rate in that classification.
(i)	When job awards are made under the seniority provisions of this agreement and displacements are made due to incompetency during the first twelve (12) months following the job awards, the employees will be returned to their former jobs and other employees awarded jobs in the sequence will also be returned to their former jobs. Employees displaced on account of
29
incompetency will pay their own return moving expenses.
(j)	The Company has the right to lay off or discharge any employee for sufficient and reasonable cause, but the employee will be advised of the reason or reasons for such layoff or discharge; and the Brotherhood will, upon request, be advised of the reason or reasons for such layoff or discharge.
(k)	The Company will endeavor to provide the Union with reasonable notice in the event of a reduction in forces. In case of a reduction of forces or displacement from classifications due to incompetency, except as provided for in paragraph (i) of this Article V, it is agreed that such reduction of forces or displacements will be made in reverse order of seniority, except as provided below, in each of the separate seniority units as defined in paragraph (a) of this Article V. Employees so displaced may roll into existing vacancies or new jobs which are of an equivalent or lower classification rather than displacing other employees, or the employees may have the option to return to any job classification in their seniority unit, provided they had formerly held such classification in that seniority unit and are competent, and if their seniority will allow such return. Employees laid off as a result of a reduction of forces or demotion will initially
30
designate locations or, subsequent to layoff, additional locations where reemployment is desired for the purpose of recall from layoff. Locations so designated will be any of the six (6) geographic divisions, any generating plant, Power Delivery Transmission, and/or the General Services Complex. Vacancies not filled through the initial posting or vacancies in the plant auxiliary classifications at the respective locations as designated will be offered to employees on layoff who are subject to recall as set forth in paragraph (b) of this Article V. In the event of a reduction of forces, employees in the classification of plant auxiliary who have been displaced as a result of such reduction of forces will have the option of taking a layoff rather than displacing another employee.
The Company will agree to coordinate the application of rolling into a vacancy by identifying existing vacancies within a seniority unit and provide this to the Union at least three (3) work days prior to the commencement of a reduction in forces or displacement. The Union will determine the desire and seniority of employees who might want to move to such vacancies under the provision of Article V, paragraph (e) of the Contract.
In case of a reduction of forces journeymen whose combined accumulated service as a
31
journeyman and/or as an apprentice equals four (4) years or more will retain their journeyman classification provided there is either a journeyman or apprentice in their seniority unit with less seniority whose job they are competent to perform and whom they choose to displace. In the event a journeyman displaces an apprentice and retains the journeyman classification as provided above, the Company will retain the option for a period of one year to place a journeyman from that same crew into a vacancy of the same classification at that same location which may subsequently be created or become vacant.
It is understood that the employees retained as a result of the reduction of forces will result in classifications and competency sufficient for the work to be done and that no employees will be retained to fill a job for which they are not qualified, and it is further understood that layoffs in the reverse order of seniority will be worked out promptly with representatives of the Brotherhood, and will usually result in laying off employees with the least seniority in the particular units.
In the event of a reduction of forces in the Instrument Service Center, transfers will be made in reverse order of length of service at the Instrument Service Center and such employees
32
will be transferred back to the units from whence they came with total seniority accumulated up to the time of such transfers from the Instrument Service Center for all the purposes of this agreement.
(1)	In the event that a reduction of forces or staffing adjustment may be necessary, the Company and Union may agree to apply any such severance or early retirement plan as may be approved and in effect at the time.
(m)	Text Deleted.
ARTICLE VI
Grievances
(a)	The Company agrees to meet and treat with the duly accredited officers and committees that are elected or selected by the Brotherhood upon all questions and grievances that may arise between the parties hereto during the life of this agreement. Every effort will be made by the parties hereto to settle disputes promptly and at the location where they arise. A local Union/Company committee will be formed as needed to discuss disputes for resolution using the mutual gains process before a formal grievance is filed. It being the desire of the
33
parties to settle grievances promptly, the Brotherhood will endeavor to provide the available information as to date of occurrence, facts and circumstances giving rise to the grievance, contract provisions allegedly violated, employees involved, and remedy sought. Such information will be furnished to the Company prior to the first step of the grievance procedure, but may be amended prior to any subsequent step of the grievance procedure as may be necessary to reflect new information. It is understood, however, that failure to provide such information as set forth above, will not prejudice the position of the Brotherhood in any grievance.
As necessary for settlement, grievances will be reduced to writing and handled in two successive steps at the Plants (Fossil and Hydro) or other mutually agreed location as follows:
Step 1. Between the aggrieved employees and/or representatives of the Brotherhood acting in their behalf, and their respective immediate supervisor, the supervisor in general charge of the operation in which the grievance arose, and the Plant Manager-Fossil, Manager -River System and/or their designated representatives as the case might be.
34
Step 2. Between the aggrieved employees and/or representatives of the Brotherhood acting in their behalf and the Manager-Labor Relations, together with the Senior Vice President-Fossil-Hydro Generation, Vice President-Birmingham Division, and/or their designated representatives, as the case might be.
In the event any grievance is not settled by any of the preceding steps of the grievance procedure, it may be submitted to arbitration. The Brotherhood will have a maximum of ninety (90) days from the date of the Company's written decision in the final step in which to give written notice to the Company that a grievance is not satisfactorily settled and that the Brotherhood desires to submit the grievance to arbitration as provided in Article VII of this agreement.
The Company's decision will be reduced to writing and a copy furnished to the Brotherhood as soon as possible after the conclusion of each grievance step.
If a stenographic report is made of the proceedings of any such meeting by the Company or the Brotherhood, a typewritten copy
35
will be furnished to the other party within five (5) days.
(b)	It being the desire of the parties hereto to settle grievances promptly, it is agreed that no grievance will be considered unless it is brought to the attention of the Company as a grievance in the manner provided for herein within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of the facts giving rise to the same or within fifteen (15) days of filling a vacancy as provided in Article V (e). It is further agreed that a maximum of fourteen (14) days will be allowed from the receipt of such notice that a grievance exists until such grievance will be handled as provided in Step 1 of this Article VI, paragraph (a). Upon completion of Step 1 as provided in this Article VI, paragraph (a), the Brotherhood will have a maximum of twenty-one (21) days from the date of the Company's written decision in which to give notice to the Company that such grievance is not satisfactorily settled, and that the Brotherhood desires to proceed to the next higher step. Upon receipt of the notice that the Brotherhood desires to proceed to the next higher step as provided in this Article VI, paragraph (a), the Company will have a maximum of ten (10) days to complete such step. Failure to comply with the time limits as set forth above will serve to terminate the grievance, and such grievance, if terminated, cannot be brought up the second time. However, should the
36
Company fail to comply with such time limits as set forth above; the grievance may be moved to the next succeeding step. Notwithstanding the provision of this Article VI, paragraph (b), time limits as specified herein may be extended by mutual agreement.
(c)	Employees who have been suspended or discharged will have the right to have their respective case taken up as a grievance by the officers or committees of the Brotherhood with the duly accredited officers of the Company; and in such cases where it is found that such employees that have been suspended or discharged were unjustly suspended or discharged, they will be reinstated to their former position and other employees affected will be displaced pursuant to Article V, paragraph (i) where such reinstatement is within twelve (12) months of the employees’ discharge otherwise the terms and conditions of Article V, paragraph (k) will apply with respect to other employees affected. Further they will be paid the wages to which they would have been entitled had they continued in the Company's employment during the period of suspension or discharge.
(d)	Disagreements with respect to Workers' Compensation and similar issues which are also controlled by Local, State or Federal Laws, are not subject to the grievance process.
37
If for whatever reason a Workers' Compensation claim which was initially disallowed is later accepted, the following will apply:
1.	All employee benefits will be fully restored.
2.	The Company will not request any reimbursement from the employee for the difference between what the employee was paid and Workers’ Compensation.
(e)	The Company will pay reasonable travel expenses for Company employees involved in the grievance process.
ARTICLE VII Arbitration
In case of a dispute concerning the interpretation of any of the provisions of this agreement that cannot be settled by the Company and local representatives of the Brotherhood, they will refer the dispute to a board of arbitrators composed of three (3) members. Each of the parties hereto will select one (1) member of this board, and the third member will be selected jointly by the parties through the American Arbitration Association (AAA),
38
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS), or any other like organization approved by mutual agreement of the parties to provide this service. If the parties cannot mutually agree on FMCS or another like organization, the AAA will be the default service provider. The parties will have ten (10) working days from the receipt of any valid panel provided by the approved service to identify their selections for the third member. In the event the two (2) members of the board of arbitration fail to select a third member, the parties will jointly request the provider appoint a third member. Both parties will be bound by such appointment. In the event one of the parties refuses or fails to join in such request, the party in default will forfeit its case. The decision of any two (2) members of the board in agreement on the matter in dispute will be binding on both parties hereto. When the dispute involves interpretation of wage schedules, any decision rendered will be retroactive to the date on which the dispute originated. Each of the parties hereto will pay the compensation and expense of the member of the board appointed by it; and the expense, and also the compensation, of the third member of the board will be borne equally by the parties hereto.
The board of arbitration will be governed wholly by the terms of this agreement and will have no power to add to or change its terms.
39
ARTICLE VIII
General Working Conditions
(a)	New employees will be on probation for the first nine (9) months of their employment. During the trial period the Company may, at its option, transfer, lay off, or dismiss such employees, but they will enjoy all other rights and benefits provided for in this agreement. In filling any job from among probationary employees, competency being equal, the length of service of the employees in the probationary period will prevail and upon the completion of the six (6) months probationary period the seniority of such employees will commence and will be dated back to the date of their employment. However, the Brotherhood may discuss with the Company any cases of discrimination respecting such employees.
(b)	Each new full-time employee will be allowed a maximum of one (1) week [i.e. forty (40) hours] sick leave with pay upon the first day of employment if such sick leave is necessary because of the employee's own sickness.
Each full-time employee will be allowed an additional maximum of one (1) week [i.e. forty (40) hours] sick leave with pay upon completion of the initial six (6) months of continuous
40
employment with the Company following such probationary period if such sick leave is necessary because of the employee's own sickness.
Thereafter, the Company will allow two (2) weeks [i.e. eighty (80) hours] sick leave with pay per calendar year to each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an immediately prior continuous period of six (6) or more months if such sick leave is necessary because of the employee's own sickness. Employees will be allowed forty (40) additional hours sick leave in any calendar year following a year in which the employee did not use any sick leave.
Sick leave may also be used for absences from work due to doctor’s appointments, dental appointments, eye examinations, or other routine physical examinations, upon management approval.
Employees may use a maximum of forty (40) hours per calendar year accumulated basic sick leave for unavoidable absences caused by disability or sickness in the family, defined as a parent, spouse or child (including a step-child who resides in the household or is a legal dependent of the employee’s spouse) or qualified domestic partner.
41
An employee may accumulate unused sick leave up to a maximum of one thousand forty (1040) hours, including sick leave for the then current year. Under nd circumstances will an employee be entitled to more than one thousand forty (1040) hours sick leave with pay in any calendar year.
Unless it is impossible to do so, employees or member of their immediate family will notify their respective immediate supervisors of such sickness and its probable duration as much in advance of the starting time of their shift as may be possible. Repeated failure to report for work without giving such notice will be grounds for disciplinary action or discharge. Should employees fail to notify supervision before the end of the second day of such absence, they will not qualify for sick leave with pay unless it can be shown that it was impossible for them to give or cause such notice to be given to their supervisors. In the event of absence due to sickness, supervisors may make such reasonable investigations as they deem desirable, and the Company may require a doctor's certificate as to the nature of the sickness causing such absence from work. Failure to give notice as required or to supply a doctor's certificate if required will forfeit all rights of sick leave with pay during the particular absence from work. The Brotherhood
42
will cooperate with the Company to prevent or eliminate abuses of sick leave privileges.
Employees who are laid off due to a reduction in forces, but who return to the employ of the Company in a permanent job within a period of twenty-four (24) months from the date of such layoff, will retain any unused accumulated sick leave to which they were entitled at the time of their layoff; and will be eligible for such unused accumulated sick leave upon re-employment in a permanent position.
(c)	The number of vacation days eligible, full-time employees accrue during the first calendar year of employment (or during the calendar year in which they are rehired or returned to work following a leave of absence) will be prorated based upon the quarter in which employees are hired (or rehired or returned to work following a leave of absence):
43
Employee hued, rduredor rgtiiTTim? tn tgnric m tfrig QiurtAf*	Will receive tflK ABMlliLT of racatioai for that calendar year	Or tins percentage cf ths amcimr the OTnpIflyPA would hive atoned ifhfi or she had been hired cm JamHiy 1 cftha? year nkind off hsvd ttidi
1“ Quarter (Im. 1 thnraehMar. 3D	80 boms	tow;
2* Quarter (Apt 1 torraeii June 30)	Mhonxs	80%
Quarter (My 1 taraghSept 30)	48 bams	60%
4“ Quarter (Oct 1 toraehDec.31)	32 bams	40%
When determining how much vacation a newly hired employee should receive, managers have the discretion to recognize certain prior, non-Southem Company experience.
Each full-time employee will be eligible for the following accelerated vacation accrual at the beginning of the calendar year in which the service is accumulated:
44
Accredited Vacation Accrual
After their first calendar year of employment, full-time active employees will be eligible for vacation hours on an accelerated basis, dependent upon years of service (so long as such service was not broken by resignation or discharge for cause) as follows:
•	I up	to and including 2 years of service — 80 hours;
•	3 up	to and including 4 years of service — 96 hours;
•	5 up	to and including 9 years of service — 120 hours;
•	10 up to and including 14 years of service — 136
hours;
•	15 up to and including 19 years of service — 160
hours;
•	20 up to and including 24 years of service — 176
hours; and
•	25 or more years of service — 200 hours.
Each full-time employee will accrue vacation on January 1st. Except as stated above, the employee must have been employed for at least a continuous period of one (1) year and must be employed on January 1st in order to accrue the vacation.
Vacations will not be cumulative; however, employees will be allowed to carry from one (1) calendar year to the next up to eighty (80) hours
45
vacation. Vacations may be arranged in advance of March 15 with their respective supervisors giving full weight to seniority provided that the full vacation allowance is scheduled on consecutive days. However, employees who choose to select vacation periods which are not consecutive will be entitled to exercise their seniority in the selection of the first such vacation period. Subsequent selections of vacation periods will not be made until all other employees have had an opportunity to make selections under the same conditions. Vacations will be taken at such time as will not unduly interfere with the efficiency of operations. Employees who have not selected their vacations on or before March 15 will have to select periods that are untaken after that date and such periods will then be selected and scheduled in order of requests made. Employees will not be required to take their vacations in units of less than one (1) week [i.e. seven (7) consecutive days].
Employees scheduled for vacation will not be subject to being called out on their off days or holidays which are continuous with their vacation period. If employees are scheduled for vacation, which is less than five (5) consecutive days, on a day continuous with their off days or holidays, such employees will be subject to being called out during such off days or holidays. Nothing contained in this paragraph will prevent an
46
employee from being called out in an emergency situation.
Should employees be recalled for emergency duty while on vacation, the Company will defray any extra expenses which they may incur as a result of such recall including transportation and other reasonable expense back to the place from whence they were recalled, or to any equivalent point. If they desire to resume their vacation at the conclusion of the emergency, additional vacation time will be granted them in lieu of time lost as a result of such recall, including time spent in traveling incidental to such recall.
If a holiday occurs during employees’ vacation, they will be allowed an additional day off with pay at the beginning or end of their vacation.
In the event of a death in the employees’ immediate families while such employees are on vacation, Article VIII, paragraph (t) of this agreement will apply, provided the employees’ respective supervisors are promptly notified. Such employees will be allowed to reschedule that portion of their vacation covered by the above mentioned Article VIII (t), consistent with the terms and conditions of this Article V1H, paragraph (c).
47
If employees leave the service of the Company and they are eligible for a vacation as stated above, they will be paid for same, provided such employees have hot been discharged and provided in case of resignation they have given two (2) weeks notice of their intention to resign from the Company.
In the event employees resign from the employ of the Company, they will be paid only for that unused vacation to which they were eligible as of the date the notice of resignation is received.
Vacation Bonus in Milestone Service Years
Bonus hours of vacation are added to regular full-time and regular part-time employees’ accrued vacation time every fifth anniversary starting with the year employees reach their 30th service anniversary (referred to as a “milestone service year”) and is based on the employee’s Service Date.
Amount of Bonus Hours
The amount of bonus hours will vary for full-time and part-time employees as follows:
48
Milestone Service Years
FaU-TinM Employws WiD b* Elipbh for This Many Bonns Hoon	Port-tim* Employ**} Rtgularty Schrdukd to Work 20 to 29 Hoon p«r W**k Will Im PigthU for This Many Bonns Hoon	Part-tim* Employees Regularly Scheduled to Work JO to 39 Hoon per WeekWHl be FKgthU far ThU Many Bonns Hoon
40 Hours	26 Hoars	34 Hours
Beginning in 2013, bonus hours will be awarded on January 1 of the calendar year in which the employee completes 30,35,40, 45, 50, 55,60 and 65 years of service.
Purchasing Vacation
This provides employees flexibility to purchase additional paid vacation time.
Eligibility for Vacation Purchase
All active, regular, benefits-eligible employees of the Company who are eligible for vacation are eligible to purchase vacation if they participate in the Flexible Benefits Plan by enrolling in that Plan during the annual benefits enrollment period. Employees may not purchase vacation to be used in their first calendar year of employment.
49
Purchase Information
During the annual benefits enrollment period, regular, full-time employees may choose to purchase up to 40 hours of additional vacation, on a pretax basis, for the following year. New hires who are hired in November or December after the annual enrollment period ends will still be eligible to purchase vacation for the next calendar year at the time they enroll in their benefits for that year. Regular, part-time employees may choose to purchase up to 24 hours of additional vacation, on a pretax basis, for the following year.
A minimum of eight hours of vacation may be purchased and purchase must be made in eight hour increments. Deductions for the cost of vacation purchases will be spread over 24 pay periods based on an employee’s pay as of the date of election of purchased time off. Once a purchase of vacation is made during the annual benefits enrollment period, the purchase cannot be revoked or changed.
50
Using Purchased Vacation
Federal regulations require that purchased vacation be used last, after current year vacation accruals, and vacation carried over from the prior year. All Company-provided vacation accruals must be exhausted before purchased vacation time will be used.
Unused purchased vacation cannot be carried over to the following year.
Federal regulations require that purchased vacation not used or paid by year-end be forfeited. To prevent employee forfeitures, employees are encouraged to only purchase vacation time they are confident they can utilize. The Company will not pay unused purchased vacation back to employees at the end of the year, except in the following cases:
o If employee was by year-end unable to take purchased vacation due to extraordinary situations where work demands have prevented the employee from using that purchased vacation and with the approval of the senior officer of the Company or business unit;
51
•	If employee terminates employment
(whether voluntarily or involuntarily) during that calendar year;
•	If employee transfers to a position or
moves to an employment status that is not eligible to participate in the Vacation Standard.
In these instances, IRS regulations require that the employee be reimbursed during the benefits year for which the vacation was purchased and this reimbursement must be included no later than in the last paycheck during that year.
Purchased vacation may not be donated to another employee.
Termination oeriod of time when deductions are being made for the cost of the vacation purchase, any remaining cost of the vacation purchase will be deducted from any amounts owed to the employee, subject to applicable law. If an employee who purchased vacation transfers to a position that is not eligible to participate in vacation purchase during the calendar year, the purchased vacation will be reconciled at the time of transfer.
52
Carry Over Into Following Year
Except as provided elsewhere in this article (i.e. with respect to vacation bonus hours or purchased vacation), employees may carry over up to 80 hours of vacation from one calendar year to the next. Any accrued vacation above that amount will be forfeited. In extraordinary circumstances where urgent work requirements prevent an employee from using his or her accrued vacation, the senior company or business unit officer (or his or her designee) may decide to permit that employee to cash out any vacation in excess of the amount to be carried over to the following year.
Donation of Vacation
Employees are permitted to voluntarily donate available vacation to another employee with a medical emergency, subject to certain conditions. Donation of vacation must be approved by management.
Eligibility for Vacation Donation
To be eligible to donate vacation, the donating employee must have accrued vacation available for the current year and the
53
donation must be approved by the donating employee’s manager.
To be eligible to receive donated vacation time, the receiving employee must meet the following criteria:
•	Be absent as a result of a medical emergency involving the employee or his or her parent, spouse or child requiring a prolonged absence from work, including intermittent absences that are related to the same illness or condition.
•	Have no remaining applicable paid time off available for use, i.e. vacation, banked holiday, parental leave, or sick time.
•	Not be eligible for long term disability.
•	Have the absence approved by business unit management.
If the employee receiving the vacation donation is absent as a result of a serious health condition of the employee or a family member as defined under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), the applicable disability management department will assist management in the determination of whether the employee is eligible to receive a vacation donation under this Standard.
54
Management should not request any medical information from the employee other than that required under the FMLA.
Limitations on Vacation Donation
Certain limitations apply to the donation of vacation benefit time:
•	Both employees must be employees of the Company.
•	Individual employees may donate a minimum of four (4) hours and up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per calendar year to one or more eligible employees. Vacation time must be donated in 4-hour increments. Ai) time is donated on an hour-for-hour, not dollar-for-dollar, basis.
•	Once donated, the donating employee cannot reclaim the vacation time.
•	The total amount of vacation time donated to any employee by all employees may not exceed the number of scheduled workdays remaining in the year. The total amount of vacation time donated to any employee by all employees also may not exceed 80 hours. If more than one employee wants to donate time to an employee, these donations will be accepted on a first come, first-served basis, up to the maximum described above.
55
•	All donated hours must be used within the current year, and cannot be carried over to the subsequent calendar year.
•	Any vacation donated to an employee and not utilized for the intended reason cannot be otherwise used by, or “cashed out” by, the receiving employee.
Documentation of Vacation Donation
All transfers of vacation must be documented on the Vacation Donation Authorization form by the donating employee and approved by management of both the donating employee and the receiving employees. The original signed Vacation Donation Authorization form must be provided to the HR Direct Service Center prior to the beginning of the pay period in which the receiving employee will be allowed to use the donated vacation.
The original documentation must be maintained in accordance with applicable timekeeping documentation and retention procedures. The HR Direct Service Center will retain the original copy.
56
Approvals for Vacation Donation
Donation of vacation time must be approved by management of the donating and receiving employees.
Sick Leave During Vacation
If an employee becomes sick during vacation, that time will be charged to either vacation or sick time at management’s discretion, depending on whether the illness meets the requirements for the use of sick time, and the circumstances surrounding the sickness incurred while on vacation.
Parental Leave
Standard Statement
The Parental Leave Standard provides for a consistent period of paid leave for mothers and fathers upon the birth or adoption of a child to allow for the parents to bond with the child.
This paid leave is in addition to existing sick time and vacation time. It will run concurrently with leave taken under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and/or applicable state family medical leave laws and the Maternity Leave Standard.
Eligibility
57
All active, regular full-time and regular benefits-eligible part-time employees who have been employed by Alabama Power Company (the “Company”) for at least 12 consecutive months at the time of the birth or adoption of their own child are eligible for parental leave for that birth or adoption. If both parents are employees of the Company, both employees are eligible for parental leave. Temporary, leased and co-op employees are not eligible for parental leave.
Parental leave is only available for the birth of the employee’s own child or the adoption of an unrelated child. Parental leave is not available for the birth or adoption of a grandchild, niece, nephew, or other relative. Parental leave is also not available for the adoption of a stepchild or a child of the employee’s domestic partner.
Parental leave is only available for the birth or adoption of a child that occurs on or after January 1, 2011.
Amount of Parental Leave
After the birth or adoption of a child, full-time employees may take up to take 80 hours of parental leave. Eligible part-time employees will have 80 hours of parental leave available
58
but that time will be prorated based on the number of hours the part-time employees are regularly scheduled to work.
The leave must be taken within twelve months after the birth or adoption and must be taken in weekly increments. Leave time is granted per birth and/or adoption event. (Note: A multiple birth, e.g., twins or triplets, is considered a single birth event).
Coordination with Other Time Off
Parental Leave will run concurrently with maternity leave, as described in the Maternity Leave Standard.
Requesting Parental Leave
Employees must notify their supervisor, complete the Parental Leave Request form and submit the form to the HR Direct Service Center at least 30 days prior to their leave. If the employee cannot provide 30 days notice, the employee must submit the form as soon as is practical. This generally means notifying the company the day leave begins or the next business day after leave begins. In addition, employees must comply with the call-in procedures for their workgroup.
59
Unless unusual circumstances prohibit an employee from following these notice requirements, their failure to comply may result in the delaying or denying of leave by management until proper notice is provided.
In addition to completing the Parental Leave Request form, an employee requesting parental leave should complete the FMLA packet, if applicable.
Employee Benefits During Leave
Employees on parental leave will continue to accrue service time and may choose to continue health care coverage, life, accident, LTD, and Tax Saver plans on.the same basis as coverage exists before taking parental leave. Seniority accrual while on parental leave shall be governed by the applicable labor agreement. Accrual of accredited service while on parental leave shall be governed by applicable pension plan documents. The Company will continue to pay its share of the medical and insurance premiums for those employees electing to continue coverage while on leave. Employee premium contributions will continue to be payroll deducted while the employee is on parental leave.
60
Return to Duty
The Parental Leave Standard docs not guarantee employees job restoration at the conclusion of their parental leave. However, other leave Standards (such as the FMLA Standard) may provide job restoration rights to such employees.
In the event that the employee’s scheduled return-to-work date changes, employees must notify their manager of the new return-to-work date as soon as practicable, and discuss any questions or special requirements.
Employees must notify their manager and timekeeper on their first day back to work.
Effect of Terminating Employment
Employees will not be paid for any unused parental leave upon the termination of their employment (regardless of whether the termination is voluntary or involuntary).
61
Adoption
Standard
In the same way that Alabama Power Company (“the Company”) provides financial support through medical coverage for the birth of a natural child, the Company offers financial assistance to those employees who incur expenses in the process of adopting a child. The Company will reimburse an Eligible Employee up to $5,000 per Eligible Child for Qualified Adoption Expenses associated with the Eligible Adoption of that child.
Each of these terms is explained in more detail, below.
Eligible Employees
Expense reimbursement is available only to employees who meet ALL of the following criteria as of the date of the Eligible Adoption:
•	Must be an active, regular, benefits-eiigible employee (and not a temporary, leased, or co-op employee);
•	Must have been employed by a Southern Company entity for at least 12 consecutive months;
•	Must be actively employed; and
62
•	Must document that they are the adoptive parent.
If both parents are Eligible Employees, they are only eligible to receive a combined total of $5,000 for the Eligible Adoption of their Eligible Child.
Eligible Child
Expense reimbursement is available for the Eligible Adoption of a child who is under age 18, (or a child who is 18 or over and is physically and/or mentally incapable of caring for himself or herself), except for a child who is:
•	A stepchild of the employee; or
•	Already a relative of the employee, regardless of whether the child is a blood relative (such as a niece, nephew or grandchild) or a legal relative (such as a niece or nephew of the employee’s spouse); or
•	A child of the employee’s domestic partner.
63
Eligible Adoptions
Eligible employees will only be reimbursed for expenses associated with an adoption that is finalized or a failed adoption that occurs:
•	On or after January 1, 2011, and
•	After the employee meets all of the eligibility requirements described above.
For purposes of this Standard, a “failed adoption” is defined as one that ends before the adoption is completed and which is not the fault of the prospective adoptive parent(s) (i.e., it is outside of their control).
Reimbursable Adoption Expenses
Employees will only be reimbursed for Qualified Adoption Expenses as defined in Section 137 of the Internal Revenue Code. The following table indicates generally which expenses are reimbursable and which are not reimbursable:
64
Rrimbunable Expenses	Non-Reimbursable Expenses
Public or private agency ten	Donations made to adoption organizations
Legal tees associated with adoption or guardianship	Citizenship costs for adoptive child
Court fees	Advertisement fees
Immigration costs	Adoption network fees
Parental counseling	Costs incurred for surrogate parent, including related formal adoption fen
Transportation expenses for retrieving the child, both domestically and internationoDv	Hotel and/or meal costs for travel required for the adoption procedure
Once all of the eligibility conditions listed above are satisfied, any Qualified Adoption Expenses relative to the Eligible Adoption of an Eligible Child will be reimbursable to an Eligible Employee, regardless of the date those expenses were incurred. Therefore, if an employee incurs adoption expenses prior to January 1, 2011 or prior to satisfying the 12-month service requirement described above, those expenses will still be reimbursed as long as the adoption is finalized or fails after January 1, 2011 and after the 12-month service requirement is met (and the other conditions of this Standard are satisfied).
Application for Reimbursement
Expense reimbursement through the Adoption Reimbursement Standard, an Adoption \ Assistance Reimbursement Request form must be completed and submitted with copies of all eligible receipts.
65
Application for all reimbursable expenses must be submitted:
•	After the adoption is: (a) legally finalized; or (b) the formal notification of a failed adoption is issued; and
•	Within six months of the adoption being finalized or formal notification of a failed adoption is issued (where the failed adoption is not the fault of the prospective adoptive parent|s]); and
•	In increments of $1,000, except for the final submission of expenses for a particular adoption, which may be for any amount.
Qualified Adoption Expenses will be reimbursed to the employee as soon as administratively possible.
Tax Information
Employees may be eligible for a federal tax credit and/or exclusion for adoption-related expenses if their income falls within the limits set forth by the Internal Revenue Code (see IRS Instructions to Form 8839 for more detail). Reimbursements may be subject to
66
state taxes, depending on the employee’s state of residence.
The tax consequences of an adoption, including reimbursed and non-reimburscd amounts, arc the responsibility of the employee, not the company. Employees should consult with competent tax counsel or financial advisors, to determine how they individually are affected by both federal and state tax laws.
Effect of Going on Leave
Employees are entitled to reimbursement of adoption expenses if they are on an approved, paid leave of absence at the time reimbursement is requested, but not if they are on an unpaid or unapproved leave of absence.
Effect of Terminating Employment
If an employee terminates employment (whether voluntarily or involuntarily), he or she is no longer entitled to reimbursement of adoption expenses, regardless of whether the expense was incurred prior to the termination. However, if an employee terminates employment after the employee has submitted a request for reimbursement but before the
67
reimbursement is paid, the employee will receive the reimbursement.
Confidentiality
All reimbursement forms will be kept confidential and shared only as necessary with need-to-know personnel and external legal counsel or tax advisors as necessary.
Maternity Leave
Standard Statement
The Maternity Leave Standard provides a 6 or 8 week pieriod of unpaid leave for the adequate physical recovery of a new mother following the birth of her baby and defines the sequence in which the leave will be counted against existing Standard providing paid time off. This Standard does not otherwise extend or provide any additional paid time off to employee, nor does it cover time-off beyond the recovery period of 6 or 8 weeks. Leave provided under this Standard runs concurrently with any leave provided under the federal Family and Medical Leave Act
68
(FMLA) and/or applicable state family medical leave laws.
Eligibility
All active, regular, benefits-eligible female employees who have been employed by Alabama Power Company for at least 12 consecutive months at the time of the need for leave are eligible for maternity leave for the birth of their baby. Temporary, leased and coop employees are not eligible for maternity leave.
Amount and Timing of Maternity Leave
After the birth of a child, an employee is eligible to take six weeks of leave for a vaginal delivery and eight weeks of leave for a Caesarean Section (C-Section).
An employee’s maternity leave begins on the documented delivery date. If an employee needs to take additional time off before delivery or beyond the six or eight weeks of maternity leave (whether for medical or nonmedical reasons), the maternity leave Standard will not apply. However, the employee may be eligible for additional time
69
off under applicable vacation, sick time, or FMLA Standards, provided that the requirements of those Standards are met.
Pay During Maternity Leave
Maternity leave provided under this Standard is unpaid. However, an employee may be eligible to receive pay during maternity leave under other applicable Standards.
If an employee who is covered under this Standard is requesting maternity leave, the leave will be counted against the following programs/benefits that provide paid time off in the following order:
•	Paid sick leave
•	Parental leave
•	Banked holidays (if applicable)
•	Vacation time
•	Unpaid time
Requesting Maternity Leave
An employee must notify her supervisor at least 30 days prior to the scheduled start of her leave indicating their expected due date and/or planned Caesarean date. If the employee cannot provide 30 days notice, the employee must contact her manager as soon as is practical. This generally means notifying the
70
Company the day of the birth or the next business day after the birth. In addition, the employee must comply with the call-in procedures for her workgroup and contact her manager as soon as practical after delivery. Unless unusual circumstances prohibit an employee from following these notice requirements, failure to comply may result in the delaying or denying of leave by management until proper notice is provided.
An employee requesting maternity leave should complete the FMLA packet and Parental Leave Request Form, if applicable.
Certification of the Leave
The employee will need to provide certification of the needed length of leave from her health care provider following the birth of her child.
Employee Benefits During Leave
Employees on maternity leave will continue to accrue service time and may choose to continue health care coverage, life, accident, LTD, and Tax Saver plans on the same basis as coverage exists before taking maternity leave. Seniority accrual while on maternity leave shall be governed by the, applicable
71
labor agreement. Accrual of accredited service while on unpaid maternity leave shall be governed by applicable pension plan documents. The Company will continue to pay its share of the medical and insurance premiums for those employees electing to continue coverage. Employee premium contributions will continue to be payroll deducted as long as the employee is on paid leave. While on unpaid maternity leave, employee contributions for medical and insurance premiums will not be collected, but will be paid by the Company on the employee’s behalf. The full amount of premiums in arrears and employee premium contributions paid by the Company on the employee’s behalf will be deducted on the employee’s first and subsequent paychecks, where necessary, after return from leave. If an employee does not return to work following maternity leave, the Company may require repayment of the Company’s share of premiums paid for medical and insurance coverage during maternity leave, as well as the employee’s share of any premium payments missed by the employee and paid for by the Company, or employee contributions paid by the Company on the employee’s behalf (unless the employee fails to return from leave due to circumstances beyond the control of the employee).
72
Return to Duty
The Maternity Leave Standard does not guarantee employees job restoration at the conclusion of their maternity leave. However, other leave Standard (such as the FMLA Standard) may provide job restoration rights to such employees.
In the event that the employee’s scheduled return-to-work date changes, the employee must notify her manager of the new return-to-work date as soon as practicable and discuss any questions or special requirements.
Employees must notify their manager and timekeeper on their first day back to work.
(d)	Insofar as possible without interfering with the necessary operations of the various units, the following holidays will be observed and granted without loss of pay: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day (or such other national holiday as may be established in lieu thereof), Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve Day, and Christmas Day. The holidays will be observed on the days on which they occur. As much notice as possible will be given to employees required to work on holidays; however, schedules as posted will constitute
73
notice to employees who are required to work on holidays. When employees work on a holiday they will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked on the holiday, and in addition thereto they will receive pay for eight (8) hours at their regular straight time rate. When a holiday falls on the employees’ respective off-day they will be allowed a day off in lieu thereof within thirty (30) days, or, if the Company concludes that it will not be able to grant time off in lieu of such holiday, it will pay for the same at regular straight time rates. If a holiday falls on the employees’ respective off-day and it is necessary to call out or to prearrange the employees to perform work, they will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked, and in addition thereto, they will receive pay for eight (8) hours at their regular straight time rate.
If a holiday occurs during employees’ vacation, they will be allowed an additional day off with pay at the beginning or end of their vacation.
Employees will be allowed to bank holidays according to the following:
If a holiday falls on a regular scheduled workday and the employee works eight (8) hours
74
or more, the employee may be paid eight (8) hours at the straight time rate and request the holiday be banked. If more than eight (8) hours are worked, all hours over eight (8) hours will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) time. Employees working shifts other than eight (8) hours per day will be allowed to bank the entire shift, hour for hour, if they work their regular scheduled hours or more on a holiday and are paid at the straight time rate for such regular scheduled hours worked. However, if a holiday falls on a regular scheduled workday and the employee is paid straight time wages for time missed during the regular scheduled work period as a result of the rest period as set out in this paragraph, for the purpose of holiday banking only, such time will be considered as time worked. Should an unpaid meal period cause the employee to have worked less than a full work period, the employee will be allowed to request the holiday be banked. If a holiday falls on a regular scheduled workday and the employee works the entire shift at the overtime rate as a result of the rest period as set forth in this paragraph, the employee may request the holiday be banked. If the employee works part of the work period at the overtime rate as a result of the rest period and is off with pay at the straight time rate for part of the work period due to the rest period as provided herein, the employee will be allowed to bank the holiday. All hours worked outside regular scheduled
75
hours will be paid at one and one half (1-1/2) time. Holidays that occur on an employee’s off day may only be banked as eight (8) hours. For holidays that occur on a regular scheduled workday and are not banked, all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours will be paid at one and one half (1-1/2) time. An employee may bank up to five (5) holidays (effective January 1, 2010, ten (10) holidays). Should employees change to a longer schedule, they must use dock time or vacation to make up the difference when taking a banked holiday. If they change to a shorter schedule, they will be paid for the difference or have the option of taking the excess hours off as if it were vacation.
Banked holidays can be carried over from year to year, but at no time can an employee have more than five (5) days banked (effective January 1, 2010, ten (10) days). Banked holidays must be taken in blocks of hours equal to the regular scheduled workday, arranged for like a day of vacation. Employees may request payment for banked holidays in blocks of hours equal to the regular scheduled work day, with payment made at the current straight time rate in the employee’s regular paycheck.
At least twenty four (24) hours prior to the beginning of a holiday each supervisor will make known if the needs and conditions are such that
76
members of the work group may volunteer to work on the holiday and thus bank the holiday for future use. If more ask to work than are needed then seniority will be the basis for selecting those asking to bank a holiday.
It is not the Company’s intention to change schedules on a temporary basis to avoid paying for more than eight (8) hours.
(e)	The Company will continue its present policy of carrying group life insurance at its own expense on all full-time employees so long as such insurance continues to be available to the Company at substantially the present rates and under substantially the present conditions.
Employees returning from layoff as a result of reduction of forces within twenty-four (24) months of such layoff will be entitled to the amount of non-contributory group life insurance to which they were entitled at the time of layoff.
Spouses of deceased pre-retirement employees may continue to participate, or enroll within 60 days after the date of death, in the APC medical benefits plan at employee rates until they are covered by a non-APC sponsored medical plan.
77
The Company adopted a Pension Plan covering certain of its employees, including those now represented by the Brotherhood, on July 1, 1944. Such Pension Plan has been amended from time to time since its adoption and the Company has entered into supplemental pension agreements with the Brotherhood relating to such plan.
(f)	Employees performing jury duty will be paid their regular rates for time lost from their regular work while so serving. Employees who are permanently discharged from such jury duty will be expected to report such discharge as soon as practicable to their respective supervisors. The Company agrees to allow sufficient time off with pay for voting, not to exceed two (2) hours, to those employees whose work on election day does not otherwise permit sufficient time to vote.
(g)	Employees who are members of the Brotherhood's committees representing the Local Unions above-mentioned will be allowed time off to attend meetings with Company officials. They will give their respective supervisor, or in the supervisor’s absence, the supervisor’s designee, reasonable notice in advance of their desire to attend such meetings. The number of representatives of the Brotherhood in attendance at such meetings on Company time will be limited to the number reasonably necessary to
78
transact the business at hand. The Company will pay such employees at their regular rates of pay for time lost from their regular work as a result of attending such meetings.
Officers and authorized delegates not to exceed four (4) from each Local Union, who are called upon to transact business for the Local Union or the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, which temporarily requires their absence from duty, will, upon written request to their department supervisor, be allowed sufficient time for such business without pay.
It is understood, however, that except for the foregoing there will be no transaction of Brotherhood business, including solicitation, on Company time or on any property of the Company where employees are on duty.
The company agrees to pay covered employees who take time off during regular working hours for straight time spent transacting Union business. The Local Unions, in turn, agree to reimburse the Company for payment of such time, as well as, payroll adders, taxes and benefits as billed by Alabama Power Company on a quarterly basis. This will replace the practice of docking
79
covered employees for time associated with Union business.
(h)	Should employees become Business Manager in Alabama for the above-mentioned Local Unions or accept a full-time position with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or the Alabama Labor Council, the Company agrees that they will be given a leave of absence for the period of this agreement, or any extension thereof, and that they will retain and accumulate seniority and service just as though they continued to work for the Company, and that they will be permitted to return to their former or an equivalent classification with the Company immediately upon conclusion of their term as such, and provided they are competent to fill the position. It is understood, however, that any necessary demotions made in carrying out the provisions of this paragraph (h) will not be made the basis of any grievance.
Service time will accrue for employees who are on a Union Leave of Absence. Employees who return from a Union Leave of Absence will be eligible for retroactive accrual of service time for purposes of vacation, service awards and retirement plaques.
(i)	Employees who are required to work outside in the rain will be furnished raincoats or
80
rain suits (as agreed on locally) and rain hats. Employees required to work in water will be furnished rubber boots. The Company will endeavor to provide a reasonable assortment of sizes of such equipment. Such equipment will remain the property of the Company, will not be devoted to personal use, and will be turned in when not actually required. If any employees desire such individual equipment for their own use, upon written request, the Company will supply it at thirty percent (30%) of the cost to the Company (including cost of handling), but in that event such equipment will be kept readily available by employees to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph. The Company will also make replacements of such individual equipment at thirty percent (30%) cost at reasonable intervals.
(j)	Text Deleted.
(k)	Paragraphs 1 through 5: Text Deleted.
When employees are designated by their supervisors to work in a higher covered classification or temporarily relieve or substitute for employees of a higher covered classification than their own, they will be paid at the minimum rate of the higher covered classification only for those hours worked in that classification. The senior competent employee available in the
81
respective crew or shift will be designated to work in the higher covered classification. Employees will continue to receive the pay of their own classification if they are required to work in a lower classification.
When management deems it necessary to substitute and/or perform the duties of a supervisor, contract specialist or other noncovered jobs as determined by management, the company will designate someone to substitute and they will be paid an additional three dollars ($3.00) per hour.
(1)	When an employee is offered a promotion by the Company and for any reason fails to accept it, such failure will not affect the employee’s seniority or status, except as provided in paragraph (e) of Article V.
(m)	Any employee who is called for work while off duty will be given as much notice as possible.
(n)	Where it is practicable to do so, any employees who are unable to report for work will send word to or notify their respective superintendent, supervisor or team leader of such inability and its probable duration. Such notice will be given as much in advance of the starting time of their shift as may be possible.
82
Repeated failure to report for work without giving such notice or without good and sufficient reason will be grounds for disciplinary action or discharge.
(o)	Employees will keep their respective supervisors informed of their correct home or living quarters address.
(p)	The Company will not use superintendents, assistant superintendents, supervisors, or foremen to displace employees in classifications covered by this agreement; however, nothing in this agreement will be construed to prevent them from doing such work in emergencies, in training employees, or in the inspection and adjustment of equipment, and performing incidental tasks which contribute to the obvious efficiency of the crew or work group, but will not displace a covered employee. It is not the parties' intent for these classifications to become working classifications that can perform routine bargaining unit work without limitations. Such classifications' primary responsibility is to supervise work being performed. The above referenced incidental tasks do not include the foremen doing routine switching or using tools.
(q)	When employees are recalled for work and report for duty after a regular work period or on one of their regular off-days, they will be paid
83
for actual time spent working or standing by, plus an additional amount equal to their overtime rate of pay for one hour for the inconvenience involved in such recall, but in no event will they receive less than two (2) hours pay at their overtime rate.
Employees who are provided Company vehicles for the purpose of such recalls and respond to the recalls from their homes, will not be eligible for the one hour at the overtime rate to compensate for the inconvenience of the recall. Such employees will be paid for the actual time spent working or standing by but in no event will they receive less than two (2) hours pay at their overtime rate.
When employees are recalled for work and report for duty while they are off duty during their regular scheduled lunch period, they will receive overtime pay for the actual time worked at a minimum of one-half (1/2) hour up to the length of their scheduled lunch period and will be allowed adequate time to complete eating their meal.
When employees are required to report to work on a scheduled workday after having been released on one of their scheduled workdays and were notified to this effect before the end of their last scheduled work period, they will be paid the
84
equivalent of three (3) hours at the overtime rate or the actual hours worked, whichever is greater, except as set out below.
When employees are required to report in advance of the normal starting time on one of their scheduled days of work, and were notified to this effect before the end of their previous scheduled workday, they will be paid at their overtime rate for all time worked prior to their normal starting time.
When employees are required to report for work on one of their off-days and were notified to this effect before the end of their last previous scheduled work period or in the event a prearranged overtime assignment begins on a regular work day and extends into an off-day or begins on an off-day and extends into another off-day, they will be paid the equivalent of four (4) hours at the overtime rate or the actual hours worked, whichever is greater. A regular off-day will consist of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours commencing with the end of the preceding regular work day [as defined in paragraph (v), Article VIII] or a preceding regular off-day.
(r)	When employees are ordered to stand by subject to call, a definite place and period of time will be designated by their supervisor. Time thus
85
spent standing by will be considered as hours worked.
(s)	So far as may be practicable and consistent with the efficient performance of work to be done, the Company will distribute overtime work equitably among the employees covered by this agreement over reasonable periods of time in the various units, locations and lines of work therein; the various lines of work corresponding generally to the principal journeyman classifications and being: (1) warehousing, (2) plant operations, (3) Fuel Handling, steam plants only, and (4) plant maintenance.
In consideration of differences in work locations, overtime issues will be handled by mutual local agreements. Once established, these local agreements will serve as the definition of "equitable" distribution of overtime and will outline the policy to be followed in each local area. These agreements will address as a minimum the following interests:
-	on call arrangements such as A&B lists, crew on call, etc.
-	the need for timely response, particularly on a holiday and weekends
-	consequences clearly stated for either party not adhering to agreement
-	a sunset provision
86
Should no mutual agreement be reached the existing overtime procedures will be utilized.
Records showing the distribution of overtime in accordance with the above will be made available for inspection by designated representatives of the Brotherhood at plant offices. Lists of overtime at intervals of four (4) weeks accumulated from beginning to end of each year will be posted at the plants.
(t) In the event an employee has a personal need and is unable to work on a regular workday, subject to the approval of supervision and without loss of efficiency or payment of overtime, the employee may make it up without loss of pay by working immediately before or after any regular scheduled work period in the same work week, working an off-day in the same workweek, using a day of vacation, or using a banked holiday.
If employees are absent from work because of a death in their immediate family, they will be allowed time off with pay as follows:
(1)	Five (5) days bereavement leave will be granted, as deemed necessary by the employee in the event of the death of the employee's spouse/domestic partner, child, or stepchild.
87
(2)	Three (3) days bereavement leave will be granted, as deemed necessary by the employee in the event of a death of the employee's parents, stepparents, grandparents, great grandparents, grandchildren, brothers or sisters, half-brothers or half-sisters, daughter-in-law or son-in-law, or the spouse/domestic partner's parents, stepparents, grandparents, great grandparents, brothers or sisters, half-brothers or half-sisters, or any relative regularly residing in the household of the employee concerned.
Time off as stipulated in (1) & (2) above must be taken within thirty (30) days of the death.
(u) Shift employees may elect to work rotating or non-rotating schedules by functional operating groups. The preferences of such employees will also be regarded, by seniority, in scheduling shifts and off-days upon request to the supervisor in general charge of the operation. All employees encompassed by the Power Generation Agreement are "Shift Employees".
88
Shift employees at generating plants may elect to work a modified form of fixed shift schedule under the following conditions:
1.	During the month of September of each calendar year, an election will be held by the Union to determine whether shift employees, by functional operating groups at each location, desire to work fixed shift schedules. The Company agrees to comply with the wishes of each functional operating group at each location following receipt of an official notice from the Union certifying the election results supplied no later than October 15 of each year. Upon proper receipt of such notice, the Company will post a schedule, allowing for a thirty (30) day notice, to go into effect on the first Saturday following January 1.
2.	For the purpose of applying this agreement, the following will be deemed as functional operating groups:
a.	E&l Journeymen, Electricians, Instrument Servicemen, Apprentice E&I Journeymen, and Plant Auxiliaries
b.	Mechanics, Apprentice Mechanics, Machinists, Welders, Apprentices, and Plant Auxiliaries
89
c.	Warehouseman-Plant, Materialman and Plant Auxiliaries
d.	Plant Control Operators, Assistant Plant Control Operators, and Plant Auxiliaries
e.	Fuel Handling Department
f.	text deleted
3.	The term "fixed shift schedules" as used in this paragraph does not in any way affect the Company's rights to reschedule employees as provided in paragraph (w) of this Article VIII. Specifically, this includes, but is not limited to, the right to reschedule employees in designated relief positions on a regular basis to meet the requirements of the Company.
4.	The present methods of allowing employees to select vacant positions on the schedule will continue; but if problems unique to fixed shift schedules should develop, the Company and the Union will meet and resolve these problems.
Employees in each functional work group in Power Generation will be allowed to vote, one time per year, for the purpose of splitting into teams or remaining in functional work groups for the purposes of overtime distribution and vacation scheduling.
90
A shift differential in addition to the rates set forth in wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A will be paid to employees who work on the evening or night shifts as follows:
Evening Shift—Where the majority of the scheduled hours worked are between
3 p.m. and 11 p.m. Effective August IS, 2014, the differential will be increased to 90^ per hour for all hours acutally worked.
Night Shift---Where the majority of the scheduled
hours worked are between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. Effective August 15, 2014, the differential will be increased to $1.05 per hour for all hours actually worked.
No shift differential will be paid for any time not actually worked.
(v)	The regular workweek will consist of seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods starting immediately after Friday midnight, or at the shift change nearest Friday midnight in the case of shift employees, as defined in paragraph (u) above. The regular daily work period will consist of a continuous period including eight (8) scheduled hours of work, plus scheduled time for a meal. However,
91
it is understood that the commencement of the meal period may be advanced or delayed thirty (30) minutes by the Company so long as the meal period is not reduced or extended. In cases where the commencement of a meal period is advanced or delayed more than thirty (30) minutes by the Company, time spent working during the regular scheduled meal period will be paid for at the overtime rate and the employee will be allowed sufficient time for the meal and if any part of this time falls outside their regular scheduled meal period it will be considered time worked. The regular workday will consist of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours commencing with the starting time of the work period; except that no workday will carry over from one regular workweek to the next.
(w)	All employees will be paid at the rates shown for their respective classifications in the wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A for all time worked during their scheduled hours of work. Employees will be scheduled to work five (5) regular daily work periods in each workweek on consecutive workdays, as far as may be practicable. Off-days will'be consecutive except in the case of periodic changes of shifts or when daily work periods are changed by giving at least thirty (30) days notice as provided for in this paragraph (w). The various employees will be notified of their regularly scheduled work periods
92
by posting notices in the respective plants. The Company may change such regularly scheduled five (5) consecutive daily work periods by giving at least thirty (30) days prior notice of such change. Employees may be rescheduled for temporary periods upon at least thirty-six (36) hours prior notice stating the probable duration. Employees rescheduled with less than 36 hours but more than 24 hours notice will receive a $0.50 cents an hour premium for all hours worked during the first two weeks of the temporary schedule. Employees will be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times the rates shown for the respective classifications in the wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) in any regular workweek and for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any regular workday and for all hours worked outside of those regularly scheduled; provided, however, that overtime rates will not be paid for hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any workday brought about by periodic changes of shifts or by granting requests of individual employees; and, provided further, that overtime rates will not be paid more than once for the same hours worked. Employees may be allowed to work schedules other than eight (8) hours as specified in applicable Memoranda of Understanding.
(x)	Text Deleted.
93
(y) Employees who are instructed to report for duty before they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty since the end of their last scheduled work period and who so report will be paid at the overtime rate for all hours worked thereafter until they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty. Employees who are instructed to report for duty six (6) hours or more before their next regular scheduled starting time following an off day will continue to be paid at the overtime rate for all time worked until they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty. However, in either instance at the completion of the work for which the employee so reported, the Company may at its discretion continue the employee at work or give them eight (8) hours off duty and if any part of the eight (8) hours off duty falls within or overlaps into the employee's next regular scheduled work period, they will be paid for all such hours off duty within their regular scheduled work period at the straight time rate.
Any employees continuing to work beyond their regular scheduled work period will be paid at the overtime rate for all hours worked thereafter until they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty and if any part of such eight (8) hours off duty falls within or overlaps into the employees’ next regular scheduled work
94
period, they will be paid for all such hours off duty within their regular scheduled work period at the straight time rate. In those instances where travel time is applicable in applying the terms and conditions of the eight (8) hour rest period provision, such travel time will be considered as a portion of such rest period provision.
(z) Employees who may be temporarily incapacitated by a lost-time accident and who recover to the extent that the Company Medical Director certifies them for "light duty," or any employees who suffer or develop a temporary physical disability to the extent that they are no longer competent to perform satisfactory work in their classification may be placed on any work which is available (including their regular job) and which they can perform without prejudice to their physical condition. Such employees will be paid at the proper rate for the classification to which they are assigned.
In the event employees are determined by the Company Medical Director to be permanently or indefinitely physically disabled so that they can no longer satisfactorily perform their work in their classification, the Company will undertake to mutually agree with the Brotherhood upon the assignment of such employees to any classification without regard to the provisions of Article V, paragraph (e), and such employees
95
will be paid at the rate of the classification to which they are assigned.
In the event employees are determined by the Company Medical Director to be permanently or indefinitely physically disabled so that they can no longer satisfactorily perform their work in their classification, the employees will be given the option of exercising rights covered in Article V, paragraph (k) of this agreement, provided there are classifications available that employees can perform without prejudice to their physical condition and further provided that the employees will not be precluded from exercising other available options.
Permanently disabled employees electing to exercise the roll rights given under this paragraph, who are subsequently determined to be incompetent to perform the duties of their new classification during the first 12 months following the roll back, will be demoted under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (k). The ensuing roll back will be conducted under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (i).
1.	Permanently disabled employees electing to exercise roll rights given under the above, may be considered for rolling into classifications which are filled on the basis of competency.
96
2.	Permanently disabled employees eligible to exercise roll rights under this paragraph, who elect to go on LTD when eligible, will not be eligible to exercise roll rights.
Employees on Disability, Extended Disability, or Long Term Disability leaves of absence on or after September 2, 1992, will be granted service credit, not to exceed twenty-four (24) months, upon return to work.
(aa) Subject to the orders of their supervisors, employees are responsible for the proper discharge of their respective duties within the scope of their training and experience, and any negligence or failure in this respect will constitute grounds for disciplinary action or discharge after proper investigation.
(bb) When employees are required by the Company to work temporarily at some location other than the place where they regularly work, the Company will pay any reasonable and necessary traveling and living expenses required by such temporary employment.
If the Company provides overnight traveling accommodations, it will pay only for time spent in traveling during regularly scheduled hours on
97
scheduled workdays or off-days just as though such time were worked. If the Company provides traveling accommodations other than by Company car or truck, it will pay for all time spent in traveling just as though such time were worked. In such cases, if employees desire to provide their own transportation or to determine their own mode, route, and time of traveling to and from such temporary employment, they will make mutually satisfactory arrangements with their respective supervisor in advance as to the time and expense to be paid for by the Company and as to the time and place where they will report.
If traveling is by Company car or truck the Company will pay for all time spent traveling just as though it were time worked. If in lieu of utilizing a Company car or truck, which will make the trip in any event, employees desire to provide their own transportation, they will pay their own transportation expense but will receive time as if they had traveled by such Company car or truck.
In the event employees who are working temporarily at some location other than the place where they regularly work and would normally have their room and board paid for at the temporary location as provided for in the first sentence of this paragraph (bb) chooses to return
98
to their home after each day's work, the Company will provide their evening and morning meals at the temporary location and at the option of the employees the Company will allow such employees for traveling or transportation expenses the amount that would otherwise be paid by the Company for the employees’ lodging.
(cc) When employees are required to incur any extra expense by reason of being required by the Company to work before, after, or in excess of their scheduled hours of work in any day, such reasonable and necessary extra expense will be defrayed by the Company.
Meals will be provided or paid for as set forth in Exhibit D, entitled Procedures Relating to Providing or Paying for Meals.
Travel expense will be paid for as set forth in Exhibit E, entitled Memorandum of Agreement — Payment for Travel Expense for Employees Required to Work Overtime.
(dd) Employees will have a permanently assigned headquarters which will also be the employees’ usual reporting place; provided, however, that this provision will not require employees to report to such assigned headquarters if instructed by their supervisor to proceed to discharge their duties without
99
reporting to such headquarters. Employees will not be permanently transferred from one such assigned headquarters to another except through the operation of the provisions for filling vacancies or new jobs provided for in Article V hereof. The first sentence of this paragraph will not be construed to require employees to report each date to their assigned headquarters if in the normal performance of their duties such reporting is not necessary, unless the employees are instructed to report to such headquarters by their respective supervisor.
Where employees are required to report or quit at some headquarters or reporting place, the Company will pay for time spent in traveling between the job and such headquarters or reporting place, plus any time spent working at such headquarters or reporting place.
(ee) Along with their paycheck for each pay period the Company will furnish to all employees a statement showing the number of hours for which they are paid at straight time rates; the number of hours for which they are paid at overtime rates; and the number of hours worked in substitution during the payroll period covered by such paycheck; together with the respective rates of pay.
100
(ff) Work in rain, sleet or snow will be held to such minimum as is reasonably necessary for the protection and preservation of the property of the Company and for the rendition of safe, economical and satisfactory service to the public. It is understood that routine work, excluding performing work on energized lines or equipment, will be performed during periods of light rain.
(gg) The Brotherhood will be permitted to use space on bulletin boards of the Company in operations where members of the Brotherhood are employed, under the terms of this agreement, for posting official notices of the Brotherhood to its membership.
(hh) When the Company requires any employee to have a telephone, it will notify such employee in writing of this requirement. In such case, the Company will pay the telephone bill of the employee (except personal long distance charges) until the requirement is canceled in writing. No employee's telephone number will be listed under the Company's name in the telephone directory.
(ii) In the event a report of commendation, or a disciplinary notice summary letter is placed in the personnel file of an employee, a copy of the document will be furnished such employee.
101
In case a disciplinary notice is given, the employee concerned will be given a letter summarizing the discussion. If the employee chooses, a representative from the Brotherhood may be present at time of such discussion. If the employee thinks unfair treatment is given, a grievance may be initiated and such discussion, by mutual agreement, may be considered the first step of the grievance procedure. The letter summarizing a disciplinary notice will not be made a part of the official files of the Company until the outcome of the grievance has been determined.
(jj) If employees who are instructed to climb a steel radio tower over 100 feet in height believe that due to their physical or mental limitations or their lack of skill they cannot perform the job safely and so inform their supervisor, they will not be required to climb such tower.
(kk) The following is the Company's new Tool Policy in its entirety: The Company will pay to eligible employees 70% of the reasonable receipt for approved personal tool purchases. Employees will be furnished a list of tools authorized to be purchased based on their classification.
102
When an employee is awarded a permanent job, the employee will be responsible for purchasing, within a reasonable time frame, the tools necessary for that classification. During work schedules, the employee must have these tools available for use at the work site. Prior management approval is necessary to purchase or replace authorized or approved tools.
Tools, except for specialty tools stocked by the Company, will be acquired by the employee through direct purchase from outside vendors. The employee will be responsible to ensure purchased tools meet current ANSI Standards. Reimbursement will be made through the expense account procedure with reimbursement on the employee's paycheck.
Employees will be responsible for replacing tools under warranty. The Company will not replace tools which are not under warranty when the tool is available in a brand that is under warranty. However, worn or broken tools acquired prior to September 14, 2004, may be replaced on a case by case basis. Broken or worn tools which are not available with a warranty may be replaced at the 70/30 split.
Lost or stolen tools may be replaced at the Company's expense on a case-by-case basis.
103
Employees will have ownership of personal tools and will be responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of these tools.
(11)	Uniforms
1.	Effective August 15, 2014, the Company will provide a cold weather jacket or coveralls, to be chosen by the employee from a selection provided by the Company, and will replace as needed.
2.	Effective August 15, 2014, the Company will reimburse employees a maximum of $250 per year for work boots meeting all requirements purchased from a vendor of the employee’s choosing.
ARTICLE IX
Wages and Classifications
(a)	Salaries to be paid the various classifications of employees will be at the rate set forth in salary schedules attached hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit A provided, however, that no employees’ salaries will be
104
reduced because they are above the rate shown in such salary schedules for the classification in which they are regularly working when this agreement becomes effective. All permanent regular employees covered by this agreement will be paid on an hourly wage basis. In all cases hourly rates for the respective classifications will be used in computation of overtime, time lost and time worked in substitution for employees in higher classifications.
(b)	The number and classification of employees required for the regular full operation and maintenance of the generating plants of the Company at the present time is set forth in job schedules attached as Exhibit B of this agreement, subject to the notes included as part of such exhibit; but the Company does not agree to continue such numbers and classifications of employees except as they may be required for the work to be done.
ARTICLE X
Loyalty and Efficiency
Employees of the Company, members of the Brotherhood, agree that they will perform loyal and efficient work and service; that they will use their influence and best endeavors to protect the property of the Company and its interests; and
105
that they will cooperate with the Company in promoting and advancing its welfare and prosperity.
ARTICLE XI
No Strikes or Lockouts
In view of the grievance and arbitration provisions of this agreement, the Brotherhood agrees that during the term hereof it will not authorize, instigate, support or encourage any strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees, and the Company agrees that during such term there will be no lockout of employees. The Brotherhood will not be liable to the Company on account of any strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees not authorized, instigated, or encouraged by it and participation by any employee in any such strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees will constitute grounds for immediate discharge.
106
ARTICLE XII Safety
(a)	Both parties agree to cooperate in promoting safety throughout the various operations of the Company covered by this agreement.
(b)	It will be the duty of supervision to see that a sufficient number of experienced workers, equipped with the customary safety devices necessary for the safe performance of the job, are available for any work which is undertaken in any operation of the Company covered by this agreement.
(c)	Violation of safety rules of the Company after a warning has been given will be deemed sufficient reason for disciplinary action or discharge of offending employees.
(d)	Whenever an investigating committee is appointed by the Company to investigate an accident affecting employees, it will include at least two (2) members of the Local Union affected familiar with the line of work in which the accident occurred, to be selected from an adequate list supplied by the Brotherhood for each unit covered by this agreement. The Company agrees to investigate promptly
107
accidents involving employees upon written request from the Brotherhood.
(e)	In the event a report of any investigating committee is deemed unfair to an employee, this may be taken up by the Brotherhood as a grievance as provided for in Article VI.
(f)	In emergencies all employees are expected to perform to the best of their ability consistent with safety; but employees not working under direct supervision will request additional competent assistance when confronted by work which would be dangerous for them to undertake by themselves.
ARTICLE XIII Text Deleted
ARTICLE XIV
Special Rules - Hydro Plants
(a)	The Plant Operators on shift will be responsible for the detailed operation of their respective plants, subject to the orders and supervision of the respective plant superintendents and foremen, and in accordance
108
with system operating procedures for the respective plants.
(b)	Electricians must be thoroughly experienced in power plant electrical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of this work with only general supervision.
(c)	Mechanics must be thoroughly experienced in power plant mechanical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of this work with only general supervision.
(d)	Hydro Journeymen on shift will be responsible for the detailed operation of their respective plants, subject to the orders and supervision of the respective plant superintendents and foremen and in accordance with operating procedures for the respective plants. They must be thoroughly experienced in power plant electrical and mechanical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of this work with only general supervision.
109
ARTICLE XV
Special Rules - Steam Plants
(a)	In the steam plants, the boiler or plant control operators on shift will be responsible for the detailed operation of their respective boiler, turbine, or control room areas to which they are assigned subject to the orders and supervision of the respective plant manager/supervisor or team leader.
(b)	Text Deleted.
(c)	Text Deleted.
(d)	Text Deleted.
(e)	Assistant Plant Control Operators on shift must be qualified to handle detailed operation of equipment in the several plant areas assigned and to intelligently assist the Plant Control Operators in the plant operation.
Within Fossil Generation, the duties of Assistant Plant Control Operator will include switching for Maintenance. Training will be provided to employees expected to perform switching beyond their previous level of experience.	The above changes will be
implemented provided they conform to applicable state and federal laws.
110
(f)	Electricians and E&l Journeymen must be thoroughly experienced in power plant electrical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of such work for their respective plants with only general supervision.
Employees classified as Electrician in Fossil Generation will be reclassified to E&I Journeyman as soon as they demonstrate competency for the new classification. Employees reclassified to this new classification will be placed at that step of the rate range corresponding to their position in the former classification. This reclassification will establish a new progress increase date.
Employees classified as Electrician in Fossil Generation will be offered an opportunity to demonstrate the required competency for the new classification by making available CK&S testing at the employee's request. In the event of a failure, the employee must wait six (6) months before being eligible for retesting. The Company agrees not to remove an incumbent Electrician from that job classification due to such employee's failure to qualify for the E&l Journeyman.
111
Electricians, E&I Journeyman and E&I Apprentice will be considered in one work group for the purposes of schedule election, job assignments on straight time and overtime, overtime distribution, and vacation scheduling.
(g)	Mechanics must be thoroughly experienced in power plant mechanical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of such work for their respective plants with only general supervision.
(h)	Machinists must be thoroughly experienced in power plant machine tool work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of such work for their respective plants with only general supervision.
(i)	Apprentices must be experienced plant auxiliaries, capable of assisting in the maintenance of power plant electrical, instrument, and mechanical equipment, and must have the necessary qualifications to develop into higher class workers. They may be used on either electrical, instrument, or mechanical work. In the maintenance personnel of any steam plant the number of apprentices will not exceed one (1) for each two (2) journeymen, including electricians, E&I journeymen, mechanics, and welders.
112
(j)	At a minimum, plant auxiliaries must be able to do unskilled work in connection with the maintenance or operating jobs to which they are assigned and must display aptitude for their work and ability to acquire necessary skill to qualify them for promotion. Plant auxiliaries must be capable of assisting in the maintenance and operation of power plant electrical and mechanical equipment.
(k)	In order to be able to avoid a reduction of forces at the steam plants due to temporarily reduced operation schedules, the Company will continue its policy of giving employment in the maintenance and operating crews to experienced operating workers who would otherwise be laid off, giving proper weight, however, to seniority, competency, and availability of work. This provision will not be construed as requiring the Company to employ an operating worker on maintenance work in a lower classification and pay the worker in excess of the rate provided for such classification in the wage schedules, Exhibit A of this agreement.
ARTICLE XVI Text Deleted
113
ARTICLE XVII Text Deleted
ARTICLE XVIII
Co-Operative Student Training Program
Recognizing the responsibility of the Company for the training and development of engineering personnel to meet future needs and objectives of the Company, the parties agree that, notwithstanding the seniority provisions of this agreement, the Company will have the right to utilize co-operative student employees to fill new jobs or vacancies in classifications below that of apprentice, provided such student employees are competent to fulfill the duties of the job. The Company will undertake to agree with the Brotherhood on a guiding principle concerning the placement of co-op students in bargaining unit classifications.
114
ARTICLE XIX
Employee Training
Recognizing the need for training employees for advancement to certain classifications and the improvement in skill of certain other employees in classifications they already hold, discussions will be held between representatives of the Company and the Brotherhood in an effort to develop plans for such training.
ARTICLE XX
Posting Rules
The rules in regard to hours and working conditions as set forth herein will be posted in the respective generating plants, to which they apply and the rules so posted will be observed until changed as provided for in this agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Brotherhood have each caused these presents to be executed in their respective names and on their respective behalves by their proper officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the day and year first above written.
115
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
By Jim P. Heilbron
Sr. Vice President Power Generation
Approved For:
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
Mark A. Crosswhite
President & Chief Executive Officer
Attest:
Celia Shorts
Corporate Secretary
116
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
D
Local Union No. 345, Mobile, Alabama
By Russell L. Cabc
Local Union No. 833, Jasper, Alabama
By Keith L. Gilliland
Local Union No. 904, Tallassee, Alabama
By Robert I). Ford
Local Union No. 391. Gadsden, Alabama
By Tommy R. Mann
.	Local Union No. 801. Montgomery, Alabama
By Keith C. Williams
Local Union No. 841, Birmingham, Alabama
By Mark L. Adkins
Local Union No. 1053, Demopolis. Alabama
By Richard M. Stokes
Local Union No. 796, Dothan, Alabama
By Anna D. Jerry
Local Union No. 2077, Wilsonville, Alabama
By Vincent K. Pickett
Approved For:
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Edwin D. Hill International President
Attest:
Casey Shelton
Business Manager, System Council U-19
117
EXHIBIT A (2014)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2014 - August 14, 2015
119
Exhibit A (2014) Power Generation Agreement
Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15, 2014 - August 14, 2015 Generating Plants and Steam Heat
Job No.
Classification
Minimum to Maximum
1. Maintenance — Fossil/Hydro Plants
	» 004105 005503	Elect & Instr Journeyman Elect & Instr Journeyman I	S32.727 32.727	S32.797 32.955	S32.867	S32.955	S
	004108	Electrician-Pwr Sup	32.159	32.266	32.333	32.399	
	* 004109	Machinist	32.159	32.266	32.333	32.399	
	004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	32.159	32.266	32.333	32.399	
	005497	Mechanic	32.159	32.399			
	004113	Welder	34.474	34.589	34.661	34.733	
	011972	Mechanic-Welder	34.474	34.733			
	* 004121	Mechanic-Diesel	32.159	32.266	32.333	32.399	
	004124	Hvy Equip Opr	32.159	32.266	32.333	32.399	
	004167	Warehouseman Plant	32.159	32.192	32.266	32.282	32.333
			32.399				
Exhibit A (2014) - Continued
Job No. Classification	Minimum to Maximum
004168	Materialman	$29,466	$29,688	$29,952	$30,017	$30,122
		30.224				
*	004104	Elect & Instrument Appr	26.804	27.613	28.424	29.233	30.042
		30.852	32.727 •			
* 008392	Elect & Instrument Appr 1	26.804	28.075	29.347	30.618	32.727
004143	Equip Operator	26.567	26.651	26.721	26.844	26.930
* 004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	26.119	27.466	28.814	30.164	32.159
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	26.119	26.204	26.308	26.394	26.479
£	* 004894	Apprentice Mech-Diesel	26.119	26.204	26.308	26.394	26.479
008655	Plant Auxiliary	15.981	16.414	16.902	17.140	17.399
		18.040	18.419	18.954	19.471	20.369
		21.217	22.094			
2. Hydro Plant Operation						
004875	Hydro Journeyman	$35,531	$35,702	$	$	
004876	Operator-Electrician	32.783	32.883			
004877	Operator-Mechanic	32.783	32.883			
004114	Plant Operator	32.159	32.266	32.333	32.399	
Exhibit A (2014) - Continued
123
Job No.	Classification		Minimum to Maximum			
3. Steam Plant Operation						
004116	Plant Control Opr	S36.325	S36.441	S36.532	S36.646	S
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	32.159	32.266	32.333	32.399	
004148	Ast Pit Control Opr	27.273	27.360	27.461	27.533	
004143	Equip Operator	26.567	26.651	26.721	26.844	26.930
008655	Plant Auxiliary	15.981	16.414	16.902	17.140	17.399
		18.040	18.419	18.954	19.471	20.369
		21.217	22.094			
4. Birmingham Steam Heating System						
004117	Boiler Operator	S32.159	S32.266	S32.333	S32.399	
005211	Boiler Operator-Mechanic	32.727	32.797	32.867	32.955	
S. Cogeneration						
008207	Cogen Journeyman	S37.474	S37.534	S37.637	S37.732	
EXHIBIT A (2014) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(I)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer
124
into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
125
EXHIBIT A (2015)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2015 - August 14, 2016
127
Exhibit A (2015) Power Generation Agreement Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15, 2015- August 14, 2016 Generating Plants
129
	Job No.	Classification		Minimum to Maximum			
1. Maintenance —		Fossil/Hydro Plants					
*	004105	Elect & Instr Journeyman	S33.791	S33.863	S33.935	S34.026	S
	005503	Elect & Instr Journeyman I	33.791	34.026			
	004108	Electrician-Pwr Sup	33.204	33.315	33.384	33.452	
*	004109	Machinist	33.204	33.315	33.384	33.452	
	004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	33.204	33.315	33.384	33.452	
	005497	Mechanic	33.204	33.452			
	004113	Welder	35.594	35.713	35.787	35.862	
	011972	Mechanic-Welder	35.594	35.862			
*	004121	Mechanic-Diesel	33.204	33.315	33.384	33.452	
	004124	Hvy Equip Opr Warehouseman Plant	33.204	33.315	33.384	33.452	
	004167		33.204 33.452	33.238	33.315	33.331	33.384
Exhibit A (2015) - Continued
	Job No.	Classification		Minimum to Maximum			
	004168	Materialman	S30.424	S30.653	S30.925	$30,993	$31,101
			31.206-				
*	004104	Elect & Instrument Appr	27.675	28.510	29.348	30.183	31.018
			31.855	33.791			
*	008392	Elect & Instrument Appr I	27.675	28.987	30.301	31.613	33.791
	004143	Equip Operator	27.430	27.517	27.589	27.716	27.805
*	004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	26.968	28.359	29.750	31.144	33.204
	004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	26.968	27.056	27.163	27.252	27.340
*	004894	Apprentice Mech-Diesel	26.968	27.056	27.163	27.252	27.340
	008655	Plant Auxiliary	16.500	16.947	17.451	17.697	17.964
			18.626	19.018	19.570	20.104	21.031
			21.907	22.812			
Hydro Plant Operation							
	004875	Hydro Journeyman	36.686	36.862			
	004876	Operator-Electrician	33.848	33.952			
	004877	Operator-Mechanic	33.848	33.952			
	004114	Plant Operator	33.204	33.315	33.384	33.452	
Exhibit A (2015) - Continued
Job No. Classification
3. Steam Plant Operation
Minimum to Maximum
004116	Plant Control Opr	S37.506	S37.625	S37.719	S37.837	S
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	33.204	33.315	33.384	33.452	
004148	Ast Pit Control Opr	28.159	28.249	28.353	28.428	
004143	Equip Operator	27.430	27.517	27.589	27.716	27.805
008655	Plant Auxiliary	16.500	16.947	17.451	17.697	17.964
		18.626	19.018	19.570	20.104	21.031
		21.907	22.812			
4. Cogeneration						
008207	Cogen Journeyman	S38.692	S38.754	S38.860	S38.958	S
EXHIBIT A (2015) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and thez step immediately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer
132
into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
133
EXHIBIT A (2016)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2016 - August 14, 2017
NOTE: These wages are the minimum for 2016. They may increase based on language in the 2014 Memorandum in Exhibit C.
135
Exhibit A (2016) Power Generation Agreement Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15, 2016- August 14, 2017 Generating Plants
Job No.	Classification
1. Maintenance — Fossil/Hydro Plants
Minimum to Maximum
	*	004105 005503	Elect & Instr Journeyman Elect & Instr Journeyman 1	S34.466 34.466	S34.540 34.707	S34.614	S34.707	S
GJ		004108	Electrician-Pwr Sup	33.868	33.981	34.051	34.121	
	*	004109	Machinist	33.868	33.981	34.051	34.121	
		004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	33.868	33.981	34.051	34.121	
		005497	Mechanic	33.868	34.121			
		004113	Welder	36.306	36.427	36.503	36.579	
		011972	Mechanic-Welder	36.306	36.579			
	*	004121	Mechanic-Diesel	33.868	33.981	34.051	34.121	
		004124	Hvy Equip Opr	33.868	33.981	34.051	34.121	
		004167	Warehouseman Plant	33.868	33.903	33.981	33.998	34.051
				34.121				
Exhibit A (2016) - Continued
	Job No.	Classification		Minimum to Maximum			
	004168	Materialman	$31,032	$31,266	$31,544	$31,612	$31,723
			31.830				
*	004104	Elect & Instrument Appr	28.229	29.081	29.935	30.787	31.639
			32.492	34.466			
*	008392	Elect & Instrument Appr I	28.229	29.567	30.907	32.245	34.466
	004143	Equip Operator	27.979	28.068	28.141	28.271	28.361
*	004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	27.507	28.926	30.345	31.767	33.868
	004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	27.507	27.597	27.706	27.797	27.886
*	004894	Apprentice Mech-Diesel	27.507	27.597	27.706	27.797	27.886
	008655	Plant Auxiliary	16.830	17.286	17.800	18.051	18.324
			18.999	19.398	19.961	20.506	21.452
			22.345	23.268			
Hydro Plant Operation							
	004875	Hydro Journeyman	37.419	37.600			
	004876	Operator-Electrician	34.525	34.631			
	004877	Operator-Mechanic	34.525	34.631			
	004114	Plant Operator	33.868	33.981	34.051	34.121	
Exhibit A (2016) - Continued
139
Job No. 3. Steam Plant Opi	Classification eration	Minimum to Maximum				
004116	Plant Control Opr	S38.256	S38.378	S38.474	S38.594	S
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	33.868	33.981	34.051	34.121	
004148	Ast Pit Control Opr	28.723	28.814	28.921	28.996	
004143	Equip Operator	27.979	28.068	28.141	28.271	28.361
008655	Plant Auxiliary	16.830	17.286	17.800	18.051	18.324
		18.999	19.398	19.961	20.506	21.452
		22.345	23.268			
4. Cogeneration						
008207	Cogen Journeyman	39.466	39.529	39.637	39.737	
EXHIBIT A (2016) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer
140
into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (I) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
141
EXHIBIT A (2017)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August IS, 2017 - August 14, 2018
NOTE: These wages are the minimum for 2017. They may increase based on language in the 2014 Memorandum in Exhibit C.
143
Job No.
145
Exhibit A (2017) Power Generation Agreement Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15, 2017 - August 14, 2018 Generating Plants
Classification
1. Maintenance — Fossil/Hydro Plants
Minimum to Maximum
* 004105	Elect & Instr Journeyman	S35.156	S35.231	S35.306	S35.401	S
• 005503	Elect & Instr Journeyman I	35.156	35.401			
004108	Electrician-Pwr Sup	34.546	34.661	34.733	34.803	
* 004109	Machinist	34.546	34.661	34.733	34.803	
004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	34.546	34.661	34.733	34.803	
005497	Mechanic	34.546	34.803			
004113	Welder	37.032	37.156	37.233	37.311	
011972	Mechanic-Welder	37.032	37.311			
* 004121	Mechanic-Diesel	34.546	34.661	34.733	34.803	
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	34.546	34.661	34.733	34.803	
004167	Warehouseman Plant	34.546	34.581	34.661	34.678	34.733
		34.803				
Exhibit A (2017) - Continued
Job No.	Classification		Minimum to Maximum			
004168	Materialman	$31,653	$31,891	$32,175	$32,245	$32,357
		32.467				
* 004104	Elect & Instrument Appr	28.793	29.662	30.533	31.402	32.272
		33.142	35.156			
* 008392	Elect & Instrument Appr I	28.793	30.159	31.525	32.890	35.156
004143	Equip Operator	28.539	28.629	28.704	28.836	28.929
* 004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	28.057	29.504	30.952	32.403	34.546
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	28.057	28.149	28.260	28.353	28.444
* 004894	Apprentice Mech-Diesel	28.057	28.149	28.260	28.353	28.444
008655	Plant Auxiliary	17.167	17.632	18.156	18.412	18.690
		19.379	19.786	20.361	20.916	21.881
		22.792	23.734			
Hydro Plant Operation						
004875	Hydro Journeyman	$38,168	$38,352	$	$	$
004876	Operator-Electrician	35.216	35.323			
004877	Operator-Mechanic	35.216	35.323			
004114	Plant Operator	34.546	34.661	34.733	34.803	
Exhibit A (2017) - Continued
Job No. Classification
3. Steam Plant Operation
Minimum to Maximum
004116	Plant Control Opr	S39.021	S39.145	S39.243	S39.366	S
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	34.546	34.661	34.733	34.803	
004148	Ast Pit Control Opr	29.297	29.390	29.499	29.576	
004143	Equip Operator	28.539	28.629	28.704	28.836	28.929
008655	Plant Auxiliary	17.167	17.632	18.156	18.412	18.690
		19.379	19.786	20.361	20.916	21.881
		22.792	23.734			
4. Cogeneration						
008207	Cogen Journeyman	$40,255	$40,320	$40,430	$ 40.532	
EXHIBIT A (2017) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer
148
into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
149
EXHIBIT A (2018)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2018 - August 14, 2019
NOTE: These wages are the minimum for 2018. They may increase based on language in the 2014 Memorandum in Exhibit C.
151
Job No.
153
Exhibit A (2018) Power Generation Agreement
Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15, 2018 - August 14, 2019 Generating Plants
Classification
1. Maintenance — Fossil/Hydro Plants
Minimum to Maximum
* 004105	Elect & Instr Journeyman	S35.859	S35.936	S36.012	S36.109	S
' 005503	Elect & Instr Journeyman I	35.859	36.109			
004108	Electrician-Pwr Sup	35.237	35.354	35.427	35.499	
* 004109	Machinist	35.237	35.354	35.427	35.499	
004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	35.237	35.354	35.427	35.499	
005497	Mechanic	35.237	35.499			
004113	Welder	37.773	37.899	37.978	38.057	
011972	Mechanic-Welder	37.773	38.057			
* 004121	Mechanic-Diesel	35.237	35.354	35.427	35.499	
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	35.237	35.354	35.427	35.499	
004167	Warehouseman Plant	35.237	35.273	35.354	35.371	35.427
		35.499				
Exhibit A (2018) - Continued
	Job No.	Classification	Minimum to Maximum				
	004168	Materialman	S32.286	$32,529	$32,818	$32,890	$33,005
			33.116				
*	004104	Elect & Instrument Appr	29.369	30.255	31.144	32.031	32.917
			33.804	35.859			
*	008392	Elect & Instrument Appr 1	29.369	30.762	32.155	33.548	35.859
	004143	Equip Operator	29.109	29.201	29.278	29.413	29.507
*	004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	28.619	30.094	31.571	33.051	35.237
	004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	28.619	28.712	28.826	28.920	29.013
*	004894	Apprentice Mech-Diesel	28.619	28.712	28.826	28.920	29.013
	008655	Plant Auxiliary	17.510 19.766	17.985 20.182	18.519 20.768	18.780 21.334	19.064 22.318
			23.247	24.208			
Hydro Plant Operation							
	004875	Hydro Journeyman	38.931	39.119			
	004876	Operator-Electrician	35.920	36.030			
	004877	Operator-Mechanic	35.920	36.030		35.499	
	004114	Plant Operator	35.237	35.354	35.427		
Exhibit A (2018) - Continued
Minimum to Maximum
155
Job No. Classification
3. Steam Plant Operation
004 H6	Plant Control Opr	S39.801	S39.928	S40.028	S40.153	S
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	35.237	35.354	35.427	35.499	
004148	Ast Pit Control Opr	29.883	29.978	30.089	30.168	
004143	Equip Operator	29.109	29.201	29.278	29.413	29.507
008655	Plant Auxiliary	17.510	17.985	18.519	18.780	19.064
		19.766	20.182	20.768	21.334	22.318
		23.247	24.208			
4. Cogeneration						
008207	Cogen Journeyman	41.060	41.126	41.239	41.343	
EXHIBIT A (2018) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer
156
into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
157
EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS
A - HYDRO PLANTS
158
Classification	Lay Dam	Mitchell Dam	Jordan Dam	Martin Dam	Yates-Thurlow Dam	Smith Dam	Bankhead Dam
Mechanics		-	1				
Apprentices	-	-	-	-	-	-	-
Auxiliaries-Plant	2	1	-	3	3	2	1
Operator-Mechanic	-	-	-	-		-	-
Operator-Electrician	-		1	-	-	-	1
Hydro Journeyman	4	4	4	4	6	2	-
EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS
A - HYDRO PLANTS
159
Classification	Weiss Dam	Henry Dam	Logan-Martin Dam	Holt Dam	Bouldin Dam	Harris Dam
Mechanics	-	-	-	-		-
Apprentices	-	-	-	-	-	-
Auxiliaries-Plant	1	1	1	1	1	1
Operator-Mechanic	-	-	1	-	-	1
Operator-Electrician	-	-	-	-	-	-
Hydro Journeyman	4	4	4	2	4	2
EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS
B - STEAM PLANTS
160
Classification	Barry	Gadsden	Gorgas	Greene County	Gaston	Miller
Plant Control Operators	36	6	22	12	26	27
Asst Plant Control Open	45	9	45	19	44	67
Heavy Equipment Oper.	5	1	6	2	9	6
Equipment Operators	15	3	32	6	16	23
EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS
B - STEAM PLANTS
Classification	Barry	Gadsden	Gorgas	Greene County	Gaston	Miller
E & 1 Journeyman	16	3	21	6	25	20
Electricians	-	-	-	-	-	-
Mechanics	12	1	14	4	21	12
Mechanic-Welders	6	2	9	4	12	12
„ Mechanics-Diesel	-	-	-	-	-	-
2 Machinists	1	-	1	1	1	-
Warehouseman-Plant	-	-		-	-	2
Materialman	4	-	5	2	6	3
Auxiliary-Plant	12	-	5	4	9	30
Welders	3	1	1	1	2	
Appr Meeh Pwr Suppl.	-	-	-	-	-	2
Apprentice E&I	9	-	-	6	6	10
EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS C - COGENERATION PLANTS
Classification	Theodore Cogen	Washington Co Cogen
Cogen Journeyman	13	12
162
C-NOTES
(A) These schedules, including footnotes, show the number of jobs - by classification and by plants - required to be filled for the full, normal operation of the generating plants as presently constituted.
EXHIBIT C GENERATION AGREEMENT OUTSTANDING MOUs WITH LANGUAGE THAT EXISTS AS OF 2014 (Language that is still applicable but not incorporated into the body of the Contract)
1995 NEGOTIATIONS
7. For participants in the APC medical plan administered by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama, the Company agrees to implement a Prescription Drug Program integrated with major medical. The following plan design aspects will be administered:
a.	Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama will maintain a network of pharmacies in Alabama which have agreed to participate in the Participating Pharmacy Program.
b.	Employees will save, on average, 15% when purchasing prescriptions from a network pharmacy.
163
c.	Once the major medical deductible of $300.00 is satisfied, generic drugs will be reimbursed at 100%, brand name drugs will be reimbursed at 80% of usual customary and reasonable charges.
d.	For prescription drugs purchased from a non-network pharmacy, benefits will be payable to the employee, according to the existing Major Medical Plan.
16.	The Company can agree to remove all written disciplinary records from the employee's personal file except as noted below as of the effective date of this agreement providing that the Union agrees to withdraw all pending arbitration cases involving discipline that did not result in termination, and further providing that such employee has no legal action pending against the Company.
The Company cannot agree, however, to remove discipline issued for violations of the Company's Drug and Alcohol Policy. In addition, the Company cannot agree to remove any written discipline resulting in multiple day suspension issued under the old progressive discipline policy after January 1, 1995.
164
All discipline issued after June 1, 1995, under the Non-punitive Discipline System, will be removed according to the policy's guidelines.
17.	The Company will administer a Drug and Alcohol random testing program to the entire employee population including those now covered by the Department of Transportation regulations covering the commercial driver’s license.
The procedures now in effect for the testing program for employees with Commercial Drivers Licenses will be extended to all employees with the exception that the non-CDL group will be tested at a rate of 10% of that population per year. Employees covered under this agreement (other than those with a CDL-) will be combined with other non-covered Company employees to form the non-CDL testing pool.
Implementation of post-accident drug and alcohol testing will be applicable to all employees including those currently under the Department of Transportation testing program as follows: a) Vehicular accidents - any accident meeting one or more of the following criteria 1) human
165
fatality 2) one or more vehicles towed away from the scene of an accident 3) injury or injuries immediately treated away from the scene of an accident 4) Alabama Power Company driver receives a traffic citation relating to the accident; b) Non-Vehicular accidents - all doctor attention cases.
Upon an employee's request, a split sample will be tested and the Company will pay for the additional test at a laboratory designated by the Company.
28.	The Company can agree to a roving crew concept for the Power Generation area as set forth below:
a.	Existing employees will be used to form the crew (no new authorizations).
b.	Employees will be allowed to sign, by seniority, for the roving maintenance crew once per year.
c.	Make-up of the Crews will be as follows:
ECG BAR MB. GOR GCSP GAD TOTAL Mechams	S	8	S	8	4	1	37
EilJoumeyma	2	2	2	2	0	0	8
Welta	4	4	4	5	1	0	18
166
d.	Based on needs and conditions, the Company will determine the make-up and schedule of each crew.
e.	If the positions cannot be filled by existing journeymen, it is understood that upgrading, by seniority, may be necessary to obtain the allotted positions at each location and to fill behind these positions when they are working at other locations.
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS
The Company has decided to make the following changes based on concerns voiced by our employees during these negotiations. The decision to change these items follows the principles outlined in the current Memoranda of Agreement which reaffirm the Company's right to exercise full control and discipline in the conduct of its business and to be the judge of competency.
31.	Time limits for expiration of disciplinary action notices in the Company's new Non-punitive Discipline Policy are hereby reduced as follows:
167
1st level notice - 12 months to 6 months 2nd level notice - 18 months to 12 months 3rd level notice - 24 months to 18 months
All other provisions of the policy remain unchanged.
32.	Those sections of existing CK&S Testing Procedures which reference three (3) year and/or five (5) year time limits on maintaining competency to hold or substitute in a tested classification will be changed to remove these time limits for employees presently qualified (by job or CK&S) as of January 1, 1995 or thereafter.
Based on the Company's commitment to revise testing to include knowledge required on feeder tests, the requirement in Power Generation that the employee must be qualified on the feeder classification prior to qualification for Hydro Journeyman, Mechanic, Diesel Mechanic, E&l Journeyman, Welder, and Machinist will be removed.
168
1998 NEGOTIATIONS
13.	Pay Calculations and Delivery
a.	The Company may take advantage of technological advances in performing future pay calculations. Rounding will no longer be an issue.
b.	The Company and Union recognize the cost savings associated with direct payroll check deposit and we jointly agree to use our best efforts to convince our fellow employees to participate. This might include prize drawing for participants.
14.	Job Bids
“Job Net” or any other bid system available in the future may be used for posting jobs at any time the following parameters can be maintained:
a.	Bid Security
b.	Bid Confirmation
c.	Existing method of Bid input used for the Contract Bid System (CBS).
d.	Compliance with Article V of the contract
169
21.	In recognition of the competitive nature of warehousing functions, the parties agree that the following changes will be made:
a.	Grandfather in their present classification all Warehousemen at the Plants for any present and future wage increases.
b.	Future warehouseman vacancies at the Plants that the Company deems necessary to fill will be filled as Materialman.
2009 NEGOTIATIONS
4. Commercial Drivers License During the term of this agreement, the Company will continue to reimburse employees required to hold a Commercial Drivers License (CDL), the entire cost of the initial CDL and thereafter, the cost of renewing such license above the cost of a private drivers license and the Company will pay for the first medical examination required for license renewal.
OTHER AGREEMENTS
The Company and the Union agree to work together to delete unnecessary language, to correct errors in the language, to update language
170
and perform editing of the Agreement as needed, without changing the intent of the Agreement.
171
2014 Memorandum of Agreement
1.	The following general wage increase adjustments will be made over the five year term of this contract.
All classifications will be increased as shown below:
August 15, 2014	3.00%
August 15, 2015	3.25%
Increases August 15, 2016 and subsequent years will be the average merit increase received by Company non-covered employees, but in no case will the increases be less than the following:
August 15, 2016	2.00%
August 15, 2017	2.00%
August 15, 2018	2.00%
2.	PPP
All APC IBEW covered employees will participate in the Company’s PPP plan or other short term incentive plan that is in effect and for which they are eligible from January 1, 2014 and beyond, with the first payout under this agreement occurring in March of 2015. The incentive target for employees covered by this agreement will
172
be ten (10) % for each year. Any such plan will be designed and implemented solely by Company Management and participation will be subject to the same provisions as all other participants. The plan will not be subject to the grievance and arbitration process.
3.	Benefits
The Company is committed to offering quality and economical benefit programs on a cafeteria-style basis. This method is particularly suitable for accommodating increased employee diversity, evolving family structures, and changing family needs. The Company is also committed to evaluating current benefit providers at a Southern Company system-wide level because of our increased buying power and exploring opportunities with these and other vendors to get a better value or product.
The Company will continue to offer a choice of health care plans and will appropriately share in the cost of medical premiums.
a.	During 2014, the choices and monthly premium contributions arc as follows:
173
Carrier	Total Premium Company Cost Employee Cost
Blue Cross Blue Shield PRO	Single	Family	Single	Family	Single	Family
BYO $500 PPO/$100 Rx	$444.10	$1,150.60	$429.34	$924.92	$14.76	$225.68
BYO $250 PPO/S50 Rx*	$482.40	$1,249.90	$429.34	$924.92	$53.06	$324.98
Standard Option	$507.90	$1,315.90	$429.34	$924.92	$78.56	$390.98
Enhanced Option	$596.80	$1,546.20	$429.34	$924.92	$167.46	$621.28
VIVA Health**	$537.30	$1,392.20	$459.34	$1,004.92	$77.96	$387.28
‘The 2014 Core Plan will be the Blue Cross Blue Shield BYO $250 PPO/S50 Rx.
“ Includes enrollment incentive available in 2014.
b.	During 2015, the choices and monthly premium contributions are as follows:
175
176
Carrier	Total Premium Company Cost Employee Cost
Blue Cross Blue Shield PPO	Single	Family	Single	Family	Single	Family
BYO $500 PPO/$100 Rx	$454.90	$1,178.50	$439.74	$998.56	$15.16	$179.94
BYO $250 PPO/S50 Rx*	$494.10	$1,280.20	$439.74	$998.56	$54.36	$281.64
Standard Option	$520.30	$1,347.80	$439.74	$998.56	$80.56	$349.24
Enhanced Option	$611.30	$1,583.70	$439.74	$998.56	$171.56	$585.14
VIVA Health**	$550.40	$1,426.00	$470.74	$1,077.56	$79.66	$348.44
‘The 2015 Core Plan will be the Blue Cross Blue Shield BYO $250 PPO/S50 Rs.
** Indudes enrollment incentive available in 2015.
c.	During 2014 through 2019, the Company's monthly premium contributions and Core Plan selection will be as follows: The Core Plan will be determined annually by the Company. Criteria for selection of the Core Plan will include requirements for the quality of healthcare products and services to be comparable to the current Core Plan.
For 2014, the Company will select the Core Plan and contribute a dollar amount up to 74% of the total premium of family medical coverage or 89% of the total premium for single medical coverage based on the Core Plan. For any plans with premiums greater than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute a dollar amount up to 74% for family coverage, or for single coverage, 89% of the Core Plan. The balance of the premium will be paid by the employee. However, for plans with total premiums less than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute no greater than 100% of the total premium of such plans.
177
For 2015 through 2019, the Company will select the Core Plan and contribute a dollar amount of 78% of the total premium of family medical coverage or 89% of the total premium for single medical coverage based on the Core Plan. For any plans with premiums greater than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute a dollar amount of 78% for family coverage, or for single coverage, 89% of the Core Plan. The balance of the premium will be paid by the employee. However, for plans with total premiums less than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute no greater than 100% of the total premium of such plans.
d.	During the term of this contract, the Company will meet with the Union semiannually to discuss trend data, the APC medical reserves, and premium-to-cost ratios to communicate premium estimates for years 2014 through 2019.
e.	Spouses of deceased pre-retirement employees may continue to participate, or enroll within 60 days after the date of death, in the APC
178
medical benefits plan at employee cost until they are covered by a non-APC sponsored medical plan.
f.	For all participants in any APC medical plan, the Company agrees to provide an integrated Employee Assistance Program (EAP)ZManaged Mental Health Plan as a part of the medical plans offered. During 2014, the vendor will be ValueOptions. The current plan design aspects will include:
•	Inpatient/Outpatient Mental Health
•	Inpatient/Outpatient Chemical Dependency
Mental health and chemical dependency benefits mirror medical benefits coverage; refer to specific medical plans.
EAP services (up to 6 visits in 2014) are available to all employees and their family members at no cost -whether they participate in the company-sponsored medical plan or not. Certain mental health and substance abuse treatments are
179
covered under the medical plan rather than the EAP. EAP services include legal referrals, financial counseling, marital counseling, childcare referrals and elder care referrals.
g.	The Company will continue to offer LTD insurance with premiums as set forth below:
1.	The provider will be MetLife with the following monthly rates for the year 2014:
96 cents per $100 of covered pay for 60% Base Salary coverage (48 cents per $100 covered by the employee and 48 cents per $100 by the Company).
60 cents per $100 of covered pay for 50% Base Salary coverage (12 cents per $100 covered by employee and 48 cents per $100 by the Company).
2.	The provider will be MetLife with the following monthly rates for the year 2015:
180
81 cents per $100 of covered pay for 60% Base Salary coverage (40.5 cents per $100 covered by the employee and 40.5 cents per $100 by the Company).
50 cents per $100 of covered pay for 50% Base Salary coverage (9.5 cents per $100 covered by employee and 40.5 cents per $100 by the Company).
3.	During the remaining term of this agreement, the premium for the 60% coverage option will be shared equally (50% Company and 50% employee). The same company contribution will be made for the 50% Base Salary coverage option.
h.	The company will continue to offer Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance as a benefit option.
For the year 2014 and 2015, the vendor will be MetLife with the rates as follows:
181
Coverage Option	You Only	You + chfid(ren)	You + spouse	You + famtty
$50,000	$1.15	$130	$130	$130
$100,000	$230	S2.60	S3.60	$3.60
$200,000	$4.60	$5.20	$7.20	$7.20
$300,000	$6.90	$730	$10.80	$10 JO
$400,000	$9.20	$10.40	$14.40	$14.40
$500,000	$11.50	$13.00	$18.00	$18.00
Refer to the plan documents for specific coverage amounts for spouse and/or child(ren).				
Refer to the plan documents for specific coverage amounts for spouse and/or child(ren).
i.	During the term of this contract, the company will offer an enhanced dental insurance plan as a benefit option. For the plan years 2014 and 2015, the vendor will be Delta Dental.
For the year 2014, the following plans and monthly rates will be offered:
Category	Schedule Option	Low Option	High Option
Emp.Oniv	$1237	$16.76	$31.62
Emp. + Family	$39.18	553.09	$86.06
182
For the year 2015, the following plans and monthly rates will be offered:
Schedule			
Category	Option	Low Option	High Option
Emp. Only	$12.56	$17.01	$32.09
Emp. + Family	$39.77	$53.89	$87.35
4.	Pay for Unused Sick Leave The Company commits to research paying for unused sick leave.
5.	All MOU’s/MOA’s that were set to expire August 15, 2014, will continue to be in effect throughout the term of this agreement.
183
MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT
GUIDELINES FOR TRAINING AT ALABAMA POWER COMPANY July 24, 2014
As result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are set forth herein:
This MOA will apply to training at a centralized location for IBEW covered employees at Alabama Power Company. This MOA will replace the “Guidelines for Training at Alabama Power Company” Memorandum of Agreement dated September 24, 2013.
1.	Each employee attending the training session may elect to commute to the training location each day, using his or her personal vehicle, and will be reimbursed at the Company’s prevailing rate for actual mileage unless the employee qualifies for lodging (see below).
184
2.	Training should be scheduled whenever possible such that employees shall travel during normal working hours to and from the training location.
3.	Mileage will be computed by determining the most direct round trip route between the employee's permanent residence and training location. If the training commute is less than the normal commute, no mileage reimbursement will be made.
a.	Permanent Residence is less than 50 miles from training location (Not Eligible for Lodging):
i.	Compensated for travel time and mileage to and from the training location if the training commute exceeds the normal work commute.
ii.	The Company will furnish or pay for lunch.
b.	Permanent Residence is 50 miles or greater from training location (Eligible for Lodging):
185
Each employee attending the training session whose permanent residence is 50 miles or greater from the training location is entitled to lodge (single occupancy when available) paid for by the Company.
Employees who choose to lodge at the training location will be eligible for travel time and mileage reimbursement for one round trip between his/her permanent residence and the training/lodging location for each week of training. Daily mileage from the lodging location to training location will be compensated. Total travel time between lodging location and training location will be paid if it
186
exceeds the normal work commute.
iii.	If an employee who qualifies for lodging but elects to commute daily to and from the training location, s/he will not be provided lodging, but will be reimbursed for mileage up to 250 miles roundtrip per day. Employees will be compensated for travel time and total mileage for one roundtrip from permanent residence to training location per week.
iv.	The Company will furnish or pay for breakfast, lunch and dinner if the employee is lodging.
c.	Employees on Per Diem
i.	The per diem provisions outlined under the Power
187
Delivery Transmission Agreement will apply to covered employees who live 45 miles or more from the training location as follows:
Employees may elect to continue per diem if their crew location is 45 miles or less than the training location. For crew locations greater than 45 miles from the training center, employees may elect to continue per diem when mutually agreed upon by management and the employee. Employees will be reimbursed for daily mileage from the travel trailer or temporary lodging location to the training location.
188
4.	This MOA applies to any training situation away from the employee's normal work location, with the exceptions noted below:
For training purposes, the Company will not pay for lodging for the following:
a.	Training employees permanently headquartered at Gorgas Steam Plant on training assignment at Miller Steam Plant.
b.	Training employees permanently headquartered at Miller Steam Plant on training assignment at Gorgas Steam Plant.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future. Any provisions of the agreement not specifically referenced will remain unchanged.
This Agreement is entered into this 24,h day of June, 2014 and becomes effective August 2, 2014.
189
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT COGENERATION PROJECT STAFFING
AUGUST 1, 2000
The following agreement between Alabama Power Company, IBEW System Council U-19 and its nine Local Unions is entered into by the parties as a result of discussions between Company and Union representatives with provisions as set forth below:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between the Company and the Union as follows:
1.	Cogeneration projects staffed by Alabama Power Company will have an all Journeyman multi-skilled work force.
2.	Employees must be dual qualified as a minimum and must include PCO qualification (PCO-E&l, PCO-M) to be awarded this job.
3.	Employees dually qualified (PCO-E&I, PCO-M) will have one year from report date to qualify as a Cogeneration Journeyman or
190
be rolled as outlined in Article V, paragraph
(i)	. (Ref. paragraph 8. d. below)
4.	All dual craft and multicraft employees at the facility will comprise one functional work group and be considered one classification for purposes of shift selection and vacation scheduling.
5.	Vacation and shift schedule selections will be completed after all jobs are filled.
6.	During the first six weeks after reporting to a job at the Cogen facility, employees may request to return to their previous job and location under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (i) of the existing Memorandum of Agreement. After this six weeks period employees will be restricted from bidding on vacancies outside the Cogen for a period of 18 months, except to a higher classification.
7.	After the six-week waiting period, the employee will be awarded a one-month’s salary of a Cogen Journeyman as a relocation bonus (Footnote 1). The Company will pay reasonable moving expenses associated with moving household furnishings by a Commercial Moving Company approved by the Company, provided it is sixty (60) miles farther from
191
their existing home to their new work location than it is from their existing home to their old work location. Example: Now an employee lives 30 miles from their work location. If it is 90 miles or farther from their existing home to new work location, they would receive the moving expense (Footnote 1).
8.	It is the Company's intent that employee qualification will be determined by existing or new CK.&S test instruments as follows: (Footnote 2)
a.	Cogeneration Journeyman Test will test for each discipline. This test will not qualify employees for any other job.
b.	Plant individual classification CK&S tests (Mechanic, E&I, PCO).
c.	Dual craft employees will be allowed to test three times in the one-year transition period.
d.	Hydro Journeymen who are qualified under Fossil PCO guidelines are considered qualified for Cogen Journeyman.
192
9.	Company will provide a System Description for the use of employees who wish to pursue qualification.
10.	The Cogen Journeyman classification will not be used at existing Company facilities (i.e. inside the fence).
11.	With regard to Strikes or Lockouts, the Union and Company agree to abide by Article XI of the Power Generation Memorandum of Agreement. Additionally, the Union will not strike at a cogeneration project prior to providing the Company 30 days notice that a strike vote has occurred. However, such a strike vote will not occur until the basic Power Generation Memorandum of Agreement has terminated.
12.	The Union agrees never to picket a customer's facility.
13.	Employees awarded jobs at cogeneration facilities should recognize their unique position of representing Alabama Power Company and every effort should be made to maintain excellent customer relations.
14.	This Memorandum of Agreement is applicable to Cogeneration Projects at Washington County and Theodore.
193
However, by mutual agreement of both parties, this Memorandum of Agreement may be extended to include additional cogeneration projects.
15.	Unless specifically referenced above, the terms and conditions of the basic Power Generation Memorandum of Agreement will apply.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and is applicable to Cogeneration facilities. This agreement will not preclude management's right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number and classification of employees employed at these locations and their work assignments. This agreement will not be used to set a precedent for the same or similar situations in the future and will not prejudice either party's position regarding the issues contained herein.
FOOTNOTES
(1)	Employees that are currently Cogen Journeymen on August 1, 2000, are exempted from 6 & 7 as long as they are in their present job. Employees are not subject to receive the one-month’s bonus more than once.
(2)	Employees that have qualified for Cogen Journeyman by August 1, 2000, under the
194
Cogen MOA dated June 10, 1998, will be held to the qualification requirements of the MOA dated June 10, 1998.
195
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING POWER GENERATION COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB SECURITY NOVEMBER 12,1996
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are embraced in this memorandum of agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
2. In an effort to implement new practices that will ensure a competitive workforce the Company and the Union agree, where practical, to encourage that overtime be distributed by work teams; for a trial period up to one year. Both parties agree that in many areas where Team Overtime is in effect there have been fewer grievances and higher productivity. If major inequities occur in the distribution of overtime, during this trial period, Management and Union will make the necessary changes to address concerns.
196
8.	Employees working and being paid in a higher classification (upgrade, substitution, and temporary jobs) may be utilized on a voluntary basis to perform lower classification work on overtime and be paid the lower rate when such is cost effective.
9.	Management and the Union mutually agree that certain activities/efforts are meaningful and worthwhile in the pursuit of decreasing our product's cost. To that end both bargaining unit and non-bargaining unit employees will be encouraged and supported in their participation in these activities. Potential areas include but are not limited to:
a.	Investigation of a business unit concept for Welder, Machinists, Motor/Breaker Repair and Electronic card repair, as well as all other functions which make business sense.
b.	Market testing plant processes.
d. Communicate results of discussions surrounding MOU.
11.	Consideration of the utilization of Roving Crews will be based on good business practices and economics, as determined by the Management. Management and Union agree to
197
meet to discuss methods to reduce average manhour cost. These discussions will specifically address per diem in lieu of actual additional expenses and any other way to reduce costs.
Because the reduction in cost will directly affect bargaining unit employees who participate in roving crews, methods to reduce cost recommendations will be formulated by Union Representatives. Management will act only in an advisory capacity.
12.	The Union agrees to cooperate in the Company's welfare and use their influence to promote the interest of the Company's competitive position in an ever-changing industry environment. The Company and Union agree to seek opportunities to improve efficiencies and fully utilize our workforce.
198
SOUTHERN NUCLEAR OPERATING COMPANY, ALABAMA POWER COMPANY, IBEW LOCAL 796 AND IBEW SYSTEM COUNCIL U-19
POWER GENERATION JOB BIDDING MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
November 30, 1995
On August 21, 1986, Alabama Power Company and the nine local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers System Council U-19 agreed to separate Farley Nuclear Plant from the Power Generation seniority unit. A ten year timeframe was established, during which time covered personnel at Plant Farley would maintain their seniority for bidding purposes only to the Power Generation seniority unit. This agreement expires January 1, 1996 and the parties are interested in establishing a method for power generation personnel to transfer between Alabama Power and Southern Nuclear. The parties agree to the following:
Effective January 1, 1996, Alabama Power vacancies or new jobs within Power Generation will be posted at Farley Nuclear Plant simultaneously with the posting of such jobs at Alabama Power. Plant Farley bidders will be considered after all bids from
199
Alabama Power Company personnel are dispositioned, prior to the vacancy or new job being posted to any available source. Seniority for Plant Farley personnel will be based on the seniority provisions agreed upon between Southern Nuclear and IBEW Local 796 and System Council U-19.
Likewise, Southern Nuclear will post Plant Farley vacancies or new jobs within the Power Generation seniority unit of Alabama Power, simultaneously with the posting of such jobs at Southern Nuclear. Alabama Power bidders will be considered after all bids from Southern Nuclear personnel are dispositioned, prior to the vacancy or new job being posted to any available source. Seniority for Alabama Power personnel will be based on the seniority provisions agreed upon between Alabama Power and the nine locals of the IBEW System Council U-19.
This agreement is not intended to alter qualifications, requirements, or competency	considerations.
Classifications not subject to the posting process will not be subject to this agreement.
200
12 HOUR SCHEDULE August 14,1995 May 29, 2009 (Amended)
This agreement will be applicable to employees, work groups, and crews not presently covered by a 12 hour schedule.
Prior to implementing a 12 hour schedule the Company will notify the appropriate union official of its intent to place an employee, work group, or crew on a 12 hour schedule. Such Union Representative will determine the interests of such employee, work group, or crew in being rescheduled to a 12 hour schedule. Provided a majority of affected employees are in favor of cooperating with the Company, such schedule will be implemented with at least a seven (7) day written notice from the date the Union notifies the Company of its concurrence with the schedule.
While on such twelve (12) hour schedule, the following will be applicable:
SCHEDULE
The regular daily work period will be consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (v) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that the parties agree that during those periods that the agreed upon schedule is in effect, "twelve (12)"
201
will be inserted in lieu of "eight (8)" where it appears in the second sentence of such paragraph.
The Parties agree to waive the requirements as set forth in the second sentence of Article VIII, paragraph (w). Accordingly, any reference to the word five is to be disregarded. The Parties agree to waive the requirements as set forth in the third sentence of Article VIII paragraph (w) for employees working relief schedules only. The agreed upon schedule will determine what the daily work periods will be.
No overtime or meals will be paid for work performed within an employee's regularly scheduled hours while on the twelve hour schedule.
VACATIONS
Vacations will be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (c) of the Memorandum of Agreement, except that vacation will be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e. g. an employee scheduled for a twelve (12) hour work period would be charged twelve (12) hours vacation).
202
HOLIDAYS
The terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d) will apply when the agreed upon schedule is in effect, except as set forth below.
Effective January 1, 2010, employees will receive holiday pay for the number of hours normally scheduled for the holiday. When a holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled off day, the employee will receive the regular scheduled hours holiday pay for the week in which the holiday is observed, or be allowed a day off in lieu thereof consistent with the terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d). Should a holiday fall on an employee's regular scheduled work day and the employee works on that day, the employee will receive pay at one and one/half times the applicable rate for all hours worked plus straight time pay for the holiday for the number of hours scheduled, unless the employee chooses to bank the holiday, in which case the hours worked will be at the normal rate of pay.
SICK LEAVE AND VACATION
Sick leave and vacation will be taken consistent with the Memorandum of Agreement except that sick leave and vacation will be considered by hours and charged accordingly.
203
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
Leave will be taken consistent with the Memorandum of Agreement.
JURY DUTY
The provisions of Article VIII, paragraph (f), will apply relative to time off to perform jury duty.
RETURN TO REGULAR SCHEDULE
It will be at the discretion of the Company to determine when twelve (12) hour work schedules should end and same will be accomplished by giving at least thirty-six (36) hour notice.
204
10 HOUR SCHEDULE POWER GENERATION
August 14, 1995 May 29, 2009 (Amended)
This agreement will be applicable to all employees, work groups, and crews covered by the Power Generation Agreement.
Prior to implementing a four day, ten hour work schedule, the Company will notify the appropriate Union Representative of its intent to place an employee, work group, or crew on a four day ten hour schedule. Such Union Representative will determine the interests of such employee, work group, or crew in being rescheduled to the four day, ten hour schedule. Provided a majority of affected employees are in favor of cooperating with the Company, such schedule will be implemented with at least a seven (7) day written notice from the date that the Union notifies the Company of its concurrence with the schedule.
While on such four day, ten hour schedule, the following will be applicable:
SCHEDULE
The regular daily work period will be consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (v) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that the
205
parties agree that during those periods that the proposed schedule is in effect, "ten (10)" will be inserted in lieu of "eight (8)" where it appears in the second sentence of such paragraph.
The parties agree to waive the requirements as set forth in the second sentence of Article VIII, paragraph (w). Accordingly, any reference to the word "five (5)" following the third sentence will be considered as "four (4)" when such schedule is in effect.
No overtime will be paid for work performed within an employee's scheduled hours of work while working on a four day ten (10) hour schedule.
VACATION
Vacations will be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (c) of the Memorandum of Agreement, except that vacation will be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e. g. an employee scheduled for a ten (10) hour work period would be charged ten (10) hours vacation).
HOLIDAYS
The terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d) will apply when the proposed schedule is in effect, except as set forth below.
206
Effective January 1, 2010, employees will receive holiday pay for the number of hours normally scheduled for the holiday. When a holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled off day, the employee will receive the regular scheduled hours holiday pay for the week in which the holiday is observed, or be allowed a day off in lieu thereof consistent with the terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d). Should a holiday fall on an employee's regular scheduled work day and the employee works on that day, the employee will receive pay at one and one/half times the applicable rate for all hours worked plus straight time pay for the holiday for the number of hours scheduled, unless the employee chooses to bank the holiday, in which case the hours worked will be at the normal rate of pay.
SICK LEAVE
Sick leave will be taken consistent with Article VIII (b) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that sick leave will be considered in hours and charged accordingly (e. g. An employee eligible for sick leave and absent due to an illness who is regularly scheduled to work ten (10) hours, will be charged ten (10) hours sick leave).
JURY DUTY
The provisions of Article VIII, paragraph (f) will apply relative to time off to perform jury duty.
207
BEREAVEMNT LEAVE
Bereavement leave will be granted consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (t) of the Memorandum of Agreement.
RETURN TO REGULAR SCHEDULE
It will be at the discretion of the Company to determine when such four day ten (10) hour work schedule should end and same will be accomplished by giving a thirty-six hour notice.
208
POWER SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT FACILITY OPERATION May 9,1995 May 29, 2009 (Amended)
:	I. Jobs at the PSDF will be considered as a
separate reporting headquarters within the Fossil/Hydro/Steam Heat bid unit. For employees hired after September 14, 2004, PSDF and Gaston Steam Plant will be one
I	bid group.
2.	Jobs will be posted and filled based on ~	procedures outlined in the existing
! —	agreement except as provided in item 6. The
proposed classifications and staffing
; -	schedule is outlined in attachment #1.
]
3.	During the first six weeks after reporting to a -	job at the PSDF, employees may request to
L_	return to their previous job and location
; ""	under the provisions of Article V, paragraph
(i)	of the existing Memorandum of Agreement. After this six weeks period employees will be restricted from bidding on vacancies outside the PSDF for a period of 18 months, except to a higher classification.
4.	Although item 2 will apply to the filling of I "	these jobs, the employee must demonstrate a
—	continuing ability to perform all job
209
responsibilities and learn the new or additional concepts and knowledge necessary to operate and maintain the PSDF. Employees removed from PSDF as a result of unsatisfactory performance will return under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (i) or paragraph (k) of the existing Memorandum of Agreement.
5.	Alternative work schedules based on 4 - 10 hour days or a rotating 12 hour schedule may be utilized subject to approval by SCS and a majority of the affected personnel. In the event such schedules are utilized, no overtime will be paid for working more than 8 hours in a 24 hour period. Language in existing Fossil MOUs on 10 hour and 12 hour schedules would apply.
6.	In order to maintain the proper level of experienced employees at each generation site, the Senior Vice President of Power Generation at Alabama Power Company may disregard applications for Plant Control Operator from qualified applicants at any reporting headquarters where the loss might jeopardize unit operations at that location.
7.	Personnel who fill jobs or work at the PSDF under the provisions of this agreement will remain employees of APCo for purposes of
210
wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment and APCo will act as a labor broker to SCS. SCS will provide direction, control, and supervision of these personnel while working at the PSDF. Before being awarded a job at the PSDF, each employee must acknowledge and give consent of this working relationship in writing (combined with item 10).
8.	Personnel accepting jobs at the PSDF might recognize that this is a unique research facility and when not performing the normal duties of their job, they will perform any other assigned duties within the scope of their training or ability.
9.	Employees who are headquartered at Gaston Steam Plant or the PSDF who are on temporary assignment at either location, will not be paid for a midshift meal.
10.	All personnel working at the PSDF must individually execute a nondisclosure agreement concerning confidential and/or proprietary information as specified by APCo and SCS.
11.	All items not addressed above will be handled in accordance with the existing Memorandum of Agreement including any
211
negotiated changes/additions not conflicting with other provisions of this agreement.
12.	At the conclusion of the contract to operate the PSDF between APCo and SCS, APCo Management and the Unions agree to meet and discuss the consequences of ending said agreement. Each party has an interest in facilitating and reducing the dislocation associated with the ending of the PSDF contract.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not preclude Management's right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number of employees employed within each classification. This agreement will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future.
212
Attachment I
[This table was updated to reflect 2014 staffing levels]
PSDF OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROPOSED STAFFING SCHEDULE •
PgnmtTf i_____ Scfaedn!e_
1996 20M 2009 2014
fhtriflratwm	Jan	Sept	May	Jun*
Plant Control Operator	20	16	18	16
Asst Plant Com. Opr.	8	8	11	14
Equipment Operator	2	2	-	-
Mechanic	8	6	6	7
E & I Journeyman	3	8	8	8
Welder	1	3	2	2
	E3		I_LL8	■ 1 '■
Totals	42	43	45	47
* Actual starting dates and number of jobs may vary.
213
Agreement Regarding Special Employer Relationship, Intellectual Property, and
Confidential Information
]. Special Employer Relationship
I understand and acknowledge that while my wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment are set by contract with Alabama Power Company, and my Union, that APCo serves only as a labor broker to Southern Company Services for work at the Power Systems Development Facility (PSDF), and that my work will be subject to the direction, control, and the supervision of both SCS and APCo while working at the PSDF. I fully understand this and hereby give my express consent to this working relationship while I am working at the PSDF.
II.	Intellectual Property & Confidential Information
In consideration of my employment, and/or the continuation of my current employment at will, by Alabama Power Company (the "Company") or any of the Company's direct or indirect subsidiaries or affiliates, whether presently or hereafter existing (collectively, the "Affiliates") and in connection with the Company's
214
Intellectual Property Policy, 1 hereby agree as follows:
1.	When used in this Agreement:
a.	The term "Intellectual Property" means each invention, discovery, innovation, work product, design, process, article of manufacture, composition, computer program, or any new or useful improvements of any of the foregoing, and any trade secret, mask work, trademark or service mark, that relates in any way to the business of the Company or any Affiliate or the work 1 perform for the Company or any Affiliate and that is made by using the Company's or any Affiliate's time, personnel, facilities, or materials.
b.	The term "Trade Secret" means any information (i) which may have economic value from not being generally known to and not being readily ascertainable through proper means by, other persons who are able to obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (ii) for which reasonable efforts under the
215
circumstances have been made to maintain its secrecy; and in all events, "Trade Secret" will include, without limitation, technical and non-technical data, formulas, patterns, compilations, computer programs, plans, lists of actual or potential customers and/or suppliers, confidential business, pricing and marketing plans, and other customer and referral source information in any form.
c.	The term "Confidential Information" means proprietary and confidential information which is not otherwise a Trade Secret and which is valuable to and related to the business of the Company, any Affiliate, or any third party with whom the Company or any Affiliate has a business relationship (a "Third Party") and which is generally unknown to the public or to competitors of the Company or any Affiliate; or other items as the Company or any Affiliate may from time to time mark or otherwise identify as "confidential."
216
2.	a. 1 will disclose promptly and fully to the Company any Intellectual Property which I conceive of, develop, modify, work on, create, or reduce to practice. I agree that all Intellectual Property will be deemed to the greatest extent possible to be "works made for hire" as defined in the Copyright Act, as amended from time to time (17 USC Section 101 et. seq.) (the "Copyright Act"), and that the Company will have the exclusive, worldwide ownership of such Intellectual Property, and that no Intellectual Property will be treated as or be deemed a "joint work" (as defined in the Copyright Act) of mine and the Company or otherwise.
b.	I agree to and do hereby assign to the Company, without further compensation, all right, title and interest in and to all such Intellectual Property and all patent, copyright, mask work, trademark, service mark, trade secret, or other rights therein related to such Intellectual Property. During and after my employment, I will execute
217
all necessary documents and will provide proper assistance (at the Company's expense) to enable the Company or an Affiliate to obtain, for itself or its assigns or nominees, registration of patents, copyrights, mask works, trademarks, service marks, or other legal protection for any such Intellectual Property.
c.	I agree not to use, publish, or disclose (except as my duties as an employee of the Company or an Affiliate may require) any information related to such Intellectual Property during my employment. I further agree (except as my employment duties with the Company or an Affiliate may require) not to use, publish, transfer or disclose (i) any Confidential information or other proprietary information of the Company or any Affiliate during the term of my employment with the Company and/or any Affiliate and for a period of three (3) years immediately following the last to occur of the termination of my employment with the Company or any Affiliate; or (ii) any Trade
218
Secret of the Company, or any Affiliate, or any Third Party, for such time as such information constitutes a Trade Secret under applicable law.
3.	a. 1 acknowledge and agree that in the course of my employment by the Company or an Affiliate, I have been and will be given access to valuable information of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or Third Parties which information is a Trade Secret or is Confidential Information. I agree that I will use such Trade Secrets and/or Confidential Information for the Company's and/or an Affiliate's business purposes only, and that I will not (other than as instructed by a duly authorized representative of the Company or an Affiliate) copy, disclose, disseminate, communicate, transfer, or otherwise convey any item which (i) is a Trade Secret while it remains a Trade Secret under applicable law or (ii) is Confidential Information for three (3) years immediately following the last to occur of the termination of
219
my employment by the Company or any Affiliate.
b. Upon request at any time during my employment by the Company or by an Affiliate and on or before the last day of such employment, I will deliver to or leave with the Company or such Affiliate all copies	of all materials and
information of the Company and any Affiliate, all Trade Secrets and all Confidential Information which may be in my possession or under my control, including all instruments, tools, devices, materials, confidential or proprietary business documents, plans, records, drawings, computer programs, or other information relating to the business of the Company, any Affiliate, or any Third Party. I hereby acknowledge and agree that to the extent that I have executed a confidentiality or similar agreement with any Third Party or the extent that I have agreed to comply with the terms of a confidentiality or similar agreement with any Third Party, I
220
will continue to be bound by the terms of any such agreement even after the termination of my employment with the Company or any date.
4.	a. I agree that this Agreement (i) will be governed by the laws of the state of Alabama; (ii) will be binding upon and enure to the benefit of my heirs, executors, and administrators and the Company's successors and assigns (and to the extent that I am employed by any Affiliate, by the successors and assigns by such Affiliate), (iii) will continue after the termination of my employment with the Company and any Affiliate; and (iv) may not be amended, or terminated, except in a written instrument signed on behalf of the Company (or an Affiliate, if such is appropriate) and by me. 1 acknowledge that while 1 cannot assign this Agreement or delegate my duties or obligations under this Agreement, the Company and its Affiliates may assign all or any part of this Agreement to another person or entity.
221
b. I also agree that (i) this Agreement supersedes and replaces any prior agreement, either oral or written, which I may have with the Company or any Affiliate that relates generally to the same subject matter; (ii) nothing in this Agreement modifies my status as an employee at will of the Company or an Affiliate; and (iii) all rights and restrictions contained in this Agreement may be waived or may be exercised by the Company, any Affiliate, or the successors or assigns of either, as appropriate, separately and distinctly and to the full extent of applicable law, if any provision of this Agreement will be held to be illegal, invalid, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, I agree that the remaining provisions will remain in full force and effect.
222
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
August 2, 1994
1.	The purpose of this program is to assist children of employees fatally injured at work in continuing their education by providing financial support for tuition and other educational expenses.
2.	The Company defines "fatally injured" as it is defined by Alabama Worker's Compensation Law. That means that the employee's death must occur within three years of an injury caused by an accident that occurs in the course of employment.
3.	Participation and/or application under this program obligates the student to follow the various provisions and/or amended provisions as they may apply.
4.	The Program will be administered by Alabama Power Company's Human Resources Department through local Human Resources Representatives.
5.	Alabama Power Company may change or terminate the total program or any provision thereof. Human Resources
223
will resolve any controversy involving this program or its application within its sole discretion. Such decisions will not be subject to appeal or challenge.
This Memorandum of Agreement is entered into and becomes effective on this, the 2nd day of August, 1994.
POWER GENERATION ISSUES June 3,1994
Item 1. Switching - Establish a joint committee with equal representation (IBEW/APCO) at each plant to develop a procedure that will assign responsibility within their respective Plant's switchyards.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not preclude Management's right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number of employees employed within each classification. This agreement will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future. The intent of this agreement is not to expand or diminish the duties of the Assistant Plant Control Operators.
224
HYDRO GENERATION REORGANIZATION November 6,1992
5.	Employees classified as Plant Operator, Electrician or Mechanic in Hydro Generation on January 1, 1993 and not competent for one of the three new job classifications as described in four (4) above, will be reclassified to one of the three new job classifications as soon as they qualify on the appropriate CKS test instrument. No such employee will be required to qualify for one of these new classifications during the term of the current labor agreement. If such employee qualifies for one of these new classifications during 1993, the employee will be placed at the top rate. Otherwise, reclassification will be in accordance with the basic Memorandum of Agreement.
6.	Beginning January I, 1993, journeymen jobs within Hydro Generation will be posted as either Operator Electrician or Operator Mechanic. Employees awarded these new jobs will have eighteen months in order to qualify for the Hydro Journeyman classification. Employees not qualifying for the Hydro Journeyman classification within this eighteen month period will be rolled out of the classification under the terms of
225
Article V, paragraph (i) of the basic Memorandum of Agreement.
7.	Beginning April 1, 1995, journeymen jobs within Hydro Generation may be posted as Hydro Journeyman.
8.	The Company will agree to make good faith efforts to assist employees in qualifying for these new positions by increasing training opportunities for employees within Hydro Generation specifically and more generally within Fossil Hydro.
MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT POSTING A WELDER JOB AT PSDF
January 2, 2007
The following agreement between Alabama Power Company (the Company) and the nine Local Unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers System Council U-19 (the Union) is entered into by the parties as a result of discussions between Company and Union representatives with provisions as set forth below:
226
1.	Power Systems Development Facility (PSDF) management has a need for an experienced welder at the PSDF facility as result of one of their current welders leaving that location.
2.	This agreement allows Management to post and fill a Welder job for the PSDF. Management will only accept bids from employees who are currently certified welders. The senior qualified bidder within APC Generation will be awarded the job.
3.	This agreement does not affect job postings at any other Generation location within Alabama Power Company nor does it change any of the 2004 negotiated language regarding future welding needs within APC Generation.
4.	This agreement can be cancelled by either party with a thirty (30) calendar day notice.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not preclude Management's right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number of employees employed within each
227
classification. This agreement will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future.
Memorandum of Understanding Commercial Drivers License Medical Examinations
April 21, 2008
The following agreement between Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) Local Unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers is entered into by the parties as a result of discussions between the Union and the Company. The provisions of the agreement will be as follows:
1.	The purpose of this agreement is to provide for an additional medical examination for those employees who hold a Commercial Drivers License (CDL), within the limits set out below.
228
2.	Under Exhibit B, in paragraph 6 of the 2004 Memorandum of Agreement of the current Distribution and Support (D&S) Memorandum of Agreement, the parties have agreed that "The Company will continue to reimburse employees required to hold a Commercial Drivers License, the cost of renewing such license above the cost of a private drivers license and the Company will pay for the first medical examination required for license renewal," and under Exhibit B, in paragraph 6 of the 2004 Memorandum of Agreement of the current Power Delivery Transmission (PDT) Memorandum of Agreement, the parties have agreed to the same language except in the beginning sentence which reads "During the term of this agreement,	It is not
proposed to change this existing contract language, but to supplement it through this MOU.
3.	In most locations, the Company has contracted with a medical provider to perform the first medical examination required in Note 2. above. Based on present needs and conditions, the Company may provide an additional medical examination. The timing of
229
this examination will be managed by the Company and will be performed by a medical provider contracted by the Company and will be on Company time and at Company expense.
4.	Employees who do not receive the first medical examination,, nor desire to have the additional medical examination, by the Company's contracted provider, as referenced in Note 3. above, must have their CDL medical examinations, first and additional, on their own time and at their own expense. If problems arise from these examinations, administrative or otherwise, the employees must correct them on their own time and at their own expense. The Company requires a current medical card for CDL purposes and employees, whose jobs require a CDL, may be restricted from work until they possess a current medical card.
5.	Depending on the availability of the contracted medical provider, the Company may allow medical examinations to be performed by other available medical providers, including employees’ personal medical providers, on Company time and at Company
230
expense. This will be at the sole discretion of management.
6.	The Company can agree to reimburse Lavon Pittman $50.00 for his CDL medical examination in 2007. This will settle grievance number SEA-07-004.
Unless specifically addressed in this MOU, the terms and conditions of the current D&S and PDT Memoranda of Agreement will apply. This MOU will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future.
This Memorandum of Understanding may be terminated by the Company based on the availability of contracted medical providers and will be subject to negotiated changes, if any, in the August 15, 2009, contract negotiations.
231
MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT Union Dock Reimbursement
January 1, 2009
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are set forth herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
Article VIII (g) of the Distribution and Support and Generation Agreements and Article VII (g) of the Transmission Agreement provide for time off for employees to handle Union business. Historically, employees have been docked for these absences. Alabama Power Company can agree to pay covered employees who take time off during regular working hours for straight time spent transacting Union business. The local unions, in turn, agree to reimburse the Company for payment of such time, as well as, payroll adders, taxes and benefits as billed by Alabama Power Company on a quarterly basis. This will replace the current practice of docking covered employees for time associated with Union business.
232
This Agreement does not change any other practice or contract language between the parties regarding Union business or other issues.
233
Memorandum of Agreement Hydro Generation Staffing December 8, 2011
This following agreement between Alabama Power Company, IBEW System Council U-19 and its nine Local Unions is entered to by the parties as a result of discussions between Company and Union representatives with provisions as set forth below:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between the Company and the Union as follows:
1.	Delete the Hydro Generation Reorganization MOU dated November 6, 1992. (Page 164-165 of the 2009; Page 101 of the 2009 large book.)
2.	Employees awarded jobs posted as Hydro Operator Mechanic or Operator Electrician will not be required to qualify as Hydro Journeyman. This includes any current Hydro Operator Mechanic and Operator Electrician.
3.	If a Hydro Operator Mechanic or Operator Electrician becomes qualified as a Hydro Journeyman then s/he will be promoted to the Hydro Journeyman position.
234
4.	Hydro Journeyman jobs may be posted as needed and determined by management. Employees currently in the Hydro Journeyman classification will not be affected by this agreement.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and applies only to APC Hydro Generation facilities. This agreement will not be used to set a precedent for the same or similar situations in the future or impact any past decisions regarding this subject.
235
MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT Hydro Welder Certification December 8, 2011
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and the representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are set forth herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
Future needs for certified welding in Hydro may be met through employees in the Hydro Journeyman (HJ), Operator Electrician (OE), Operator Mechanic(OM), and or Mechanic classifications as determined by management. Hydro Management will determine how many certified welders will be certified. Certified welders will be offered by seniority first to HJ’s and then to OE’s and OM’s (considered equals) and then to Mechanics. HJ’s, OE’s, OM’s, and Mechanics who are certified welders will be paid a premium of $.40 per hour for all hours worked.
236
The Company agrees not to remove any current HJ, OE, OM, or Mechanic from that job classification due to such employee’s failure to meet welding certification. Welding certification will be offered to HJ’s, OE’s, OM’s, and Mechanics by seniority, as mentioned above, at each location where there is a need. Management may require future HJ’s, OE’s, and or OM’s positions to be certified as a welder as part of the job posting and qualification process.
Plant Auxiliaries may be asked to volunteer to qualify as certified welders but will only receive the $.40 an hour premium when they are upgraded and working as a HJ, OE. or OM.
The Company agrees to back pay $.40 cents per hour to current Hydro IBEW covered employees (HJ’s, OE’s, OM’s, Mechanics, and Plant Auxiliaries) that have been certified as welders or used as certified welders during 2011 for all hours worked since their welder certification or all hours worked in 2011, whichever is shorter. This is a one-time payment and will not impact future determination by management on the number of certified welders needed, if any.
237
This Agreement is entered into this 8>h day of December, 2011.
238
Memorandum of Agreement (“MOA”) Related to Retirement Benefits Negotiations
Between the Operating Companies of Southern Company and their Respective IBEW Locals and IBEW UCC-1*
In order to settle and resolve the ongoing Retirement Benefits negotiations between Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company and Southern Nuclear Operating Company (“Southern Operating Companies” or “SOCs” or “Company”) and those IBEW locals with which each SOC has a collective bargaining agreement, as represented collectively through the IBEW UCC-1 (“IBEW”), the SOCs and the IBEW and its member locals agree to the following:
1.	The current “Pension Plan Agreements” collectively and individually, which were effective from January 1,2002 through December 31, 2011, will be extended effective January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2021, subject to the following provisions:
(a) For the term of the MOA, covered participants will be offered the same Retirement Benefits, including any
239
changes, as provided to all other noncovered participants. Following an educational session on any proposed changes during the term of this MOA, the IBEW locals, through the UCC-1 (“IBEW”) will have 30 days to accept or reject such changes as a package, (b) In the event the IBEW rejects any such Company offered changes between January 1,2012 and December 31, 2014 or where the Company has otherwise not offered any such changes during this same period, the IBEW will have the right to initiate Retirement Benefits negotiations with the Company as of January 1, 2015. The same right for the IBEW to initiate Retirement Benefit negotiations, subject to the same conditions as above, may also be exercised as of January 1, 2018 and January 1,2021. The existing negotiated Retirement Benefits, including the pension plan, will remain in effect pending any mutually agreed upon changes.
(c) In addition, regardless of whether the IBEW exercises its rights set forth in Sections 1 (a) and (b) of the MOA, on or about July 1, 2013 and effective every 18 months thereafter the IBEW
240
and SOCs will have a one-day meeting to exchange and share views and input on Retirement Benefits.
2.	This Agreement is negotiated in good faith and predicated upon the following approvals:
•	The certified bargaining representatives who have selected the UCC-1 as their representative for pension negotiations.
•	The Chief Executive Officers of the SOCs
Accepted:	Accepted:
International Brotherhood Of Electrical Workers	Southern Company
Doyle Howard Chairman, UCC-I and Business Manager, Local 84	Christopher Miller Vice President, Employee Relations
Casey Shelton Business Manager, System Council U-19	Glen Grizzle Labor Relations General Manager, Georgia Power Co.
Richard Malloy Business Manager, System Council U-21	B. Andrew Wallace Industrial Relations General Manager, Alabama Power Co.
241
Kenneth Moody Business Manager, Local 1055
Mark Wolfe Labor Relations Manager, Southern Nuclear Operating Company
Norman Collins Employee Relations Manager, Mississippi Power Company
Anthony Reeves Labor Relations Manager, Gulf Power Company
242
Memorandum of Agreement Hydro Generation Upgrade November 27, 2012
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and the representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are set forth herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between the Company and the Unions as follows concerning IBEW covered employees being substituted to a non-covered position holding a sub clearance, and working with their tools:
1.	APC Hydro Generation employees that arc substituted to a team leader, facilitator, coordinator, or other non-covered classification will not work with their tools as a covered employee with exception of item two below.
2.	Covered employees substituted to a noncovered position in order to sign a clearance and hold a sub clearance for contractors may also work with their tools
243
as an Operation Electrician, Operator Mechanic, or Hydro Journeyman as deemed necessary by management.
3.	Either party may cancel this agreement with a 90 day prior written notice to the other party requesting cancelation or at any time upon mutual agreement between two parties.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and applies only to APC Hydro Generation facilities and not any Fossil or CoGeneration facilities. This agreement will not be used to set a precedent for the same or similar situations in the future or impact any past decisions regarding this subject.
244
Memorandum of Agreement APC Birmingham Steam Heat Plant Closure at Powell Avenue February 23, 2013
The following agreement between Alabama Power Company and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, System Council U-19 is entered into by the parties as a result of discussions between Alabama Power Company and the Local Unions of System Council U-19. The effective date of this agreement is the date of execution by the parties to the agreement.
Alabama Power Company has sold the rights to the Birmingham Steam Heat facility located on Powell Avenue in Birmingham, Alabama. The current IBEW covered employees assigned to this facility will be allowed to use their seniority to roll to other positions within the Generation bid unit and some may go to entry level positions in other APC bid units. Management and the Union have reached an agreement concerning Boiler Operators currently employed at this facility. The provisions of this agreement are stated below:
A.	Effective February 14, 2013, employees presently in the Boiler Operator classification will be allowed to exercise their “roll” rights
245
according to the Memorandum of Agreement to any eligible classification based on seniority and competency.
B.	Management at its sole discretion may consider ending the roll at any point based on existing plant needs or may allow the roll to continue to completion.
C.	The rate of pay for employees who roll from Boiler Operator position to Assistant Plant Control Operators (APCO) or Plant Auxiliary (PA) will be frozen at their Boiler Operator current pay level effective with the roll. These employees’ pay will remain frozen until they vacate the APCO or PA classification or until two years has expired from the date of the roll, whichever is shorter. At the end of two years if any of these employees have not changed job classifications then their pay will be changed to the maximum rate of pay for the APCO or PA position, whichever is applicable. These employees must bid on jobs that they are qualified for at their new location if it is a higher classification. If a Boiler Operator goes to a PA position and then becomes qualified and bids on an APCO position then his pay will remain at the Boiler Operator level until he gets a higher paying position or two years
246
expires from the date of the original roll, whichever comes first.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not preclude Management’s right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number of employees employed within each classification. This agreement will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations for the past, present or future.
247
Memorandum of Agreement Wellness Incentive
June 24, 2013
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are set forth herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
Wellness Incentives that are approved each year by Company Management will also apply to all employees covered under the Collective Bargaining Agreement. These plans will be designed and implemented solely by Company Management and participation will be subject to the same provisions as all other participants. The plans may be changed or discontinued at any time as determined by Management. The plans will not be subject to the grievance or arbitration process.
This agreement is entered into this 24>h day of June, 2013.
248
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT POWER GENERATION - MAINTENANCE
February 27, 2014
The following agreement between Alabama Power Company (the Company) and the nine Local Unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers System Council U-19 (the Union) is entered into by the parties as a result of discussions between Company and Union representatives with provisions as set forth below:
1.	The provisions of this agreement will apply to employees located at Barry Steam Plant, E. C. Gaston Steam Plant, Greene County Steam Plant, Gorgas Steam Plant, Miller Steam Plant, and Gadsden Steam Plant covered by the Power Generation Agreement only. These provisions will not apply to other Memoranda of Agreement between the parties, nor will they apply to any other location under the Power Generation Agreement.
2.	Vacancies in the Mechanic and E&I Journeyman classifications will be posted as a dual posting for both the journeyman and apprentice classifications (i.e. Mechanic/Apprentice Mechanic or E&I Journeyman/E&I Apprentice). The vacancy
249
will be filled by the senior qualified bidder and at the level of that person’s qualification (i.e.; If the employee is qualified to be a journeyman, the position will be filled as a journeyman. If the employee is only qualified as an apprentice, the job will be filled as an apprentice.)
3.	Prior to entering a Mechanic or E&I Journeyman classification, employees will be required to complete the appropriate Maintenance Training Program, as evidenced by successfully completing all classroom requirements and demonstrating the ability to perform the duties of a journeyman as set out in the Program, complete all requirements and pass all validated tests. The requirement of completing the appropriate Maintenance Training Program will not apply in the event of a rollback for any employee who has previously held the classification and is otherwise competent.
4.	Employees who are classified, as or have previously been classified as a Mechanic or E&I Journeyman, not to include substitution or temporary jobs, and are otherwise competent will be exempted from the requirement in Item 3 of completing the Maintenance Training Program in their line of
250
progression before they can be awarded the journeyman job.
5.	Currently, the Mechanic Training Program and the E&l Journeyman Training Program arc two (2) year programs. The content and duration of these programs may be modified by the Company as needed. The Company agrees to discuss with the Union any changes in the duration of the training prior to implementation. Mutual agreement by the parties must be obtained for changes which result in an increase of six months or more in the duration of either program from the original program length stated herein.
6.	Apprentices may receive written or verbal job assignments (i.e. work orders) from supervision, journeymen, or other designated employees. The work assigned will be based on their skills and formal training.
7.	Apprentices may work on straight time without journeyman direction or supervision while demonstrating and/or developing skills. Once an apprentice has demonstrated competence in a skill or set of skills, the apprentice may be assigned such straight time work as if the apprentice is a journeyman. With regard to overtime assignments, apprentices may be assigned to assist a
251
journeyman on callouts or prearranged work, except for outages, where they may be assigned any work for which they are competent. Journeymen will be expected to handle callout overtime.
8.	Apprentices will be progressed to the applicable journeyman classification at the location designated on their job posting when they have successfully completed the structured Maintenance Training Program and have passed the validated test requirements for the journeyman position. Mechanic or E&I Journeyman vacancies may be posted for both Miller Steam Plant and Gorgas Steam Plant on the same posting. The posting will designate in the comments section to which plant the job will be assigned if it is filled at the journeyman level on the initial posting.
9.	There will be a journeyman CKS test for Mechanic and E&I classifications for employees desiring to go directly to Hydro, PSDF, and/or Cogen Journeymen at Theodore or Washington County Cogen. If employee is not already a journeyman Mechanic or E&I then s/he will have to pass the CKS test for Mechanic or E&I as described. Apprentice training program is not a requirement for the positions stated in this number 9.
252
10.	Apprentice tests will be given after each module for Apprentice training to determine pass or fail for written and skills portions of the test. There will not be a comprehensive final exam for the two year Apprentice Training Program.
a)	Apprentices who do not demonstrate satisfactory progress toward successful completion of the Maintenance Training Program after remedial help is given will be displaced from the classification as outlined in Article V, paragraph (i) or (k) of the contract.
b)	If an Apprentice in training fails a module test then s/he will have ninety (90) calendar days to retake the test two additional times if needed. The Apprentice in training must pass the module test within this ninety (90) calendar days. There will be a maximum of three (3) attempts to pass the module test. If the employee fails to pass the module test of the Maintenance Training Program then s/he will be rolled out of the Apprentice position as outlined in Article V, paragraph (i) or (k).
c)	if a trainee fails to meet the requirements of a discipline of the Apprentice Maintenance Training Program then s/he can reapply no earlier than one year for that same discipline
253
and re-qualify by passing the Apprentice CKS test for that discipline before being eligible to re-enter the Apprentice classification as Apprentice qualified.
d)	If a trainee fails to meet the requirements a second time in the same discipline, then s/he can reapply no earlier than three years and re-qualify by passing the CKS Apprentice test before being eligible to re-enter the Apprentice classification.
e)	A total of three chances in the same discipline is the limit for any trainee for entries into the Apprentice program for the remainder of his or her career at APC.
11.	Once an employee is awarded, accepts, and is being paid as an apprentice, the employee will be restricted from bidding to lower classifications or another Maintenance Apprentice Program during the time the employee is in the apprentice classification, unless the employee obtains Management approval to do so.
12.	Apprentices who demonstrate satisfactory progress toward successful completion of.the Maintenance Training Program will have their pay adjusted in accordance with the pay schedule in the current contract between APC
254
and IBEW. Upon successfully completing the applicable training program and passing all four module tests for the Apprentice, the employee will be placed in the Mechanic -Power Supply classification or the E&I Journeyman classification at the entry level pay step. After six (6) months of satisfactory progress the employee will be placed at the top pay step of the classification.
13.	Unless specifically referenced above, the terms and conditions of the basic Power Generation Agreement shall apply.
14.	This agreement will remain in effect for a minimum of twenty-four months. This agreement may be cancelled by either party by giving a sixty (60) day notice in writing to the other party. Such cancellation will not apply to any Maintenance Training Program in progress until it is completed.
This agreement shall not be used to set a precedent for the same or similar situations in the future and will not prejudice either party’s position regarding the issues contained herein. This agreement is entered into this 27<h day of February 2014.
255
MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT Probationary Period Increase Extension July 24, 2014
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are set forth herein:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
The Probationary Increase Extension Memorandum of Agreement dated January 3, 2014 will be extended and terminate on August IS, 2019.
Either party may end this agreement with a thirty (30) day notice in writing to the other party. This agreement will not impact any other language in the referenced articles.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future.
256
Any provisions of the agreement not specifically referenced will remain unchanged.
This agreement is entered into this 24"1 day of July, 2014.
257
EXHIBIT D ALABAMA POWER COMPANY POWER GENERATION
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT PROCEDURES RELATING TO PROVIDING OR PAYING FOR MEALS
STATEMENT OF POLICY
The Company will defray the reasonable extra costs incurred by or for employees for meals resulting from their being required to work overtime outside their scheduled or rescheduled hours and days; or as an alternative, at its option the Company will provide such meals at Company expense.
a.	Employees who are eligible for meals will be provided such meals or at the employee's option, be paid a meal allowance.
b.	Effective August 15, 2014 increase the meal allowance to $14.00 for breakfast,
258
lunch, and late night meals and $18.00 for dinner meals.
GENERAL PRACTICES UNDER THE POLICY
1.	In practice, when a supervisor (or an employee designated to act in lieu of a supervisor) is present, the Company will "provide" the meals, that is, pay for them directly to the restaurant, cafe, or boarding house. If there is no supervisor present (or anyone in lieu thereof) the Company will reimburse the employees for reasonable costs of meals similarly obtained as evidenced by proper vouchers or receipts for same to be surrendered upon reimbursement. The meals provided or paid for are to be such as the employees would ordinarily purchase if on their own expense. The "reasonable" cost of meals will usually vary, depending on the particular meal, location and what sources are available. It is agreed to between the parties that meals will be paid for or provided by the Company in all conditions outlined herein if reasonably obtainable. Meals are "reasonably obtainable" if they occur during the usual hours of business of restaurants, cafes or boarding houses located within thirty (30) minutes travel, by available transportation of the job or if they can be obtained and delivered to the
259
job. Employees will not be paid for meals missed because they were not "reasonably obtainable" at the time or for meals they elected to obtain at their homes or at their regular eating places or because they elected not to eat meals obtainable at the time; however, this will not prevent reimbursement to employees for meals brought to the job from their homes or their regular eating places by prearrangement with their supervisor.
2.	In general the Company will not pay for time spent eating meals unless employees are required to remain at work or stand by at some definite location.
3.	In cases where the Company is to provide meals the obligation is on the supervisor in charge to see that they are provided, if available, and that they are adequate as to quality, quantity and timing. Timing is understood to mean that meals will be made available at, or as nearly as practical at the normal regular mealtimes and approximately each six (6) hours thereafter until released from duty. In the case of long continued emergency work every reasonable effort is to be made to get meals or refreshments as necessary to maintain strength and morale.
4.	In cases where employees are to be reimbursed for meals the obligation rests on them
260
to request reimbursement through the proper channels and to present satisfactory vouchers or receipts for payments made for such meals to the responsible supervisors. Employees are not to purchase meals for reimbursement except pursuant to instructions and authorization under this general policy.
5.	The intent and provisions of these practices will be interpreted and applied in accordance with the following general and specific procedures.
GENERAL PROCEDURES
A.	WITH RESPECT TO ALL EMPLOYEES
COVERED
1.	When employees work only their scheduled hours and days in the usual manner at or from their usual headquarters or reporting places (i.e., places to which they report, from which they start work, and to which they return) they will provide their own meals immediately before, immediately after and between scheduled working periods in the same day at their own expense,
261
except that during any day when an employee starts from and returns to such headquarters as usual but works his scheduled hours at a location not normally serviced from such headquarters the Company will provide or reimburse the employee for the noon meal except as follows:
a.	Employees who are headquartered at Gaston Steam Plant or the PSDF who are on temporary assignment at either location will not be paid for a mid-shift meal.
b.	Employees assigned to Miller Steam Plant who are on a temporary assignment at Gorgas Steam Plant, or vice versa, will not be paid the mid-shift meal.
c.	Employees assigned to Barry Steam Plant who are on a temporary assignment at Chickasaw Steam Plant, or vice versa, will not be paid the mid-shift meal.
2.	When employees are required to spend one or more nights away from their regular headquarters or reporting place while working either or both scheduled or unscheduled hours and days, the Company will provide or pay for all
262
usual meals occurring between departure from and return to headquarters which they are unable to eat at their homes or at their regular eating places.
3.	When employees are required to work outside their regularly scheduled or rescheduled hours and days of work either at or away from their usual headquarters or reporting places as described below, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which are eaten during such periods.
4.	If between periods of work in the same day outside their regularly scheduled or rescheduled hours and days employees prefer to eat any usual meals which occur during that day at their homes or at their regular eating places, and if they can be and are released for the time necessary to do so, the Company will not pay for such meals in as much as this would be at the option of the employees.
SPECIFIC PROCEDURES
B.	WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEES ON NON-SHIFT WORK
Text Deleted.
263
SPECIFIC PROCEDURES
C.	WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEES ON SHIFT WORK
1.	Early Start:
Breakfast: In case employees on shift work are required to start work one hour or more before their regular starting time, and are notified to this effect before the end of their last scheduled work period, the Company will provide or pay for their breakfasts and if such employees normally bring their lunches, the Company will provide or pay for their lunches if not brought from home.
Dinner and Supper: In case employees are required to start work one hour or more before their regular starting time, and are notified to this effect prior to the end of their last previous scheduled work period and as a result were unable to eat their usual meals at their homes or at their regular eating places, the Company will provide or pay for the meal or meals obtained elsewhere. In cases where the Company pays for or provides a meal under the provisions of this paragraph
264
and such employees usually bring their lunches, the Company will also provide or pay for a meal or meals which occur during the shift.
2.	Working Beyond Shift Quitting Time:
In case such employees are required to continue work more than two hours beyond their regular shift quitting time and as a result are unable to be at their regular eating places at mealtimes, the Company will provide or pay for the meals obtained elsewhere.
3.	Doubling-Over: When employees are required to double-over and work continuously through the next succeeding shift, the Company will provide or pay for meals which occur during the extra shifts.
4.	Call-Outs: If such employees are called out and as a result are unable to eat any usual meals which occur during such periods at their homes or at their regular eating places, the Company will provide or pay for such meals obtained elsewhere, and the time required for eating meals occurring during the period of such call-out will be counted as time worked unless circumstances are such
265
that the usual meal periods can be observed and the employees are permitted to obtain meals in a manner and at a place of their own discretion. If employees are called out any time prior to their normal starting time and as a result were unable to eat their usual meals at their homes or at their regular eating places or were unable to make their usual arrangements for meals to be eaten during the shift, the Company will provide or pay for the meal or meals obtained elsewhere.
5.	Off-Days: For prearranged work assignments on an employee's off day, midshift meals will not be provided or paid. If an employee doubles on an off day, the Company will continue its practice of providing or paying for meals for the second shift. Otherwise, when employees are required to work on their off-days and have not been prearranged, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which occur during such periods when the employees are working at their overtime rates. If work starts and stops at the usual shift times, employees will provide their own meals immediately before and following such periods, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
266
6.	Premium Pay Shift: Employees who are working regularly scheduled shifts which are part of their normal forty (40) hour work week but who are working at an overtime rate for hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a twenty-four (24) hour work period will provide their own midshift meals.
7.	Call-Out on Holiday: If such employees are —called out to work on a holiday which occurs on the employee's regular scheduled work day, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which occur during such periods. If work starts and stops at the usual shift times, employees will provide their own meals immediately before and following such periods, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
267
EXHIBIT E
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY POWER GENERATION
DEPARTMENT
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT PAYMENT FOR TRAVEL EXPENSE
FOR EMPLOYEES REQUIRED TO WORK OVERTIME
Subject to the limitations and provisions set forth in paragraph 2 below in respect to work on a callout basis, the Company proposes the following to apply when employees are required to work on a prearranged basis on their off-day or on a work day when the overtime worked does not run into or is not a continuation of work beyond their regular schedule:
1.	The Company will reimburse employees who live five miles or more from their headquarters measured by the shortest traveled route for travel expense as follows:
a.	If travel is by public conveyance, the Company	will	reimburse the
employee	the	actual expense
incurred.
268
b.	If travel is by personal automobile, the Company will pay for use of car at the current rate per mile. This payment will be made to only one employee in the event several employees ride in the same car.
c.	Text Deleted.
d.	In each case, involving travel expense to be paid by the Company, the employees will be expected where practicable to reach an understanding with their respective supervisors as to the mode of travel and the expense involved, and the supervisors, at their option, may provide Company or other transportation rather than have the employees incur expense for which they would otherwise be reimbursed.
2.	The Company will not pay travel expense when overtime work is on a call-out basis that does not extend into the next regular work period. However, the Company will reimburse employees for the travel expense in excess of their normal travel expense where they are required to work overtime on a call-out basis which extends into the next regular
269
work period; provided they do not receive pay for inconvenience time in excess of the two-hour minimum for the call-out.
In no case will the Company utilize the call-out as a means of eliminating travel expense for which the employee would otherwise be reimbursed.
270
Exhibit F
Text Deleted.
271
SUBJECT INDEX
Subject	Article 1	’ar a	Page
Absences			
Illness	VIII	(b)	40
Jury Duty	vm	(0	78
Reporting	VIII	(n)	82
Voting	VIII	(f)	78
Making up			
Excused absences	vni	(t)	87
To Meet with Company			
officials	VIII	(g)	78
To attend to			
Union business	VIII	(g)	78
Leave of absence	V	(a)	11
Business Manager	vin	(h)	80
Alabama Labor Council	VIII	(h)	80
Death-Immediate Family	vm	(t)	87
Accidents			
Investigating Committees	XII	(d)	107
Adoption Provisions	VIII	(c)	62
Apprentices			
Progression of	V	(0	25
Qualifications of			
Steam Plants	XV	(■)	112
Arbitration	VII		38
Assistant Plant Control Operator			
Qualifications of	XV	(e)	110
Banking Holidays	VIII	(d)	74
Bargaining Agent	III	(a)	5
Birmingham Steam Close	Exhibit C		245
Boots	VIII	(11)	104
Bulletin Boards-Use of	VIII	(gg)	101
Call-Out-			
Notice of	VIII	(m)	82
Time Allowance	vm	(q)	83
272
Subject	3	irticle	Para	Page
Chcck-Off-Payroll			
Ducs Deduction	III	(e)(8)	7,10
COPE Fund	111	(0(g)	8,10
Classifications Required	IX	(b)	105
Clothing	VIII	(II)	104
Commendation Report	VIII	(ii)	101
Competency-Definition of Continuous Service-	V	(0	17
Definition of for Determining Seniority	V	(a)	II
Co-Operative Student Training			
Program	XVIII		114
Death-Immediate family	Vlll	0)	87
While on Vacation Demotions	VIII	(c)	43
Account of incompetency At employee’s request	V	(i)	29
- bid down	V	(h)	29
Disabilitics-			
Permanent, temporary	Vlll	(z)	95
Discharge or Suspension-	V	(j)	30
Appeal	VI	(C)	37
Discipline	VIII	(aa)	97
	Vlll	(ii)	101
	V	0)	30
Disciplinary Notice	Vlll	(ii)	101
Doctor Appointment	VIII	(b)	41
Ducs Deduction Duty-Responsibility for	III	(e)	7
discharge of	Vlll	(aa)	97
Early Start Educational Assistance	VIII	(q)	85
Program	Exhibit C		223
Efficiency	X		105
E&l Training	Exhibit C		249
Emergency Work	XII	(0	108
Equipment	Vlll	(i)	80
273
Subject	Article Para Page
Extension of Agreement	II	(b)	3
Extra Expense - Overtime	VIII	(cc)	99
Meals	Exhibit D		258
Travel Expense	Exhibit E		268
Functional Work Group	VIII	(U)	89
Four-Year Progression Provision	V	(0	25
Grievances Due to Suspension or Discharge	VI	(c)	37
Procedure for Handling	VI	(a)	33
Report, Accident Investigating Committee	XII	(e)	108
Result of Disciplinary Notice	VIII	(ii)	101
Time Limitation on handling	VI	(b)	36
Vacancy not filled according to seniority	V	(e)	18
Headquarters	VIII	(dd)	99
Higher Classification-Definition of	V	(d)	18
Holidays	VIII	(d)	73
Hydro Generation Staff	Exhibit C		234
Hydro Generation Upgrade	Exhibit C		243
Hydro Plant Etnployees-Duties of	XIV	(a-d)	108
Number and classification required	IX	(b)	105
Hydro Welder	Exhibit C		236
Inconvenience Pay Callout	VIII	(q)	83
Lunch	VIH	(q)	83
Prearranged	VIII	(q)'	83
Increasing Forces	V	(b)	15
Former employeesconsideration of	V	(b)	15
274
Subject	Article	Para	Page
Former journeymen with combined service of four (4) years as journeyman			
and/or apprentice Insurance	V	(0	25
Life Intellectual Property and Confidential Information	VIII	(c)	77
Agreement (PSDF)	Exhibit C		214
Job Schedules	Exhibit B		158
Jury Duty	VIII	(0	78
Lay Offs	V	(j)(k)	30
Light Duty	VIII	(z)	95
Local Agreements	II	(d)	4
Lockouts	XI		106
Loyalty Machinist, Steam Plant	X		105
Qualifications of Management	XV	(h)	112
Retained rights Right to lay off	IV		10
or discharge	V	Ci)	30
Maternity Leave	VIII	(c)	68
Meal Period	VIII	(v)	91
Meals - Provided For Mechanics - Qualifications of	Exhibit D	12	
Hydro Plant	XIV	(c)	109
Steam Plant	XV	(g)	112
Mechanic Training Program	Exhibit C		249
Modification of Agreement	II	(c)	4
MOUs	Exhibit C		163
2014 Negotiations	Exhibit C		172
2009 Negotiations	Exhibit C		170
1998 Negotiations	Exhibit C		169
1995 Negotiations	Exhibit C		163
I2-Hour Schedule	Exhibit C		201
1 O-Hour Schedule	Exhibit C		205
275
Subject	Article		Para	Page
Birmingham Steam Close	Exhibit C		245
CDL Medical Expenses	Exhibit C		228
Co-Gen Project Staffing	Exhibit C		190
Competitiveness & Job Sec.	Exhibit C		196
Educational Assistance	Exhibit C		223
Farley-Pwr Gen Bidding	Exhibit C		199
Hydro Generation Staff	Exhibit C		234
Hydro Generation Upgrade	Exhibit C		243
Hydro Welder	Exhibit C		236
Maintenance Training	Exhibit C		249
Power Gen Issues	Exhibit C		224
Probationary Increase	Exhibit C		256
PSDF	Exhibit C		209
Retirement Benefits	Exhibit C		239
Special Empl Relationship	Exhibit C		214
Training Expenses	Exhibit C		184
Union Dock Reimbursement	Exhibit C		232
Wellness Incentive	Exhibit C		248
Moving Expense In event of demotion	V	(>)	29
In event of promotion	V	(g)	28
Reduction of forces	V	(g)	28
No Discrimination	111	(b)(c)	6
Non-rotating Shift	VIII	(u)	88
No Strike Clause	XI		106
Notice Of absence to supervisor	vm	(n)	82
Of change of address to supervisor	VIII	(o)	83
Of job vacancies	V	(e-k)	18,30
Of recall to employee	VIII	(m)	82
Of rescheduling	VIII	(w)	92
Notice Of standby	vm	(r)	85
Number and Classification Required	IX	(b)	105
276
Subject	Article	Para	Page
Off-Day Definition of	VIII	(q)	84
Prearranged work Operators: Qualifications of	VIII	(q)	85
Hydro Plant	XIV	(a)	108
Steam Plant Overtime	XV	(a)	110
Distribution	Vlll	(s)	86
Hours and exceptions	VIII	(w)	92
Meals	Exhibit D		258
Travel Expense When eight (8) hours off	Exhibit E		268
duty is not given	VIII	(y)	94
PPP Exhibit C			172
Parental Leave	Vlll	(c)	57
Pension Reference	Vlll	(e)	78
Physical Exam Physically disabled	Vlll	(b)	41
employee	Vlll	(z)	95
Plant Auxiliary -	XV	(j)	113
qualifications Posting Rules Prearranged Work-	XX		115
Off-Day	VIII	(q)	85
Work-Day	VIII	(q)	85
Probationary employees	VIII	(a)	40
Probationary Increase Progression Through Pay	Exhibit C		256
Schedule	Exhibit A		119
Promotions Declined	VIII	(1)	82
PSDF	Exhibit C		209
Radio Tower - Work on	Vlll	(jj)	102
Raincoats and Rain Equip	VIII	(i)	80
Rates of Pay	V	(h)	29
Hourly basis	IX	(a)	104
Rate Schedules	Exhibit A		119
277
Subject	Article	Para	Page
Ratio -Steam Plants, Maintenance	XV	(>)	112
Reduction in forces -Basis of	V	(k)	30
Employees in temporary jobs	V	(e)	18
Reduced Schedules - Steam Plants	XV	(k)	113
Relocation of Employees Temporary	VIII	(bb)	97
Rescheduling Regular periods	VIII	(w)	92
Temporary periods	VIII	(w)	93
Rest Period	VIII	(y)	94
Retirement Benefits	Exhibit C		239
Rotating Shifts	VIII	(U)	88
Routine Exam	VIII	(b)	41
Safety Equipment	XII	(b)	107
Investigating Committees	XII	(d)	107
Precautions- Safe performance of job	XII	(b)	107
Promotion of	XII	(a)	107
Rules-Violation of	XII	(c)	107
Scheduled Work Days and Hours	VIII	(w)	92
10 Hour Schedule	Exhibit C		205
12 Hour Schedule	Exhibit C		201
Scope-Employees and departments covered	I		2
Seniority Basis of reckoning	V	(a)	11
By operating units	V	(a)	II
During disciplinary suspension	V	(a)	11
Increasing forces	V	(b)	15
278
Subject	Article	Para	Page
In event of transfer	V	(b>	15
Interruptions in	V	(b)	15
Lists, preparation of	V	(a)	11
Of returned service men	V	(a)	11
Termination of	V	(b)	15
Shift Employees -			
Definition of	VIII	(u)	90
Shift Differential	VIII	(U)	91
Sick Leave	VIII	(b)	40
Standby- Notice and			
time allowance	VIII	(r)	85
Statement of Hours and Pay			
Earned	VUI	(ec)	100
Steam Plant Employees-			
Duties of	XV	(a-k)	110,113
Number and classification			
required	IX	(b)	105
Strikes	XI		106
Substitution - Temporary for			
another employee	VIII	(k)	81
Rate of Pay	VIII	(k)	82
For Supervisor	VIII	(k)	81
Supervisors - Working	VIII	(P)	83
Telephones	VIII	(hh)	101
Temporary Job	V	(e)	18
Term of Agreement	II		3
Tool Policy	VIII	(kk)	102
Training - Employee	XIX		115
Training Expenses	Exhibit C		184
Travel Expense -			
Overtime	Exhibit E		268
Between job and			
headquarters	VIII	(dd)	99
To temporary relocation	VIII	(bb)	97
279
Subject	Article	Para	Page
Training	Exhibit C		184
Uniform	VIII	(11)	104
Unused Sick Leave	Exhibit C		183
Vacancies			
Awarding	V	(e)	18
Basis for filling	V	(e)	18
Bidding for	V	(e)	18
Instrument Service Center	V	(e 3)	24
Outside of unit	V	(e)	18
Posting notices	V	(e)	18
Time limit of transfer	V	(e)	18
Vacations	VIII	(c)	43
Vacation Milestone Bonus	VIII	(c)	48
Vacation Donation	VIII	(c)	53
Vacation Purchase	VIII	(C)	49
Voting - Time allowed	VIII	(f)	78
Wellness Incentive	Exhibit C		248
Work Day - Definition of	VIII	(V)	91
Work in Rain, Sleet, or Snow	VIII	(fD	101
Work - Off-day	Vlll	(q)	83
Work Schedules	VIII	(w)	92
Work - Temporary location	VIII	(bb)	97
Work Week -			
Definition of	VIII	(v)	91
280
[
taraet
Z£R@-
Every day, every job, safely. '