("x <c 10G

MEMORANDUM of AGREEMENT BETWEEN
ALABAMA POWER
COMPANY
i ?"■/ and
The Following Local Unions of
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers
No.	345	* Mobile
No.	833	- Jasper
No.	904	- Tallassee
No.	391	- Gadsden
No.	801	* Montgomery
No.	841	- Birmingham
No.	1053	- Demopolis
No.	796	- Dothan
No.	2077	* Wilsonville
Covering Employees in the Power Generation and Steam Heat, with Certain Exceptions
DATED September 5, 2001 7/S7o| -
"There can be no operating condition which justifies our employees taking the slightest chance in performing their work. We want them always to take the safe way, even though our service, may suffer thereby, or our costs be increased."
•J. M. BARRY
CONTENTS
Page
Article I	Scope..........................2
Article II	Term - Extension - Modification 3
Article III	Bargaining - Representation -
No Discrimination..............4
Article IV	Management.....................7
Article V	Promotions - Demotions - ......
Reductions ....................8
Article VI	Grievances.....................26
Article VII	Arbitration....................30
Article VIII	General Working Conditions....31
Article IX	Wages and Classifications......62
Article X	Loyalty and Efficiency.........62
Article XI	No Strikes or Lockouts.........63
Article XII	Safety.........................63
Article XIII	Text Deleted...................64
Article XIV	Special Rules - Hydro Plants ..65
Article XV	Special Rules - Steam Plants ..65
Article XVI	Text Deleted...................68
Article XVII	Text Deleted...................68
Article XVIII	Co-Operative Student
Training Program .............69
Article XIX	Employee Training ............69
Article XX	Posting Rules.................69
Exhibit A	Hourly Wage Schedules.........75
Exhibit B	Job Schedules for
Generating Plants.............99
Exhibit C	Memoranda of Agreement ....104
Exhibit D	Meals........................172
Exhibit E	Travel ......................182
Subject Index.............................184
AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into the 5th day of September, 2001, by and between ALABAMA POWER COMPANY, a public utility corporation of the State of Alabama, its successors or assigns, hereinafter called the Company, party of the first part, and LOCAL UNION NO. 345, LOCAL UNION NO. 833, LOCAL UNION NO. 904, LOCAL UNION NO. 391, LOCAL UNION NO. 801, LOCAL UNION NO. 841, LOCAL UNION NO. 1053, LOCAL UNION NO. 796, and LOCAL UNION NO. 2077, of the INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, hereinafter collectively called the Brotherhood, party of the second part;
WITNESSETH THAT:
WHEREAS, the Company is engaged in the business of supplying electric service to the public in the larger portion of the State of Alabama and for that reason all employees of the Company, including those covered by this agreement, are charged with special obligations and responsibilities that do not exist in the case of the ordinary business enterprise; and
WHEREAS, the efficient operation of the production properties of the Company is a necessary step in the performance of its duty to continue to supply adequate and dependable service to the public;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, and for the purpose of facilitating fair, orderly, and prompt adjustment of any disputes that may from time to time arise and of promoting harmony and efficiency in the oper
1
ation of the production properties of the Company, the parties hereto contract and agree with each other as follows, to-wit:
ARTICLE I
Scope
This agreement covers the production and steam heat employees of the Company except supervisors, clerks, and professional employees; that is, those employees who are engaged in the operation and maintenance of the generating and steam heat properties of the Company, including any new plants, extensions or additions which may be put into operation during the term of this agreement, but exclusive of superintendents and assistants, supervisors, foremen, chemists, engineers, and administrative support personnel. All employees presently covered by this agreement are included in the classifications set forth in the wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A and the words "employee" and "employees" as used in this agreement will refer only to employees included in such classifications.
The individual Memoranda of Agreement covering 1) Power Generation, 2) Distribution and Support and 3) Power Delivery Transmission are to be considered as one Agreement for the purposes of contract ratification; contract extension, modification or termination; and other administrative purposes.
2
ARTICLE II
Term - Extension - Modification
(a)	This agreement becomes effective on September 5, 2001.
(b)	This agreement will remain in effect through August 15, 2004, and will continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter from August 15 of each year through August 15 of the next year, unless changed or terminated as provided in paragraph (c) of this Article II.
(c)	Either party desiring to change or terminate this agreement will notify the other party in writing of such desire at least sixty (60) days prior to August 15, 2004, or the expiration date of any yearly extension thereafter. However, changes may be made at any time by mutual consent and it is understood that such changes will be made from time to time as may be necessary to comply with the applicable provisions of all Federal and State laws. The Company and the Brotherhood further agree that, upon due written notice from either, they will meet to amend the agreement to conform to the appropriate laws.
(d)	During the term of this agreement, the Business Manager or President of the Local Union, Construction Representative or System Council U-19 and the appropriate level of local supervision can mutually agree to develop work rules and/or procedures for a specific situation or location that may vary from those established in this agreement. Should no mutually agreeable change be made, the rules and procedures established in this agreement will remain in effect.
3
ARTICLE III
Bargaining - Representation - No Discrimination
(a)	The Company recognizes the right of its employees to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing; and recognizes the Brotherhood as the exclusive representative of the employees covered by this agreement for the purposes of collective bargaining in respect to rates of pay, wages, hours of employment, working conditions, and other conditions of employment herein provided for.
(b)	Employees will have the right to join or not to join the Brotherhood as they individually prefer, it being agreed that there will be no discrimination for or against any employee by reason of membership or non-membership in the Brotherhood; no attempt to coerce any employees into joining or not joining the Brotherhood against their will and no interference with any employees on account of joining or refusal to join the Brotherhood either on the part of the Company or the Brotherhood or any employees who are members of the Brotherhood.
(c)	The Company and the Brotherhood affirm the continuation of their policy and practice that there will be no discrimination for or against any employee in matters covered by this agreement because of the employee's race, color, religion, sex, age, disability or national origin; no employee will be coerced, threatened, or intimidated either on the part of the Company or the Brotherhood because of race, color, religion, sex, age, disability or national origin or for protesting any alleged discriminatory treatment in matters covered by this agreement. When the male orfemale gen-
4
Article III (continued)
der is used, it will apply to both sexes.
(d)	In the event Act No. 430 of Acts of Alabama adopted August 28, 1953, is modified, repealed, rendered inoperative by Alabama or Federal legislation or declared invalid by the Supreme Court of Alabama or the Supreme Court of the United States so as to permit the operation under the laws of Alabama of paragraph (c) of Article III of the agreement between the parties hereto, dated April 11, 1947, as amended, such paragraph will become a part of this agreement and will be in full force and effect as if made a part hereof with respect to all employees who are members of the Brotherhood on the date of such modification, repeal or invalidation of such Act.
(e)	The Company agrees to deduct dues to the Brotherhood from the pay of each employee, either a present or future member of the Brotherhood, who files with the Company a written authorization for such deduction; it being understood that the Company will continue to deduct such dues from any employee who is promoted or transferred out of the bargaining unit unless such employee withdraws the deduction authorization. Such deduction will be made and remitted in accordance with said authorization, which will be in the following form:
PAYROLL DEDUCTION AUTHORIZTION For Dues to INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Local Union No.
I,, a member of
5
Article 111 (continued)
the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, hereby authorize and request Alabama Power Company to deduct from any wages due me on the second payday in each calendar month the sum specified by the Financial Secretary of the above Local Union and to pay the same to the Financial Secretary of the above Local Union for me, and in my behalf, as my monthly dues to said Local Union, This payroll deduction authorization will remain in effect unless and until withdrawn by me by notice in writing to the Company.
Date __________________________________
Signature _____________________________
Witness _______________________________
The System Council Business Manager will be notified when current monthly dues which are authorized by an employee are not deducted and the reason such dues were not deducted.
(f)	The Company agrees to deduct from the pay of an employee voluntary contributions to the Brotherhood's Committee on Political Education fund, if such employee files with the Company a written authorization for such deduction. It is understood that such deductions will continue to be made by the Company until the employee withdraws the deduction authorization. Such deductions will be made and remitted to each local union in accordance with said authorization, which will be in the following form:
6
Article III (continued)
PAYROLL DEDUCTION AUTHORIZATION FOR VOLUNTARY
CONTRIBUTIONS TO LB.E.W. COPE FUND
Employee #____L.U. #____S.S.#____
I,_________________, a member of the
LB.E.W., hereby authorize and request Alabama Power Company to deduct from any wages due me on the second payday in each calendar month the sum of______, and to
pay the same to the Financial Secretary of the above local union in my behalf as my voluntary contribution to the COPE fund of said local union. This payroll authorization will remain in effect unless and until withdrawn by me by notice in writing to the Company.
DATE____SIGNATURE WITNESS___________
(g)	The Brotherhood will hold the Company free and harmless from any claims or damage from any party whatsoever arising out of making or failing to make such deductions as identified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this Article III and will indemnify the Company against any and all such claims and damage.
ARTICLE IV
Management
The right to hire and discharge employees and the management of the properties are reserved by and will continue to be vested exclusively in the Company. The Company will have the right to determine how many employees it will employ or retain, together with the right to exercise full control and discipline in
7
ARTICLE IV (continued)
the interest of proper service and the conduct of its business. In making promotions as provided for in Article V hereof the Company will be the judge of competency. The provisions of this article will not abridge the rights of employees as set forth in any applicable provisions of this agreement.
ARTICLE V
Promotions - Demotions ■ Reductions
(a)	Vacancies and new jobs covered by this agreement will be filled on the basis of seniority and competency. Competency being sufficient, seniority in the various units as hereinafter defined will prevail, except that vacancies or new jobs in the classification of laboratory instrument technician I, laboratory instrument technician II, meter tester, and assistant meter tester, will be filled on the basis of competency, and in filling such vacancies or new jobs, seniority will be considered only if competency is equal. Seniority will be reckoned by the following units: (1) Generating Plants and Birmingham Steam Heating System; (2) General Shops; (3) instrument Service Center; (4) Appliance Service; (5) Telecommunications Electricians; (6) the Birmingham geographic division, including the General Warehouse, General Garage, and Corporate Fleet Services as a group; (7) Eastern geographic division; (8) Southern geographic division; (9) Western geographic division; (10) Mobile geographic division; and (11) Southeast geographic division, each as a separate unit. To effectuate the seniority provisions of this agreement, new seniority lists will be prepared and distributed by the Company dated December 31 and June
8
Article V (continued)
30 of each year, the midyear list being limited to employees' names and seniority. Such lists will include all employees to whom any seniority has accrued as of that date, arranged according to the foregoing eleven (11) units. Such lists will be revised semi-annually and will determine seniority of employees therein. In making such revisions the position of employees in their respective lists will be rated according to the added time which has accrued to them in their respective units.
For the purpose of determining seniority, service with the Company will be deemed to be continuous unless it has been interrupted for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months. Seniority will not accrue during layoffs due to lack of work. Seniority will accrue during interruptions in service because of illness; leave of absence for Union business; leaves required by law under the Family Medical Leave Act; during periods of suspension due to disciplinary reasons; leave required by law for military service; brief absences for personal business; or any mutually agreed upon reasons. Service with the company will continue to accumulate during disciplinary layoff or suspension with respect to an employee's eligibility for vacation. Any employee who voluntarily resigns from the service of the Company or who has been rightfully discharged will forfeit all previous seniority rights. In the event two (2) or more employees are employed on the same date, seniority of such employees will be determined by the date of birth of such employees.
(b)	When vacancies or new jobs occur in any unit, to be filled in which there are no avail
9
Article V (continued)
able qualified employees in such unit, and employees are transferred from other units into such unit to fill such vacancies or new jobs, their seniority in the new unit to which they are transferred will be that which accumulates during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit. After twelve (12) months in the new unit, their seniority will be their seniority in their former unit plus seniority accumulated in the new unit. When vacancies or new jobs are filled by transferring employees from other departments or jobs not covered by this agreement, their seniority in the unit to which they are transferred will be that which accumulates during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit. After twelve (12) months in the new unit, their seniority will be based on the length of their continuous service with the Company, if this continuous service began in a classification covered by the bargaining unit, plus seniority accumulated during the first twelve (12) months in the new unit. When employees are transferred to the Instrument Service Center from another unit, their seniority will be the same as in the unit from which they were transferred. Seniority of all employees laid off for lack of work will not be lost unless their respective employment is interrupted for more than twenty-four (24) consecutive months during which such employees do not work for or make time with the Company unless they are offered employment in their former or equivalent classification at locations designated by the employees and they fail to accept the same and report for work within a period of two (2) weeks. When it is necessary to increase forces of the Company in the classifications covered by this agreement, former employees whose employment was discontinued by the
10
Article V (continued)
Company through a reduction of forces and whose seniority has not been lost will be offered re-employment on the basis of seniority at the locations designated by the employee provided they are available and competent, in the event a vacancy or new job is not filled as set forth above preferential consideration will be given to former employees whose seniority has been lost. However, refusal of temporary employment will not constitute grounds for interrupting seniority. An interruption of employment due to leave of absence will not cause employees to lose their seniority, but seniority will not accumulate except as provided for in this Article V (a). Any employee who voluntarily resigns from the service of the Company, or who has been rightfully discharged, will lose all previous seniority rights and other rights growing out of previous continuous service with the Company.
(c)	Competency for filling a job will be construed as requiring of the employee:
1.	The necessary mental and physical qualifications of the individual to do the job satisfactorily.
2.	The necessary training and experience to perform the essential duties of the job, either immediately or after a brief breaking-in period [two (2) to three (3) weeks] at the new location or job; it being understood that a new worker in a job would not usually display the same proficiency as one who had been in the job longer.
3.	For promotions to any classification above that of helper, the necessary
11
Article V (continued) ability to progress within a reasonable time to the next higher classification in the particular line of work and to fill such classifications satisfactorily, and ultimately to progress to the classification of journeyman.
(d)	A classification will be deemed to be "higher" if the maximum schedule rate of pay is higher.
(e)	Vacancies or new jobs in any classification except that of helper will be filled on the basis of seniority and competency by promoting or transferring employees unless there are no qualified employees available and except as otherwise provided herein. In the event of such vacancy or new job, the Company will promptly post notice on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected [except as set out in sub-paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) below], and will promptly mail copies of such notices to the representatives of the Brotherhood designated to receive such notices in the respective units. A good faith effort will be made to communicate all permanent jobs posted from all seniority units across the Company. The Company's failure to comply with this provision will not be subject to the grievance procedure. All notices will clearly identify vacancies or new jobs as to location. Exchange of the position of employees in the same classification between crews in the same line of work at the same location may be arranged by agreement between a Local Union representing such employees and the Company, however, nothing herein will be construed to prevent temporary transfers of employees between crews. Notices of job vacancies will be sent only to the President of
12
Article V (continued)
each Local affected and to the System Council U-19, with the understanding that any employee who so desires may make application for such job vacancies and such applications will be considered in the event the job is not filled from within the seniority unit. The Company will likewise post notice as promptly as possible in the event any job becomes vacant and is to be discontinued. The Company may fill a vacancy or new job temporarily with any available qualified employee. In filling any such vacancy or new job temporarily at any location the Company will endeavor to utilize local employees, taking into account seniority and competency; it being understood that they must be able to perform the necessary duties of the job. Time spent in filling any such vacancy or new job temporarily, and experience gained while thus employed, will not militate against any other employee of greater seniority who may make application for the jobs as provided for later in this Article V. Such employees filling vacancies or new jobs temporarily will be paid at the minimum rate of pay for the vacancies or new jobs while so temporarily employed, unless their regular rate of pay is higher, in which event they will continue to receive their regular rate of pay. For a period of ten (10) days after the notice is posted any employee in the unit affected may apply for transfer to the vacancy or new job. Application blanks for this purpose will be provided by the Company at each generating plant and steam heat, or application may be made by letter. One (1) copy will be sent to the respective Company representative of the unit affected as follows: Senior Vice President, Fossil-Hydro Generation or designated representative for fossil and hydro generating plants
13
Article V (continued)
and Birmingham Steam Heating System. One copy will be retained by the employee. No application will be considered unless it reaches the above-named Company representative of the unit affected within ten (10) days after the notice of vacancy or new job is posted. Within twenty-five (25) days after the notice of vacancy or new job is posted, the Company will designate an employee from the qualified applicants, if any, to fill the vacancy or new job and will promptly post notice on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected (except as set out below) of the employee so designated. A copy of such notice will be sent only to the President of the Local Union of the location affected and to the System Council U-19. Applicants from the unit to whom jobs are awarded will have five (5) days within which to accept or decline such jobs after the date when such awards are posted and will promptly notify their respective immediate supervisors in writing of their decision to accept or decline such jobs, but if no such notice is given the supervisors, the employees will be deemed to have accepted the jobs awarded them. Employees may decline no more than one (1) vacancy or new job awarded them during a calendar year. If the employee to whom the job is awarded declines the job, the Company will proceed promptly to fill same from the remainder of the list of bidders, if any be qualified, without reposting the vacancy subject to the same conditions governing the original award. If the vacancy or new job is filled by an applicant from the unit but is not filled according to seniority, the filling will be considered as temporary for a further period of fifteen (15) days after the notice of the filling of the vacancy or new job is posted, during which time it
14
Article V (continued)
may be made the basis of a grievance. In cases where no applications are received from qualified employees within the unit, applications received from employees in other units will be considered and notices will be posted on the same basis as set out above. In cases where no applications are received from qualified employees, the vacancy or new job will be filled from any available source and notice to the effect will likewise be posted company wide within twenty-five (25) days after the notice of the vacancy or new job has been posted. Where notice that the vacancy or new job will be filled from any available source is posted, applicants who have not been awarded the job will have fifteen (15) days from the date of posting such notice during which time their failure to receive the job may be made the basis of a grievance. Applications received as a result of any available source postings will be considered, however, the filling of such vacancy by any available source will not be made the basis of a grievance. If the job is not filled within ninety (90) days after posting as above outlined then the vacancy or new job will be reposted as required for bidding under the initial above procedures. When such job is filled, copies of notices of fillings will be sent to Brotherhood representatives authorized to receive original vacancy notices. The successful applicant for a vacancy will be moved to such vacancy within thirty (30) days from date of job award notice, except in the case of jobs created in connection with the staffing of new plants, units, or crews and new operations, in which case, the successful applicant will be transferred within thirty (30) days from the anticipated date of such staffing, which date will be specified on the job notice. The follow
15
Article V (continued)
ing will constitute exceptions to the method of posting notices described above:
1.	TEMPORARY JOBS - Notices of vacancies or new jobs in classifications covered by this agreement which are temporary, that is, expected to last ninety (90) days or less, will be posted only at the respective generating plants, control dispatch, or steam heat where such vacancies or new jobs occur. However, if any such temporary new job lasts for more than ninety (90) days, it will be discussed with the local committee of the Brotherhood and if it appears that it will become permanent, it will be posted on the official bulletin boards of the unit affected, and treated as a permanent new job as described above under this paragraph (e).
Senior employees in a classification will be allowed the opportunity to change schedule when temporary jobs are posted in their classification. This schedule change will be only for the duration of the temporary job and will occur only once per temporary job assignment.
Whenever a temporary job is filled by the Company, notice of such filling will be promptly posted at the respective generating plant or steam heat where filled.
Whenever job vacancies created by employees bidding and receiving
16
Article V (continued) temporary vacancies or new jobs are posted, such resulting vacancies will be posted as temporary vacancies. Whenever the employees filling the initial temporary vacancies or new jobs return to their former permanent jobs, or bid into other permanent jobs, temporary jobs which resulted from such initial temporary vacancies or new jobs will be terminated.
Employees who bid and receive temporary jobs or vacancies will, upon the termination of such temporary jobs or vacancies, be returned to their former jobs provided such jobs have not been abolished or occupied by a senior employee as a result of a reduction of forces. In the event of a reduction of forces while employees are filling temporary jobs or vacancies, such employees will be considered as filling their former jobs for the purposes of such reduction of forces.
2.	Deleted.
3.	INSTRUMENT SERVICE CENTER -Notices of vacancies or new jobs at the Instrument Service Center will be posted on all bulletin boards, but only those employees who have had experience in electronic instrument testing and repair, instrumentation and control, or meter test work or the equivalent will be considered for such vacancies.
(f)	Employees in the classification of apprentice, who have attained competency to
17
Article V (continued)
advance to journeyman, but who after accumulating four (4) years in apprentice classifications have not been promoted to journeyman will be offered advancement to the classification of journeyman at locations in their respective seniority unit where the services of an additional journeyman can be utilized to best advantage. In the event an employee in the apprentice classification is offered advancement to the journeyman classification under the provisions of this paragraph (f), and is subsequently advanced to journeyman at a location where no journeyman vacancy exists, the Company will retain the option for a period of one year to place a journeyman from that same crew into a vacancy of the same classification at that same location which may subsequently be created or become vacant.
Employees in the classification of assistant instrument serviceman, who have attained competency to advance to instrument serviceman, but who after accumulating four (4) years in the assistant instrument serviceman classification have not been promoted to instrument serviceman, will be offered advancement to the classification of instrument serviceman at a location in their seniority unit where the services of an additional instrument serviceman can be utilized to best advantage,
Vacancies in journeyman or instrument serviceman classifications may be held open for a maximum of twenty-one (21) days prior to the date on which such employees' four (4) years combined accumulated service is completed during which time it may be filled by such employees. Also, the assignment of such employees to a definite location may be
18
Article V (continued)
delayed for a period not in excess of twenty-one (21) days if it is anticipated that vacancies in the journeyman or instrument serviceman classifications for which they are eligible may occur during that period.
In case apprentices elect to decline advancement so offered at another location but elect to remain at their then present location, they will continue to retain the classification of apprentice or assistant instrument serviceman during future employment unless promoted or transferred on application made by them and considered in the manner prescribed for applying for and filling vacancies and new jobs which are thereafter posted.
In the event employees are determined not physically qualified due to an injury, but are otherwise deemed competent for advancement under the provisions of this paragraph, the Company will re-evaluate the employees' competency within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of initial eligibility for advancement; if the employees are determined competent, they shall be advanced in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph effective on the date of advancement.
Employees who have attained the journeyman classification but are displaced from such journeyman classification and moved into a lower classification due to a rollback caused by the settlement of a grievance, an employee's return from a leave of absence, a reduction in forces, or incompetency, will not be eligible to advance to the journeyman classification until their combined accumulated service as a journeyman and/or as an apprentice
19
Article V (continued)
equals four (4) years provided such employees do not elect to progress to journeyman under the terms and conditions of the bidding procedure as outlined in this Article V. At the time employees' individual combined accumulated service as a journeyman and/or as an apprentice equals four (4) years and provided the employees are competent to advance to journeyman, they will be offered advancement to the classification of journeyman at a location in their seniority unit where the services of an additional journeyman can be utilized to best advantage.
Employees who have attained the journeyman classification but who choose of their own free will to bid into a lower classification will not be eligible for progression from apprentice to journeyman under the provisions of this paragraph or paragraph (k) of this Article V, until they satisfy the original requirement for apprentice progression, that is, until their respective accumulated service in the apprentice classification is equal to four (4) years after bidding out of the journeyman classification.
Employees who have attained the instrument serviceman classification but who choose, of their own free will, to bid into a lower classification will not be eligible for progression from assistant instrument serviceman to instrument serviceman under the provisions of this paragraph or paragraph (k) of this Article V, until they satisfy the original requirements for assistant instrument serviceman progression; that is, until their respective accumulated service in the assistant instrument serviceman classification is equal to four (4) years after bidding out of the instrument serviceman classification.
20
Article V (continued)
When, as a result of a reduction of forces, journeymen whose respective combined accumulated service as journeymen and/or as apprentices equals four (4) years or more move into a lower classification other than apprentice, or when, as a result of a reduction of forces, instrument servicemen whose combined accumulated service as instrument servicemen and/or assistant instrument servicemen equals four (4) years or more move into a lower classification other than assistant instrument serviceman, they may, when an apprentice or assistant instrument serviceman opening is available, bid on the apprentice or assistant instrument serviceman job in accordance with the bidding procedure as outlined in paragraph (e) of this Article V; and if awarded such available apprentice or assistant instrument serviceman job will immediately be promoted to the journeyman classification in that line of work or into the instrument serviceman classification. If they are not able to perform such work at the journeyman or instrument serviceman level, they will be demoted as set out in paragraph (i) of this Article V and will not be permitted any future claim to progression from apprentice to journeyman or from assistant instrument serviceman to instrument serviceman under the provisions of this paragraph.
(g)	When employees are transferred and raised from a classification to a higher classification or if employees are transferred permanently from one location to another by the Company without application or request from the employees, the Company will pay their moving expense to the new place of residence in the general vicinity of their new location. Employees who are transferred to another
21
Article V (continued) location in their unit to avoid being laid off, will pay their own moving expense.
Relative to the movement of mobile homes, the Company agrees to pay certain expenses incurred as a result of moving mobile homes. Such expenses will be limited to escorts for mobile homes fourteen (14) feet in width or wider; disconnecting of utilities; taping of windows as necessary; and other preparations necessary to secure the internal portion of the mobile home for movement. In addition, the Company will pay the expenses associated with the movement of heat pump(s) and/or a central air conditioning unit(s).
When management identifies a need for workforce reallocation in a classification, employees in that classification will be offered the opportunity, by seniority, to relocate to the location where the need exists. In return, the Company will offer compensation in the amount of one month's base salary, less applicable taxes, for the voluntary move, in addition to the regular moving expenses. It is understood that if this reallocation does not take place a rollback will be implemented.
(h)	If, in filling a vacancy or new job in a classification covered by this agreement, employees are transferred upon their request and application to a lower classification, their rate of pay in the lower classification will be at the minimum of such classification unless their training and experience justify a higher rate in that classification.
(i)	When job awards are made under the seniority provisions of this agreement and displacements are made due to incompetency
22
Article V (continued)
during the first twelve (12) months following the job awards, the employees will be returned to their former jobs and other employees awarded jobs in the sequence will also be returned to their former jobs. Employees displaced on account of incompetency will pay their own return moving expenses.
(j)	The Company has the right to lay off or discharge any employee for sufficient and reasonable cause, but the employee will be advised of the reason or reasons for such layoff or discharge; and the Brotherhood will, upon request, be advised of the reason or reasons for such layoff or discharge.
(k)	The Company will endeavor to provide the Union with reasonable notice in the event of a reduction in forces. In case of a reduction of forces or displacement from classifications due to incompetency, except as provided for in paragraph (i) of this Article V, it is agreed that such reduction of forces or displacements will be made in reverse order of seniority, except as provided below, in each of the separate seniority units as defined in paragraph (a) of this Article V. Employees so displaced may roll into existing vacancies or new jobs which are of an equivalent or lower classification rather than displacing other employees, or the employees may have the option to return to any job classification in their seniority unit, provided they had formerly held such classification in that seniority unit and are competent, and if their seniority will allow such return. Employees laid off as a result of a reduction of forces or demotion will initially designate locations or, subsequent to layoff, additional locations where reemployment is
23
Article V (continued)
desired for the purpose of recall from layoff. Locations so designated will be any of the six (6) geographic divisions, any generating plant, Power Delivery Transmission, and/or the General Services Complex. Vacancies not filled through the initial posting or vacancies in the helper classifications at the respective locations as designated will be offered to employees on layoff who are subject to recall as set forth in paragraph (b) of this Article V. In the event of a reduction of forces, employees in the classification of helper who have been displaced as a result of such reduction of forces will have the option of taking a layoff rather than displacing another employee.
The Company will agree to coordinate the application of rolling into a vacancy by identifying existing vacancies within a seniority unit and provide this to the Union at least three (3) work days prior to the commencement of a reduction in forces or displacement. The Union will determine the desire and seniority of employees who might want to move to such vacancies under the provision of Article V, paragraph (e) of the Contract.
In case of a reduction of forces journeymen whose combined accumulated service as a journeyman and/or as an apprentice equals four (4) years or more will retain their journeyman classification provided there is either a journeyman or apprentice tn their seniority unit with less seniority whose job they are competent to perform and whom they choose to displace. In the event a journeyman displaces an apprentice and retains the journeyman classification as provided above, the Company will retain the option for a period of one year to
24
Article V (continued)
place a journeyman from that same crew Into a vacancy of the same classification at that same location which may subsequently be created or become vacant.
It is understood that the employees retained as a result of the reduction of forces will result in classifications and competency sufficient for the work to be done and that no employees will be retained to fill a job for which they are not qualified, and it is further understood that layoffs in the reverse order of seniority will be worked out promptly with representatives of the Brotherhood, and will usually result in laying off employees with the least seniority in the particular units.
In the event of a reduction of forces in the Instrument Service Center, transfers will be made in reverse order of length of service at the Instrument Service Center and such employees will be transferred back to the units from whence they came with total seniority accumulated up to the time of such transfers from the Instrument Service Center for all the purposes of this agreement.
(I)	In the event that a reduction of forces or staffing adjustment may be necessary, the Company and Union may agree to apply any such severance or early retirement plan as may be approved and in effect at the time.
(m)	When a vacancy occurs at any location in the Helper-Plant classification, a "Plant to Plant"Transfer Request Notice will be posted within the bid unit. Transfer requests will be processed by seniority with the senior applicant being reassigned to the new location.
25
Article V (continued)
Helpers will be allowed one (1) transfer and one (1) decline per calendar year. If there are no transfer request received during the ten (10) day posting period, the job will be filled from any available source without reposting.
ARTICLE VI
Grievances
(a)	The Company agrees to meet and treat with the duly accredited officers and committees that are elected or selected by the Brotherhood upon all questions and grievances that may arise between the parties hereto during the life of this agreement. Every effort will be made by the parties hereto to settle disputes promptly and at the location where they arise. A local Union/Company committee will be formed as needed to discuss disputes for resolution using the mutual gains process before a formal grievance is filed. It being the desire of the parties to settle grievances promptly, the Brotherhood will endeavor to provide the available information as to date of occurrence, facts and circumstances giving rise to the grievance, contract provisions allegedly violated, employees involved, and remedy sought. Such information will be furnished to the Company prior to the first step of the grievance procedure, but may be amended prior to any subsequent step of the grievance procedure as may be necessary to reflect new information. It is understood, however, that failure to provide such information as set forth above, will not prejudice the position of the Brotherhood in any grievance.
26
Article VI (continued)
As necessary for settlement, grievances will be reduced to writing and handled in two successive steps at the Plants (Fossil and Hydro), Birmingham Steam Heat or other mutually agreed location as follows:
Step 1. Between the aggrieved employees and/or representatives of the Brotherhood acting in their behalf, and their respective immediate supervisor, the supervisor in general charge of the operation in which the grievance arose, and the Plant Manager-Fossil, Manager - River System, Operations Superintendent -Birmingham Steam Heat and/or their designated representatives as the case might be.
Step 2. Between the aggrieved employees and/or representatives of the Brotherhood acting in their behalf and the Manager-Labor Relations, together with the Senior Vice President-Fossil-Hydro Generation, Vice President-Birmingham Division, and/or their designated representatives, as the case might be.
In the event any grievance is not settled by any of the preceding steps of the grievance procedure, it may be submitted to arbitration. The Brotherhood will have a maximum of ninety (90) days from the date of the Company's written decision in the final step in which to give written notice to the Company that a grievance is not satisfactorily settled and that the
27
Article VI (continued)
Brotherhood desires to submit the grievance to arbitration as provided in Article VII of this agreement.
The Company's decision will be reduced to writing and a copy furnished to the Brotherhood as soon as possible after the conclusion of each grievance step.
If a stenographic report is made of the proceedings of any such meeting by the Company or the Brotherhood, a typewritten copy will be furnished to the other party within five (5) days.
(b)	It being the desire of the parties hereto to settle grievances promptly, it is agreed that no grievance will be considered unless it is brought to the attention of the Company as a grievance in the manner provided for herein within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of the facts giving rise to the same or within fifteen (15) days of filling a vacancy as provided in Article V (e). It is further agreed that a maximum of fourteen (14) days will be allowed from the receipt of such notice that a grievance exists until such grievance will be handled as provided in Step 1 of this Article VI, paragraph (a). Upon completion of Step 1 as provided in this Article VI, paragraph (a), the Brotherhood will have a maximum of fourteen (14) days from the date of the Company's written decision in which to give notice to the Company that such grievance is not satisfactorily settled, and that the Brotherhood desires to proceed to the next higher step. Upon receipt of the notice that the Brotherhood desires to proceed to the next higher step as provided in this Article VI, paragraph (a), the Company will have a maximum of seven (7) days to com
28
Article VI (continued)
plete such step. Failure to comply with the time limits as set forth above will serve to terminate the grievance, and such grievance, if terminated, cannot be brought up the second time. However, should the Company fail to comply with such time limits as set forth above, the grievance may be moved to the next succeeding step. Notwithstanding the provision of this Article VI, paragraph (b), time limits as specified herein may be extended by mutual agreement.
(c)	Employees who have been suspended or discharged will have the right to have their respective case taken up as a grievance by the officers or committees of the Brotherhood with the duly accredited officers of the Company; and in such cases where it is found that such employees that have been suspended or discharged were unjustly suspended or discharged, they will be reinstated to their former position and other employees affected will be displaced pursuant to Article V, paragraph (I) where such reinstatement is within twelve (12) months of the employees' discharge otherwise the terms and conditions of Article V, paragraph (k) will apply with respect to other employees affected. Further they will be paid the wages to which they would have been entitled had they continued in the Company's employment during the period of suspension or discharge.
(d)	Disagreements with respect to Workers' Compensation and similar issues which are also controlled by Local, State or Federal Laws, are not subject to the grievance process.
29
Article VI (continued)
If for whatever reason a Workers' Compensation claim which was initially disallowed is later accepted, the following will apply:
1.	All employee benefits will be fully restored.
2.	The Company will not request any reimbursement from the employee for the difference between what the employee was paid and workers' Compensation.
(e)	The Company will pay reasonable travel expenses for Company employees involved in the grievance process.
ARTICLE VII
Arbitration
In case of a dispute concerning the interpretation of any of the provisions of this agreement that cannot be settled by the Company and local representatives of the Brotherhood, they will refer the dispute to a board of arbitrators composed of three (3) members. Each of the parties hereto will select one (1) member of this board, and two (2) thus selected will select the third member of the board. In the event the two (2) members of the board of arbitration fail to select a third member within ten (10) days, the parties will jointly request the American Arbitration Association to appoint a third member. Both parties will be bound by such appointment. In the event one of the parties refuses or fails to join in such request, the party in default will forfeit its case. The decision of
30
Article VII (continued)
any two (2) members of the board in agreement on the matter in dispute will be binding on both parties hereto. When the dispute involves interpretation of wage schedules, any decision rendered will be retroactive to the date on which the dispute originated. Each of the parties hereto will pay the compensation and expense of the member of the board appointed by it; and the expense, and also the compensation, of the third member of the board will be borne equally by the parties hereto.
The board of arbitration will be governed wholly by the terms of this agreement and will have no power to add to or change its terms.
ARTICLE VIII
General Working Conditions
(a)	New employees will be on probation for the first six (6) months of their employment. During the trial period the Company may, at its option, transfer, lay off, or dismiss such employees, but they will enjoy all other rights and benefits provided for in this agreement. In filling any job from among probationary employees, competency being equal, the length of service of the employees in the probationary period will prevail and upon the completion of the six (6) months probationary period the seniority of such employees will commence and will be dated back to the date of their employment. However, the Brotherhood may discuss with the Company any cases of discrimination respecting such employees.
(b)	Each new full-time employee will be allowed a maximum of one (1) week [i.e. forty
31
Article VIII (continued)
(40) hours] sick leave with pay upon completion of the initial employment probationary period as described in Article VII), paragraph (a), if such sick leave is necessary because of the employee's own sickness.
Each full-time employee will be allowed an additional maximum of one (1) week [i.e. forty (40) hours] sick leave with pay upon completion of the initial six (6) months of continuous employment with the Company following such probationary period if such sick leave is necessary because of the employee's own sickness.
Thereafter, the Company will allow two (2) weeks [i.e. eighty (80) hours] sick leave with pay per calendar year to each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an immediately prior continuous period of six (6) or more months if such sick leave is necessary because of the employee's own sickness. Employees will be allowed forty (40) additional hours sick leave in any calendar year following a year in which the employee did not use any sick leave.
An employee may accumulate unused sick leave up to a maximum of one thousand forty (1040) hours, including sick leave for the then current year. Under no circumstances will an employee be entitled to more than one thousand forty (1040) hours sick leave with pay in any calendar year.
Unless it is impossible to do so, employees or member of their immediate family will notify their respective immediate supervisors of such sickness and its probable duration as
32
Article VIII (continued)
much in advance of the starting time of their shift as may be possible. Repeated failure to report for work without giving such notice will be grounds for disciplinary action or discharge. Should employees fail to notify supervision before the end of the second day of such absence, they will not qualify for sick leave with pay unless it can be shown that it was impossible for them to give or cause such notice to be given to their supervisors. In the event of absence due to sickness, supervisors may make such reasonable investigations as they deem desirable, and the Company may require a doctor’s certificate as to the nature of the sickness causing such absence from work. Failure to give notice as required or to supply a doctor's certificate if required will forfeit all rights of sick leave with pay during the particular absence from work. The Brotherhood will cooperate with the Company to prevent or eliminate abuses of sick leave privileges.
Employees who are laid off due to a reduction in forces, but who return to the employ of the Company in a permanent job within a period of twenty-four (24) months from the date of such layoff, will retain any unused accumulated sick leave to which they were entitled at the time of their layoff; and will be eligible for such unused accumulated sick leave upon re-employment in a permanent position.
(c)	The Company will continue to give two (2) weeks [i.e. eighty (80) hours] vacation with pay during each calendar year to each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an immediately prior continuous period of one (1) or more years.
33
Article VIII (continued)
Each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an immediately prior continuous period of one (1) year or more will be eligible for three (3) weeks [i.e. one hundred and twenty (120) hours] vacation with pay at the beginning of the calendar year in which the employee will accumulate seven (7) or more years of service, so long as such service was not broken by resignation or discharge for cause.
Each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an immediately prior continuous period of one (1) year or more will be eligible for four (4) weeks [i.e. one hundred and sixty (160) hours] vacation with pay at the beginning of the calendar year in which the employee will accumulate fifteen (15) or more years of service, so long as such service was not broken by resignation or discharge for cause.
Each full-time employee who has been in the employ of the Company for an immediately prior continuous period of one (1) year or more will be eligible for five (5) weeks [i.e. two hundred (200) hours] vacation with pay at the beginning of the calendar year in which the employee will accumulate twenty-five (25) or more years of service, so long as such service was not broken by resignation or discharge for cause.
Each full-time employee will accrue vacation on December 31st for the succeeding year. The employee must have been employed for at least a continuous period of one (1) year and must be employed on December 31st in order to accrue the vacation.
34
Article VIII (continued)
The employee is not required to work in the succeeding year in order to qualify for vacation.
Vacations will not be cumulative; however, employees will be allowed to carry from one (1) calendar year to the next up to eighty (80) hours vacation. Vacations may be arranged in advance of March 15 with their respective supervisors giving full weight to seniority provided that the full vacation allowance is scheduled on consecutive days. However, employees who choose to select vacation periods which are not consecutive will be entitled to exercise their seniority in the selection of the first such vacation period. Subsequent selections of vacation periods will not be made until all other employees have had an opportunity to make selections under the same conditions. Vacations will be taken at such time as will not unduly interfere with the efficiency of operations. Employees who have not selected their vacations on or before March 15 will have to select periods that are untaken after that date and such periods will then be selected and scheduled in order of requests made. Employees will not be required to take their vacations in units of less than one (1) week [i.e., seven (7) consecutive days].
Employees scheduled for vacation will not be subject to being called out on their off days or holidays which are continuous with their vacation period. If employees are scheduled for vacation, which is less than five (5) consecutive days, on a day continuous with their off days or holidays, such employees will be subject to being called out during such off days or holidays. Nothing contained in this paragraph
35
Article VIII (continued) will prevent an employee from being called out in an emergency situation.
Should employees be recalled for emergency duty while on vacation, the Company will defray any extra expenses which they may incur as a result of such recall including transportation and other reasonable expense back to the place from whence they were recalled, or to any equivalent point. If they desire to resume their vacation at the conclusion of the emergency, additional vacation time will be granted them in lieu of time lost as a result of such recall, including time spent in traveling incidental to such recall.
In the event of a death in the employees’ immediate families while such employees are on vacation, Article VIII, paragraph (t) of this agreement will apply, provided the employees' respective supervisors are promptly notified. Such employees will be allowed to reschedule that portion of their vacation covered by the above mentioned Article VIII (t), consistent with the terms and conditions of this Article VIII, paragraph (c).
If employees leave the service of the Company and they are eligible for a vacation as stated above, they will be paid for same, provided such employees have not been discharged and provided in case of resignation they have given two (2) weeks notice of their intention to resign from the Company.
In the event employees resign from the employ of the Company, they will be paid only for that unused vacation to which they were eligible as of the date the notice of resignation is received.
36
Article VIII (continued)
(d)	Insofar as possible without interfering with the necessary operations of the various units, the following holidays will be observed and granted without loss of pay: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans Day (or such other national holiday as may be established in lieu thereof), Thanksgiving Day, the day after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve Day, and Christmas Day. The holidays will be observed on the days on which they occur. As much notice as possible will be given to employees required to work on holidays; however, schedules as posted will constitute notice to employees who are required to work on holidays. When employees work on a holiday they will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked on the holiday, and in addition thereto they will receive pay for eight (8) hours at their regular straight time rate. When a holiday falls on the employees' respective off-day they will be allowed a day off in lieu thereof within thirty (30) days, or, if the Company concludes that it will not be able to grant time off in lieu of such holiday, it will pay for the same at regular straight time rates. If a holiday falls on the employees' respective off-day and it is necessary to call out or to prearrange the employees to perform work, they will be paid at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular straight time rate for all hours worked, and in addition thereto, they will receive pay for eight (8) hours at their regular straight time rate.
If a holiday occurs during employees' vacation, they will be allowed an additional day off with pay at the beginning or end of their vacation.
37
Article VIII (continued)
Employees will be allowed to bank holidays according to the following:
If a holiday falls on a regular scheduled workday and the employee works eight (8) hours or more, the employee may be paid eight (8) hours at the straight time rate and request the holiday be banked. If more than eight (8) hours are worked, all hours over eight (8) hours will be paid at one and one-half (1-14) time. Employees working shifts other than eight (8) hours per day will be allowed to bank the entire shift, hour for hour, if they work their regular scheduled hours or more on a holiday and are paid at the straight time rate for such regular scheduled hours worked. All hours worked outside regular scheduled hours will be paid at one and one half (1-14) time. Holidays that occur on an employee's off day may only be banked as eight (8) hours. For holidays that occur on a regular scheduled workday and are not banked, all hours worked in excess of eight (8) hours will be paid at one and one half (1-54) time. An employee may bank up to three (3) holidays. Should employees change to a longer schedule, they must use dock time or vacation to make up the difference when taking a banked holiday. If they change to a shorter schedule, they will be paid for the difference or have the option of taking the excess hours off as if it were vacation.
Banked holidays can be carried over from year to year, but at no time can an employee have more than three (3) days banked. Banked holidays must be taken in blocks of hours equal to the regular scheduled workday, arranged for like a day of vacation. Employees may request payment for banked holidays in
38
Article VIII (continued)
blocks of hours equal to the regular scheduled work day, with payment made at the current straight time rate in the employee's regular paycheck.
At least twenty four (24) hours prior to the beginning of a holiday each supervisor will make known if the needs and conditions are such that members of the work group may volunteer to work on the holiday and thus bank the holiday for future use. If more ask to work than are needed then seniority will be the basis for selecting those asking to bank a holiday.
It is not the Company's intention to change schedules on a temporary basis to avoid paying for more than eight (8) hours.
(e)	The Company will continue its present policy of carrying group life insurance at its own expense on all full-time employees who have been in the employ of the Company for a continuous period of six (6) months or more, so long as such insurance continues to be available to the Company at substantially the present rates and under substantially the present conditions.
Employees returning from layoff as a result of reduction of forces within twenty-four (24) months of such layoff will be entitled to the amount of non-contributory group life insurance to which they were entitled at the time of layoff.
In addition, the Company will make available at the prevailing employee cost, medical coverage to the surviving spouse of an employee killed in a job related accident. Such coverage will be maintained until such time as the surviving spouse may remarry.
39
Article VIII (continued)
Spouses of deceased pre-retirement employees who are covered at the time of the employee's death by the family plan may continue to participate in the APC medical benefits plan at employee rates until they are eligible for a non-APC sponsored medical plan or they remarry.
The Company adopted a Pension Plan covering certain of its employees, including those now represented by the Brotherhood, on July 1, 1944. Such Pension Plan has been amended from time to time since its adoption and the Company has entered into supplemental pension agreements with the Brotherhood relating to such plan.
(f)	Employees performing jury duty will be paid their regular rates for time lost from their regular work while so serving. Employees who are permanently discharged from such jury duty will be expected to report such discharge as soon as practicable to their respective supervisors. The Company agrees to allow sufficient time off with pay for voting, not to exceed two (2) hours, to those employees whose work on election day does not otherwise permit sufficient time to vote.
(g)	Employees who are members of the Brotherhood's committees representing the Local Unions above-mentioned will be allowed time off to attend meetings with Company officials. They will give their respective supervisor, or in the supervisor's absence, the supervisor's designee, reasonable notice in advance of their desire to attend such meetings. The number of representatives of the Brotherhood in attendance at such meetings on Company
40
Article VIII (continued)
time will be limited to the number reasonably necessary to transact the business at hand. The Company will pay such employees at their regular rates of pay for time lost from their regular work as a result of attending such meetings.
Officers and authorized delegates not to exceed four (4) from each Local Union, who are called upon to transact business for the Local Union or the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, which temporarily requires their absence from duty, will, upon written request to their department supervisor, be allowed sufficient time for such business without pay.
It is understood, however, that except for the foregoing there will be no transaction of Brotherhood business, including solicitation, on Company time or on any property of the Company where employees are on duty.
(h)	Should employees become Business Manager in Alabama for the above-mentioned Local Unions or accept a full-time position with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers or the Alabama Labor Council, the Company agrees that they will be given a leave of absence for the period of this agreement, or any extension thereof, and that they will retain and accumulate seniority and service just as though they continued to work for the Company, and that they will be permitted to return to their former or an equivalent classification with the Company immediately upon conclusion of their term as such, and provided they are competent to fill the position. It is understood, however, that any necessary
41
Article VIII (continued)
demotions made in carrying out the provisions of this paragraph (h) will not be made the basis of any grievance.
Service time will accrue for employees who are on a Union Leave of Absence. Employees who return from a Union Leave of Absence will be eligible for retroactive accrual of service time for purposes of vacation, service awards and retirement plaques.
(i)	Employees who are required to work outside in the rain will be furnished raincoats or rain suits (as agreed on locally) and rain hats. Employees required to work in water will be furnished rubber boots. The Company will endeavor to provide a reasonable assortment of sizes of such equipment. Such equipment will remain the property of the Company, will not be devoted to personal use, and will be turned in when not actually required. If any employees desire such individual equipment for their own use, upon written request, the Company will supply it at thirty per cent (30%) of the cost to the Company (including cost of handling), but in that event such equipment will be kept readily available by employees to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph. The Company will also make replacements of such individual equipment at thirty per cent (30%) cost at reasonable intervals.
(j)	Deleted
(k)	Paragraphs 1 through 5, inclusive:
1.	When employees are designated by their supervisors to temporarily relieve or substitute for employees of a higher classification than their own, they will be paid at the mini
42
Article VIII (continued)
mum rate of the higher classification. If employees work in such higher classification for as much as four (4) hours in a workday [as defined in paragraph (v) of this Article VIII], they will be paid for the full day at the rate determined above; provided, however, that they will not suffer any reduction in rate while thus temporarily relieving or substituting. When employees temporarily relieve or substitute for employees in a lower classification, they will continue to receive the pay of their own classification.
2.	Whenever substitution is made under a provision of this paragraph, the senior competent employee available in the respective crew or shift will be designated to relieve or substitute for an employee in a higher classification except in the case of a journeyman being designated to take charge where no supervisor or foreman is available and when a warehouseman or materialman is designated to take charge in the absence of the warehouseman's or materialman's supervisor.
When a warehouseman or materialman is designated to substitute for a supervisor or storekeeper for one-half (1/2) day or more, the warehouseman or materialman will be paid an additional sixty-five cents (650) per hour while substituting.
3.	When no journeyman is available at a generating plant for one-half (1/2) day or more in the E&l Journeyman, electrician, mechanic, or instrument serviceman classifications regardless of the number of workers assigned to each of these positions, an employee will be designated to substitute as journeyman, pro-
43
Article VIII (continued) vided there is available at that location an employee competent to perform the duties of one of the absent journeymen.
4.	In any crew when a journeyman is substituting for a supervisor or foreman, the journeyman will be considered as being absent from the crew for the purpose of-determining whether substitution as provided for in this Article VIII, paragraph (k) will be made.
5.	When a shift, maintenance, or fuel handling supervisor or foreman is absent for one-half (1/2) day or more on a regular workday from a plant and it is necessary to substitute for such absent supervisor or foreman, the senior competent operator or journeyman on shift during such absence will be designated by the Company to substitute for the absent supervisor or foreman and will be paid an additional sixty-five cents (650) per hour while being substituted.
(I)	When an employee is offered a promotion by the Company and for any reason fails to accept it, such failure will not affect the employee's seniority or status, except as provided in paragraph (e) of Article V.
(m)	Any employee who is called for work while off duty will be given as much notice as possible.
(n)	Where it is practicable to do so, any employees who are unable to report for work will send word to or notify their respective superintendent, supervisor or foreman of such inability and its probable duration. Such notice will be given as much in advance of the starting time of their shift as may be possible.
44
Article VIII (continued)
Repeated failure to report for work without giving such notice or without good and sufficient reason will be grounds for disciplinary action or discharge.
(o)	Employees will keep their respective supervisors informed of their correct home or living quarters address.
(p)	The Company will not use superintendents, assistant superintendents, supervisors, or foremen to displace employees in classifications covered by this agreement; however, nothing in this agreement will be construed to prevent them from doing such work in emergencies, in training employees, or in the inspection and adjustment of equipment, and performing incidental tasks which contribute to the obvious efficiency of the crew or work group, but will not displace a covered employee. It is not the parties' intent for these classifications to become working classifications that can perform routine bargaining unit work without limitations. Such classifications' primary responsibility is to supervise work being performed. The above referenced incidental tasks do not include the foremen doing routine switching or using tools.
(q)	When employees are recalled for work and report for duty after a regular work period or on one of their regular off-days, they will be paid for actual time spent working or standing by, plus an additional amount equal to their overtime rate of pay for one hour for the inconvenience involved in such recall, but in no event will they receive less than two (2) hours pay at their overtime rate.
45
Article VIII (continued)
Employees who are provided Company vehicles for the purpose of such recalls and respond to the recalls from their homes, will not be eligible for the one hour at the overtime rate to compensate for the inconvenience of the recall. Such employees will be paid for the actual time spent working or standing by but in no event will they receive less than two (2) hours pay at their overtime rate.
When employees are recalled for work and report for duty while they are off duty during their regular scheduled lunch period, they will receive one (1) hour pay at their overtime rate.
When employees are required to report to work on a scheduled workday after having been released on one of their scheduled workdays and were notified to this effect before the end of their last scheduled work period, they will be paid the equivalent of three (3) hours at the overtime rate or the actual hours worked, whichever is greater, except as set out below.
When employees are required to report in advance of the normal starting time on one of their scheduled days of work, and were notified to this effect before the end of their previous scheduled workday, they will be paid at their overtime rate for all time worked prior to their normal starting time.
When employees are required to report for work on one of their off-days and were notified to this effect before the end of their last previous scheduled work period or in the event a prearranged overtime assignment begins on a regular work day and extends into an off-day
46
Article VIII (continued)
or begins on an off-day and extends into another off-day, they will be paid the equivalent of four (4) hours at the overtime rate or the actual hours worked, whichever is greater. A regular off-day will consist of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours commencing with the end of the preceding regular work day [as defined in paragraph (v), Article VIII] or a preceding regular off-day.
(r)	When employees are ordered to stand by subject to call, a definite place and period of time will be designated by their supervisor. Time thus spent standing by will be considered as hours worked.
(s)	So far as may be practicable and consistent with the efficient performance of work to be done, the Company will distribute overtime work equitably among the employees covered by this agreement over reasonable periods of time in the various units, locations and lines of work therein; the various lines of work corresponding generally to the principal journeyman classifications and being: (1) warehousing, (2) plant operations, (3) steam heat operations -Birmingham, (4) Fuel Handling, steam plants only, and (5) plant maintenance.
In consideration of differences in work locations, overtime issues will be handled by mutual local agreements. Once established, these local agreements will serve as the definition of "equitable" distribution of overtime and will outline the policy to be followed in each local area. These agreements will address as a minimum the following interests:
-	on call arrangements such as A&B lists, crew on call, etc.
47
Article VIII (continued)
-	the need for timely response, particularly on a holiday and weekends
-	consequences clearly stated for either party not adhering to agreement
-	a sunset provision
Should no mutual agreement be reached the existing overtime procedures will be utilized.
Records showing the distribution of overtime In accordance with the above will be made available for inspection by designated representatives of the Brotherhood at plant offices. Lists of overtime at intervals of four (4) weeks accumulated from beginning to end of each year will be posted at the plants, and Birmingham Steam Heat.
(t) In the event an employee has a personal need and is unable to work on a regular workday, subject to the approval of supervision and without loss of efficiency or payment of overtime, the employee may make it up without loss of pay by working immediately before or after any regular scheduled work period in the same work week, working an off-day in the same workweek, using a day of vacation, or using a banked holiday.
If employees are absent from work because of a death in their immediate family, they will be allowed time off with pay as follows:
1.	Three (3) days death leave will be granted, as deemed necessary by the employ
48
Article VIII (continued)
ee in the event of a death of the employee's spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, stepchildren, children, grandchildren, brothers or sisters, or the spouse's parents, stepparents, grandparents, brothers or sisters. Time off as stipulated in this item (1) must be taken within fifteen (15) days of the death.
2.	Up to three (3) consecutive days funeral leave will be granted, including off-days, for the purpose of traveling to, attending and returning from the funeral service of the employee's son-in-law, daughter-in-law or any relative regularly residing in the household of the employee concerned.
(u) Shift employees may elect to work rotating or nonrotating schedules by functional operating groups. The preferences of such employees will also be regarded, by seniority, in scheduling shifts and off-days upon request to the supervisor in general charge of the operation. All employees encompassed by the Power Generation Agreement are "Shift Employees".
Shift employees at generating plants may elect to work a modified form of fixed shift schedule under the following conditions:
1.	During the month of September of each calendar year, an election will be held by the Union to determine whether shift employees, by functional operating groups at each location, desire to work fixed shift schedules. The Company agrees to comply with the wishes of each functional operating group at each location following receipt of an official notice from the Union certifying the election results supplied no later than October 15 of each year.
49
Article VIII (continued)
Upon proper receipt of such notice, the Company will post a schedule, allowing for a thirty (30) day notice, to go into effect on the first Saturday following January 1.
2.	For the purpose of applying this agreement, the following will be deemed as functional operating groups:
a. E&l Journeymen, Electricians, Instrument Servicemen, Apprentice E&l Journeymen, and Helpers
b Mechanics, Apprentice Mechanics, Machinists, Welders, Apprentices, and Helpers.
c.	Warehouseman-Plant, Materialman and Helpers.
d.	Plant Control Operators, Assistant Plant Control Operators, and Helpers.
e.	Fuel Handling Department
f.	At Birmingham Steam Heating System:
1.	Boiler Operators
2.	Mechanics (where applicable)
3.	The term "fixed shift schedules" as used in this paragraph does not in any way affect the Company's rights to reschedule employees as provided in paragraphs (w) and (x) of this Article VIII. Specifically, this includes, but is not limited to, the right to reschedule employees in designated relief positions on a regular basis to meet the requirements of the Company.
50
Article VIII (continued)
4.	The present methods of allowing employees to select vacant positions on the schedule will continue; but if problems unique to fixed shift schedules should develop, the Company and the Union will meet and resolve these problems.
Employees in each functional work group in Power Generation will be allowed to vote, one time per year, for the purpose of splitting into teams or remaining in functional work groups for the purposes of overtime distribution and vacation scheduling.
A shift differential in addition to the rates set forth in wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A will be paid to employees who work on the evening or night shifts as follows:
Evening Shift--Where the majority of the scheduled hours worked are between 3 p.m. and 11 p.m., 540 per hour for all hours actually worked.
Night Shift—Where the majority of the scheduled hours worked are between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., 640 per hour for all hours actually worked.
No shift differential will be paid for any time not actually worked.
(v)	The regular workweek will consist of seven (7) consecutive twenty-four (24) hour periods starting immediately after Friday midnight, or at the shift change nearest Friday midnight in the case of shift employees, as
51
Article VIII (continued)
defined in paragraph (u) above. The regular daily work period will consist of a continuous period including eight (8) scheduled hours of work, plus scheduled time for a meal. However, it is understood that the commencement of the meal period may be advanced or delayed thirty (30) minutes by the Company so long as the meal period is not reduced or extended. In cases where the commencement of a meal period is advanced or delayed more than thirty (30) minutes by the Company, time spent working during the regular scheduled meal period will be paid for at the overtime rate and the employee will be allowed sufficient time for the meal and if any part of this time falls outside their regular scheduled meal period it will be considered time worked. The regular workday will consist of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours commencing with the starting time of the work period; except that no workday will carry over from one regular workweek to the next.
(w)	All employees will be paid at the rates shown for their respective classifications in the wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A for all time worked during their scheduled hours of work. Employees will be scheduled to work five (5) regular daily work periods in each workweek on consecutive workdays, as far as may be practicable. Off-days will be consecutive except in the case of periodic changes of shifts or when daily work periods are changed by giving at least thirty (30) days notice as provided for in this paragraph (w). The various employees will be notified of their regularly scheduled work periods by posting notices in the respective plants. The Company may change such regularly scheduled five (5) con
52
Article VIII (continued)
secutive daily work periods by giving at least thirty (30) days prior notice of such change. Employees may be rescheduled for temporary periods upon at least thirty-six (36) hours prior notice stating the probable duration. Employees will be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times the rates shown for the respective classifications in the wage schedules attached hereto as Exhibit A for all hours worked in excess of forty (40) in any regular workweek and for all hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any regular workday and for all hours worked outside of those regularly scheduled; provided, however, that overtime rates will not be paid for hours worked in excess of eight (8) in any workday brought about by periodic changes of shifts or by granting requests of individual employees; and, provided further, that overtime rates will not be paid more than once for the same hours worked. Employees may be allowed to work schedules other than eight (8) hours as specified in applicable Memoranda of Understanding.
(x)	Non-shift employees may be rescheduled to work on a two (2) or three (3) shift per day basis to handle prearranged or emergency repair jobs which will require more than five (5) days for completion on a rush basis, by giving at least thirty-six (36) hours prior notice, it being understood that their respective normal off-days will remain the same.
(y) Employees who are instructed to report for duty before they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty since the end of their last scheduled work period and who so report will be paid at the overtime rate for all
53
Article VIII (continued)
hours worked thereafter until they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty. Employees who are instructed to report for duty six (6) hours or more before their next regular scheduled starting time following an off day will continue to be paid at the overtime rate for all time worked until they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty. However, in either instance at the completion of the work for which the employee so reported, the Company may at its discretion continue the employee at work or give them eight (8) hours off duty and if any part of the eight (8) hours off duty falls within or overlaps into the employee's next regular scheduled work period, they will be paid for all such hours off duty within their regular scheduled work period at the straight time rate.
Any employees continuing to work beyond their regular scheduled work period will be paid at the overtime rate for all hours worked thereafter until they have had eight (8) consecutive hours off duty and if any part of such eight (8) hours off duty falls within or overlaps into the employees' next regular scheduled work period, they will be paid for all such hours off duty within their regular scheduled work period at the straight time rate. In those instances where travel time is applicable in applying the terms and conditions of the eight (8) hour rest period provision, such travel time will be considered as a portion of such rest period provision.
(z) Employees who may be temporarily incapacitated by a lost-time accident and who recover to the extent that the Company Medical Director certifies them for "light duty," or any employees who suffer or develop a tem-
54
Article VIII (continued) porary physical disability to the extent that they are no longer competent to perform satisfactory work in their classification may be placed on any work which is available (including their regular job) and which they can perform without prejudice to their physical condition. Such employees will be paid at the proper rate for the classification to which they are assigned.
In the event employees are determined by the Company Medical Director to be permanently or indefinitely physically disabled so that they can no longer satisfactorily perform their work in their classification, the Company will undertake to mutually agree with the Brotherhood upon the assignment of such employees to any classification without regard to the provisions of Article V, paragraph (e), and such employees will be paid at the rate of the classification to which they are assigned.
In the event employees are determined by the Company Medical Director to be permanently or indefinitely physically disabled so that they can no longer satisfactorily perform their work in their classification, the employees will be given the option of exercising rights covered in Article V, paragraph (k) of this agreement, provided there are classifications available that employees can perform without prejudice to their physical condition and further provided that the employees will not be precluded from exercising other available options.
Permanently disabled employees electing to exercise the roll rights given under this paragraph, who are subsequently determined to be incompetent to perform the duties of their new classification during the first 12 months follow
55
Article VIII (continued)
ing the roll back, will be demoted under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (k). The ensuing roll back will be conducted under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (i).
1.	Permanently disabled employees electing to exercise roll rights given under the above, may be considered for rolling into classifications which are filled on the basis of competency.
2.	Permanently disabled employees eligible to exercise roll rights under this paragraph, who elect to go on LTD when eligible, will not be eligible to exercise roll rights.
Employees on Disability, Extended Disability, or Long Term Disability leaves of absence on or after September 2,1992, will be granted service credit, not to exceed twenty-four (24) months, upon return to work.
(aa) Subject to the orders of their supervisors, employees are responsible for the proper discharge of their respective duties within the scope of their training and experience, and any negligence or failure in this respect will constitute grounds for disciplinary action or discharge after proper investigation.
(bb) When employees are required by the Company to work temporarily at some location other than the place where they regularly work, the Company will pay any reasonable and necessary traveling and living expenses required by such temporary employment.
If the Company provides overnight traveling accommodations, it will pay only for time
56
Article VIII (continued)
spent in traveling during regularly scheduled hours on scheduled workdays or off-days just as though such time were worked. If the Company provides traveling accommodations other than by Company car or truck, it will pay for all time spent in traveling just as though such time were worked, in such cases, if employees desire to provide their own transportation or to determine their own mode, route, and time of traveling to and from such temporary employment, they will make mutually satisfactory arrangements with their respective supervisor in advance as to the time and expense to be paid for by the Company and as to the time and place where they will report.
If traveling is by Company car or truck the Company will pay for all time spent traveling just as though it were time worked. If in lieu of utilizing a Company car or truck, which will make the trip in any event, employees desire to provide their own transportation, they will pay their own transportation expense but will receive time as if they had traveled by such Company car or truck.
In the event employees who are working temporarily at some location other than the place where they regularly work and would normally have their room and board paid for at the temporary location as provided for in the first sentence of this paragraph (bb) or the first sentence of Article XIII, paragraph (a), chooses to return to their home after each day's work, the Company will provide their evening and morning meals at the temporary location and at the option of the employees the Company will allow such employees for traveling or transportation expenses the amount that
57
Article VIII (continued)
would otherwise be paid by the Company for the employees' lodging.
(cc) When employees are required to incur any extra expense by reason of being required by the Company to work before, after, or in excess of their scheduled hours of work in any day, such reasonable and necessary extra expense will be defrayed by the Company.
Meals will be provided or paid for as set forth in Exhibit D, entitled Procedures Relating to Providing or Paying for Meals.
Travel expense will be paid for as set forth in Exhibit E, entitled Memorandum of Agreement - Payment for Travel Expense for Employees Required to Work Overtime.
(dd) Employees will have a permanently assigned headquarters which will also be the employees' usual reporting place; provided, however, that this provision will not require employees to report to such assigned headquarters if instructed by their supervisor to proceed to discharge their duties without reporting to such headquarters. Employees will not be permanently transferred from one such assigned headquarters to another except through the operation of the provisions for filling vacancies or new jobs provided for in Article V hereof. The first sentence of this paragraph will not be construed to require employees to report each date to their assigned headquarters if in the normal performance of their duties such reporting is not necessary, unless the employees are instructed to report to such headquarters by their respective supervisor.
58
Article VIII (continued)
Where employees are required to report or quit at some headquarters or reporting place, the Company will pay for time spent in traveling between the job and such headquarters or reporting place, plus any time spent working at such headquarters or reporting place.
(ee) Along with their paycheck for each pay period the Company will furnish to all employees a statement showing the number of hours for which they are paid at straight time rates; the number of hours for which they are paid at overtime rates; and the number of hours worked in substitution during the payroll period covered by such paycheck; together with the respective rates of pay.
(ff) Work in rain, sleet or snow will be held to such minimum as is reasonably necessary for the protection and preservation of the property of the Company and for the rendition of safe, economical and satisfactory service to the public. It is understood that routine work, excluding performing work on energized lines or equipment, will be performed during periods of light rain.
(gg) The Brotherhood will be permitted to use space on bulletin boards of the Company in operations where members of the Brotherhood are employed, under the terms of this agreement, for posting official notices of the Brotherhood to its membership.
(hh) When the Company requires any employee to have a telephone, it will notify such employee in writing of this requirement. In such case, the Company will pay the tele-
59
Article VIII (continued) phone bill of the employee (except personal long distance charges) until the requirement is canceled in writing. No employee's telephone number will be listed under the Company's name in the telephone directory.
(ii) In the event a report of commendation, or a disciplinary notice summary letter is placed in the personnel file of an employee, a copy of the document will be furnished such employee.
In case a disciplinary notice is given, the employee concerned will be given a letter summarizing the discussion. If the employee chooses, a representative from the Brotherhood may be present at time of such discussion. If the employee thinks unfair treatment is given, a grievance may be initiated and such discussion, by mutual agreement, may be considered the first step of the grievance procedure. The letter summarizing a disciplinary notice will not be made a part of the official files of the Company until the outcome of the grievance has been determined.
(jj) If employees who are instructed to climb a steel radio tower over 100 feet in height believe that due to their physical or mental limitations or their lack of skill they cannot perform the job safely and so inform their supervisor, they will not be required to climb such tower.
(kk) The following is the Company's Tool Policy in its entirety: The Company will pay to eligible employees 70% of the reasonable receipt for approved personal tool purchases. Employees will be furnished a list of tools
60
Article VIII (continued)
authorized to be purchased based on their qualified classification.
When an employee qualifies for a classification and is subject to substitute, upgrade or after an employee is awarded a temporary or permanent job, the employee will be responsible for purchasing, within a reasonable time frame, the tools necessary for that job classification. During work schedules, the employee must have these tools available for use at the work site.
Prior approval to purchase authorized or approved tools is not necessary by the employee; however, prior approval is required for special tool purchases.
Tools, except for specialty tools stocked by the Company, will be acquired by the employee through direct purchase from outside vendors. The employee will be responsible to ensure purchased tools meet current ANSI Standards. Reimbursement will be made through the expense account procedure with reimbursement on the employee's paycheck.
Employees will be responsible for replacing tools under warranty.
Broken and worn out tools not under warranty will be replaced at the 70/30 percentage rate of the employee's receipt.
Stolen tools may be replaced at the Company's expense on a case-by-case basis.
Employees will have ownership of personal tools.
61
ARTICLE IX
Wages and Classifications
(a)	Salaries to be paid the various classifications of employees will be at the rate set forth in salary schedules attached hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit A provided, however, that no employees' salaries will be reduced because they are above the rate shown in such salary schedules for the classification in which they are regularly working when this agreement becomes effective. All permanent regular employees covered by this agreement will be paid on an hourly wage basis. In all cases hourly rates for the respective classifications will be used in computation of overtime, time lost and time worked in substitution for employees in higher classifications.
(b)	The number and classification of employees required for the regular full operation and maintenance of the generating plants of the Company at the present time is set forth in job schedules attached as Exhibit B of this agreement, subject to the notes included as part of such exhibit; but the Company does not agree to continue such numbers and classifications of employees except as they may be required for the work to be done.
ARTICLE X
Loyalty and Efficiency
Employees of the Company, members of the Brotherhood, agree that they will perform loyal and efficient work and service; that they will use their influence and best endeavors to protect the property of the Company and its
62
ARTICLE X (continued)
interests; and that they will cooperate with the Company in promoting and advancing its welfare and prosperity.
ARTICLE XI
No Strikes or Lockouts
In view of the grievance and arbitration provisions of this agreement, the Brotherhood agrees that during the term hereof it will not authorize, instigate, support or encourage any strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees, and the Company agrees that during such term there will be no lockout of employees. The Brotherhood will not be liable to the Company on account of any strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees not authorized, instigated, or encouraged by it and participation by any employee in any such strike, slowdown, or other concerted cessation or delay of work by employees will constitute grounds for immediate discharge.
ARTICLE XII
Safety
(a)	Both parties agree to cooperate in promoting safety throughout the various operations of the Company covered by this agreement.
(b)	It will be the duty of supervision to see that a sufficient number of experienced workers, equipped with the customary safety
63
Article XII (continued)
devices necessary for the safe performance of the job, are available for any work which is undertaken in any operation of the Company covered by this agreement.
(c)	Violation of safety rules of the Company after a warning has been given will be deemed sufficient reason for disciplinary action or discharge of offending employees.
(d)	Whenever an investigating committee is appointed by the Company to investigate an accident affecting employees, it will include at least two (2) members of the Local Union affected familiar with the line of work in which the accident occurred, to be selected from an adequate list supplied by the Brotherhood for each unit covered by this agreement. The Company agrees to investigate promptly accidents involving employees upon written request from the Brotherhood.
(e)	In the event a report of any investigating committee is deemed unfair to an employee, this may be taken up by the Brotherhood as a grievance as provided for in Article VI.
(f)	In emergencies all employees are expected to perform to the best of their ability consistent with safety; but employees not working under direct supervision will request additional competent assistance when confronted by work which would be dangerous for them to undertake by themselves.
ARTICLE XIII
Text Deleted
64
ARTICLE XIV
Special Rules - Hydro Plants
(a)	The Hydro Journeymen and plant operators on shift will be responsible for the detailed operation of their respective plants, subject to the orders and supervision of the respective plant superintendents and foremen, and in accordance with system operating procedures for the respective plants.
(b)	Hydro Journeymen and Electricians must be thoroughly experienced in power plant electrical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of this work with only general supervision.
(c)	Hydro Journeymen and Mechanics must be thoroughly experienced in power plant mechanical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of this work with only general supervision.
ARTICLE XV
Special Rules - Steam Plants
(a)	In the steam plants, the boiler or plant control operators on shift will be responsible for the detailed operation of their respective boiler, turbine, or control room areas to which they are assigned subject to the orders and supervision of the respective plant manager/supervisor or foreman.
(b)	Deleted.
65
ARTICLE XV (continued)
(c)	Deleted.
(d)	Deleted.
(e)	Assistant plant control operators on shift must be qualified to handle detailed operation of equipment in the several plant areas assigned and to intelligently assist the plant control operators in the plant operation.
Within Fossil Generation, the duties of Assistant Plant Control Operator will include switching for Maintenance. Training will be provided to employees expected to perform switching beyond their previous level of experience. The above changes will be implemented provided they conform to applicable state and federal laws.
(f)	Electricians and E&l Journeymen must be thoroughly experienced in power plant electrical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of such work for their respective plants with only general supervision.
Employees classified as Electrician in Fossil Generation and Instrument Serviceman will be reclassified to E&l Journeyman as soon as they demonstrate competency for the new classification. Employees reclassified to this new classification will be placed at that step of the rate range corresponding to their position in the former classification. This reclassification will establish a new progress increase date.
Employees classified as Electrician in Fossil Generation and Instrument Serviceman
66
Article XV (continued)
will be offered an opportunity to demonstrate the required competency for the new classification by making available CK&S testing at the employee's request. In the event of a failure, the employee must wait six (6) months before being eligible for retesting. The Company agrees not to remove an incumbent Electrician or Instrument Serviceman from that job classification due to such employee's failure to qualify for the E&l Journeyman.
Electricians, Instrument Serviceman, E&l Journeyman and E&l Apprentice will be considered in one work group for the purposes of schedule election, job assignments on straight time and overtime, overtime distribution, and vacation scheduling.
(g)	Mechanics must be thoroughly experienced in power plant mechanical maintenance work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of such work for their respective plants with only general supervision.
(h)	Machinists must be thoroughly experienced in power plant machine tool work and must be capable of handling safely and efficiently all phases of such work for their respective plants with only general supervision.
(i)	Apprentice electricians, apprentice E&l journeymen, and apprentice mechanics must be experienced helpers, capable of assisting in the maintenance of power plant electrical, E&l, and mechanical equipment, and must have the necessary qualifications to develop into higher class workers. They may be used on either electrical, E&l, or mechani
67
Article XV (continued)
cal work. In the maintenance personnel of any steam plant the number of apprentices will not exceed one (1) for each two (2) journeymen, including electricians, E&l journeymen, mechanics, and welders.
(j)	Helpers must be able to do unskilled work in connection with the maintenance or operating jobs to which they are assigned and must display aptitude for their work and ability to acquire necessary skill to qualify them for promotion.
(k)	In order to be able to avoid a reduction of forces at the steam plants due to temporarily reduced operation schedules, the Company will continue its policy of giving employment in the maintenance and operating crews to experienced operating workers who would otherwise be laid off, giving proper weight, however, to seniority, competency, and availability of work. This provision will not be construed as requiring the Company to employ an operating worker on maintenance work in a lower classification and pay the worker in excess of the rate provided for such classification in the wage schedules, Exhibit A of this agreement.
ARTICLE XVI
Text Deleted
ARTICLE XVII
Text Deleted
68
ARTICLE XVIII
Co-Operative Student Training Program
Recognizing the responsibility of the Company for the training and development of engineering personnel to meet future needs and objectives of the Company, the parties agree that, notwithstanding the seniority provisions of this agreement, the Company will have the right to utilize co-operative student employees to fill new jobs or vacancies in classifications below that of apprentice, provided such student employees are competent to fulfill the duties of the job. The Company will undertake to agree with the Brotherhood on a guiding principle concerning the placement of co-op students in bargaining unit classifications.
ARTICLE XIX
Employee Training
Recognizing the need for training employees for advancement to certain classifications and the improvement in skill of certain other employees in classifications they already hold, discussions will be held between representatives of the Company and the Brotherhood in an effort to develop plans for such training.
ARTICLE XX
Posting Rules
The rules in regard to hours and working conditions as set forth herein will be posted in the respective generating plants, to which they
69
ARTICLE XX (continued)
apply and the rules so posted will be observed until changed as provided for in this agreement.
70
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Brotherhood have each caused these presents to be executed in their respective names and on their respective behalves by their proper officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the day and year first above written.
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
By C. Alan Martin	By W. Ronald Smith
Executive Vice President Vice President
Eastern Division
Approved For:
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
Charles D. McCrary
President & Chief Executive Officer
Attest:
William E. Zales, Jr.
Vice President, Secretary, & Assistant Treasurer
72
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Local Union No. 345, Mobile, Alabama
By D. Wayne Sheffield
Local Union No. 833, Jasper, Alabama
By Mike Christopher
Local Union No. 904, Tallassee, Alabama
By C. E. Clark, Jr.
Local Union No. 391, Gadsden, Alabama
By Alan R. Wag non
Local Union No. 801, Montgomery, Alabama
By William E. Frederick
Local Union No. 841, Birmingham, Alabama
By Dwight W. Rush
Local Union No. 1053, Demopolis, Alabama
By Cary R. Bryant
Local Union No. 796, Dothan, Alabama
By Arthur G James, Jr.
Local Union No. 2077, Wilsonville, Alabama
By Philip D. Hamilton
Approved For:
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF
ELECTRICAL WORKERS
Edwin D. Hill
International President
Attest.
F. Alan Carden
Business Manager, System Council U-19
73
EXHIBIT A (2001)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
September 5, 2001 - August 14, 2002
75
EXHIBIT A (2001) POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT Hourly Wage Schedules for period September 5, 2001 - August 14, 2002 Generating Plants and Steam Heat
Job No. Classification	Minimum to Maximum
Maintenance - Fossil/Hydro Plants
004105	Elec & Instr Journeyman	$22,484	$22,533	$22,580	$22,640	$
004108	Electrician-Pwr Sup	22.094	22.167	22.213	22.259	
004109	Machinist	22.094	22.167	22.213	22.259	
004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	22.094	22.167	22.213	22.259	
004113	Welder	22.094	22.167	22.213	22.259	
004121	Mechanic-Diesel	22.094	22.167	22.213	22,259	
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	22.094	22.167	22.213	22.259	
004167	Warehouseman Plant	22.094 22.259	22.117	22.167	22.178	22.213
004168	Materialman	20.245 20.765	20.397	20.577	20.622	20.694
004104	Elec & Instrument Appr	18.418	18.489	18.549	18.608	
004143	Equip Operator	18.252	18.310	18.359	18.442	18.501
004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	17.944	18.003	18.074	18.133	18.192
EXHIBIT A (2001) continued
Job No.	Classification	Minimum to Maximum
1. Maintenance - Fossil/Hydro Plants (continued)
004146 * 004894 004161	Apprentice-Pwr Sup Apprentice Mech-Diesel Helper-Plant	$17,944 17.944 10.980 12.394 14.576	$18,003 18.003 11.277 12.654 15.180	$18,074 18.074 11.612 13.021	$18,133 18.133 11.776 13.377	$18,192 18.192 11.954 13.944
00	2. Hydro Plant Operation						
004875	Hydro Journeyman	22.674	22.782			
004876	Operator-Electrician	22.523	22.592			
004877	Operator-Mechanic	22.523	22.592			
004114	Plant Operator	22.094	22.167	22.213	$22,259	
3. Steam Plant Operation						
004116	Plant Control Opr	22.580	22.652	22.710	22.782	
004105	Elec & Inst- Journeyman	22.484	22.533	22.580	22.640	
EXHIBIT A (2001) continued
Job No.	Classification	Minimum to Maximum
3. Steam Plant Operation (continued)		
004119	Instr Serviceman	$22,094	$22,167	$22,213	$22,259 $
004124	Hvy Equip Opr	22.094	22.167	22.213	22.259
004148	Ast Pit Control Opr	18.737	18.797	18.867	18.916
004104	Elec & Instrument Appr 18.418	18.489	18.549	18.608
004143	Equip Operator	18.252	18.310	18.359	18.442	18.501
-4	004161	Helper-Plant	10.980	11.227	11.612	11.776	11.954
CD	12.394	12.654	13.021	13.377	13.994
	14.576	15.180
4. Birmingham Steam Heating System
004105	Elec & Instr Journeyman	22.484	22.533	22.580	22.640
004109	Machinist	22.094	22.167	22.213	22.259
004110	Mechantc-Pwr Sup	22.094	22.167	22.213	22.259
004117	Boiler Operator	22.094	22.167	22.213	22.259
EXHIBIT A (2001) continued
Job No.	Classification	Minimum to Maximum
4. Birmingham Steam Heating System (continued)
004119	Instr Serviceman	$22,094	$22,167	$22,213	$22,259	$
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	17.944	18.003	18.074	18.133	18.192
004161	Heiper-Plant	10.980	11.277	11.612	11.776	11.954
12.394	12.654	13.021	13.377	13.994
14.576	15.180
o 5. Cogeneration
008207	Cogen Journeyman	23.839	23.877	23.943	24.003
‘These classifications at Steam Plants only.
EXHIBIT A (2001) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
EXHIBIT A (2002)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2002 - August 14, 2003
83
EXHIBIT A (2002) POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15, 2002 - August 14, 2003 Generating Plants and Steam Heat
Job No.
Classification
Minimum to Maximum
	1. Maintenance	- Fossil/Hydro Plants					
	*004105	Elec & Instr Journeyman	$23,327	$23,378	$23,427	$23,489	$
	004108	Electrician-Pwr Sup	22.923	22.998	23.046	23.094	
	*004109	Machinist	22.923	22.998	23.046	23.094	
co	004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	22.923	22.998	23.046	23.094	
m	004113	Welder	22.923	22.998	23.046	23.094	
	*004121	Mechanic-Diesel	22.923	22.998	23.046	23.094	
	004124	Hvy Equip Opr	22.923	22.998	23.046	23.094	
	004167	Warehouseman Plant	22.923 23.094	22.946	22.998	23.010	23.046
	004168	Materialman	21.004 21.544	21.162	21.349	21.395	21.470
	*004104	Elec & Instrument Appr	19.109	19.182	19.245	19.306	
	004143	Equip Operator	18.936	18.997	19.047	19.134	19.195
	*004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	18.617	18.678	18.752	18.813	18.874
EXHIBIT A (2002) continued
Job No.	Classification	Minimum to Maximum
1. Maintenance - Fossil/Hydro Plants (continued)
	*	004146 004894 004161	Apprentice-Pwr Sup Apprentice Mech-Diesel Helper-Plant	$18,617 18.617 11.392 12.859 15.123	$18,678 18.678 11.700 13.129 15.749	$18,752 18.752 12.047 13.509	$18,813 18.813 12.218 13.879	$18,874 18.874 12.402 14.519
00 O)	2.	Hydro Plant Operation						
		004875 004876 004877 004114	Hydro Journeyman Operator-Electrician Operator-Mechanic Plant Operator	23.524 23.368 23.368 22.923	23.636 • 23.439 23.439 22.998	23.046	23.094	
	3.	Steam Plant Operation						
		004116 004105	Plant Control Opr Elec & Instr Journeyman	$23,427 23.327	$23,501 23.378	$23,562 23.427	$23,636 23.489	
EXHIBIT A (2002) continued
Job No.
Classification
Minimum to Maximum
3.	Steam Plant Operation (continued)			$22,998 22.998	$23,046 23.046	$23,094 23.094	$
	004119 004124	Instr Serviceman Hvy Equip Opr	$22,923 22.923				
	004148	Ast Pit Control Opr	19.440	19.502	19.575	19.625	
	004104	Elec & Instrument Appr	19.109	19.182	19.245	19.306	
	004143	Equip Operator	18.936	18.997	19.047	19.134	19.195
CO	004161	Helper-Plant	11.392	11.700	12.047	12.218	12.402
			12.859	13.129	13.509	13.879	14.519
			15.123	15.749			
4.	Birmingham Steam Heating System						
	004105	Elec & Instr Journeyman	23.327	23.378	23.427	23.489	
	004109	Machinist	22.923	22.998	23.046	23.094	
	004110	Mechanic-Pwr Sup	22.923	22.998	23.046	23.094	
	004117	Boiler Operator	22.923	22.998	23.046	23.094	
EXHIBIT A (2002) continued
Job No.
Classification
Minimum to Maximum
	4.	Birmingham Steam Heating System (continued)						
		004119 004146 004161	Instr Serviceman Apprentice-Pwr Sup Helper-Plant	$22,923 18.617 11.392 12.859 15.123	$22,998 18.678 11.700 13.129 15.749	$23,046 18.752 12.047 13.509	$23,094 18.813 12.218 13.879	$ 18.874 12.402 14.519
00 00	5.	Cogeneration 008207	Cogen Journeyman	24.733	24.772	24.841	24.903	
‘These classifications at Steam Plants only.
EXHIBIT A (2002) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
EXHIBIT A (2003)
POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT
HOURLY WAGE SCHEDULES
August 15, 2003 - August 14, 2004
91
EXHIBIT A (2003) POWER GENERATION AGREEMENT Hourly Wage Schedules for period August 15, 2003 - August 14, 2004 Generating Plants and Steam Heat
	Job No.	Classification	Minimum to Maximum
	1. Maintenance - * 004105	Fossil/Hydro Plants Elec & Instr Journeyman $24,260	$24,313	$24,364	$24,429	$
<D W	004108 * 004109 004110	Electrician-Pwr Sup	23.839 Machinist	23.839 Mechanic-Pwr Sup	23.839	23.918	23.968	24.017 23.918	23.968	24.017 23.918	23.968	24.017
	004113 * 004121 004124 004167	Welder	23.839 Mechanic-Diesel	23.839 Hvy Equip Opr	23.839 Warehouseman Plant	23.839	23.918	23.968	24.017 23.918	23.968	24.017 23.918	23.968	24.017 23.864	23.918	23.930	23.968
	004168	24.017 Materialman	21.844	22.008	22.203	22.251	22.329
	* 004104 004143	22.405 Elec & Instrument Appr	19.873 Equip Operator	19.694	19.950	20.014	20.078 19.756	19.809	19.899	19.963
	* 004145	Appr Mech-Pwr Sup	19.362	19.425	19.502	19.566	19.629
EXHIBIT A (2003) continued
Job No.	Classification	Minimum to Maximum
1. Maintenance	- Fossil/Hydro Plants (continued)	
004146	Apprentice-Pwr Sup	$19,362	$19,425	$19,502	$19,566 $19,629
* 004894	Apprentice Mech-Diesel	19.362	19.425	19.502	19.566	19.629
004161	Helper-Plant	11.847	12.168	12.529	12.706	12.898
		13.373	13.654	14.050	14.434	15.100
		15.728	16.379
co 2. Hydro Plant Operation		
004875	Hydro Journeyman	24.465	24.582
004876	Operator-Electrician	24.302	24.377
004877	Operator-Mechanic	24.302	24,377
004114	Plant Operator	23.839	23.918	23.968	24.017
3. Steam Plant Operation		
004116	Plant Control Opr	24.364	24.442	24.504	24.582
EXHIBIT A (2003) continued
Job No.
Classification
Minimum to Maximum
	3.	Steam Plant1	Operation (continued)					
		004105	Elec & Instr Journeyman	$24,260	$24,313	$24,364	$24,429	$
		004119	Instr Serviceman	23.839	23.918	23.968	24.017	
		004124	Hvy Equip Opr	23.839	23.918	23.968	24.017	
		004148	Ast Pit Control Opr	20.217	20.282	20.357	20.410	
		004104	Elec & Instrument Appr	19.873	19.950	20.014	20.078	
co f ft		004143	Equip Operator	19.694	19.756	19.809	19.899	19.963
		004161	Helper-Plant	11.847	12.168	12.529	12.706	12.898
				13.373	13.654	14.050	14.434	15.100
				15.728	16.379			
	4.	Birmingham Steam Heating System						
		004105	Elec & Instr Journeyman	24.260	24.313	24.364	24.429	
		004109	Machinist	23.839	23.918	23.968	24.017	
EXHIBIT A (2003) continued
Job No.
Classification
Minimum to Maximum
4. Birmingham Steam Heating System (continued)				$23,918 23.918 23.918 19.425 12.168 13.654 16.379	$23,968 23.968 23.968 19.502 12.529 14.050	$24,017 24.017 24.017 19.566 12.706 14.434	$ 19.629 12.898 15.100
	004110 004117 004119 004146 004161	Mechanic-Pwr Sup Boiler Operator Instr Serviceman Apprentice-Pwr Sup Helper-Plant	$23,839 23.839 23.839 19.362 11.847 13.373 15.728				
	5. Cogeneration						
	008207	Cogen Journeyman	25.722	25.763	25.834	25.899	
’These classifications at Steam Plants only.
EXHIBIT A (2003) continued
C-Notes: Applicable to all classifications and locations:
(1)	Increases in pay from minimum to maximum for any classification will be in the amount shown by the steps above and will be granted at six (6) month intervals in event of satisfactory progress. When employees are not on a step shown in the schedule, then the amount of increase will be equal to the difference between the step immediately below and the step immediately above the rate they were being paid, but in no event will they be paid at a rate above the maximum for the classification.
(2)	When employees are placed in any classification in which they have had no experience, they will start at the lowest rate for that classification, and progress as provided for in (1) above; but if they have had previous experience in that classification or a related classification, they will start at a higher rate (within the range of rates for the classification) reflecting such experience. When employees transfer into a classification with scheduled range of rates overlapping their immediately prior classification, increases in their new classification as provided in (1) above will be on the same scheduled dates as established in the prior classification.
(3)	Equivalent monthly rate may be obtained by multiplying hourly rate by two thousand eighty (2,080) and dividing by twelve (12).
EXHIBIT B ■ JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS A- HYDRO PLANTS
Classification	Lay Dam	Mitehell Dam	Jordan Dam	Martin Dam	Yates-Thurlow Dam	Smith Dam	Bankhead Dam
Mechanics			1				
S Apprentices	-	-	-	-	-		
Helpers-Plant	2	2	1	3	1-0	2	2
Operator-Mechanic	-	-	-	2	1-0		
Operator-Electrician	-	-	1	2	-		-
Hydro Journeyman	4	5	2	2	2-4	3	2
EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS A- HYDRO PLANTS (continued)
100
Classification	Weiss Dam	Henry Dam	Logan-Martin Dam	Holt Dam	Bouldin Dam	Harris Dam
Mechanics	-	-	-	-	1	-
Apprentices	-	-	-	-	-	-
Helpers-Plant	3	2	2	2	1	1
Operator-Mechanic	-	-	-	-	1	-
Operator-Electrician	-	1	-	-	-	-
Hydro Journeyman	3	2	3	2	3	3
EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS B-STEAM PLANTS
Greene
Classification	Barry Chickasaw	Gadsden	Gorgas	County	Gaston	Miller
Plant Control Operators	32	5	24	11	24	23
Asst Plant Control Open	46	14	47	19	46	49
£ Heavy Equipment Open	8	1	5	2	9	8
Equipment Operators	17	3	22	5	33	21
EXHIBIT B - JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS B-STEAM PLANTS (continued)
102
Greene
Classification	Barry	Chickasaw	Gadsden	Gorgas	County	Gaston	Miller
E & I Journeyman	29	-	3	23	12	25	40
Electricians	2	-	-	-	-	1	-
Mechanics	24	-	4	26	10	22	36
Mechanics-Diesel	-	-	-	2	-	-	3
Machinists	1	-	•	1	1	1	1
Warehouseman-Plant	3	-	-	3	1	4	4
Materialman	1	-	1	1	-	-	-
Helper-Plant	38	•	5	34	12	22	25
Welders	8	-	1	8	2	5	6
Apprentice Pwr Supp	10	•	-	4	2	4	3
Apprentice E&l	2	-	-	4	2	6	4
EXHIBIT B ■ JOB SCHEDULES FOR GENERATING PLANTS C - COGENERATION PLANTS
Classification
Theodore Cogen	Washington Co Cogen
Cogen Journeyman	11	10
o
GJ
C-NOTES
(A) These schedules, including footnotes, show the number of jobs - by classification and by plants- required to be filled for the full, normal operation of the generating plants as presently constituted.
EXHIBIT C
OPERATING AGREEMENT OUTSTANDING MOUs WITH LANGUAGE THAT EXISTS AS OF 2001
(Language that is still applicable but not incorporated into the body of the Contract)
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING POWER GENERATION AND STEAM HEAT AGREEMENT
1995 NEGOTIATIONS
7.	For participants in the APC medical plan administered by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama, the Company agrees to implement a Prescription Drug Program integrated with major medical. The following plan design aspects will be administered:
a.	Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama will maintain a network of pharmacies in Alabama which have agreed to participate in the Participating Pharmacy Program.
b.	Employees will save, on average, 15% when purchasing prescriptions from a network pharmacy.
c.	Once the major medical deductible of $300.00 is satisfied, generic drugs will be reimbursed at 100%, brand name drugs will be reimbursed at 80% of usual customary and reasonable charges.
104
d.	For prescription drugs purchased from a non network pharmacy, benefits will be payable to the employee, according to the existing Major Medical Plan.
13.	Upon satisfactory implementation of accounting support systems, the Company will reimburse all employees on their paychecks, all regular pay items as well as, expense accounts, including meals and mileage, per diem payments, and any other miscellaneous payments.
16.	The Company can agree to remove all written disciplinary records from the employee's personal file except as noted below as of the effective date of this agreement providing that the Union agrees to withdraw all pending arbitration cases involving discipline that did not result in termination, and further providing that such employee has no legal action pending against the Company.
The Company cannot agree, however, to remove discipline issued for violations of the Company's Drug and Alcohol Policy. In addition, the Company cannot agree to remove any written discipline resulting in multiple day suspension issued under the old progressive discipline policy after January 1, 1995.
All discipline issued after June 1, 1995, under the Nonpunitive Discipline System, will be removed according to the policy's guidelines.
105
17.	The Company will administer a Drug and Alcohol random testing program to the entire employee population including those now covered by the Department of Transportation regulations covering the commercial drivers license.
The procedures now in effect for the testing program for employees with Commercial Drivers Licenses will be extended to all employees with the exception that the non-CDL group will be tested at a rate of 10% of that population per year. Employees covered under this agreement (other than those with a CDL ) will be combined with other non-covered Company employees to form the non-CDL testing pool.
Implementation of post-accident drug and alcohol testing will be applicable to all employees including those currently under the Department of Transportation testing program as follows: a) Vehicular accidents - any accident meeting one or more of the following criteria 1) human fatality 2) one or more vehicles towed away from the scene of an accident 3) injury or injuries immediately treated away from the scene of an accident 4) Alabama Power Company driver receives a traffic citation relating to the accident; b) Non-Vehicular accidents - all doctor attention cases.
Upon an employee's request, a split sample will be tested and the Company will pay for the additional
106
test at a laboratory designated by the Company.
28.	The Company can agree to a roving crew concept for the Power Generation area as set forth below:
a.	Existing employees will be used to form the crew (no new authorizations).
b.	Employees will be allowed to sign, by seniority, for the roving maintenance crew once per year.
c.	Make-up of the Crews will be as follows:
ECG BAR MIL GOR GCSP GAD TOTAL
Mechanics 8	8	8	8	4	1	37
E&l Journeymen 2	2	2	2	0	0	8
Welders 4	4	4	5	1	0	18
d.	Based on needs and conditions, the Company will determine the make-up and schedule of each crew.
e.	If the positions can not be filled by existing journeymen, it is understood that upgrading, by seniority, may be necessary to obtain the allotted positions at each location and to fill behind these positions when they are working at other locations.
107
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS
The Company has decided to make the following changes based on concerns voiced by our employees during these negotiations. The decision to change these items follows the principles outlined in the current Memoranda of Agreement which reaffirm the Company's right to exercise full control and discipline in the conduct of its business and to be the judge of competency.
31.	Time limits for expiration of disciplinary action notices in the Company's new Nonpunitive Discipline Policy are hereby reduced as follows:
1st level notice -12 months to 6 months 2nd level notice -18 months to 12 months 3rd level notice - 24 months to 18 months
All other provisions of the policy remain unchanged.
32.	Those sections of existing CK&S Testing Procedures which reference three (3) year and/or five (5) year time limits on maintaining competency to hold or substitute in a tested classification will be changed to remove these time limits for employees presently qualified (by job or CK&S) as of January 1,1995 or thereafter.
Based on the Company's commitment to revise testing to include knowledge required on feeder tests, the requirement in Power Generation that the employee must be qualified on the feeder classification prior to qualification for Hydro Journeyman,
108
Mechanic, Diesel Mechanic, E&l Journeyman, Welder, and Machinist will be removed.
109
1998 Power Generation MOU August 14, 1998
12.	During the term of this agreement, the Company will continue to reimburse employees required to hold a Commercial Drivers License, the cost of renewing such license above the cost of a private drivers license and the Company will pay for the first medical examination required for license renewal.
13.	Pay Calculations and Delivery
a.	The Company may take advantage of technological advances in performing future pay calculations. Rounding will no longer be an issue.
b.	The Company and Union recognize the cost savings associated with direct payroll check deposit and we jointly agree to use our best efforts to convince our fellow employees to participate. This might include prize drawing for participants.
14.	Job Bids
"Job Net" or any other bid system available in the future may be used for posting jobs at any time the following parameters can be maintained:
a.	Bid Security
b.	Bid Confirmation
c.	Existing method of Bid input used for the Contract Bid System (CBS).
d.	Compliance with Article V of the contract
110
20.	Employees assigned to facilitate or inspect work performed by third parties will be paid a premium of $0.55 per hour in addition to the normal journeyman rate of pay for their line of progression. Assignments will be made on the basis of competency, leadership and seniority.
21.	In recognition of the competitive nature of warehousing functions, the parties agree that the following changes will be made:
a.	Grandfather in their present classification all Warehousemen at the Plants for any present and future wage increases.
b.	Future warehouseman vacancies at the Plants that the Company deems necessary to fill will be filled as Materialmen.
22.	During the term of this agreement, the Company will continue to reimburse Telecommunications Electricians the cost of any Company required communications license. Telecommunications Electricians with an existing F.C.C. license will not be reimbursed for any license renewal not specifically required by the Company.
24.	When a vacancy occurs at any location in the Helper - Plant classification, a "Plant to Plant" Transfer Request Notice will be posted within the bid unit. Transfer Requests will be processed by seniority with the senior applicant being reassigned to the new location. Helpers will be allowed one (1) transfer and one (1) decline per calendar year. If there are no transfer requests received during the ten
111
no transfer requests received during the ten (10) day posting period, the job will be filled from any available source without reposting.
25.	Maintain the existing upgrading Memorandum of Understanding with the following changes:
a.	If the limit is exceeded in any classification, a job will be added at that location and in that classification for a period of one year. This job can be continued on a permanent basis or eliminated at management's discretion after that one year period. If the job is eliminated in the first year, the employee holding the job will be returned to the employee's former job under the provisions of paragraph V (i).
b.	Incumbents holding this added position may bid parallel to a permanent job at the same location.
c.	If the incumbent leaves prior to the end of the twelve (12) month period the job will be re-posted and filled in the normal fashion for the duration of the one year period.
d.	Vacancies created by filling this new position will be backfilled as necessary by posting.
112
Memorandum of Agreement Power Generation and Steam Heat Agreement 2001 Negotiations September 5, 2001
WAGES
1.	The following general wage increase adjustments will be made over the three year term of this contract.
All classifications will be increased as shown below:
September 5. 2001 August 15. 2002 August 15. 2003
General Wage Increase	3.5%	3.75%	4.0%
BENEFITS
2.	The Company is committed to offering quality and economical benefit programs on a cafeteria-style basis. This method is particularly suitable for accommodating increased employee diversity, evolving family structures, and changing family needs. The Company is also committed to evaluating current benefit providers at a Southern Company system-wide level because of our increased buying power and exploring opportunities with these and other vendors to get a better value or product.
The Company will continue to offer a choice of health care plans and will appropriately share in the cost of medical premiums.
113
a.	During 2002, the choices and monthly premium contributions are as follows:
	Total Premium		Company Coat		Employee Com	
Carrier	Single	Famrfy	Single	Family		Family
BCBS PMD	195.00	544 B0	171.60	397.70	23.40	147.10
BCBS PRO						
Buie Optkm	183.60	512,70	171.60	397.70	12-00	115.00
Standard Option*	195.00	544.80	17160	397.70	23 40	147.10
Enhanced Option	229.20	640.40	171.60	397.70	57.60	242.70
United Healthcare HMO 207.50		610.60	171.60	397.70	35.90	213.10
The 2002 Core Plan will be the Blue CraM Blue Shield PPO Standard Option.
b.	During 2002 through 2004, the Company’s monthly premium contributions and Core Plan selection will be as follows: The Core Plan will be determined annually by the Company. Criteria for selection of the Core Plan will include requirements for the quality of healthcare products and services to be comparable to the current Core Plan. The Company will select the Core Plan and contribute a dollar amount up to 73% of the total premium of family medical coverage or 88% of the total premium for single medical coverage based on the Core Plan. For any plans with premiums greater than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute a dollar amount up to 73% for family coverage, or for single coverage, 88% of the Core Plan. The balance of the premium will be paid by the employee. However, for plans with total premiums less than the Core Plan, the Company will contribute no greater than 100% of the total premium of such plans.
114
c.	During the term of this contract, the Company will meet with the Union semiannually to discuss trend data, the ARC medical reserves, and premium-to-cost ratios to communicate premium estimates for years 2003 and 2004.
d.	The Company will provide training and education to facilitate the understanding and utilization of the new PPO plans. This training will be conducted after regularly scheduled business hours to facilitate the participation of employees and their dependents.
e.	Spouses of deceased pre-retirement employees who are covered at the time of the employee's death by the family plan may continue to participate in the APC medical benefits plan at employee cost until they are eligible for a non-APC sponsored medical plan or they remarry.
f.	For all participants in any APC medical plan, the Company agrees to provide an integrated Employee Assistance Program (EAP)ZManaged Mental Health Plan as a part of the medical plans offered. During 2002, the vendor will be ValueOptions. Beginning January 1, 2002, the plan design aspects will include:
Inpatient Mental Health: $250 deductible including chemical dependency, 10% co-insurance, $500 maximum out of pocket, no annual day limit, in-net-work coverage only.
115
Outpatient Mental Health: No deductible, $15 copay, no visit limits in-network, out of network covered at 50% up to 20 visits per year.
Inpatient Chemical Dependency: $250 deductible including mental health. 10% co-insurance, $500 maximum out of pocket, 60 days lifetime, in-network coverage only.
Outpatient Chemical Dependency: no deductible, $15 copay, no visit limits in-network, tn network coverage only.
EAP: three (3) visits at 100%, then $15 copay per visit, in-network only, includes legal referrals, financial referrals, childcare and eldercare referrals.
3.	The Company will continue to offer LTD insurance with premiums shared equally (50% and 50%) as set forth below:
a.	The provider will be Unum Provident with the following monthly rates for the years 2002 and 2003:
45 cents per $100 of covered pay for 60% Base Salary coverage (22.5 cents per $100 covered by employee and 22.5 cents per $100 by the Company).
28 cents per $100 of covered pay for 50% Base Salary coverage (5.5 cents per $100 covered by the employee and 22.5 cents per $100 by the Company).
b.	During the remaining term of this agreement, the premium for the 60%
116
coverage option will be shared equally (50% and 50%). The same company contribution will be made for the 50% Base Salary coverage option.
4.	The Company will continue to offer Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance as a Personal Choice option in the Southern Company flexible benefits plan during the term of the contract.
For the year 2002, the vendor will be CIGNA Insurance with the rates as follows:
Coverage type
Employee only
Employee & child
Employee & spouse
Employee, spouse, & child
Monthly Premium per 110,000 of Coverage
IB cent*
24 cents
31 cents
35 cents
5.	The Company will continue to offer dental insurance as a Personal Choice option in the Southern Company flexible benefits plan during the term of the contract. The new vendor will be Delta Dental.
For the years 2002 and 2003, the following plans and monthly rates will be offered:
Premium Cateoorv	Delta Dental Low Option	Delta Dental Hfah Option
Emp. Only	112.18	$23.20
Emp. + Family	$42.90	$65.46
117
ADMINSTRATIVE
6.	All MOU's/MOA’s, that were set to expire August 15, 2001, excluding the uniform policy and the PPP policy, will continue to be in effect throughout the term of this agreement.
118
SIMPLIFIED GUIDLINES FOR VOLUNTARY TRAINING AT ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
August 15, 1998
1.	Since this training is offered on a voluntary basis, employees will not be compensated for travel time to and from the training location which occurs outside the employee's scheduled or rescheduled hours.
2.	These guidelines apply to any training situation away from the employee's normal work location with exceptions noted in the footnotes of these guidelines.
3.	Each employee attending the training session whose permanent residence is greater than 50 miles from the training location is entitled to lodging (single occupancy when available) paid for by the Company.
Employees who choose to lodge at the training location will be eligible for mileage reimbursement for one round trip between his/her permanent residence and the training location for each week of training.
4.	Each employee attending the training session may elect to commute to the training location each day, using his personal vehicle, and will be reimbursed at the Company's prevailing rate for actual mileage up to maximum of 200 miles round trip each day.
If an employee who qualifies for lodging commutes daily to and from the training
119
center, he will not be provided lodging, but will be reimbursed for mileage as above.
Mileage will be computed by determining the most direct round trip route between the employee’s permanent residence and training location, and by determining the most direct round trip route between the employee's permanent residence and permanent headquarters. Mileage will be paid for the entire commute, up to 200 miles, if the training commute exceeds the normal commute. If the training commute is less than the normal commute, no mileage reimbursement will be made.
Mileage for employees who do not have normally assigned permanent head quarters will be computed by determining the most direct round trip route between the employee's permanent residence and training location, not to exceed 200 miles round trip.
5.	The Company will furnish or pay for breakfast, lunch and dinner if the employee is "lodging” and will furnish or pay for lunch if the employee is "commuting."
The method of providing meals varies as follows:
a.	For In-plant Fossil Training of Fossil and Hydro Employees:
The Company shall provide each "lodging" employee who is on a temporary training assignment an expense allowance equal to two meals per day while training at a temporary location. If the mid shift meal
120
is not furnished for the "lodging" employee, they will receive an additional expense allowance for the noon meal.
The Company shall provide each "commuting" employee who is on a temporary training assignment his lunch meal only.
b.	For Hydro Training at Other Than Fossil Plants, for Operating Diyisipns_and PDT;
For "lodging" employees, the Company will provide breakfast at the lodging facility, lunch at the training location and will reimburse the employee for dinner on an expense account.
For "commuting" employees, the Company will furnish or pay for lunch only.
6.	The per diem provisions outlined under the Power Delivery Transmission Agreement shall not apply to covered employees participating in a training session.
Footnote: For training purposes, the Company will not pay for lodging for the following:
a.	Training employees permanently headquartered at Gorgas Steam Plant on temporary training assignment at Miller Steam Plant.
b.	Training employees permanently headquartered at Miller Steam Plant
121
on temporary training assignment at Gorgas Steam Plant.
c.	Training employees permanently headquartered at Chickasaw Steam Plant on temporary training assignment at Barry Steam Plant.
122
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING TELECOMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICIAN TRAINING PROGRAM
August 15, 1998
In order to broaden opportunities for our employees to enter the telecommunications field while recognizing the lengthy training period to become proficient on the company's unique communications systems, the Company agrees to establish a Telecommunications training program as follows:
1.	Establish Assistant Telecommunications Electrician classification.
2.	Establish a 4-step wage progression for Assistant Telecommunications Electrician, with the first step corresponding to the first step of the Apprentice Lineman classification.
15.045 15.750	16.500 17.250 18.000
3.	Drop the first two steps of the Telecommunications Electrician classification. Result:
19.187 19.468	19.750 20.029	20.310
Note: Any Telecommunications Electrician in the first two steps would immediately be moved to $19,187.
4.	Selection procedures for Assistant Telecommunications Electrician:
123
a.	All vacancies or new jobs will be dual posted as Assistant Telecommunication Electricians/Telecommunication Electricians.
b.	Should a Telecommunications Electrician bid on the job, and he is the senior bidder, the Telecommunications Electrician job will be awarded to him.
c.	Should no existing Telecommunications Electrician bid on the job, the job will be filled as an Assistant Telecommunications Electrician.
d.	The Assistant Telecommunication Electrician/Telecomm unication Electrician job will be posted internally using existing rules in place for job postings.
e.	Before being allowed to take the written or skills test for Assistant Telecommunications Electrician, the candidate must possess a FCC license or equivalent.
f.	Job awards to the position of Assistant Telecommunications Electrician will be filled based on competency. The following language will be added to Article V(a) of the D&S Agreement and the Power Generation Agreement:
"Competency being sufficient, seniority in the various units as hereinafter defined will prevail, except that vacancies or new jobs in the classifi
124
cation of, Laboratory Instrument Technician I, Laboratory Instrument Technician II, Meter Tester, Assistant Meter Tester, and Assistant Telecommunications Electrician will be filled on the basis of competency, and in filling such vacancies or new jobs, seniority will be considered only if competency is equal."
g.	As resources are available, employees who hold an FCC license can be administered the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician written and skills test before vacancies exist. Employees will also be allowed to take these tests at the time vacancies or new jobs are posted. Should these tests be passed, the results will remain valid until such time as the test is revised due to a change in the technical competence requirements.
h.	Should an employee fail the test for Assistant Telecommunications Electrician, timeframes applicable for retesting will be consistent with other CK&S tests.
5.a. The written exercise for Telecommunications Electrician may be administered to an Assistant Telecommunications Electrician after the employee has completed at least 24 months of satisfactory job performance in the Assistant Tele-communications Electrician classification. Should the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician qualify for Telecommunications Electrician on both the written
125
and performance exercises, the employee will be progressed to Telecommunications Electrician.
b. Based on management's assessment of the successful candidate for Assistant Telecommunications Electrician skills and previous work experience, management may allow the employee to immediately attempt the tests for Telecommunications Electrician. If successfully completed, the employee will be awarded a Telecommunications Electrician job. If not, the employee will not be retested until having completed the requirements of 5. a. above.
6.	If an Assistant Telecommunications Electrician fails the written and/or performance exercise, the employee will be subject to the following retesting provisions:
a.	Should an Assistant Telecommunications Electrician fail the written exercise for Telecommunications Electrician, a minimum of six (6) months must elapse prior to the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician being re-administered the Telecommunications Electrician written exercise. If an Assistant Telecommunications Electrician fails the performance exercise for Telecommunications Electrician, the employee must wait a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to being readministered the performance exercise for Telecommunications Electrician.
126
b.	A candidate will be allowed a maximum of three (3) attempts to qualify on a written exercise, after which a minimum of eighteen (18) months must elapse prior to re-testing.
c.	An Assistant Telecommunications Electrician who does not qualify for Telecommunications Electrician after having been in the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician classification for 48 months, will be displaced from the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician classification.
d.	Under this displacement, if the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician has been an employee of Alabama Power Company prior to being awarded the Assistant Telecommunications Electrician job, the employee will be allowed to return to his previous bid unit under the provisions of V (k). Otherwise, the employee will be terminated.
7.	Written and skills tests for Telecommunications Electrician will be developed as soon as practicable for the Client Services line of work and the Field Services line of work. The Assistant Telecommunications Electrician will choose which test to take based on the line of work performed as an Assistant Telecommunications Electrician. Once qualified as a Telecommunications Electrician, there will be no restriction on which telecommunications jobs he can hold based on the test he chose to take.
127
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
COGENERATION PROJECT STAFFING
AUGUST 1, 2000
The following agreement between Alabama Power Company, IBEW System Council U-19 and its nine Local Unions is entered into by the parties as a result of discussions between Company and Union representatives with provisions as set forth below:
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between the Company and the Union as follows:
1.	Cogeneration projects staffed by Alabama Power Company will have an all Journeyman multi-skilled work force.
2.	Employees must be dual qualified as a minimum and must include PCO qualification (PCO-E&I, PCO-M) to be awarded this job.
3.	Employees dually qualified (PCO-E&I, PCO-M) will have one year from report date to qualify as a Cogeneration Journeyman or be rolled as outlined in Article V, paragraph (i). (Ref. paragraph 8. d, below)
4.	All dual craft and multicraft employees at the facility will comprise one functional work group and be considered one classification for purposes of shift selection and vacation scheduling.
5.	Vacation and shift schedule selections will be completed after all jobs are filled.
128
6.	During the first six weeks after reporting to a job at the Cogen facility, employees may request to return to their previous job and location under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (i) of the existing Memorandum of Agreement. After this six weeks period employees will be restricted from bidding on vacancies outside the Cogen for a period of 18 months, except to a higher classification.
7.	After the six-week waiting period, the employee will be awarded a one-month's salary of a Cogen Journeyman as a relocation bonus (Footnote 1). The Company will pay reasonable moving expenses associated with moving household furnishings by a Commercial Moving Company approved by the Company, provided it is sixty (60) miles farther from their existing home to their new work location than it is from their existing home to their old work location. Example: Now an employee lives 30 miles from their work location. If it is 90 miles or farther from their existing home to new work location, they would receive the moving expense (Footnote 1).
8.	It is the Company's intent that employee qualification will be determined by existing or new CK&S test instruments as follows: (Footnote 2)
a.	Cogeneration Journeyman Test will test for each discipline. This test will not qualify employees for any other job.
129
b.	Plant individual classification CK&S tests (Mechanic, E&l, PCO).
c.	Dual craft employees will be allowed to test three times in the one-year transition period.
d.	Hydro Journeymen who are qualified under Fossil PCO guidelines are considered qualified for Cogen Journeyman.
9.	Company will provide a System Description for the use of employees who wish to pursue qualification.
10,	The Cogen Journeyman classification will not be used at existing Company facilities (i.e. inside the fence).
11.	With regard to Strikes or Lockouts, the Union and Company agree to abide by Article XI of the Power Generation Memorandum of Agreement. Additionally, the Union will not strike at a cogeneration project prior to providing the Company 30 days notice that a strike vote has occurred. However, such a strike vote will not occur until the basic Power Generation Memorandum of Agreement has terminated.
12.	The Union agrees never to picket a customer's facility.
13.	Employees awarded jobs at cogeneration facilities should recognize their unique position of representing Alabama Power Company and every effort should be made to maintain excellent customer relations.
130
14.	This Memorandum of Agreement is applicable to Cogeneration Projects at Washington County and Theodore. However, by mutual agreement of both parties, this Memorandum of Agreement may be extended to include additional cogeneration projects.
15.	Unless specifically referenced above, the terms and conditions of the basic Power Generation Memorandum of Agreement will apply.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and is applicable to Cogeneration facilities. This agreement will not preclude management’s right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number and classification of employees employed at these locations and their work assignments. This agreement will not be used to set a precedent for the same or similar situations in the future and will not prejudice either party's position regarding the issues contained herein.
FOOTNOTES
(1)	Employees that are currently Cogen Journeymen on August 1, 2000 are exempted from 6 & 7 as long as they are in their present job. Employees are not subject to receive the one-month's bonus more than once.
(2)	Employees that have qualified for Cogen Journeyman by August 1, 2000 under the Cogen MOA dated June 10, 1998 will be held to the qualification requirements of the MOA dated June 10, 1998.
131
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
POWER GENERATION HELPER REALLOCATION
MAY 27, 1997
(ALL ITEMS COMPLETE, INCLUDED FOR REFERENCE ONLY)
(Attached guidelines are not a part of the MOU)
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company, System Council U-19, and the nine local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed to certain matters as set forth below;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
This agreement provides for certain enhancements to "Reallocation" as outlined in the implementation procedure and will not be used as a guide to implementation of Article V, paragraph (g) in the future.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not preclude Management's right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number and classification of employees employed at each location. This agreement will not be used as a pattern or guide as to how reallocation will be handled in future circumstances, nor will this agreement be used to establish a precedent for such similar situations in the future.
132
Implementation Guidelines:
1.	As of 5/23/97, requests for helper transfer will not be accepted until the reallocation effort is completed. There after, transfer requests will be accepted as outlined in the 1989 Operating MOU (top of p.106 of Contract).
2.	Beginning as soon as possible, this infor-mation/process will be communicated to all employees in Power Generation.
3.	All temporary jobs held by helpers will be discontinued effective 6/9/97. (After process is completed and at Management discretion, temporary jobs may be reposted and filled)
4.	As of 6-9-97, notices of the reallocation offer will be posted at Miller and Gorgas for 7 calendar days for all helpers with more than 3246 days seniority. Applications must be in writing, signed, and are irrevocable (see form). (The "BAR" is established at 3246 days seniority because this is the point at or below which an employee can be affected by job relocation or roll.)
5.	As of 6-16-97, in order of seniority and location preference, applicants above the "BAR" who have applied for the Helper Reallocation Program will be placed into positions requested. Notify each applicant by phone of the status of their request. Lower the bar by the number of requested reallocations. Examples: (1) If one person above 3246 days seniority at Gorgas requests reallocation, the bar will drop to 3219. (2) If one person at Miller above 3246 days seniority requests real-location, the number of relocated positions at Miller will drop to 4. (3) If three employees at
133
Gorgas above 3246 days seniority requests reallocation, the bar will drop to 3149 days.
6.	As of 6-17-97, offer helpers at Gorgas and Miller reallocation to remaining vacancies in order of seniority beginning at 3246 days. Continue to drop the bar and contact employees until the first job to be relocated is reached.
7,	When the first relocated job (job to be eliminated) is reached, offer the employee the following options:
a.	Reallocation to the existing vacancies (Will not be offered twice to the same employee)
b.	Standard roll rights
c.	Voluntary Layoff
1.	Recall rights to Divisions will require passing a Crew Methods Test (Physical test at Varnons).
2.	Plant to Plant transfer requests will always have priority over recall rights.
3.	Eligibility for Unemployment Compensation benefits will be determined by the local State Unemployment Office.
4.	Desired locations for recall must be designated (see form).
Continue with this offer until you reach a safe employee. Safe employees, those whose jobs are not being relocated and have not been rolled, will be offered reallocation only.
8.	In the event an employee rolls to a location previously uninvolved in this process and cre
134
ates an excess, reallocation will be offered in order of seniority at that location thereby preventing a further roll if accepted. (Once a new location is involved, reallocation will be offered to employees above the bar only. Other employees at this location will be offered real-location when the bar reaches their seniority level.) It is understood that if a senior employee accepts reallocation, the junior employee could be rolled again. The offer of reallocation will again be made in order of seniority. If no one at this location accepts reallocation, the junior employee will be offered all options in item 7.
9.	Enhancements
a.	Eight (8) hours straight time pay or equivalent will be given to helpers to visit and investigate a location with vacancies (If, and only if, reallocation and visit actually occur).
b.	Availability of moving expenses will be extended from 6 months to 12 months (Move must be completed within 12 months of effective date of reallocation).
135
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING POWER GENERATION
COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB SECURITY
NOVEMBER 12,1996
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine (9) local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed on certain matters which are embraced in this memorandum of agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed between Alabama Power Company and such local unions as follows:
2. In an effort to implement new practices that will ensure a competitive workforce the Company and the Union agree, where practical, to encourage that overtime be distributed by work teams; for a trial period up to one year. Both parties agree that in many areas where Team Overtime is in effect there have been fewer grievances and higher productivity. If major inequities occur in the distribution of overtime, during this trial period, Management and Union will make the necessary changes to address concerns.
5.	The Union agrees not to oppose the upgrading of an employee to a higher classification provided such employee is the senior competent person on shift in the work team, at the work location or the senior competent person on shift from another work group/team at the same location as outlined in Article VIII, paragraph (k).
136
6.	The Union agrees to drop all outstanding grievances/intents to arbitrate that resulted from disagreements concerning upgrading including but not limited to the following: GAD-93-001, GOR-93-007, GOR-93-009, HG-94-05, MIL-92-022, STR-90-003, GRC-94-007, GRC-94-008, S-90-011.
7.	It is understood that the intent of upgrading is not to reduce journeyman jobs. Upgrading is intended to encourage pre-qualification and provide a more competitive workforce. In order to allay strongly held concerns of the Union, the Company can agree to limit such upgrading to five (5) percent not to exceed a maximum of 1040 hours of the available work hours of a particular classification and location. This provision along with item 5 will expire on March 31, 1998 unless extended or modified by mutual agreement of both parties.
8.	Employees working and being paid in a higher classification (upgrade, substitution, and temporary jobs) may be utilized on a voluntary basis to perform lower classification work on overtime and be paid the lower rate when such is cost effective.
9.	Management and the Union mutually agree that certain activities/efforts are meaningful and worthwhile in the pursuit of decreasing our product's cost. To that end both bargaining unit and non-bargaining unit employees will be encouraged and supported in their participation in these activities. Potential areas include but are not limited to:
a.	Investigation of a business unit concept for Welder, Machinists, Motor/Breaker Repair and Electronic
137
card repair, as well as all other functions which make business sense.
b.	Market testing plant processes.
c.	Developing a common plan/method to inform employees of progress toward the 34.5 million dollar goal at the plant and PG level.
d.	Communicate results of discussions surrounding MOU.
11.	Consideration of the utilization of Roving Crews will be based on good business practices and economics, as determined by the Management. Management and Union agree to meet to discuss methods to reduce average man-hour cost. These discussions will specifically address per diem in lieu of actual additional expenses and any other way to reduce costs.
Because the reduction in cost will directly affect bargaining unit employees who participate in roving crews, methods to reduce cost recommendations will be formulated by Union Representatives. Management will act only in an advisory capacity.
12.	The Union agrees to cooperate in the Company's welfare and use their influence to promote the interest of the Company's competitive position in an ever-changing industry environment. The Company and Union agree to seek opportunities to improve efficiencies and fully utilize our workforce.
138
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
POWER SYSTEMS COORDINATOR
DECEMBER 5,1995
This Memorandum of Understanding is made and entered into the 5th day of December, 1995 by and between Alabama Power Company, a public utility corporation, ("Company"), party of the first	part, and	Local
Union	No.	345,	Local	Union	No.	833,	Local
Union	No.	904,	Local	Union	No.	391,	Local
Union	No.	801,	Local	Union	No.	841,	Local
Union No. 1053, Local Union No. 796, and Local Union No. 2077, of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, hereinafter collectively called the Brotherhood, party of the second part.
Whereas, the Company and the Brotherhood have mutually agreed that the duties and work assignments of the new job position of Power System Coordinator in the new Alabama. Control Center is work of a "Supervisor" as defined and within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act and therefore, is not work within the Scope of the Collective Bargaining unit; and
Whereas, there is a Unit Clarification Petition pending before the National Labor Relations Board in Case No. 10-UC-191 on the Company's Request For Review of the Regional Director's Decision and Order dated February 4, 1994, and the Company and the Brotherhood have mutually agreed to resolve, adjust, settle and release various claims, complaints, grievances and disputes arising out of, involving or relating to the issues and matters
139
involved in such work assignments and said case number 10-UC-191 as set out below.
Now, therefore, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreement and understanding of the parties, it is agreed as follows:
1.	The Company and the Brotherhood agree to file a Joint Motion and Request for Permission to Withdraw the Petition For Unit Clarification and Regional Director's Decision and Order previously filed in said Case No. 10-UC-191, without prejudice, to the rights and position of the Company or the Brotherhood.
2.	The Company and the Brotherhood mutually agree and recognize that the work and duties of the new job position of System Coordinator within the new Alabama Control Center is the work of a "Supervisor" within the meaning of the National Labor Relations Act and that persons performing such work and duties in such classification will not be included within the Scope of the collective bargaining agreement.
3.	The Company agrees to allow existing Load Dispatchers, Assistant Load Dispatchers, Control Center Operators and Assistant Control Center Operators to roll according to Article V, paragraph (k). Said roil will be to journeymen level jobs previously held or for which they were previously qualified and will take place as their existing responsibilities are transitioned to the new Alabama Control Center. Each individual exercising roll rights under this provision must demonstrate competency by CK&S Testing, if required, within two (2) years of rolling to the new job. Training will
140
be made available as requested by individual employees.
4.	Each individual who rolls under Item #3 above will retain their existing pay rate and receive future general increases as specified under the existing Contract now in force. They will not be eligible for future increases beyond August 15, 1998, until their rates of pay are equal to or less than the classification held after the roll. Should individuals rolled under Item #3 above, voluntarily bid and be awarded a job in a classification lower than the one initially rolled to, then they will immediately be placed at the rate of pay for the classification and job awarded.
5.	In order to accommodate the roll in Item #3, the Company agrees to offer severance packages to the senior employees in the seniority unit or geographic locations or to hold in excess those employees who would be displaced by the roll in Item #3. This provision is based on present needs and circumstances, may include greater severances than displacements and does not obligate the Company to maintain staffing levels in the future.
6.	The Union agrees to withdraw all grievances, arbitrations and all issues associated with SCADA, Distribution Automation, and the operation of the 13kv, 22kv, 23kv and network underground systems. The Union agrees that all office work involving the switching and operation of these systems is outside the scope of the bargaining unit.
9. All other provisions of the current Collective Bargaining Agreements remain in full force and effect.
141
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this agreement to be executed by their respective officers on this 5th day of December, 1995.
142
SOUTHERN NUCLEAR OPERATING COMPANY, ALABAMA POWER COMPANY,
IBEW LOCAL 796 AND
IBEW SYSTEM COUNCIL U-19
POWER GENERATION JOB BIDDING
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
November 30, 1995
On August 21, 1986, Alabama Power Company and the nine local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers System Council U-19 agreed to separate Farley Nuclear Plant from the Power Generation seniority unit. Aten year timeframe was established, during which time covered personnel at Plant Farley would maintain their seniority for bidding purposes only to the Power Generation seniority unit. This agreement expires January 1, 1996 and the parties are interested in establishing a method for power generation personnel to transfer between Alabama Power and Southern Nuclear. The parties agree to the following:
Effective January 1, 1996, Alabama Power vacancies or new jobs within Power Generation will be posted at Farley Nuclear Plant simultaneously with the posting of such jobs at Alabama Power. Plant Farley bidders will be considered after ail bids from Alabama Power Company personnel are dispositioned, prior to the vacancy or new job being posted to any available source. Seniority for Plant Farley personnel will be based on
143
the seniority provisions agreed upon between Southern Nuclear and IBEW Local 796 and System Council U-19.
Likewise, Southern Nuclear will post Plant Farley vacancies or new jobs within the Power Generation seniority unit of Alabama Power, simultaneously with the posting of such jobs at Southern Nuclear. Alabama Power bidders will be considered after all bids from Southern Nuclear personnel are dispositioned, prior to the vacancy or new job being posted to any available source. Seniority for Alabama Power personnel will be based on the seniority provisions agreed upon between Alabama Power and the nine locals of the IBEW System Council U-19.
This agreement is not intended to alter qualifications, requirements, or competency considerations. Classifications not subject to the posting process will not be subject to this agreement.
144
12 HOUR SCHEDULE
August 14,1995
This agreement will be applicable to employees, work groups, and crews not presently covered by a 12 hour schedule.
Prior to implementing a 12 hour schedule the Company will notify the appropriate union official of its intent to place an employee, work group, or crew on a 12 hour schedule. Such Union Representative will determine the interests of such employee, work group, or crew in being rescheduled to a 12 hour schedule. Provided a majority of affected employees are tn favor of cooperating with the Company, such schedule will be implemented with at least a seven (7) day written notice from the date the Union notifies the Company of its concurrence with the schedule.
While on such twelve (12) hour schedule, the following will be applicable:
COMPENSATION
Since twelve (12) hour schedules may vary widely with more or less than forty scheduled hours in a workweek, an hourly adjustment factor may be necessary in order to compensate employees and maintain relatively level labor costs. Any adjustment factor would be established prior to offering a schedule for consideration.
SCHEDULE
The regular daily work period will be consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (v) of the
145
Memorandum of Agreement except that the parties agree that during those periods that the agreed upon schedule is in effect, "twelve (12)" will be inserted in lieu of "eight (8)" where it appears in the second sentence of such paragraph.
The Parties agree to waive the requirements as set forth in the second sentence of Article VIII, paragraph (w). Accordingly, any reference to the word five is to be disregarded. The agreed upon schedule will determine what the daily work periods will be.
No overtime or meals will be paid for work performed within an employee's regularly scheduled hours while on the twelve hour schedule.
VACATIONS
Vacations will be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (c) of the Memorandum of Agreement, except that vacation will be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e. g. an employee scheduled for a twelve (12) hour work period would be charged twelve (12) hours vacation).
holidays
The terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d) will apply when the agreed upon schedule is in effect, except as set forth below.
When a holiday falls on an employee's regularly scheduled off day the employee will receive eight (8) hours holiday pay or be allowed a day off in lieu thereof consistent with the terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d). Should a holiday fall on an employee's regular scheduled work day the employee
146
will receive twelve hours at one and one/half times the applicable rate plus the eight hour holiday pay. Should the employee be regularly scheduled for twelve hours on the day they take off they will be allowed to charge four (4) hours to vacation or dock.
SICK LEAVE AND-VACATIQN
Sick leave and vacation will be taken consistent with the Memorandum of Agreement except that sick leave and vacation will be considered by hours and charged accordingly.
DEALHAND FUNERAL LEAVE
Death and Funeral Leave will be taken consistent with the Memorandum of Agreement.
The provisions of Article VIII, paragraph (f), will apply relative to time off to perform jury duty.
RETURN TO REGULAR SCHEDULE
It will be at the discretion of the Company to determine when twelve (12) hour work schedules should end and same will be accomplished by giving at least thirty-six (36) hour notice.
147
10 HOUR SCHEDULE
POWER GENERATION
August 14,1995
This agreement will be applicable to all employees, work groups, and crews covered by the Power Generation Agreement.
Prior to implementing a four day, ten hour work schedule, the Company will notify the appropriate Union Representative of its intent to place an employee, work group, or crew on a four day ten hour schedule. Such Union Representative will determine the interests of such employee, work group, or crew tn being rescheduled to the four day, ten hour schedule. Provided a majority of affected employees are in favor of cooperating with the Company, such schedule will be implemented with at least a seven (7) day written notice from the date that the Union notifies the Company of its concurrence with the schedule.
While on such four day, ten hour schedule, the following will be applicable:
SCHEDULE
The regular daily work period will be consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (v) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that the parties agree that during those periods that the proposed schedule is in effect, "ten (10)" will be inserted in lieu of "eight (8)" where it appears in the second sentence of such paragraph.
The parties agree to waive the requirements as set forth in the second sentence of Article
148
VIK, paragraph (w). Accordingly, any reference to the word "five (5)" following the third sentence will be considered as "four (4)" when such schedule is in effect.
No overtime will be paid for work performed within an employee's scheduled hours of work while working on a four day ten (10) hour schedule.
VACATION!
Vacations will be taken consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (c) of the Memorandum of Agreement, except that vacation will be considered by hours and charged accordingly (e. g. an employee scheduled for a ten (10) hour work period would be charged ten (10) hours vacation).
HOLIDAYS
The terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d) will apply when the proposed schedule is in effect, except as set forth below.
When a holiday falls on an employee's regular scheduled off day, the employee will receive eight (8) hours pay for that holiday at the straight time rate or be allowed a day off in lieu thereof consistent with the terms and conditions of Article VIII, paragraph (d). Should a holiday fall on employees' regularly scheduled work day and the employees do not work on such holiday, they will be paid eight (8) hours at the straight time rate for such holiday and be allowed to charge two (2) hours to vacation or dock time.
149
SICK LEAVE
Sick leave will be taken consistent with Article VIII (b) of the Memorandum of Agreement except that sick leave will be considered in hours and charged accordingly (e. g. An employee eligible for sick leave and absent due to an illness who is regularly scheduled to work ten (10) hours, will be charged ten (10) hours sick leave).
JURY DUTY
The provisions of Article VIII, paragraph (f) will apply relative to time off to perform jury duty.
DEATH LEAVE/FUNERAL LEAVE
Death and Funeral leave will be granted consistent with Article VIII, paragraph (t) of the Memorandum of Agreement.
RETURN TO REGULAR S.CHED_ULE
It will be at the discretion of the Company to determine when such four day ten (10) hour work schedule should end and same will be accomplished by giving a thirty-six hour notice.
150
POWER SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT FACILITY OPERATION
May 9,1995
1.	Jobs at the PSDF will be considered as a separate reporting headquarters within the Fossil/Hydro/Steam Heat bid unit.
2.	Jobs will be posted and filled based on procedures outlined in the existing agreement except as provided in item 6. The proposed classifications and staffing schedule is outlined in attachment #1.
3.	During the first six weeks after reporting to a job at the PSDF, employees may request to return to their previous job and location under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (i) of the existing Memorandum of Agreement. After this six weeks period employees will be restricted from bidding on vacancies outside the PSDF for a period of 18 months, except to a higher classification.
4.	Although item 2 will apply to the filling of these jobs, the employee must demonstrate a continuing ability to perform all job responsibilities and learn the new or additional concepts and knowledge necessary to operate and maintain the PSDF. Employees removed from PSDF as a result of unsatisfactory performance will return under the provisions of Article V, paragraph (i) or paragraph (k) of the existing Memorandum of Agreement.
5.	Alternative work schedules based on 4 -10 hour days or a rotating 12 hour schedule
151
may be utilized subject to approval by SCS and a majority of the affected personnel. In the event such schedules are utilized, no overtime will be paid for working more than 8 hours in a 24 hour period. Language in existing Fossil MOUs on 10 hour and 12 hour schedules would apply.
6.	In order to maintain the proper level of experienced employees at each generation site, the Senior Vice President of Power Generation at Alabama Power Company may disregard applications for Plant Control Operator from qualified applicants at any reporting headquarters where the loss might jeopardize unit operations at that location.
7.	Personnel who fill jobs or work at the PSDF under the provisions of this agreement will remain employees of APCo for purposes of wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment and APCo will act as a labor broker to SCS. SCS will provide direction, control, and supervision of these personnel while working at the PSDF. Before being awarded a job at the PSDF, each employee must acknowledge and give consent of this working relationship in writing (combined with item 10).
8.	Personnel accepting jobs at the PSDF might recognize that this is a unique research facility and when not performing the normal duties of their job, they will perform any other assigned duties within the scope of their training or ability.
9.	Employees who are headquartered at Gaston Steam Plant or the PSDF who are
152
on temporary assignment at either location, will not be paid for a midshift meal.
10.	All personnel working at the PSDF must individually execute a nondisclosure agreement concerning confidential and/or proprietary information as specified by APCo and SCS.
11.	All items not addressed above will be handled in accordance with the existing Memorandum of Agreement including any negotiated changes/additions not conflicting with other provisions of this agreement.
12.	At the conclusion of the contract to operate the PSDF between APCo and SCS, APCo Management and the Unions agree to meet and discuss the consequences of ending said agreement. Each party has an interest in facilitating and reducing the dislocation associated with the ending of the PSDF contract.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not preclude Management's right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number of employees employed within each classification. This agreement will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future.
153
Attachment 1
[This table was updated to reflect 2001 staffing levels]
PSDF OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROPOSED STAFFING SCHEDULE *
____Personnel___ Schedule
19962001
Classification	Aug	Sept	Oct	Nov	Dec	Jan	Sept
Plant Control Operator	14	14	14	14	14	20	19
Asst Ptant Cont Opr.	4	4	4	4	4	8	8
Equipment Operator			2	2	2	2	2
Mechanic		4	4	4	4	8	6
E & 1 Journeyman	3	3	3	3	3	3	. 8
Weber			1	1	1	1	3
Totals	21	25	28	28	28	42	46
* Actual starting dates and number of jobs may vary.
154
Agreement Regarding Special Employer Relationship,
Intellectual Property, and
Confidential Information
I.	Special Employer Relationship
I understand and acknowledge that while my wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment are set by contract with Alabama Power Company, and my Union, that APCo serves only as a labor broker to Southern Company Services for work at the Power Systems Development Facility (PSDF), and that my work will be subject to the direction, control, and the supervision of both SCS and APCo while working at the PSDF. I fully understand this and hereby give my express consent to this working relationship while I am working at the PSDF.
II.	Intellectual Property & Confidential Information
In consideration of my employment, and/or the continuation of my current employment at will, by Alabama Power Company (the "Company") or any of the Company's direct or indirect subsidiaries or affiliates, whether presently or hereafter existing (collectively, the "Affiliates") and in connection with the Company's Intellectual Property Policy, I hereby agree as follows:
1.	When used in this Agreement:
a.	The term "Intellectual Property" means each invention, discovery, innovation, work product, design,
155
process, article of manufacture, composition, computer program, or any new or useful improvements of any of the foregoing, and any trade secret, mask work, trademark or service mark, that relates in any way to the business of the Company or any Affiliate or the work I perform for the Company or any Affiliate and that is made by using the Company’s or any Affiliate's time, personnel, facilities, or materials.
b.	The term "Trade Secret" means any information (i) which may have economic value from not being generally known to and not being readily ascertainable through proper means by, other persons who are able to obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (ii) for which reasonable efforts under the circumstances have been made to maintain its secrecy; and in all events, "Trade Secret" will include, without limitation, technical and non-technical data, formulas, patterns, compilations, computer programs, plans, lists of actual or potential customers and/or suppliers, confidential business, pricing and marketing plans, and other customer and referral source information in any form.
c.	The term "Confidential Information" means proprietary and confidential information which is not otherwise a Trade Secret and which is valuable to and related to the business of the Company, any Affiliate, or any third
156
party with whom the Company or any Affiliate has a business relationship (a "Third Party") and which is generally unknown to the public or to competitors of the Company or any Affiliate; or other items as the Company or any Affiliate may from time to time mark or otherwise identify as "confidential."
2.	a. I will disclose promptly and fully to the Company any Intellectual Property which I conceive of, develop, modify, work on, create, or reduce to practice, I agree that all Intellectual Property will be deemed to the greatest extent possible to be "works made for hire" as defined in the Copyright Act, as amended from time to time (17 USC Section 101 et. seq.) (the "Copyright Act"), and that the Company will have the exclusive, worldwide ownership of such Intellectual Property, and that no Intellectual Property will be treated as or be deemed a "joint work" (as defined in the Copyright Act) of mine and the Company or otherwise.
b. I agree to and do hereby assign to the Company, without further compensation, all right, title and interest in and to all such Intellectual Property and all patent, copyright, mask work, trademark, service mark, trade secret, or other rights therein related to such Intellectual Property. During and after my employment, I will execute all necessary documents and will provide proper assistance (at the
157
Company's expense) to enable the Company or an Affiliate to obtain, for itself or its assigns or nominees, registration of patents, copyrights, mask works, trademarks, service marks, or other legal protection for any such Intellectual Property.
c. I agree not to use, publish, or disclose (except as my duties as an employee of the Company or an Affiliate may require) any information related to such Intellectual Property during my employment. I further agree (except as my employment duties with the Company or an Affiliate may require) not to use, publish, transfer or disclose (i) any Confidential information or other proprietary information of the Company or any Affiliate during the term of my employment with the Company and/or any Affiliate and for a period of three (3) years immediately following the last to occur of the termination of my employment with the Company or any Affiliate; or (ii) any Trade Secret of the Company, or any Affiliate, or any Third Party, for such time as such information constitutes a Trade Secret under applicable law.
3.	a. I acknowledge and agree that in the course of my employment by the Company or an Affiliate, I have been and will be given access to valuable information of the Company, its Affiliates, and/or Third Parties which information is a Trade Secret or is Confidential Information. I agree that
158
I will use such Trade Secrets and/or Confidential Information for the Company's and/or an Affiliate's business purposes only, and that I will not (other than as instructed by a duly authorized representative of the Company or an Affiliate) copy, disclose, disseminate, communicate, transfer, or otherwise convey any item which (i) is a Trade Secret while it remains a Trade Secret under applicable law or (ii) is Confidential Information for three (3) years immediately following the last to occur of the termination of my employment by the Company or any Affiliate.
b. Upon request at any time during my employment by the Company or by an Affiliate and on or before the last day of such employment, I will deliver to or leave with the Company or such Affiliate all copies of all materials and information of the Company and any Affiliate, all Trade Secrets and all Confidential Information which may be in my possession or under my control, including all instruments, tools, devices, materials, confidential or proprietary business documents, plans, records, drawings, computer programs, or other information relating to the business of the Company, any Affiliate, or any Third Party. I hereby acknowledge and agree that to the extent that I have executed a confidentiality or similar agreement with any Third Party or the extent that I have agreed to comply with the terms of a confidentiality or similar
159
agreement with any Third Party, I will continue to be bound by the terms of any such agreement even after the termination of my employment with the Company or any date.
4.	a. I agree that this Agreement (i) will be governed by the laws of the state of Alabama; (ii) will be binding upon and enure to the benefit of my heirs, executors, and administrators and the Company's successors and assigns (and to the extent that I am employed by any Affiliate, by the successors and assigns by such Affiliate), (iii) will continue after the termination of my employment with the Company and any Affiliate; and (iv) may not be amended, or terminated, except in a written instrument signed on behalf of the Company (or an Affiliate, if such is appropriate) and by me. I acknowledge that while I cannot assign this Agreement or delegate my duties or obligations under this Agreement, the Company and its Affiliates may assign all or any part of this Agreement to another person or entity.
b. 1 also agree that (i) this Agreement supersedes and replaces any prior agreement, either oral or written, which I may have with the Company or any Affiliate that relates generally to the same subject matter; (ii) nothing in this Agreement modifies my status as an employee at will of the Company or an Affiliate; and (iii) all rights and restrictions contained in
160
this Agreement may be waived or may be exercised by the Company, any Affiliate, or the successors or assigns of either, as appropriate, separately and distinctly and to the full extent of applicable law, if any provision of this Agreement will be held to be illegal, invalid, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, I agree that the remaining provisions will remain in full force and effect.
161
MEDIATION
October 11, 1994
As a result of certain discussions between representatives of Alabama Power Company and representatives of the nine Local Unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers listed below, the parties have agreed to implement the following trial agreement. Such trial agreement to run from the signing of said agreement until August 15, 1996. This agreement will be null and void and considered as if it had never been executed unless and until all parties execute and affirm a separate Memorandum of Agreement dated May 11, 1994, and entitled, "Pay Period Ending Date Change."
The following procedures will be followed in the use of Mediation:
1.	Submission of an unresolved grievance to this mediation will not waive or limit the Company's rights to deem an unresolved grievance as untimely.
2.	Mediation will be conducted in accordance with Federal Mediation and Conciliation Services Guidelines for Grievance Mediation shown on attachment A, with the exception that Guideline Number 2 will not apply to this agreement.
3.	Mediation will be treated as Union Business with respect to employee attendance.
4.	Any reasonable expenses directly involved in Mediation will be shared
162
equally between the Company and Union.
5.	Each party will have only one principal spokesman at the Mediation Conference.
6.	Should the Company and Union spokesman at the Mediation conference accept the resolution proposed by the mediator or decide to settle otherwise, such settlement will not be precedent setting and may not be cited or offered in any other proceeding between the parties.
7.	Unless otherwise agreed, the parties will utilize the services of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
8.	The Company and Unions agree to limit subject agreement to the mediation of forty (40) designated grievances which have been enumerated on attachment B to this agreement.
9.	Any grievances which are not settled during the term of this agreement will be returned to the status held prior to the execution of said agreement.
163
ATTACHMENT A
FEDERAL MEDIATION AND CONCILIATION SERVICE
GUIDELINES FOR GRIEVANCE MEDIATION
1.	The parties will submit a joint request, signed by both parties requesting FMCS assistance.
2.	Any time limits in the parties labor agreement must be waived to permit the grievance to proceed to arbitration should mediation be unsuccessful.
3.	Proceedings before the mediator will be informal and rules of evidence do not apply. No record, stenographic or tape recordings of the meetings will be made. The mediator's notes are confidential and content will not be revealed.
4.	The mediator will conduct the mediation conference utilizing all of the customary technique associated with mediation including the use of separate caucuses.
5.	The mediator has no authority to compel resolution of the grievance.
6.	In the event that no settlement is reached during the mediation conference, the mediator may provide the parties either in separate or joint session with an oral advisory opinion.
7.	If either party does not accept an advisory opinion, the matter may then proceed to arbitration in the manner and form provided
164
in their collective bargaining agreement. Such arbitration hearings will be held as if the grievance mediation effort had not taken place. Nothing said or done by the parties or the mediator during the grievance mediation session can be used against them during arbitration proceedings.
8.	When the parties choose FMCS and the grievance mediation procedure, they have agreed to abide by these guidelines as established by FMCS and they agree to hold FMCS and the mediator appointed by the Service to conduct the mediation conference harmless of any claim of damages arising from the mediation process.
165
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
August 2, 1994
1.	The purpose of this program is to assist children of employees fatally injured at work in continuing their education by providing financial support for tuition and other educational expenses.
2.	The Company defines "fatally injured" as it is defined by Alabama Worker's Compensation Law. That means that the employee's death must occur within three years of an injury caused by an accident that occurs in the course of employment.
3.	Participation and/or application under this program obligates the student to follow the various provisions and/or amended provisions as they may apply.
4.	The Program will be administered by Alabama Power Company's Human Resources Department through local Human Resources Representatives.
5.	Alabama Power Company may change or terminate the total program or any provision thereof. Human Resources will resolve any controversy involving this program or its application within its sole discretion. Such decisions will not be subject to appeal or challenge.
This Memorandum of Agreement is entered into and becomes effective on this, the 2nd day of August, 1994.
166
POWER GENERATION ISSUES
June 3,1994
Item 1. Switching - Establish a joint committee with equal representation (IBEW/APCO) at each plant to develop a procedure that will assign responsibility within their respective Plant's switchyards.
A.	This committee will have representatives from the following areas:
1.	Plant
2.	Power Delivery Construction
3.	ACC
4.	Division Operations
B.	This committee will determine the assignment of responsibility and control of the switches within the switchyards.
C.	This committee will determine the assignment of responsibility for the switching and switching responsibilities within the switchyards.
D.	This committee will have the responsibility to insure that all existing procedures are revised to reflect the changes in control and operation of the switchyards.
E.	Each area listed above will address the training needs necessitated by the implementation of this agreement.
167
Item 2. Switchboard Operators
C. Effective January 1, 1995, Employees remaining in the Switchboard Operator's classification will be reclassified into the Assistant Plant Control Operator's classification.
D, The rate of pay for employees who are reclassified to Assistant Plant Control Operators will be frozen effective January 1,1995, and will remain frozen until subject employees vacate the Assistant Plant Control Operator's classification or until the Assistant Plant Control Operators maximum rate of pay equals or exceeds subject employee's rate of pay at which time they will receive the maximum rate of pay for an Assistant Plant Control Operator.
Item 3. Control Room Consolidation
C. The rate of pay for employees who are reclassified that hold a higher classification than Assistant Plant Control Operator will be frozen at their current rate as of January 1,1995. This rate of pay will continue until the maximum rate of pay for Assistant Plant Control Operator equals or exceeds the employee's rate of pay, at which time the employee’s rate of pay will be the maximum rate of pay for the Assistant Plant Control Operator. Those employees holding a classification with a lower rate of pay than the Assistant Plant Control Operators will be required to be qualified for the Assistant Plant Control Operator classification prior to reclassi
168
fication or be rolled. Such reclassified employees will be placed in the lowest step of the Assistant Plant Control Operator's classification.
Item 4. Fossil/Hydro Apprentices
D, It is not the parties intent to eliminate the apprentice classification. In the future, apprentice classifications will be posted and filled based on the need for Journeymen.
This agreement is based on present needs and circumstances and will not preclude Management's right to exercise full control of the work force, including the determination of the number of employees employed within each classification. This agreement will not be used to establish a precedent for similar situations in the future. The intent of this agreement is not to expand or diminish the duties of the Assistant Plant Control Operators.
HYDRO GENERATION REORGANIZATION
November 6,1992
5.	Employees classified as Plant Operator, Electrician or Mechanic in Hydro Generation on January 1, 1993 and not competent for one of the three new job classifications as described in four (4) above, will be reclassified to one of the three new job classifications as soon as they qualify on the appropriate CKS test instrument. No such employee will be required to qualify for one of these new classifications during the term of the cur
169
rent labor agreement. If such employee qualifies for one of these new classifications during 1993, the employee will be placed at the top rate. Otherwise, reclassification will be in accordance with the basic Memorandum of Agreement.
6.	Beginning January 1, 1993, journeymen jobs within Hydro Generation will be posted as either Operator Electrician or Operator Mechanic. Employees awarded these new jobs will have eighteen months in order to qualify for the Hydro Journeyman classification. Employees not qualifying for the Hydro Journeyman classification within this eighteen month period will be rolled out of the classification under the terms of Article V, paragraph (i) of the basic Memorandum of Agreement.
7.	Beginning April 1, 1995, journeymen jobs within Hydro Generation may be posted as Hydro Journeyman.
8.	The Company will agree to make good faith efforts to assist employees in qualifying for these new positions by increasing training opportunities for employees within Hydro Generation specifically and more generally within Fossil Hydro.
170
FARLEY NUCLEAR PLANT ISSUES
November 19,1991
7. Company/Union Business: Southern Nuclear Operating Company agrees to allow time off for the President of Local 796, or the Local's designated representative, to handle Company/Union business (including pension negotiations) at Alabama Power Company.
11. Telecommunications: There will be no change in the handling of telecommunications work at Farley Nuclear Plant as a result of the transfer to Southern Nuclear Operating Company.
171
EXHIBIT D ALABAMA POWER COMPANY POWER GENERATION
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT PROCEDURES RELATING TO PROVIDING OR PAYING FOR MEALS
STATEMENT OF POLICY
The Company will defray the reasonable extra costs incurred by or for employees for meals resulting from their being required to work overtime outside their scheduled or rescheduled hours and days; or as an alternative, at its option the Company will provide such meals at Company expense.
Employees who are eligible for meals will be provided such meals or at the employee's option, be paid a $9.50 meal allowance.
GENERAL PRACTICES UNDER THE POLICY
1.	In practice, when a supervisor (or an employee designated to act in lieu of a supervisor) is present, the Company will "provide" the meals, that is, pay for them directly to the restaurant, cafe, or boarding house. If there is no supervisor present (or anyone in lieu thereof) the Company will reimburse the employees for reasonable costs of meals similarly obtained as evidenced by proper vouchers or receipts for same to be surrendered upon reimbursement. The meals provided or paid for are to be such as the employees would ordinarily purchase if on their own expense. The "reasonable" cost of meals will usually vary, depending on the particular meal, location and what sources are available. It is
172
agreed to between the parties that meals will be paid for or provided by the Company in all conditions outlined herein if reasonably obtainable. Meals are "reasonably obtainable" if they occur during the usual hours of business of restaurants, cafes or boarding houses located within thirty (30) minutes travel, by available transportation of the job or if they can be obtained and delivered to the job. Employees will not be paid for meals missed because they were not "reasonably obtainable" at the time or for meals they elected to obtain at their homes or at their regular eating places or because they elected not to eat meals obtainable at the time; however, this will not prevent reimbursement to employees for meals brought to the job from their homes or their regular eating places by prearrangement with their supervisor.
2.	In general the Company will not pay for time spent eating meals unless employees are required to remain at work or stand by at some definite location.
3.	In cases where the Company is to provide meals the obligation is on the supervisor in charge to see that they are provided, if available, and that they are adequate as to quality, quantity and timing. Timing is understood to mean that meals will be made available at, or as nearly as practical at the normal regular mealtimes and approximately each six (6) hours thereafter until released from duty. In the case of long continued emergency work every reasonable effort is to be made to get meals or refreshments as necessary to maintain strength and morale.
4.	In cases where employees are to be reimbursed for meals the obligation rests on them
173
to request reimbursement through the proper channels and to present satisfactory vouchers or receipts for payments made for such meals to the responsible supervisors. Employees are not to purchase meals for reimbursement except pursuant to instructions and authorization under this general policy.
5.	The intent and provisions of these practices will be interpreted and applied in accordance with the following general and specific procedures.
GENERAL PROCEDURES
A. WITH RESPECT TO ALL EMPLOYEES COVERED
I.When employees work only their scheduled hours and days in the usual manner at or from their usual headquarters or reporting places (i.e., places to which they report, from which they start work, and to which they return) they will provide their own meals immediately before, immediately after and between scheduled working periods in the same day at their own expense, except that during any day when an employee starts from and returns to such headquarters as usual but works his scheduled hours at a location not normally serviced from such headquarters the Company will provide or reimburse the employee for the noon meal except as follows:
a.	Employees who are headquartered at Gaston Steam Plant or the PSDF who are on temporary assignment at
174
either location, will not be paid for a midshift meal.
b.	Employees assigned to Miller Steam Plant who are on a temporary assignment at Gorgas Steam Plant, or vice versa, will not be paid the mid-shift meal.
c.	Employees assigned to Barry Steam Plant who are on a temporary assignment at Chickasaw Steam Plant, or vice versa, will not be paid the mid-shift meal.
2.	When employees are required to spend one or more nights away from their regular headquarters or reporting place while working either or both scheduled or unscheduled hours and days, the Company will provide or pay for ail usual meals occurring between departure from and return to headquarters which they are unable to eat at their homes or at their regular eating places.
3.	When employees are required to work outside their regularly scheduled or rescheduled hours and days of work either at or away from their usual headquarters or reporting places as described below, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which are eaten during such periods.
4.	If between periods of work in the same day outside their regularly scheduled or rescheduled hours and days employees prefer to eat any usual meals which
175
occur during that day at their homes or at their regular eating places, and if they can be and are released for the time necessary to do so, the Company will not pay for such meals in as much as this would be at the option of the employees.
SPECIFIC PROCEDURES
B.WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEES ON NON-SHIFT WORK
1.	Early Start: In case employees on nonshift work are required to start work one hour or more before their regular starting time, and are notified to this effect before the end of their last scheduled work period, the Company will provide or pay for their breakfasts and if such employees normally bring their lunches, the Company will provide or pay for their lunches if not brought from home.
2.	Working After Regular Quitting Time:
In case such employees are required to continue work more than two (2) hours beyond their regular quitting time, the Company will provide or pay for their suppers.
3.	Call-Outs: If such employees are called out and as a result are unable to eat any usual meals which occur during such periods at their homes or at their regular eating places, the Company will provide or pay for such meals obtained elsewhere. If such employees are called out any time prior to their normal starting time and as a result were unable to eat their breakfasts at their
176
homes or at their regular eating places, or were unable to make their usual arrangements for lunches, the Company will provide or pay for the breakfasts and/or lunches obtained elsewhere. If such employees are called out on their off-days, time required for eating meals occurring during the period of such call-out will be counted as time worked unless circumstances are such that the usual regular hours for meals can be observed and the employees are permitted to obtain meals in a manner and at a place of their own discretion.
4.	Saturday Work: Unless such employees are normally scheduled, rescheduled or prearranged to work on Saturday, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals on Saturday which occur during such periods when the employees are working at the overtime rate. If work starts and stops at the usual times employees will provide their own breakfasts and suppers, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
5.	Sunday Work: If such employees are required to work on Sunday and have not been prearranged, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which occur during such periods. If work starts and stops at the usual times employees will provide their own breakfasts and suppers, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
6.	Off-Day Work: If such employees are required to work on their off-days and have not been prearranged or resched
177
uled, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which occur during such periods when the employees are working at their overtime rates. If work starts and stops at the usual time employees will provide their own breakfasts and suppers, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
7.	Continuous Work: In case such employees are required to work for long periods, the Company will provide or pay for extra meals at reasonable intervals of approximately six (6) hours from the last usual mealtime and approximately each six (6) hours thereafter until released from duty. Time required for eating meals occurring during such periods will be counted as time worked unless circumstances are such that the usual meal periods can be observed and the employees are permitted to obtain meals in a manner and at a place of their own discretion. If such work continues without break into the following day, whether it be a scheduled or unscheduled day, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which occur during such periods.
8.	Call-Out on Holiday: If such employees are called out to work on a holiday which occurs on the employees regular scheduled work day, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which occur during such periods. If work starts and stops at the usual time, employees will provide their own breakfasts and suppers, otherwise (1) and/or (2) will apply.
178
SPECIFIC PROCEDURES
C. WITH RESPECT TO EMPLOYEES ON SHIFT WORK
1.	Early Start:
Breakfast: In case employees on shift work are required to start work one hour or more before their regular starting time, and are notified to this effect before the end of their last scheduled work period, the Company will provide or pay for their breakfasts and if such employees normally bring their lunches, the Company will provide or pay for their lunches if not brought from home.
Dinner and Supper: In case employees are required to start work one hour or more before their regular starting time, and are notified to this effect prior to the end of their last previous scheduled work period and as a result were unable to eat their usual meals at their homes or at their regular eating places, the Company will provide or pay for the meal or meals obtained elsewhere. In cases where the Company pays for or provides a meal under the provisions of this paragraph and such employees usually bring their lunches, the Company will also provide or pay for a meal or meals which occur during the shift.
2.	Working Beyond Shift Quitting Time: In case such employees are required to continue work more than two hours beyond their regular shift quitting time and as a result are unable to be at their
179
regular eating places at mealtimes, the Company will provide or pay for the meals obtained elsewhere.
3.	Doubling-Over: When employees are required to double-over and work continuously through the next succeeding shift, the Company will provide or pay for meals which occur during the extra shifts.
4.	Call-Outs: If such employees are called out and as a result are unable to eat any usual meals which occur during such periods at their homes or at their regular eating places, the Company will provide or pay for such meals obtained elsewhere, and the time required for eating meals occurring during the period of such call-out will be counted as time worked unless circumstances are such that the usual meal periods can be observed and the employees are permitted to obtain meals in a manner and at a place of their own discretion. If employees are called out any time prior to their normal starting time and as a result were unable to eat their usual meals at their homes or at their regular eating places or were unable to make their usual arrangements for meals to be eaten during the shift, the Company will provide or pay for the meal or meals obtained elsewhere.
5.	Off-Days: For prearranged work assignments on an employee's off day, midshift meals will not be provided or paid. If an employee doubles on an off day, the Company will continue its prac
180
tice of providing or paying for meals for the second shift. Otherwise, when employees are required to work on their off-days and have not been prearranged, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which occur during such periods when the employees are working at their overtime rates. If work starts and stops at the usual shift times, employees will provide their own meals immediately before and following such periods, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
6.	Premium Pay Shift: Employees who are working regularly scheduled shifts which are part of their normal forty (40) hour work week but who are working at an overtime rate for hours worked in excess of eight (8) in a twenty-four (24) hour work period will provide their own mid-shift meals.
7.	Cali-Out on Holiday: If such employees are called out to work on a holiday which occurs on the employee's regular scheduled work day, the Company will provide or pay for all usual meals which occur during such periods. If work starts and stops at the usual shift times, employees will provide their own meals immediately before and following such periods, otherwise (1) and/or (2) above will apply.
181
EXHIBIT E
ALABAMA POWER COMPANY POWER GENERATION DEPARTMENT
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT PAYMENT FOR TRAVEL EXPENSE FOR EMPLOYEES REQUIRED TO WORK OVERTIME
Subject to the limitations and provisions set forth in paragraph 2 below in respect to work on a call-out basis, the Company proposes the following to apply when employees are required to work on a prearranged basis on their off-day or on a work day when the overtime worked does not run into or is not a continuation of work beyond their regular schedule:
1.	The Company will reimburse employees who live five miles or more from their headquarters measured by the shortest traveled route for travel expense as follows:
a.	If travel is by public conveyance, the Company will reimburse the employee the actual expense incurred.
b.	If travel is by personal automobile, the Company will pay for use of car at the current rate per mile. This payment will be made to only one employee in the event several employees ride in the same car.
c.	Deleted
182
d.	In each case, involving travel expense to be paid by the Company, the employees will be expected where practicable to reach an understanding with their respective supervisors as to the mode of travel and the expense involved, and the supervisors, at their option, may provide Company or other transportation rather than have the employees incur expense for which they would otherwise be reimbursed.
2.	The Company will not pay travel expense when overtime work is on a call-out basis that does not extend into the next regular work period. However, the Company will reimburse employees for the travel expense in excess of their normal travel expense where they are required to work overtime on a call-out basis which extends into the next regular work period; provided they do not receive pay for inconvenience time in excess of the two-hour minimum for the call-out.
In no case will the Company utilize the call-out as a means of eliminating travel expense for which the employee would otherwise be reimbursed.
183
SUBJECT INDEX
Subject	Article Paragraph Page
Absences Illness.................VIII	(b)	31
Jury Duty ............VIII	(f)	40
Reporting.............VIII	(n)	44
Voting................VIII	(f)	40
Making up excused absences..............VIII	(t)	48
To Meet with Company officials.............VIII	(g)	40
To attend to Union business........VIII	(g)	40
Leave of absence .....V	(a)	8
Business Manager ....VIII (h)	41
Alabama Labor Council............VIII	(h)	41
Death-Immediate Family ..VIII	(t)	48
Accidents
Investigating Committees............XII (d)	64
Apprentices Progression of..........V	(f)	17
Qualifications of Steam Plants..........XV	(i)	67
Arbitration.............VII	30
Assistant Plant Control
Operator Qualifications of.....XV	(e)	66
Banking Holidays........VIII	(d)	37
Bargaining Agent......Ill	(a)	4
Bulletin Boards-Use of..VIII	(gg)	59
Call-Out-Notice of...............VIII	(m)	44
Time Allowance........VIII	(q)	45
Check-Off-Payroll Dues Deduction..........Ill	(e)(g)	5,7
COPE Fund.............Ill	(f)(g)	6,7
184
SUBJECT INDEX
Subject	Article Paragraph Page
Classifications Required................IX (b)	62
Commendation Report..................VIII	(ii)	60
Competency-Definition of...........V	(c)	11
Continuous Service-
Definition of for
Determining Seniority...........V (a)	8
Co-Operative Student
Training Program......XVIII	69
Death-Immediate family ..VIII	(t)	48
While on Vacation.....VIII	(c)	33
Demotions
Account of incompetency..........V	(i)	22
At employee's request - bid down............V	(h)	22
Disabilities-
Permanent, temporary.............VIII (z)	54
Discharge or Suspension-.............V	(j)	23
Appeal................VI	(c)	29
Discipline..............VIII	(aa)	56
..............VIII	(ii)	60
..............V	(j)	23
Disciplinary Notice.....VIII	(ii)	60
Dues Deduction..........Ill	(e)	5
Duty-Responsibility for
discharge of..........VIII	(aa)	56
Early Start.............VIII	(q)	46
Educational Assistance
Program...............Exhibit C	166
Efficiency..............X	62
185
SUBJECT INDEX
Subject	Article	Paragraph	Page
Emergency Work..........XII	(f)	64
Equipment...............VIII	(i)	42
Extension of Agreement................II	(b)	3
Extra Expense -Overtime.................VIII	(cc)	58
Meals ................Exhibit D	172
Travel Expense .......Exhibit E	182
Fartey Issues...........Exhibit C	171
Functional Work Group ....VIII (u)	49
Four-Year Progression Provision................V (f)	17
Grievances
Due to Suspension or Discharge.............VI	(c)	29
Procedure for Handling..............VI	(a)	26
Report, Accident
Investigating Committee...........XII	(e)	64
Result of Disciplinary Notice................VIII	(ii)	60
Time Limitation on handling..............VI	(b)	28
Vacancy not filled according to seniority..........V	(e)	12
Headquarters............VIII	(dd)	58
Helpers-Qualifications of Steam Plants.............XV	(j)	68
Higher Classification-Definition of............V	(d)	12
Holidays................VIII	(d)	37
Hydro Plant Employees-Duties of................XIV	(a-c)	65
Number and classification
required............IX	(b)	62
Reorganization........Exhibit C	169
186
SUBJECT INDEX
Subject	Article Paragraph Page
Inconvenience Pay
Callout...............VIII	(q)	45
Lunch ................VIII	(q)	46
Prearranged...........VIII	(q)'	46
Increasing Forces.......V	(b)	9
Former employeesconsideration of......V	(b)	10
Former journeymen with combined service of four (4) years as journeyman and/or apprentice V	(f)	19
Insurance
Life .................VIII	(e)	39
Intellectual Property and
Confidential Information
Agreement (PSDF) ..Exhibit C	155
Job Schedules...........Exhibit B	99
Jury Duty...............VIII	(f)	40
Lay Offs................V	Q)(k)	23
Light Duty..............VIII	(z)	54
Local Agreements........II	(d)	3
Lockouts................XI	63
Loyalty ................X	62
Machinist, Steam Plant
Qualifications of.....XV (h)	67
Management
Retained rights.......IV	7
Right to lay off or discharge..........V	(j)	23
Meal Period.............VIII	(v)	51
Meals - Provided For....Exhibit D	172
Mechanics - Qualifications of
Hydro Plant...........XIV	(c)	65
Steam Plant...........XV	(g)	67
Modification of
Agreement.............II	(c)	3
187
SUBJECT INDEX
Subject	Article Paragraph Page
MOUs....................Exhibit C	104
1995 Negotiations.....Exhibit C	104
1998 Negotiations.....Exhibit C	110
2001 Negotiations.....Exhibit C	113
12-Hour Schedule......Exhibit C	145
10-Hour Schedule......Exhibit C	148
Co-Gen Project Staffing Exhibit C	128
Competitiveness
& Job Sec...........Exhibit C	136
Educational
Assistance..........Exhibit C	166
Farley Issues.........Exhibit C 143,171
Helper Reallocation....Exhibit C	132
Hydro Reorganization	..Exhibit C	169
Mediation..............Exhibit C	162
Power Gen Issues.......Exhibit C	167
Power Systems
Coordina.............Exhibit C	139
PSDF ................Exhibit	C	151
Telecommunications ....Exhibit C	123
Training - Voluntary...Exhibit C	119
Moving Expense
In event of demotion ....V	(i)	22
In event of promotion ....V	(g)	21
Reduction of forces...V	(g)	21
No Discrimination ......Ill	(b)(c)	4
Nonrotating Shift.......VIII	(u)	49
No Strike Clause........XI	63
Notice
Of absence to supervisor...........VIII	(n)	44
Of change of address to supervisor .......VIII	(o)	45
Of job vacancies .....V	(e-k)	12-25
Of recall to employee ............VIII	(m)	44
Of rescheduling.......VIII	(w)	52
188
SUBJECT INDEX
Subject	Article Paragraph		Page
Of standby	VIII Number and Classification		(r)	47
Required			IX	(b)	62
		Exhibit B		99
Off-Day			
Definition of			VIII	(q)	47
Prearranged work	VIII Operators: Qualifications of		(q)	46
Hydro Plant			XIV	(a)	65
Steam Plant			XV	(a)	65
Overtime			
Distribution			VIII	(s)	47
Hours and			
exceptions			VIII	(w)	53
Meals 			Exhibit D		172
Travel Expense	Exhibit	E When eight (8) hours off			182
duty is not given ...		VIII	(y)	53
Pension Reference			VIII	(e)	40
Physically disabled			
employee			VIII	(z)	54
Posting Rules			XX		69
Prearranged Work-			
Off-Day 				VIII	(q)	46
Work-Day				VIII	(q)	46
Probationary			
employees			VIII	(a)	31
Progression Through			
Pay Schedule		.....Exhibit A		81
Promotions Declined....		V, VIII	(e).(l)	14,44
PSDF			Exhibit C		151
Radio Tower -			
Work on 			VIII	(0)	60
Raincoats and			
Rain Equip		....VIII	(0	42
Rates of Pay 		....V	(h)	22
Hourly basis		....IX	(a)	62
189
SUBJECT INDEX
Subject	Article Paragraph Page
Rate Schedules.......Exhibit A	75
Ratio -
Steam Plants, Maintenance..........XV	(i)	67
Reduction in forces -Basis of...............V	(k)	23
Employees in temporary jobs.......V	(e)	16
Reduced Schedules -Steam Plants...........XV	(k)	68
Relocation of Employees Temporary..............VIII	(bb>	56
Rescheduling Regular periods........VIII	(w)	52
Temporary periods....VIII	(w)	53
Rest Period ...........VIII	(y)	53
Rotating Shifts........VIII	(u)	49
Safety Equipment .............XII	(b)	63
Investigating Committees...........XII	(d)	64
Precautions-
Safe performance of job.............XII	(b)	63
Promotion of.........XII	(a)	63
Rules-Violation of...XII	(c)	64
Scheduled Work Days and Hours .................VIII	(w)	52
10 Hour Schedule.....Exhibit C	148
12 Hour Schedule.....Exhibit C	145
Scope-Employees and departments covered................I	2
Seniority Basis of reckoning.....V	(a)	8
By operating units...V	(a)	9
190
SUBJECT INDEX
Subject	Article Paragraph Page
During disciplinary suspension............V	(a)	9
Increasing forces......V	(b)	9
In event of transfer...V	(b)	9
Interruptions in.......V	(b)	9
Lists, preparation of..V	(a)	8
Of returned servicemen ...........V	(a)	8
Termination of.........V	(b)	9
Shift Employees -Definition of ...........VIII	(u)	49
Shift Differential.......VIII	(u)	51
Sick Leave...............VIII	(b)	31
Standby-
Notice and time allowance........VIII	(r)	47
Statement of Hours and Pay Earned...................VIII	(ee)	59
Steam Plant Employees-Dutiesof ................XV	(a-k)	65-68
Number and
classification required............IX (b)	62
Strikes..................XI	63
Substitution - Temporary for another employee.........VIII	(k)	42
Rate of Pay............VIII	(k-1)	42
For Supervisor.........VIII (k-2&5) 43, 44
Supervisors - Working....VIII	(p)	45
Telephones...............VIII	(hh)	59
Temporary Job............V	(e)	16
Term of Agreement........II	3
Tool Policy..............VIII	(kk)	60
Training - Employee .......XIX	69
191
SUBJECT INDEX
Subject	Article Paragraph		Page
Travel Expense -Overtime		...Exhibit E		182
Between job and headquarters		....VIII	(dd)	58
To temporary relocation		...VIII	(bb)	56
Vacancies Awarding		...V	(e)	12
Basis for filling 		...V	(e)	12
Bidding for 		...V	(e)	13
Testing for		...Exhibit C		108
Instrument Service Center		...V	(e3)	17
Outside of unit		,...V	(e)	12
Posting notices		...V	(e)	12
Time limit of transfer..,	,...V	(e)	15
Vacations		...VIII	(c)	33
Voting - Time allowed ...	...VIII	(f)	40
Work Day -Definition of		...VIII	(v)	52
Work in Rain, Sleet, or Snow 		...VIII	(fl)	59
Work - Off-day		...VIII	(q)	45
Work Schedules		....VIII	(W)	52
Work - Temporary location		...VIII	(bb)	56
Work Week -Definition of		...VIII	(v)	51
192
NOTES
193
NOTES
194
NQTES
195
NOTES
196
NOTES
197
NOTES
198
NOTES
199