COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
Between
California Processors, Inc.
and
Teamsters California State Council of
Cannery and Food Processing Unions, International Brotherhood of Teamsters
as
Adopted June 16, 2009

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Detailed Index located in back of Agreement pages 104 through 118
Title	Section	Page
Adjustment of Grievances................... XIII	45
Affiliated Locals and Designated Plants	—	102
Agreement Description....................... —	1
Compliance.................................. XV	51
Conduct of Union Business................... XI	41
Conflicting Agreements..................... XVI	52
Conformance with State and Federal Laws..	XIV	51
Contractual Seniority....................... IX	26
Death in Family Benefit................. Appendix	H	93
Employment Conditions....................... IV	5
Fringe Benefits Preface................. Appendix	B	57
Hiring Practices............................ X	40
Holidays................................... VII	21
Job Classifications..................... Appendix	A	54
Jury Duty............................... Appendix	E	86
Medical Examination Plan................ Appendix	C	79
Merger, Lease or Purchase................. XVIII	53
On-the-Job Training Program.............. Appendix	I	94
Pension Plans............................ Appendix	D	83
Plant Operations........................... XII	42
Plants Covered by Agreement................. —	103
Prior Agreements............................ I	1
Procedure for Modification.................. XX	53
Recognition and Employment Practices...	II	2
Sabbatical Leave Plan.................... Appendix	K	96
Severance Pay............................ Appendix	L	101
Sick Leave Plan.......................... Appendix	F	87
Special Addendum to the Collective
Bargaining Agreement.................. Addendum	119
Term of Agreement.......................... XIX	53
Transfer of Company Title or Interest...	XVII	52
Vacations ................................. VIII	23
Wages ...................................... VI	15
Wage Rates............................... Appendix	A	54
Welfare Plans............................ Appendix	C	61
Work Covered .............................. III	2
Working Hours............................... V	6
©Recycled Paper
AGREEMENT
This COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT entered into this 1st day July, 2009, between California Processors, Inc., hereinafter called the “Employer”, and the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, hereinafter called the “Union”, shall operate as a Master Agreement between said Employer and said Union for purposes of establishing uniform wages, hours and working conditions as hereinafter defined, and a harmonious relationship between employees and companies engaged in the fruit, vegetable and related products processing industry of California.
This Agreement shall be binding upon each of the individual companies (hereinafter called “company”), members of the California Processors, Inc., for the plants designated, and upon each of the individual locals affiliated with the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions, International Brotherhood of Teamsters (hereinafter called “local”), for the local unions designated. Each of said companies has authorized the Employer to be its sole collective bargaining representative, and each of said local unions and members thereof has authorized the Union to be its sole collective bargaining representative for the negotiation and execution of this Agreement.
The Execution of this Agreement shall bind each company and each local union as follows: The company will pay the wages herein specified and perform the agreements on its part as set forth, and the local union through its members will do the work herein described and perform the agreements on its part as set forth, each without limitation or reservation, except as hereinafter expressed.
WITNESSETH: That in consideration of the premises it is mutually agreed as follows:
Section I
PRIOR AGREEMENTS
All previous interpretations and rulings, such as Adjustment Board decisions, Arbitration Board decisions, arbitrators’ decisions, and sick pay or job classification decisions which conflict with or are superseded by the specific provisions of this Agreement shall be given no weight or consideration whatsoever in the settlement of disputes involving the interpretation of this Agreement.
1
Section II
RECOGNITION AND EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
A.	For the purpose of collective bargaining, the Employer recognizes the Union as the sole agency representing all the employees of member companies who perform the work covered by Section III hereof, and the Union recognizes the Employer as the sole agency representing its member companies.
B.	There shall be no discrimination of any kind by any company or local union against any employees or members because of race, creed, sex, color, age, national origin, physical handicap, disability or any other legally protected status. The Employer and the Union mutually support all affirmative action efforts directed towards the expansion of equal employment opportunities within the Industry.
C.	There shall be no discrimination of any kind by any company against any employees on account of local union affiliation or on account of bona fide local union activity of such persons.
Section III
WORK COVERED
The following work is covered by this Agreement:
A. 1. All work performed in companies’ factories including buildings or lots where commodities or materials are processed or stored. Any of the companies’ factories, buildings or lots not previously designated in this Collective Bargaining Agreement where work is performed within the jurisdiction of the Union shall be covered by all terms and conditions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement upon the commencement of the performance of such work.
2. Contract coverage shall apply to operation, maintenance or repair of vining equipment owned or leased by plants covered by this Agreement. This provision shall apply to exclude agricultural labor and operations of bona fide agricultural departments. Box and bin repair which at the present time is being done by local union members on the premises of a plant covered by this Agreement and which is hereafter removed to another location within the juris
2
diction of the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions is covered by this Agreement, if the sole reason for such removal is to escape from the provisions of this Agreement; provided, however, that this provision will not be applied to disturb historical practices.
The parties shall negotiate a separate Master Receiving Station Agreement in accordance with agreed upon procedures.
B.	Consistent with Federal statutes, the Union agrees that during the life of this Agreement it will not surrender jurisdiction to any other union over any of the work covered by this Agreement. Similarly, the Employer, consistent with Federal statutes, agrees that during the life of this Agreement it will not grant recognition to any other union for any of the work covered by this Agreement.
C.	The parties recognize both the desirability of preserving bargaining unit work and that it is proper under some circumstances for the company to subcontract certain of such work. Any subcontracting shall be subject to the following conditions:
i.	when a Company determines to subcontract a job, it shall meet with the local union to determine whether bargaining unit employees can perform the work involved; and
ii.	during the period when subcontracting is occurring, bargaining unit employees are assigned to perform the work on overtime at least equivalent to any overtime work performed by Employees of the subcontractor(s). Therefore, the parties agree to the following with respect to subcontracting provided, however, that the following applies to new and additional subcontracting only and shall not be applied to work which has been subcontracted prior to August 4, 1970:
1.	The company may subcontract bargaining unit work as defined in Appendix A hereof when circumstances exist as provided in a. through e. below. Under these circumstances the Company will notify the local union ten (10) days prior to subcontracting work, except in emergencies. In cases of emergencies, the Company will notify the local union as soon as practicable of its decision to subcontract work.
3
a.	The employees lack the necessary competence to perform the work involved; or
b.	there is lack of sufficient number of employees reasonably available to do the work within the required time limits; or
c.	the equipment required to perform the work is not on the premises or is of a specialized type which has only occasional use and is not central to plant operations; or
d.	new or modified equipment of specialized type is installed, and such installation or modification is generally performed by personnel employed by equipment manufacturers or representatives; or
e.	the work is performed by employees of a public utility.
2.	If other unusual circumstances require subcontracting, the company shall first notify the local union involved. If the parties cannot agree, the issue shall be submitted to an impartial Arbitrator, whose decision shall be final and binding. In the event the company subcontracts work and the Arbitrator subsequently finds the company is in violation of the provisions of the Agreement, the Arbitrator shall have the right to fashion any remedy deemed appropriate under the circumstances. No subcontracting (as provided in this paragraph No. 2) shall be undertaken, except in an emergency situation unless the agreement of the local is first obtained, or unless an impartial Arbitrator authorizes it.
D.	Any combination of two or more firms, parties to this Agreement, operating on the same premises and sharing or inter-changing employees within the same work day and/or work week shall, for purposes of the working hours’ provisions of this Agreement, be defined as a single company.
E.	Salaried supervisors will not perform bargaining unit work except while training employees. A supervisor who performs no bargaining unit work is not claimed by the Union to be within its jurisdiction and is not subject to the provisions of this Agreement. Upon request, a list of salaried supervisors who supervise bargaining unit employees and the department they supervise, shall be mailed to the Local Union each year.
4
Section IV
EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS
A.	The companies covered by this Agreement will not discourage union membership by employees, and said companies hereby recognize that employees are entitled to join the local union upon being hired, and thereby to enjoy immediately all rights and benefits of union membership. All employees covered by this Agreement shall, as a condition of continued employment, become and remain members of the local union after the thirtieth (30th) day of employment under this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947.
B.	The company will deduct from their wages and turn over to the proper officers of the local union the initiation fees and dues of such members of the local union as individually and voluntarily certify in writing that they authorize such deductions.
C.	When requested by the local union, deduction authorizations shall be reported to the local union on a weekly basis. The monies collected for such initiation fees and dues shall be paid to the local union each week or deposited as deducted in a separate trust account, making payments thereof to the local union on a monthly basis or such other intervals as may be agreed upon between the local union and the company. The local union shall have a right to review the company’s records in regard to issues of union authorization and/or dues deductions.
D.	The company agrees to deduct from the paycheck of all employees covered by this Agreement voluntary contributions to DRIVE or such other Political Action Committee designated by the union. The company shall be notified of the amounts designated by each contributing employee that are to be deducted from his/her paycheck on a weekly basis for all weeks worked. The phrase “weeks worked” excludes any weeks other than a week in which the employee earned a wage. The company shall transmit to the designated Political Action Committee on a monthly basis, in one check, the total amount deducted along with the name of each employee on whose behalf a deduction is made, the employee’s Social Security number and the amount deducted from that employee’s paychecks. The union shall reim
5
burse the company annually for the company’s actual cost for the expenses incurred in administering the weekly payroll deduction plan.
Section V
WORKING HOURS
A.	Work Week. All weeks shall be weeks of not more than forty (40) hours at straight-time.
1.	For each of the days Monday through Friday inclusive, straight-time and overtime for hours worked shall be paid as follows:
First eight hours—straight-time.
Next four hours—one and one-half (11/2) times the straight-time rate.
Over twelve hours—two (2) times the straight-time rate.
2.	For each Saturday and Sunday, payments for hours worked shall be as follows:
First eight hours—one and one-half (11/2) times the straight-time rate.
Over eight hours—two (2) times the straight-time rate.
3.	Work performed on Saturdays shall be paid for at the rate provided in 2. above provided, however, that any employee who remains away from the job during the week without excused absence granted by the company shall not receive that rate for such Saturday work but only for any portion of the employee’s work that exceeds forty (40) straight-time hours in the particular work week; and further provided that any employee who starts work after the beginning of the work week at the start of processing a particular product, shall receive overtime only for any Saturday hours which exceed forty (40) straight-time hours worked by the employee in the particular work week, except that employees working on non-perishable products on Saturday will be paid at the rate in 2. above. Employees who do not qualify for one and one-half (11/2) times the straight-time rate for Saturday hours under the above provisions will receive the straight-time rate plus twenty-five cents (250) for the hours worked up to forty (40) after which
6
the contractual rates for Saturday shall apply, excluding the twenty-five cents (250).
4.	Notwithstanding the above, upon request of the employer or the local union the parties may agree to institute a different work week schedule. The agreed upon alternate work week shall be submitted to the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions and California Processors, Inc. Failure of the parties to agree to the alternate work week shall be subject to the grievance procedure by either party. However, the procedure cannot be implemented without the approval of the Teamsters Cannery Council and California Processors, Inc. The agreed upon terms and conditions of the different work week schedule shall be reduced to writing and subject to approval by at least three-fourths (3/4) of the affected employees voting on such a request. The change in the work week may be applicable either to separate units within a plant or on a plant-wide basis. Any such approved schedule may be terminated by the employer upon submission of written notification to the local union or by the local union furnishing the employer written notification.
B.	General Conditions.
1.	Call-in, Call-back Time.
a.	Any employee instructed to report for work, whether or not put to work, shall receive four (4) hours’ pay. If an employee is specifically instructed by the company to stand by the phone and is not required to report to work, such employee shall receive four (4) hours pay. If an employee requests not to be assigned to stand by, the employee shall be allowed to sign-off such stand by time provided a qualified alternate is available for assignment.
b.	Employees called in to perform emergency work prior to their normal scheduled shift starting time shall receive time and one-half their regular straighttime hourly rate for all time worked prior to their regularly scheduled shift starting time. In addition, such employees shall work their normal scheduled shift in accordance with A. above.
c.	The rate of pay for all time credited to the employee under the above rules shall be the employee’s regu
7
lar straight-time rate received for the preceding work day. Call-in time payments to incentive workers shall be at the contractual hourly rate.
d.	The foregoing payments for call-in time shall not apply if failure to provide work is due to any of the following:
(1)	Failure of the public utilities to supply electricity, gas or water or the failure of its sewer systems.
(2)	Failure to maintain or commence operations due to threats to employees or property when recommended by civil authorities.
(3)	Overnight weather changes preventing harvesting of the crops in process. The company will attempt to notify employees of such lack of product due to overnight weather changes when it knows in advance of shift starting times of this condition and has sufficient time to notify all employees. The burden of proof on whether or not the company attempted to notify employees under the above provision shall be borne by the company in any grievance or arbitration proceeding.
e.	When an employee has completed the employee’s regular shift and has left the company’s premises and is called back to perform emergency work, the employee shall receive a minimum of four (4) hours’ pay at the applicable overtime rate. If such recall occurs less than four (4) hours prior to the start of the employee’s regular shift, said employee shall be paid at the overtime rate up to the time the regular shift commences. The employee shall only be required to perform the emergency work or work related to an emergency. Intervening hours shall not count as hours of work.
2.	Eight Hour Work Guarantee for Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Employees.
a.	Any fourteen hundred (1400) hour employee who is called to work on any straight-time day shall receive at least eight (8) hours’ work or eight (8) hours’ pay.
b.	The foregoing work guarantee shall not apply if failure to provide work is due to any of the following:
8
(1)	Failure of the public utilities to supply electricity, gas or water or the failure of its sewer systems.
(2)	Failure to maintain or commence operations due to threats to employees or property when recommended by civil authorities.
(3)	Lack of product due to harvesting or substantiated delivery difficulties.
(4)	Any labor disputes.
(5)	The refusal of the employee to accept any work assignment for which the employee is qualified and physically able to perform.
(6)	Employee absence for sickness or any other reason.
3.	Seven Hour Work Guarantee for Seniority Employees With Less Than Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hours.
a.	When two shifts are operating on a particular product, seniority employees assigned to the first shift working on that particular product will be guaranteed at least seven (7) hours’ work or seven (7) hours’ pay. When three shifts are operating on a particular product, employees assigned to the first and second shifts working on that particular product will be guaranteed at least seven (7) hours’ work or seven (7) hours’ pay. The above seven (7) hour guarantee is applicable only on straight-time days.
b.	The rate of pay for all time credited to the employee under the above rules shall be the employee’s regular straight-time rate. Payments to incentive workers shall be at the contractual hourly rate.
c.	If an employee is required by the company to take a shift other than the shift to which seniority would entitle the employee, this person shall receive a guarantee of no less than the number of hours the employee would have worked on the earlier shift.
d.	The foregoing payments for work guarantees shall not apply if failure to provide work is due to any of the following:
(1)	Failure of the public utilities to supply electricity, gas or water or the failure of its sewer systems.
(2)	Failure to maintain or commence operations due to threats to employees or property when recom
9
mended by civil authorities.
(3)	Lack of product due to harvesting or substantiated delivery difficulties.
(4)	On the first day of the start of the processing of each product and the last day when the processing of each product is being completed.
(5)	Any labor disputes.
(6)	The refusal of the employee to accept any work assignment for which the employee is qualified and physically able to perform.
(7)	Employee absence for sickness or any other reason.
4.	Work Recesses. Any work recess time shall be paid for at the applicable contractual hourly rate for both hourly and incentive workers, except that one (1) hour of such recess time need not be paid for if the cause was failure of any public utility to supply electricity, gas or water or the failure of its sewer systems. Any recess time which is paid for shall not be counted as time worked in computing daily overtime. Starting and ending time of all recesses shall be posted and employees may leave the premises of the company for the posted interval of the recess period.
5.	Relief Periods. Each company shall authorize all employees to take adequate relief periods which shall be approximately in the middle of each half-day of work. In the event any question arises as to the adequacy of the relief periods, twelve (12) minutes within each four (4) hours worked shall be presumed to be adequate. The twelve (12) minute relief period is intended to provide the employee with twelve (12) minutes away from the job and is not meant to be a required time to go to the lavatory. Employees should be allowed to leave their work to go to the lavatory as reasonably required.
Relief periods shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
10
Minimum
Relief
No. Hours Worked	Period
Up to 6 hours or less	1
Over 6 hours but less than 10 hours	2
Over 10 hours	3
Over 12 hours	4
in accordance with I.W.C. regulations.
The intent of the parties is that actual relief periods be scheduled in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph unless unusual circumstances prevent scheduling of such relief periods. However, the scheduling of relief periods may be altered by mutual agreement between the company and the local union so that payment in lieu of relief periods may be made.
When an employee is not granted a relief period, the employee shall receive an additional twelve (12) minutes pay for each such relief period not granted. Such payments shall be made at the rate which the employee would have received if the relief period had been granted.
6.	Meal Time. Meal time shall normally be one-half (1/2) hour; however, a different meal period may be fixed by agreement in writing between the local union and the company. Either the local union or the company may request such different period, and neither shall unreasonably withhold approval. Any plant having a longer meal period as of the date of this Agreement may continue such longer meal period until the local union and the company otherwise agree in writing.
The meal period may occur after the employee has worked at least three (3) hours but not more than five (5) hours, unless different periods are fixed in writing between the local union and the company. In the absence of such agreement, a penalty of one-half (1/2) the employee’s straight-time hourly rate shall apply to either the amount of time less than three (3) hours or more than the five (5) hours limitation, as the case may be.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, when there are shifts of eight (8) hours or less, and an entire department is shut down for the meal period, then the upper limit without a meal period shall be four (4) hours instead of five (5)
11
hours (except for those employees who adjust machines or work on clean-up; the five (5) hour limit will apply to employees on these two assignments). In the event that the four (4) hour limit or the five (5) hour limit for machine adjusting and clean-up is exceeded, the one-half (1/2) straight-time penalty applies as in the above paragraph unless different periods are fixed by agreement in writing between the local union and the company.
a.	Meal periods shall not be changed from the normal schedule for the sole purpose of using meal periods to repair breakdowns.
b.	The company will not arbitrarily change the schedule of meal periods and the local union will not arbitrarily withhold approval for reasonable meal time schedules. Any dispute arising from failure of a local union to agree to a meal period of less than one-half (1/2) hour shall be resolved by secret ballot among the employees affected.
c.	Boiler room attendants shall either be given a regular meal period or shall be paid without deduction for meal periods. Other employees may be placed on the same basis as boiler room attendants by mutual agreement in writing between the local union and the company.
d.	An employee who is assigned emergency work by the company after the employee has started a meal period shall receive an additional one (1) hour of pay at the applicable rate and be permitted to finish said meal.
7.	Interval Between Shifts.
a.	There shall be a lapse of eight (8) hours between the time an employee finishes one day or shift and starts another day or shift. When a “change over” occurs from one regular shift schedule to another regular shift schedule, this rule shall not apply. As used in this paragraph the term “regular shift” means at least five (5) working days. However, at the request of the employee, the lapse of eight (8) hours between shifts may be reduced to no less than four (4) hours if the change over is less than five (5) working days. Such employee request will be made in accordance with
12
Section IX, Paragraph I.
b.	Except as provided for a “change over” in Paragraph “a” above, a penalty payment of one-half (1/2) the straight-time hourly rate shall be paid for the encroaching hours worked by an employee after the employee is called back short of the required eight (8) hour interval. All such encroaching hours shall be considered as part of the succeeding shift for purposes of computing daily overtime and required intervals for meal periods.
8.	Work Day. A work day shall be from 6:00 A.M. to 6:00 A.M. of the following day.
9.	Working Hours. Employees who start to work at 2:00 A.M. or later and before 6:00 A.M. will receive one-half (1/2) time additional pay as penalty for hours worked prior to 6:00 A.M.
Employees who start to work at 2:00 A.M. or later and before 6:00 A.M. on days where overtime payment of one and one-half (11/2) times the straight-time hourly rate of pay is applicable, such as holidays, Sundays and Saturdays, will receive, in addition to the applicable overtime rate of one and one-half (11/2) times the straight-time hourly rate of pay, one-half (1/2) times their straight-time hourly rate of pay additional as a penalty for reporting between 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M., or a total of two (2) times their straight-time hourly rate of pay for reporting between 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.
10.	Record Keeping.
a.	Each company shall convert to payment for all time on the basis of one-tenth (1/10) hour or major fraction thereof.
b.	Each employee shall receive and sign a time card daily showing recorded hours and minutes worked for that day. Sufficient and adequate arrangements shall be made so that no unnecessary delay shall be involved in signing such cards. Each employee shall deposit such signed card in a suitable place. In the event the company does not have time clocks, an employee who has reason to believe that an error has been made with regard to the record of the employee’s working time shall be given a copy of the daily
13
time card for the period in question if the employee so requests. Companies will continue present practices of providing duplicate time cards and time clocks at facilities currently providing such clocks and cards.
c.	If a company issues time cards which do not reflect the employees’ bracket codes, the company shall post a list of all job codes and the appropriate bracket rate for each code.
d.	For those plants who do not issue daily time cards, employees may request a weekly print-out of their time records.
11.	Compulsory Overtime and Overtime Notification.
a.	Compulsory Overtime. All employees shall report for and work the scheduled hours including overtime. However, employees are not required to work overtime provided a qualified work force is available at the plant to perform the available work.
b.	Overtime Notification.
(1)	Provided a qualified work force is available at the plant, employees during the non-processing season shall have notice of work on an overtime day at least four (4) hours before the end of the first shift on the previous day.
(2)	Employees assigned to processing work, shall be notified of overtime work as soon as knowledge or need of such overtime work is known by the company. However, where employees ordinarily work five (5) days per week during the processing season, subparagraph (1.) above shall apply provided a qualified work force based on inverse seniority is available at the plant to perform the work.
12.	Accident, Industrial Illness or Injury on the Job. Any employee who suffers an accident, industrial illness or injury on the job requiring medical treatment by a physician who is unable to return to work will be paid for the balance of the day. The pay shall be based on the number of hours the employee would have otherwise worked on the day of the accident, industrial illness or injury.
14
13.	Treatments by a Doctor.
a.	Industrial Injury. Employees shall attempt to schedule doctor’s visits for industrial injury or industrial illness on non-work time. An employee who is required to take time off as a result of an industrial injury for treatment in the doctor’s office shall be paid for such time lost from work.
b.	Non-lndustrial Treatment. An employee who is required to take time off as a result of a non-industrial injury or illness for treatment in the doctor’s office or for dental treatment, will be permitted to return to work for the balance of the shift provided the request for time off is made at least one (1) working day in advance except in cases of emergency when such notice cannot be given. In such event, the employee shall be paid only for actual time worked.
14.	There shall be no pyramiding of overtime or premium pay under the terms of this Agreement and under no circumstances will there be more than one basis of calculating overtime or premium pay to be used for the same hours. However, penalty time at straight-time rates will in all cases be added to the applicable rate set forth in the Agreement.
Section Vl
WAGES
A.	Straight-Time Wage Rates.
Straight-time wage rates for all employees shall be in accordance with the schedule set forth in Appendix A. 1. a. and b. of this Agreement.
B.	Incentive Wage Rates.
1.	If any company elects to pay any worker or group of workers on an “incentive” (as distinguished from hour work) basis, each worker or group of workers shall be guaranteed a minimum of the applicable straight-time rate for the job.
2.	Incentive plans currently in effect may be continued at the company’s option. If a company intends to institute a new incentive plan, the company must first notify the local union. After notifying the local union, the compa
15
ny must enter into negotiations with the local union concerning such incentive rates. If the parties cannot mutually resolve the matter, all unresolved issues will be referred to the arbitration provisions of this Agreement. The new plan will not be made effective until the parties have reached agreement or the Arbitrator has rendered his decision.
3.	Rules governing the incentive basis of pay:
a.	Incentive rates applicable to the workers in any department for each product and for each classification of work shall be posted in advance upon a bulletin board in plain sight of the workers. Posted incentive rates shall state a definite unit price to be paid, and the unit of work to which the unit price is applicable. Incentive rates may be changed thereafter to compensate for variations in products or processes, to correct errors, or for other reasonable causes. The local union shall be notified in writing in advance of any such changes in incentive rates.
b.	Any protests involving changes in incentive rates must be filed as a grievance within five (5) days after such notice of change, otherwise the change shall be deemed approved. Changes in incentive rates in effect at the end of the preceding season are included within the meaning of this paragraph.
C.	General Wage Provisions.
1.	Daily Assignment. The rate of pay per hour for each hour worked by any employee shall be in accordance with the rate established for the job classification to which the employee is assigned, provided, however, the rate of pay of any employee shall not be reduced during any day or shift by reason of the employee’s assignment to a lower classification during such day or shift.
2.	Annual Assignment.
a.	Employees who worked at least fourteen hundred (1400) hours in the preceding calendar year or anniversary year shall not be reduced from their annual assignment regardless of work assignment subject to the conditions set forth below. Holidays, at the rate of eight (8) hours for each contractual holiday, and vacation hours including sabbatical leave,
16
jury duty and death in the family (calculated as the number of hours the employee would otherwise have worked) shall be credited toward the fourteen hundred (1400) hour requirement. Hours lost due to an industrial injury, industrial illness and paid sick leave (calculated as the number of hours the employee would otherwise have worked) shall also be credited toward the fourteen hundred (1400) hour requirement. A list of such employees and their annual assignments shall be prepared by the company and sent to the local union not later than January 20th of each year or the 20th day after the anniversary date. Any such eligible employee’s initial annual assignment rate shall be effective January 1, or at the end of the employee’s 12 month anniversary period. Such eligibility date will be the first day of the calendar month in which the employee’s employment anniversary occurs, if no later than the 15th day of the month; otherwise, it will be the first day of the following calendar month. Subsequent recalculations of annual assignment shall be made on January 1st of the following year.
b.	Any dispute concerning an employee’s annual assignment shall be referred to the Arbitration Board and shall be determined as follows:
(1)	The annual assignment shall be determined as follows: A statement shall be prepared showing the rates of pay and the number of hours worked at each rate of pay up to a minimum of seven hundred (700) hours during the previous year. Starting with the highest hourly rate on such statement, the corresponding hours shall be added until seven hundred (700) hours are arrived at. The rate last used upon reaching seven hundred (700) hours becomes the annual assignment. Holidays, at the rate of eight (8) hours for each contractual holiday, shall be credited toward the seven hundred (700) hour requirement. Hours lost due to an industrial injury, industrial illness, sabbatical leave and paid sick leave, vacations, jury duty or death in the family (calculated as the number of hours the employee would otherwise
17
have worked) shall be credited towards the seven hundred (700) hours on the basis of the bracket rate of pay the employee would have been entitled to be assigned to, based on seniority and qualifications, if the employee had not been injured. In the event that an employee’s seniority and ability would entitle this person to credit for a higher rate of pay than used in the aforementioned statement, the employee shall receive credit in the computation for the rate to which seniority and ability would entitle the employee.
(2)	After an employee gains an annual assignment, it shall be maintained from year to year thereafter and to the end of the calendar year after the job is abolished. The annual assignment shall not continue if the employee becomes unable to perform the job, unless the employee’s inability to perform the job is due to an industrial injury.
The company shall notify the local union at least ten (10) days before a job is to be abolished.
Employees who earn an annual assignment for the first time on or after January 1, 1964, may have their annual assignments recalculated each year. However, if the calculation results in a lower annual assignment, the higher annual assignment will be retained for the same number of consecutive years the higher annual assignment was earned to a maximum of ten (10) years. Employees who have earned a higher annual assignment equivalent to the number of years of seniority protection prior to January 1, 1989, will retain said annual assignment until such years of protection are used.
(3)	Personal premiums granted after March 1, 1947, will not be used in the computations and will not be part of the annual assignment.
3.	Personal Premiums. Employees who on or before March 1, 1947, were receiving a personal premium shall continue to receive the premium when assigned to their regular duties or to duties calling for a lower bracket rate. Any employee receiving a personal premium for the first time after July 1, 1994, at a bracket rate, will be
18
advised in writing with a copy to the local union, of his or her personal premium. If such written notification is not given, said personal premium may not be withdrawn as long as the employee continues to perform the job for which such personal premium was given. This written notification does not apply to personal premiums paid at other than an established bracket rate. Piece-work payments, incentive payments or other methods of payment where earnings are directly related to a measured amount of production are not included within the limitations of this paragraph.
4.	Night Work Premium.
a.	A second shift premium of ten cents (100) per hour shall be paid to all employees in accordance with the following rules:
(1)	When an employee’s daily overtime starts at or before 6:00 P.M., the employee shall not be entitled to the night work premium for any overtime hours worked after 6:00 P.M.
(2)	Any employee who works four (4) hours or more at straight-time between 6:00 P.M. and 12:00 Midnight shall receive the second shift premium for the full shift including any overtime hours.
(3)	Any employee who works less than four (4) straight-time hours between 6:00 P.M. and 12:00 Midnight shall receive the second shift premium only for those hours worked within the period 6:00 P.M. and 12:00 Midnight.
b.	A third shift premium of fifteen cents (150) per hour shall be paid to all employees in accordance with the following rules:
(1)	When an employee’s daily overtime starts at or before 12:00 Midnight, the employee shall not be entitled to the third shift premium for overtime hours worked after 12:00 Midnight.
(2)	Any employee who works four (4) hours or more at straight-time between 12:00 Midnight and 6:00 A.M. shall receive the third shift premium for the full shift including any overtime hours.
(3)	Any employee who works less than four (4) straight-time hours between 12:00 Midnight and
19
6:00 A.M. shall receive the third shift premium only for those hours worked within the period 12:00 Midnight and 6:00 A.M.
(4)	Any employee who works four (4) straight-time hours before and after 12:00 Midnight shall receive the third shift premium.
(5)	Any third shift (graveyard) employee who works a shift of four (4) hours or less will receive a total of twenty-five cents (250) per hour as a night shift premium for each hour worked.
c.	The appropriate shift premium shall be added to the base rate for purposes of computing overtime payments to all employees who are entitled to a shift premium.
d.	When asparagus is being processed on a one-shift basis, the shift premium shall not start before 6:00 P.M. When asparagus is being processed on a two or three-shift basis, all provisions of the above paragraphs shall apply.
5.	Time and Place of Compensation. Weekly paychecks to all employees compensated on an hourly basis shall be made available to employees not later than Friday of the following week. Paychecks for employees who quit voluntarily shall be available within seventy-two (72) hours from the close of the shift on which they quit, Sundays and contractual holidays excluded. Paychecks for employees who are laid off for lack of work shall be available within seventy-two (72) hours from the close of the shift on which the layoff occurred, Sundays and contractual holidays excluded; provided, however, the company will make every reasonable effort to make earlier payment to employees requesting the same, or will mail paychecks to such employees upon request. Grievance adjustments and sick leave payments, if not specifically itemized on regular paychecks, shall be paid in a separate check.
6.	If requested by the local union, a joint committee will be established at the plant level for the purpose of developing reasonable and practicable methods for reducing or eliminating long lines at employee pay windows. In
20
addition, the joint committee will attempt to develop reasonable means by which second and third shift employees can receive their paychecks following the second and third shifts on Thursday.
The joint committee shall function in good faith to achieve the above stated objectives.
Section VII HOLIDAYS
A.	The Following Holidays Will Be Recognized: New Year’s Day, President’s Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day, Veterans’ Day, Thanksgiving Day, Friday after Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day and December 31.
B.	Eligibility For Benefits For All Contractual Holidays: Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Employees
Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Employees shall be eligible for all holidays immediately upon obtaining fourteen hundred (1400) hours.
Non-Fourteen Hundred (Non-1400) Hour Employees
Employees whose names appear on the current seniority list and who also had seniority status in the previous calendar year.
C.	All Eligible Employees Must Meet The Following Requirements:
1.	If called to work on the holiday, the employee must work or forfeit holiday pay unless the absence is excused as provided in Section IX.M.5.
2.	For all holidays: The employee must work on the employee’s scheduled work day before and after the holiday and such scheduled work days must fall within a spread of twelve (12) working days before and after the holiday, but excluding the holiday. However, a fourteen hundred (1400) hour employee shall be guaranteed to receive holiday pay for Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day. An otherwise eligible employee who works on a holiday but is thereafter on layoff due to lack of work shall qualify for holiday pay.
21
3.	An employee who is absent from the employee’s scheduled working day before or after the holiday because of substantiated illness or other legitimate reason shall qualify for the paid holiday provided the employee returns to work within the twelve (12) day spread. Documentation verifying a substantiated illness or other legitimate reason must be provided on the employee’s next scheduled work day, except for circumstances beyond the employee’s control. The foregoing requirement shall not be applicable to an employee who is on vacation.
D.	Calculation of Holiday Pay:
1.	The amount of pay for an unworked holiday will be eight (8) hours’ pay at the employee’s hourly rate in effect on the employee’s previous working day or if the employee is on an incentive basis of pay, the holiday pay will be eight (8) hours at the contractual straighttime hourly rate.
2.	Established personal premiums shall be included in the calculation of pay for holidays not worked, but the night work premium shall not be included.
3.	An employee eligible for holiday pay who works on the holiday will receive the eight (8) hours of holiday pay as defined in Paragraph 1. above plus Sunday rates for work performed on the holiday.
4.	An employee not eligible for holiday pay who works on the holiday shall receive Sunday rates.
E.	Other General Holiday Provisions:
1.	If any of the contractual holidays fall on Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed as the holiday.
2.	Any holiday which falls on a Saturday shall be granted as a paid holiday to eligible employees, with the actual observance of the holiday to be at the company’s option on either Friday or Saturday. If the company elects Friday but does not work on Friday, Saturday shall be a time and one-half day if worked. The company shall notify the employees and the local union no later than Monday of the week in which a holiday falls on Saturday which day the company has selected as the contractual holiday.
3.	If an eligible employee is on vacation, the pay for a contractual holiday which falls during the vacation will be
22
added to the vacation check or the employee’s paid vacation may be extended by the number of contractual holidays which fall during the vacation period. Whichever practice is followed, the company must be uniform and consistent with respect to all employees.
4.	No work shall be performed on any contractual holiday except in cases of emergency or in the performance of necessary maintenance, repairs or preparation work to enable resumption of regular operations on the following day.
5.	No plant layoffs shall be scheduled for the sole purpose of avoiding holiday pay.
6.	The July 4 holiday shall be paid at the rate in effect on July 1.
Section VIII VACATIONS
A. Eligible Employees Will Be Granted Vacations With Pay In Accordance With The Following Schedule:
Years of Service	Length of Vacation
1	but less than 3 years ...............1 week
Pay: 2% of “annual earnings” including vacation pay
3	but less than 7 years ...............2 weeks
Pay: 4% of “annual earnings”
including vacation pay
7	but less than 18 years ..............3 weeks
Pay: 6% of “annual earnings”
including vacation pay
18 years and over ......................4 weeks
Pay: 8% of “annual earnings” including vacation pay
“Annual Earnings” do not include retirement allowances, sick leave payments, bonus payments, traveling expenses, other insurance payments, nor earnings subsequent to the time a vacation is taken as provided in Paragraph D. and E. below. If an employee has qualified for vacation pay, and is off work due to an industrial injury, Workers’
23
Compensation payments will be included in the computation of “annual earning” only in those years in which the employee has actually worked.
B.	Eligibility. For purposes of this Section, a “year of service” is defined as fourteen hundred (1400) combined straight and overtime hours of employment, including all hours for which payment is required under the contract, within the employee’s twelve (12) month “qualifying period”. The term “qualifying period” as used in this Section shall mean the twelve (12) calendar months of the year or the twelve (12) months dating from the hiring date of the employee or an anniversary thereof, during which the employee has worked at least fourteen hundred (1400) combined straight and overtime hours. Either type of “qualifying period” may be used by the company in keeping vacation records. An employee initially qualifies immediately upon attaining fourteen hundred (1400) hours.
C.	Other General Vacation Provisions.
1.	Leaves of absence granted under Section IX.M. 1.b. shall be counted as time worked in computing vacation eligibility, and the number of hours credited shall be the straight-time hours of the appropriate shift worked in the plant during the period of such leave.
2.	Any employee whose service is broken by any of the conditions set forth under “Loss of Seniority” and who is subsequently rehired, forfeits any previous fractional vacation eligibility, original anniversary date of employment and all previously accumulated years of service.
3.	Similarly, any employee whose service is broken before having completed the requisite number of hours forfeits all vacation privileges.
4.	If an employee becomes disabled while on vacation or sabbatical leave, at the employee’s request, such employee may have their vacation or sabbatical leave interrupted and be placed on sick leave status on Monday of any week providing the employee notifies the company and substantiates the disability on Monday. Failing such Monday notification, the employee may be placed on sick leave on Monday of the next week. The employee’s unused vacation shall be granted on request on a later date.
24
5.	Employees who retire and are granted the retiree Health and Welfare Plan benefits for fourteen hundred (1400) hour employees will be given a pro-rata vacation based on the appropriate percentage of their earnings from the last date of their qualifying period to the start of the vacation prior to retirement.
6.	Each employee shall be given an opportunity annually to request vacation preferences as early as practicable in the plant’s vacation eligibility year. Vacation preferences shall be granted consistent with operating requirements and the employee’s seniority. At least sixty (60) days’ advance notice of vacation shall be given to each employee. Employees shall not be required to take vacations during layoff periods except by mutual consent. Contractual holidays that fall during vacations which have been scheduled and agreed to in advance will be paid for in accordance with Section VII. E. 3. However, employees shall not be permitted to schedule vacation during layoff periods for the specific purpose of obtaining additional pay for holidays for which they would not have been eligible.
7.	Nothing in this Section shall be interpreted to entitle any employee to a pro-rata vacation based on partial eligibility, except as provided in C.5. above and E. of this Section.
8.	Consistent with operating requirements, vacations shall be scheduled in accordance with seniority preference.
9.	Any employee who has completed fourteen hundred (1400) hours in the employee’s current qualifying period and who quits or is discharged is entitled to receive vacation pay, but not pay for holidays which fall after the date of termination. Employees who are laid off or employees who, for personal convenience, request their vacation pay immediately after fourteen hundred (1400) hours’ work in their current qualifying period shall be paid on the basis of their earnings to the date of the vacation. Credits for any subsequent vacation pay will commence again upon returning from vacation.
10.	Employees may not receive vacation pay in lieu of time off.
11.	If either the Company or the employee elects to cancel the employee’s scheduled vacation, the party making the cancellation shall be required to give the other party
25
thirty (30) calendar days notice prior to the start of the scheduled vacation.
12.	The parties agree that an employee who is on a regularly scheduled vacation shall not be required to report for work on the weekend before and the weekend after the employee is granted vacation leave.
13.	If an eligible employee is on vacation, the pay for a contractual holiday which falls during the vacation will be added to the vacation check or the employee’s paid vacation may be extended by the number of contractual holidays which fall during the vacation period. Whichever practice is followed, the company must be uniform and consistent with respect to all employees.
D.	Protection of Vacation.
After an employee has qualified for a vacation, the employee shall retain vacation eligibility if the employee failed to work fourteen hundred (1400) hours, including all hours for which payment is required under the contract, and such failure to work was due to layoff by the company for lack of work or due to an approved leave of absence for personal or industrial illness or injury. Such protected vacation shall be counted as a “year of service”. An employee’s vacation will be protected for the same number of credited years of service up to a maximum of ten (10) years.
E.	Pro-rata Vacation Pay.
After an employee has qualified for a vacation and fails to work fourteen hundred (1400) hours and such failure to work was due to layoff by the company for lack of work, due to an approved leave of absence for personal or industrial illness or injury, as a result of a plant closure or due to the death of the employee, such employee is eligible for pro-rata vacation pay based on all hours for which payment is required under the contract, except paid sick leave.
Section IX
SENIORITY
A.	The Seniority List. There shall be one seniority list in each plant. Seniority will be attained after an employee has worked thirty (30) working days dating from the employee’s hire date within two (2) consecutive calendar years.
26
B.	Order of Seniority. The order of seniority shall be on the day that the employee attains the thirtieth (30th) work day. When an employee has worked thirty (30) days as provided above, the employee’s name shall be added to the seniority list.
In the event that more than one employee attains seniority on the same calendar day of the year, those employees will be listed on the seniority list according to the last four digits of their Social Security Number, in ascending order, with the lowest number at the top of the list prevailing. If an error is made in applying this provision, the company shall have twenty-four (24) hours after being informed of the error to correct it.
C.	Review and Approval Procedure. All requests for correction by an employee in the seniority listing shall be made in writing within thirty (30) days after the employee’s name has been added to the seniority list.
If the employee is on layoff when such employee’s name is added to the seniority list, the employee shall have thirty (30) days after returning to work to request a correction if warranted.
After said thirty (30) days, no changes will be made for any reason.
D.	Effective Date for Seniority. Until an employee’s name appears on the seniority list, the employee shall not be entitled to seniority privileges. Job assignment, layoff and recall may be made without regard to hiring dates until such time as an employee gains seniority listing.
E.	The company shall place all additional names on the seniority list promptly after the employee has attained the required thirty (30) work days. The local union shall receive a copy of all names added to the seniority list. The employee shall be promptly notified that seniority has been attained. The company and the local union shall determine a suitable procedure for notification in each plant.
F.	It is expressly understood that in a new plant where no previous seniority list has been established, seniority during the first year of the plant’s operation will begin to exist and accrue after the first thirty (30) days of employment of the individual worker. The seniority list so established shall confer eligibility for holiday pay.
27
G.	Preference in Recalling, Layoffs and in Filling Jobs.
1.	In layoffs and recalling of employees and in filling of jobs, seniority shall be observed providing the employee is qualified to perform the available work. Qualified shall mean an individual who has bid on and who is awarded a Bracket III or above job bid for seasonal or non-seasonal openings.
2.	A senior Bracket V employee may request to be placed on a Bracket IV job and can thereby displace an employee in Bracket IV with lesser seniority. Seniority shall prevail where an employee moves from Bracket V to Bracket IV in spite of the fact that the employee in Bracket V may require training to qualify for the Bracket IV job. Bumping from one Bracket IV job to another Bracket IV job shall not be permitted unless the move provides definite promotional opportunities or involves superior working conditions. Superior working conditions shall be limited to hot, cold, wet or dry working environments.
3.	In the event of a layoff because of curtailment of operations, seniority employees, if qualified, shall be entitled to claim available jobs of equal or lesser rates of pay held by employees with less seniority, but are not entitled to claim any specific jobs, it being understood that the principle of seniority establishes the right of job security but not job selection. However, if no job is available with equal or lesser rates of pay, the senior employee who in lieu of being laid off shall, if qualified, replace a less senior employee in a higher rated job; qualified shall mean having previously preformed the job satisfactorily for the company as a result of bidding and having been awarded a Bracket III or above job for a seasonal, non-seasonal, or temporary opening. Notwithstanding the above provisions, in the event an employee with seniority is shifted to another job or given an unreasonable job assignment, such job assignment shall be subject to the grievance procedure of the Agreement.
H.	Job Posting.
1.	Seasonal Openings. For jobs which are available seasonally, or job openings which exist due to increased seasonal activity, a seasonal master listing of such jobs will be posted in each plant on a bulletin board at loca-
28
tions agreed to by both parties. Seniority shall be observed providing the employee is qualified to perform the available work and follows the procedures outlined below. Such seniority shall be exercised only for higher bracketed jobs unless a lateral job with no increase in pay offers definite promotional opportunities or involves superior working conditions, or a lower bracketed job offers definite promotional opportunities or additional hours of work. Superior working conditions shall be limited to hot, cold, wet or dry working environments. However, for the period of time the employee works in the lower bracketed job, the employee, regardless of annual assignment, shall receive the rate of pay of the work performed. Employees must sign-off from their higher bracketed jobs and will not be eligible to rebid for their previous jobs for at least six (6) months if they are awarded a lower bracketed job.
a.	The company will post a master listing, prior to the beginning of each season, of all Bracket III or above jobs that are expected to become available. Job applications will be accepted on all future job openings contained in the master listing. The company shall be required to provide each employee at the time of the employee’s registration with information regarding future job openings and procedures for filing job applications. The master listing and each job posting will contain a notice advising employees that additional information relating to the job duties of the posted job may be obtained by contacting the personnel office.
The master listing of all jobs that are expected to become available in Bracket III or above shall be updated every two (2) weeks and the number of anticipated openings in each job shall be indicated on the list. The date of updating the list will also be shown. Employees who complete an application for the job requested will be considered. If a given job has not been included in the master listing, it shall be posted on a bulletin board at locations agreed to by both parties for five (5) working days when the job opening becomes known, at which time employees may make application.
29
New jobs or jobs not otherwise on the list will be posted on a bulletin board at locations agreed to by both parties for five (5) working days.
Seasonal jobs temporarily vacated for less than three (3) weeks, 21 consecutive days, due to illness, leave of absence, etc., shall be filled by interim appointments, unless such jobs are included in the master listing. If included in the master listing, the temporary seasonal opening will be filled from the list of seasonal applicants. Section IX, H., 3. (Temporary Openings) applies to this section.
b.	As soon as practical after receiving the job application, the company will review the application and notify the employee and the local union if such employee does not have the qualifications to be considered for employment in that job. Such decisions on the part of the company will be subject to the grievance and arbitration procedures of this Agreement.
c.	When openings occur in a job, these openings will be offered to the employees who have approved applications on the job application roster for that job. Selections will be made on the basis of seniority status of the applicants providing ability and physical fitness are comparable. However, if no applicants are qualified to perform the work, the company may elect to assign another employee or hire a new employee who possesses the qualifications for the job.
d.	Applications will remain in effect only during the operating season in which the application is made.
e.	No employee may be eligible to have more than five (5) qualified job applications outstanding at the same time. In the event that an employee applies for a sixth (6th) job and is found qualified, the earliest outstanding job application will be automatically cancelled unless the employee chooses to cancel another application. When an employee is transferred to a job for which the employee has applied, the employee’s remaining applications for higher-paid jobs shall continue in effect if the employee so specifies. The company shall request the employee at the time of such transfer to put in writing whether
30
or not the employee desires the remaining applications to continue in effect.
f.	An employee awarded a job for which the employee has applied may not apply for another job before six (6) months unless there is a mutual agreement between the company and the local union except for a job for which such employee has previously made application as provided in “e” above. Neither the company nor the union may arbitrarily withhold approval.
g.	During the first seven (7) working days of the trial period, the employee will be paid at the employee’s old rate of pay. If an employee did not qualify, the employee will be allowed to rebid for the same job at the next job posting, after one (1) year. To be considered for the new job opening, the employee must present acceptable documentation of a demonstrable change in ability or qualifications and/or skills. The trial period may be less than, but not more than, thirty (30) working days unless the trial period is extended by mutual agreement. In the event the employee is not qualified, the trial period may be less than seven (7) days. If the employee is not qualified, such employee shall be returned to a job at the employee’s former rate of pay.
h.	Those jobs on the Master List which may exist on a non-seasonal basis will be indicated as such on the Master List. Future job assignments will be based on seniority and qualifications. Qualified shall mean an individual who has bid on, was awarded, and successfully performed a Bracket III or above job for seasonal or non-seasonal openings.
2.	Non-Seasonal Openings.
a.	All non-seasonal job openings that the company requires to be filled will be posted on a bulletin board at locations agreed to by both parties for five (5) days.
b.	(1) All jobs permanently vacated and temporary job openings, that the company requires to be filled, for non-seasonal assignments of three (3) or more weeks, 21 consecutive days duration will be post
31
ed on a bulletin board at locations agreed to by both parties for five (5) working days. Such job posting shall include job descriptions. If a plant has need for an employee to perform mechanical work that will exist on a year-round basis and such need is predictable but is not for a job specifically vacated by any year-round employee, then such predictable need shall also be posted on a bulletin board at locations agreed to by both parties and the posting period will be for ten (10) working days. During the posting period, interim appointments may be made providing the company does not have sufficient notice of the temporary opening.
Employees will be provided an opportunity to indicate their desire to be considered for posted jobs by completing a form prior to being off work. In the event a more senior employee is not selected for the job posting, the company will contact employees who have completed the form. The company will not be obligated to contact more than fifty (50) employees on any one job posting. Such notifications will be by phone or certified mail.
New jobs or jobs not otherwise on the list will be posted on a bulletin board at locations agreed to by both parties for five (5) working days. The company shall notify all employees who bid for a job and the union of the person selected. If the company decides not to fill the job, the company shall advise the union of the reason why any such job was not filled.
(2)	Only applications made within the specified posting period by seniority employees will be considered.
(3)	The company will consider all employees who apply although consideration need not be limited to this group if there are no qualified applicants.
(4)	In making promotions to jobs permanently vacated or to new jobs to be filled, seniority shall prevail providing ability and physical fitness are comparable.
32
(5)A copy of the posted vacancy will be sent to the local union.
(6)	Applications may be made only for higher bracketed jobs unless a lateral job with no increase in pay offers definite promotional opportunities or involves superior working conditions, or a lower bracketed job offers definite promotional opportunities or additional hours of work. Superior working conditions shall be limited to hot, cold, wet or dry working environments. However, for the period of time the employee works in the lower bracketed job, the employee, regardless of annual assignment, shall receive the rate of pay of the work performed. Employees must sign-off from their higher bracketed jobs and will not be eligible to re-bid for their previous jobs for at least six (6) months if they are awarded a lower bracketed job.
(7)	Prior to commencing sabbatical leave, vacation or an approved leave of absence seniority employees shall receive a form from the company on which the employee shall be given the opportunity to bid on a promotion which may become available during the absence. The employee shall complete the form and return it to the company prior to departure. The form shall be sent to the home of any sick or injured seniority employee for completion. Thereafter, the company shall send a copy of any promotional opening to any employee who has indicated a desire to bid at the address designated on the form. The employee shall have seven (7) days from the mailing date to apply in writing for the opening, unless the employee can demonstrate that it was not possible to do so in which event the employee shall be given an opportunity to bid on the job opening within two (2) days following the employee’s return to work. The employee must have returned to work and be able to perform the duties within thirty (30) calendar days, except for sabbatical leave or vacation, from the date the job was posted in order for the bid to be considered.
33
(8)	The local union will be notified promptly when the job is filled and the local union has ten (10) days from the date of notification to file any protest.
(9)	An employee awarded a posted job may not apply for another job before six (6) months unless there is mutual agreement between the company and the local union.
(10)	During the first seven (7) working days of the trial period, the employee will be paid at the employee’s old rate of pay. If an employee did not qualify, the employee will be allowed to rebid for the same job at the next job posting, after one (1) year. To be considered for the new job opening, the employee must present acceptable documentation of a demonstrable change in ability or qualifications and/or skills. The trial period may be less than, but not more than, thirty (30) working days unless the trial period is extended by mutual agreement. In the event the employee is not qualified, the trial period may be less than seven (7) days. If the employee is not qualified, such employee shall be returned to a job at the employee’s former rate of pay.
(11)	No more than two (2) postings shall be required as a result of any one vacancy.
3. Temporary Openings. The parties agree that a temporary opening occurs when an employee is ill, on vacation or sabbatical leave, or on an approved leave of absence, and needs to be replaced.
The parties further agree that if a junior employee is improperly assigned to fill a temporary opening, it will be corrected by the company as soon as either the union or the employee brings it to the company’s attention. The experience gained by the employee who was improperly assigned will not be counted as the ability and physical fitness requirements for the job if it is subsequently posted and that employee bids on the job. Conversely, if a temporary opening is posted in accord with the posting provisions of the Contract, the experience gained by the successful bidder will count as the
34
ability and physical fitness requirements of the job. The company shall provide a bulletin board at locations agreed to by both parties.
I.	Day or Shift Assignment. Employees on the basis of seniority may claim the right to transfer to another department to work more hours or to work on an overtime day in accord with the following rules:
1.	Employees requesting a transfer to another department in order to work more hours weekly must:
a.	Request such transfer by completion of appropriate form furnished by the company.
b.	Transfer for the entire week at the beginning of the week.
c.	Receive the rate of the job requested.
2.	Employees requesting a transfer for work on which overtime premium is paid (holiday, Saturday or Sunday) in another department must request such transfer by completion of an appropriate form furnished by the company. Such work assignment for clean-up crew employees and for quality control employees, Bracket IV and above, shall be made first to those that worked on that crew or department on the work day prior to the weekend or holiday. If working clean-up crew employees or employees in quality control are not sufficient to fill staffing needs, any employee from another department who has requested Saturday, Sunday, or holiday work shall be assigned clean-up crew work or quality control work in line with that employee’s seniority and qualifications.
An employee shall not be eligible to claim work on the basis of seniority in the event the IWC imposes restrictions or penalties on work in excess of seventy-two (72) hours and seven (7) consecutive days.
3.	On multiple shift operations, each company will make shift assignments in the order of seniority consistent with the operating requirements of the particular plant, including the availability of products. The above shall be subject to the grievance procedure of the Agreement. Employees requesting a transfer to another shift must: a. State their shift preference on the appropriate form furnished by the company.
35
b.	Transfer at the beginning of the week.
c.	Transfer only to an equal or higher rated job. However, senior employees shall be allowed to select a shift to a lower rated job without loss of guaranteed annual assignment, when there is no monetary cost to the company. However, such election may result in the employee waiving his guaranteed annual assignment, if applicable, for the period of such transfer. Such request for a transfer to a lower rated job will be granted if there is a qualified replacement for that employee currently working.
4.	In instances where two or more employees are performing the same job in a department within a shift which has different starting times and all employees are qualified to perform the work, the senior employee may request a change in starting time. The company shall not arbitrarily withhold approval of such a request.
5.	It is understood that the repetitive exercising of shift preference and shift starting time will not be abused so as to adversely affect company operations.
J.	Loss of Seniority. Seniority will be forfeited under the following conditions:
1.	If the employee is discharged for cause.
2.	If the employee voluntarily quits.
3.	If, upon resumption of operation or when recalling after a temporary layoff, the employee is reasonably notified to report to work and fails to do so at the specified time, unless such failure to report was excusable for reasons satisfactory to the company and the local union. If such failure to report is excusable, the employee shall lose only the immediate employment offered and shall be continued in that employee’s relative place on the seniority list.
Failure to report to work shall be considered excusable under this Section if:
a.	The individual employee is unable to perform the duties of the job offered or available for any one of the following reasons:
(1)	The duties of the particular job exceed the physical capabilities of the employee and the employee has executed a signed waiver for that job.
36
(2)	A doctor’s certificate is furnished to the company attesting to the existence of a medical condition rendering the employee unable to perform the duties of thatjob.
b.	After the processing season the job offered is not accompanied by a statement from the company that employment will be reasonably assured for ten (10) consecutive working days.
(1)	In the event that employment is less than or more than ten (10) consecutive working days, the company must demonstrate that its employment offer was made on good faith based on the specific facts available at the time employment was offered.
(2)	It is understood that an offer of employment of less than ten (10) consecutive working days cannot be excused if there is no one else available and qualified to perform the work.
In order to facilitate the implementation of the above, employees who do not want to be called for available work which, in the estimation of the company, will amount to less than ten (10) consecutive working days, shall sign an appropriate form.
4.	If, in the absence of a signed waiver, an employee does not report for work when recalled where:
a.	The employee has previously performed such work.
b.	The company can reasonably expect the employee to perform such work.
5.	If the employee has been off work for two (2) days or more and has failed:
a. To properly notify the company.
b.To provide satisfactory reasons to the company and the local union for the absence or failure to call.
6.	If the employee fails to report to work at the termination of a leave of absence.
7.	Seniority shall be lost in the event an employee fails to work thirty (30) working days within two (2) consecutive calendar years except as provided inM. 1. and N. of this Section.
37
K.	Demotion or Discharge for Lack of Qualifications. In cases of demotion (permanent) or discharge of employees on the seniority list for lack of qualifications or ability to perform a job, the company will notify the local union before action is taken, whenever time and circumstances permit.
L.	Rehiring. Any person rehired after losing seniority shall be rehired as a new employee, having forfeited all previously accrued privileges and benefits provided in the Agreement. Probationary employees who are terminated and then rehired at the same facility within thirty (30) days will be given credit for all days previously worked.
M.	Retention of Seniority.
1.	Leaves of absence shall be granted under the following circumstances:
a.	To Employees who left their cannery jobs to accept positions with the local union or the Union, prior to July 1, 2009, provided that upon termination of such position they shall notify the company within thirty (30) days of such termination that they are available for reemployment. No new leaves for this purpose will be granted after June 30, 2009.
b.	If the employee suffers an injury on the job or suffers an illness growing directly out of an injury on the job.
Such leave shall be for the duration of the illness or injury as determined by appropriate medical evidence.
2.	Leaves of absence may be granted when an employee requests a leave in writing and in the company’s judgment such leave is consistent with operating requirements. In all cases where an employee has properly requested a leave in writing and it is denied by the company, the local union shall be notified by the company of such denial.
3.	A leave of absence shall not be valid unless granted by the company in writing and approved by the local union. The company will not arbitrarily withhold the leave and the local union will not arbitrarily withhold approval.
4.	A leave of absence shall protect an employee’s seniority, but leave of absence time except for the leave of absence under M. 1. b. above and a leave of absence for
38
personal illness or injury, shall not count as time worked in computing vacation eligibility.
5.	The company shall designate and send to the local union a list of persons authorized to grant leaves of absence for sickness or other emergencies for not more than ten (10) days. Such leaves need not be in writing but a record shall be made of the permission granted. Such leaves will not be official unless granted by the authorized person or persons.
6.	When an employee exercises the employee’s rights under the provisions of Section X, Hiring Practices, and is rehired by a company from one of its plants that has been closed permanently, such employee shall retain seniority for only the purposes of fringe benefits subject to the provisions of subparagraph N. of this Section. However, the employee shall be treated as a new employee for purposes of contractual seniority.
N.	Protection of Seniority. An employee’s seniority and fringe benefits status shall be protected if the employee failed to work the required hours and days during the preceding calendar year or anniversary period and such failure was due to layoff for lack of work by the company. The length of protection shall be directly equivalent to the number of attained years of seniority up to a maximum of ten (10) years.
Years of Seniority Length of Protection
1 Year	1 Year
2	2
3	3
4	4
5	5
6	6
7	7
8	8
9	9
10	10
39
Section X
HIRING PRACTICES
The following procedures shall be observed in the rehiring of former employees and in the hiring of new employees.
A.	When operations require the employment of additional workers, the company will give preference to unemployed persons whose names appear on the current seniority list of the particular plant, it being understood that such persons must be available and qualified to perform the work.
B.	In the event available qualified persons with seniority are insufficient to supply the requirements of the company, the company shall hire cannery workers with previous satisfactory employment in the particular plant who are qualified to perform the work available. Such hiring insofar as possible will be in accordance with the amount of time previously worked in the plant.
C.	In the event the available and qualified persons with seniority, plus additional persons hired in accordance with the foregoing rule in B. above, are insufficient to fill the requirements of the company, then the company will give preference in hiring to additional qualified persons who have had previous experience in the Northern California Canning Industry; however, the company shall have the right to reject any undesirable applicants. If no such persons are available, the company may then hire from any source. All non-seniority persons shall make application for union membership, and the local union agrees not to unreasonably refuse such persons into membership in the local union. Such persons shall make application for and complete such union membership subject to the provisions of the Labor-Management Relations Act of 1947.
D.	As used in the foregoing paragraphs, it is understood that the term “available” shall mean the persons shall present themselves at the time and place specified by the company, and the term “qualified” shall mean able to perform the work according to the standards and judgment of the company.
E.	Whenever possible, companies will give advance notice to the locals of their intent to hire new employees. Upon request from the local union, the company will furnish the name, social security number and badge number of all new employees hired on a daily basis.
40
Section XI
CONDUCT OF UNION BUSINESS
A.	Plant Visits by Local Union Representatives.
The company agrees to admit to its plant at all reasonable times the authorized representative of the local union for the purpose of collecting dues, observing the application of this Agreement and adjusting grievances. These activities are to be discharged in a manner that will avoid unnecessary loss of time or disruption of working schedules. The local union representative shall advise the company of such visits by notifying the plant office before or at the time of entering the plant.
B.	Authority of Union Stewards.
1.	The company recognizes the right of the local union to designate job stewards and alternates.
2.	The authority of job stewards and alternates so designated by the local union shall be limited to, and shall not exceed, the following duties and activities:
a.	The investigation and presentation of grievances in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
b.	The transmission of such messages and information which shall originate with, and are authorized by the local union or its officers, provided such messages and information:
(1)	Have been reduced to writing, or
(2)	If not reduced to writing, are of a routine nature and do not involve work stoppages, slowdowns, refusal to handle goods, or any other interference with the company’s business.
c.	Such stewards or alternates will be permitted temporarily to leave their work stations to discuss emergency grievances with local union representatives visiting the plant under the provisions of Paragraph A. of this Section in instances where the discussion cannot be delayed. The representatives agree to request such meetings through the departmental supervisor when they wish to see the steward or alternate away from the steward’s or alternate’s station.
3.	Job stewards and alternates have no authority to take strike action, or any other action interrupting the
41
company’s business, except as authorized by official action of the union.
4.	The company recognizes these limitations upon the authority of job stewards and their alternates and shall not hold the union liable for any unauthorized acts. The company in so recognizing such limitations shall have the authority to impose proper discipline, including discharge, in the event the job steward has taken unauthorized strike action, slowdown, or work stoppage in violation of this Agreement.
C.	Union Bulletin Boards.
The local union shall have the privilege of installing bulletin boards within the plant at suitable locations agreeable to the company. The local union agrees it will not post notices which are inflammatory or controversial.
Section XII
PLANT OPERATIONS
A.	On all incentive operations where there is an advantage to the worker because of position in the work line, the workers shall be rotated daily in position insofar as such rotation is practicable from the standpoint of efficient operation. Such rotation shall take place at the start of each shift. This paragraph shall not be construed to require the rotation of employees who are performing work of different kinds or qualities. On all non-incentive operations, as provided above, rotation shall apply where the employees have more than ten (10) days of service with the company and providing the operation involves different degrees of physical effort.
B.	Any house rules or working rules or regulations of the company affecting general conduct of employees in or about the premises of the plant shall be reduced to writing in a form easily read and understood and shall be permanently posted in conspicuous places throughout each plant. Such house rules shall be reasonable and consistent with the sound business and operational requirements. Such rules and modifications or additions shall be submitted to the local union for review prior to posting or publication.
The local union shall have twenty (20) days within which to protest the reasonableness of such house rules or modifications thereof through the grievance and arbitration proce
42
dure provided in Section XIII. No house rules shall be in conflict with any provisions of the Agreement.
C.	The company shall make reasonable provision for definite work call orders to employees. In general, daily work call notices shall be given by blackboards maintained in the various cannery departments, advising the workers of the times crews will be expected to report, with exceptions for special types of work specified. Detailed methods for providing further satisfactory notice shall, if necessary, be agreed upon by the local union and the company concerned. Any violations of this Section shall be subject to review through the grievance procedure provided in Section XIII hereof.
D.	Tools. The company shall make the following provisions with respect to tools owned by employees and registered with the company:
1.	Provide a secure place for safekeeping of employees’ tools.
2.	Include under the company’s basic insurance program insurance for employees’ tools lost by either fire or burglary (breaking and entering) of company’s premises.
3.	Provide for the replacement of personal tools which are lost by theft or stolen from employees for the first occurrence in any one calendar year. For each subsequent loss of tools by theft or stolen from employees in that calendar year, the tools will be provided to the extent the replacement value of such stolen tools exceeds $25.00.
4.	The provisions of this section apply only to tools registered in advance with the company which are used and owned by employees who are classified in skilled mechanical classifications who are required to have such tools for the performance of their jobs. Mechanics shall update their tool registration list once a year.
5.	Required hand tools shall be made available by the company for use by mechanic trainees enrolled in the Mechanical Training Program. Such tools shall be returned to the company when the trainee is no longer enrolled in the training program.
6.	The company shall provide those items of personal protective equipment which are required by the company or
43
by appropriate law. Deposits for items furnished by the company may be required as security for the return of the items furnished. Upon presentation of proof satisfactory to the company, any provided item which is broken or worn out will be replaced by the company.
E.	First Aid Treatment. Each company shall make available appropriate medical help in order to provide adequate first aid treatment for employees who are sick or injured consistent with the State law and insure that appropriate medical treatment is available within or outside the plant with published procedures for obtaining such medical treatment. An employee who is injured on the job who believes that the injury requires the services of a physician shall be sent to a physician for treatment. In this event, if the employee has completed a form provided by the employer prior to the date of an injury that he has a personal physician, he shall have the right to be treated by such physician. If such employee fails to specify a personal physician in advance of the injury, the employee may after thirty (30) days from the date the injury is reported be treated by a physician of his own choice or at a facility of his own choice within a reasonable geographic area. Selection of a physician shall be consistent with State law. The local union will be notified of all reportable employee injuries by a copy of a form developed by the company which reflects the same information regarding such injuries as is contained in the appropriate State form.
F.	Prescription Eye Glasses. In the event an employee breaks the employee’s prescription eye glasses and such damage is on the job and work connected, the company will pay the necessary cost for repair or replacement of such glasses in accordance with the schedule of benefits provided under Vision Service Plan provided the employee is not reimbursed under any regulation, rule or procedure established by any local, State or Federal law. The provisions of this clause will not apply in cases of willful damage, or if the breakage occurs at times other than when the employee is actually on the job.
G.	Safety & Health Program. There shall be established a joint labor-management Plant Health and Safety Committee in each plant covered by this Agreement, consisting of equal representation from the company and the union.
44
The Joint Plant Committees shall meet at least once each month, at a regularly scheduled time and place, for the purpose of investigating accidents, and for the purpose of making constructive recommendations with respect thereto. All matters considered and handled by the Committee shall be reduced to writing, and joint minutes of all meetings of the Committee shall be made and maintained, and copies thereof shall be furnished to the local union upon request.
A Joint CPl-State Council Health and Safety Committee shall be formed to review any plant level problems and make recommendations.
In plants where a significant percentage of members of minorities are employed, all Safety Bulletins shall be posted in the appropriate language of that minority group.
H.	Plant Closures. Recognizing the impact of a plant closure on employees, it is agreed that the company will notify the Teamsters California State Cannery Council and the local union affected at least sixty (60) days in advance of the plant closure and prior to any public announcement being made. The company will comply with all provisions of the WARN Act.
I.	When employees are temporarily transferred from one plant covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement to another plant covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the company shall notify the principal officer of the local union(s) involved at least seven (7) days in advance of the contemplated transfer. Such transfers will be made based on seniority and qualifications. Employee(s) have the right to decline the work if a less senior qualified employee is available.
Section XIII
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES
A.	It is the intention of the parties to adjust any and all claims, disputes or grievances arising hereunder by resort to the procedures provided in this Section, and it is therefore agreed that during the life of this Agreement, there shall be no cessation of work, whether by strike, walkout, lockout, intentional slow-down or other interference with production, provided the parties hereto comply with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and follow the adjustment
45
procedures of this Section. Violation of this provision shall constitute grounds for termination of the Collective Bargaining Agreement by the aggrieved party, but said party may, without waiver of said breach and right to terminate, submit the violation to the Arbitration Board for appropriate action.
B.	Grievances shall be settled in the following manner and without resort to any other procedures, methods or agencies and there shall be no discrimination of any kind by any company against any employee on account of a grievance filed pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
1.	First Step. The grieving party shall notify the other party of the existence of a grievance within five (5) working days following the date the alleged grievance occurred. Efforts shall be made to settle the grievance promptly by the company and local union representatives. Therefore, the company and local union representatives shall meet within five (5) working days after notification by one party to the other of the existence of a grievance to obtain all pertinent facts.
2.	Second Step. It is the intent of the parties that if the grievance is not settled at the first step, it shall be reduced to writing within five (5) working days on an industry-wide grievance form and submitted, depending on which is the grieving party, by the local union to the company, or by the company to the local union, and copies shall be submitted to the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions and California Processors, Inc.
It is the intent of the parties that within five (5) working days following receipt of the written grievance described herein, the party who allegedly committed the grievance shall submit in writing its answer to the grievance, including a reason, if denied. A copy of this written answer shall be submitted to the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions and California Processors, Inc. The company and the local union will submit a list of representatives at each location who shall have full authority to settle grievances referred to in the second step. Such representatives shall meet within the five (5) working days following receipt of the written grievance to
46
attempt to resolve the grievance. Any changes in this list will be given to the other party in writing.
3.	Third Step. It is the intent of the parties that if the grievance is not settled at the second step, it shall be submitted within ten (10) working days from receipt of the answer given in the second step to Arbitration in writing on an industry-wide grievance form. Copies of the grievance filed at this step shall be sent to the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions, the California Processors, Inc., the company and the local union.
C.	Discharge cases shall be reduced to writing by the grieving party within three (3) working days from the date of discharge and if not resolved, shall be scheduled for arbitration not later than ten (10) working days from the date of the written grievance.
D.	The Parties agree to follow the foregoing grievance procedure in accordance with the steps, time limits and conditions contained therein. It is also agreed that time limits in all steps of the grievance procedure shall be strictly adhered to unless mutually waived. With the exception of a case involving a discharge or suspension, a grievance shall not be filed at more than one step of the grievance procedure on a concurrent basis.
E.	The Arbitration Board.
1.	An Arbitration Board is hereby established to process cases which cannot be resolved by the parties. A subcommittee of the Arbitration Board will meet to settle cases when assigned to the sub-committee by the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions and California Processors, Inc. Sub-committee hearings shall be held on dates and in areas mutually agreed upon by California Processors, Inc. and the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions. The Teamsters Cannery Council and California Processors, Inc. shall schedule sufficient monthly meetings of the sub-committee of the Arbitration Board to resolve pending grievances promptly. All cases involving contract grievances, classification of jobs or employees and all other matters arising under the contract shall be assigned to the sub-committee. Cases involving discipline will not
47
be referred to the sub-committee, unless mutually agreed to by the parties. The sub-committee of the Arbitration Board will consist of equal representation between the Employer and the Union. Members of the Arbitration Board or the sub-committee may not act on cases involving that member’s company or local union. If the sub-committee is unable to resolve a case, that matter will be referred to the Arbitrator. Decisions of the sub-committee will be in writing and will be final and binding on both parties.
2.	California Processors, Inc., the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions, any company, or any local union, shall have the right to present grievances for adjustment. If the party presenting the grievance is a local union, the grievance shall be presented through the Union and if a company, through the Employer. Grievances related to working conditions under this Agreement shall be proper subjects for submission to the Arbitration Board.
3.	A permanent Arbitrator shall be selected by mutual agreement. In the event of the unavailability of the permanent Arbitrator during the period requested by the parties, alternate arbitrators shall be asked to serve in the order agreed upon by the parties. If the parties cannot agree upon an arbitrator or alternate arbitrators within the time specified, such arbitrator or alternate arbitrators shall be selected by the Chief Judge of the Federal District Court in San Francisco.
4.	A schedule shall be arranged, if possible, to assure that six (6) cases shall be heard on each day that the Arbitrator is regularly available for hearings.
5.	The Arbitration Board shall meet once monthly to hear complaints submitted for arbitration in accordance with the third step of the grievance procedure. Unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by the parties, no grievance, other than discharge cases, will be included in the agenda for any meeting of the Arbitration Board which was not submitted for arbitration at least ten (10) working days in advance of the scheduled meeting date. In the event a grievance filed by a local union or a company is classified as urgent by either the Teamsters Cannery Council or California Processors, Inc., an Arbitration
48
Board meeting will be held within ten (10) days from the date the grievance is filed in accordance with the above procedure. By mutual agreement a grievance classified by either the Teamsters Cannery Council or California Processors, Inc. as urgent may be submitted to the sub-committee of the Arbitration Board which shall hear the grievance within ten (10) working days from the date the grievance was classified in writing as urgent. If the sub-committee is unable to resolve the urgent grievance it shall be scheduled for the first Arbitration Board Hearing subsequent to the sub-committee hearing. The parties agree that the monthly meeting of the Arbitration Board should be utilized to its fullest extent, and to accomplish this at least three (3) working days advance notice should be given in order to postpone any case scheduled for an Arbitration Hearing unless good cause is shown for postponement without advance notice on conditions satisfactory to the Arbitration Board.
6.	Failure on the part of the complainant, whether company or local union, to appear in any cases pending before the Arbitration Board shall result in the forfeiture of its case by the complainant party.
7.	No claim for back pay will be valid for a period prior to fifteen (15) days before the date the grievance was first reduced to writing in accordance with step two of the grievance procedure, unless neither the local union nor the employee could reasonably be expected to know of the existence of the claim. In which event, the claim will be valid back to the original date that the violation occurred.
8.	The Arbitration Board shall consist of the Arbitrator and an advisory panel consisting of no more than two (2) representatives from each party to assist the Arbitrator in making his determinations. The advisory panel shall in any event consist of equal representation from the parties. The Teamsters Cannery Council members of the panel shall be appointed by the Council and the California Processors, Inc. members shall be appointed by California Processors, Inc. Members of the advisory panel shall provide information to the Arbitrator but shall not have voting rights. No member of the advisory panel may act on cases involving that member’s own
49
company or local union.
Decisions shall be rendered no later than the conclusion of the hearing day unless a written opinion or decision has been requested.
9.	Decisions of the Arbitration Board will be in writing and will be final and binding on both parties.
10.	Expenses of the Arbitration Board will be shared equally by the parties to this Agreement.
11.	The Arbitration Board is empowered to make its own rules of procedure but cannot change the present Agreement or make new agreements.
12.	The grievance procedure is designed to encourage settlement of grievances promptly at the lower steps and it is recognized that this objective can best be accomplished when there is full and complete disclosure by both parties of all information relevant to the discussion and resolution of a particular grievance. Therefore, it is the intent of the parties that all facts, evidence and witnesses pertinent to a grievance, and known to exist by either party, shall be disclosed as early as possible in the grievance procedures.
13.	In hearings before the Arbitration Board, either party may announce at the start of a hearing on any case that said party desires a subsequent written opinion or decision by the Arbitrator provided that the following procedures are observed:
a.	Any party desiring a subsequent written opinion or decision by the Arbitrator must give written notification to the Employer and the Union at least one (1) week prior to the date of the scheduled hearing that said party will announce at the start of the hearing on the case that it desires a written opinion or decision.
b.	Upon receipt of such notification, and a request by the Arbitrator, the Employer or the Union, a court reporter will be arranged for the hearing. The cost of such court reporter shall be borne by the company or the local union making the request for the written opinion or decision.
c.	If any party desires a subsequent written opinion or decision and fails to give the required notification, the scheduled hearing on that case will be automatically cancelled and a further hearing set up so that all
50
parties can be advised and a court reporter made available.
14.	The amounts due under any decisions shall be made by separate checks if not specifically itemized on the griev-ant’s regular paycheck.
15.	For all fourteen hundred (1400) hour employees a verbal or written warning or a suspension shall not be used as evidence in Arbitration if more than twenty-four (24) months have elapsed since the date of such warning or suspension. For all non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour employees a verbal or written warning or a suspension shall not be used as evidence in Arbitration if more than thirty-six (36) months have elapsed since the date of such warning or suspension.
F.	The company will pay all monies owed for grievance awards within two (2) pay periods following settlement.
G.	Disputes arising under Paragraph 12 of Appendix F will be resolved in accordance with the expedited arbitration procedure established thereunder.
Section XIV
CONFORMANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS
This Agreement shall at all times conform with all State and Federal laws. Any portion of the Agreement which contravenes said State or Federal laws shall become void and inoperable, and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall, nevertheless, remain in full force and effect.
Section XV
COMPLIANCE
In the event of a violation of any part of the Agreement by a company, party to this Agreement, such violation shall be immediately brought before the Arbitration Board, herein provided for, and the ruling handed down by said Board shall be final and binding upon the parties. If such company does not abide by that ruling, it shall then be necessary for the Employer to immediately suspend that company and no assistance will be given the company against the action deemed advisable and necessary by the Union, because of the refusal of the company to accept the ruling handed down by the Arbitration Board.
51
Likewise, in the event of a violation of any part of this Agreement by a local union, such violation will be immediately brought before the Arbitration Board, provided herein, and the ruling handed down by such Board shall be final and binding upon the parties. If such local union refuses to abide by the ruling handed down, it shall then be necessary to immediately recommend to the International Brotherhood of Teamsters that that local union shall not receive official recognition from the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions, and thereby prevent that local union from receiving any assistance from those bodies until such time as the local union agrees to comply with the ruling handed down by the Arbitration Board.
Section XVI
CONFLICTING AGREEMENTS
Except where specifically authorized by this Agreement, it is expressly understood that no company or local union party to this Agreement, shall have the power to make or enter into any separate or special agreement involving the subject matter of this Agreement.
Section XVII
TRANSFER OF COMPANY TITLE OR INTEREST
This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their successors, administrators, executors and assignees under the following conditions: In the event an operation is sold, leased or transferred or taken over by sale, transfer, lease, assignment, receivership or bankruptcy proceeding, such operation shall continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement for the life thereof, if such successors, etc., continue in substantially the same operations at the same location. The company shall give notice of the existence of this Agreement to any purchaser, transferee, lessee, assignee, etc. Such notice shall be in writing with a copy to the Union, at the time the seller, transferor or lessor executes a contract or transaction as herein described. At that time, the Union shall also be advised of the nature of the transaction, not including financial details.
52
Section XVIII
MERGER, LEASE OR PURCHASE
When a company facility covered by this Agreement is merged, leased or purchased by another firm, and such facility is subject to the provisions of this Agreement, employees shall be given full credit for their original date of employment for purposes of paid vacation credit, sabbatical leave, sick leave and other benefits in the Agreement which accrue to employees and are computed on the basis of the original date of employment.
Section XIX
TERM OF AGREEMENT
The term of this Agreement shall be from July 1,2009, to June 30, 2012
Section XX
PROCEDURE FOR MODIFICATION
A.	In the event either party desires to modify any of the terms of this Agreement or to establish new or different terms or conditions, written notice specifying in exact language the changes desired shall be served within the sixteen (16) day period April 15, 2012, to April 30, 2012, inclusive. The months of May and June shall be devoted to negotiations; and if the parties are in complete agreement, all changes mutually agreed upon shall become effective on July 1, 2012, and shall remain effective for not less than twelve (12) months thereafter.
B.	If any of the matters under negotiation are still in dispute on July 1,2012, this contract will terminate unless the parties mutually agree upon an additional period or periods of negotiation. The changes agreed upon during such additional negotiations shall become effective on a mutually acceptable date and shall remain effective until at least the following July 1st.
C.	If, during the above April 15th to April 30th period, neither party serves notice of a desire to modify any of the terms of this Agreement or to establish new or different terms or conditions, then this Agreement shall continue for an additional period of at least twelve (12) months after the next July 1st anniversary date.
53
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have set their hands and seals this 1st day of July, 2009
/s/ Lucio Reyes
Secretary-Treasurer, Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions.
/s/ John B. Hurley
President, California Processors, Inc.
/s/ Lupe Juarez
President, Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and
Food Processing Unions.
/s/ Thomas Nett
Chairman of the Board, California Processors, Inc.
APPENDIX A
1.	Straight-Time Wage Rates Shall Be in Accordance With the Following Schedule:
July 1	July 1	July 1
2009	2010	2011
Bracket IAA...........24.36	24.96	25.61
Bracket IA ...........22.65	23.25	23.90
Bracket IB............23.41	24.01	24.66
Bracket I ............21.37	21.97	22.62
Bracket IIAA .........18.78	19.23	19.68
Bracket IIA ..........18.53	18.98	19.43
Bracket II............18.37	18.82	19.27
Bracket IIIA..........16.84	17.24	17.64
Bracket III...........16.54	16.94	17.34
Bracket IIIB .........13.85	14.05	14.25
Bracket IV........... 11.84	11.99	12.14
Bracket V.............11.22	11.37	11.52
*Cost of Living Provision and Inflation Protection Adjustments.
*	(1) The CPI-W All Cities Index as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the month of April 1979 shall be the base index for the cost of living review. In the event that the index in April, 1980 shall exceed an increase of five and one-half percent (51/2%) of the April, 1979 base index, then wage rates shall be increased one cent (10) per hour for each full.3 increments of the index over and above the five and one-half per-54
cent (51/2%) increase in the index. Any adjustments due under the above formula shall be effective July 1, 1980.
*	(2) The CPI-W All Cities Index as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the month of April, 1980, shall be the base index for a second cost of living review. In the event that the index in April, 1981 shall exceed an increase of five and one-half percent (51/2%) of the April, 1980 base index, the wage rates shall be increased by one cent (10) per hour for each full.3 increments of the index over and above the five and one-half percent (51/2%) increase in the index. Any adjustment due under the above formula shall be effective July 1,1981.
*	(3) Additional inflation protection adjustments to the basic straight-time wage rates shall become effective July 1, 1983 and July 1, 1984 in accordance with the following schedule. Such adjustments shall be based on the overall rate of inflation as measured by the increase, if any, in the CPI-W All Cities Index as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics during the periods April 1982 -April 1983 and April 1983 - April 1984.
	CPI-W All Cities		Index
	5%-	8.01%-	10.01%
	8%	10%	and Over
Bracket IAA	250	300	350
Bracket IA	250	300	350
Bracket IB	250	300	350
Bracket I	250	300	350
Bracket IIA	200	250	300
Bracket II	200	250	300
Bracket IIIA	150	200	250
Bracket III	150	200	250
Bracket IV	100	150	200
Bracket V	100	150	200
* The Cost of Living and Inflation Protection Adjustments provisions as set forth in Appendix A.l. (1), (2) and (3) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be inoperative for the life of the current labor Agreement.
55
a. Beginner’s Rate.
Any employee hired on or after July 1, 2000, and performing work at Bracket IV or Bracket V shall receive a rate of $2.00 less per hour than the rate of pay of the bracket of work performed for the employee’s first one hundred twenty (120) working days of continuous employment without a break of service. Employees eligible to receive holiday pay will have such paid holidays credited toward such one hundred twenty (120) working days of continuous employment.
The above bracket rates shall be paid for work described by the job titles and job descriptions appearing in the Appendix A Job Classification Manual in accordance with the ranking of jobs therein. The foregoing provision shall not apply to employees hired into all Bracket III and above classifications.
2. Procedures and Rules Governing Classification of New Jobs and Jobs Not Originally Classified in the Job Classification Manual.
a.	The following procedure shall govern in determining Bracket classifications, but in no event shall any new Brackets be created.
(1)The company shall establish the Bracket classification for all new jobs or for jobs not originally classified and shall supply the local union with a job description, job title and the Bracket classification applied.
(2)	If the local union disagrees with the job description, job title or Bracket classification, the basis of disagreement shall be submitted to the company in writing within ten (10) days from mailing of company’s notice. If no such submission is made by the local union, the job description, job title and Bracket classification shall be submitted to the permanent Job Classification Committee for approval and incorporation into Appendix A by the Teamsters Cannery Council and California Processors, Inc. In the event that the Joint Job Classification Committee does not reach an agreement, this section is subject to the grievance procedure of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
56
(3)	A copy of any new job description will be submitted by the company to CPI, and by the local union to Teamsters Cannery Council, for the purpose of incorporation into Appendix A by the Teamsters Cannery Council and CPI upon the recommendation of the permanent Job Classification Committee.
b.	Where content of a job originally classified in this Agreement has not been changed in any substantial particular, no requests for review shall be recognized by the Arbitration Board.
c.	During processing season, all maintenance personnel responsible for supervising Bracket IB maintenance employees on that shift will be paid Bracket IAA, and such pay shall be considered in the calculation of annual assignment.
APPENDIX B
PREFACE TO THE FRINGE BENEFIT APPENDICES
1.	Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Employees (employees hired before July 1, 2009 only).
a.	Seniority employees who have worked in the plant at least fourteen hundred (1400) combined straight and overtime hours during the preceding calendar year, or during their twelve (12) month anniversary period, including all hours for which payment is required under the contract and also including those hours employees would have otherwise worked had they not lost time because of an industrial injury or industrial illness, are eligible for the benefits listed below.
b.	An employee shall become eligible immediately upon attaining fourteen hundred (1400) hours within that individual’s anniversary or calendar year. An employee’s eligibility date for such benefits will be the first day of the calendar month in which the employee attains fourteen hundred (1400) hours, if no later than the 15th day of the month; otherwise, it will be the first day of the following calendar month.
c.	Protection of Eligibility for Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Benefits. Employees eligible for fourteen hundred (1400) hour benefits will have their
57
future eligibility protected for the same number of consecutive fourteen hundred (1400) hour benefit years up to a maximum of ten (10) years.
(1)	Welfare Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 1. and 2.
(2)	Dental Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 1. and 2.
(3)	Drug Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 1. and 2.
(4)	Vision Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 1. and 2.
(5)	Life Insurance Program as described in Appendix “C.” 7.
(6)	Pension Plan (if qualified in the Pension Plan) as described in Appendix “D.” 1.
(7)	Jury Duty as described in Appendix “E.”
(8)	Sick Leave Plan as described in Appendix “F.”
(9)	Death-in-Family as described in Appendix “H.”
(10)	Medical Examination Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 6.
(11)	Sabbatical Leave Plan as described in Appendix “K.”
(12)	Holidays as described in Section VII.
(13)	Vacations as described in Section VIII.
d.	Employees hired on or after July 1, 2009 will be eligible for the above benefits based on sixteen hundred (1600) hours, otherwise they will be eligible for benefits as set forth below for Non-1400 hour employees.
2.	Non-Fourteen Hundred (Non-1400) Hour Employees.
a.	Employees acquire eligibility for non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour benefits twelve (12) months from the date they acquired seniority. Employees who complete their 30th day of work on or after July 1, 1973 will have their years of seniority standing based on a twelve (12) month period after the date of
58
the completion of thirty (30) days of employment. For instance, an employee achieves seniority by working the 30th day on August 15, 1973. That employee’s standing for eligibility for non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour fringe benefits will be based on the twelve (12) month period from August 15 of each year. If seniority is retained as of August 15, 1974, there will be eligibility for this employee for one year seniority standing benefits, on August 15, 1975 for two (2) year benefits, and on August 15, 1976 for three (3) year benefits.
The beginning date for the welfare payments, either by the employer or from the employee, for an employee earning his initial eligibility shall be the first of the month during which he completes his twelve (12) month anniversary period between the first and fifteenth of said month. Otherwise, the beginning date of eligibility will be the first of the following month.
b.	Protection of fringe benefits for non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour employees shall be as described in Section IX. N.
3.	Non-Fourteen Hundred (Non-1400) Hour Employees—Three or More Years Seniority.
Employees who have three (3) or more years of seniority standing who are employed seasonally with less than fourteen hundred (1400) hours are basically eligible for: a. Life Insurance Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 7. b. Pension Plan (if qualified in the Pension Plan) as described in Appendix “D.”
c.	Jury Duty as described in Appendix “E.”
d.	Death-in-Family as described in Appendix “H.”
e.	Medical Examination Plan as described in Appendix “C” 6.
f.	Holidays as described in Section VII.
g.	Non-1400 Hour Employees who attained three (3) or more years of seniority by June 30, 2003:
i.	Welfare Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 1. and 4.
ii.	Dental Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 1. and 4.
59
iii.	Drug Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 1. and 4.
iv.	Vision Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 1. and 4.
h.	Non-1400 Hour Employees who attained three (3) or more years of seniority on or after July 1, 2003:
i.	Welfare Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 1. and 5.
ii	Drug Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 1. and 5.
ii	i Dental Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 1. and 4.
4.	Non-Fourteen Hundred (Non-1400) Hour Employees—Two or More Years Seniority.
Employees who have two (2) years of seniority standing who are employed seasonally with less than fourteen hundred (1400) hours are basically eligible for:
a.	Life Insurance Program as described in Appendix “C.” 7.
b.	Pension Plan (if qualified in the Pension Plan) as described in Appendix “D.”
c.	Jury Duty as described in Appendix “E.”
d.	Death-in-Family as described in Appendix “H.”
e.	Medical Examination Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 6.
f.	Holidays as described in Section VII.
5.	Non-Fourteen Hundred (Non-1400) Hour Employees—One Year or More Seniority.
Employees who have one (1) year of seniority standing who are employed seasonally with less than fourteen hundred (1400) hours are basically eligible for:
a.	Life Insurance Program as described in Appendix “C.” 7.
b.	Pension Plan (if qualified in the Pension Plan) as described in Appendix “D.”
c.	Jury Duty as described in Appendix “E.”
d.	Medical Examination Plan as described in Appendix “C.” 6. effective July 1, 1974.
e.	Holidays. (See Section VII for eligibility.)
6.	Employees Who Have Completed Thirty (30) Calendar Days.
Employees who have completed thirty (30) calendar days of employment are eligible for:
60
a.	Life Insurance Program as described in Appendix “C” 7.
b.	Pension Plan Contributions (contributions based upon the first hour worked).
APPENDIX C
WELFARE PLANS
1.	Joint Benefit Trust—Benefits, Contributions and Reserve Levels.
a.	Powers of the Board of Trustees of the Joint Benefit Trust
The welfare, dental, drug, vision, life insurance and medical examination plans described in this Appendix C shall be administered by the Board of Trustees of the Joint Benefit Trust composed of an equal number of representatives designated by the Union and the Employer. The duties and power of the Board of Trustees shall be set forth in the Trust Agreement between the Union and the Employer establishing the Joint Benefit Trust. The parties to this Agreement have established the following benefit plans:
•	1400 Hour Plan
•	Non-1400 Hour Plan
•	Non-1400 Hour Plan for Bridged Employees
•	Non-1400 Hour Plan for Employees Who Attain Three-Year Seniority on or after July 1, 2003
•	Retired 1400 Hour Employees Plan
For purposes of the 1400 Hour and Non-1400 Hour Plans, the amount of contributions is determined by the Board of Trustees of the Joint Benefit Trust subject to paragraph c of this Section; provided that for the period July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2011 the Employer’s monthly contribution for the 1400 Hour and Non-1400 Hour Plans, and Non-1400 Hour Plan for Bridged Employees shall be the amount determined by the Board of Trustees as necessary to maintain the schedule of benefits for the 1400 Hour, Non-1400 and Non-1400 Hour Plan for Bridged Employees referenced in paragraph b of this Section.
61
Effective July 1, 2011, the Employer’s obligation to maintain the benefits of the 1400 Hour and Non-1400 Hour Plans, and Non-1400 Hour Plan for Bridged Employees shall be subject to the limits on contribution rates provided in paragraph c.
For purposes of the Non-1400 Hour Plan for Employees Who Attain Three-Year seniority on or after July 1, 2003, the Employer’s obligation shall remain fixed for the term of the Agreement.
The Board of Trustees, in their sole and absolute discretion, shall have the sole authority to admit new groups to coverage under the plan it administers on such terms and conditions, including different schedules of benefits and contribution rates, as it determines are appropriate in the circumstances. In this context, new groups includes any current employer that negotiates a new level of benefits.
b.	The Schedule of Benefits
The schedule of benefits for the 1400 Hour, Non-1400 Hour, Non-1400 Hour Plan for Bridged Employees, and Non-1400 Hour Plan for Employees Who Attain Three-Year Seniority on or after July 1, 2003 shall be as set forth in the Joint Benefit Trust Summary Plan Descriptions and “Summaries of Material Modifications” issued by the Trust. These Summaries are available in brochure form from the Joint Benefit Trust. Effective July 1, 2008, the schedules of benefits for the 1400 Hour, Non-1400 Hour Plan or Non-1400 Hour Plan for Bridged Employees and the Non-1400 Hour Plan for Employees Who Attain Three-Year Seniority on or after July 1, 2003 may be modified at any time by the Board of Trustees if the respective cost of maintaining these schedules of benefits exceeds the contribution rates set forth in 1. c. (3) below.
c.	Contribution Rates and Reserves
(1)	Initial Contribution Rate
Effective with benefit coverage commencing July 1, 2009, which coverage is based on hours and/or work status in June 2009, the contribution
62
rate to be paid by Employers on behalf of each employee shall be as follows:
1400 Hour $1,044.00 (MOB without Spend-down) $983.00 (MOB with Spend-down)
Non-1400 Hour:
Three-Year Seniority Attained Prior to July 1,2003:
Working	$339.00 (MOB)
Bridged	$234.00 (MOB)
Three-Year Seniority Attained after June 30, 2003 (New Entrants)	$125.00
(2)	Maintenance of Benefits and Reserves
For the period July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2011, the contribution rates shall be adjusted, as required to cover the cost of the schedules of benefits and to maintain adequate reserves as determined by the Board of Trustees and the consultant to the Joint Benefit Trust. If at any time the Board of Trustees determines that the reserves of the Joint Benefit Trust will fall below an amount equal to three months of insurance premiums, benefit payments, and administrative expenses (as determined by the administrator and the consultant) within three months, the Board of Trustees shall increase the rates by an amount sufficient to maintain the reserves at the threemonth level. Should this become necessary during the third year of this Agreement, the additional increment necessary to maintain reserves is not subject to the contribution rate cap set forth in paragraph 1 c. (3)(B).
(3)	Limit on Employer Contribution
(A)	Effective July 1, 2009 and throughout the term of this Agreement, the monthly contribution rate to be paid by Employers on behalf of each employee eligible for the Non-1400 Hour New Entrant plan is limited to the initial contribution rate set forth in c. (1) above.
63
(B)	Effective July 1, 2011 the maximum monthly contribution rate to be paid by Employers shall be as follows:
1400 Hour	$1190
Non-1400 Hour Three-Year Seniority Attained Prior to July 1, 2003:
Working	$377.00
Bridged	$263.00
(i)	If at any time on or after July 1, 2011 the monthly contribution rate required to maintain the 1400 Hour, Non-1400 Hour and/or Bridged Non-1400 Hour Plan exceeds the amounts referenced in paragraph 1 c. (3)(B) above, the Board of Trustees shall determine sufficiently in advance the benefit changes necessary to conform the benefit plan(s) to the contribution rate. The bargaining parties shall then advise the Board of Trustees whether they are prepared to accept some or all of the conforming changes with respect to each plan. If the bargaining parties accept none of these changes, any difference between the contribution cap rate and the rate required to maintain the schedules of benefits and reserves pursuant to 1 c. (2) above shall be the responsibility of the employee and shall be paid through deferral or reallocation of wages, as determined by the bargaining parties. If the bargaining parties accept some but not all of these changes, any difference between the contribution cap rate and the rate required to fund the schedules of benefits, as so modified, and reserves pursuant to 1 c. (2) above, shall be the responsibility of the employee and shall be paid through deferral or reallocation of wages, as determined by the bargaining parties.
64
(ii)	Any reserves in excess of the three-month reserve level specified in paragraph 1 c.(2) as of July 1,2011 shall not be taken into account in determining the rates under paragraph 1 c.(3)(B)(i).
(4)	Adjustment of 1400 Hour Plan Employer Contribution for Spend-down
Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of paragraph 1.c.:
(A)	The initial contribution rate for the 1400 Hour Plan shall be set at the $983.00 rate labeled “MOB with Spend-down” in c. (1). That rate shall stay in effect from July 1, 2009 through the earlier of June 30, 2010, or the end of the “last spend-down” month. The last spend-down month with respect to the 12 months beginning July 1,2009 is the month just before the month in which Trust reserves are projected (based on the most recent experience available) to have declined by $6.5 million from the reserve level as of July 1,2009 (but not below the minimum reserve level established under c. (2)).
(B)	If the last spend-down month occurs before June 1, 2010, the contribution rate for the 1400 Hour Plan shall increase to the $1,044 rate labeled “MOB without Spend-down” in c. (1) above effective the first day of the month following the last spend-down month and shall remain in effect through June 30, 2010. If the last spend-down month does not occur before July 1, 2010, then the contribution rate established by the Board of Trustees for the 1400 Hour Plan for the period beginning July 1,2010 pursuant to c. (2) (hereinafter the “unadjusted 2nd year rate”) shall be reduced by an amount determined as follows:
(i)	First, subtract from $6.5 million the excess, if any, of (a) the amount of Trust
65
reserves as of July 1, 2009 over (b) the amount of Trust reserves as of July 1, 2010 (using the Trustees’ best estimate of that amount based on the most recent experience available). The result is the “remaining spend-down amount”.
(ii)	Second, divide the remaining spenddown amount by the number of 1400 Hour employees that the Board of Trustees and the administrator estimate will be reported by all Employers for the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011. The result is the “2nd year rate adjustment”.
(iii)Third, reduce the unadjusted 2nd year rate by the 2nd year rate adjustment to arrive at the “adjusted 2nd year rate”.
(C)	The adjusted 2nd year rate shall be in effect from July 1, 2010 through the earlier of June 30, 2011 or the end of the “last spend-down month”. The last spend-down month for the 12-month period beginning July 1, 2010 is the month just before the month in which Trust reserves are projected (based on the most recent experience available) to have declined by $6.5 million from the reserve level as of July 1, 2009 (but not below the minimum reserve level established under c. (2)).
(D)	If the last spend-down month occurs before June 1, 2011, the contribution rate for the 1400 Hour Plan shall increase to the unadjusted 2nd year rate effective the first day of the month following the last spend-down month.
(E)	If the last spend-down month does not occur before July 1, 2011, rules similar to those in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above shall be used to determine the adjustment in the 1400 Hour Plan contribution rate cap referenced in paragraph 1 c. (3)(B) and the duration of the period starting July 1, 2011 during which that adjustment shall remain in effect.
66
2.	Health and Welfare, Dental, Drug and Vision Plans for Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Employees.
a.	Welfare Plans Provided for Employees and Their Eligible Dependents:
(1)	Health and Welfare Plan.
If employees or dependents receive any treatment or service which is compensated or furnished by any other group or group-type hospital, governmental program, and/or surgical program, the total amount of benefits paid by this program or any other program shall not exceed 100% of the charges for such treatment or service.
(2)	Dental Plan by Health Services Benefit Administrators, Inc. and/or an administrator selected by the Trustees. The schedule of benefits shall be increased by 3% each year of the collective bargaining agreement, commencing with July 1, 2009.
(3)	Drug Plan by Health Services Benefit Administrators, Inc. and/or an administrator selected by the Trustees.
(4)	Vision Plan by Vision Service Plan and/or a provider selected by the Trustees.
b.	Eligibility for all plans:
(1)A covered employee is one who on the first of any calendar month is an eligible employee who has worked for the company eighty (80) hours or more during the preceding calendar month. Notwithstanding this requirement, an otherwise eligible fourteen hundred (1400) hour seniority employee who fails to work the eighty (80) hours due to layoff for lack of work will be considered a covered employee and will have the contribution made by the company for a period of one (1) year dating from the date of the employee’s layoff. Thereafter, an employee may continue health and welfare coverage by making self-contributions for a period of up to twenty-four (24) consecutive months or to the end of layoff, whichever is shorter.
67
This provision shall not apply when the employee is directly covered by a plan provided by another employer.
If an employee quits or is terminated for any reason during a month, even if eighty (80) hours have been worked, no contribution is required for the following month nor will coverage be granted.
(2)	An employee hired within six (6) months after termination from either the same company or another canner covered by the Welfare Plans for fourteen hundred (1400) hour employees who was previously eligible and who is assigned to non-seasonal work shall have contributions made on the employee’s behalf beginning after the normal trial period of thirty (30) calendar days retroactive to the date of employment.
(3)	For the purpose of determining initial eligibility, all hours for which payment is required under the contract count as time worked.
(4)	After an employee has first become eligible, eligibility for each future year shall be determined on the calendar year basis provided, however, that the employee shall not lose eligibility during periods covered by approved leaves of absence.
(5)	If an eligible employee has taken a leave of absence and returns to work, company payments on the employee’s behalf shall be restored as of the first day of the month next following the month in which the employee works eighty (80) hours or more.
(6)	An eligible employee who takes a leave of absence may make the required health and welfare contributions on the employee’s own behalf by making payments in person to the company office prior to the sixth (6th) day of the month for which the payment is due. Such payment cannot be made more than one month in advance on a consecutive monthly basis, nor exceed a total of twenty-four (24) months. If an employee exercises his option to make his own contributions, he shall make payments for the health and welfare coverage and also the Dental, Drug and Vision at
68
a package rate.
In the case of a personal illness the company shall continue to make payments on the employee’s behalf until the employee returns to work, or for a period of one (1) year after the disability began, whichever is shorter. Thereafter, an employee may continue health and welfare coverage by making self-contributions for a period of up to twenty-four (24) consecutive months or to the end of the disability, whichever is shorter.
(7)	If an eligible employee suffers an injury on the job or suffers an illness growing directly out of an injury on the job, the company shall continue to make payments on the employee’s behalf until the date on which the Workers’ Compensation weekly benefits cease or for one (1) year after the injury occurred, whichever period is the shorter. Thereafter, an employee may continue health and welfare coverage by making self-contributions for a period of up to twenty-four (24) consecutive months or to the date Workers’ Compensation weekly benefits cease, whichever period is shorter.
(8)	Employees who are permanently laid off as a result of a plant closure as defined in Appendix L, shall be eligible to make self-contributions for their continued health and welfare coverage under these Plans for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months after their termination date. Such self-contributions must be continuous with either the Company’s or the employee’s last contribution without any lapse in coverage.
(9)	By agreement of the parties to this contract, the above eligibility rules appearing in the Trust Plan Document or SPD shall be considered part of this Appendix C and thereby subject to the arbitration machinery of this contract.
c.	Mammography Coverage: During the term of this Agreement it may no longer be possible to provide a mammography testing benefit under the Medical Examination Program described in Section 6 of this Appendix. In the event that the Medical Examination Program no longer offers a mammography benefit,
69
the 1400 Hour Plan shall provide a mammography benefit of up to $75 per exam to each covered employee and spouse at screening intervals as recommended by the American Cancer Society.
3.	Health and Welfare Plan for Retired Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Employees.
a.	A Health and Welfare program with contributions made by the company will be provided for any employee (and spouse) who retires on or after January 1, 1962. This program shall be available for employees (and spouses) who retire and receive a pension under the Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Plan or an alternate company plan. Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour employees who meet the requirements for participation in the Health and Welfare Plan for Retired Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Employees shall not be precluded from participation as a result of acceptance of severance pay as defined in Appendix L.
Retired employees must have their contribution paid even though their spouse may be an eligible fourteen hundred (1400) hour employee.
b.	If employees or dependents receive any treatment or service which is compensated or furnished by any other group or group-type hospital, governmental program, and/or surgical program, the total amount of benefits paid by this program or any other program shall not exceed 100% of the charges for such treatment or service.
c.	Each company individually will make provision to guarantee the future payment of health and welfare contributions for eligible employees who retired after January 1, 1962, or who retire hereafter. If such individual company provision is not made, the Trustees shall take all necessary steps to obtain such contributions. In the event such efforts to obtain contributions are not successful, all the individual companies involved shall assume such contribution obligations in the following manner:
(1)	The unpaid contribution obligation will be borne equally by all the individual companies involved.
70
(2)	Such companies shall be billed annually in advance for their share of the obligation.
The schedule of health and welfare benefits shall be guaranteed by the company for the life of the Agreement.
d.	The Health and Welfare Plan for Retired Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Employees shall include the following options, the availability of which depends on whether the employee retired before or after July 1, 1994:
(1)	Basic Option for Participants Not Eligible for Medicare which provides certain basic benefits.
(2)	Individual Health Care Account (IHCA) for participants eligible for Medicare which provides an annual benefit of $439.20 (reduced proportionately if eligible less than twelve (12) months) for certain eligible health care expenses, which expenses exclude reimbursement of Part B Medicare premiums.
(3)	HMO option which provides coverage and benefits under one or more HMOs the cost of which (including both premiums and the cost to the Joint Benefit Trust of administering the program) equals the sum of (a) the employer’s contribution on behalf of the retired employee and his/her dependents, if any, under 3.a., (b) the portion of the premium covered by the employer’s contribution for active 1400 Hour Employees under 3.e.(2), and (c) the portion of the premium paid by the retired employee under 3.e.(2). The HMO Option in effect under this paragraph (3) prior to July 1,2000 shall continue in effect until the new HMO Option becomes effective (which shall be no later than January 1,2001).
(4)	Major Medical Option which provides major medical benefits to cover medical and prescription drug costs, the cost of which (including the cost to the Joint Benefit Trust of administering the program) equals the sum of (a) the employer’s contribution on behalf of the retiree and his/her dependent, if any, under 3.a. (b) the portion of the premium covered by the employer’s
71
contribution under 3.e (2), and (c) the portion of the premium paid by the retired employee under 3.e (2). Effective January 1, 2001, the Major Medical Option shall no longer provide reimbursement of Part B Medicare premiums and the premiums paid by the retired employees who elect that option shall be reduced to reflect the elimination of that benefit.
(5)	The Board of Trustees of the Joint Benefit Trust shall have full authority and discretion to modify the benefits provided under options d. (3) and (4) and the premium paid by the retired employee to participate in either of those options and to eliminate either one, but not both, of those options if in their judgment it is no longer in the best interests of the Trust to continue such option. The HMO Option may, but need not, include a provision for covering prescription drug costs either through the HMO or through an indemnity program administered by the Trust. The Board from time to time may set eligibility rules limiting participation in the HMO Option, or enrollment in a particular HMO to conform to the eligibility rules set from time to time by the various HMOs offered through the HMO option.
e.	Contributions and premiums for the Health and Welfare Plan for Retired Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Employees will be determined as follows:
(1)	As to options d. (1) and (2) the companies shall contribute at a rate sufficient to cover the cost of the benefits provided.
(2)	As to options d. (3) and (4), the companies shall make an additional monthly contribution per active Fourteen-Hundred (1400) Hour Employee of $23.56 effective July 1,2000 plus the amount the company would have paid had the retired employee and dependents, if any, enrolled in options (1) or (2). The portion of the premium paid by the retired employee to participate in either option (3) or (4) shall be the amount, as determined from time to time by the Board of Trustees, necessary to cover the projected cost of the pro
72
gram of benefits under those options after taking into account the projected amount of employer contributions payable under this paragraph (2) on behalf of active Fourteen-Hundred (1400) Hour Employees, less the amount the company is required to pay on behalf of the retired employee and dependents, if any, under this paragraph (2). The portion of the premium paid by a retired employee shall be adjusted to take into account the difference in cost, if any, of the benefits provided under the particular option the retired employee elects, including whether the retired employee elects retiree only or family coverage.
(3)	The company’s obligation to make the per-retired employee contribution specified in paragraph (1), or the per-retired employee contribution specified in paragraph (2), ends with the retired employee’s death. (The per-active Fourteen-Hundred (1400) Hour Employee contribution specified in paragraph (2) is not affected by the death of a particular retired employee.) As set forth in the Plan booklets, under certain circumstances, dependents may continue coverage by making self-payments.
f.	Effective July 1,2006, the options available to retirees include those set forth in paragraph d (1) through (4).
The rights of retired employees and dependents to switch options or to make separate elections is limited as set forth in the Plan booklets
g.	Effective July 1, 2006, the pre-1994 Retiree Medicare Part B Benefit shall terminate and all Medicare Part B Retirees will be transferred by the Trustees of the Joint Benefit Trust to the IHCA option (paragraph d (2) of this Section).
4.	Health and Welfare, Dental, Drug and Vision Plans for Employees With Three or More Years’ Non-Fourteen Hundred (Non-1400) Hour Seniority Before July 1, 2003.
a.	Welfare plans provided for employees and their eligible dependents:
(1)	Health and Welfare, Dental, Drug and Vision
73
programs covering employees and their dependent children will be provided for those employees with three or more years’ seniority standing prior to July 1, 2003. The Vision Plan will be provided for employees only.
(2)If employees or, if applicable, dependents, receive any treatment or service which is covered or furnished by any other group or group-type hospital, governmental program, and/or surgical program, the total benefit paid by this Plan shall not exceed 100% of the charges for such treatment or service.
(3)	The health and welfare plan, dental plan and drug plan are provided through Health Services Benefit Administrators, Inc. and/or an administrator selected by the Trustees. The schedule of dental benefits shall be increased by 3% each year of the collective bargaining agreement, commencing with July 1, 2009. The vision plan is provided through Vision Service Plan and/or a provider selected by the Trustees.
b.	Eligibility for all plans:
(1)	The seniority listing will constitute basic eligibility and the contribution for the employee and the employee’s dependent children, if covered, will be paid under this program by the company for each month following a month in which the basically eligible employee worked eighty (80) or more hours.
(2)	In the employee’s first month of eligibility, the employee has the option of making self-contributions if the employee failed to work eighty (80) hours. If the employee does not make self-contributions for the first month of eligibility or if the employee skips a month, no additional self-contribution can be made until eighty (80) hours in a month have been worked.
(3)	All non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour employees eligible for benefits under the 1400 Hour Plan described in this paragraph 4 must have their contributions paid even though their
74
spouse may be an eligible fourteen hundred (1400) hour employee.
(4)	If an employee quits or is terminated for any reason during a month, even if eighty (80) hours have been worked, no contribution is required for the following month nor will coverage be granted.
c.	Extended Coverage Rules:
(1)	Eligible employees who were either in a bridging status or eligible for bridging on July 1, 1985 (bridged employees) and who are laid off due to lack of work shall have their health and welfare contributions paid for by the company (employee medical coverage only) for a period not to exceed eleven (11) months from the date of layoff (bridging period) to provide employee coverage during the layoff period, provided the company has made at least one (1) contribution payment as a result of the employee working eighty (80) hours.
(2)	Non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour employees who were neither in bridging status nor bridged as of July 1, 1985 (“unbridged” employees) will not qualify for bridging. Unbridged employees who are laid off due to lack of work shall have the right to self-pay for health and welfare (employee medical coverage only) for the bridging period, provided the company has made at least one (1) contribution payment as a result of the employee working eighty (80) hours.
(3)	In the event the employee (bridged or unbridged) is not returned from layoff following the expiration of the bridging period and, in the case of the unbridged employee, provided self-payments have been made for health and welfare coverage throughout the bridging period, the employee may elect to pay the health and welfare contributions for the employee’s own coverage at the applicable rate for an additional period not to exceed twenty-four (24) additional months. Thereafter, the employee must requalify for bridging or for the right to make self-payments by being recalled to work from layoff or returning from personal leave and by the company’s
75
payment of the contribution for at least one (1) month as required under the 1400 Hour plan.
(4)	There is no bridging of Non-1400 Hour Plan dental or drug benefits for the eligible employee in the event of layoff. However, the bridged employee and the unbridged employee self paying for coverage pursuant to 4. c .(3) above shall have the right to make self-contributions for the employee’s drug and dental plans and dependent children’s health and welfare, drug and dental plans’ coverage during the eleven (11) month bridging period and may continue such coverage by self contribution during the subsequent twenty-four (24) month period if the employee elects to be covered. The intent of this paragraph is to prohibit selectivity against the plans. If the employee does not pay for dependent coverage during the eleven (11) month bridging period, the employee cannot pay for dependent children coverage for the twenty-four (24) month additional period.
(5)	Bridged employees electing to self-pay for coverage pursuant to this Section must elect to do so within 31 days of employment. Unbridged employees electing to make self-payments for coverage may pay on a month-to-month basis after company-paid coverage ends.
(6)	When eligible employees are ill, have an industrial injury or take a personal leave of absence during the working season and, thereby, fail to work eighty (80) hours in a month, the company is not responsible for contributions for the employee or the employee’s dependent children. However, employees may make their own contributions up to eleven (11) months providing that either the company or the employee made a contribution for the month preceding the illness, industrial injury or personal leave of absence. The eleven (11) month period begins with the first day of the month following the month for which the employer would have been required to make a contribution under paragraphs 4. b. or 4. c. (1) or for which the employee had the right to make a
76
contribution under paragraph 4. c. (2) had the illness, industrial injury or personal leave of absence not occurred. After the eleven (11) month period expires, the employee has no further self-pay rights under this paragraph until a contribution is required from the company because of hours worked.
(7)	Employees who are permanently laid off as a result of a plant closure as defined in Appendix L, shall be eligible to make self-contributions for their continued health and welfare coverage under these Plans for a period not to exceed twelve (12) months after their termination date. Such self-contributions must be continuous with either the company’s or the employee’s last contribution without any lapse in coverage. Employees can make self-contributions for their own coverage or for the coverage they elected in accord with paragraph 4. c. (2) or 4. c. (4) above. If said election has not been made at the time of the plant closure, the previous years’ election shall apply.
(8)	Unless pre-funded through payroll withholding, all self-payments for health and welfare coverage must be made directly to the company by the sixth (6th) day of the month for which coverage is being purchased. Self-pay coverage must be continuous. If a payment is missed, the employee’s (and dependent’s coverage if applicable) ends and the employee loses the right to self-pay for coverage in future months unless and until employer-paid eligibility is reestablished.
d.	Mammography Coverage: During the term of this Agreement it may no longer be possible to provide a mammography testing benefit under the Medical Examination Program described in Section 6 of this Appendix. In the event that the Medical Examination Program no longer offers a mammography benefit, the Non-1400 Plan, and Bridged Non-1400 Plan shall provide a mammography benefit of up to $75 per exam to each covered employee and spouse at screening intervals as recommended by the American Cancer Society.
77
5.	Health and Welfare, Dental and Drug Plans for Employees Who First Attain Three or More Year’s Non-Fourteen Hundred (Non-1400) Hour Seniority On Or After July 1, 2003. (“New Entrants”)
a.	Welfare Plans Provided for Employees:
(1)	Health and Welfare, Dental and Drug programs covering employees will be provided for those employees who attain three or more years’ seniority standing on or after July 1, 2003.
(2)	If employees receive any treatment or service which is compensated or furnished by any other group or group-type hospital, governmental program, and/or surgical program, the total amount of benefits paid by this Plan shall not exceed 100% of the charges for such treatment or service. The health and welfare plan, dental plan, and drug plan are provided through Health Services Benefit Administrators, Inc. and/or an administrator selected by the Trustees.
b.	Eligibility for all plans:
(1)The seniority listing will constitute basic eligibility and the contribution for the employee, if covered, will be paid under this program by the company for each month following a month in which the basically eligible employee worked eighty (80) or more hours.
(2)	In the employee’s first month of eligibility, the employee has the option of making self-contributions if the employee failed to work eighty (80) hours. If the employee does not make self-contributions for the first month of eligibility or if the employee skips a month, no additional self-contributions can be made until eighty (80) hours in a month have been worked.
(3)	All non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour employees eligible for benefits under the New Entrants plan must have their contributions paid even though their spouse may be an eligible fourteen hundred (1400) employee.
(4)	If an employee quits or is terminated for any reason during a month, even if eighty (80) hours
78
have been worked, no contribution is required for the following month nor will coverage be granted.
c.	Eligibility for employees who attained three-year seniority status on or after July 1, 2003:
(1)	Only employees are eligible for coverage under the Health and Welfare and Drug Plans. There is no coverage for dependent children. Eligible employees and their dependent children may be covered under the Dental Plan.
(2)	When coverage is lost, there are no rights to selfpay for coverage other than those provided by law.
d.	Mammography coverage: During the term of this Agreement it may no longer be possible to provide a mammography testing benefit under the Medical Examination Program described in Section 6 of this Appendix. In the event that the Medical Examination Program no longer offers a mammography benefit, the New Entrants Plan shall provide a mammography benefit of up to $75 per exam to the employee at screening intervals as recommended by the American Cancer Society.
6.	Medical Examination Plan
a.	Employees with one (1) or more years of seniority become eligible for the Medical Examination Plan and Follow-up Program. For employees hired before July 1, 2009 who attain 1400 hour status will be eligible for the medical examination annually for themselves and spouse. Employees hired on or after July 1, 2009 who attain 1600 hour status will be eligible annually for themselves and spouse. Seasonal employees will be eligible for the medical examination program evey three (3) years.
b.	The purpose of the Plan is to provide the employees with complete periodic physical examinations by a professional medical staff for the purpose of detecting and diagnosing diseases and health disorders.
c.	Examinations shall take place at the employees’ job sites. For purposes of administering the examinations, movable vans appropriately designated and equipped for administering complete medical examinations shall be utilized. The vans shall be used to
79
transport the necessary staff and equipment to the job site and shall serve as a place in which to conduct examinations.
d.	Examinations shall be administered by a professional medical staff.
e.	The examinations shall be given during the regular work hours of the employee where operating requirements permit, provided the employees shall not suffer a reduction of pay for reason of taking the physical examinations. All eligible employees who obtain medical examinations at times other than their individual working hours shall receive $3.00 paid by the company provided they take the medical examination.
f.	Provided that facilities are available and the schedule permits, employees of companies not members of California Processors, Inc., shall be permitted to obtain a medical examination; and the independent company or trust shall be charged on a reasonable basis.
g.	In the event scheduling problems arise between the companies, the administrator and local unions, a joint committee composed of the Joint Benefit Trust Trustees shall resolve such issues. Unresolved issues shall be subject to arbitration.
h.	Mammography coverage: During the term of this Agreement it may no longer be possible to provide a mammography testing benefit under the Medical Examination Program described in Section 6 of this Appendix. In the event that the Medical Examination Program no longer offers a mammography benefit, then for those employees who are not covered under Sections 2 (c), 4 (d) or 5 (d), the Medical Examination Program shall provide a mammography benefit of up to $75 per exam to the employee in the year the field examination is conducted at the employee’s plant.
7.	Life Insurance Plan No. 1104LD.
a.	Initial Eligibility for Plan.
All employees who have completed thirty (30) days of employment (employment status for thirty (30)
80
calendar days not seniority as such) shall be eligible for the Plan. The Plan shall provide a benefit of $5,000 for 1400 Hour employees and $1,500 for non-1400 Hour employees.
Employees shall become initially eligible for the Plan if they satisfy any one of the following conditions:
(1)	They are hired at a particular plant in accord with Section X, Hiring Practices, and have had previous satisfactory employment at that plant.
(2)	They are hired at a particular plant in accord with Section X, Hiring Practices, and have had previous experience at other plants in the Northern California Canning Industry.
(3)	They are hired at a particular plant and have completed thirty (30) calendar days of employment (employment status for thirty (30) calendar days, not seniority as such).
Employees are covered for the life insurance on the day thirty (30) calendar days of employment are completed. If an employee completes thirty (30) calendar days on or prior to the fifteenth of any month, a premium payment for that month is required by the company. However, if an employee completes thirty (30) calendar days of employment after the fifteenth of a month, no contribution is required for that month even though the employee is covered by the life insurance plan.
b.	Continuing Eligibility for Plan.
After an employee establishes initial eligibility as defined above, coverage and company contributions in subsequent months shall require the employee working at least one (1) day in each month for coverage in that month.
c.	Waiver of Contribution.
Except when an employee is permanently disabled, there is no waiver of contribution under the Plan. When eligible fourteen hundred (1400) hour, non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour, or non-seniority employees are ill, have an industrial injury or take an approved leave of absence and thereby fail to work one (1) day in a month, no contribution is required
81
by the company. However, employees can make their own contribution in accord with the following rules regarding self-contributions.
d.	Self-Contributions.
Employees are not eligible for contributions by the company if they do not work one (1) day in a month. Therefore, employees interested in protecting their paid up portion of the policy must make their own contributions when they are not working.
(1)	When fourteen hundred (1400) hour employees fail to work one (1) day in a month they must make provision to pay the contribution for that month in order to continue their insurance in force. Vacation and sabbatical leave shall count as time worked and the contribution shall be paid by the company during those periods of leave.
(2)	Non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour employees and non-seniority employees eligible for the plan can make provision to pay the contributions during non-working months in accord with the following procedure:
(a)	At the beginning of the season employees must be notified they have an option to elect to continue coverage under the $1,500 Life Insurance Plan during any subsequent period in which contributions are not required to be made, such as layoff.
(b)	If employees elect to have the life insurance plan continued during any such period, the employees should authorize that appropriate contributions be withheld during the season.
(c)	The maximum period in which employees can pre-pay their insurance is twenty-four (24) months. Thereafter, employees must requalify for the Plan by being recalled to work and having the company pay the contribution for at least one (1) month.
82
APPENDIX D PENSION PLANS
1.	General Background.
Pension benefits are provided for covered employees under the Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Trust Fund (WCT Trust Fund). Before January 1, 2002, pension benefits for covered employees also were provided under the Western States Food Processing Industry Employees Pension Plan (Food Processing Plan). On December 31, 2001, the Food Processing Plan merged into the WCT Trust Fund which assumed responsibility for payment of the pension benefits earned by covered employees under the Food Processing Plan up through that date.
Pension benefits provided under the WCT Trust Fund in accordance with the Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Plan (WCT Plan) are based on company contributions on an hourly basis in the amount and under the terms set forth in Sections 2. and 3. (below) for each classification of employees.
2.	Pension Benefits for Employees Who Have Achieved Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Status.
a.	For employees classified as “fourteen hundred (1400) hour employees”, the company will contribute $1.736 per hour for each covered employee to the WCT Trust Fund to provide benefits in accordance with the WCT Plan. In addition, the company will contribute an amount equal to 16.5% of the foregoing basic contribution (280) to provide for participation in the Program for Enhanced Early Retirement (PEER/80).
Effective July 1, 2009, the company will increase its contribution to the WCT Trust Fund by 100 per hour, of which 80 shall be allocated to basic contributions and 20 shall be allocated to PEER/80, thereby increasing the basic contribution rate from $1.736 to $1.816 per hour and the PEER/80 contribution from 280 to 300 per hour for a total of $2.116 per hour.
Effective July 1, 2010, the company will increase its contribution to the WCT Trust Fund by 100 per hour, of which 90 shall be allocated to basic contributions
83
and 10 shall be allocated to PEER/80, thereby increasing the basic contribution rate from $1.816 to $1.906 per hour and the PEER/80 contribution from 300 to 310 per hour for a total of $2.216 per hour.
Effective July 1, 2011, the company will increase its contribution to the WCT Trust Fund by 100 per hour, of which 80 shall be allocated to basic contributions and 20 shall be allocated to PEER/80, thereby increasing the basic contribution rate from $1.906 to $1.986 per hour and the PEER/80 contribution from 310 to 330 per hour for a total of $2.316 per hour.
The contribution required to provide for PEER/80 will not be taken into consideration for benefit accrual purposes under the WCT Plan.
The additional contribution for PEER/80 must at all times be 16.5% of the basic contribution and cannot be decreased or discontinued at any time.
b.	Contributions shall be made for each and every hour worked or paid for on behalf of each employee.
c.	Contributions for new fourteen hundred (1400) hour employees begin the day following the day the employee has qualified by working fourteen hundred (1400) hours, including holiday and vacation hours per Paragraph VI.C.2.a. on an anniversary or calendar year basis, except that:
(1)	An employee hired within six (6) months after termination from another canner covered by the WCT Trust Fund who has previously qualified and who is assigned to non-seasonal work shall have contributions made on the employee’s behalf beginning after the normal trial period (30 calendar days) retroactive to the date of employment.
(2)	An employee hired within (6) months after termination from an employer covered by the WCT Trust Fund and who had previously qualified and who works fourteen hundred (1400) hours after the employee’s date of employment shall have contributions made on the employee’s behalf retroactive to the employee's starting date. Continuation of eligibility shall be based on the retention of fourteen hundred (1400) hour eligibility as provided in Section IX.N.
84
3.	Pension Benefits for Non-Fourteen Hundred (Non-1400) Hour Employees.
a.	For employees classified as “non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour employees” the company will contribute 1.0620 per hour for each covered employee to the WCT Trust Fund to provide benefits in accordance with the WCT Plan. In addition, the company will contribute an amount equal to 16.5% of the foregoing basic contribution (170) to provide for participation in the Program for Enhanced Early Retirement (PEER/80).
Effective July 1, 2010, the company will increase its contribution to the WCT Trust Fund by 50 per hour, of which 40 shall be allocated to basic contributions and 10 shall be allocated to PEER/80, thereby increasing the basic contribution rate from $1.062 to $1.102 per hour and the PEER/80 contribution from 170 to 180 per hour for a total of $1.282 per hour.
Effective July 1, 2011, the company will increase its contribution to the WCT Trust Fund by 50 per hour, of which 40 shall be allocated to basic contributions and 10 shall be allocated to PEER/80, thereby increasing the basic contribution rate from 1.1020 to 1.1420 per hour and the PEER/80 contribution from 180 to 190 per hour for a total contribution of $1.332 per hour.
The contribution required to provide for PEER/80 will not be taken into consideration for benefit accrual purposes under the WCT Plan.
The additional contribution required to provide for PEER/80 must at all times be 16.5% of the basic contribution and cannot be decreased or discontinued at any time.
b.	Contributions shall be made for each and every hour worked or paid for on behalf of each employee.
c.	Effective January 1, 1998, the company will make additional contributions to the WCT Trust Fund for employees classified as “non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour employees” in amounts necessary to comply with the WCT Trust Fund’s Trustee Rules on Acceptance of Employer Contributions in the Food Processing Industry regarding permissible dual
85
rate provisions, subject to all permissible limitations on such additional contributions.
d.	Effective for any non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour employee hired by the company on or after July 1, 2003, the company shall pay to the WCT Trust Fund a contribution rate of 100 per hour, of which 90 shall be the basic contribution and 10 shall be the PEER/80 contribution, until the employee attains seniority as provided in Section IX.A., but in no case for a period longer than 90 calendar days from the employee’s initial date of hire with the company. These contributions shall be in lieu of the contributions provided for in Paragraph 3.a., above. Contributions during this period shall be made for each and every hour worked or paid for on behalf of the employee. Upon the employee’s attainment of seniority as provided in Section IX.A., or if earlier, upon expiration of the 90-calender day period from initial date of hire, the contribution rate shall increase to the full contribution rate specified in Paragraph 3.a. above. The intent of this Paragraph 3.d. is to conform to item number 3 of the WCT Trust Fund’s Trustee Policy on Acceptance of Employer Contributions and the parties agree to execute any conforming amendments to this Paragraph that may be required by the WCT Trust Fund.
4.	If there are any conflicts between the provisions of this Appendix D and the provisions of the WCT Pension Plan and Trust Agreement, the provisions of the Pension Plan and Trust Agreement will apply.
5.	When an employee retires and receives an initial pension check from the WCT Trust Fund, the company shall be immediately notified by the local union of the date the employee begins to receive such pension benefits.
APPENDIX E
JURY DUTY
Any employee with one (1) or more years of seniority standing, twelve (12) calendar months following attainment of seniority, called to jury duty or subpoenaed by the Court as witnesses to appear in court shall not lose any pay by reason of being
86
called to qualify or serve as jurors or witnesses to appear in court. Such employees will not be required to report to work when called to perform such services. The company shall pay such employees the difference between their regular compensation and the payment made to them as jurors or witnesses.
APPENDIX F
SICK LEAVE PLAN
1.	Eligibility.
Employees who have worked in the plant at least fourteen hundred (1400) combined straight and overtime hours, per Appendix B, Preface to the Fringe Benefit Appendices, during the preceding calendar year or anniversary year are eligible. Paid sick leave hours shall be credited towards the eligibility hours referred to above.
2.	Waiting Period.
Except in cases of industrial disability or accident which necessitate absence from work, there shall be a waiting period of three (3) working days, including overtime days the employee would have worked on each disability before the benefits are payable. In the case of a relapse caused by the same illness or injury within two (2) weeks after an employee returns to work, no waiting period is required. If an employee is hospitalized at any time during the employee’s three-day waiting period, the full waiting period is waived. Surgery performed on an out-patient basis in lieu of hospitalization, as determined by the Joint Benefit Trust Utilization Review Service, shall be considered hospitalization for the application of this paragraph.
3.	Calculation of Benefits.
Disability pay will be calculated on the basis of straighttime hours (including the twenty-five cents (250) paid on straight-time Saturdays and night shift premium) the employee would have worked (based on each employee’s annual assignment hourly rate), for each of the employee’s scheduled straight-time days of work lost due to the disability, less the waiting period. If an employee is assigned to a temporary job, due to an industrial injury and laid-off from the temporary job, the determination as to whether the employee would have worked will be
87
based on whether the employee would or would not have been on layoff from the employee’s regular assignment. If the employee is on layoff and is called back to work but is unable to return because of a disability, sick leave will start for the time the employee would have been at work, less the waiting period. If the employee, based on seniority and qualifications would have been on layoff, no disability pay is due during such layoff periods. The intent of this Section is to provide that an eligible employee will receive the designated sick pay for straight-time scheduled days of work for which the employee is not paid wages on account of the disability.
In no event shall there be a layoff for the purpose of avoiding the payments of sick benefits.
Sick leave payments by the company shall be made to the employee not later than the second payday after the company receives notification of the illness or injury.
4.	Schedule of Benefits.
Completed Years of Service	Weeks’ Benefits at Full Pay	Weeks’ Benefits at Half Pay
1	1	4
2	2	7
3	3	10
4	4	13
5	5	16
6	6	19
7	7	22
8	8	25
9	9	28
10	10	32
11	11	31
12	12	30
13	13	29
14	14	28
15	15	27
16	16	26
17	17	25
18	18	24
88
19	19	23
20	20	22
21	21	21
22	22	20
23	23	19
24	24	18
25	25	17
26 or more	26	16
5.	Application of Benefit Schedule.
If an employee becomes disabled while on vacation or sabbatical leave, at the employee’s request, such employee may have vacation or sabbatical leave interrupted and be placed on sick leave status on Monday of any week providing the employee notifies the company and substantiates the disability on Monday. Failing such Monday notification, the employee may be placed on sick leave Monday of the next week. The employee’s unused vacation shall be granted on request on a later date.
The benefits under Workers’ Compensation are separate from and in addition to the benefits provided for nonindustrial cases. For example, the employee may exhaust the employee’s benefit schedule while off work for a Workers’ Compensation injury but after returning to work will still remain eligible to apply the schedule of benefits for a non-industrial disability. This also applies in reverse in the event the non-industrial disability occurs first and an industrial injury occurs after the employee returns to work.
6.	Integration with S.D.I. and Workers’ Compensation. Company-paid benefits will be fully integrated with S.D.I. and Workers’ Compensation, and this will be accomplished in the following manner:
a.	Full-week benefits—during full-week benefits the company will supplement the weekly S.D.I. and Workers’ Compensation payments for which the employee is eligible up to a maximum of 100% of the employee’s normal net weekly straight-time earnings. The net weekly straight-time earnings will be based on the last straight-time week prior to the commencement of sick pay.
89
b.	In the event the weekly S.D.I. and/or Workers’ Compensation payments become subject to taxation as income, the maximum net of the employee’s normal straight-time earnings provided in 6.a. shall become 100%.
c.	Half-week benefits—during the half-week benefits the benefits due from the company shall be a maximum of one-half the employee’s normal weekly straight-time earnings. Company payments, up to a maximum of one-half the employee’s straight-time earnings, will supplement S.D.I. and Workers’ Compensation payments by the full one-half of the employee’s straight-time weekly earnings if the combined benefits would equal more than 100% of the employee’s normal weekly straight-time earnings.
If the combination of half the employee’s straighttime earnings for the week involved, plus the employee’s weekly S.D.I. benefits, do not equal 100% of the employee’s weekly straight-time earnings, the difference up to 100% will be paid from the employee’s S.D.I. reserve account.
7.	Subsequent Employee Credits Resulting From the S.D.I. Integration.
All S.D.I. payments that have been used as a credit against the weekly benefits that the company is obligated to pay, will be set up by the company as a credit for the individual employee concerned and will be available to the employee, if disabled, in accordance with standard S.D.I. practices after the employee is no longer eligible to collect S.D.I. benefits during the disability period involved.
Any employee eligible for “Sick Leave Plan” benefits who retires on or after age 65 will be entitled to receive all S.D.I. payments remaining in the employee’s reserve account that have been used as a credit by the company. Providing the employee meets the following conditions, weekly payments will be made in the same amount of money as was weekly credited to the reserve account: a. The employee is receiving payments under the Sick Leave Plan at the time of retirement.
b.	The employee remains continually incapacitated by the same illness and can satisfy the provisions of
90
“Proof of Claim” under the Sick Leave Plan in the same manner as an active member.
c.	The employee is no longer eligible for S.D.I. payments.
8.	Renewal of Benefits.
Whenever an employee has worked one hundred thirty (130) working days or more since the employee’s last paid disability, including holiday, vacation and sabbatical leave, the full schedule of benefits is renewed automatically in accordance with the employee’s service. The employee is always eligible for the scheduled amount of benefits, less accumulated periods of paid disability, during the one hundred thirty (130) work day period necessary for full renewal of benefits.
If an employee is on sick leave at the time the employee becomes ineligible to be continued on the sick leave roster, the employee shall be eligible for the remaining part of the existing benefit schedule as long as the employee remains continuously disabled with the same disability.
9.	Proof of Claim.
If required by the company, a claim for disability payments shall be supported by a certificate from a licensed physician, surgeon, or chiropractor. When required, such certificate shall be supplied to the company by the employee. An employee will be eligible for sick leave pay as long as the employee qualifies for state disability benefits under the provisions of Assembly Bill #3082 relating to Alcoholic Recovery Programs. The company shall have the right at any time to make an investigation of each claim filed. Any dispute between the parties as to the validity of a claim shall be referred to the Arbitration Board.
10.	Notification Required.
In case of illness or disability, notice shall be given to the person or persons designated by the company, provided such person or persons are available to receive such notice during specified hours. The waiting period for benefits shall commence on the date such notice is received by the company unless unusual circumstances beyond the control of the employee make it impossible for the employee to notify the company as provided above.
When requested by the local union, each company shall
91
furnish, at reasonable intervals of time, statements listing the employees receiving sick pay and the amounts paid to each.
11.	Conditions Not Covered.
Employees will not be entitled to disability pay under this Plan:
a.	If the sickness or injury is due to willful self-injury, intoxication, the use of narcotics or habit-forming drugs, or for illness or injury resulting from willful, illegal action.
b.	If the employee is injured while performing work for another employer unless such work is performed with the knowledge and written consent of the primary employer.
c.	If the employee’s sickness or injury is the result of an act of war.
d.	The last three (3) working days of an employee’s vacation shall count as waiting days if the employee is sick on those days and gives notice at the start of the sickness in accordance with “Notification Required” above and can submit evidence of sickness as provided under “Proof of Claim.”
This shall not apply if the employee would have been on layoff status during the three (3) day period referred to above.
e.	If an employee receives a settlement or award covering wages lost, the company shall have the right to recover disability payments made by the company during such period or periods.
12.	Notwithstanding an employee’s eligibility for the benefits set forth herein, an employee who has a pattern of excessive absences may be subject to discipline and/or separation from employment where such employee has effectively become unemployable. In such cases the parties agree to submit any dispute as to whether there is just cause for such discipline to expedited arbitration. The Arbitrator’s fees and other costs incidental to such expedited arbitration will be borne by the Employer, each side shall bear their own costs of representation.
92
APPENDIX G
The substance of this Appendix was deleted in June of 1994.
APPENDIX H
DEATH IN FAMILY
Death in the Family Benefit for Fourteen Hundred (1400) Hour Employees and Non-Fourteen Hundred (Non-1400) Hour Employees With Two or More Years of Seniority Standing.
Upon request, three (3) straight-time days (five (5) such days for death outside the State of California) will be paid for by the company in the event of a death in the immediate family. An employee may request that Saturday and/or Sunday be considered as straight-time days for purposes of this Appendix, if such employee was scheduled to work on Saturday and/or Sunday. It is the intention of this provision that persons who take such leave shall actually be attending the funeral of the member of the immediate family and/or have to attend pre- or post-burial matters. Upon request, proof of travel shall be furnished to the company for deaths out of state.
The amount of pay for each such day shall be determined by the work guarantee for fourteen hundred (1400) hour employees set forth in Section V.C.2.a. and b., and for non-fourteen hundred (non-1400) hour employees set forth in Section V.C.3.a.
“Immediate family” includes the following:
1.	Spouse — includes legal wife or husband. Does not include ex-wife or ex-husband.
2.	Child — also includes stepchild, legally adopted child or children of whom employee is legal guardian.
3.	Parent — includes natural parents, step-parents or adoptive parents.
4.	Brother — includes natural brother, stepbrother, adoptive brother or half-brother.
93
5.	Sister — same type of inclusions as described for “Brother.”
6.	Father-in-Law — applies only to the father of the current legal spouse.
7.	Mother-in-Law — applies only to the mother of the current legal spouse.
8.	Son-in-Law.
9.	Daughter-in-Law.
10.	Grandparents — includes the parents of the employee’s natural parents, step-parents or adoptive parents. This category also includes great-grandparents.
11.	Grandchildren.
Employees are not eligible to receive this benefit if they are on layoff status or on a leave of absence without pay. However, if an employee is on a leave of absence without pay relating to an illness of a member of the employee’s “immediate family” as defined in this Appendix, the employee shall be entitled to receive this benefit if such family member dies while the employee is on such leave of absence.
APPENDIX I
ON-THE-JOB TRAINING PROGRAM
An On-the-Job Training Program will be provided for qualified designated employees to develop special mechanical skills (all varieties of maintenance and repair work; such as, electrical, automotive, boiler room and the various categories of processing machinery) prior to the anticipated retirement of specific employees in the mechanical classifications. Mechanical positions for which training is provided under the California Canning Industry Joint Apprenticeship Program are specifically excluded from this Appendix.
The parties agree that the Teamsters Cannery Council and California Processors, Inc. shall each appoint four (4) members to an On-The-Job Training Committee. This Committee shall be responsible for and have the authority to establish and implement consistent rules and procedures to effectuate, modify and/or improve the On-The-Job Program set forth below. The training program will operate as follows:
1.	Annual review (between January 1 and March 1) of mechanically skilled employees due to retire who need
94
to be replaced will be made by all companies for each individual plant covered by this Agreement. Opportunities to enter this On-the-Job Training Program as a replacement for employees due to retire or the additional needs for an increased work force, as required by the company, will be posted for a period of ten (10) working days, and employees accepted for training by the company and the local union will become “designated trainees.” Except for the ten (10) day posting period, the rules and conditions applicable to the posting of training opportunities will be the same as those applicable to the general posting of job vacancies appearing under Section IX.H. — Job Posting.
2.	The following wage rates at the appropriate intervals shall apply to trainees who have demonstrated satisfac-
tory progress.		
First 400 hours	Class C level of Training	BR III
Next 600 hours	Class B level	BR III + 50% of dif-
	of training	ference between BR III and BR II
Next 1000 hours	Class A level of training	BR II
Next 1000 hours		BR II + 25% of difference between BR II and BR IB
Next 1000 hours		BR II+50% of difference between BR II and BR IB
Next 1000 hours		BR II+75% of difference between BR II and BR IB
End of 5000 hours		BR IB (when assigned)
95
3.	The number of hours of training to qualify for specified vacancies shall be:
(a)	Bracket III trainee to qualify for Bracket IB — 5000 hrs. of training.
(b)	Bracket II trainee to qualify for Bracket IB — 4000 hrs. of training.
(c)	Bracket III trainee to qualify for Bracket II — 1000 hrs. of training.
An untrained employee already at the Bracket II rate shall remain at the Bracket II rate for 1000 hours and then will become eligible for progression increases.
APPENDIX J
The substance of this Appendix was transferred to Appendix C effective July 1, 2000.
APPENDIX K
SABBATICAL LEAVE PLAN
1.	General.
a.	It is agreed that a Sabbatical Leave Plan shall be part of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The agreed upon Sabbatical Leave Plan shall be administered by a Board of Trustees composed of five (5) representatives designated by the Employer and an equal number of representatives designated by the Union. The duties and powers of the Board of Trustees shall be set forth in a Trust Agreement.
b.	Employees shall be granted Sabbatical Leave with full pay based on a program to be established by the Trustees. The current eligibility and benefits will be maintained by the companies for the life of this Agreement.
c.	Leave granted under the Plan shall be exclusive of and in addition to regular vacations granted under Section VIII of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
d.	Each company shall contribute an amount determined by the Trustees to the Trust Fund providing for this Plan for each and every hour worked or paid for, including all sick pay hours and those hours par
96
tially covered by State disability insurance, pursuant to this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
2.	Eligibility.
a.	Effective January 1, 1966, all employees who have fifteen (15) years or more of sixteen hundred (1600) hour years of seniority including the first (1st) calendar year in which they have completed sixteen hundred (1600) hours worked and commencing January 1, 1971, who have completed fourteen hundred (1400) hours worked in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and who are on the seniority list at the time of eligibility or anytime thereafter shall have satisfied the basic eligibility requirement subject to the following:
(1)	Employees who have satisfied the eligibility requirement as outlined in 2.a. above shall be considered as having satisfied the eligibility requirement and shall become eligible for Sabbatical Leave.
(2)	Employees who have not acquired the basic eligibility requirement must be actively employed after satisfying the eligibility requirement as outlined in 2.a. above in order to be eligible and fully vested. To be actively employed requires the performance of work for which the employee is compensated.
(3)	Employees on extended leaves of absence prior to the inception of a five (5) year cycle must return to work and must be actively employed before they are eligible and fully vested.
b.	Once an employee qualifies for Sabbatical Leave, that employee requalifies again every five (5) years, providing the employee maintains seniority and meets the requirements outlined in a. (3) above.
c.	In the event a fourteen hundred (1400) hour employee’s job is lost because of a plant closure, as defined in Appendix L, and the employee is hired within six (6) months by another canner participating in the Sabbatical Leave Trust, such employee shall maintain years of service with the previous company toward such employee’s eligibility for benefits.
97
d.	Employees who complete fourteen hundred (1400) hours of work in their fifteenth (15th) year and who retire that year are eligible for the sabbatical leave benefits.
3.	Benefits — Basic Plan.
Each eligible employee shall be granted nine (9) weeks leave during each five (5) year cycle with leave payment equal to three hundred sixty (360) hours at the employee’s annual assignment rate in effect at the time the employee goes on leave.
4.	Scheduling.
a.	The Board of Trustees shall determine the percentage of eligible employees at each plant location that can be granted leave each year of the five (5) year cycle.
b.	Consistent with operating requirements, leaves shall be scheduled in accordance with seniority preference in the same manner as vacations are presently scheduled.
c.	Leaves and vacations shall be scheduled consecutively. By mutual agreement between the Parties, leaves and vacations may be granted separately. Neither party may unreasonably withhold approval of the separation of leaves and vacations.
5.	Conditions Applicable to the Sabbatical Leave Plan.
a.	Leave granted under the Plan shall be exclusive of and in addition to regular vacations granted under Section VIII of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.
b.	Time on leave shall be treated in the same manner as time on regular vacation. Therefore:
(1)	The company shall maintain all fringe benefits for employees on Sabbatical Leave that normally accrue to the employees under the Collective Bargaining Agreement during active employment.
(2)	The payments given to employees on Sabbatical Leave, whether in lump sum payment or in weekly increments shall reflect any and all obligations imposed upon companies by any City, County, State or Federal Statute.
(3)	In addition, the payments given to the employees on Sabbatical Leave shall reflect any and all
98
obligations imposed upon employees by any City, County, State or Federal Statute.
(4)	All employees on leave shall accrue seniority for the full amount of hours for which they are paid while on leave.
c.	Employees on leave shall receive holiday pay if they would otherwise have been eligible but they shall not be permitted to schedule leave during layoff periods for the specific purpose of obtaining additional pay for holidays for which they would not have been eligible.
d.	Payment for Sabbatical Leave shall be made to the employee in a lump sum or in weekly increments at the option of the employee.
e.	All employees who meet the eligibility requirements are automatically vested. Leave payments shall be made after an employee is vested regardless of the termination reason, and payment will be made in accordance with Article Vll, Section F of the Trust Agreement. In the event of termination, the payment obligation shall be fulfilled by lump sum payment at the applicable rate excluding fringe benefits, except that the foregoing shall not apply to those employees who will be granted their Sabbatical Leave(s) just prior to retirement in accordance with f. below.
f.	An employee may only defer one five (5) year cycle of benefits prior to retirement.
g.	If an extended layoff is scheduled, eligible employees shall be permitted to request their leave instead, providing there are sufficient contributions in the fund for those employees already scheduled for that year.
h.	An employee on Sabbatical Leave shall not be permitted to accept employment elsewhere unless:
(1)	The employee requests in writing prior to accepting employment elsewhere and,
(2)	Further provided that a joint committee of the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and the California Processors, Inc., grants permission.
99
Acceptance of such employment by an employee without meeting the conditions outlined in h. (1) and (2) above shall subject such employee to discharge.
i.	When vacations and Sabbatical Leaves are taken consecutively, the vacation portion shall be taken first by the employee.
j.	Leaves must be taken or deferred in nine (9) week increments.
6.	Extended Vacation Plan (Sabbatical Leave).
a.	All eligible employees who have earned a Sabbatical Leave which vested on or before January 1, 1982, but who have not taken such a leave, will have their benefit provided by the Trust. Contributions will be made to the Trust in an amount that will adequately finance these benefits. All future benefits will be provided directly by each individual employer as extended vacation under the terms and provisions described below.
b.	Employees who elect the extended vacation plan will be granted an additional nine (9) days vacation and will be paid seventy-two (72) hours at their guaranteed annual assignment rate for each year they elect the extended vacation plan, in addition to the vacation schedule as provided in Section VIII.
c.	For employees who have earned a Sabbatical Leave which vested on or prior to January 1, 1982, the modified vacation schedule described in Paragraph b. above will become effective for such employees beginning five (5) years after they become eligible for the Sabbatical Leave Benefit either on a first time basis or a subsequent five (5) year cycle.
d.	Employees whose Sabbatical Leave has been converted to modified vacation will receive upon termination the unused portion of their modified vacation benefit attributable to the conversion from Sabbatical Leave, providing the employee would have been vested under the Sabbatical Leave program. The maximum payment will be nine (9) weeks.
Example — If an employee is terminated who has converted to a modified vacation schedule after twenty-one (21) years of service, he would receive
100
seven (7) weeks and one (1) day vacation pay at the time of termination (nine (9) weeks minus one (1) week and four (4) days).
e.	If an employee elects to exercise an option to take all nine (9) weeks of the converted Sabbatical Leave, the employee shall notify the company of this election within sixty (60) days after January 1 of any year subsequent to the year in which an employee completes 15, 20, 25, 30 year’s, etc. worked. Such notification shall be made utilizing forms furnished by the company. Once such election is made it shall be irrevocable during each five (5) year period. Any employee who selects this option shall be scheduled to take the nine (9) weeks off within the subsequent five (5) year period. Determination of when the nine (9) weeks shall be taken shall be made based upon the scheduling policy currently utilized by the Sabbatical Leave Trust.
The Trustees of the Sabbatical Leave Trust will continue to serve as Trustees and in addition will serve in the capacity of an advisory body for the express purpose of insuring an orderly and continuous transition from the Trust Fund to the modified vacation plan.
APPENDIX L
SEVERANCE PAY
1.	For purposes of this Agreement, severance pay as provided in this paragraph shall be payable to a qualified employee who is permanently laid off as a result of an entire plant closing or in the event the company permanently closes a processing or warehouse unit (as opposed to the partial discontinuance of an operation or the discontinuance of processing a particular prod-uct(s)). To be eligible for the severance benefit set forth below, an employee must be employed at the time of the closing and will not qualify for such benefit if the employee resigns, is discharged for cause before the employee is laid off, or accepts a transfer to another plant of the same company outside the local union’s jurisdiction but within the jurisdiction of the Union.
101
2.	Employees who qualify for severance pay as described above who have one (1) or more years of fourteen hundred (1400) hour status will be given a severance allowance of one (1) week pay at their regular straighttime rate for each full year of fourteen hundred (1400) hour status. Severance pay will not be granted if the company offers an employee a transfer to another of its plants within the same local union’s jurisdiction covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement; however, if an employee accepts such a transfer, such employee shall retain years of service credit earned at the prior plant for purposes of this Section.
Furthermore, severance pay will not be granted if the company offers and an employee accepts a transfer to another of its plants outside the same local union’s jurisdiction but within the jurisdiction of the Union covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement; however, if an employee accepts such a transfer, such employee shall retain years of service credit including fringe benefit credit earned at the prior plant for purposes of this Section. Any employee who is laid off as a result of a plant closing will lose seniority except as otherwise provided under Section IX, Paragraph M. 6. It is also understood that such employee does not qualify under the provisions of Paragraph N. of said Section.
3.	Acceptance of severance pay will not disqualify an otherwise eligible employee from receiving retiree Health and Welfare benefits.
AFFILIATED LOCALS AND DESIGNATED PLANTS
The following locals, members of the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions, are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement entered into on June 16, 2009, by and between California Processors, Inc., and the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions, International Brotherhood of Teamsters:
Local	Location
I.	Cannery Warehousemen, Food Processors,
Drivers and Helpers Union No. 948	Modesto
II.	Cannery Warehousemen, Food Processors,
Drivers and Helpers Union No. 601	Stockton
102
The following companies for the plants designated are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement entered into on June 16, 2009, by and between California Processors, Inc. and the Teamsters California State Council of Cannery and Food Processing Unions, International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
Company	Plant Location	Local Union
Cascade Logistics		
Tracy Plant	Tracy	#601
ConAgra		
Oakdale Plant	Oakdale	#948
Del Monte Corporation		
Plant No. 1	Modesto	#948
Plant No. 25	Kingsburg	#948
Plant No. 48	Lathrop	#601
Plant No. 450	Hughson	#948
Escalon Premier Brands, Inc.	Escalon	#601
(Acquired by Heinz U.S.A.)		
Pacific Coast Producers		
Plant No. 6	Oroville	#601
Plant No. 9	Lodi	#601
Lodi (D.C.)	Lodi	#601
Pallet Repair	Lodi	#601
Woodland Plant	Woodland	#601
Seneca Foods, LLC		
Modesto Fruit Operation	Modesto	#948
Stanislaus Food Products Company	Modesto	#948
Unilever Supply Chain, Inc.		
Stockton Plant	Stockton	#601
103
INDEX
	Section	Page	Paragraph
ACCIDENT, INDUSTRIAL ILL- NESS,OR INJURY ON THE JOB		V	14	B. 12
ADJUSTMENT OF GRIEVANCES Discharge Cases 		XIII	47	C., D.
Grievance Procedure and Steps 		XIII	46, 47	B., D.
Arbitration Board 		XIII	47	E. 1.
No Work Stoppage Agreement 		XIII	45	A.
Powers of Arbitration Board 		XIII	47	E.
Time Limit Agreement 		XIII	47	D.
AGREEMENT Automatic Extension of Agreement		XX	53	C.
Compliance		XV	51	
Conflicting Agreements 		XVI	52	
Merger, Lease or Purchase 		XVIII	53	
Period of Negotiations		XX	53	A., B.
Preamble			1	
Prior Agreements 		I	1	
Procedure for Modification		XX	53	
Reopening of Agreement 		XX	53	A.
Term of Agreement		XIX	53	
Transfer of Company Title or Interest 		XVII	52	
ASSIGNMENTS Annual Assignment		VI	16	C. 2.
Daily Assignment 		VI	16	C. 1.
Retention of Annual Assignment 		VI	17, 18	C. 2.b.
(1), (2) Shift Assignment		IX	35	I.
APPENDIX A-WAGE RATES- JOB CLASSIFICATIONS Beginner’s Rate 			56	1. a.
Cost of Living Provision			54, 55	1., (1), (2)
Classification of New Jobs and Jobs Not Originally Classified 			56	2.
Inflation Protection Adjustments ...		55	1., (3)
Wage Rates (Brackets IAA through V)			54	1.
104
INDEX (Continued)
	Section	Page	Paragraph
APPENDIX B-PREFACE TO FRINGE BENEFIT APPENDICES Plans for 1400 Hour Employees			57	1.
Eligibility for Non-1400 Hour Seniority			58	2.
Plans for 3-Year, Non-1400 Hour Seniority Employees 			59	3.
Plans for 2-Year Non-1400 Hour Seniority Employees 			60	4.
Plans for 1-Year Non-1400 Hour Seniority Employees 			60	5.
Plans for Non-Seniority Employees			60	6.
Protection of Benefits — Non- 1400 Hour Employees 			60	2. b.
APPENDIX C— WELFARE PLANS Plan for 1400 Hour Seniority Employees			67	2.
Plan for Employees with Three or More Years Non-1400 Hour Seniority Before July 1,2003 			73	4.
Plan for Retired 1400 Hour Employees			70	3.
Life Insurance Plan			80	7.
APPENDIX D— PENSION PLANS Plan for Employees Who Achieved 1400 Hour Status 			83	2.
Plan for Non-1400 Hour Employees			85	3.
APPENDIX E—JURY DUTY 			86	
APPENDIX F— SICK LEAVE PLAN			87	
APPENDIX H— DEATH IN FAMILY BENEFIT 			93	
105
INDEX (Continued)
	Section	Page	Paragraph
APPENDIX I—ON-THE-JOB			
TRAINING PROGRAM 	 APPENDIX C—		94	
MEDICAL EXAMINATION PLAN.. APPENDIX K—		79	6.
SABBATICAL LEAVE PLAN... APPENDIX L—		96	
SEVERANCE PAY 	 ARBITRATION		101	
Annual Assignment		VI	17	C. 2. b.
Call-In (Weather Changes)		V	8	B. 1. d. (3)
Compliance		XV	51	
Discharge Cases		XIII	47	C.
Grievance Procedures		XIII	46	B.
Arbitration Board 		VII	47	E. 1.
House Rules 		XII	42	B.
Incentive Plan Protests 		VI	15	B. 2.
Incentive Rate Protests 		VI	16	B. 3. b.
Job Applications		IX	30	H. 1. b.
Job Assignments		IX	28	G. 3.
Medical Examination Plan		Appendix C	80	g.
No Strike—No Lockout		XIII	45	A.
Powers of Arbitration Board ... Shift Assignments—Multiple Shift	XIII	47	E.
Operations		IX	35	I. 3.
Sick Leave Plan 		Appendix F	91	9.
Subcontracted Work 		III	4	C. 2.
Time Limit Agreement 		XIII	47	D.
Welfare Plan 		Appendix C	69	2. b. (9)
Work-Call Notices		XII	43	C.
BARGAINING AGENTS		II	2	A.
BEGINNER’S RATE		Appendix A	56	1. a.
BRACKET RATES 	 BULLETIN BOARD	Appendix A	54	1.
House Rules 	 Job Vacancies (1400 Hour	XII	42	B.
Seniority) 	 Job Vacancies (Available	IX	31	H. 2. b. (1)
Seasonally)		IX	28	H. 1.
On-the-Job Training Program...	Appendix I	94	1.
106
INDEX (Continued) Section		Page	Paragraph
Union Bulletin Boards		XI	42	C.
Work-Call Notices		XII	43	C.
CALL-IN, CALL-BACK TIME Emergency Work 		V	7, 8	B. 1. b., e.
Exemptions from Call-In Time 		V	8	B. 1. d.
Exemptions from 7-Hour Guarantee (Non-1400 Hour Seniority Employees) 		V	9	B. 3. d.
Exemption from 8-Hour Guarantee (1400 Hour Seniority Employees) 		V	8	B. 2. b.
Incentive Workers 		V	7, 9	B. 1. c., 3. b.
Interval Between Shifts 		V	13	B. 7. b.
Minimum Pay—Call-In 		V	7	B. 1. a., b.
Minimum Pay—1400 Hour Seniority 8-Hour Guarantee ..	V	8	B. 2. a.
Minimum Pay—Non-1400 Hour Seniority (7-Hour Guarantee) .	V	9	B. 3. a., b., c.
Minimum Pay—Emergency Work	V	7, 8	B. 1. b., e.
COMPLIANCE Violation of Agreement 		XV	51	
COMPULSORY OVERTIME & OVERTIME NOTIFICATION..	V	14	B. 11. a., b.
CONFLICTING AGREEMENTS Limitation on Separate Agreements 		XVI	52	
CONFORMANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS 		XIV	51	
CONDUCT OF UNION BUSINESS Authority of Union Stewards..	XI	41	B.
Plant Visits		XI	41	A.
Union Bulletin Boards		XI	42	C.
CONTRACTUAL SENIORITY (Reference Only) See Index Section Titled “Seniority,” 			114	
COST OF LIVING PROVISION .	Appendix A	54, 55	1. (1), (2)
DAILY ASSIGNMENT		VI	16	C. 1.
107
INDEX (Continued) Section
DAILY TIME AND OVERTIME
Daily Assignment ............
Work Week....................
DEATH IN FAMILY................
DEMOTION OR DISCHARGE
Demotion or Discharge for Lack of Qualifications ...........
Grievance Procedure—Discharge ...
Loss of Seniority............
Vacation and Holiday Pay—
Discharge ..................
DENTAL PLANS...................
DRUG PLANS
Plan for 1400 Hour Seniority Employees....................
Plan for Employees with 3 or
More Years Non-1400 Hour
Seniority Before July 1, 2003	..
DUES DEDUCTIONS ...............
EIGHT-HOUR GUARANTEE FOR 1400 HOUR EMPLOYEES ...........
EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS
Maintenance of Union
Membership ..................
Separate Account for Union Dues and Initiation Fees..........
Voluntary dues and Initiation Fees Check-Off....................
EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
Equal Employment.............
Hiring Practices ............
Non-Discrimination and
Affirmative Action..........
EXTENDED VACATION PLAN (Sabbatical Leave) ............
EYE GLASSES (BREAKAGE) .. FIRST AID TREATMENT ...........
FRINGE BENEFITS
Dental Plans ................
Drug Plans ..................
Funeral Leave................
Page Paragraph
VI	16	C. 1.
V	6	A. 1.
Appendix H	93	
IX	38	K.
XIII	47	C., D.
IX	36	J.
VIII	25	C. 9.
Appendix C	67, 73	2., 4.
Appendix C	67	2.
Appendix C	73	4.
IV	5	B., C.
V	8	B. 2. a., b
IV	5	A.
IV	5	C.
IV	5	B.
II	2	B.
X	40	
II	2	B., C.
Appendix K	100	6.
XII	44	F.
XII	44	E.
Appendix C	67, 73	2., 4.
Appendix C	67, 73	2., 4.
Appendix H	93	
108
INDEX (Continued)
Holidays .........................
Jury Duty.........................
Life Insurance Plan...............
Medical Examination Plan .........
Merger, Lease or Purchase ........
Pension Plans ....................
Preface to Fringe Benefit
Appendices ......................
Sabbatical Leave Plan.............
Sick Leave Plan ..................
Transfer of Company Title or Interest .........................
Uniform Eligibility ..............
Vacations.........................
Vision Plan ......................
Welfare Plans ....................
FUNERAL LEAVE Death in Family Benefit ............
GENERAL CONDITIONS
Accident, Industrial Illness, or
Injury on the Job ...............
Call-In, Call-Back Time ..........
Compulsory Overtime and Overtime Notification ...........
Eight-Hour Work Guarantee for
1400 Hour Seniority .............
Interval Between Shifts ..........
Meal Time ........................
Pyramiding .......................
Record Keeping ...................
Relief Periods ...................
Seven-Hour Work Guarantee for
Non-1400 Hour Seniority .........
Shift Scheduling .................
Treatments by a Doctor ...........
Uniform Eligibility for All Fringe
Benefits ........................
Work Day .........................
Work Recesses ....................
Working Hours ....................
Section VII	Page 21	Paragraph
Appendix E	86	
Appendix C	80	7.
Appendix C	79	6.
XVIII	53	
Appendix D	83	
Appendix B	57	
Appendix K	96	
Appendix F	87	
XVII	52	
Appendix B	57-60	1. - 6.
VIII	23	
Appendix C	67	2.
Appendix C	61	
Appendix H	93	
V	14	B. 12
V	7	B. 1.
V	14	B. 11.
V	8	B. 2.
V	12	B. 7.
V	11	B. 6.
V	15	B. 14.
V	13	B. 10.
V	10	B. 5.
V	9	B. 3.
V	8, 9	B. 2., 3.
V	15	B. 13. a., b.
Appendix B	57- 60	1. - 6.
V	13	B. 8.
V	10	B. 4.
V	13	B. 9.
109
INDEX (Continued)
	Section	Page	Paragraph
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE Annual Assignment		VI	17	C. 2. b.
Call-In, Call-Back Time 		V	8	B. 1. d. (3)
Compliance		XV	51	
Discharge Cases 		XIII	47	C., D.
Grievance Procedures & Steps 		XIII	46, 47	B., D.
House Rules 		XII	42	B.
Incentive Plan Protests 		VI	15	B. 2.
Incentive Rate Protests 		VI	16	B. 3. b.
Job Applications 		IX	30	H. 1. b.
Job Assignment 		IX	28	G. 3.
Medical Examination Plan 		Appendix C	80	6.g.
New Work 		Addendum	119	
No Strike—No Lockout 		XIII	45	A.
Powers of Arbitration Board 		XIII	47	E.
Retroactivity on Grievances 		XIII	49	E. 7
Shift Assignments—Multiple Shift Operations 		IX	35	I. 3.
Sick Leave Plan 		Appendix F	87	
Subcontracted Work 		III	4	C. 2.
Time Limit Agreement 		XIII	47	D.
Welfare Plan 		Appendix C	69	2. b. (9)
Work-Call Notices 		XII	43	C.
HIRING PRACTICES Definition of Available and Qualified Employees		X	40	D.
Hiring from Other Sources 		X	40	C.
Hiring Practices 		X	40	
Order of Seniority 		IX	27	B.
Rehiring of Cannery Workers Without Seniority 		X	40	B.
Rehiring of Unemployed Employees With Seniority		X	40	A.
Retention of Seniority Upon Rehire		IX	39	M. 6.
HOUSE RULES		XII	42	B.
HOLIDAYS Annual Assignment		VI	16	C. 2. a.
Calculation of Holiday Pay		VII	22	D.
Eligibility for Holiday Benefits 		VII	21	B.
Eligibility Requirements—General..	VII	21	C.
110
INDEX (Continued)
Holidays Recognized ...........
Other General Holiday Provisions ...
INCENTIVE WORKERS
Call-In Time ..................
Rates .........................
Rotation of Workers ...........
Rules Governing Rates .........
INITIATION FEE...................
INJURY ON THE JOB
Annual Assignment..............
Inability to Return to Work (Pay)..
Industrial Accident Reports (Reference Only) See First Aid Treatment .....................
Protection of Vacation.........
Retention of Seniority.........
Sick Leave Plan Payments.......
Sick Leave Waiting Period......
Treatments by a Doctor ........
Welfare Payments ..............
INTERVAL BETWEEN SHIFTS..
JOB CLASSIFICATIONS
Job Classification and Wage Rates..........................
Classification on New Jobs and
Jobs Not Originally Classified ..
JURY DUTY........................
JOB POSTING
Jobs Available Seasonally .....
On-the-Job Training Openings ..
Vacated Jobs by 1400 Hour
Employees.....................
JURISDICTION
Jurisdiction Guaranteed .......
LAYOFFS
Extended Coverage Rules .......
Failure to Report After Recall...
Holidays.......................
Observance of Seniority........
Protection of Vacation.........
Seasonal Activities............
Section	Page	Paragraph
VII	21	A.
VII	22	E.
V	7, 9	B. 1. c., 3. b.
VI	15, 16	B. 1., 2., 3.
XII	42	A.
VI	16	B. 3. a., b.
IV	5	B., C.
VI	16, 17	C. 2. a., b.
V	14	B. 12
XII	44	E.
VIII	26	D.
IX	38	M. 1. b.
Appendix F	87	
Appendix F	87	2.
V	15	B. 13. a.
Appendix C	69	2. b. (7)
V	12	B. 7.
Appendix A	54	1.
Appendix A	56	2.
Appendix E	86	
IX	28	H. 1.
Appendix I	94	1.
IX	31	H. 2. b. (1)
III	3	B.
Appendix C	75	4. c.
IX	36	J. 3.
VII	21, 23	C. 2., E. 5.
IX	28	G. 1.
VIII	26	D.
IX	28	G. 3.
111
INDEX (Continued)
	Section	Page	Paragraph
Three or More Years Non-1400			
Hour Seniority Welfare Plan		Appendix C	75-77	4.c. (1),(4),(7)
Sick Leave 		Appendix F	87	3.
Time and Place of Compensation ..	VI	20	C. 5.
Vacation Pay 		VIII	25	C. 9.
LEAVES OF ABSENCE			
Failure to Return to Work 		IX	37	J. 6.
Job Posting		IX	33	H. 2. b. (7)
Retention of Seniority		IX	38	M.
Welfare Payments 		Appendix C	68	2.b. (4),(5),(6)
Vacation Eligibility		VIII	24	C. 1.
LIFE INSURANCE PLAN 		Appendix C	80	7.
MEAL TIME		V	11	B. 6.
MEDICAL EXAMINATION			
PLAN		Appendix C	79	6.
MERGER, LEASE OR			
PURCHASE 		XVIII	53	
NEW WORK		Addendum	119	
NIGHT WORK PREMIUM		VI	19	C. 4.
NON-DISCRIMINATION		II	2	B., C.
ON-THE-JOB TRAINING			
PROGRAM 		Appendix I	94	
OVERTIME			
Call-In Pay for Emergency Work .	V	8	B. 1. e.
Compulsory Overtime		V	14	B. 11. a.
Meal Time 		V	11	B. 6.
Night Work Premium		VI	19	C. 4.
Overtime Notification 		V	14	B. 11. b.
Work Week			
Monday thru Friday 		V	6	A. 1.
Saturday		V	6	A. 2., 3.
Sunday 		V	6	A. 2.
Working Hours between			
2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M		V	13	B. 9.
PAY DAY—TIME AND PLACE			
OF COMPENSATION 		VI	20	C. 5.
PENSION PLANS Plan for Employees who Achieved			
1400 Hour Status 		Appendix D	83	2.
Plan for Non-1400 Hour			
Employees		Appendix D	85	3.
112
INDEX (Continued)
Section Page
PERSONAL PREMIUMS.............. VI 18
PLANT OPERATIONS First Aid Treatment............... XII	44
House Rules ..................... XII	42
Plant Closures .................. XII	45
Prescription Eye Glasses......... XII	44
Rotation of Workers ............. XII	42
Safety Program .................. XII	44
Tools ........................... XII	43
Work Call Notices ............... XII	43
PLANT VISITS BY LOCAL UNION REPRESENTATIVES.......... XI	41
PLANTS COVERED BY AGREEMENT ..................... 102
PREAMBLE ...................... 1
PRESCRIPTION EYE GLASSES....... XII	45
PRIOR AGREEMENTS .............. I	1
PROCEDURES FOR
MODIFICATION
Automatic Extension of Agreement........................ XX	53
Period of Negotiations............ XX	53
Reopening of Agreement ........... XX	53
RECOGNITION......................... II	2
RECORD KEEPING Annual Assignment.................. VI	16
Hours Worked...................... V	13
Industrial Injury ............... XII	44
Leaves of Absence ................ IX	39
Seniority Lists................... IX	27
Sick Leave ..................Appendix F 87
Union dues and Initiation Fees ... IV	5
Vacation ........................ VIII	24
RECALLING Failure to Report.................. IX	36
REHIRING Hiring Practices .................. X	40
Loss of Seniority................. IX	38
Seniority ........................ IX	28
Vacations........................ VIII	24
RELIEF PERIODS...................... V	10
Paragraph
C. 3.
E.
B.
H.
F.
A.
G.
D.
C.
A.
F.
C.
A.
A.
A.
C. 2. a.
B.	10.
E.
M. 5.
B., C.
C.
B.
J. 3.
L.
G. 1.
C.	2.
B. 5.
113
INDEX (Continued)
	Section	Page	Paragraph
RETIRED EMPLOYEES			
Pro-rata Vacation 		VIII	25	C. 5.
Welfare Plan 		Appendix C	70-73	3.
ROTATION OF WORKERS			
Incentive and Non-Incentive 		XII	42	A.
SABBATICAL LEAVE PLAN			
Extended Vacation Plan 		Appendix K	100	6.
Sabbatical Leave Plan		Appendix K	96	
Sick Leave 		Appendix F	89-91	5., 8.
SAFETY PROGRAM 		XII	44	G.
SALARIED SUPERVISORS 		III	4	E.
SATURDAYS—WORKING			
HOURS			
Work Week		V	6	A. 2., 3.
SENIORITY			
Contractual 		IX	26	
Day or Shift Assignment		IX	35	I.
Demotion or Discharge for Lack			
of Qualifications 		IX	38	K.
Effective Date of Seniority		IX	27	D.
Eight-Hour Guarantee		V	8	B. 2. a.
Failure to Report to Work 		IX	36	J. 3.
Hiring Practices 		X	40	
Job Posting (1400 Hour Seniority) ..	IX	31	H. 2. b.
(1)			
Job Posting (Available Seasonally).	IX	28	H. 1.
Loss of Seniority		IX	36	J.
Master Listing		IX	29	H. 1. a.
Order of Seniority 		IX	27	B.
Pension Plans 		Appendix D	83	
Preference in Recalling, Layoffs			
and in Filling Jobs		IX	28	G. 1.
Protection of Seniority 		IX	39	N.
Recalling (Loss of Seniority)...	IX	36	J.
Rehiring Related to Hiring			
Practices		IX	39	M. 6.
Retention of Seniority		IX	38	M.
Review of Approval Procedure ..	IX	27	C.
Salaried Supervisors Returning to			
the Bargaining Unit 		III	4	E.
Seniority List 		IX	26, 27	A., C., E.
114
INDEX (Continued)
Seniority List (New Plants).
Seven-Hour Work Guarantee—
(Non-1400 Hour Seniority) ..
Sick Leave .................
Uniform Eligibility for Fringe
Benefits ...................
Vacations...................
SEVEN-HOUR GUARANTEE
(Non-1400 Hour Employees) ..
SEVERANCE PAY ................
SHIFT ASSIGNMENT .............
SHIFT SCHEDULING .............
SICK LEAVE PLAN
Sick Leave Plan ............
Uniform Eligibility for Fringe
Benefits ...................
SINGLE COMPANY DEFINED .......
SPECIAL ADDENDUM TO THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT ....................
Applicable Wage Rate........
Definition of New Work......
Products ...................
Special Conditions .........
STRAIGHT-TIME RATES
PER HOUR
Bracket Rate Schedule ......
Reference...................
Work Week...................
SUBCONTRACTED WORK ...........
SUNDAYS—WORKING HOURS
Work Week...................
TERM OF AGREEMENT.............
TIME AND PLACE OF COMPENSATION..................
TIME CARDS ...................
TOOLS OWNED BY
EMPLOYEES ....................
TRANSFER OF COMPANY TITLE OR INTEREST ............
Section IX	Page 27	Paragraph F.
V	9	B. 3.
Appendix F	87	
Appendix B	57-60	1. - 6.
VIII	25	C. 6., 8.
V	9	B. 3.
Appendix L	101	
IX	35	I.
V	8, 9	B. 2., 3.
Appendix F	87	
Appendix B	57, 58	1., 2.
III	4	D.
Addendum	119	
Addendum	119	
Addendum	119	
Addendum	120	
Addendum	120	
Appendix A	54	1.
VI	15	A.
V	6	A. 1., 2., 3.
III	3	C.
V	6	A. 2.
XIX	53	
VI	20	C. 5.
V	13, 14	B. 10. b., c.
XII	43	D.
XVII	52	
115
INDEX (Continued)
	Section	Page	Paragraph
UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE AND WORKERS’			
COMPENSATION	 UNIFORM ELIGIBILITY FOR	Appendix F	89, 90	5., 6., 7.
ALL FRINGE BENEFITS		Appendix B	57-60	1. - 6.
UNION BULLETIN BOARDS		.	XI	42	C.
UNION BUSINESS 	 UNION LOCALS COVERED	.	XI	41	
BY AGREEMENT	 UNION MEMBERSHIP		102	
Dues and Initiation Fees 		.	IV	5	B., C.
Employment Conditions		.	IV	5	A.
Hiring Practices 		.X	40	C.
UNION STEWARDS 	 VACATIONS	.	XI	41	B.
Eligibility for Vacation Benefits....	.	VIII	24	B.
General Vacation Provisions 		.	VIII	24	C.
Holiday Pay		.	VII	22	E. 3.
Leaves of Absence	 Pro-rata Vacation	.	IX	38	M. 4.
(1400 Hour Retirees)	 1400 Hour Employees—	.	VIII	25	C. 5.
(Lack of Work)		.	VIII	26	D.
Protection of Vacation		.	VIII	26	D.
Qualifying Period for Vacations.	.	VIII	23	A.
Sick Leave 		Appendix F	89, 91	5., 8.
VISION PLAN 	 WAGES	Appendix C	67	2.
Annual Assignment		.	VI	16	C. 2. a.
Beginner’s Rate 		Appendix A	56	1. a.
Bracket Rates (IAA through V).	Appendix A	54	1.
Cost of Living Provision		Appendix A	54, 55	1. (1), (2)
Daily Assignment 	 Grievance and Sick Leave Pay	.	VI	16	C. 1.
Adjustments 		.	VI	20	C. 5.
Holiday Pay		.	VII	22	D. 3., 4.
Incentive Wage Rates		.	VI	15	B, 1., 2.
Incentive Rules—Posting Rates.	.	VI	16	B. 3. a.
Incentive Rules—Protests ...	.	VI	16	B. 3. b.
Inflation Protection Adjustments	Appendix A	55	1. (3)
Job Classifications 		Appendix A	56	2.
116
INDEX (Continued)
New Work 		Section Addendum	Page 119	Paragraph
Night Work Premiums 		.	VI	19	C. 4.
On-the-Job Training Program		Appendix I	95	2.
Personal Premiums 		.	VI	18	C. 3.
Pyramiding 		.V	15	B. 14
Retention of Annual Assignment	.	VI	18	C. 2. b. (2)
Rules Governing Annual Assignment 		.	VI	16	C. 2. a.
Rules Governing Annual Assignment Disputes		.	VI	17	C. 2. b.
Straight Time Wage Rates— Reference to Appendix A 		.	VI	15	A.
Time and Place of Compensation	.	VI	20	C. 5.
WELFARE PLANS For 1400 Hour Seniority Employees		Appendix C	67	2.
For Employees with 3 or More Years’ Non-1400 Hour Seniority Before July 1,2003 ....	Appendix C	73	4.
For Retired 1400 Hour Employees		Appendix C	70	3.
Preface to Fringe Benefit Appendices 		Appendix B	57	
Uniform Eligibility for All Fringe Benefits		Appendix B	57	
WORK CALL NOTICES		. XII	43	C.
WORK COVERED Jurisdiction Guaranteed 		.	III	3	B.
Location of Work 		.	III	2	A.
Master Receiving Station Agreement		.	III	2	A. 2.
Settlement of Disputes Involving Subcontracted Work		.	III	4	C. 2.
Single Company Defined ...	.	III	4	D.
Subcontracted Work Defined..	.	III	3	C. 1.
WORK DAY		.V	13	B. 8.
WORK RECESSES 		.V	10	B. 4.
WORK RETURN— DOCTOR’S VISIT		.V	15	B. 13. b.
WORK WEEK Daily Straight-Time Overtime .	.V	6	A. 1.
117
INDEX (Continued)
	Section	Page	Paragraph
Saturdays		..	V	6	A. 3.
Sundays 	 WORKING HOURS	..	V	6	A. 2.
Accident, Industrial Illness, or Injury on the Job 		.V	14	B. 12.
Call-In, Call-Back Time 		.V	7	B. 1.
Compulsory Overtime	 Eight-Hour Guarantee for	.V	14	B. 11. a.
1400 Hour Employees 		.V	8	B. 2.
Interval Between Shifts 		.V	12	B. 7.
Meal Time 		.V	11	B. 6.
On-the-Job Training Program		Appendix I	96	3.
Overtime Notification		.V	14	B. 11. b.
Pyramiding 		.V	15	B. 14.
Record Keeping 		.V	13	B. 10.
Relief Periods 	 Seven-Hour Guarantee for Non-	.V	10	B. 5.
1400 Hour Seniority Employees		.V	9	B. 3.
Shift Scheduling 		.V	8, 9	B. 2., 3.
Work Day Defined 		.V	13	B. 8.
Work Recesses 		.V	10	B. 4.
Work Return After Doctor’s Visit	.V	15	B. 13. b.
Work Week	 Working Hours Between	.V	6, 7	A. 1., 2., 3.,4.
2:00 A.M.-6:00 A.M		.V	13	B. 9.
Uniform Eligibility for All Fringe Benefits 	 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION	Appendix B	57	
AND S.D.I		Appendix F	89, 90	5., 6., 7.
118
SPECIAL ADDENDUM TO THE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT
PREAMBLE
The parties to the Collective Bargaining Agreement have a mutual interest in encouraging employers to bring additional work to existing or new facilities through the introduction of products not currently manufactured, processed or packaged at such facilities. In this regard, the parties have entered into an experimental agreement as an addendum to the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The term of this experimental agreement shall be consistent with that of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The purpose of the agreement is to:
1.	Stimulate new capital investment in plant expansion, new equipment and new products.
2.	Encourage bringing work from outside the jurisdiction of the Northern California Cannery industry into plants covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
3.	Encourage the creation of jobs in the plants of companies covered under the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
4.	Encourage the stabilization of the industry by broadening its base of work activity to establish new product.
In view of the fact that this addendum establishes an entirely new concept for the industry, it is agreed and understood that it is an experimental agreement under which both parties will operate in good faith, directed toward achieving the established objectives.
Definition of New Work
For the purpose of this agreement, new work shall be defined as Bracket IV and V work as described below which is performed on any products new to the plant which have not been manufactured or processed at the plant or at any of the facilities covered under the Collective Bargaining Agreement by any member company of the employer during the three (3) year period prior to July 1, 1982. A product will be considered “new work” for a period of twelve (12) months from the commencement of the new product operation.
Applicable Wage Rate
Wage rates for work performed on new work as described above will be $9.22/hour for Bracket V and $9.84/hour for
119
Bracket IV. Such rates will be applicable to all Bracket IV and V work in the processing, canning, packaging and related work, but shall not be applicable to warehousing, shipping and related Bracket IV and V work or to any work on such products other than that in Bracket IV or V which shall be paid for at applicable contract rates. The wage rates for Bracket IV and V as provided herein for new work shall be adjusted by the same cent per hour increases as are made applicable to Bracket IV and V contract rates effective July 1, 2010 and July 1, 2011.
Special Conditions
It is agreed that employees will have the right annually to bid on transfers to such work under procedures established by the committee provided for in the following paragraph. It is further agreed that guaranteed annual assignment rates will not be applicable to such new work assignments, but hours worked at such rates will be counted for purposes of maintaining guaranteed annual assignments as provided under procedures established by said committee.
A committee of six (6) (three (3) appointed by the Union and three (3) appointed by the Employer) shall be formed to develop procedures and to assist the parties in the implementation of the provisions of this special addendum. A representative of the company introducing the new product and a representative of any effected union shall also participate in any discussions involving such product. The company introducing a new product shall notify the Union, the Employer and the effected Union at least ninety (90) days in advance of the commencement of processing such product and provide particulars regarding the product, the length of the processing season and other such relevant information. By mutual agreement between the parties, the period of notification may be less than ninety (90) days. The committee shall meet promptly thereafter to discuss implementation of the processing of the new product. Issues which cannot be resolved by the committee shall be reduced to writing and submitted for settlement under the arbitration provisions of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The committee shall be established effective July 1, 1982 and the application of the special rates provided hereunder shall become effective January 1, 1983.
Definitions
Current Products — Current Products are those that have been processed at any time, in any plant covered by the collec
120
tive bargaining contract since July 1, 1979. This definition is applicable to new methods used to process a current product, to any new ingredient added or substituted for a current ingredient in a current product, to any new product (as defined below) added to or mixed with a current product, to any mixture of current products and to any change made in the form, shape or color of a current product.
New Products — New Products are products such as, but not limited to, raspberries, rice, health foods in dry form that have not been processed at any time in any plant covered by the collective bargaining contract since July 1, 1979.
121