Cornell University
ILR School
BLS Contract Collection - Metadata Header
This contract is provided by the Martin P. Catherwood Library, ILR School, Cornell University. The information provided is for noncommercial educational use only.
Some variations from the original paper document may have occurred during the digitization process, and some appendices or tables may be absent. Subsequent changes, revisions, and corrections may apply to this document.
For more information about the BLS Contract Collection, see
http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/blscontracts/
Or contact us:
Catherwood Library, Ives Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 607-254-5370 ilrref@cornell.edu
Contract Database Metadata Elements (for a glossary of the elements see -http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edU/blscontracts/2/)
Title: Metro/Basics Supermarket, Inc. (Food-A-Rama) and United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW), AFL-CIO, Local 27 (1997)
K#: 6360
Employer Name: Metro/Basics Supermarket, Inc. (Food-A-Rama)
Location: MD Baltimore
Union: United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW), AFL-CIO
Local: 27
SIC: 5411	NAICS: 445110
Sector: P	Number of Workers: 1600
Effective Date: 06/01/97	Expiration Date: 06/01/02
Number of Pages: 80	Other Years Available: N
For additional research information and assistance, please visit the Research page of the Catherwood website - http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/library/research/
For additional information on the ILR School, http://www.ilr.cornell.edu/
b^
Collective Bargaining Agreement
by & between
UFCW Local 27 and Metro/Basics/Food-A-Rama
i ' '
I	June 1,1997
through June 1, 2002
Arttete JO * J/otofoys And Sundays................,*..-....35
Arrfete 1/ - Shop Steward? And Dnion Activities .......    38
Article 12* Arbiirtirion And Adjustment,..........,....,   39
Article 13	- Leaves of Absence.................  . 43
Article 14	- WtonUtog Caadtotoa? ........................46
Article IS-Jury Duty...................................    AS
Article 16	- Funertif Leave ...............  ........    49
Article 17	* Checkoff ................  ........*........49
Article 18* Health Aad Welfare	...........50
i, _. Article 19 - Pension ............... .*.... .^T^rr.;	Z.~ 54
Arrids 20-Severance.U......«  .       5<f
Article 21	• Legal.........   ..........................  57
Article 22	• Separability Clause .....  ,......,.......  38
Article 23	- Ato Sta'Ae. Ato Lockout ,H. m.......	58
Article 24	- Wage Freeze_*..............*..............  59
Article 2S	■ Mififary Service ,...,...............       60
Article 26	- Af/sedtoaewa? „.......     .................... 60
Article 27	- Duration of Agreement..................„....62
Exhibit A	- Wage Rales ......-...................«....	64
Employees Hired Before September 7, /J793	......H.... 65
Emptoym Hired After September 7h /P9J
<£ Heft^ May 2S. 1997 ...............................   66
Employees Hired After
September 7,1993 & Before May 25,1997.................. 68
Employees Hired After May 28, {99?..................      70
Maffta/idrdo’i PiLtc	71
Farm Fresh Employees..............................        7/
Non-Food Clerk..........................................  72
Exhitoi'f U - Mew/toics Tranaffer? - Seniori/y Area?	74
ExhiMi C- Layoff Store CMttgs ........................      75
index ............................................          76
A Message from Local 27 President, Buddy Mays
This contract is provided for you so that you can become familiar with the language and conditions it sets forth. Please take the time to read through it carefully.
It is extremely important for you to know what your nghts are under this agreement. While it is your union’s job to police the contract, it is up to you to let us know if any violations are occurring. Once notified, we will handle the problem from there.
This contract layout is different from anything we have had in previous years. The index in the back of the book should prove invaluable. It was designed to be easier for you to find the information you need throughout the contract without having to re-read it every time. Remember, Local 27 is here for you!
In Solidarity,
1
Benefits of Membership
Union members have advantages over non-union workers because they:
►	earn more wages on average,
►	have better benefits
►	have a voice in the workplace
►	a contract outlining working conditions
►	have a grievance procedure that provides representation in the event of employer discipline
►	have access to member discounts and events
When you are a member of a Union, you don’t have to stand alone. The Union is there to help you and defend you, if necessary. A contract is a binding legal agreement that specifically outlines working conditions, wages, hours, benefits, scheduling, etc.
Local 27 also constantly strives to provide more and better service and “fringe benefits’’ to our members. These extra benefits include access to the Union Privilege program benefits, scholarships, discount tickets to amusement parks and events, etc. For more information on these “extras,” contact Special Services at our main office: 410-337-2700 or 800-338-8329.
2
Questions?Here’s Who to Call
Benefit Questions
As a MetroJBasics member, your health and welfare benefits are handled by Blue CrossfBIue Shield.
If you have questions on your health and welfare benefits (ie; eligibility, coverage, when it goes into effect, etc.) call Jane Mackey (410) 455-5400,
If you have questions on sick pay, a problem with a participating service (ie: optical, dental, prescription), a problem with a bill being paid or a question on a claim, call Jane Mackey (410) 455-5400,
Questions on retirement procedures or if you want an estimate of your retirement entitlements, call (410) 683-6500 or (800) 638-2972 and ask for the Pension Department
3
Workers' Compensation Questions
For questions w Workers' Compensation rights or how Io file a claim, call Kahn. Smith. & Collins, PA at 410-244-1010.
Dues Questions
If you have a question on dues or initiation Feus deducted from your pa ye heck, call Local 27‘s main office (410-337-271K) or S1H)-33S-S329) and ask for the Dues Representative for your company.
If you are out sick or on workers' comp, and you need to arrange for payment of your dues (it is not deducted from sick pay checks or workers comp, checks), call the Ducs Representative for your company at the Local's main office.
if you are leaving the company you currently work for you can obtain u Withdrawal Curd from the Union by calling the Local's Dues Representative for your company.
Moving and Changing Your Name
You must notify the Dues Department of any address or name changes i it a ti rncly fashion. You should also call filue Cross/Rlue Shield.
4
Contract & Servicittf' Questions
Need to know your seniority date? You must call the company.
i’tir questions on contract language nr to fife a grievance, cal! your local Union olrtcc and speak to your Union Represent alive. If your Representative is not in the office, speak to (he Representative on Duty at the Baltimore office at 800-338-8329.
if you have been terminated or suspended, call the Representative on Duty at the Baltimore office at 800-338- 8329 if your Representative is not immediately available so that action may betaken right away.
If you need to lodge a complaint about your Union Representative, contact Anita Kiley. Director of Servicing. She can be reached at the Baltimore office. If your Representative works out of the Wilmington office, contact Jim Ciliberto, Regional Director at 302-3.38-2248 or 800-X09-4303.
Special Service Questions'
To purchase Special Services tickets or for more in Comtat ion on whtti is available, call 4IO-337-27OI) or 800-338-8329.
5
The Active Ballot Club (ABC)
। i i i
The Active Ballot Club (ABC) is the political arm of the UFCW. Created as a voluntary, non-partisan legislative organization, the ABC is composed of members who have joined together to exercise their full rights and responsibilities as citizens. What we win at the collective bargaining table can be taken away in Congress or in the General Assembly.
Electing pro-labor candidates takes money, and the ABC needs your help. The money collected by the ABC fund supports labor-friendly candidates - ones who support raising minimum wage, protecting OSHA standards, pass laws that protect jobs in our industries, etc. This is a separate, completely voluntary deduction and has nothing to do with your dues money or representation by Local 27. Please sign up for the ABC through payroll deductions today!
Becoming and remaining a member of the Active Ballot Club costs only $1.00 a month - or you can make a one-time donation. Your small contribution, when combined with fellow UFCW members, makes a big difference. Take a step forward for yourself...join ABC’
6
Contract Highlights: Language on the Most Asked Questions
Minimum Hours
Food Clerks, Service Clerks & Courtesy Clerks hired prior to 5/28/97: 20 hours per week guaranteed with a 4 hour shift minimum.
Courtesy Clerks and Service Clerks hired after 5/28/97: 12 hours per week guaranteed.
Food Clerks hired after 5/28/97: 16 hours per week guaranteed.
Note: The minimum number of hours does not apply to probationary employees, students, part time employees holding another job. or employees with restricted mailability..
Vacation (Article 9)
Full and part time employees are entitled to a paid vacation on or after each anniversary date of their employment with continuous service as follows:
After 1 year: 1 week
After 3 years: 2 weeks
After 7 years: 3 weeks
After 13 years: 4 weeks*
After 20 years: 5 weeks
Funeral -see Art. 16
7
Personal Holidays (Article 10):
Eligible employees shall receive paid personal holidays us follows;
►	I day after 6 months continuous service
►	2 days per year after I years continuous
service
►	3 days per year after 2 years continuous
service
►	4 days per year after 3 years continuous
service
Breaks (Article 7, Section 3):
►	One fifteen (15) minute break for each 4 lumr shift
Raises - see index then look for yourjob title and the period in which your dale of hire falls.
Probationary Period for New Hires: 90 Days
Benefit Coverage for New titres (Art. 18):
►	Pun time: J S months - full benefits, except dependents
►	Pan lime less than 20 hour/rcstrioted - 24
8
months
► Full time: 9 months - completer coverage
Dependent Coverage: far part time employees,
Hired on or before 5/28/97: after 2i months with co-pay.
Hired afier5/28/97:
After 24 months with a 30% co-pay.
Note: Option to all new hires to buy coverage after probationary period until eligible for benefits. These benefits begin the first of the month following the specified months of continuous service.
Holidays & Sundays (Art. 10)
When a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed.
Mew Year’s Day Labor Day
Memorial Day Thanksgiving Day
Independence Day Christmas Day
Time worked on such holidays shall be compensated for at the rate of time and one-half (116) the employ e e ’ s reg u lar straight ti me rate of pay. Part time employees get holidays after 90 days.
9
Sunday Work
Hours worked on Sundays or holidays shall be in addition to the normally scheduled work week . The work week shall be Monday through Saturday for full and part timers.
Employees who work on Sunday, excluding those otherwise listed in the contract, will be compensated at time and one-half (1 ‘/i) the employee's rate of straight time pay.
See full text in Agreement for proper and complete language.
10
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
METRO/BASICS/ FOOD-A-RAMA
AND
UNITED FOOD AND COMMERCIAL
WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 27
June 1,1997 - June 1, 2002
ii
THIS AGREEMENT entered into this 1st day of June J 997 by and between die Meltv/Basics Supermarket. I nc. ( FtK>d-A-RunKi) hereinafter referred to as ('‘Employer'' or “Company") and United Food and Commercial Workers Union. Local 27. AFL-CIO hereinafter referred io as ("Union").
Intent and Purpose
The Employer and the Union each represents that the purpose and the iittent of this Agreement is to promote cooperation and harmony, to recognize ntuiuaJ interests, to provide a channel through which information and problems may be transmitted from one to the other, to formulate rules to govern the relationship between the Union and the Employer, to promote efficiency and service, and to sei forth herein the basic agreement covering rates of pay. hours of work and conditions of employment.
Article 1
Successors and Assigns
Section I.	This Agreement shall be binding on all signatories hereto, and their successors and assigns, whether such status is created by sale, lease, assignment or any other type of transfer or transaction. In consideration of the Union’s execution of this Agreement, the Employer promises that its operations cov
13
ered by this Agreement or any part thereof shall not be sold, conveyed or otherwise transferred or assigned to any successor without first securing the Agreement of the successor to assume the Employer’s obligations to offer employment subject to the terms of this Agreement, to all the Employer's then current employees, recognizing their accrued seniority for.all purposes. Provided, that the Employer shall not be a guarantor to be held liable for any breach by the successor or assignee of its obligations, and the Union will look exclusively to the successor or assignee for compliance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 2.	The foregoing shall be applicable in cases where the Employer sells or transfers more than twenty percent (20%) of the facilities covered under this Agreement, and shall not apply in cases of store closing thirty (30) days or more.
When the company opens its twenty-fifth (25th) store the percentage will decrease to ten percent (10%).
Article 2	- Management Authority
The authority and responsibility for the management of the business, including but not limited to, the planning, direction and control of the work force shall repose exclusively in the Employer and its appointed representatives, subject to the provisions of this Agreement.
14
Article 3	- Recognition
Section /. The Employer recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining representative for all of its employees (excluding Store Managers, and supervisory employees), covered by this Agreement coming under the jurisdiction of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, Local 27. The Employer further agrees that if a new store or stores arc opened within the jurisdiction of Local 27 this Agreement shall apply to such new store or stores.
Section 2.	All work and services connected with, or incidental to the handling or selling of all merchandise offered for sale to the public in the Company’s retail establishments covered by this Agreement, shall be performed only by employees of the Company within the unit referred to above for which the Union is recognized as the collective bargaining agency by the Company; provided that any persons with an ownership interest in any of the said establishments who have performed work and service of any kind in the past shall be permitted to continue to perform such work and service to the same extent.
Section 3.	This Agreement shall not be construed as restricting a sales representative from inspecting any and all merchandise of his respective company for spoilage or replacement, nor shall it apply to initial special displays.
15
Section 4.	The Employer shall notify the Union fifteen (15) days prior to a store closing. The Employ er shall negotiate the effect on employees of the store scheduled to be closed.
Article 4	- Union Security
Seclitm 1. All employees shall, as a condition of employment., become and remain members of the Union on anti after the thirty-first (31) day following the date of employment, or on and after the thirty-first (31) day following the effective date of this Agreement. whichever is the later,
For the purpose of this provision, membership in the Union shall mean that the employee either tenders lite periodic dues and initiation fees uniformly required hy the Union as a condition of acquiring or retaining membership or pay those fees and dues necessary to permit the Union to serve as an exclusive representative of employees.
Ducs shall he due and payable on or before the first day of the month for which they are due.
Section 2. Upon failure of any employee to become and remain a ineinber of the Union within the period and under the conditions specified in Section 4.1 above, the Union shall notify the Employer in writing, of such failure and the Employer shall immediately, upon receipt of such notice, but not more than seven (7) days thereafter, discharge any such employee
16
as provided in the Labor Management Relations Act of J 947 as amended.
Section The Employer may display in each store the Union Store Decal as furnished by the Union and agrees to surrender same upon demand of the Union.
Section •/. The Employer will notify the Union in writing, wilhin thirty (30) days from the date of employment, reinstatement, or transfer into the bargaining unit of any employee, of the name of such employee. the home address, job class if teat ion, social security number and the dale of employment.
Section 5. All employees newly hired or rehired after termination of their seniority shall be considered probationary employees for the first ninety (90) days of their employment. Seniority shall not accrue to the probationary employee until completion of his ninetieth (90llt) day of employment at which time the probationary employee's seniority shall become established as of the date of his employment. During the said ninety (90) day probationary period, probationary employees shall be subject to layoff, recall, discipline, or terminaiion of their employment at the discretion of the Employer without being subject to the grievance and arbitration procedure set forth tn this Agreement.
17
Article 5 - Seniority
Section 1.	Seniority for the purpose of this Agreement shall be calculated by continuous service from the last date of employment (except otherwise provided). Company will establish one Seniority List for - all part li me and fulltime employees. However, when entering into another department'that was formerly on a different seniority list, all nast seniority will be maintained for layoff purposes: in addition, for claiming hours, seniority will be established as the date of your transfer. (Meat Manager, first Cutler, and Journeymen are excluded from the above paragraph.) Said list shall be furnished to the Union upon request. Seniority areas governing this Agreement arc outlined in Exhibit B and Exhibit C attached hereto and made a pan hereof. In connection with layoffs and store closings, seniority will first apply to store then seniority area, and last the jurisdiction of this agreement. Exhibit C applies to layoffs and store closings only white Exhibit B applies for all other purposes. Seniority shall prevail in the following instances in the manner as listed hereafter.
Section 2.	The Employer agrees to give a week’s notice or a week’s pay in lieu of a week’s notice to full time employees with six (6) months service and three (3) days notice or three (3) days pay to pan time employees with twelve (12) months service who are laid off due to lack of work. AH employees likewise shall give a week’s notice prior to intended resigna
1$
lion. It is mutually agreed that after termination notice has been given by either party, no new request for sick benefits shall be granted.
A, For a reduction in the work force and recall purposes only, Meat Managers, First Cutter and Journeyman will be considered one classification. Company may reassign the Meat Manager to another store as a Meat Manager and reduce the excess Meat Manager to First Cutter/Joumeymen in Jine with their seniority in case of store closing instead of taking a layoff (effective date of ratification),
Section 3.	Employees laid off due to the store closing or reduction of employment shall be laid off by order of the most recent hired and shall be rehired in the reversed order of the layoff, with due consideration given job classification. Employees laid off and subsequently recalled within twelve (12) months will retain former seniority.
(1)	Full time employees to be laid off shall have the option of part time employment, and shall be placed at the top of the part time seniority list, or may take a complete layoff. They shall have the right of recall on any full time opening, provided they can do the work. Full time employees reduced from full time to part time through no fault of their own will retain their Health and Welfare insurance coverage fora period of six (6) months even if they work fewer hours than specified herein.
19
(2)	The Employer shah combine existing pun lime assignments on a seniority basis, unless such hours duplicate each other: provided that the requirement to combine such assignments is subject in each case to the Employer's operational needs and requirements.
— (3) All additional non-duplicated hours shall be offered to part time employees be (orc any new hires.
Section 4.	The Employer recognizes the principle of seniority as being one in which the movement of tin employee from one job to another or from one location to another through promotion, demotion, layoff. recall after layoff, or permanent transfer, shall be governed by the length of service of the employee, subject in each case to the ability of the senior employee involved to perform the work. No transfers shall he made without twenty-four (24) hours notice except in casts of emergency.
Section 5.	Employees on leave of absence, sick leave, or maternity leave shall retain their form er standing on all seniority lists for a maximum of one (1) year.
Section 6.	A. The Employer agrees to advise the Union weekly of all increases, monthly of all termi-naliotts, and of till the dates of hire.
* H. All permanent department bead positions that become open will be posted in all stores for a pc-
20
riod of not less Ilian one (1) week. Those employees interested in the position will indicate such interest by forwarding a letter to the Personnel Department,
* C. The Company agrees to posi a monthly fist of all full time jobs filled,
!l! D. Employees wishing to transfer to other stores may submit a written request to the Personnel Depart me it l. Such requests will be considered when openings occur.
Section 7. Pan time employees desiring ini) time work and lower classified food employees desiring to upgrade in classification shall be given prclercnce for such work in accordance with the following procedure.
4. Employees who have completed a minimum of six (6) months of service and who desire upgrading as described above shall notify the Employer in writing with a copy to the Union, during the periods March 1st to March 21 st and September 1st to September 21st each year. Such letters shall remain valid for eighteen (IS) months.
ii. The first consideration for any such vacancies shall be given to employees with a current request in order of the employee's seniority with ability to do the work to be considered. However, full time Might Crew employees will be given priority con
21
sideration for available full-time day vacancies within the Food Clerk classification.
C.	Only requests for permanent classification change shall be valid and failure to be available thereafter for such work for a period of twenty-six (26) weeks after obtaining such status, except for ’reasons beyond the employee’s control, shall bar the employee from future requests for a period of twelve (12) months.
D.	Failure to accept on offer of such work in any of the Employer’s stores within a seniority area shall result in removal of the employee’s request for the balance of that six (6) month period, but it shall not bar the employee from future requests.
E.	The Employer and the Union agree to exchange a list of pan time employees requesting full time jobs during the months of October and April of each year. The list will contain the employee’s name, social security number, store number, and dale the letter was received by their respective offices.
Section 8.	Part time employees who are promoted to full time shall receive credit towards full time service based on a conversion ratio of two (2) months part time work equal to one (1) month of full time work for the purpose of determining their wage, seniority and vacation eligibility. Part time employees who are assigned temporarily to full time shall
22
receive as their rate of pay, whichever is the greater, for such temporary assignment.
A. When a part time employee is scheduled and/or works more than thirty-five (35) hours per week for more than six (6) consecutive weeks and the work is not temporary (i,e., vacation and/or absence coverage), a full time position will be deemed to have been created. Such a full time position within the store and department where the work was performed will be filled in accordance with the bid list.
Section 9.	The Employer has the right to discharge any employee for good cause, including but not limited to, dishonesty, intoxication during working hours, provided however, that no employee shall be discharged or discriminated against because of membership in the Union or for Union activities.
Any employee’s seniority shall be terminated and his rights under this Agreement (including the right of employment) forfeited for any of the following reasons;
I.	Discharge for cause or voluntary quit.
2.	Failure to return to work or notify the Company of an acceptable excuse within forty-eight (48) hours after due notification of recall after layoff. Due notification shall consist of registered mail to the employee’s last known address, JI Layoff in excess of twelve (12) consecutive months.
23
4.	Absence because of illness or injury beyond the period permitted under Article 13, Leaves of Absence, in Ibis Agreement.
Article 6	- Wages
“ " Wage scales are sei Tonh in Exhibit .A, attached hereto and made a pari hereof.
Article 7	- Hoars And Overtime
Section 1. The guaranteed work week for all full lime employees shall be forty (40) hours per week to he worked on five (fl ; days unless the employee agrees to work a sixth (6ih) day. The Employer will noi change the concept of this work week without mutual agreement with Local 27.
I.	The Company may schedule full lime employees io work iwo (2) ten (10) hour days per week and two (2) nights per week. (All stores shall close no later than 7:1)1) p.n>. on Christmas Eve.)
2.	Employees shall be paid al the overtime rale of time and one-half (1 1/2) of the employee’s regular rale of pay for the following time worked;
(a} In excess of eight (X) hours in one (I) day, except jis provided in Section 1,1 above.
24
(f>) In excess of five (5) days in one (I) week unless the employee agrees Io work a sixth (6th)day tn straight time.
(c) in excess of forty (40) hours in one 11) week.
!d) in excess of thirty-two (32) hours in any week in which one of the specified holidays falls except as provided in Article 10 Section 2.
(c) All hours worked alter 6:0(1 p.m. by a full time employee except on the scheduled nights provided in LI above: or when a full time employee agrees to work a schedule at straight time which includes hours after 6:00 p.m.
(J) All time worked before 4:00 n.m. and after 11:00p.m.. except tor night crew employees.
3.	There shall be no split shifts.
4.	The regular day's work for all full time employees shall be worked within nine (9) consecutive hours (except on the ten (10) hour days) and all employees shall receive one (i) hour off for lunch at approximately the middle of the working day, except that any employee may receive only one-half (1/2) hour meal period when he works within eight and one-half (8 1/2) consecutive hours, provided it is mutually agreed upon. The meal period shall not begin before three (3) hours work, tior later than five (5) hours of work.
25
Part time employees who work more than six (6) hours in a week day, shall be granted a meal period without pay of at least one-half (1/2) hour, if requested by the employee,
5.	On days where overtime is worked, if the second meal period is taken, it shall consist of one-half -------(1/2) hour’s duration only, The taking of the sec-
ond meal period will be only by mutual consent of employee and Employer.
6.	Any employee required to work his meal period shall receive pay for that period of time at the overtime rate of time and one-haff (f 1/2) the regular rate of pay.
7,	All full time employees reporting for work at their scheduled time shall be guaranteed their scheduled hours of work, unless such work is unavailable due to an emergency or Act of God not within the control of the Employer. In the event such an employee is called 10 work on his predesignuled day off, he shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours pay at the overtime rate of time and one-half (1 1/2).
8.	Part time employees who report to work pursuant to instructions and are not given work shall be paid according to their schedule (except that in no event shall they be paid for more than four (4] hours), unless such work is unavailable due to an emergency or Act of God not within the control of
26
the Employer.
9.	A. The Employer may establish as many shifts as necessary and the starting time of such shifts shall be optional with the Employer.
* B. The Company shall make every effort togive shift preferences to senior employees, subject to the abilities of the employees, staffing requirements of the store and the work to be done.
/fl. Overtime shall be worked al the designation of the Employer; in designating employees to work overtime, the Employer may choose employees in accordance with their seniority, ability and availability to perform the work. The overtime pay shall be computed on a daily or weekly basis but not for both,
11, In the event the Employer shall desire to establish a regular shift of employment between closing hours and opening hours of a store, the terms and working conditions of employees on such a shift shall be negotiated with the Union before the shift is established.
Section 2. The Employer shall post weekly in each department and/or store a working schedule of all employees covered by this Agreement showing their daily hours of work and their predesignated day off. This notice shall be posted by Friday 6:00 P.M. preceding each work week. In the event a full time
27
employee's predesignaled day off is changed after ihe schedule is posted, an employee required to work on his predesignaled day off shall be paid at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/21 his straight time rate of pay for work performed on such day, unless the change in ihe schedule is hy mutual consent.
Section J, Alt employees will be given a fifteen (15) minute rest period approximately in the middle of each four (4) hour shift.
Section J. Employees shall be at their work stations ready for work at their scheduled starling time, otherwise they arc reporting late.
Section 5.	A part lime employee is one who works thiny-five (35) hours or fess per week.
/. When a part time employee exceeds ihe hours as specified in Section 5 above. Ite shall be paid at the appropriate full time hourly rate of pay for all hours worked that week.
Section 6.	The Employer will faithfully and fully implement all provisions of the Agreement relating lo the basic work week and overtime hours. The Employer further agrees dial whenever an employee is given the option to agree lo certain working conditions under the Agreement, the employee shall not be compelled to make a decision on regards losuch working conditions. but shall have the right to make such decisions on a voluntary basis.
28
Section 7.	A) All pan time employees will be guaranteed a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week except for courtesy clerks, probationary employees and employees who have restricted their availability to work the hours needed.
H) Presently employed Courtesy Clerks will be guuninteed twenty (20) hours unless they have restricted their availability.
Ci Pan-time employees hired alter 5/2#/97:
New Hire Courtesy Clerks and Servite Clerks -12 hour guarantee New Hire Food Clerks -16 hour guarantee
Guarantees do not apply to any newly hired part tinier that have restricted their availability to work the hours needed.
Section li. Full time employees involuntarily reduced to pan time shall maintain their full time rate or pan time rate whichever is greater.
Section 9. Company agrees to create no less than five (5) additional full lime positions on or before November 1. 1997 and no less than five (5) additional full time positions on or before February I. 1998. These additional full time positions will be offered to present part time employees by seniority on the bid list.
29
Metro employees on the Tull-time bid list shall have the ability to claim full-time jobs based on their seniority, between the thirtieth (30th) and sixtieth (60th) day after ratification of 5/28/97.
Article 8 - Nishi Crew
Section I.	A Night Crew employee is one who is scheduled to work more than four (4) hours between 10:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. two (2) or more nights in any one (I) week. The Night Crew premium shall be Seventy Cents (70tf) per hour in the Meat Department and Fifty Cents (50y) per hour in the Grocery Department.
Section 2.	Any regular member of the Night Crew will receive his basic weekly wage plus his night premium in the computation of his overtime, vacation and holiday pay.
Section 3.	The employee in charge of Night Crew will receive, in addition to his night premium, an additional Fifty Cents (50ft) per hour.
Section 4.	A Night Crew may work four (4) ten (10) hour shifts at straight time by mutual agreement.
Section S.	Employees who want on or off the Night Crew shall bid in writing to the Personnel Office on a seniority basis in a seniority area.
30
Section 6.	Night crews that voluntarily begin work before 11:59 p.m, Sunday will be paid straight time for the time worked on that Sunday.
Article 9 - Vacations
Section ), Full time employees with one (1) or more yeans of continuous full time service shall be granted vacations as follows:
PRO-RATA
ANNUAL VACATION
One (I) week uninterrupted after one (I) year
Two (2) weeks uninterrupted after three (3) years
Three (3) weeks after seven (7) years
Four (4) weeks after thirteen (13) years
Five (5) weeks after twenty (20) years
VACATIONSON TERMINATION
1/12 week for each additional month
2/12 week for each additional month
3/12 week for each additional month
4/12 week for each additional month
5/12 week for each additional month
Section 2.	Employees discharged for acknowledged or proven dishonesty, or employees who quit
3)
without giving a one (I J week notice shall not be entitled ui any vacation pay.
Section 3.	Not more than two (2) weeks uninterrupted vacation may be taken, except employees who for good anti sufficient reason desire to take their third (3rd) and fourth (4th) weeks uninterrupted vacation must request satne'in writing thirty (30) days prior to rhe date the vacation is to be taken. Such requests are subject Io approval by the Employer. The employee may take vacation in any of the fifty-two (52) weeks. Management may determine the number of employees who can take a vacation in any week.
Section 4.	Employees must work forty-one (41) weeks during the vacation year to qualify.
Section 5.	Vacation time shall be computed from date of employ me tit or anniversary of vacation eligibility date, and shall be taken at a time convenient to both the employee and the Employer, and shall be paid at the rale of pay in effect at the lime the vacation is taken. An employee who is absent from work for less than eleven (11) weeks during his anniversary year shall receive his lull vacation allowance, but if absent for reasons other than illness or for illness lor more than eleven (11) weeks, he shall receive one-twelfth (1/12) his vacation entitlement for each lull month worked during the anniversary year.
Section 6.	When a holiday designated in Article 10. Section 1 occurs during the full lime employee’s
32
vacation, the employee shall he entitled lit an extra day’s vacation orcash in lieu thereof, hased on straight time pay for an eight (8> hour work day.
Section 7.	Subject to the operational requirements of the business, preference as to vacation dates shall be given to employees on the basis of seniority. The vacation schedule of an employee cannot be changed, except by mutual agreement, when it is less than thirty (30) days to the dale already scheduled.
Section 8.	Vacation pay is to be paid to the employee prior to the vacation. The Company will pay vacation pay out of petty cash if the vacation check does not arrive at the store on time.
Section 9.	Part time employees shall be entitled to a vacation on or after each anniversary date of their employment pro-rated on the basis of the average straight time hours worked and hours worked on Sundays during the preceding year, according to the vacation formula set forth above and subject to the same conditions as pertain to full time employees.
Section 10.	When a holiday, designated in Article 10, occurs during a pan time employee’s vacation, and the part time employee would ordinarily have been scheduled for work on that day, the employee shall be paid as provided in Article 10.
Section 11.	Employees may start vacation on any day which is mutually agreed upon by the Employer
33
and the employee.
Section 12.	A part time employee going to Full time shall not suffer a reduction in the number of hours of vacation the employee would have received as a part lime employee for the first vacation of such change.
Section 13.	From January 1 lo March 31 of each year, employees shall select their desired date for vacation for that year. Said selection will be awarded on a seniority basis within department. After March 31, employees may select vacant weeks by seniority but may not bump less senior employees who have exercised their vacation select ion during the bid period. Vacations requested after the bid period will be honored on a first come, first served basis. The employee may take vacation in any of the fifty-two (52) calendar weeks, subject to management approval.
The vacation schedule of any employee cannot be changed, except by mutual agreement, when it is less than sixty (60) days to the date the employee has selected. The vacation schedule shall be available on request by an employee.
Section 14.	Earned but unused vacation of the third (3rd), fourth (4th) or fifth (5th) weeks may be taken as pay in lieu of time off at the request of the employee.
34
Article 10- Holidays And Sundays
Section I.	The Employer agrees that the following days shall be holidays. When a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be observed:
New Year’s Day	Thanksgiving Day
Labor Day	Independence Day
Memorial Day	Christmas Day
Employees with six (6) months service shall be entitled to one (1) personal holiday. Employees with one (1) year of service shall be entitled to two (2} personal holidays. Employees with two (2) years service shall be entitled to three (3) personal holidays and employees with three (3) or more years service shall be entitled to four (4) personal holidays per employment year.
If an employee is required to work on a holiday, compensation shall be at the rate of time and one-half (1 1/2) the employee’s regular straight lime rate of pay, which shall be in addition to the holiday pay as provided.
Section 2.	The work week during which a holiday occurs shall be considered a four (4) day week consisting of thiny-two (32) straight time hours, for which the employees shall be paid forty (40) hours pay if they qualify under Article 10 Section 3. All time worked over thirty-two (32) hours during said holi
35
day week shall be compensated for at the overlime rate of time and one-half (I 1/2) except that an employee may work forty (40) hours at straight time in addition to the holiday pay, provided it is mutually agreed upon between Employer and employee.
(I)	All part time employees, upon completion of ninety (90) days but iess than one (J) year of continuous service with the Company, shall be entitled to holiday pay as set forth in this paragraph when said holiday falls on their scheduled work day. based on the number of hours regularly worked by such employee on that day.
(2)	Alt part lime employees with one (1) or more years of continuous service shall be entitled to holiday pay based on the number of hours regularly worked by the employee on that day if the holiday falls on a regularly scheduled work day; or holiday pay of five (5) hours if the holiday falls on a non-schedulcd day ai straight time.
(3)	In either case in order to receive holiday pay the employee must;
a)	Work the scheduled work day before and after such holiday, Sunday excepted; and
b)	Work at least one (1) day during the said hoi i-dtiy week.
(4)	Work schedules shall not be changed for the
36
purpose of avoiding holiday pay.
Section 3.	No employee shall receive pay for any holidays not worked unless such employee has reported for work on the employee's regular work day next preceding and next following said holiday. Employee shall be deemed to have reported for work if absence on die day before or the day after said holiday is due to express permission from or action of the Company, or death in the immediate family and also in case of certified illness, hut in any event, employees off one (I) full week before a holiday and one (I) full week after a holiday would not be emit led to holiday pay. unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement.
Section 4.	Any work performed by employees on Sunday shall be paid for at the rate of time and one-half (I 1/2).
Section 5.	Hours and/or days which <jurili 1 y for Sunday or holiday premium pay shall not be included in computing weekly overtime. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime and/or premium pay. Hours worked on Sundays or holidays shall he in addition io the normally scheduled work week.
Section 6.	4. Sunday and holiday work shall be rotated within the store among qualified employees (within the classification) required to do the work. In the event the Company cannot schedule the necessary number of employees on a voluntary basis, then the
37
employees in reverse order of seniority shall be required to perform the work.
♦ B. Such rotation shall first be among those volunteers who have signed a list indicating their desire to work Sundays and Holidays, said list to be posted every three (3) months, '	.
Section 7.	The Company will not require any employee to work on Christmas Day,
Article 11
Shoo Stewards And Union Activities
Section I. There shall be no discrimination against any employee because of Union membership. The Employer further agrees there shall be no discrimination against any Steward of the Union as a result of their activities and performance of their responsibilities. The Union agrees that neither it nor its members will engage in Union activities on the Employer’s time or in the Employer's stores, provided, however, that representatives of the Union shall have free access to the Employer’s stores during business hours so long as it does not interfere with the Employer’s normal business operations.
1)	It is understood that the Stewards of the Union shall at all times, be the last to be laid off in any case. The Union shall furnish to the Employer a complete list of Stewards which shall be submitted
38
from lime to time as may be necessary.
2)	Shop Stewards shall not be transferred without . mutual consent of the Union and the Company.
3)	It is understood that the Union will use its best efforts to secure as Stewards a high caliber of employee who shall be required to conform to the standards and qualifications set by the Union.
4)	The Employer wifi grant each Meat and Grocery Shop Steward one (1) day off with pay to attend a Union sponsored seminar. Notice must be given the Employer and proof of attendance roust be provided. The Union shall have the right to appoint or have elected two (2) Shop Stewards per store.
Article 12
Arbitration And Adjustment
Section i.	Settlement of Disputes. The Union and the Employer recognizes their mutual responsibility for the prompt and orderly settlement of disputes or disagreements, including disputes relating to discharge, suspension or other discipline, that arise under this Agreement. To this end, the Union, the Employer and the employees agree that the provisions of this Article shad provide the means of settlement of all such disputes and disagreement.
39
Section 2.	Employee and. Union Grievances.
I)	initiation of Grievances - Any disagreement c>r dispute arising under this Agreement which an employee and/or the employee's Shop Steward have not been able to adjust informally with the employee’s supervisor may be made the subject of a grievance, which shall be presented by the aggrieved employee, the employee’s Shop Steward or oilier Union reprvsentuii ve to Ihc designated Employer official.
2)	Written Presentation - All grievances shall be presented in writing, signed by the aggrieved employee and/or the employee’s Shop Steward or other Union representative.and shall couiaitt a statement of I he grievance, the remedy reijuesied. and a specification of the Article of the Agreement which is involved in the grievance. All answers by the Employer shall also he in writing, signed by the Employer official giving the answer.
3)	Time Limitations - Al) grievances shall be presented within ten (10) working days from the dale of their occurrence, or the date upon which knowledge of the occurrence first becomes available to Ihc employee. Grievances not presented within the time limitation specified herein will not be considered or acted upon by the Employer and the Employer's position with respect to the grievance will be 1’m:d and binding upon the aggrieved Employer or employees and the Union. Grievances
40
properly presented within the lime (imitations herein shall be answered by the IjnipJoycr within ten (10} working days after receipt thereof.
4)	Appeal Procedure - If the Employer's answer is not satisfactory to the Union, the grievance may then be appealed in writing within live (5) days from receipt of such answer to the designated Employer official. who shall arrange fora meeting between himself and the Business Agent or other designated representative of the Union, to be held within live (5) days of receipt of the appeal. unless a further extension of lime for such meeting is agreed to by both parties.
Section 3.	Employer Grievances. Grievances 11 led by the Employer shall be filed in writing directly with the Business Agent or other designated representative of the Union and shall be dealt with as if they had reached appeal procedure set forth in Section 2(41 with respect to employee grievances, e.g.. a meeting shall be arranged Ite I ween ihc Employer and the Union representatives to he held within five {5) days of the tiling of the Employer grievance, unless a further extension of time for such meeting is agreed to by both panics.
Section 4.	Referral to Arbitration. Any grievance of an employee or the Union or any' grievance filed by die Employer, that lias been property processed through the steps of the grievance procedure as set forth above and has not been settled al the conclusion
41
(hereof, may be referred io arbitration by the Union or the Employer in accordance with the following procedure.
Section 5.	Notification of Desire to Arbitrate. The party desiring to arbitrate shall notify the other party to this effect within ten (10) days after the meeting provided for in Section 2(4) or Section 3 above. If such notification is not made within the time limitation provided in this Section, the answer of the Employer as provided in Section 2(3) above shall be the final and binding disposition of the employee's grievance.
Section 6.	Selection of Arbitrator. Within five (S) working days of the receipt of notification of desire to arbitrate, the designated Employer official and the Business Agent or other designated representative of die Union shall meet to select an arbitrator. If they are unable to agree upon an arbitrator within five (5) working days of such meeting, they shall jointly request the Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to furnish a list of seven (7) arbitrators. Selection of an arbitrator from the list shall be made within ten (10) working days of receipt thereof, eitherby agreement, or if agreement cannot be reached, by alternately striking names from the list until only one (I) name remains. The final remaining name shall be the arbitrator of the grievance.
Section 7,	Jurisdiction of Arbitrator. The jurisdiction of the arbitrator shall be confined exclusively
42
to the interpretation of the express provision or the provisions of this Agreement at issue between the Union and the Employer. The arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, alter, amend, or modify any provision of this Agreement or to establish or alter any wage rate. The arbitrator shall render an award and opinion in writing and such award and opinion shall be final and binding upon the aggrieved employee or employees, the Union and the Employer.
Section 8.	Arbitration Expenses. The fee and other expense of the arbitrator in connection with any grievance referred to arbitration under this Article shall be shared equally between the Union and the Employer,
Article 13 ■ Leaves of Absence
Subject to the following conditions, employees shall be granted leave of absence without pay which shall not interrupt their service records, providing such request is made by the employee, in writing, to the Employer’s main office seven (7) days prior to commencing such leave.
Section i. The Employer agrees that any member of the Union, employed by the Employer during the period of this contract who is elected to permanent office in the Union or is assigned by the Union to any Union activity necessitating temporary leave of absence, shall be granted such leave and shall, at the end
43
of this term in the tirst in st tmce or at the end of his mission in the second instance, he guaranteed reemployment at the employee’s former wage rate pkts any increase or less any reduction that may become effective during the employee's absence, provided that the employee applies for reemployment, forthwith upon leaving the Union.
SecftoH 2. Leave of absence shall be granted up io one (1) year without pay when an employee with six (6) or more months of continuous service is unable to work because of a disability, and this leave shall become elTective after the final sick benefit payment is made. The disability must be attested to by a registered physician. However, in the event such employee is unable to work at tbe expiration of the leave period, he shall be entitled to an additional leave of six (6) months if he submits satisfactory medical evidence that he will be able to return to his regular duties within the said additional period.
Set'tio n .1. l^rave of absence shul 1 be grttnicd up to one fl) year without pay after childbirth upon written request. This leave will begin alter final sick payment is made.
Section J. The Company will comply with the applicable laws of the United Slates concerning the reemployment of persons leaving the military service of the United States. Because the schedule of progressive wage rates provided for by Exhibit A hereof depends upon actual experience on the job, a person
44
rcemployed pursuant to this Section shall, for purpose of Exhibit A, be credited only with months of actual payroll service. A person so reemployed shall be paid at the current rale for the appropriate job classification based upon the person's actual job experience. At the time an employee leaves for military service, the employee shall receive whatever vacation pay is due.
Section 5.	An employee may be given a leave of absence not to exceed one (1) year for any reason acceptable to the Employer. This decision shall not be arbitrable.
Section 6.	Any bargaining unit employee who is promoted to a management position on or after January 1. 1982 shall retain all seniority rights and beert-l it led to reinstatement to his former or substantially equivalent position for a maximum period of one (I) year from such promotion; and provided further that the employee's employment was not terminated for any reason enumerated in Article 5, Section 9. Said leave of absence may be extended only through the joining and mutual consent of the Union and the Employer. The Employer will promptly notify the Union Office in writing of the bargaining unit employee going into a management position.
45
Article 14	- Working Conditions
Section i.	No member of ihe Union Shalt suffer a reduction in wage rates or an increase in hours or reduced vacation time or split shift solely by the signing of this Agreement. Nothing in this paragraph shall be interpreted to entitle an employee to more than forty (40) hours work per week.
Section 2.	The Employer will furnish and launder such store linen as it desires worn by its employees, except that when the Employer supplies Dacron or similar type uniforms for female employees, they may be laundered by the employee. Since this item of expense is intended lo make the Employer’s service more attractive to customers, employees shall be requested to present a neat, clean, business-like appearance while on duty in the stores.
Section 3.	If a physical examination or health permit is required, only the expense of the examination or health permit shall be borne by the Employer.
Section 4.	A full lime employee who receives a pay rate which is higher than the pay rate provided in Exhibit A for the employee’s classification, who is promoted to a department head and subsequently demoted to the employee's former classification shall receive the same pay rate differential which the employee previously received.
46
Section 5.	The Employer agrees, in the event of a temporary transferal the Employer’s request, to reimburse the employee for increased transportation costs on the basis of Twenty-Two and One-Half Cents (22 1/2C) per mile, except, however, when an employee chooses public transportation, excluding taxicabs, the employee shall be reimbursed only for the actual cost of such increased transportation.
Section 6.	Notices concerning Union business which have been approved by the Employer’s main office may be posted in designated locations in the store.
Section 7.	First aid kits for each store and all tools of the trade will be furnished by the Employer.
Section 8.	The Employer shall have a time clock or time sheets in each store for the purpose of keeping record of all hours worked by the employees.
Section 9,	A First Cutter shall be appointed in those self-service markets in which two (2) or more full time Journeymen and a Meat Manager are employed. The First Cutter shall relieve the Meat Manager whenever the Meat Manager is away from the store during the Meat Manager’s scheduled hours. In the event that the Meat Manager is absent for one (1) week or more, the First Cutter shall receive the Meat Manager’s rate of pay for that period of time.
Section 10.	Any employee relieving a Meat De
47
partment Manager one (I) week or more, shall be paid Ihe contract rate for a Meat Manager during the period of relief.
Section 11.	When a higher classified employee is absent from his position for more than two (2) days and another employee performs the job of the higher classified employee, he shall receive the appropriate rate of pay of this higher classification.
Article 15	- Jury Duty
Section I.	Employees actually serving on juries shall receive the difference between their straight time weekly basic pay and the amount received while on jury duty. They will be expected to work their regularly posted schedule on days when jury is not in session.
Section 2.	An employee serving on the jury shall not be required to work hours other than those during which the employee is normally scheduled and in no case shall be required to report for less than four (4) hours.
Section 3.	The above provisions shall he limited to thirty (30) days of jury duly in any one (I) year, except for service on a Grund Jury,
48
Article 16- Funeral Leave
Employees with six (6) months service shall, in the case of a death in the immediate family, namely parent. *spousc. *child. brother, sister or purent-in-law. grandparents or grandchildren of employees, requiring the employee's absence from regularly scheduled assignments, be granted a leave of absence up to three (3) days, beginning with the day of death. When an employee's scheduled lime falls within the three (3) day period, the employee shall be reimbursed for that portion of the time normally scheduled for work hut under no circumstances shall the application of this clause result in a change in the employee's basic weekly .salary.
* Employees shall receive four (4) days off for spouse and children.
Article 17 - Checkoff
Section /. The Employer agrees to deduct dues and initiation fees uniformly required of members of the Union from the pay of each employee who has furnished the Employer with an authorization in writing authorizing such deduction. The Employer agrees to remit amounts so deducted within thirty (30) days after their collection to the Financial Secretary or designated officer of the Union. Dues will be cheeked off weekly and remitted monthly.
49
Section 2. The Union assumes full responsibility for the disposition of the funds deducted hereunder after they have been remitted by the Employer to the Financial Secretary or designated officer of the Union.
' Section 3. The Employer agrees to deduct twenty-five cents (25ff) per week and remit monthly to the Local Union's Active Ballot Club from employees who are Union members and who have signed deduction authorization cards.
Section 4. The Employer agrees to deduct weekly whatever amount is so designated by the employee or Union to the Local’s Credit Union. The amount is to be remitted monthly.
Article 18 - Health And Welfare
Section I.	Effective by October 1, 1997 the Company will provide Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Maryland (if they are the lowest bidder) to all employees based on their eligibility listed below. The insurance will be comparable or better than the present Plan X FELRA and UFCW Health and Welfare Fund Plan. The new plan shall include Group Dental's Dental Plan, United Optical Plan and acomparabte Drug Plan to APS. All other comparable or better benefits in Plan X shall be provided including but not limited to life insurance and accident & sickness benefits. The coverage for all Full Time employees will commence with the first full payroll month following the comple-
50
t ion of sot (6) months of continuous employment with the Employer. For all Part Time employees the coverage will commence with the first full payroll month following the completion of fifteen (15) months of continuous employment with the Employer.
After twenty-one (21) months of continuous employment, appropriate part time employees may apply for dependent coverage by submitting a request for payroll deductions to the Employer. The monthly rate to be paid by the employee shall be ninety-nine dollars ($99.00). Subsequent increases in such rate shall be effective each January. The Employer shall increase the monthly contribution on behalf of each part time employee who is eligible for dependent coverage and who has requested the appropriate payroll deduction.
Section 2.	For employees hired prior to 5/28/97 only.' Any part time employee who has five (5) or more years of service or any part lime employee who achieves five (5) years of service during the term of this contract and has paid the co-pay for dependent coverage for the last twelve (12) months upon reaching five (5) years shall continue to be eligible for dependent coverage and the co-payment shall be paid by the Employer.
51
Sectiont'ar employee* /tired after 5/28/97 eligibility:
Full time - 9 months - complete coverage no staggered benefits.
I*nrt time - IS months -complete coverage no staggered benefits -dependent coverage after24 months.
Part time less than 21) hours or restricted availability - 24 months complete coverage, no staggered be ncrus.
Part time dependent coverage: co-pay 70/30 tiller 24 months.
Provide option to ail new hires, after probationary period, to buy coverage at their own cost until eligible - called Non-Eligible Coverage.
Section 4.	Coverage of Health and Wei fate Benefits will be made for employees covered by the Health and Welfare Plans during the first three (3} months that such employees arc on sick leave or pregnancy leave pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, but not during lite time of any other authorized leave of absence from work.
Section 5.	Health and Welfare carrier is subject to change only with union approval, such approval will not be unreasonably withheld. Any change would be contingent on the health and welfare coverage being
52
comparable or better.
Section 6.	The Employer will maintain the present Supplemental Life Insurance and Major Medical Plan l or all Meal Department employees hired prior to April I. 19Ji5.
Section 7.	AH employees should have the option to buy-out coverage every six (6) months with proof of other coverage.
Full lime - $350.00 Part lime - $175.00
ll'employee's status changes within six (6) months, said employee may noti fy company and re-c n rol I. Em-ployces must have proof of other coverage that will continue if Metro drops their coverage.
Section K. Only employees wlto were in Plan .i: During the icrni of this Agreement any employee who retires under a pension plan to which the Union is a party and such retirement would entitle ihc employee to benefits under Plan J of the UFCW & Participating Employers Health and Welfare Fund, as if the Company were still contributing to said Fund, the Company will provide to the employee and his dependents benefits equal to Plan X except that dependents shall not receive Drug. Dental and Optical benefits, during his retirement, the Schedule of Benefits attached hereto as Appendix A. When the retiree becomes sixty-five <65J years of age. the Company will supplement the retiree's Medicare coverage up to ihe levels of ben
53
efits set forth on Appendix A and will continue to provide said Schedule of Benefits on Schedule A to the retiree’s dependents, except that dependents shall not receive Drug. Dental and Optical benefits.
Section 9.	Any member who wants to appeal a Health and Welfare decision may appeal in writing to the Union and Company, A panel will be set up with an'even number from the-Un ion and Company with federal mediation used to break any tie.
Section 10.	Company will add retiree medical coverage buyout option ala later date with Union approval. Approval will not be unreasonably withheld. Employee must have proof of other coverage that will continue if Metro drops theirs.
Article 19	- Pension
Section 1.	The Employer shall contribute to the UFCW Unions and Participating Employers Pension fund (hereinafter cal led the "Fund”), a total of Twenty-four Cems ($.24) per hour for all straight time hours paid, for all employees who receive compensation from the Employer during the preceding month. Effective November 1,1999 the contribution will be increased to Twenty-Seven Cents ($.27) per hour. Effective May 28, 2002, the contribution shall be increased to Forty Cents ($.40) per hour. The contribution by the Employer for new employees will commence with the first (1st) full payroll week following
54
the completion of thirty (30) days of continuous employment with the Employer, retroactive to the date of employment.
Section 2.	The Employer shall contribute to the FELRA and UFCW Pension Fund, hereinafter called “The Fund", a total of Thirty-three Cents ($.33) per hour, up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week, for all full time and part lime Meat Department employees who were employed by Big Valu on the day immediately preceding the date on which Food-A-Rama began operating the Big Valu stores and who had a vested interest in said Fund. Effective November I, 1999, the rate shall increase to Thirty-five Cents ($.35) per hour. Effective May 28, 2002, the rate shall increase to Forty Cents ($.40) per hour.
Section 3.	For all full time Meat Department employees on the payroll as of April I, 1985 the employer shall contribute to the UFCW Unions and Participating Employers Pension Fund a total of Thirty-three Cents ($.33) per hour, up to a maximum of forty (40) hours per week, for all full time Meat Department employees who have been employed six (6) months. Effective November 1,1999 thecate shall increase to Thirty-five Cents ($.35) per hour. Effective May 28,2002 the rate will increase to Forty Cents ($.40) per hour.
Section 4.	All employees hired after June 27, 1993 shall have a contribution made on their behalf in the amount of Twelve Cents ($.12) per hour after one (1)
55
year of service into the UFCW and Participating Employers Pension Fund. Effective November I. 1999 1 he rate shall increase to Fifteen Cents ($.15) per hour. Effective May L 2002 the rate shall increase to Eighteen Cents ($. I8) per hour.
Section 5.	Contributions bey in for euiplovees hired
far Mav 28. 1997:
Full time - SO, 12 after 12 tumults of service
Part time • S0.08 alter 12 months of service
Section 6.	'['he Company shall continue the 401K Plan for all union employees.
Article 20	- Severance
Section I.	The Employer shall contribute to the UFCW and FELRA Severance Fund (hereinafter referred tons the "Fund"), a total of Ten Cents fl 0c) per hour for all straight time hours worked for all full lime meal employees on the payroll as of April 1. 1985. No severance for any employees hired after April I. 1985.
Section 2.	The Fund shall be governed by tt Board of Trustees consisting of equal numbers Io be designated by the Food Employers Labor Relations Association and the Union.
56
Section 3.	It is understood and agreed that the Fund, referred to herein, shall be such as will continuously qualify for approval by the Internal Revenue Service, so as to allow the Employer an income tax deduction for the contributions paid hereunder.
Section 4.	It is agreed that all questions involving severance not specifically set forth herein shall be determined by the provisions of the Agreement and Declaration of Trust governing the Plan.
Section 5.	The Employer, at its discretion, may or may not be required to designate a representative on the Board of Trustees, but in any event the Employer agrees to be bound by all the decisions made by the Trustees in accordance with the Declaration of Trust.
Article 21 - Leeal
The Employer shall contribute to the United Food and Commercial Workers and FELRA Legal Benefit Trust (hereinafter referred to as the "Fund”), a total of Fourteen dollars and Fifty Cents ($ 14.5(f) for each employee. The contribution rate shall be increased as follows:
5/28/98	5/28/99
5/28/2000
5/28/2 Wl
$14.75	$15.00	$15.25	$15.50
New Hire Eligibility is one (1J year for all employees.
57
The monthly contribution by the Employer for employees will continence with the first (1st) payroll week of the month following the completion of six (6) months for full time employees and one (I) year for part time employee of continuous employment with the Employer.
- Article 22 - Separability Clause
The provisions of this Agreement are deemed to be separable to the extent that if and when a court of last resort adjudges any provisions of this Agreement in its application between the Union and the Employer to be in conflict with any law, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this Agreement, but such remaining provisions shall continue in full force and effect, provided further that in the event any provision or provisions are so declared to be in conflict with a law, both panics shall meet immediately for the purpose of renegotiation and agreement on provision or provisions so invalidated.
Article 23 - No Strike, No Lockout
Section I.	No Strikes, For the duration of this Agreement, the Union, its officers, representatives and members shall not, directly or indirectly, authorize, cause, instigate, encourage, aid, ratify, or condone any
58
strike, slowdown, or stoppage of work, boycott, picketing, or other interruption of work at the Employer’s place of business.
Section 2.	No Lockout. For the duration of this Agreement the Employer shall not lockout its employees.
Section 3.	Unauthorized Strike. In the event of any unauthorized strike, slow down or stoppage of woik, boycott, picketing, or other interruption of work, the Union shall instruct its members to return to or resume work at once. Any employee participating in such unauthorized activity, and refusing to return to work when so instructed by the Union, shall be subject to discipline therefore, and it is expressly agreed that such conduct shall constitute just cause for discharge under this Agreement. Nothing contained herein, however, shall compel any employee to walk through a lawful picket line, provided the picket line has the sanction of its own International Union.
Article 24	- Wage Freeze
All the provisions of this Agreement are subject to applicable legislation, executive orders, regulations, rulings and interpretations dealing with wage and price stabilization. If any provision of this Agreement may not be pul into effect, in accordance with its terms because of the said wage stabilization legislation, etc., then such provisions shall become effective at such
59
time, in such amount, and for such periods as are permitted by law al any lime during the Irl'e of this Agreement.
Article 25	- Military Service
Effective after one (I) year of employment the Company “will pay the difference between a full time employee’s regular base pay and military pay the employee would have received while on normal reserve duly. There will he a Iwo (2) week limit once a year for this.
Article 26	- Miscellaneous
Section }. Duties of the porter shall be limited lo the general cleaning up of the store, but in no other instance shall porters be required to handle, display, or sell tiny merchandise sold in the store.
Section 2.	Duties of the courtesy clerk shall be limited to bagging, parcel pick up. putting away "returns" and genera! cleaning of front end.
Section 3.	11 is mutually agreed that the herein clas-silicd department heads shall be continued in those stores that presently have department head classifications. It shall be the Employer's prerogative redesignate departitwni heads; however, where department heads are discontinued, there shall be appointed one (I) head clerk who shall receive an additional Twenty 6(1
Cents 12()y) per hour.
A depart ri tent head is any employee held responsible by ihe Company for the proper operation of a specified department.
Assisting Office Personnel and Scanning Coordinator shall receive Twenty-Five (25p) per hour above their rule.
A person held responsible by the Employer for the direction of the work force and opening or closing of the store and carrying the keys shall receive an additional Thirty-Five Cems (35c> per hour for all hours worked that day.
Section 4.	Joint Ijabtfr/Mantwemeiil Committee:
The Company agrees to establish a joint lahor-num-agenteut commitlee lo be made up of attexjua) number of employees and management for the purpose of discussing safely and other appropriate issues no less than four (4) times per year.
Notice will be posted in all stones to give each employee an opportunity to reduce to writing all store problems, managerial problems, attitude problems (i.e. people need lo be treated with dignity and respect) and any olher cun ent problems which will be presented by a rank and file committee at the meetings.
Section 5.	The Company agrees to provide direct deposit of pay checks if sufficient interest by the em
61
ployees is demonstrated.
Section 6.	The Company agrees to supply “safety cutters” when requested. The employees and the Union agree that when supplied, the safety cutters will be used.
i
I
Article 27	- Duration of Agreement '
This Agreement shall beeffectivefromJune 1,1997 and shall remain in force until and including June 1,2002 and from year to year thereafter, with the right of either party to reopen upon written notice, not less than sixty (60) days prior to June 1,2002, or the first (1st) day of June of any subsequent year thereafter of a desire either to change or terminate this Agreement. In the event either party serves notice, it is agreed that the Employer and the Union shall immediately begin negotiations on the proposed changes and that, pending the results of such renegotiation, neither party shall change the conditions existing at the time under the contract.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused these presents to be signed by their proper corporate officers and cause their proper corporate seals to be hereunto affixed this day of.
62
FOR THE
EMPLOYER:	FOR THE UNION:
METRO/BAS1CS UNITED FOOD AND SUPERMARKET, JNC. COMMERCIAL
WORKERS UNION, LOCAL 27
63
Exhibit A
I. All employees al or above top contractual rates will receive across-the-board increases as indicated below (including Red Circle Rates}:
Cltixsilicinion	Current Tup Rate	6/IAJ7	5/3 l/OS
ACross-tlic-	- -	- - .	- - • •_ _ .
hoard:**		75c	20e
Asst, Manager	13.S5	14.60	>4.K0
Grocery Mgr	13.63	I4.3H	14.5K
Produce Mgr	13.63	I4.3X	14.5S
Bakery Mgr	12.31)	13.05	13.25
Head Bookkeeper	I2.S5	13.60	13.H0
Meat Mgr	17 45	IS.20	IK.40
l'r Cutler	>6.05	16.Kt)	17.00
Journey atari	J 5.55	16.30	16.50
Deli Manager	13.65	14.40	14.60
Seafood Mgr	<2.30	13.05	13.25
Non-lanjil Mgr	12.30	13.05	13.25
Clerks	11 .SO	i 2.55	12.75
64
	Wane Rates Employees Hired Before September				flni
11/29/98	5/30/W	H728/99	6/4/2000 12/3/2000		Uri mm
20e	2(te	20 if	20e	25 e	50k
1;5 .(HI	15.20	15.40	15.60	15.85	16.35
14.78	14.98	15.18	15.38	15.63	16.13
14.78	14.08	15.18	15.38	15.63	16.13
13.45	13.65	1 3.85	14.05	14.30	14.80
14.00	14.20	14.40	14.60	14.85	15.35
18.60	18.80	19.00	19.20	19.45	19.95
17.20	17.40	17.60	17.80	18.05	18.55
16.70	16.90	17.10	17.30	17.55	18.05
14.80	15.00	15.20	15.40	15.65	16.15
13.45	1 3.65	13.85	14.05	[4.30	14.8(1
1 3.45	13.65	13.85	14.05	14.30	14.80
12.95	13.15	13.35	13.55	13.80	14.30
65
Exhibit A Continued
Current
Classification	Top Rate Weigher/Wrapper	11.80	6/1/97 12,55	5/31/98 12.75
Meat Apprentice	11.80	12,55	12.75
Porter/Non-Fo£}d/Ser.’. vice Clerk	10/15	11.20	11.40
Courtesy Clerk	7.55	8.30	8.50
Employees’ Hired After September 7, 1993 & Before May 28.1997
Couriers Clerks INCREASE TO	CURRENT PROGRESSION	6/1/97
TOP RATE**		75e
Start	4.25	5.181*
6 Months	4.50	
12 Months	4.75	5.40
18 Months	5.1X1	5.65
24 Months	6.25	6.25
30 Months	6.75	6.75
36 Months	7.55	8.30
5/31/98
20c
5,40
5.65
6.25
6.75
8,50
* Start rate increases to $5.15 ctTeciivc September 1997
66
L1ZZ9/9S 5/30/99 11/28/22 6/4/2000 12/3/2000 fi/3£2ffill
12.95	13.15	13.35	13.55	13,80	14.30
12.95	13,15	13,35	13,55	13,80	14.30
11,60	1 i,80	12.00	12,20	12.45	12.95
8.70	8.90	9.10	9,30	9.55	10.05
11/29/28 5/30/99 11/28/99 6/4/2000 12/3/2000 6/3/2001
20S	20s	20s	20s	25s	50c
5.65
6,25	6.25
6.75	6.75	6.75
8.70	8.90	9,10	9.30
9,55
10.05
** Increases to top rale also apply to “Red Circled” employee rates (those above the top rate)
67
I
Exhibit A Continued - Employees Hired After
Nan-l'mnl Clerk, Sendee Clerk & Purler
INCREASE TO	Current Pre >Lrrcssi(>ri	6ZJ/97	5ZUZ2S
TOP KA I E**		75e	2tk
Start ‘	4.75	5.15	
3 Months		5.30	
.6.Months	5.25		
J 2 Months”	•5.75- •	_ 5.75	5.75
IS Months	6.25	6.25 '	” 6.25
24 Months	6.75	6.75	6.75
30 Months	7.50	7.50	7.50
36 Months	7.75	7.75	7.75
42 Months	9.65	10.40	10.60
**	io u»p rate ;iIm> apply t«’ ’’Keil Circled** ctnplnyec rd tex
tihi<xe i»N>vc ihc u*p iaic)
Food Clerk, INCREASE	Weigher/Wrapper mid Meal Apprentice		
	Cunviu TO Ph Hi res si on	6£W	SALLES
TOP RATE**		75e	2OC
Skirl	5.00	5.50	
3 Months		5.75	
6 Mnnlhs	5.50		
12 Months	6JX)	6.00	(UM)
18 Months	6.50	6.50	f>. 50
24 Monlhs	7.01)	7.0G	7.00
30 Months	7.50	7.50	7.50
36 Months	8.50	8.50	8.50
42 Mmnhs	9.50	9.50	9.50
45 Months	) 1.80	12.35	12.75
Increases to mp rale uImi apply in Keil Circled" employee rites (Lboxc above the cop rale}
6H
September 7, 1993 & Before May 28, 1997
l 1/29/98	5/30/99	11/28/99 6/4/2000 12/3/21XX) 6/3/200 1	
20c	20c	20c	20c	25c	59c
		J	=	BLS
6.25		If	ILL COPV
6.75	6.75		
7.50	7.50	7.50	
7.75	7.75	7.75	7.75
10 80	11.00	11.20	1 1.40	1 1.65	12.15
11128&S. 5/30/99 ! 1/28/99 6/4/21X81 I253/2QQ0 6/3/2001					
20c	20c	20c	20c	2.5C	50C
6.50					
7.00	7.00				
7.50	7.50	7.50			
8.50	«.5O	8.50	8.50		
9.50	9.50	9.50	9.50	9.50	
12.95	13.15	13.35	13.55	1 3.80	14.30
69
Exhibit A Continued Employees Hired After May 28,1997
	Courtesy Clerk	Service Clerk	Food C
Start	5.00*	5.15	5.50
3 Months		5.30	5.75
, 12 Months	5.40	5.55	6.00
] & Months	5.65 -	-*•--5.80	6.30
24 Months,	5.90-	‘ ‘6.05	6.60
30Monihs	6.J5	6.30	7.00
36 Months	6,40	6.70	7,40
42 Months	6.80	7.10	7.80 ■
48 Months		7.65	10.00
‘Starting rale for courtesy clerks goes to $5.15 effective September 1997.
** Employees hired after May 28, 1997 who reach the top of the scales or who are hired at or above said scales shall receive the across-the-board increases.
70
Exhibit A. Continued Mama Ilardo’s Pizza
20? per hour premium for lead clerk effective on May 28, 1997.
Farm Fresh Employees
Former Farm Fresh employees at the top rate gel, in addition to the across the board increase, an additional twenty percent (20%) per year increase to make up the difference in rates.
Former Farm Fresh employees not at the top rate will be moved to the comparable existing Metro scale.
Courtesy Clerk duties shall be limited to parcel pick-up, cleaning around front end, bagging, filling bags, shop backs and handling bottle returns.
Scanning Coordinator shall receive a Twenty-Five Cent (25?) premium.
The employee other than the Assistant Manager or Department Head in charge of a 24-hour store, shall receive Thirty Dollars ($30.00) per week in addition
71
to his/her night premium.
Exhibit A Continued Non-Food Clerk
All leans and conditions of the basic contract will apply except as follows:
I.	Non-Food employees desiring transfer to a Food classification shall be given preference for such work in accordance with the following procedure:
Employees desiring Food classification work shall, upon completion of one (I) year of service, notify the employer, in writing, with a copy to the Union. Such letters shall remain validfor a period of twelve (12) months.
When openings occur, seniority and ability to perform the new job shall be the determining factors for the transfer. Should the employee fail to satisfactorily perform within the first sixty (60) days of the transfer, he shall be afforded the opportunity to return lo a similar Non-Food classification without loss of seniority.
The Employer agrees that said Non-Food employees will be transferred to Food positions before hiring new employees.
72
Provisions of the basic contract shall apply where not referred to above and where applicable.
2.	Non-Food employees shall wear a smock so they can be distinguished from Clerks.
3.	In each of the Employer’s stores tn which Non -Food employees are assigned there shall be one (1) Non-Food person designated as Non-Food manager.
73
Exhibit B - Metro/Basics Transfers - Seniority Areas
The Union and the Company agree that due to the rapid growth of the Company, they will meet as soon as possible to adjust and establish seniority areas that make sense geographically to the Company and the Union.
Further, if either party feels a need to amend or correct such areas, both parties agree to meet as soon as practical.	■
AREA I
025	8160 Ritchie Highway. Pasadena. MD 21122
028	8 Hammonds Lane, Baltimore. MD 21215
035	6439 Oki Annapolis Road. Glen Bumie MD 21061
040	5409 Baltimore National Pike, Baltimore, MD 21229
026	670 Old Mill & Rl 3. Millersville, MD 21108
076	1649 Crofton Square, Crofton, MD 21114
045	841 East Fort Avenue, Baltimore, MD 21230
AUEA11
021	7930 Eastern Bnu levurd, Bal ci more. M D 21224
023	8212 Liberty Road, Baltimore, MD 21207
024	$03 Goucher BoutevaitL Baltimore h MD 21204
029	2801 Smith Ave,, Green spring Shopping Center.
Baltimore, MD 21209
033	1200 Eastern Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21221
046	4375 Ebenerar Rood, Ballimure, MD 21236
048	1955 East Joppa Road. Baltimore. MD 21234
AREA III
056	2738 Dorchester Sq Lrare, Cambridge, MD 21613
74
Exhibit C
Layoff. Store Closings
AREA I
25, 26, 28, 35, 40,45,70
akeaji
21.23,	24, 29,33, 46, 48
AREA 111
56
1.	Least senior employee in Area No, 1 may displace least senior employee in Area No. 2.
2.	Least senior employee in Area No. 2 may displace least senior employee in Area No. 1.
75
Index
Absences due to illness: 43
Active Ballot Club (ABC)
checkoff: 50
description: 6
Arbitration & Adjustment: 39-43
Benefits: 50-54
Question - who to call: 3
-Bidding: 10, 20-23
Bonus installment: 80, 84, 85, 88, 89 -
Courtesy Clerks
Duties: 60, 7)
Minimum hours: 7, 29
Demotions: 20
Dependent coverage: 9, 52
Disability leave: 44
Discharge: 23-24, 31-32
Discipline: 39
Dues Checkoff: 49
Dues questions: 4
Funeral leave: 49
Holiday pay: 35-38
Night Crew: 30-31
Holidays: 9. 35-38
Jury duty: 48
Lay-offs: 18-19
Leave of absence: 43-45
Legal: 57-58
Meal periods: 25-26
Member, defined: (6
Military service: 44-45
Minimum hours: 7. 28-29
Night Crew
Bidding: 21,30
Crew Captain: 30
76
I
Defined: 30
Premium: 30
Scheduling: 30
Wages: see “wages”
No strike or lockouts; 58*59
Non-Food Clerk: 72-73
Overtime: 24-28
Pension: J4-56
Personal holidays: 8, 35
Physical exam: 46
Porter: 60
Probationary period: 9, 17
Promotion to management: 45
Promotions: 20-22
Raises: see “wages” then find your job classification
Recall from lay-off: 20
Resignation: 18-19
Rest periods: 2 8
Retirees: 53-54
Seniority: 18-24
Seniority areas: 74-75
Severance: 56-57
Shop Stewards: 38-39
Sick leave: 20,44
Split shift: 25
Status change (ft-pt or pt-ft): 19-23
Stores (closing): 19, 75
Stores (new): 15
Sundaywork: 10,31,37
Time clock: 47
Transfers (store): 47
Uniforms: 46
Union activities: 38
Vacation: 7, 31-34
77
Vacation pay: 33
Wages:
Apprentic'd Meat Cutler (FT) - Hired prior to 9/7/93: 66*67
ApprerUvcc Meat Cutter - Hirai after 9/7/93 and before 5/28/97; 68*69
Assistant Manager ■ Hired prior io V7?/93: 64-65
Bakeiy Manager - Hired prior to 9/7/93:64*65
Courtesy Clerk - Hired after 9/7/93 and before 5/28^97: 66^7
Courtesy Clerk * Hired prior to 9/7/93: 66-67
Dell Manager - Hired prior to 9/7/93: 64*65
Employees hired after 5/28/97: 70
Eurst Cutter *■ Hired prior to 9/7/93; 64-65
Food Cleric - Hired after 9/7/9J and before 5/28/97: 68-69
Food Clerk - Hired prior io 9/7/93:64-65
Parmer Fann Fresh Employees: 71
Grocery Manager * Hired prior lo 9/7/93: 64*65
Head Bookkeeper *■ Hired prior to 9/7/93: 64-65
- -Journeyman Meat Cutter-Hired prior to9/7/93: 64-65---------— - — - -----------
Mama tlarda’s Pizza premium: 71
Meat Manager - Hired prior to 9/7^3: 64-65
Non-Food Manager - Hired prior to 9/7/9 3:64-65
Porters - Hired prior ro 9/?/93: 66-67
Produce Manager - Hired prior lo 9/7/93: 64-65
Seafood Manager- Hired prior lo 9/7/93: 64-65
Service Cleric - Hired after 9/7/93 and before 5/28/97; 68 69
Service Clerk - Hired prior io 9/7/93:66-61
Weigher/Wrapper ■ Hired after 9/7/93 and before 5/38/97: 68*69
Weighcr/Wrapper - Hired prior ro 9/7/93: 66-67
Work week: 24-25. 36-37
78
United Food & Commercial Workers Local 27 21 West Road Baltimore, MD 21204 410-337-2700