Memorandum of Agreement
Between Acme Markets Inc. (Delaware Valley) and United Food and Commercial Workers Union
Local 27 jSV^+!.e'. Un/os , "/Il* August 14,2003	£ f $' *	'*S==:
This Memorandum of Agreement agreed to August 14,2003 accurately sets forth the complete terms of agreement for a Successor Collective Bargaining Agreement reached by Acme Markets, Inc (“Employer”) and United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 27 (“Union”) during their collective bargaining negotiations. The Successor Agreement agreed to herein upon ratification by the affected membership of the Union succeeds the parties’ most recent collective bargaining agreement, effective April 25, 1999 through July 19,2003, as extended by the parties. The parties agree the language and terms of the Agreement shall be carried forward as the language and terms of the Successor Agreement, except as such language and terms are modified, added to, or deleted from as indicated below:	o A n P
K 51 1. Article I Quality of Work Life	--»■---
Delete and replace with:
Article 1 Agreement
This Agreement by and between Acme Markets, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as “Employer”)’ and United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 27 (hereinafter referred to as “Union”).	, ... ..
Renumber entire contract using Arabic numerals.	;
2.	Article III Section 3.2 Recognition and Jurisdiction. ,
Delete and Replace:	V /	■"•-O W*
All work and services connected with or incidental to the handling or selling of ; : merchandise offered for sale in the Employer’s establishments covered by this Agreement shall be performed only by employees pfthepmployer within the unit : .< referred to above, for which the Union is recognized as the Collective Bargaining Agency by the Employer, with the exception of bread and commercial bakery products, soda, specialty foods, books, greeting cards, seasonal displays, cookies, snacks, resets, nonfood rack jobbers (except housewares), direct store delivery ice cream, direct store delivery ice cream novelties and direct store delivery frozen pizza. The provisions of this Article shall be waived during the initial six (6) months following a new store opening
and for the first four (4) weeks following the opening of a remodeled store. Meetings will be held on a regular basis to discuss competitive differences in language and administrative practices affecting this Article in other Collective Bargaining Agreements. Relief shall not be arbitrarily withheld.
3.	Article XIV Wages Section 14.2 Department Managers.
Delete and replace with:
The following will receive an additional per hour premium:
Front End Manager (Formerly Customer Representative) and Frozen Food Manager in stores with average weekly volume of $275,000 or more
Sixty (60) cents
Scan Coordinator ■ •
Sixty (60) cents
Pharmacy Technician
Thirty (30) cents
All specific store volumes to be determined on the basis of six (6) consecutive months.
When any department manager or ah employee in a higher rated job is absent from work for vacations, illness and/or temporary absences of three (3) days or more, all of the hours of such department manager or employee in a higher rated job shall be replaced by another employee who shall be paid in accordance with the rates noted In dus Article from the first day of replacement	L
4.	Article XIV Wages Section 14.2 Department Managers? -
Delete and replace with:	'	■ 1 2 3 4 5 6 • ”s
■■ ”	c	■-	. • ..	•'••••. ■ .	■
The Employer agrees to the establishment of the following uniform classifications.
1) Grocery Manager (Formerly Assistant Manager)
2) Produce Manager
3) Dairy Manager
4) Office Coordinator (Formerly Head Cashier)
5) Bakery Manager
6) General Merchandise Manager tn stores with weekly volume of at least $35,000 in general merchandise sales.
In stores with a volume of at least $100,000 there shall be no less than two (2) rated classifications.
In stores with a volume of $150,000 to $199,999 there shall be no less than three (3) rated classifications.
In stores with a volume of $200,000 and over, there shall be no less than six (6) rated classifications.
Store volume to be determined on basis of six (6) consecutive months.
Any store that drops below the stated volume for a period of six (6) consecutive months shall result in the elimination of excessive classifications. The employee holding the classified position to be eliminated will be offered a transfer to any open classified position for which they have the necessary qualifications. If no classified position is open and available at the time of the position elimination, the affected employee will utilize their seniority to remain in their present store location or request a transfer under current transfer procedures in this Agreement The affected employee will retain their classification rate of pay for thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the position elimination.
5.	Article XIV Wages Section 14.1
Delete and replace with:
The following across-the-board (ATB) increases shall apply to employees at or above the top of their progression on the date of the increase: .
J:	< ■ f <	7-20-03	10-24-04	1-29-06	4-29-07
AJB Increase per hour .	.40	. > .40.40, <	.40
- .■ .i’• ' " '	”	'•• •’” '	' ' / /	*	. ■'
. /.	, ■ , ■	... V?' 7- ~ ' 7	'■	7	’
■ ••• ..
■	// 7<The following minimum vvage scales will be effective duringthe jtennQfthis^Agreement.
' 7-20-03	10-24-04	1-29-06	4-29-07
?///••/ '	' ••••	/ >7 / •' ’' V.
r	Grocery Manager
t ;	Produce Manager
. 7^77 ? Office Coordinator ' ? ' ' DairyMahager
■	General Merchandise Manager
?	Bakery Manager
18528	19.328	19.728	20.128
18.928/	>	19J328	19.728	20.128
18100 7*	18.40	18.80	.19.20/
1800	18.40	18.80	19.20
18.00	18140	18.80	19.20
18.00	18.40	18.80	1920
I
CLERKS HIRED ON OR AFTER APRIL 29,1997:
Start	6.15
After 6 months	6.40
After 12 months	6.65
After 18 months	6.90
After 24 months	7.15
Clerks Who Are Checker Qualified Continue on Scale
After 30 months	7.70
After 36 months	8.25
After 42 months	8.75
After 48 months	9.25
After 54 months	. 9.75
After 60 months '	1OJ25
Any clerk hired after April 30,1997 would not have to become checker qualified until they have been employed for twenty-four (24) months. This restriction can be waived at management’s discretion.	,
SERVICE CLERKS* (formerly general maintenance clerk)
Start	1	6.15
After 6 months	6.45
Afterl2months r	. 6.80 ;	;
After 18 months	7.15
After 24 months	7.50
♦Duties of the service clerk will include general cleaning, floor care, housekeeping and maintenance throughout the store and its premises, bagging, filling bag bins, carrying out customer orders, returning shop backs, picking up carts, parcel pickup, bottle returns and general store cleaning and waxing and buffing of stoiejloors.
BAGGER*
fey- - / . ■ Y-.yfywfeyy	• <	■■■
y /	■ v ■ <stirt;;^:-yy,■ * -y, xyy-6,15’-...............vyy ■ ;• /y •
y' ' ■	After 6mqnths •' ^‘yyyjy^cb.3bT< •••'; /
y .	j After 12 months . * »• ■	660
After 18 months	<6.55
After 24 months	7.10
’	*.	/ a. y ■	• " • ■	■ . ?s. .* * \'
4? Z	*Duties of the bagger shall include cleaning, bagging, filling bags bins, carrying
$	out customer orders, returning shop backs, picking up carts, parcel pickup, bottle returns,
and general store cleaning, excluding waxing and buffing of store floors.
6.	Article XIV Wages Section 14,4
Delete and replace with:
Any employee who is in a progression scale or who is hired at a rate higher than the starting rate listed in the Agreement, shall receive a rate of pay that is specifically listed in the appropriate progression scale. Any employee in a progression scale as of July 19, 2003 who is not at a rate listed in a progression scale, shall be moved to the closest higher rate at the time at which they are scheduled to receive their next raise in the progression scale. Employees shall thereafter receive a raise every six (6) months as they advance through the progression scale, until they reach the top rate of the progression scale.
7,	Article XV Hours and Overtime Section 15.2
Amend as Follows:
The basic straight time work week for full time employees shall consist of forty (40) hours to be worked in five (5) eight (8) hour days, Monday through Saturday, except as otherwise permitted in Section 15.7 below; Bymutual agreement and/or for purposes of creating a full time job employees may be scheduled three (3) eight (8) hour days, one (1) six (6) and one (1) ten (10) hour day.
8.	Article XV Hours and Overtime-Section 15.6
Delete and replace with:
Y	*	-	-**.-•*	.
Employees regularly and continuously assigned to thenight crew shall receive a one dollar ($ LOO) per hour premium focal! actual hours worked. No employee regularly and continuously assigned to the. ftight crew on or before Lilyl9, 2003 who is currently receiving a night crew premium in excess of the above listed one ($ LOO) dollar per hour will not suffer any reduction in premium’per hour rate.
, The employee in charge of and responsibleforthe work of the night crew shall receive an •. additional premium oftwenty dollars (feO^^	U';-.'	*
Employees filling in for this position for more than one scheduled night in^Aveek shall receive one fifth (1/5) of the rate per night	: r.es*
. ■' ' : I < r ■ ’	■ ’	;•'	'	;	'	,	’ .	.	.	• -	. ■
9.	Article XV Hours and Overtime Section 15.7	;
Retain present contract languageandadd the following paragraph:
Full time employees assignedof -hired to the night crew after July 19,2003 will work a seven (7) day work week. Full time employees Assigned or hired to toe night crew from April 1,1987 to July 19,2003 may by mutual agreement ofthe employee and the
Employer work a seven (7) day workweek. Such night crew employees shall receive two (2) consecutive days off in their scheduled workweek. If they are assigned to work a shift that qualifies for Sunday premium, they will be entitled to any applicable Sunday premium in addition to their night crew premium.
10.	Article 19 Section 8
Delete and Replace with:
Should the Employer intend to substitute a self-checkout system(s) for existing equipment in any store dr add a self-checkout system(s), the Employer agrees to notify the Union in advance and to provide the Union with a list of all employees regularly assigned to the store oh the effective date of the utilization of said checkouts. Said employees shall not be removed from the Employer’s payroll as a result of the installation of such a system. Employees may continue to be transferred, assigned to other work, of laid off in accordance with the seniority provisions of this Agreement provided the layoff is for reason(s) other than the installation of such a system.
11.	Article XXH Health and Welfare '
L	r1	„	-if’
Delete and Replace with:	1
During the term of the Agreement, the Company agrees to the following Health & Welfare provisions:
Section 22.1 Effective July 20,f 2003, the Company shall continue to contribute to the Local 56 Health & Welfare Fund for each eligible employee as follows:
Full Time Employees	$760 p^rmonth	;
Part Time Employees;	<$400 per month, , %. ./<».. -:	\
<<; •.<•'•< .<<:<<< ■' '
Part-time employeeswifo^tv^lye (12)twenty four (24^ months of service will be covered for Vision, Prescription and Dental' in flan N.|The Companyshall contribute to : the Local 56 IJealtfrand Welfare Fund for each eligible employee in,Plan N at a rate of $220'permo^ 1	. ' ” "1 . /	.. .
Baggers and'Service Clerks shall not be eligible for participation in the Local 56 Health and Welfare Fund Badgers1 and Service Clerks promoted to the Clerk Classification will receive credit for the Clerk contribution based on their original hire date.
Section 22.2 The above rates will remain in effect until July 31, 2005. Effective August 1, 2005, the Employer will increase contributions by no more than 8%. The company will continue to increase contributions by no more than 8% on August 1 of each year until the expiration of the contract	;
Section 223
a)	Monthly contributions shall be made for each full time employee the month following the completion of twelve (12) months of continuous full time service with the Employer. Employees must have worked and/or received pay for at least one hundred twenty (120) hours during the preceding fiscal month to remain eligible for benefits, and there shall be no more than twelve such monthly contributions during any twelve consecutive calendar months.
b)	The provisions of the preceding paragraph will permit any employee who is Otherwise eligible, and who has had within ninety (90) days of hire creditable service as an employee of a Company with comparable coverage and who is under the jurisdiction of Local 27 to be credited with his/her prior service in determining his/her eligibility for participation in the Local 56 Health and Welfare Fund. Contributions in behalf of the employee will become effective on the first of the month following the coiripktion of combined service from the previous and present Employer which satisfies the conditions of the preceding paragraph.

c)	Monthly contributions shall be made for each part time employee the month following completion of twelve (12) months of continuous part time service with the Employer. Employees must have worked and/or received pay for at least fifty six (56) hours during the preceding fiscal month to remain eligible for benefits, and there shall be no more than twelve such monthly contributions during any twelve (12) consecutive calendar months.
d)	Part time employees with twelve (12) or more months of continuous part time service, permanently promoted to full time status shall be eligible for hospital, surgical benefits as of the first day of the following month.
e)	A regular part time employee shall be eligible to receive fiill time Health and t	Welfare benefits when he or she has worked one hundred and forty (140) hours
?	' per month for six (6) consecutive moriih£ ;The employee must continue to work
continuously at that monthly rate
'Sechon22.4 The^remployers contribution^hair'be ;^ed:fto^ insurance, acciderit and sickness benefits, hospitalizationandsurgical ^pefitsj majqr medical insurance, prescription^ vision care arid dental benefits for th< empioyee, his or her spouse and defined eligible dependent children in’accordance with th^prdvisions of the applicable plans as more fully set forth in the Summary Plan inscription available for
.	such efig^e empto^^ '	.4,/ ;	' i v-Y ■
Section 223 x All Health and Welfare paymeritswill be made to the UFCW ideal 56 Health 'and Welfare; Fund no later than the 15th day of the month for the preceding
J..	month. ’’ '	'-J ' -	.
Section 22.6 Benefits shall be set forth in the Summary Plan Description provided by the Fund.
Section 22.7 The Plan shall conform to the legal requirements of the law, both State and Federal
Section 22.8 The Trustees of the Fund shall work out the benefit program within the money provided on an actuarially sound basis.
Section 22.9 The Employer hereby adopts and agrees to be bound by the terms of a Trust Agreement entered into between the UFCW Local 56 Health and Welfare Fund and certain subscribing Employers, and any modification or amendments thereto.
Section 22.10 The Company will continue to administer and provide the Child Care program for eligible employees.
12.	Article XXIV Severance Fund
Move administration of Benefit to Local 56 Benefit Funds
13.	Article XXV No Layoffs Section 25.1
Delete and replace with:
All full time employees hired or promoted to full time prior to April 29,1997 with four (4) or more years of service, at any time during this Agreement, shall not be laid off or reduced, from full time to part time for the duration of the Agreement provided that the employee is qualified and continuously availableto perform work consistent with provisions of Article 7-Seniority.	>	<<	\
• •Z-.	. ;;/•••< r ''	'&•	'• . ?"	> X-
5 14. Article XXIX Duratidh;.
itelete and replace witjt: X® XX	Wx
.'-1 "x-	x
This Agreement shall be effective from July 19,2003 and shall continue in frill force and effect through July 19,2008 and shall continue from year to year thereafter unless br until either party serves notice; in writing, at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the < original or any subsequent period of a desire to change,modify,or terminate this Agreement fa the event either party servesnotice withrespecttochangesin or modification or termination of the Agreement, it is agreed that the parties shall begin negotiationspromptly. Pending the outcome of such negotiations, thisAgreement shall continue in frill force and effect beyond the expiration date, subject, however, to the right of either party to terminate the entire Agreement upon at least seven (7) days* prior written notice to the other party.
15. Side Letters:
The Employer and the Union will place in a side letter the Benefits for Grand fathered Baggers and Service Clerics, Grand fathered Part Time Health and Welfare, Grand fathered Department Heads and The UFCW Local 56 Health and Welfare Fund six month payment rule.
For Acme Markets Inc.	For UFCW Local 27
9
HOSPITAL, SURGICAL AND MAJOR MEDICL BENEFITS FOR RETIREES
A. Full-time employees who retire under the terms of the UFCW Tri-State Pension Fund and who on their retirement date have 20 or more years of service with the Employer, but have not attained age 62, shall be given the opportunity on a contributory basis, to enroll in an appropriate plan of benefits as provided for by the Local 56 Health & Welfare Fund. Contributions to continue until the first of the month following the retiree’s 62nd birthday. At the time of enrollment for this coverage, the application may include the retiree and eligible dependents. For the purpose of this coverage, an eligible dependent is defined as the spouse of the employee and all unmarried dependent children under 19 years of age except that an unmarried child who if enrolled as a full-time student in school, dependent to age 23. Coverage shall be terminated if contributions are not received on or before the 10th of the month of coverage, or if the retiree obtains any
employment in the industry' except as permitted, or upon death of the retiree, or if the . retiree ceases to receive retirement benefits from the Pension Fund; ' ?-
B. For the duration of this Agreement retirees referred to above who have attained age 62 and full time employees who retire under the terms of the UFCW Tri-State Pension Plan
and who on their own retirement date have 20 years of service with the Employer and have attained age 62 shall have their Blue Cross, Blue Shield and Major Medical
($250,000.00 maximum), coverage continued by the Local 56 Health & Welfare Fund. The Employer agrees to continue itsprescnt contribution for dependent and single coverage for these individuals. This coverage will include the retiree and eligible dependents as defined above. Coverage provided under this Section Will terminate when the retiree becomes eligible for Hospital Insurance Benefits as defined in Title XVHI of die Social Security Act (Medicare), as amended, or the retiree or spouse obtains any employment which provides similar co verage or upon the death of the retiree ceases to * receive retirement benefits from the Pension Plan.
c.
■'X: •'
■■St
p.
E.
Full-time employees who retire under the terms outlined in theabovc paragraph will be provided with a prescription plan and vision care benefit for themselves and their eligible dependents.Part-timeemployeeswillreceive said bcnefitsfor themselyesoiriy.
In the event that any otherwise eligible dependent receives .comparable hospital-medical-surgical coverage asdesaibedabove bn a non-contributory basis frOTn any swrce, no : coverage will be provided undeFthisi^gr^jstbthat	\ ■?. ,??.
•A?:"'-	; ;
During jhe term of this agreement employees between the age of 55 and 65 will be
t offered the opportunity to elect early retirement and have thro Health & Welfare , contributioha to the Local 56 Fund paid for by the Company at the specified retiree rate.
Calleri ne Markets, Inc.

Carvel M'Mays, Jr.	<77 A
UFWLoail27	CZ ?
SIDE LETTER HEALTH & WELFARE - PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
Part-time employees hired on or before July 19, 1998, shall continue to receive Health & Welfare coverage, including major medical coverage, for their dependents, at no cost to the employee so long as they remain regularly and continuously employed and meet all eligibility requirements set forth in this Agreement (This paragraph shall cover approximately 425 employees identified by the Local 56 H & W Fund for die purpose of these negotiations.)
Part-time employees hired between July 20,1998 & July 19,2001, who elected Health & Welfare coverage, including major medical coverage, for their dependents on or before July 19,2003, shall retain such coverage so long as they reniain regularly and continuously employed and meet all eligibility requirements set forth in this Agreement. The employee’s share of the cost of the above benefits shall be determined within 60 days of ratification of the Agreement. (This paragraph shall cover approximately 11 employees identified by theLocal 56 H & W Fund for the purpose of these negotiations.)
Part-time employees hired between July 20,1998 £ July 19,2001, who did not elect Health & Welfare coverage, including major medica| coverage, for their dependents on or before.July 19,2003, shalljtavea45 calendar day period from the date of ratification of this Agreement to elect such coverage. If the employee elect? such coverage^ then for a 36-month period from the datpof election, the employee’s share of the cost of such coverage shall be $32.82 per week. This shall be a one time election and any break in
payment by the employee shall constitute a waiver of the employee’s right to dependent
coverage as described in this paragraph. (This paragraph shall cover approximately 173 employees identified by the Local 56 H & W-Fund for'the purpose of these negotiations.)
■ Bagger and Service Clerks receiving limited Health & Welfare benefits on July 19, 2003, shall be placed into Plan N and the Employer shall make. contributionsaspr«Kribedfor Plan Nl^efits^(Thispara^aph shall covet apprpxirhately lO employees identified by Locaf56H teWFund forthe purpose of the^,negoti^itions.) ,.. •
Part-time employees hired between Jujy 20, 2001 &July. 19,2002,receiviftgliroited Health & Welfare benefits as of July 19,2003, shill continue to receiye strch limited benefits so long as they.remain regularly arid continuously employed and meet all eligibility requirements set forth in this Agreement The Employer shall contmue to make the same limited contributions as the Employer made as of July 19,2003. (This paragraph shall cover approximately 212 employees identified byLocal 56 H & WFund for thepurposeqf these negotiations.)	'■	-3-S;	. ‘"i'-
a_
Carvel M. Mays, Jr. UFWLocal27
Called cme Markets, Inc.

