kn|
K*b 6361
3-7 oo
/MJFCW
a VOICE for working America
CONTRACT BETWEEN UFCW LOCAL 911 AND KROGER - GROCERY
UFCW Local 911 7441 International Drive PO Box 966 Holland OH 43528
(419)865-1341 (800)232-8279 (419)865-8674-fax ufcw911 @b uckeye-express.com www.ufcw911 .com
Effective: April 2, 2003 Expiration: April 7, 2007
S'/cj’cp
TABLE OF CONTENTS		
ARTICLE		PAGE
	Agreement	1
1	Intent and Purpose	<	1
2	Recognition and Coverage	1
3	Union Shop, Check-Off Dues	2
4	Management Rights	3
5	Dispute Procedure	3
6	No Strike, No Lockout	6
7	Conflicting Agreements	7
8	Work Clause	7
9	Working Conditions	8
	Full-time - Part-time Definition	8
	Employer Meetings	9
	Workweek	9
	Sunday and Holiday Work	10
	Work Schedules	11
	Time Cards	12
	Temporary Transfers	12
	Bank Deposits	12
10	Wages	12
11	Overtime, Sunday and Holiday Premium Pay .	14
	Overtime	14
	Sunday and Holiday Premium Pay	14
12	Legal Holidays and Pay	15
13	Lunch Periods and Rest Periods	16
14	Call-In Pay	17
15	Uniforms	17
16	Vacations	17
17	Leaves	20
	Jury Duty Leave and Pay	20
	Death Leave and Pay	20
	Union/Management Leave	20
	Personal Leaves	21
Illness or Injury	21
Job Injury	21
Military Service Leave	21
’ ■ Hearings	’	21
„ ’	: Annual Stewards Conference .\	>	21
Leave of Absence Requests	■ ■	21
Employer Meetings	22
18	Health and Welfare .	22
Full-time ,	.22
.Part-time	24
19	Pension Plan /	26
Seniority~	■ - »	26
: ;; Technological Changes ' . ;	35
Union Cooperation	.36
General	37
Separably ■ ; . ' •• :	. ■ *	37
Polygraph Test	37
‘ Nondiscrimination Clause ’	37
>'• - GenderContext ;	-	37
- ,'v■ <Persdn^ Bejongirigs ,	7	37
'	-Union Store Card	• -	37
Bargaining Union Work -	38
- Definitions*	40	-
Expiration	41
Schedule'A'Wages	<	42
Additional Compensation *	‘	, 45
Letter of Understanding “A"	47
: Letter of Understanding *8’ -	* 48
a s ri a .	; s a a
AGREEMENT
This Agreement entered into by and between the Kroger Company, hereinafter designated as the Employer, its successors and assigns, and the United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 911, chartered by the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, AFL-CIO/CLC, hereinafter designated as the Union.
ARTICLE 1
INTENT AND PURPOSE .
The Employer and the Union each represent that the purpose and the intent of this Agreement is to promote cooperation and harmony, to recognize mutual interests, to provide a channel through which information and problems may be transmitted from one to the other, to formulate rules to govern the relationship between the Union and the Employer, to promote efficiency and service, and to set forth herein the basic agreements covering rates of pay, hours of work, and conditions of employment, and to provide for the orderly settlement of disputes that may arise.	1 *
ARTICLE 2
RECOGNfTION AND COVERAGE
A.	The Union shall be the sole representative and bargaining agent for all grocery department employees, as classified in Appendix “A", working in the Employer's retail stores in the counties of Lucas, Fulton., Hanry, Putnam, Wood, Hancock, Ottawa, Sandusky, Seneca, Erie and the Wage of Bluffton in Allen County in the State of Ohio, excluding store' managers, co-managers, meat department employees, guards, demonstrators, professionals and supervisory employees and no more than a zone total of two management trainees per store, as defined in the National Labor Relations Act as amended^ (Demonstrators . duties shall be limited to securing, preparing and demonstrating products, Lut they will otherwise not perform bargaining unit work.)
B.	It is hereby understood and agreed, that , the Employer may employ management trainees in its stores within the jurisdiction of.Local 911, subject to the following provisions:
1.	Management trainees shall become bargaining unit members after thirty (30) days.
2.	The maximum for the training program shall be six (6) months.
3.	The Employer may employ no more than a zone total of two (2) management trainees per store in the bargaining unit at any one time.
4.	The work week for management trainees shall be no more than forty-five (45) hours.
i
5.	The Employer will make appropriate pension and health and welfare contributions in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
■ However, none of the other provisions .of the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall apply to management trainees.
- The employer, will notifythe union, in writing, of all employees hired or reinstated into this bargaining unit showing name, home address, store, sodal security number: and/or employee wdric number, and job classification.
: ARTICLES	' ■?
’ ’ UNION SHOP,CHECK-OFF, DUES / ',7
A. It shall be a condition of employment that all employees of the Employer covered by this Agreement who are members of the Union tn good standing on the date on which this Agreement, is signed shall remain members in good standing, or elect and maintain a norwriember status, and those who are not members on the date on which this Agreement is signed shall, on toe thirty-first (31st) dayfollowtng the date on which this Agreernenfis., signed, become and.. remain members in good Standing ini the Union, qt elect arid, maintain nonmember status';lt shall also be a condition of employment'that all employees covered -by /this Agreement and? hired on . or . after/ the . date on which this Agreement is Signed^shalf, on the thirty-first (31st) day following the beginning date of siKh employment. become and remain members in.good standing in,the. Union, or 'elect/aridI maintain ndn-memberstatus. I
B; The Empkiybr stall, for the term of this Agreement, deduct union, dues, inttiatfon fees Ol'^Serrvfce fees,1 Initial service .fees arid uniform assessments'from the pay of the employeeswho/arernembers of. the Union, or who elect non-. member ^tus.who.individuallyarid voluntarily certify in writing the authorization, for sudvdedijrctiorts. ‘Deductions shall be made weeidy from the employee's , cheCk and remitted to the Union office on or before the tenth (10th) day of the f6fidw®g morith? When given; such authorization shall be irrevocable for one (1) year or the duration of this Agreement, whichever comes first
C. Any employee covered by this Agreement who fails to pay dues, initiation fees or sendee fees and initial service fees to the Union shall be relieved of his duties by the Employer not later than five (5) days after receiving notice from the Union that such employee is delinquent In his. payment of union dues, initiation fees or service fees and initial fees, unless such employee has himself reinstated' by paying ht$ arrearage in full. ,	.
Q.Ne$r employees, pending, their application for.;,and membership in the Union,'is/aforesaid, shall with . ail other employees, be. uniformlysubject to the provisions of this'Agreement, including those pertaining to wages, hours and working conditions/except new employees within sixty (60) days of hire may be. discharged or disciplined without recourse for any reason whatsoever.
F. The Employer agrees to deduct once annually , an A.B.C. (Active Ballot Club) contribution on a uniform basis: from all Employees who voluntarily authorize this deduction, the date of deduction to be mutually agreed to by the
2
Employer and the Union. This deduction will be made on the same deduction schedule as union dues and will be part of the regular dues deduction and forwarded to the Union with same. .	-
F. Any dispute which might arise as to membership in good standing shall be corrected by the Union and Employer,immediately^-When this foils, it, shall be regarded as a grievance 'and^ shall be adjusted by the grievance and,arbitration procedure herein. ... . .
<3. Every effort will be made to report new hires within a week to the Local Union. For this purpose,, the Union will provide membership applications and dues deduction authorization forms for each store manager, to be completed and forwarded to the Union.	,,
ARTICLE 4 ;	MANAGEMENT RIGHTS '
The management of. the business.and toe direction of toe working forces, including the right to plan, direct and. control store operations, the methods- of production and preceding, the kind and operation of machinery and equipment,-the determination of what products shall be. processed and handled,-the standard of quality to be maintained and' toe determination of where and how/supiy products shall tie processed,. manufactured and. distributed. are'vested. exclusively in the employer.' The. right to hire, suspend or discharge for proper cause, transfer or relieve employees from duty because of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons, the , right, to study.or introduce new. or improved production methods or facilities, and the right to establish arid maintain, rules and . regulations covering the operation , of toe stores, a violation ofwhich.shall be* among toe causes for discharge, are also vested ?in Iha employer; provided, , however, that this right shall be exercised with due regard for, toe rightsofthe employees and provided further, that it will not be used.for-the-purpose.of. discrimination against any employee or for toe purpose ,of-, invalidating any . contract provision.	. .,
ARTICLES
DISPUTE PROCEDURE ...
- *	’ -	■	' .	-I	'V	•	■*	/, "	.	■
A manager of the. store will.grant to any accredited union official, the right to communicate with toe employees of toe store on company time so long as there is no interference with efficient store operation. In addition, upon request toe store manager will make available to toe union representative, store payroll sheets or time cards and work schedules Further, the employer shall. provide a bulletin board or dthdr suitable arrangement within toe establishment for the' posting of any’ notice pertaining;tq‘ union business in connection with the employees covered by this agreement	. .
A.	Job Steward ~ The Union shall have the right to designate or elect a steward and/or alternate steward(s) for each store.	,
3
. A list showing the names and addresses of stewards will be submitted to the Employer. The Employer will advise the Union before union stewards are transferred from one store 4o another. A union steward will be . the last person transferred in his. or her classification, providing he or she is capable of performing the work.
B.	The Employer agrees not to require any employee.to participate in any type of disciplinary interrogation without first being advised of their right in writing, to have the union steward and/or union representative present This in no way precludes the Employer's rights to. investigate in an attempt to determine the feCtS. ■' \	" J/'’' ’	”	/	‘ : -V?-’	■
C.	Only- management personnel from outside the .bargaining unit will be permitted to issue constructive advise records.
D.	- ’ Constructive advice records shall be discussed with the employee no later than the employee’s third (3rd) working day, excluding Sundays and holidays, following management’s knowledge of the incident
Anyconstructive advice, record not received , by fee Union within twenty-pad (21) days from the date of consultation with theemployeewillbeconsidered hall and void. ■ ;	'J
E.	Constructive’advice' records shall riot remain in effect for a period of more *
than one (1) year from the date of issuance.
Fl -Should ahy difference; dispute or complaint arise oyer the interpretation of the contents of this Agreement, there shall be an earnest effort on the part of both parties to settle same promptly through the following steps:
-St^> ? By conference between fee aggrieved employee, the job stswardorbofe/aridthemanager of the store. If fee grievance is not >seritiedinStep 1, itshall be reduced to writing by fee grievant and referred ' -'to Step 2 within seven (7) calendar days after its initiation in Step 1.
Grievance settlements at Step 1 are rion-precedent setting. A union representative may.be requested to be present at the meeting.
- Step 2.' After'receiving a written grievance from Step 1, the union - representative may request aStep 2 meeting, wife fee zone manager or zone representative; The'Step.2 meeting will be held within twenty-one (21) days of request Grievance settlements at Step 2 are non-precedent setting. Grievances heard at fee 2nd strip shall be answered in writing to the union representative within fourteen (14) days of the hearing. If complaints,aren't settied in Step. 2, they, may be . referred .to Step 3 as outiinedbelow. ;J J;
Step 3? 1 A conference between fee official or officials of. the Union and a representative.of. the Employer so delegated by the Employer, will be held within twenty-one (21) days .after the., Step. 2 conference. The Employer will give the Union the answer to the grievance in writing within seven (7) calendar days after the Step 3 meeting. ...
4
Step 4. In the event that no settlement is reached in the above steps, the complaint shall be reduced to writing and submitted, to. the Board of Arbitration. . In the event that no settlement is reached in the above steps and the Union wishes to arbitrate the grievance, the Union must request arbitration within forty-five. (45) calendar days of the Employer's written response in Step 3,	7
The Board of Arbitration shall consist of one (1) person appointed by the Union and'one (1) person appointed by the Employer. Said two;(2) persons shall, within three (3) days after disagreement, request the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to furnish a panel from which a third arbitrator shall be chosen .and. the decision of the majority shall be: binding on the Union, the Employer and the aggrieved employee. The expenses of the third arbitrator shall be paid for jointly. The third arbitrator shall not have the power to alter or modify the terms of the Agreement, or any subsequent supplement thereof.
G.	Grievances must be , taken up promptly, and no grievance will be considered dr discussed which is presented later than seven (7) calendar days, after such has occurred, except a grievance arising from an error in; the rate of: pay or wages may be presented within two (2) years from occurrence^ All time limitations in the grievance, procedure may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties." ■	‘	...7	• 7
H.	The Employer shall have the right to call, a conference with.-the Union for, the purpose of discussing its grievances, criticisms or other problems.'_• , >
At any step of the grievance procedure, the Executive Board of the Local Union shall have the final authority in respect to any aggrieved, employee covered by this Agreement, to decline to process a grievance. Further,.if in the judgment of tie Executive Board; such grievance lacks merit or lacks just^pation under the terms of this Agieement to the satisfaction ofjthe Local Union Executive Board, the grievance(s) shall be withdrawn. .	. ..
1.	Discharge -The Employer may at any time discharge any employee for proper cause. The Union may file a written complaint with the Employer asserting that the discharge was improper? Such complaint must be. taken up. promptly and if the Employer arid the Union fail to agree within forty-eight (48) hours, it shall be referred within twenty-four (24) hours to the' Board of Arbitration. Should the Board determine that it was an unfair discnarge, the Employer shall reinstate the employee in accordance with the decision of the arbitrator.
J.	Any agreement reached between the Union and the Employer'under the grievance procedure by their authorized representatives, and any decision of the arbitrator under Step 4 shall be final and binding upon the Employer, the Union and the employee or employees involved. ..	>-
K.	Accelerated Arbitration Procedure .
1.	The parties agree that in lieu of the previous procedures outlined
5
above tn this Article, by mutual agreement a special expedited arbitration process may be utilized. However, all discharge grievances not resolved at the third step of "the grievance procedure shall be referred to the accelerated arbitration procedure.
2.	A panel of at least seven (7) arbitrators, shall be mutually designated by the parties. Their expenses and fees shall be borne equally by the Employer and the Union. ' The panel of arbitrators may be selected from any source whatsoever, provided that" each one selected to serve as a member on the panel must agree to abide by all rules and time limits set forth in this arbitration procedure. The list of members of the panel shall be maintained alphabetically by the parties to be used bn a rotating basis.
3.	If the parties agree to use this method of arbitration, tire hearing shall be scheduled within fourteen (14) days following ttie Step 3 meeting, ; provided the arbitrator is available. This time limit may be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
4.	The parties agree that briefs may be waived and no stenographic or mechanical transcripts of the proceedings are required unless either party desires the same.	-J" '
. i;; ;,5. It is further agreed that an arbitrator mutually selected to hear such a =■■ oase must agree in advance to render a short and written decision within
forty-eight (48) hours of the date of the hearings. Although it is hot anticipated that such cases will involve substantial questions of contract interpretation, the decision of the arbitrator will have the same force and effect as an award rendered pursuant to the more formal arbitration procedure detailed in Section F. The arbitrator shall in no event have the .(S power to; disregard, or modify any provision of the Agreement
.	. . 6,’^ - The, parties agree in such expedited cases, to present a stipulated . . '}/4s^ue to the arbitrator in advance of the hearing. Either party may withdraw.
its consent to submit an issue to the expedited process up to, but not after the time that the hearing is convened.
7.	Copies of the decision shall.be mailed to ttie Executive Officer of *UFCW L.ocal.911 and the Marketing Area Manager of Labor Relations.
8.	;. In all cases where the term ‘days’ is used, Saturday, Sunday and holidays are excluded.
ARTICLE6
V	NO STRIKE, NO LOCKOUT ;
•-	~	'' n -- ’•	'■ ■ ■ ■ ■
A.	During the term hereof, the Union agrees that there shall be no strike or any other interference with or interruption of the normal conditions of the Employer’s business by the Union or its members. The Employer agrees that there shall be no lockout1 r	.
6
B.	The Employer agrees that it shall not demand that employees go through a lawful picket line. The Union agrees that it will not refuse to cross a picket line unless such has been duly sanctioned by the Chief Executive Officer of the Local Union, and until the Employer has been officially notified by the Chief Executive Officer of the Local Union.... .
The Union agrees to give forty-eight (48) hours advance notice, in writing, from the Chief Executive Officer of the Union, prior to recognizing any picket line as a legal picket line. The Employer will not discipline an employee for refusing to cross a lawful primary picket line that has been sanctioned by the Chief Executive Officer of the Union. .	>
C.	Before the Union gives. official recognition to any picket line, it will be discussed with the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or his authorized representative, and the Chief Executive. Officer of the Union or his authorized agenL and notification will be given the Employer of action taken by registered mail.
• ARTICLE? ■■■. • • CONFLICTING AGREEMENTS
The Employer.agrees not to enter into any agreementor contract with his employees, individually or collectively, which in any way conflicts with theterms and provisions of this Agreement .	-
ARTICLES WORKCLAUSE
A.	Employees shall perform any .work which the manager ofthe store may direct with the understanding that when an employee is assigned to a job .with a lesser rate, he will be entitled to his regular rate of pay, unless due to a decrease of work he has been regularly assigned to a lower rated job arid desires toretain . such job rather than accept a layoff.
B.	The Employer may summarily discharge any employee for proven dishonesty, drinking on the jcb,: being under the influence of liquor on the job, gross insubordination, the illegal use of or possession br illegal drugs and/or just cause, subject to the employee's rights to grieve. Under no circumstances will any grievance be considered more than seven(7) calendar days after discharge.
C.	Any full-time employee with one (1) year or more of service who is separated for incompetence or who is permanently laid off due to a discontinuance of the job or reduction of force, shall be entitled to one (1) week’s notice or one (1) week of pay in lieu of notice, except when discharge occurs for any reason outiined.in Section B above. ...	: . 4
D.	Employees accused of qualitative and/or quantitative inefficiency may be subject to discipline, e.g. warnings, probations, etc. and ultimately discharged, provided that the Union is notified and has sufficient time to counsel with the employee as to the alleged deficiencies.
7
E.	, Store Closings
/• 11 In the event the Employer permanently doses a store and full-time employees with at least five (5) years of continuous full-time service are terminated as a result of the dosing or being displaced as a result of the store closing, the employee will be entitled to severance pay.
2,	One (1) week of base pay fix each two (2) years of full-time service, up to a maximum of five (5) weeks pay.	?	'
3.	All money due employees shall be' paid ; in: a lump sum upon’ termination. An employee who is terminated andis eligible for severance pay and accepts severance pay, forfeits his seniority’ arid has no recall rights.
4.	•	•	• • • •• ■■ -• '■	■■■ ■■	• •
However, an employee may elect a voluntary layoff not to exceed twelve (12) months. If an employee accepts layoff, he may, any time after a ninety (90) day period; elect to. take his severance pay and lose his Seniority rights.	‘
4.	An employee shall be disqualified for his severance pay in the event theemployee:
a.	Refuses a transfer within the jurisdiction of toe Local Union.
b.	Voluntarily terminates employment prior to store dosing.
c< Employee refuses comparable employment with a successor employer within thirty (30) days of store dosing.
....	ARTICLES
< v	: WORKING CONDITIONS
A.	Full-time-Part-time Definition
A full-time employee is one who is hired as such or a part-time employee who works an average of thirty-two (32) hours or more per week (induding Sunday and holiday work) within his classification for twelve (12) consecutive weeks. For an employee who meets toe aforesaid requirements, seniority and continuous service as a full-time employee shall be dated back to toe first day woritod in the first of toe twelve (12) qualifying-weeks. ■
A full-time employee will revert to part-time status in the event he works an average of less than thirty-two (32) hours per week for twelve (12) consecutive weeks. This; consecutive twelve'(12) week period- will- be separate and distinct from any -twelve (12) week qualifying period. The affected-employee will be placed on the part-time seniority list effective with toe date of redassification, based bn original hire date. ' '
A full-time employee who has been reduced to part-time by failing to work an average of thirty-two (32) hours per week in a twelve (12) consecutive week
period will not be reclassified to full-time until such employee has worked an additional and distinct twelve (12) week period during vdiich the employee averages more than thirty-two (32) hours per week. In other words, the twelve (12) week period necessaiy to re-qualify to full-time status will be separate and distinct from the twelve (1?) week period used to disqualify the employee from full-time status.
Effective November 9,1994, when a part-time employee works twelve (12) consecutive weeks an average of thirty-six (36) hours per week, excluding holiday weeks, for those twelve (12) weeks, he shall be reclassified as full-time status with full-time seniority, for scheduling arid ■ layoff. Hours worked in replacement of an employee absent, on vacation or on a leave, or hours that are worked in replacement of another employee will not be considered in computing the thirty-six (36) hour average or counted as part of the twelve (12) consecutive week qualifying period. . .
Temporary assignments because of vacations and/or absenteeism to a thirty-six (36) hour week shall not be included in this criteria unless tho temporary assignment exceeds twenty-six (26) weeks.
This full-time definition shall 'apply to all part-time employees as of November 9,1994, arid all employees hired after that date.
Employees hired after April'30, 2003 qualify for full time status after working thirty-six (36) hours per week for sixteen (16) weeks.
Time off due to illness, accident, jury duty, holidays, vacation or any excused absence will not count against an employee in maintaining full-time status.	•- . "■	■ ■' ••	-
B.	Employer Meetings - In tine event meetings are scheduled by the Employer and attendance is compulsory, time spent in attendance will be counted as time worked and paid at the employee's appropriate hourly rate. Should an employee be required to attend a meeting on his scheduled day off,-such employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours pay.
C.	WorkWeek
1.	The basic work week for all full-fimc employees shall-, be forty (40) hours, Monday through Saturday, which shall be worked in five (5), eight (8) hour days, not necessarily consecutive, and. contingent upon no circumstances beyond the Employer's control. For employees hired after November 29,. 1989, the work week will be Sunday through Saturday.
2.	. Itjs. recognized, by the parties that the, concept , of a compressed work week of four (4),.ten (10) hour days is not practical for all. stores, however where it has been.mutually agreed in writing, between the stcre manager, individual employees and the Union, such individual employees may be scheduled to work four (4), ten (10) hour shifts within the normal work week. Part-time employees assigned to night stocking crews may be scheduled for less than four (4) days at ten (10) hours per day.
9
D.	Sunday and Holiday Work
1.	Sunday, and holiday work shall be rotated as uniformly as possible by classification and will be rotated in such a way as to prevent all the ; senior employees from wortqhg the. same. Sunday or holiday. The Employer shall have the right io designate which classifications shall be necessary to work on Sundays and holidays.
.. .Sunday and holiday work shall be scheduled in the following priority order
First Choice -Employees who have voluntarily been worldrig Sundays and/or holidays will continue to be scheduled tor the number of hours they, have been scheduled as long as they (hours and employees) are available.
Determination of Sunday Hours - For employees who have been working . Sundays or holidays voluntarily, the following, method will be .used to 'calculate the minimum guaranteed hours for, Sundays arid holidays:
. Total hours, worked on Sundays/holidaysln the past year, divided by
* Weeks worked, multiplied by four (4), equals guaranteed Sunday hours in
; each fouf (4) week Kroger period, providing the^employee and hours are :	" availabie.However, it is agreed that ‘past year* shall refer to 1989 hours.
Second Choice - Employees hired after November 29,1989. .
Third Choice - Qualified employeesby inverse seniority or employees who J	fedfrot^revious'lyy olunteered to work Sundays and holidays but how
r • wfshfodoso.' ; /	:	’
2.	During the third week of January of each year and again during the - ''' third week bf April and again during the third week of July and again during
• - toe third-week of October, every employed whohad not previously desired to work Sundays'and holidays will be given an opportunity to indicate their interest Any additions to this list during the year will only be rriade with the . .. Union Representative and the Employer's Personnel Manager agreeing ■■ ' to each addition, except erhplpyees transferred to another store who
. were On the Sunday list in their previous store may automatically be put at tite bottom oftheSunday list intheir new store.
3.	" Department heads will be rotated on an'equitable'basis with all ' clerks; or cterks qualified to perform department head responsibilities, or ’ with management for supervising the total store.	' ‘	’
4.	In the event an adequate staff cannot be obtained from the list for ' Sunday and holiday work, the Ernployer can require erhplpyees to work in the reverse order ’ of seniority by classification to meet staffing requirements. In such a case, the Employer will' draft sufficient numbers of employees to provide for a bi-weekly rotation of employees.
io
5.	In the event of absenteeism, the most senior UNSCHEDULED employee bn the Sunday and holiday list will be offered ttie extra work.
6.	Employees wno are scheduled to work on Sunday or a holiday and fail to report as scheduled without proper notification will be subject to the same disciplinary action applicable under, these, circumstances on other days.	"	;	. , •
7.	Employees scheduled for Sunday or holiday work shall be required to fulfill their schedule; Employees may not substitute for one another on Sundays or holidays without prior permission of management - ,
E.	Work Schedules:	? ,
1,	The hours for each employee shall be scheduled by ttie Employer.
A work schedule for full-time employees will be posted by Thursday noon, covering the following week. If it is necessary to work such a full-time employee beyond his scheduled time, he will be permitted to work the balance of his week as scheduled, The provisions of this paragraph apply to full-time employees.'and not to part-time employees.Part-time employees.will.be given a one (1) hour notice whenever possible, before the schedule is changed; This paragraph shall be inapplicable in the event offire, flood or acts of God.
2.	In the event the manager fails to post a work schedule as required by the preceding section, the schedule, last posted, shall prevail. The foregoing sentence shall not apply, to the week pfepeding/nOr. tO th; week including a holiday, as to each of which weeks a new, schedule shall be posted.
3.	The Employer shall make available, in each store; a feting of all employees within the store showing the seniority date for each employee. Employees shall be scheduled in accordance with their seniority date and . in conformity with this labor Agreement? .	,
4.	Part-time employees will be scheduled a minimuni of twelve (12) hours per week, it being understood that this does not apply to an employee called in for replacement of another employee, to an employee whose available hours are beyond the Employer's control dr to an employee called in to work .when fewer than twelve (12) available hours remain in a week. When this paragraph is in.conflict with the Available Hours provision, Article 20, Section M,.the Available Hours provision shall take precedent
5.	. No employee shall be allowed or. required to, work a split shift For the purpose ot Article 20, Section.M, a period up to and including two (2) hours off duty shall not be considered a split shift '
6.	No employee will be required to start a new shift without eight (8) hours between shifts, excluding Sundays and holidays.
ii
7.	No full-time employee will be required to work beyond 6:30 p.m. more than three (3) nights per week. If a fulktime employee is required to work beyond 6:30 pm. ’more than three (3) nights per week, he will be compensated at time and one-half (1 1Z2) for such additional hours worked. This does not apply to members of a night stocking crew. This paragraph shall not apply to an employee who, in accordance with Article 20, Section M, can be scheduled for a' forty (40) hour week by being scheduled for additional nights after 6:30 p.rri.
8.	The Employer agrees that there will be a minimum of two (2) employees scheduled in the store whenever a bargaining unit member is scheduled to work.
9.	For employees hired after April 30, 2003, there shall be no split shift , schedulesfor employees.
F.	. Time Cards .
. . . 1, Tipie clocks or electronic time-keeping devices will be installed in . ., ^tores’ employing, five (5) on more full-time employees when such are ;ayailaWe3.
; "r 2*. . . The^Fair Labor. Standards Act, as amended, requires, among other ,k things. thal ali time worked by employees be accurately recorded and that ' 5 employees receive compensation for all time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in any.work-week at one and one-half (11/2) times their regular :' hourty rate of pay. The parties recognize agree, that strict compliance with ’	' this Act is in the best interest of the Employer, the Union and the
employees. Therefore, the Employer will not request suffer or permit any employee^ work “off the dock" and the Union agrees to cooperate with L. and to a^sist the Employer in assuring strict compliance with this important . federal legislation.	?
G.' ? Temporary Transfers - Temporary transfers from one store to another will be limited to two (2)weeks, except in case of .vacation relief and sick relief.
H. Bank Deposits -An employee making bank deposits will be accompanied by at least one other person.
ARTICLE 10	.
WAGES
A.;	Rates of pay, as .set forth in Wage Schedule "A" attached hereto, shall
remain in effect foc the life, of this Agreement and shall constitute the basis for determination of wages for time worked.
' “Twenty-six: (26) weeks of work or vacation" are equivalent to "six (6) months" for the purpose of determining when an employee qualifies for the next higher salary progression, with the following exceptions:
12
1.	Layoffs due to lack of work will be counted as weeks worked unless such layoff exceeds four (4) consecutive weeks, in which case foe weeks of layoff in excess of the initial four (4) consecutive weeks will not be counted as week's worked.
2.	For employees with at least one (1) year of service, medical leaves up to four (4) weeks, riot necessarily consecutive, will be counted as weeks worked toward the next higher wage progression! Otherwise medical leaves shall not be counted as weeks worked. ,
3.	Personal leaves shall not be considered weeks worked. r
B.	Bagger/Carryout
1.	Employees classified as bagger/carryout will only bag sold merchandise at checkstands, carry out sold merchandise, stock begs at checkstands, sweep up and clean up checkout lanes and areas in front of checkout lanes and parking lots only, return shopping carts into foe store, sort empty returnable containers, tie up cardboard and cartons, dean rest rooms,-return customer go-backs from checkstandarea, dean up spills and breakage anywhere on sales floor, pre-sort merchandise at checkstand, sweep floors and perform price checks for customers at checkout: stands. Employees in‘this ciassrfication may also perform . - ■ ■ general maintenance, floor cleaning and maintenance. This change shall
not displace or reduce the hours of present employees performing floor care. Such employees shall not be assigned to any stocking duties! take part in unloading of trucks or be members of a night stocking and receiving crew.' /-	/'.'V
2.	In foe event of a proven vidlaiion of this section, the most senior employee working less than forty (40) hours that week in the store jn which the violation occurred will be paid a minimum of one (1) hour/or the amount of time spent in such proven violation, at the employee’s regular rate of pay. If this would result in foe employee’s receiving morefoan forty (40) hours pay, the hours in excess of forty (40) would go to foe next most senior employee not working forty (40) hours in foe store where foe violation occurred.	‘
C.	The Employer agrees to advance the employee's wage rate in accordance with foe contract progression schedule for any employee who is hired at a rate exceeding foe entry rate in any classification.
D.	Any employee assigned as relief for any department head for one (1) week or more will receive foe rate of pay established for the job in which he is relieving;;
E.	Any employee involuntarily reduced to a lower classification will be returned to the same wage progression level achieved at the time of reduction when foe employee regains a higher classification.. -
F.	Bagger/carryout hired prior to November 9,1994, who have so elected and all other full time bagger/canryouts will be eligible for and will receive benefits when qualified. Those full time bagger/carryouts hired after November 9, 1994 13
will be eligible for single plan health care.
AH other employees hired into the bagger/canyout classification after November 9, 1994, the terms of the collective bargaining agreement such as union shop and seniority shall apply, but bagger/canyout employees shall not receive benefits; of a monetary nature, except for wages as specified. It is understood that benefits such as holidays, vacation, sick leave, health & welfare, pension, etc. are of a monetary nature and are not to be provided to the bagger/canyout employee. Seniority within job'classification and within the store shall prevail.
-	' ARTICLE!! '
OVERTIME, SUNDAY AND HOLIDAY PREMIUM PAY
A. Overtime
1» : Any employee who works in excess of eight (8) hours in any one (1) ' day, or forty (40) hours In any one (1) calendar, week, or thirty-two (32) hours during a holiday week, shall be paid for such excess hours at the . . . rate qftime and one-half (1 1/2) their straight tftne hourly rate. The daily oyertime provision herein shall not apply for; the employees who have. ....rnutiially agreed in writing with the Employer and the Union to work a weekly schedule of four (4), ten (10) hour shifts. In such event, all time worked inexcessof ten.(10) hours, per day shall be paid for at time and one*half (1 ’Z) the employee's regular hourly rate of pay.
? 2. There.shallbe no pyramiding of premium pay and any hours paid for at . premium pay . will'. be: excluded from the-.computation of any other premium pay. .V’..'
.... 3..,- Scheduled overtime . shall be offered , by seniority within each . classification by > job assignment in each ,store. Daily overtime not . J:- previously scheduled shall be offered by seniority within each classification tjy fob assignment in the store among employees.present when the need .for overtime arises.. In the-event there are not enough volunteers, the
Employer can require employees to work overtime in reverse order of J ,, seniority, subject to their ability to perform the work in the classification by job alignment witltiri the department .	;	-
4. When a full-time employee is required to work on a scheduled day ,■ off, such work shall be paid for at time and one-hatf.(1 1/2).
B Sunday and Holiday Premium Pay - Any work performed on Sunday shall be paid for at time and one-half (1 14) the employee's regular rate of pay. Work performed on holidays as provided for in Article,! 2, shall be paid for at time and one-half (134) the regular rate of pay. Employees hired after November 29, 1989, shall receive their regular straight time rate of pay for Sunday and holiday work. '	. - J'.-.-	...
Employees hired prior'to October 24, 1983, shall continue to receive double (2) time for hours worked on holidays.
14
C.	Work hours for Sunday and holidays shall be included in the qualifying hours for reclassification to full-time.	.
D.	All other premium pay rates will be included in the wage schedule attached.	"■ ; ■
J ARTICLE 12	’
LEGAL HOLIDAYS AND PAY
A.	The following shall be considered .as legal holidays: New Year’s Day, Decoration Day, Fourth of July, L abbr Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day or days legally celebrated in lieu thereof.
Employees hired after October 1, 1993, who have twelve.(i2) weeks of Company service, shall be entitled to a Christmas holiday and three (3) floating personal holidays between January 1st and June 30th and two (2) floating personal holidays between July 1st and November 30th.
These holidays are in lieu of the holidays specified in’Artides I2-Aand 12-D. All floating personal holidays will be scheduled by mutual agreement .between the Employerand the Employee.''	,	,	‘
There will be carryover if necessary during initiai qualification’ '
All floating personal holidays must be taken during the period it is earned. Any employee not able to schedule these floating holiday(s) will receivepay in lieu of the holiday(s). An employee whose employment terminates.for any reason shall not receive pay for accrued but unused personal holidays. '	'
B.	Full-time seniority employees shall receive a day’s pay of eight (8) hours at straight time for the above mentioned holidays when riot worked,'provided the employee works the scheduled work day preceding the hditfoy^arid the scheduled work day following the holiday and the.balance of his work schedule during the holiday week, excepting in cases of proven illness or accident In order to qualify for holiday pay, a doctor's certificate will only be regiilred from employees with absenteeism problems or where there is'evidence of attempted deception. To qualify, the employee must have been on the Employer's payroll for at least thirty (30) days.
. C. Full-time employees working four (4), ten (10) hour shift work weeks will be paid ten (10) hours pay at their straight time hourly rate of pay for all holidays which occur during such scheduled work week. ~	'.......
D.	Full-time employees with 6ne‘(1) year or more uf fuli-time Service shall receive two (2) additional persbrial holidays to'be scheduled by mutual agreement between the employee and the Employer, consistent with the heeds of the store during the calendar year. It is understood that these personal holidays will not be included as part of the basic work week and premium pay will not be paid until after forty. (40) hours are worked in the week in which the holidays are taken.
15
E.	A part-time employee who has worked twelve (12) weeks or more shall be entitled to holiday pay for the holidays set forth in paragraph A above, provided he was scheduled for work in the holiday week and works his scheduled hours in the holiday week as well as his scheduled day before and his scheduled day after the holiday unless such absence is due to proven illness. In order to qualify for holiday pay, a doctor’s certificate will only be required from employees with absenteeism problems or where there is evidence of attempted deception. If he qualifies, the employee shall be paid four (4) hours pay at their regular straight time hourly rate,
F.	For employees hired after April 30, 2003, after completing the probationary period, employees are entitled to be paid for the Christmas Day holiday.
a.	After 1 year of service - 3 additional personal holidays
b.	After 2 years of service - 2 additional personal holidays
Personal holidays shall be scheduled on dates mutually agreeable to the employee and. the employer. Any unused holidays may be scheduled by management between September 1 and November 30. However, any personal holiday not taken by the end of the calendar year will be paid in lieu of time off. An employee whose employment terminates for any reason shall not receive pay for accrued but unused personal holidays.
G; 'The Employer agrees to dose the : store , no later than 6:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve. No employee shall .be permitted or required to work after the dosing hours, except'those employees necessary to serve the customers in the store at closing time. This provision is contingent upon similar limitations being contractually required of other organized food stores and/or being generally observed by major unorganized food competitors in the immediate shopping area in which the Employer operates.
H. Easter Sunday shall not be recognized as a legal holiday, however the Employer will recognize the desire of employees to reject work on Easter Sunday withoutforfertingtheirrightto Sunday rotation, it being understood that in the event , an adequate staff cannot be attained to meet staffing requirements, the Employer can -require employees to work in the reverse order of seniority by classification.
’	2-.:	ARTICLE13
? LUNCH PERIODS AND REST PERIODS
A.	Lunch Period
1.	All employees who are scheduled for six (6) hours.or more on any day shall be guaranteed a lunch period without pay of not less than thirty (30) riithutes. nor more than sixty (60): minutes; to; be scheduled approximately in the middle of their scheduled work day.
2.	In the event an employee is required to work overtime in excess of one and one-half (1 T/2) hours, he may’receive a second lunch period without pay, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes;
B.	Rest Periods - If an employee works four (4) hours or more but teas than seven (7) hours in a shift, he shall receive a fifteen (15) minute rest period. If he works seven (7) or more hours in a shift, he shall receive two (2), fifteen (15) minute rest periods. Such rest periods will be scheduled by the store manager consistent with the needs of the business, but as dose as possible to the middle of the shift. No employee shall be. scheduled; for a rest period within one (1) hour after starting their work day and within one (1) hour after returning from their meal period. Employees shall dock in and out for rest periods.
ARTICLE14
CALL-INPAY
Any employee, except derks working after school hours on weekdays, who is instructed or scheduled to report for work shall be guaranteed at least four (4) hours work if they are available when the store is open for business; '
- ARTICLE15
UNIFORMS
Uniforms and tools deemed necessary by the employer for its; employees will be furnished by: the employer. -Employees are lesponsible.for any and.all reasonable care. Uniforms ■will be replaced as deemed necessary by the . employer, provided the oki uniforms are turned in for replacement	■ r..
ARTICLE 16	’
VACATIONS	,
A.	Eligibility and Service	, .	;
1.	After one (1 j year continuous employment employees shallreceive one (1) week vacation with pay. After an employee has qualified for one (1) week vacation, he automatically qualifies for, future one.(1) week vacation as of January 1st of each year.
2.	After three (3) years continuous employment employees shall receive two (2) weeks vacation with pay. After an employee has qualified for two (2) weeks vacation, he automatically qualifies for future two (2) weeks vacation as of January 1st of each year.
3.	After eight (8) years continuous employment employees shall receive three (3) weeks vacation with pay.; After an employee has qualified for three (3) weeks vacation, he automatically qualifies for future three (3) weeks vacation as of January 1 st of each year. . :
4.	After fifteen . (15) years continuous employment, employees shall receive four (4) weeks vacation with pay. After an employee has qualified for four (4) weeks vacation, Ke automatically qualifies for future four (4) weeks vacation as of January 1st of each year..
17
5.	After twenty (20) years continuous employment, employees shall receive five (5) weeks vacation with pay. After an employee has qualified for five (5) weeks vacation, he automatically qualifies for future five (5) weeks vacation as of January 1st of each year.
6.	’Employees hired after April 30,-2003 will' be' entitled to vacation according to the policy of the employer. After one:(1) year of service, one (1) week of vacation. After three (3) years of service; two (2) weeks of vacation. After ten (10) years of service; three (3) weeks of vacation.
B.	Arrangements must be made to permit employees to enjoy such earned vacations between the actual employment anniversary date and the end of the year in which it occurs. Where necessary, vacations due in the eleventh (11th) or twelfth (12th) months may be carried oyer to the first (1st) monthof the next year. Vacations must be taken during the calendar year unless due to emergency the management finds it necessary to request postponement. *.
Store managers reserve the right to “block out” six. (6) weeks during the year. However,’if specific stores can honor employee requests during those weeks, they may do so.	-
C.	Choice.of .vacation dates will be granted.on the basis of seniority except that the empfoyerreserves.therighttograntvacatjonstoanyemployee when their absence mil least affect the operation.. The employer shall post the vacation schedule no later than January 15, and the employees shall exercise their vacation, preference by seniority no later than March .1.. Otherwise, they forfeit the privilege of choice by seniority.	'
■ :■ . > ■■ . ■ • ■■■ ’■? ’ ‘‘ ■ ■
D.	Vacation Pay
J.' ;Vacation witlbepaid in advance.. ....
' 2. FuU-ome employees who worked forty (40) hours, per week in at least forty (40) weeks or who were not laid off for more than thirty (30) working days during .the anniversary or calendar year in which their vacations were earned will be paid their current straight time hourly rate for forty (40) hours. In determining if ah employee has worked forty (40) or more weeks, forty (40) hours per. week, count weeks not worked because bf paid vacationsor approved leaves of absence, (including sick leave) as weeks so worked.
. " . The weekly pay of. a full-time employee.who.worked forty (40) hours per week in fewer than forty (40) weeks or who was laid off for more than thirty (30) working days in the year will be computed by taking his current straight time .hourly rate times the average number of. hours .worked per week during the qualifying year.	. ..
3... A part-time employee will be entitled to vacation under the same general rules as for. a full-time employee" Newly hired bagger/carryout employees and part-time clerks hired after October 26, 1983, shall receive
18
a maximum of three (3) weeks vacation. Part-time vacation will be figured on the number of hours worked in the vacation qualifying year, divided by fifty-two (52), as follows:
AVERAGE HOURS WORKED	VACATION
20 hours or less -	12 hours
Ovar 20 hours, to andiinduding 30 hours 24 hours Over 30 hours, to and including 31hours 30 hours 32 hours and over	Prorated
The qualifying date for air vacation purposes of. any part-time employee who subsequently and without a break in his employment qualifies as a full-time employee shall be the date from wh*ch his service has been counted for part-time vacations rather than the date he qualified as a full-time employee. His vacation for foe year in which he is reclassified to full-time shall be figured on average straight time hours worked during such yean Conversely, when a full-time employee is reclassified to part-time, his vacation for foe year in which he is reclassified. shall be figured on straight time hours worked during such yeah
4.	If a holiday occurs during a full-time employee's vacation, the employee shall be paid one (1) additional day's pay of eight (8) hours at . -straight time in addition to vacation;pay., ' .
5.	If a holiday occurs during a part-time employee’s vacation, foe, employee shall be paid four (4) hours additional pay at straight time in addition to vacation pay.	.	.....
6.	If any employee who has not taken his vacation earned by his. service leaves (regardless of whether he gives notice) of is separated for any reason other than dishonesty, he will receive his vacation pay at foe time of leaving.	J . >
7.	Vacation pay for employees returning from an authorized absence from work will be reduced as follows: \
a.	Up to ninety (90) calendar days of authorized absence will not
reduce vacation pay.:
b.	Authorized absence from work of ninety (90) calendar days but less than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days will reduce vacation pay by one-fourth (1/4).
c.	Authorized absence from work for one hundred eighty. (180) calendar days but less than two hundred seventy (270) calendar days will reduce vacation pay by one-half (1/2).
d.	. Authorized absence from work of two hundred seventy (270) calendar days or more will disqualify foe employee for vacation pay that yeah ■
19
8.	The vacation pay reduction as provided for in Section 7.a. above will be extended from ninety (90) days to one hundred twenty (120) days for employees off on compensable injury due to industrial accident on the job.
’ . ’	ART1CLE17 .	/
LEAVES
A.	Jury Duty Leave and Pay -If any employee is required to serve on a jury, he shall be paid for hours necessarily absent from work because of such service..
B.	Death Leave and Pay (. . .
1	.;' In the event of death in the full-time employee's immediate family, the following will apply:	.	.
a.. Regular pay for time off through the day of the funeral but not to exceed three (3) days, provided such pay does not exceed the equivalent of forty (40) hours of pay.for.the;week at.straight time " ’•-'rates. "■	”	............ •	.	■
2..i	n the event of,death in a part-time empioyee’simmediate family, the
' ' ‘-tolfcAvingVriDapply:..!	-J. 7’	.
:	a. A part-time employee shall be entitled to the day of the funeral
off with pay equal to the regular hours scheduled for that day.
, 3; Theimmediate family consists of spouse,: parent, brother, sister, •mother-in-law, father-in-law, children and grandchildren of the employee or any relative living in the home of the employee dr with whom the employee is living..,. :	... .■. •-...
4	. Employees must attend the foneral in order to qualify for pay as outlined in this section.
5	.' The Employer shall grant such employee up to an additional three (3) days leave of absence without pay if such additional leave shall be necessary .or reasonable with.respect to the,employee’s responsibilities ‘ . arising but of the.deafo and/or funeral of such relative.
.	6. \f, Full-time employees shall begranted one (1) day. off with pay for the purpdse of attending the foneral of the employee’s, grandparent or the . employee's brother and/or sister’s spouse, and-foe,employee's spouse’s : brothers and/or sisters,including"stepparents arid stepchildren.
C.	Union/Management Leave -If an employee, is elected Jo a job as an official of the Union, he will be granted a .leave of absence without pay for up to three (3) years. An employee will be granted a leave of absence if elected or appointed to attend a,national or state conference of the Union.
An employee promoted into management ,will be., granted a leave of absence for a maximum of . one (1).yea^ during' which time, foe employee may
return to the bargaining unit with uninterrupted seniority.
D.	Personal Leaves - Full-time employees may be granted a leave of absence not exceeding ninety (90) days, upon proper permission from the Employer, without loss of seniority.. No leave of absence will be granted to any employee for the purpose of trying out another job or to venture into business for himself.
E.	Illness or Injury - Leaves of absence for illness or accident shall be granted for a period of up to ninety (90) days when property requested in writing and supported by medical evidence. The Employer will grant additional extensions of up to thirty (30) days at a time if requested and supported by medical evidence, for a period not to exceed one (1) year. If the employee's doctor then determines that the employee will be able to return to work in the foreseeable future, additional extensions on the basis of thirty (30) day periods rhay be granted for up to six (6) additional months. Such leave must be substantiated by a doctor’s certificate. Employees returning from such leave must provide a medical release by Tuesday noon in order to be scheduled for the following week. This release must be from their last scheduled appointment prior to their return.
F.	Job Injury -An employee injured bn the job shall be paid tor all scheduled straight time hours lost because of such injury on the day the injury occurs. Where requested, (he employee must provide verification.of medical treatment in order to receive payment ■ t	; ' ' - . 7 . .
G.	Military Service Leave -Any employee who enlists or is inducted into military service shall' retain Job rights and seniority Iri accordance with the provisions of applicable federal and state laws;; ■	•
National Guard employees shall not be required to take their vacation for training, but may be permitted to do so if the employee so wishes. ..
H.	Hearings - Employees will be paid for necessary time to appear at hearings upon tire request of the Employer. This , shall include .appearances mandated by subpoenas issued by or on behalf of the Employer. .
I.	Annual Stewards Conference-Upon request of the Union, the union stewards and Executive Board members shall be scheduled four (4) 'days, Monday through Friday, the week of the annual.stewards.conference. Said stewards confererioe shall be held once each year for the purposes of this Article and not more than one (1) steward per store and seven (7) Executive, Board members shall be permitted to attend. The Employer will pay eight (8) hours pay for those employees eligible to attend tire stewards conference.'The Union shall advise the Employer at least two (2) weeks in advance of such conference meetings. The stewards and Executive Board . member(s) must attend the conference to receive eight (8) hours pay.	'
K.	Leave of Absence Requests - Requests for leaves of absence for more than fourteen (14) days must be made by the employee in writing to the employer’s Human Resources Department with a copy to the Union. Such request must be made at least two weeks prior to the desired date of leave.
21
Time spent on leave of absence will not be counted as time worked for the purpose of wage computation and will not result in loss of seniority. Failure to report back to work at the end of a leave of absence shall result in the employee being considered a voluntary quit Any employee accepting employment elsewhere while on a . leave of absence shall be considered a voluntary quit except In a case where such employee works for the union.
L.	Employer Meetings - In the event meetings are scheduled by the employer and attendance is compulsory, time spent' in attendance will be counted as time worked and paid at the employee's appropriate hourly rate. Should an employee be required to attend a meeting on his-scheduled day off, the employee shall be guaranteed a minimum of four (4) hours pay.
ARTICLE 18	'
HEALTH AND WELFARE
A.	Full-time .
1.	Contributions
; The . Employer. .will. continue to: pay , into the United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 911 and Employers Health and Welfare Insurance Fund (hereinafter referred to as the “Fund") Four hundred ninety-nine dollars and ninety cents ($499.90) per month for each eligible full-time employee covered by this Agreement The contribution shall be made as of the first .
(1rt) .dayof ttie month immediately. following the employee’s becoming an'Eligible employee. Payment to the Fund will be made no later than the fifteenth (15th) of such month.
For employees who qualify for full-time coverage after June 29, .. .1996, the following new member plans shall apply:
.......Entry NM1 $277.75
.7	.12 monthly payments,-ttien	.	NM2	$312.45
. 7';	12 monthly payments, then 7?	;NM3	$333.25
12 monthly payrnents, then	i	NM4	$361.05
;12 monthly payments, then	,NM5.7	$374.95
After an employee has been on the New Member 5 (NM5) Plan for a three (3) year period, they will progress to the “top’full time plan.
7 Employees hired after April 30,2003-may progress to tile NM4level.
Tito employees shall hot be entitled to^behefits from. Health & Welfare until the second (2nd) month of Employer contribution.
2.	Eligibility	. ''
The term “eligible employee” shall mean ah employee who has worked an average of thirty-two (32) (thirty-six [36] for employees qualifying after
22
November 9, 1994) or more hours per week for the twelve . (12) consecutive weeks immediately preceding the first day of any month or an employee who is hired as a full-time employee and has worked the thirty (30) days immediately preceding the first day of any month as a full-time employee. All hours worked will count towards Health & Welfare eligibility. Employees hired after April30, 2003 may qualify after one (1) year of service for full time.. All baggers, high school students and fuel clerks are excluded from coverage.
3.	Continued Contributions	.. . -
Contributions' to the Fund for eligible full-time employees shall be continued under the following conditions:
a.	In case of absence from work due to illness or noncompensable injury substantiated by a doctor's certificate, three (3) months contribution following the month in which the illness started or accident occurred.
b.	In case of absence from work for compensable leave due to industrial accident on the job, six (6) months contribution following the month in which the accident occurred'
4.	Discontinued Contributions
Contributions to the Fund for eligible full-time employees shall be discontinued as of the first (1st) of the month immediately foilowing:
(a)	Voluntary quit	L 1 ‘ :
(b)	Termination for cause.	.	.
(c)	Approvedleave of absence;	?;
(d)	Employee request for change in status from full-time to part-time.
(e)	Employee’s ceasing to be an eligible employee due to his failure to work an average of twenty-eight (28) (for employees hired on or before November 9, 1994, thirty-two [32] for employees hired after November 9, 1994) or more hours per week for tiie twelve (12) consecutive weeks immediately preceding foe first (1st) day of any calendar month.
Employer contributions which have been discontinued as a result of Section A.3 above, or after returning from an approved leave of absence as in Section A.4(c) above, will be resumedon foe first (1st) day of foe month immediately following return to work.on foe Employer's active payroll.
However, if an employee has been disqualified as provided for in Section A.4(e) above, he must again qualify as an eligible full-time employee as provided for in Section A2 above before a contribution will be made on his behalf.
23
B.	Part-time
1.	Contributions .
1
The Employer will continue to .pay into the Fund two hundred six dollars and'ninety cents ($206.90) per month for each eligible part-time employee covered by' this Agreement. The.contribution shall be made as of trie first (1st) day of the mohth immediately following the employee’s becoming an eligible employee. Payment to the fund will be made no later than the fifteenth (15th) of such month. The employees shall not be entitled to bene fits-from Health & Welfare until the second (2nd) month of Employer contribution.
2.	. Eligibility .	. "'J'"'..' :
.	■ The term “eligible employee" for employees , hired .on or before
November 29, 1989, shall mean an employee with one (1) year of continuous service, who has worked an average of twelve (12) or more hours per week for the four (4) weeks immediately preceding the first (1st) day of any month and is an employee who is not eligible fpr a full-time contribution, as provided for in Section A.2 ' above.; .-.".7	7.7;
For employees.hired after.November 29^.1989, the term eligible 7 ; .; employee shall rneari, an;employee with eighteen (18) months of \ r ' continuous service, who has worked an average: of eighteen (18) or ’ ■ more hours per. week tor the'four (4) weeks immediately preceding the,first (1st) dairof’ariy. month.and is an employee who is not /eligible tor a fulktime contribution, as provided for in Section A.2 above. Highschool students' shall not be eligible. ,
" Ernployeds hired $fter April 30,2b03.may.qualify after two (2) years J -1/ >	bf service for part time. AU baggers, high school students and fuel
, G ‘ 7 clerks are excluded from coverage. .	. .. .
‘ ' 3? ' Continued Contributions	"
Contributions to the Fund for eligible part-time employees shall be continued under the following conditions: ......
.	... In case of, absence from work due to compensable injury, three (3)
months, confribution following the; month? in .which the accident ' occurred.	.; .
4?.:: < Discontinued Contributions - t :	’ j .
Contributions to the Fund for eligible part-time employees shall be discontinued as of the first (1 st) of the month immediately following: (a) Voluntary quit
(b)	Termination for cause.
(c)	Approved leave of absence.
(d)	Employee’s ceasing to be an eligible employee due to his 24
failure to work an average of twelve (12) or more hours per week for the four (4) consecutive weeks immediately preceding the first (1st) day of any calendar month.
Full-time Employer contributions.jwhich have been discontinued for an employee as a result of Section A, ^ d. & e. above and such employee qualifies as ari'eligtble part-time employee as provided for in Section B-2, then, the part-time contribution will be made when the full-time contribution is discontinued! ?	■' •’ ‘	’z'
C.	Maintenance of Benefits	‘ ~ \	-
Maintenance of Benefits for all of the Insurance Plans, except for the Retiree Plan, shall be effective October 1, 2003 with a 10% M.O.B. with a roll over effect Effective October 1, 2004, October 1, 2005 and October 1, 2006, a 10% M.QB. with a roll over effect .total 40% over, the term of the Agreement ■;	'	'	,	’ !
D.	Retiree Benefits : ■ • ''	-	’ .' •
1.	The Employer agrees to continue to make payments, of five cents (5£) per hour for all hours worked up to and. including forty (40) hours per week by members of the'bargaining unit, including hours of holiday: and vacation, into The United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 9iT; fteafth , arid Welfare Fund. Such contributions shall be for the purpose of providing health care and related benefits for retirees as determined by .the. Trustees and be made starting the first day of employment. For,employees hired after October 26, 1983 contributions will commehce the first day of the month following eighteen (18), months of continuous, service. No contributions shall be made by the Employer for any employees off the job for reasons other than the above-mentioned holiday and vacation periods. The said contribution of five cents (5(t) per hour is not subject to the maintenance of benefit provisions contained in Article 18 of the Colledive Bargaining Agreement between the parties.	.	.
2.	Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement or tn the Health and Welfare Plan documents, the signatory parties to this Agreement expressly agree that the Trustees of the Health and Welfare Plan may, in their sote discretion, terminate or modify benefits and eligibility for benefits of retired former participants in the Plan at- any time. The Trustees of the Plan shall adopt and implement such rules and regulations as are necessary to implement the limitations of participation and benefits expressed.
25
ARTICLE 19 PENSION PLAN
A.	Contributions
1.	The Employer agrees to continue payments for employees hired on or before October 28,1989, of fifty-one and three-tenths cents (51.30) per hour for all hours worked up to and including forty (40) hours per week by members of the bargaining unit including hours of holiday and vacation pay, into the United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local No. 911 and Retail Food Employers Joint Pension Fund. Such contributions will be made starting the first day of employment For employees hired after October 26, 1983, and on or before October 28, 1989, contributions will commence the .first day of the month following one (.1) year of continuous service. No contributions shall be made by the Employer for any employees off the job for any, reason other than the above-mentioned holiday and vacation periods. The contribution rate for employees hired after October 28, 1989, shall be forty cents (400) per hour and shall . .. commence after eighteen, (18) months of service. , . ;
.. /-for employees hired after April 30, 2003 who meet eligibility requirements, ...a :$^5 per hour,employe: contribution. ,
2.	-Eligibility for.employees hired after. April 30,«2003 to be 21 years of . age and. one (1) .year, of continuous service and 1000 hours worked in the previous calendar year. (Employees must re-qualify each calendar year.) High school students, baggers and fuel clerks are excluded.
B.	Said Pension F’jnd shall be used to provide pension benefits for eligible employees, of the Employer as provided in toe .Pension Plan, the terms and provisions of which have been agreed upon by the parties hereto.
..Any overfunding in the pension plan during the contract term shall be used to purchase additional benefits for active employees..
ART1CLE2C SENIORITY
A.	. In layoffs and recall, the principle of seniority shall apply.
Seniority shall be determined on toe length of continuous service of the employee with regard to his experience and ability to perform the work. All circumstances being reasonably equal, length of service shall be the controlling factor. *-2\	-	• • •	■
Promotions will be based primarily on merit and ability, but when these are equal toe employee having toe greatest seniority shall receive preference if the employee desiring a promotion to the next higher paid classification has made his desire known to toe store manager in writing with a copy to the Local Union.
26
Agreed upon seniority lists shall be established and maintained, and such lists shall be available to ttie Union at all times. It is understood and agreed that the relative seniority among employees starting to work on the same date will be determined by the last four (4) numbers of the employee’s social security number (i.e., ttie lowest combination of the last four (4) numbers will be the most senior employee among those hired on a given date);	•
On transfers from one store to another, the Union shall have the right to invoke Article 5 where it feels due regard has not been given to seniority. The Union is to be given one (1) week's notice before any permanent.transfers, promotions or demotions are made, with the exception of promotions to supervisory positions:1-'	; ' 11
B.	Seniority shall be considered broken if an'employee is duly "discharged by the Employer, if he voluntarily quits, if he has been laid off continuously for a period of more than one (1) year or if he is called back to work after a layoff and does not report for work within one (1) week. ;	;\
C. Part-time employees who have been involuntarily reduced from full-time shall for a period of one (1) year from the date of such reclassification, be given preference for full-time 'employment over part-time employees ' riot similarly reclassified and over applicants with noprevious service^ with the1 Employer. All other part-time employees shall be given equal consideration for full-time employment with applicants with no previous service with the’Employer. A part-time employee shair accumulate seniority as a part-time ^employee only in line with his or her ability and qualifications. ?- ■ i -<• -a-• 14 ■	: ■ ■ v • •- j
Full-time employees who are reduced to part-time (involuntarily) or take a lesser paying job rather than accept a layoff will be returned to ttieir former full--time position in the same relative seniority order tn ttieir own store before other full-time employees are recalled from layoff.’ ■ J ■ ■- ■ ‘	r
An involuntary reduction from full-time to part-time byanyemployee will automatically cancel all seniority and full-time benefits, as well as nullify the ' applicable full-time provisions of ttie Agreement for the affected employee as of ttie date of reclassification, except for the continuance of health and welfare benefits as provided for under Article 18, and except that full-time employees involuntarily reduced to part-time will retain job seniority by being placed at the top of the part-time seniority list for a period of one (1) year for the purpose of -reclassification to full-time. If reclassified within the one (1) year period, the employee shall be.credited .with the previously accumulated foil-time seniority, but re-qualification, will:be required for all other foil-time benefits, if there is more than one (1) such disqualification in the same store, such reduced full-timers will, be placed at the top of the part-time seniority list in BDCS (full-time seniority.: date) order.
D.	Employees promoted out of the bargaining unit .will, have ttieir seniority protected and accrued for one (1) year from the date of promotion or transfer. If not transferred, back, into the bargaining unit after one (1) year, they shall forfeit • all seniority rights.
21
E.	There will be three (3) separate seniority areas:
1.	Metropolitart. Toledo (includes Sylvania, Rossford, Perrysburg, Oregon, Northwood and Maumee).
2.	Bowling Green, Fostoria, Findlay and Tiffin.
3.	. Sandusky, Port Clinton, Fremont	.
The Employer and.the Union will meet to mutually agree upon which seniority area new stores in towns not mentioned above will La placed.
F.	There will be two (2) seniority lists for each area:
'	f	■	.	*	'■	*1	■
1.	Part-time employees.
2.	Full-time employees.
G.	.A full-time employee reduced below thirty-two (32) hours per week through no fault of their ownfortwo (2) consecutive weeks may request a transfer to another store when a less senior full-time employed is scheduled thirty-two (32) hours or more forthe following week and lias averaged thirty-two (32) hours or more for the previous six (6) weeks. Employees may specify up . to three (3) stores of their choice. In the event that there are no full-time employees junior to the employee seeking the transfer within the three (3) stores who is scheduled thirty-two (32) hours or more for the following week arid have averaged thirty-two (32) hours or more for six (6) weeks, thc.i the reduced toll-time employee must displace the most junior toll-time employee within the seniority area who is scheduled thirty-two (32) hours or more for the following week and has averaged thirty-two (32) hours or more for the previous six (C) weeks. .
A toll-time employee reduced to an average of less than thirty-two (32) hours per week for six (6) consecutive weeks and who is not eligible to transfer within his own seniority area as outlined above, may bump the most junior tolltime employee in another seniority area who has averaged thirty-two (32) or more hours for the previous six (6) weeks according to the employee's seniority and job classification.	■ .
If the employee decides not to exorcise this option, he will be eligible to exercise it again at the end of an additional six (6) weeks if he has averaged less than thirty-two (32) hours for the twelve (12) consecutive weeks. If he again fails to exercise this option, he will forfeit all rights to transfer and will revert to part-time status in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
H.	The full-time employee eligible for transfer must request same, in writing, within fourteen (14) days after being advised of his change In status or forfeit all rights to. the transfer.
I.	The Employer will arrange the transfer at the beginning of the first week after the request by the eligible toll-time employee.
28
J.	All employees must complete the transfer on the date scheduled by the Employer or forfeit all rights to the transfer.
K.	1.	Any transfer as provided for in this section of the Agreement, shall
be at the employee's expense. The full-time employee will continue to work on a part-time basis until the transfer has been completed.
2.	In the matter of store dosings, displaced department heads and assistant department heads: who have not been reassigned to comparable positions will continue to receive the contractual pay rate for their former position for up to three (3) years. In the event a comparcble .position becomes available within.their seniority area, the Employer may select the displaced employee for this opening. If this opening is dedined by. the: employee, they will revert to the contract rate for the position they are working. This provision excludes department heads in temporary assignments for less than six (6) months.
L.	A part-time employee permanently laid off through-no fault of their own, shall have the opportunity to। transfer to anotherstore within the - seniority: area . and bump a less senior part-time employee, according- to the employee’s seniority and job classification.. The part-time employee bumped will have, the ; opportunity to bump the least senior.part-time employee in the seniority.‘area;.: according to the employee's part-time seniority.and job classification.	• . c
For the purpose of this transfer, a permanent layoff .is defined as;a period : of three (3) consecutive weeks of no wo?k or no hours, ohnotificationof layoff to J the employee in writing by the Employer..: ; ~ ■■	--■'y-
If the eligible part-time, employee i does not advise the Employer in writing ■' within seventy-two (72) hours of his intent to transfer, he shall forfeit all rights to the transfer. Any transfer involved will be at the employee's expense.-
M. Available Hours*.: . ,	. ...	•:	" ’’ "
1.	Employees shall be ^scheduled for available hours/up to-and-induding eight (8) hours per day or forty (40) hours per week (thirty-two [32] hours in a holiday week) in accordance with seniority and reasonable ability to perform the work assigned within the five (5) highest hour days in the week (four [4] highest hour days in a hollday week); exduding Sundays and holidays. -j	‘ ‘	jr ■
a.	If there is greater than a two (2) hour lapse between shifts that:
are scheduled, there is no daim.
b; An employee can only daim from one (1) other employee and cannot take hours that result in the other employee having less'than two (2) hours remaining in his schedule (unless he can claim the
: entireshiftJJ	■
29
. c. An employee cannot claim a split schedule or claim from a . junior employee in such a way that it results in the junior employee's remaining schedule having a split
d.	When two (2) schedules overlap by more than one (1) hour, the senior employee cannot claim the hours, except that when the earlier starting time and the later ending time is equal to eight (8) hours or less and the junior employee is left with at least two (2) hours.	.	...
• .,.	1.)	8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. - 6 hours, W? should be
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. - 8 hours .
;	. 2.)	12:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m.-5 hours, this should be
12:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m.-2 hours
e.	When allowing a senior employee his rights to claim available hours, there will be no minimum hours requirement for the junior employee. ■
For employees hired after April 30, 2003, employees will, on a daily or weekly basis, be entitled to the schedule of work with the most hours within toeir classification in accordance with their seniority, ‘ availability and ability to perform the work required. Paragraphs M2, M3 and M6 apply to employees hired after April 30, ■ 2003
2.	Employees who have voluntarily limited their availability in writing to the store manager may thereafter claim additional available hours, but may not claim previously scheduled hours of another employee until a vacancy occurs or additional hours become available.
(3. Vacated and/or additional work shifts shall be offered to the most ' senior employee who is currently working or who is scheduled later that day and whose original schedule of hours would be increased by two (2) or more hours.
4.	It is further understood that the work schedules will be arranged so as to provide as many employees with eight (8J hour per day schedules and as many employees with forty (40) hour per week schedules, which are consistent with the limitations set forth tn paragraph 1, and with the further understanding that the hours not consistent with the needs of the business will not be added to accomplish this objective. Reference to paragraph 1 does not apply to employees hired after April 30, 2003.
5.	If a less senior employee is scheduled hours that a more senior employee is entitled to, the more senior employee must notify the manager within twenty-four (24) hours of the posting of the schedule and the schedule will be changed accordingly. If there is no complaint within the twenty-four (24) hours, the schedule is deemed acceptable.
30
If an employee who has been bumped for any part of his next week's schedule is not scheduled to work between the time the bump occurred and noon Friday, he will have the right to exercise a claim of hours in accordance with Article 20, M-1 by the end of his next work shift in the current week if'scheduled, or the enid of his first originally scheduled shift the next Week: ■ Reference to Article 20> M-1 does not apply to employees hired after April 30,2003. ‘	? : :	; ■
Employees hired after October 1, 1993, or promoted from the bagger/carryout classification after. October 1, 1993, may not claim hours from another employee that would reduce that employee’s schedule below, twelve (12) hours weekly: ;
6.	Full-time employees may exercise hours claims on a sixth (6th) day, excluding Sunday, if their total weekly schedule of hours, including Sunday, is less than thirty-two (32) hours.
7.	. For employees hired on or before April 30, 2003, full-time employees may exercise hours claims involving the forfeiture of a lunch period, if their weekly schedule of hours, including Sunday, is less than thirty-two (32) hours. . .. , ■ •	.. .	•:
8.	For employees hired bn or before April 30, 2003, 4 in the application of the Available Hours provision a conflict occurs with the three (3) night provision of this Agreement the Available Hours clause shall have priority and shall prevail with no resultant liability to the Employer, i.e. junior employee forced to work over three (3) nights as a result of available hours claimed by senior employee; .	,	i	.
N.	Desirable Shift Schedule.'
1.	For employees hired on or before April 30, 2003, it is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that. the . most , senior, toll-time employee receive the most desirable, work schedule, including .day. off,, in,.their classification by job assignment, provided it does not adversely affect the efficient operation of the store, this'paragraph will not apply to night stocking crews.
2.	For employees hired on or before April 30,2003, if as a, result of the application of this‘ section'; a conflict occurs with Article 9, section E, paragraph 7, this section shall have priority and prevail and the overtime compensation ptherwi'se called for shall become null and void. :
3.	. A night stock employee with six (6) months of service may exercise his seniority rights in transferring to day hours when an opening occurs in the clerk classification. Such employee must advise the store manager in writing of that desire for day hours. However, not more than one (1) such transfer shall be allowed, within a sixty (60) day period per store.
31
O.	General Merchandise
1.	The duties of the general merchandise derk shall indude and be limited to (he ordering, receiving, pricing and stocking, and all other work associated with the following items or product lines: ...
a.	Health & beauty aids	. . >
b.	“Peyton-Wells' merchandise
?.c. Continuity programs, for example dishes, ehcydopedias, etc,
d. General merchandise shipper and promotions (i.e. records, gloves, J-hooks, etc.)
. e. Any other non-food merchandise, except merchandise that is required for normal household maintenance,. such as soap powders, bleaches.	, . ,
Employees in this classification shall not be permitted to perform .. produce or deli/bakery department work. In addition, they shall not perform . ..work as a cashier; gener?! .store maintenance, a member of the regular , stock crew or operating the compactor, except that they shall be permitted tc dean up their own refuso and operate the compactor to this extent
2.	General merchandise employees, shall, have seniority only among other general merchandise employees. General merchandise department seniority shall be separate from , all other seniority. Article 20 shall only apply as applicable to employees in the general merchandise departments.
;• ; 3. , The deli/bakery department employees shall have seniority only among other deli-bakery department employees. Deli/bakery department. seniority shall be separate from all other seniority. Article 20 shall only apply as, applicable to employees in the deli/bakery departments. (This provision does not apply to employees hired before March 11, 1974, to work in deli/bakery departments.)
4.	In stores having general merchandise clerks or deli/bakery clerks, the Employer agrees not to hire any. new derk/cashiers in that store ; _■ without first giving the general merchandise clerks and . deli/bakery clerks an opportunity to move up to the derk/cashier classification, provided they
; have notified the Employer in writing of their desire to go into the '•‘.'I derk/cashier. classification. It is further understood, (hat general merchandise derks or deli/bakery deiksmoving into *the derk/cashier classification will retain their seniority, in the derk/cashier classification, but may not daim previously scheduled hours of another employee until a vacancy occurs or additional hours become available.
a. General merchandise employees or deli/bakery department employees that move into the derk/cashier classification will have a red-drded pay rate and retain that pay rate on til such time as they
would move to a higher pay rate in accordance with the appropriate derk/cashier progression as is provided for in Schedule A of this Agreement- r	_
In the event- of layoff or a reduction to part-time, general merchandise or deli/bakery employees who have taken openings as derk/cashiers and who are not able to transfer to another store based on their derk/cashier seniority, may exercise their company seniority in their previous classification.	' "
5.	Clerk/cashiers desirous of moving into 'the general merchandise department or deli/bakery department may do so when openings occur, provided they have notified the Employer in writing of their desire to do so.
It is further understood that derk/cashiers moving into the general merchandise'del*''or deli/bakery derk dassification will retain their seniority in the general merchandise derk or deli/bakery derk classification, but may not daim previously scheduled hours of another employee until a vacancy occurs or additional hours become available.
a. Clerk/cashiers’who take job openings inthe’ deli/bakery or generar merchandise department'wilf.be placed on the appropriate wage bracket as determined'by their original hire date? and in the event of layoff 5 or a reduction to part-time, employees not able to transfer to another store based upon their dell-bakery or general merchandise seniority may exercise their company seniority in the derk/cashier classification.	:	-
P. Nutrition, Floral & Salad Bar Clerks; s ;	'■ ■■■' -" '
“ - ■■ ■■ "• \
1.	Duties of nutrition, floral & salad bar clerks shall tndude and be limited to ordering? receiving, pridng;-stocking, customer service and al! work assodated with these operations.' '	- 1	;	1	< -
2.	Nutrition, floral & salad bar derks shall have seniority only among other nutrition, floral & salad bar employees. Nutrition, floral & salad bar seniority shall be separate from all other seniority.‘Artide 20 shall only apply as applicable to employees in the nutrition, floral & salad bar.
3.	In stores having nutrition, floral & salad bar‘derks, the Employer agrees not to hire any new’ derk/cashiers in that store without first giving tire nutrition, floral'& salad bar derks an opportunity to move up to the derk/cashier dassification; provided they have notified the Employer in writing of their desire to gointo tire derk/cashier classification. It is further understood that nutrition- floral & salad bar derks moving into tire derk/cashier classification will retain their seniority in the nutrition, floral & salad bar dassification; but may riot daim previously scheduled hours of another employee until: a vacancy occurs or additional hours become available.
a. Nutrition, floral & salad bar derks that move into the derk/cashier dassification will have a red-drcled pay rate and retain
that pay rate until such time as they would move to a higher pay rate in accordance with the appropriate derk/cashier progression, as is provided for irt Schedule A of this Agreement
4.	Employees desirous of moving Into the nutrition, floral & salad bar may do so when openings occur, provided they have notified the Employer in writing of their desire to do so. It is further understood that employees moving into this nutrition, florals salad bar classification will retain their seniority in the nutrition, floral & . salad bar classification, but may not claim ..previously scheduled hours of another employee until a vacancy occurs or .. additional hours become available..
a. Employees who take job openings tri. the nutrition, floral & salad bar will be placed on the appropriate wage bracket as determined by their original hire date and in the event of layoff or a reduction to part-time, employees not able to transfer to another store based upon their nutrition, floral & salad bar seniority may exercise their company seniority in their former classifications.
Q. Promotion to Department Head
1.	Employees desirous of promotion to a department head or assistant department head position within their seniority area shall notify the Employer in writing,with a copy to the Union arid the store manager, specifying the position of interest Such request shall remain in effect through the cunent calendar year. The employer agrees to notify candidates who have indicated their interest in writing when openings for that position occur, further, the employer also, agrees to notify the appropriate steward >n the store where the opening occurs.
2.	The Employer will discuss with sufficient number of employees to cover anticipated openings, by seniority, his/her qualifications and past '"performance as soon as practical after receipt of the letter requesting ■ consideration for promotion to department head: .
3.	’Promotions will be basui on seniority, qualification toperform the work available and past performance criteria. Qualifications and past performance'being reasonably equal, seniority shall prevail.
' r. .	*; /	” »	- \	J-::* f .*	•**.•* ’ ’ ‘
■ ; 4.	The Employer agrees; to notify the Union of all promotions to
department head positions on a weekly basis:' "
5.	If an employee submits a letter of interest and is selected, he/she will be expected to take the job if within the metropolitan Toledo area, or the city in which the employee works. If the employee refuses, his letter requesting consideration for promotion will be voided arid may not submit another letter for consideration until at least six (6) months have expired.
6.	Promoted employees shall be granted a sixty (60) day trial period in the new position. Such trial period may be extended an additional thirty (30) days by mutual agreement of the Employer and the Union.
34
Employees unsuccessful in qualifying on the new position shall be . returned to their previous position.
. 7. It is agreed that any dispute resulting from the above language may be referred to the grievance procedure. ;
R.	Full-time Job Opening - A part-time employee who is available for and desires a full-time job will make hisdesire known in writings his store manager, with copies to the zone manager, personnel manager and the Union. When the Employer has such an opening within the city in which' the employee is employed on other than a temporary basis, such employee will be considered for the opening based on seniority, provided that he has. the experience and ability necessary to fill ttie job. If circumstances of the employee change, so that he becomes unavailable for a fail-time job, tie will sb advise his store manager, with copies to the zone manager, personnel manager and the Union.
S.	Where available hours are concerned or general layoffs are .. contemplated, the parties agree to meet and whatever arrangements are made will be final and binding.
T.	New Store OpeningsIn ttie event the, Employer opens a new;
store, the Employer will- post in each of the Employer'sstores within the .. , geographical jurisdiction of the Union’ notice of the new store arid its addfess. Employees who desire tp be considered for work in the new store, will notify the Employer in writing. ...- . .	.	•;••••..
U.	. Employees hired after April 30^ 2003 whose principal occupation js -. other than with the employer(“moonlighters') will have no seniority oyer other employees and will be placed at the bottom of the seniority list in their classification.	. ,..1(	■
V.	Full time employees who desire to transfer to a store doser totheir home shall notify, in writing, the Zone Manager, Human Resources Department and the Union of their desire. The employer may agree to transfer said employee if a permanent fall time vacancy exists in , their da&tification or if another fall time employee agrees to exchange work shifts with said employee. Such transfers are subject to the mutual agreement of the Employer. If two (2) or more , employees request a transfer to the same store, seniority shall apply. The intent of this dause is to reduce an employee’s travel distance to and from,work for the purpose of energy conservation.	. ■■
ARTICLE 21
TECHNOLOGICALCHANGES
A. The Employer,and the Union recognize that new technology is often, available tp the food industry. ,In recognition of this, ttie parties agree that
1.	Where installations pfsuch equipment will materially affect bargaining unit mirk, the Union will be pre-notified by the Employer.
35
2.	The Employer has the right to install such equipment and use such technology. ,
3,	Any training or necessary retraining will be furnished expense free by ffie.Employer to affected employees.
4.	Where full-time employees would be laid off by such installations, the Employer will make every effort to affect a transfer in accordance with the transfer provision of the Agreement
5.	If a full-time employee is not retrained or transferred and would be laid off as a direct result of the installation of such technology, then the employee would qualify for separation pay if:
a. The employee had five (5) or more years of full-time service.
, , b. Does not refuse a transfer within the bargaining unit area as outlined in this Agreement.. ..	>.
, .;	. c.Does riot refuse to be'retrained or reassigned. :
.... d. / Such action does r -t occur morethan thirty (30) days from ■ date of installation:;	.
e. Does not voluntarily terminate employment.
6.	\ Severance pay (for those employees covered in 5 above would be
• paid af the rale of one (1) week pay for each two (2) years of continuous full-time service, not to exceed five (5) weeks.
7? Severance pay would equate the average number of hours worked.
the four (4) weeks preceding displacement,not tq exceed forty (40) hours straight time pay. " ~'v '	•. • >< -ns
ARTICLE 22	' .	' '	‘
UNION COOPERATION
A.	The Union agrees to uphold the rules and regUlatigris of the Employer in regard to punctual and steady attendance, proper arid sufficient notification in case of necessary absence, conduct on the job, and all other reasonable rules and regulations established by the Employer.	... ;
B.	The Union agrees to cooperate with the,Employer in maintaining arid
improving safe working conditions and practices, in improving ttie cleanliness and good housekeeping of the stores, and in caring for equipment and machinery.	.	.	,...	.
36
C.	The Union agrees to. cooperate in correcting inefficiencies of members which might otherwise necessitate discharge. Whenever a constructive advice form is given an employee, a copy will be furnished to the Union.
D.	The Union recognizes the need for improved methods and output in the interest of the employees and the business^ and agrees to cooperate with the Employer in the installation of such methods, in suggesting improved methods, and in the education of its inembers in the necessity for such changes and : improvements. 1	' • ’*
E.	The Union recognizes the need for conservation and the elimination of waste and agrees to cooperate with the Employer in suggesting and practicing methods in the interests of conservation and waste elimination. '"	'
ARTICLE 23	'
GENERAL
A Separability - It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that any section, paragraph, sentence, clause and phrase of this Agreement is separable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Agreement shall be declared invalid by the Judgment or decree of a' court of competent jurisdiction because of conflict with a federal or Ohio state law, such invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses? sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Agreement The parties agree to comply with all; provisions of both the Americans with Disability Act and the Family Medical Leave Act
In the event that any article or section is held invalid or illegal as above set forte, tee parties shall enter into immediate collective bargaining .negotiations upon tee request of the Union or .the Employer for the purpose of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement of such article or section..	;
B.	Polygraph Test - No,employee covered by ,this Agreement - shall be required by any representative of the Employer, tobesubjectofapolygraph (lie detector) test or stress analysis test for any reason.	, 7 i;
C.	Nondiscrimination Clause * The Employer and the Union shall not discriminate against any employee for reasons of sex, age, race, religion, creed, color, handicap, nationalorigin, sexual orientation, union activity or veterans.
D.	Gender Context -Use of the male gender herein shall, except as context
required otherwise, be deemed to include the female gender. /
E.	Personal Belongings - The parties have agreed to work out together any " problem that may arise with respect to where employees keep their purses or coats, should a problem arise iri the future. \f /.	... 7	7 ..
F.	Union Store Card-The Union agrees to issue a union store card and/or window decals to the Employer under the rules governing union store cards
37-
and/or window decals set forth in the Constitution of the United Food and . Commercial Workers Union. Such union store cards and/or decals are and shall . remain, the property, of said international Union and the Employer agrees to surrender'said union store card and/or decals to an authorized representative of the .Union on demand in the event of failure by the Employer to observe the terms of this Agreement or the conditions under which said union store card and/or decals are issued.
G.	' All employees will receive a performance appraisal at least annually by the end of the third quarter. A copy of the performance appraisal shall be supplied to the employee as soon as possible. The unio^ shall have the right to examine the performance appraisal and receive copies, upon request If an employee is passed over for a promotion and wants further clarification of their promotion status and/or deficiencies, they may request in writing (with copies to the union), an updated verbal and written appraisal outlining steps necessary to qualify for future openings.
ARTICLE24
BARGAINING UNIT WORK
A.: , Representatives.of vendors shall stock-only the following products in the stores of the Employer.
1.	Beverages, excluding beer and wine (Vendors may set up displays of beer and wine)
2.	Cookies, crackers and snacks ,. ■
... 3.■.Potato chips . ..	. .
4.	"i; Garden supplies 1
5.	Rack jobbers (who service non-food specialty items)
,6	. Bakery , produces (other than Company , manufactured bakery .products)
7.	Frozen pizzas and ice cream,, e.g. Tony’s, Tombstone Pizza and Edys Ice Cream, as long as it is provided on a DSD (direct store delivery)
• ■ basis.	v-;
B.	It is understood that the rotation cr repositioning of mere'-^ndise, replacing damaged or outdated merchandise, resetting the shelf liner, or taking inventory shall not beconsidered stocking.	:	.
C.	The i above restrictions shall not apply to the opening of new.: stores or remodeling of an. existing store or during the four (4) week, period prior to Christmas or the week preceding Easter or the week preceding Thanksgiving.
38
D.	In stores having both a manager and a co-manager, the Employer agrees that managers and co-managers shall not perform collective bargaining unit work' except the building of auxiliary displays, and the handling and stocking of Kroger manufactured bakery products. This shall not apply in the case of ah emergency beyond the control of'the Employer or when an employee is absent and no one is available to do the work: : ‘ *- ' ■	.
E.	Outside service people shall normally be hired for thirty (30) days or less and shall not be required, to belong to the bargaining unit, nor be subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement; ‘	, - L :	.
Outside Service^people shall not perform the normal and customary duties of bargaining unit members.	” 7 .
Outside service people’s duties shall consist of the following:
1.	Interior and exterior painting.	: . ;
2.	Major, infrequent cleaning and maintenance of store equipment andfixtures.	*
3.	Outside maintenance arid cleaning of parkingTot, thick wells and ' shrubbery.
. ■	)	■■	. e. ’*	1	.’J.’- ;	■’ -1 i ■ :
4.	Interior and exterior window cleaning.
5.	Repairs to equipment or facilities. . -jS . ;	u
6.	Outside floor care service may be utilized to perform all floor care service in Kroger strores. Individuals who are currently performing floor care duties (store 103,422,359 and 361) will not suffers reduction of hours as a result of using outside floor care service.
7.	Cleaning that is incidental to or directly precipitated by a major reset,'remodel or the opening of a new store, except that outside help will not be used in this situation while bargaining unit employees: in the store are on layoff or on reduced hours and are available to do the work associated with the reset, remodel or new store opening.'
The rotation or repositioning of merchandise or shelving, replacing damaged or outdated merchandise, resetting the shelf-liner or taking inventory can be done by outside vendors and/or salesmen.;
F.	In the event of a proven violation of this Article, the member reporting the-violation shall receive the liquidated damages. Violations reported by the Union shall be paid to the most senior employee working less than forty (40) hours that week in the store in which the violation occurred,.a minimum of one (1) hour or the amount of time.spent in such proven violation at the employee's regular rate of pay.
39
If this would result In the employee receiving more than forty (40) hours pay, the hours in excess of forty (40) would go to the next senior employee not working forty ((10) hours in the store where the violation occurred; Subsequent violations will be paid, as outlined tn this Article, to the employees on a rotating seniority basis.
ARTICLE 25
DEFINITIONS
A.	Department Manager - Shall be in charge of the department and have the knowledge and ability to operate the department to the satisfaction of management Duties include supervision of department personnel, customer service, ordering of product and supplies and operation of the department in accordance with the employer's operations and merchandising policies as well as applicable laws.
B.	Assistant Department Manager - Shall develop the knowledge and ability to assist the department manager and the department manager's duties when the department manager is unavailable.
C.	Deli/BakeryClerk -	. . ■
1.	The duties of the deli/bakery derk shall include and be limited to ordering, receiving, pricing, stocking, customer service and all work
. associated with the deli/bakery operations which is performed by Local 911 employees.
2.	Deli/bakery clerics shall have seniority only among other
deli/bakery clerics.
D.	Clerk/Cashier - Shall perform duties as directed which may include, but are not limited to, operating front end equipment ordering, stocking, customer service or other related duties.
E.	File Maintenance Clerk - Shall perform duties as directed which may include, but are not limited to, price changes, scan integrity, audits, customer service or other related duties.
40
ARTICLE 26 EXPIRATION
This Agreement shall be effective April 2, 2003, and shall continue through April 7, 2007, and shall continue from year to year thereafter unless either party serves notice in writing sixty (60) days prior to April 7, 2007, or any subsequent anniversary date of a desire for termination of or for changes in this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the said parties have caused duplicate copies hereof to be executed by their duly authorized officers this aJfcfrlav of z2<4<^/2003.
FOR THE UNION:	■ :	; t,. h ‘i	<	\ ■	FOR THE EMPLOYER: . , ; .... ■'/	<ir *.’* r - 'J ’ ;<	j	"»> k -, •	, ■:	? .<:■	f'L ' *’ ;	■■■'i'L' 1. 		 ’ 1 :
SCHEDULE "A"-WAGES
03/30/03	04/04/04	04/03/05	04/02/06
■Cteric/Cashier (hired on or after October 26.1983)
Start	6.30	6.30	6.30	6.30
60 days	6.45	6.45	6.45	6.45
6 months	6.65	6.65	6.65	6.65
12 months	6.80	6.80	6.80	6.80
18 months	6.95	6.95	6.96	6 95
24 months	7.15	7.15	7.15 *■	7.15
30 months	7.55	755	7.55	7.55
36 months	8.40	8.40	'8.40	8.40
42 months	11.60	11.90	1Z20	‘1250
48 months	12.61	12.91	13.21	1351
Deft-Bakery (hired on or after October 26.1983)				
Start	6.10	6.10	6.10	6.10
60 days	6.25	6325	6.25	6.25
6 months	6.40	6.40	6.40	6.40
12 months	6.55 *	6.55	6.55	6.55
18 months	6.70	.. 6-70 .	6.70	6.70
24 months	6.90	6.90	6.CJ	6.90
30 months	7.20	7.20	7320	7.20
36 months	7.55	755	7.55	755
42 months	10.10 ’’	10.40	■ 10.70	11.00
48 months	10.91	11.21	1151	1151
General Merchandise Clerks Owed on or after October 26/1983). - -				
Bar C^, Floral Clerks (hired aft?, November 1980}
Start	6.00	6.00	6.00	6.00
60 days	6.10	6.10	6.10	6.10
6 months	6.25	6.25	6.25	6.25
12 months	6.40	6.40	6.40	6.40
18 months	655	6.55	655	6.55
24 months	6.70 .	6.70	6.70'	6.70
30 months	6.80	6.80	’ . 650	6.80
36 months ...	7.00	7.00	7.00	7.00
42 months	9.40	9.70	10.00	10.30
48 months' :	10.08 '	■ 10.'38	.10.68	10.98
Baggers Start	5.70	. 5.70	5.70	5.70
60 days	5.80	5.80	. "5.80	5.80
6 months	5.90	'	5.90	■ 5.90	5.90
12 months	6.00	6.00 .	■* ■-''■'-6.00	6.00
18 months	6.'1O	6.10	'	6.10	6.10
24 months	6.20	6.20	‘ 6120	6320
'30 months	6.85	7.15	7.45	7.75
Grocery Department Head	15.16	15.46	15.76	16.06
Produce Department Head	15.16	15.46	15.76	16.06
Head Night Stock	14.72	15.02	15.32	15.62
42
03/30/03	. 04/04/04	04/03/05	04/02/06
Head Cashier		
15.14	.15.44 ,	15.74 ■ . .	16.04
Head Dairy		
14.585 Head Deli/Bakerv , ’	14.885 ' '	' 15.185 ..r	*15.485”
15.185	15.485	15.785-	16.085
		
Head Frozen Actant Head PBxjuce	14.56	14.86 *L 14.46	14.76	15.16
-14.16 Assistant Head Cashier		15.06
14.16 Assistant Head Dea	14.46	1476	-	15.06
13.06	13.36	13.66 Clerk Cashier /hired prior to October 26.1983)		13.96
13.91	14.21	14.51, Deli/Bakerv Ctork(hi/ed prior to October 26.1983) .		14.81
12.21	12.51	1231..	13.11
•Part time employees hired after November 29,1989 shaft not progress . past the 42 month wage..	: I t	?
$125 Lump sum minus norma! legal deductions to be paid to employees , ? in progressions (excluding courtesy clerks) within two weeks of April 30, f 2003.	./
Personal Rates- rClerk/cashiers',and deli/bakery 'clerks and general;' ’ merchandise derks hired after October 26, 1983, and nutrition derks;;' floral derks and salad bar clerks hired after November 25, 1986, shatf; received personal rate increases at twentyfore cents (25<) per hour after ; ; .1 they have been at the top of their, pay scale for one (1) year. The;;?^ ‘ personal rates shall become effective February 3^ 1991, for those ’ ” * employees on the top rate for one (1) year or more as of that date.
After the initial increases in February; 1991, employees on the top rate for one (1) year and each year thereafter shall receive ,their personal rate , increases on the anniversary date of thw personal rate increases during1' the term of this Agreement The maximum persona! increase shall not exceed seventy-five cents (75<)... L
43
Wages fw Employees Hired After April 30, 2003
	Clork/Cashicr	Deti/Bakory	Drug/GM
Start	-<	6.30	6.30	6.15
60 days	6.45	6.45	6.25
6 mas.	6.60	6.60 .	,	. 6.40
12 mas.	6.75 .	.	..6.75	6.55.
18 mas.	6.90	6.90' ‘	' 6.70
24 mas.	7.05	7.05	6.90
30mos.	7.25	7J25	7.20
36 mas.	7.75	. 7.75	■7.50..
42 mas.	8.00	8.00	8.00
*48 mas.	8.40	8.40	8220
52 mas.	10.00	10.00	9.50
60 mas. ’	12.05	12.05	1	,il.O5'
Tart time progression stops at the 48 month levs'. =
Head Groceiy Cierk	14.00
Head Produce Clerk	14.00
Head Cashier	14.00
Head Deli Clerk	voo
Head Night Stock	13'50
Head Dairy Clerk	13.50
Head Frozen Food	13.50
Assistant Head Produce	. 13.00
Assistant Head Cashier	13.00
Assistant Head DeD clerk	13.00
44
ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION
A.	Effective June, 1, 1999 an additional fifteen cents (150) per hour over and above the classified rate of the derk/cashier shall be paid to the erhployee(s), for all hours worked, who is assigned to assist the.'head cashier in the store office, provided such employee spends at least ten (10) hours per week working in the store office.	: C *,
B.	There shall be no reduction of individual pay rates as a result of the signing of this Agreement .
C.	Night Stocking Premium Pay - All employees assigned to the night' stocking crew shall receive thirty-five cents (350) per hour additional compensation for hours of work between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.,except when in conflict with Article 11, paragraph A-2. When night stackers receive the premium for a majority of their shift (over half), they shall be paid the premium for the entire shift	< .	..
Service Director Premium Pay - Any employee assigned as Service Director shall receive a premium of twenty-five cents (250) per hour over their current rate of pay.	:: \
D.	Night stackers who receive a night stocking premium for a majority of their hours worked shall receive a night premium for holidays and vacation pay.
E.	Employees other than night Stockers shall receive thirty-five cents (350) per hour additional compensation for hours of work between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except when in conflict with Article 11, paragraph A-2.
F.	It is understood that where a head grocery derk is assigned to night stocking, the only time another employee on the night crew would receive the head Stocker’s rate is when he is assigned to take charge of the crew when the head grocery derk is not present During the time the head grocery derk is present, this employee will receive his regular rate. It is further understood that where a head grocery derk is not regularly assigned to this group, there will be one (1) employee regularly assigned as a head stock derk.
G.	In the event during the term of the Collective Bargaining Agreement the bracket rates set forth in Artide 10 entitled “Wages’ are below any amendments to the Fair Labor Standards Act, employees affected shall be paid as follows:
1.	Affected employees wages shall be increased to the newly amended federal minimum wage.
2.	After six (6) months of continuous employment, an affected employee shall receive ten cents (100) per hour increase in wages beyond the then current and newly amended federal minimum wage.
45
3.	Thereafter an affected employee shall receive no further wage increase until such time as the wage bracket set forth in Schedule A exceedshis then current rate of pay.
4.	Employees hired after November 29,1989, may be paid a “training wage’ in accordance with applicable taw (FLSA) for a period of time not to exceed their probation period.	■
46
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING “A*' THE KROGER CO. AND UFCW LOCAL 911
The following summarizes our understanding of the agreement reached with regard to establishing the new employee classification of "Fuel Center Clerk.’
A Fuel Center Clerk's responsibilities will be to perform all tasks associated with the operation of the Fuel Center as directed by store management.	-■ f?a.
The terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, such as Union Security and Seniority shall apply, but Fuel Center Clerks shall not receive benefits of a monetary nature, except for wages, holidays and vacations as specified. It is understood that benefits such as health and welfare, pension, etc., are of a monetary nature and are not to be provided to the Fuel Center clerk. Seniority within the Fuel Center shall prevail.
Vacations will be granted per Article 16 of the contract Holidays will include Christmas and five (5) floating holidays which will be earned after 12 weeks of employment Three (3) of these holidays must be taken between January 1 and June 30, and the remaining two (2) holidays by November 30. Full time' employees will receive eight (8) hours of holiday pay. and part time holiday pay shall be figured on the average hours worked for the four (4) consecutive weeks immediately preceding the holiday week on a pro-rata basts. Floating holidays will be scheduled by mutual agreement between the employer and employee.
Management may perform any tasks necessary to ensure the efficient operation of this center.
A Fuel Center Clerk after twelve (12) months of service, shall be given preference by seniority, together with ability, practicability and availability, should an opening occur for a part time store employee and shall further be given preference in the same way for full lime positions after they have been offered to the part time employees. AD service as a fuel center clerk win be credited toward qualification for health and welfare upon transferring into another classification.
Wages shall be as provided bek>w:
FUEL CENTER CLERK
	03/30/03	4/041/04	4/03/05	4/02/06
Start	7.00	7.00	7.00	7.00
60 days	7.25	725	725	725
After 6 months	7.50	7SO	750	750
After 12mos	7.75	7.75	7.75	7.75
After 18 mos	8.00	8.00	8.00	8.00
After 24 mos	8.90	920	9.50	950 .
FOR THE COMPANY:
47
WEINGARTEN RULES
As a UFCW Local 911 member, you have the right to steward representation during investigatory interviews with management or representatives of management such as security IF, the interview could lead to DISCIPLINE. An investigatory interview occurs when management, through a supervisor or other representative, questions you to obtain information which COULD BE USED AS A BASIS FOR DISCIPLINE AGAINST YOU. The following steps insure that your right is presaved:
1)	YOU must make a clear request for union representation before or during the investigatory interview. YOU must ask for representation - the right is not automatic.
2)	If management, through its supervisor or other representative, refuses the request of union representation in an investigatory interview YOU may refuse to proceed without union representation. IF THE EMPLOYER DENIES YOU THE RIGHT YOU SHOULD STAY IN THE ROOM BUT REMAIN SILENT.
3)	if the employer denies union representation, you have a right to refuse to answer whether orally or in written form. You should not make any statement
4)	DO NOT WAIVE THIS RIGHT. If you do so, any statement you make can be used against you.
MY UNION STEWARDS ARE:
MY UNION REPRESENTATIVE IS:
Phone: (419)865-1341 or (800)232-8279 Fax: (419)865-8674